 Arturo Uslar Pietri, a novelist and essayist whose literary career became enmeshed with modern Venezuelan politics, died on Monday at his home in Caracas. He was 94. Mr. Uslar Pietri had retired from writing just recently, after failing health led him to dictate essays and columns f
 Glen Francis Brown, a retired American geologist who mapped the Arabian Peninsula and divined water where none was thought to exist, died on Feb. 22 at a hospital in Fairfax, Va. He was 89 and lived in Reston, Va. Dr. Brown spent 44 years with the United States Geological Survey, st
 John M. Gravitt, a former foreman for GE Aircraft Engines who made it easier for whistle-blowers and the federal government to win damages in fraud cases involving government contracts, died on Friday. Mr. Gravitt, who lived in Cincinnati, was 61. The cause was complications from di
 AMATO-Fulvio ''Jack''. 75. Passed away Thursday, February 15, 2001 in Houston, TX. Born in Brooklyn, NY to John and Fanny Amato, Mr. Amato was Vice President at Chemical Bank for 41 years. In his spare time he was actively involved in the Little League of Long Island, NY. He is survived by 
 ARPIN-Gerard ''Todd''. Our magnificent, beloved friend died February 26, 2001, age 52, of Cancer. A great artist, Todd was extraordinarily skilled in many forms of painting, and his work enhanced and beautified many city and country homes. Many of his clients became his close friends. He lo
 CLARK-Reed (Fritz). Of Hobe Sound, FL, on February 20th, 2001, age 80. Beloved husband of Audrey, father of Sandra C. Moore (Peter) and Peter (Alison), brother of Grace Hornby, grandfather of Jennifer, Will, Kate, Eileen and David. Memorial service at Christ Memorial Chapel, Jupiter Island,
 CUTRONE-Edith. We extend our deepest sympathies to our leader and friend, Gustave H. Newman, and his extended family on the death of his beloved sister, Edith, a truly wonderful person. Our hearts and thoughts are with the Cutrone and Newman families. Any contributions in Edith's memory sho
 FERGUSON-Edward M., Jr., DDS, 77, of WHB, died February 26, 2001, at Indian River Memorial Hospital, Vero Beach, Florida due to complications resulting from an auto accident. He was born July 8, 1923, in New Brunswick, New Jersey, lived in Massapequa and Westhampton Beach, New York. He move
 FLYNN-Joseph B. On February 26, 2001. Of Somers, NY formerly of Pleasantville, NY. Mr. Flynn was born in the Bronx on July 29, 1932, the son of Patrick and Mary (nee Lavin) Flynn. He was a graduate of Fordham University and held a B.A. in Sociology. Mr. Flynn was a Sargeant serving in the U
 KELLER-Frederick A. Of Queens Village, N.Y. on February 26, 2001 in his 82nd year. Beloved husband of Rose. Beloved father of Rosemarie Barnwell & Kenneth Keller. Beloved father-in-law of Diane Keller & George Barnwell. Loving grandfather of Elizabeth, Kathie, John, and Joseph. Received two
 ORDAN-Bert. Bnai Zion Foundation notes with sorrow the untimely passing of our Vice President and former Board Chairman Bert Ordan. A devoted Zionist, he and his beloved wife Elaine are long time leaders of our organization. He shall be sorely missed. Our heartfelt sympathies to his widow, 
 SALLES-Dr. Walther Moreira. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art, along with the members of its International Council and Chairman's Council, note with great sorrow the passing of Dr. Walther Moreira Salles in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil. He will be remembered for his dignity, grac
 SPINGLER-Charles F., Jr., on February 28, 2001 of Mahwah, N.J. Husband of Rose Marie (Piergrossi). Father of Charles F. III, Michael S. and John G. Brother of Douglas, Philip and Sharlene Spingler. Grandfather of Abigail and Natalie. He was a graduate of N.Y.U. Visitation Thursday 2-4 and 7
 STONEHILL-Alexander, of Valhalla, died at home at the age of 93. Founder of the Westchester County Summer Music and Dance Center; past president of Westchester County Music Educators; teacher at Hamilton High School retiring in 1979. His brothers Sam and Hy, nieces and nephews survive him. 
 Ariel G. Loewy, a cell biologist who helped unravel the process of blood clotting, died on Feb. 13 at Bryn Mawr Hospital in Pennsylvania. He was 75. The cause was complications from a stroke, his family said. Dr. Loewy was widely recognized for having found the last of the b
 Henry Wade, who in nearly four decades as district attorney of Dallas County, Tex., became the very symbol of law and order there and is perhaps best remembered for the prosecution of Jack Ruby and as the Wade in Roe v. Wade, died yesterday at an assisted-living center in Dallas.  He was 86
 Hermann Field, who was imprisoned for five years by Communist authorities in Poland and who wrote two novels with his cellmate before his release in 1954, died on Feb. 23 at his home in Shirley, Mass. He was 90. Mr. Field, who was arrested while in Poland looking for his missing bro
 HYNES-Eugene J. age 72, on February 27. Survived by his loving wife, Vernona C. Payne and his brother, Barry J. Hynes. Son of the late Eugene and Grace Hynes. A memorial is planned at a later date. He will be sorely missed by all of us who loved him.       
 KOSARIN-Max Gustave. Died February 28, 2001. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Devoted father of Linda and Peter. Grandfather of Amanda, Kristi and Chelsi, and brother of Ruby. He will be remembered for his sweet and gentle nature, his dignity, sophistication and knowledge, his commitment to the 
 LEIBOW-Hilton. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Hilton Leibow. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Shirley, and their family. Richard J. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secretary
 LOCKWOOD-W. Carter. 79, beloved husband of May Louise (Lou) Lockwood of Lake Placid, died at the Adirondack Medical Center on February 27, 2001. Carter was born on July 20, 1921 in Washington D. C., the son of H. Winthrop and Mary Carter Mullikin Lockwood. He attended Dartmouth College clas
 SWEENEY-William J. Sr. Of Delray Beach, Fla., formerly of Woodlawn, NY, on February 27, 2001. He is survived by his wife of 56 years, Virginia Sweeney (nee Burns), and seven children, 20 grandchildren and two greatgrandchildren. Mass will be held Monday, 10 AM, at St. Margaret's R.C. Church
 Paul D. Paganucci, a former vice president of Dartmouth College, died on Monday at his home in Hanover, N.H. He was 69. The cause of death was cancer, said his wife, Marilyn. Mr. Paganucci, a Dartmouth alumnus, joined the college in 1972 as a business professor and associate dean at
 George W. Wheelwright III, a co-founder of the company that eventually became the Polaroid Corporation, died on Thursday at the Marin Convalescent Center in Tiburon, Calif. He was 97. Most of the world thinks of Polaroid as the brainchild of Edwin H. Land, a scientist whose ideas fo
 BARDES-John E., 73, of Enfield, entered into the eternal life, on March 1, 2001 at Johnson Memorial Hospital after a brief illness. The loving husband of 50 years to Joan (Quinn) Bardes, and son of the late George F. and Mary (Gowlan) Bardes. John was a long-time resident of Elmont, NY and 
 KILBERT-Leon, Dr. Of Miami Beach, FL and Bayside, NY. Passed away on Friday, March 2, 2001. He was beloved husband to Liz. Devoted Dad to Michael, Enid, Diane, Dick, Danny and Kim. Loving grandfather to Alicia, Greg, Jonathan, Staci, Peter, Rachel and Cameron. He will always be remembered f
 KOSARIN-Max Gustave. Died February 28, 2001. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Devoted father of Linda and Peter. Grandfather of Amanda, Kristi and Chelsi, and brother of Ruby. He will be remembered for his sweet and gentle nature, his dignity, sophistication and knowledge, his commitment to the 
 ROBERTSON-John Krohn, 29, of Brooklyn, NY, died Wednesday, February 28, 2001. Survivors include his father, Archibald Francis Robertson, Jr.; his brother, A. Randolph ''Randy'' Robertson and his wife, Beth of Chicago, IL; and his aunt, Dr. Louise Robertson and her husband, Dr. Willys Monroe
 WINTON-Sydney C. Died March 1, 2001, at the age of 92. Beloved brother of Irma Goldfein. Father of Naomi Schwartz, Joel and Ann. Grandfather of Andrew, Jeffrey and Gregory Winton, Heidi Resnick, Gary Schwartz and greatgrandfather of David and Daniel Winton, Rachel and Sarah Winton, Alicia W
 FREIBERG-Sam. March 17, 1909March 3, 1996. Sam Freiberg was a decent, honorable man who treated people with dignity and respect. Five years after his death, we still mourn our loss but remain thankful for all the years he was with us. His fortunate family and many friends.       
 Robert McGinnis, a Cornell University sociologist who founded and directed its Institute for Social and Economic Research, died Feb. 22 at a hospice in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 73 and lived in Ithaca. He suffered a brief illness, his family said. Dr. McGinnis joined the Cornell f
 William O. Bittman, who won a conviction against the Teamsters leader James R. Hoffa as a young federal prosecutor and became one of Washington's best-known lawyers, died on Thursday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 69. The cause was cancer of the esophagus, said his son Robert J.
 C. M. Woodhouse, a Briton who led Greek resistance forces against Hitler, wrote elegant books about modern Greece and was an unwavering opponent of dictatorship in Greece, died on Feb. 13 in Oxford, England. He was 83, and since his brother's death in 1998 had held the family title 
 Charly Baumann, a German-born trainer of big cats, died on Jan. 24 in Sarasota, Fla., where he lived. He was 72. Mr. Baumann made his reputation as a circus trainer of performing tigers in a spectacular Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus act that eventually included 16 tig
 ADAMS-Frank. Of Quogue, on March 1, 2001, formerly of New York City, proprietor of Frank Adam's Mens' Wear, Westhampton Beach. Survived by sister Phoebe Filiatrault, nieces, nephews, grandnieces and grandnephews. Graveside service Monday 10:30 AM Quogue Cemetery, Lamb Avenue, Quogue. In lie
 ARIEL-Robert A. Ph.D. Born May 30, 1951, NYC. Died February 7, 2001, at St. Vincent Hospital, NYC. Beloved son of Josephine Virnig Stannard, Rosemount, MN, and the late Irving M. Ariel, M.D., NYC; cherished stepson of Raymond Stannard; dear brother of Paula Stannard, Chicago, IL, Catherine 
 BINDER-Abraham, DDS. Devoted husband of Eleanor. Loving father of Neil and Nina Binder, Barbara Binder, and Diane and Kurt Swartz. Adoring grandfather of Kerri, Jaron, Eve and Darcie. Service Monday, March 5, 1 PM, at Mt. Lebanon Cemetery, Glendale, NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions may
 CALFON-Alfred Fradji. A generous and humorous man, devoted physician, died on March 1, 2001. Loving father of Vivian, Daphne, Thomas, Theresa and Marcella. Husband of Maria, brother of Joseph, Jacques, and Nellie. He will be dearly missed by family and friends. Should friends desire, contri
 CLARK-Reed (Fritz). Of Hobe Sound, FL, on February 20th, 2001, age 80. Beloved husband of Audrey, father of Sandra C. Moore (Peter) and Peter (Alison), brother of Grace Hornby, grandfather of Jennifer, Will, Kate, Eileen and David. Memorial service at Christ Memorial Chapel, Jupiter Island,
 FAURER-Louis. Photographer. Died in New York, Friday, March 2, 2001. He is survived by his son Mark, his daughter-in-law Margaret and his two granddaughters, Chantal and Marnie.       
 FLAGG-Elliott C. On March 3, 2001. Beloved husband of Marian. Devoted father of the late Jennifer and the late Nicholas. Also survived by his former wife, Anne Flagg. Funeral services will be held Wednesday, 10 AM at Andrett Funeral Home, 353 Second Ave. (at 20th St.) NYC. Interment Whitney
 GREEN-Max. Born in Newark, NJ, in 1903, died March 1, in Hightstown, NJ. Advertising executive and marketing consultant. Devotee of the arts, a special way with words, a special way with people, jogger, brown belt, equestrian, mentor and family man, clearly with a zest for living. Loving co
 GRIFFIN-Francis T., 82, formerly of Scarsdale, NY, resided in Pleasant Valley, NY, died March 1, 2001. Mr. Griffin was retired in 1976 as Village Engineer for Scarsdale. He was a certified Professional Engineer with Bachelor and Masters degrees in Civil Engineering. He served in the US Army
 HERRMANN-Henry W. 90, loving husband of Alice, devoted father of Phyllis and Evie, adored grandfather of Scott and Amy, beloved son of the late Oscar and Rena Herrmann and affectionate brother of the late Dorothy Adams. Passed away on February 27, 2001 in Rocky Hill, CT. He was an enthusias
 HOKANSON-Ben A. Captain. Retired Master Mariner and Commodore of the Grace Line Fleet, died on Wednesday, February 28, as a result of a heart attack, he was 91. Born in Munkfors, Sweden on May 5, 1909 Captain Hokanson's education on a square rigged Swedish naval training vessel led to his e
 LEVIN-Dr. Jeffrey Scott. Of Boulder, CO on February 4, 2001. He is survived by his parents, Herbert and Corinne Levin of California.       
 MANDEL-David. 37. Died on March 3, 2001. Beloved son of Michael and Penny. Brother of Joshua and Matthew. Paramedic for 18 years, last at Roosevelt Hospital, and also scuba dive master and instructor. Donations in his memory to the American Brain Tumor Association (ABTA) per David's wishes.
 MILLER-Stanley F. Beloved husband of the late Barbara Miller and the late Joan Freyberg. Devoted father of Marjorie and Daniel Piqueira, Paul and Jenni Miller, Daniel and Elaine Miller and Nancy Miller. Devoted stepfather of Mark and Laurie Freyberg and Susan and Jonathan Wolfert. Adored gr
 STANTON-Charles P. Age 65, of Brooklyn Heights, NY, died on February 27, 2001. A devoted husband to Judy, proud and loving father to Julia and Charlotte, and a dear brother to Peter. To Cornell University (Class of '57, Glee Club and Crew) and to Grace Church Brooklyn Heights, he gave his w
 STEVENS-Martin. Distinguished Medievalist, scholar and teacher and distinguished Professor Emeritus of The City University of New York Graduate Center. Died on February 24, 2001, at his home in San Francisco. He is deeply mourned by his wife, Rose Zimbardo, his children, Cindy, Marc and Dav
 WALSH-H. Robert. Of New York, N.Y. Age 76. Beloved father of Meredith W. Walsh and Eliot W. Walsh. Brother of Francis X. Walsh. Passed away Wednesday, February 28, 2001. Born in Milton, MA., Mr. Walsh was a graduate of Harvard Univesity, Class of 1946. He served in the U.S. Army in Germany 
 WINTON-Sydney C. Died March 1, 2001, at the age of 92. Beloved brother of Irma Goldfein. Father of Naomi Schwartz, Joel and Ann. Grandfather of Andrew, Jeffrey and Gregory Winton, Heidi Resnick, Gary Schwartz and greatgrandfather of David and Daniel Winton, Rachel and Sarah Winton, Alicia W
 Harold E. Stassen, a former governor of Minnesota, educator, and special presidential assistant who won an early reputation as a ''boy wonder'' of politics only to be remembered as the man who unsuccessfully sought the Republican Party's presidential nomination nine times, died yesterday at
 BANK-Harold W. 57, formerly of New York and Washington, DC, died in Sarasota, FL, on March 4, 2001, after a year-long struggle with cancer. Loving husband of Adrienne Bank, brother of Richard Bank, brother-in-law of Florence Bank and uncle of Jonathan and Brian Bank. Services to be held tod
 MILLER-Stanley F. Beloved husband of the late Barbara Miller and the late Joan Freyberg. Devoted father of Marjorie and Daniel Piqueira, Paul and Jenni Miller, Daniel and Elaine Miller and Nancy Miller. Devoted stepfather of Mark and Laurie Freyberg and Susan and Jonathan Wolfert. Adored gr
 WINTON-Sydney C. Died March 1, 2001, at the age of 92. Beloved brother of Irma Goldfein. Father of Naomi Schwartz, Joel and Ann. Grandfather of Andrew, Jeffrey and Gregory Winton, Heidi Resnick, Gary Schwartz and greatgrandfather of David and Daniel Winton, Rachel and Sarah Winton, Alicia W
 James A. Rhodes, a four-term Republican governor of Ohio who was known at home as a builder and booster of his state but remembered nationally more for sending onto the Kent State University campus the national guardsmen who killed four students there, died on Sunday at the Ohio State Unive
 Hugh R. Jones, a former judge of the New York State Court of Appeals who was known as an intellectual leader of the state's highest court and one of its best writers, died Saturday at his home in Utica. He was 86. As a member of the court from 1972 to 1984, Judge Jones wrote the dec
 Ivan Biro, a sculptor and a founding member of 55 Mercer Gallery, an artists' cooperative in SoHo, died on Feb. 9 at a hospital in Mt. Kisco, N.Y. He was 74. The cause was pneumonia after surgery, said his wife, Juliane. Mr. Biro was born in Paris in 1926 and grew up in Buda
 Ken Kiff, an English painter known for his bright, fantastical figurative painting, died on Feb. 15 in London. He was 65. Mr. Kiff was born in Essex, England, in 1935 and attended the Hornsey School of Art in northern London. He had his first gallery show at the Nicola Jacobs Galler
 ARKUS-Albert H. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 BRESLAUER - Samuel. Suc cumbed to illness after a fruitful life of over 95 years on early Sunday morning, March 4, 2001. Mr. Breslauer was born in 1904 in Manchester, England and immigrated as a boy to the U.S. with his family, residing in Brooklyn. He is the last of seven siblings, five si
 COWEN-David, M.D., 93. On March 5, after a short illness. Professor Emeritus of the Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons, the Presbyterian Hospital, and was associated with both Lenox Hill Hospital and the New Jersey Veterans Hospital. He was an internationally known neuropathologist
 GLAZER-David. 87, on March 4. Beloved husband of Mia Glazer. Stepfather of Peter and Paul Brest. Brother of Max, Edward, Frank and Sam. Grandfather of Jeremy, Hilary, Matthew, Phillip and Eric and great grandfather of Julia. The funeral will be held at the Riverside, Amsterdam and 76th St, 
 HERRING-George. Died February 22nd, 2001 in Chula Vista, CA. Earning his Ph.D. from Columbia University, Dr. Herring taught at CCNY for many years.       
 ISAACSON-H. Harding Colonel. Died February 26, 2001, in Lenox Hill Hospital, Manhattan, in his 80th year. The New York Society of Military and Naval Officers wishes to express its deepest sympathy for the loss of our Quartermaster, Col. H. Harding Isaacson, who gave his utmost in the servic
 JOSEPH-Merwin. It's not what a man has in his pocket, it's the friends that make him wealthy, and you were a billionaire. Sleep well, my friend. Paul, Kristina and Peg Bernstein       
 KARLIN-Arthur C. Died February 23 in Boca Raton, FL. He was 75. Mr. Karlin was Senior Vice President in charge of real property at E. F. Hutton from 1983 to 1987. He also served on the Board of Mellon Participating Mortgage Trust and was a member of the Friars Club. Mr. Karlin served with t
 NELSON-Clifford Colmer. Died on Saturday, February 24, 2001 in Tempe, AZ. Born on November 1, 1914 in Jersey City, NJ, he was graduated with a BS from Trinity College in Hartford, CT. He also held an M.A. from Columbia University, and LLD from Lawrence University and an LHD from Trinity Col
 NIERENBERG-Benjamin. Died in his sleep on March 3 at the age of 96. His wife of 55 years Pauline, predeceased him in 1987. Formerly a resident and businessman in Jamaica Estates, he retired to Englewood and Sarasota, Fl. Ben was caring and generous, a vigorous man and an incisive thinker. H
 Ralf D. Bode, a cinematographer who contributed indelible images to films like ''Rocky,'' ''Saturday Night Fever'' and ''Coal Miner's Daughter,'' died last Tuesday at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 59. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Christine. Among the m
 H. Harding Isaacson, a longtime fixture at Manhattan debutante balls, sometimes as the announcer who introduced the debutantes to society, died on Feb. 26 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said his stepdaughter, Christine Kr
 Leslie Paffrath, a retired foundation executive, died on Jan. 9 at a hospital in Racine, Wis. He was 85 and lived in Racine. He was the founding president of the Johnson Foundation in Racine. Established in 1958, it sponsors conferences at its Wingspread center on such concerns as c
 Mário Covas, outspoken and combative governor of Brazil's largest state and a chief architect of the country's delicate passage from dictatorship to democracy in the 1980's, died today at a hospital in São Paulo. He was 70. As governor since 1994 of São Paulo, whose 36 million pe
 ARKUS-Albert H. On March 5th, 2001. Beloved husband of Deborah. Devoted father of Jane and Dr. Richard Fastiggi, Elizabeth and Dr. Neil Cohen, Claudia and Raymond Cruz, and Robert and Jeni Arkus. Cherished grandfather of Joseph, Daniel, John, Benjamin, Allison, Max, and Nicole. Loving broth
 BERNICK-Paul. On March 5, 2001. Cherished husband of Adrian. Beloved father of Joan, Elizabeth, & Deborah. Stepfather of Stephanie and Joseph. Brother of Mary. Loving grandfather of David, Adam, Joshua, Dina, Alexander, Samuel, Noah, Sara, Luke & Zoe. Services at Gramercy Chapels, at 11:30 
 COWEN-David, M.D. The Department of Pathology at Columbia University mourns the death of David Cowen. Dr. Cowen graduated from Columbia College in 1928 and from Physicians and Surgeons in 1932, and spent his entire career at Columbia, becoming Professor in 1963 and Professor Emeritus in 197
 GLAZER-David. 87, on March 4. Beloved husband of Mia Glazer. Stepfather of Peter and Paul Brest. Brother of Max, Edward, Frank and Sam. Grandfather of Jeremy, Hilary, Matthew, Phillip and Eric and great grandfather of Julia. The funeral will be held at the Riverside, Amsterdam and 76th St, 
 GOLDSTEIN-Adelaide. Beloved wife of Charles. Devoted mother of Leslie and Franklin Abrams and Dr. Scott and Nadine Goldstein. Cherished grandmother of Courtney, Jason, Ross & Spencer. Loving sister of Herb Dorfman and his wife, Terrie. Your love and courage have inspired us all. Services on
 GREGORI-Leon. Age 87. Died peacefully March 6 due to complications of cancer. He leaves behind his most beloved wife of 53 years, Katherine (nee Kirshner) and his children, Mary Ellen Tytell of Manhattan, Peter Gregori of Maryland, and Eva and Michael Gregori of Manhattan; also three grandc
 HEIN-Howard Glen. President and Co-Founder of the distinguished furniture, textile and accessories firm of Randolph & Hein, Inc. based in New York, Los Angeles and San Francisco, suffered a heart attack and died peacefully in his sleep Friday, February 23rd, 2001 in Los Angeles, CA. Howard 
 HOFFMAN-John E. Died at home March 5, 2001 after a long illness. Adored husband and soulmate of of Barbara. Loving, devoted and always supportive father of Jana and Jason. Adoring ''Koppa'' of Nikki and Travis and devoted brother of Robert. His love, support and kindness gave to our whole f
 JOFRE-Ernesto. UNITE mourns the untimely passing of an important leader of our union on March 5. Manager of the Amalgamated Northeast Joint Board and recently elected an International Vice President, Ernesto was an organizer, a political activist, a trade unionist of high principle and comm
 KASTENDIECK-Dr. Miles, 95, February 28th at his home in Brooklyn. Music critic, teacher, lecturer. Yale University, BA., BM, Ph.D., Phi Beta Kappa. 1928-1932. Correspondent Brooklyn Eagle, New York Journal American, World Journal Tribune, Christian Science Monitor. Retired 1982 after 50 yea
 NIERENBERG-Benjamin. Died in his sleep on March 3 at the age of 96. His wife of 55 years Pauline, predeceased him in 1987. Formerly a resident and businessman in Jamaica Estates, he retired to Englewood and Sarasota, Fl. Ben was caring and generous, a vigorous man and an incisive thinker. H
 ROBERTSON-John Krohn, 29. Of Brooklyn, NY, died Wednesday, February 28, 2001. He was born January 28, 1972 in Brooklyn, NY, a son of Archibald Francis Robertson, Jr. and the late Marilyn Joan Schwartz Robertson. John was a 1989 graduate of St. Ann's High School in Brooklyn, NY, and he atten
 SCHLOSS-Jack. On March 3 in his 88th year in Miami, FL. Beloved husband of the late Betty. Adored father of Roslyn DePas and Michael and the late Gilbert. Dear father-in-law of Patti. Cherished grandfather of Davide and Danielle DePas. Devoted brother of Florence Friedman and the late Paul.
 SOLL-Dr. Jerome, 73. The Imagine Project mourns the loss of our mentor, friend and Board member, Jerry Soll. His belief in the innate creativity of all children and his continued faith and confidence in us when there was no one else will be an unending light and inspiration in our continuin
 WALSH-H. Robert. Of New York, N.Y. Age 76. Beloved father of Meredith W. Walsh and Eliot W. Walsh. Brother of Francis X. Walsh. Passed away Wednesday, February 28, 2001. Born in Milton, MA., Mr. Walsh was a graduate of Harvard Univesity, Class of 1948. He served in the U.S. Army in Germany 
 Dr. Paul Fiset, a microbiologist who helped develop a vaccine against the infectious disease known as Q fever, or Balkan grippe, died on Feb. 27 at a hospital in Baltimore. Dr. Fiset, who had long been in poor health, was 78 and lived in nearby Timonium, Md. A professor emeritus at 
 Frank H. Johnson knew the truth about today's intelligent readers: they rebel against condescension and have scant time to waste. This pioneer of direct mail invented what became known as the Johnson Box, an enticing paragraph just before a letter's salutation that efficiently and pleasingl
 BERGER-Robert S. Of Brooklyn, N.Y. Died on Wednesday, March 7, 2001 at age 91. Mr. Berger graduated from the City College of New York class of 1930. He went on to do graduate work at the University of Berlin and Yale University. He had a long career in the New York City school system as a t
 BLACKER-Arthur. Passed away March 4 in his 83rd year. Beloved husband of the late Natalie Flashberg Blacker. Devoted father and father-in-law of Ellen and Joel Walker, and Elyse and Larry Faltz. Adored and cherished grandfather of Brian and Allison Walker. Beloved by all who knew him.      
 BLUME-Richard. Physicist. On March 4, 2001. Formerly of Alexandria, Virginia. Survived by his sister, Florence Most of Deerfield Beach, Florida.       
 COLE-Morley G. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Morley G. Cole, an esteemed member and extend to his beloved wife, Edna and family its deepest sympathy. Arthur I. Frankel, President Brian J. Strum, Secretary       
 CROWLEY-John P. (Jack). Of Dobbs Ferry, NY on March 5, 2001. Former Senior Vice President for the Depository Trust Company. Survived by his wife Helena; daughters, Dorothy and Treacy; son Cornelius (Con); sister Mrs. Edward (Martha) Zebrowski and six grandchildren. Funeral Mass Friday 11 A.
 DOBROF-Alfred. The Board of Directors, Residents and Staff of the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with profound sorrow the loss of Alfred Dobrof, beloved husband of our dear friend and colleague Rose. We extend our heartfelt codolences to the entire Dobrof family on the loss of 
 FRIEDMAN-Harry. In loving memory of Harry Friedman (November 1, 1914-March 4, 2001). Loving husband of Rose, devoted father of Janet Javer and Kenneth Friedman. Cherished Popi of Robert and Stuart Friedman and Dara, Arlyn and Eric Javer. Beloved brother of Sol Friedman. Loving, kind, specia
 GREEN-Julius B. The staff and Steering Committee of the New York Work Exchange and the staff and members of the Coalition of Voluntary Mental Health Agencies are deeply saddened by the passing of Julius B. Green, Assistant Director of Howie T. Harp Training Program. Julius will be remembere
 ISAACSON-H. Harding. The New York Society of the General Society of the War of 1812 records with profound sorrow the death of its esteemed past President, Col. H. Harding Isaacson, on Feb. 26, 2001. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Janet, his nephew and nieces. A memorial se
 JOFRE-Ernesto. UNITE mourns the untimely passing of an important leader of our union on March 5. Manager of the Amalgamated Northeast Joint Board and recently elected an International Vice President, Ernesto was an organizer, a political activist, a trade unionist of high principle and comm
 KOHL-Paul. Loving husband of the late Rhoda Kohl. Father of Ken and Vicki. Proud grandfather of Lindsay, Stacey and Spencer and father-in-law of Myrna and Peter. Died as a result of a stroke at Palm Beach Gardens, Florida on March 6, 2001. Mr. Kohl spent almost 50 years as a general contrac
 McLAUGHLIN-Edward F. Of NYC and Milford, CT, died March 7, 2001. Beloved husband of Viola. Brother of Dr. John McLaughlin of York, PA. After college he entered platoon leaders class at Quantico, VA. When the war broke out he joined the Navy and served as Lt. on the aircraft carrier USS Guad
 NIERENBERG-Benjamin. Died in his sleep on March 3 at the age of 96. His wife of 55 years Pauline, predeceased him in 1987. Formerly a resident and businessman in Jamaica Estates, he retired to Englewood and Sarasota, Fl. Ben was caring and generous, a vigorous man and an incisive thinker. H
 ROBERTSON-John Krohn, 29, of Brooklyn, NY, died Wednesday, February 28, 2001. He was born January 28, 1972 in Brooklyn, NY, a son of Archibald Francis Robertson, Jr. and the late Marilyn Joan Schwartz Robertson. John was a 1989 graduate of St. Ann's High School in Brooklyn, NY, and he atten
 SHAY-Paul. Died March 6, 2001 in Suffern, NY. He is survived by his loving wife Rita. Devoted father of Stuart and Mark. Beloved brother of Carol Pilmar (Frank). He is also survived by his sister-in-law and brother-in-law Barbara and Marvin Goldberg. Services at Hellman Memorial Chapels, Sp
 SILVERMAN-Samuel J. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison greatly mourn the loss of our friend and colleague, Samuel J. Silverman. Sam was a litigator and a member of Paul, Weiss family for more than 50 years. He was a Justice of the New Yor
 In everlasting loving memory of Hayward Cirker, his unique life of art and publishing. Blanche Cirker, family and friends.       
 Felipe Pazos, a Cuban economist who initially supported Fidel Castro because he said he believed that he would restore democracy but broke with him in 1959, died on Feb. 26 in exile at Puerto Ordaz, Venezuela. He was 88. In February 1957, Dr. Pazos and his son Xavier arranged for a 
 Leslie C. Quick Jr., who provided investors with the chance to trade stocks at discounted prices and then earned a reputation as a leading supporter of Roman Catholic charities in the New York area, died yesterday at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston, according to his son, Thomas. 
 COHEN-Gerald, Ph.D. died suddenly on March 7, 2001. Professor of neurology and neurobiology at The Mount Sinai School of Medicine in N.Y.C. Loving and devoted husband of Dorothy; loving, devoted and proud father of Kevin. As a person, family and friends were first and foremost; for them he 
 DOBROF-Alfred. The Board of Directors, staff and volunteers of The Burden Center for the Aging are deeply saddened by the passing of Alfred Dobrof, beloved husband of our esteemed colleague and board member Rose. Alfred was a generous and enthusiastic supporter of our work. We will miss his
 GERECHT-Dr. J. Fred, passed away on March 2, 2001. He was a research chemist at Colgate Palmolive Company for 38 years and an Adjunct Professor of Chemistry at Rutgers University for 18 years. His wife Agnes, daughter Mary Anne Bemis, son-in-law Mel Bemis and granddaughter Melissa Bemis, su
 GOTTFRIED-Dr. Edward Brody. On March 4, 2001 at home in Old Field, NY, after a six month battle with pancreatic cancer. He was 55 years old. Ed attended Washington, DC public schools. He graduated from The University of Pennsylvania in 1967 and Tufts University School of Medicine in 1971, w
 GREEN-Julius. The Department of Mental Health, Mental Retardation and Alcoholism Services joins the mental health community in mourning the loss of Julius Green, a staunch advocate for those with mental illness. Through the Howie T. Harp Training Center, he provided hope and tangible opport
 HOLTZMAN-Charles M., M.D. Of Roslyn Hts on March 7, 2001. Devoted husband of Natalie Gumport Holtzman, loving father of David and Paul, father-in-law of Carol Steiker, grandfather of Abigail and Joshua, and beloved brother of Alexander and brother-in-law of Eleanor. Services at Gutterman's,
 JAKUBOVITZ-Jerome R. Beloved husband of Joan, devoted brother of Dr. Norman Javitt and Helen Smolen, loving father of Beth (Bob Chiger), Debra (Tim Fletcher), Bruce (Julie Sherman), and Donna (Donald Spector); cherished grandfather of Michele, Andrea, Jordan, Elliot, Robyn, Aaron, David, Da
 JOFRE-Ernesto. UNITE mourns the untimely passing of an important leader of our union on March 5. Manager of the Amalgamated Northeast Joint Board and recently elected an International Vice President, Ernesto was an organizer, a political activist, a trade unionist of high principle and comm
 McALLISTER-Donald H. A former Partner, Managing Director and, most recently, an Advisory Director of Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, died on March 6, 2001, in Orlando, Florida. Mr. McAllister was born March 21, 1925 in New Haven, Connecticut. The son of Harold C. and Carolyn H. McAllister, he w
 McHARG-Ian. Scholar, teacher, friend and visionary leader. His contributions to the environment will benefit generations to come. All who had the honor to work with him or learn from him will feel his presence forever. Our sincerest condolences to Carol and the entire family. Ed Hollander M
 QUICK-Leslie C. Jr., 75, on March 8, 2001, of North Palm Beach, FL and Aspen, CO, formerly of Laurel Hollow, NY. Wall Street visionary and philanthropist, founded Quick & Reilly, the first New York Stock Exchange member firm to offer discounted commissions to individuals and one of the nati
 SHAPIRO-Samuel. Entered into rest on March 8, of Palm Beach, Florida, formerly of Swampscott, Massachusetts. Beloved husband of Bernice (Stein) Shapiro and the late Mae Rita (Sternburg) Shapiro. Devoted father of Randi L. Cohen of Marblehead, MA., Cindi M. Shapiro of Beverly, MA., and Donal
 SILVERMAN-Samuel J. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison greatly mourn the loss of our friend and colleague, Samuel J. Silverman. Sam was a litigator and a member of Paul, Weiss family for more than 50 years. He was a Justice of the New Yor
 STRACKA-Peter Jr. Of Somers, N.Y. and Bonita Springs, FL passed away on March 7 in Florida. He had been a longtime resident of Sleepy Hollow and Ardsley. He was born in Johnson City, NY to Peter and Helen Stracka on May 16, 1934 and was a graduate of Cornell University where he was a member
 Frankie Carle, the dean of the big-band leaders, who is best remembered for ''Sunrise Serenade,'' the popular, easy-swinging tune he wrote with Jack Lawrence that became his signature piece, died on Wednesday in a hospice in Mesa, Ariz. He was 97. The high point of his popularity  w
 Dr. Joe Gibbs, an expert on neurological diseases who helped show that maladies like mad cow disease and scrapie are infectious rather than genetic, died on Feb. 16 at a hospital in Washington, his hometown. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. A career 
 BERNICK-Paul I. World ORT mourns its friend and colleague of 52 years, Paul I. Bernick, Executive Director Emeritus of American ORT. Our heartfelt condolences go out to his wife, Adrian Mann, his three daughters, two stepchildren, sister and ten grandchildren. Justice Richard Goldstone, Pre
 BIRKE-Sidney. On Friday, Mar. 9, age 87, of New York, in Lexington, Massachusetts. Beloved husband of Margaret. Cherished father of Ted Birke and Pat Pershan. Grandfather of four and greatgrandfather of six. He was deeply loved. In lieu of flowers, remembrances may be made to the American C
 CAMUNAS-MONGE-Jorge. Died in Santurce, PR, March 9, 2001. Born February 21, 1915. Graduate of the University of Puerto Rico, a CPA, he was Vice President of Corona Brewing Corp., where he worked from 1940-1982. He was President of the San Juan Lions Club, Governor of Lions District 51 and I
 COHEN-Gerald, Ph.D. The Estelle and Daniel Maggin Department of Neurology at Mount Sinai School of Medicine deeply mourn the passing of Dr. Gerald Cohen, a famous biochemist in the field of Parkinson's Disease. Dr. Cohen joined the staff of Mount Sinai in 1973 and helped introduce the conce
 COOK-Edward Willingham. Died peacefully at his home in Palm Beach, Florida on Thursday, March 8, 2001, aged 78. Mr. Cook also resided in Gloustershire, England. Philanthropist, war hero, business and civic leader in Palm Beach, England and in his original hometown of Memphis, TN. Mr. Cook w
 DOBROF-Alfred. I was saddened to learn of the death of my good friend Alfred. To dear Rose and daughters, I extend my sincere sympathy. While we mourn his loss, we give thanks to God for his life. We have fond memories to sustain us. Remember Italy. Rest in peace, dear Alfred. Ellsworth G. 
 GRAYSON-Herbert. On March 7, 2001. Cherished and beloved husband of 54 years of Betty Lee, devoted loving father of Richard (Karen), Carole (Alex), and Sue (Bob), adored grandfather of Adam, Elana, Hannah, and Andrew. Dear brother of Marilyn Weissman. His kindness, wisdom, sense of humor an
 HOLTZMAN-Charles. A friend and physician of long standing with great intellect and warmth. We will miss you Charles and mourn your loss in our lives. Our love to his beloved Natalie, sons David and Paul, daughter-in-law Carol, brother Alexander, sister-inlaw Eleanor and grandchildren Abigal
 JAKUBOVITZ-Jerome R. The staff of Jerome Haims Realty mourn the loss of our friend and mentor Jerome Jakubovitz. Jerry's contribution to the real estate appraisal community and the Appraisal Institute was tremendous, but his personal guidance and friendship will be most missed. Jerry inspir
 JOFRE-Ernesto. Manager of the Amalgamated Northeast Regional Joint Board and Local 169, Union of Needle Trades, Industrial and Textile Employees. The members, officers, and staff of the Region and Local mourn the passing of their friend and leader. Always caring and generous, Ernesto symbol
 LEVY-Edward P. Of Flushing, NY died March 6, 2001. Mr. Levy was born in 1911 in Brooklyn, NY, the last of nine children. He was married for 57 years to Mollie Citrin. He worked proudly for the Gillette Company for over 50 years as an executive and consultant. Mr. Levy is survived by his chi
 McHARG-Ian. Scholar, teacher, friend and visionary leader. His contributions to the environment will benefit generations to come. All who had the honor to work with him or learn from him will feel his presence forever. Our sincerest condolences to Carol and the entire family. Ed Hollander M
 QUICK-Leslie C., Jr. The President and Trustees of Fairfield University are deeply saddened by the death of their longtime colleague, friend and benefactor, Leslie C. Quick, Jr. Mr. Quick was the immediate past Chairman of the Board of Trustees and a member of the Board from 1982 through 19
 IN MEMORIAM REMEMBERING FOREVER MY BELOVED HUSBAND ON THE 2ND ANNIVERSARY OF HIS DEATH. VALENTINO D.B. MAZZIA MARCH 10, 1999.       
 Peter G. Mirto, a Brooklyn Democrat who was a member of the New York State Assembly from 1969 to 1978, died on Monday in Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 85 and lived in a retirement home in Glen Cove. A native New Yorker, he graduated from St. John's Law School and was an assistant district 
 Richard Ruggles, a Yale University economist who developed tools for measuring national income and improving price indexes used in formulating government policy, died of complications from prostate cancer at his home in New Haven on Sunday, according to Patricia Ruggles, his daughter. He wa
 David Glazer, a classical clarinetist, died last Sunday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. He made many solo and ensemble appearances in New York and performed with the New York Woodwind Quintet from 1951 until he retired in 1985. H
 Mario R. Russillo, who changed his surname twice to put it at the top of ballots when he ran for office in Johnston, R.I., died on March 2 in North Providence, R.I. He was 76 and lived in Johnston. Mr. Russillo, a Democrat, changed his name to aRussillo in 1964, when he ran for town
 AMKRAUT-Jacob (Jack). On March 9, 2001. Loving husband of Irene. Adoring father of Judith and Walter Flamenbaum and Serena (Nina) Fujita. Grandfather to Miles, Evan, Ross and Craig. Service Sunday, 1 PM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street at Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in his memory to P
 BERENS-Ralph J. The New York Times records with deep sorrow the passing of Ralph J. Berens, associated with The Times from 1968 until 1994. He was an Assistant to the Weekend Editor.       
 CHALFY-Fred. Passed away peacefully on March 10. Sweet father to Dylan, loving son to Sylvia and the late Meyer Chalfy, brother to Roberta and Mort. In lieu of flowers, please donate in his honor to Cancer Care or the American Cancer Society. CHALFY-Fred. My beloved. Not for just an hour, n
 COLEY-Peter. On March 7, 2001. True member of the Beat Generation. He will be missed.       
 COOK-Edward Willingham. Died peacefully at his home in Palm Beach, Florida on Thursday, March 8, 2001, aged 78. Mr. Cook also resided in Gloustershire, England. Philanthropist, war hero, business and civic leader in Palm Beach, England and in his original hometown of Memphis, TN. Mr. Cook w
 COWEN-David, M.D., 93. On March 5, after a short illness. Professor Emeritus of the Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons, the Presbyterian Hospital, and was associated with both Lenox Hill Hospital and the New Jersey Veterans Hospital. He was an internationally known neuropathologist
 DiBELLO-William J. William J. DiBello, 89, formerly of Yonkers, NY, died Tuesday, March 6, 2001 in South Florida. Mr. DiBello was born in NYC May 28, 1911 and was a graduate of Fordham University, and a decorated World War II veteran. Bill DiBello spent many years in the advertising busines
 HELLAWELL-Robert. 73, on March 8, of cancer. A professor at Columbia Law School from 1964 until his retirement in June, 1989 as the Wilbur Friedman Professor Emeritus Tax Law. Graduated AB from Williams College in 1950 and LLB from Columbia in 1953; clerked on the U.S. Court of Appeals, Dis
 HIRSCHKORN-Neil. The Board of Governors and the Members of Glen Oaks Club express their deepest sorrow at the untimely passing of their esteemed member and past member of the Board of Governors and extend their heartfelt sympathy to his family. Board of Governors, Lowell Kwiat, President HI
 JAKUBOVITZ-Jerome R. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Jerome R. Jakubovitz, a cherished friend who inspired others through his generosity and commitment. Mr. Jakuboviz and his beloved wife, Joan, expressed their deep devotion to I
 LAVENTHOL-Henry ''Hank'' 73. Died peacefully at home of cancer, February 21. He graduated from Yale University with a BA in fine arts, and later studied in Italy and France. Hank was a gifted painter who worked in many other media, including photography. He was a master printer, specializin
 MORSE-Philip S. Age 80, philanthropist and visionary businessman, died in Miami, FL, on March 9, after an illness. He is survived by his daughters Linda Morse of Kensington, CA, Sherry Morse of San Francisco, CA, and his grandchildren Noah Tuleja, Matthew and Sarah Maccabee. Donations to He
 QUICK-Leslie C. Jr., 75, on March 8, 2001, of North Palm Beach, FL and Aspen, CO, formerly of Laurel Hollow, NY. Wall Street visionary and philanthropist, founded Quick & Reilly, the first New York Stock Exchange member firm to offer discounted commissions to individuals and one of the nati
 ROOS-Sigmund. Died on March 9, 2001, at age 94. Husband of the late Anita Sperling. Father of Daniel, Michael, Raymond, father-in-law of Eva and Annette, grandfather of Rick, Linda, Melissa, great grandfather of Claire and C. William. Also survived by brother Charles and sisters-in-law Rosl
 ROSWIT-Dr. Bernard. On March 9. Beloved husband of Marcia. Devoted father of Susan and William. A pioneer in the field of radiotherapy, Chief of Radiotherapy at the Bronx VA Hospital for 40 years, devoted his life to the fight against cancer. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the America
 SHAMMAS-George J. On March 8, 2001. Veteran of Korean War. Beloved father of George S., Marie Romano, John W., and James T. Former husband of Diane Morey. Loving grandfather of Lisa, George C., Theresa, Peter, Jessica, John J., Olivia, and Christopher. Also survived by his sister Claire Set
 SONNENSCHEIN-Allan. Age 59, of South Salem, NY., on March 5, 2001, a journalist and editor for Penthouse Magazine for 20 years, a published author. He is survived by his wife Teri Sonnenschein, his sons; Brett (& Jennifer) Sonnenschein, Ted Sonnenschein, and sisters; Sandy (& Irving) Albaha
 TROSTEN-William. The American Jewish Committee mourns the passing of one its longest serving staff members, who played a critical role in the financial growth of the agency and in nurturing AJC's unique relationship with Germany. Mr. Trosten joined the AJC staff in 1957, and worked primaril
 TROSTEN-William S. Age 73. Of Austerlitz, N.Y. and New York City. Died of cancer on March 6, 2001. He was born in New York City, attended public schools there, and served in the U.S. Army during W.W. II. He worked for the American Jewish Committee for approximately forty years, retiring as 
 IN MEMORIAM REMEMBERING FOREVER MY BELOVED HUSBAND ON THE 2ND ANNIVERSARY OF HIS DEATH. VALENTINO D.B. MAZZIA MARCH 10, 1999.       
 SILVERMAN-Selig J. On this fifth anniversary yarzeit. ''And thus he bore without abuse the grand old name of gentleman.. wearing all that weight of learning lightly like a flower.''       
 Samuel J. Silverman, a skilled litigator in a variety of high-profile cases who later served 20 years as a judge and surrogate in New York, died on Tuesday at the Weill Cornell Medical Center of New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 92 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.        
 Ian L. McHarg, a landscape architect, planner and teacher whose passion for meshing communities and ecology inspired scores of successors, died on March 5 in Chester, Pa., near Philadelphia. He was 80. His most enduring contribution to the field, many colleagues say, is his 1969 boo
 James D. St. Clair, the Boston lawyer who represented President Richard M. Nixon in the Watergate scandal, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Westwood, Mass. He was 80. In a half-century as a trial lawyer, Mr. St. Clair developed a reputation as a dignified, courteous, highly com
 Louis Faurer, who pushed photography in an anything-goes direction in the 1940's and 50's, producing images taken on city streets that were raw, tender and often melancholy, died on March 2 in Manhattan. He was 84. His offhand style of street photography has been more commonly assoc
 CHALFY-Fred. Passed away peacefully on March 10. Sweet father to Dylan, loving son to Sylvia and the late Meyer Chalfy, brother to Roberta and Mort. In lieu of flowers, please donate in his honor to Cancer Care or the American Cancer Society. CHALFY-Fred. My beloved. Not for just an
 FISHMAN-Elizabeth K. On March 10, 2001, in El Paso, TX. Formerly of Fair Lawn, NJ. Beloved wife of the late Henry. Loving mother of Suzanne Azoulay and her husband Moshe, Ira Z. Fishman and his wife Carol, and Elise Fishman. Cherished grandmother of Leora, Kim, Dana and Michael. Dear sister
 HAMMERSTEIN - William. The Rodgers and Hammerstein Organization has lost a true leader and friend. Bill gave unselfishly to the family firm; he was knowledgeable yet curious about every aspect of the organization, a teacher and a student to the very end. He was wise-about business, about pe
 JAKUBOVITZ-Jerome R. The Board of Directors of Stern College for Women is deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed member, Jerome Jakubovitz. Jerry was a very special man and we shall sorely miss his wisdom, his business acumen, his commitment to Judaism and education, and his generos
 KLEIN-Arthur. Age 87, March 10, in Boynton Beach, FL. Cherished husband of Muriel. Dear father of Jeffrey (Sherry) Klein, Barbara (Ken) Scherick and Mitchell (Miriam) Klein. Proud grandfather of Russell Klein, Gabrielle Roth and Rachel Klein; Adam, Scott and Heather Scherick; and Daniel, Sa
 KONDRACKI - George. Urban planner, expert at the United Natons and World Bank, at the age of 71 in Paris, France. Sadly missed by his family.       
 PHILIPS-Alben. Career newspaperman known to his friends and colleagues as Bill or Flip, died of natural causes February 16, 2001. He was raised and died on East 15th Street in Manhattan. He was 89. Essentially a self-taught man, he was hired by the New York World in the 1930's. In 1941 he j
 QUICK-Leslie C. Jr. The Arts Council and staff of the Regina A. Quick Center for the Arts of St. Bonaventure University deeply regret the passing of our dear friend and visionary patron, Leslie Quick Jr. His intellect and encouragement will be greatly missed. Michael E. Hill, Director R.A. 
 REYNAL-Anthony. Died suddenly on March 9 at age 61. Brother of Eric Reynal (Carmen). Beloved uncle of William, Carmen and Michael, and devoted son of Elizabeth Darbee (Henry). He will be sorely missed by his loving family and friends. Service to be announced.       
 SCHNEIDERMAN-Nathan B. Of Boca Raton, FL, and Walden, NY, passed away March 9, 2001, at age 88. Born in Poland. Founder of Anchor Engraving Company, NY, NY. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Loving father of Neil, Gerald and Linda. Adored grandfather of Jon, Laura, Eric, Margret, David, Ronda and
 Louis Edmonds, an actor who had a long career on the New York stage but was best known for his roles on the television shows ''Dark Shadows'' and ''All My Children,'' died on  March 3 at John T. Mather Memorial Hospital in Port Jefferson, N.Y. He was 77 and lived in Setauket, N.Y. M
 CHALFY-Fred. Passed away peacefully on March 10. Sweet father to Dylan, loving son to Sylvia and the late Meyer Chalfy, brother to Roberta and Mort. In lieu of flowers, please donate in his honor to Cancer Care or the American Cancer Society. CHALFY-Fred. My beloved. Not for just an
 DeFELIPPO-Natale (Noel) J., M.D. Age 86. On March 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Olga Massi DeFelippo. Loving father of Joseph and Vivienne DeFelippo both of Brooklyn and Noel P. DeFelippo, MD, and his wife Michele Visconti of (Swampscott, MA.). Grandfather of Nole Peter Visconti DeFelippo an
 FARIS-David Gordon. Physician, musician, genealogist, died March 9th after a brief illness. He is survived by his wife, Carol Welty Faris, sons, Edward, Gregory and Robert, and six grandchildren.       
 HAMMERSTEIN - William. The Rodgers and Hammerstein Organization has lost a true leader and friend. Bill gave unselfishly to the family firm; he was knowledgeable yet curious about every aspect of the organization, a teacher and a student to the very end. He was wise-about business, about pe
 LOCKHART - George R., 71. Passed away Friday, March 9, 2001. He will live on always in the hearts of his loving wife Inez Kirby, daughter Mariko Lockhart, her husband Cesar Torres and mother Etsuko (Eppie) Lockhart, his grandchildren Jorge and Natalia, & his sister Edith Schultz. He was pre
 MASSARSKY-Ashur, DDS, age 85. Beloved husband of Yetta (nee Steinberg), father of Steven J. Massarsky, Ellen M. Gertler and Marilyn Judovin, father-in-law of Dr. Richard Gertler and David Judovin, grandfather of Rivka Wildman (Elie), Rachel Gruenspecht (Ari), Adina Judovin, Nitzana Gertler,
 MITCHELL-Lee D. The Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education/CUNY Medical School mourns the death of Dr. Lee D. Mitchell on February 17, 2001, after a courageous battle against cancer. Dr. Mitchell, a faculty member of the Department of Physiology and Pharmacology for the past 16 years, 
 REYNAL-Anthony. Died suddenly on March 9 at age 61. Brother of Eric Reynal (Carmen). Beloved uncle of William, Carmen and Michael, and devoted son of Elizabeth Darbee (Henry). He will be sorely missed by his loving family and friends. Service to be announced. REYNAL-Anthony. Holland
 ROCHWARGER-Leonard, Ambassador. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of The Jewish Community Centers (JCC) Association of North America deeply regret the loss of Ambassador Leonard Rochwarger, our Chair from 1986-1987, at which point he bacame U.S. Ambassador to Fiji. Our thoughts are
 STELLA-Robert. We mourn the passing of our friend and colleague, Bob Stella. He was conscientious and professional in his service to our clients and he brought laughter to our days. He will be missed by us. We extend our deepest sympathy to Olga, Christine, and James. DeWitt Stern Group, In
 STURGES-Lawrence Morris. 59. Of White Plains. On March 7, 2001. Beloved son of the late Walter Knight Sturges and the late Alice Morris Sturges. Survived by his two sisters; Marie Houston (Buffalo, New York) and Megan Draper (Albuquerque, N.M.); three brothers, Thomas (NYC), Peter (Cambridg
 WILD-Philip. Died March 12 at the age of 87. The Garfunkel, Wild & Travis, P.C. family mourns the passing of our friend Philip Wild, father of managing partner, Robert Andrew Wild. We remember Phil's warm smile, his kindness and keen sense of humor. We extend condolences to Phil's wife of 6
 Paul L. Bernick, executive director of American ORT from 1952 to 1981, died on March 5 at New York University Medical Center. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Bernick joined the American branch of the Organization for Rehabilitation Through Training as the assistant to the exec
 S. Dillon Ripley, who led the Smithsonian Institution through its period of greatest growth, died today in a Washington hospital. He was 87. A biologist, ecologist, expert on the birds of India and, for a time, an officer in the United States' wartime spy service, Mr. Ripley
 Theodore Sachs, a Michigan constitutional lawyer and a legal adviser to organized labor, died on March 5 at a hospital in suburban Detroit. He was 72 and lived in West Bloomfield, Mich. The cause was a stroke, his family said. He was a former general counsel for the Michigan
 Edward T. Tait, an expert on antitrust and corporate law who was executive director of the Securities and Exchange Commission and a member of the Federal Trade Commission during the Eisenhower administration, died on March 3 in Chestertown, Md., where he lived. He was 80. A Republic
 Morton Downey Jr., whose loudmouthed manner and sneering, smoke-in-your-face approach to guests on his television show gave him a wildly popular, albeit short, career as a national talk show host in the 1980's, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 67 and lived in Los Angeles. The c
 BERGER-Phil. 58. Screenwriter and author, died at home on Monday, March 12, 2001, after a valiant battle with colon cancer. He will always be the champion of our hearts. Phil leaves behind his daughter, Julia, his life partner, Veronica Vera, mother, Fanny Berger, his sister, Cynthia Darlin
 HARRINGTON-Michael J. Died of cancer on March 12, 2001. Husband of Regina and proud father of Michael, Brian and Katherine. Brother of Kathleen McQuade, Thomas and Mary Weille. Michael was also very involved in the lives of his nephews and nieces. Visiting at the Fairchild Chapel, Franklin 
 HENNESSY-Raymond J. The New York Stock Exchange community mourns the loss of our valued friend and respected colleague, who served as our Vice President, Member Firm Regulatory Development and Services. For two decades, Ray distinguished himself throughout the securities industry with his c
 LEVITAS-Willard, March 12. 2001. Beloved husband of Aura. Loving brother of Claire Ehrlich. He was a noted scenic designer for television as well as a producer. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call on Friday, March 16th, 2-5 and 79PM at Frank E. Campbell,
 LUDLUM-Robert. The partners and staff of Marcum & Kliegman LLP mourn the death of our dear friend and client, Robert Ludlum. He will be missed by all of us. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family.       
 MARTON-Sara. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member and trustee, Michael Marton upon the loss of his wife as well as to their children, Elaine Diller and Robert Marton, their grandchildren and to the entire family. Shiva will be at 3720 Independence Avenue, Apt 2E. May th
 MATHAI-Dr. Thomas, 65 & wife Valsa, 54, of Greenwich, CT were killed in a tragic car accident on March 5, 2001 in New Zealand, while visiting their daughter Michelle, the Vice-Consul General of the U.S. Embassy in Auckland, NZ. Mr. Mathai worked at IBM, Honeywell, RCA (VP of the Data & Facs
 McGOWAN-Howard B. Of Verona, NJ, formerly of New York City, on March 13, 2001. Survived by his wife, Agnes (Molchan). Predeceased by his first wife, Teresa (Gasior). Brother of the late Joseph and George McGowan. Visiting hours at Frank Halpin's Brookdale Funeral Home, 1284 Broad St., Bloom
 MILLER-Jacob DDS. Born Bronx, NY, 1928. Graduated University of Pennsylvania School of Dentistry 1950. Served as Captain, U.S. Air Force 1952-1954. After 25 years in dentistry Dr. Miller took great pride in guiding his sons as Treasurer/Comptroller of Drybranch Inc. for over 20 years. Belov
 SCOTT-John G. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of John G. Scott, a Member of the Society and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Timothy G. Reynolds, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian       
 SLOAN-David. Age 86. Of Hollywood, FL. Formerly of Hewlett Harbor, Long Island. Passed away March 13, 2001. Beloved husband of Esther. Loving father of Ivy (Arthur) Scheinholz and Stanley (Wendy) Sloan. Dear brother of Joel. Cherished grandfather of Nicole, Tiffany, Adam, Jennifer and Spenc
 FAIRLY-Gene. A memorial service Saturday, March 17, 4 PM, at the Society for Ethical Culture, 2 W. 64 St. Gene, 75, died November 25, 2000. A staunch friend and beloved mentor to many, Gene led healing meditation sessions for the seriously ill. He was also a video disc publisher, a writer, 
 Phil Berger, a sportswriter, author and screenwriter, died on Monday at his home in Jackson Heights, Queens. He was 58. The cause of death was colon cancer, said Veronica Vera, his companion. Mr. Berger, who was a boxing reporter for The New York Times from 1986 to 1992, wro
 Robert Ludlum, who wrote his first novel at 42 and whose masterly, multi-tiered plots about idealistic heroes and relentless villains led his 21 books to sell more than 290 million copies, died on Monday at a hospital in Naples, Fla. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, the hosp
 Robert T. Howard, a president of the NBC television network from 1974 to 1977, died on Sunday in New York. He was 73. The cause was complications from heart disease, according to his daughter, Barbara Jo, of Manhattan. Mr. Howard, a native of Red Bank, N.J., worked at NBC fo
 Carl A. Capasso, a businessman who went from being an obscure city sewer contractor to a lead player in a bizarre municipal scandal involving a former Miss America, died yesterday. He was 55. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his son Michael said. Mr. Capasso became a staple 
 Leopold Page, No. 173 on ''Schindler's list,'' whose relentless campaign to honor the German businessman who saved his life and the lives of 1,300 other Jews during World War II led to the book and film, died on Friday in Los Angeles. He was 87. Mr. Page, then called Poldek Pfefferb
 BRAND-Leonard, M.D. The faculty and staff of Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons and New York-Presbyterian Hospital mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague Dr. Leonard Brand. Dr. Brand served the medical center for more than thirty years, contributing greatly to medical 
 CAPASSO-Carl (Andy), March 14, 2001. Loving son of Josephine Capasso and the late Michael E. Capasso. Devoted father of Kirstin, Andrea, Michael, Deborah H. Lewis, Steven Capasso and Helene Popowski. Dear brother of Serafina Capasso and Rosalie Mazzalupo. Cherished uncle of Michael Capasso.
 COHEN-Nathan. On March 14, at age 99, at the Jewish Home and Hospital. Mourned by his loving family including daughter, Irma Schechter, son Murray Cohen; 5 grandchildren; and 2 great-grandchildren . Service at Yablokoff Chapel, 1978 Coney Island Ave., Bklyn., at 1:30PM, March 15th. Intermen
 MAGGIO-Eugene. Of Nanuet, New York. Died February 24, 2001. He was born December 30, 1928 to the late Mariano and the late Jennie Loprest Maggio. He was a photographer employed by the New York Times for over thirtyfive years. He loved his job, and it was very important to him. He is survive
 RUBIN-Jerry H., 79. Of Coconut Creek, FL. formerly of Oceanside, New York passed away March 10, 2001 after a brief illness. He was a Captain from the 9th Armored division U.S. Army W.W. II and an executive in the garment industry. Survived by his beloved wife of 54 years Dolly; devoted fath
 SOBOTKA-Renato. Of Kew Gardens and Southampton, NY. Died on March 14 at the age of 87. The former director of the NYC Housing Authority's Design Department. He was the solid foundation on which our family was built and the moral and ethical compass to which we all turned in times of need. H
 Sir Anthony Faville Tuke, head of Barclays Bank from 1973 to 1981, died on March 6 in England. He was 80. As a banker, Sir Anthony defended business and sports contacts with South Africa during the apartheid era and both exemplified and defended his bank's unusual tradition of reser
 Cord Meyer Jr., an articulate and passionate strategist who helped guide the young Central Intelligence Agency's efforts to contain Soviet communism at home and abroad, died here on Tuesday. He was 80. Mr. Meyer, whose career took extraordinary turns, from soldier to author to liber
 Edward Winter, a character actor who worked in theater, films and television, died on March 8 in Los Angeles. He was 63 and had Parkinson's disease. Mr. Winter began his acting career in 1962 with the San Francisco Actors Workshop and then moved to New York, where he appeared in pro
 ABRAMOWITZ-Philip. On March 15, 2001 of Brooklyn, New York. Devoted husband of Ruth ''Rickey'' (Moskowitz) Abramowitz. Beloved father of Marcia & John Gell of Woodbridge, CT. and Lois & Ronald Hellman of Queens, NY. Dear brother of Irving Abbott of Florida. Cherished grandfather of Shari & 
 ACKERMAN-Jordan, Dr. Those who were with Jordan and Sally this past Shabbat for their son, Evan's Bar Mitzvah will never forget it. He was determined to be there and was successful. May God accept his Neshama and offer comfort and strength to all who mourn. Laurence A. Feldman, President Ra
 CAPASSO-Carl (Andy), March 14, 2001. Loving son of Josephine Capasso and the late Michael E. Capasso. Devoted father of Kirstin, Andrea, Michael, Deborah H. Lewis, Steven Capasso and Helene Popowski. Dear brother of Serafina Capasso and Rosalie Mazzalupo. Cherished uncle of Michael Capasso.
 ESSES-Leo A. The Officers and Board of Trustees of the Magen David Yeshivah, Isaac Shalom Elementary School and Celia Esses High School are deeply saddened by the loss of their cherished past President, Mr. Leo A. Esses, a devoted friend and supporter of our Yeshivah. We extend our deepest 
 FEINGOLD-Roger. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Center mourns the loss of its esteemed member Roger Feingold and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife Eleanor and the entire family. Ferne Skiba, President Rabbi Stanley Platek       
 GASKELL-Robert E. Died on March 13 at age 60 in New Orleans, LA of lung cancer. He is survived by his ''other half'', Fred B. Bookhardt, Jr. of New Orleans and his brother, George, of California. At his request, there will be no funeral or memorial service.       
 HENNESSY-Raymond J. of Franklin Lakes on March 13, 2001. Beloved husband of Rosemarie Hennessy (nee Malara). Devoted father of Donna Marie Latronica of Sparta, Debrah Anne Messina of Mount Laurel and Raymond Thomas Hennessy of Wayne. Adored son of Suzanne Hennessy of Queens, New York. Lovin
 MALKASSIAN-Eddie S. Kind and sensitive. Lovingly remembered by friends and family. Survived by his cousins, Cedric and Dick Moroukian. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Saturday March 17, at 2PM.       
 MURRAY-Edward Mitchell. Of Crosslands, Kennett Square, PA (formerly of Port Washington and Flushing, NY), on Tuesday, March 13, 2001 in his 89th year. Husband of Gainor Lowry Murray; father of Margaret Murray, Robert Murray and the late William King Murray, grandfather of Katherine Meadows 
 RICHARDS-Ames H., Jr. Died March 14, 2001 of heart failure at his home at Long Close Road, Stamford, CT. He was 82 years old. Born in Stamford and a lifelong resident, he was educated at Yale College and Yale Law School. He re-wrote the Planning and Zoning chapters of the Stamford City Char
 ROTH-Phillip. The Board of Governors and members of Tam O'Shanter Club are saddened by the passing of their member, Phillip Roth. Our sincere condolences are extended to his wife, Sally, and the family. Donald Freedman, President Mark Senders, Secretary       
 SIMMS-William, DDS. Peacefully on March 15, 2001. Beloved husband of Helen. Loving father of Sara (Howard) and Thea. Adoring grandfather of Ilisa (Adam). Loving brother of Florence. He will be deeply missed by his family and friends.       
 STEINMAN-William. On March 14th. Devoted husband of Min. Loving father of Micki Parker and the late Richard Steinman. Cherised grandfather of Nanci and David Goldberg. An exceptional man whose warmth and kindness will be remembered always by those who knew him and loved him. Graveside servi
 SWEENY-Arthur Jr. On March 15, 2001, in Stamford Ct, age 94. Formerly of Pleasantville, N.Y., he was born in New York City, January 6, 1907, son of Arthur Sweeny and Elizabeth Ann Marshall. He was schooled at the Horace Mann School, '24, Harvard College, '28, and Columbia University, '32. H
 WACHTER-Lloyd A. Dr., 50, of Massachusetts, died March 12, 2001. Dr. Wachter was formerly of New York City and Chelsea, where he operated his Chiropractic practice for 15 years until moving to Massachusetts. Funeral services were held Thursday, March 15, 2001.       
 Walter Dukes, a 7-foot center who set the N.C.A.A. single-season rebounding record when he led Seton Hall University to the National Invitation Tournament championship in 1953, then played for eight seasons in the National Basketball Association, was found dead in his Detroit home on Tuesda
 Ernesto Jofre, a political refugee from Chile who became a trade union leader and champion of low-income workers in New York City, died on March 5 at his home in Queens. He was 63. The cause was cancer, said Kevin Finnegan, a friend and colleague.  Before moving to the United States
 Glenn Hughes, who sang in a leather biker outfit with the Village People, died on March 4 at his home in Manhattan. He was 50. The cause was lung cancer, reported MTV. Mr. Hughes, who grew up in the Bronx, was working as a toll collector at the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel when f
 Isao Okawa, president and chairman of the Sega Corporation and a pioneer among Japanese venture capitalists, died of heart disease yesterday in a Tokyo hospital, the company said. He was 74. Mr. Okawa became chairman of Sega in 1984. Last June, he took on the expanded roles of presi
 CINQUE-Dr. Joseph A. On March 14, 2001 of East Hills, L.I. Beloved husband of Muriel Catherine Geraghty-Cinque. Born and raised in Lynbrook, L.I. to Andrew and Maria Cinque. His family owned and operated a successful garden and floral center in Lynbrook that was started as a small fruits an
 OWENS-Joseph M., 73 years. Raised in Clason Point, NY, graduated from Cardinal Hayes HS and Iona College (1951). Survived by his wife, Alyce, 3 daughters, 3 sons, nine grandchildren, one great-grandchild, sisters Maureen Owens, Sr. Helen Owens OSF, Sheila Saccamanno, & a brother, John. Pred
 ROSENZWEIG-Israel May 10, 1919-March 16, 2001 Devoted husband to Helen, father to Sally Rosenzweig Moskowitz and Irene Rosenzweig Jaffe, grandfather to John and Peter Moskowitz and Nathaniel & Talia Jaffe. Good friend to many, loved by all who knew him for his kind and caring soul, his enga
 SWEENY-Arthur Jr. On March 15, 2001, in Stamford Ct, age 94. Formerly of Pleasantville, N.Y., he was born in New York City, January 6, 1907, son of Arthur Sweeny and Elizabeth Ann Marshall. He was schooled at the Horace Mann School, '24, Harvard College, '28, and Columbia University, '32. H
 WALSH-Daniel P., Sr. It is with deep sadness that we note the passing of Daniel P. Walsh, Sr., father of Winthrop-University Hospital's President and Chief Executive Officer, Daniel P. Walsh. His legacy can be found in his large and loving family. On behalf of the Hospital's Board of Direct
 A memorial tribute to the actor Werner Klemperer will be held on Thursday at 11 a.m. at the Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, Manhattan. Among those to speak at the tribute, which is free and open to the public, are Philip Bosco, Tammy Grimes and Regina Resnick. Mr. Klemperer, best 
 Abraham H. Lass, an educator and writer whose books, articles and 40 years as an unorthodox teacher and outspoken principal made him one of the New York City school system's best-known personalities, died Friday night at his home in Fresh Meadows, Queens. He was 93. Mr. Lass, who re
 The Great Alzana, the high-wire artist ballyhooed as ''The Most Dare devilish Human Ever to Skirt Eternity's Brink,'' whose tricks were so dangerous that New York State passed a law to keep him from working without a net, died on Feb. 16 at a hospital in Sarasota, Fla. Away from the
 H. Gordon Skilling, a Canadian expert on Czechoslovakia who aided and encouraged dissidents there when it was a Communist state, died on March 2 at his home in Toronto. He was 89. Dr. Skilling, a political scientist, retired in 1982 from the faculty of the University of Toronto.    
 COOK-Benjamin A. On March 16, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Fay Moss Cook. Brother of Edy Barron of Pembrook Pines, FL, brother of the late Joseph and Jack. Uncle, great-uncle and great-great-uncle. He lived his life the way he wanted to and his trademark was eloquence. WWII veteran, No
 DUBE-Joseph. Park Surgical mourns the loss of one of the original Dube brothers. Loving husband, brother, father, grandfather, great grandfather, uncle and friend. His trusted advice will be sorely missed. Park Surgical       
 FINKELSTEIN-Edward W. On February 17, 2001 at age 84. Joined his beloved wife Minor Bufkin Finkelstein. Survivors include daughter Ellen Finkelstein of Seattle, Washington and sister Louise Fields of Lake Worth, Florida.       
 HERTZ-Harold. Survived by Sally, his loving wife of 55 years; devoted father of Robert, Madeline, William and son-in-law Vincent Gagliardi and devoted grandfather of Eric, Bryan, Kevin, Corey, David, Justin and Daniel, and greatgrandfather of Rain. Our loving memories of his warmth, love an
 LEDOUX-Louis Pierre. On March 17, 2001, 88 years. Born August 1, 1912, in Cornwall-on-Hudson, NY. He graduated from Gunnery School in Washington, CT, and Harvard, Class of 1935. He was President of the family company, Ledoux and Co., a metalurgical laboratory. He is survived by his wife of 
 LEIGHT-Edward. His family and many friends mourn his death, and celebrate his life. Artist, children's book illustrator (The Harriet Series), designer, bon vivant, beloved uncle, decorated veteran of W.W. II, Oscar-pool winner, and a man of elegance, wit and style. His life touched us. Cont
 McCUTCHEN-Richard J. ''Dick'' of Clinton, CT. At age 76, of 24 Partridge Lane died March 3, 2001. He was the husband of Gerda Mahncke McCutchen. Known professionally as ''Dick McCutchen'' he was a writer/producer of television news and award winning documentaries, including an Emmy nominati
 REIFEISS-Bruce C. Of Marco Island, FL, formerly of Dallas, TX, and Westchester County, NY. Director of Real Estate Research Planning and Development for JC Penney Co. Survived by his wife Monica, his children Christopher, Kirsten and Jeffrey, his brother Robert and his wife Mary Reifeiss. F
 ROSENBERG - William. Died March 15, 2001 at age 87. Mourned by his beloved wife Sylvia, his daughter Linda and her husband Ronald, his sons Steven and Dr. Fredric Rosenberg and his grandchildren Paul and Charles Daitz, Paul's wife Gila, and Benjamin, Peter and Jason Rosenberg. He was Presid
 ROSENBLATT-Franklin D. Beloved husband of Florence, devoted father of Lief, loving father-inlaw of the late Melinda, adoring grandfather of Andre Charles who knew him as Pop Pop, and dear brother of Arthur, died on March 16, 2001. Born in Riverdale to the late Harry and Helen Rosenblatt, he
 RUBENSTEIN-Allan A., M.D. On March 12, 2001 in Plantation, FL. Formerly of North Woodmere, NY. A pediatrician and endocrinologist in practice for many years on Long Island associated with the Long Island Jewish Hospital. Served in World War II as a Captain in the Army Medical Corps. He leav
 SCHOENFELD-Theodore Mark. 93, died on Sunday, March 4, 2001, in Princeton, NJ. Husband of the late Lila Pesses. Father of Edward. Grandfather of Eric and Adam. Brother of Juliette Goldstein. A memorial service will be held at 1:30 PM, on Sunday, March 18, in the main lounge of the McKay Bui
 SEITENBACH-Max. Of Forest Hills, NY on Thursday, March 15, 2001 in his 85th year. Beloved husband of Ilse. Devoted father of Irwin and Ron and daughter-in-law Lori. Adoring grandfather of Justin and Johanna. Mourned by his sister Bertha and brother Edgar. Services will be held on Sunday, Ma
 SHERLAND-Harold E. On March 15th, 2001 in his 69th year. Longtime resident of Huntington, NY & Marco Island, FL. Founder and President of Sherland & Farrington Inc., a New York commercial floor covering company. Beloved husband of Edith. Devoted father of Dwayne, Darren, Dwight and Dean. De
 STICKNEY-Richard Warren. 81 years, of Somers, NY, formerly of New Canaan, CT. Husband of Margaret. Brother of John T. Stickney of Honolulu, HI, and Patricia Stickney of NYC. A decorated captain of the US Army during World War II. He was wounded at the Remagen Bridge after being one of the f
 SWEENY-Arthur Jr. On March 15, 2001, in Stamford Ct, age 94. Formerly of Pleasantville, N.Y., he was born in New York City, January 6, 1907, son of Arthur Sweeny and Elizabeth Ann Marshall. He was schooled at the Horace Mann School, '24, Harvard College, '28, and Columbia University, '32. H
 TAYLOR-Guy, 1919-2001. Age 81, a widely known symphony conductor, died in Edmonds, Washington on March 5th, 2001. Formerly music director of the Nashville Symphony, the Phoenix Symphony, and the Fresno Philharmonic Orchestras, his work was instrumental in bringing those organizations to the
 WARD-Maurice John, Colonel, U.S.A.R. (Ret.). Died peacefully in his sleep early Saturday morning, March 17. Born in Donegal, Ireland. He came to this country as a young man. He served as an officer in the Corps of Engineers in the European theater in World War II, and was on active duty dur
 NASH-N. Richard. The Nash familyh invites friends of N. Richard Nash to a celebration of his life (1913-2000), Monday, March 26, at 6 PM, at Manhattan Theater Club, 131 West 55th St; for information, 617-547-7377.       
 Samuel Shapiro, who presided over a company that responded to the fast-food appetite of consumers by churning out containers for Big Macs at McDonald's, popcorn at movie theaters and Häagen-Dazs ice cream at supermarkets, died on March 8 at a hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 83.        
 Abraham H. Lass, an educator and writer whose books, articles and 40 years as an unorthodox teacher and outspoken principal made him one of the New York City school system's best-known personalities, died on Friday night at his home in Fresh Meadows, Queens. He was 93. Mr. Lass reti
 John Phillips, a songwriter and founding member of the 1960's folk-pop group the Mamas and the Papas, died yesterday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 65. The cause was heart failure, his spokeswoman said. The Mamas and the Papas were a band of lovers, spouses and friends
 ABRAMSON-Edward M. Age 65, March 18. Survived by his mother Roslyn, wife Harriet, children Daniel and Deborah, brother David, sister-in-law Ellen, nephew Mark, brother-in-law and sister-in-law Joel and Fran Teisch, nieces Jessica, Rachel, Abby. Loyal friend and adviser to so many. Faced a d
 CAMPBELL-Mark A. Of New York City on Friday, March 16, 2001. Devoted son of Phyllis (nee Lotz) and the late Matthew J. Loving brother of Judy Campbell and Paul Campbell. Also survived by three nieces and two nephews. Mr. Campbell, who lived most of his life in NYC, worked as a General Manag
 GOLDSTEIN-Bernard, Esq. Suddenly, on March 17, 2001. Retired tax attorney for the IRS, Adjunct Professor of tax accounting at Pace University and Baruch College. Beloved husband of Pat Goldstein. Dear brother of Sanford R. Goldstein. Services Wednesday, March 21, 2001, 4 PM, at ''The Rivers
 LEVIN-Paul. Age 85, on March 17, of Manhasset, NY, and Fort Lauderdale, FL. Beloved husband of the late Renee Levin. Devoted and cherished father of John, Claudia Romig and Barbara. Loved by granddaughter Jamie Rose and son-in-law Ben Romig. Loving brother of Stanley Levin and the late Alvi
 MANDELBAUM - Herbert. On March 17, 2001. Devoted husband of Ruth. Loving father of William and Rose Beth. Brother of the late Theodore Mandelbaum and Ada M. Rosen. Services Monday, 10 AM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY. Donations in his memory can 
 RIEBENFELD-Paul. Age 89, on March 18, 2001. Survived by his wife, Gay, one daughter and two grandchildren. Born in Berlin, Zionist Delegate to the 1937 League of Nations Mandates Commission. Funeral March 19, at 1 PM, Mt. Moriah Cemetery, Fairview, NJ; 201-943-6163. Call ZOA for memorial se
 ROSENBLATT-Franklin D. Beloved husband of Florence, devoted father of Lief, loving father-inlaw of the late Melinda, adoring grandfather of Andre Charles who knew him as Pop Pop, and dear brother of Arthur, died on March 16, 2001. Born in Riverdale to the late Harry and Helen Rosenblatt, he
 SHERLAND-Harold E. On March 15th, 2001 in his 69th year. Longtime resident of Huntington, NY & Marco Island, FL. Founder and President of Sherland & Farrington Inc., a New York commercial floor covering company. Beloved husband of Edith. Devoted father of Dwayne, Darren, Dwight and Dean. De
 TRANTUM-Adron P. (Ade). Died in his sleep on March 13, 2001, at Indian River Estates of Vero Beach, Florida. Adron was born on November 8, 1904, the son of Cleveland Adron Trantum and Lottie Pauline Dewey. He is survived by his sister Mary Alice Higgins of Asheville, North Carolina, and bro
 Edward T. Rogowsky, one of 13 members of the New York City Planning Commission, died of a heart attack Sunday night as he got into a car at Kennedy International Airport on his return from a Florida vacation. He was 60, and had homes in Park Slope, Brooklyn, and in Southold, on Long
 John Ardoin, the music critic for The Dallas Morning News for more than 30 years and the author of four authoritative books on the life and work of the soprano Maria Callas, died on Sunday in San José, Costa Rica, where he lived. He was 66. The Dallas Morning News said the cause wa
 ABRAMSON-Edward M. Age 65, March 18. Survived by his mother Roslyn, wife Harriet, children Daniel and Deborah, brother David, sister-in-law Ellen, nephew Mark, brother-in-law and sister-in-law Joel and Fran Teisch, nieces Jessica, Rachel, Abby. Loyal friend and adviser to so many. Faced a d
 BROWN-Leland S., 92. Of Bedford, New York. Died peacefully at home on March 17. Loving husband of Mary Murray Brown, who predeceased him by only one year. Mr. Brown is survived by his sister Alberta Brown of Santa Barbara, Cal; two children, Morgan S. Brown of Louisville, KY., and Janet B. 
 BUCKLEY-Reverend Joseph F. On Mar. 19, 2001. Devoted brother of Anne Mullady. Reposing at St. Cecilia's Chapel, 84 Herbert St, Brooklyn on Tuesday 7 to 9PM and on Wednesday 2 to 5PM. Mass of Transferral 7:30PM at St. Cecilia's Church, Greenpoint. Funeral Mass 10:30AM Thursday, March 22 at S
 CLARE-Robert L., Jr. The Trustees of Practising Law Institue record with deep sorrow the loss of our friend and colleague, Robert L. Clare, Jr., a Trustee since 1960, President from 1970 to 1973, and Chairman of the Board from 1975 to 1979. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife and fam
 CONWAY-Bernard Francis, J.S.C. died on March 18, 2001. Beloved husband of Catherine W. Brown Conway. Loving father of Colleen, Maureen, Eileen and Jennifer. Loving grandfather of Meghan, Logan, Brian, Will and Ryan. Served as legal advocate for his clients faithfully for 34 years. Served hi
 FLORETTA-Rev. Ettore A. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor of SS. Simon and Jude Church, 185 Van Sicklen St., Brooklyn, on March 19. Wake service at SS. Simon and Jude Church on Tuesday, March 20, 2-4 and 7-9 PM and Wednesday, March 21, 2-4 PM. Mass of Transferral on 
 FRIEDMAN-Paul. It is with deep sorrow that we record the untimely passing of our esteemed member, Paul Friedman, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Billy and children Gary and Gail. Old Westbury Golf & Country Club Barry Swidler, President Kenneth Kornhauser, Secretary       
 NEWMAN-Irving. Beloved husband of Stella and the late Gladys. Devoted and cherished father of Leslie and Keri. Loving father-inlaw of Alan and Arnold. Proud grandfather of Jonathan, Justin, Giulia and Rebecca. Dear brother of Sandy. Loving stepfather of David, Rose and Sandy, and stepgrandf
 ORDAN-Edith K. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member, Daniel Ordan upon the loss of his mother. May the families be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 RIEBENFELD-Dr. Paul. LIKUD USA mourns the passing of its longtime Board member. He was a preeminent figure in the history of Zionism and a leading protege of his mentor, the incomparable Ze'ev Jabotinsky. Joel E. Abramson, President Dr. Heskel M. Haddad, Chairman       
 ROGOWSKY-The Hon. Edward T. Dear friend and colleague to all of us at CUNY-TV, where he has been the fount of knowledge, guiding light and inspiration in all things civic and politcal, as well as mentor, teacher, and giver of personal advice. Always informed, tough and insightful, but alway
 ROSENTHAL-Alexander. The Directors of the Greater New York Insurance Company mourn the passing of the Company's extraordinary leader, Alexander Rosenthal. Employees and policy-holders have benefited from Mr. Rosenthal's energy and wisdom. He joined the Company on November 1, 1934, and was a
 TENEN-Irwin S. Born September 2, 1935, passed away March 19, 2001. Beloved son, loved dearly by his Elaine, his stepchildren, grandchildren and Baci. A man of high integrity & goodness, his neshama will be with the Siegel and Tenen families and his closest friends always. Funeral services T
 WOOTTON-Philip H. Jr. On March 17, 2001. In Stamford, Ct. Age 82. An innovative Life Magazine editor and later a rancher in Colorado, Mr. Wootton was a 1940 Cum Laude Yale graduate in Economic Geology and Editor of Yale Scientific Magazine. He was born September 12, 1918 in New York City to
 Tran Van Lam, a former foreign minister of South Vietnam, died on Feb. 6 in Canberra, Australia, where he had settled after the fall of the government in Saigon in 1975. He was 88. His death was reported in the journal Indochina Chronology. Mr. Lam was an important figure in
 Wallace D. Hayes, an emeritus professor at Princeton University who made important contributions to understanding supersonic flight and aircraft design and who did major studies on airflow at speeds at least five times as fast as sound, died on March 2 in Hightstown, N.J. He was 82.        
 Maynard Mack, the Sterling Professor Emeritus of English at Yale University and a renowned expert on Shakespeare and Alexander Pope, died on Saturday at his home in New Haven. He was 90. Professor Mack was a member of the Yale faculty for 45 years, having begun as an instructor in E
 ABRAMSON-Edward M. Age 65, March 18. Survived by his mother Roslyn, wife Harriet, children Daniel and Deborah, brother David, sister-in-law Ellen, nephew Mark, brother-in-law and sister-in-law Joel and Fran Teisch, nieces Jessica, Rachel, Abby. Loyal friend and adviser to so many. Faced a d
 BROWN-Leland S., 92. Of Bedford, New York. Died peacefully at home on March 17. Loving husband of Mary Murray Brown, who predeceased him by only one year. Mr. Brown is survived by his sister Alberta Brown of Santa Barbara, Cal; two children, Morgan S. Brown of Louisville, KY., and Janet B. 
 CAMPANELLA-Joseph. Age 94 of Elmira, New York, died on Monday, March 19, 2001 at St. Joseph's Hospital. Joseph, also known as ''Joe Cappi'' & ''Campy'', was born in Bari, Italy, February 3, 1907. He emigrated to New York City at the age of 5. Joe is survived by his loving wife of 60 years, 
 de SOLA-MORALES-Ignasi. The Museum of Modern Art notes with sadness the death of Ignasi de Sola-Morales. From 1978-1986 Mr. de Sola-Morales worked very closely with the Museum's Department of Architecture and Design on the reconstruction of Mies van der Rohe's 1929 German Pavilion in the ci
 FRIEDMAN-Paul. Our dear friend and trusted attorney. He will be missed by all of us. Our condolences to Billy and family. Honey, Jerry, Eric and Debbie Grossbardt       
 GOODMAN-Melvin H. Beloved husband to Rosamond for 62 years, cherished father of Judith, Robert and Leonard, father-in-law of Martin and Jody, adored grandfather of Harrison, Julia and Steven, passed away on March 19, 2001. An owner of New Jerseybased Goodman's Furniture. Loved for his kindn
 KAINEN-Jacob. The Katarina Rich Perlow Gallery is saddened by the sudden loss of our artist and friend whose distinguished career in the art spanned over 70 years working til the very end. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Ruth, his sons and family.       
 LEHRER-Samuel. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons notes with sadness the passing of Samuel Lehrer, beloved father of Mark Lehrer. We extend our deepest condolences to Mark and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President       
 LEY-Theodore P., 87. Of Valhalla, NY. On March 18, 2001 at Northern Westchester Hospital Center, Mount Kisco, NY. He was born on October 8, 1913 to William and Jane (nee Mullen) Ley in Astoria, NY. Theodore worked for IBM in NYC, retiring in 1973. During his years at IBM, Theodore worked as
 RIEBENFELD-Dr. Paul. The Zionist Organization of America mourns the passing of a veteran Zionist leader, author and scholar, who served the Zionist movement with distinction for over seven decades. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Morton A. Klein, National President Dr. Alan A. Mazu
 ROGOWSKY-The Hon. Edward T. The staff, faculty and friends of the Pratt Institute Center for Community and Environmental Development deeply mourn the loss of our friend, colleague and collaborator, Ed Rogowsky. Ed was an inspiration and mentor to generations of students at Brooklyn College 
 ROSENTHAL-Alexander E. The Directors, Officers, and Staff of GNY Insurance Companies mourn the loss of their esteemed Chairman and dear friend. Alex Rosenthal joined the company in 1934 as a lawyer, and rose rapidly in the company to become its Chairman of the Board and CEO. He was a skillf
 WEINER-Thomas J. On March 17th., in his 80th year, in Redding, Connecticut. Beloved husband of Ruth, devoted father of William, Jack, Michael, and Wayne. Loving grandfather. Contributions to Joel Barlow High School Scholarship Fund, Redding, CT 06897, would be appreciated. Memorial services
 YARMARK-Ronald W. Father of Elisa Cohen. Grandfather, uncle, loving brother of Muriel S. Kessler. Realtor and entrepreneur. Paratrooper in W.W. II. With his brilliant mind, kindness, wise counsel, generosity and magnificent heart, he brightened and enriched the lives of those fortunate enou
 YEE-James T. The Staff and Board of The Independent Television Service (ITVS) mourns the loss of the former Executive Director, James T. Yee, who passed away on March 17, 2001, in Piedmont, CA, after an eighteen month battle with cancer. Yee, a long-time crusader for plurality in public tel
 Ralph Thomas, a British film director best remembered for the wildly popular ''Doctor'' series with Dirk Bogarde in the 1950's and 60's, died on Saturday at a London hospital. He was 85. Mr. Thomas directed 39 films, nine of them starring Mr. Bogarde. He had a 24-year partnership wi
 Richard Harwood, who brought the determination and cunning of a combat marine to reporting and editing and, finally, to policing his own newspaper for editorial missteps, died of lung cancer on Monday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 75. Mr. Harwood, who worked at The Washington 
 Robert L. Clare Jr., a corporate lawyer who played a critical role in the growth and international expansion of the Wall Street law firm of Shearman & Sterling, died on Sunday at his home in Annandale, N.J. He was 86. Mr. Clare, who continued as the firm's counsel after stepping dow
 Chung Ju Yung, who rose from peasant origins to found the Hyundai Group, Korea's largest business empire before it began to crumble last year, died here on Wednesday. He was 85. More than any other Korean, Mr. Chung exemplified the ''miracle'' of a country that grew from the devasta
 Edward John Fee, who worked his way up from a clerk's job to overseeing the building of New York landmarks like Peter Cooper Village and the Port Authority Bus Terminal, died Monday at his home in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He was 92. Born in Queens, Mr. Fee took night courses in engineerin
 Norman Rodway, for many years a leading actor with the Royal Shakespeare Company, died on March 13 in Banbury, Oxfordshire. He was 72. He died after a stroke, according to The Guardian of London. Mr. Rodway played important roles in plays by Shakespeare, Chekhov, Gorky and S
 ABRAMSON-Edward M., The Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, Jerusalem, deeply mourns the passing of the President of our American Friends of Bezalel. We shall be forever grateful for his immense commitment to the Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design and for his tireless hard work in revitalis
 BERMAN-Henry. 95, left us March 11, 2001. He arrived at 7, on Ellis, from London, then to New Bethlehem, PA, Persia, The Arctic, and finally New York, meeting his life love, Tuni. His gaze often shifted to the invisible. From the first crystal radios, tapping the ether, to Carl Zeiss micros
 CURLEY-William A., 61. March 16th, 2001 in Chester, England. Survived by his children Laura and Peter, and his brothers Kevin, Edward and Frank. Friends may call on Saturday, March 24 from 25 PM at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Ave., NYC. A memorial service will be held i
 FATER-Elsa. On March 18, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Murray Fater. Loving mother of David Fater and his wife Alexis. Cherished grandmother of Murray & David Jr. & great-grandmother of Caitlin Marie, William Edward and Aaron David. Dear friend of Shirley Miller and Terry Lappner. Daughter
 FEE-Edward J. The Cement League mourns the passing of Edward J. Fee. Mr. Fee passed away peacefully in his sleep at 2 A.M. on Monday, March 19, 2001. Mr. Fee was 92. His integrity, knowledge and wisdom will be sorely missed by the New York construction industry. Two of Mr. Fee's proudest ac
 GLENNON-Charles E. Of New York City died on March 18, 2001. He is survived by his sister Patricia Stroffolino, also survived by two nieces & one nephew. Reposing at Clark Associates Funeral Home, Katonah, NY Thursday 2-4 and 7-9PM. Funeral services will be held at the Funeral Home, Friday a
 GOCKLEY-Rev. David Woodrow. March 18, 2001 in Venice, Florida. Loving husband of Olive (Molly) Young Gockley. Children: Pamela, Charles Young, David, Sally Young McFall, Stephanie Young Pressman and Brian; 3 grandchildren and 1 great grandchild. Born October 9, 1918. Son of David and Elizab
 KALVEN-Alex E. Tolstoy Foundation Nursing Home Company, Inc. mourns the passing of its President and CEO on March 20, 2001 and extends its deepest sympathy to his loving wife, Theresa. Despite a long, valiant battle with multiple myeloma, and at great personal sacrifice, Mr. Kalven was inst
 KESSENICH-Mark F., Jr., 62, of Palm Beach, Florida, died Tuesday, March 20th at his home in Westhampton, New York after a 6-1/2 year struggle with ALS (Lou Gehrig's disease). He is predeceased by his wife, Beverly Barry Kessenich, his parents, Hazel Johnstone Kessenich and Mark F. Kessenich
 LEVIS-Adolph. Delaire Country Club announces with deep regret the passing of our esteemed member, Adolph Levis and extends their sincerest sympathy to his beloved family. Mal Levenson, President       
 MacQUEEN-Ewan Campbell Sr. Born on January 19th, 1916 in Mendham Township, New Jersey, son of John Ewan and Margaret Winter MacQueen. After completing high school in Ohio, he graduated from the Georgia Institute of Technology and the Law School of New York University. He spent the majority 
 McMILLAN-Robert S. A founding partner of The Architects Collaborative (TAC) in Cambridge, Massachusetts died March 14 in Hanover, New Hampshire. He was 84. He leaves 2 daughters, Wendy McMillan Kenyon of Norwich, VT., and Shelley Van Hoesen of Evergreen, CO; two sons, Stephen G. of Tahoe Ci
 NEWMAN-Irving. We will always remember Irving and his amazing spirit, and will cherish all the beautiful times we had together. Our heartfelt sympathy to our dearest friend, Stella. Love, Carol and Stan Nelson       
 PAULSEN-Joseph C. On March 21, 2001 in Katonah, NY. Beloved husband of Ann Moore for 51 years. cherished father of Brad, Joann, Nancy and Amy and much loved father-in-law of Cathy Paulsen, Michael Rooney, David Friend and Albert Nalle. Adored grandfather of Dwyer and Alex Paulsen, Leigh Ann
 ROGOWSKY-Edward T. The Board, staff and members of the Empire State Pride Agenda mourn the passing of Edward T. Rogowsky, political activist, scholar and public servant. Ed served his city and his country with distinction. He was a leader in the campaign to elect Bill Bradley President of t
 ROSENTHAL-Alexander E. The Directors, Officers, and Staff of GNY Insurance Companies mourn the loss of their esteemed Chairman and dear friend. Alex Rosenthal joined the company in 1934 as a lawyer, and rose rapidly in the company to become its Chairman of the Board and CEO. He was a skillf
 ROSENTHAL-Bernard. Cherished father of Iris and Irv Singer, Kerry Madigan and Neal Rosenthal. Beloved grandfather of Adam Singer and Nesti Mendoza, Alicia and Jonathan Singer, Jennifer and Jason Robbins and Justine Rosenthal. Great-grandfather and Pop Pop of Eden Nicole Singer and Alexandra
 ROSENTHAL-Harry. Age 79, of Valley Stream, NY. March 20, 2001. Beloved husband of Ruth . Loving father of Richard. Loving Opa of Max. Loving father-in-law of Stacy Fischer Rosenthal. Born in Germany on December 18, 1921, Harry was a former president of Temple Gates of Zion in Valley Stream.
 SOLOMON-Aaron. Died March 15, 2001 at the age of 93. Graduate of City University 1932 with a BS degree; from Columbia University School of Social Work 1946 with an MS degree. He valued his long career in social service agencies as an executive, activist, group and community worker, in Lynn,
 WINSTON - Thomas Lee, 1941-2001, died suddenly on Saturday, March 17. He was born and raised in Dallas, Texas. An actor and operatic tenor, Mr. Winston was a forty-year veteran of Broadway, Off-Broadway and regional theatre. He also performed extensively with opera companies here and in Eur
 Billy Ray Smith, a defensive lineman who played 13 seasons in the National Football League and appeared with the Baltimore Colts in two dramatic Super Bowl games, died Wednesday at his home in Little Rock, Ark. He was 66. The cause was complications of cancer, said his son Billy Ray
 Jacob Kainen, a painter and printmaker who was an important force in the postwar Washington art scene and a curator of prints at the Smithsonian Institution, died on Monday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 91. In the catalog to the retrospective of Mr. Kainen's work organized 
 BLITZ-Alan. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted longtime member and past President of its Men's Club, and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Memorial service at WRT, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale, NY, Sunday, April 1, at 4 PM. Marjorie Miller
 COHEN-Charles W., 94. On March 22. We mourn our kind and gentle uncle Charlie who devoted his life to his work in the garment industry and his large family. Graveside Service, Friday 10:30 AM Cedar Park Cemetery, Paramus, NJ. Joan and Howard Baron, Donald and Rose Billings, Arthur and Alice
 GOLDFARB-Max. On March 20, 2001 in Delray Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Arlene. Loving father of Lynn, Sam and Dave. Dear father-in-law of Peter, Judy and Sharon. Doting grandfather of Bret, Mindi, Jen, Mitchell, Bennett, Matthew and Molly. Cherished brother of Manny and Carl. He was born i
 HARMON-Howard, D.V.M. Age 77, died March 19, 2001, in Escondido, CA. Born in New Castle, PA, he grew up in New York City. After graduating from Pennsylvania State University in 1942, he received his veterinary degree (D.V.M.) from Cornell in 1945. Dr. Harmon owned and operated a successful 
 LEVIS-Adolph. The Jewish Federation of South Palm Beach County, Boca Raton, FL, and its member agencies note with deep regret, and a profound sense of loss, the passing of our beloved ''Al'' Levis, a prominent and generous benefactor and supporter of our Jewish community. May his memory be 
 LOCKE-Richard Morson (Dick). Of Tampa, FL, died March 19, 2001 at home. He was 81. Dick Locke was a native of NYC & a veteran of the 7th Regiment. He is survived by his wife, Louise Crawford Brigham Locke, four children (Richard Jr., Peter, Lendra Hamre, and Margaret Bush), six grandchildre
 LURIE-Nettie. The Board of Trustees, Staff, children and families of Variety Child Learning Center extend their heartfelt sympathy to our esteemed Trustee, Abraham Lurie and his family on the loss of his beloved wife Nettie. Ralph F. Palleschi, Chairman Board of Trustees Judith S. Bloch, Fo
 MELAMID - Alexander. The American Geographical Society notes with sadness the death on March 19, of Alexander Melamid, a councilor of the Society since 1975, Vice President for many years, and long time Chair of our Honors Committee. We will miss the cosmopolitan range of his knowledge, his
 MORRIS-Bob, 49. Died of amyloidosis March 19, in Santa Fe, NM. He is the beloved son of Norma and Aaron, loving father of Rebeca Lidz, dear brother of Hal and his wife Lorie, and soulmate of Mary Kate Mendoza. His passing was as elegant and full of grace as his life. We don't bid him goodby
 RICKLES-Kate. On March 22, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Jerry. Loving mother of Adam and his wife Beth and Sam. Devoted and adoring grandmother of Abigail. Services Sunday, March 25, 1PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 ROSENTHAL-Alexander E. The Directors, Officers, and Staff of GNY Insurance Companies mourn the loss of their esteemed Chairman and dear friend. Alex Rosenthal joined the company in 1934 as a lawyer, and rose rapidly in the company to become its Chairman of the Board and CEO. He was a skillf
 ROSENTHAL-Bernard. Everybody loved Uncle Bernie. He always had a smile, he always had a joke, he always had a squeeze and he always had a kind word for everyone. We will miss him dearly. The Krass & Krevat Families       
 SAMBER-Lawrence, 88. Of Boca Raton, FL, passed away March 19, 2001. He is survived by his beloved sons Richard (Gail) and Kenneth (Florence); loving grandchildren Mark (Kristin), Andrea, David (Elizabeth) and Keith and cherished great granddaughter Betsy. Graveside service 11:00 AM, Sunday 
 SKOOG-Charles ''Charlie'' V., Jr. For most of his life, Charlie was an advertising man. First, and probably last, as a copywriter. Over his 40 years at Hicks and Greist Agency, he advanced to Chairman of the Board. In fact, Charlie's 25 years as Chairman may be a record for that many years 
 SLATTERY-Louis R., M.D. October 16, 1908-March 19, 2001. Loving father and devoted husband, in his 93rd year, at home in Manhattan, after a short illness. Survived by his children and grandchildren. Flushing High School '25, Columbia College '29, Columbia P&S '33. Veteran of the South Pacif
 SMILEY-Irwin. The board of trustees, employees and patrons of the Museum for African Art mourn the passing of our beloved Irwin Smiley, immediate past cochairman of the board of trustees, philantropist, art collector and business executive. Irwin led the museum through its most challenging 
 ROSTOCK-Edward. 11/16/20-3/23/ 00. Beloved husband of Rita. Loving father to Todd, Helene and Matt. Grandfather to Kari, Tyler and Teagan. The memory of his unselfishness and total dedication to the happiness of his family will always be embedded in the minds and hearts of all forever.     
 David McTaggart, credited with building Greenpeace into a worldwide environmental movement, died yesterday in a car crash in Italy. He was 69. Mr. McTaggart, a native of Canada, was killed near Perugia, where he lived since his retirement from Greenpeace in 1991. He spent his retire
 Mark F. Kessenich Jr., a former Citicorp executive who helped shape the way corporate and government bonds are traded, died on Tuesday at his home in Westhampton, N.Y. He was 62. The cause was Lou Gehrig's disease, according to the family. Mr. Kessenich took over Citibank's 
 ADLER-Gerty. On March 22, 2001 at age 87. Beloved wife of the late Heinz. Dear sister of the late Dita, loving aunt of Peter Odell and his wife Claire and Andrew Odell and his wife Vlasta and great-aunt of Robert, Michael, Katherine and Peter Odell. Devoted cousin of Lawrence and Rebecca Ne
 BLOOM-Sidney. On March 23, of complications from diabetes. Beloved husband of Marylouise; father of Connie and Abigail; grandfather of Jessica, Alexandra, Jamie, Jodi, Cassie, Jennifer and Samantha, & brother of Dorothy. Contributions in his memory may be made to the World War II Memorial i
 GALFUNT-Abraham ''Hap'' WWII veteran and POW, died suddenly March 22, 2001. He is survived by Kathy Dowsett with whom he shared his life, his sister Judith Brenner, his nephew Dr. Richard Brenner (Elizabeth), Marsha Gardner (Michael) and greatnieces Laura and Jennifer (Alberto), great-nephe
 HURST-Michael. The trustees, faculty, staff and students of The Culinary Institute of America mourn the death of Michael Hurst, member of the Board of Trustees since 1994. Owner of 15th St. Fisheries in Fort Lauderdale, FL, Mr. Hurst has been a supporter of the CIA and culinary education fo
 ROSS-Alan G. Age 20, died suddenly March 22, 2001. Loving son of Michael and Leslie Ross and cherished brother of Christopher. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81 St, Sunday, March 25th, 3:30 PM. Interment private. Contribtutions in his memory may be made to the Alan G. R
 SLATTERY-Louis R., M.D. October 16, 1908-March 19, 2001. Loving father and devoted husband, in his 93rd year, at home in Manhattan, after a short illness. Survived by his children and grandchildren. Flushing High School '25, Columbia College '29, Columbia P&S '33. Veteran of the South Pacif
 WEISS-Joseph I., Rabbi. West End Temple-Sinai Congregation greatly mourns the loss of its beloved Rabbi, Rabbi Joseph I. Weiss. His strength, leadership, brilliance, compassion, kindness and sensitivity have been a blessing to all who have known him. He served as Rabbi at West End Temple fo
 Rowland Evans, a provocative newspaper columnist, commentator and author who antagonized liberal politicians and championed conservative causes, died yesterday at a Washington hospital. The cause was complications from esophageal cancer, his wife, Katherine Winton Evans, said. He wa
 Adolph Levis, the inventor of the Slim Jim dried meat snack, died on Tuesday in the Hospice by the Sea in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 89. Born in Philadelphia, Mr. Levis, who was known as Al, dropped out of school at 16 and began selling spices, pickles and condiments during the Depress
 Charles K. Johnson, president of the International Flat Earth Research Society since 1972, who stubbornly and cheerfully insisted that those who believed the earth was round had been duped, died on Monday at his home in Lancaster, Calif. He was 76. Jill Fear, secretary of the societ
 ADLER-Gerty. On March 22, 2001 at age 87. Beloved wife of the late Heinz. Dear sister of the late Dita, loving aunt of Peter Odell and his wife Claire and Andrew Odell and his wife Vlasta and great-aunt of Robert, Michael, Katherine and Peter Odell. Devoted cousin of Lawrence and Rebecca Ne
 CASALS-Antonio. On March 19, 2001. Beloved son of Olga Casals & treasured partner of Brian Hogan. You're in our hearts forever. Donations may be made in his honor to Nurses' Memorial Fund c/o Virginia Sweeny,RN, St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Centers, 130 W. 12 St, Suite 6D, NY, NY 1001
 de GIVE-Paul de Barsy. In Newburyport, MA, of Newburyport, MA, formerly of NYC and Southampton. Retired senior vice president of Dominick & Dominick, Inc, where he was editor and publisher for 25 years of ''Technical Comments.'' Served as treasurer of St. David's School and Lenox Hill Neigh
 DISKIN-Thomas A., 87, of Westhampton Beach, NY, and Haverford, PA, on March 23, 2001. Beloved husband of Mary. Devoted father of Thomas A. Diskin Jr. of Dover, NH, Mary Freeman of San Diego, CA, Anne Smalley of McLean, VA, Peter Diskin of Havertown, PA. Brother of Frances Dullea, New Milfor
 EISEN-Sol. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the passing of its esteemed member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife Francine and the entire family. Rabbi Harvey M. Tattelbaum Ellen R. Saxl, Co-President Michael H. Laufer, Co-President EISEN-Solomon. On M
 ELEFANTE-Richard. On March 19, 2001. Dearest brother of Joan Tedeschi and Joseph. Beloved uncle of Dina. Lover of life and friend to many, he will be missed. Donations may be made to the Guild for Exceptional Children, Brooklyn, New York.       
 FEINSAND-Abraham B. 86, died on March 23, 2001, in Manhattan. Beloved husband of Annette, loving father of Howard and his wife Ellen, and Ellen, grandfather of Mark. Devoted brother of the late Irving and Max. Services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam Ave and 76th St, at
 FORMAN-Thomas V., on March 23, 2001, in his 91st year. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St, Saturday and Sunday from 8 AM 9:30 PM. Funeral service will be held on Monday, March 26 at 9:30 AM, also at Frank E. Campbell. In lieu of flowers, contributions may 
 FORRESTER-William Ray. A constitutional law professor whose six decade career included stints as Dean of three law schools. Died on February 16, 2001 after a brief illness. He was 90. Mr. Forrester was born in Little Rock, Arkansas. He graduated from the University of Arkansas and the Unive
 FRIEDMAN-Paul, passed away March 17, 2001 at the age of 76. He was a W.W. II veteran, successful attorney and a loving husband, father and grandfather. His generosity, his fortitude and his love for his family will remain in our memory forever. His spirit will be with us always. He will be 
 HERZOG-Peter. On March 15, 2001 after a long illness. A film historian and photographer. He will be missed, but not forgotten. A Memorial Gathering was held on Friday, March 23rd at 11AM.       
 KREISBERG-Steven E. April 10, 1942 to March 22, 2001. Steve will be lovingly remembered by all for his compassion, integrity, sense of humor and love of life. He was a devoted husband of 31 years to Betsy; proud father of Jonathan, Daniel and Juliet. He was caring son of Leo and Lucille; fr
 LEFEL-Jacques Abraham. On March 23, 2001. Beloved husband of Rose. Devoted father of Irene (Assaf and his brother Pierre). Dear brother of Ania. Adored grandfather of Alexander Amos (Beatrice). Cherished great-grandfather of Gabriel. Loving uncle of Joan and Aimee. Ever grateful for our spe
 LOEWY-Paul, 82. Died Thursday March 22nd, 2001, in Aventura Hospital, Hallandale, Fl., beloved husband of Anneliese, devoted father of Mark & John, dedicated father-in-law of Joi and cherished Grandfather of Laura & Katheryn. Paul, a holocaust survivor came to the US after World War II wher
 POLOKOFF-Dr. Morton (''Mac''). Of Paterson, NJ, died on March 23, in Boca Raton, FL, at 93. A pioneer in podiatric medicine, and known as ''the father of minimal incision surgery,'' Dr. Polokoff was responsible for numerous groundbreaking developments in his field. A kind, gentle and caring
 ROBINSON-Harold B. Beloved husband of Bette. Passed away in his loved Charleston, SC on March 16, 2001. Formerly of NYC.       
 ROSENTHAL-William. Educator, veteran, Hall of Famer. Of Pompano Beach, FL, and Becket, MA, died on March 23, 2001, in Natick, MA. He was 86. Dr. Rosenthal was Assistant Director of Health and Physical Education for the City of New York Board of Education from 1960 to 1972, an officer in the
 ROSS-Alan G. Age 20, died suddenly March 22, 2001. Loving son of Michael and Leslie Ross and cherished brother of Christopher. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81 St, Sunday, March 25th, 3:30 PM. Interment private. Contribtutions in his memory may be made to the Alan G. R
 SHELDON-Murray. Passed away on December 7, 2000, at age 64. Former president of Ayako, Inc., he was also the leader of a musical group while in college, The Sheldon Trio, and was successful enough to pay his tuition. Survived by his mother, brothers Bernard and Leonard, and his devoted wife
 SLATTERY-Louis R., M.D. October 16, 1908-March 19, 2001. Loving father and devoted husband, in his 93rd year, at home in Manhattan, after a short illness. Survived by his children and grandchildren. Flushing High School '25, Columbia College '29, Columbia P&S '33. Veteran of the South Pacif
 SMILEY-Irwin. The Members of Town Tennis Club are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and loyal member. Irwin was a great supporter of the Club and he will be sorely missed. Our sincerest condolences to Ceci and the entire family.       
 SUNDELL-Abner Jerome. Age 87, died Sunday, March 11, 2001. He was born in New York City on August 18, 1913, the son of Isadore and Molly Sundell. During World War II, he served in the U.S. Army in northern France. He wrote cowboy stories for pulp westerns and was involved in the early days 
 WEISS-Rabbi Joseph. Beloved husband of Bath-Ammi. Devoted father of William (Kathlyn) and Edward (Coni). Cherished grandfather of Houston Moses. Fond brother of Rosalind Hemley. Services today, 1 PM, at the West End Temple, 147-02 Newport Ave, Neponsit. In lieu of flowers contributions may 
 WOLF-Harold Died on Friday, March 23, 2001. Mr. Wolf was a resident of Far Rockaway and Lawrence since 1937. He was the President of the Harold Wolf Insurance Agency. He is survived by his wife Helen of 63 years, his children Richard and Judith Wolf, and Marjorie and Walter Groden, his gran
 PYLE-Roger Nelson. President of Global Capital Partners, a firm specializing in the initiation, structuring and establishment of private equity investment funds, died on February 26, at age 57. Mr. Pyle was principally responsible for the establishment of more than a dozen such funds in Cen
 Herbie Jones, a jazz trumpeter, composer, arranger and educator who worked closely with two of the most influential jazz composers and arrangers, Duke Ellington and Billy Strayhorn, died on March 19 in the Bronx. He was 74. The cause was complications of diabetes, said Patricia Will
 CHUSID-Joseph G., M.D. Age 86, on March 23, 2001, of Brookfield, WI, formerly of Wantagh, NY. He was an internationally known physician, researcher, author and medical educator, respected and beloved by colleagues, students and patients alike. He had Parkinson's disease. He was born in Newa
 EASLICK-David K. Longtime telephone company executive and civic and community leader, died Wednesday, March 14, in Naples, Fla., where he had wintered away from his Grosse Pointe Farms home for more than 20 years. He was 80. Mr. Easlick graduated from University High in Ann Arbor and then e
 HOLT-John R., 90, of 48 Pierrepont St., Brooklyn, died Wednesday morning at 7:25 AM. The memorial service will be held at the Church of the Incarnation in Manhattan on Monday afternoon at 4 PM. Mr. Holt, a highly decorated veteran of World War II, had lived in Brooklyn following the end of 
 KIRSHEN-Philip H. On March 24, 2001. Devoted husband of Irene. Devoted father of Nina and Janice and grandfather of five. Services private. KIRSHEN-Philip. The Auxiliary of Montefiore Medical Center is saddened by the passing of Philip Kirshen, a devoted member. Our deepest sympathy
 MANN-Seymour H. Age 81, died peacefully ater a long illness in Aventura, FL, on March 24. A consummate pianist and arranger, Sy will be missed by all who knew him, most especially his loving wife of 59 years, Betty, his sons Bob and David, and grandchildren Erika, Seth, Joel and Zoe. Servic
 O'KEEFE-John (Jack) A. Of Vero Beach, FL, on Wednesday, March 21, 2001. Beloved husband of Kay of 52 years, loving father of Ken O'Keefe and daughter-in-law Sandy O'Keefe of Wellesley, MA, Andy O'Keefe and daughter-in-law Anne O'Keefe of Madison, Bridget O'Keefe Crowley and son-in-law Vince
 PUTNAM-William A. III. Age 78, of Falmouth, MA, died of Alzheimer's disease on March 22, at the Cape Cod Hospital. He was the husband of Felicity N. (Koller) Putnam. Mr. Putnam was born and raised in Brooklyn, NY, and spent his summers in the Adirondacks, where his family had a home in Ausa
 Sigurd M. Rascher, a classical saxophonist compared by some to Casals and Segovia for his influence on his instrument and its concert repertory, died on Feb. 25 at his home in Shushan, N.Y. He was 94. In the course of a 50-year career, Mr. Rascher played with virtually all the major
 Mischa Richter, a painter whose drawings delighted readers of The New Yorker for the past half century, died Friday in Provincetown, Mass., where he worked and lived. He was 90. His magazine art -- his preferred term, rather than cartoon -- appeared in other magazines over the years
 CORSINI-Don Cino Tommaso dei Principi Corsini, Marchese di Laiatico, died March 26, 2001 in Porto Ercole, Italy. Born in Florence March 28, 1917. He is survived by his wife Donna Aimee Russell dei Principi Corsini, Marchesa di Laiatico, a son Alessandro Corsini, three daughters, Desideria C
 FEIN-Mitchel. On March 23, 2001 at age 90. A realtor for 40 years with the former Walter Scott & Company. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia Fein. Loving father of Mindy Leenen and father-in-law of Frans. Adoring grandfather of Sarah, David and Peter. Graveside services private. FEI
 FRIEDMAN-Gerald, M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center is deeply saddened by the sudden passing of Dr. Gerald Friedman. Dr. Friedman was a Gastroenterologist in the Department of Gastrology at Maimonides Medical Center for ten years. In addition, he did his medical residency a
 GILLESPIE-Gardner F. Jr. Of Chester, CT, a retired insurance executive, died on Sunday at the Middlesex Hospital in Middletown, CT. He was 83. Mr. Gillespie served as President of Frank B. Hall, Westchester, prior to his retirement in 1983. He attended the Loomis School and was a graduate o
 HOFFMAN-Jerome J. Loving and devoted husband of Marilyn. Beloved father and grandfather. Dear brother of Ashley. Services Wednesday, 11:30AM at RiversideNassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, N.Y. HOFFMAN-Jerome. The Hoffman family has been a client for over forty
 KAPLAN-Rev. Solomon. The Officers, Board, members, clergy and staff of Shaarei Tikvah, the Scarsdale Conservative Congregation note with profound sadness the passing of our beloved ritual director, Rev. Solomon Kaplan, on March 24th, 2001. Rev. Kaplan touched many lives, both young and old,
 KAUFMAN-David. Aged 48. In San Antonio, Texas, Sunday, March 25 of renal cancer. He leaves adoring wife Susan, children Brooks, 13, Emmet, 10, parents Ira and Dawn, brothers Charles, Jonathan, Thomas, Justin, four nephews and four nieces. David was a 1977 Law graduate of Emory University an
 KIRSHEN-Philip H. The President, Board of Trustees and the entire Montefiore Medical Center community note with deep sorrow the passing of Philip H. Kirshen, an esteemed member of Montefiore's Auxiliary. A warm and caring husband, Philip shared his wife Irene's concern for the welfare of ot
 KLEINBERG-Armand. On March 26, 2001 at age 87. Adored husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Terry Kleinberg and Jane Lebowitz. Dear stepfather of Lynn Beller and Andrew Frackman. Loving father-in-law of Jim Kainen, Dan Beller and Emily Braun. Cherished brother of Lucie Friedman and uncle of
 LOWRY-Warren M. Died on March 23, 2001 while skiing with his family three days after his 80th birthday. Beloved husband of Laure. Cherished father of Glenn and Vicky, adored grandfather of Nicholas, Alexis and Will, father-inlaw of Susan and Michael. There will be a service on Tuesday, Marc
 MELAMID-Alexander. My dear husband Alex's life came to an end on March 19, 2001 while in Cuernavaca, Mexico. Wife Ilse, daughters Diane and Suzy, grandchildren Rebecca, Kevin and Scott and friend Eduardo all mourn him. His scholarly achievements and kindness in life will be treasured. A mem
 MOAK-Arthur Allen. Died in his home in Kingston, New York, on Sunday, March 25th after an extended illness. Originally from Brooklyn, NY he was graduated from Cornell University, 1939 and is survived by his wife Blanched (Hertzfeld) whom he married in April of 1941, his daughter Patricia An
 PUTNAM-William A. III. Age 78, of Falmouth, MA, died of Alzheimer's disease on March 22, at the Cape Cod Hospital. He was the husband of Felicity N. (Koller) Putnam. Mr. Putnam was born and raised in Brooklyn, NY, and spent his summers in the Adirondacks, where his family had a home in Ausa
 SELVERNE-Lee. On March 25th, 2001. Beloved husband of Linda, father of Michael and Stacy, Papa of Hannah, brother-in-law, uncle and devoted friend. You were the leader of our family. Your examples of truth, integrity, loyalty and love have served us well and will last forever. Services Tues
 SILVERMAN-Sebet. Born 1906, Bristol, England; died 22 March, Westfield, New Jersey. A nationally known industrial designer, his seventy year career included a period as Chief Designer of the Nurre Mirror Company (1936-59). Sebet developed many patented processes which helped revitalize the 
 SOSNOWITZ-Robert B. Died suddenly on March 22, 2001. He is loved and mourned by his wife, Barbara, daughter, Andrea, mother Lilly, and brother, Alan. He is also survived by two sons, Marc and Andrew, and many close friends who will miss his great warmth and humor.       
 TSAGARIS-Maro. Of Scarsdale, NY on March 25, 2001. Artist, philanthropist and patron of the arts. Beloved wife of Theodore. Dear mother of Evangelos and his wife Marlena, Constantine and his wife Patricia, and George Tsagaris. Grandmother of Teo, Christopher, Theodore, Zoe and Maro Alexia. 
 Anthony Storr, the British psychiatrist who made a successful second career as a popular writer and broadcaster exploring depression, creativity, sexual deviance and other aspects of human behavior, died March 17 in Oxford, England. He was 80 and lived in Oxford. He suffered a heart
 Brian Trubshaw, a pilot who tested the British-French Concorde supersonic airliner and became its staunchest champion, died on March 24 at his home near Tetbury, in Gloucestershire, England. He was 77. He died in his sleep and had not been ill, said his wife, Yvonne. On Apri
 BROCK-James P. On March 20, 2001, age 84. Retired Director, Adriance Public Library, Poughkeepsie, NY. Graduate of Regis High School and Columbia University. Lovingly remembered by family and friends. Survived by his wife Margaret, of Hyde Park, NY, son Timothy and his wife Leora, of Scarsd
 GALFUNT-Abraham (Hap). The Justices of the New York State Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First Department, mark with sorrow the passing of a member of the Departmental Disciplinary Committee. He served the Court with distinction. His dedication and wisdom will serve as his legacy to the
 HOFFMAN-Jerome J. To my loving brother Jerome, I'll miss you very much. You have been both a friend and a partner throughout our years. Your wisdom and compassion will surely be missed. Love, Ashley HOFFMAN-Jerome J. We are profoundly saddened by the sudden passing of our partner an
 KLEINBERG-Armand. On March 26, 2001 at age 87. Adored husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Terry Kleinberg and Jane Lebowitz. Dear stepfather of Lynn Beller and Andrew Frackman. Loving father-in-law of Jim Kainen, Dan Beller and Emily Braun. Cherished brother of Lucie Friedman and uncle of
 KORN-Harold. Died March 27, 2001 of cancer at the age of 71. Son of Jack and Nettie. Husband of the deceased poet Amy Clampitt and the beloved professor to thousands of Columbia Law students to whom he was tirelessly devoted. He leaves no survivors. Lover of life, learning, work and the art
 McMANUS-James J. March 26, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Eileen T. McManus. Loving father of Eileen and her husband Rick Wolfman, Patricia and her husband Mark Matthews, James and his wife Kathleen, and Brian and his wife Rosemary. Cherished grandfather of eleven. Devoted brother of Mar
 POLOKOFF-Morton M. The Board of Governors and members of Bocaire Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member on Friday March 23, 2001. He will be missed. Services were held Monday March 26th at Cedar Park Cemetery in Paramus, NJ. R. Paul Kashden, Pres.       
 REYNAL-Anthony. On March 9, 2001 at age 61. Funeral services at Church of the Epiphany, 1391 York Avenue, at East 74th Street, April 9th, at 4:30 PM. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may be made to the Groton School, Groton, MA. 01451-0991.       
 ROSENBERG-Louis, 95. Formerly of Bayside and Livingston Manor, New York, died Monday, March 26 in Boca Raton, FL. Photoengraver by profession, he enjoyed travel, adventure, fishing, photography, building and gardening. A fifty year resident of Bayside, he and his family were members of the 
 RUDOLPH-Alan G., died on March 24 at age 83. Urban planner, businessman, equestrian. Born in New York City on August 6, 1917, he was the son of Solomon S. and Helen Goldsmith Rudolph. He was a graduate of the Fieldston School, the University of Pennsylvania and Pratt Institute, where he rec
 SCERBO-Reverend John A. Died on March 26, 2001 at the DeWitt Nursing Center. He was 71. Born and raised in Boonton, N.J. He attended Seton Hall University and Immaculate Conception Seminary. He was ordained to the priesthood for the Diocese of Paterson, N.J. in 1960. Father served as Assist
 WOLFF-Lester, MD. Passed away on March 26th, 2001, peacefully at home. A graduate of the University of Chicago Medical School, specializing in ear, nose and throat surgery. A pioneer in the art of reconstructive nasal plastic surgery. He served with honor in the Korean War in the Army Medic
 Paul Winterton, a British writer of crime and suspense novels who used the pseudonym Andrew Garve, died on Jan. 8 in a nursing home in the county of Surrey in southeastern England. He was 92 and a longtime resident of London. Dr. Robin W. Winks, a Yale historian and expert on detect
 Sherwin Rosen, the president of the American Economics Association and a pioneer in the study of why wages and incomes vary, died on March 17 at Bernard Mitchell Hospital at the University of Chicago. He was 62. The cause was lung cancer, said William Harms, a university spokesman. 
 John A. Alonzo, a Hollywood cinematographer, died on March 13 in Los Angeles. He was 66. Mr. Alonzo was nominated for an Academy Award for his work on Roman Polanski's 1974 murder mystery, ''Chinatown,'' which starred Jack Nicholson and Faye Dunaway. His other credits included ''Har
 Dr. John Clarke Saunders, a physician and clinical pharmacologist who won recognition in court for innovative use of biochemical drugs on chronic psychiatric patients, died  Saturday at the New York Weill Cornell Medical Center. He was 82 and lived in Upper Nyack, N.Y. The cause was
 John George McCarthy, a former New York State assemblyman from Huntington, N.Y., and justice of the State Supreme Court, died on March 19 at an assisted-living residence in Naples, Fla. A resident of Huntington Station until 18 months ago, he was 77. The cause was lung cancer, his f
 BERNHEIM-James. Died on March 28, 2001. Born in 1919 in New York City. He was the son of Alfred and Sara Bernheim. He was a graduate of Johns Hopkins and the Columbia University School of Law. After law school he practiced with the firm of Parker Duryee in which he became a partner, and ret
 GREENBAUM-Sheldon B., MS, Ph.D. Died of lung cancer March 25th at Hospice by the Sea, Delray Beach, FL. Beloved husband (53 yrs) of Claire, devoted father of Mark, Douglas (Lisa), Ron, and grandfather of Adam, Joshua, Todd, loving brother of Lowell (Gloria). Born Brooklyn, NY April 15, 1923
 LOWRY-Warren. The Trustees and Staff of The Museum of Modern Art extend our deepest sympathies to Glenn Lowry on the sudden and tragic loss of his father. Warren's compassion, his keen intelligence, and his boundless energy live on in Glenn and in Glenn's children. Glenn and his family are 
 LUNDIN-A. Peter, M.D. The SUNY Downstate Medical Center community mourns the passing of A. Peter Lundin, M.D., clinical professor of medicine at SUNY Downstate and director of ambulatory hemodialysis at Kings County Hospital Center. An alumnus of Downstate, Dr. Lundin was the first person t
 MANKOFF-William. 63, of Kinnelon, N.J. on March 27. Soulmate of Valerie, his wife. Beloved father of Steven and Donald and step-father of James Lewis, Richard Wiener and Jennifer Lynn. Brother of Mark and Betsy. Grandfather of Saliana, Patrick and Alexander. Cherished uncle and friend. A lo
 NEWHOUSE-Roy H. On Tuesday, March 27, of Winchester, MA formerly of New York City. Beloved husband of the late Bertha (Slutzker) Newhouse. Devoted father of Martin J. Newhouse & his wife Nancy of Winchester, MA., and Lina N. Wood & her husband Jack of London, England. Cherished & loving gra
 NICKERSON-Bruce. Of Middletown, New York, died Tuesday, March 27th, 2001, in Arden Hill Hospital in Goshen, NY, at age 79. He was a retired manager of the Classified Department of The New York Times. He was employed there for fifty-five years. He began his career at The New York Times at ag
 RUPERT-Rudolph E. On March 23, 2001 at age 35. Adored son of Claire. Beloved brother of Renaud & Rhea, devoted friend to Claudia and to so many who deeply mourn his youthful passing. We remember his friendship, courage and immensurable dignity. He will always be in our hearts and we will mi
 SAVILLE-Leighton T., of Rockport, MA, of cancer, on March 23rd, 2001 at age 71. He was the owner of Seacrest Manor Inn in Rockport for 29 years and a prior executive of NBC in NYC. He is survived by a brother, Marshall R. Saville; a niece, Anne F. Saville of Boston; a nephew, Randolph M. Sa
 SHERRILL-Rev. Henry Williams, 78. Died Wednesday, March 21, 2001 in Peoria, Arizona. Onetime executive officer of the Diocese of Southern Ohio (Episcopal Church), founder of the Cheswick Center, a consulting firm for charitable and religious institutions. Graduate of Milton Academy and Yale
 STIBER-Seymour. May 11, 1915-March 27, 2001. A most extraordinary person will be sorely missed by his family.       
 CORDON-Jim. ''He has lived, therefore he lives.'' Y.K. Richar       
 Anthony Steel, a British actor who starred in films of adventure and heroism during the 1950's, died on March 21 in London. He was 80. After a small role in ''The Mudlark'' (1951), with Irene Dunne and Alec Guinness, Mr. Steel went on to star in a series of adventure films for the J
 Helge Ingstad, the Norwegian writer and adventurer who followed a hunch and an ancient map to identify the place where Vikings landed in North America 500 years before Columbus, died Thursday in a hospital in Oslo. He was 101. Mr. Ingstad transformed a myth into scientific fact in t
 ABRAMSON-Jacob. Age 91. Of Rye Brook, N.Y. He operated his small, ethical pharmacy in Port Chester, New York. for forty years, later serving for twenty years as Chief Pharmacist of The New York Hospital, Westchester Division. He was married to the late Reva Kurman and is survived by four ch
 BERNHEIM-James G. Died on March 28, 2001. Born in 1919 in New York City. He was the son of Alfred and Sara Bernheim. He was a graduate of Johns Hopkins and the Columbia University School of Law. After law school he practiced with the firm of Parker Duryee in which he became a partner, and r
 BROCK-James P. On March 20, 2001, age 84. Retired Director, Adriance Public Library, Poughkeepsie, NY. Graduate of Regis High School and Columbia University. Lovingly remembered by family and friends. Survived by his wife Margaret, of Hyde Park, NY, son Timothy and his wife Leora, of Scarsd
 BRUNO-Howard. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member, and conveys sincere condolences to his bereaved family. Rabbi Thomas K. Weiner Rabbi Shira Milgrom Ken Simon, President       
 GORDON-Otto Robert. On March 23rd, 2001. A retired orthopedic surgeon who practiced in Hungary and New York. A cherished husband, father, stepfather and grandfather who will be missed deeply. He touched countless lives through his work, humor, intelligence and love for life. His work with d
 LEON-Joseph. Age 82, actor and writer, died peacefully March 25, 2001 in Bradenton, Florida, surrounded by friends and loved ones. He was a resident of Saugerties, NY and wintered in Florida, and longtime Woodstock, NY area resident. He is survived by his companion of many years, Robin Litt
 MARSH-Burton. Devoted and cherished husband of Elaine. Loving father of David, Donald and Debra. Adoring grandfather of Adam, Jason, Rebecca, Alan, Andrew and Alexandra. Caring brother of Daniel and Marvin. We will miss his kindness and unselfishness. Services Sunday 10:15AM, at Gutterman's
 RUDOLPH-Alan G. Died on March 24 at age 83. Urban planner, businessman, equestrian. Born in New York City on August 6, 1917, he was the son of Solomon S. and Helen Goldsmith Rudolph. He was a graduate of the Fieldston School, the University of Pennsylvania and Pratt Institute, where he rece
 RUPERT-Rudolph E. On March 23, 2001 at age 35. Adored son of Claire. Beloved brother of Renaud & Rhea, devoted friend to Claudia and to so many who deeply mourn his youthful passing. We remember his friendship, courage and immensurable dignity. He will always be in our hearts and we will mi
 SCHOEN-Murray, 97. Of New York City, NY, passed away on March 28, 2001. Beloved husband of Ruth for 59 beautiful years. Loving father of Ronni Fitzgerald and Robert, grandfather of Doreen, Sean and Jeremy, great-grandfather of Royden, father-in-law of Brian and Carol. Devoted brotherin-law 
 SHERMAN-Irving B., 96. On March 28th, 2001, in Los Angeles, California. A New York resident for 93 years, he was a senior executive for several firms spanning the furniture (Ludwig Baumann), restaurant and wine industries, &, most recently, the Greater NY Home Furnishings Association. He su
 SUMMERS-Maurice, in his 90th year, RAF Test Pilot. Maurice Summers, a former Royal Air Force Wing Commander and Test Pilot, director of E.F. Hutton, Governor of the New York Stock Exchange, and Real Estate Developer, died after a long illness on March 29 at his home in Bermuda. He was 89. M
 WHITE-John Hazen, Sr. The Metropolitan Opera Association mourns the death of our good friend, John Hazen White, Sr., a member of our official family for many years. His dedication to our company was invaluable, in particular, his commitment to special projects. We extend our condolences to 
 CAMPBELL-Douglass. On February 14, 2001, in his 82nd year, while traveling in Australia. His late wife, Marion Danielson Campbell, died in November 1998. Survived by 2 (step) sons, Richard Strachan of Hood River, OR, and Stephen Strachan of Denver, CO, his brother Stafford Campbell of Jacks
 Dancers, musicians and old friends paid tribute to the tap-dancer Harold Nicholas on Thursday night at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine. But the star of the evening was Nicholas himself, who died on July 3 at age 79. ''Harold prayed and praised with his feet,'' the Rev. Canon Ro
 Dr. Arthur Davis Hasler, an internationally recognized authority on freshwater ecology who is credited with explaining the salmon's homing instinct, died on March 23 in Madison, Wis. He was 93. Dr. Hasler was on the faculty of the University of Wisconsin for 41 years and built it in
 John Lewis, the mastermind of one of the most famous ensembles in jazz, died on Thursday. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan. Over the years Mr. Lewis distinguished himself not just as a pianist with a distinctively low-key touch but also as a composer, arranger and educator. But he w
 KITTLE-Ralph W. Died Tuesday, March 27th, 2001 at his home in Keswick, Virginia. He is survived by his sister, Patti McMillen of Ringgold, Georgia; his three children, Connie Neer of Rochester, New York, Cary Williams of Chevy Chase, Maryland, and (Kit) Ralph Kittle, Jr. of Greenwich, Conne
 LEVITT-Milton. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and conveys sincere condolences to his bereaved family. Rabbi Thomas K. Weiner Rabbi Shira Milgrom Ken Simon, President       
 MARSH-Burt. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Burt Marsh. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Elaine, and their family. Richard J. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secretary       
 MILLER-Jerry, DPM. Dr. Jerry Miller of Boca Raton, FL. Formerly of Jamaica, NY. Died March 29, 2001 at the age of 82. The beloved husband for over sixty years of Jeanette. Father to Andrew and Richard. Father-in-law to Gail and Debbie and loving grandfather to Evan and Jody, Jarrod & Darren
 ROTHSCHILD-Karl. Passed away Thursday, March 29, 2001 in his 96th year. Beloved husband of the late Wally Rothschild; loved father of Herbert and Marie Rothschild, Bernette and Irwin Bernstein; adored grandfather and greatgrandfather of 14 grandchildren and fifteen great-grandchildren. He l
 WALACH-Jeffrey, M.D. The Missionary Sisters of the Sacred Heart and the Medical Staff of Cabrini Medical Center mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague & friend who served our institution for many years. Dr. Walach was a dedicated physician who always demonstrated sincere concern for his p
 WALDMAN-Edward. Real Estate Developer and Philanthropist of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of West Hartford, CT, died Friday, March 30, 2001, at the age of 76 at his home after a valiant battle with cancer. He led a full and vital life. Edward Waldman is survived by his wife of 48 years, the form
