 Dr. Alvin Novick, a Yale biologist who closed his laboratory in 1982 and curtailed his 25-year study of the sonar systems of bats to confront a widening international health crisis brought on by AIDS, died on April 10 at Yale University Health Services in New Haven. He was 79. The c
 Mel Gussow, the longtime critic and cultural reporter for The New York Times who championed the work of many of the major playwrights of the post World War II period, including Harold Pinter, Edward Albee and Tom Stoppard, died Friday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 71 and lived i
 Robert Farnon, a composer and arranger who was a leading figure in the once-popular genre of light orchestral music, died on April 23 on Guernsey, in the British Channel Islands. He was 87 and had been a longtime resident of Guernsey. His death was announced by David Ades, a friend 
 Willard Clyde Mackey Jr., a former chief executive of McCann Erickson Worldwide who helped build it into one of advertising's foremost powerhouses, died on April 16 in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 82 and lived in Vero Beach and New Canaan, Conn. The death was announced by Eugene H. Kumme
 Kenneth B. Clark, the psychologist and educator whose 1950 report showing the destructive effect of school segregation influenced the United States Supreme Court to hold school segregation to be unconstitutional, died yesterday at his home in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 90. His 
 William K. Rashbaum, a prominent New York obstetrician and gynecologist who was a longtime advocate of abortion rights, died yesterday at New York-Presbyterian/Columbia in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan and Cornwall, Conn. The cause was complications of lung cancer, sai
 Dr. Edward J. Schantz, a biochemist who studied the deadly neurotoxins produced by shellfish and other organisms, first for the toxins' military potential and later for their broader medical benefits, including cosmetic treatments that led to Botox, died on April 28 at an extended-care cent
 Edward von Kloberg III, a flamboyant lobbyist here who maintained a high-profile client roster that could easily be found in his Rolodex under ''d,'' for dictator, died on Sunday in Rome. He was 63. Mr. von Kloberg, whose death was classified a suicide, apparently leapt from the par
 Jack Nichols, a writer and early gay activist who campaigned publicly for gay rights nearly a decade before the Stonewall riots of 1969, died on Monday in Cocoa Beach, Fla., where he lived. He was 67. The cause was complications of cancer, from which Mr. Nichols had suffered intermi
 Peter Bramley, the first art director of the National Lampoon magazine, editor of humor magazines and creator of absurd underground comics, died on April 12 in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 60. The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Nano Riley. In 1967 Mr. Bramley joined Bill
 Stephen Sloan, a Manhattan real-estate developer, marine conservationist and champion angler, died on April 28 at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 72. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Sloan was a former partner in Lehman Brothers, and since then head of Step
 David H. Hackworth, a much-decorated and highly unconventional former career Army officer who became a combat legend in Vietnam, then enraged his superiors by lambasting the war on national television, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Tijuana, Mexico. He was 74. The cause was blad
 Jonathan Thomas, a sculptor who exhibited widely in North America, died on Monday at his home in New York. He was 59. The cause was bladder cancer, said his partner, the playwright Edward Albee. Mr. Thomas worked in wood, wood pulp, polymer resin and steel to create a series
 Dr. Robert N. Colwell, a forester and specialist in remote sensing who helped adapt the military's aerial image-reading techniques to forestry, mapmaking, land planning, agriculture and other fields, died on April 14 in a hospital in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 87 and lived in Walnut Creek.
 Herb Sargent, a veteran television comedy writer who helped the fledgling Not Ready for Prime Time Players make ''Saturday Night Live'' a hit with skits like ''Weekend Update,'' its long-running news parody, died yesterday at a Manhattan hospital. He was 81. The cause was a heart at
 Leonid Shamkovich, a Russian-born chess grandmaster who became one of the Soviet Union's first elite players allowed to emigrate, died on April 22 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 81. The cause was complications of cancer and Parkinson's disease, said his son, Andrei. In 1972
 Robert Slutzky, a painter, writer and educator whose lifelong exploration of the connection between painting and architecture influenced a generation of postwar architects, died on Tuesday in Abington, Pa. He was 75 and lived in Elkins Park, Pa. The cause was complications of amyotr
 Ted F. Atkinson, a member of horse racing's Hall of Fame and the first jockey to win more than $1 million in purses in a season, died Thursday at his home in Beaver Dam, Va. He was 88. Atkinson's death followed a lengthy illness, his daughter, Cathie Metzler, said Friday. At
 Bob Schiffer, a celebrated Hollywood makeup artist who spent nearly 70 years turning men into monsters and beautiful women into breathtakingly beautiful women, died on April 26 in Los Angeles. He was 88. The cause was complications of a stroke, said his son, Douglas. A speci
 Dr. Eugene W. Friedman, former chief of head and neck surgery at Mount Sinai Medical Center, died there on April 18. He was 86 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan. The cause was complications of prostate cancer, his family said. Dr. Friedman, who was about to take emerit
 Peter W. Rodino Jr., an obscure congressman from the streets of Newark who impressed the nation by the dignity, fairness and firmness he showed as chairman of the impeachment hearings that induced Richard M. Nixon to resign as president, died yesterday at his home in West Orange, N.J.. He w
 Nathaniel Weyl, a writer and economist who was best known for the minor role he played in the Alger Hiss spy case, died on April 13 at his home in Ojai, Calif. He was 94. Mr. Weyl died of natural causes, said his stepdaughter Georgianne Cowan. One of a type of midcentury Ame
 Benny Bailey, an American trumpet player who for most of his career was a well-known fixture on the European jazz scene, died on April 14 at his home in Amsterdam. He was 79. His death was announced by city officials, who did not specify the cause. Mr. Bailey was admired by 
 Fei Xiaotong, one of China's pre-eminent social scientists, who survived Mao's Cultural Revolution to claim a place of honor in Chinese society, died April 24 in Beijing. He was 94. His death was reported by the official New China News Agency. Fei Xiaotong -- or Fei Hsiao-t'
 Peter W. Rodino Jr., an obscure congressman from the streets of Newark who impressed the nation by the dignity, fairness and firmness he showed as chairman of the impeachment hearings that induced Richard M. Nixon to resign as president, died on Saturday at his home in West Orange, N.J. He 
 Lloyd N. Cutler, the Washington legal mandarin who shuttled between a lucrative private practice and the White House, where he was counselor to Presidents Jimmy Carter and Bill Clinton, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 87. His death was reported by his wife, Polly Kr
 Benjamin Mordecai, a Broadway producer, general manager and former managing director of the Yale Repertory Theater, died on Sunday in New Haven. He was 60. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Sherry Lynn Morley Mordecai. At his death, Mr. Mordecai was the associate dean and
 Peter Karasz, the managing partner of Cleary Gottlieb, one of New York's leading international law firms, died on April 30 in Washington, where he had gone for a business meeting. He was 63 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was a cancer diagnosed four years ago, the firm ann
 Zhang Chunqiao, a radical Maoist who held several positions at the apex of China's government when he was convicted in 1981 as a member of the infamous Gang of Four, died April 21, the Chinese government reported yesterday. He was 88. The state-run New China News Agency said Mr. Zha
 Tony Fuller, a former journalist and co-author of a well-known book about the Vietnam War, died Friday in New York. He was 62 and lived in Forest Hills, Queens. The cause was a stroke, his family said. When he was a senior editor at Newsweek, Mr. Fuller and another senior ed
 Jay Marshall, a magician whose accomplishments -- from appearing 14 times on ''The Ed Sullivan Show'' to playing New York's Palace and London's Palladium -- persuaded America's conjurers to elect him their dean, died Tuesday in Chicago. He was 85. The cause was a heart attack, his s
 Milton Frederick Rosenthal, a former chairman of the chemical giant Engelhard Corporation, died on May 2 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 91 and lived in Harrison, N.Y. His death was announced by the family. Mr. Rosenthal, a lawyer by training, started his busine
 Horton Marlais Davies, Putnam professor emeritus of religion at Princeton and an author of many books about church history, died on Wednesday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 89. The death was announced by his family. Dr. Davies specialized in the impact of Christianity
 Tristan Egolf, a young novelist whose lavish prose was dismissed by some critics as callow and rapturously compared by others to the work of Thomas Pynchon, William Faulkner and John Kennedy Toole, was found dead in his apartment in Lancaster, Pa., on May 7. He was 33. The cause was
 Stan Levey, one of the first drummers to master the complex form of jazz known as bebop, died on April 19 in Van Nuys, Calif. He was 79 and lived in Sherman Oaks. He died two months after surgery for cancer of the jaw, said his wife, Angela. Mr. Levey worked with Peggy Lee, 
 Wilson A. Seibert Jr., who helped create some of Madison Avenue's most memorable advertising campaigns in a three-decade career at J. Walter Thompson, died on April 20 in Chatham, Mass. He was 77 and lived in Chatham and Naples, Fla. The cause was complications of lung cancer, his s
 Gen. Andrew J. Goodpaster, a soldier and scholar who fought in World War II, commanded the North Atlantic Treaty Organization and came out of retirement to lead the United States Military Academy in a time of crisis, died on Monday at Walter Reed Army Medical Center here. He was 90 and a re
 Jimmy Martin, whose high tenor voice, driving guitar and plucky personality made him an exemplar of bluegrass music for more than 50 years, died on Saturday in Nashville. He was 77 and lived in Hermitage, Tenn. The cause was bladder cancer and congestive heart failure, said his son 
 Emanuel Gluck, a retired middle-school principal who had a rich alternate life as Yankee Stadium's longest-working vendor, signified by his No. 1 badge, died on May 12 at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital in Manhattan. He was 65. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Sharyn, 
 Norman D. Kurtz, the chairman and founding partner of the engineering firm Flack & Kurtz, which supplied many skyscrapers with electrical and mechanical equipment, died on Friday at home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 69. The death, apparently caused by a heart attack, was announced by h
 Paul K. Keene, a pioneer of organic farming in the United States whose products were among the first commercially available organic foods in the country, died on April 23 at a nursing home in Mechanicsburg, Pa. He was 94. Mr. Keene's family announced the death. For more than half a 
 Arthur Naftalin, who led Minneapolis through the turbulent 1960's as a four-term mayor, died there on Monday. He was 87. The cause was complications of a fall, his family said. Though Dr. Naftalin served as mayor for eight years, they were not his first brush with the office
 Frank Gorshin, a prolific actor and impressionist whose career was long identified with a questionable character, the Riddler on television's original ''Batman,'' but later highlighted by his Broadway impersonation of a more amiable one, George Burns, died on Tuesday in Burbank, Calif. He w
 Piero Dorazio, a celebrated Italian abstract painter and an important innovator of Modernism in that country, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Perugia, near his home in Todi, Umbria. He was 77. The cause was complications of diabetes, said his dealer in New York, Achim Moeller.     
 Marc Lappé, a toxicologist, author and educator who campaigned against chemical perils by writing 14 books, testifying in many lawsuits against corporations and leading local environmental fights, died last Saturday at his home in Gualala, Calif., a coastal town north of San Francisco He w
 Milton A. Wolf, an economist, investor and real estate developer who headed the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee and served as President Jimmy Carter's ambassador to Austria in the late 1970's, died Thursday at his home in Shaker Heights, Ohio. He was 80. The cause was c
 Eddie Barclay, who for three decades after World War II was arguably the most powerful music mogul in Europe and inarguably the most flamboyant, died on May 13 in Paris. He was 84. The cause was a heart attack, his family told Agence France-Presse. The founder and longtime h
 Chung Se Yung, the man who helped build the Hyundai Motor Company of South Korea into one of the world's biggest car makers, died Saturday in Seoul. He was 76. Mr. Chung died of pneumonia at the Asan Medical Center in Seoul, said a statement by Hyundai Development Company, part of t
 Ellis B. Page, an education professor who developed an early computer program for grading written essays, died Tuesday near his home in McLean, Va. He was 81. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Dr. Page was widely published in the field of educational psychology and e
 Dr. George B. Dantzig, a mathematician who devised an algorithm that helped create linear programming, now a vital tool in computing, industry and other fields, died on May 13 at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 90. The cause was complications from diabetes and heart disease, his
 Leonid Khachiyan, a Russian-born mathematician who helped to advance the field of linear programming, which is used by computer scientists to schedule complex rosters of airline flights and to solve problems in finance and industry, died on April 29 at his home in South Brunswick, N.J. He w
 Brig. Gen. William Thomas Seawell, who commanded bombers in World War II and the cadet corps at the Air Force Academy and led Pan American World Airways, died on Friday at home in Pine Bluff, Ark., his birthplace. He was 87. The apparent cause was a heart attack, his family said.   
 Paul Ricoeur, whose work on fundamental questions about the nature of human existence made him one of the most eminent philosophers of the 20th century, died Friday at his home in Châtenay-Malabry, outside Paris. He was 92. Dr. Ricoeur died in his sleep, Charles E. Reagan, the auth
 Sol Stetin, who led the drive to unionize the J.P. Stevens textile company when he was president of the Textile Workers Union of America, died on Saturday at a nursing home in St. Louis. He was 95. The cause was complications of leukemia, union officials said. In leading the
 Daniel Schwarz, who rose from clerk to the top editor of the Sunday department of The New York Times in a 44-year-career, died on Saturday at a hospital in Bradenton, Fla. He was 96. He died after injuring his head in a fall while on a visit to his wife, Peggy, who lives in a nursin
 Howard Morris, a character actor in the Golden Age of television best known for his work with Sid Caesar and for his brief, memorable role as the manic hillbilly poet Ernest T. Bass on ''The Andy Griffith Show,'' died on Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 85. No cause of de
 Ismail Merchant, whose filmmaking collaboration with James Ivory created a genre of films with visually sumptuous settings that told literate tales of individuals trying to adapt to shifting societal values, died yesterday in a London hospital. He was 68. Mr. Merchant's New York off
 Richard Lewine, a Broadway composer and television producer, and a custodian of the legacy of Richard Rodgers, a second cousin, died on May 19 at his home in Manhattan. He was 94. The death was announced by his family. Mr. Lewine's Broadway credentials reached back to 1934, 
 Sunil Dutt, the rebel-hero of Indian cinema, who leveraged his Bollywood celebrity into national political influence, died on Wednesday at his home in Mumbai. He was 75. The cause was cardiac arrest, an aide told The Press Trust of India, the state-owned agency. Mr. Dutt bec
 Harold R. Tyler Jr., a prominent lawyer and a former deputy attorney general and federal judge, who was frequently enlisted to provide judicial balance on legal panels considering contentious issues, died on Wednesday outside his apartment in Manhattan. He was 83. The death was anno
 Dr. Keiiti Aki, a seismologist whose penetrating studies of the behavior and origins of earthquakes contributed to a deeper understanding of natural disasters, died May 17 on Réunion island in the Indian Ocean. He was 75. The cause was a brain hemorrhage suffered after a fall, said
 Michael L. Tarnopol, a vice chairman of Bear Stearns and chairman of its investment banking division, died Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was prostate cancer, Bear Stearns said. In 1975, Mr. Tarnopol 
 Chico Carrasquel, the smooth-fielding Chicago White Sox shortstop of the 1950's who became the major leagues' first star player from Venezuela, died Thursday in Caracas. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, the White Sox announced. Carrasquel, a native of Caracas, was th
 Eddie Albert, a film and television actor known for his evocative portrayals of characters who ranged from the avuncular to the befuddled to the monomaniacal, died on Thursday at his home near Pacific Palisades, Calif. He was 99. The cause was pneumonia, his son, the actor Edward Al
 Martin Lings, a widely acclaimed British scholar whose books on Islamic philosophy, mysticism and art reflected his own deep belief in Sufism, the esoteric, purely spiritual dimension of Islam, died on May 12 at his home in Westerham, Kent County, England. He was 96. His publisher, 
 Donald Hillsdon Ryan, an American entrepreneur with a Harvard M.B.A. degree who built an overseas network of quick-fix repair franchises in busy cities, died on May 9 at his home in London. He was 80 and also had a residence in the Bahamas. The death was announced by his family.    
 Oscar Brown Jr., a singer, songwriter, playwright and actor known for his distinctive blend of show-business savvy and social consciousness, died on Sunday in a Chicago hospital. He was 78 and lived in Chicago. The cause was complications of a blood infection, his family said.      
