 Andre De Toth, a Hungarian-born movie and television director whose loss of an eye as a youth robbed him of depth perception yet didn't prevent him from making the most highly regarded of all 3-D films, died on Sunday at his home in Burbank, Calif. The cause was an aneurysm, friends
 Raymond Savignac, the celebrated French poster artist who combined pure images in cheery colors with engaging humor to advertise products ranging from cars to aspirin to shampoo, died on Monday at his home in Trouville-sur-Mer, France. He was 94. Mr. Savignanc defined poster art as 
 Raf Vallone, a journalist turned actor who began playing earnest, he-man roles in Italy's neo-realist films in the 1940's and continued to act onscreen and onstage for more than 50 years, died on Thursday in Rome. He was 86. With rough good looks often compared to Burt Lancaster's, 
 Richard F. Bernstein, whose colorful portraits of celebrities appeared on the cover of Andy Warhol's Interview magazine and helped set its glamorous tone, died on Oct. 18 at his home in Manhattan. He was 62. The cause was complications of AIDS, said Lester Glassner, a friend.       
 Wallace C. Dayton, a businessman, conservationist and environmental philanthropist, died on Sunday at his Wayzata, Minn., home. He was 81. In 1950 Mr. Dayton and his four brothers inherited the family's department store in Minneapolis, and they added others. In the late 1960's, Mr. 
 Paul Leonard, an interior decorator and decorative painter whose graphically patterned, subtly tinted floors were trod on by jet-set aesthetes from Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis to Ralph Lauren, died on Oct. 15 in New Milford, Conn. He was 70. The cause was renal cancer, his wife, Vale
 Richard Rocco, an Army medic in the Vietnam War who received the Medal of Honor for rescuing severely wounded fellow crewmen from the wreckage of a downed helicopter under enemy fire, died on Thursday at his home in San Antonio. He was 63. The cause was cancer, his wife, Maria, said
 Jonathan Harris, a versatile character actor perhaps best known for his role as the villainous Dr. Smith in the science-fiction fantasy series ''Lost in Space'' on CBS television, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 87 and lived in the Encino section of Los Angeles. He had been ho
 Donald S. MacNaughton, an insurance and health care executive who, from the late 1960's to the mid-1980's, ran two of the nation's biggest companies -- first the Prudential Insurance Company of America and then the Hospital Corporation of America -- died on Sunday in a hospital in Greenwich
 Rabbi Irving J. Block, an ecumenical-minded religious leader who founded the Brotherhood Synagogue in Manhattan and delighted in sharing the sanctuary with Christians of all denominations, died Thursday. He was 79. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, synagogue offi
 Glen S. Rosengarten, a grocery-chain executive who packed the aisles of Food Emporium supermarkets with imported and specialty foods, died on Saturday at his Greenwich, Conn., home. He was 54. The cause was complications from lymphoma, his family said. In 1980, Mr. Rosengart
 Harry Rositzke, an American spymaster whose career veered from researching the origins of the English language to probing the inner workings of Nazi Germany and, later, the Soviet Union, died on Monday at a hospital in Warrenton, Va. He was 91 and lived in Middleburg, Va. An intelli
 Joseph Eisenberg, a retired labor negotiator for The New York Times who helped write and administer the paper's contracts with the Newspaper Guild of New York for more than two decades, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Miami Beach, Fla., where he lived. He was 74. The cause was a 
 Rudolf Augstein, the founder and publisher of Der Spiegel, who regarded his weekly news magazine as the ''assault artillery'' of his country's fledgling postwar democracy, died today of pneumonia, his publishing company said. He was 79. With few parallels in European publishing, Mr.
 Squire Newland Bozorth, a New York lawyer who specialized in estate matters and who was a longtime adviser to major charitable organizations, died Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was prostate cancer, his family said. After graduating from New York University Law S
 Dr. Charles Sheffield, a physicist and prolific science fiction author, died last Saturday at a hospice near his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 67. The cause was brain cancer, said his literary agent, Eleanor Wood. Dr. Sheffield, a native of Britain, had a doctorate in ph
 Heinz von Foerster, a physicist and a philosopher who was an early leader in the field of information theory, died on Oct. 2 at his home in Pescadero, Calif. He was 90. In the 1940's and 1950's Dr. von Foerster was a participant in a series of scientific meetings in New York City th
 Lefty Wilson, a longtime trainer for the Detroit Red Wings who left the bench three times to become an emergency goalie in National Hockey League games -- twice facing his own team -- died Tuesday in Naples, Fla. He was 83. Wilson, who lived in West Bloomfield, Mich., was visiting f
 Dr. Marvin Kuschner, who presided over the birth of the medical school at the State University of New York at Stony Brook and its development into a well-regarded teaching institution, died on Oct. 18 in New York. He was 83. The cause was complications from pneumonia, his family sai
 Dr. René Thom, the French mathematician whose catastrophe theory once held out hope of predicting unruly phenomena like earthquakes, prison riots and the outbreak of war, died on Oct. 25 in Bures-sur-Yvette, near Paris, where he had worked at the Institute of Advanced Scientific Studies. H
 Harold E. Leeds, an architect and designer, died on Oct. 29 in a nursing home in Manhattan. He was 89. Mr. Leeds designed buildings, offices and interiors and taught interior design at Pratt Institute in Brooklyn. He was chairman of the undergraduate school of interior design from 1
 Selden Rodman, a polymathic poet, an iconoclastic critic of modern culture, the author of more than 40 books and a tireless promoter of Haitian and other folk art, died on Nov. 2 at a hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 93. Mr. Rodman, who lived in Oakland, N.J., played tennis two da
 Charles Morris Mount, who brought bold theatricality and hard-headed practicality to the nearly 300 restaurants he designed, from very expensive eateries to fast-food outlets, died on Friday at his weekend home in Mattituck, N.Y. He was 60 and lived in Manhattan. He had a heart atta
 Lawrence A. Rainey, the Mississippi sheriff suspected but never convicted of involvement in the 1964 killing of three civil rights workers, died on Friday at his home in Meridian, Miss. He was 79. Mr. Rainey had been suffering from throat and tongue cancer, said his son John, of Mer
 Matel Dawson Jr., a forklift operator with a ninth-grade education who gave more than $1 million to universities for scholarships and to charities, died on Nov. 2 in his one-bedroom apartment in Highland Park, Mich. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, his daughter, JoAnn Agee, 
 Vincent James Landano, who fought a successful 22-year battle to clear himself in the 1976 murder of a Newark policeman, died on Monday at a hospital in Toms River, N.J. He was 63 and lived in Manville, N.J. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Camille. Mr. Landano h
 Billy Guy, an original member of the Coasters vocal quartet who stood out for the raw quality of his baritone voice and sense of comedy on 50's hits like ''Searchin','' died on Tuesday in his apartment in Las Vegas. He was 66. The cause was cardiovascular disease, said Carl Gardner,
 Billy Mitchell, a member of the 1950's doo-wop group the Clovers and the lead singer on ''Love Potion No. 9'' and other hits, died on Nov. 5 at a hospital in Washington, where he lived. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Helen Gibbs Mitchell. The Clovers, founde
 David Horowitz, who reported from the United Nations for 50 years and devoted himself to writing about its relationship with Israel and the Palestinians from a Zionist point of view, died Oct. 27 in New York. He was 99. Mr. Horowitz began working at the United Nations in 1947 when i
 Ken Raffensberger, a left-handed pitcher who twice shared the National League lead in shutouts during a 15-year career in the major leagues, died Sunday in York, Pa. He was 85. Raffensberger, who made his major league debut in 1939 with the St. Louis Cardinals, had a career record o
 Glenn Dobbs, whose passing, running and punting led the University of Tulsa to an unbeaten regular season in 1942 and who later starred for the Brooklyn Dodgers of the fledgling All-America Football Conference, died Tuesday at his home in Tulsa, Okla. He was 82. The cause was cancer
 Roland Hanna, a versatile jazz pianist whose deft touch, lush harmonies and encyclopedic knowledge enabled him to fit comfortably in a wide range of musical contexts, died on Wednesday in Hackensack, N.J. He was 70 and lived in Liberty, N.Y. The cause was a viral infection of the he
 H. Taylor Howard, a pioneer in satellite television and a radio communications specialist for NASA, died on Wednesday when the single-engine plane he was flying crashed shortly after takeoff from Calaveras County Airport in California. He was 70 and lived in San Andreas, Calif.     
 Eddie Bracken, a character actor whose portrayals of bewildered and long-suffering comic heroes crowned a stage, screen and television career of more than 70 years, died Thursday in Montclair, N.J. He was 87 and lived in Glen Ridge, N.J. Mr. Bracken made his first major screen splas
 Herbert Weiner, a leading researcher in psychosomatic medicine and professor emeritus at the U.C.L.A. School of Medicine, died on Tuesday at his home in Encino, Calif. He was 81. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Dr. Weiner explored the way the brain and body inter
 Robert R. Barker, a Wall Street executive and expert on educational endowments who was president of Harvard University's board of overseers in 1988 and 1989, died on Nov. 8 at a hospice in Stamford, Conn. He was 87 and lived in New Canaan. Mr. Barker was a general partner in the inv
 Samuel Neaman, who oversaw a sprawling retailing empire in the 1960's, died Wednesday at his home in Oceanside, Calif. He was 89 and, until about a decade ago, had lived in New York City. Born in 1913 in what is now Israel, Mr. Neaman lived for many years in London and served in the
 William Packard, a poet, novelist, playwright, editor and founder of The New York Quarterly, a national poetry magazine, died on Nov. 3 at his home in Manhattan. He was 69. He died of heart disease, said Raymond Hammond, executive editor of the quarterly. Mr. Packard founded
 Ansley Johnson Coale, a demographer and former director of the Office of Population Research at Princeton University, died on Nov. 5 in Newtown, Pa. He was 84. Dr. Coale was an internationally recognized expert on population trends and the demographic statistics that document them. 
 Dr. Mel Roman, a psychologist and artist who drew on both fields to try to bring about social change, died Nov. 9 at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 75. The cause was complications of colon cancer, his family said. For more than three decades, Dr. Roman was director of 
 William A. Zeck, a retired New York State judge and political official who was a prosecutor at the Nuremberg war-crimes trials, died on Oct. 26 at his home in Suffern, N.Y. He was 87. At Nuremberg he took part in the prosecution of 23 officials of I. G. Farben, the German company wh
 Abba Eban, the erudite diplomat whose oratory and wit gained admiration and sympathy for Israel during the perilous first 30 years of its independence, died yesterday in a hospital near Tel Aviv, Foreign Ministry and hospital officials said. He was 87. Mr. Eban was an effective nego
 Dr. Clifford Frondel, a Harvard mineralogist who was among the first people on earth to view rocks brought back from the moon, died on Tuesday in a nursing home in Winchester, Mass. He was 95. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, his wife said. As a scientis
 William Marrié, a classical dancer of exceptional dramatic power from the National Ballet of Canada who was appearing as a lead in ''Movin' Out,'' the Twyla Tharp-Billy Joel Broadway show, died on Saturday morning at New York Presbyterian Hospital from injuries sustained in a traffic accid
 Cho Choong Hoon, who rose to become a prototypical leader of a Korean chaebol, or conglomerate, that included Korean Air Lines, the country's flagship airline, died on Sunday at a hospital here. He was 82. Starting out in the port city of Inchon with a single truck in 1945, the year
 James Coburn, the rugged actor who reveled in playing rakish men of action and slyly humorous villains and overcame a debilitating illness to win an Academy Award for his performance in ''Affliction'' in 1998, died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 74. A spokeswoman for Cedars-Sinai 
 Jay D. Hair, a conservationist and former professor who helped build the National Wildlife Federation into a powerful lobby for environmental causes, died on Friday at his home in Seattle. He was 56 and had moved there from Washington several years ago. The cause was bone-marrow dis
 Julius Grossman, a conductor and teacher who established the music department at the High School of Performing Arts, and who for nearly 50 years led free orchestra concerts in New York City neighborhoods, died last Tuesday at the North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset. He was 90 and l
 Robert L. Roberts, who won a devoted audience for foreign and independent films at his theaters in New Jersey, died on Friday at the Jacob Perlow Hospice of Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 74. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said George Bernard, a friend. Be
 James Coburn, the rugged actor who reveled in playing rakish men of action and slyly humorous villains and overcame a debilitating illness to win an Academy Award for his performance in ''Affliction'' in 1998, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 74. A spokeswoman for Cedars-Sinai 
 Marvin Mirisch, the quietest of a team of three brothers who helped steer movie production from a studio-dominated system to an independent approach that gave directors creative freedom, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 84. The cause was a heart attack, his son, Don, said.     
 Dr. Victor D. Herbert, whose experiments on himself 40 years ago showed that a shortage of folic acid found in leafy vegetables and fruits caused a type of anemia, died on Nov. 19 in New York City. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Marilynne. His discovery led 
 James R. Hendrix, who received the Medal of Honor for single-handedly capturing 13 German soldiers and rescuing fellow G.I.'s while under fire in the Battle of the Bulge in World War II, died last Thursday at his home in Davenport, Fla. He was 77. The cause was cancer, his family sa
 Ben Plucknett, a king-sized Midwesterner who broke the world record in the discus throw twice within seven weeks in 1981 only to have both records thrown out because of a positive drug test, has died at his farmhouse in Essex, Mo. He was 48. Visitors to his home Sunday found him unc
 Dr. Art Winfree, who combined insights from mathematics and the life sciences to illuminate the workings of nature's biological rhythms, died on Nov. 5 in Tucson, where he was a professor at the University of Arizona. He was 60. The cause was a brain tumor, his colleagues and family
 Dr. Earl L. Warrick, one of the scientists who claimed credit for the creation of the ubiquitous plaything Silly Putty, died last Friday at his home in Loma Linda, Calif. He was 91. Dr. Warrick stumbled on the substance that would become Silly Putty early in World War II, wh
 Prince Alexandre de Mérode of Belgium, who for 35 years led the International Olympic Committee's often ineffective fight against illegal drug use by athletes, died Tuesday in a Belgian hospital. He was 68. Belgian newspapers said the cause was lung cancer. In 1964, Prince 
 Angus Cameron, a former editor in chief of one of America's foremost publishing houses, whose leftist sympathies forced him to resign during the anti-Communist fervor of the 1950's, died on Monday in Charlottesville, Va. He was 93. Mr. Cameron was top editor at Little, Brown, the pu
 Buddy Kaye, a songwriter and lyricist who wrote hits for Perry Como, Frank Sinatra, Dusty Springfield and others, died on Thursday in Rancho Mirage, Calif., where he lived. He was 84. Among Mr. Kaye's songs were ''Till the End of Time,'' written with Ted Mossman, which was based on 
 Dr. Morris N. Young, an ophthalmologist and major collector whose life was framed by the letter M -- from medicine to magic to mnemonics to music -- died on Nov. 13 in Norwich, Conn. He was 93 and lived in Manhattan. He was on the way to Worcester, Mass., for a gathering of magician
 Roberto Sebastián Antonio Matta Echaurren, known as Matta, whose sometimes nightmarish, hallucinatory paintings made him a premier Surrealist and major artist of the mid-20th century, died on Saturday in Tarquinia, Italy. He was 90 or 91. In later years he split his time among Pari
 The Rev. L. Venchael Booth, who had a major role in the founding of the 2.5 million-member Progressive National Baptist Convention Inc., a black denomination based in Washington, died on Nov. 16 at the home of a daughter in Memphis, where he was living. He was 83. Mr. Booth was his 
 Eugene V. Rostow, a legal scholar who helped create Yale Law School's current eminence and later became a vigorous defender of the Vietnam War as a senior State Department official, died today at an assisted-living residence in Alexandria, Va. He was 89. Like his more famous younger
 John Rawls, the American political theorist whose work gave new meaning and resonance to the concepts of justice and liberalism, died on Sunday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 82. The cause was heart failure, his wife, Margaret, said. She said he had been incapacitated in var
 William R. Cross Jr., a retired executive of the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company who served on philanthropic and corporate boards, died Friday at home in Waccabuc, N.Y. He was 85 and also had a home on Martha's Vineyard. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, said his s
 Joseph E. Slater, who worked on the ''de-Nazification'' of Germany after World War II and was instrumental in making the Aspen Institute an important East-West conduit in the cold war, died on Tuesday at his home in Southampton, N.Y. He was 80. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his
 Leon N. Weiner, a Delaware developer and a national advocate of affordable housing for those of modest means and the elderly, died on Nov. 17 in Philadelphia. He was 82 and lived in Kennett Square, Pa. The cause was cardiac arrest, his company said. A third-generation builde
 Edward Bliss Jr., a retired CBS News executive whose writing and editing set standards at the network in the 1940's, 50's and 60's, died on Monday in Washington. He was 90. During a 25-year career with CBS, Mr. Bliss wrote and edited the news summary for Edward R. Murrow's broadcast
 James L. Dutt, a former chairman of the Beatrice Companies -- once a sprawling consumer products conglomerate with brands as disparate as Tropicana orange juice, Playtex undergarments and Samsonite luggage -- died Oct. 28 at his home in Charlotte, N.C. He was 77. His death was ruled
 Karel Reisz, a Czech refugee who became a leading director of the British New Wave before making ''The French Lieutenant's Woman'' and other Hollywood dramas, died on Monday at a hospital near his home in London. He was 76. The cause was a blood disorder, said his wife, Betsy Blair,
 George Barrie, an executive who not only created the men's fragrance Brut but also produced movies and received two Oscar nominations for his songwriting, died last Saturday in Aventura, Fla., where he lived. He was 90. A former owner and chief executive of Fabergé, the per
 George Christian, the last of four press secretaries for President Lyndon B. Johnson and a witness to the president's agony over racial rioting and the Vietnam quagmire, died on Wednesday night in his hometown of Austin, Tex. He was 75. Mr. Christian, who grew up in Texas, where he 
 John Milton Tassie, a former chief executive who helped build New Jersey-based Lenox Inc. into an international source of fine china, crystal and sterling, died Monday at a hospital in Princeton, N.J.. He was 86 and lived in Princeton. Mr. Tassie, who spent 35 years with the company
 Dr. Rupert E. Billingham, whose pioneering research into ways to coax the body to accept foreign tissue helped pave the way for organ transplants, died on Nov. 16 at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 81 and lived in Martha's Vineyard, Mass. The cause was complications o
 Jack Bigel, a top financial and bargaining adviser to many of New York City's most powerful labor unions for decades and a key player in resolving the city's financial crisis in the mid 1970's, died on Thursday in New York. He was 89. The key to Mr. Bigel's influence with the unions
 Lewis Samuel Feuer, a scholar whose career and prolific writings reflected his intellectual journey from Marxist orthodoxy to neoconservatism, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Newton, Mass. He was 89 and most recently lived in Newton and Charlottesville, Va. He was a professor em
