 Buddy Hackett, the streetwise comedian from Brooklyn with a face like a plate of mashed potatoes, died yesterday at his beach house in Malibu, Calif. He was 78. The cause of death is not yet known, Mr. Hackett's son, Sandy, said. Mr. Hackett's career spanned more than half a
 BAILEY--Albert Lee Jr., 68, passed away on June 28, 2003 in Orlando, FL. He is survived by his wife Sally Ann, and loving children: Albert Lee Bailey III, Robert Ford Bailey, John Jackson Bailey, and Shannon Bailey Jordon. Mr. Bailey was a faithful member of many of the nation's historic an
 BERLIN--Joseph. Age 87. Beloved husband of Helen. Loving father of Kenneth, Richard and Jeffrey. Dear fatherin-law of Sue Ann and Janine. Devoted grandfather of Jennifer, Teddy and Luke. He passed away with his adoring family close by. He had been President of the Robert Hall Stores and a l
 BUTTERMAN -- Donald Je rome. Died on Saturday, June 28, 2003, at age 68, of cancer. He leaves behind his beloved wife, Roz Kamlet Butterman. With much sadness he will be missed by his brother Edward and step-children Leslie and Adam. Loving grandfather to Rachel and Katie. Memorial service 
 EDELSTEIN -- Alfred. For merly of Harrison and New Rochelle died June 29, 2003, at age 82. Alfred was born in New Rochelle to Elias Alexander and Florence (Leidesdorf) Edelstein. He lived there for many years, marrying Ruth (Schnitzer) then moving to Harrison. He was a veteran of WWII and a
 GOLDHIRSH--Bernard A. On June 29 of Manchester By the Sea, MA. Husband of the late Wendy Jo (Martz). Son of Leonard and Sylvia (Blank) Goldhirsh of Boston. Father of Elizabeth and Benjamin Goldhirsh both of Manchester, MA. Brother of Stewart and Neil Goldhirsh both of Boston. Services at Te
 KUNSTADTER--John W., on June 18, 2003 at age 75, philanthropist, physicist and international banker, died peacefully at home. Beloved husband of Geraldine Kunstadter. Loving father of John Jr., Lisa and Chris Kunstadter and Elizabeth von Habsburg. Devoted grandfather of eight. Dear brother 
 LIPMAN--Henry, on June 22nd at age 87. The New School community and the students of The New School's Institute for Retired Professionals (IRP) mourn the passing of Henry Lipman, Director of the IRP from 1979 to 1989 and a student in the program for the past 12 years. Henry was an advocate f
 NONAS--Gerson, M.D. The Board of Trustees, Medical Staff and the Department of Medicine of Lenox Hill Hospital express their profound sorrow at the loss of Gerson Nonas, M.D., a distinguished member of our medical staff for nearly a quarter of a century. Dr. Nonas, a respected physician who
 O'NEIL--James, 46. The Board of Directors, staff, participants and members of AHRC NYC convey their condolences to the family of James, known as Jimmy O'Neil, on the occasion of his sudden passing. Jimmy was a loving son and brother. His wonderful sense of humor and tenacity will be remembe
 RADUTZKY--Harry. In memory of my beloved husband who will be in my heart forever. Patty RADUTZKY--Harry. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Harry Radutzky, a cherished friend of the New York Jewish community. We extend our 
 SLOM--Stanley H., 78, on June 28 after a long, courageous battle with cancer. Most loving and beloved husband of Deborah (Kirsh). Adoring father of Celia Vimont. Friend and admirer of son-inlaw Greg; devoted and proud grandfather of Benjamin; brother of the late Aaron and Earle. Journalist 
 STURTEVANT--Roger, 66, on June 30. World renowned record collector and well loved casting director. He had a life long commitment to supporting stage careers. He is survived by Jane Johnson, his sister and Peter Kinsley, his nephew. Visitation Tuesday, 7-9PM and Wednesday 2-4 and 7-9 PM at 
 TERRANOVA--Jane (Brieff) of Scituate, MA, age 54 years on Sunday, June 29th, 2003. Loving mother of Michael Terranova. Beloved daughter of Paul & Charlotte (Goodman) Brieff. Dear sister of Robert Brieff & his wife June. Graveside services at Mt. Ararat, Farmingdale, LI on Wednesday at 2:30 
 Robert McCloskey, the writer and illustrator whose classic children's books -- among them ''Make Way for Ducklings'' and ''Blueberries for Sal'' -- captivated generations of young readers and their parents, died yesterday on Deer Isle, Maine. He was 88. A small-town boy with a gift 
 Buddy Hackett, the roly-poly streetwise comedian from Brooklyn whose puckish, irrepressible clowning was a fixture on America's home screens in the 1950's and 60's, died on Monday at his beach house in Malibu, Calif. He was 78. The cause was not announced, pending a coroner's report
 EDELSTEIN--Alfred. Milton N. Hoffman Co. mourns the death of our close friend and partner. We convey our condolences to his wife Ruth and his children. He was respected and loved by us and will always be remembered. >>AD#       
 GITELSON--Paul. On June 30, 2003. Beloved husband of Aileen. Devoted father of Lisa and Michael and father-inlaw of Adam Eggers and Eileen Lopez. Cherished grandfather of Elinor Eggers. Dear brother of David and Alan. Contributions in his memory may be made to Jewish Child Care Association,
 GOLDHIRSH -- Bernard A. The employees of Gruner + Jahr USA Publishing mourn the passing of Bernard A. Goldhirsh, founder of Inc. magazine. Bernie's quintessential entrepreneurial spirit will be missed. We send our deepest condolences to his family and friends. >>AD#       
 HACKETT--Buddy. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member, and Honorary Officer, Buddy Hackett. Buddy was a consummate court jester who gave the gift of laughter. He was a master craftsman of humor who brought 
 HOOPER--Thomas Edward. Award-winning photo journalist, interior and fashion photographer, commercial director and feature filmmaker who lived life fully and on his own terms. Consummate perfectionist who was a creative, dynamic and inspirational force to all he touched as well as a generous
 MARKE--Julius J. Professor Emeritus, New York University School of Law, Distinguished Professor of Law at St. Johns University. Former Director of the law libraries at both universities. Renowned legal historian, author and scholar. Beloved husband of Sylvia, cherished father of Elisa, trea
 McCABE--Robert P. On June 29, 2003. A resident of College Point, Bob passed away at the age of 71. He is survived by three sons: Robert Jr., Timothy and Martin. He is also survived by his daughter-inlaw Grovine and many nieces and nephews. Bob loved life to the fullest and was full of love 
 MULLEN--Arthur Clarence, Jr., died Sunday, June 29, 2003. Beloved husband of Joan B. Mullen and father of Justin Bell, Sara Luke, Audrey, Victor and Joanne, and grandfather of Tatiana Bell and Emily and Evan Mullen. Born in Newark, NJ, he was educated in St. Nicholas and Dickinson HS in Jer
 RADUTZKY -- Harry. The Trustees, Administration and professional staff of Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center wish to express our sorrow and deepest regret on the passing of Harry Radutzky, Vice President of the Joyva Corporation, a major supporter of our institution, husband o
 SPIER--Larry. 73, on June 30, 2003. Beloved husband of Dorothy (deceased). Devoted father of Mark and Roberta, father-in-law of Lori and Wayne, loving grandfather of Matthew, Benjamin, Danielle, and Jeffrey. Cherished brother and brother-in-law. Owner and president of the Memory Lane Music 
 WALTER--David. One of Toscanini's NBC Symphony musicians, renowned double bass performer and teacher at the Juilliard School died Tuesday, July 1, in his sleep. His passing will be deeply mourned by his wife and family, and many students. Service Thursday, July 3, 10AM, at Congregation Rode
 WATSON--George S., MD, of Arlington, formerly of Plympton, MA, June 24, age 86 years. Husband of the late Susanne (Turner) Watson. Loving father of Susanne Watson of Arlington; Charlotte B. Watson of Front Royal, VA; Jeannie Russell of the Bronx, NY; and Diane Russell of Nairobi, Kenya. He 
 COHEN--Elias A. Although 49 years have passed since our beloved founder, Elias A. Cohen, passed away on July 2, 1952, he is still remembered with love and reverence by the thousands of deserving boys and girls who were privileged to come to his Tranquillity Farm and Camp for a few, fun fill
 Bernard A. Goldhirsh, who started a newsletter-publishing business in his basement that grew into Inc. magazine, one of the first publications to profit by aiming at owners of small businesses, died on Sunday in Boston. He was 63. The cause was complications from a brain tumor, The 
 Herbie Mann, who helped to popularize the flute as a jazz instrument and to introduce the music of other cultures into the mainstream of American jazz, died on Tuesday at his home in New Mexico. He was 73 and lived in a cabin in Pecos, near Santa Fe. The cause was prostate cancer, h
 Ivan Allen Jr., who as mayor of Atlanta led racial integration efforts in the 1960's at a time when other Southern cities were erupting in violence, died yesterday in Atlanta. He was 92. Mr. Allen, the grandson of a Confederate cavalryman, came from a wealthy and distinguished Georg
 Najeeb E. Halaby, who was once a leader in the airline industry and was known more recently as the father of Queen Noor of Jordan, died today at his home in McLean, Va. He was 87. Mr. Halaby, formerly of Alpine, N.J., had lived in McLean in recent years. He also had a home on Martha
 DAPOLITO--Anthony, of Vesuvio Bakery, 160 Prince Street, New York City. Known by all as the Mayor of Greenwich Village. Beloved husband of Frances (nee Bianco). Devoted father of Jeannie Delaney. Loving brother of Joseph and the late Steven, Frank and Andrew. Cherished grandfather of Brian.
 GITELSON--Paul, D.S.W. The Trustees and Staff of Jewish Childcare Association mourn the loss of Paul Gitelson, who as Chief Executive Officer of JCCA from 1992 to the present, led the agency through a decade of vast changes in practice and attitudes towards children and families. Dr. Gitels
 MEYERS--Lawrence, M.D. The Department of Medicine of NYU School of Medicine notes with sadness, the death of our colleague, Dr. Lawrence Meyers, a Clinical Associate Professor of Medicine, and a Faculty Member for fifty years. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his wife and children. Marti
 NATHAN--Carl H. June 6, 2003 in Basel, Switzerland after a short illness, dearly beloved husband, brother and uncle. Born 1912, Carl touched many lives through his many business and social interests. We thank his many friends who also mourned his passing. >>AD#       
 OBERLANDER -- Samuel Guy, M.D., 63, died July 1, 2003 at home in Ardsley, NY of cancer. Born in Brooklyn, NY on June 22, 1940 to Harry and the late Belle Oberlander. A devoted father and husband, he is survived by his wife Monica, nee Hallacy; and their children, Matthew, Andrew, Laura Bell
 ROZMARYN--Jack. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and great grandfather. Astute entrepreneur and advisor, Rodomske Chasid, and walking encyclopedia of Chasidus. Survivor of Auschwitz and eyewitness to the horrors of the Holocaust. A true hero who saved scores of lives. We have lost the p
 SATTERTHWAITE -- Franklin Bache, age 88, of Cranston, RI, died peacefully in his sleep June 30. Formerly of New York, NY and Short Hills, NJ, he was a market research executive who became an avid painter in his retirement. A direct descendant of Benjamin Franklin, he also served as Presiden
 WALTER--David. The Juilliard community mourns the death of David Walter, a brilliant double bassist and teacher who had an extraordinary impact on the music profession of the 20th Century. His charm, wit, and integrity will be deeply missed. Our condolences to his entire family. Joseph W. P
 WEINBERG--Charles H. The members and employees of Mazur, Carp & Rubin mourn the passing of our dear colleague, partner, and friend Charles H. Weinberg on June 27. Charlie brought light to every discussion and a smile to every face. His erudition, wisdom, kindness to all and joie de vivre ca
 WILDER--Joseph R., MD. On July 1, 2003. He is survived by his wife Madeline. Also survived by his former wife Ruth and their children Kathy W. Karlin, Tony and Piper; his former wife Cynthia and their children Alyssa and Nicholas; his grandchildren Margo and Natalie Karlin. Dr. Wilder was a
 Rod Amateau, a movie veteran who worked on classic early television comedies like ''Dobie Gillis'' and the Bob Cummings and Burns and Allen shows as a writer, director or producer, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 79. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said his friend Jerry P
 Dr. Joseph R. Wilder, a New York surgeon who also became a well-known artist, died on July 1 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause of death was coronary arrest, his daughter Piper said. From the 1960's until his retirement in the mid-1980's, Dr.
 HALABY--Najeeb E. The Board of Trustees of the American University of Beirut and members of the AUB community note with great sadness the passing of our friend Najeeb E. Halaby, Trustee Emeritus and former Chairman of the Board of Trustees of the University. We are deeply grateful to ''Jeeb
 LOWY--Meyer in Denville, NJ., 90. Formerly of Newark, South Orange, Maplewood and Short Hills, July 2, 2003. Husband of the late Florette Lang Lowy, father of Peter Q. Lowy of Bradley Beach, NJ, Katherine and Martin Gurvey of Lincolnshire, IL, and Susan and Lawrence Lubow of Morristown, NJ,
 REYNOLDS--William Gray Jr. 64, died July 2, 2003 at the home of his brother, Randolph N. Reynolds, after a courageous, extended battle with a brain tumor. Mr. Reynolds was Vice President, Government Relations and Public Affairs, of Reynolds Metals Company at the time of the company's merger
 The Rev. Dr. Preston R. Washington, a prominent Harlem minister who led efforts to build housing and cope with the AIDS epidemic, among many other challenges, died on June 25 at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 54 and lived in New Rochelle, N.Y.. The cause was heart failu
 Anthony Dapolito, a baker whose battles for his community earned him the honorary title of mayor of Greenwich Village, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan, one day before his 83rd birthday. He had a stroke last year, but the cause of death was pneumonia, his wif
 Barry White, whose deep voice and lushly orchestrated songs added up to soundtracks for seduction, died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 58. A statement released by his manager, Ned Shankman, said the cause was kidney failure caused by hypertension. In his songs, Mr. White c
 Briggs Swift Cunningham II, a sportsman whose affinity for yachts and cars drew him to sailboat racing as an America's Cup skipper and to auto racing as the creator and driver of his custom sports car, died Wednesday at his home in Las Vegas. He was 96. Cunningham sailed in the 1958
 HALSTEAD--Paul K. Of Carefree, AZ and Larchmont, NY. Husband of the late Ann (Bing), beloved father of Roy and Dorothy, grandfather of Libby, Ted, Naomi and Rebecca, great-grandfather of three. Uncle of Andrew, George, and Monica Bing. Mr. Halstead spent his 40 year career in the supermarke
 LOBMAN--Arthur L. 78, died June 29. He is survived by his brother Walter Lobman and his daughters Sara and Carrie Lobman. A meeting to celebrate his life and 44 years as a revolutionary and member of the Socialist Workers Party will be held Sunday, July 6, 1:30 P.M., at the Union Theologica
 LOWY--Meyer in Denville, NJ., 90. Formerly of Newark, South Orange, Maplewood and Short Hills, July 2, 2003. Husband of the late Florette Lang Lowy, father of Peter Q. Lowy of Bradley Beach, NJ, Katherine and Martin Gurvey of Lincolnshire, IL, and Susan and Lawrence Lubow of Morristown, NJ,
 SCHENK--Stephen J. suddenly on July 2, 2003. Loving husband of Mary (nee Sheehan). Dear son of the late Stephen M. and Mary. Survived by his brother Joseph and sister Elizabeth (''Betty''). Loving uncle of 14 nieces & nephews. Reposing Saturday 7-9PM and Sunday 2-5 and 7-9PM at Riverdale-on
 Moran Caplat, who for 36 years managed the Glyndebourne Opera Festival in Britain, helping to make the festival one of the pre-eminent musical events in Europe, died on June 19 at Tunbridge Wells in Kent. He was 86. Mr. Caplat started at Glyndebourne in 1945 as an assistant to Rudol
 BARRETT-Daniel. Born in Ireland, 1927, he died in Schenectady, NY, June 21, 2003 from complications following a stroke. Trained as a blacksmith, carpenter and silversmith, he was an innovative sculpture, jeweler and inventor whose mastery over metal was renowned. He is survived by his wife 
 BATSCHA-Robert M. On July 4, 2003. The Board of Trustees and the staff of The Museum of Television & Radio in both New York and Los Angeles mourn the untimely passing of our beloved President. His commitment and unwavering belief in the Museum and its mission were instrumental in securing t
 BURCHELL-Jonathan Edgar. 30, of New York City. Beloved son of Allison BurchellRobinson of New York City and Ashford, CT. and Richard C. Burchell of Longboat Key, Florida and Gilford, NH., was fatally injured in the crash of the bush plane he was piloting in the Kenya outback on Sunday, June
 BURT-Nathaniel. Of Princeton, NJ, passed away on July 1, 2003, at the age of 89. He is survived by his wife Margaret, his daughter Margery and his son Christopher. Memorial service will be held in September at Trinity Church, Princeton, NJ.       
 CARPENTER - Gilbert F. ''Bert'', artist and educator, died Friday, June 6, 2003 in Greensboro, NC. Born July 14, 1920 in Billings, Montana, Bert Carpenter was educated at Stanford University, Chouinard Art Institute and Columbia University, where he taught in the Columbia College humanities
 CUNNINGHAM-Briggs Swift II. America's Cup Winner and motorsports legend dies at 96. Briggs Swift Cunningham II, who was born in Cincinnati, Ohio, and lived the majority of his life in Westport, Connecticut, died in Las Vegas, Nevada on July 2, 2003. Mr. Cunningham was the son of a Cincinnat
 ERGAS-Martin. August 7, 1950-March 5, 2003. Martin Ergas, a visionary Miami philanthropist, real estate investor, entrepreneur and attorney has died of cancer at the age of 52. A passionate advocate and donor in the effort to make life better for people with spinal cord injuries, Mr. Ergas 
 FARREL-Franklin ''Tot'' III. Age 95, of North Branford, CT, died suddenly July 2, 2003. He is survived by his wife, Sallie Gibson Farrel of North Branford, his children, Sallie F. Brown, Franklin ''Toby'' Farrel IV, Lisa F. Totman, 10 grandchildren and 15 great grandchildren. There will be 
 GAULT-Matthew. Born January 23, 1920, died on June 22, 2003 in Princeton, NJ. Son of Matthew Gault and Helen Harlan Smith. Grandson of Judge Henry Harlan of Baltimore, MD. Honors graduate of Princeton, Class of '42, member of the Ivy Club. He served his country in World War II in 4 of the t
 HOCHSCHWENDER George Anthony, 82, son of George H. and Ellen Hurcomb Hochschwender, died at home June 27, 2003. A native of Brooklyn, New York, Mr. Hochschwender attended Poly Preparatory School in Brooklyn, New York and graduated from Princeton University in 1943. He is preceded in death b
 KAHN-Dr. Theodore. On July 3rd, at home in Florida. Dearest husband of Muriel (Rauch). Beloved father of Jonathan and Peg, Katherine and Philip, and Lori and Arnold. Adored grandfather of Jacob, Shoshana, Frederick, Liza, Hannah, Adam and Alexander. Dear brother of Shirley and Sidney, and o
 KIRPICH-Morris Mal. Beloved husband of 57 years to his love and soulmate Marilyn. Deeply loved father of Diane, Leslie and Susan. Adored Poppy to Sarra, Ali and Jeffrey. Loving friend and father-in-law to Joseph and Bill. Caring brother of Billie and Phil. Friend of the family Dr. Les Selbo
 LOEB-David S., 79, died at his home in Wingfield Springs, Nevada on June 30, 2003 after a long illness. He graduated from the Maine Maritime Academy and served in the Merchat Marines during World War II. He served on the Board of Trustees of Maine Maritime, which awarded him an honorary doc
 McANDREW-William J. It is with deepest sadness that we mourn the passing of Bill McAndrew on June 27, 2003. Bill was a devoted husband, father, grandfather and friend. He is survived by his wife Megan, his children Kathleen, Chris, Barbara, Patty and Simon, his six grandchildren and countle
 PRESNELL-Dr. Walter Mattison. On the summer solstice of 2003 in Tucson, AZ. He is survived by his sons Craig and Ricardo. He is loved.       
 ROCHE-Clyde. Born August 1, 1918, Darien, CT. Attended Palm Beach School for Boys, Lawrenceville '35, and Princeton '39. Served with the 82nd Airborne in World War II. Retired as Director of Communications at Merck after three decades. Enjoyed the devotion of his wife of 46 years, his three
 WANG-C.C. July 3, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Yuan-Su Wang. Loving father of Shou Kung, Hsien Chen Wang Chang and Yien Koo King. Cherished grandfather of 11. He was a noted artist and collector of art who will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank E
 WEISSBERG-Herbert R. On July 3, 2003. Lived the classic American dream. One of five children born to his immigrant parents in New York's fabled Lower East Side, he slowly but relentlessly worked his way up to being a prominent New York hotelier. Along the way, he taught English to immigrant
 The Rev. Norman J. O'Connor, a Roman Catholic priest who was also a well-known authority on jazz, died last Sunday in Wayne, N.J., where he lived. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, the medical examiner's office said. Father O'Connor, whose name was seldom mentioned in
 Andrew Heiskell, a former chairman of Time Inc. and a philanthropist whose efforts at civic improvement helped rescue the New York Public Library and Bryant Park from shabbiness and decline and provide low-cost housing on a large scale in New York, died yesterday at his home in Darien, Conn
 Henry Thomas Lipman, the second director of the Institute for Retired Professionals at what was then the New School for Social Research, died on June 22 at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. He was 87 and lived in Greenwich Village. Professor Lipman spent 20 years at New York Univers
 BATSCHA--Robert M. On July 4, 2003. Devoted father and dear friend. His commitment to and compassion for family, friends, and The Museum of Television & Radio, were unwavering and will be sorely missed. He approached life with purpose and voracious energy, never wasting a second. His warmth
 FLANAGAN--Thomas V. 86, of Mineola, NY, on July 4, 2003. Former Officer - in Charge (Postmaster) of the General Post Office, 8th Avenue, NYC, and former Officer-in-Charge (Postmaster) of Brooklyn, NY. Tom retired form the Postal Service in 1980 after 45 years of dedicated service. He starte
 HEISKELL -- Andrew. The Board, Staff and Artists of Lincoln Center Theater grieve the death of the beloved Vice Chairman of the theater since its re-establishment in 1985, our treasured Andrew Heiskell. The theater was greatly blessed by Andrew's extraordinary spirit, his profound understan
 HEITMAN--Richard E. Of Acton, MA, July 5, 2003. Husband of Ann D. (Reeves) and father of the late Andrew David Heitman. Memorial services will be announced at a later date. In lieu of flowers, gifts in his memory may be sent to the Amyloid Treatment and Research Program, Boston University S
 LEVY--Alan Leonard. 73, died at home on July 4, 2003, after a battle with cancer. Born in Brooklyn, NY, on October 8, 1929, son of David and Frances Levy. He graduated from Brooklyn College at 18 years of age and from Brooklyn Law School at 21 years of age. He was admitted to the Bar of the
 ROCHE--Clyde. Born August 1, 1918, Darien, CT. Attended Palm Beach School for Boys, Lawrenceville '35, and Princeton '39. Served with the 82nd Airborne in World War II. Retired as Director of Communications at Merck after three decades. Enjoyed the devotion of his wife of 46 years, his thre
 WEISSBERG--Herbert R. We will miss Herb, our dear friend for more than 40 years. A leader in the hotel industry, he established a chain of hotels across the western hemisphere. Herb will be most remembered as a caring employer, and a loving and devoted husband, father and grandfather. Herb 
 Robert M. Batscha, who worked to preserve, archive, study and permanently exhibit two of the more ephemeral modes of mass communication as the longtime president of the Museum of Television and Radio, died Friday in Manhattan. He was 58. The cause was cancer, said Diane Reed, the di
 Buddy Ebsen, a gangly and personable Ziegfeld song-and-dance man in the late 1920's who gained lasting fame on television as Davy Crockett's sidekick, a hillbilly in Beverly Hills and an aging private eye, died on Sunday in Torrance, Calif. He was 95 and lived in nearby Palos Verdes.       
 BATSCHA--Robert M. The Board and staff of the Center for Communication will sorely miss our inspiration and cofounder. Bob's good work continues. Edward Bleier, Chairman Catherine Williams, Exec Dir BATSCHA--Robert. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of Rober
 DELLAL--Moshi. Of New York, July 6, 2003. Beloved husband of Agnes, adored father of William, Wilma and Arlene. Devoted grandfather of Cyrus, Dara, Robert, David and Daniel. Loving brother of Khatoun, Naima, Violet, Naim, and Victoria. He was born in Iraq, moved to Iran and then to the Unit
 HAWKINS--Roland J. Of Manhattan and Remsenburg, NY. Died peacefully after a valiant struggle with brain cancer on July 6. Beloved husband of Dorinda. Loving father of Christine of Altamonte Springs, FL. Cherished son-in-law to Eleanor and Bud Cox of Malvern, PA and brother-in-law to Sandra 
 HEISKELL -- Andrew. The New York Public Library deeply mourns the passing of its Chairman Emeritus, great leader, champion, benefactor, and guardian, Andrew Heiskell. With great wisdom, and with selfless dedication and devotion for more than two decades, he was the guiding spirit in the Lib
 LEVENTHAL--Harold H., a resident of North Miami Beach, FL, died on July 4, 2003 at the age of 79. Survived by his wife Therese of 43 years, children Gordon, Danny (Linda), Michele (Harry), Scott; brother David (Elizabeth); six grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Served as First Lieu
 MACE--Frank Lawrence, 80, of Boca Raton, FL and Somers, NY. Died on July 6, 2003 at home in Somers. Beloved husband of Valerie, loving father of Frank Lawrence Mace, Jr., Sarah Mace, Christina Mace Turner and the late Kent Mace. Father-in-law of Alex Turner. Devoted grandfather of Oona Kent
 NASSAU--Isidore. On July 6, 2003. Beloved husband of Juliet. Devoted father of Linda Rawicz and father-in-law of Harris Rawicz. Dear brother of Belle Nassau and the late Judith Summerfield and brother-in-law of Benjamin Nassau and Jacques Summerfield. Cherished grandfather of Scott and Eliz
 OSTREICH--Peter David, 52, a Florida Commission of Ethics attorney, died Saturday, July 5, 2003. He is survived by his wife, Glenda Ostreich. He formerly served as the attorney for the Governors Commission on Advocacy for persons with developmental disabilities. Survivors include a daughter
 RABKIN--Jacob (Jack). Formerly of Palm Beach and New York City, died July 1, at his home in Ashland, Oregon at the age of 98. He is survived by his wife of 75 years, Dorothy (Draper), his son Richard of New York, his daughter Amy Cipes of Ashland, six grandchildren and four great grandchild
 READ--Richard Rollins, Jr. Age 52, died in New York City, July 6th. Senior analyst at Credit Lyonnais Securities, NY. Survived by his children Aaron Read of New York, Ryan, Connor and Aidan Read of Fairhaven, MA, his companion Judy Bard of Queens, his mother Carol Read Heron of Cross River,
 WANG--C.C. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the passing of artist and collector, C.C. Wang, who was a Benefactor of the Museum for over nearly thirty years. Our galleries have been permanently enriched by dozens of the Chinese paintings--representing a wide ran
 WOOLWORTH--Norman S. Of New Canaan, CT. A popular and influential figure in the sport of harness racing died Thursday, July 3, 2003. Mr. Woolworth is survived by a son and a daughter-in-law, Norman and Lori Woolworth of Charlottesville, VA., a son and daughter-in-law, Eric and Jocelyn Woolw
 DECKER--Robert E. Family and friends are invited to attend a memorial service for Robert E. Decker at 11:30 AM, Sunday, July 13th, 2003, I.J. Morris Funeral Home, 1895 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, N.Y. Robert, 88, was a longtime resident of Coney Island. He was born September 13, 1914 in Coal
 C. C. Wang, a Chinese-American artist and collector, who sold important and sometimes controversial examples of classical Chinese painting to many American museums and who was viewed by admirers as the last in a centuries-old line of Chinese scholar-artists, died on Thursday in Manhattan. H
 Charles P. Kindleberger, an economic historian who advanced the study of international finance and helped to devise the Marshall Plan for Europe's reconstruction after World War II, died on Monday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 92. Professor Kindleberger won fame for originating the ide
 DENTON--John Ward. Died July 5th, 2003 after a brief illness at the age of 42. He was a prominent member of the Ralph Lauren Design Department for over 10 years before starting Denton & Gardner Limited in 1995. After working as an interior designer in Paris and London, he opened his first s
 GREENFIELD -- Lawrence. Age 67. Of New York City and Roxbury, CT., died peacefully at his home in Manhattan on July 7, 2003 following a battle with brain cancer, during which he showed the utmost courage, dignity and spirit. Beloved husband of Roslyn. Loving father of Lauren, Lisa and Peter
 HEISKELL -- Andrew. The New York Public Library deeply mourns the passing of its Chairman Emeritus, great leader, champion, benefactor, and guardian, Andrew Heiskell. With great wisdom, and with selfless dedication and devotion for more than two decades, he was the guiding spirit in the Lib
 LITWACK--Gregory, of Boca Raton, Florida. Beloved husband of Liliane. Devoted father of Stephanie (Eric), Wendy, Jacqueline (Joel) and Jeffrey (Cindy). Adoring grandfather of Michael, Cary, Alyssa, Nicole, Brianna and Devyn. Brother of Roberta Weinstein. Shiva will be observed at the home o
 LOEB--Jimmy. His former colleagues at Gray, Seifert & Co., Inc. mourn the death of Jimmy Loeb, our longtime associate and friend, who enlivened all around him with his quick wit, impish charm and tireless and enduring friendship. We offer our affection and condolences to his wife Priscilla,
 METZGER--Aaron P. Passed away peacefully on July 8, 2003. He was 79 years old. Surviving are his wife Sally, his children Carol and Mark Schaffer, Janis and Michael Moisan and Diane and Michael Cohen. He leaves behind his most precious gift, his eight grandsons Matthew, Ian, Russell, Bobby,
 PUGLISI--Rev. Msgr. Guy J., Ph.D. On July 8, 2003. Devoted son of Catherine (nee Corcoran) and the late Salvatore J. Beloved brother of Sister Stephen Mary, CSJ. Monsignor was the Vicar for Education, the Superintendent of Schools for the Diocese of Brooklyn, a graduate from the School of E
 Chaim Engel, who helped carry out a group escape from a Nazi death camp, driven by the need to kill for revenge and hoping to save himself and his future wife, died on July 4 in New Haven. He was 87. Mr. Engel had a stroke after a car accident and then developed pneumonia, said his 
 AVALONE--Anthony I. Age 52. Died July 4, 2003. He is survived by his wife Nancy R.S. Kramer. HBO Editor for 15 years. Received 1999 International Monitors Award. Member of the Radio and TV Broadcast Engineers Union, Local 1212, IBEW. Previously married to Rebecca Koborie, who perished at th
 BATSCHA--Robert M. The Board, the staff and the Friends of New Yorkers For Children mourn the passing of Bob Batscha, a devoted member of our Board of Directors. Bob was an exemplary member of the NYFC family, providing support and guidance and we will continue our work according to the hig
 FISCHER--Michael, of NYC and Australia, died on July 4 in Manhattan. To honor his life & spirit, an informal service will be held on Saturday, July 12, 11AM at Central Park Conservatory Gardens on 105th St/5th Ave, followed by a celebration at Brunetta's, 190 1st Ave/12th St, 2-4PM.        
 GREENFIELD -- Lawrence. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Lawrence Greenfield, a cherished friend of the Jewish community who served as chair of UJAFederation's General Insurance Executive Committee and as a trustee of our benefic
 HEISKELL -- Andrew. The New York Public Library deeply mourns the passing of its Chairman Emeritus, great leader, champion, benefactor, and guardian, Andrew Heiskell. With great wisdom, and with selfless dedication and devotion for more than two decades, he was the guiding spirit in the Lib
 LOEB--James J. Passed away peacefully on July 8, 2003 after a long illness. Known for his kindness and generosity he is survived by his loving wife Priscilla, daughter Marcie (Alan) Auerbach, grandsons Philip and Jason Auerbach and step children Mark and Annie Danielewski. The family will r
 PUGLISI--Rev. Msgr. Guy J., Ph.D. On July 8, 2003. Devoted son of Catherine (nee Corcoran) and the late Salvatore J. Beloved brother of Sister Stephen Mary, CSJ. Monsignor was the Vicar for Education, the Superintendent of Schools for the Diocese of Brooklyn, a graduate from the School of E
 ROSS--Jeffrey A. The staff of the Anti-Defamation League mourns the untimely passing of our colleague and friend, Jeffrey A. Ross, ADL, Director of Campus Affairs/Higher Education Affairs. For nearly 20 years, Jeff committed himself to combating anti-Semitism and bigotry on our nation's cam
 SELIGMANN--Otto. July 8, age 85, treasurer of Arnhold Ceramics until he retired at 80, to care for his beloved wife Esther. Admired for his integrity and generosity. Brother of Eva Vigart, brother-in-law of Henry Arnhold, father of Katherine, Michael, Peter and Monica, with nine grandchildr
 WANG--C.C. July 3, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Yuan-Su Wang. Loving father of Shou Kung, Hsien Chen Wang Chang and Yien Koo King. Cherished grandfather of 11. He was a noted artist and collector of art who will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call at Frank 
 SENBER -- Henry ''Hank''. Died at his home on Horatio St. in Greenwich Village on Monday, June 23, 2003, at age 93. He was a former reporter, actor, and publicist. He was predeceased by his wife, the former Genevieve Whitfield. He is survived by nephews Paul Rosenberg of Topanga, CA, and Da
 Lord Shawcross of Friston, who was Britain's chief prosecutor of Nazi war criminals at Nuremberg in 1945 and who, as attorney general, also conducted treason trials against infamous British spies and turncoats, died yesterday at his home in Cowbeech, south of London. He was 101. Amo
 BARRETT--Daniel. Born in Ireland, 1927, he died in Schenectady, NY, June 21, 2003 from complications following a stroke. Trained as a blacksmith, carpenter and silversmith, he was an innovative sculptor, jeweler and inventor whose mastery over metal was renowned. He is survived by his wife 
 BUSH--John D., 78, of the Bronx. He was a former music librarian with Columbia University. Helt Chapel, Mill Hall, PA. A memorial service is being planned. >>AD#       
 COSER--Lewis. The editors of Dissent Magazine mourn the passing of Lewis Coser, one of its founding editors and leading intellectuals and extend condolences to his entire family. Mitchell Cohen and Michael Walzer, Co-Editors >>AD#       
 GOLDBERG--Louis, 87, in Santa Barbara, CA, July 8, 2003. Beloved husband of Jean, loving father of Richard and Michael. Services at Beth David Cemetery, 300 Elmont Road, Elmont, Long Island, Sunday July 13th at 11:00 AM. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Alzheimer's Disease and
 GREENFIELD -- Lawrence. Former Trustee. The Officers, Trustees and staff of the Educational Alliance note with profound sadness the passing of Lawrence Greenfield, our former trustee. Lawrence joined the Alliance's Board of Trustees in 1975 and served as an officer and Chair of the Camp Com
 LANDAU--Seymour, age 84. A man who knew his own mind, he died at his home on July 10. Husband of the late Marjorie, to whom he was married for 60 years, he is survived by Seymour Jr. and John Charles and by Frances Kiernan. LANDAU--Seymour. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New Y
 WANG--C.C. July 3, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Yuan-Su Wang. Loving father of Shou Kung, Hsien Chen Wang Chang and Yien Koo King. Cherished grandfather of 11. He was a noted artist and collector of art who will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Service Friday, July 11, 1
 Lewis Alfred Coser, a politically active sociologist who grappled with the social role of intellectuals in influential books, articles and speeches, as well as in his personal politics, died on Tuesday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 89 and lived in Cambridge. Dr. Coser wrote or edited t
 BONSAING--Edward G. ''Jerry'', died at his home at age 57 in Southampton, L.I. after a long battle with cancer. He is survived by his beloved sister, Barbara Feeney and his brother-in-law Patrick Feeney and was the loving uncle of Patrick Joseph Feeney, his wife Daisy and their daughters Is
 KLINE--Henry Chapman, retired Vice President of Grumman Aerospace Corporation (Bethpage), formerly of Smithtown, NY and Stamford, CT, died Thursday, July 10, 2003 in his adopted city of Buffalo, NY. For 52 years Harry was the most devoted husband of Juliet Emma Gentile Kline, the proud fath
 MANDEL--Lenard. Elected to the Board five years ago, Lenard Mandell was a significant presence whose brilliance and measured reason brought clarity and understanding to each issue he met. His guidance always came with wisdom and a wry wit. We shall always remember his dedication to the orga
 ROTHSTEIN -- Edward H. Died July 9, 2003. Survived by his brother, Robert Z. Rothstein, his children, Patty Dashefsky, James Rothstein, Peggy Wollins, Ellen Slater and Linda Gruen, his grandchildren David and Keith Dashefsky, Andrew and Michael Rothstein, DJ and Evan Wollins. Husband of the
 BONSAING--Edward G. ''Jerry'', died at his home at age 57 in Southampton, L.I. after a long battle with cancer. He is survived by his beloved sister, Barbara Feeney and his brother-in-law Patrick Feeney and was the loving uncle of Patrick Joseph Feeney, his wife Daisy and their daughters Is
 GANNES--Abraham, a renowned pioneer in Jewish education, teacher, scholar and dear father, grandfather, great-grandfather and friend, died on July 8 (8 Tammuz). Dr. Gannes was the last in the galaxy of Jewish luminaries who established the foundation and built the structure for modern Jewis
 HESSION -- Charles H., a professor at Brooklyn College for 40 years and biographer of John Maynard Keynes, died on July 11 in Bellport, NY. He was 92. Dr. Hession was married for 52 years to Marie Struever. He is survived by his three sons, William, John, and Edwin, and a daughter, Ann Mari
 HUGHES--James A., at age 95, July 11, 2003, died peacefully at home. Cherished son of the late Joseph and Mary (nee Conway), of Dunaganon Co, Tyrone, Ireland. Brother to the late Henry, Mary Brady, Margaret, Patrick, Alice McGovern and his late first wife Laurette Riordan Hughes. James was 
 KNAPP--Bryan L. On July 11, 2003, tragically, by accident. Son of the late Theodore and Sylvia, brother of Ralph, uncle of Stacey and David. Dear friend and advisor of many who will remember his joy, laugh, wisdom and loyalty. Valued colleague and advisor to businesses and nonprofit organiz
 LOEB--James J. On July 8, 2003, after a long illness. With dignity and elegance. Born November 1, 1920 in New York City, attended Stuyvesant High School '38, and New York University '42. Served as Lt. Col. for General Eisenhower's Forward Headquarters in The U.S. Army during World War II. P
 MANDEL -- Lenard Harold. (1917-2003). It is with profound sorrow that the family of Lenard H. Mandel announces his passing on July 11, 2003. Mr. Mandel, a resident of New York City, served as Partner Emeritus at the Manhattan law firm of White & Case until the time of his death. Mr. Mandel 
 PINO--Mario M., 83, of New Port Richey, FL. Born in Brooklyn. Was a proofreader for the New York Times; Army Air Force Veteran of World War II. Survivors include his wife Marie, three sons: Richard of Boston, John, of Morganville, NJ, and Chris of Oldsmar, FL; three grandchildren: Christoph
 ROTHSTEIN--Edward. A loving stepfather, trusted advisor, and friend to Linda Z. Gruen and Ellen Slater. We will miss him deeply. >>AD#       
 SMITHWICK--T. James. 59 of Quogue, NY, died suddenly on July 11, 2003, in Culpepper, VA, while attending a horse show with his daughter. He was the very proud and devoted father of James W. Smithwick and Katharine E. Smithwick. His wife Bonnie Shihadeh Smithwick predeceased him on September
 VARSOS--Aristides George, M.D. One of the most dedicated individuals who committed his life to serving the needs of the Greek community as a physician, died in his home, surrounded by his wife and children, on Saturday, June 28, at the age of 78. For over 40 years Dr. Varsos was a physician
 WENZEL--Gregg David, on July 9, 2003, formerly of Monroe, NY, and Miami, FL, died in a tragic accident in Ethiopia, where he was working for the State Department as a Foreign Service Officer. He was 33. Gregg leaves behind his parents, Gladys and Mitchell; his sister, Maura, and her husband
 Vasil V. Bykov, the acclaimed Belarussian writer whose novels about the bitter truths of war roused the ire of Soviet leaders and won him the admiration of millions of his countrymen, died on June 22 in a clinic in Minsk. He was 79. The cause was stomach cancer, his family said.    
 Benny Carter's career was remarkable for both its length and its consistently high musical achievement, from his first recordings in the 1920's to his youthful-sounding improvisations in the 1990's. His pure-toned, impeccably phrased performances made him one of the two pre-eminent alto sax
 Benny Carter, whose combination of highly developed talents as composer, arranger, bandleader and soloist on a variety of instruments was unmatched in the jazz world, died Saturday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 95.       
 Benny Carter, whose combination of highly developed talents as composer, arranger, bandleader and soloist on a variety of instruments was unmatched in the jazz world, died Saturday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 95. A Versatile Master Benny Carter's career was remarkab
 JAROSLOW--Fred. Died July 13 at the age of 74 at his home in Sands Point. Devoted husband to Ruth, cherished father of Karen Siris, Amy and Elizabeth Jaroslow, and beloved grandfather to Joshua, Jeremy, Benjamin, Emily, Morey and Jake, who adored him. Services Tuesday, July 15, 1:30 PM, at 
 LOEB--James J. On July 8, 2003, after a long illness. With dignity and elegance. Born November 1, 1920 in New York City, attended Stuyvesant High School '38, and New York University '42. Served as Lt. Col. for General Eisenhower's Forward Headquarters in The U.S. Army during World War II. P
 ROTHSTEIN -- Edward Ha rold. July 9, 2003. Abiding love, fierce loyalty, generosity of spirit incarnate. A man among men, Dad was my mentor, my guide, my strength, my confidant. All I need to do is to reach deep into the very best part of myself, and there I will always find him, for love i
 URBANO--Armand P., DDS. July 14, 1916-June 21, 1993. ''Handsome young yachtsman-dentist,'' beloved and missed by Jeanette, his Three Graces and families. >>AD#       
 Patrick M. Wall, a Manhattan criminal defense trial lawyer with many prominent clients and the author of a respected book in his field, died on July 5 in White Plains, N.Y. He was 68 and lived in White Plains. The cause was heart failure, said his son Patrick M. Wall Jr. Amo
 Robert S. Mullaney, an aeronautical engineer and executive at the Grumman Corporation who helped oversee the construction of the craft that landed Apollo astronauts on the moon, died at his home in Bellport, N.Y., on July 6. He was 82. Mr. Mullaney was a former Navy pilot who had a 
 Compay Segundo, the salty Cuban singer and guitarist who rose to global fame in his 90's as the eldest of the elder musical statesmen featured on the album and film ''Buena Vista Social Club,'' died on Sunday at his home in Havana, an official at his record company in Spain said. He was 95.
 Eliot Wald, a comedy writer for television and films, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 57 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was liver cancer, said his wife, Jane Shay Wald. Mr. Wald, whose earlier career included a stint as a television critic and as a rock-music wr
 BUCKINGHAM -- Raymond J.D. Well known singer and vocal pedagogue died at the age of 75 in Holbrook, MD. He is survived by his loving wife Nancy and four children Christopher, Georgia Yambanis, Elizabeth and Peter. Raymond began his career in musical comedy in England, followed by a successf
 CLARK--Robert J., of Holtsville, NY, age 60, on July 12, 2003. Most beloved husband of Georgene for 36 years. Devoted and loving father of Darby Ann Clark and Tracy Lynn Pearl. Loving father-inlaw of Raphael Pearl. Cherished grandfather of Kyle Robert Pearl. Retired from Pfizer Inc., NYC he
 FURTH--Enrique. Born August 4, 1928 in Buenos Aires, Argentina, died suddenly July 11, 2003 at his home in Brooklyn, NY. Survived by his three children, Susan of Bedford, NY, Hugo (Lori) of Manhattan Beach, CA, and Elizabeth of Brooklyn, NY; brother, Tomas, of Buenos Aires, former wife, Ada
 HOCTOR--Danny. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Danny Hoctor, on July 14, 2003. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on Thursday, July 17, at 10 AM, at St. Luke's Church, Franklin 
 NOVACK--Rabbi Julius. Congregation Hope of Israel and its Sisterhood sadly note the passing of our esteemed Rabbi, spiritual leader and mentor. For over 30 years, Rabbi Novack, a brilliant student of the learned Rabbi David Leibowitz, labored tirelessly to maintain the vitality of our daily
 ROSEN--Fred W. Age 85 died at his home in Dalton, GA on July 14, 2003. Retired LCDR US Navy, served as Captain of PT 207 in Motor Torpedo Squadron Ron 15 in the Mediterranean theatre during WW II and was awarded the Purple Heart. Former CEO of Enduro Mills. Son of the late Jennie and Louis 
 SPEARS--Jackson E., 96, of New Canaan, CT, on Monday July 14, 2003. Mr. Spears was survived by his three sons, William G. Spears, Jackson E. Spears, Jr., and Joseph G. Spears, and by nine grandchildren, twelve great-grandchildren and two nephews. A Mass of Christian Burial will be held on W
 SWANK--Charles B. P&F Industries, wish to express our deepest sympathy to Charlotte, Bart Swank and their families on the passing of Charles Swank of Palm Beach, FL. As the endeared and respected President of Florida Pneumatic Manufacturing. Mr. Swank was a fine leader, a dear colleague and
 TEITLER -- Morris. Died peacefully in his home on Sunday, June 13, 2003. Born 1912. Known as ''Morty'', he was a WWII Navy veteran. Morty was a devoted husband to his late wife Fay and loving father of Norman, and Jay and his wife Karla, cherished grandfather of Raquel, Jennifer, Amanda, Jo
 Ralph Emerson Cross, an engineer and manufacturer who helped bring modern automation to the postwar auto industry, died at his home in Grosse Pointe, Mich., on June 26. He was 93. In a career that lasted more than 50 years, he transformed a relatively small family business into one 
 Dr. O. Currier McEwen, a former dean of the New York University School of Medicine who was instrumental in the creation of the N.Y.U. Medical Center, died on June 23 in Harpswell, Me. He was 101 and lived in Harpswell. Dr. McEwen, an expert on rheumatic diseases, was on the school's
 Frederic Bradlee, a New York actor and writer, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 84. A native New Yorker whose original name was Frederick Josiah Bradlee III, Mr. Bradlee attended Harvard and Columbia Universities, but dropped out when he was hired as an un
 BRADLEE--Frederic. July 12, 2003. Brother of Benjamin C. Bradlee, former actor and author. Memorial service Thursday July 17th, 12:00 at Church of The Resurrection, 115 East 74th Street, between Park and Lexington, NYC. Contributions in his memory may be made to The Opera Orchestra of New Y
 DEANS--Mickey, born Michael DeVinko, 68, died July 11 in Cleveland, Ohio after a long illness. Born in Garfield, NJ, he had been a talented pianist/singer in NYC during the 50's and 60's appearing numerous times at the popular nightspot Jilly's on West 52 St. He also worked in Los Angeles, 
 JAROSLOW -- Fred. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System mourns the passing of our esteemed friend and colleague, Fred Jaroslow. A quiet, dedicated, generous professional who made his mark in the business world as the chief operating officer of Weight Watchers International and ch
 McLEMORE--Dr. George A., Jr., 78 of Manhattan died Sunday, July 13, 2003. He was a graduate of Harvard University and practiced medicine for 55 years. He specialized in internal medicine and cardiology. He was an Assistant Clinical Professor of Medicine at Cornell Medical College. He is sur
 MORELL -- Pierre, 61, a professor of biochemistry and a research scientist at the Neuroscience Center of the University of North Carolina in Chapel Hill, died July 15, 2003. He is survived by the adoring members of his loving family, including his wife, Bonnie Jean of Chapel Hill; two child
 SMILEN -- Hyman. Died peacefully on July 13, 2003, 92 years young. Beloved father and sidekick of Francine, (Todd Ensign), Steven, (Ilde), and grandpa of Rachel Ensign. Died as he lived, with determination and dignity. Rest in peace. Donations to: Town and Village Synagogue, 334 East 14th S
 VANECH -- Louis E., 51, passed away on July 11, 2003 after an amazing life. He was born in Wilmington, DE, raised in Jersey City, NJ and lived most of his adult life in Houston, TX where he was Chairman of the Ryan White Planning Council. A celebration of Lou's life will be held at the Gree
 WANG--C.C. The Trustees and staff of China Institute mourn the loss of Trustee Emeritus, longtime friend and benefactor C.C. Wang. C.C. Wang was curator of China Institute's 1970 exhibition, Album Leaves from the Sung and Yuan Dynasties, and his works graced the walls of our Gallery in 1989
 Tex Schramm, an innovative force in pro football who directed the rise of the Dallas Cowboys and was a major figure in bringing about the merger between the rival American and National Football Leagues, died yesterday at his home in Dallas. He was 83. He had been in ill health for s
 John D. Gerhart, a specialist in African agriculture and land use for the Ford Foundation and president of the American University in Cairo until his retirement last year, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 59. The cause was cancer of the appendix, his wife, Gail, said
 ABHYANKAR--Ramesh. On July 7, 2003. He was a valued employee of Delta Airlines for 34 years. He is survived by his brother Jayant Abhyankar and family, nephew Narasimha Rao, and niece Rohini Moholkar and family. >>AD#       
 BRADLEE--Frederic. July 12, 2003. Brother of Benjamin C. Bradlee, former actor and author. Memorial service Thursday July 17th, 12:00 at Church of The Resurrection, 115 East 74th Street, between Park and Lexington, NYC. Contributions in his memory may be made to The Opera Orchestra of New Y
 JACKNIS -- Nathan. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, NY mourns the passing of our beloved member Nathan Jacknis. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Dr. Steven Zeldis, President >>AD#       
 KOFF--Samuel George, on July 1, in Durham, NC. Son of the late Seymour Koff and the late Mildred Koff. Survived by friends and relatives: Marilyn Franks, Richard and Judy Koff, Marjorie and Charles Zuckerman, Stephanie Rubin, Amanda Klarsfeld, Lauren Loeb and Matthew Koff and Aunt Pearl Har
 SMILEN -- Hyman. Died peacefully on July 13, 2003, 92 years young. Beloved father and sidekick of Francine, (Tod Ensign), Steven, (Ilde), and grandpa of Rachel Ensign. Died as he lived, with determination and dignity. Rest in peace. Donations to: Town and Village Synagogue, 334 East 14th St
 WEISS--Stanley S., M.D., The faculty of the NYU Psychoanalytic Institute and the members of the Psychoanaltytic Association of New York mourn the passing of Dr. Stanley Weiss, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Robert Fischel, M.D. Charles Goodstein, M.D. >>AD#
 CHRISTENSON--Dr. William. Of Bronxville NY Died on July 14, 2003. Longtime staff member of New York Hospital and New York Medical College. He is survived by his wife Elizabeth, three daughters and eight grandchildren. >>AD#       
 DEVENDORF--Andres H. Of Sarasota, FL formerly of New York City, died July 4, 2003 after a brief illness. Born December 6, 1926 in Flushing, NY and raised in Lake Success. A beloved and devoted son of the late Adelina S. and George E. Loving brother of the late Corina D. Vermilye, George E. 
 GERHART--John. The Board of the Friends of the David Anderson Africa Trust were deeply saddened to learn of his passing. John's knowledge of Africa and his wise counsel will be greatly missed by his colleagues and friends at the Trust, as will his wonderful sense of humor and his indomitabl
 MAGER--Elliot M., 68, on July 16, 2003, at home in Newton, MA. Beloved husband for 45 years of Susan (Israel) Mager; son of the late Isidor and Minnie Mager; loving brother of Stanley Mager and wife Mynda; wonderful father of Anne Mager and husband Bayard King, Deborah Mager Rickner and hus
 SILVER--Robert J. Passed away at his home in New York City on July 17, 2003 after a long illness. He was 75 years old. A graduate of the Taft School and Yale University, he was a stock specialist and member of the New York Stock Exchange for 53 years. A past president of the Buttonwood Club
 SIMON--Frank Kind, 80, of Lake Worth FL, formerly of Great Neck, NY on July 14. He is survived by his wife Faye, daughter Amy (Howard), and son David (Judy) and grandchildren, Matthew, Katherine, Molly and Henry. >>AD#       
 TUZ--Peter. Of Seymour, CT, died Tuesday, July 15, 2003. Born August 16, 1915, he was a self-employed painting contractor, artist, and a veteran of World War II. Survived by his son Peter Tuz, a daughter Patricia Tuz Weilbaker, a brother William Chernecky, a sister Anne DeMoske, and five gr
 SOLOMON--Doris. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of Doris Solomon, beloved sister of Harry Heller. We extend our deepest condolences to Harry and his family Rabbi David J. Gelfand Rabbi Alon Levkovitz Cantor Debra Stein Donald Zucker, President >>AD#       
 Paul J. Bernal, a Pueblo Indian elder who, as a liaison to the federal government, helped his people recover title to their sacred Blue Lake in the Sangre de Cristo Mountains of northern New Mexico, died on Wednesday in Taos Pueblo. He was 92. Mr. Bernal was a principal in the last 
 Gary MacEoin, a onetime candidate for the priesthood who turned to writing and lecturing about Latin American social conditions and the Roman Catholic Church, died on July 9 in a rehabilitation center in Leesburg, Va., where he had been recuperating from a fall. He was 94 and a resident of 
 Dr. John F. Eisenberg, whose research and writing on animal behavior, genetics and evolution made him one of the world's foremost experts on mammals, died on July 6 at his home in Bellingham, Wash. He was 68. The cause was renal cancer, his associates said. Dr. Eisenberg, wh
 John Vasil Krutilla, an economist who reckoned the dollars and cents of environmental preservation, died on June 27 at his home in McLean, Va. He was 81. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Dr. Krutilla spent most of his professional career, from 1955 to 1988, with R
 ANDROMIDAS -- Steven Christopher. Also known as Chris Andromidas, a composer for film and television whose credits include more than 350 films, died on Friday July 11, 2003 at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, NY. He was 50. Chris was born on March 2, 1953 in Mineola, L.I. and r
 FLAHERTY--Mark Sr. June 12. Prominent hotel executive, noted for his quiet thoughtfulness, sense of fairness and quick wit. Devoted husband, father, grandfather and friend. >>AD#       
 FLEISHER--Robert H. On June 27, 2003, his 84th birthday. Husband of the late Elena. Father of Marc and the late Kristine, grandfather of Jesse and Mika. WWII reporter for ''Stars and Stripes,'' Director of Publicity, 20th Century Fox, Senior Vice President Ruder and Finn, founder of Committ
 HONT--Michael. At age 76, on July 17. Husband to Vera, father to Jeanette and Kathy, father-in-law to Gary and Howie, grandfather to Tommy, Brian, Samantha, Jonathan and Allison. Dear friend to many. Partner in Asiel & Co. for nearly 30 years. Active in countless organizations. Highly respe
 LEWIS--Harold. Outspoken advocate for social justice; scholar, teacher, devoted friend, former Dean of Hunter College School of Social Work, died at home Friday, July 18, 2003. Treasured husband of Celia, father of Amy & Beth, grandfather of Jennifer, Nikki, Daniel and Sam. He will always b
 LILIEN--Herbert, 77, on June 28, 2003 at home. A fixture for sixty years in the Greenwich Village/Soho area as the proprietor of Lilien Hardware, he was affectionately known as the ''Mayor of Greenwich Village.'' A devoted husband to wife Shirley for 54 years and loving father to daughter C
 SCHWARTZ--Dr. Mark S. On July 18, 2003, at age 47. Beloved son of Howard and Frances. Loving brother of Eric. Devoted nephew of Iris Legum, Elihu and Shirley Sachs. Always caring for his patients and respected by them. Services on Sunday, from ''Boulevard-Riverside Chapels,'' 1450 Broadway,
 SEID--Richard Albert, 66, a New York lawyer and columnist, died in his home in Mexico City on Tuesday, June 24, 2003, of cancer. A graduate of Choate (1954), Brown University (1958), and Columbia Law School (1966), Richard Seid moved to Mexico in 1972 following his marriage to Maria Victori
 SILVER--Robert J. Passed away at his home in New York City on July 17, 2003 after a long illness. He was 75 years old. A graduate of the Taft School and Yale University, he was a stock specialist and member of the New York Stock Exchange for 53 years. A past president of the Buttonwood Club
 TRIMBOLI--Steven R., 84, Pearl Harbor Survivor, died peacefuly on July 17, 2003. Loving husband of Erika. Beloved father of Linda and Carol, grandfather of Erica, brother of Bill and friend to countless people who will miss him dearly. Elmhurst Community Leader and member of many civic asso
 WEISBART--Wilbur, on July 17, 2003. A veteran of World War II. Loving husband of Mildred (nee Schiff). He is also survived by his beloved brother Harmon Weisbart and his wife Ina. Loved and respected uncle of Janet Weisbart, Steven Weisbart, Joanne Wohlfeld, Danny Wohlfeld and Jay Wohlfeld.
 BLUESTONE--Dr. Peter A. On July 19, after a courageous battle with pancreatic cancer. Beloved brother of Joanna. Devoted son of the late Dr. and Mrs. Aaron Bluestone. He was loved and respected by numerous relatives, friends, patients and colleagues. He devoted his life to the care of those
 BUTOWSKY--David M. On July 19, 2003. Former Chief Enforcement Attorney of the Division of Investment Management of the SEC; Founding partner of Gordon, Altman, Butowsky, Weitzen, Shalov & Wein; Partner at Mayer,Brown,Rowe & Maw LLP. Beloved husband of Fredda. Devoted father of Michael Butow
 HONT--Michael. The members of the Hungarian Feszek Klub mourn with deep sadness the passing of their Managing Director. Mr. Hont was a founding member of the club and his contributions, financial and cultural, helped sustain the Feszek Klub and fulfill its artistic and cultural mission. He 
 SEIDENMAN--Ludwik. Age 96, on July 19, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Ida Sophie, distinguished lawyer and humanitarian, dear friend and uncle. A member of the bar in pre-war Warsaw, diplomat with the Polish government-in-exile during World War II, lawyer in New York for 41 years, during
 SHAPIRO--Alvin. 76 years old. Died on July 19, 2003. Beloved husband of Helen (Rosenberg). Adoring Daddy of Steven, Debbi Honorof and Dr. Matthew (Alison). Cherished Poppy of Marshall, Lindsay, Aaron and Alex. Dearest brother of Pearl and Sylvia. Services Monday, 12 noon, at Riverside-Nassa
 SILVER--Robert J. Passed away at his home in New York City on July 17, 2003 after a long illness. He was 75 years old. A graduate of the Taft School and Yale University, he was a stock specialist and member of the New York Stock Exchange for 53 years. A past president of the Buttonwood Club
 STEIGER--Sol. 84, on July 18, 2003. Beloved and devoted father of Chava and Richard. Proud mailer at The New York Times. Grieved the death of his wife Ethel in 2002. He will be missed by family and friends, and will always be remembered fondly. >>AD#       
 TOPPING--Henry J. III. ''Tony,'' age 61, died peacefully on July 15. He served in the United States Navy. He was loved by many and is survived by his two children, Henry J. Topping IV and Samantha S. Topping, his sister Sandra and two nieces. He will be greatly missed but never forgotten. P
 William R. Smith, whose company made the Snapper brand of self-propelled lawn mowers, died on June 28 at Henry Medical Center in Stockbridge, Ga. He was 90 and lived in McDonough, Ga. Mr. Smith was president and chief executive of the company, originally called McDonough Power Equip
 Harold Lewis, a longtime dean of the Hunter College School of Social Work who helped it gain national recognition, died on Friday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 83. As the second dean of the School of Social Work at Hunter, Dr. Lewis led it from 1970 to 1990
 Mel Wong, a dancer, choreographer and visual artist, died on Thursday after collapsing at a swimming pool in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 64 and lived in Santa Cruz. The apparent cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Connie Kreemer. Mr. Wong performed with the Merce Cunningh
 BLUMENFELD--Eli, of Tampa, FL (formerly of New York City), on July 20, 2003. Dear brother of Geraldine Rosen. He was a philanthropist for Jewish causes and a successful entrepreneur. We will miss him dearly. Your loving sister, Geraldine; your niece, Barrie Rosen; your nephew, Alan Rosen an
 COHEN--Ellis ''Buddy''. Died peacefully at home July 19, 2003 surrounded by his beloved wife of 64 years, Marie; devoted daughter Sheila and son Norman Bykofsky, loving son Gerry and daughter Gail; grandchildren Richard Wasserman, Sherryl and Jim Hegge, Bambi Elayne Cohen, Lisa and David Co
 HOROWITZ--Dr. Martin. Died reluctantly on July 20. Loving and loved husband of Naomi. Beloved father of Lisa Horowitz, Dr. Laurie Horowitz and Dr. Michael Horowitz. Fond father-in-law of Richard Wexell, Dr. Howard Corwin and Susan Horowitz. Adoring grandfather of Nina and Charles Wexell, Ma
 LANGERMAN--Richard, in Boston, MA, July 18, 2003. Prominent Boston attorney. Survived by Tina Browne. Loving father of daughter Toni Langerman and husband, Steve Krausman of Arlington, MA; and son, Scott Langerman and wife, Vicki of Bethesda, MD. Also survived by his sister Barbara Langerma
 LEVINE--Marvin. Attorney, LTC-JAG (retired). Survived by his sister, Betty, extended family, and many friends. Shiva will not be observed. Services Wednesday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. LEVINE--Marvin. My beloved companion and dearest friend. He 
 LEWIS--Harold. The Hunter College Community notes with sorrow the passing of our former Dean, who headed the School of Social Work from 1970 to 1990. Dean Lewis took a fledgling institution and, through his inspired leadership and creative vision, helped it grow into an outstanding urban pu
 NEWMAN--J. Wilson, former Chief Executive Officer of the Dun & Bradstreet Corporation for sixteen years and Chairman of the Finance Committee for twelve years, died in Charlottesville, Virginia on Tuesday, July 8. Mr. Newman resided in Short Hills, New Jersey, Delray Beach, Florida, and Cha
 OXFELD--Emil. As a civil libertarian and labor lawyer he worked on many precedent making cases and causes, which involved such issues as loyalty oaths, prayer in the schools, unconstitutional excesses of Congressional committees, McCarthyism, discharge of employees for exercising constituti
 ROTHMAN--Edward M. His sense of humor, love of life, family and wife Marcy meant everything to him. He was a very special friend of sixty years. We will miss him. Iris and Whitey >>AD#       
 SASSOON--Salim Simon, 93 years, devoted husband to Violet, beloved father to Eva, Vera, and Robert. Patriarch to an entire generation. Although he will be sorely missed, his presence will always endure. Services on Tuesday Westchester Jewish Center at 10 A.M. >>AD#       
 SEIDENMAN--Ludwik. Age 96, on July 19, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Ida Sophie, distinguished lawyer and humanitarian, dear friend and uncle. A member of the bar in pre-war Warsaw, diplomat with the Polish government-in-exile during World War II, lawyer in New York for 41 years, during
 TUCKER--John Lathrop, on July 19, 2003. Survived by his wife, LLynne and daughters, Sarah and Katie. Memorial service at Church of the Heavenly Rest, 5th Ave. and 90th St., on August 9th, 11 AM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to Church of the Heavenly Rest. >>AD#       
 WELLMAN--Henry, died July 19th, 2003, at age 94. Beloved husband of Fromma. Dear father of Elisabeth Vazquez (Albert) and the late Zachary (Celia). Devoted grandfather of Jennifer Golden (David), Eric Wellman, Sarah Helmbrecht and Rebecca Wellman; great-grandfather of Michelle and Elena Gol
 Charles F. Myers Jr., a former chairman and chief executive of Burlington Industries, died on Sunday at Wellspring Retirement Center in Greensboro, N.C. He was 92. Mr. Myers began a 27-year career with Burlington, the textile manufacturer, in 1947 as head of its financial services d
 Elliot Norton, a theater critic in Boston for nearly 50 years whose reviews of Broadway-bound shows on tryout runs were carefully read by New York producers, died on Sunday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where he had lived since November. He was 100 and had been a longtime resident of Watertown,
 Nicolas Freeling, the British detective novelist whose popular Inspector Van der Valk and later Detective Henri Castang unmasked crime in modern Europe, died on Sunday in France, the London press reported. He was 76 and lived in Schirmeck, a village in Alsace. Mr. Freeling produced 
 AUBURN--Dr. Norman, July 21st. President of the University of Akron for 20 years, during which time he came to know industrialist Herman Muehlstein. The Foundation notes with sorrow the loss of its esteemed president and offers condolences to the family. Lawrence Buttenwieser, Sanford Solen
 BAKER--William, he was the owner of Chicago Maintenance Corporation, died at 87 on July 17, 2003. He is survived by his wife Dina, his daughters Ellen Baker, Mrs. Sharon Slotnick, and his four grandchildren. >>AD#       
 BLUESTONE--Dr. Peter A. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family is saddened by the passing of our devoted colleague, who gave many years of service to Beth Israel and its patients, particularly in the Singer Division, as a member of our Nephrology staff. We extend our deepest sympathy 
 DUNNE--Bro. James P., S.J., On July 14, 2003 in Manila, Philippines. Missionary for the past 37 years in San Pablo and Manila, Philippines. Survived by his loving brothers Richard and his wife Sarvia and Robert & his wife Cecilia. Also survived by three nephews. Mass and burial were held in
 GOLDWATER--James L., 91, Of NYC and Briarcliff Manor, NY, died July 21 at Mount Sinai Hospital. Born in the Bronx, he was the son of the late Monroe and Lea (Prinstein) Goldwater. He is survived by his wife of 67 years, Carol K. and four children: son Alan and daughters Joan, Anne G. Landis
 HONT--Michael. The TwentyFive Year Club of Asiel & Co. LLC mourns the passing on July 17, 2003 of our long-time friend, Member and former General Partner whose loyalty and dedication is reflected in his long association with the Firm. We express our condolences to his family and friends. >>
 HOROWITZ -- Martin. The Board of Governors and the Members of the Seawane Club, record with sorrow the loss of our past President Martin Horowitz. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. Ted Markson, President HOROWITZ--Dr. Martin. Our smart, fun-loving and nifty friend. Tuesday
 LEVINE--Marvin. Attorney, LTC-JAG (retired). Survived by his sister, Betty, extended family, and many friends. Shiva will not be observed. Services Wednesday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. >>AD#       
 LEWIS--Harold. The Board of the Lois and Samuel Silberman Fund is deeply saddened by the passing of Dr. Harold Lewis. We were privileged to have been the beneficiaries of his insight, creativity and wit for more than 30 years. Dr. Lewis was a dynamic force in the development of professional
 OXFELD--Emil. As a civil libertarian and labor lawyer he worked on many precedent making cases and causes, which involved such issues as loyalty oaths, prayer in the schools, unconstitutional excesses of Congressional committees, McCarthyism, discharge of employees for exercising constituti
 ROTHMAN--Edward M. Poppy will be missed by all of us, but most especially by his five loving grandchildren, Alissa, Meredith, Rachel, Stephanie, and Matt, who all adored him. Howard, Jeanette, and Judy Schapiro ROTHMAN--Edward M. Successful, he lived the American Dream but loved his
 SCULLY--Thomas J., (Mt. Keeffe, Ireland), on July 21, 2003 of Pearl River, New York. Retired paper handler for The New York Times retiring in 2001. Prior member of Local 18A. Played Gaelic Hurling For the NY Cork Team from 1958-1960. Survived by daughters Margaret of Harriman, NY, Patricia 
 SUGARMAN--Marvin Henry. Having lived here since May 20, 1916, left on July 20, 2003, and so bids a fond farewell to his friends and relatives. To those who loved: a hug and a farewell kiss. Cremation having taken place, there will be no further service. Aloha, shalom, sayonora, farewell. >>
 WEISSMAN--Gene. On July 19th, 2003. Beloved son of Herbert and Marianne Weissman. Cherished step-son of Martha L. Weissman. Loving brother of Ashleigh N. Weissman. Cherished nephew of Lee Marks, Gordon and Martha Gutmann. Cousin of Joe Paul Gutmann, and Mimi Murray. He was a Specialist Cler
 AUBURN--Norman P. President Emeritus of The University of Akron, died July 21, 2003 in Akron after a short illness. He was 98. In New York, Dr. Auburn served as Acting President for the Council for Financial Aid to Education, Acting President of Brooklyn (now New York) Polytechnic Institute
 CRAVEN--Clarence Leo ''Honey'', 98, formerly of Curry Cross Road, Madison, CT and Boynton Beach, FL, husband of the late Eileen (Griffin) Craven, passed away on Tuesday, July 22nd at Fowler Nursing Center in Guilford. Born on September 10, 1904 in Brookline, MA, he was the son of the late J
 FEILICH--Al. With deep sorrow, we regret the passing of our friend, colleague and past president, Al Feilich. He will be greatly missed. Songwriters Hall of Fame, Officers, Board, and staff >>AD#       
 GARSON--Milton. Dearly beloved husband and best friend of Frances M. (Frank), devoted father of the late Geoffrey. Very dear grandfather of Lisa B. Garson. Services will be held on Thursday July 24, 2003 at 1:30 P.M. at Riversville Cemetery, Glenville, CT. GARSON--Milton. The Office
 GOLDWATER -- James L. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of James L. Goldwater, a cherished friend, and son of the late Monroe Goldwater, a past president of United Jewish Appeal. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Carol, a
 GUSHEE--Philip, died July 22, of cancer at home in Manhattan. Husband of Cheryl, loving father of Eric, brother of Susan O'Malley, Cynthia Scott and Anne Arsenault, and beloved acting teacher of many, he will be missed. >>AD#       
 KJELDSEN--Norman, 87, of Brightwaters, NY, died July 22 after a short illness. Mr. Kjeldsen is survived by his wife of 61 years, Anne Marie Noone (Nana), and four children: Mary Lou Cohalan of Bayport, NY; Susan Roos of Brooklyn Heights, NY; Robert P. Kjeldsen of Babylon, NY and David C. Kj
 MICHAELS--Melvin ''Mel'', on July 23rd, 2003. Loving husband of Helen. Caring father of Nicki Dewar (Nicholas), Craig (Susan), and Ian. Adoring grandfather of Noah, Alana, and Esther Michaels. Devoted brother of Miriam and Sidney Michael, and Frances Randall. A veteran of World War II, Mel 
 SCHWARTZ -- Simon. The United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism mourns the passing of Simon Schwartz, International President of the United Synagogue from 1977-1981. During his many years of dedicated service to our organization, he demonstrated a firm commitment to Jewish education and to 
 WALDINGER -- Professor Hermann V. Born Vienna, June 17, 1923. Died July 23, 2003 of complications from Parkinson's Disease. Mathematician, retired from Polytechnic University. Beloved husband of Renee. Cherished father of Roger and Ellen, father-in-law of Hilary and Francia. Devoted grandfa
 Norman Lewis, a British travel writer of the old school, who described the world he saw before the proliferation of Club Med and McDonald's, died on Tuesday in Saffron Walden, Essex, England. He was 95. Mr. Lewis was also a novelist of distinction. As a professional literary travele
 DARROW--Thomas E. On July 23, 2003. Husband of Shannon. Father of Betsy Darrow-Haggard, Susan Mullarkey, Amy O'Neill and David Weisberg. Cherished grandfather of Alexander, Britney, Craig, Peter, Brendan, David and Michael. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may
 DAVIS--James E. Heart of Brooklyn and its members mourn the loss of our esteemed Councilman, a stalwart supporter of arts and culture in central Brooklyn and beyond. His steadfast belief in a better quality of life for his constituents was an inspiration to all who knew him. Ellen F. Salpet
 FULD--The Honorable Stanley. The Jewish Theological Seminary community mourns the death of Judge Stanley Fuld, a distinguished jurist and an unstinting supporter of JTS for more than 4 decades. His dedication to JTS was reflected in his long service on our Board, including his tenure as Hon
 LEMOINE--Very Rev. Harold F. died July 7, 2003. Survived by his nephew, Frank Lemoine of Laurel, MD. Dean Emeritus of The Cathedral of the Incarnation, Garden City, New York from November 1, 1942 to January 31, 1957. A memorial service will be held at The Cathedral of the Incarnation (to be
 MICHAELS--Melvin ''Mel'', on July 23rd, 2003. Loving husband of Helen. Caring father of Nicki Dewar (Nicholas), Craig (Susan), and Ian. Adoring grandfather of Noah, Alana, and Esther Michaels. Devoted brother of Miriam and Sidney Michael, and Frances Randall. A veteran of World War II, Mel 
 PARISE--James. The SUNY Downstate Medical Center community mourns the passing of James P. Parise, Assistant Vice President for Physical Facilities. Jim worked at Downstate, the campus he loved, for over thirty years, and was among its biggest supporters. Our prayers and thoughts are with hi
 RABINOR--George, of Boca Raton, FL and formerly of Long Island, NY. He passed away peacefully at the age of 91 on July 22, 2003. Beloved husband of Terry Rabinor. Devoted father of Judith C. Kirschner, Arnold J. Rabinor, and Joan E. Rabinor, and devoted stepfather of Jennifer A. Serito. He 
 SCHWARTZ -- Simon. The American Zionist Movement expresses its deep sorrow on the passing of Simon Schwartz, past president of the American Zionist Federation, our predecessor organization. Our condolences to his wife, Ruth, and his entire family. W. James Schiller, Pres. Karen Rubinstein, 
 WALL--F. William (Bill), died on July 22nd, 2003 of complications resulting from cancer surgery. Mr. Wall was born on December 30th, 1919 and is survived by his beloved wife of 57 years, Mary, and three devoted children, Linda (John) Schieffelin of Jamestown, RI, William (Sarah) of Maui, HI
 Stanley H. Fuld, who was known for his concern for civil liberties during the 27 years he served on New York State's highest court, 6 of them as chief judge, died on Tuesday at his home in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 99. In hearing more than 13,000 cases and writing more than 800 o
 Gerald Stanley Hawkins, a British-born astronomer who theorized that the Stonehenge megaliths on Salisbury Plain were a Stone Age astronomical computer of sorts, died on May 26 at his farm in Rappahannock County, Va. He was 75 and also had a home in Washington. The cause was a heart
 Honey Craven, the longtime manager and ringmaster of the National Horse Show in Madison Square Garden, the Devon Horse Show in Pennsylvania and almost every other major horse show in the United States, died Tuesday in a nursing home in Guilford, Conn. He was 98. Mr. Craven had been 
 John Schlesinger, the Academy-Award-winning director of ''Midnight Cowboy'' whose other films -- including ''Billy Liar,'' ''Sunday, Bloody Sunday'' and ''Darling'' -- often captured the plight of individuals grasping for life support in contemporary society, died yesterday in Palm Springs,
 DAVIS--James E. The Board and staff of the Alliance of Resident Theatres/New York offer our deepest condolences to the family and friends of Councilmember James Davis. He was a frequent visitor to South Oxford Space and his dazzling smile, magnetic personality and passionate commitment to h
 DiGIACOMO--William A. New York City resident, world renowned engineer, on July 22, 2003 at age 75. President of William A. DiGiacomo & Associates, his works include Trump Tower, Lighting Tower of the Chrysler Building, the Olympic Tower on 5th Ave, as well as the lighting & restoration of t
 DULMAN -- Howard. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member Howard Dulman. Our hearfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, Dorothy, and his entire family. James Speiser, President Monty Davis, Secretary >>AD#       
 MICHAELS--Melvin. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed member Friar Melvin Michaels on July 23, 2003. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Directo
 WALLACE--Edward (Teddy) MacIntosh, age two, son of Michael E. and Amity E. Wallace of Darien, CT died Wednesday, July 23, 2003, at his home in Darien, CT. He was born on December 9, 2000, in Greenwich, CT. In addition to his parents, he is survived by two sisters, Meredith G. Wallace and El
 Harold C. Schonberg, the ubiquitous and authoritative chief music critic of The New York Times from 1960 to 1980, whose reviews and essays influenced and chronicled vast changes in the world of opera and classical music, died yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and live
 Dr. Kurt Semm, whose pioneering techniques in minimally invasive surgery were initially ridiculed but led to innovations in many types of operations, died on July 16 at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 76. The cause was complications of a form of Parkinson's disease, his family said
 Nadav Safran, a professor of government at Harvard and an expert in Middle Eastern politics whose background as a Jew born in Cairo gave him an unusually wide perspective on a volatile region, died on July 5 in State College, Pa. He was 77. The cause was cancer, his daughter Abigail
 CATENARO--Armand A. On July 18, 2003, of Bronxville, NY, age 93. He attended the National Academy of Art and Design and Leonardo da Vinci School of Art. A WPA muralist, he taught at the University of Mines, Butte, Montana. As an artist, a master scenic artist and designer, he was a distingu
 CHAVES-PAZ--Horacio (1939-2003). In memory of our colleague and friend. A valued member of the Bloomberg team. He will be remembered warmly. Bloomberg >>AD#       
 DAVIS--James E. The Board of Directors and staff of the Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation express our deepest sympathy to the family of Council Member James E. Davis. He was a beacon of light in our community and will be missed by us all. Alan H. Fishman, Chairman Eric J. Deutsch, 
 DULMAN--Howard. 75, of Katonah, NY, on July 25, 2003. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Devoted father of David and his wife Laura, Abby and her husband Barry and Melissa and her husband Troy. Loving grandfather of Aaron, Rebecca, Annie, Michael, Spencer, Julie and Claudia. Services will be today
 FIELDS--Herbert. On July 24, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Bereneice. Devoted father of Stephanie and Pamela and father-in-law of Rick. Loving grandfather of Juliana. Dear brother of Paul and Shirley. Service Sunday, 11:15 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. His 
 FULD--Judge Stanley H. Kaye Scholer LLP mourns the loss of the Hon. Judge Stanley H. Fuld, who passed away on July 22, 2003 at the age of 99. Judge Fuld was associate judge of the New York Court of Appeals from 1946 until 1966, and Chief Judge of that court from 1967 through 1973. For some 
 HALPERN--David. We have lost a dear close friend and business associate. His wisdom and dedication continued a family legacy. We will miss him. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. The Diamond and Gordon Families >>AD#       
 HARRIS--Jack. Age 71. Born in London, England. Died July 25, 2003 in Stamford, CT. Jack was a veteran of the U.S. Army and the British Merchant Marines. Beloved father of Mark, Gregory and Alison. Brother of Audrey and Maureen, grandfather of seven. He was larger than life, with a heart to 
 HESTER--R. David, on July 17, 2003 at age 49. David is survived by his brothers Stephen A. and Michael W. and several nephews. David will be missed dearly by his close friends and countless people in the jewelry industry. He is predeceased by his father, Thomas Hester, his mother, Anita (Se
 KAUFMAN--Jerome. Longtime resident of Larchmont, died at his home in Ossining on July 24, 2003 at the age of 90. He is survived by his loving daughter Ronne and granddaughter Lauren of Chappaqua, NY. He was predeceased by his wife Dorothy and children Lynn and Richard. Funeral service was h
 KELMAN -- David Joseph. Passed away in California. Son of Dr. Charles Kelman and Joan Kelman Bernstein. Brother of Lesley Koeppel and Jennifer Kelman. He was dearly loved by all of us. Services Monday, 11:30 AM, at New Montefiore Cemetery, Pinelawn, NY; 631-249-7000. >>AD#       
 LERNER--Charles, a decorated World War II Army veteran and longtime Cooper City, FL. resident, died June 23. He was 91. ''He was very patriotic,'' said his wife of 68 years, Wilma Lerner. He was drafted into the service in 1943, leaving behind his wife and newborn daughter Judith. He served
 LORBER--Dr. Jerome W. Of Lake Worth, FL. Husband of the late Ruth Lorber, peacefully passed away on July 24 at the age of 89. In addition to being a dentist, Jerry was most widely known as the owner and director of CAMP RANGER, which was founded by his father in 1926. Throughout his long li
 NELSON--Trevor. 34, died suddenly of complications from viral meningitis on July 24. A summa cum laude graduate of U.C. Berkeley, Trevor was a producer at ''60 Minutes,'' champion skier, runner and overall sports enthusiast. He seized every waking moment of his life with an exuberance that 
 PRYCE--Maurice Henry Lecorney, FRS. Born Croydon, England on January 24, 1913. Died peacefully in Vancouver, Canada on July 24, 2003 after a long illness bravely borne. Emeritus Professor of physics at the University of British Columbia, Canada, and Fellow of the Royal Society since 1951. H
 SCHER--Dr. Irwin M. 69, of Upper Saddle River, NJ, and Spring Valley, NY, died peacefully on July 26, 2003, after a long illness. He is survived by his wife, Cordelia, his children Steven, Robert, Douglas, Christine and Diane, and eight grandchildren. Dr. Scher was an obstetrician and gynec
 SCHONBERG--Harold C. On July 26, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Helene. Loving brother of Edith Filosa and the late Stanley Schonberg and brother-in-law of Margretha Schonberg. Dear uncle of Richard Schonberg, Barbara Schonberg and Wendy Dominguez. He will be deeply missed by his devoted
 SCHWARTZ -- William. Age 87, retired aerospace engineer, Of Sunnyvale, CA., died Thursday, July 10, 2003, after a short illness. Son of Joseph and Mary Schwartz, Bill was born in Manhattan and graduated from Erasmus Hall High School and New York University, Class of 1938, with a B.S. in Eng
 SHEPLEY--John R. A leading translator from Italian to English and writer published in numerous scholarly and literary magazines, died on May 31, 2003. He was 78 years old. Cause of death was cancer of the bladder. Mr. Shepley was a graduate from Harvard in 1946. He lived in Florence, Italy,
 SLAVIN--Leon. 88, passed away July 21, 2003. Beloved brother of Morris and the late Bessie, he will be sorely missed by their children and grandchildren -- Jeannie, Steve, Paul, Arlene, Jen, Leslie, Michael--and his many friends for his sweet gentle nature, his innumerable acts of kindness 
 SOBOL--Bruce P. On July 21, 2003. Owner of Caviarteria, died at home. Survived by his beloved wife Lydia, his daughter Lucy and mother Ruth. A celebration of his life will be held on Tuesday, July 29, 6 PM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Contributions in his memor
 TOPOL--Milton. On July 24, 2003. Husband of Jean Topol and the late Roslyn Topol. Father of Peter Topol and Robert Topol and the late Michael Topol. Grandfather of Lance Topol and greatgrandfather of Victoria Topol. He will be greatly missed. >>AD#       
 Trevor Nelson, a producer for ''60 Minutes,'' died on Thursday in Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 34 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from meningitis, CBS said in a statement. Mr. Nelson produced reports for the correspondent Steve Kroft o
 Norman C. Rasmussen, a former professor of nuclear engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who pioneered a technique for measuring risk at nuclear power plants, died on July 18 at a nursing home in Concord, Mass. He was 75. The cause was complications from Parkinson
 J. Wilson Newman, a former chairman and chief executive of Dun & Bradstreet, died on July 8 at the Morningside assisted-living center at University Village in Charlottesville, Va. He was 93. Mr. Newman joined the R. G. Dun Company as a credit reporter in 1931. Dun merged with its ma
 James P. Shenton, a Columbia University history professor who combined serious scholarship with a gregarious command of lecture halls, television and other public forums, died on Friday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Paterson, N.J., a hospital spokeswoman said yesterday. He was 78. A v
 DAVIS--James E. The Brooklyn Arts Council mourns the passing of Councilman James E. Davis, a friend and supporter of the arts in Brooklyn. When there was singing, he always sang; when there was dancing, he danced. He will be sorely missed. The Board and Staff of Brooklyn Arts Council (BAC) 
 FERENCZ--Michael. Passed away peacefully in his home on Saturday, July 26. He is survived by his wife Joan, children Dr. Gerald Ferencz and Karen Ferencz, grandchildren Jesse, Nikki, Kendl and Alex; his nephew Dr. Jonathan Ferencz and wife Maxine and their children Julieann and Benjamin. Mi
 GILLETTE--William S. Died at Hilton Head, South Carolina on July 26, 2003, at the age of 46 after a long illness. Bill is survived by his parents Richard and Marion Gillette of Southampton, NY, and West Palm Beach, Florida. Also by his brother Richard C. Gillette of Hilton Head, his sister 
 KRIGER--Malcolm D. Died July 22, 2003, in his NYC residence after a long illness. Memorial to be announced. >>AD#       
 MAGILL--Gordon B., M.D. 81, on July 25, 2003. Devoted husband of Narda (nee Alarcon) and his former wife Jane West Magill-Reddy. Beloved father of Lucille Anne (Lucanne) Magill, Pamela Magill Stackhouse, Deborah Elizabeth Magill and Barbara Magill Wood. Loving grandfather of Angelica, Nicol
 MATTES--Joseph Edward. We deeply mourn the passing of the Paul Rapoport Foundation's Founding Board President and Director, Joseph Edward Mattes. Jed's nurturing and thoughtful leadership in our formative years was invaluable and will continue to be reflected in the Foundation's essence for
 NELSON--Trevor. 34, died suddenly of complications from viral meningitis on July 24. A summa cum laude graduate of U.C. Berkeley, Trevor was a producer at ''60 Minutes,'' champion skier, runner and overall sports enthusiast. He seized every waking moment of his life with an exuberance that 
 SCHER--Dr. Irwin M. 69, of Upper Saddle River, NJ, and Spring Valley, NY, died peacefully on July 26, 2003, after a long illness. He is survived by his wife, Cordelia, his children Steven, Robert, Douglas, Christine and Diane, and eight grandchildren. Dr. Scher was an obstetrician and gynec
 Bob Hope, whose mastery of the comic monologue and the topical wisecrack carried him from vaudeville to Broadway musicals and then on to worldwide fame as a radio, film and television star of the first magnitude, died on Sunday at his home in Toluca Lake, Calif. He was 100.       
 Bob Hope, whose mastery of the comic monologue and the topical wisecrack carried him from vaudeville to Broadway musicals and then on to worldwide fame as a radio, film and television star of the first magnitude, died on Sunday at his home in Toluca Lake, Calif. He was 100. Road to 
 BENNETT -- Harold. The American Bible Society mourns the passing of the Rev. Dr. Harold C. Bennett, Vice Chairman of the American Bible Society Board of Trustees. He served on the Board since 1980. Dr. Bennett had a long and illustrious ministry with the Southern Baptist Convention includin
 BRADFORD--William John, Jr., a lifelong resident of Northport and Centerport, NY. Northport H.S. Class of 1941. Graduate of Brown University and the USMMA, Kings Point. Retired commander U.S. Navy, veteran WWII and Korea. Retired V.P. Chubb Insurance Co. Founding member of the Centerport Ya
 DAVIS--James E. The BAM Local Development Corporation mourns the loss of Councilman James E. Davis. He was devoted to improving the lives of his constituents and worked tirelessly to ensure that on all issues ''everyone had a seat at the table.'' We celebrate his passion and positive and in
 DENYEAU--Joseph, 55, of Ridgewood formerly of Staten Island, NY. Beloved Husband of 27 years to Anne (Nee Raftery), Loving Father of Joanne, Brian, and Bill. Also survived by 17 nieces and nephews, and many Great Nieces and Nephews. Predeceased by his parents Joseph and Virginia, also prede
 DESSAINT--Fabrice passed away on July 24th, 2003, in NYC, at age 40. He is survived by his three children Barthelemy, Clara, Edouard, and his wife Anne from NY, his father Michel Dessaint and his brother Jean-Francois Dessaint from Paris, France. Funeral will take place in Paris, at the Cim
 FULD--Stanley H. Yeshiva University and its Benjamin N. Cardozo School of Law (CSL), mourn the passing of the Honorable Stanley H. Fuld, a founding director and Fellow of Cardozo and honorary board member. A respected jurist and civil rights advocate, Judge Fuld served on New York State's h
 GREEFF--Edward R., 93, of Mill Neck, NY, died peacefully at home on July 26 following a year-long heart illness. Survived by his wife of 62 years, Elizabeth D. Greeff, three stepchildren, Margaret G. Stanton of Quogue, NY, Elizabeth G. Donohue of Pittsburgh, PA and Clinton Gilbert, Jr. of V
 HOPE--Bob. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved member, Bob Hope. He helped us preserve the rich, theatrical roots of The Friars Club and his name belongs among the legendary and immortal Friars like Jack Benny, George Burns,
 KUR--Sam. Of Springfield, NJ. Loving husband of Leone. Cherished father of Alan, Larry and Barbara Berger. Dear brother of Molly Russ. Loving grandfather of six. A treasure to all who knew him. Services Bernheim Apter Kreitzman Suburban Funeral Chapel, 68 Old Short Hills Rd., Livingston NJ,
 LAVORI--William P. June 28th, 1921 to July 28th, 2003 in Yarmouthport, MA. Beloved husband of Mary E. Lavori. Father of Philip, Nora, Joseph and Angela Lavori, and Judith L. Keiser. Grandfather of Liana and Alex Sterling, William Keiser, Mary Marudas, and Daniel and Cathryn Lavori. Brother 
 MATTES--Jed. The clients and colleagues of Jed Mattes mourn his death and extend our love and condolences to his family and many friends. We will remember him for his humor, courage, generosity and strength of character. Memorial donations in his honor will be welcomed at the Hetrick-Martin
 NELSON--Trevor. 34, died suddenly of complications from viral meningitis on July 24. A summa cum laude graduate of U.C. Berkeley, Trevor was a producer at ''60 Minutes,'' champion skier, runner and overall sports enthusiast. He seized every waking moment of his life with an exuberance that 
 SCHATTON--Norman P., on July 27th, 2003, of Ft. Lee, NJ. Beloved father of Jane Kleiman and Lynn Gartenberg. Cherished grandfather of Carrie, Stefani and Rebecca. Longtime dear friend of Elaine Berger. He was a WWII veteran, a graduate of Brooklyn Law School, a Senior Vice President of Alex
 SHEEHAN--Cornelius. At age 54 on July 26, 2003. Beloved son of the late Mary (Betty) and Philip. He died after a courageous two year struggle with cancer. A New York City firefighter for 25 years, Engine #       
 SHENTON--James. The Coby Foundation, Ltd., mourns the passing of James Shenton on July 25. Appointed to the Foundation's Board of Directors by its founder, the late Irene Zambelli Silverman, and at his death serving as co-Chair of the Foundation, Professor Shenton provided wise leadership d
 SUNDE--ROB. Journalist April 30, 1937-July 1, 2003 A Celebration of his life will be held on Friday, August 1st at the National Arts Club, 15 Gramercy Park So, at 2 PM. >>AD#       
 There was nothing Bob Hope loved more than an audience, and audiences responded in kind, particularly soldiers facing combat who desperately needed a laugh. He once chartered a yacht for a cruise in Canadian waters. It was one of the few formal vacations he ever took, and he found he could 
 Vance Hartke, a three-term Democratic senator from Indiana best known for his criticism of the American involvement in the wars in Southeast Asia, died on Sunday in Fairfax, Va. He was 84 and lived in Falls Church, Va. The apparent cause was a heart attack, said his family, who said
 BLUMBERG--Edward J., 95, on July 28th, 2003. Beloved husband for 69 years of Carolyn, devoted father of Nancy and Bob. Loving grandfather of Lori, Todd, Gary, Julie and Karen. President and Chairman for many years of Blumberg Law Products, established in 1887 by his father, Julius. Our live
 GELLER--Morton J., Dr., of Kings Point, L.I., retired pediatrician, passed away on July 28, 2003 at the age of 86. He enjoyed fifty years of practice as a pediatrician in Flushing, New York. Dr. Geller is survived by his loving wife, Ruth, sister, Thelma Weinberg, daughters, Jill Lenchner a
 HOPE--Bob. The Officers and Board of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City note with deep sorrow the passing of our longtime friend and supporter, Bob Hope. We extend our sincere sympathy to his wife Dolores, and his entire family. Leo Hausman, Chairman, UCP of NYC, Inc. >>AD#       
 KING--Herbert Lewis. On July 22, 2003 at age 85. Husband of Lisbeth, father of Justin Andrew Burns King, he died peacefully at home in Wilton, Conn. A former copywriter and account executive at J. Walter Thompson, he and his wife owned King R.E. in Wilton for 38 years. He was also a writer 
 KURTZ--Irving, 94. Husband of Dora; father of Marcia and Judy; grandfather of Aaron and Elena; father-in-law of Sidney. Uncle, brother and brother-in-law of the Kurtz/ Rosenstein clan. He did publicity for the WPA and worked as an advertising executive for Metromedia and Winston Network, re
 MATTES--Jed. The clients and colleagues of Jed Mattes mourn his death and extend our love and condolences to his family and many friends. We will remember him for his humor, courage, generosity and strength of character. Memorial donations in his honor will be welcomed at the Hetrick-Martin
 McCRARY -- John Reagan ''Tex''. On behalf of the Board of Trustees of Fisher House Foundation, we express our condolences to Kevin, Michael and John on the passing of their father, Mr. John Reagan ''Tex'' McCrary. Mr. McCrary was a visionary who could always see the possibilities, and then 
 McLOUGHLIN--John J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of John J. McLoughlin a Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. John H. FitzSimons, Pres. Henry F. White, Jr., Historian >>AD#      
 OLBERT--Victor H. On July 29, 2003. Beloved husband of Anny. Loving father of Dominique. Devoted brother Vicky and the late Freddy. His kindness, optimism and caring will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Service Wednesday, July 30, 2003, 11AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madiso
 SHEEHAN--Cornelius. At age 54 on July 26, 2003. Beloved son of the late Mary (Betty) and Philip. He died after a courageous two year struggle with cancer. A New York City firefighter for 25 years, Engine #       
 WEYAND--Ron. A New York character actor whose professional career spanned over 45 years, died Thursday, July 17, 2003, from Lou Gehrig's Disease. He was a professor of drama at Marymount College in Tarrytown from 1958 until his retirement in 1999. He is survived by his wife of 47 years, Jac
 WILPON--Eugene L. Beloved husband of Florence. Loving brother, brother-in-law, cherished uncle and devoted friend. He will be sorely missed. Services today at 1:30 from ''Boulevard-Riverside Chapels'', 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, Long Island. >>AD#       
 Tex McCrary, a legendary New York public relations man and political strategist who with his wife, the actress and model Jinx Falkenburg, helped create and popularize the talk-show format on radio and television in the 1940's and 50's, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in Man
 Dr. Aaron Bell, who was bassist for Duke Ellington from 1960 to 1962 and worked with him later as an arranger, died on Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 82 and had lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y. Dr. Bell celebrated the anniversary of Ellington's birth at a concert in 1983
 James J. McFadden, New York City's chief labor negotiator under Mayor Robert F. Wagner, died on Tuesday in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 83. The cause was complications of leukemia, his son Peter said. Mr. McFadden lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He was acting labor com
 CLIFFORD--Jonathan. Died in his home on Tuesday, July 29, 2003 in New York City after a courageous battle with lung cancer. He was 68. Jonathan was known for his fast and acerbic wit and his keen intelligence. He attended Gov Dummer Academy and Harvard University. He is survived by Vincent 
 GREEN--Bernard. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Bernard Green and extends sincere sympathy to his wife, Barbara and other members of his family. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary >>AD#       
 GREEN--Bernard R. The partners and staff of Friedman Alpren & Green LLP are saddened by the loss of Bernard R. Green, one of our founding partners. His leadership, integrity, eternal optimism and forward thinking gave our firm a strong foundation. He was a mentor to many of us, encouraged o
 JACOBS -- Bernard, died peacefully on July 29. Beloved husband of Eleanor. A great guy who will be sorely missed by his family and friends. Funeral service Thursday, July 31 at 1PM, Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue, 212-769-4400. >>AD#       
 LACKOW--Howard M. of Lake Worth, FL, formerly of Dover, NJ, July 26. Survived by his wife, Iris; daughters Joy Jones, Elyse Edwards and Sheryl Cholish; grandchildren Clinton and Brooke Cholish; Hannah, Charles and Jayne Jones; Palin and Oliver Edwards and many other family and friends. >>AD
 LAVORI--William P. June 28th, 1921 to July 28th, 2003 in Yarmouthport, MA. Beloved husband of Mary E. Lavori. Father of Philip, Nora, Joseph and Angela Lavori, and Judith L. Keiser. Grandfather of Liana and Alex Sterling, William Keiser, Mary Marudas, and Daniel and Cathryn Lavori. Brother 
 McCRARY--John ''Tex''. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System is greatly saddened by the passing of John ''Tex'' McCrary, a renowned publicist, radio and television personality, and political activist. He was one of the founders of North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset in 1
 OLBERT--Victor. The Board of Directors of East Hampton House Owners, Ltd. expresses its deep sadness on the loss of our long time board member. Victor was a true gentleman, much admired for his wisdom, his kindness and his generous spirit. Joyce M. Pilsner, President >>AD#       
 PAPP--Steven M. Steven Papp was Deputy Director for Administration at New York State Psychiatric Institute for 25 years. He was also, for a number of years, the Director of Administration of the Research Foundation for Mental Hygiene, Inc at the NYSPI and an Associate Vice President in the 
 SOBOL--Bruce. The Board of Directors and Staff of City Harvest mourn the passing of Bruce Sobol, our dedicated and generous Food Council member. We extend deepest sympathies to his wife Lydia and the entire Sobol family. >>AD#       
