 Dmitri S. Likhachev, a Russian literary scholar revered as a guardian of national culture and a voice of reason and moral authority, died today in a hospital in St. Petersburg. He was 92 years old. During the past decade of turbulent change in Russia, Mr. Likhachev, a gentle, elegan
 Ernst Einstein, a founding partner in Einstein Moomjy Inc., the carpet-store chain, died Wednesday in a hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 76. Mr. Einstein died of cancer and had Parkinson's disease, according to his son Gilles. Mr. Einstein and his twin brother, Ted, were born
 Gustavo Leigh Guzman, who was a key figure in Chile's four-man military junta led by Gen. Augusto Pinochet but who later broke with the junta, died Wednesday at the air force hospital in Santiago, Chile. He was 79. General Leigh, as head of the Chilean Air Force, ordered the bombing
 EAGLE-Milton, M.D., 80, died peacefully in his sleep on September 30 in Jacksonville, Florida. Formerly of Jericho, Long Island. Beloved husband of Shirley, loving father of Terry and proud grandfather of Davis and Sarah Lyn. Loving big brother to Seymour. Doctor, healer. Funeral services w
 EINSTEIN-Ernst, a partner in Einstein-Moomjy, The Carpet Department Store, died suddenly on Wednesday. He was 76 years old. He died from complications associated with cancer. He continued to be active in the business while living with Parkinson's disease for the last 25 years. Born in Frank
 ENGELBERG-Lazar. 96. Died peacefully at home in New York City September 27, 1999. A survivor with his wife of 57 years Lena of the Holocaust. Surviving with his wife are his loving brother and sister-in-law John and Lee Hauser.       
 GARFUNKEL-Harold J. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Harold J. Garfunkel, a cherished friend who was deeply devoted to the Jewish community. As a dedicated leader, he embraced the compassionate commitment of his father, who was a
 GHAREMANI - Dr. Feridoun. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of its member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Shelley M. Limmer, President Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 LANGA-Harry, Dr. His family, many friends and colleagues mourn the passing of Dr. Harry Langa on Wednesday, September 29. He was the source and recipient of much love from his beloved wife Evelyn as father, brother, grandfather and great-grandfather. He is survived by his loving wife Evelyn
 RABINOVICH-Joseph. On September 30th, 1999. Beloved husband of Marcelle. Devoted father of Joyce Barkin. Adoring grandfather of Frances and greatgrandfather of Nicholas and Spencer. Also survived by children Matthew, Daniel, Jamie and Adrienne. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Ma
 THOMPSON-William M. 90, of Madison, CT. On September 27. Predeceased by Mary Lamb, wife of 65 years. He will be greatly missed by three children, eight grandchildren, and six greatgrandchildren. Memorial service to be held at a later date.       
 TRAUB-ROSE. Sutton Place Synagogue extends condolences to our dedicated member, Raymond Senter on the loss of his beloved mother. Our sympathies to the family. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President       
 WINTHROP-Robert. The Boards, Faculty and Staff of the New York-Presbyterian Hospital and the Joan and Sanford I. Weill Medical College of Cornell University are deeply saddened by the passing of our friend and esteemed Life Trustee, Robert Winthrop, who had served with distinction on the Bo
 WYNN-Larry, born Lester Litwin in Brooklyn, New York, died on September 28, 1999 at Englewood Hospital, in New Jersey. Following the Crash of 1929, a stockbroker named Thomas R. Cox volunteered to pay for his college education. After three years at William and Mary, he transferred to Washin
 Thomas O. Foster, 49, a philanthropist, amateur racing driver and executive of Foster Poultry Farms, one of the nation's largest privately held businesses, died Sept. 22 at his home in Hickman, Calif., a farming hamlet in the San Joaquin Valley. He had diabetes and related heart problems, a
 Charles A. Federer Jr., who six decades ago combined two money-losing journals, The Sky and The Telescope, into what became a successful and influential magazine for amateur astronomers, died on Tuesday in Mystic, Conn. He was 90 and lived in the nearby town of Stonington. Mr. Feder
 Dr. David Platt Rall, a cancer specialist and a leader in environmental health research, died on Tuesday in Bordeaux, France. He lived in Washington and was 73. The cause was injuries suffered in an automobile accident 10 days earlier. During almost 50 years as a researcher,
 Dr. John J. Conley, a New York surgeon who made important contributions to the treatment of cancers of the head and neck, died on Sept. 21 in a hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived on the Upper West Side. Dr. Conley, an otolaryngologist, developed operations for improving the 
 ARISON-Ted. The American Committee for the Tel Aviv Foundation expresses profound sorrow at the passing of our Founder, original Chairman, leader and most generous donor, Ted Arison. Ted was a giant. Through his example, he brought many other supporters and donors as well. He did more for t
 COHEN-Martin. Died on September 21, 1999. Retired IBM Marketing Rep. Survived by brother Arnold, children, Susan, Barry and Jeffrey and their spouses Ronnie, Ellen and Lisa. He will be missed by his grandchildren, Allison, Bryan, Joshua and Zachary and his loving cousins. The entire family 
 FIFE-Bernard, after a long battle with Parkinson's disease. Dearly beloved husband of Arlene. Devoted father of Susan Davis and Marilyn Cragin. Cherished grandfather of Aaron, Barry, Julia, Gabe, Eli, Will and Caroline. Funeral service will be held at Temple Emanuel, Great Neck, NY at 11:30
 ISPASS-Bernard. Beloved husband of Frieda, devoted father of Ken and Enice Ispass and Elise and Richard Resnik, cherished grandfather of Dara, Brad, Samantha and Michael, loving brother of Laura. To know him was to love him. Services Sunday 10am at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels 55 North St
 KAHN-Arthur E., DDS. On September 29, 1999. Beloved husband of Anita. Loving father of Roberta and Karen. Adoring grandfather of Levin and Matthew. Dr. Kahn was an internationally acclaimed dentist. He lectured worldwide and mentored study groups in America and Israel. He treated many promi
 NEUSTADTER-Helene, nee Lerner. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish & Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of the mother of its Segan and esteemed Trustee, Peter Neustadter. We extend our deepest sympathy to Mr. Neustadter, his wife Naomi, and his family. The burial and Shibah are bei
 RABINOVICH-Joseph. On September 30th, 1999. Beloved husband of Marcelle. Devoted father of Joyce Barkin. Adoring grandfather of Frances and greatgrandfather of Nicholas and Spencer. Also survived by children Matthew, Daniel, Jamie and Adrienne. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Ma
 SIEGEL-Irving T. On September 29, 1999. Loving husband of Shirley for over 60 years. Beloved father of Barbara and Harvey Klipper, and Robert and Carol Siegel. Proud grandfather of Brian and Jody Siegel. Brother of Milton, Ruth Abend, & Zeva Cohn. Service on Sunday, 1:30PM at ''Riverside Me
 The guitarist Sal Salvador, a  warm-toned be-bop improviser who performed with Stan Kenton, Bill Evans, Phil Woods and other canonical jazz figures, died at a medical rehabilitation center in Stamford, Conn., on Sept. 22. He was 73 and lived in Stamford. He died of cancer, said his 
 Ted Arison, who parlayed a single used cruise ship into Carnival Cruise Lines and other holdings, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Tel Aviv. He was 75 years old. Considered the godfather of the modern cruise industry, Mr. Arison gave up his American citizenship in 199
 Akio Morita, the co-founder of the Sony Corporation who personified Japan's rise from postwar rubble to industrial riches and became the unofficial ambassador of its business community to the world, died today in Tokyo. He was 78. He died of pneumonia, the company said. He had been 
 ARISON-Ted. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of our beloved friend and longtime generous advocate and supporter, Ted Arison. His deep, personal involvement in the advancement of brain research will continue for generations at the Arison Neurobi
 FIELDS-Harry David. On September 30, 1999. Warm hearted, quick witted and ever charming, he inspired and blessed us with his presence. His family and friends mourn his passing. Be at peace, ''Hesh''-all our love.       
 FOSTER-Glen S.. An Olympic medalist yachtsman, died peacefully on Friday, October 1, 1999, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering. He was 69 years old. Mr. Foster died of esophageal cancer. Mr. Foster attended the Fay School, Phillips Academy at Andover, MA, Brown University and Columbia University. M
 GORFIEN-Harry, Dr.. Passed away on September 29th after a long illness. He is survived by his sister Ray Rudin of Coconut Creek, FL, and his children Larry of New Haven, CT, Rahti (aka Claudette) of NYC and Jack of Guilford, CT. Burial at Arlington National Cemetery on Wednesday, October 6,
 KAHN-Arthur E.., DDS. On September 29, 1999. Beloved husband of Anita. Loving father of Roberta and Karen. Adoring grandfather of Levin and Matthew. Dr. Kahn was an internationally acclaimed dentist. He lectured worldwide and mentored study groups in America and Israel. He treated many prom
 LANE-William Lloyd. Husband of Carol, father of David, brother of Robert D. Lane, brother-in-law of Ro Lane. We present a toast to a great brother and uncle who was always there for his nephews, Robert D. Jr., Richard D. and Stephen (SKIP) Lane. Much loved.       
 LAZERE-Irving L.. Of New York and Palm Beach. On October 1, 1999 in his 91st year, in Laguna Hills, CA. Beloved husband of Anne Klineman Lazere; predeceased by cherished wife, Beulah Meistrich Lazere; father of Susan Reichwald, Arthur and Andrew Lazere; grandfather of Jake Lazere, Jeffrey a
 MOORE-Frank Ledlie. Died September 26 of ALS (Lou Gehrig's Disease). He is survived by three children Katen, Gordon and Gabi and four grandchildren Emma, Jared, Isabel and Aurelia. We love him and miss him very much. Memorial will be at a later date.       
 MYERS-Robert. The Staff of Steinway Child and Family Services, Inc. deeply regrets the untimely passing of our colleague and friend, Robert Myers. Bob was a compassionate, intelligent man who cared deeply about children and worked tirelessly to improve the child serving system. His leadersh
 O'GARA-William F.. On September 28, 1999. Born in NYC, October 31, 1933 and served in the U.S. Navy from January 1957 until 1959 when he was discharged with honors for a military related disability. During Mr. O'Gara's life he spent time in NYC and was currently a resident of West Palm Beac
 SIEGEL-Irving T.. On September 29, 1999. Loving husband of Shirley for over 60 years. Beloved father of Barbara and Harvey Klipper, and Robert and Carol Siegel. Proud grandfather of Brian and Jody Siegel. Brother of Milton, Ruth Abend, & Zeva Cohn. Service on Sunday, 1:30PM at ''Riverside M
 TAYLOR-Vincent James. On September 30, 1999, in Pompono, FL. He was the beloved husband of Virginia Taylor. He is survived by his devoted daughter Nikki, loving grandson Mark and beloved sister Anna Mae Rennard. Friends may call at Kearns Funeral Home, 61-40 Woodhaven Blvd., Rego Park, Sund
 THOMAS-William Andrew., of 333 E. 95th Street, New York, NY 10128, died September 19. He was a musician, composer and computer consultant for banking and investment. Survived by his mother, Jean Hewitt Thomas; and sister, Heather Thomas Nackley. Memorial service at 11 AM Saturday, October 1
 Akio Morita, the co-founder of the Sony Corporation who personified Japan's rise from postwar rubble to industrial riches and became the unofficial ambassador of its business community to the world, died on Sunday in Tokyo. He was 78. Mr. Morita died of pneumonia, according to Sony.
 ARISON-Ted. The American Committee for the Tel Aviv Foundation expresses profound sorrow at the passing of our Founder, original Chairman, leader and most generous donor, Ted Arison. Ted was a giant. Through his example, he brought many other supporters and donors as well. He did more for t
 BINDER-Jacob A. Died peacefully in NYC, on September 24, 1999. He was the beloved husband of Anna Binder and he is mourned and deeply missed by his family and friends. Burial took place Sunday, September 26, in Sharon Memorial Park, Sharon, MA.       
 FOSTER-Glen S. An Olympic medalist yachtsman, died peacefully on Friday, October 1, 1999, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering. He was 69 years old. Mr. Foster died of esophageal cancer. Mr. Foster attended the Fay School, Phillips Academy at Andover, MA, Brown University and Columbia University. Mr
 GAUGHAN-Norbert F., Most Reverend, Ph.D. Age 78. Second Bishop of the Diocese of Gary, IN. Passed away Friday, October 1. Survived by his brother, William and his wife, Eleanor Gaughan of Pittsburgh, PA, the late Bernardine Rygiel, the late Sister Patricia, and the late Vincent; and many ni
 HIGHBERGER-John K., Reverend. On October 2, 1999, of Ramsey, NJ. Beloved husband of the late Helen Stewart Foster Highberger (1993). Devoted father of Judith S. Highberger of Ramsey and William F. Highberger of Pacific Palisades, CA. Loving grandfather of Helen Barbara Highberger and Anna M
 KAHN-Arthur E., D.D.S. The residents of 330 W. 72nd St mourn the passing of our longtime neighbor and dear friend, Arthur E. Kahn, D.D.S. His gentleness and intelligence was a delight to all of us. Our deepest sympathy to his wife, Anita, and their daughters. We will miss him.       
 LENSE-Robert. Passed away on October 2, 1999. Beloved and dedicated husband to Rose Marie, married for 51 years. Loving father to Richard, JoAnn and Ronald. Devoted brother to Jack and Daniel and loyal friend to countless others. Robert was a proud graduate of the U.S. Merchant Marine Acade
 LOMAN-George F. Age 82, on October 2, 1999, of Darien, CT. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Farrell Lines, Incorporated, since 1978, and member of the Board of Directors of the American Steamship Owners Mutual Protection & Indemnity Association, Maritime Association of the Port of Ne
 McDONALD-Craig Anton. Writer and teacher, of New York and Mexico, died on September 25, 1999. He was 42. He is deeply mourned and profoundly missed by his extensive family of friends in New York and elsewhere. A memorial service is planned for October 16. For information, call (718) 851-317
 SMEDRESMAN-Max. On October 2, age 80 (1919-1999). Survived by his wife Joan and his children Ruth Rosen, Peter and Steven, and grandchildren. He will be deeply mourned by his family and missed by his colleagues in the pharmaceutical industry. Services today, 11:15 AM, ''Sinai Chapels,'' 162
 SMOLEN-Arthur E. Friends and family will greatly miss the special love and devotion of Arthur E. Smolen, born in Brooklyn, April 28, 1918. He was a devoted husband of 56 years to Selma, loving father to Ellen, devoted brother to Florence, caring uncle and great uncle to Carol, Andy, Michael
 Bernard Buffet, a French painter whose barren landscapes, harsh still lifes, gaunt religious scenes and sad circus clowns brought him early fame and fortune but little enduring  critical esteem, died yesterday at his home in the Var region of southern France. He was 71. He was a sui
 Jerald C. Brauer, who as dean of the University of Chicago's Divinity School helped build the institution into an internationally known center for the study of theology, died on Sept. 26 at his home in Chicago. He was 78. The cause was leukemia, the divinity school said. Dr.
 ADAMS-David George. Born May 25, 1906. Devoted his life to working for the Episcopal Church for which he became the Comptroller of the Diocese of New York. He passed away after an extended illness. We will all miss his gentle warmth, goodness, and the Irish twinkle in his eyes. There will b
 ARISON-Ted. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound regret at the loss of Ted Arison of Miami and Tel Aviv. Mr. Arison was a Technion Guardian who had reached the highest level of commitment to the Technion, the ATS and Israel. For his exemplary
 CHERNEFF-J. Robert. Of Ashley Falls, MA. Died October 1, 1999 at his home. The owner of Ashley Falls Antiques with his wife Jeanne, he was a former executive vice president of Hill & Knowlton, Inc. In the 1940's, he served as Director of Sports Publicity at Columbia University and as a corr
 FIFE-Bernard. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound sorrow at the loss of Bernard Fife of Great Neck, NY, a leader and active supporter from the early days of the organization. His was a second-generation commitment, passed down by his father 
 FINKELSTEIN-Harold. Beloved husband of Ethel. Loving father of Marc and Carol and Patti and Kevin Teamkin. Devoted brother of Martin and Elaine Koeppel and Alma and Sam Rosenblum. Cherished grandfather of Liza and Michael Ball, Kim and Craig Weiner, Jordan Finkelstein, and Rachel and Hayley
 FISCHBERGER-Hyman. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our past president, David Fischberger, and family, on the loss of his beloved father. May the family be comforted among those who mourn for Tzion and Yerushalayim. Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabbi Evan Torczyner, Pres
 FOSTER-Glen S. An Olympic medalist yachtsman, died peacefully on Friday, October 1, 1999, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering. He was 69 years old. Mr. Foster died of esophageal cancer. Mr. Foster attended the Fay School, Phillips Academy at Andover, MA, Brown University and Columbia University. Mr
 FRIEDMAN-Frederick. On September 29, 1999 in his 100th year. Beloved husband of Rae. Loving father and father-in-law of Audrey and Ralph Wagner, Sheila and Daniel Gereb, Jeffrey andJanet Friedman and Herbert and Karen Friedman. Devoted grandfather of Lisa and Peter Wagner and Mark, Marjorie
 FRIEDRICH-Carl Robert, 65. A loving family man, of Pleasant View Drive, Great Barrington, died October 3, 1999 at his home. Funeral services will be Wednesday, October 6, 1999 at 11:00 AM at the First Congregational Church in Great Barrington. The family will receive friends Tuesday, Octobe
 GRIFFITHS-Dan. The New York University Community mourns the passing of the long-time former Dean of its School of Education. Few undertakings are as profoundly important to our society as the training of educators, and Dean Griffiths devoted his life work to this mission. He will be remembe
 LAWLESS-John M., of NYC and Phoenicia, NY, on October 2nd, 1999. Beloved husband of Elinor. Loving father of Elinor Lawless Ringer and John M. Lawless, Jr. He had a distinguished career as an attorney with the Appellate Division, 1st Department, of the Supreme Court of the State of New York
 LOWMAN-George F. Age 82, on October 2, 1999, of Darien, CT. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Farrell Lines, Incorporated, since 1978, and member of the Board of Directors of the American Steamship Owners Mutual Protection & Indemnity Association, Maritime Association of the Port of N
 MARK-Edward. 95, of Manhattan, formerly of Great Neck, NY, died peacefully on October 3rd, bringing to a close a long, productive and loving life. He cherished his wife of 45 years, the late Libbie Berman Mark. He leaves his children, Judith Tanur and Reuben Mark, and his grandchildren, Rac
 MYERS-Robert H. The Board, Members and Staff of The Coalition of Voluntary Mental Health Agencies are saddened by the untimely death of our colleague and friend, Robert H. Myers. We express our sincere condolences to his family and his comrades at The Department of Mental Health.       
 PRIGERSON-Lowell, MD, on October 2, 1999 after a valiant fight against cancer. Loving husband of Joyce, adored father of Jill, Holly, and Eve, caring son of Pauline and brother of Jay, devoted grandfather of Caroline, Rebecca, Johanna, Abigail, Zachary, Samantha and Ethan, and dedicated phy
 RALL-David, Dr. The members, staff and Board of The Environmental Defense Fund deeply mourn the loss of our friend and colleague, Dr. David Rall. Dr. Rall headed the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences and served as U.S. Assistant Surgeon General for nineteen years. A longti
 RANKIN-James F. Age 59, died Saturday, October 2, 1999. He is survived by his wife Linda, son Robert & daugther-in-law Shivaunn, daughter Jami, his mother Dorothy & granddaughter Darian. Services to be held at St. Aedan's Catholic Church, Pearl River, New York on Tuesday, October 5, at 10:3
 SCHWARTZ-Nathan W. On October 3, 1999, of New York City. Beloved husband of 57 years to Blanche, dear brother of Pauline Raiffe, also survived by his nephew and nieces. He was the best of the best.       
 SILVERMAN-Sidney H., M.D. The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center records with sorrow the passing of Sidney H. Silverman, MD, distinguished and esteemed Emeritus Attending of the Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology. Dr. Silverman was affiliated with Brookdale for over forty y
 SMEDRESMAN-Max. The officers and leadership of UJA-Federation of N.Y. mourn the passing of Max Smedresman, devoted husband of Joan Smedresman; cherished father of Ruth Rosen, Peter, and Steven; and beloved grandfather. His compassion and concern for those less fortunate will live on in the 
 SMOLEN-Arthur. The counselors of the Service Corps of Retired Executives note with sadness the passing of our esteemed colleague. As a volunteer, he gave the benefit of his business experience and wisdom to many aspiring business clients. He will be sorely missed. SMOLEN-Arthur E. T
 STANKO-Michael L., Chief Technology Officer with the law firm of Pillsbury Madison & Sutro in San Francisco, passed away quietly on September 30, in San Francisco, California of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. He was a pioneer in computer automation and paperless data storage, connecting large law 
 STORCH-Otto. The entire family mourns the passing of our illustrious brother-in-law. Condolences to our sister Dolores, his devoted wife. Otto will be dearly missed by all whose life he touched, and for his talent and accomplishments in his field of Art Direction, Photography, Art, and Grap
 STRESEMANN-Joachim. Age 92. Died on October 3, 1999 in New York City. He was the son of Gustav Stresemann, who served as Chancellor and Foreign Minister of Germany during the Weimar Republic, and Kaete Stresemann. After studying law and economics in Germany and England he moved to New York 
 WALD-Mortimer. Of Verona, NJ, peacefully at home on October 5, 1999. Beloved Husband of Martha nee Wechsler. Predeceased by his first wife Evelyn nee Wagner. Devoted father of Judith Beardsall. Dear brother of Henry and Harold Wald, and Roseann Schwab. Brother-in-law of Florence and Lynn Wa
 Tom Joe, an expert on Government antipoverty programs and a recipient in 1986 of the MacArthur Fellows award, died on Saturday at his home in Arlington, Va. Mr. Joe, the director of the Center for the Study of Social Policy here, was 64 and had been undergoing treatment for cancer. 
 Art Farmer, one of the more important second-generation be-bop musicians, an improviser who could say a great deal in a few notes on the trumpet and fluegelhorn and later on his own hybrid instrument, the ''flumpet,'' died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan and Vienna.
 Francis C. Turner, often called the chief engineer of the Interstate System of highways that redrew the map of America, died on Saturday at a hospice in Goldsboro, N.C. He was 90. Mr. Turner was the only person to rise through the ranks to head the Federal Highway Administration; he
 Martin S. Davis, the fiery executive who reshaped the unwieldy conglomerate Gulf and Western Industries into the entertainment and publishing giant Paramount Communications, died Monday in Manhattan. He was 72 and lived in Westport, Conn. The cause was a heart attack, said Jerry She
 CASEY-James P. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of James P. Casey, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Willia, J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 DAVIS-Martin S. The President, the Board of Trustees and the entire Montefiore community deeply mourn the untimely death of our dear friend and esteemed colleague, Martin S. Davis. A devoted member of the Montefiore Board of Trustees and its Executive Committee since 1991, Martin Davis was 
 FIFE-Bernard. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Bernard Fife. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Arlene, and their family. Morton West, President Daniel Amster, Secretary       
 GOTTLIEB-William. We were saddened to hear of the sudden passing of our dear friend, William Gottlieb. Bill's generous support of our programs and the Kraft Center for Jewish Student Life was an inspiration to us all. He will be sorely missed. Robert Pollack, President Jewish Campus Life Fu
 GREENFIELD-Leo. Beloved husband of his devoted wife, Dianna. Cherished father of Kimberly (Keith) Jordan. Adored brother of Bernice Silverman. Dear uncle of Bennett Shaffer and Adam and Noah Silverman. Service 10 AM Thursday at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st Street and Amsterdam Avenue, New Yo
 LOWMAN-George F. Age 82, on October 2, 1999, of Darien, CT. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Farrell Lines, Incorporated, since 1978, and member of the Board of Directors of the American Steamship Owners Mutual Protection & Indemnity Association, Maritime Association of the Port of N
 MARK-Edward. 95, of Manhattan, formerly of Great Neck, NY, died peacefully on October 3rd, bringing to a close a long, productive and loving life. He cherished his wife of 45 years, the late Libbie Berman Mark. He leaves his children, Judith Tanur and Reuben Mark, and his grandchildren, Rac
 MORITA-Akio. The Staff and Trustees of The Museum of Modern Art are deeply saddened by the passing of Akio Morita, a long time friend and supporter of the Museum. With his wife Yoshiko, a Trustee of the Museum, his interest and generosity were far reaching. To Mrs. Morita and other members 
 RICHARDSON-Lee D., 73. Died on Saturday at his home. Beloved husband of the late Elane Richardson. Cherished father of Rachel and Jonathan. Devoted brother of Dolores Levine. Services will be held on Wednesday, October 6, 1:30 P.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. I
 SMOLEN-Arthur. Guiding Eyes For The Blind and the Ken Venturi Guiding Eyes Golf Classic Committee mourn the passing of our friend and longtime supporter, Arthur Smolen. His efforts have significantly helped to enrich the lives of many blind individuals through the use of trained guide dogs.
 WEINSTOCK-Herbert, Dr. Of Eastpointe, Florida. Formerly of Great Neck, New York. Adored husband and shining star of Adele for 56 beautiful years of marriage. Loving father of Diane and Robert Meltzer, Wendy & Robert Morris, Mark & Ann Weinstock. Devoted grandfather of Jocelyn, Darren, Miche
 Alex Lowe, an American climber whose versatility and tenacity in pushing the limits earned him a reputation as perhaps the country's finest all-around mountaineer, was presumed killed on Tuesday after vanishing in a massive avalanche on Shisha Pangma in Tibet. He was 40 and lived in Bozeman
 Leonard S. Shoen, who created the multibillion-dollar do-it-yourself moving industry in 1945 when he welded together a trailer, painted it an attention-grabbing orange and called his little company U-Haul, died on Monday morning after he drove his car into a utility pole near Las Vegas, Nev
 BRUNNER-Robert F. A resident of Rye for 38 years, died at his home on Tuesday October 5, 1999, after a lengthy illness. Born in Springfield, NJ, to Frederick F., and Emily Carl Brunner, he was 64 in August. A 1957 graduate of Union College, he married Barbara Clapp, on September 15, 1964. M
 CAMERON-William Allan, of East Hampton, N.Y., and New York City, on October 5, 1999 at his home in East Hampton. He was 71 years old. Mr. Cameron died of lung cancer. Mr. Cameron was a graduate of Princeton University and the Harvard Law School. He spent his entire legal career at the firm 
 DAVIS-Martin. A sister Department of Pediatrics in NYC recognizes the major contribution of Mr. Martin Davis to furthering the cause of children's health here in NYC. As former Vice Chairman of Pediatrics at Montefiore Medical Center and a contributor to the initial steps of the creation of
 GOTTLIEB-William. The Partners, Associates and staff of Goldberg Weprin and Ustin LLP express their profound sadness at the untimely passing of our friend, William Gottlieb. We will remember Bill for his zest of life, business acumen, sincerity, and genuineness. We share the grief of his lo
 HINES-Kenneth Arden, Jr., of Boston and Osterville, Mass., former Sr. Vice President of Citibank in New York, died unexpectedly October 5. Mr. Hines was born in Meadville, Pennsylvania. He was a graduate of Middlesex School and Yale University. Currently, he was Chief Financial Officer of C
 LEVINE-Ina. On behalf of the Board of Directors, families and children of Shai Lifeline, we extend our deeply felt condolences to Mr. William Levine and his entire family on the untimely loss of his dear wife, Mrs. Ina Levine. May the entire family be comforted together with all the mourner
 MORITA-Akio. The Staff and Trustees of The Museum of Modern Art are deeply saddened by the passing of Akio Morita, a long time friend and supporter of the Museum. With his wife Yoshiko, a Trustee of the Museum, his interest and generosity were far reaching. To Mrs. Morita and other members 
 NEUSTADTER-Helene, (nee Lerner). The Trustees of Congregation Shearith Israel extend to our fellow Trustee, and Co-Segan, Peter Neustadter, his wife Naomi and their daughters our shared loss on the death of his mother in Israel. Peter's leadership and devotion to our congregation were a sou
 REIGELUTH-Robert Seelye. Age 82, died at his home in New Haven, CT. on October 6. He is survived by his wife, Mary, his four children and his fourteen grandchildren. A memorial service will be held at 2PM on October 9 at Trinity Church on the Green, New Haven.       
 USDAN-Leo J.,85. Formerly of Englewood, New Jersey, died at Monmouth Medical Center in Long Branch, NJ, on September 17, 1999. He is survived by his daughter, Adrienne, his son, James, former wife, Selma, and sisters, Beatrice Lieben, and Zipporah Epstein. Mr. Usdan was a graduate of Yeshiv
 WAGNER-Robert Dean, on October 6, 1999 at age 73. An esteemed and beloved professor of English Literature at Sarah Lawrence College from 1953 until his retirement in May of 1999. He served as Dean of the College from 1971-1976, and as head of the Sarah Lawrence College Summer School in Lond
 POE-Edgar Allan. Beloved Father of the Modern Detective Story. Bronx, NYC resident, he died in Baltimore at only 40 on October 7, 1849. He lives on brilliantly in his unique creative works. Mystery Writers of America       
 Edward C. Banfield, a professor emeritus of government at Harvard University whose work on urban policy and the causes of poverty gave him a reputation as a brilliant maverick, died Sept. 30 at his summer home in Vermont. He was 83 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. Mr. Banfield, born on
 Gorilla Monsoon, one of the most famous athlete-entertainers ever to don tights and climb into the professional wrestling ring, died on Wednesday at his home in Willingboro, N.J. He was 62. He had long suffered from diabetes and heart ailments, said a close friend, Bill Apter, the e
 CAMERON - William A. The Trustees of the South Fork-Shelter Island Chapter of The Nature Conservancy mourn the passing of their Chairman, William A. Cameron. Bill was a tireless crusader for the conservation of his beloved East End Landscape. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his family
 CAMERON-William Allan, of East Hampton, N.Y., and New York City, on October 5, 1999 at his home in East Hampton. He was 71 years old. Mr. Cameron died of lung cancer. Mr. Cameron was a graduate of Princeton University and the Harvard Law School. He spent his entire legal career at the firm 
 EDMAN-Emanuel, Dr., of Weston, MA, on Wednesday, October 6, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved husband of Priscilla (Herzlich). Devoted father of Nancy & Robert Feldman. Loving grandfather of Lisa & Aaron Rosenberg & Adam Feldman. Dear brother of Sylvia Goldberg. Graveside services at the Be
 FISHER-Stanley, died October 7, 1999, after a long courageous fight, at age 74. Beloved husband for 52 years of Regina Fisher; loving, proud father of Fran Fishman and Michael and Greg Fisher. Most adored ''Pop'' of five grandchildren, Eric, Drew and Allison Fisher, and Scott and Jonathan F
 FOA-Bruno. Age 93. Beloved husband, cherished father, grandfather and great grandfather died October 4, 1999 after a short illness. The emotional center of our family, a family shattered and dispersed by the history of the 20th century across Italy, Israel and the United States, we will for
 GLADSTONE-Alex. Age 94, of West Palm Beach, FL formerly of Fair Lawn, NJ. Survived by his wife of 76 years, Lillian; daughters, Ruth (Lou) Brod of Fort Lee, NJ and Phyllis (Arthur) Kresch of Fair Lawn, NJ; sister, Minnie Baum and brother, Julius Gladstone; four grandchildren, five great-gra
 LEVY-Harry. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck George N. Abrahams, President       
 MORTON-Claude. Died Thursday, October 7. He was a Veteran of W.W. II. A memorial services will be held Saturday, 11 AM at Boles Funeral Home of Pinehurst, NC. He is survived by his wife Emily and three sons, Camm, Rick and Greg and four grandchildren.       
 RICHARDSON-Lee. We applaud the life and mourn the loss of our dear friend and client Lee Richardson. A great actor and a very special person. He was our loyal support from the beginning. Lee made our jobs and our lives fun and rewarding. He will always be with us. Our love to Rachel and Jon
 SENFELD-S. William. Suddenly on October 6, 1999. Son of the late Lee Senfeld. Graveside services today at Cedar Park cemetery, Westwood, NJ. SENFELD-S. William. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member S. William Senfel
 STRESEMANN - Joachim. We deeply regret the passing of our highly esteemed and respected founding member and actively involved trustee on October 3rd, 1999. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his family and many friends. His quick wit, gentle guidance and quiet dignity will long be re
 TARRSON-E. ''Bud''. We mourn the passing of our beloved friend, ''Bud'', whose warmth of spirit and generosity of heart has been a gift to us for many years. Our deepest sympathies to his wife, Linda, and the Tarrson family. Rita and Bob Gottsegen TARRSON-Emanuel B. The Faculty of t
 TAYLOR-William Robinson. 93 of Lyme, CT. died October 3, 1999 in Lyme. He is the husband of Marion Gewin Taylor and father of Mary Gay Taylor, Elizabeth Wall and Margaret Boyle, grandfather of three and brother of Arnold P. Taylor. A memorial service will be held at 2:00 P.M. on Wednesday, 
 THOMSON-George G. Jr. On October 6, 1999 at Boston Medical Center of surgical complications. Born in NYC February 4, 1919. Attended St. Mark's School, Harvard College, class of 1941. Enrolled in British Army, King's Royal Rifle Corps. Served in North Africa and Italy with distinction. Trans
 URBONT-Michael. Age 43. After a courageous battle with Leukemia. Beloved husband of Lisa, adored father of Lauren and Alana, and devoted brother to Fran, Gail, and Ira. Cherished Uncle of David, Brooke, Meredith, Allison, Daniel, and Jesse. Michael will be remembered by his adoring fans of 
 Sir de Villiers Graaff, who led South Africa's weak and troubled parliamentary opposition for two decades during the apartheid era, died on Monday at his farm outside Cape Town. He was 85. Sir de Villiers, who was nicknamed ''Sir Div'' and ''Div,'' had an ''impeccable Afrikaner back
 Weldon W. Case, the former chairman and chief executive of the Alltel Corporation, died on Sept. 30 at Boca Raton Community Hospital in Florida. He was 78 and lived in Boca Raton. The cause was heart failure, an Alltel spokeswoman said. Mr. Case was born in Hudson, Ohio, whe
 Daniel Griffiths, a former dean of the New York University School of Education who changed its approach from anecdotal teaching to the use of modern research methods, died Oct. 2. He was 82 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. He suffered a heart attack on the golf course at the Scarsdale G
 Gen. Bruce K. Holloway, who shot down 13 Japanese planes in World War II flying a propeller fighter, then oversaw the giant jet bombers of the Strategic Air Command, America's nuclear strike force, a quarter-century later, died on Sept. 30 at his home in Orlando, Fla. He was 87. Gen
 John McLendon, a Hall of Fame basketball coach at the college and professional levels who studied under the sport's founder, Dr. James Naismith, died early yesterday morning at his home in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. He was 84. McLendon died of cancer of the pancreas, his wife, Joanna,
 de TAR-Vernon. We mourn the passing of our most esteemed and venerable colleague. Vernon de Tar set the highest standards for his art as organist, choral director, church musician and teacher of several generations of distinguished organists. Stephen Hamilton, Dean The New York City Chapter
 FOA-Bruno. Age 93. Beloved husband, cherished father, grandfather and great grandfather died October 4, 1999 after a short illness. The emotional center of our family, a family shattered and dispersed by the history of the 20th century across Italy, Israel and the United States, we will for
 GITENSTEIN-Milton P., age 87. Suddenly on October 7, 1999. Son of the late Israel and Rose Gitenstein. Loving and beloved husband of 57 years of Bernice (Narins) Gitenstein. Devoted father of Deborah C. Brudno (David Bernstein), Judith A. Gitenstein, Henry J. Gitenstein (Harriet), and the l
 SENFELD - S. William. The trustees, faculty, staff, and alumni/ ae of Bard College mourn the passing of dear friend and devoted alumnus, S. William Senfeld '62. Bill, who received the Bard medal in 1996, was a loyal alumnus whose energetic involvement within the Bard community will be sorel
 ZOROVICH-Anthony D. Of Bohemia on October 8, 1999 in his 78th year. Beloved husband of Rita. Devoted father of Paul. Fond brother of Mario. Reposing, Moloney's Bohemia Funeral Home, 1320 Lakeland Ave, Bohemia, N.Y. Cremation private. Nassau Suffolk Crematory, Lake Ronkonkoma, N.Y. Visiting 
 Paul Petzoldt, a pioneer of American mountaineering and a wilderness educator who founded the National Outdoor Leadership School, died on Wednesday in Topsham, Me. He was 91 and lived in nearby South Casco, Me. A rugged individualist who influenced climbing in the United States for 
 Clement L. Markert, a noted developmental biologist whose decision as a teen-ager to battle the forces of Generalissimo Francisco Franco in the Spanish Civil War cast a cloud over his career during the McCarthy era, died on Oct. 1. He was 82. Dr. Markert died at a hospice near his h
 Lee Richardson, an actor whose career spanned more than four decades of stage, film and television work, died on Oct. 2 at his home in Manhattan. He was 73. The cause was cardiac arrest after complications from a perforated ulcer, said his daughter, Rachel Richardson Lyons. 
 Former Justice Morris Pashman of the New Jersey Supreme Court, whose opinions touched on areas from freedom of the press to the rights of the mentally handicapped, died on Oct. 3 at a hospital in New York City. He was 87 and lived in Clifton, N.J. Justice Pashman served in the state
 ALEXANDER-Donald Louis, 64, of Midlothian, VA. died October 6, 1999. Born in Queens, beloved father of Christine, Donald, Jennifer, John and husband of Sandra. He was the General Manager of Packaging Corporation of America. He attended St. Paul's Episcopal School in Garden city and was a gr
 CROUCH-Archie R., devoted and loving husband, beloved father, writer and China scholar, died in Englewood, Colo., at the age of 90, on September 10. Born in Veblen, S.D., he was educated at Jamestown College, Princeton Theological Seminary, Cornell University, and received his Ph.D. from th
 de TAR-Vernon L., 94, died on Thursday, Oct. 7, 1999, at Kendal at Longwood, Kennett Square, PA. A 1927 graduate of Syracuse University. He was on the faculty at the Juilliard School, Union Theological Seminary, Yale University Institute of Sacred Music. He was the organist and choirmaster 
 FOA-Bruno. Age 93. Beloved husband, cherished father, grandfather and great grandfather died October 4, 1999 after a short illness. The emotional center of our family, a family shattered and dispersed by the history of the 20th century across Italy, Israel and the United States, we will for
 GITENSTEIN-Milton P., age 87. Suddenly on October 7, 1999. Son of the late Israel and Rose Gitenstein. Loving and beloved husband of 57 years of Bernice (Narins) Gitenstein. Devoted father of Deborah C. Brudno (David Bernstein), Judith A. Gitenstein, Henry J. Gitenstein (Harriet), and the l
 LEEDS-Alfred B. At age 76. Of Delray Beach, Florida and Swan Lake, N.Y. Passed away October 4, 1999. Born in Brooklyn, NY, on March 24, 1923. He was a veteran of World War II, a successful businessman and in later years active in Jewish Genealogy, serving as Co-President of the Jewish Genea
 PARKER-Joel J.S. Of Hilton Head Island, SC died at his home on Thursday, October 7. He was 68 years old. Mr Parker was born in Washington, DC; was educated at the Norwood School, Lake Placid, NY and at Colgate University. His father, Philo W. Parker, was Chairman of the Standard Vacuum Oil 
 SCHECHTER - Marshall. The Board of Directors and the Staff of The Evan B. Donaldson Adoption Institute extend their heartfelt condolences to the Schechter family upon the loss of Dr. Marshall D. Schechter. Dr. Schechter was an exceptional professional who contributed profoundly to the advan
 SENFELD - S. William. The trustees, faculty, staff, and alumni/ ae of Bard College mourn the passing of dear friend and devoted alumnus, S. William Senfeld '62. Bill, who received the Bard medal in 1996, was a loyal alumnus whose energetic involvement within the Bard community will be sorel
 SMILOVITZ-Robert, died on Oct. 3, 1999 at home with his loving family. He was born in Bridgeport, Conn. He earned Master's and Doctorate degrees from Columbia University. He was a dedicated and innovative educator who fought to achieve civil rights, dignity, and respect for all people. For 
 SMITH-Edmund Dutilh. Of New York City. Died on October 6 after a long illness. He was born on March 3, 1916. He is survived by his wife Renee, a brother George, two nephews Douglas and Gordon, two nieces Mandy and Kim. He was an honorary member of the Amateur Comedy Club in New York City. H
 EISENSTEIN-Alvin Gordon Remembered always by his loving family and friends. 10/12/15-10/26/87       
 Robert G. L. Waite, a Williams College historian who set off a debate by bringing the psychoanalytic approach to books about Hitler, died on Monday while visiting his son Peter in Glastonbury, Conn. He was 80 and lived in Williamstown, Mass. Dr. Waite was one of the earliest and str
 Sir Nigel Broackes, a real estate developer who controlled the Ritz Hotel in London as chairman of Trafalgar House and was one of Britain's most successful young entrepreneurs during the 1960's and 1970's, died on Sept. 28. He was 65 and lived in Oxfordshire. His relatives described
 Dr. Walter Bergman, an indefatigable civil rights advocate who was savagely beaten by members of the Ku Klux Klan in 1961 as one of the first Freedom Riders and won compensation for the attack from the F.B.I. more than two decades later, died on Sept. 29 in a nursing home in Grand Rapids, M
 Dr. Sidney H. Silverman, a specialist in obstetrics and gynecology who practiced for 45 years in Brooklyn and Queens and on Long Island, died on Sept. 27 at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 75 and had lived in Florida since retiring in 1990. The cause of death was not immediately
 Larry Wynn, a lyricist who wrote the words for the 1941 novelty hit ''Five Guys Named Moe,'' died on  Sept. 28 at Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. He was 89 and lived in Cliffside Park, N.J. Mr. Wynn's lyrics for ''Five Guys'' were combined with music by Jerry Bresler, and the song
 Milt Jackson, the jazz vibraphonist who was a member of the Modern Jazz Quartet for 40 years and was one of the premier improvisers in jazz with a special brilliance at playing blues, died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Teaneck, N.J.       
 Otto Storch, a magazine art director and advertising photographer who introduced an expressive typographic style to women's magazines as part of a revolution in editorial design, died on Sept. 29 at a hospital in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 86. In the late 1950's Mr. Storch wa
 BLACK-Edward. Age 90. Beloved husband for 63 years of Muriel Fleischman Black, wonderful father of Jo Ann and Howard Chase, adored and adoring Grandpa Eddie to Adam Chase, loving brother to five siblings and Uncle Eddie to every child he ever met. He was ''The Baron'' of the New York Journa
 FEDERMAN-Herman L. (Hy). Beloved father, grandfather, brother, uncle and friend, former Deputy Administrative Director of the Workers Compensation Board, died on Friday, October 8, after a long illness. He is survived by his children, Paul, Barbara, Jane and Eric, and his grandchildren, Flo
 STERN-Sanford. On October 9, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Marcia. Loving father of Lisa, Adam and Geoffrey, and father-inlaw of Linda Block and James Ricciardi. Adored son of Laura Stern and the late Jerry Stern, and sonin-law of Betty Fox Maged and Myron Maged. Cherished brotherin-law
 Dr. Sydney E. Salmon, a cancer researcher and founder of the Arizona Cancer Center in Tucson, died on Wednesday at his home in Tucson. He was 63. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Laurie Young, a spokeswoman for the center. In the 1970's, Dr. Salmon and Dr. Anne W. Hambu
 The Rev. Bruce Ritter, who founded a shelter for runaways in 1969 and then resigned under pressure as its president in 1990 after being accused of financial and sexual improprieties, died Thursday at his farmhouse near Decatur, N.Y. He was 72. Benjamin L. Meyers, the director of the
 George Forrest, the songwriter who collaborated with Robert Wright on the words and music for the songs ''Stranger in Paradise'' and ''Baubles, Bangles and Beads,'' died on Sunday in Miami, where he lived. He was 84. Mr. Wright, who was Mr. Forrest's writing partner for the last 72 
 Louis F. Claiborne, a deputy solicitor general who argued more than 60 cases on behalf of the Government before the Supreme Court and was noted for the elegance of his legal briefs, died on Wednesday at his home in Wivenhoe, Essex, England. He was 72 and also had a home in Nerja, Spain.    
 Dr. Marvin G. Freid, who was a dentist for more than 50 years, mostly in Manhattan, died on Friday at a hospital in Cortlandt Manor, N.Y. He was 89. Dr. Freid practiced dentistry from 1933 to 1984, including three years in the Army during World War II. Marvin George Freid, who lived
 Morris West, who used his power as a storyteller and fascination with Roman Catholic faith and morals to spin more than two dozen novels, many of them best sellers like ''The Devil's Advocate'' and ''The Shoes of the Fisherman,'' died on Saturday in Sydney, Australia, where he lived. He was
 FRIEDMAN-Isidore. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Sidney Friedman on the loss of his beloved father. May the families be comforted among the mourners of Zion & Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 HOLLOWAY-Bruce. The New York Institute of Technology community records with profound sorrow the passing of General Bruce Holloway, American patriot and longtime member of the college's Board of Trustees. The epitome of courage and integrity, he will be sorely missed. Our deepest condolences
 KEAST-Charles Raymond, 86 years old, son of the late Charles Horace Keast was born in Bisbee, Arizona, on January 22, 1913. As a child, Charles Raymond Keast worked in the copper mines of Selps Dodge before going to San Francisco where he became affiliated with the Works Progress Administra
 LEDERMAN-Frances. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Harvey Lederman on the loss of his beloved mother. May the families be comforted among the mourners of Zion & Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 MUSKIN-Nathan J., 81. On October 11, 1999 of prostate cancer at his home in Mayfield, NY. Resident of Scarsdale NY for 40 years, Lifetime career in the metal industry. Beloved huband 53 years of Nancy Hertz Muskin. Father of Lynn Lettre (Michel) of Owings Mills, MD., and Janet Rutchik (Stua
 PANOFF-Sidney, 84. Of Hallandale, Fl. Passed away Oct. 9, 1999. Survived by his wife Lorraine. Sons Allen, Robert (Janice), and Victor. Grandchildren Sharon, Jody, Brian, Bradley, and Rebecca. Graveside services Wednesday at 11:30 AM (October 13th) at Beth David Cemetery, Elmont, New York. 
 PEPINE-Arthur, at age 62. Of 100 Furman Road, Hamden, CT. Died October 7. Husband of Suzanne Tucker. He was the Assistant to the Dean of Yale School of Drama and a human and disability rights activist. Memorial service Wednsday at 3:30PM in Battell Chapel, Yale University, New Haven, CT.   
 PORT-Leon. On October 11, 1999 at age 93. Beloved husband of Estelle. Loving father of Beth Ann & Allan Fuld and Penny and Peter Glazier. Devoted grandfather of Mathew and Lara Glazier, Andrew & Julie Fuld, Jody & John Atkins. Great-grandfather of Jacob Fuld. Funeral services will held at t
 PRESS-Harvey. October 9, 1999. In loving memory of a very special person who has touched so many with his special ways. Your passing is a loss and empty feeling that with definitely take time to heal, but will never diminish. We are fortunate to have had you for our friend for so many years
 ROBERTS-Bertram William on October 9, 1999. Loving husband of the late Ruth Helene Roberts. He is survived by his son Kenneth Roberts and wife Kathy, daughter Janice Richman and husband Gilbert, daughter Eileen Roberts and grandchildren Jennifer Jones and husband Steve, Timothy and Gregory 
 SHELKAN-Gregor, Hazzan. The Cantors Assembly records with sorrow the passing of one of our founding members, past President, beloved colleague, teacher, friend and tireless worker on behalf of the Assembly and Hazzanut. The possessor of a magnificent voice, he quietly and gently served the 
 VOGEL-Harvey L. Age 61. Died peacefully in the presence of his family on October 9, 1999. Harvey is survived by his wife Laurie, his children Howard, Judi, Hilary, Jordan and Victoria, his brother Bruce and his aunt Ethel. A memorial service will be held at Gutterman-Warheit Memorial Chapel
 WIENER-Robert. Age 82. Died after a short illness on October 9, 1999. He is survived by his beloved wife Annaabelle, his children, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. A gathering of friends and family will be held Tuesday, October 12th at 2:30 P.M., at the United Nations Church chapel at
 WILDRICK-Stanley Donald of Chatham, NJ and E. Quogue, NY on October 10, 1999. Husband of Carolie P., father of Donald of Park Ridge, NJ, & Carolie Johnson of Chatham, NJ. He is also survived by a granddaughter Kristen, and a brother Rev. Dr. Kenyon J. Wildrick. A funeral service will be hel
 David A. Huffman, who developed a fundamental mathematical technique in the early years of computer science that remains vital to data storage and transmission, died on Thursday in a hospital in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 74 and lived in Santa Cruz. He died after a 10-month battle wi
 COBB-Henry. For the past 19 years, Henry Cobb enjoyed life with his beloved wife Eliza with whom he shared many interests and a loving devotion to their extended family. The Trustees and Staff of The Museum of Modern Art are deeply saddened and mourn his loss. To Eliza, his children, Sheila
 COPPINGER-Robert V. On October 11, 1999 in Doylestown, PA. Owner WXMC Radio, formerly with Buckley Radio Sales, Petry Co. and Metro Radio. Beloved husband of Margaret Mary. Devoted father of Donna M. Coppinger, Carol A. Wagner and the late Robert V. Jr. Brother of Jane Taylor. Also survived
 deSIMONE-Paul. Beloved son of Jack and the late, Adele; brother of Diane deSimone Hamilton and James Hamilton, died suddenly October 11, 1999. He was blessed with a huge generous heart and an intelligence that was a beacon for nurturing all races and people. Paul was a renaissance man with 
 FEINSTEIN-Marnin, Dr. On October 10, 1999. Of Raanana Israel formerly of Paramus, NJ. Professor of Jewish History and Hebrew Literature at City College of New York and Columbia University. Dean of Herzliah Hebrew Teachers Institute of New York. Accomplished author, artist, musician and orat
 GAYNOR-Edward H. On October 12, 1999. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Loving father of Jeffrey and his wife Paula. Cherished grandfather of Adam, Jessica, Scott and David. He will be deeply missed. Service Wednesday 12:45 PM at the ''Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 GILDSTON-Dr. Harold. Beloved husband of Phyllis. Devoted father of Eva Rochelle Close, and the late Jessica Nan Gildston. Loving brother of Sarah Kohn. Naval Officer during WWII, and Professor at C.W. Post College of L.I.U. for 35 years. Services Sunday October 17, 1999 at 1 P.M. at ''River
 GRAINGER-Isaac B. The United States Golf Association (USGA) notes with great sorrow the passing of Isaac B. Grainger, the organization's president from 1954-1955. Mr. Grainger died on October 12 at the age of 104; he resided in Wilmington, N.C. Mr. Grainger served the USGA in a number of ca
 HOLMES-William C. Beloved son, brother, and friend of Emilie Holmes, Peter Holmes, and Frank D'Accone, at age 71 on October 11, 1999 at his home in Laguna Beach, Calif. He was Professor Emeritus of Music at the University of California, Irvine, and formerly taught at Cornell University. He 
 JUCOVY-Milton E., M.D. The Officers and Members of The New York Psychoanalytic Society and Institute express their profound sorrow at the death of their respected and beloved colleague and member, Dr. Milton E. Jucovy. He was Training and Supervising Analyst for many years, and contributed 
 LEWIN-Natalie. The officers, Board of Trustees, Congregation and Clergy of The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourn the passing of Natalie Lewin, beloved mother of our devoted member John Lewin. We extend condolences to John and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson 
 MESSINGER-Jerome S. Age 64. Died October 9, 1999. Beloved father to Sharon and Dawn. Devoted grandfather to Ashley and Joshua. His big heart and huge smile will be missed. Donations may be sent to Animals Can't Talk, P.O. Box 630408, Little Neck, N.Y. 11363.       
 MURAD-Jacob. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Violet and the family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch of the Bd Paul S. Schreiber, President       
 MURRAY-John J. of Rutherford, formerly of Ridgefield, died on Monday, October 11. He was 66 years old. He served with the US Navy during the Korean war, and was a Graphic Art salesman for Align Media, of New York City. For information Blackley Funeral Home and Cremation Services, Ridgefield
 MUSKIN-Nathan J. We extend heartfelt condolences to Nancy Hertz Muskin and daughters, Lynn and Janet on the passing of their beloved husband and father. A longtime supporter and Golden Founder together with his wife, Nancy, his exceptional commitment to tzedakah and chesed played a vital ro
 ROSS-John J. Youngest brother of Lillian and Danny, as a brother, he was my best friend for over 75 years and was always so cheerful and happy to be with. We will miss you, brother John, and we love you forever. Danny and Norma Ross Joan Ross and Paul Ross ROSS-John. They were our t
 STERNS-William S. Jr., of Ponte Vedra Beach, FL, age 88, on October 11, 1999. Beloved husband of 60 years of Harriette Beeson Sterns, father of Heidi Merrill Luxner and William S. Sterns, III, grandfather of Reed, Sara, William IV, Stefan and Olivia; W.W. II recipient of the United States L
 WALDMAN-Joseph, M.D. Of Philadelphia, PA, on October 9, 1999 at age 93. Husband of Lillian (nee Cades). Father of Julia Waldman Rasch, Julian David Waldman and Joanna Waldman. Brother of Ann Feldman. Also survived by 7 grandchildren and 1 great-grandchild. In lieu of gifts or flowers, contr
 WIDMANN-Marcus, M.D., on October 10, 1999, at the age of 94, after a short illness. Beloved husband of the late Dina Sander Widmann. Cherished father of Roger and Judith Widmann and Harriet and Martin Spitz. Adored grandfather of Daniel and Kenneth Widmann, and Emily McBurney, and Lisa and 
 The Rev. Bruce Ritter, who founded a shelter for runaways in 1969 and then resigned under pressure as its president in 1990 after being accused of financial and sexual improprieties, died Thursday at his farmhouse near Decatur, N.Y. He was 72. Benjamin L. Meyers, the director of the
 Wilt Chamberlain, whose size, strength and intimidation made him probably the most dominant player in basketball history, and whose 100-point game stands as one of the towering records in sport, was found dead yesterday in his home in the Bel-Air section of Los Angeles. He was 63. J
 Frank Frost, one of the foremost Delta blues harmonica players of his generation, died on Tuesday at his home on the street named in his honor in Helena, Ark. He was 63. The cause was cardiac arrest, said Otha Bush, deputy coroner of Phillips County, Ark. Born Frank Otis Fro
 Isaac B. (Ike) Grainger, former president of the United States Golf Association who was one of the country's leading authorities on the rules of golf, died on Tuesday at his home in Wilmington. He was 104. His nephew, Walker Taylor, recalled that a former U.S.G.A. president once tol
 James M. Logan, who won the Medal of Honor as an Army sergeant in World War II by single-handedly capturing a German machine-gun position in the first hours of the landing at Salerno, Italy, died on Saturday at a hospital in Longview, Tex. He was 78. The cause was cancer, said the R
 Martin Bartner, a former high school sports stringer who became publisher of The Star-Ledger of Newark and helped build the newspaper into the largest in the state, died Sunday at his home in Verona, N.J. He was 69. The cause of death was prostate cancer, said Donald E. Newhouse, pr
 BLONDER-Jerome. The Board of Governors of the Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member and dear friend, Jerome Blonder, and offers its heartfelt sympathy to his family and friends. David L. Rudnick, President Marshall L. Hess, Secretary       
 BUDD-William Brewster, 64, of Winchester, Massachusetts died Sunday, October 10, 1999 after a long illness. Born in Minneapolis, Mr. Budd graduated from St. Paul Academy in St. Paul, Minnesota. He received a B.E. from Yale University in 1958 and earned an MBA from the Harvard Business Schoo
 FANNING-Charles J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Charles J. Fanning, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. William J. Cronin, President Robert J. Reilly, Historian       
 GRAINGER-Isaac B. The Board and staff of ICD-International Center for the Disabled express deep regret at the passing of Isaac B. Grainger. For almost fifty years he was a devoted friend of ICD, serving with great distinction as an officer and trustee. His counsel and generosity will be mis
 GREEN-Samuel F. Passed away October 13, 1999 at the age of 100. Loving uncle to Mortimer and Adrienne Green and great uncle to Graham. Predeceased by his adoring brother and sister-in-law Louis and Doris Green. Sam was a dedicated and tireless life insurance agent for more than 60 years. He
 JORDAN-Alexander Boyd, M.D., 73, of Sarasota, Fla., formerly of New Rochelle, N.Y., passed away October 12, 1999. He is a graduate of New York University and the medical school at the University of Geneva, Switzerland. Services will be on Saturday, October 16th, in Sarasota. For more inform
 KAHN-Melvin, MD. On October 13, 1999. Beloved husband of Barbro. Devoted father of Jonathan and his wife Kandis and Mark and his wife Anna. A loving grandfather of Alexander Joseph. Devoted brother of Mona Weiss. Dr. Melvin Kahn will be remembered as a man dedicated to his family and to Mou
 LOVE-Robert A., M.D., Center Moriches, formerly of Bellport, New York. Born in Brooklyn, NY, October 4, 1913. Died October 13, 1999. Son of Dr. C.R. Love and Grace Anderson Smith. B.A., Brown University, 1937. M.D., Cornell University Medical School. Rotating Intern, King's County Hospital,
 OATES-James J. On October 12, 1999. Born June 27, 1935. Survived by his wife, Alice; his daughters Debra Rolland and Darlene Lelle; sons Wayne, James, Timothy and Kevin Oates; grandchildren Adrienne, Jason and Justin Lelle; brother Thomas and wife Ozell Oates; sisters Teresa McCue and Cathe
 ROSENBLUM-Sidney P. Beloved husband for 62 years of Sylvia Cantor. Dear father of Beth and Reuben Blumenthal, Pearl and Jerry Mann, Dr. Norman and Judith Rosenblum and Dr. Howard and Miriam Rosenblum. Brother of Birdie Silver, Jerome Rosenblum and the late Helen Winkler. Loving grandfather 
 ROSS-John J. Youngest brother of Lillian and Danny, as a brother, he was my best friend for over 75 years and was always so cheerful and happy to be with. We will miss you, brother John, and we love you forever. Danny and Norma Ross Joan Ross and Paul Ross       
 SANOFF-Frank. A kind, gracious person who epitomized the definition of the word-gentleman. Always pleasant. Unfailingly polite. A fine businessman with whom it was a pleasure to do business. A man of his word which is so rare in todays economic environment. We will miss him. We offer our de
 SARATH-Howard. October 13, 1999 of Lake Worth, FL. Formerly of NYC. Husband of Rosilyn. Father of Maureen (Robert) Oettinger and the late Peter. Father-in-law of Denise Sarath. Brother of Edward and his grandchildren. Alumni of NYU and former representative of American of Martinsville, VA. 
 SCHMELL-David. Died Wednesday, October 13, 1999 at age 52, peacefully after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Annette, loving father of Rachel and Joshua. Devoted son of Joseph and the late Hannah, dedicated brother to Michael and cherished son-in-law of Beatrice and Abraham Wexler. Servi
 WIDMANN-Marcus, M.D., on October 10, 1999, at the age of 94, after a short illness. Beloved husband of the late Dina Sander Widmann. Cherished father of Roger and Judith Widmann and Harriet and Martin Spitz. Adored grandfather of Daniel and Kenneth Widmann, and Emily McBurney, and Lisa and 
 Sam Cohen, who for decades occupied the No. 1 position at Zabar's salmon-slicing counter on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, becoming a star of the trade and a beloved neighborhood fixture, died Saturday of lymphoma in a hospital in Ridgewood, N.J., his daughter said. He was believed to be
 Dr. Earl Alison Evans, a pioneering biochemist who built up one of the nation's leading biochemistry departments at the University of Chicago, died on Oct. 5 at a hospital in Chicago, where he lived. He was 89. Dr. Evans, a professor emeritus and former chairman of the department of
 Frederick Christopher Belen, a Washington lawyer who helped speed the work of the country's growing post office through the establishment of regional distribution centers and the five-digit ZIP code,  died on Wednesday at Arlington Hospital in Virginia. An Arlington resident, he was 95.    
 Julius K. Nyerere, the founding father of Tanzania who used East Africa as a pulpit from which to spread his socialist philosophy worldwide, died yesterday in London. He was about 77 and was being treated for leukemia, and he suffered a major stroke last week. An uncharacteristicall
 Marvin Wood, who coached a tiny high school's basketball team to the Indiana state championship, portrayed in the 1986 movie ''Hoosiers,'' died on Wednesday in South Bend., Ind. He was 71. Woods's wife, Mary Lou, said the cause was lymphoma. The team's feat was legendary in 
 FORSYTH-Robert W. Died Wednesday, October 13, 1999 at the Wesley Health Care Center surrounded by his family. Born in Brooklyn, NY, he resided in Fresh Meadows, NY until 1992. He relocated to Clifton Park, NY upon his retirement from the New York Racing Association Mutual Department. He is 
 KAHN-Melvin, M.D. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health mourn the passing of our distinguished colleague, Melvin Kahn, M.D., Clinical Professor in the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine, who was associate
 KAVON-Paul, Cantor. Age 75. Loving husband of Devorah Finn Kavon. Devoted father of Shira, Burt Grossman, Aliza, Moshe Deray, son Eli. Beloved grandfather of Ariel and Eytan Deray. Loving brother of Ida, Joseph Kavon, Frances A. Schloss, Morris Kavon deceased. Sister-in-law Gertrude Kavon. 
 KERMELIS KNAUST-Christian George. Athlete and student from Rye, New York died unexpectedly on Saturday, October 9th at the New York United Hospital Medical Center in Port Chester, New York. He was 25 years old. He will be immensely missed by family members and countless dear friends. Memori
 KORON-Hyman. Formerly of Great Neck. August 9, peacefully in San Francisco. Beloved father of Judith Hoffmann and Barry Koron and father-in-law of Kate Tompkins. Adoring grandfather of Rose Madelin Koron. Loving husband of the late Edith Schultz Koron. Loved by extended family, friends and 
 RIDDLE-Donald H. The faculty, students, staff and alumni mourn with his daughter, Susan, the death of Donald H. Riddle, who was the second president of John Jay College of Criminal Justice from 1968 to 1975. It was his vision to join the liberal arts with the theory and practice of criminal
 SCHEPS-Donald. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Donald Scheps, an esteemed member and extend to his beloved wife, Millie and family its deepest sympathy. Arthur I. Frankel, President Saul Friedland, Secretary       
 SIDERS-Irving, 81, died suddenly on October 13, 1999. Beloved husband of Pat (nee Frost). Devoted father of Sandra and Robert Katz. Caring stepfather of Jan & Larry Nusbaum, and Dale and Richard Miller. Adored grandfather of Scott and Jill Katz, Sharon and Peter Kline, Jake and Max Nusbaum,
 STAAB-William du Pont Of Essex Fells, N.J., age 93, on October 8, 1999. He was architectural partner of Krahmer, Staab and Immen of Newark and Glen Ridge, N.J. Graduate of the University of Pennsylvania, School of Architecture in 1934. Former President of the Essex Fells School Board of Edu
 Richard B. Shull, an actor whose Walter Matthau-like face was familiar from television and film and who was portraying D. W. DeWitt in the current Broadway production of ''Epic Proportions,'' died yesterday in Manhattan at the age of 70. His wife, Deborah Thomas Shull, said the cause was a 
 Thomas H. Lake, the former president of Eli Lilly & Company, the multinational pharmaceutical concern, and former chairman of the Lilly Endowment, one of the largest private foundations in the nation, died on Sunday at his home in Carmel, Ind. He was 80. The cause was melanoma, said
 Donald H. Riddle, who as president of the John Jay College of Criminal Justice changed the institution's curriculum to produce ''educated cops,'' died on Monday at an assisted-care center in Newtown, Pa. He was 78. He had lived in Newtown and died after a long illness, said Richard 
 Irving Siders, a producer who exported the sights and sounds of Broadway to theaters across the nation, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan. The son of a mechanic and a shopkeeper, Mr. Siders grew up in Boston before hitting
 J. Franklin Hyde, a chemist who decades ago turned a useless sticky goo into a common family of industrial raw materials called silicones and who also invented a process for making an almost-pure glass used today in fiber optic technology, died Monday at his home on Marco Island, Fla. He wa
 Josef Locke, a tenor whose singing of traditional sentimental Irish songs brought tears to the eyes of audiences in Ireland and Britain in the 1940's and  50's and whose career was portrayed in the 1992 film ''Hear My Song,'' died today in a hospital in Clane in County Kildare, where he liv
 BAKER-Crowell, 68 years old of Lawrence, L.I. October 14, 1999. Survived by his wife, the Rev. Edyth K. Baker; a son L. Crowell Baker; a daughter Janann Telitz and a granddaughter Leigh Telitz. Memorial service Monday, October 18, 11AM, Trinity-St. John's Episcopal Church, 1142 Broadway, He
 BETCHER-Albert, M.D. On October 15, 1999 at age 88. Beloved husband of Gertrude. Loving father of Diane Dodge, Peter and William Betcher. Devoted grandfather of Karen Trister, Allison Dodge, Benjamin Betcher and Shannon Dodge. Dear brother of Ronnie Griff. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 107
 BURG-Joseph. The officers, trustees and staff of the Memorial Foundation for Jewish Culture deeply mourn the passing of Dr. Joseph Burg, the esteemed and distinguished chairman of our executive committee and a leader of world Jewry. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife and family. Ra
 BURG-Yosef. The Officers and Staff of United Jewish Communities deeply mourn the passing of Dr. Yosef Burg, a great Israeli leader and patriot who devoted his life to Zionism and the Jewish people. Dr. Burg was one of Israel's most respected public figures who served for many years in the K
 CUSANO-Michael C. Sr. of West Hempstead suddenly on October 14, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Lillian. Devoted father of Michael, Christopher and his wife Kara, Maria, and Stephen. Dear brother of the late Patricia. Fond cousin of John. Visiting hours will be Saturday 7-10PM and Sunday 
 DENNING-Peter J. On October 15, 1999. Of Jackson Heights for forty years, formerly of Chelsea. Survived by his devoted wife, Margaret (nee Clark). Mr. Denning is a veteran of foreign wars who participated in four invasions while overseas for three years. A graduated of St. Columba LaSalle A
 KAHN-Melvin, M.D. The faculty and staff of the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and Mount Sinai NYU Health mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague Dr. Melvin Kahn. Dr. Kahn first came to Mount Sinai in 1953 as an intern and went on to advanced tr
 KEATING-Pierson. Of Greenwich, CT and Vero Beach, FL. On October 14, 1999. Beloved husband of Jane R. Wettenhall Keating. Loving father of Elizabeth, Anne, Mary, David and Carolyn, and five step children. Dear brother of Nancie Hurley and Lois Learned. Graduate of Exeter Academy and Yale Un
 SHULMAN-Stephen on October 14, 1999. Cherished and beloved husband of Linda, adored father of Craig and Scott, devoted son-inlaw of Martha Rosner, loving brother of Harriet and brother-inlaw of Herb, Charles, Sheila, David, Judi, Louis and Marcy and very special uncle to his many nieces and
 SIDERS-Irving. The Board members of The Association for the Help of Retarded Children-New York League, mourn the passing of Irving Siders, beloved husband of our Board member Pat. We extend our heartfelt sympathy and love to Pat and members of his bereaved family. Caroline Hirsch President 
 STERN-Sanford. On October 9, 1999, my son who was the love of my life passed away. He had a great love for his uncle Jack Lupu and his aunt Rusty Remin and Morris Remin. His great joy was his first grandson Jackson who was the first born of his son Jeoffrey and Linda Stern. His niece & neph
 Yosef Burg, a seminal Israeli political figure who was a Cabinet Minister for 35 years as a head of the religious Zionist movement, died early today at Shaare Tsedek Hospital in Jerusalem. He was 90. Dr. Burg, a doctor of philosophy and an ordained rabbi, was last in public in July,
 Jean Shepherd, the New York radio raconteur whose rambling jazzlike monologues on the air puzzled many but delighted fans over two decades, died yesterday. He was believed to be at least 70. The Associated Press quoted his friend and business adviser, Irwin Zwilling, as saying he di
 Leo Lionni, who introduced an introspective sensibility to children's literature through the metaphorical characters Frederick, Swimmy and Little Blue and Little Yellow, died on Monday at his home near Radda in the Chianti district of Italy. He was 89. Mr. Lionni was an artist, maga
 BAKER-Crowell, 68 years old of Lawrence, L.I. October 14, 1999. Survived by his wife, the Rev. Edyth K. Baker; a son L. Crowell Baker; a daughter Janann Telitz and a granddaughter Leigh Telitz. Memorial service Monday, October 18, 11AM, Trinity-St. John's Episcopal Church, 1142 Broadway, He
 BETCHER-Albert, M.D. On October 15, 1999 at age 88. Beloved husband of Gertrude. Loving father of Diane Dodge, Peter and William Betcher. Devoted grandfather of Karen Trister, Allison Dodge, Benjamin Betcher and Shannon Dodge. Dear brother of Ronnie Griff. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 107
 BURG-Rabbi Josef. We extend sincerest condolences to Rivka Burg and her children Avraham and Ada on the loss of her beloved husband and their father. Throughout his life, Rabbi Burg personified the highest values of chesed and service to Klal Yisrael. His friendship and efforts on behalf of
 CRISSEY-Gary Eugene. On October 13th at age 61. Loving father of Pamela Ragusa & Nicole Mitchell. Grandfather of Isabelle Mitchell. Son of Eugene and Dorothy Crissey and brother of Jon Crissey. Memorial service at St. Patrick's Old Cathedral, Mott and Prince Streets. Interment private. Cont
 EVANGELIST-Felix G. Of Stamford, formerly of Greenwich, CT. On October 14, 1999. Survived by his wife, Elinor Sautter Evangelist, and his grandson, Andrew Gropper. Father of the late Jane E. Gropper.       
 FREID-Marvin G., Doctor. Of Putnam Valley, New York, and formerly of Eastchester, New York. Survived by wife Eunice Humphrey. Father of Maxine and Dick Haigh, Marvin Jr. and Lee Freid. Grandfather of Jennifer and Carl Luposello, Richard Jr. and Debbie Haigh, Brian Kelly Freid & Donna Freid.
 GLADSTONE-Kenneth. On October 15, 1999. Beloved husband of Lucille of 52 years. Dear father of Adrienne (Russ) Fierman and Robert Gladstone. Adored grandfather of Ariele, Adam, Alanna & Stephany. Dear brother of Ernest Gladstone. Services Sunday, October 17, 1:15 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76
 JACOBSON - Nathan Hanford, D.D.S. Age 89. First dentist in Elmont, L.I. Son of Dora Menken and Harry Jacobson. Brother of the late Eugene Debs Jacobson and Sylvia Feldhammer. Husband of Roslyn (nee Sank) and father of Eric, Neil, Donna and Mark. Grandfather of Alexander, William, James, Cec
 JENSEN-Harold Jim. October 16. Print and broadcast journalist for 45 years. Beloved husband of Rachel Gordon. Loving father of Denene, Heidi and Lisa, and the late Randall, and the proud daddy of Noah. He leaves five grandchildren and his sisters June and Arlene, and brother Carl. He will b
 KAHN-Melvin, M.D. The faculty and staff of the Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and Mount Sinai NYU Health mourn the loss of our esteemed colleague Dr. Melvin Kahn. Dr. Kahn first came to Mount Sinai in 1953 as an intern and went on to advanced tr
 KEATING-Pierson. Please join friends and family at a Memorial Mass, 2 PM, Sunday, October 17th, Saint Michael's Church, Greenwich, CT. In lieu of flowers donations to Helen Keller International. KEATING-Pierson. Partners and friends of Pierson Keating at Nordeman Grimm express their
 KOVENETSKY-Sam. October 15, 1999, at age 87. Adoring and beloved husband of Betty. Loving father of Rolf and Regina. Dear grandfather of David and Rachel Kovenetsky. Devoted step-father of Rick and Chris Shain. Stepgrandfather of Brahman, Autumn and April. Great-grandfather of Cody. A man o
 LAMBERT-Jean. Born December 31, 1914, died August 6 in Paris. This remarkable writer, teacher, translator, and meilleur des amis will not be forgotten by former Smith College colleagues and students as well as all other American friends. For info (post-Smith life, French obits, books includ
 MAYER-Seymour. Died October 13, 1999. He was almost 102. Beloved husband of the late Clara Mayer. Loving father of Marjorie and Martin Diamond. Cherished grandfather of Caryn and Ned. Private services were at graveside.       
 SHULL-Richard B. On October 14, 1999. Beloved husband of Deborah Thomas Shull. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St. on Sunday from 2-4 and 6-9 PM. Funeral service at ''The Little Church Around the Corner'' 1 E. 29th St., on Monday, 12 noon. Interment Kensico Ce
 SIDERS-Irving. We have loss a very special friend. Your life was an example of love and dedication. We will always treasure your wit and humor. To his wife, Pat and entire family, we extend our sincere condolences. We will miss you Irv. Jane and Larry David SIDERS-Irv. A good man an
 STECKLER-William. 98, of Lakewood, FL, formerly the Bronx, NY, passed away October 13, 1999. Predeceased by his wife, Jeanne. Beloved father of Dr. Stanley A. (Thelma) Steckler of Smithtown, NY, and Richard (Jan) Steckler of Los Angeles, CA. Loving grandfather and great grandfather. Gravesi
 STEIN-David. Artist, passed away on October 14 in Bordeaux, France at age 64. He will be remembered by his family and friends for his unique talent and charismatic personality. He is survived by his four children, his son Emmanuel, from New York and Cecilia, Fred and Jason from California. 
 VERSHAY-Norman C. Of Roselle, NJ, on Sunday, October 10, 1999. Husband of Betsy (Griswold) Vershay. Memorial service will be at a future date. In lieu of flowers, donations to Center for Hope Hospice, 176 Hussa Street, Linden, NJ, 07036 in his memory would be appreciated. For information co
 WAGNER-Robert. Sarah Lawrence College notes with sorrow the death of Robert Wagner, brilliant literature scholar, beloved teacher, member of the college faculty, 1953-1999, and Dean of the College, 1971-1977. We extend our deepest sympathy to his brother C. Roland Wagner, his wife Anneliese
 WEISER-Kurt. Died in a car accident October 14, 1999. A senior scientist with IBM and Professor at the Technion in Haifa, Israel, Dr. Weiser fled Austria in 1938, served in U.S. Army and was educated at Harvard and Cornell. He will always be remembered with great love by his wife, three son
 WILLIAMS-Clayton. The Center for Alternative Sentencing and Employment Services mourns the passing of our dear friend, colleague and trustee. For over 20 years, Clayton worked tirelessly to set up and maintain a community service sentencing program, dedicated to helping poor, non-violent cr
 William Gottlieb, a real estate investor who was believed to be one of the largest owners of property in the West Village of Manhattan, died Oct. 5, according to The Villager, a neighborhood newspaper. He was 64. He had recently suffered a stroke, said William Shutkind, an engineer 
 Jean Shepherd, the New York radio raconteur and author whose rambling jazzlike monologues on the air puzzled many but delighted fans over two decades, died Saturday . He was believed to be in his 70's. Irwin Zwilling, his friend and business adviser, said in a prepared statement tha
 Jim Jensen, a gravelly voiced and popular WCBS-TV news anchor and news reporter who was a major figure in New York television for years, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 73 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was apparently a heart attack, said fo
 Dr. John G. Clark, a Harvard psychiatrist whose study of new religious sects in the 1970's raised public awareness of the overwhelming influence of some groups over their members, died on Oct. 7 at a nursing home in Belmont, Mass. He was 73 and had been suffering from a long illness, his fa
 BAKER-Crowell. The Trustees of The Church Club of New York note with sorrow the death of their fellow Board Member, Crowell Baker, and send their heartfelt condolences to his family. Chauncey G. Olinger Jr., Pres.       
 BETCHER-Albert, M.D. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our friend and former colleague Albert Betcher, M.D., who served with distinction for many years as our Director of Anesthesiology. To his wife Gertrude, the entire Betcher family and 
 BRODSKY-Harold P. Born on November 18, 1920, in Rockaway, NY. Passed away on October 17, due to a brief illness. Son of the late William and Beatrice Brodsky. He is survived by his loving and devoted wife Shirley; his loving sons Peter (Vangela) and Stephen; grandchildren Nicole, Brett, Che
 CRISSEY-Gary Eugene. On October 13th at age 61. Loving father of Pamela Ragusa & Nicole Mitchell. Grandfather of Isabelle Mitchell. Son of Eugene and Dorothy Crissey and brother of Jon Crissey. Memorial service at St. Patrick's Old Cathedral, Mott and Prince Streets, Tuesday, October 19, 2 
 DRAGO-Rosario P. (Bud), M.D. On October 16, 1999. Beloved husband of Betty (nee Brisgal) Drago. Loving father of Joseph, Mariann Drago Berliner, Carl, Bud, John, Eleanor Drago-Severson and Paul. Cherished brother of Sylvia Romeo. Loving grandfather of 17 grandchildren and two greatgrandchil
 DRITZ-Stanley L. Age 88. Beloved husband of 63 years of Dorothy, devoted father of James, loving grandfather of three and greatgrandfather of three. He was the former President of John Dritz and Sons, Inc, as well as President of The National Notion Association and captain of the Syracuse U
 EVANGELIST-Felix G. Of Stamford, formerly of Greenwich, CT. On October 14, 1999. Survived by his wife, Elinor Sautter Evangelist, and his grandson, Andrew Gropper. Father of the late Jane E. Gropper.       
 JENSEN-Harold Jim. October 16. Print and broadcast journalist for 45 years. Beloved husband of Rachel Gordon. Loving father of Denene, Heidi and Lisa, and the late Randall, and the proud daddy of Noah. He leaves five grandchildren and his sisters June and Arlene, and brother Carl. He will b
 KEATING-Pierson. Partners and friends of Pierson Keating at Nordeman Grimm express their heartfelt sympathies in the death of one of their founding partners and esteemed colleague. Executive search pioneer, sportsman, philanthropist and gracious friend to all, he will be deeply missed. We s
 KOVENETSKY-Sam. October 15, 1999, at age 87. Adoring and beloved husband of Betty. Loving father of Rolf and Regina. Dear grandfather of David and Rachel Kovenetsky. Devoted step-father of Rick and Chris Shain. Stepgrandfather of Brahman, Autumn and April. Great-grandfather of Cody. A man o
 SHULL-Richard B. We mourn the loss of our fellow Player. A wonderful actor, his presence gave us great joy, many laughs and delightful companionship. He will be greatly missed. Our deepest sympathies to his beloved Deborah. The Players SHULL-Richard B. The Veteran Corps of Artillery
 TONKIN-Joseph. On October 15, at age 94. Beloved husband of the late Celina Tonkin. Loving son of the late Nathaniel Tonkin and Lily Freedman Tonkin and brother of the late A. Ted Tonkin. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81 St, Tuesday, 12 noon. Interment Mt. Neboh Cemete
 Richard Hough, a historian and novelist whose prolific career included books on Captain Bligh and a biography of the British war hero Earl Mountbatten, died on Oct. 7. He was 77 and had homes in London and Gloucestershire, England. Mr. Hough, the author of more than 90 books, built 
 Sam Renick, one of the country's leading jockeys half a century ago and later a pioneer in racing television and one of the founders of the Jockeys' Guild, died Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old. John Giovanni, executive director of the Jockeys' Guild, said that
 IT has become one of the enduring rituals on Capitol Hill: A bill to overhaul the nation's campaign finance laws is being debated on the floor of the Senate. Its advocates and their many allies on the editorial pages are in full cry, demanding change for the sake of a cleaner, bette
 Vernon de Tar, the organist and choirmaster at the Episcopal Church of the Ascension in Greenwich Village for 42 years and a teacher at the Union Theological Seminary, Yale University and the Juilliard School, died on Oct. 7 in Kennett Square, Pa., where he lived. He was 94. Mr. de 
 Harold Clarence Passer, an economic forecaster for business and the Government, including the Nixon White House, died on Oct. 8 at his home in Portsmouth, N.H., where he retired in 1983. He was 77. Dr. Passer served as Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Economic Affairs from 1969 t
 James E. Williams, who as a patrol-boat commander in the Vietnam War won the Medal of Honor and became one of the most highly decorated sailors in Navy history, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Florence, S.C. He was 68. Mr. Williams, who lived in Palm Coast, Fla., suffered a heart
 BURG-Joseph, Dr. AMIT is deeply grieved at the passing of a great religious Zionist and outstanding leader of the State of Israel. A Torah scholar and former teacher in the AMIT Eisenberg High School in Tel Aviv, Rabbi Dr. Burg was a good friend and advisor in AMIT's mission to save the for
 BURG-Yosef, Dr. Emunah of America expresses its heartfelt grief at the passing of our longtime friend, Dr. Yosef Burg, a revered spokesman for religious Zionism, advisor and counselor to prime ministers, a unique and irreplaceable Jewish leader throughout the world. We express our condolenc
 FORSDALE-C. Louis. Professor Emeritus of Communication and Education at Teachers College, Columbia University died at age 77 of a heart attack in St. Joseph's Hospital in Albuquerque, N.M. on Sept. 22. A gifted and compassionate teacher, scholar of the impact of mass communications on the f
 GORDON-Albert. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights, NY, mourns the passing of our beloved member Albert Gordon. We extend heartfelt condolences to his wife, Marcia, and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas President Martin Kay       
 JENSEN-Jim. An unfortunately brief but memorable time in our lives. Condolences to his beloved Rachel, adored Noah and Natalie and Mel. Barbara and Ralph       
 KOVENETSKY-Sam. The officers, members and staff of the Retail, Wholesale and Department Store Union mourn the loss of retired RWDSU vice president, Sam Kovenetsky. Sam was a devoted trade unionist and great leader whose lifelong dedication to working men and women and their families improve
 LERNER-Jules. The National Board of Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, mourns the death of Jules Lerner, husband of Shani Lerner, our esteemed colleague. We extend our heartfelt condolences to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, National P
 LIDDELL-Donald Macy. In deepest mourning, the family of their beloved Donald Macy Liddell has announced that on Sunday, October 17, he died at New York Hospital, after a long illness. The burial service will occur at the Woodlawn Cemetery in Baltimore. A Memorial Service will take place in 
 MILLER-Joel E., age 42. Died peacefully at home October 11, 1999. He is survived his beloved grandmother, Mildred E. Miller; his devoted brother Keith D. Miller; two nieces and a nephew; and many loving, appreciative friends. Contributions may be made to the Jacob Perlow Hospice, Attn: Paul
 ROGOVIN-Jack. Age 87, passed away on October 17, 1999 in Hollywood, Florida due to complications of pneumonia and a heart attack. Longtime teacher of French, Spanish & Russian and Guidance Counselor at Tilden High School in Brooklyn. Active in the Teachers Union. He served in the Army Signa
 SILVERBERG-Mark L. It is with great sadness that we mourn the untimely passing of the son of our beloved Board President, Michael Silverberg and his wife Charlottecourageous leaders in the forefront of the fight against mental illness. We extend our affection and heartfelt sympathy to the S
 SIVIGLIA-Alexander of Scarborough, NY, died on Sunday October 17, 1999 of heart failure. He was 95 years old. He is survived by his son Peter and Peter's wife Anne, his grandchildren Ellen and Judy and Ellen's husband Rich and a great-grandson Jacob. The son of immigrants, he illuminated th
 TONKIN-Joseph. On October 15, at age 94. Beloved husband of the late Celina Tonkin. Loving son of the late Nathaniel Tonkin and Lily Freedman Tonkin and brother of the late A. Ted Tonkin. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave, at 81 St, Tuesday, 12 noon. Interment Mt. Neboh Cemete
 Pierre Moulin, who with his business partner, Pierre LeVec, created the Pierre Deux fabric shops and the charming Provencal mix of colorful cotton, glazed tile and antique armoires known as the Pierre Deux look, died Sunday at his Greenwich Village apartment. He was 73. He died afte
 Sam Kovenetsky, a longtime labor leader in New York, died Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Kovenetsky was born in Romania on Aug. 12, 1912, and came to the United States in 1920. He left school in the ninth grade and held sever
 BRANDSTETTER-Robert Daniel, M.D., died at Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester on October 18 after a long illness. He was the beloved husband of Gwyn and cherished son of Christian Brandstetter. He deeply loved his children, William, Daniel, Jennifer, Karen, Elizabeth and Kathleyn. His
 BURG-Yosef. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum mourns the passing of Dr. Yosef Burg, Chairman of the International Council of Yad Vashem and esteemed elder statesman and scholar. Having fled the Nazis himself in 1939, Dr. Burg's fervent commitment to the survivors and memory of the
 CASHION-Archibald, H., 89, of Madison, NJ on Oct. 17, 1999. A man loved by family and friends who was a partner of the law firm of Whitman & Ransom. He graduated from Columbia University Law School and was a 50 year resident of Madison. Memorial Services will be held at the Grace Episcopal 
 HIRSCH-Ida. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of Ida Hirsch, beloved mother of our dear friend, Michael D. Hirsch. Michael, an esteemed memeber of the executive board of our Young Men's Division, and his wife, Jane, are respec
 HUET-Jean. The Board of Trustees and staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the sudden passing of Jean Huet, a Co-Chair of our Corporate Fund since 1993 and a longstanding patron of Carnegie Hall. We will miss his good humor and his steadfast support of great music. Our condolences go to his family a
 JOHNSON-James Warren. October 19, 1999. Beloved husband of Riccie. Loving father of James, Marla Truini, Michael, Meg Drago, Robert, Hillary Ramming, and Victoria Galow. Cherished grandfather & great-grandfather. He was a pioneer in the telecommunications industry. Friends may call at Frank
 LIDDELL-Donald Macy. In deepest mourning, the family of their beloved Donald Macy Liddell has announced that on Sunday, October 17, he died at New York Hospital, after a long illness. The burial service will occur at the Woodlawn Cemetery in Baltimore. A Memorial Service will take place in 
 READER-Stanley. The members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their longtime member and friend and express sincere sympathy to his family. Leonard Danon, President       
 RENICK-Samuel W. Passed peacefully at his home in Manhattan on Saturday October 16, 1999. Cherished uncle and grand uncle to Binnie and Avery. Sammy, a legendary figure in the racing world will be remembered by many. Funeral services to be held on Thursday, October, 21, 1999 at 10 A.M. at F
 ROGOVIN-Jack. Age 87, passed away on October 17, 1999 in Hollywood, Florida due to complications of pneumonia and a heart attack. Longtime teacher of French, Spanish & Russian and Guidance Counselor at Tilden High School in Brooklyn. Active in the Teachers Union. He served in the Army Signa
 SHOMER-Robert R. V.M.D. The Jewish Braille Institute of America mourns the passing of a long-time and dedicated Trustee, Dr. Robert R. Shomer. As a devoted friend of the blind and visually impaired he will be missed by those whose lives were enriched by his deep caring. May his memory serve
 SILVERBERG-Mark L. It is with great sadness that we mourn the untimely passing of the son of our beloved Board President, Michael Silverberg and his wife Charlottecourageous leaders in the forefront of the fight against mental illness. We extend our affection and heartfelt sympathy to the S
 SOKOLOFF-Albert Bertram born March 17, 1919 died October 18, 1999. Preceded in death by his wife and lifetime soulmate, Miriam. Adored father of Barbara and Alan Folkart, Judy and Peter Slade, Peter and Annie Sokoloff. Grandfather of Wayne, Jeffrey, Mark, Debra, Peter, Kristina and Jen. Gre
 SOLOMON-Nathan. Sutton Place Synagogue records with sorrow the loss of our devoted member and Patron. We were enriched by his profound knowledge of Judaism and friendliness. Condolences to the bereaved family. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President       
 WEST-Robert E., 73, Died early Saturday, October 16, after a yearlong struggle with cancer. He is survived by his sons Rodney, Stephen and Richard; by his stepdaughter Prudence Procter Haines; by five grandchildren Amber, Nick and Eliza West and Jennifer and Sam Haines; by his brothers Dona
 Calvin Griffith, who in his three decades as owner of the Washington Senators and their successor, the Minnesota Twins, personified a lost age when baseball teams were run as tight-spending family businesses, died yesterday at a hospital in Melbourne, Fla. He was 87. ''Calvin was on
 Former Prime Minister Jack Lynch, who declined to send Irish troops to fight the British police in Northern Ireland at the start of the sectarian violence there 30 years ago, died today at a hospital in Dublin. He was 82 and lived in Cork, his native city, south of Dublin. His restr
 James Abbe, a photographer who became an American folk art expert and dealer, died on Oct. 7 at his home in Brookville, N.Y. He was 87. Mr. Abbe, who was born in Lynchburg, Va., began his career in the early 1930's as an assistant to his father, the pioneering photographer James Abb
 BRANDSTETTER-Robert Daniel, M.D., died at Sound Shore Medical Center of Westchester on October 18 after a long illness. He was the beloved husband of Gwyn and cherished son of Christian Brandstetter. He deeply loved his children, William, Daniel, Jennifer, Karen, Elizabeth and Kathleyn. His
 ETTINGER-Frank J. Died October 19, 1999 in Baltimore. In grief we cherish the memory of his wit and wisdom, courage and love. Survived by his wife Irene. Sons Bruce and Peter. Grandchildren Jesse, Kerry, Brady and Claire. Sister Ruth. Services private.       
 HIRSCH-David, PhD. 69, of Providence, R.I. on October 19, 1999. Beloved husband of Roslyn, nee Zipper. Devoted father of Joseph Hirsch and Helene Wingens. Dear brother of Rosalyn Suchow. Loving grandfather of 2 grandchildren. Services will be held at Jewish Memorial Chapel, 841 Allwood Rd, 
 HUET-Jean. The trustees, staff and members of The Metropolitan Museum of Art's Business Committee mourn the passing of Jean Huet, Co-Chairman of the Metropolitan's Business Committee and formerly Chairman of the Museum's International Business Committee. Since 1993, he served as an advocate
 JENSEN-Jim. The Alcoholism Council of New York regrets the passing of Jim Jensen and remembers, with appreciation, his years of service on our Board of Directors.       
 KAUFMAN-Harold. On October 20, 1999, in Lake Worth, FL. The world is a lesser place today. Tiger passed away peacefully surrounded by his family. Survived by his beloved wife and best friend, Jean; his loving children, Carol Haberman, Barbara and Kenneth Silver, and Stephen and Ronni Kaufma
 PARMENTER-Charles Ross. In his 88th year, on October 18, 1999. Beloved uncle of Nina Visart of Pasadena, CA; Sandra Campbell of Toronto, Canada; and John Radcliff of British Columbia. Also survived by eight grandnieces and grandnephews. Ross was Music Editor of The New York Times from 1955-
 RUSHTON-Paula. The Board of Trustees of the Reece School express their heartfelt sympathy to fellow board member Wyatt Rushton on the death of his beloved mother Paula Rushton. We extend our condolences to the entire Rushton family.       
 SCHUMAN-Jack. 80, retired Executive Vice President of The Fink Baking Corporation, after a long and valiant struggle. A leader in the food service industry for over 50 years, he leaves behind his devoted wife, Rita, and beloved daughter, Mady, both of New York City. Service Friday 12 noon a
 WILSON-William H. On October 18, 1999, at home in Manhattan, from AIDS related illness. Born April 18, 1948, Middletown, CT. Predeceased by father, William F. Wilson Jr., and by mother, Dorothy Tefft Wilson; survived by sister and a family of loving friends. Author, editor, scholar; graduat
 Stanley L. Dritz, the last of four brothers whose gadgets made their family name a household word for generations of people who sew, died Saturday at the White Plains Hospital. He was 88. Mr. Dritz had lived in Palm Beach, Fla., since his retirement more than 30 years ago. W
 Benno C. Schmidt, the right-hand man of the financier John Hay Whitney and a pioneering venture capitalist who became an important backer of biotechnology ventures, a New York civic leader and the head of the Federal Government's war on cancer, died yesterday at his home in New York. He was
 Donald Macy Liddell Jr., a retired investment adviser, died on Sunday at New York Hospital. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Liddell was chairman of Templeton, Dobbrow & Vance Inc., the investment firm, from 1960 to 1974. The firm was created in 1940 by Sir John Templeton, the 
 EDELSTEIN-Ben. United Merchants legend, then career counselor to thousands, died of cancer yesterday. Brilliant, funny, not easy and never boring. He will be greatly missed by his loving wife Mal O'Reilly, son Cliff, daughter Joan, grandchildren Marc, Karen, David and everyone who knew him.
 EPSTEIN-Jack. An extraordinary person. For 93 years he brought a sense of joy and boundless energy to all aspects of his life and amazement to all who met him. He was a tireless worker for Union Temple of Brooklyn, Deborah Hospital, Child Care and other charitable organizations. His love an
 EPSTEIN-Norman, age 86, after a long illness. Father of Don, (Cara) and Susan Levitt. Loving grandfather of Morgan, Jacob, Jordan and Melissa. Graveside service Friday, October 22, 11:30AM, at Mt. Lebanon Cemetery, Glendale, Queens. Contributions may be made in Norman's name to the I.T.P. S
 KAUFMAN-Harold. On October 20, 1999, in Lake Worth, FL. The world is a lesser place today. Tiger passed away peacefully surrounded by his family. Survived by his beloved wife and best friend, Jean; his loving children, Carol Haberman, Barbara and Kenneth Silver, and Stephen and Ronni Kaufma
 MERRIAM-Joseph P., 88, former Pound Ridge, New York resident, husband of the late Frances R. Merriam, in North Branford, CT., October 16, 1999. A management consultant with Cresap, McCormick & Paget, he retired as Vice Chairman in the mid 1970's. Towards the end of his career he specialized
 PARMENTER-Charles Ross. In his 88th year, on October 18, 1999. Beloved uncle of Nina Visart of Pasadena, CA; Sandra Campbell of Toronto, Canada; and John Radcliff of British Columbia. Also survived by eight grandnieces and grandnephews. Ross was Music Editor of The New York Times from 1955-
 PERKINS-James B., a resident of Stamford, CT. died of cancer, on October 14, 1999 at his home. Born June 29, 1919, Plainfield, NJ, son of the late Seymour and Maude R. Perkins. Graduate of Rutgers University, Veteran of WWII, associated with Deering Milliken Inc. and Springs Industries unti
 SCHMIDT-Benno Charles. Died October 21, 1999. Beloved husband of Nancy Montgomery Schmidt; father of Benno, Jr., Ralph, Thomas (deceased), John, William; stepfather of James, Ruth and Stephen Fleischmann; grandfather of 15 and great-grandfather of one. Benno was born in Abilene, Texas, on J
 SCHUMAN-Jack. 80, retired Executive Vice President of The Fink Baking Corporation, after a long and valiant struggle. A leader in the food service industry for over 50 years, he leaves behind his devoted wife, Rita, and beloved daughter, Mady, both of New York City. Service today 12 noon at
 WILSON-William H. On October 18, 1999, at home in Manhattan, from AIDS related illness. Born April 18, 1948, Middletown, CT. Predeceased by father, William F. Wilson Jr., and by mother, Dorothy Tefft Wilson; survived by sister and a family of loving friends. Author, editor, scholar; graduat
 WOLARSKY-William, M.D. On October 16, 1999 in Palm Beach, Florida. Beloved husband of Anne (Rosengarten), loving father of Ellen Kuris of Princeton, NJ, and Dr. Evan R. Wolarsky of Pennington, NJ, devoted father-inlaw of Rosalie Wolarsky and Dr. Jay Kuris. Proud grandfather of Jeremy, Benja
 Ross Parmenter, a former music news editor of The New York Times and the author of several books on Mexico, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88. A member of the music staff of The Times from 1940 until his retirement in 1964, Mr. Parmenter wrote news, features, critic
 Bernie Privin, a big-band trumpeter who performed and recorded with Tommy Dorsey, Benny Goodman, Artie Shaw, Louis Armstrong and others, died on Oct. 8 in White Plains Hospital in White Plains, N.Y. He was 80 and lived in Hartsdale. The cause was colon cancer, said Elwyn Walshe, a f
 H. Stuart Hughes, a historian who wrote extensively on the intellectual history of modern Europe, died on Thursday in San Diego, where he lived as a professor emeritus of the University of California at San Diego. He was 83. Dr. Hughes wrote 12 books -- six  on intellectual and cult
 Jack Bromwich, who won the Australian Open singles championship twice in a tennis career that was interrupted by World War II, died earlier this week in Geelong, Australia. The ambidextrous Bromwich, who won 17 major doubles titles and was a prolific representative of Australia in Davis Cup
 Joao Cabral de Melo Neto, one of the century's most distinguished and influential poets in the Portuguese language, died here on Oct. 9 after a long illness. He was 79. In a career that spanned more than 50 years and inspired two generations of younger Brazilian writers, Mr. Cabral 
 John E. Sanders, a geologist and a longtime professor at Barnard College who was also a major figure 20 years ago in a plan to clean up the Hudson River, died Wednesday at a hospital in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. He was 73. The cause of death has not been determined, said his daughter, Ste
 Lord Grey of Naunton, the last official representative of the Queen of England in Northern Ireland, died on Sunday in Naunton, Gloucestershire. He was 89. From 1968 to 1973, Lord Grey was Governor of Northern Ireland, the British province. After that the post was abolished and Brita
 Dr. Nicholas C. Metropolis, a mathematician who was one of the initial team of scientists involved with the Manhattan Project and who later became a pioneer in computer science, died last Sunday at a nursing home in Los Alamos, N.M. He was 84. Dr. Metropolis was best known for his c
 BARSTOW-Richard I. who, for 50 years, practiced medicine from his office in Norfolk, CT, died peacefully October 19, 1999 in Middlebury, VT, surrounded by his family. He was 93. Born in 1906, he opened his medical practice in Norfolk in 1936, retiring in 1986. A memorial service will be hel
 DRUCKMAN-Irving October 21, 1999, in his 96th year. Beloved husband of the late Gladys and Abigail. Dear father of Daniel, Michael and Barbara Lokos. Adored grandfather of Kathy, James and William and great grandfather of Linus and Annika. Services were held on Friday, October 22nd.       
 PARMENTER-Charles Ross. In his 88th year, on October 18, 1999. Beloved uncle of Nina Visart of Pasadena, CA; Sandra Campbell of Toronto, Canada; and John Radcliff of British Columbia. Also survived by eight grandnieces and grandnephews. Ross was Music Editor of The New York Times from 1955-
 REISER-Albert I., M.D., of New York. On October 21, 1999 after an extended illness. Dear husband of Inez. Loving father of Janet and Peter. Devoted grandfather of Rebecca and Sarah. Dedicated psychiatrist. He will be greatly missed. Services on Sunday, October 24, at 9:30 AM at ''The Rivers
 WOLARSKY-William, M.D. On October 16, 1999 in Palm Beach, Florida. Beloved husband of Anne (Rosengarten), loving father of Ellen Kuris of Princeton, NJ, and Dr. Evan R. Wolarsky of Pennington, NJ, devoted father-inlaw of Rosalie Wolarsky and Dr. Jay Kuris. Proud grandfather of Jeremy, Benja
 ELAHI-Cyrus. One with love in his heart never dies.       
 Roscoe L. Egger Jr., a commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service in the Reagan Administration, died on Oct. 14 at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. He was 79 and lived in Green Valley, Ariz. He died after angioplasty to open  arteries in his heart, said his wife, Betty.        
 Clayton Williams, who used his experience as a criminal and a convict to help others like himself rejoin society, died on Oct. 14 in a Bronx hospital. He was 65. He died of complications from emphysema, kidney failure and heart disease, his sister Rosalie Knight said. Mr. Wi
 H. Stuart Hughes, a prolific historian, peace advocate and political gadfly who ran for the United States Senate against Edward M. Kennedy in 1962, died on Thursday in San Diego, where he lived as a professor emeritus of the University of California at San Diego. He was 83. Dr. Hugh
 James Sterling Moran, who became a legend in the publicity business with stunts like selling a refrigerator to an Alaskan Eskimo, died on Monday at a retirement home in Englewood, N.J. He was 91. His life might be described by two symbols: the exclamation point and the dollar sign. 
 AXLER-Melvin. 75, of Bal Harbour, FL, died October 20, 1999. Survived by wife Cynthia, daughters Marsha Weissman and Toni (Mark) Ginsberg, brother Joseph, grandchildren Jamie, Teddi and Perri. He was one in a million.       
 BONO-Ludwig P. August 9, 1906October 15, 1999. A notable New York architect with an excellent reputation for high quality architectural and interior design. He designed many churches, chapels, convents, mausoleums and other quality monumental designs for the Catholic Archdiocese of New York
 EPSTEIN-Jack. We mourn the loss of our friend and benefactor. Sincere condolences to his family. Child Care Women's League Lucille Silvey, President       
 GREENBERG-Joseph L. Beth Hatefutsoth, the Museum of the Jewish Diaspora, Tel-Aviv, Israel, expresses sincere sympathies to our Board Member and Campaign Chair, Stephen M. Greenberg and his wife Sandy on the death of Steve's beloved father. We offer the prayer that the memory of Joseph L. Gr
 HALL-Edward, III. Cooperators and staff of RNA House mourn the loss of Resident Manager Edward Hall, III. We shall miss him as a colleague and friend. We extend our deepest sympthay to his family.       
 KRAKAUER-David. Age 87, October 15. Beloved husband of the late Billie. Loving father of Mark and Jerry, and daughters-in-law Jane and Frances. Adored grandfather of Jason, Stephanie, Kimberly and Kyle. Veteran of WW II. He will be missed by many.       
 LIPSON-Herbert J., M.D. 86. Formerly of Baldwin, L.I., New York died Saturday, Oct. 16, 1999 in El Paso, Texas. Graveside Services were held at Fort Bliss National Cemetery, El Paso, Texas on October 18, 1999. Survivors include his wife, Genevieve, his sons Stuart of Miami, Florida and Mich
 MARGOLIN-Boris. He entered eternal life Rosh Hashanoh 5745. A loving man and a learned Jew. Dorothy       
 MILLER-Robert R. Beloved brother of Joan Hanie. Dear uncle of Kurt Hanie & Kristin Houghton. Loving great-uncle of Logan and Kevin Hanie, David & Jacklyn Houghton. Services on Monday, 10 AM, at Walter B. Cooke Funeral Chapel, 117 West 72nd Street, New York City. Friends may call on Sunday, 
 OWENS-Grady Jr. On September 12. Of Orange County, NY. Businessman and community leader. Son of the late Grady and Bridget Healy Owens. Born July 20, 1938. Survived by his wife of 29 years, two daughters, Diane Fulston, Erin Owens one son, Grady III and one grandson Bryce Fulston. A brother
 PIERCE-Lewis. Director, Singer, Actor. Died October 14, 1999 at home. Member of Actors Equity & the Musician's Union. Husband of Margaret. Father of Roy and Sara. Grandfather of James and Peter. The world is a less interesting place without him. Donations in his name may be made to the Jaco
 REISER-Albert I., M.D., of New York. On October 21, 1999 after an extended illness. Dear husband of Inez. Loving father of Janet and Peter. Devoted grandfather of Rebecca and Sarah. Dedicated psychiatrist. He will be greatly missed. Services on Sunday, October 24, at 9:30 AM at ''The Rivers
 SCHMIDT-Benno C. The City University of New York mourns the passing of Benno C. Schmidt, father of Vice Chairman of our Board of Trustees, Benno C. Schmidt Jr., financier, pioneering venture capitalist who backed biotechnology industries, health policy advisor to several Presidents, chairma
 SMITH-Arthur Rockwell. A resident of Truro, MA, and South Kent, CT, died at home on October 15, 1999. He was the husband of Margaret Walker Smith. He was predeceased by his brothers, George and Hayden Smith. Mr. Smith was born on April 26, 1910, in New York City, the son of Arthur and Alice
 SOD-Louis M., M.D. Died October 16, 1999 at the age of 73 due to diabetes and Alzheimer's disease. He is survived by his wife, Cynthia; his son and daughter-in-law, Paul and Matty; his son, Eric; his daughter, Ruth; six grandchildren, Yanky, Yossi, Batsheva, Baila, Rafi and Zev; his siter a
 SPATT-Sondra. Beloved mother of our esteemed Board Member, Robert Abrams. His lifetime of devotion to the aged is a tribute to his mother. We offer our most sincere condolences to the family. Menorah Home and Hospital Fred Abrams, President Paul Melinger, Chairman of the Board Shirley Windh
 WILSON-William H. On October 18, 1999, at home in Manhattan, from AIDS related illness. Born April 18, 1948, Middletown, CT. Predeceased by father, William F. Wilson Jr., and by mother, Dorothy Tefft Wilson; survived by sister and a family of loving friends. Author, editor, scholar; graduat
 FEDERICO-Gene. Philosopher, perfectionist, consummate magician with type, Gene put the ''art'' into Art Director and was a long time member and Hall of Fame laureate of the Art Directors Club. He will be remembered Tuesday, October 26, 6PM, at the ADC Gallery, 250 Park Avenue South.       
 LIONNI-Leo. 1910-1999. His beautiful books brought endless delight to children of all ages including this librarian. Sadly mournednever forgotten. Dr. Rose H. Agree       
 MALBIN-Harry S. February 15, 1888-October 22, 1970. Lovingly remembered by his daughters Hermine and Diane       
 RIKER-John L. To commemorate the first anniversary of his death, there will be a memorial service Wednesday, November 3, 1999, 4:30 PM, St. Ignatius Loyola Church, 84 St. & Park Ave., NYC.       
 AXLER-Melvin. The world and we have lost a rare gem of a man. Eternity has gained a beautiful soul. Deepest sympathy to Cynthia, his family and brother, Joe. Terry and Harvey Rosen       
 BLUM-Robert Edward. 100, of Salisbury, CT, died at his home October 22, 1999. Devoted husband of the late Ethel Halsey Blum. Survived by his son, John R.H. Blum and daughter-in-law, Jeanne C. Blum, and his daughter, Alice B. Yoakum and son-in-law, Robert H. Yoakum, all of Lakeville, CT; nin
 OSTRIN-H. Howard. October 23, age 88, after a very long illness. Predeceased by his beloved wife Ruth. Survived by his devoted daughter Abigail, and remembered always for his dedication to family, friends, the law and the Jewish community.       
 QUINN-Robert J. Passed away, surrounded by family at his home on the beach in Malibu, CA, after a long illness. He was 72. Bobby was born in New York, NY, October 3, 1927, and began his distinguished career with NBC in the 1940s as a mail clerk. He worked his way up, becoming Stage Manager 
 SUMERGRADE-Saul R. On October 23, 1999, after a brief illness, at the age of 93. Beloved husband of Alice, devoted father of Nancy and Donald Mutterperl, and Michael and Patti Sumergrade; adoring grandfather of John and Heather Mutterperl, Jeffrey Mutterperl, Jane and Jim Webster, and Jenny
 Robert Blanchon, a conceptual and video artist whose work often dealt with the subject of gay identity and AIDS, died on Oct. 4 in Chicago. He was 34 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was complications from AIDS, said the artist Mary Ellen Carroll, a friend. Mr. Blanchon, 
 Robert J. Quinn, the longtime director of NBC's ''Tonight'' show when Johnny Carson was host, died on Thursday at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 72. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Quinn, known as Bobby, was the director of the show from 1968 to 1992, when Mr. 
 Sigmund Diamond, a Columbia professor of sociology and history who studied American business titans, female industrial workers and Federal Bureau of Investigation information gathering, died on Oct. 14 in Norwich, Conn. He was 79 and lived in Salem, Conn. The cause was esophageal ca
 Van Arsdale France, the man who wrote the manual for teaching Disneyland employees precisely how to smile, died on Oct. 13 at a hospital in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 87 and a resident of Santa Ana, Calif. Mr. France brought a background in industrial relations to Disneyland, whic
 Walter Stone, the chief writer for the original ''Honeymooners'' television series starring Jackie Gleason, died on Wednesday in Miami Beach. He was 79 and lived on Bay Harbor Island, Fla. Mr. Stone began his career as a writer for the Robert Q. Lewis radio show on CBS. He also wrot
 Senator John H. Chafee of Rhode Island, the last of the Rockefeller Republicans and an increasingly isolated voice of internationalism and bipartisanship in his party, died on Sunday. Senator Chafee died of heart failure at the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md., a Washi
 ARTHUR-John W. Jr. On October 23, 1999. Husband of the late Doris Sawyer Arthur. Father of Meredith Quarrier, Eleanor Raybold and David Arthur. Also survived by seven grandchildren and three great grandchildren. Mr. Arthur began his banking career in Manhattan rising through the management 
 ASIEL-Betty L. The Board of Directors, Administration and staff of The Burke Rehabilitation Hospital note with deep sorrow the death of Betty L. Asiel, wife of Board Member, E. Nelson Asiel. Longtime friend and member of the Burke Auxiliary, Mrs. Asiel was an active volunteer at Burke since
 BLUM-Robert E. The Board and staff of Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, Inc. mourn the passing of Robert E. Blum, director emeritus since 1969. A major supporter of many New York institutions, he was crucial to the development of Lincoln Center, having served as treasurer from 1956 to
 ETKIN-George, died October 15, 1999 at 89 years of age. He was the widower of Sylvia Nash Etkin. He graduated from City College in NY and then received a law degree from Fordham University. He was a petty officer first class in the United States Navy during WW II. After the war Mr. Etkin wo
 GABLEMAN-Arthur. Age 87, of Sunrise, Fla. formerly of Flushing, NY on October 23, 1999. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia. Devoted father of David, Paul and Bruce. Loving father-in-law of Marge, Joan & Grace. Cherished grandfather of Glenn, Gregg, Amy and Keith. His kindness and sense of h
 GEORGITSIS - Nicolas M. Of Greenwich, CT., and Palm Beach, FL, on October 23, at his home. Husband of Iro Georgitsis of Greenwich and Palm Beach. Father of Melina Georgitsis of Paris, France and Michael and Ares P. Georgitsis of Greenwich, CT. Brother of Stamatis Georgitsis of Athens, Greec
 GIBIAN-George. 75. Unexpectedly, at home, in Ithaca, N.Y. on October 24, 1999. He was the Goldwin Smith Professor of Russian and Comparative Literature at Cornell University and a decorated veteran of W.W. II. He was born in Prague. Scholar, author, editor, translator and devoted family man
 GOLDBLATT-Jacob, 92, of Hollywood, FL passed away Monday, October 25, 1999. Formerly of Great Neck, NY and Passaic, NJ He was the beloved husband of Lillian Leibman Goldblatt, who passed away July 16, 1998. Mr. Goldblatt is survived by his devoted son, Mark and daughter-in-law, Ann & cheris
 GOLDENSON-Robert M., Ph.d 91 A Memorial Service was held October 23 at Princeton University. A Westchester resident for 40 years, he was Chief Psychologist of United Cerebral Palsy of Westchester, and the author of ten books. He is survived by his wife, Irene, of Jamesburg, NJ, two sons and
 KUHN-Jack W. Jr. The Officers and Board of Trustees of the Union of American Hebrew Congregations profoundly mourn the death of a cherished friend and colleague. A long time Trustee, Jack served our sacred cause with caring concern and dedication to the great ideals of our faith. We extend 
 LEFFELL-Rabbi A. Bernard. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague who was founding rabbi of Congregation Shaare Zedek in Montreal from his ordination in 1954 until his retirement four years ago. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Freda, sons Jonathan, Daniel,
 SCHMIDT-Benno C. The Board of Trustees and staff at The Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of our dear friend & former Trustee, Benno C. Schmidt. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to his children, Benno Jr., Ralph, John, and William; his stepchildren, 
 SCHWEITZMAN-Spencer Joseph. Suddenly, at the age of 18. Beloved son of Alfred and Susan, cherished brother of Sarah & Jason, adored grandson of Viola Sommer. He will be missed and remembered by many. Services on Tuesday, October 26, at 10 AM at the Ferncliff Cemetery and Crematory, Hartsdal
 SUMERGRADE-Saul R. On October 23, 1999, after a brief illness, at the age of 93. Beloved husband of Alice, devoted father of Nancy and Donald Mutterperl, and Michael and Patti Sumergrade; adoring grandfather of John and Heather Mutterperl, Jeffrey Mutterperl, Jane and Jim Webster, and Jenny
 TAGHINIA-MILANI-Parviz. On October 24, 1999 in New York City. Beloved husband of Nahid Taghinia-Milani, loving father of Leila Taghinia-Milani Heller, dear father-in-law of Henry Heller, adored grandfather of Alexander and Philip Heller. Interment will be private. A memorial service will be
 Even casual fans could recognize Payne Stewart on the golf course, with the trademark knickers, or plus fours, that he wore during competition. But beyond his colorful apparel, Stewart was recognized and appreciated for his talent and his competitive spirit. Demonstrative and outgoi
 Wayne E. Oates, the tireless writer of 57 books dealing with the relationship between theology and psychiatry, and the man who thought up the word ''workaholic,'' died on Thursday at a Louisville hospital. He was 82. In 1971, Dr. Oates wrote ''Confessions of a Workaholic: The Facts 
 David H. Hirsch, a professor emeritus of English and American literature and Judaic studies at Brown University, died on Oct. 19 at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. He was 69 and lived in Providence, R.I. He had been hospitalized for several weeks for intestinal surge
 Hoyt Axton, the amiably growly singer, songwriter and movie actor who wrote the Three Dog Night hit ''Joy to the World,'' died yesterday at his ranch in Victor, Mont., The Associated Press reported. He was 61 and recently suffered two heart attacks. Mr. Axton's songs often had a wry
 Luciano Soprani, a proponent of the slouchy, tailored look that dominated Italian fashion in the early 1980's, died on Saturday at a hospital in Milan. He was 53. Beppe Modenese, head of the Camera Nazaionale, which organizes Italy's fashion shows, said Mr. Soprani had been ill with
 Msgr. Jeremiah P. Monahan, who as chancellor of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York served as steward of the church's secular affairs, including financial matters, construction projects and administration, died Monday at a hospital in Manhattan. The chancellor, who was 65, en
 BARTOLF-Michael J., 50, passed away of brain cancer on October 23, 1999, he leaves behind his long time companion, Bill Keating, twin brother, Philip, and sister-in-law, Patsy, brother, Steven, and parents, Jane and Joseph. He was taken too soon and we all mourn his loss.       
 BLUM-Robert Edward, 100. Of Salisbury, CT, died at his home on October 22, 1999. Devoted husband of the late Ethel Halsey Blum. Survived by his son, John R.H. Blum and daughter-in-law, Jeanne C. Blum, and his daughter, Alice B. Yoakum and son-in-law, Robert H. Yoakum, all of Lakeville, CT; 
 COLLINS-Hugh Gawtry formerly of Millbrook, NY died at Bloomfield, CT Oct 24, 1999, age 94. He is survived by his wife of 68 years, Frances Fisher Collins, his daughter, Anne Flagler Collins, M.D., and sons, Dennis Gawtry Collins, Farnham Fisher Collins, and Anthony Philip Collins, seven gra
 LINETT-Paul. The Board of Directors of the Clothing Manufacturers Association of the USA mourn the loss of Paul Linett, retired President of Linett Clothes, Ltd., who had served both CMA as Board member and the clothing industry for many years with class and distinction. Our deepest condole
 LUBANKO-Walter A. Of Brookville, NY, husband of Mary Anne Lubanko, died on October 24, 1999. He was a graduate of Princeton University and Harvard University Law School. He started his career at the law firm of Simpson, Thacher and Bartlett in New York. He later joined Lehman Brothers and F
 McNERNEY-Peter Michael. A longtime resident of Manhattan died Thursday, October 21, at the University of California at San Diego Medical Center. The cause of death was complications from a chronic hepatitis B infection. Mr. McNerney is survived by his mother, Mrs. Mae McNerney of Valley Str
 MONAHAN-Jeremiah P., Rev. Monsignor. Suddenly on October 25, 1999. Chancellor of the Archdiocese of New York, loving brother of Patricia Paoli and her husband Ralph, Agnes O'Donohue and her husband John, Catherine Lessuk and Andrew Monahan. Dear uncle of Ralph, Brian and Andrew Paoli, Tara 
 NADER-Georgette. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff in the Department of Medicine in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Georgette Nader, the beloved mother of our dear friend and devoted colleague, Nadim Salomon, M.D. To Dr. Salomon, his 
 STEWART-Payne. The members and staff of Waterville Golf Club, Ireland, note with great sadness the loss of fellow-member and Honorary Captain, Payne Stewart. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his mother Bee, wife Tracey, children Chelsea and Aaron, and longtime caddy Michael Hicks.       
 TAGHINIA-MILANI-Parviz. On October 24, 1999 in New York City. Beloved husband of Nahid Taghinia-Milani, loving father of Leila Taghinia-Milani Heller, dear father-in-law of Henry Heller, adored grandfather of Alexander and Philip Heller. Interment will be private. A memorial service will be
 ZONA-James W., Reverend. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the pastor of St. Mary's Church, 10-08 49th Street, Long Island City, on Oct. 24. Reposing in Conway Funeral Home, 82-19 Northern Blvd., Jackson Heights, Wednesday, Oct. 27, from 2-5 and 7-9 P.M., and Thursday, Oct. 28,
 RIKER-John L. To commemorate the first anniversary of his death, there will be a memorial service Wednesday, November 3, 1999, 4:30 PM, St. Ignatius Loyola Church, 84 St. & Park Ave., NYC.       
 SAVAGE-David. October 27, 1989. Remembered with love by his family.       
 Andras Hegedus, a former Prime Minister of Hungary whose political odyssey transformed him from a dogmatic Stalinist apparatchik into an outspoken -- and barely tolerated -- dissenter, died on Saturday. He was 76. Reporting from Budapest, The Associated Press said he had a heart ail
 Gerald H. Trautman, a retired chairman, president and chief executive of the Greyhound Corporation, died Monday at a hospital in Phoenix, where he lived. He was 87. In 1966, Mr. Trautman, a lawyer, took over the struggling bus company and built it largely through acquisitions in the
 The Rev. Leonard E. Boyle, the former keeper of manuscripts and chief librarian of the Vatican Library, who was dismissed from his post in 1997, died on Monday in Rome. He was 75. Father Boyle died of cancer, said Ambrogio Piazzoni, vice prefect of the Vatican Library. The l
 ALPER-Ethan Devane. Beloved son of Susan and David Alper. Born on October 13, passed away October 26, 1999. Grandson of Shellie and Owen Alper and Bert & Frank Fender. You will always be in our hearts. In lieu of flowers, memorial donations in his name with a note of acknowledgement may be 
 BLUM-Robert Edward, 100. Of Salisbury, CT, died at his home on October 22, 1999. Devoted husband of the late Ethel Halsey Blum. Survived by his son, John R.H. Blum and daughter-in-law, Jeanne C. Blum, and his daughter, Alice B. Yoakum and son-in-law, Robert H. Yoakum, all of Lakeville, CT; 
 COLLINS-Hugh Gawtry formerly of Millbrook, NY died at Bloomfield, CT Oct 24, 1999, age 94. He is survived by his wife of 68 years, Frances Fisher Collins, his daughter, Anne Flagler Collins, M.D., and sons, Dennis Gawtry Collins, Farnham Fisher Collins, and Anthony Philip Collins, seven gra
 FRIEDMAN-Alvin S., 81, of Lake Worth, FL died on October 24, 1999. Born in Mt. Vernon, NY, he lived there until 1967, residing thereafter in Greenwich, CT and Somers, NY before moving to Lake Worth in 1995. He is survived by his wife Gloria, and was predeceased by his wife of 55 years, Fran
 HANDELSMAN - Joseph. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Joseph Handelsman. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Joyce, and their family. Morton West, President Daniel Amster, Secretary
 JOHNSEN-Charles Axel. Died at the age of 82, on October 26, 1999. Beloved husband of Julia. Loving father of Robert and Alfred. Cherished father-in-law of Joan and Christine. Loving grandfather of Katharine, Michael, Erika and Gregory. Fond brother of Mildred Cantwell. He served in the 82nd
 POLLACK-Seymour. On October 27, 1999. Beloved husband of Selma. Devoted father of Daryl, Glenn, Jill and Bruce. Cherished grandfather of Jeffrey, Daniel, Jennifer, David, Jason, Julie and Melissa. ''He will be remembered forever.'' Services Thursday, October 28th, 12:30 PM, Temple Beth Shol
 RODIN-Bernard M. The Chwatt family mourns the untimely passing of our longtime friend and business associate. We will all miss his clever anecdotes, warm smile, brilliant business mind, and tremendous sense of humor and wit. Our deepest sympathy to his wife, Fran, and his entire family. He 
 STERNBACH-Oscar, Jur. D. On October 25, 1999. Beloved husband of Ellen, loving father of Susanne Appel, and her husband, David Appel, adoring grandfather of Rebecca & Daniel. He will be profoundly missed. Services on Thursday, 1:15 PM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
 TAGHINIA-MILANI-Parviz. On October 24, 1999 in New York City. Beloved husband of Nahid Taghinia-Milani, loving father of Leila Taghinia-Milani Heller, dear father-in-law of Henry Heller, adored grandfather of Alexander and Philip Heller. Interment will be private. A memorial service will be
 WARTUR-M. Harry, 92, on October 27, in Queens, NY. Beloved husband of the late Bertha Stern Wartur, loving father of C. Lawrence Wartur & Susan W. Wolfson. Grandfather of Lisa Wartur Cohen, Ellen Paula Wolfson, Roger Samuel Wolfson. Funeral Service at Parkside Memorial Chapel, Queens Blvd, 
 Robert Edward Blum, a retired business executive and civic leader who was an early problem solver for Lincoln Center, died Friday at his home in Salisbury, Conn. He was 100. A native of Brooklyn, Mr. Blum graduated from Yale University in 1921, and the following year joined Abraham 
 Abraham Polonsky, a director and screenwriter who was an early Hollywood master of film noir and who worked under many disguises after being blacklisted in the McCarthy era, died on Tuesday at his home in Beverly Hills. He was 88. His movies included ''Force of Evil,'' a 1948 film a
 George J. Hill 3d, a co-founder of the Hill, Holliday, Connors, Cosmopulos advertising agency in Boston, died Friday at his home in Dedham, Mass. He was 66. The cause was prostate cancer, according to a statement from his wife, Virginia Hill. Mr. Hill, who was known as Jay, 
 James Velez, a medical riddle who inexplicably scratched himself to the point of self-mutilation and who was the center of one of the most ambitious attempts to attain an independent life for a profoundly disabled individual, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 25 and lived
 FREEDSON-Sam. The family of Forbidden Broadway send our deepest sympathy to our producer John Freedson on the death of his beloved father Sam. Sam was treasured by all who knew him. We extend our sincerest condolences to John's mother Anita and to David, Margaret and Ramon. FREEDSON
 FRIEDMAN-Alvin S., 81, of Lake Worth, FL died on October 24, 1999. Born in Mt. Vernon, NY, he lived there until 1967, residing thereafter in Greenwich, CT and Somers, NY before moving to Lake Worth in 1995. He is survived by his wife Gloria, and was predeceased by his wife of 55 years, Fran
 GOTTFRIEND-Moses. Our heartfelt condolences to Caroline and David Gabay on the passing of Moses Gottfriend, beloved father of Caroline and grandfather of Rebecca and Hannah. ''Goodness is forever.'' His goodness is your legacy. l Hineni Rebbetzin Esther Jungreis, Pres. Barbara Janov, Exec. 
 HUET-Jean. Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, SG Americas. A memorial service will be held on Friday, October 29 at 11AM at Church of St. Ignatius Loyola, 980 Park Avenue at 84th St., New York City. Born in Barcelona, Spain, Mr. Huet received his degree from the Paris-based Institut d'Et
 MARKS-Duke. His friends and family mourn the passing of a truly kind, generous-hearted man. Cherished husband of Daisy, beloved father of Walter and Peter, caring grandfather of Ben, Annie and Sam. We miss you. The Seckel, Corpuel and Teich Families MARKS-Duke. Always wonderful: lov
 MARTINEZ-Julio. The Project Return Foundation family mourns the untimely passing of our founder, who went on the become New York State Commissioner of Substance Abuse Services. His career was devoted to helping substance abusers find a better life through recovery. We honor his commitment a
 NEWMAN-Etta. Condolence to our colleague, Jerry Newman, on the loss of his mother, Mrs. Etta Newman. Your family at Leslie Fay       
 SUMERGRADE-Saul. Congregation Rodeph Sholom notes with sorrow the passing of our devoted long time member, Saul Sumergrade. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his beloved wife, Alice, and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Sr. Rabbi Mark Biderman, President.       
 WARTUR-M. Harry, in Queens age 92. Beloved husband of the late Bertha Stern Wartur. Loving father of C. Lawrence Wartur of Queens, and Susan W. Wolfson of West Haven, CT. Dear father-inlaw of Susan Joy Wartur & Steven Wolfson. Beloved grandfather of Lisa Wartur Cohen and her husband Robin J
 Rafael Alberti, one of Spain's most popular poets and the last member of the ''Generation of 1927,'' a group of artists whose ranks included the poet Federico Garcia Lorca and the film director Luis Bunuel, died today at his home in El Puerto de Santa Maria, in southern Spain. He was 96.   
 Dr. Theodor H. Benzinger, a medical researcher who invented the ear thermometer and a device to measure calorie loss, died on Tuesday at a retirement home in Bethesda, Md. He was 94. Dr. Benzinger worked at the Naval Medical Research Institute in Bethesda from 1947 to 1970. He studi
 Frank DeVol, the composer of more than 50 film scores along with such familiar television tunes as ''The Brady Bunch'' song, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Lafayette, Calif. He was 88. Mr. De Vol was one of Hollywood's most prodigious composer-arranger-conductors, winning re
 Dr. George Edward Valley Jr., an emeritus professor of physics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who helped build the country's radar defenses and was Chief Scientist of the Air Force, died on Oct. 16 at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. He was 86 and lived in Concord, Mass.      
 J. Howard Edgerton, who decades ago built the California Federal Savings and Loan Association into the nation's largest savings institution, died Oct. 14 at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 91. Mr. Edgerton, a lawyer, joined the Railway Mutual Building and Loan Association i
 Julio Martinez, a former drug addict who helped found the Phoenix House and Project Return programs for addicts and who eventually became the director of New York State's drug treatment programs, died on Thursday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 55 and lived in the Bronx. Th
 MARTINEZ-Julio. The Project Return Foundation family mourns the untimely passing of our founder, who went on the become New York State Commissioner of Substance Abuse Services. His career was devoted to helping substance abusers find a better life through recovery. We honor his commitment a
 POLLINS-Martin S. Retired radio, television and entertainment executive. Died on October 28, 1999 at the age of 80 in New York City. Martin was born in Manhattan and served in the Navy during WWII. He was a senior executive in spot sales for ABC and NBC, Vice President of Distribution for P
 REITMAN-Seymour. The sweetest and best of men. He will sorely be missed by all his family and friends. Norman & Barbara       
 WARTUR-M. Harry. The Jewish Center of the Hamptons mourns the passing of M. Harry Wartur, father of Charles L. Wartur. We extend our deepest condolences to Charles and his family. Rabbi David J. Gelfand Cantor Debra Stein-Davidson Donald Zucker, President       
 Dr. Robert L. Mills, a physicist who made major contributions to the study of subatomic particles, died on Wednesday at his summer home in East Charleston, Vt. He was 72. The cause was prostate cancer, said a statement from Ohio State University, where Dr. Mills taught for 39 years.
 Francis Whitaker, a blacksmith who never shod a horse but who helped preserve the 3,000-year-old craft of molding iron and elevated it to the level of an art, died Oct. 23 at a hospital in Glenwood Springs, Colo. He was 92. Before his own proficiency and that of the hundreds he woul
 Kenneth MacKenzie, an American dancer with Col. W. de Basil's Ballets Russes in the 1940's and a star of one of that troupe's most controversial productions, died on Sept. 23 at his  home in New Hope, Pa. He was 79. The cause was cancer, said his son,  Matthew. A native of C
 ALLEN-Michael Lewis. Age 61, on Saturday, October 30, after a short illness. Devoted husband of Beverly; adored father of Nancy Markhoff, Richard, and Jeffrey; and father in-law of Michael Markhoff, and Mari Korper Allen; beloved grandfather of Adam and Abigail Markhoff. Brother of Leonore 
 ALLEN-Sophie. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family and its parent company Continuum Health Partners Inc. join with the faculties and staffs of The Alan and Barbara Mirken Department of Neurology and the HymanNewman Institute for Neurology and Neurosurgery (INN) in mourn the passing 
 FREEDSON-Sam. The family of Forbidden Broadway send our deepest sympathy to our producer John Freedson on the death of his beloved father Sam. Sam was treasured by all who knew him. We extend our sincerest condolences to John's mother Anita and to David, Margaret and Ramon. FREEDSON
 FUTTERMAN-Sidney. Beloved husband of the late Myra. Loving father of Bennett and Lisa and Larry. Devoted grandfather of Shira, Jemma, Abby, Matthew, Noah, Heather, David and Rachel. Dear brother of Tem Weisman and the late Annette Goldenberg. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside,'' 1450 Broadway,
 GOLD-Abe. NCJW NY Section mourns the loss of Abe Gold, devoted husband of our esteemed Honorary Vice President, Honey Gold. He was respected and loved by all who knew him. His genial presence will be sadly missed. Bernice Friedes, Jean Krosner Co-Presidents Helen C. Heller, Exec. Director  
 GOLD-Abraham (Abe). Beloved husband of Honey. Devoted and caring stepfather of Steven Hirschberg, Rada Salomon, Peggy Noonan Foster & husband Dennis Foster. Cherished grandfather of Bran Noonan. Loving brother of the late Bill, Rose Rose, Rickey Lieberman and Sylvia Farber. Mentor and frien
 MARTINEZ-Julio. The phsicians and staff of the Methadone Maintenance Treatment Program (MMTP) of Beth Israel Medical Center join with their colleagues from Beth Israel's other chemical dependency programs, and with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowle
 MILLS-Robert Laurence, 72. Of Columbus, OH and East Charleston, VT, died of prostate cancer October 27, 1999 at his Vermont home. A member of the faculty at The Ohio State University from 1956 until his retirement in 1995, he was an elder of Indianola Presbyterian Church and active in the i
 POLLINS-Martin S. Retired radio, television and entertainment executive. Died on October 28, 1999 at the age of 80 in New York City. Martin was born in Manhattan and served in the Navy during WWII. He was a senior executive in spot sales for ABC and NBC, Vice President of Distribution for P
 SELMAN-Abbe J., Dr. Edie, Josh, Richie and the Selman family, please accept our heartfelt condolences on the loss of our dearest friend. A most generous, gentle, caring and compassionate man in both his professional and personal life. He was always there when anyone needed him. Dr. Norman E
 KORN-Jack. 6/18/10-10/31/94 Forever remembered and loved by his family.       
