 Rabbi Balfour Brickner, a voice of Reform Judaism on issues like race and abortion and the rabbi emeritus of the Stephen Wise Free Synagogue in Manhattan, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 78 and lived in Fort Lee, N.J., and Stockbridge, Mass. His death was announced to
 Ken Germann, a former football star and later athletic director at Columbia, and for 14 years the commissioner of the Southern Conference, died Aug. 24 in Glen Ellen, Va. He was 84. Mr. Germann was born in Garden City Park, N.Y. At Columbia, he was a football wingback and punter for
 Nurcholish Madjid, a prominent Muslim scholar in Indonesia who was instrumental in persuading President Suharto to step down, died here on Monday. He was 66. The cause was liver and kidney failure, according to Pondok Hospital in Jakarta. Mr. Madjid, known as the conscience of his n
 BRICKNER--Rabbi Balfour. Survived by his loving partner Marcia Soltes, his sons Adam and Rabbi Barnett, his sister Joy Rabinowitz and his four grandchildren, Alexander, Eve, Eli and Hasina. Services Thursday, 11AM, Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, 30 W. 68 St, N.Y. Contributions may be made in 
 CAMPBELL -- Father John ''Jac'', of Boston, August 29, 2005. Father John ''Jac'' Campbell of the Paulist Fathers died after a long illness on Monday August 29 at his residence at the Paulist Center in Boston. Fr. Jac was the loving son of the late Bertha (Walsh) and John P. Campbell, and de
 DAVENPORT--William (Gerald) on August 20, 2005. Beloved husband of Edith, devoted father of David and Dexter. Loving father-in-law of Monica Azare and devoted grandfather of David Cole. A humanitarian and community activist, his 40 year professional career started with the New York City Mis
 MESSENGER--David C. Retired partner and friend. Trained as a lawyer as well as a CPA, Dave had a facile mind and a gift of persuasion that was a joy to behold, especially when applied to tax agents. On a personal level, he was a skillful storyteller with an inexhaustive supply of jokes. Dav
 SCHEUER--James H. August 29, 2005, age 85, peacefully at home in Washington. Member of the U.S. House of Representatives from 1964-1972 and 1974-1992. He is survived by his adored and adoring wife, Emily Malino Scheuer, and his loving children, Laura, Elizabeth (PeterJoseph), James (Lorna P
 SCHWARTZ -- Jerrold Mi chael. With deepest love and affection we announce his death on August 30, 2005. Best friend and husband of Renee; beloved father of Robin Adelman (Barry), Richard Schwartz and the late Nancy Schwartz Schreier; adored grandfather of Lindsay, Travis, Amanda, Kathryn, D
 SQUAIRE--Lawrence. On August 30, 2005. Beloved husband of Harriet. Devoted father of Anthony and Barbara Squire, Andrew Squire and Ilya Speranza, Michael and Roseann Squire and Lori and Kenneth Einhorn. Loving grandfather of Jason, Sarah, Harry, Molly, Emma, Corey and Abby. He served as a J
 VOGEL--Gerald. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our condolences to his family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai on Thursday, September 1, 2005 at 10 A.M. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Charles Berman, Pr
 WAXBERG--Laurence 64, on August 29, 2005. Survived by his beloved Judy, devoted children Ira and Akiko Waxberg, and Allison and Marc Milgrom. An accomplished Teacher, Advertising Art Director and Artist. Services Friday, 11:30am, at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel W-150 Rt. 4 East, Paramus, 
 ZIMMERMAN--John William. 40, on June 13, 2005 after a brief encounter with Hodgkin's lymphoma. In accordance with his wishes, a memorial Eucharist will be celebrated on September 15 at 7 PM at St. Luke-in-the-Fields, Hudson Street at Grove Street. Reception to follow.       
 LEVENTHAL--Emanuel. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and longtime colleague, Emanuel Leventhal, MD, a former member of Beth Israel's Department of Radiology for more than thirty years. To his wife Sheila, their children an
 Sir Joseph Rotblat, a physicist who was the only scientist to quit working on developing the atomic bomb for moral reasons and who won the Nobel Peace Prize a half-century later for his worldwide campaign to eliminate nuclear weapons, died Wednesday night in London. He was 96. His d
 R.L. Burnside, a blues singer and guitarist who found fame only in his gray years, when his music was embraced by young rock fans and remixed with electronic beats, died yesterday at a hospital in Memphis. He was 78 and lived near Holly Springs, Miss. The cause was unknown, said Mat
 Jan Moor-Jankowski, a scientist known for groundbreaking immunology work with chimpanzees and whose life was defined by many impassioned battles, from fighting Nazis in his native Poland to defending press freedoms to exposing animal abuse, died on Aug. 27 at his home in Manhattan. He was 8
 DENNING--Robert. The Associates of deEvia.com are deeply saddened by the death of Robert Denning, a legend in interior design. He was partner for many years of our late founder Edgar de Evia, photographer, artist and author. David McJonathan-Swarm President       
 LEVINE--Joel I., of Greenwich, CT. Died peacefully on September 1, 2005. He will be remembered as a loving husband and father. We are deeply saddened by his death. Ann and David Levine       
 ROTTENBERG--Ira M. age 75 of Paramus, N.J. raised in Manhattan, on September 1, 2005 at his home with his family at his side. Survived by his loving wife of 49 years, Enid (nee Bergel) of Providence, R.I., his children and their spouses, Mark and Elise Rottenberg, Hank and Ilene Rottenberg,
 WALDOR -- Major General Jerome N., USAF Ret., of South Orange, NJ on September 2, 2005. Beloved husband of Rita. Devoted father of Marc, Matthew and Peter. Loving brother of the late Mickey. Adored grandfather of five grandchildren and three step - grandchildren. Funeral services at Temple 
 WANNISKI--Jude. Jude's passionate respect for the wisdom of the marketplace, whether financial or political, his brillance and cogency in explaining and interpreting the markets' meaning, and his unfailing insistence on understanding the view through the eyes of the underdog, the unpopular,
 SILVERSTEIN--Joseph. Died August 29 at the age of 93 in Jupiter, Florida. He was one of Wall Street's greatest arbitrageurs, most prominently with Ladenburg, Thallman & Co. Joe and his previously deceased wife, Bea, formerly lived in Harrison, NY and in Palm Beach, Florida. He was a loving 
 BROOKS--Donald. A memorial service in celebration of his life will be held at 6 PM, Wednesday, September 7, at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, New York.       
 COHEN--Herbert. Bronx native, 65, died after a long and difficult struggle with hydrocephalus. He was predeceased by his beloved wife, Cecilia Collins Cohen, and is survived by his adoring children, Dorothy and Emily Cohen. In addition to being a devoted husband and father, Herb was above a
 DENNING--Robert. The Associates of deEvia.com are deeply saddened by the death of Robert Denning, a legend in interior design. He was partner for many years of our late founder Edgar de Evia, photographer, artist and author. David McJonathan-Swarm President       
 HELLER--Richard, Esq. Died on Friday, September 2, 2005. He is survived by his loving wife, Jean Nathan Heller; three children, Bette Heller, Nancy Heller & Evan Krichevsky, Paul & Katharine Burdsall Heller; and four grandchildren, Aliza & Jared Krichevsky, Kyle & Melanie Heller, who are ce
 KENNEDY--Eugene M. 88, of Westport, MA and Providence, RI, on August 27, 2005. He is survived by his wife, Mary, sons Eugene of NY and John of Geneva, Switzerland, daughters Mary Ellen of Larchmont and Barbara of Scarsdale, and their families. An alumnus of Georgetown and the University of 
 KNIPE--Andy. The Board of Directors and staff of The ALS Association, Greater New York Chapter, are deeply saddened by the loss of our esteemed Board member, Andy Knipe. In his valiant struggle against ALS, Andy, much like his hero Lou Gehrig, never complained or despaired. For those who wo
 McLERNAN--James J. Died August 24, 2005, Miami Beach, FL. He left behind his beloved sister, Margaret Barry, and the late John McLernan. Cherished uncle of six nieces and nephews. Memorial service will be held at Our Lady of Good Counsel, Staten Island, NY, September 10, 2005, 12 noon. A se
 SCHEUER--James. The entire Ethical Culture Fieldston School community is deeply saddened by the death of the Hon. James Scheuer, Fieldston alumnus, class of 1938. His distinguished career, unwavering commitment to social justice and love of his family provide a model for us all. We extend h
 SHERMAN--Leonard. Yeshivas Bais Yisroel, Jerusalem, Israel, expresses its deepest regrets to Judie and Isaac Sherman, our founders, supporters and dear personal friends, on the death of his brother, Leonard Sherman. May the Almighty comfort you and your family along with the other mourners 
 WOLDAR--Jerome. The Jewish Chapel Fund of the United States Military Academy mourns the loss of our past Vice President, Major General USAF (Ret.) Jerome Woldar, a founding member and great benefactor of the West Point Jewish Chapel Fund. Jerry was always available for any assignment that w
 SILVERSTEIN--Joseph. Died August 29 at the age of 93 in Jupiter, Florida. He was one of Wall Street's greatest arbitrageurs, most prominently with Ladenburg, Thallman & Co. Joe and his previously deceased wife, Bea, formerly lived in Harrison, NY and in Palm Beach, Florida. He was a loving 
 William H. Rehnquist, who died Saturday at the age of 80 almost a year after learning he had thyroid cancer, helped lead a conservative revolution on the Supreme Court during 19 notably successful years as chief justice of the United States. Including 14 years as an associate justic
 Alan Truscott, the contract bridge columnist of The New York Times for the last 41 years, whose lifelong profession grew out of the card game he learned as a British schoolboy in an air-raid shelter during the London blitz, died yesterday at his summer home in the Adirondacks. He was 80 and
 KNIPE--Andrew T. There is a saying, ''Adversity doesn't build character, it reveals character.'' This perfectly captures the spirit of our friend and work mate, Andrew T. Knipe, who passed away Saturday after a long battle with ALS, a neurological ailment also know as Lou Gehrig's disease. 
 TYRRELL--Wilfred L. Of West Bay Shore, LI, suddenly on September 2, 2005. Beloved husband of Dorothy Tyrrell. Devoted father of Thomas Tyrrell, Timothy and his wife Tara Tyrrell, Rev. Wilfred L. Tyrrell, Jr., S.A. and Doreen Tyrrell. Loving brother of Gerald and his wife Callie Tyrrell and 
 Robert Denning, an interior decorator whose lush interpretations of French Victorian décor became an emblem of corporate-raider tastes in the 1980's, died on Aug. 26 at his home in New York. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, said his brother, Paul Besser. A silver-ha
 William H. Rehnquist, who died Saturday at the age of 80, almost a year after learning he had thyroid cancer, helped lead a conservative revolution on the Supreme Court during 19 years as chief justice of the United States. Chief Justice's Rehnquist's death came six weeks after he r
 Arnold Weinstein, the poet, playwright and librettist who wrote works performed on and off Broadway, taught playwriting at Yale and Columbia, and collaborated with composers from William Bolcom to Henry Threadgill to Philip Glass, died Sunday at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 78.     
 Dr. Daniel A. Ruge, the White House physician who made crucial decisions in the care of President Ronald Reagan after he was shot in 1981, died Aug. 30 in Denver. He was 88. Dr. Ruge died in his sleep at his home from a ruptured aortic aneurysm, said his daughter, Charlotte Wiessner
 COLLINS--Neil V. 61, died of cancer on September 2, 2005. Mr. Collins is survived by his wife Kathryn McLoughlin Collins, his daughter Colette Collins Woelfle, and predeceased by daughter Jeanne M. Collins. Visiting is Tuesday, September 6, 2005, at John J. Fox Funeral Home, Inc, Larchmont,
 EPSTEIN--Elsie, 89, of Scarsdale, NY, on September 5th, 2005. Devoted wife of the late Edwin Epstein. Beloved mother of Ellen, Steven and his wife Deborah. Loving grandmother of Jason, Gregory, David and Alexandra.       
 FRAIER - Adam. Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the tragic passing of Adam Fraier, beloved son of Mark, our ritual coordinator, and Sarita Fraier, and dear brother of Rachel. We extend to the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May his memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rab
 HIRSCHHORN--Ronald David. Died on September 3, 2005 in Durham, NC at the age of 63. Survived by daughter Jody Stambouli of Los Angeles, CA. and son Jason Hirschhorn of NYC. Ronnie was an unforgettable person. They threw out the mold when they made him. He will be missed. Funeral services 11
 LUBITZ--Jesse S., on September 4. Forever loving devoted husband of the late Frances, his childhood sweetheart. Beloved father of Peter, daughter-in-law Heidi. Smitten and adoring grandfather of Harry, George, Audrey and Jack. Treasured friend of many. All will sorely miss him. Services on 
 PFEFFER--Allan, October 18, 1945--September 5, 2005, due to complications from diabetes and kidney failure. Prominent and respected N.Y. real estate attorney. Loving and devoted husband to Sharon for 30 years. Adored companion to his dog Cleo. A celebration honoring Allan will be held at hi
 SCHAEFFER--Louis, age 91. Beloved father of Ivan Michael (Esther) and Albert Raymond (Tina), grandfather of Avi, Caroline, Samuel and Jonathan. Uncle and friend of all who knew him. He formed all our lives and touched each of our hearts. He will be dearly missed. In lieu of flowers, please 
 LIEBERMAN--William S. The Metropolitan Museum of Art will hold a memorial service for William S. Lieberman on Monday, September 12, at 5:30PM. He was the Museum's Jacques and Natasha Gelman Special Consultant for Modern Art at the time of his death on June 1, and for the previous 24 years s
 Bob Denver, whose television roles as Gilligan, the wacky first mate in ''Gilligan's Island,'' and Maynard G. Krebs, the beatnik with a bongo in ''The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis,'' were first hits, then cult classics, died on Friday in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 70. Mike Eisenstadt,
 Horace W. Davenport, a physiologist and educator at the University of Michigan who laid a foundation for more effective ulcer treatments by revealing how gastric acid works in digestion without consuming the stomach itself, died Aug. 29 at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 92. The cause w
 CHARMATZ--William A. on September 4, 2005 died peacefully at home on West 68th St. in Manhattan. Born November 15, 1925, Bill was a commercial artist/painter/illustrator for The N.Y. Times, Sports Illustrated, Time, Inc. & Esquire. He also authored & illustrated several children's books. He
 FRANZ--Samuel. We mourn the tragic passing of Sam and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Marilyn, sons Marc (Laurie), Peter (Marcy) and Eric (Aviva), grandchildren and sister, Sydelle. Sam was truly a family man, funny, warm, loving and kind. We will love and miss him always. Ellen an
 GRINELL--Richard, MD. On September 5, 2005. Podiatrist for over 60 years. Beloved husband of Joan. Dear father of Barbara and Sheila. Cherished grandfather of Michael. Loving brother of Herbert. Services Wednesday 2 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. Donations in his me
 HELLER--Richard. The Board of Directors and staff of VISIONS/Services for the Blind and Visually Impaired records the passing of Richard Heller. He was a member of the Board of Directors for thirty-six years and a supporter of VISIONS' activities in Westchester. Our deepest sympathy is expr
 JONES--Douglas K. 63, died suddenly on Thursday, September 1 in Redding, CT. Financial industry executive, graduate of Columbia University and First Lieutenant in the Army during the Vietnam War. Survived by wife of 33 years, Kathi; his daughters, Sunnie Jones and Alex Jones, and a sister, 
 LEVENSON--Paul. The family of Paul Levenson mourns his passing on September 6, 2005 after a valiant battle with cancer. He was an incredible husband and father, and a loving son, brother, cousin and friend. Funeral services will be private. A memorial service will be announced at a later da
 MORAN--John J., 88, retired Vice President and Treasurer of Heublein, Inc. died Saturday, August 27, 2005. He is survived by his daughter, Mary Anne Greenall and grandchildren, Terry Godfrey and Jessica Meehan. The funeral will be Friday, September 9, 2005, at The DillonBaxter Funeral Home,
 NORTON--Martin S. His family at A La Vieille Russie mourns his loss profoundly. We will miss his sense of humor, wise counsel, warmth, generosity and sincere friendship over more than 60 years. We join many others in sending love and sincerest condolences to his family. Peter, Paul, and Mar
 ROSE--Howard. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member, Howard Rose. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Services were held. Jean-Pierre Trebot, Exec Dir Freddie Roman, Dean       
 BERENSTEIN--Dr. Frederick. Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife Robin, and the entire family, our heartfelt sympathy. May his memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman, Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. R
 BROOKS--Donald. A memorial service in celebration of his life will be held at 6 PM, Wednesday, September 7, at Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, New York.       
 Theodore R. Sarbin, a prominent social psychologist who in 1988 helped write a controversial Pentagon report recommending that the United States military end discrimination against gay men and lesbians, died on Aug. 31 at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 94. The cause was pancreati
 Bernard S. Meyer, a former judge of the New York State Court of Appeals who led an investigation in 1975 into the state's handling of crimes arising from the Attica prison revolt four years earlier, died on Saturday in Valley Stream, N.Y. He was 89. The cause was heart failure, said
 Jacob A. Marinsky, a chemist who helped discover promethium, No.61 in the periodic table and one of several elements isolated during work on the Manhattan Project, died Sept. 1 at his home in Buffalo, where he taught at the State University of New York. He was 87. The cause was multiple mye
 CRIPPEN--Davis A. Died suddenly on September 2 at the age of 75. He is survived by his wife Cynthia, his sons Alex and Tom, and his grandchildren Daniel and Eli. A service will be held at 3 PM on Saturday, September 17 at Christ Church, 416 Valentine Avenue, Sparkill, NY. He loved books and
 FRANZ--Samuel Stephen. The Franz family mourns the loss of Samuel Stephen Franz, devoted husband to Marilyn Hodor Franz for 47 years, beloved father to Marc, Peter and Eric Franz, proud grandfather to Rachel, Samantha, Zachary, Jake, Aviva and Maxwell Franz. Sam was and is a man of great ho
 HALEM--Dr. Robert, on September 6, 2005 in Coral Springs, Florida, beloved husband of Christine, cherished father of Alexandra Levine and her husband Mark, and Elizabeth, devoted brother of Henry & his wife Sandra, son-in-law of Kathleen Giamelle & brotherin-law of Louis Giamelle and his wi
 HANSEN--Tara. With profound sorrow, the Horace Mann School mourns the tragic passing of Mr. Tara Hansen '70, devoted husband of Anuradha and beloved and cherished father of Amar '06 & Tarun '03. The family's role model and inspiration in life, his sudden death is a great loss to his family 
 HART GREEN--Alex. Died peacefully on September 4, 2005, in Sarasota, FL. He is survived by his loving and devoted wife Adele Morgan; his children, Anne Smithers and Barbara Fauth; and four grandchildren, Lindsay and Jennifer Fauth, Amelie and Philippe de Richemont. He is also survived by a 
 HILL -- Lawrence D. The Board of Directors of The City College Fund expresses its deepest sympathy to his devoted wife and fellow Board member, Thelma Goodrich-Hill and family. Herbert Robinson, Chair Frank Sciame, President       
 LEVENSON--Paul. The Board of Directors and staff of the Christopher D. Smithers Foundation expresses its deepest sympathy and condolences on the passing of Paul Levenson, a devoted friend and brilliant counselor who gave of himself with great compassion and dignity and who was steadfast in 
 LEVINE--Melvin, Esq. On September 6, 2005. Loving brother of Edward. Dear uncle and great uncle. Patriarch of the Levine family and community pillar. Services Thursday 1:15 P.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. $(6$)LEVINE--Melvin. The owners and employees of Ma
 LEVY -- Abraham Chaim (Hy), 80, of Brooklyn and Boca Raton, Florida, after a short, gallant struggle with ALS, at home in Brooklyn. Born in Jerusalem, Hy immigrated to the United States at age 12 along with his parents and six sisters. A peaceful and peace-loving man, Hy served his nations 
 MONTANA--Richard. On September 6, 2005. Beloved husband of Lucy. Devoted father of Lori and Rick and his wife Julie. Cherished grandfather of Kirk, Darcy & Luca. Loving brother of Carmine and his wife Pat and Angelo and his wife Barbara. Loving brother-in-law of Susan and Bob Bermack. He wi
 NININGER--Eugene V., MD, 84, Psychiatrist and Psychoanalyst, on August 3. A native of Kansas, he was a graduate of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute, and served as Commissioner of Mental Health for Westchester County, 1976-1977. An accomplished violinist, he performed with his two sons 
 RIDGWAY--Thomas Jr., 91. Beloved husband of Jane Pope Akers Ridgway, died of a heart attack at their summer home in Newport on Monday, September 5, 2005. Mrs. Ridgway is the daughter of the late John Russell Pope, the architect of the West Building of the National Gallery and the Jefferson 
 ROWE--John Jay, Jr. Died Sunday, August 28 at his home in Amagansett at the age of four score and seven. He and his wife, Diana Cutler, were married in 1941 and spent many years summering in the Devon Colony until he retired and became a full time resident. His family of five children and e
 EISENBERG--Everett Arnold Everett Eisenberg was born to Dr. David and Birdie Eisenberg on October 30, 1916 in Astoria, NY, and died on September 4, 2005 in Delray Beach, FL. He graduated from City College in 1937 at a time when it was considered the ''common man's Harvard.'' Awarded a schol
 WEISSMAN--Frederick M., M.D. Died on 4 September 2005, in his home, at the age of 91. Dr. Weissman is survived by his beloved partner of nearly forty years, Elizabeth Eberhardt. He was the son of the late Nathan Weissman and Carrie Weissman-Wolfson, and the grandson of the late David and Es
 Henry Luce III, the elder son of the founder and editor in chief of Time Inc., who held prominent positions at the company and went on to be head of the Henry Luce Foundation, died on Wednesday at his summer home on Fishers Island, N.Y. He was 80. The cause was not immediately deter
 FINGAR--Sol. (Uncle Solly). June 14, 1920-September 7, 2005. He was a legend of the garment center. All loved his smile. He enlisted in the U.S. Army and was among the first prisoners of war captured in North Africa. Loving husband of Debrah (and the late Eleanor). Devoted father of Joseph,
 GREENE - Ellis. Former President of Dialight Division NAPC died September 7, 2005, in Boca Raton at age 87. He is survived by his wife Mildred, son Mark and his wife Linda, daughter Ellen Zelman and her husband Steven, grandchildren Brian, Jeremy, Rachel, Alexis, Evan, Joe and great-grandso
 HALEM--Robert, MD. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians, nurses and staff in the Department of Psychiatry in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and devoted former colleague, Robert Halem, MD, a longtime member of the department's clin
 HANSEN--Tara. With profound sorrow, the Horace Mann School mourns the tragic passing of Mr. Tara Hansen '70, devoted husband of Anuradha and beloved and cherished father of Amar '06 & Tarun '03. The family's role model and inspiration in life, his sudden death is a great loss to his family 
 MEYER--Bernard S. We mourn the loss of our dear friend of 50 years and express our condolences to his daughter Pat. Dale and Burton Agata       
 MONTANA--Richard. On September 6, 2005. Beloved husband of Lucy. Devoted father of Lori and Rick and his wife Julie. Cherished grandfather of Kirk, Darcy & Luca. Loving brother of Carmine and his wife Pat and Angelo and his wife Barbara. Loving brother-in-law of Susan and Bob Bermack. He wi
 SCHER--Benjamin. The employees of Scher Fabrics, Inc. mourn the loss of our cofounder, our beloved Mr. Ben, at the age of 104. Ben was the father of our Vice President, Richard Scher, and brother of his lifelong business partner, the late Robert Scher. A gentle, sweet soul, Ben devoted hims
 Stanley Dancer, an eighth-grade dropout who became harness racing's most successful trainer, driver, owner and breeder during the sport's glory days from the 1940's to the 60's, died yesterday in his home in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 78. The cause of death was complications from pr
 Bill Charmatz, a humorous editorial and advertising illustrator best known in the 1960's and 70's for pictorial essays in Sports Illustrated that captured the joy and folly of sporting events, died on Sunday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 80. No cause was an
 Lewis E. Platt, who rose from an entry-level engineer to become the chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, died on Thursday at his home in Petaluma, Calif. He was 64. His death was announced by the company, which did not give a cause. During his tenure as chief of Hewlett-Packa
 FUTTERMAN--Saul C., M.D., FACS. Beloved husband of Ruth; devoted father of Rabbi Matthew and Chana, Donald and Shira; adored grandfather of Alon, Yael, Itamar, Nimrod, Yaniv and Maayan; loving brother of Amy Yeminy. A man of compassion and a healer of bodies, he was the retired Associate Di
 HAHN--Philip J. Born March 31, 1916. He passed away on September 8, 2005 at the age of 89. He was raised in Brooklyn where, as a youth, his intelligence and bright personality quickly shown through. After Pearl Harbor, Phil joined the Army and served in Military Intelligence doing signals w
 LUCE--Henry III. On September 8, 2005, age 80, on Fishers Island, NY, of cardiac arrest. He was the husband of Leila Hadley Luce, the father of Lila Frances Luce, Ph.D., and Henry Christopher Luce, stepfather of Arthur T. Hadley III, M.D., Victoria Smitter Barlow, Matthew Smitter Eliott, D.
 PRIGOSEN--Fae. On September 8. Preceded in death by older sisters and brothers and numerous nieces and nephews. Survived by grandson Eli Hurowitz, MD, his wife Hope Mehlman Hurowitz and their children (Fae's greatgrandchildren Haley Hurowitz and Jonathan Hurowitz).       
 Robert W. Funk, founder of the Jesus Seminar, a consortium of Bible scholars who popularized a wave of studies that raised doubts about whether the deeds and sayings attributed to Jesus were historically authentic, died on Sept. 3 at his home in Santa Rosa, Calif. He was 79. The cau
 Charles Capen McLaughlin, who edited the tens of thousands of papers of Frederick Law Olmsted, the designer of Central Park and much more, making Olmsted's remarkable life accessible to both general readers and researchers, died on Sept. 2 at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 76. 
 BEHR--Randall. Opera Conductor. The operatic and musical community mourn the untimely passing of conductor Randall Behr. An inspired artist, he spoke the language of music with unusual eloquence and grace. Those that had the privilege of working with him marveled at his vast knowledge, keen
 BUNSICK--Gordon. Poly Prep Class of 56 mourns the death of Gordon Bunsick, courageous warrior and key member of Poly's 1955 undefeated Ivy Prep League champion football team. We remember his warmth, wry sense of humor and quick wit. Condolences to his children and grandchildren.       
 CLEMENTS--H. Millard, on August 29, 2005. The NYU Steinhardt School of Education mourns the loss of H. Millard Clements, Professor Emeritus, global educator and former co-director of the Environmental Conservation Education program. Throughout his 35 year career in the Department of Teachin
 FARBMAN--Jerry, on September 3 at age 91. Preceded in death by his beloved wife Ruth. Devoted father of Caroline (Richard) Norman, Peg (Dick) Wachowski and Ben (Sue) Farbman. Adored grandfather of Judith, Sara, Katie, Beth and Jeffrey. Great-grandfather of Benjamin. Loving brother of Pearl 
 FINGAR--Sol. The Rubin family extends our heartfelt condolences to Debrah, Joseph, Glenn and Richard upon the passing of our dear friend and business associate Sol Fingar. In the many years we shared together, Sol was always a dynamic personality; a man who deeply loved his friends and fami
 FORD--Samuel Caldwell, 76, died September 3, 2005 at home in Sanibel, FL under loving care of family and hospice. He was born January 23, 1929 in Washington, DC to parents, Samuel Shivel Ford and Elizabeth Caldwell Walker. Sam has been a Sanibel resident for the past 17 years. Memorial serv
 FUTTERMAN--Saul C., M.D., FACS. Beloved husband of Ruth; devoted father of Rabbi Matthew and Chana, Donald and Shira; adored grandfather of Alon, Yael, Itamar, Nimrod, Yaniv and Maayan; loving brother of Amy Yeminy. A man of compassion and a healer of bodies, he was the retired Associate Di
 GUNTHER--Coulby, 82, pioneer player in the NBA and businessman, died July 14 in Gulfstream, FL. Founded businesses in the insurance service industry including Reliable Reporting Service and CARCO. Mr. Gunther is survived by his wife Jane and four children.       
 HAHN--Philip J. Born March 31, 1916. He passed away on September 8, 2005 at the age of 89. He was raised in Brooklyn where, as a youth, his intelligence and bright personality quickly shown through. After Pearl Harbor, Phil joined the Army and served in Military Intelligence doing signals w
 HARRIS--Sheldon. The family of Sheldon Harris, author of ''Blue's Who's Who,'' announces his passing on September 8, 2005. For information, Bloomfield - Cooper Jewish Chapels, 1-800-247-5235.       
 LEONE--Raffaele Anthony, July 5, 1923-September 5, 2005. ''The Great Ralph'' left his inscription all over the Bronx neighborhood as a little boy and thus began a family legend, our greatest character. Devoted son and brother, loyal husband of Madeline of 55 years, beloved father of Dr. Fra
 LEVY--Norman F. On September 9, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Betty. Loving father of Jeanne Levy-Hinte & Francis Levy, Hallie Cohen, Ken Church & Jeffrey LevyHinte. Adoring grandfather of Zeno, Titus, Yunus. You were a beautiful father and inspiration, with an incredible optimism and l
 LUCE--Henry III. On September 8, 2005, age 80, on Fishers Island, NY, of cardiac arrest. He was the husband of Leila Hadley Luce, the father of Lila Frances Luce, Ph.D., and Henry Christopher Luce, stepfather of Arthur T. Hadley III, M.D., Victoria Smitter Barlow, Matthew Smitter Eliott, D.
 McNAMARA--Kevin J. 76, of Rancho Mirage, CA, formerly of New York City and East Hampton, died August 3, 2005. Son of John Francis and Florence Riordan McNamara of Newton, MA. Survived by his life partner and business partner of 23 years, Christopher J. Norman, three brothers, David, Eugene 
 MILLONES--John P. Died September 2, 2005 in Riverdale, NY after a long illness. Beloved husband of Leslie. Admired teacher and mentor at Columbia Grammar & Preparatory School, where he taught Spanish and Latin and kept people laughing for 39 years. In addition to his wife, he is survived by
 PFEFFER--Allan, October 18, 1945--September 5, 2005, due to complications from diabetes and kidney failure. Prominent and respected N.Y. real estate attorney. Loving and devoted husband to Sharon for 30 years. Adored companion to his dog Cleo. A celebration honoring Allan will be held at hi
 PIERCE--Gerald G., MD. A retired ophthalmologist died at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Florida on September 8, 2005 at the age of 74. He resided there since retiring in 1990. He was a graduate of the University of Oklahoma School of Medicine in 1956 and did his internship at St. Vincent's
 ROWE--John Jay, Jr. Died Sunday, August 28 at his home in Amagansett at the age of four score and seven. He and his wife, Diana Cutler, were married in 1941 and spent many years summering in the Devon Colony until he retired and became a full time resident. His family of five children and e
 SCHNEIDER--Noel. We deeply mourn the passing of Noel Schneider on August 31, 2005, at age 85. Beloved devoted husband of Adele, his wife for more than 55 years; cherished dear father of Adam/ Sandy and Tracy; adored and adoring grandfather of Marna, Lorin, David, and Emma; revered brother o
 SMITH--Ralph K. Died in NYC on September 2, 2005 in the Bronx, NY. Born NYC on January 14, 1920, the son of Rose & Julian Smith. He is survived by his daughter Angela & her husband Bill Copeland of Red Oak, TX, three grandchildren, James II, Amanda, & Kristen, and six great grandchildren. H
 TATE--Henry McDonald of New York City and Southold, Long Island, died Sunday, September 4, 2005, in New York City after a long illness. Mr. Tate, 57 years old, was a native of West Hartford, Connecticut and had lived in New York City since 1977. He was a 1971 graduate of North Carolina Stat
 WELLS--Stanley, 81, humanitarian, artist, designer, actor, original thinker, entrepreneur, storyteller, entertainer, and general lover of people, passed away on September 8th after a long, courageous 18-year battle with cancer. Stanley was a highly decorated veteran of WWII, having flown ov
 LEVIN--Neil. In honored memory of my beloved son Neil and the men and women who perished with him on 9/11/01. Gloria Levin       
 Chris Schenkel, whose versatility and genial style made him one of the most important sports broadcasters from the 1950's to the 1970's, died yesterday at Lutheran Hospital in Fort Wayne, Ind. He was 82. Mr. Schenkel had emphysema for many years and recently had complications from u
 Clarence Gatemouth Brown, an eminent guitarist and singer who spent his career fighting purism by synthesizing old blues, country, jazz, Cajun and R&B styles, died on Saturday. He was 81. His death was confirmed by Rick Cady, his booking agent, who said Mr. Brown had suffered from l
 HAHN--Philip J. The employees of M. Fabrikant & Sons, Inc., mourn the loss of our Co-Chairman of the Board, Mr. Philip J. Hahn. Following his distinguished career in the Army during World War II, Mr. Hahn devoted himself to the growth and development of the firm to its status as the worldwi
 HAUGH--Brian J. On September 9, 2005. Loving son of the late John and Mary Haugh. Beloved brother of John, Gerard and Maureen. Loving brother-in-law of Monica and Josephine. Dear uncle of Kerry, Matthew, Clare and John. Cherished companion of Jacqueline Day. Former writer for Star magazine 
 HIVNOR--Robert H. A playwright and teacher, died at his home in New York City on September 8. Born in Zanesville, OH, in 1915, he was educated at the University of Akron and Yale University. From 1942 to 1945 he served in the US Army and with the British Government Code and Cipher School at
 LEVY--Norman F. Norman (dad), thank you for the treasure of a loving family (Frank and Jeanne) and the example of a joyous life and a dignified death. Love, Hallie $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. The Board of Directors and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are profoundly saddened by the death of
 LUCE--Henry III. On September 8, 2005, age 80, on Fishers Island, NY, of cardiac arrest. He was the husband of Leila Hadley Luce, the father of Lila Frances Luce, Ph.D., and Henry Christopher Luce, stepfather of Arthur T. Hadley III, M.D., Victoria Smitter Barlow, Matthew Smitter Eliott, D.
 McKAY--Dean. IBM's first and longtime Vice President of Communications, died September 6, 2005, in Greenwich, CT, of lung cancer, said his son Brian McKay. He was 83. Shortly after Thomas J. Watson Jr. became President and CEO of IBM in 1956, he reorganized the company in anticipation of it
 WINTER--Stanley. 73, of Manhattan, NY, died on September 9, 2005, at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx, NY. Born and raised in the Bronx, NY, he spent most of his life residing in Manhattan. Mr. Winter was a salesman for Mercury Technologies, retiring in 1999. He was an avid patron of the many 
 HERSONSKY--Benjamin. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Jerome Seiler, MD, President       
 Al Casey, a guitarist whose playful acoustic rhythms and solos were a defining feature of Fats Waller's band in the 1930's and 1940's, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 89. The cause was colon cancer, said Albert Vollmer, leader of the Harlem Blues and Jazz Band, with which Mr. Ca
 Eugene Desmond O'Kelly, the former chairman and chief executive of KPMG's United States unit, died Saturday night in his apartment in Manhattan. He was 53. The cause was cancer, according to a statement released by KPMG, the fourth-largest accounting firm in the United States, with 
 Joseph T. Smitherman, who in more than 35 years as mayor of Selma, Ala., went from ardent support of segregation at the time of the notorious 1965 beatings there to pride in his backing among blacks, died on Sunday in Montgomery, Ala. He was 75. No specific cause of death has been d
 GOLDBERG--Howard P. Of New York and Fort Lauderdale, FL, died on Sunday September 11. A graduate of CCNY and past president of both Ohrbach's Department Store and Lillian Vernon, Howard was an innovator in retailing and direct mail. He is survived by his beloved wife Carole Rossant Goldberg
 HAHN--Philip J. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with profound sadness the loss of Philip J. Hahn, an esteemed friend whose contributions to the New York Jewish community and as a leader in the diamond and jewelry trade were marked by exception
 HERMAN--Joshua R. Devoted husband to Melissa, adored father of Dylan and Olivia. Treasured son of Arline and the late Howard, cherished brother of Rachel & Andy Scheff. Dearly loved uncle, nephew, cousin & friend. Funeral services today, 10AM, at Schoem's Menorah Chapel, Paramus, NJ. Contri
 HORNOR--Townsend, age 78, died on September 11, 2005 at his home in Osterville, Massachusetts. He was the husband of Catherine Childs Hornor, and the former husband of the late Elizabeth Saunders Hornor and the late Barbara Graham Hornor. He was the father of Sally Graham Hornor, Grace Horn
 JOHNSON--Mark M. 28. Born July 5, 1977 in Ann Arbor, MI. BMW of Manhattan mourns the loss of our valued friend and coworker. Mark's terrific sense of humor, enthusiasm, sincere personality, and work ethic will be truly missed by all of his colleagues and customers at BMW. We extend our deep
 LEVY--Norman F. In loving memory of my father Norman F. Levy. I would like to express my deepest deepest gratitude and love to Terry McDonnell who gave her heart and soul to make my father and all those around him happy. Jeanne Levy-Hinte $(6$)LEVY--Norman F. In loving memory of Nor
 LUCE -- Henry III. The Trustees and Staff Members of The Seamen's Church Institute of New York and New Jersey, together with George M. Isdale, Chairman of The Board of Trustees, and the Rev. Dr. Jean R. Smith, Executive Director, express their deepest sorrow at the death of Henry Luce III. 
 MICHAEL - Hermann. IMG Artists mourns the passing of conductor, Hermann Michael, beloved client and wonderful musician. We will always remember his great energy, warmth, dedication and courage. Our thoughts are with his cherished wife, Brigitta, and his entire family.       
 O'KELLY--Eugene D. The Board and staff of Carnegie Hall mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Eugene D. O'Kelly, who died on September 10. Gene joined the Carnegie Hall Board of Trustees in 2003 as a Trustee Fellow and for two seasons served as Co-Chair of the Hall's Corporate Le
 PREISLER--Simon. Died on September 11th, 2005 in Frankfurt, Germany. Born on October 10th, 1925 in Fancsicovo, Czechoslovakia. He was a survivor of Auschwitz who lived his life to the fullest. Beloved husband of Baba, adored father of Lydia Preisler Shorenstein (Douglas) and Renee Preisler 
 RUBIN--Norman J., 82. Died August 29. He was a perfect uncle, not only to his nieces (Tanya Israel and Rosemary Rubin) and his grand-nieces and nephews (Laurie IsraelCubell and Lewis and Dan Israel) and their spouses and children, but also to his myriad of friends. Uncle Norman, you will be
 SLADE--John, 97. Husband of Marianne and the late Margit. Father of Barbara, her husband Hans Bolsterli and Nicole, her husband Gerard Weinberg. Loving grandfather of Marina, Tamara and Jonathan. Interment private. A memorial service will be held on Friday, September 30th at 10:30 AM at Tem
 STEIN--Benjamin M., M.D. Born March 11, 1911 died August 21, 2005. Loving and devoted to both his wife Claire, and son Douglas, he lived a life of dedication to his family, to his profession and to his country, serving in World War II as a physician in England, Normandy, and Germany where h
 WEISZ--John Alexander of New York City and Quiogue, L.I. died Sunday, September 11, 2005 at the age of 60. John is the beloved, and already dearly missed, husband of Barbara. He is the devoted and cherished father of Zachary and Zoe, the loving uncle of Barbara Percoco, Eric Mesecke and Kei
 Henryk Tomaszewski, whose animated and witty posters for cinema, circus and theater led to the distinctive postwar Polish Poster School style, died on Sunday at his home in Warsaw. He was 91. The cause was a progressive nerve degeneration, which had kept him bedridden for years, sai
 Hermann Michael, a conductor who appeared around the world and was music director of the Phoenix Symphony for seven seasons, died on Sept. 1 at his home in Uffing, Germany. He was 68. The cause was aplastic anemia, a rare blood disease diagnosed in 1999, the orchestra announced.    
 Norman F. Levy, the chairman of the Cross & Brown commercial real estate brokerage of Manhattan from 1976 to 1990, died on Friday. . He was 93 and lived in Fisher Island, Fla. He died in Montauk, N.Y., while staying in a house co-owned by his daughter, Jeanne Levy-Hinte, she said.  
 DEMETRIOU--Peter. Wellloved Board member of YMPL. Our deepest condolences to wife Irene and his three children. Steven Dietz, VP Stanley Banks, President       
 FOSTER--Donald L. On September 7, 2005. Retired Assistant Conductor at the Metropolitan Opera, composer, pianist, and accompanist. He will be sorely missed by his many friends and colleagues. A memorial service will be held at a later date. Contributions in Donald's memory may be made to: S
 GOLDBERG--Howard P. Of New York and Fort Lauderdale, FL, died on Sunday September 11. A graduate of CCNY, past senior executive at Federated Department Stores, and past president of both Ohrbach's Department Store and Lillian Vernon, Howard was an innovator in retailing and direct mail. He 
 HAHN--Phil. I. Hennig & Co expresses its sincere condolences to the family and to his employer, M. Fabrikant & Sons. Phil's expertise in the diamond business has led the company to its great success. Richard Hambro, Chairman Dani Shein, Managing Dir       
 KORNHAUSER--Kenneth R. Suddenly, at 57. Beloved husband of Ann, devoted father of Evan, Lindsay and Craig. Loving son of Martin and the late Gladys Kornhauser. Dear brother of Janet and Harvey Fine. Adored son-in-law of Fay and Joseph Morris. Past president of I.J. Morris, Inc. President of
 KROLL--Louis, DMD. Devoted husband of Frances (d. 1980). Lou was a kind and decent human being who dedicated his life to caring for others. He will be deeply missed by his family and friends.       
 LEVY -- Norman F. The governors, members and staff of The Real Estate Board of New York mourn the passing of Norman Levy, one of our industries most distinguished commercial brokers and a member of REBNY for 60 years. We extend our condolences to the entire Levy family. John E. Zuccotti, Ch
 O'KELLY--Eugene D. The Partnership for New York City mourns the loss of Eugene O'Kelly, former CEO of KPMG and member of the Partnership's Executive Committee and Board of Directors since 2003. Gene's commitment to improving the lives and economic wellbeing of New Yorkers helped raise our s
 PREISLER--Simon. Died on September 11th, 2005 in Frankfurt, Germany. Born on October 10th, 1925 in Fancsicovo, Czechoslovakia. He was a survivor of Auschwitz who lived his life to the fullest. Beloved husband of Baba, adored father of Lydia Preisler Shorenstein (Douglas) and Renee Preisler 
 RUDOFF--Goldie, 97, devoted wife of Ralph (of blessed memory). Beloved mother of Stanley (of blessed memory) and Judith Rudoff, Sheldon and Hedda Rudoff, Evelyn and Martin (of blessed memory) Rochlin. Adored grandmother to ten grandchildren and great grandmother to 29 great grandchildren.  
 SLADE--John. We mourn the loss of a man of great stature and great accomplishments. He left behind the cruelties of pre-war Germany to build a life filled with a myriad of charitable deeds of kindness that benefited the totality of Jewish communal needs. A Benefactor of the Medical Center t
 WEISZ--John Alexander of New York City and Quiogue, L.I. died Sunday, September 11, 2005 at the age of 60. John is the beloved, and already dearly missed, husband of Barbara. He is the devoted and cherished father of Zachary and Zoe, the loving uncle of Barbara Percoco, Eric Mesecke and Kei
 John H. Slade, a former star athlete in Germany who fled the country in the 1930's and over the next seven decades established a career as a prominent investment banker on Wall Street, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 97 and was believed to be the oldest active member of the 
 FUTTERMAN--Saul C., MD. The Mount Sinai Alumni express profound sorrow at the loss of our esteemed colleague and longtime friend. He will be missed. Our deepest condolences are extended to his entire family. Barry Stimmel, MD, Pres. Elliot Rayfield, MD, V.P. Steven Itzkowitz, MD, Sec'y Mart
 GREEN--William (''Bill''). RN, Lieutenant Colonel, USAF (Ret.) of West Islip, NY and formerly of Brooklyn, NY died on September 9, 2005 at the age of 90. He was born May 10, 1915, the fourth of five children, the only son of immigrant parents, Rose and Louis Green. A graduate of Brooklyn's 
 HEINZEN -- Bruce Robert, MD. Of Plandome, New York. Husband of Clare Heinzen, father of Jerome, Barbara, Thomas and Nancy, died at home 11 September 2005. He was an attending surgeon when North Shore Community Hospital opened in 1953 in Manhasset and continued there in private practice unti
 HESS--Daniel, died on September 14 of Lung Cancer. Best friend and husband for 48 years of Susanne Hess. Extraordinary father of Debra Hess and Linda Van Kesteren. Amazing Appa to Alexa, Morgan and Nicolette. Brother of Betty Shain-Kovenetsky. Father-in-law of Rene Van Kesteren. The world i
 KERN--Marvin. The Trustees and staff of the Riverdale Y mourn the loss of our former treasurer, longtime trustee, and esteemed advisor. Marvin was a ''mensch''. We will miss his devotion to our agency. May his wife, Florence, and children Donald and Sharon be comforted among the mourners of
 LASSER -- Kenneth J. Of Scarsdale and Palm Beach, died Tuesday, September 13. He is survived by his wife, Phyllis, his three sons, Larry, Steve and Mike, and their wives, Michelle, Roberta and Ellen, and by his five grandsons, Seth, Ethan, Joe, Jon and Jacob, and by Seth's wife, Jamie. Grav
 LEVY--Norman F. The Officers and Directors of Konigsberg Wolf & Co., P.C. mourn the loss of Norman F. Levy, a kind and generous man of great character who will be deeply missed by his many friends and colleagues. We send our deepest condolences to Jeanne, Francis and their families. Paul Ko
 LUCE--Henry III. The Bard College community mourns the passing of Henry Luce III, whose long-time support strengthened the College in essential and lasting ways. He will be deeply missed. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Leon Botstein, President Charles P. Stevenson Jr., Cha
 MALIS--Leonard, M.D. The Association of the Attending Staff of the Mount Sinai Hospital mourns the passing of an outstanding colleague, surgeon, and teacher. Dr. Malis devoted four decades of expertise and service to the institution. He served as Chairman of the Department of Neurosurgery f
 O'KELLY--Eugene Desmond II. September 10, 2005. Funeral service Saturday, September 17, 2005 at 2 PM at St. James Episcopal Church, Madison Ave. at 71st St. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to Eugene O'Kelly Cancer Survivors Fund, Schwab Fund for Charitable Giving,
 PREISLER--Simon. We mourn the passing of a generous and noble man. His worldly charm and intellect inspired us all. Our sympathy to Baba, Renee, Richard, Lydia, Doug, and his six grandchildren. Karen and Howard Weiss, Harriet Stein, Blanche Weiss and the Children       
 SLADE--John. The Jerusalem Foundation mourns the passing of devoted friend and supporter, John Slade. Our sincere condolences are with his family. Ruth Cheshin, Int'l. Pres. Dan Meridor, Int'l. Chairman Alan G. Hassenfeld, Chairman, USA$(6$) SLADE--John. We've lost a neighbor and a 
 TUCKER--Isidore R. Devoted husband of Ray May. Loving father of Lenore, Janine, and Abby. Cherished grandfather of Elliot, Alexander, Robin, Jason, and Simon. Beloved brother of Anna and Jack. Dear uncle to his nieces and nephews. A wise and respected attorney, a kind and generous friend to
 BULDRINI--Frederick P. of Island Park, NY on September 13, 2005 in his 89th year. Beloved husband of Dolores. Loving father of Frederic F. and George. The family will receive friends Thursday 2-5 & 7-9 PM at the Christopher T. Jordan Funeral Home, 302 Long Beach Road, Island Park, NY. Funer
 KORNHAUSER--Kenneth R. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the loss of Kenneth R. Kornhauser, a treasured leader whose profound commitment to the Jewish community was evident in his boundless dedication to the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center, the S
 Robert Wise, a conscientious craftsman in many movie genres who twice received Academy Awards as best director, died yesterday at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 91. His death was confirmed by Lawrence Mirisch, a family friend. Mr. Wise enjoyed a long care
 David C. Anderson, a journalist and author who wrote extensively about criminal justice in books and in The New York Times, where he was a member of the editorial board for 12 years, died yesterday at the hospice of Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 62 and a Manhattan resident.   
 AUSTIN--LeRoy Syl, 82, died August 31 at home. Lee was a tireless advocate of social equality. He loved classical music, opera, and dance. A service will be conducted at the Fourth Universalist Society at 160 Central Park West at 2 P.M. on October 2. Remembrances may be directed to the Amer
 GABERMAN--Edward. Of Somers, New York, beloved husband of the late Pearl Gaberman, passed away on August 2, 2005 at the age of 91. An avid music lover and accomplished artist, he is survived by his two daughters, Emily Gaberman, and Fredi Shonkoff, their husbands, four grandchildren, and hi
 HESS--Daniel, died on September 14 of Lung Cancer. Best friend and husband for 48 years of Susanne Hess. Extraordinary father of Debra Hess and Linda Van Kesteren. Amazing Appa to Alexa, Morgan and Nicolette. Brother of Betty Shain-Kovenetsky. Father-in-law of Rene Van Kesteren. The world i
 LEVY--Norman F. My undying gratitude to Jeanne and Frank Levy for accepting me into their families and their father's life all these years. Living and dying, N.F.L. set the bar high. Quoting only one of our Norman's expletives, ''Everything is going to work out!'' And it did. Norman closed 
 MALIS--Leonard I. MD. When the definitive history of neurosurgery is written, a significant portion will be devoted to the contributions of Leonard I. Malis. Dr. Malis was born in Philadelphia in 1919. After receiving a medical degree from the University of Virginia in 1943, he served as ca
 RUDERMAN--I. Warren. 85, crystal research pioneer. Of Demarest, died August 29, 2005, at the age of 85. The second child of Jack and Mollie Ruderman, he was born in Brooklyn, New York in 1920. At an early age he fell in love with chemistry--an affair lasting throughout his life. In 1940 he 
 SMITH--William Pierce, MD passed peacefully on September 8, 2005 at home in Saratoga, CA. He was born and raised in Canajoharie, NY. He graduated Valedictorian from Yale University in 1947 after serving our country as an Air Force Captain in WWII. He flew 50 missions in a B-24 as lead squad
 LABIANCA--Vincent, MUNOZ--Isabel. No one ever dies who lives in hearts left behind. He didn't put an end to you.       
 Robert Wise, a conscientious craftsman in many movie genres who twice received Academy Awards for best director, died on Wednesday at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 91. His death was confirmed by Lawrence Mirisch, a family friend. Mr. Wise enjoyed a long 
 BURNS--Paul A., on September 15, 2005. Beloved husband of Patty (nee Farrell). Loving father of Claire and Elizabeth, students at the Convent of the Sacred Heart at 91st Street. Devoted brother of Gerald Burns of Nottingham, England. He will be missed by both his family and many friends. Vi
 IMBER - Herman. Beloved husband of Celia. Loving father of Ruth and Barbara. Adoring grandfather of David Aaron, David Harris, Deborah and Jennifer. His warmth and humor touched all those who knew him. Services Sunday 1 PM at ''Parkside'' Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Avenue (near Avenue V).       
 LASSER--Kenneth. To the best uncle and brother, from his sister Elaine Glasgall and the families of Brett Meyer, and Douglas Meyer.       
 LUCE--Henry III. The Board of Directors of the Milton B. Rosenbluth Foundation wishes to express profound sorrow at the loss of our Board member, Henry Luce III. He was generous and caring and will be greatly missed. We extend heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Leila and family. Michael A. R
 MALIS--Leonard, M.D. He was a giant in medicine and a great humanist. He improved, brightened, and enriched our lives and those of so many others. How lucky we were to have his friendship for some six decades. He will be in our memories always. The Linsky Family       
 PARKER--Toni. The judges of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York are deeply saddened by the death of Toni, wife of our colleague, Judge Barrington D. Parker, and extend our sympathy to his family. Michael B. Mukasey, Chief Judge       
 SLADE--John. It is with sincere regret that we at the New York City office of American Express Tax & Business Services, Inc. mourn the passing of our loyal client, John Slade. Wall Street has lost one of its brightest stars. From his leadership at Bear Stearns to his generosity toward the N
 BUCHBINDER--Saul H. Remembering our marvelous Uncle, on the 100th anniversary of his birth, Sept 17, 1905, in Bayonne, NJ. His Many Loving Nieces and Nephews       
 Sir Hermann Bondi, an astronomer and mathematician whose ideas about cosmology shaped an important theory about the origin of the universe, and who later became a leading science adviser to the British government, died last Saturday in Cambridge, England. He was 85. His death was co
 Stanley Burnshaw, a consummate man of letters who was not only a poet, critic, translator, editor, publisher and novelist, but also skilled at setting type by hand, died yesterday on Martha's Vineyard. He was 99. Susan Copen Oken, his wife, confirmed his death. Mr. Burnshaw 
 John Calvin Jureit, the inventor of the Gang-Nail connector plate, a simple-to-use connecting device for roof trusses that helped revolutionize the home-building industry in the 1950's and make housing much more affordable, died Sept. 9 in Stuart, Fla. He was 87. He died a day after
 AMES--David A. age 39, son of Bernice Kaplan and the late Bob Ames died in Florida on September 11. He left behind his cherished and adoring daughter Lindsi, beloved sister Kelly Ames and loving mother and devoted stepfather Tom Kaplan. He will be dearly missed by all who loved him.       
 ANDERSON--David C. Journalist, writer, Quaker. A Memorial Meeting will be held Saturday, September 24, 4 PM. Brooklyn Meeting House, Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) 110 Schermherhorn St., corner of Boerum Place, Brooklyn. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions can be made to: Mar
 ANDERSON--Oliver John. On September 10, 2005, at home, surrounded by family on Orcas Island, WA. He is survived by wife Mary Creed, daughter Mimi and son Peter and five grandchildren. In lieu of flowers, the family requests that gifts be made to Phillips Academy, Attn: Alumni Office, 180 Ma
 BARISH--Julian I., M.D., 88, passed September 14, 2005, at home. Pioneer in adolescent psychiatry, founder of the Psychiatric Center for Adolescents, former president American Society for Adolescent Psychiatry, chairman of Adolescent Psychiatry Group at Mount Sinai School of Medicine. Belov
 BENOWITZ--Ben. 97, September 16, 2005. Beloved husband for 68 years of Lillian. Brother of Phil. Father of Paul, Larry and Martin. Father-in-law of Sondra and Brooke. Grandfather of Scott, Isaac, Miriam and Daniel. Ben will be remembered for his warmth, humor and love of family. Funeral Sep
 BRESSLER--Bernard. Died peacefully on Saturday morning, September 17. Bernie was the beloved husband of Teresa, father of Lisa Berg and Jeanette Bressler, grandfather of Adam and Joshua Berg, father-in-law of Michael Berg, future father-inlaw of Steven W. Perlsweig, and brother of Martin. H
 BURNS--Paul A., on September 15, 2005. Beloved husband of Patty (nee Farrell). Loving father of Claire and Elizabeth, students at the Convent of the Sacred Heart at 91st Street. Devoted brother of Gerald Burns of Nottingham, England. He will be missed by both his family and many friends. Vi
 GOLDSTEIN - Hyman. Of Cortlandt Manor, NY, died on Friday, September 16, 2005. He was 87 years old. Hy was born on April 15, 1918, in New York City to Louis and Rebecca Goldstein. He served his country for five years in the US Army during WWII. Hy was a Rockland County resident from 1959-19
 GRIFFIN--Gerald W. died peacefully on Wednesday, September 14, with his family at his side. The cause was complications from hip surgery. Gerry was born to Esther and Charles Griffin on July 9, 1927. He grew up in Flatbush, Brooklyn. His love of sports earned him basketball scholarships to 
 HOAG--John Warner, B. Arch. (Univ. of Toronto 1955); Fellow, Royal Architectural Institute of Canada (1984); Order of da Vinci (1987) and Honorary Membership (2004) both granted by the Ontario Association of Architects. Born February 21, 1930 in Brantford, Ontario, predeceased by his parent
 KATZ--Alexander aka Sander. 92, September 16, 2005, two days shy of 68th wedding anniversary to his beloved Nina. Devoted father to Patricia (David Bogaisky), Susan (Edward Flinn) and Janet (George Samuels). Loving grandpop to Soraya, Jeremy, Michael, Emily, Daniel and Michael S. Brother of
 LASSER--Kenneth. To the best uncle and brother, from his sister Elaine Glasgall and the families of Brett Meyer, and Douglas Meyer.       
 LASSMAN--Joseph, 79. Of Lake Worth, FL, formerly of Sea Gate, NY. August 28, 2005. Beloved husband of Vivian, dear father of David and Carol, cherished grandfather of Cheryl, Andrew, and Sara. He was a CPA, WW II Vet and community leader. He will be missed by his many friends, family and re
 LEE--William Brewster, of Rochester, NY, died peacefully on September 15, 2005 after an amazing life of nearly 84 years. He is survived by his wife Nancy Hodge Lee, his children Christey Lee Robinson and W. Brewster Lee and his wife Victoria West, and his grandchildren Taylor T. Robinson, E
 LEHMANN--William H. 89, died on September 11, 2005. Widower of Ebba, survived by his sons Greg and Bill. Beloved for his wit, wisdom and compassion. He was a dignified gentleman who will be sorely missed.       
 LEVY--Norman F. On behalf of the Board of Directors, volunteers, consumers and families of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City, we offer our heartfelt condolences to the family of Norman F. Levy. Norman Levy was a longtime friend and supporter whose very presence, along with his daughter
 LUCE--Henry III. The Board of Directors of the Milton B. Rosenbluth Foundation wishes to express profound sorrow at the loss of our Board member, Henry Luce III. He was generous and caring and will be greatly missed. We extend heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Leila and family. Michael A. R
 PARKER--Toni. The judges of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York are deeply saddened by the death of Toni, wife of our colleague, Judge Barrington D. Parker, and extend our sympathy to his family. Michael B. Mukasey, Chief Judge       
 POLAK--Ernest H. Of Tucson, AZ, died on September 12, 2005 leaving his loving wife, Ghislaine; two sons, and five grandchildren. His long life was devoted to scientific research and development.       
 POPKIN--Jack L. age 87. A true gentleman loved by all who knew him, for his integrity, generosity and kindness. Established Jack L. Popkin Co. in 1947. He will be dearly missed by all, especially by his wife Rita, his children and his grandchildren. Services today 10am at ''Schwartz Bros.-J
 SLADE--John. It is with sincere regret that we at the New York City office of American Express Tax & Business Services, Inc. mourn the passing of our loyal client, John Slade. Wall Street has lost one of its brightest stars. From his leadership at Bear Stearns to his generosity toward the N
 STEIN--Benjamin M., M.D. Born March 11, 1911 died August 21, 2005. Loving and devoted to both his wife Claire, and son Douglas, he lived a life of dedication to his family, to his profession and to his country, serving in World War II as a physician in England, Normandy, and Germany where h
 TRAMMELL - Webb. Sep tember 15, 2005. Beloved husband of Susan. Loving father of Philip. Devoted brother of Ghislaine Morris. He was a retired Lieutenant Commander in the Navy and former Rockefeller Foundation assistant treasurer. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 
 WARE--Jack. August 9, 2005, at 100, of natural causes, at his home in Westport, CT. Survived by his wife, Margaret, daughter Ellen Cowen, of Westport, son John A. Ware, of Manhattan, two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. A.B., B.S., M. Engr., Columbia University, twotime All-Americ
 WASHBURN--Stanley Jr. October 6, 1908--September 11, 2005. Born in Minneapolis, Minnesota, he graduated from Yale in 1931. During WWII, he was a pilot with cargo-carrying Air Transport Command. Shortly after, he organized the American Airship Company and co-piloted the 120 foot long non-rig
 WEINSTEIN--Irving Samuel. On Friday, August 26, 2005, after a long illness, in Palm Desert, CA. A respected principal of several electrical contracting companies in NY during his 50-year career. Veteran of WWII, long-term member of the Masonic Order and a Shriner. Will be deeply missed and 
 Perry Lafferty, a retired network television executive who helped produce a string of popular shows, including ''All in the Family,'' ''M*A*S*H,'' ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show'' and ''Maude,'' died on Aug. 25 at his home in Century City, Calif. He was 87. The cause was cancer, his fa
 Donn Clendenon, the most valuable player in the 1969 World Series, when he hit three home runs to help propel the team known as the Miracle Mets to a five-game triumph over the Baltimore Orioles, died Saturday at his home in Sioux Falls, S.D. He was 70. His death was announced by th
 Jay M. Gould, a statistician and epidemiologist whose contention that radiation from nuclear power plants was causing high rates of cancer in surrounding neighborhoods made him a leading figure in the antinuclear movement, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 90 and lived on the U
 Dr. Mansour F. Armaly, an ophthalmologist and researcher who led an early national study of glaucoma and discovered an unusually high incidence of the disease among family members of those who had it, died Aug. 19 at George Washington University Medical Center in Washington. He was 78.     
 BENOWITZ--Ben. 97, September 16, 2005. Beloved husband for 68 years of Lillian. Brother of Phil. Father of Paul, Larry and Martin. Father-in-law of Sondra and Brooke. Grandfather of Scott, Isaac, Miriam and Daniel. Ben will be remembered for his warmth, humor and love of family. Shiva at ho
 BLUM--Samuel. Born on July 15, 1908, Sam grew up in Leipzig, Germany. In 1932 he moved to Paris, where he met Simone Padawer. They married on June 19, 1938, and on April 12, 1940, they came to New York City, where they have lived ever since. He was the president of United Feather and Down u
 BRESSLER - Bernard. We mourn the loss of a great lawyer and a treasured friend who gave us wise counsel for more than 20 years. Our deepest sympathy for his wife and family. The Finn family and the staff of the Ruder Finn Group       
 FELL--Freda. The Brotherhood Synagogue extends condolences to our Chairman of the Board, Alan Fell, and his family, on the passing of his mother. She was courageous, energetic, and a loving wife, mother and grandmother.       
 HOROWITZ--Raymond J. 89. On September 18, 2005. Beloved by his daughter Judy Babcock and his late wife Margaret, and loving brother of Edith King. His career as a an attorney was punctuated by decades of wise counsel and thoughtful action. A pioneer art collector who promoted and appreciate
 KAPLAN--Henry. Television and stage director Henry Kaplan died Wednesday, September 14 at the age of 79. His television and stage credits included over 25 years with ABC-TV's ''All My Children'' as well as ''Dark Shadows'' and ''The Doctors.'' His stage credits included ''Any Wednesday,'' '
 KATZ--Alexander aka Sander. 92, September 16, 2005, two days shy of 68th wedding anniversary to his beloved Nina. Devoted father to Patricia (David Bogaisky), Susan (Edward Flinn) and Janet (George Samuels). Loving grandpop to Soraya, Jeremy, Michael, Emily, Daniel and Michael S. Brother of
 LEHMANN--William H. 89, died on September 11, 2005. Widower of Ebba, survived by his sons Greg and Bill. Beloved for his wit, wisdom and compassion. He was a dignified gentleman who will be sorely missed.       
 SHIMM--Melvin G. Professor Emeritus at Duke University Law School, died September 17, 2005 in Durham, NC at the age of 79. Survivors include his wife Cynia Brown Shimm, M.D., sons David (Carmen) of Charleston, WV, Jon (Judith) of Pittsburgh and grandsons Abe and Alex of Pittsburgh and broth
 The Rev. Dr. Donald S. Harrington, a Unitarian minister who crusaded for social justice and was the public face of New York's Liberal Party in its heyday as a candidate for public office and its titular state chairman, died on Friday in Romania. He was 91. His death was announced by
 Gordon Gould, who fought for three decades for recognition of his work in the invention of the laser -- and eventually won millions of dollars in royalties -- died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85. His death was confirmed by his wife, Marilyn Appel. I
 ANDERSON--David C. Journalist, writer, Quaker. A Memorial Meeting will be held Saturday, September 24, 4 PM. Brooklyn Meeting House, Religious Society of Friends (Quakers) 110 Schermherhorn St., corner of Boerum Place, Brooklyn. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions can be made to: Mar
 BLUM--Samuel. The American Friends of ALYN Hospital is deeply saddened by the death of Samuel Blum, who, with his beloved wife Simone, founded our organization. Sam was a lifelong supporter of the handicapped children who are treated at ALYN Hospital in Jerusalem. Sam remained a valued Boar
 BRESSLER--Bernard. Bressler, Amery & Ross mourns the death of its founding partner, Bernard Bressler. Bernie was a brilliant man who, second only to his family and many good friends, revered the law. After graduating from Harvard Law School in 1949, where he was an editor of the Harvard Law
 CAPPARIS -- Marlene (Begge). Of New York, NY on September 18, 2005. Wife of the late Ambrose A. (1990); mother of Michael of New York and Brussels, and Philip and his wife Shelia of Chatham; grandmother of Michael, Christopher, Caroline and Grace. A Funeral Mass will be celebrated at 11 AM 
 GREENE - Daniel. October 17, 1912 to September 17, 2005. Beloved father to Karin Grouf, Sherri Greene, Ron Greene and Ken Greene. Grandfather of Caitlin Greene and Ryan Greene. Brother to Syliva Piven, brother-in-law to Fred Hill and father-in-law to Diane Greene. Close friend to Phyllis Ha
 HOROWITZ--Raymond J. 89. On September 18, 2005. Beloved by his daughter Judy Babcock and his late wife Margaret, and loving brother of Edith King. His career as a an attorney was punctuated by decades of wise counsel and thoughtful action. A pioneer art collector who promoted and appreciate
 KAMPF -- William I. The Union for reform Judaism mourns with profound sorrow the sudden death of Bill Kampf, of St. Paul, MN, a member of its Board of Trustees since 1997 and, since 2004, the president of the Union's Great Lakes Council. In a variety of roles, Bill served the Union with gre
 MIHALY--John, Jr., on September 17, 2005. Loving husband of Kathleen, beloved father of John III. He enjoyed a long career as a purchasing agent for the Penn Central Railroad and various hotels including The Palace, The Drake and The Rihga Royal. Friends may call at the Fred H. McGrath & So
 SAVODNIK--Marvin. ''Mickey'', 71, September 17, 2005. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Devoted father of Beth and Scott. Father-in-law of Cary and Dominique. Brother of Irwin. Loving ''Papa'' of Amanda, Rebecca and Matthew. Step-grandfather of Jason and Heather. Caring brother-in-law and uncle. 
 TANNOR--Solomon. On September 18, Beloved husband of the late Norma. Loving father of Merrill, Robert and Erica, and Evan and Ilene. Cherished grandfather of Amanda, Samantha, Bradley, Jaymie and Cole. Dear brother of Dorothy Eisenberg Zeluck. Services ''BoulevardRiverside'' 1450 Broadway, 
 WONG--Richard K. Habitat for Humanity-New York City mourns the loss of Richard K. Wong, a beloved colleague, who devoted his life to building homes, building community, and building brotherhood in the city he loved. Richard will be honored and remembered at a memorial service Friday, Septem
 ZWICK - Joseph. Passed away peacefully September 19, 2005. Beloved husband and best friend of Harriet. (nee Baumholtz). Adored father of Michael and Marjorie. Cherished grandfather of Adam and Harry. God be with him.       
 BRONFELD--Benjamin. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Benjamin Bronfeld, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Marc Goldberg, President       
 BONCHICK -- Robert Ellis. Died at the age of 68 from complications of cancer. He fought the brave fight for seven years. He is survived by his devoted wife, Annise, his children, Ruth, Michael and Christine, Richard and Robin, as well as their mother, Anna, his loving brother Norman, who wa
 DREYER--Harvey. Extraordinary husband of 58 years to Doris, loving father of Susan (Paul) Harris, Marcie (Peter) Maynard and Ellen (Jim) Yanda, doting grandpa of Laura, Melanie, Hilary, Marielle and Aaron. Survived by brother, Len Goldreyer, inlaws, Muriel and Sam Zuckerman. Lived 82 wonder
 HOROWITZ--Raymond J. 89. On September 18, 2005. Beloved by his daughter Judy Babcock and his late wife Margaret, and loving brother of Edith King. His career as a an attorney was punctuated by decades of wise counsel and thoughtful action. A pioneer art collector who promoted and appreciate
 LEIDERMAN - Howard. 60, on September 20, 2005 after a courageous battle with brain cancer. Beloved, wonderful husband of Ronni. Devoted father of Alissa and Darren. Father-in-law of Howard and Marni. Loving grandfather to Sarah, Aaron, Hayden and Avery and step-dad to Nora, and Sara. A bril
 McQUILLER--Charles Leroy. Better known as ''Pop'', died July 21, 2005. Born in Lancaster, SC on December 31, 1923 to a large family. Son of William and Anne McQuiller. Married to Evelyn Ford McQuiller for 55 years. Father of three sons and grandfather of nine. Served in the US Navy and was 
 MOGAN--Harry. Of White Plains, N.Y. Died on Monday, September 19, 2005. He was 85 years old. Harry was born on February 6, 1920 in Vienna, Austria, and served in the U.S. Army overseas during World War II. Beloved husband of Marietta, loving father of James and Dr. Glen Mogan and Lynn Cesar
 REED--Samuel. The Board of Directors and shareholders of 953 Fifth Avenue Corp mourn the loss of Samuel Reed, a longtime resident and Board member. Mr. Reed passed away on Saturday, September 17, 2005. The Board and shareholders wish to express their sympathy to his family, Annette de La Re
 SAUNDERS--Leroy N., retired NYPD, formerly of Durham, N.C., on September 18. Survived by his wife Marion, and children Richard, James, Allison, Oscar and Meena, mother Irene Sanders, three sisters, four brothers, two grandchildren. Memorial service: Friday, September 30, 2:30PM at the UN Ch
 SLADE--John. The World Union for Progressive Judaism records with sadness the death of John Slade, our good friend and generous benefactor. His love for the Jewish people and commitment to Jewish values was wisely recognized and admired. John was our World Union International Humanitarian A
 WIESENTHAL--Simon. The Anti - Defamation League mourns the passing of Simon Wiesenthal, a hero in the fight to bring justice to the millions of Holocaust victims and an impassioned voice of conscience against anti-Semitism and all forms of prejudice. A 1988 recipient of ADL's Jabotinsky Awa
 VACCHIANO--William. The New York Philharmonic deeply mourns the passing, on September 19, of William Vacchiano, who joined the Orchestra's trumpet section under Arturo Toscanini in 1935 and served as Principal Trumpet from 1942 to 1973, never missing a performance in 38 years. He was a lege
 VOGELSTEIN--Charles. Died September 14, 2005 at the age of 79. Widower of Norma, beloved father of Lynn, brother of Henry and Susan Vogelstein and Stanley Weiss, father-in-law of John Foster, devoted uncle of Steven and Barbara Vogelstein, David Vogelstein and Vivian Sherman, Andrew and Fra
 TANNOR--Solomon. Hadassah, The Women's Zionist Organization of America, Inc. mourns the passing of Solomon Tannor, beloved husband of Norma, of blessed memory, cherished father of Merrill, Robert and Erica, Evan and Ilene and loving grandfather of Amanda, Samantha, Bradley, Jaymie and Cole.
 Simon Wiesenthal, the death camp survivor who dedicated the rest of his life to tracking down fugitive Nazi war criminals, died yesterday at his home in Vienna. He was 96. He died in his sleep, said Rabbi Marvin Hier, dean and founder of the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles.  
 Joe Bauman, who hit 72 home runs in 1954 playing for a minor league team in Roswell, N.M., setting a single-season record for professional baseball that stood for nearly half a century, died Tuesday at a hospital in Roswell. He was 83. The cause was pneumonia, which developed after 
 ARLT--Paul T. died on September 20th at age 91 in Rye, NY. He leaves his wife of 65 years MacClaire, a daughter Ronay Menschel, son-in-law Richard Menschel, and grandchildren Charis and Ryan Drant, and Sabina and Celene Menschel who loved him and to whom he was devoted. Born in the Bronx, g
 ASCH--Arthur. Of Short Hills, N.J. Beloved husband of thelate Virginia M. Devoted father of Cathy Asch and Roger and his wife Leslie Asch. Loving brother of Jerome and the late Seymour Asch. Dearest uncle of Andrea Rupp; most precious grandfather of Nicholas and Joshua. Funeral Services wil
 DREYER--Harvey. Extraordinary husband of 58 years to Doris, loving father of Susan (Paul) Harris, Marcie (Peter) Maynard and Ellen (Jim) Yanda, doting grandpa of Laura, Melanie, Hilary, Marielle and Aaron. Survived by brother, Len Goldreyer, inlaws, Muriel and Sam Zuckerman. Lived 82 wonder
 FUTTER--Victor, 86, died peacefully at home in Manhasset, Long Island, on September 21, 2005. Beloved husband of Joan for 62 years, loving father of Jeffrey, Ellen and Deborah, father-in-law of William Cohan and Susan Sommer and cherished grandfather of Jillian, Allison, Claire, Anne, Eliza
 LEVIN--William Jay, M.D. Of Englewood, NJ on September 20. Beloved husband of SallyJo O'Brien. Cherished son of Morton and Doris Levin. Devoted father of Julia Jaye Levin. Dear brother of Frayda Levy, Melissa Levin, Mindy Levin and the late Jackie Shani. Loving uncle of Sigal, Advah, Lilach
 MAMLOK--Dwight G. On September 20. My sweet beloved husband of 58 years left me too soon. He was the most sensitive human being, wrote the beautiful poetry for my song cycle ''The Andreas Garden'', short stories on a variety of subjects, and what a great sense of humor, despite the hard tim
 NUGENT--John D. (''Drew'') b. 1941, cherished husband of Charlotte, beloved father of Josh and Edie, brother of Nelle, son of Evelyn Nugent Bailey and the late John P. Nugent, July 30 after a long illness. A celebration of his life will be held on Sunday, September 25, at 3 PM, in Inwood Pa
 ROSENBERG -- Murray. Passed away Tuesday September 20, 2005, beloved husband of the late Anne, adored father of Linda Rosenberg, and Judy & Rabbi Carl Wolkin, cherished grandfather of Joshua & David Wolkin. Murray is survived by his brother, Leo, and brothers-in-law Abe Feldman, and Robert 
 WALKER--Donald A. Distinguished Professor of Physics at SUNY New Paltz. Died on September 15, 2005. A nuclear physicist and computer specialist, he graduated from Queens College and Oregon State University where he received his Ph.D. in 1968. An Air Force veteran of the Korean War, he had m
 VACCHIANO--William. The entire Juilliard community mourns the passing of William Vacchiano, one of the longest serving faculty members in the history of the School. He was a member of the trumpet faculty from 1935 to 2002, and his students went on to perform in most of the major orchestras 
 William S. Bartman, an art patron and the founder of a nonprofit publishing company and exhibition space, died last Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 58 and a Manhattan resident. Yael Meridan Schori, president of the board of Art Resources Transfer, or ART, Mr. B
 Michael deCourcy Hinds, a former national correspondent for The New York Times, died on Monday at the NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital in Manhattan. He was 58 and a Manhattan resident. The cause was complications of multiple myeloma, said his wife, Susan Lapinski.        
 ARLT--Paul T. died on September 20th at age 91 in Rye, NY. He leaves his wife of 65 years MacClaire, a daughter Ronay Menschel, son-in-law Richard Menschel, and grandchildren Charis and Ryan Drant, and Sabina and Celene Menschel who loved him and to whom he was devoted. Born in the Bronx, g
 BROD--Albert T. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a loyal supporter of Jewish education. He and his wife, Lois, are YU Guardians who established the Albert T. and Lois Brod Scholarship and the Albert T. and Ruth Hagy Brod Scholarship at Yeshiva University. Our heartfelt co
 FORRELL--Gene, noted conductor and composer died peacefully at home on September 21, 2005. He will be dearly missed by his loving wife Mildred, family and friends. Services today, 11AM at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam Ave at 76th St, NYC. Contributions may be sent to Musicians' Found
 HOROWITZ--Raymond. The partners, counsel, associates and staff of Graubard Miller greatly mourn the passing of our esteemed Counsel and former partner of many years, Raymond J. Horowitz, and extend our deepest sympathy to his daughter, Judith Babcock and to his sister, Edith King. We lose a
 MANDER--Noel. 93, the pipe organ builder, died September 18, 2005. Mander founded NP Mander in 1936, but shelved it for the duration of WWII during which he fought. After the war Mander restored his firm and eventually, the reputation of the British organ building tradition. He went on to b
 STUTZ--Ronald S., 70, of Miami, Fla., Bayside, N.Y. and Roxbury, N.Y. Died peacefully on September 20, 2005 in Miami. Retired from teaching at Jamaica High School. He will be sorely missed by his loving wife Linda and by many cousins and friends. Graveside services on Sunday, September 25 a
 WEISS--Melvin. On September 21, 2005. Beloved husband for 48 years to Felicia. Loving father and father-in-law of Stephanie and Stephen, Peter and Jennifer. Devoted and adored grandfather of Alex, Emily, Charlotte and Spencer. For 75 years, Mel cared deeply for his family and friends, shari
 VACCHIANO--William. The entire Juilliard community mourns the passing of William Vacchiano, one of the longest serving faculty members in the history of the School. He was a member of the trumpet faculty from 1935 to 2002, and his students went on to perform in most of the major orchestras 
 Theodore X. Barber, a psychologist who became a leading critic of hypnosis after his scientific studies concluded that the power of suggestion often worked nearly as well, died on Sept. 10 at a hospital in Framingham, Mass. He was 78 and lived in Ashland, Mass. The cause was a ruptu
 Harold L. Friedman, a chemist who studied the structural and thermodynamic properties of liquids, in work that has relevance to both oceanography and human physiology, died on Sept. 16 at the Long Island State Veterans Home in Stony Brook, N.Y. He was 82. The cause was complications
 Noel Mander, an organ builder who salvaged, repaired and reconstructed organs in London churches damaged in World War II and went on to rebuild and enlarge the great organ in St. Paul's Cathedral, died Sunday at his home in Suffolk, England. He was 93. His son John Pike Mander confi
 BOOKSON--Paul. The Eldridge Street Project, the nonsectarian cultural organization dedicated to restoring the historic Eldridge Street Synagogue, mourns the loss of Judge Paul P.E. Bookson. As President of Congregation K'hal Adath Jeshurun, he dedicated himself to ensuring continued religio
 FUTTER--Victor. We are saddened by the passing of our classmate and former Director and express our deepest sympathy to his wife Joan and the family. Victor's wisdom and energy will long be remembered. Tullio J. Borri, President Society of Columbia Graduates FUTTER--Victor. The past
 STUTZ--Ronald S., 70, of Miami, Fla., Bayside, N.Y. and Roxbury, N.Y. Died peacefully on September 20, 2005 in Miami. Retired from teaching at Jamaica High School. He will be sorely missed by his loving wife Linda and by many cousins and friends. Graveside services on Sunday, September 25 a
 WEISS--Melvin. On September 21, 2005. Beloved husband for 48 years to Felicia. Loving father and father-in-law of Stephanie and Stephen, Peter and Jennifer. Devoted and adored grandfather of Alex, Emily, Charlotte and Spencer. For 75 years, Mel cared deeply for his family and friends, shari
 MANGANELLI -- Raymond Michael, wonderful husband, father, grandfather, and brother, died on September 21st at his home in Hillside, New Jersey, surrounded by his family. Dr. Manganelli was born on January 15, 1921, in Elizabeth, New Jersey, to Louis and Concettina Manganelli. He graduated f
 Victor Futter, a prominent New York lawyer and professor of law, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhasset. He was 86. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Until recently, Mr. Futter was special counsel to the dean and a professor of law at Hofstra Unive
 William A. Vacchiano, a master of the trumpet who never missed a concert during 38 years in the New York Philharmonic and is said to have instructed some 2,000 students, died on Monday. He was 93. The Juilliard School, where he taught for many years, announced his death. Mr.
 BLUMGARTEN--James. Of South Salem, NY, September 24, 2005. Writer by profession, he defined ''gentleman,'' and was truly a man for all seasons. His family and friends will mourn his loss. We love you, Gumps. Funeral services will be private. A memorial service at a time and place during the
 BRAND--Joshua M., 62. September 17th, 2005. Beloved husband of Mercedes, son of Marion Orgel, father to Monica, Debbie, Jeff and Kenny, and brother to Andrea, David, and Carol. A man of great energy, he dedicated his life to family and friends.       
 DOUGLASS--William Angus. Died peacefully on September 19, at home, with his wife Stephanie, son Doug, daughters, Tory and Fiona, by his side. A graduate of Yale '51, he and college friends founded Careers, Inc, in 1951. Since 1970 he divided his time between UK and USA. A service will be he
 EGE--Hans A., The Board and staff of The Bay and Paul Foundations are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed colleague Hans A. Ege and extend our sympathy and condolences to his wife, Else, and daughters, Elizabeth and Tina. Hans became a director of the foundation nearly twenty yea
 FUTTER--Victor. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our good friend and Director Emeritus Victor Futter. Vic was a great leader of Greenwich House as a member of the board for 20 years, providing invaluable counsel, leadership and support in numerous ways. We will miss his wisdom, expe
 HAIGH--Andrew D., 74, of Bolton Landing, NY, died on September 17th surrounded by family and friends. An accomplished jazz musician; an educator and librarian. He worked at the libraries of Smith and Bard Colleges and at the University of Massachusetts. He was a loving husband, a devoted fa
 JEFFER--Medwin B. 88, of Lake Worth, Fla., on September 21, 2005. Beloved husband of Marilyn and the late Eleanor; father of Susan and Dr. Mattis Fern and Peter and Haya Jeffer; grandfather of Jacqueline, Steven, Allison and Scott; great grandfather of Ben, Emily, Max, Samantha and Jack. Fo
 LEVIN--William, M.D. The administration, colleagues, staff and patients of Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center mourn the passing of our beloved ENT specialist, Dr. Bill Levin. The skill and caring attention that he brought to each patient in his work here will be sorely missed. We ext
 LING--Alfred S.C. 77, on September 13, 2005. A graduate of Princeton University, the University of Illinois (MS, Physiology) and at he University of Maryland (MD and Ph.D, Pharmacology). Following his residency in internal medicine at the Pennsylvania Hospital, he joined Rockefeller Univers
 MEISTER--Jack B. 78, Morristown, NJ. Adored by his wife, Lucille, and daughters, Andrea and Barbara. CCNY grad, WWII Navy vet, inventor, engineer, business owner. Respected for his integrity, ingenuity, talent and vision. Loved for his sense of humor and generous, sensitive spirit, his phot
 Serge Lang, a leading mathematical theorist who became better known for his academic jousts with nonmathematicians on social and political issues than for his work in geometry and the properties of numbers, died Sept. 12 in Berkeley, Calif. He was 78. The Yale University mathematics
 Tobias Schneebaum, a New York writer, artist and explorer who in the 1950's lived among cannibals in the remote Amazon jungle and, by his own account, sampled their traditional cuisine, died on Tuesday in Great Neck, N.Y. He was in his mid-80's and a longtime resident of Greenwich Village. 
 Don Adams, who played Maxwell Smart in the 1960's sitcom ''Get Smart,'' combining clipped, decisive diction with appalling, hilarious ineptitude, died on Sunday at a Los Angeles hospital. He was 82. The cause was a lung infection, his friend and former agent Bruce Tufeld said, accor
 George Archer, the 1969 Masters champion, who was once the tallest player on the PGA Tour and maybe its best putter, died Sunday at his home in Incline Village, Nev. He was 65. The cause was Burkitt's lymphoma, a form of cancer, which he had been battling for a little more than a ye
 FORRELL--Gene. The Board of Directors of Musicians Foundation Inc. mourn the loss of Gene Forrell who has served as a Director for many many years. His support, insight and imagination will be sorely missed for he always put the needs of musicians first. Anne B. Stern, President Hans E. Tau
 FUTTER--Victor. Columbia College and the Office of Alumni Affairs and Development mourn the passing of Victor Futter, College Class of 1939. Mr. Futter served as President of the College Alumni Association from 1972-74. He was a dedicated supporter of the College and received the President'
 GOLDSTEIN--Daniel. 78 of Boca Raton formerly of Woodmere, died at home on September 26 after a long illness, surrounded by his family. Dan was a devoted husband to Arlene for 42 years and a loving father to Carrie and David Gamsey, Debbie Kahn, Karen and Jeff Miller. He was adored by his gr
 KASSAL--Samuel Z., DDS. Died September 25. Survived by his wife, Winifred; father of Leslie and Drew; stepfather of Randee and Gary. Brother of Bentley and Stanley. Services private. $(6$)KORN--Gordon N., CPA, died at his home in Riverhead, NY. He was sixty-eight years old. Mr. Korn
 LANDRETH--Edward Swain. On September 26, 2005 at age ninty-two. Retired Executive Vice President of Sterling Products International. Beloved husband of Betsy Landreth. Loving father of Elizabeth Newhouse, Ted Landreth, Ann Gund, and Barbara Landreth. Cherished grandfather of Elizabeth Wagle
 McAVEY--Vincent M. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Vincent M. McAvey, a Veteran member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Robert J. Reilly, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian    
 MOONEY--Donald J., Sr., formerly of Rowayton, CT. Died September 15. He was 79. Rose to Executive VP of Equitable Life Assurance Society of US, youngest VP in company history, founding president/CEO of country's first variable life insurance company, founding president/CEO of Equitable Life
 MOORE--Roy, Author/Photographer of ''Reflections on Greece'' and Co-Author/Photographer with his wife Alma of ''Thomas Jefferson's Journey to the South of France,'' died September 23 in NYC. Born in Virginia, he practiced his profession of travel and fashion photography in America and Europ
 RIDGWAY--Thomas Jr. 91, beloved husband of Jane Pope (Akers) Ridgway, who died in his summer home in Newport, Rhode Island, on September 5, 2005. He was born in Philadelphia, PA, on May 9, 1914. He was the son of the late Thomas and Edith Ridgway. A memorial service will be held in St. Colu
 Van CLIEF--Anthony S. The Board of Directors and staff of the Brookdale Foundation Group are deeply saddened by the loss of Anthony S. Van Clief, the husband and best friend of Mary Ann Van Clief, Vice President of the Brookdale Foundation, on Sunday September 25. Tony will forever be remem
 VISLOCKY--Nicholas W. The Board of Trustees, officers and staff of The Green-Wood Cemetery mourn the loss of our dear friend and Superintendent, Nicholas W. Vislocky. With passion, commitment and good humor he served Green-Wood for more than 34 years, five of those years as its Superintende
 Urie Bronfenbrenner, an internationally renowned psychologist and authority on child development who in the mid-1960's helped found the federal Head Start program, which aids poor preschool children and their families, died on Sunday at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 88. The cause 
 Harry Heltzer, who began at the 3M Company as a $12-a-week manual laborer, invented one of the company's most profitable products and rose to be its top executive, died on Sept. 21 at his home in Lenoir, N.C. He was 94. A granddaughter, Deborah Heltzer, confirmed the death. 
 M. Scott Peck, the psychiatrist and author whose best-selling book ''The Road Less Traveled'' offered millions of readers an inspirational prescription of self-discipline, died on Sunday at his home in Warren, Conn. He was 69. The cause was complications of pancreatic and liver duct
 CORCORAN--John W. Of NYC, Rye and Windham, NY. On September 25. Beloved husband of Susan. Loving father of Elise Dobi, Laura, Sanford and Pamela Corcoran. Cherished grandfather of five loving grandchildren. Former Vice-Chairman of Donaldson Lufkin and Jenrette. A graduate of Dartmouth Colle
 EISENBUD--Leon. It is with a profound sense of loss that we, his former students and residents, note the passing of our beloved teacher and mentor, Dr. Leon Eisenbud. Dr. Eisenbud was our Professor Dumbledore, our Gandalf, who magically molded young dentists into thoughtful, educated, respo
 FUTTER--Victor. The Board of Trustees and the Bank Street College community join together to express our sorrow at the death of Victor Futter. We extend our sincere sympathy to his daughters, Trustee Deborah Futter and former parent and longtime friend Ellen. Perhap Victor's proudest associ
 GOLDSTEIN--Daniel. 78 of Boca Raton formerly of Woodmere, died at home on September 26 after a long illness, surrounded by his family. Dan was a devoted husband to Arlene for 42 years and a loving father to Carrie and David Gamsey, Debbie Kahn, Karen and Jeff Miller. He was adored by his gr
 KALIK--Edward L., 79, died September 22. The World War II veteran was born and raised in New York. Since 1966, he lived in St. Thomas, U.S. Virgin Islands. He is survived by his wife, Margaret; daughters, Barbara Kalik and Linda Spaisman; sister, Irene Zeidman; stepdaughter Kathy Lindsay; s
 KORN--Gordon N., CPA, died at his home in Riverhead, NY. He was sixty-eight years old. Mr. Korn was a former Senior Partner of the accounting firms M.R. Weiser of Lake Success, NY and Lopez, Edwards, Frank & Company. He was a member of the New York State Society of CPA's and the AICPA. Duri
 MARSHALL--Melvin. March 10, 1922--September 26, 2005. Mel lived his life by offering the benefit of the doubt, he put his wife and children first. He was a man for whom family meant everything and whose life could only be measured as a fabulous success. Noted raconteur, his booming voice an
 MILLS--La Roi, 89 years old, of New York City, died September 19, 2005. World traveler and true food connoisseur, he will be greatly missed. Preceded in death by his wife Emelda. He is survived by sons Steven and Richard, five grandchildren and one greatgrandson. The family will receive fri
 MOSS--William John. Longtime partner in the law firm of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft LLP, beloved husband of Kathryn Casale Moss, devoted father of ten and loving grandfather of eighteen, passed away on September 25, 2005 at his home in Garrison, New York. He was 84 years of age. A highly 
 NORDEN--Robert. Of Warwick, NY passed away on September 27, 2005. Mr. Norden upon the death of his father left his engineering studies at Columbia University to assume the operation of Fraunces Tavern, NYC, the oldest existing tavern in America, which Bob continued to run for 41 years. He w
 OJEDA-RIOS--Filiberto, 72. Shot to death by FBI on September 23, 2005. Puerto Rican patriot, freedom fighter, musician, cook, and friend. ''It's the life of a rebel that he chose to live, it's the death of a rebel that he died.'' Todo Boricua Machetero! Un abrazo. Ron Kuby and Marilyn Vasta
 SILVERMAN - Myron. The Officers, Directors and Administration of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center extend their heartfelt sympathy to Robert Silverman, our fellow Board member, on the loss of his beloved father Myron. Our sincere condolences to the entire family. Lawrence Simon, Chairman A
 SIMONS--Leo M. On September 22, 2005, at age 76. He will be lovingly remembered by wife Nancy (nee Irausquin); children Pamela and Grant; their mother, Sonia Simons; daughter-in-law Sunisa Simons; grandchildren Emily, Nicole, Julia & Scott Simons; sister Lillian Greenberg and brother - in -
 SMITH--Martin. The New York Philharmonic mourns the passing, on September 24, of Martin Smith, 58, who joined the Orchestra in 1974 as Associate Principal Horn and became Acting Principal Horn in 1979. Mr. Smith began studying the horn at age 12, and received bachelor's and master's degrees
 Van CLIEF--Anthony S. The Board of Directors and staff of the Brookdale Foundation Group are deeply saddened by the loss of Anthony S. Van Clief, the husband and best friend of Mary Ann Van Clief, Vice President of the Brookdale Foundation, on Sunday September 25. Tony will forever be remem
 VLAMIS--Steve ''Stamatis'' on September 26. Born in Andros, Greece, in the village of Aprovatro, November 2, 1914. He moved to Athens at age 11 to begin his lifetime career in the food business. At 21, he entered the Greek Navy. After his service tour, he joined the Merchant Marine service 
 VISLOCKY--Nicholas W. The Board of Trustees, officers and staff of The Green-Wood Cemetery mourn the loss of our dear friend and Superintendent, Nicholas W. Vislocky. With passion, commitment and good humor he served Green-Wood for more than 34 years, five of those years as its Superintende
 BARISH--Julian MD. Was a Past President of the American Society for Adolescent Psychiatry. He will be greatly missed by his many friends and colleagues in the Society. Stephen B. Billick MD, President, ASAP       
 CARR--Marilyn B. Died September 28, 2005. Beloved wife of Robert, mother of Meredith, grandmother of Abigail. Cherished by friends and relatives. A highly respected travel agent, founder of Linden Travel Bureau, school volunteer for many years. Services will be held on Friday, September 30,
 FUTTER--Victor. Hofstra University and its School of Law are deeply saddened by the death of Victor Futter, special counsel to the dean and a professor of law for almost two decades. Professor Futter generously contributed his talent and time to Hofstra, serving as a mentor, guide, teacher 
 KORN--Gordon N., CPA, died at his home in Riverhead, NY. He was sixty-eight years old. Mr. Korn was a former Senior Partner of the accounting firms M.R. Weiser of Lake Success, NY and Lopez, Edwards, Frank & Company. He was a member of the New York State Society of CPA's and the AICPA. Duri
 LIEBERMAN--Irwin H. Died September 25, 2005 after a long illness. He is survived by brother Allan, children David, Audrey and Vincent Ibelli; two grandchildren Taylor and Jared. Also survived by Lucy B. Lieberman. He was buried in New Montefiore Cemetery. Irwin received his law degree and s
 Austin Leslie, the New Orleans chef whose fried chicken was considered the gold standard even by the South's most persnickety chefs and whose good-natured swagger inspired a television sitcom, died yesterday in Atlanta. He was 71. His death was announced by Stanford Barre, who owns 
 Brian Roylance, an English publisher whose company, Genesis Publications, turned rock into history with hand-crafted, autographed limited editions of musicians' memoirs and photography collections, died on Tuesday in Guildford, England. He was 60. His son, Nicholas, said that Mr. Ro
 Joseph Smagorinsky, a meteorologist and a pioneer in combining computers and mathematical models to make extended predictions of the weather and ultimately of trends in the global climate, died on Sept. 21 at a nursing home in Skillman, N.J. He was 81. The cause was complications of
 HILBERT--Bill, 83, born Corning, NY, May 23, 1922, died on September 27 in Haddonfield, NJ. He lives on in memory and impact as a loving husband to his wife Lorraine (''Larry''), loving father to his son Chris, loving grandfather to William and Mark, brilliant mind, lover of art and antiqui
 MOSS--Chester C. (Chet), 84, died September 29, 2005. Loving husband of Shirley (Star), devoted father of Ronnie, Nancy and Barbara. Dear father-in-law of Andrew Segal. Proud grandfather of Amanda and Emily. Died of complications from a fall after a three month valiant fight in the hospital
 MOSS--William J. The Officers and Trustees of The Flagler Museum are saddened by the death of their longtime friend and colleague who, with brilliant mind and clever wit, served the Museum safely for 28 years as Secretary, Treasurer and Trustee. His consummate insight, leadership, friendshi
 RICE--Joel Key. Passed away on Friday September 23 at NY Presbyterian Hospital. He was born in Applachicola, FL, the son of Rob Roy and Clara Buzhardt Rice. A small private service was held at St. Bartholomew's Church.       
 RUBINSTEIN--Frank, 83, died on the morning of September 29, 2005 at the North Shore Hospital. He died peacefully surrounded by his beloved family. He was a loving husband to Alice for 59 years and a devoted father to Richard, Donald and Ethel, as well as a wonderful father-in-law to Katheri
 WITTENBERG--Michael. The Board of Directors and staff of The Manhattan Theatre Club express our deepest sympathy to the family of Michael Wittenberg, husband of our beloved friend and board member Bernadette Peters. He will be sincerely missed.       
 Steve Marcus, a jazz saxophonist who was an early exponent of the style that came to be known as fusion, died on Sunday at his home in New Hope, Pa. He was 66. His death was announced by his family, which did not specify the cause. A graduate of the Berklee School of Music i
 Thomas P. Lawless, the chief of police for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority since 2003, died on Wednesday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 62 and lived in Flushing, Queens. The cause was pancreatic cancer, which was diagnosed seven weeks ago, said his son-in-law, Ja
