 George Heard Hamilton, an authority on modern art who trained art historians and museum curators, died on Monday at a nursing home in Williamstown, Mass., his son, Richard, said. He was 93. Mr. Hamilton taught at Yale and at Williams College and wrote a number of important books on 
 BEARD--Charles J. II. The Board of Trustees and the entire Phillips Academy community in Andover, MA express deepest sympathy at the death of Charles J. Beard II. A member of the Class of 1962, he had been a Charter Trustee since 1997.       
 BENNETT -- Robert Porter. On Friday, March 19, 2004 in Los Angeles, CA. Age 44. He was a cinematographer. Born in New York City, he received degrees from Colorado College and The American Film Institute. He is survived by his wife Cynthia Johnson Bennett of Los Angeles, his parents Robert a
 CAMPBELL -- J. Kenneth (Ken), Sr. Of Saltaire, NY, and Rye, NY (formerly of Delray Beach, FL., and Garden City, NY). 83, in a tragic fire. Predeceased by his loving wife, Dorothea (nee Burke), and survived by his seven loving children, Carol, J. Kenneth Jr., Barbara Rosenblum, Richard, Mary
 COOKE--Alistair. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of 1150 Fifth Avenue Owners Corp. express their heartfelt sympathies to the family of Alistair Cooke. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him.       
 GALLOWAY--Alexander. Orrick, Herrington & Sutcliffe LLP mourns the loss of our friend and colleague, Alexander ''Tom'' Galloway II--attorney, bond counsel, friend and trusted advisor to school districts, counties, cities, towns, villages and fire districts throughout New York State. He will
 GEWERTZ--Sid. 86, died March 13. An electro-plater for 55 years, owner of Techem, avid handball-player, photographer, a man of unflagging good-humor, Sid will be missed by his wife of 61 years, Adrienne, and sons Ken and Dan. Information on service April 3, 617-868-4867.       
 GOLDMAN--Malcolm, mathematician, died on March 18, 2004. He was the husband of Ruby; brother of Alvin Goldman and Sybil Robins, brother-in-law of Holly Smith and Gene Robins. For him doing mathematics was life giving. He received a doctorate from the University of Chicago. In his long caree
 GOODSTONE -- Bertram K. 87, of New York and Miami Shores passed away March 30, 2004 after a brief illness. He had a great love of life and lived every day to its fullest. Predeceased by his beloved wife Ellen, he is survived by his daughters Geraldine Goodstone, Felice Zensius, Peggy Katz a
 HAMILTON--George Heard. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art note with sorrow the passing of our Life Trustee George Heard Hamilton. His scholarship was unparalleled, and the art historians whom he trained and influenced are innumerable. As Chairman of the Committee on Paintin
 HILL--George B., Sr. The Board of Trustees, Administration, and Staff of Wyckoff Heights Medical Center mourn the passing of our friend and esteemed Hospital Trustee, George B. Hill, Sr. Mr. Hill joined the Board of Trustees in 1985 and served as Treasurer since 1998. His commitment to Wyck
 LEVY--Edward. 96 years old, March 29th, 2004. Adored loving husband of 68 years of Helen (Friedman), children Leslie and Jim Levy, Jane and Andrew Dolkart, grandchildren Caren and Jonathan Greenhouse, Laurie Levy, Judith and Peter Dolkart and great-grandchildren Sophie and Caroline Greenhou
 PECK--Stephen M. Most beloved and loving husband of Judith. Devoted father of Bradford, Kate, Jennifer and Suzanne Peck; father-in-law Craig Barne. Devoted stepfather of Emanuel, Liz, Edward, Stephanie and Andrea Stern. Adored and adoring grandfather of Josie, Ben, Maxine, Gabriel, Avery, S
 GLICKSMAN--Jack. 12/9/1915--4/2/2003 First Lieutenant, U.S. Army Air Force, World War II (Europe); Insurance Broker for 55 years; owner of Aster Agency (insurance brokerage) from 1978 to 1992; married to his beloved Lettie (nee Berger) for 60 years. You filled our world with your love, your
 BENNETT -- Robert Porter. On Friday, March 19, 2004 in Los Angeles, CA. Age 44. He was a cinematographer. Born in New York City, he received degrees from Colorado College and The American Film Institute. He is survived by his wife Cynthia Johnson Bennett of Los Angeles, his parents Robert a
 BEROFF--Art. Beloved husband of Carole, devoted father of David and Ilana. Loving son of Fred and Helen Beroff. Cherished brother and uncle. A shining star who was beloved by all who knew him.       
 CAMPBELL -- J. Kenneth (Ken), Sr. Of Saltaire, NY, and Rye, NY (formerly of Delray Beach, FL., and Garden City, NY). 83, in a tragic fire. Predeceased by his loving wife, Dorothea (nee Burke), and survived by his seven loving children, Carol, J. Kenneth Jr., Barbara Rosenblum, Richard, Mary
 FREIBERGER--Phyllis. The Board of Trustees, Associate Board and Administration of Parker Jewish Institute mourn the passing of Phyllis Freiberger, beloved mother of our dear friend and CoChairman of the Associate Board, Jonathan Freiberger. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Jonathan, h
 HAMILTON--George Heard. The trustees and staff of the Sterling and Francine Clark Art Institute note with sorrow the passing of George Heard Hamilton, director of the Clark from 1966-1977. As one of the foremost historians, critics and scholars of the twentieth century, he left an indelible
 LEVY--Edward. 96 years old, March 29th, 2004. Adored loving husband of 68 years of Helen (Friedman), children Leslie and Jim Levy, Jane and Andrew Dolkart, grandchildren Caren and Jonathan Greenhouse, Laurie Levy, Judith and Peter Dolkart and great-grandchildren Sophie and Caroline Greenhou
 PECK -- Stephen. We are deeply saddened by the tragic and untimely passing of Stephen Peck, a person whose vision of Jewish community had an enormous impact in creating the JCC in Manhattan. Stephen's wisdom, advice, guidance and friendship over the past 14 years has been invaluable, and wi
 RAGER--Frederick A. Jr, died at home in NYC on January 14th, 2004. He was born in Vienna, Austria in 1928. His father, Frederick Sr, a Nazi resister, was Secretary of the Chamber of Labor of Austria, and moved the family to London in 1939 and then to the US in 1940. Fred graduated from The 
 ROSENTHAL--John P. The Boards of Directors/Trustees and Officers of the Neuberger Berman Funds and friends and associates at Neuberger Berman mourn the sudden passing of John Rosenthal, a respected colleague and dear friend. He devotedly served on the Fund Boards for almost twenty years. Hi
 SCHULMAN -- David, M.D., The Department of Psychiatry of both Mount Sinai Medical Center and Elmhurst Hospital deeply mourn the loss of Dr. David Schulman, beloved colleague and devoted teacher. Dr. Schulman was the Director of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry at Elmhurst Hospital Center for
 SCHWARTZ--Abel Jack. On April 1, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Bernice for fifty-six years. Devoted companion of Selma Bernstein. Adored father of Arlene Kostant, Paula Schwartz and Arthur Schwartz. Loving fatherin-law of Stephen Elbert, Paul Pervil and Carolyn Schwartz. Cherished grand
 WINSTON--Charles C., Jr. of Rye, New York passed away on March 29, 2004. He was 96 years old. Charles was born in New York, New York on April 26, 1907 to Charles and Edna (Reitmeyer) Winston. Charles attended New York University and enjoyed a life long career in the insurance industry. Many
 YOHAI--Morris. We mourn the loss of our dear friend and partner. Our hearts go out to Esther, his children & grandchildren. He will me missed. The Tolkin Family       
 Thomas F. Willers, a former top executive of Hooker Chemical and Occidental Petroleum and of Champion International, the paper company, died on March 24 at his home in Riverside, Conn. He was 84. The cause was respiratory failure, the Leo P. Gallagher & Son Funeral Home announced.  
 Carl Bakal, a writer, editor and public relations man who was author of an early warning about the proliferation of firearms in the United States, died on March 18 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived on the Upper West Side and in East Chatham, N.Y. His death wa
 Murray J. Gart, the editor of The Washington Star when it ceased publication in 1981, died on Wednesday at his home in Mitchellville, Md. He was 79. The cause was complications of heart surgery, said his wife, Jeanne. Mr. Gart became editor of the Star in 1978, shortly after
 APFEL--Barnet L. (Bud). Died April 1, 2004, in Sedona, AZ. Preceded in death by his first born son Ike on October 2, 1992, & his sister Rita Turret on March 30, 2004. Survived by his loving wife, Jane, & son Robert. We will miss him.       
 BRONSTHER--Burton, M.D., 78, on April 2nd, 2004. Adored, loving husband of 52 years of Ellyn, father of Fredrika, Oscar and Judith, grandfather of Michael, Rachel, Jacob, Carrie, Benjamin and Corin, and brother of Sanford. Founder and Medical Director of SACOW. The visionary responsible wit
 LOHSE--Austin W. died on April 1, 2004 at his home, he was 78 years old. Born in NYC, NY, he was a lifelong resident of Short Hills. He is predeceased by his wife, Virginia Lohse (nee Butler) and his brother, Robert V. Lohse. Surviving are his daughter, Connie Lohse and her husband, Robby B
 McREYNOLDS--Charles B., 87, of Newport News, VA, passed away Wednesday, March 31, 2004. Chuck was an architect with Becket International for over 40 years serving as the Director of the Los Angeles and New York offices and later President of Becket International. He is survived by his wife,
 PECK--Stephen M. During the 15 years in which Stephen Peck made his office with us, every one of our 75 people not only knew he was here, but each of us, individually, felt his warmth and friendship. He took the time to show us that he was here to listen, to hear, often to act on behalf of 
 RATNER--Harold, MD. Of Great Neck, NY in his 76th year. Beloved husband of Dr. Lillian Gross Ratner. Devoted father of Dr. Sanford M. (Denise) Ratner and Dr. Marcia E. (Dr. Kenneth) Meserole. Adored grandfather of Benjamin, Joshua and Aaron Ratner and Thomas Meserole. Dear brother of Sylvia
 SHAPIRO--Richard Paul, of New York City passed away this Thursday, April 1, 2004. He was born on June 26, 1942, in New York City. Mr. Shapiro graduated from Yale College in 1964. Mr. Shapiro worked as a fashion executive at Bloomingdale's, Ralph Lauren, Christian Dior and Giorgio Armani. Mr
 BROWSE--Bert B. Bert looms today April 3rd, his birthday, as large as he was in life to me. I love him. MOX.       
 Denny Dent, a performance artist who frenetically splashed, dabbed and spilled his way to quirky celebrity by lighting into six-foot-high canvases with three paintbrushes in each hand to produce portraits of famous people -- sometimes working on an upside-down canvas that he would then righ
 APFEL--Barnet L. (Bud). Died April 1, 2004, in Sedona, AZ. Preceded in death by his first born son Ike on October 2, 1992, & his sister Rita Turret on March 30, 2004. Survived by his loving wife, Jane, & son Robert. We will miss him.       
 BERNSTEIN--Harold. Rabbi Jeret found the essence of Harold saying, ''He was the greatest man I ever knew''. To me he was the mentor, father I never had, and the grandfather Kathy always wanted for our children. Because our grief is so heartfelt, we know the loss to Helen and the family is b
 BRONSTHER--Burton, M.D., 78, on April 2nd, 2004. Adored, loving husband of 52 years of Ellyn, father of Fredrika, Oscar and Judith, grandfather of Michael, Rachel, Jacob, Carrie, Benjamin and Corin, and brother of Sanford. Founder and Medical Director of SACOW. The visionary responsible wit
 COHEN--George. We mourn his passing on April 1, 2004, in Lauderhill, Florida. He is survived by his beloved wife Helen, by his children Ted Cohen (Lucy) and Elaine Schwartz (Barry), by his grandchildren Jonathan and Douglas Cohen, Jodi Sussman (Andrew) and Daniel Schwartz, and by his greatg
 CORBANI--John F. Died suddenly on March 30 in CT. He was born in Brooklyn, NY and attended LaSalle Military Academy. He took a BBA at St. John's University, NY after serving in the U.S. Army during the Korean War. A world traveler, John's marketing and advertisng career began at BBDO, conti
 GOLDMAN--Malcolm, mathematician, died on March 18, 2004. He was the husband of Ruby; brother of Alvin Goldman and Sybil Robins, brother-in-law of Holly Smith and Gene Robins. For him doing mathematics was life giving. He received a doctorate from the University of Chicago. In his long caree
 JONES--William Creed, died peacefully in New York City on March 29, 2004 after a brief illness. He was the devoted husband of the late Genevieve and the loving father of Thomas Lee Jones of Manhattan and of the late William Philip Jones of Wisconsin. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be
 LOHSE--Austin W. died on April 1, 2004 at his home, he was 78 years old. Born in NYC, NY, he was a lifelong resident of Short Hills. He is predeceased by his wife, Virginia Lohse (nee Butler) and his brother, Robert V. Lohse. Surviving are his daughter, Connie Lohse and her husband, Robby B
 LOUD--Brewster Montgomery. Mr. Loud died at his home in Thousand Oaks, CA on March 26, 2004. ''Bump'' was a Princetonian and deeply committed to family and friends throughout the US. He is survived by his wife Judie, his son Shawn, his daughter Samantha Migon, his mother Mrs. Charles Pfeife
 MERKIN--Michael Eric. Born in the Bronx on January 12, 1939. Died March 27, 2004 in the Bronx at Calvary Hospital after a long illness. Son of the late Hermann and Mabel Merkin. Brother of Henry and Carl. US Army veteran. Graduate of City College. Employee of the Bronx Zoo for 20 years befo
 PECK -- Stephen M. The Mount Sinai Alumni mourn the untimely loss of Stephen Peck, a member of the Mount Sinai Medical Center Board of Trustees for over 30 years and Chairman from 1995 to 2002. Mr. Peck was a great visionary who understood that our institution was founded on the humanitaria
 PHIEBIG--Albert J. on March 27, 2004. He was 96 years old. Albert retired from the Antiquarian book business in 2002. He was one of the founders of the Antiquarian Book sellers Association of America and was also past president of the Pewter Collectors Club of America (New York Chapter). He
 RATNER--Harold, MD. Of Great Neck, NY in his 76th year. Beloved husband of Dr. Lillian Gross Ratner. Devoted father of Dr. Sanford M. (Denise) Ratner and Dr. Marcia E. (Dr. Kenneth) Meserole. Adored grandfather of Benjamin, Joshua and Aaron Ratner and Thomas Meserole. Dear brother of Sylvia
 ROSENTHAL -- Seymour ''Sy''. Passed away March 26, 2004 in Boynton Beach, FL. Adored father of Dr. Lesley (Michael) Buchheim and Scott Rosenthal. Cherished grandfather of Stephanie and Nicole and brother of Sylvia Pasik. Dear partner of Arlyne Fink. He worked in real estate and was an avid 
 SAFRAN--Scott A., 48, of Delray Beach, formerly of Queens, NY, passed away at his home on March 31, 2004. Survived by his soulmate Debra (wife), his dog Kai Krauss, his girls Punkin and Spice, his father Jack (NJ), brothers Mark (Maryann) (OH), Craig (Lisa) (NJ), godparents Howard and Barba
 TARAS--John. Distinguished ballet master and choreographer died peacefully on April 2, 2004, in New York, and the ballet world mourns his passing. Survived by his wife Helene Sadowska and stepdaughter Anne Stephan. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, on Tuesday
 KALLMAN--Malcolm B. Matt died April 4, 2002. He was a mensch.       
 Joel Feinberg, a political and social philosopher who did groundbreaking work in the fields of individual rights and the authority of the state, died March 29 at a nursing home in Tucson. He was 77 and lived in Tucson. The cause of death was complications of Parkinson's disease, sai
 John Taras, an internationally known American choreographer and balletmaster associated chiefly with New York City Ballet but also with American Ballet Theater and companies abroad, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. His death was reported by Delia Peters, a friend 
 CORBANI--John F. Died suddenly on March 30 in CT. He was born in Brooklyn, NY and attended LaSalle Military Academy. He took a BBA at St. John's University, NY after serving in the U.S. Army during the Korean War. A world traveler, John's marketing and advertisng career began at BBDO, conti
 CORDARO--William. 83, of Queens, NY, on April 3, 2004. Survived by his wife Lila, daughter Lisa and four grandchildren. Preceded in death by his daughter Lynn in 1985. A small private memorial will be held in the near future. He will be greatly missed.       
 MORRIS--Donald. The Private Art Dealers Association deeply mourns the loss of its colleague and friend, Donald Morris. We will all remember the high level of aesthetic judgment and integrity so consistently demonstrated by this fine scholar and gentleman. We know that the members of his fam
 RUBIN--Jack. CPA, on April 3, 2004. Loving husband of Estelle, adored father of Cheryl, Gary, Philip, Karen. Cherished grandfather of Alexis and Zachary. Dear brother of Miriam and Bea. His life is an inspiration for those who value kindness, giving, compassion and integrity.       
 TARAS--John. Distinguished ballet master and choreographer died peacefully on April 2, 2004, in New York, and the ballet world mourns his passing. Survived by his wife Helene Sadowska and stepdaughter Anne Stephan. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St, on Tuesday
 LISKIN--Elliot. April 5. Remembered on his birthday and everyday. Family and Joyce       
 Richard L. Gelb, the former chief executive of Bristol-Myers Squibb and a former director of The New York Times Company, died yesterday morning at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, his wife, Phyllis, said. He was 79 years old and lived on the Upper East Side. As c
 Col. Aaron Bank, who was known as ''the father of Special Forces'' for his role in creating the Army's unconventional-warfare units that became known as the Green Berets, died Thursday at his home in Dana Point, Calif. He was 101. His death was announced by the Army's Special Operat
 John B. Evans, a former senior executive at the News Corporation, died on March 28 at his home in Annandale, N.J. He was 66. The cause was congestive heart failure, Victoria Mayer, a friend, said. Mr. Evans joined the News Corporation in 1977, when Rupert Murdoch, who contro
 BOTSFORD -- Ward, 76, Grammy winning record producer, died April 1 after a long illness. Considered to be the penultimate classical music maven, Botsford's work included recordings with Sir Thomas Beecham, Michael Tilson Thomas and many others. He also produced spoken arts recordings for ra
 BRADIN--James J. Died Saturday, April 3, 2004, in Rome Memorial Hospital, Rome, NY. He was born December 2, 1926, in Brooklyn, the son of James and Bridget Smith Bradin. Would any kin, or anyone knowing any next of kin please contact the Rome D.D.S.O collect at 315-336-2300 with any special
 BRONSTHER--Burton, M.D. It is with sadness that we acknowledge the untimely death of our friend and colleague, Dr. Burton Bronsther. Dr. Bronsther was one of the founding pediatric surgeons on Long Island. He served with distinction as a member of the staff of Pediatric Surgery at the Long 
 CHANAUD--Raymond J. 74, retired public relations executive, died March 3 in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. He spent more than 50 years in travel and tourism including positions at Braniff International Airlines, greater Miami Convention & Visitors Bureau, and Frontier Airlines. He is survived by two c
 CHARET -- Richard, MD. Prominent Brooklyn Physician. Richard Charet, 97, prominent Brooklyn physician and decorated war hero, passed away on April 3, 2004. Born in Brooklyn, graduate of NYU College of Medicine, Dr. Charet practiced Internal Medicine and Cardiology in Brooklyn for 53 years. 
 GELB--Richard L. On April 4th, 2004 at age 79. Retired CEO of Bristol-Myers Squibb. Beloved husband of Phyllis (Rusty) Gelb; loving father of Lawrence, Lucy, Jane and Jim Gelb and their spouses Frank Sisto, Anki Gelb and Jennifer Gelb. Adoring grandfather of Matthew and Andrew Sisto, Emily 
 JACOBSON--Bernard J. On April 1, 2004, Bernard died in Los Angeles, California, where he and his wife, Joy, had been living since they left New York City. He was loved and will be missed by his daughters, Susan and Peggy, his five grandchildren, and two sons-in-law.       
 JAMES--Daniel Willis. Died peacefully on Sunday, April 4, 2004, N.Y., N.Y., age 83. Devoted father of Mimi James, Mary James-Johnstone and Rosalie Stevens and beloved brother of Philip James and Philip's wife Mai. He is survived by six grandchildren. After serving in WWII, in which he was a
 LAWRENCE--H. Sherwood, M.D. Died Monday, April 5, St. Luke's Hospital, Manhattan, after a long illness. He was born in 1916 in Astoria, NY, son of Victor John and Agnes Brigid Whalen Lawrence. Beloved husband of sixty years of Dorothea Lawrence. Cherished father of Dorothea Lawrence Browne,
 LONGO--David Charles, 38, of Miami, FL and NYC. A gentle loving soul passed away unexpectedly, too young. Forever mourned by his mother Elinor, father Frank, stepfather Arthur, sister Elisa, nephew Cameron, his dearest friends, and his most loving companion, Joe. Memorial service Thursday 2
 MACHLIN--Milt. April 3, 2004 He had more fun in his lifetime than any one person could expect. Native of New York City, decorated veteran of WWII, served in the Asian theater, graduated from Brown University and attended the Sorbonne, receiving a degree in Coeur de Civilisation. Editor of A
 RIZAVI--Syed Alay Zamin, M.D. Died Wednesday, March 24, 2004 at home in New York City. A doctor to the core, his compassion, kindness and goodness knew no bounds. He showed his family and friends how to combine confidence, competence, humility and warmth. He was the son of Alay Nabi, the Ma
 SMITH--William W. Former General Electric executive. Died on April 2, 2004, in Rye, NY, at age 88. His wife of 63 years, the former Joyce Hartman, three sons, seven grandchildren and four greatgrandchildren survive him. A memorial service will be held at the Rye Presbyterian Church, Rye, NY
 SPARKS--Harold N. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Harold N. Sparks. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary       
 TARAS--John. Peter Martins, the Board of Directors, the dancers and staff of New York City Ballet mourn the passing of John Taras. John's long association with George Balanchine began as a student at the School of American Ballet, continued as a dancer with several of Mr. Balanchine's early
 Alan Levy, an American journalist, author and editor in chief of The Prague Post, died in a Prague hospital on Friday. He was 72. The cause was cancer, the paper, an English-language weekly, reported. Mr. Levy was co-founder of The Post in 1991 and had been editor in chief and a wee
 Frank A. Sieverts, a specialist in refugee and relief issues at the State Department for 25 years and later as an executive in the Washington office of the International Committee of the Red Cross, died here last Wednesday. He was 70. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Sue
 George Bamberger, who turned out a host of 20-game winners as pitching coach of the Baltimore Orioles for a decade and later managed the Milwaukee Brewers and the Mets, died Sunday at his home in North Redington Beach, Fla. He was 80. He had been treated for cancer, but the cause of
 BENDIXEN--Henrik H. The faculty, alumni and staff of Columbia University Medical Center mourn the death of our former leader, Dr. Henrik Bendixen. He brought rare qualities to the position of vice president and dean and he made even rarer contributions while on the job. Dr. Bendixen joined 
 BOTSFORD -- Ward, 76, Grammy winning record producer, died April 1 after a long illness. Considered to be the penultimate classical music maven, Botsford's work included recordings with Sir Thomas Beecham, Michael Tilson Thomas and many others. He also produced spoken arts recordings for ra
 BRADIN--James J. Died Saturday, April 3, 2004, in Rome Memorial Hospital, Rome, NY. He was born December 2, 1926, in Brooklyn, the son of James and Bridget Smith Bradin. Would any kin, or anyone knowing any next of kin please contact the Rome D.D.S.O collect at 315-336-2300 with any special
 FINKELSTEIN--Sandra, 69, of Rye Brook, NY, on April 6, 2004. Beloved wife of Elliot. Devoted mother of Michael; Steven and his wife Kathleen; Peter and his wife Eva. Loving grandmother of Kevin, David, Brian, Caroline, and Christopher. Sister of Richard and Carol. Predeceased by sister Eile
 GELB--Richard L. On April 4th, 2004 at age 79. Retired CEO of Bristol-Myers Squibb. Beloved husband of Phyllis (Rusty) Gelb; loving father of Lawrence, Lucy, Jane and Jim Gelb and their spouses Frank Sisto, Anki Gelb and Jennifer Gelb. Adoring grandfather of Matthew and Andrew Sisto, Emily 
 LAWRENCE--H. Sherwood, M.D. We deeply mourn the loss of our close friend and colleague of many years, Jerry Lawrence. Jerry and Saul worked together in the Department of Medicine of NYU for almost 60 years. Jerry was a leading researcher, clinician and educator. He served Bellevue patients 
 LONGO--David Charles, 38, of Miami, FL and NYC. A gentle loving soul passed away unexpectedly, too young. Forever mourned by his mother Elinor, father Frank, stepfather Arthur, sister Elisa, nephew Cameron, his dearest friends, and his most loving companion, Joe. Memorial service Thursday 2
 SMITH--William W. Former General Electric executive. Died on April 2, 2004, in Rye, NY, at age 88. His wife of 63 years, the former Joyce Hartman, three sons, seven grandchildren and four greatgrandchildren survive him. A memorial service will be held at the Rye Presbyterian Church, Rye, NY
 SPARKS--Harold N., of Boston and New York, passed away at his home in Palm Beach, FL, on April 5. Father of Rebecca, Susan and Kenneth Sparks, grandfather of Matthew Hecht, brother of Albert Sparks. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the Jewish Federation of Palm Beach County, the Harold 
 TARAS--John. The entire School of American Ballet family mourns the death of John Taras, an alumnus, workshop choreographer, generous and practical donor, informal historian, former Board member, and good friend. We extend our condolences to his family and many friends.       
 YOUNG--Robert E., Sr. (Bob), of Greenport, NY and Irasville, VT on Saturday, April 3, 2004 surrounded by his family. Born in Waterbury, CT, May 17, 1925, son of Leon and Olga Young, raised in Prospect, CT. Yale University 1945W (Pierson College), US Navy Pacific Fleet (USS Hanson). Columbia
 HANLEY--Charles J. April 7, 1977 As we remember our father's passing, we also commemorate his parents' arrival from Ireland 100 years ago. Ed, Kathy, Charlie and Tim       
 Dr. H. Sherwood Lawrence, a pioneering immunologist who helped found the branch of biology that explores the function of lymphocytes, a type of white cell in blood and lymph nodes, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 87. His death was announced by officials of New York University, w
 Keith Cylar, an entrepreneur among AIDS activists and co-founder of Housing Works, which helps homeless New Yorkers living with AIDS, was found dead in his apartment in the East Village on Monday. He was 45. The immediate cause of death was cardioarrhythmia, according to Housing Wor
 Murray Illson, a retired reporter for The New York Times who covered police news, education and a variety of general New York City topics, often with a wry inflection, died on Tuesday at a retirement community in Louisville, Colo. He was 91. His death was reported by his son John, o
 BENDIXEN--Henrik H. The faculty and staff of the Department of Anesthesiology of Columbia University Medical Center mourn the death of our beloved former chairman, Dr. Henrik H. Bendixen. He served as chair of our department from 1973 to 1985 and during that time was pivotal in building the
 BRONSTHER--Burt, M.D. On behalf of Children's Medical Fund of New York we are deeply saddened by the passing of Burt Bronsther, M.D. Burt, along with his partner, Marty Abrams, M.D., and his wife, Ellyn, were the inspiration for the creation of Children's Medical Fund and Schneider Children
 FETT--Herbert C., Jr., MD, on April 7, 2004, of Cutchogue, NY, Stuart, FL, and formerly of Garden City, NY. Lt. Cmdr. in WWII-USN. Beloved husband of the late Elizabeth A. (Hickey). Loving father of Michael E. Clavin, Elizabeth A. Kane, Herbert C. Fett III, Robert C. Fett, Peter J. Fett, Ma
 GELB -- Richard L. The Trustees of the Riot Relief Fund express great admiration and sympathy to his family on the death of our friend Richard L. Gelb on April 4. He was a wise and dedicated senior Trustee of The Riot Relief Fund for over 35 years. His distinctive work and support for New Y
 HALPERN--Nathan L. died April 3 at home. A man of strong, agile intellect, life long excellence, high achievement and significant contributions to the quality of life in New York City. He was independent, original and a true American success story. Through his company, Theatre Network Telev
 LAWRENCE--H. Sherwood. We mourn the loss of a colleague whose contributions to medical science were many. A pioneer in cellular immunology, his laboratory discovered that white cells release messenger molecules (cytokines) that cause fever, provoke inflammation and incite tumors. A score of
 MUROFF--Dr. Melvin, on April 7, 2004. Longtime resident of Scarsdale, NY, dearly beloved husband, father and uncle, survived by his wife Blanche and son Ivor. He was a psychotherapist devoted to his practice over 60 years with the highest principles and utmost integrity. He completed his tr
 SOLOMON--Arthur M., age 70. Attorney, actor and concerned citizen, on April 7 at home in Wilmette, IL. Attended James Madison High School in Brooklyn; received bachelor and law degrees from University of Chicago. Lieutenant U.S. Navy 1955-1958; 35 year partner in the Chicago firm Solomon & 
 Gene Klavan, who first as half of the radio show ''Klavan and Finch'' and then as a solo performer, brought slicing wit, a knack for voices and peppery irreverence to New York morning radio audiences for 25 years, died yesterday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and 
 Jack Smith, a former Washington-based correspondent for ABC News who covered world events before helping that network shape its technology beat, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Greenbrae, Calif. He was 58 and lived in Mill Valley, Calif. The cause was cancer, ABC News said.      
 CHANAUD--Raymond J. 74, retired public relations executive, died March 3 in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. He spent more than 50 years in travel and tourism including positions at Braniff International Airlines, greater Miami Convention & Visitors Bureau, and Frontier Airlines. He is survived by two c
 CROWLEY--John S. A former Senior Partner/Director at McKinsey & Co. in New York and Greenwich, CT resident, died of complications from pneumonia and Parkinson's disease on Wednesday, March 31, 2004. He was 80. Known as ''Jack'' to his friends, Mr. Crowley served as Chairman of the American 
 CYLAR--Keith. The Board of Directors and Executive Director of the National AIDS Housing Coalition extend our condolences to the Cylar and Housing Works families. Keith's relentless pursuit of social justice on behalf of homeless persons living with HIV/AIDS, his passion and life force insp
 EARLE--Walter R. 67, of Freehold, NJ died Tuesday, April 6, 2004 at New York Presbyterian Hospital, New York City. He was a man of humble beginnings, a self made man. Upon graduating high school he enlisted in the United States Navy and was stationed on the USS Albany, the last two years of
 HALPERN--Nathan I. The Trustees and staff of the International Center of Photography note with sadness the passing of Nathan I. Halpern, President of the Board of Trustees from 1977 to 1982. Nathan provided strong leadership in establishing measures to guarantee the growth and stability of 
 HELVENSTON -- Stephen Scotten, 38, died in Iraq on Wednesday, March 31, 2004. Born in Ocala, FL, he was preceded in death by his father Harry Stephen Helvenston, grandparents Donald Root Scotten and Mary Lu McLeod, and grandparents, Harry and L'Ouida Helvenston and Everett Wettengel. Residi
 KLIEGER--Bernard P., retired Judge of New York Civil Court (acting Supreme), widower of his beloved Celia, succumbed on April 7. He leaves behind his two loving children Louis (Alene) and Cara and his devoted sister Charna. Funeral services Friday, April 9, 11:30am at Parkside Memorial Chap
 RICH--W. Robert. Died on March 28. He was 87. A broadcast pioneer and loving husband of Mae, and father to Robert, Ronald and Joan; and step daughters Nancy and Wendy. Memorial service in May. Details re memorial Email rrny@optonline.net       
 SISK--Thomas Robert, of Avon By the Sea, NJ and Naples, FL died April 5, 2004 in Naples, FL. He was the husband of Tarsilla Musella Sisk. Mr. Sisk was born in New Haven, CT, son of the late Edward Joseph and Alice Carroll Sisk. A veteran of the Korean War, serving with the U.S. Army, he ret
 WEITZNER--Morton Leonard. Passed away suddenly April 7, 2004. Adored husband of Carol R. Weitzner, loving father of Cherie Weitzner Acierno and Gregg Harrison Weitzner, beloved grandfather of Jane Celine Acierno, devoted brother of Dorothea M. Weitzner, dear father-in-law of Lou Acierno, lo
 Victor Argo, a New York character actor who played dozens of heavies, hoodlums and hardened detectives in movies by directors like Martin Scorsese, Abel Ferrara and Jim Jarmusch, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 69. The cause was lung cancer, said Lilli
 Jeremiah Gumbs, a hotel keeper who became a hero in Anguilla when that sliver of sand upended Britain's postcolonial design for the Caribbean islands known as the Lesser Antilles, died there on Thursday, his family announced. He was 91. Mr. Gumbs, an institution on an island that to
 COLE--Edward S., died April 9 after a valiant battle against ill health. He was 76. He was the beloved husband of Rita Scher Cole who he was lovingly married to for 53 years. He is survived by his loving and devoted children, Karen Barnett and Jeffrey Cole, his son-in-law Wayne Barnett and 
 CROWLEY--John S. On behalf of the Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of Thirteen/WNET New York, we express our sorrow at the passing of John S. Crowley. A former chairman of Thirteen's Board of Trustees, he made great contributions to the health and welfare of people around the world t
 SCHIFF--Frank, age 83, died on April 8, after a brief illness. He is survived by Gloria Schiff, his devoted wife of 50 years, and by loving nieces and nephews. Mr. Schiff was educated at Lawrenceville School and then Hamilton College where he was a member of Delta Kappa Epsilon. In 1941, he
 STRAUSS--Aaron, 79 years old, adored husband of Diane for 52 years; beloved father of Barry, Scott and Judy; dear father-in-law of Marcia, Karen and Jonathan; loving grandfather to Daniel, Jeremy, Sylvie, Michael, Marty, Allison and Jordan, died on April 8, 2004, after a brief illness. He s
 WEITZNER--Morton Leonard. Passed away suddenly April 7, 2004. Adored husband of Carol R. Weitzner, loving father of Cherie Weitzner Acierno and Gregg Harrison Weitzner, beloved grandfather of Jane Celine Acierno, devoted brother of Dorothea M. Weitzner, dear father-in-law of Lou Acierno, lo
 René Gruau, an Italian-born artist who made his name in Paris and New York as an illustrator for fashion houses, women's magazines, nightclubs and ballet companies, died in Rome on March 31. He was 95. His death was reported by the Italian news service ANSA. Mr. Gruau, whos
 Stephen M. Peck, a Wall Street investment banker and philanthropist, died at Mount Sinai Medical Center on March 30. He was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications after a heart procedure, said his wife, Judith Stern Peck. Mr. Peck served on the boards of Moun
 Ward Botsford, a producer of classical and spoken recordings, died on April 1 at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y. The cause was leukemia, said his daughter Diana. Mr. Botsford was a champion of unusual repertory and forgot
 Dr. Vernon R. Young, a biochemist whose research into human nutrition and the body's creation of protein helped prompt federal authorities to rethink health guidelines and publish higher daily requirements for cereal and other foods, died on March 30 in Boston. He was 66 and lived in Welles
 Joseph J. Zimmermann Jr., who invented one of the first commercially successful answering machines, ancestor of sleeker later generations, died March 31 in Brookfield, Wis. He was 92. Sister Ann Christine, his friend and caregiver, announced his death. He lived in Elm Grove, Wis.   
 BARCLAY--John Williams. Born in New Haven, CT, August 6, 1913, the son of Albert Hampton Barclay, an attorney, and Laura Williams Barclay, who was originally from Rochester, NY. Educated at Phillips Academy, Andover, and then Yale, class of 1936, he received his law degree from Harvard Law 
 BITTENBENDER -- Douglas, who led Crafton Graphics, a highly influential New York lithography firm in the seventies and eighties, died on March 28, 2004 in Santa Fe, New Mexico. Surviving family members are Joan Breibart, Peter Bittenbender and Roger Bittenbender. Doug was a member of the Bo
 COLE--Edward S., died April 9 after a valiant battle against ill health. He was 76. He was the beloved husband of Rita Scher Cole who he was lovingly married to for 53 years. He is survived by his loving and devoted children, Karen Barnett and Jeffrey Cole, his son-in-law Wayne Barnett and 
 CYLAR--Keith. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center (BIMC) family joins with National Development and Research Institutes, Inc. (NDRI) to acknowledge with great sadness the passing of our dear friend and fellow AIDS researcher Keith Cylar, cofounder of Housing Works. Keith's hard work and d
 KERLIN--Gilbert. The Board of Directors and staff of Wave Hill mourn the loss of our beloved Founding Chairman, Gilbert Kerlin. Gil was a man of true consequence and influence who led a long and full life. He understood and relished his ability to achieve change. It was Gil who rallied his 
 MATTOON--Henry Amasa, Jr. 90, retired ad executive, died at his home in Danville, California, March 8, 2004. Mr. Mattoon or Ham as he was best known, was born January 14, 1914, in Waterbury, CT., son of Henry Amasa and Sarah Currie Hallock Mattoon. Ham's wife of 62 years, Dorothy Teeter Mat
 PURDY--Gordon L., 89, of Speculator, NY, former Director of CAMP - of - the WOODS, died Sunday, March 21, 2004 in Melbourne, FL. Gordon, born in Canada, came to a NY summer camp job in 1933 and surrendered his heart to Jesus Christ there. This changed his life and eternity. He soon became a
 RIZAVI--Syed Alay Zamin, M.D. Died Wednesday, March 24, 2004 at home in New York City. A doctor to the core, his compassion, kindness and goodness knew no bounds. He showed his family and friends how to combine confidence, competence, humility and warmth. He was the son of Alay Nabi, the Ma
 ROOT -- Nile. Photographer and teacher, born in Denver, CO. in 1926, died in Tucson, AZ. on April 2, 2004. His expressive photographs, made over a span of 65 years, have appeared in museums, galleries and universities in the U.S. and abroad. His website, www.niler.com, has an annotated port
 SCHEIN--David. 67. Died April 6, 2004 in Ogunquit, ME. Born in Providence, RI, July 26, 1936, the son of Joseph and Ruth (Fink) Schein and husband of Anita Lauten Schein. He graduated from Classical HS, Providence, RI, in 1954 and from Harvard College in 1958 where he played varsity footbal
 SCHIFF--Frank, age 83, died on April 8, after a brief illness. He is survived by Gloria Schiff, his devoted wife of 50 years, and by loving nieces and nephews. Mr. Schiff was educated at Lawrenceville School and then Hamilton College where he was a member of Delta Kappa Epsilon. In 1941, he
 SIMS--Roger B., a retired TV producer and one of the first three African-American graduates of the United States Air Force Academy, died in his sleep on February 2 in his home in Everett, WA. He was 65. Born in Chicago and raised in Brooklyn, Mr. Sims attended Howard University for three ye
 SMITH--Ernest R. Art director, graphic designer, jazz and dance historian, painter and avid lindy hopper, died of lymphoma on Thursday, April 8, 2004, in New York City. In recent years, he was a resident of Bolton Landing, N.Y. Ernie is survived by his longtime companion, Marlene Charnizon,
 SOLOMON--Arthur M., age 70. Attorney, actor and concerned citizen, on April 7 at home in Wilmette, IL. Attended James Madison High School in Brooklyn; received bachelor and law degrees from University of Chicago. Lieutenant U.S. Navy 1955-1958; 35 year partner in the Chicago firm Solomon & 
 SPARKMAN--Drake H., Jr. On April 6. Lifelong sailor, member of the Storm Trysail Club, past member of Larchmont and New York Yacht Clubs. Survived by his loving family and friends. Memorial service Tuesday, April 13, at 3PM, American Yacht Club, Rye, New York.       
 SPARKS--Harold N., of Boston and New York, passed away at his home in Palm Beach, FL, on April 5. Father of Rebecca, Susan and Kenneth Sparks, grandfather of Matthew Hecht, brother of Albert Sparks. In lieu of flowers, contributions to the Jewish Federation of Palm Beach County, the Harold 
 STRAUSS--Aaron, 79 years old, adored husband of Diane for 52 years; beloved father of Barry, Scott and Judy; dear father-in-law of Marcia, Karen and Jonathan; loving grandfather to Daniel, Jeremy, Sylvie, Michael, Marty, Allison and Jordan, died on April 8, 2004, after a brief illness. He s
 STRULLY--L. Vincent, MD, FACS, of Fair Lawn, NJ died April 10, 2004. He was 90. Son of Jacques M. Strully, DMD and Rebecca Waisman Strully. Dr. Strully was born on March 6, 1914 in Brooklyn, NY. He graduated from Hamilton College, Clinton, NY in 1934 and received his medical degree in 1938 
 WEINRIB--Ben. My dear uncle Ben died in Israel on April 8, 2004 at the age of 92. Survived by his beloved family, Sush, Rena, Jessie, Anat, Danielle. Ben was a master teacher at Brooklyn Tech, retiring to Israel and contributing to his community for the rest of his life. I am honored to hav
 WEITZNER--Morton Leonard. Passed away suddenly April 7, 2004. Adored husband of Carol R. Weitzner, loving father of Cherie Weitzner Acierno and Gregg Harrison Weitzner, beloved grandfather of Jane Celine Acierno, devoted brother of Dorothea M. Weitzner, dear father-in-law of Lou Acierno, lo
 WERTHEIM--Bernard, CPA of Boynton Beach, FL., and Nanuet, NY., passed on April 9, 2004. Beloved husband of Elissa, devoted father of Michele (Jeff Price) and Bruce (Lynn Wertheim). Adoring grandfather to Erica, Jared, Melissa, Allison and Adam. We will miss his magnetic smile, sense of humo
 FINLEY--Russell G. Professor. April 11, 2003. From sunrise to sunset you are remembered with love as the perfect husband and best friend. Family, friends, students and faculty will best remember Russ for his dedication, generosity, warmth, smile and for his heartfelt philosophy: ''knowledge
 Gilbert Kerlin, who worked for 50 years to preserve the natural landscape and residential character of the Riverdale section of the Bronx, died at his home there on Friday, said his daughter, Sarah Gray Gund. He was 94. Riverdale, located along the Hudson River on the border of West
 John B. Whyte, a former magazine model whose shrewd real estate investments and innate sense of style made him an arbiter of the social scene in Fire Island Pines, N.Y., one of the largest gay vacation communities on the East Coast, died on March 22 at his home in Dana Point, Calif. He was 
 John S. Crowley, a New York executive who was for a short time chairman of Channel 13 and ushered it through a time of financial distress, died on March 31 at the Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 80. The cause was complications from pneumonia and Parkinson's d
 BARCLAY--John Williams. Born in New Haven, CT, August 6, 1913, the son of Albert Hampton Barclay, an attorney, and Laura Williams Barclay, who was originally from Rochester, NY. Educated at Phillips Academy, Andover, and then Yale, class of 1936, he received his law degree from Harvard Law 
 BUCHHOLTZ--Samuel Sidney. Passed away on April 11, 2004, after a valiant struggle. He was predeceased by his beloved wife Norma and is survived by his children Michael (Mary Uricchio) Buchholtz, Sheryl B. Rosenfield and Sheila B. Scharfman. Adored by his grandchildren Melissa, Daniel, Jessi
 DOLAN--William J. 67. Died April 9, 2004. Survived by Dolores, beloved wife of 40 years; adoring children, Moria, Diane, Dr. Robert Dolan; brothers Thomas and John of Newburgh, NY; and sister Margaret Indilla of Franklin, VA; grandchildren, Rachel, Isabel, Neil, Teague, Ian; his sons-in-law
 EBERLIN--Monroe M. On April 10, 2004, at the age of 84. Much loved husband of Marjorie Kelly Eberlin for 62 years. Loving father of Anne Roush and Janet Larkin. Adoring grandfather of Katie, Danny and Tommy. Graduate of New York University, School of Engineering as well as an Army veteran o
 EISENBERG--Goldwyn. Died April 9, 2004, at age 82. Graveside service. He will be missed.       
 GOLDMAN--Richard L., Esq. Practicing attorney of Goldman & Gladstone. Died on April 9, at White Plains Hospital. Beloved husband of Priscilla, father of Sally and Robert, grandfather of Elana and Arthur. Mr. Goldman was a veteran of World War II, the Allied military government of Germany, a
 KERLIN--Gilbert. The Board of Directors and staff of Wave Hill mourn the loss of our beloved Founding Chairman, Gilbert Kerlin. Gil was a man of true consequence and influence who led a long and full life. He understood and relished his ability to achieve change. It was Gil who rallied his 
 KOOCK--Julian C. 92, was preceded by his loving wife Betty. Devoted father of Kenneth (Cristine) Koock and Marjorie (Charles) Isroff. Dearest grandfather of Felisa, Jessica, Bradley and Jason; great grandfather of Phaelan, Michael and Justin. Funeral services will be held in the Beth Israel
 MESSERSCHMITT -- John. The Central Park Conservancy Board of Trustees expresses its sincere sympathy to Betsy Messerschmitt, a Vice President of The Women's Committee Board of Directors, on the death of her dear husband John. John, like Betsy was a true lover of Central Park and an enthusia
 SNYDER--Dr. Arthur I. A memorial service for Dr. Arthur I. Snyder will be held at 2:30 pm, on Tuesday, April 13, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st Street. SNYDER--Arthur, M.D. The Medical Board of the New York Presbyterian Hospital on behalf of the physicians and staff 
 STRULLY--L. Vincent, MD, FACS, of Fair Lawn, NJ died April 10, 2004. He was 90. Son of Jacques M. Strully, DMD and Rebecca Waisman Strully. Dr. Strully was born on March 6, 1914 in Brooklyn, NY. He graduated from Hamilton College, Clinton, NY in 1934 and received his medical degree in 1938 
 Philippe Jutras, a United States Army veteran of the Normandy campaign who paid tribute to the American paratroopers of D-Day for the past three decades as curator of the Airborne Museum in Ste.-Mère-Église, the first French town liberated in World War II, died April 4 at a hospital in Va
 ABDELMONEIM--Omar. The entire Long Island College Hospital family joins with the physicians, nurses and staff in the Department of Pediatrics in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Omar Abdelmoneim, beloved son of our dear and devoted colleague, Talaat Abdelmoneim, MD. To Dr. Abdelmon
 BENDIXEN--Henrik. The faculty and staff of the Department of Neurology at Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Montefiore Medical Center extends their sympathy to Birgitte Bendixen and other members of the family on the loss of Henrik Bendixen. He will continue to be remembered for his c
 BUCHHOLTZ--Samuel Sidney. Passed away on April 11, 2004, after a valiant struggle. He was predeceased by his beloved wife Norma and is survived by his children Michael (Mary Uricchio) Buchholtz, Sheryl B. Rosenfield and Sheila B. Scharfman. Adored by his grandchildren Melissa, Daniel, Jessi
 COLE--Edward S. Estreich & Company mourns the loss of a dear friend and client. A generous, loyal friend who would give the shirt off his back, will be deeply missed and never forgotten. Jon Estreich and Pat McDonnell       
 GOLDEN--Virginia D. On April 11, 2004 of Garden City. Devoted wife of Matthew. Loving mother of Virginia, Matthew Jr. and his partner Eleanor, James and his wife Elizabeth. Beloved grandmother of Daniel and William. Visiting at the Fairchild Chapel, Franklin Ave at 12th St, Garden City, Wed
 KERLIN--Gilbert. The Department of Neurology and the Taub Institute for Alzheimer Disease Research at Columbia University mourn the loss of Mr. Gilbert Kerlin. He was a great friend and supporter of Alzheimer disease research at Columbia University Medical Center, and his generosity, vision
 MESSERSCHMITT -- John. The College of Aeronautics Board of Trustees on behalf of the students, faculty and staff, is deeply saddened by the loss of John Messerschmitt who dedicated more than 18 years to the College. He was steadfastly committed to higher education and served as Chair of the
 ODIERNO--Anthony (Louis). Died peacefully on April 9, 2004, with family members at his bedside. Mr. Odierno is survived by his wife Pamela Hanks Odierno, daughters: Linda, Odette and Melody; his grandchildren: Debbie, Susie, Donny, Joey and Justin; great grandchildren: Gary Michael, Chris, 
 OSBORNE--Stanley de J. The Boards, Physicians, and Staff of New York-Presbyterian Hospital mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend, Stanley de J. Osborne. Mr. Osborne became a member of the Board of Governors of The New York Hospital in 1957 and served as President of the Boa
 RAUTENBERG--Leonard J. 84. Best friend and loving husband of Marie. Caring father of Ellen, Tom and the late Robert. Brother of George (Ruth) and Bill (Faith). Dear uncle to Andy and Hilary Borinstein; ''Papa'' to Alex. Services Tuesday, 10:30 am, at Community Synagogue, 160 Middleneck Road
 ROSENBERG--Richard. Beloved husband, devoted father and grandfather, and cherished friend. We honor the memory of this wonderful life and remember the times we were privileged to share with him. His spirit, kindness, generosity and love remain with us. With our love and deepest sympathy, Ju
 USLAN--Seymour. June 12, 1921-April 11, 2004. Cherished father, devoted grandfather and great-grandfather, and friend to many. He is survived by his daughter Sheila Jacobs and her husband Harvey; grandchildren Ari Jacobs and his wife Melissa, and Matthew Jacobs and his wife Robin; and great
 Sakip Sabanci, a leading philanthropist in Turkey and one of its most prominent businessmen as head of the conglomerate Sabanci Holding, died here on Saturday. He was 71. The cause was kidney cancer that had spread to his liver, according to doctors at the American Hospital, where h
 Stanley de Jongh Osborne, a New York investment banker, a presidential adviser on aviation and honorary chairman of New York Presbyterian Hospital, died on Friday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 99. His family announced his death. Mr. Osborne joined L
 Ernest Smith, an authority on jazz music and dance, died on Thursday in the Bronx. He was 79 and lived in Bolton Landing, N.Y. The cause was lymphoma, said Marlene Charnizon, his companion. Mr. Smith, who was known as Ernie, developed an interest in jazz during his teens in 
 Neil Upmeyer, a widely respected public-interest researcher in New Jersey who, as head of the Center for Analysis of Public Issues tackled subjects like campaign finance, lobbying and the environment, died on Friday at his home in Lambertville, N.J. He was 57. The cause was cancer, 
 ARKIN--Michael. 54. Passed April 12, 2004 at Elmhurst Hospital. He was survived by his beloved friend Tom Monahan, brother Peter Arkin, Angel & cat Blackie. Funeral services will be held at Greenwich Village Funeral Parlor, April 14th and 15th. We will miss you.       
 BAILEY--Eldon. The Juilliard School is deeply saddened by the death of Eldon ''Buster'' Bailey. As a distinguished member of our percussion department, he helped educate new generations of percussionists around the world. We extend our condolences to his entire family. Joseph W. Polisi, Pre
 COLE--Edward S. Estreich & Company mourns the loss of a dear friend and client. A generous, loyal friend who would give the shirt off his back, will be deeply missed and never forgotten. Jon Estreich and Pat McDonnell       
 FEIGIN--Simeon Lubell. Died on April 13 at age 76 after a long illness. A psychiatrist in private practice for 44 years in New York City, Scarsdale and White Plains. Attending psychiatrist at NYU Medical Center and Lenox Hill Hospital. Psychiatric consultant to the Mental Health Association
 HALPERN--Nathan L. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Central Park Conservancy note with deep sadness the passing of Nathan L. Halpern, a member of the Board from 1984 to 1995, and esteemed counsel and Life Trustee from 1995 to present. During his tenure with the Conservancy, and throug
 KERLIN--Gilbert. The partners, associates and staff of Shearman & Sterling LLP mourn the passing of our partner and distinguished colleague Gilbert Kerlin, who died Thursday at the age of 94. The importance of Gil's contributions to the firm and to his partners cannot be overstated. He has 
 MESSERSCHMITT--John C., on April 8. He is survived by his wife of 24 years, Betsy; daughter Pamela Bennett; grandchildren Jessica and Jeffrey Bennett; sister Carlett Allen; brother-in-law Richard and daughter-in-law Darlene Price Messerschmitt and his Seattle in-laws. He was predeceased in 
 WEINFLASH--George, Cantor Emeritus. Doctor of Music, Honoris Causa. Passed away on April 12, 2004 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Rhoda, he was born February 1, 1924 on the Lower East Side, NY, NY. Champion skater, swimmer, storyteller and much beloved by all who knew him--he serve
 Ed Gregory Jr., an old-time carnival operator who befriended celebrities and staged shows at the White House but who had myriad legal troubles, including a federal bank-fraud conviction for which he and his wife were pardoned in 2000 by President Bill Clinton, died on Sunday at his home in 
 Hy Gotkin, a 5-foot-8 guard who helped the St. John's University basketball team win National Invitation Tournament titles in 1943 and 1944, died Sunday night at a hospice in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 81. The cause was heart and kidney failure, and he had Alzheimer's disease, his son 
 BAILEY--Elden. The New York Philharmonic mourns with deep sadness the passing, on April 13th, of Elden ''Buster'' Bailey, a proud member of the percussion section from 1949-91. A Jazz Musician, teacher, author, and Juilliard graduate, he charmed colleagues with his ready smile and home movi
 BERLAND--Max. 100, of Southbury, CT, died April 14, 2004. He leaves a sister Anne Foster. Predeceased by wife Lillian and daughter Karen.       
 DOLAN--William J. The faculty and staff of the Department of Cell Biology at New York University School of Medicine express their deep sadness on the death of their dear friend and distinguished colleague, William J. Dolan, Ph.D., who was a member of the Department from 1972 until his retir
 GORELICK--Bernard. Passed away suddenly on April 12, 2004 at the age of 82 in Manhattan. Beloved husband of Doris Blum, father of Alan and Fred, and father-in-law to Anita, loving grandfather and great grandfather. He will be sorely missed by all he touched. Funeral will be private. Donatio
 HERSKOVITS--Shimon. The Board of Trustees, Administration, Faculty, and the entire Parent body of the Magen David Yeshivah Isaac Shalom Elementary School and Celia Esses High School, join our students in mourning the loss and untimely passing of our deeply loved and highly respected Rabbi a
 KELMAN--Arthur J. In Del Ray Beach, FL, March 24, 2004. Accountant, attorney and professor, preceded in death by wife Susan. He will be deeply missed by sons Robert and David, daughterin-law Alyssa, long time partner Sylvia Drillinger, brother Howard Kelman, sister-in-law Laurel, nephews, n
 KERLIN--Gil. The Trustees, administration, faculty, staff, students and alumni of Bank Street College of Education mourn the passing of Gilbert Kerlin. With his late wife, Sally, an alumna and long-time Trustee, Gil was a faithful and generous friend to the College for 50 years. We were pri
 LOWE--Irwin on April 13, 2004 peacefully at home. Beloved and devoted husband of Edna Isaacs Lowe, cherished father of doctors John, George and Frank, and father-in-law of Karen, Betsy and Laurie. Adored grandfather of Deborah, Adam, Hannah, Mariel, Logan and Jensen. Dear brother of Esther 
 MacPHERSON -- Howard Dobbins. Died peacefully on April 14, 2004 at the age of 100. He lived at home in Mahwah, NJ. His three children, 10 grandchildren and 16 greatgrandchildren will remember him for his kindness and optimism. His father was a Presbyterian minister and he grew up in Virgini
 MALONE--James Michael, 66, of Bethany Beach, DE, died of pancreatic cancer at his home on Monday, April 12, 2004. He was born in New York, NY, the son of the late James and Brigid Malone. After a 37 year career with the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, he retired in 1995 as genera
 MESSERSCHMITT--John C., on April 8. He is survived by his wife of 24 years, Betsy; daughter Pamela Bennett; grandchildren Jessica and Jeffrey Bennett; sister Carlett Allen; brother-in-law Richard and daughter-in-law Darlene Price Messerschmitt and his Seattle in-laws. He was predeceased in 
 MILLER--Jay Wolfe, M.D., on April 8, 2004 in Princeton, New Jersey. Born February 15, 1918. Beloved husband of 61 years to Sylvia B. Miller who predeceased him in November of 2001. B.S. CCNY class of 1937, M.A. Columbia University 1939, M.D. Syracuse University class of 1943. U.S. Army Medi
 MORAN--Charles F., retired business leader and civic benefactor, passed away at his home in Wheaton on Monday (April 12, 2004). He retired in 1993 as Senior Vice President and as a member of the Sears Roebuck and Co. Management Committee after a forty year career with Sears. Most recently h
 MUNDY--John Hine. John Mundy, Professor Emeritus, died peacefully at home on April 13. Born in London in 1917, he was educated in New York at the St. Thomas Choir School, Trinity School and Columbia College and received his Ph.D. in history at Columbia University. Following military service
 OSBORNE--Stanley deJongh. The family and friends of Stanley deJongh Osborne will celebrate his life at a service in his memory, Saturday, April 24, 10:00am at St. James, 865 Madison Ave, NY, NY. In lieu of flowers, donations may be made to the New York Presbyterian Hospital, where he served
 SCHWARTZ--Rabbi Gershon. The Jewish Theological Seminary community mourns the sudden and tragic death of Rabbi Gershon Schwartz, loving husband of Dr. Shuly Rubin Schwartz, Dean of JTS's List College of Jewish Studies. Rabbi Schwartz attended the undergraduate program at JTS and was also or
 SINNOTT--Edward C., MD. Of Somers, NY and Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Roslyn and Old Westbury, NY died on April 9, 2004. A graduate of NY Medical College, he served in the U.S. Navy and then as an attending anesthesiologist at Meadowbrook Hospital in East Meadow, NY. He was Chairman of th
 SPIEGEL -- Abraham. The American Friends of Beth Hatefutsoth and the Museum in Tel Aviv mourn the passing of our past president, a great man and benefactor of countless Jewish causes. An extraordinary individual who came out of the ashes of the Holocaust to contribute so much to Jewish memo
 STRAUSS--Benjamin M. The Shaare Zedek family mourns with great sadness the untimely death of a modest, sweet and loving husband, son, father, brother and uncle. As a Founder of the Medical Center, together with his beloved wife Claire, we will always cherish their support of our Outpatient 
 TAUBER--Alfred. Survived by his wife Estelle and children Mona and Jim Murphy and many loving relatives.       
 VISCARDI--Henry, Jr., on April 13, 2004 at the age of 91. Resident of Kings Point and East Marion, NY. Beloved husband and best friend of Lucile. Cherished father of Nina (Richard Ochoa), Donna (Patrick Shooltz), Lydia, and Lucienne (James Hosford). Adoring grandfather of Adria, Emily, Mary
 ROSENBLATT--Richard p/ a Ritchie Cordell/d on April 13, 2004. Loved by his wife Helaina, his parents Harry and Evelyn, sister Ronni, niece Zoe and his many dear friends.       
 Robert J. Harth was not a demonstrative man, and a memorial in his honor yesterday at Carnegie Hall, where he was executive and artistic director, was similarly restrained. Just four people spoke: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg; Sanford I. Weill, the chairman of Carnegie Hall; Ara Guzel
 Henry Viscardi Jr., who became a leader in integrating disabled people -- like himself -- into America's work force, died on Tuesday in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 91. His death, at Roslyn Hospital, was announced by his wife, Lucile. He lived in Great Neck, N.Y. Starting in World Wa
 Joseph Iadone, an early-music specialist and recording artist who was among the first in postwar America to popularize the lute, died on March 23 in New Haven. He was 89. Mr. Iadone died at a nursing home, where he lived, said his former wife, Susan Iadone. Mr. Iadone was a 
 BIEDERMAN--Gerald (Jerry), passed away on April 13, 2004, at the age of 92. He was the loving son of Jacob and Ana (Weber) Biederman; beloved husband of Charlotte (Apter) Biederman; loving father of Irene Glasser and Michael Biederman; adoring grandfather of Jason, Raphael, Jonathan, and Na
 GOTTSEGEN -- Stuart. Robert, Michael and Lori mourn the passing of their brother and uncle Stuart Gottsegen, whose funeral will be held today at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel at 12 noon. His voice that lifted us up and filled our hearts to overbrimming has fallen silent. We will miss him. F
 HERSKOVITS -- Rabbi Shi mon. It is with great sorrow that we mourn the untimely passing of a wonderful man who dedicated his whole life to teaching children. He touched all he met with his true kindness. May his memory be a blessing to his family and an inspiration to his students. He will 
 KERLIN -- Gilbert. SAR Academy which was fortunate to be one of the beneficiaries of the extraordinary efforts and vision of Gilbert Kerlin to preserve Riverdale, joins the rest of the Riverdale community in mourning his loss. Jack C. Bendheim, President       
 LEVY--Edward R. Died on April 11, 2004 at Calvary Hospital of cancer at age 74. Mr. Levy earned a Master's degree in mathematics and a Doctorate in English from the University of Illnois. He taught at the University's prestigious high school and was the senior author of a series of rhetoric
 LOWE--Irwin on April 13, 2004 peacefully at home. Beloved and devoted husband of Edna Isaacs Lowe, cherished father of Doctors John, George and Frank, and father-in-law of Karen, Betsy and Laurie. Adored grandfather of Deborah, Adam, Hannah, Mariel, Logan and Jensen. Dear brother of Esther 
 MacPHERSON -- Howard Dobbins. Died peacefully on April 14, 2004 at the age of 100. He lived at home in Mahwah, NJ. His three children, 10 grandchildren and 16 greatgrandchildren will remember him for his kindness and optimism. His father was a Presbyterian minister and he grew up in Virgini
 MUNDY--John Hine. John Mundy, Professor Emeritus, died peacefully at home on April 13. Born in London in 1917, he was educated in New York at the St. Thomas Choir School, Trinity School and Columbia College and received his Ph.D. in history at Columbia University. Following military service
 PINE--Dr. Edward H. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Dr. Edward H. Pine, an esteemed member and extend to his beloved wife, Sybil and family its deepest sympathy. Brian J. Strum, President Andrew Muhlstock, Secretary       
 RULE--Daniel Rhodes, age 63, on April 3, 2004 in NYC. Born on August 25, 1940, and raised in Los Angeles, CA. Graduate of Occidental College, followed by fellowships at Bayreuth and the Komische Opera in Berlin. As a Ford Foundation intern, he began a nearly 20 year career in management wit
 SARSHAD--Hossein, 97, of New York, NY, born March 20, 1907 in Tehran Iran, died Sunday March 28, 2004 at Amsterdam Nursing Home Corp., New York, NY. Mr. Sarshad was a Colonel in the Iranian military and was a music director in the Iranian Military College under the reign of the former Shah 
 SINNOTT--Edward C., MD. Of Somers, NY and Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Roslyn and Old Westbury, NY died on April 9, 2004. A graduate of NY Medical College, he served in the U.S. Navy and then as an attending anesthesiologist at Meadowbrook Hospital in East Meadow, NY. He was Chairman of th
 SPITALNY--Melvin P. Of Hollywood, FL on April 14, 2004. Devoted father of Debra Brun, David Kahn (Linda) and Daniel Kahn (Nancy). Adored grandfather of Lesley Berkowitz, Hillary Kahn, Wendy Kahn, Jeffrey Schwartz, Andrew Schwartz, Stefanie Kahn and Jamie Kahn. Also eleven greatgrandchildren
 CURTIS--Edward S., 78, of Boynton Beach, Florida died on April 8, 2004 at his home after a long struggle with Cancer. Born May 1, 1925 in New York City, he was the son of the late David and Sadie Cohen. He was the husband of Harriet Hanft Curtis, who died in 1995. Retired, he was a dentist 
 LEVY--Edward R. Died on April 11, 2004 at Calvary Hospital of cancer at age 74. Mr. Levy earned a Master's degree in mathematics and a Doctorate in English from the University of Illnois. He taught at the University's prestigious high school and was the senior author of a series of rhetoric
 PILLAR--Richard Louis. Beloved father and grandfather, devoted husband and son, cherished brother and uncle, and special friend passed away at the age of 66 on April 15, 2004. He dedicated his life to raising a loving family with his late wife, Arlene, and fostering close friendships filled
 SCHWARTZ--Gershon, Rabbi. The Jewish Publication Society notes with sadness the passing of Rabbi Gershon Schwartz, beloved author, gifted speaker and innovative educator. His books magically opened up the rabbinic world to a wise and appreciate audience.       
 TRANSPORT--Herman B. on Friday, April 16, 2004. Loving and devoted husband of Natalie. Beloved father of Ira and Mark. Loving father-inlaw of Robyn and Meryl. Adoring and adored grandfather of Zachary, Annie and Jillian. Services to be held Sunday, April 18, 12 noon at ''Gutterman's'', 8000
 Phil Sokolof, a Nebraska industrialist whose heart attack turned him into a national evangelist of a low-cholesterol diet, died on Thursday in Omaha. He was 82. His death was announced by the National Heart Savers Association, of which he was the founder and president and through wh
 John C. Messerschmitt, who as an executive of Royal Philips Electronics helped introduce optical disc technology, including the videodisc and the CD-ROM, to the American market, died on April 8 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was pancreat
 BECK--Eugene. Sutton Place Synagogue mourns the passing of our devoted member and benefactor. A gentle man with a kind heart, we grieve with the family and extend heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Esther, children and grandchildren. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Mark Wiener, President       
 BECKER--Steve. Age 49. Steve didn't want to leave his family. He vigorously fought pancreatic cancer so he could be a Dad as long as possible. His loss leaves a huge void in the lives of his wife, Elaine Shay, and his children Ana 15, Laura 12, and twins Seren and Strat two and a half. Alth
 BERGMAN--Andrew. Loved and admired son of Elliot and Sybil. Brother to Clifford and Marilyn, uncle to Kuper and Asher. He was the author of ''The Will to Travel'' and an Advocate for the Handicapped. Despite severe disabilities he traveled to Europe, New Zealand, Australia and Greenland. On
 BUCHANAN--Mark L., 47, died suddenly of a heart attack on March 18 at his home in Pasadena, CA. Born in NYC, son of Barbara Masten Buchanan and the late Rev. Albert Buchanan. He attended Allen Stevenson School in Manhattan and Oberlin College. His lifelong commitment to public service began
 CHERNICK--Martin. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai on Monday, April 19, at 12 noon. Rabbi Michael A. White Carol Weinstock, President       
 CHERVENAK--Lawrence T. Age 80, on April 13, 2004, in Manhattan. Retired founder and president of Chervenak, Keane and Company; 1989 Inductee into the HFTP International Hospitality Technology Hall of Fame; recipient of numerous other professional awards. Distinguished philanthropist, fisher
 COLE--Robert L. (Bob). 85, of New York, NY, died on April 13th, of heart failure. Born in Chicago, IL on January 23rd, 1919. Graduated from the University of Chicago, Navy Veteran of WWII. He was proud of his role as a Radar Officer on the USS Alabama during the Marianas campaign. Surived b
 FORD -- The Most Rev. George C. Sr., L.T.H., D.D. Of Bedford Stuyvesant. Archbishop of Brooklyn and Long Island of the African Orthodox Church, died of cancer at the age of 105, on April 15, at the Mother Cabrini Hospice Unit, NYC. Born in Barbados in 1898, Bishop Ford emigrated to the USA 
 FRITZ--Barry Edward. 60, beloved son, father, grandfather and brother, died on April 14, at home in Miami Beach, after a courageous 12 year battle with prostate cancer. Barry and his late father Herbert, from Westfield, NJ, enjoyed a successful career in retailing. He will always be remembe
 GANZ--Harold L. Died peacefully at home on April 15, 2004 at age 88. Beloved husband of Mimi. Cherished father of Charles (Carol), Bob (Benita), and the late Joan. Devoted grandfather of Jonathan, Adam, Jason, Melissa, and Josh. An attorney before World War II, he later worked in advertisin
 GRINER--Norman. Age 72, died Saturday, April 17, at Putnam County Hospital, Carmel, NY, after a long illness. He is survived by wife Jane, daughters Julia Griner and Joanna Cawley and sister Evelyn Zainfeld. Donations in his memory can be made to Cooper Union in NYC.       
 HOWATT--John C., 77. Died April 12, 2004 with his sons and daughters by his side. Born in Detroit August 12, 1926, John was a graduate of Blair Academy and Princeton University, and served as an officer in the U.S. Naval Corps in WWII. An ardent Republican, he was an eloquent President of t
 LAMPERT--Samuel. Age 96, died Sunday, April 4, 2004. Dutiful son, caring brother, loyal husband, loving father and grandfather, wonderful uncle. He will be missed but always remembered.       
 LEVY--Edward R. Died on April 11, 2004 at Calvary Hospital of cancer at age 74. Mr. Levy earned a Master's degree in mathematics and a Doctorate in English from the University of Illnois. He taught at the University's prestigious high school and was the senior author of a series of rhetoric
 LEWIS--David. Loving father of Lori and Joel, and Gwen and Barry. Cherished grandfather of Zachary, Jake, Jason, Andrew and Luke. He will live in our hearts forever.       
 MASSET--Andrew H. 88, a 30year Ford Motor International executive, died February 4 in Guadalajara, Mexico. He was president of Delta Kappa of Delta Tau Delta fraternity and part of the Class of '38 at Duke. He was predeceased by wife Lee and daughter Melanie, and is survived by daughters Va
 MILLER--Jay Wolfe, M.D., on April 8, 2004 in Princeton, New Jersey. Born February 15, 1918. Beloved husband of 61 years to Sylvia B. Miller who predeceased him in November of 2001. B.S. CCNY class of 1937, M.A. Columbia University 1939, M.D. Syracuse University class of 1943. U.S. Army Medi
 PILLAR--Richard Louis. Beloved father and grandfather, devoted husband and son, cherished brother and uncle, and special friend passed away at the age of 66 on April 15, 2004. He dedicated his life to raising a loving family with his late wife, Arlene, and fostering close friendships filled
 RULE--Daniel Rhodes, age 63, on April 3, 2004 in NYC. Born on August 25, 1940, and raised in Los Angeles, CA. Graduate of Occidental College, followed by fellowships at Bayreuth and the Komische Opera in Berlin. As a Ford Foundation intern, he began a nearly 20 year career in management wit
 SCHULMAN--Dr. David. Died on Sunday, March 28, 2004 after a long illness from complications of Parkinsons Disease at his home in Manhattan. A memorial service will be conducted on April 27th at 3:00 PM. It will be held at Mt. Sinai Hospital, 1425 Madison Avenue between 98 and 99 Street, in 
 SMITH -- Robert (Smitty), passed away on April 12, 2004. Best friend and beloved husband, devoted uncle and godfather, cherished friend to many. His wonderful sense of humor brought joy and laughter to all who knew him. His spirit, kindness and humor will remain with us always. He will be d
 TRANSPORT--Herman B. on Friday, April 16, 2004. Loving and devoted husband of Natalie. Beloved father of Ira and Mark. Loving father-inlaw of Robyn and Meryl. Adoring and adored grandfather of Zachary, Annie and Jillian. Services to be held Sunday, April 18, 12 noon at ''Gutterman's'', 8000
 ROSENBLATT--Richard p/ a Ritchie Cordell/d on April 13, 2004. Loved by his wife Helaina, his parents Harry and Evelyn, sister Ronni, niece Zoe and his many dear friends.       
 LANDRY--Alan Sullivan. 52, of 224 Edgewater Dr, Governors Island, Gilford, and NYC, died on Thursday, April 15, 2004. Mr. Landry was born June 24, 1951, in Arlington, MA, the son of the late Dr. Christopher and Barbara (Sullivan) Landry. Mr. Landry graduated from Phillips Academy, Andover, 
 MANDEL--Seymour. Died on Saturday, April 17, 2004. He was 80 years old. Beloved husband of the late Marion G. Loving father of Barry (Doreen) and Steven Mandel. Devoted brother of Rhoda Winkler. Loving grandfather of Adam, Alyse, Jason and Carrie. Great-grandfather of Hanna Mandel. Gravesid
 McAVAY--Eben Patrick. 22, died April 15, 2004. Survived by his grandparents, Raymond, Betty, Joan and Yvonne, his father Gary S. McAvay, mother and stepfather Judith and Paul Lysaker, two brothers, Josh and sister-in-law Erin and Ben, two sisters, Haley and Mercedes, a niece, Sophie, severa
 MILLER--Stanley I. 81, of Brooklyn, NY, dearly missed by Phyllis and Lois. Mourned by all his friends.       
 MORRIS--Edward. Died unexpectedly on April 16. Beloved husband of Madeline. Father of Jeffrey Morris (Dena) and Dr. Jacqueline Mayo (Michael). Devoted grandfather of Lily and Sam. Scientist and inventor. He loved life and he will be missed. In lieu of flowers, donations to Memorial-Sloan Ke
 RAPHAEL--Alan H. Died peacefully at home on April 18, 2004, at age 87. Dearly beloved companion of Eleanor Hauser. Loving father of John Raphael and Cathy Raphael. Devoted husband of the late Rita S. Raphael. Whether a quip, a pun or a joke, he shared his gift of laughter with family and ma
 RICKS--David F. 77, died at home, April 13. Professor of psychology at Harvard, Brandeis, Columbia, Kabul University, City College, and Cincinnati. Survived by wife Annie, who will remain in Shepherdstown, WV; and by his children, David, Peggy, Tom, Anne, Sarah, their spouses, his son Rick'
 RYAN--Honorable John J. 92, formerly of Brooklyn on April 16, 2004. He served as a Judge of the New York Criminal Court, New York State Court of Claims and the New York Supreme Court. Beloved husband of the late Eileen (Keegan) and the late Capitola (Murphy); father of Bob, John P., and Mar
 SCHNEIDER--Elaine. Is at rest after a valiant struggle; a brave, kind and gentle woman. Beloved wife of 56 years of Ira Schneider. Loving mother of Richard Schneider, his wife Cindy, and the late Meryl Bartlett. Loving grandmother of Neil and Zachary Schneider. Devoted in-law to David and E
 Philip A. Fisher, who wrote one of the first investment books to appear on the New York Times best-seller list, ''Common Stocks and Uncommon Profits,'' a 1958 guide to growth-stock investing that the billionaire investor Warren E. Buffett has cited as a major influence on his career, died a
 David Clarke, a veteran actor on Broadway and in the movies, died on Sunday at a hospice in Arlington, Va., his daughter K. C. Ligon said. He was 95 and lived in Fairfax, Va. Mr. Clarke was a familiar face in many film noir and action movies from the 1940's through the 60's, and app
 James Richard Cantalupo, an accountant who planted the arches of McDonald's on foreign soil before being called out of retirement to help the company at home as chairman and chief executive, died unexpectedly yesterday in Orlando, Fla. He was 60 and lived in Oak Brook, Ill., outside Chicago
 GELB--Richard L. The Board of Trustees of the Central Park Conservancy mourn the loss of former trustee, Richard L. Gelb. A trustee from the founding of the Conservancy through 1985, Richard played a key role in the rebuilding of Central Park. We extend our condolences to his wife and child
 HOSKINS--Elise. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center community joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Elise Hoskins, beloved mother of our dear friend and colleague, Donald W. Hoskins, MD, Beth Israel's Senio
 LASKY--Irving (Uncle Sonny). Age 95. Beloved and cherished Uncle. A quiet, thoughtful man with a great facility to ''fix'' things with his Golden Hands. Active on a daily basis. Anxious, willing and able to help others in need. A rare, sweet human being who will be missed by his nephews and
 NIEMEYER -- Jack. The Trustees, administration, staff, students, and alumni of Bank Street College of Education deeply mourn the passing of John H. Niemeyer, President Emeritus. His presidency of Bank Street, from 1956-1973, ushered the College onto the national stage, and laid the groundwo
 RAPHAEL--Alan H. Died peacefully at home on April 18, 2004, at age 87. Dearly beloved companion of Eleanor Hauser. Loving father of John Raphael and Cathy Raphael. Devoted husband of the late Rita S. Raphael. Whether a quip, a pun or a joke, he shared his gift of laughter with family and ma
 SCHULTZ--Chad. A Chicago investment banker, died at home on Thursday, after a long illness. He was 50. Mr. Schultz was a Managing Director of Credit Suisse First Boston, and Group Co-Head of the Private Fund Group, an industry leading placement agent for private equity investment funds. He 
 SONKING--Herbert L. Passed away at home on April 18th, 2004. Beloved husband of Ruth. Loving father of Judy (Jim) and Richard (Julia). Devoted grandfather of Jill. He will be greatly missed. Funeral service and burial will be held privately.       
 NORWOOD--Michael John. Born 4-20-67 Kearsley, Eng. Died 12-06-03 Palau Co-Host ''Deep-Sea Detectives'' The History Channel Dearly Loved by His American Family       
 Norris D. McWhirter, one of the founders of Guinness World Records, the ubiquitous reference work that keeps track of superlatives both serious and frivolous, from sports records and tall buildings to the oldest licensed driver (104) and the farthest a person has walked with a milk bottle b
 AUGENSTEIN--William C. It is with great sadness that Royal Pet Supplies announces the sudden passing of William (Billy) C. Augenstein, president and owner, on Sunday, April 18, 2004. Billy was born in New York on May 29, 1952. Billy is survived by his mother, Irene, brother Stephen, nieces 
 LASKY--Irving (Uncle Sonny). Age 95. Beloved and cherished Uncle. A quiet, thoughtful man with a great facility to ''fix'' things with his Golden Hands. Active on a daily basis. Anxious, willing and able to help others in need. A rare, sweet human being who will be missed by his nephews and
 MARTIN--C. Virgil. The Board and staff of the Mertz Gilmore Foundation note with sadness the passing of their friend, colleague, and mentor, Virgil Martin. His wisdom, integrity, and standard of responsible trusteeship helped set the course of the Foundation in its early years. His good che
 MINER -- Earl Roy, PhD, passed away on April 17, 2004 at Meadow Lakes in Hightstown, NJ after a long illness. Earl was Townsend Martin, Class of 1917, Professor of English and Comparative Literature until his retirement from Princeton University in 2000. He specialized in early modern Engli
 O'NEILL--Leo. The Board of Directors and staff of the Alliance for Downtown New York mourn the loss of our Director, colleague and friend, Leo C. O'Neill. As the President of Standard & Poor's, a member of the Downtown Alliance and a Downtown resident, Leo was an intelligent, thoughtful and
 PAYN -- Benjamin Robert. Born on December 24, 1913 in Swir, then Russia, today Lithuania. At the time of the Communist Revolution in 1918 the family escaped to Berlin where he lived until Hitler came to power. He moved to Paris in 1934 and served in the French Army during WWII until the col
 RAPHAEL--Alan H. The Board and staff of the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged (JASA) express their profound sorrow at the passing of Alan H. Raphael. Mr. Raphael has been a supporter of JASA for many years and his children have followed in his footsteps. We extend our condolences
 SONKING -- Herbert. North Shore Country Club records with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Herbert Sonking. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife and family. Peter J. Baum, President Stuart Bednoff, Secretary       
 Frank Schiff, the third generation of a New York family to run a prominent old-line insurance brokerage business before global conglomerates became dominant, died on April 8 at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 83 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Mr. Schiff died a
 BOBER--Arnold. Born August 4, 1917 in The Hague, Holland. Died peacefully on April 21, 2004. Beloved husband of Senta and loving father of Franklin and the late Jack. Loving grandfather of Suzanne, Sara, David, Gabrielle, Bronwen and Jenia. Greatgrandfather of Ted. Brotherin-law of Henry So
 GERBER--Howard R. On April 20, 2004. Trusted counselor of Gerber & Gerber, LLP. Beloved husband of Rhoda. Devoted father of Ethan and Elise Roberts and father-inlaw of Alexandra and Chuck Roberts. Cherished grandfather of Arielle, Juliette and Aidan. Services Friday 11:45 AM at ''The Rivers
 HAMRAH--Col. George Alexander, USA (Ret.) on April 18, 2004 in San Diego, CA. Beloved son of the late Alexander J. Hamrah and Labiby Hamrah. He was born in Brooklyn NY, attended Penn State University and received his B.S. from NYU. He was awarded a Ph.D. in Economics. Col. Hamrah enlisted i
 KAHANE--Rabbi Solomon. Beloved rabbi of the West Side Jewish Center for 38 years. A teacher and role model to the entire Jewish people. Rarely does one man possess such a combination of compassion and intellect. He was a best friend to all of us. His memory is an inspiration to us all. May 
 McNALLY--Edward M., 91, of Red Hook, NY died April 7, 2004. He was president of Voorhis-Tiebout Co., He attended Lehigh University and graduated from New York University in 1934. He was a lieutenant in U.S. Navy in WW II. He was president of the Red Hook Library a director of the local bank
 O'NEILL--Leo C. The board and staff of Scenic Hudson grieve the loss of a passionate, committed board member and dear friend. Leo C. O'Neill has inspired and benefited our work to enhance the environmental and economic health of the Hudson River Valley through his deep conceptual intelligen
 SAMUELSON -- Carl. Al though we mourn the death of our Founder, Carl Samuelson, we celebrate his life and remember the joy he brought to all. Funeral services will be held on Sunday, April 25 at 10AM at Community Synagogue of Rye, 200 Forest Avenue, Rye, N.Y. The Stagedoor Manor Family     
 Dr. Myron Wegman, the longtime author of an influential annual report on the nation's vital statistics and a leading public health educator, died on April 14 in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 95. The cause of death was congestive heart failure, said the University of Michigan School of Pub
 BAYNE -- Frank A. Died peacefully on April 18, 2004. Beloved husband of Maya, brother of Susan, father of Ian, Helen and Cornelia, grandfather of Michael, Bradley, Caitlyn, Alex and Addia. In his memory, donations may be made to the American Red Cross.       
 CONN--Alexander. Born June 23, 1923, died April 21, 2004. Beloved husband of Maxine and respected and honored father of Karen, Joel and Barbara, and stepfather of Laurie, Paul, Peter and Stephen. A generous and gentle man, he was a loyal and trustworthy friend. Funeral services will be held
 GERBER--Howard R. On April 20, 2004. Trusted counselor of Gerber & Gerber, LLP. Beloved husband of Rhoda. Devoted father of Ethan and Elise Roberts and father-inlaw of Alexandra and Chuck Roberts. Cherished grandfather of Arielle, Juliette and Aidan. Services Friday 11:45 AM at ''The Rivers
 HARRIS--Greg (Allen G.). April 19, 2004 in New York. Age 78. WWII Tuskegee Airman. Longtime journalist: Chicago Defender, Amsterdam News, Time, Newsweek, Life, CBS Radio, NBC News. First black television correspondent in Vietnam. Former National Vice President and New York State President, 
 LENIHAN--William Palmer, 46, died April 20, 2004. Son of the late Selma Lenihan and the late Kenneth Lenihan, brother of Andrew Lenihan and Jean Lenihan, uncle to Psachya, Tsvi, Julia and Susannah. We will never forget Bill's kind heart, his intelligent wit and his love for family. Funeral 
 O'NEILL--Leo C. The board and staff of Scenic Hudson grieve the loss of a passionate, committed board member and dear friend. Leo C. O'Neill has inspired and benefited our work to enhance the environmental and economic health of the Hudson River Valley through his deep conceptual intelligen
 SAMUELSON--Carl A. Of Delray Beach, FL and Loch Sheldrake, NY, passed away April 20, 2004. He was the owner of Stagedoor Manor Performing Arts Training Center founded in 1974 by him and his late wife Elsie. He leaves behind his devoted wife Camilla Samuelson, two children Debra Samuelson of
 SHERMAN--Bernard, 73, in Aventura, FL on April 20, 2004. Beloved father to Barbara, Madaline and Adam. Devoted grandfather to Stefan, Elana, Jeremy and Harry. Bernard was a Brooklyn native, widowed from Sylvia Sherman. He began life anew with Judith Lieber. His last years were rewarding, fi
 SPIRTES--David. The officers, directors and members of the Fire Island Association record, with deep sorrow, the untimely passing, on April 15, of David W. Spirtes, Superintendent of the Fire Island National Seashore. In less than a year on Fire Island, he changed the atmosphere from one of
 STANGOS--Nikos, an editor and director of Thames & Hudson for more than 30 years, died on April 16 at his London home. He remains much loved by family and friends and held in great esteem by his colleagues in the world of publishing and by his authors. His funeral will take place on April 2
 STEEB--John ''Jack'' Hamilton. Suddenly on April 20, 2004, age 36, of NYC, formerly of Haddonfield, NJ. Graduate of Haddonfield Memorial High School, Class of 1985 and Wesleyan University in Middletown, CT. Beloved son of Dr. Robert and Marie Steeb, of Haddonfield. Beloved grandson of Marie
 John Joseph Ryan, formerly a Democratic assemblyman from Brooklyn and a judge in the criminal and claims courts, died on April 16 at a nursing home in Hinsdale, Ill. He was 92 and formerly a resident of Brooklyn as well as Breezy Point, N.Y., and Westfield, N.J. His death was announ
 Leo C. O'Neill, who guided Standard & Poor's as it expanded from an American bond rating firm into an international concern whose opinion could be critical to the terms on which companies and governments could borrow money, died on Tuesday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He 
 The former New York State assemblyman Lucio F. Russo and his wife, Tina I. Russo, were killed on Tuesday in an automobile accident near their winter home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 91 and she 90. The couple, who were residents of Todt Hill, Staten Island, had been married for 65 
 Norton Mockridge, a jack-of-all-trades New York newspaper man, humorist, columnist and author, died on April 18 in San Antonio, where he lived. He was 88. The cause was pneumonia, said his daughter, Nancy Minor. As a columnist, first for The World-Telegram from 1963 to 1966,
 CONN--Alexander. Born June 23, 1923, died April 21, 2004. Beloved husband of Maxine and respected and honored father of Carin, Joel and Barbara, and stepfather of Laurie, Paul, Peter and Stephen. A generous and gentle man, he was a loyal and trustworthy friend. Funeral services will be held
 ETTELMAN--David J. On April 22, 2004. Beloved husband of Janet. Dearest father of Susan and Steven Eisenhauer, Laura Ettelman and Sheldon Gunter, Brian Ettelman and Christopher Doyle. Devoted grandfather of Michael and Rachel Eisenhauer. Brother - in - law of Henry Neuburger. Funeral servic
 FRITSCH--Peter H. 85, on April 22, 2004 from complications of emphysema. Austrian born, but a New Yorker to the core, he is mourned by his wife Theresa, his children Erica Bell, Peter Nicholas Fritsch, and Christina Fritsch, and granddaughters, Nora and Callie.       
 HENDERSON--Paul Bargas Jr. Born November 20, 1928 died April 22, 2004 due to a sudden accident. His last job was Sr. Vice President of strategic planning for the Federal Reserve Bank of NY. He retired in 1984. He is survived by his wife Betty. Celebration service will be held at St. Matthew
 KATZ--Rabbi Paul. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague in Israel. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate.       
 SAMUELSON--Carl A. Of Delray Beach, FL and Loch Sheldrake, NY, passed away April 20, 2004. He was the owner of Stagedoor Manor Performing Arts Training Center founded in 1974 by him and his late wife Elsie. He leaves behind his devoted wife Camilla Samuelson, two children Debra Samuelson of
 STEIGMAN -- Joseph, PhD, died April 17, 2004, age 91. Emeritus Professor of Chemistry in Nuclear Medicine, State University of NY, Downstate Medical Center at Brooklyn, NY. A graduate of Columbia College, he received his PhD in Chemistry from Columbia University in 1937. He taught at the Po
 TRACHTMAN--Hyman. A beloved friend of true character and kindness. We will sorely miss him and remember him always. Our sincerest condolences to his entire family. Eric and Lauren, Mike and Caroline Bates       
 Peter S. Prescott, an author and a longtime book critic for Newsweek, died on Friday at Tisch Hospital at the New York University Medical Center. He was 68. The cause was liver disease complicated by diabetes, his wife, Anne, said. Mr. Prescott's work extended beyond literar
 BAUMAN--Sidney. March 25, 1914-April 21, 2004. Grew up alone to master the ways of NY and win the woman of his dreams. The wounded W.W. II Vet returned to raise his children and worship his wife in a blazing romance that burns still. From the race tracks to the night clubs he was ''Bub'' to
 BERMAN--Milton. Dear father of our brother-in-law, Andrew Berman and father-inlaw and grandfather of Eve and Helen, Jeremy and Jessica. May his memory be a blessing and a comfort. Miriam and Alan Goldberg Sarah, David, and Alex BERMAN--Milton. Beloved father of Andrew, father-inlaw 
 BRONSTHER--Burton, MD. The Staff Society of the Long Island Jewish Medical Center mourn the passing of our esteemed and beloved colleague, Burton Bronsther, MD. Dr. Bronsther was a member of the staff of Long Island Jewish Medical Center for 40 years and was a Founder of the Children's Medi
 CONN--Alexander. Born June 23, 1923, died April 21, 2004. Beloved husband of Maxine and respected and honored father of Carin, Joel and Barbara, and stepfather of Laurie, Paul, Peter and Stephen. A generous and gentle man, he was a loyal and trustworthy friend. Funeral services will be held
 FRITSCH--Peter H. 85, on April 22, 2004 from complications of emphysema. Austrian born, but a New Yorker to the core, he is mourned by his wife Theresa, his children Erica Bell, Peter Nicholas Fritsch, and Christina Fritsch, and granddaughters, Nora and Callie.       
 JASPER--Leonard. Beloved husband of Jane, adored father of Robin-Eve Jasper and Roger LaRouche and Francesca and Bruce Rudin. Darling (Boppo) of Maxwell and Lauren Wessel and dearest (Cops) of Samuel and Alexandra Rudin. Dear brother of Harvey Jasper and the late Sara Jane Jasper. Passed fr
 KLEINMAN--Sidney Joseph, 83, died on April 14, 2004, of complications after an operation. Devoted husband of Elisabeth Massenez Kleinman. Loving father of Nancy Shaw of Yonkers, Margaret of New Jersey and Sylvie of Shankill, Ireland. Loving grandfather of Herb, Marc and Claire. He was a mus
 KUIPERS--Henry G. Lord, Abbett and Co. LLC extends its deepest sympathy and condolences to the family of Henry G. Kuipers, who died on April 12th, 2004. Mr. Kuipers retired from the firm in 1980 after 47 years of dedicated service, which makes him one of the longest service employees, if no
 McDONNELL--Hubert Jr. Of Greenwich, CT, died April 23, 2004. He was a longtime Greenwich resident. In 1948 he married Aline Elwes. In 1953 he joined the family firm of McDonnell & Co. He is survived by his wife Aline, two daughters, Ann Louise and Rosamond McDonnell, and his brother David M
 MINER -- Earl Roy, PhD, passed away on April 17, 2004 at Meadow Lakes in Hightstown, NJ after a long illness. Earl was Townsend Martin, Class of 1917, Professor of English and Comparative Literature until his retirement from Princeton University in 2000. He specialized in early modern Engli
 ROTHKOPF--David. CPA, 84, of Valley Stream, NY and Inverrary, FL. Died April 19, 2004. Beloved husband of Esther. Devoted father of Joseph (Diane) and Mitchell (Susan). Cherished grandfather of Ilana and Billy. Adored brother of Bernard (Dorothy), George (Lillian), sister-in-law Riva, and l
 SAMUELSON--Carl A. Of Delray Beach, FL and Loch Sheldrake, NY, passed away April 20, 2004. He was the owner of Stagedoor Manor Performing Arts Training Center founded in 1974 by him and his late wife Elsie. He leaves behind his devoted wife Camilla Samuelson, two children Debra Samuelson of
 SHEA--Paul F. Of Glen Cove, NY, formerly of Lattingtown, NY on April 21, 2004 in Bryn Mawr, PA. Beloved husband of the late Eleanor E. Devoted father of Elizabeth Shea of Bryn Mawr, PA and Christopher (Claudia) of Wauwatosa, WI. Loving grandfather of Alison, Laura and Thomas Shea. Born in B
 STEIGMAN -- Joseph, PhD, died April 17, 2004, age 91. Emeritus Professor of Chemistry in Nuclear Medicine, State University of NY, Downstate Medical Center at Brooklyn, NY. A graduate of Columbia College, he received his PhD in Chemistry from Columbia University in 1937. He taught at the Po
 VISCARDI--Henry, Jr. With the deepest sadness we mourn the passing of a champion in the field of rehabilitation medicine. In the halls of Congress and the New York Legislature he forcefully articulated the needs of the disabled worker for vocational training and for a special model school f
 WEISSENBERG--Gunter B., 91. Died April 21 at home in Laguna Beach, CA. Beloved cousin and friend. Loving companion of the late Allan Fidler. Holocaust survivor, opera lover, and longtime New York City resident. Contributions in his memory may be sent to the United States Holocaust Memorial 
 ROSEMAN--Mill. August 14, 1921-September 27, 2003. Son of Pearl and Mischa, died at home in Center Moriches, with his adoring wife at his side. Loving father of Paul, Jane, Robin and John (Hinchcliff). Doting grandfather of Kate, Abby, and Emily. Graduate CCNY; MA, NYU. Worked at PM newspap
 Thomas J. Corbally, an American businessman whose exquisitely cultivated aura of mystery and power first materialized in Britain in 1963 when he surfaced as a player in the drama of spies, prostitutes and politicians that was the Profumo scandal, died on April 15 in his Manhattan apartment.
 Alex Madonna, a businessman and real estate developer who created the Madonna Inn, a fantasy-theme hotel of outrageous excess and enduring California charm, died on Thursday at his home in San Luis Obispo, Calif. He was 85. The cause was believed to be a heart attack, said his daugh
 Harry Babbitt, a featured singer of the big band era who performed with Kay Kyser's band in the late 1930's and 40's, died April 9 at a nursing home in Aliso Viejo, Calif. He was 90. His death was announced by his son Christopher. The Kyser band featured serious swing arrang
 Jim Vaill, who built the bucolic Lime Rock Park track, a mecca for sports-car racing in an otherwise quiet valley in northwestern Connecticut, died Tuesday in Sharon, Conn. He was 83. The cause was emphysema, according to his daughter, Carol Yilmaz. Always too short and rudi
 EDELMAN--William. 82, died April 23, surrounded by his beloved family. At his side were his children, Norma Penn, Neil Edelman, Terry Tannenbaum, son-in-law David Penn, daughter-in-law Shelley Edelman and his grandchildren Jonathan, Ricki, Jeremy, Jessica, Jillian, Ryanne and Evan. William'
 EHRMAN--Bobby. Our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife Carol and his children Diane, David, Angie, Jeffrey and Terri, and all the grandchildren. He was a beloved and wonderful husband, father, grandfather, brother and uncle. He will truly be missed by all. Ginger and Larry Eleanor and Milt
 FIFE--Martin Dolins. Dearest husband of Barbara. Beloved father of Stephen, Richard, Howard and Andrew and father-in-law of Jill, Debra and Karen Fife and Hillary Rollins. Loving grandfather of Jonathan, Michael, Samuel, Benjamin, Annie, Julia, Eloise and Adam. Dear brother of Joseph. Servi
 FOLLINI--Charles F. The beloved husband of Maria, the adored father of Christina and CJ and the cherished grandfather to Charles and Jeremiah Reen, died peacefully of natural causes on Sunday, April 25. He was 91. The son of immigrant parents and born in the Tremont section of the Bronx, Ch
 MAYER -- Bernard. Died peacefully, surrounded by his beloved wife Blossom and adored daughters Claudia and Alison, on April 24, 2004. Bernie leaves behind his sons-in-law Harold Zucker and Neil Sachs and grandchildren Amanda, Jon, Philip, Rachel and Craig and Jessica and Ralph. A giant of a
 SCHLESINGER--Paul. Died April 23, 2004, attained 96 years of age. Born September 6, 1908. Beloved and dedicated husband of seventy years to Helen (deceased), his partner in life. Father and friend to his children Stanley and Helen and Stuart and Linda. Proud and loving grandfather to Kennet
 SCHWAB--Terrance W. Died April 25 in his wife's arms after a short, sudden illness, comforted in his last days by his wife Eileen, his children Matthew, Kate and Claire, Matthew's wife Johanna, Kate's husband Paul Welykoridko, and Claire's boyfriend Stephen Vogel. Also surviving him is his 
 Philip Hamburger, a writer for The New Yorker for more than six decades whose meticulously calibrated inflections -- sober, droll and everything in between -- helped create and nurture the magazine's reputation for urbanity, died on Friday at Columbia Presbyterian Center in Manhattan. He wa
 Claude (Fiddler) Williams, who began swinging on string instruments before the word jazz was commonly used, went on to become Count Basie's first recorded guitarist and continued playing violin with other jazz greats into his 90's, died on Sunday in Kansas City. He was 96. The cause
 Hubert Selby Jr., the Brooklyn-born ex-merchant mariner who turned to drugs and to writing after cheating death and created a lasting vision of urban hell in his novel ''Last Exit to Brooklyn,'' died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 75. The cause was chronic pulmonary di
 CAMERON -- Donald John, M.D., 74, of Bronxville and Point O' Woods, NY died on April 23 at home of complications from cancer. Dr. Cameron, son of the late Gertrude and James K. Cameron was born in Rochester, NY, raised in Scarsdale, NY, graduated from Scarsdale High School, Amherst College,
 COHEN--George. Of Rego Park, NY died Saturday at age 84. He is survived by his two sons Seth and Harold. He will be buried adjacent to his late wife Frieda.       
 DAVIES -- Thomas James. Died suddenly on April 25th. Beautiful baby boy of six months will be deeply missed by his parents, Jed and Heather, brother William, grandparents Helen, Edward and Suzanne, aunts and uncles, and eight cousins. The family will receive friends and neighbors on Wednesd
 FIFE--Martin Dolins. Dearest husband of Barbara. Beloved father of Stephen, Richard, Howard and Andrew and father-in-law of Jill, Debra and Karen Fife and Hillary Rollins. Loving grandfather of Jonathan, Michael, Samuel, Benjamin, Annie, Julia, Eloise and Adam. Dear brother of Joseph. Servi
 FRELINGHUYSEN -- George Griswold died at the age of 92, after a long illness, on Sunday, April 25, 2004 at his home in West Palm Beach, Florida. He was the son of Mr. & Mrs. Peter H.B. Frelinghuysen of Morristown, N.J. and was named for his grandfather, G.G. Frelinghuysen, also of Morristow
 FUERST--Arthur L. died peacefully at home April 25, 2004. Dearest husband of Florence and beloved father of Cathie and Jane. Cherished father-in-law of Stephen Baron and Larry Marco. Most loving and loved grandfather of Michael, Jeremy and Larissa. Also survived by his caring brother, Herbe
 GOLDSMITH--Peter D., died on April 23, 2004 in Oberlin, OH at age 51. Dean of Students at Oberlin College; loving father of Joanna and Ben; adoring husband of Julie Kalish; and beloved son and brother of George, Sonia, Robert and Laurie Goldsmith and Lynn Goldberg. He will be remembered for
 HAGER -- Adolph. Passed away peacefully on April 25, 2004 at age 79. A true Erlecha Yid. We mourn and offer our heartfelt condolences to his dear wife Judith, a valued, faithful and dedicated Associate of ours for twenty years and to his beloved and wonderful daughter Rachel and the entire 
 MAYER -- Bernard. We mourn the loss of an industry leader. Bernie impacted on the lives of many of us. He will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences go to his beloved Blossom & adoring children & grandchildren. Lee-Nolan Associates MAYER--Bernard. Beloved husband of Blossom. D
 PAULSEN--Albert, died April 25, in Los Angeles at 78 years old. Veteran actor appeared in over 20 films and 50 TV shows. Beloved brother of Alfred, he is survived by brother Juan, sister-in-law Jacqueline, devoted nephews William & John and nieces Theodora & Julia. Private memorial service 
 PEPPER--Arnold N. 78, Of Huntington, NY & Calabasas, CA, on Friday, April 23, 2004. Executive Vice President of SATCO Products Inc. Served in the U.S. Navy May 1943-November 1946. Survived by his sisters Adele and Elaine of Flushing, New York, and nieces and nephews. Also survived by his lo
 SCHWAB--Terrance W. Died April 25 in his wife's arms after a short, sudden illness, comforted in his last days by his wife Eileen, his children Matthew, Kate and Claire, Matthew's wife Johanna, Kate's husband Paul Welykoridko, and Claire's boyfriend Stephen Vogel. Also surviving him is his 
 CAMERON--Donald J., M.D. An outstanding physician and educator at Weill Cornell Medical Center, died on April 23, 2004. After obtaining his M.D. from Cornell University Medical College in 1955, he continued to serve at Cornell for many years becoming a Senior Attending Physician with expert
 CLAUS--Robert, 90, on April 24, 2004, in Madison, WI of lymphoma. A retired archivist and longtime resident of Great Neck, NY, he is survived by his wife Jean Christie and their son and grandson. A memorial meeting will be held at 2PM on Saturday, May 22nd, at the Friends (Quaker) Meeting H
 DAVIES -- Thomas James. Died suddenly on April 25th. Beautiful baby boy of six months will be deeply missed by his parents, Jed and Heather, brother William, grandparents Helen, Edward and Suzanne, aunts and uncles, and eight cousins. The family will receive friends and neighbors on Wednesd
 DREXLER--Leonard A. Long time resident of Greenwich Village, died on April 21, 2004, following an extended illness. Born August 26, 1917 in Brooklyn, New York, he was a graduate of Harvard Law School and practiced law in New York City for fifty years. Interment was at Beth David Cemetery on
 FRELINGHUYSEN -- George Griswold died at the age of 92, after a long illness, on Sunday, April 25, 2004 at his home in West Palm Beach, Florida. He was the son of Mr. & Mrs. Peter H.B. Frelinghuysen of Morristown, N.J. and was named for his grandfather, G.G. Frelinghuysen, also of Morristow
 FRIEDMAN -- Maurice, 95, died April 27 after a brief illness. Loving and beloved husband for 67 years of Hilda; father and father-in-law of Steve and Barbara, Phyllis and Brad Perkins, Rich and Joanna; grandfather of Suzy and David Cohen, Caroline and David Levy, David Benioff Friedman, Rac
 GOLDSMITH--Peter D., died on April 23, 2004 in Oberlin, OH at age 51. Dean of Students at Oberlin College; loving father of Joanna and Ben; adoring husband of Julie Kalish; and beloved son and brother of George, Sonia, Robert and Laurie Goldsmith and Lynn Goldberg. He will be remembered for
 HESS--John D., a pioneering writer for television and a 50 year resident of Bucks County, PA., died peacefully at his home on Thursday, April 15, 2004, two days short of his 86th birthday. Mr. Hess was the husband of Mary Ann Van Hess and the late Jane Vosper Hess who died in 1996. Mr. Hess
 HIGGINS--Francis J., 76, on April 26. A retired shipping executive. Survived by his wife, Suzanne Saver Higgins, Sparta, NJ, children Amy Donovan (James), Katherine Doyle (John), Francis Higgins, Suzanne Higgins, brother Eugene Higgins, four grandchildren and one stepgrandchild. Calling hou
 JOHNSTON--Glenn W. Funeral services for Glenn W. Johnston, retired president of Sterling Drug Co. will be held at 3 P.M. Friday April 30, at the First United Methodist Church of Pocahontas, Ark. Mr. Johnston died Tuesday, April 27, at the age of 84 in Vero Beach, Fla., after a long illness.
 PAULSEN--Albert, died April 25, in Los Angeles at 78 years old. Veteran actor appeared in over 20 films and 50 TV shows. Beloved brother of Alfred, he is survived by brother Juan, sister-in-law Jacqueline, devoted nephews William & John and nieces Theodora & Julia. Private memorial service 
 SATZ--Norman M., 77, of Bronx, N.Y. A kind and generous man who loved poetry died suddenly on April 26, 2004. Devoted husband of Frances, father and friend to his children Gary and Debra. Loving grandfather. A W.W. II Veteran, who participated in the defeat of fascism--and a mensch. Service
 SCHWARTZ -- Sidney. Born Zembrov, Poland 1908. Died April 26. Age 95. Preceded in death by wife, Lois. Survived by son Ralph, brother Isidore, two grandchildren, nieces and nephews. Longtime member Local 6 HERE; tireless fighter for rights of working people; was progressive activist from 19
 SHULTZ--Seymour, 95, of NYC on April 26, 2004. Beloved brother of the late Ethel Cooper, and Lillian and George Blumenson. Loving uncle of Shiela and Joel Pollack, and Lester and Genia Blumenson. Grand uncle of Ellen and Bonnie, Craig, Stacey, Jeffrey, and Carolyn and their respective spous
 SOBERMAN--Robert J., M.D., The faculty and staff of the New York University School of Medicine express their deep sadness over the death of our friend and colleague, Robert J. Soberman, M.D., Professor of Medicine and Associate Dean for Post-Graduate Programs at the NYU Post - Graduate Medi
 Thom Gunn, a transplanted British poet identified with the San Francisco scene and the California liberated style, died on Sunday night at his home in San Francisco, his adopted hometown. He was 74. His death was announced by his companion of 52 years, Mike Kitay. Acclaimed 
 Dr. John Maynard Smith, an evolutionary biologist who revolutionized the study of animal behavior by applying the principles of game theory, died on April 19 at his home in Sussex, England. He was 84. His work helped to answer a wide variety of perplexing questions, explaining, for 
 BLUMENFELD -- Adrian, passed away Monday, April 26, two days short of his 88th birthday. He was a man of brilliant intellect, an avid reader, and a great devotee of classical music and opera. A true Renaissance man, he had a passionate interest in cooking, sailing, jokes and story telling, 
 COHEN--Albert, M.D. With sorrow we note the passing of a compassionate and wise man, who was the dearest husband of Frederika; brother of Sidelle Scott and brother-in-law of Brenda and David Murrell. He was a physician who dedicated himself to his patients, many times making home visits to 
 DAVIES -- Thomas James. Died suddenly on April 25th. Beautiful baby boy of six months will be deeply missed by his parents, Jed and Heather, brother William, grandparents Helen, Edward and Suzanne, aunts and uncles, and eight cousins. Services will be held on Thursday at 10 A.M. at The Bric
 DONER--Max M., 93, of Great Neck, on April 27. Beloved husband of Sylvia and father of Maya (Larry) Goldschmidt, Rima Calderon, and Ezra (Betsy Israel) Doner. Grandfather of Alix, Erica, Ariana, Adam, Lisa, Miranda, Hayley and Timothy. Greatgrandfather of Jeremy and Eli. Services Thursday, 
 FRELINGHUYSEN -- George Griswold died at the age of 92, after a long illness, on Sunday, April 25, 2004 at his home in West Palm Beach, Florida. He was the son of Mr. & Mrs. Peter H.B. Frelinghuysen of Morristown, N.J. and was named for his grandfather, G.G. Frelinghuysen, also of Morristow
 FRIEDMAN--Maurice. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Maurice Friedman, beloved father of Stephen Friedman and father-in-law of Barbara Friedman, treasured leaders of the Jewish community. Maurice's benevolent legacy continues thro
 FRIEDMAN--Murray, 95, died April 27, 2004. Loving and trusted brother and partner of forty years of Harry Friedman and the uncle of Steve Sharp and Robert Friedman, of the Friedman & Friedman Agency. He will always be remembered with love and respect. He was a trusted and consummate insuran
 HESS--John D., a pioneering writer for television and a 50 year resident of Bucks County, PA., died peacefully at his home on Thursday, April 15, 2004, two days short of his 86th birthday. Mr. Hess was the husband of Mary Ann Van Hess and the late Jane Vosper Hess who died in 1996. Mr. Hess
 KANE--Bob. Of Great Neck died on April 27, 2004 at age 96. Born in NYC on May 21, 1907. Beloved ''Daddy'' of Michael Kane and Riki Kane Larimer, known to him as ''Baby.'' Beloved son-in-law of Bob Larimer, known to him as ''Robby.'' Married to the woman he adored, Ginger Weiner Kane, for 57
 SOBERMAN--Robert J., M.D. Passed away on April 27, 2004. The Board of Directors and staff of the New York Organ Donor Network mourn the loss of a distinguished pioneer of organ transplantation. Dr. Soberman was a leading advocate of organ donation, a founder of our organization in 1978, and
 TELSON--Howard. On April 5, 2004 from cancer at age 49. Dr. Telson of New York City obtained his B.A. at Princeton and his M.D. at Yale. He was a Clinical Associate Professor of Psychiatry at NYU School of Medicine where he trained as a psychiatrist and was on the faculty for 20 years. He d
 WADSWORTH--Michael. It is with great sorrow that we announce the passing of Michael A. Wadsworth, Q.C., a football star who parlayed his love of sports and competition into an extraordinarily diverse and distinguished career as a criminal defense lawyer, broadcaster, corporate executive, Ca
 Thomas Winner, a member of the Czech underground who escaped Nazism in 1939 as one of 20 East European students to receive full scholarships to Harvard, died on April 20 in Cambridge, Mass., where he lived. A multilingual scholar and an expert on Russian literature, Dr. Winner was 86.      
 Dr. John W. Kirklin, a cardiovascular surgeon whose refinements of the heart-lung machine in the 1950's helped make open heart surgery safer and more predictable, died on April 21 at his home in Birmingham, Ala. He was 86. The cause was complications after a fall, said his son, Dr. 
 DANIELS--Barnard J., on April 23, 2004. Beloved husband of Raynor. Loving father of Jonathan and his wife Ronna, and Michael. Adoring grandfather of Marla Daniels. Service Sunday 9:45AM, at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Family will receive visitors Sunday, 3:309:30PM, Monday
 KANE--Bob. Of Great Neck died on April 27, 2004 at age 96. Born in NYC on May 21, 1907. Beloved ''Daddy'' of Michael Kane and Riki Kane Larimer, known to him as ''Baby.'' Beloved son-in-law of Bob Larimer, known to him as ''Robby.'' Married to the woman he adored, Ginger Weiner Kane, for 57
 SCHUMAN--David. Died on April 26 at age 89. Beloved husband of the late Sonia A. Schuman and father of Hinda R. Schuman. He was wise, gentle, strong, and funny, and by example taught how life should be lived. He leaves a void that even a thousand memories cannot fill.       
 SIEGEL--Paul N., 87, April 26, 2004. Shakespearean professor emeritus, Marxist scholar and political activist. Well loved and revered father of Rosalind Robertson and grandfather of Christie, Jenni, Noah and Jessica Robertson and Halle Tecco. Truly a uniquely principled, generous and dedica
