 Ben Martin, who coached the Air Force Academy football team from 1958 to 1977 and reached three bowl games, died July 24 in Colorado Springs. He was 83. Martin's death was announced by the academy. He had recently had a heart attack, Troy Garnhart, the academy's assistant athletic d
 EHRSAM--Theodore George, Ph.D. An accomplished author and Professor Emeritus of English at New York University, died of natural causes on July 30, 2004 at Hackensack Medical Center in Hackensack, NJ at the age of 94. Theodore George Ehrsam was born December 7, 1909 in New York, NY. He recei
 FEINMAN--Boris. Longtime New Rochellean and civil activist, died peacefully at home in Lantana, FL on July 22, 2004. Born 1916 in Riga, Latvia. Emigrated 1920. Graduated NYU 1937, Electrical Engineering. Worked for General Electric, on the team responsible for the railroad engine featured i
 FLING--John B. Age 52, died suddenly at home on Tuesday July 27, 2004 after a brief illness. Mr. Fling was Vice President of Package Design for the Estee Lauder division of Estee Lauder Cos. for 10 years. While there he had much acclaim for his work and received several awards for design ex
 GLASSMAN -- Daniel. The most perfect description of Danny Glassman is that of patriarch of the family. He was loved, cherished and respected for his wisdom and generosity to everyone he knew. He was a loving, benevolent husband, father and grandfather to his family. His personal friendships
 GOODMAN--Dr. Meyer. We mourn with great sorrow the passing of Dr. Meyer Goodman, 87, of Flushing, NY, on July 25, 2004. He is survived by his beloved wife of 51 years, Miriam, his son Jesse and daughter-in-law Annette Ferstenberg, his daughter Ariella and son-in-law Jeffrey Schwartz and son
 HAGE--Per. 1935--2004. Born October 9, 1935; his brilliant mind closed in the morning hours of July 25, 2004 after a valiant fight with a long illness which he endured with characteristic stoicism and grace. Per joined the faculty of the Department of Anthropology at the University of Utah 
 HERMAN--Robert E., former New York State Rent Commissioner, passed away on July 28, 2004 following a short illness. He is survived by his wife of more than 50 years, Doris, three children and their spouses, and eleven grandchildren. All of his family will miss him deeply. Funeral 1 PM Sunda
 KAUFMAN -- Melvin (Mel). On July 22nd, 2004. A good, sweet man, loving husband of Lillian. Beloved father of Lewis, Chet and daughter-in-law Joyce. Cherished grandfather of Jessica and Benjamin of Houston, TX. He worked as a Photo-Engraver at the New York Times for approximately 24 years. M
 KLEIN--Sima S. Beloved mother of Donald, Stuart and his wife, Sharon. Cherished grandmother of Danielle, Aaron and Molly. Dear sister of Mildred and Ethel. Retired Vice President of Lehman Bros., Inc., and private secretary to Orin Lehman, past Parks Commissioner of the State of New York.  
 LYLES--James B., Jr. Died Saturday, July 25, 2004 from a heart attack in St. Vincent Hospital in Manhattan at the age of 81. James was a loving husband to his wife of 40 years, the late Enid G. Lyles and a caring father whose attention and endless gift of his previous, little, free time wil
 McCREERY--Robert L. Of NYC and Rhinebeck, NY, on June 8, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Margaret Saunders O'Keefe. Loving father of Marina McCreery. Devoted brother of the late William C. McCreery, Gladys McCreery, Beatrice Flynn and Florence Rick. He will be deeply missed by all who kne
 REITER--Frederick J. Age 96, on July 29, 2004. Husband of the late Marion Reiter. He is survived by his daughter Susan, son Leonard (Elyahu), daughter-in-law Teva and five grandchildren. Born in Breslau, Germany, a man of great intellect and wide-ranging achievement, he was a businessman, l
 REYNOLDS--Edward T., 57, of Schroon Lake, NY, died Thursday, July 29, 2004 after a long illness. He was born December 16, 1946 in Trumansburg, NY. A Memorial Service will be held Tuesday, September 7, at 11 AM, at the Presbyterian Church of Glens Falls, NY. Memorial donations may be made to
 RIDALL--Edmund W., Jr., Esq. On Monday, July 26, 2004, after a brief battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Gloria Slattery Ridall, and the late Mitzi Braun Ridall and Carol Smale Ridall. Father of Kathryn Ridall, Linda Villa, Edmund W. Ridall, III, Pauline H. Smale and Charlotte Reid. Also
 ROSENTHAL--Arthur. Loving husband of Norma. Devoted brother of Elmore and the late Florence Rosenwein. Dedicated uncle of Marilyn, Bennett and Steven. Adoring grandfather and great-uncle. He was deeply loved by his family and friends. His warmth, caring, generosity and devotion will be miss
 TURETSKY--Rabbi Arnold. The Solomon Schechter School of Westchester extends its condolences to the family of Arnold Turetsky and Temple Israel Center Community. Rabbi Turetsky was a leading figure in the conservative rabbinate, a vital force in the Jewish community of White Plains and a fri
 WOLFSON--Donald J. 54, beloved son of Rosalind and William Wolfson, brother of Ellen and Andrew Wolfson, and uncle of Daniel and Rebecca Groberg and Wylie Wolfson, died Saturday, at Memorial Sloan - Kettering Cancer Center. He was a senior vice president and financial advisor at Morgan Stan
 KELMAN--Charles, MD. The creative spark of the inventor, ophthalmologist, entertainer, friend & loving family man touched the lives of many. He will be affectionately remembered at a tribute on Monday, September 13, 2004 at 11:30AM at the St. James Theater, 44 Street (Broadway and 8th Avenu
 David Baker, a noted audio engineer favored by many jazz recording artists, died on July 14 in Rochester, where he had gone for a recording session. He was 58 and lived in Manhattan. His death was announced by Kirk Imamura, president of Avatar Studios in Manhattan, and his family, w
 BARTH--Richard M., C.P.A. On Saturday, July 31, 2004. He was 83 years old. Beloved husband of Florence Dreizen Barth. Caring father of Sandi, Laura and Alison. Devoted grandfather of Rhoda, Robin, Wallis, Louis and Rose. Loving brother of Eddie and Jerry. Graveside services will be held on 
 BOSLER--Carl G. Beloved father of George and Lisa. Loved his family, loved music, and loved life. We're very sorry to see him go. Memorial service Tuesday, August 3, at 10 am, at The Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, New York City.       
 CORBETTA--Louis J. (Jerry). Of Norwalk, CT (formerly of Scarsdale, NY), died on July 30, 2004, at the age of 80. Mr. Corbetta was President of Corbetta Construction Company, a firm founded by his father and uncle in 1922. During his career, he was involved as the concrete constructor and ge
 GOLDSTEIN -- Rabbi Leon ard. It is with profound sorrow that we mark the passing of a truly wonderful, kind, giving and learned man, a great Jewish leader, Rabbi Leonard Goldstein. Leonard and his late wife Helen Fried Kirshblum Goldstein have served with distinction as members of our Execu
 MORGENBESSER -- Sidney. On August 1, 2004. John Dewey Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at Columbia University. Beloved uncle of David Ebner, great-uncle of Stuart and Steven M. Ebner, cousin of Irving Denbaum and devoted companion of Joann Haimson. Brilliant and inspirational friend, teache
 REITER--Frederick J. Age 96, on July 29, 2004. Husband of the late Marion Reiter. He is survived by his daughter Susan, son Leonard (Elyahu), daughter-in-law Teva and five grandchildren. Born in Breslau, Germany, a man of great intellect and wide-ranging achievement, he was a businessman, l
 ACHSEN--Dave. 5/1/11--8/2/72 Treasured in our Memory His Family       
 Frank Smith, who as an inmate leader at Attica prison was tortured by officers in the aftermath of the prisoner uprising of 1971 and then spent a quarter century successfully fighting for legal damages, died Saturday in Kinston, N.C. He was 71. The cause was kidney cancer, his wife,
 BOSLER--Carl G. Beloved father of George and Lisa. Loved his family, loved music, and loved life. We're very sorry to see him go. Memorial service Tuesday, August 3, at 10 am, at The Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, New York City.       
 FISCHER--Roy, age 81 of New York City and Stamford, CT. Died August 1, 2004. Roy graduated NYU Law School, practiced privately, served as Nassau Deputy County Attorney, was a senior legal editor at Matthew Bender, Inc. Opera was his passion and Verdi his hero. Gifted with a powerfully reson
 HELMAN--Henry. Died August 1. Beloved husband of Lola. Adored father of Susan and Shlomo Spak, Gary and Ronni Helman, loving grandfather of Joseph, Jordan, and Jason Spak, Kira and Jesse Helman. Friend to all that knew him. His warmth, caring, generosity, and devotion will be missed by all.
 KAHAN -- Sidney. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, NY mourns the passing of our beloved member and past president Sidney Kahan. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Ruth, and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Dr. Steven Zeldis, President       
 KOLB--Larry of White Plains on August 1, 2004 at age 72. Born December 5, 1931 in New York City to Andrew and Rose (Goldberg) Kolb. Survived by his loving wife Ilona (Brandvain) Kolb, loving children Claude Kolb, Rhonda Casson (husband Gary), Elissa Kramer (husband Dr. Albert) and Sherri Fr
 McCLURE--Francis L., age 87, of Basking Ridge, NJ, on July 30, 2004. Beloved husband of 61 years to Frances (Diver) McClure. Devoted father of Lawrence D. and his wife Judith McClure of Avon, CT and Judith M. and her husband Gordon Bickel of Basking Ridge, brother of Martha M. Kemmitzer of 
 PARSONS--Henry McIlvaine, 92, of Arlington, VA. Behavorial psychologist and prolific writer with degrees from Yale, Columbia and UCLA. He was also a Lieutenant Commander in the U.S. Navy during World War II aboard LST 803. Survived by his companion Carol Noyes, Syosset, NY; his son Jack Par
 ROSENKRANZ--Stanley W. The Union for Reform Judaism mourns with sorrow the passing of Stanley W. Rosenkranz, of Tampa, FL, a member of its Board of Trustees since 1990. In a variety of leadership roles Mr. Rosenkranz served the Union with great devotion and distinction. We extend deepest co
 SEID--Clarence, 96, of Middletown, N.Y. on August 1, 2004 in Boca Raton, Florida. Beloved husband of Florence for 70 years. Loving father of Jane Chaves and Carol Seid. Cherished grandfather of Susan Chaves Zucker and her husband Scott; Mark Chaves and his wife Kim. Proud and caring great g
 SILVER--Joseph W., M.D. The board of trustees, medical staff, administration and employees of New York Methodist Hospital deeply mourn the passing of our respected friend and colleague, Joseph W. Silver, M.D. Dr. Silver was affiliated with New York Methodist Hospital for 40 years and had se
 SPITZER--Jack J. The Officers, Directors and Staff of The Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany (Claims Conference) mourn the passing of our Vice President, Ambassador Spitzer. For the past thirty years The Claims Conference had the benefit of his wisdom, energy, and experien
 WOLFSON--Donald. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club are deeply saddened by the passing of their esteemed member, Friar Donald Wolfson. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Services will be held on Tuesday, August 3, at 11:15 AM, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 
 WYLLINS -- Arnold B., 82 years old (only child of Irving H. and Ella A. nee Weil), passed away peacefully on August 2 at Calvary Hospital. Arnold was predeceased by his beloved wife and best friend of 50 years, Roslyn, on February 26, 2003. Arnold served with distinction in the 10th Army du
 YELLEN--Dwight, 86, of Deal, NJ, on August 1, 2004. Husband of Jeanne Yellen; father of Dwight Yellen, Jr. and Whitney Freshwater Madden; brother of Shirley Vegosen; and grandfather of Jamie and Sara Yellen. Memorial service will be 11 A.M. Friday, August 6, from Hollywood Golf Club, 510 Ro
 Bob Murphy, who brought a sunny disposition and ''happy recaps'' to Mets television and radio broadcasts from the team's first game in 1962 until his retirement last season, died yesterday at a hospice in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 79. The cause was lung cancer, the Mets said.    
 Dr. Joseph Silver, a former chief of orthopedic surgery at New York Methodist Hospital in Brooklyn, died on Monday in Stamford, Conn. He was 70. The cause was cancer, said Philip Fuchs, a friend. Born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, Dr. Silver lived in Lawrence, N.Y. Hi
 Larry R. Shannon, a retired writer and editor for The New York Times, died on Saturday at his home in Toms River, N.J. He was 67 and a former resident of Glen Rock, N.J. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Jan. Mr. Shannon joined The Times in 1967, working as a c
 BOTCHMAN--Jay L., a resident of Las Vegas died on Saturday, July 31, 2004. He was 72 years old. Mr. Botchman was born on June 6, 1932 in Boston, Massachusetts, to the late Louis and Ruth. Mr. Botchman was a graduate of White Plains High School and resided in the area for 30 years. He served
 GOLDSTEIN--Rabbi Leonard J. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague who retired from the pulpit of Temple Beth El in Manhattan Beach, New York. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate.
 HARRIS--Burt I. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of their warm and steadfast friend Burt I. Harris of Los Angeles, Calif. A pioneering cable television executive, Mr. Harris served the ATS as president of the Southern California Chapter, a 
 LEVY--Richard L. (Dick) of Sarasota, FL and Somers, NY (formerly of New York City) died on August 2, 2004 at the age of 83 of melanoma. Beloved husband of Barbara Ershler Levy, cherished father of Adam (Natalie) and Carol (Andrew) Garfinkle, adored grandfather of Madeline and Grace Levy, Ju
 MOORE--Kneeland Savery. On July 29, at home in South Carver, Massachusetts after short illness. Husband of late Mary Kane Moore of Ossining, NY. Survived by son and daughter-in-law, K. Savery and Janice H. Moore of Sunnyside, NY, daughter Mary Lee Moore & granddaughter Lea Savery Moore of B
 SEID--Clarence, 96, of Middletown, N.Y. on August 1, 2004 in Boca Raton, Florida. Beloved husband of Florence for 70 years. Loving father of Jane Chaves and Carol Seid. Cherished grandfather of Susan Chaves Zucker and her husband Scott; Mark Chaves and his wife Kim. Proud and caring great g
 SILBERZWEIG -- Sol. The American Society for Yad Vashem mourns the passing of Sol Silberzweig, Board member and benefactor of Yad Vashem. A Holocaust survivor who survived the Warsaw Ghetto uprising and seven concentration camps, lost his whole family except one brother who was living in th
 SILVER--Joseph W., M.D. The Board of Governors, staff, and membership of the greater New York Hospital Association (GNYHA) mourn the passing of an esteemed and beloved physician and friend, Joseph W. Silver, M.D., who served with distinction as chief of orthopedic surgery at New York Method
 SMITH--William Farrell III (Billy) suddenly on August 2, 2004 of Manhasset, NY. Loving husband of Peggy. Dear son of Eleanor and the late William F. Smith, Jr. Devoted uncle of Michael Monahan. Loved by all that met him. In repose at The Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Boulevard, Ma
 WHITMAN--Alexander Harvey, 85, on July 30, at home. Beloved husband of Sylvia Choate Whitman, of Chester, CT. He lived most of his life in Cedarhurst, NY, where he was born. Graduate of St. Paul's School and Harvard College '41. Served on and then commanded U.S. Navy patrol craft in the Atl
 MECHANIC--Samuel, Fannie, and Sylvia G. ''And until we meet again, may God continue to hold thee in the palm of His hand.'       
 Sidney Morgenbesser, whose servings of logic, wit and insight as a Columbia University philosopher for a half-century prompted comparisons to Socrates -- minus the Yiddish accent -- died on Sunday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause was complic
 Henri Cartier-Bresson, who used his tiny, hand-held 35-millimeter Leica camera to bear humane witness to many of the 20th century's biggest events, from the Spanish Civil War to the German occupation of France to the partition of India to the Chinese revolution to the French student uprisin
 CARVER--R. David, 70, of Riverdale, NY, died August 3, 2004. Survived by his loving wife Rosemarie, his sons Alexander and Andrew, his daughter Christina Cahill, his son-in-law Brendan Cahill, and his four grandchildren. Also surviving are his beloved step-father, Cornelius Hurlbut, his sis
 PEARLMAN--Herbert M. Beloved husband, father and grandfather, entrepreneur, corporate founder and builder, sponsor of medical and educational charities. The very best of men. PEARLMAN--Herbert. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the
 SEID--Clarence, 96, of Middletown, N.Y. on August 1, 2004 in Boca Raton, Florida. Beloved husband of Florence for 70 years. Loving father of Jane Chaves and Carol Seid. Cherished grandfather of Susan Chaves Zucker and her husband Scott; Mark Chaves and his wife Kim. Proud and caring great g
 SILVER--Joseph W. The members, staff and leadership of 1199 SEIU, New York's Health and Human Service Union, mourn the loss of Joseph W. Silver, M.D., a fellow advocate for quality health care, and extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, children and brother, our good friend Assembly Spe
 SPITZER--Jack J. Ben-Gurion University of the Negev and American Associates, BenGurion University deeply mourn the passing of one of our great leaders, Jack J. Spitzer. He was a pioneer in our history, and his legacy will live on through the Jack J. and Charlotte B. Spitzer Department of So
 George Francis Kugler Jr., a prominent New Jersey lawyer who was the state's attorney general under Gov. William T. Cahill in the 1970's, died on Sunday at a hospital in Berlin, N.J. He was 79 and lived in Cherry Hill. He died after a brief illness, his family said. At the t
 BENTIEN--Ronald F., Sr. Age 70, died on August 1, 2004 in Marbella, Spain. Born June 29, 1934 in New York, N.Y. He is survived by a daughter Karin B. Schneider, three grandsons, a son Ronald F. Bentien, Jr., and a brother Thomas H. Bentien and his companion of many years Ana Maria Marquez o
 CARTIER - BRESSON -- Henri. It is with profound sorrow that we note the passing of Henri Cartier-Bresson. For all of us at ICP, and the photographic community at large, Cartier-Bresson was a monumental figure who changed the history of photography and whose profound influence will long be f
 FIORILLO--Albert L., Jr. of New York City on August 4, 2004, after a long illness. A respected conductor. A kind human being. He enriched the lives of so many Americans by bringing classic Broadway musicals to all America for more than 30 years. As music director and conductor of the Paperm
 HAAS--Henry, 77, of North Woodmere, N.Y., died August 5, 2004. Widower of his beloved Beverly. Cherished companion of Sylvia Kapner. Loving father of Roslyn and Larry Belgin, Marjie and Larry Haas, Nancy and Rick Alovis, and Elyse and Jeffrey Haas. Devoted grandfather of Jason, Michael, Lis
 HORNUNG -- Edward Paul. Died on August 1 in Naples, FL in his 89th year. Born in Pottsville, PA, son of Joseph and Clara Hornung, he worked for many years in New York City for the U.S. Rubber Company and later in concert management. He is survived by siblings Charles and Sister Florecita, n
 KOLB--Larry, beloved husband, father and grandfather. We will forever miss his presence, wit and love of life. Our heartfelt sympathy to his family that meant so much to him. The Fodiman, Hochberg & Yarom Families       
 LEONG--Kit, on Saturday, July 31, 2004 at Raritan Bay Medical Center, Old Bridge, NJ, in his 81st year. Beloved husband of Ajah, devoted father of Alawiah Yap and Lynn Leong Little. Loved and missed by grandchildren Sharon Aeria, Jeffrey Yap, Jennifer Yap, Frankie Yap, greatgranddaughter Ma
 PAPALEO--Joseph, passed away in his home in Tampa, FL on August 4, 2004. An award-winning author and Professor of Fiction Literature at Sarah Lawrence College for 35 years, Joseph was a decorated veteran of World War II. He leaves behind his loving wife of 21 years, Tonie, children, Joseph,
 SILVER--Joseph W., M.D. The Continuing Care Leadership Coalition (CCLC) notes with sorrow the passing of Joseph W. Silver, MD, an esteemed and distinguished member of the healthcare community in New York. Our Board of Directors, staff and membership extend their condolences and deepest symp
 Tiziano Terzani, an Italian journalist and writer who won international fame as he chronicled Asia's race toward modernity with the curiosity of a travel writer and a deep cultural sensitivity, died on July 28 at his home near Florence. He was 65. Mr. Terzani had had cancer since 19
 HAAS--Henry. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club are deeply saddened by the passing of their esteemed member, Henry Haas. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot Executive Director       
 PAPALEO--Joseph, passed away in his home in Tampa, FL on August 4, 2004. An award-winning author and Professor of Fiction Literature at Sarah Lawrence College for 35 years, Joseph was a decorated veteran of World War II. He leaves behind his loving wife of 21 years, Tonie, children, Joseph,
 Rick James, the unabashedly bawdy funk-rock pioneer who had a run of hits, including ''Super Freak,'' from the late 1970's to the mid-80's, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles, his record company, Universal Motown, announced. He was 56. He was found yesterday morning by a hous
 Alexander Hammid, a filmmaker whose body of work spanned the genesis of the experimental movement in Czechoslovakia, early anti-Nazi documentaries and soaring modern Imax spectacles, died on July 26 at his home in Manhattan. He was 96. Mr. Hammid, whose original name was Alexandr Ha
 CARTIER - BRESSON -- Henri. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the loss of Henri Cartier-Bresson, whose passionate curiosity and uncanny talent changed the way we see the world. A prisioner of war for part of World War II, he discovered at its end that the Museum, beli
 FOX--Leonard, Sr. 84, writer and publisher, died on July 30, 2004 in Houston, TX. Formerly of NYC and Philadelphia. Most beloved husband of Joyce. Adored father of Sharon Milner, Andie Fox and her husband Stan Chervin; Leonard Jr. and his wife Brigitte and their son Leonard III, Jeff, Tina 
 KIRKMAN--James A., III. Of Montville, NJ, on August 1, 2004. Predeceased by his wife Sharon Morrisey Kirkman, survived by partner Barbara Winkler, daughter, Elizabeth E. Kirkman, sons, Eric J. and Kurt A. Kirkman. Brother of Gail Hewson. A memorial service will be held on Saturday, August 1
 MYERS--Howard Benjaman, of New Castle, PA, Morristown & Mtn Lakes, NJ, and Plano, TX, died August 4, 2004. He was 67. Mr. Myers was an Attorney for 40 years. He also worked for 20 years as a teacher at Temple B'nai Or in Morristown, NJ. He served on the board of trustees for The Barn Theatr
 OHAYON--Elie died on August 4, 2004. Beloved husband of Esther. Loving father of David, Jacques and Pauline. Devoted grandfather of Bari, Daniel, Josh, Rachel. Dedicated great-grandfather to Cailey, dear brother of Simon, Claudine, Emile, Stella and their extended family. Elie was a man who
 OSHRIN--Arnold. A loving husband Arnold was to Little Helen. A wonderful father to Robert and Bill. Always had time and love for Craig, his grandson. Everybody will miss him and was touched by his love and kindness. Services Gutterman's, Rockville, Centre, NY, 1:30, August 8.       
 PAPALEO -- Joseph. Sarah Lawrence College mourns the death of Joseph Papaleo, alumnus of the College and faculty member from 1960 to 1992. Joe was a prolific writer of memorable, honest fiction, and a teacher of wisdom, generosity and humor. He was a central figure in the development of the
 REARICK--William R. Renowned art historian W.R. Rearick, 73, died in Venice, Italy on July 31, 2004. A memorial service was held on the island of San Michele on August 4. Curator of many exhibitions and author of numerous books and articles, he specialized in Venetian paintings and drawings
 SEIDMAN--Nathan. 85, of New York, NY, and Orient, LI, on August 6, 2004. Proprietor Brent Realty Co., NY, NY. Loving husband of Lina (nee Stevenson). Cherished father of Deborah, beloved stepfather of Pond Kelemen, M.D., and Chandra Kelemen. Dear brother of Sybil Sklar. Predeceased by his b
 SPITZER--Jack J. President of B'nai B'rith International 1978-1982, died Saturday July 31 in Seattle, Washington. His commitment, passion and dedication to B'nai B'rith, the Jewish community and those in need will be felt for generations. He lived his life with one credo, helping others. He
 Philip H. Abelson, a versatile scientist, editor and administrator who helped discover the element neptunium and later chronicled laboratory advances as editor of the journal Science, died on Aug. 1 in Bethesda, Md. He was 91. The cause was pneumonia, said a nephew, Dr. John N. Abel
 Philip S. Holzman, a psychologist and researcher at Harvard University whose studies of schizophrenia led to a more detailed understanding of mental disease, died on June 1 at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. He was 82. The cause was a stroke after surgery, said a son
 ADLER--Howard J. On August 7, 2004, age 87. Columbia College and Law, 1941. Practiced law in New York City until 1990, when he retired to Clearwater from Scarsdale, NY. Admired for his forthright and direct manner in legal matters; loved for his sense of humor. Tireless advocate for equalit
 KAPLAN--Sol R. Died peacefully in his home at age 95. Beloved husband of the late Muriel. Father of Sue (Alan) Silberstein. Devoted grandfather of Corey (Amichai) Shdaimah and Andrew (Michelle) Silberstein. Loving great-grandfather of Cliel, Olivia, Elad, Charlie, and Sagi. Services were he
 KELLY--John Love. 80, died August 5, 2004, in Sarasota, FL, where he resided with his wife, the former Helen Hanrahan, since 1986. Former residents of Cortlandt Manor, NY. Upon retirement in 1985 he was advertising and public relations director of Avtex Fibers Inc. of New York and Valley Fo
 MYERS--Howard Benjaman, of New Castle, PA, Morristown & Mtn Lakes, NJ, and Plano, TX, died August 4, 2004. He was 67. Mr. Myers was an Attorney for 40 years. He also worked for 20 years as a teacher at Temple B'nai Or in Morristown, NJ. He served on the board of trustees for The Barn Theatr
 SHURMAN--Dr. Hans. 96, a resident of Dexter, Maine and Delray Beach, Florida, died August 7th. He was born in Werl, Westphalia, Germany, the son of Emil and Frieda Stern Shurman, who perished in the Holocaust. He is survived by his loving wife of sixty-one years, Ruth Wertheimer Shurman, an
 Robert E. Herman, a former state rent administrator of New York, died on July 28 at Hartford Hospital. A former resident of Great Neck, N.Y., he was 85 and lived in Boynton Beach, Fla., and Lee, Mass. The cause was cancer, his family said. A lawyer by training, Mr. Herman wa
 Donald Justice, an elder of American poetry whose formalist verse and teaching skills were equally acclaimed, died last Friday at an Iowa City nursing home, where he had been since a stroke several weeks ago. He was 78 and lived in Iowa City. His family said the cause was pneumonia;
 CAMPOSA--John A. Died on August 4th. He was employed by the New York Times for 32 years. He resided in Syosset for 52 years. He is survived by his wife Helen, three children, Christine Whiteside, Robert Camposa and Diane Lipnickey, son-in-law Kenneth Lipnickey, daughter-in-law Dorothy Campo
 DANA--Arnold G. Died on Sunday, August 8th in Sarasota, FL after a courageous battle against cancer. Born in Providence, RI, September 24, 1926 to Albro N. and Katharine Sharpe Dana. He graduated from St. George's School, Yale University and the Harvard Business School. He represented New E
 DANE--Maxwell. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Maxwell ''Mac'' Dane, who was deeply devoted to the Jewish community, humanitarian causes, and cultural arts initiatives. Through his esteemed leadership as a Life Trustee and membe
 GOLDE -- David W. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and staff of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center note with sorrow the sudden death of David W. Golde, former Physician-inChief of Memorial Hospital. At the time of his death, Dr. Golde was head of the Molecular and Cellular Hematolog
 KAY--Arthur J., 86, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., and New York. Loving husband of Miriam. Stepfather to Richard and Eileen Barna and Dr. Gary and Barbara Keller. Grandfather to Ross, Hayley, Corey and Eli. Much loved, we will miss him.       
 ROSE--R. Peter, a member of the New York Stock Exchange for more than 50 years, died peacefully on August 7, 2004 in his beloved city of Tucson, AZ, surrounded by his family. He is survived by his wife Jeannie and her son Bradford Duval, his son Andrew, his daughters Liza Picoli, Marlene Co
 SHURMAN--Dr. Hans. 96, a resident of Dexter, Maine and Delray Beach, Florida, died August 7th. He was born in Werl, Westphalia, Germany, the son of Emil and Frieda Stern Shurman, who perished in the Holocaust. He is survived by his loving wife of sixty-one years, Ruth Wertheimer Shurman, an
 SPIEGEL--Ed. On August 8, 2004, beloved husband of Deanne, cherished father of Elana and Brad and devoted brother to Barbara Iskowitz. Ed was a former partner of Goldman Sachs and involved in several charities including The National Neurofibromatosis Foundation, The Lymphoma Foundation and 
 Red Adair, an indefatigable conqueror of ravenous fires in oil and gas wells on land and sea around the world, died Saturday at a hospital in his native Houston, his daughter, Robyn, announced. He was 89. Mr. Adair was an independent daredevil who more than made up for his lack of f
 David Raksin, who composed more than 400 scores for movies and television series but is remembered best as the author of the haunting theme for the 1944 movie, ''Laura,'' died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 92. The immediate cause was heart failure caused by cardiovasc
 James Stillman Rockefeller, who helped capture an Olympic rowing title for the United States before a banking career with a company that eventually become Citigroup, died yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn., his family announced. He was 102. Mr. Rockefeller joined the National
 Maxwell Dane, the last living founder of Doyle Dane Bernbach, a New York agency that helped change the face of advertising, died on Sunday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, the agency, now known as DDB Worldwide, said yesterday. Mr. Dane, known as Mac, was 98. Mr. Dan
 ARBUTHNOT--Charles William, 90, of Brunswick, ME, died August 8th in Maine. He was a Presbyterian minister affiliated with the World Council Churches in Geneva. He is survived by five children: David and his wife, Sally; Lucie; Peggy Schaller; Stephen and his wife, Nancy; Ann and her husban
 COHEN--Alan. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife, Carol, his children, and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menache
 DANE--Maxwell (Mac). Died peacefully at home August 8, 2004. Will be sadly missed by his loving wife Esther, son Henry, grandsons Abe (Jane), Mike (Sue), Samuel, granddaughter Marion Abrams (Wilbur), three great grandchildren, step-daughter Sonia Simon Cummings (James K.) and nephew Andrew 
 EAGLE--Manny. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Manny Eagle. We extend our deepest sympathy to his son Denis, daughter Eppie and their families. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary     
 GRUNWALD -- Zoltan. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of Zoltan Grunwald, father of our member, Lazslo Marcus. May his entire family be comforted among all those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paulette Papilsky, Sisterhood       
 KAPLAN--Sol R. The Board of Trustees, Administration, Associate Board and League of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care & Rehabilitation are deeply saddened by the loss of Sol R. Kaplan, respected Trustee of the Institute for over 35 years. Our sincerest sympathies to his daughter, Susa
 LOEWENHEIM--Susan, on August 9, 2004. Loving wife of the late Harold Loewenheim, Jerome Gropper and Allan Silberberg. Beloved mother of Allan Gropper, his wife, Carolyn, and Carl Gropper and his wife, Nancy. Devoted sister of Ann Eisner and the late Jane Weil. Cherished grandmother of Andre
 POLEN--Edward. On Friday August 6th, age 77, died from lung cancer. He is survived by his loving wife of 51 years, Shirley, as well as his children Signe Adam of Eastford, CT, Russell Polen of Woodmere, NY, and Tara Polen of New York City and six grandchildren, Jocelyn, Zachary, Bennett and
 ROBINSON--Dr. Roscoe Ross, ''Ike'', 74, died on Saturday, Aug. 7 after a lengthy illness. A 1954 graduate of the University of Oklahoma Medical School, Dr. Robinson received his post-graduate training at Duke University and Columbia University. He then spent 24 years working at Duke, where 
 ROSE--R. Peter, a member of the New York Stock Exchange for more than 50 years, died peacefully on August 7, 2004 in his beloved city of Tucson, AZ, surrounded by his family. He is survived by his wife Jeannie and her son Bradford Duval, his son Andrew, his daughters Liza Picoli, Marlene Co
 SPIEGEL--Edward. The Board members of the Lymphoma Foundation mourn the untimely death of our colleague and dear friend Edward Spiegel on August 8, 2004. Ed served on the Board of the Lymphoma Foundation with a powerful desire to contriubute to cancer research and the related research of ne
 WOLF--Alexander, Jr. Resident of Lattingtown, N.Y. since 1967, died peacefully on August 10, 2004 surrounded by his family. Mr. Wolf was founder of Alexander Wolf and Company, a graduate of NYU Law School, member of the American Bar Association since 1956 and member of the Real Estate Board
 Leon Golub, an American painter of expressionistic, heroic-scale figures that reflect dire modern political conditions, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications after surgery, said his son Stephen, a professor of economics at Swarthm
 CLARKE--Sherman V. August 10, 2004. Of Voorhees NJ. Beloved life partner of Mark J. Heddy. Son of the late Pearl and Samuel Clarke. Survived by many others close to his heart. Viewing Monday, 2-3PM, Platt Memorial Chapels Inc., 2001 Berlin Road, Cherry Hill, NJ. Services 3PM       
 COHEN--Alan N. Husband of Carol. Father of Rebecca Cohen, Laurie Cohen Fenster and Gordon Cohen. Brother of Beryl Zankel. Services 10am Thursday (today), Park Avenue Synagogue, 50 E 87 St, at Madison Ave, NY, NY. Shiva, 650 Park Ave, Thursday afternoon until Sunday evening. For information,
 DANE--Maxwell. The officers and members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of our dear friend and fellow member, Maxwell Dane. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Esther & to other members of his family. Paul Konigsberg, President       
 GOLDE--David W. Board members and friends of The Sass Foundation for Medical Research mourn with deep sorrow the untimely death of dedicated and esteemed Board member, brilliant physician, medical researcher and dear friend, Dr. David Golde. We are grateful to David for his friendship and w
 LEHMANN--Alfred H.B. Died peacefully on August 10, 2004 surrounded by his loving family. Mr. Lehmann was President/Chairman of Pan American Trade Development Corp. Survived by beloved wife of 57 years, Olga. Devoted father of Andre and Sandra. Loving grandfather of Paul, Cristina, Nicholas,
 MANDEL--Chester Saul, Attorney, 91, of Riverdale, NY died August 11 at Morristown Memorial Hospital in New Jersey. He served in the army in WWII. Member of the New York Bar Association. He is predeceased by his wife Lorraine and is survived by daughters Donna Mandel of San Franciso, CA and 
 ROCKEFELLER--James S. The Boards of Overseers and Managers and the staff of Memorial Sloan - Kettering Cancer Center note with sorrow the death of James S. Rockefeller. Mr. Rockefeller served as a member of the Board from 1950 to 1998, and in 1998 became a member of the Board of Overseers E
 SWORTZELL -- Lowell. On August 9, age 74. The Faculty of the Steinhardt School of Education at New York University deeply mourn the loss of Lowell Swortzell, beloved colleague for forty years, and a founder of our Educational Theatre Program. Celebrated author and playwright, revered teache
 THOMPSON--Clement M. of North Chatham, NY, died peacefully in his sleep on August 8 at age 85. Born in Troy, Alabama, the son of Walter and Edna Jones Thompson, he was raised in Akron, Ohio. He is survived by several nieces and nephews, including Harry Dixon, Laverne Flynt, Patricia Lawson,
 Alan Norman Cohen, a sports and entertainment executive who once headed the company that owned Madison Square Garden, died Tuesday at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 73. The cause was idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a lung disease, his family said. At his death, he was ch
 BURTON -- Frederick A. ''Rick''--of Lake Park, FL, passed away August 11, 2004. Adored brother of Barbara (Robert) Stewart, and Joanne Burton Geller. Cherished uncle of Zachary Stewart and Samara Geller, devoted companion to his beloved animals, Bojack, Nikko and Howard, loyal friend to man
 CLARKE--Sherman V. August 10, 2004. Of Voorhees NJ. Beloved life partner of Mark J. Heddy. Son of the late Pearl and Samuel Clarke. Survived by many others close to his heart. Viewing Monday, 2-3PM, Platt Memorial Chapels Inc., 2001 Berlin Road, Cherry Hill, NJ. Services 3PM       
 GOLUB--Leon. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art note with great sadness the passing of Leon Golub, a beloved artist in our permanent collection. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to his wife Nancy Spero, his family and friends. Leonard A. Lauder, Ch
 HILL--Roland J. on August 10, 2004. Devoted husband of Doris (nee Haynes). Beloved father of Roland J. Jr. and Marion Seiler. Funeral Monday 9AM from the Homecrest Presbyterian Church, Mass of Christian Burial, Sunday 7PM. Visiting hours at Marine Park Funeral Home Friday & Saturday, 2-5 & 
 LEHMANN--Alfred H.B. Died peacefully on August 10, 2004 surrounded by his loving family. Mr. Lehmann was President/Chairman of Pan American Trade Development Corp. Survived by beloved wife of 57 years, Olga. Devoted father of Andre and Sandra. Father-in-law of Kathleen and Anthony. Loving g
 RASKIN--Dr. Martin B. Died suddenly Saturday, August 7. He is survived by his wife Dr. Gladys Raskin, sons Raymond (Rosary) and Jay (Janis), granddaughters Diane, Elaine, Jillian and Annie.       
 SHARROW--Leonard. Formerly of New York City died Monday, August 9th in Cincinnati, Ohio. A world renowned bassoonist. He also was professor of Music at Indiana University. Survivors include his one son Neil Sharrow, one sister and two granddaughters. Memorial services will be held at 1:00 P
 TUCKER--Stuart. Of Fire Island, NY and Ocala, FL. Our close and beloved friend. We will miss his warmth and friendship tremendously. To his loving wife and family, we extend our deepest sympathies, condolences and love. Sara, Sid & Jeff Albert TUCKER--Stuart. A very special man and 
 VASSALOTTI--James E., Sr. The Zoning Advisory Council mourns the passing of James E. Vassalotti, Sr. and extends condolences to his family. Jimmy was one of the founders of our Council and as an architect, helped in the building of our city. Sheldon Lobel, President       
 VELEZ--Ted. Beloved husband of Linda. To a special friend, someone who always gave of himself, nothing was too small and certainly not too big. He was always there and will be missed. Love, Carol, Marty and Lainie       
 Bill Martin Jr., who could not read more than a sentence at a time until he was in college but later earned a doctorate in early childhood education and led generations of young children to reading with simple stories like ''Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See?'' and ''Chicka, Chicka, B
 Dr. David W. Golde, an expert in blood disorders who was chief physician at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City, died on Aug. 9 at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 63. He committed suicide, said his son Michael D., of Silver Spring, Md. Dr. Golde (prono
 GURTNER--Gregory John, MD, gastroenterologist and scientist at Washington University, St. Louis, MO, August 11, 2004 at the age of 36. Born in Buffalo, NY and raised in Baltimore, MD, attended Gilman School, received his undergraduate degree at Vanderbilt, TN followed by medical school at N
 van der STRICHT -- Paul Robert, 96, of Greenwich, CT, died August 10th at the Greenwich Hospital of natural causes. He is survived by his wife of 65 years, the former Nora Eaton, of Toronto, Canada, by his son, Robert (Susan Rae), and a grandson, John Paul, of Rochester, NY, and his brother
 Wolfgang Mommsen, a scion of a dynasty of German historians who is best known in the United States for his scholarship on the historian Max Weber and the origins of imperialism, especially in Germany, died on Wednesday while vacationing on the island of Usedom, in the Baltic Sea. He was 73 
 Czeslaw Milosz, the Polish émigré writer who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1980, in part for a powerful pre-mortem dissection of Communism, in part for tragic, ironic poetry that set a standard for the world, died Saturday at his home in Krakow, his assistant, Agnieszka Kosinska, t
 BABSON--James Arthur. 84, of Wilmette, IL, died on Sunday August 8, 2004. Beloved husband of Jean for sixty years. Father of Nicholas (Mary), Stephen (Nancy), Cindy (Troy) Gustafson, Henry (Leslie) and Jean Drummond. Grandfather of Aric, Blake and Derek Babson, Ayla and Zach Gustafson, and 
 BARRETT--Edmund E., Jr. 76, of Grantham, NH, died of leukemia on August 11. A son of Lois and Edmund E. Barrett of New Rochelle, NY. He graduated from Iona School, Georgetown University '49 and served as an officer in the USAF. A partner at Lawrence M. Marks & Co., Dean Witter and E.F. Hutt
 BROWN--David Edward, on August 8, 2004, after a brief illness. Born July 11, 1937, in Boston, MA. David made his home in LA, but was always a New Yorker at heart. He was a nationally known loungewear and robe designer with his own label, supplying fine stores such as Saks and Nordstroms. Da
 CLARKE--Sherman V. August 10, 2004. Of Voorhees NJ. Beloved life partner of Mark J. Heddy. Son of the late Pearl and Samuel Clarke. Survived by many others close to his heart. Viewing Monday, 2-3PM, Platt Memorial Chapels Inc., 2001 Berlin Road, Cherry Hill, NJ. Services 3PM       
 COHEN--Alan N. The National Basketball Association notes with sadness the death of our colleague Alan N. Cohen. A longtime and highly respected member of the NBA family, Alan began his association with the league in 1974 when he was named CEO and Chairman of Madison Square Garden, which own
 GREEN -- Stanley Joseph, Ph.D. In profound sorrow we mourn the loss of husband, father and grandfather who died on August 10, 2004 at age 84 in Palo Alto, CA. Devoted husband of Alice (Denenholz). Beloved father of David, Douglas and Ronald. Grandfather of Andrew, Joshua, Ashley, Matthew an
 GUTMACHER--Nat, 88, on August 5, 2004 in Orlando, FL beloved husband of Ruth, father of Jon, Karen and Glenn; grandfather of four boys; friend and colleague to many, also leaves two dear siblings, Ida and Harris (Skee). Growing up in Coney Island, Nat enjoyed a fulfilling business career, m
 LIPPS--Dr. Frederick W., 75, died at M.D. Anderson Hospital on July 30, 2004. He is survived by wife Bini Ver, his 3 children from a previous marriage Eric Lipps, Tamara Daly and Dr. Rosalind Carey and two grandchildren.       
 MELNICK--Penn. Died at age 90 at home on August 8. Survived by loving wife of 68 years Channe, children Daniel and Viji, Leonard and Margaret, Robert and Suzanne; grandchildren Anil and Jeanine, Emily and Matthew, Alison, Garth, Amy, Julia and William; great-grandaughter Mia; sister Pauline
 MILLIKEN--John F. The Board of Directors, volunteers, and staff of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society express deep sorrow on the passing of John F. Milliken, who died August 6 at the age of 84. Mr. Milliken's 50 years of service with the National MS Society began with the Chicago Chapt
 POLLACK--Honorable Milton, age 97, United States Senior Judge for the Southern District of New York, died Friday, August 13, 2004. He was the son of the late Julius and Betty Pollack and was born September 29, 1906 in Brooklyn, New York. Judge Pollack was blessed with two outstanding career
 ROLLAND--Curt H. passed away peacefully on August 6, 2004 in Metuchen, NJ. Beloved husband of the late Lise Kahn. Born in 1903 in Coburg, Germany, a graduate of the University of Wurzburg with a Ph.D. in Metallurgy, he immigrated to the U.S. in 1935, where he rose to the position of Senior 
 SISK--Robert J. Of Greenwich, died on August 8, 2004. Former Chairman of the Wall Street law firm of Hughes Hubbard & Reed, he was one of the country's most esteemed trial lawyers. He is survived by his wife Sandra, his children Julie, Robert, Kathryn Tucker, Laura, Philip and John, by Sand
 WHITE--Craig Scott. Beloved friend. Born Harbor Beach, MI. Died July 28, 2004 in New York, of natural causes complicated by asthma. Some people he loved: Gyongyi, Vinny, Bart, Dick Best, Harvey family, Justin. Please honor his memory by being kind to animals. Memorial Mass St. Francis of As
 HOROWITZ--Kenneth Ross. Oct 13, 1969--Aug 15, 1994. The family of Kenneth Ross Horowitz remembers him with love       
 Robert Span Browne, a prominent economist and foreign-aid administrator who founded important African-American self-help programs, died on Aug. 5 at a hospital in West Haverstraw, N.Y. He was 79 and lived in Teaneck, N.J. The cause was heart failure, said the 21st-Century Foundation
 Theodore W. Clymer, an expert who successfully challenged many common myths of early reading education, died at his home in Carmel, Calif., on July 25. He was 77. His death came after a long illness, said his daughter, Lorna Clymer. In 1963, Dr. Ted Clymer made a big impact 
 George Yardley, a Hall of Fame forward who was the first National Basketball Association player to score 2,000 points in a season, died Thursday at his home in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 75. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as Lou Gehrig's disease, his daughter A
 Milton Pollack, a noted federal judge who presided over some of the biggest financial-scandal cases of the 20th century, died Friday at New York Weill Cornell Center. He was 97. The cause was complications from surgery, according to his family. Judge Pollack grew up in Flatb
 ARLIS--Harry Robert, M.D. Craniofacial plastic surgeon, on August 13, 2004. Born in Manhattan and raised in Bayside, Queens, received his undergraduate degree at Yale University followed by medical school at Cornell Medical College. He received his postgraduate training at Beth Israel Hospi
 KELLY--George A. Msgr. In an age of 'the Ordinary' how refreshing it became for many of us to meet 'the Extraordinary.' Such was the dynamic priest, George Kelly. Not unlike his own mentor, John Monahan, he found himself in his younger days on the front lines of the struggling labor union m
 POLLACK--Honorable Milton, age 97, United States Senior Judge for the Southern District of New York, died Friday, August 13, 2004. He was the son of the late Julius and Betty Pollack and was born September 29, 1906 in Brooklyn, New York. Judge Pollack was blessed with two outstanding career
 Ivan Hlinka, who coached the Czech Republic to the hockey gold medal at the 1998 Nagano Olympics and became the coach of the Pittsburgh Penguins two years later -- one of the first two National Hockey League head coaches born and reared in Europe -- died yesterday at a hospital in the Czech
 Kermit Swiler Champa, a professor of art and architecture at Brown University whose impassioned lectures inspired several generations of historians and curators, died on July 22 at his home in Providence, R.I. He was 64. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Judith Tolnick.     
 COHEN--Alan N. The President and Trustees of Columbia University express deep sorrow at the passing of our esteemed alumnus Alan N. Cohen, a graduate of the Columbia College class of 1952 and the Columbia Law School class of 1954. He was a former member of the Boards of Visitors for both Co
 DAMESEK--Morton, passed away August 16, 2004. Beloved husband of Lisa and father of Scott, Randi and Leslie; grandfather to Julia, Rebecca, Aaron and Elana. He will be missed by his family & friends. Services 1:15 PM Wednesday at The Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street, New York
 MOLINARI -- Sebastian H. Husband of Julie Bohan, loving father of Henry, and survived by his mother, Mary P. Wild Molinari, a sister, Maria Sole Twocrow, and a brother, Andrea Molinari. Passed awway on August 14, 2004. A funeral service will be held on Thursday, August 19, 10:30 A.M. at Sai
 MOSER--Stephen A. The Board of Directors of Associated Health Foundation mourn the loss of our Executive Board Member and Legal Advisor, an ardent worker for AHF and the Pythian Order. We extend our condolences ot his wife Zelda and family. Edward Birnbaum, Pres. MOSER--Stephen A. T
 POLLACK--Honorable Milton, age 97, United States Senior Judge for the Southern District of New York, died Friday, August 13, 2004. He was the son of the late Julius and Betty Pollack and was born September 29, 1906 in Brooklyn, New York. Judge Pollack was blessed with two outstanding career
 RABOY--Richard H. April 20, 1937-August 15, 2004. Beloved husband of Cheryle, father of Douglas, Marcus and Samuel; grandfather of Ghelila. Service today 12:45 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. Donations can be made in his memory to ALS Association, New York Chapter.  
 SCHEINMAN -- Burt. The members of Shelter Rock Tennis Club record with great sorrow the passing of our esteemed member Burt Scheinman. He was a friend to all and will be sorely missed. Our sincere condolences to his wife and to his entire family.       
 SEIDENBERG--Dr. Bernard. With deep sadness we mourn the loss of our esteemed Board Member, Dr. Bernard Seidenberg. We were honored by Bernie's invaluable service to Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center and thus to the community, during a critical time in the history of the institution. He serve
 SINGER--Ernest. Beloved husband of Anne. Proud father of Susan, Martha and Edmund. Grandfather of Jennifer and Kathryn. We will miss him. Services private.       
 SMITH--Ward of Cleveland, OH. Beloved husband of Gretchen D. (nee Diefendorf). Dear father of Jennifer S. Collison (Chandler) of Kennett Sq., PA, Meredith S. Weil (Michael) of Cleveland Hts., OH, Jonathan A. Smith of Los Angeles, CA, Sarah K. Smith (Ben McLean) of NY, NY. Dear grandfather o
 Sune Karl Bergstrom, a biochemist who shared the 1982 Nobel Prize in Medicine for unraveling the secrets of prostaglandins, a family of hormones with a wide array of biological functions, died on Sunday in his native Sweden. He was 88. The cause was a long illness, said news reports
 Carl Mydans, a photographer for Life whose career spanned all 36 years of the magazine's incarnation as a weekly, and whose most memorable pictures were taken under combat conditions during World War II, died on Monday at his home in Larchmont, N.Y., his family said. He was 97. Mr. 
 COHEN--Alan N. The President and Trustees of Columbia University express deep sorrow at the passing of our esteemed alumnus Alan N. Cohen, a graduate of the Columbia College class of 1952 and the Columbia Law School class of 1954. He was a former member of the Boards of Visitors for both Co
 KLAMKIN -- Murray Sey mour, born March 5, 1921 in Brooklyn, NY, passed away at age 83 on August 6, 2004 in Edmonton, Canada. His productive and fulfilling life was divided between industry (primarily Ford Motor Company) and academia (primarily University of Alberta).       
 LEHMAN -- Edwin. Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion records with profound sorrow the untimely death of Edwin Lehman, beloved brother of Burton Lehman, Chair of our Board. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his dear wife, Helene, and their children and grandchildren. May t
 MILLER -- J. Irwin. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art note with sorrow the passing of J. Irwin Miller, a businessman, philanthropist, and advocate for exceptional design. Irwin began his relationship with the Modern in 1960, when David Rockefeller introduced him, and his wi
 MILOSZ--Czeslaw. The Board of Trustees, Officers, and Staff, of The Kosciuszko Foundation, Inc., an American Center for Polish Culture since 1925, note with sadness the passing of our Honorary Trustee, Polish poet and Nobel Laureate Czeslaw Milosz, and express our condolences to his family.
 MORGENS--Frank. Born in Lodz, Poland, January 8, 1911, died August 16, 2004. A gentleman in every sense of the word. Marie, his wife of over 60 years, died in 1998. Father of Sylvia Karchmar and Anne Lewin. Grandfather of David and Matthew Lewin, and Lara and Dorian Karchmar. Great grandfat
 O'HEARN--Lawrence Stephen, 72, of Savannah, GA, and Normandy Beach, NJ, formerly of Chatham Twp., NJ, died August 14, 2004. He enjoyed a very successful career as an institutional equities broker on Wall Street. He was a retired senior vice president of Wheat First Securities. Earlier he ha
 O'LEARY--John G. On August 7, 2004. 35 years of dedicated service for The New York Times. Beloved husband of Helen E. (nee Doran). Devoted father of John G. and his wife Jane, Patricia, William and Daniel. Cherished grandfather of John III and Michael. Loving brother of May. Memorial servic
 ROSENTHAL--Alan M. 55, passed away peacefully on Sunday, August 15. Alan leaves behind his uncle and aunt, John and Joanne Meyer, cousins Ken, Ellen, Howard, Trudel, Dick and Susan, also Hilary Hannah, Joel and Phil Levy and friends and staff at Young Adult Institute. Memorial service will 
 SEIDENBERG--Dr. Bernard. Died August 13, 2004. Cherished life companion of Miriam Klein. Loving father of Jessica Seidenberg, Deborah Seidenberg, Rebecca Long, Miriam's daughter Gail, and father-in-law of John and Michael. Devoted grandfather of Aubrey, John, Reda and Rhianna. Former husban
 SINGER--Ernest. Beloved husband of Anne. Proud father of Susan, Martha and Edmund. Grandfather of Jennifer and Kathryn. We will miss him. Services private.       
 SISK--Robert J. Of Greenwich, died on August 8, 2004. Former Chairman of the Wall Street law firm of Hughes Hubbard & Reed, he was one of the country's most esteemed trial lawyers. He is survived by his wife Sandra, his children Julie, Robert, Kathryn Tucker, Laura, Philip and John, by Sand
 WASHER--Judah I., Rabbi. The Officers, Trustees and Membership of The Jewish Center of Teaneck, mourn the passing of its distinguished Rabbi Emeritus, Judah I. Washer. His accomplishments and influence are far reaching, and he will be remembered reverently and fondly. We extend our sympathy
 WEISS--Martin, 76, of White Plains, NY, suddenly on August 16th, twenty-nine days after the passing of his dear wife Elaine, and after fifty years of marriage. Survived by his three sons, David, Robert and Fred, three loving daughters-in-law and three grandsons. Services Thursday, August 19
 Shizuo Kakutani, a mathematician known for fundamental tools that have come to bear his name and that are used in disparate fields including economics, died yesterday in New Haven. He was 92 and lived in Hamden, Conn. His death was announced by his daughter, Michiko. A profe
 Gérard Souzay, the French baritone who was one of the 20th century's finest interpreters of art songs, died on Tuesday at his home in Cap d'Antibes, France. He was 85. He died of natural causes, said Winston Ku, director of the Gérard Souzay Vocal Arts Foundation and a student and
 J. Irwin Miller, the industrialist whose patronage turned Columbus, Ind., into a showcase for modern architecture, died on Monday at his home in Columbus. He was 95. He died after a brief illness, his family said. For 26 years, Mr. Miller was chairman of the Cummins Engine C
 BRANDVAIN -- Simon, Dr. Died August 18, 2004. He is survived by his beloved wife, Ruth, who he was lovingly married to for 65 years. He is survived by his loving daughter Ilona Kolb and his four grandchildren, Rhonda Casson, Elissa Kramer, Claude Kolb and Sherri Friedman; his great grandchi
 BROZIK--Karl. The Board of Directors and staff of the Conference on Jewish Material Claims against Germany mourn the passing of Karl Brozik, the organization's Representative in Germany. He sought a small measure of justice for Jewish survivors of Nazism with selfless dedication and belief 
 COHEN--Alan N. The President and Trustees of Columbia University express deep sorrow at the passing of our esteemed alumnus Alan N. Cohen, a graduate of the Columbia College class of 1952 and the Columbia Law School class of 1954. He was a former member of the Boards of Visitors for both Co
 DAMESEK -- Morton. We mourn the passing of Morty, our dear friend and colleague. Morty treated all people, both big and small, with respect and compassion. He truly made a difference in many lives. Our deepest sympathies to Lisa and all her family. Peter and Kathy, Josh and Alison Corpuel  
 GOLDE -- David. Remem bered with warmth for his compassion and dedication by the Lymphoma Research Foundation.       
 LEHMAN--Edwin. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Edwin Lehman, beloved brother of Burton Lehman, a devoted friend of the New York Jewish community. The Lehman family's commitment to Jewish education and tikkun olam has strengthene
 MILLER -- J. Irwin. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art note with sorrow the passing of J. Irwin Miller, a businessman, philanthropist, and advocate for exceptional design. Irwin began his relationship with the Modern in 1960, when David Rockefeller introduced him, and his wi
 RACHELSON--Charles Cooky of New York City on August 17, 2004. Founder and owner of Cooky's Steak Pubs, Inc. Beloved husband of Sonia. Devoted father of Joy, Judi, and Jani. Cherished grandfather of Jackie, Matthew, Alex, Jay, Luke and Sean. Proud father-in-law of Leonard and David. Funeral 
 WASHER--Rabbi Judah. Yeshiva University mourns the passing of a devoted alumnus and friend of YU for 72 years. A member of Yeshiva College's first graduating class in 1932, Rabbi Washer was ordained at our affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary and served as rabbi of The Jewis
 WEISS--Martin, 76, of White Plains, NY, suddenly on August 16th, twenty-nine days after the passing of his dear wife Elaine, and after fifty years of marriage. Survived by his three sons, David, Robert and Fred, three loving daughters-in-law and three grandsons. Services Thursday, August 19
 Elmer Bernstein, the Academy Award-winning composer of more than 200 film scores, many more memorable than the movies they accompanied, died on Wednesday at his home in Ojai, Calif. He was 82. His death was announced to The Associated Press by his publicist, Cathy Mouton. Am
 BRESLAUER -- Bernard H., bibliophile, died in New York City on Saturday, August 14, 2004 at age 86 of congestive heart failure. Only son of Martin and Grete Breslauer of Berlin, he joined his father's firm of antiquarian booksellers in 1935, fleeing the Nazis in 1937 to settle in London, wh
 COHEN--Alan N. The President and Trustees of Columbia University express deep sorrow at the passing of our esteemed alumnus Alan N. Cohen, a graduate of the Columbia College class of 1952 and the Columbia Law School class of 1954. He was a former member of the Boards of Visitors for both Co
 COLE--Irwin Jack. On August 6, 2004 following a brave battle with cancer. Never losing his positive outlook, he passed with courage and dignity surrounded by his friends and family. Irwin was born August 2, 1927 and recently celebrated his 77th birthday with his family. He is survived by hi
 GREENBERG -- Abraham. We have lost our beloved ''Kelly''. August 17, 2004. Husband of Gertrude for over 63 years. Father of Richard and Roberta, grandfather of his dearest Stefanie. Father-inlaw to Richard and Doris, and brother to Hyman and Gloria. We will miss his wisdom, charm and wit. A
 MILLER -- J. Irwin. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art note with sorrow the passing of J. Irwin Miller, a businessman, philanthropist, and advocate for exceptional design. Irwin began his relationship with the Modern in 1960, when David Rockefeller introduced him, and his wi
 SUMMER--Ronald C. On behalf of the entire Abraham Joshua Heschel School community we are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of Ron Summer, our beloved past-President and current trustee. His passion, vision, courage and integrity were instrumental in forming and building the Abraham Jo
 TOLLMAN--Arnold. A longtime resident of New York passed away in Monte Carlo on August 19, 2004. Arnold will be sadly missed by his wife Sandi Tollman, children and grandchildren. He was a true gentleman and scholar who was loved by all.       
 Sir Godfrey Hounsfield, a British electrical engineer whose work in creating the computerized axial tomography scanner, the CAT scan, a diagnostic tool used in hospitals worldwide, won him a Nobel Prize, died Aug. 12 at New Victoria Hospital in Kingston upon Thames, England. He was 84.     
 Bernard H. Breslauer, a prominent New York rare book dealer and a leading collector of manuscript illuminations, died on Aug. 14 in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. His death was announced by Felix de Marez Oyens, a friend and colleague. Known also as a leading e
 Horance Gibbs Davis Jr., a Pulitzer Prize-winning editorial writer who became an influential journalism educator at the University of Florida, died here on Monday. He was 80. The cause was heart failure, said his daughter, Jennifer Nicole of Gainesville. Mr. Davis, who was k
 Herbert Hill, who as the N.A.A.C.P.'s labor director in the 1950's and 1960's was one of the loudest and most effective voices raised against racial discrimination by unions, died on Sunday in Madison, Wis. He was 80. His death, which came after a long illness, was announced by the 
 DAME--Edgar J. Jr. of Cold Spring Harbor, NY, formerly of Revere, August 19. Beloved husband of Ruth (Reynolds) Dame. Loving father of Nancy Staffier of Peabody, Martha Dame of Boston, Peter Dame of Lee, MA. Cherished grandfather of Peter Staffier, Catherine Staffier, Kristen Dame. Brother 
 NEALON--Albert. On August 20, 2004 in New York City surrounded by his family: his wife Hilda, his children Alfred, Liliana Nealon and Cristina; his grandchildren and great grandchildren will miss his company and his playfulness. A memorial Mass will be held at Immaculate Conception Parish, 
 Pendleton Herring, a political scientist, writer and foundation executive who did pioneering work in the study of American politics, died on Tuesday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 100. The cause was pneumonia, his son James said. As a scholar, Dr. Herring worked to understand
 Charles Eaton, a member of an American entertainment clan whose credits go back to the Ziegfeld Follies, died on Sunday in Norman, Okla. He was 94 and had been living with his sister, Doris Eaton Travis, one of four surviving Ziegfeld girls. His death was announced in New York by Ni
 BIRNBAUM--Herbert. The family of Herbert Birnbaum (age 95) mourns his loss August 14, 2004. Died at home in Minneapolis. Husband of the late Gladys. Father of Corin Kagan. Grandfather of Alexandra Blonigen (Dale) and devoted great grandfather of Vincent, Sylvia and Claire. Burial in New Yor
 BRYAN--James W., Jr., 74, died Tuesday in Manhattan. He was a photographer and a pianist. Burial Monday, Cave Hill Cemetery, Louisville, KY.       
 BURTON--Robert J., 83, of Paris, France, died on Sunday, August 15, 2004. A Columbia College 1942 graduate, he was the youngest American diplomat sent to the Eastern bloc following World War II. He later served at the United Nations and the USIS. He is survived by his wife Hil, his children
 CERMINARA--Napoleon. 77, died Thursday August 19, 2004 at his home in Savannah, GA. He was born October 18, 1926 in Rome, Italy to the late Maria Demartino and the late Arturo Cerminara. He spent his childhood in Africa and went on to attend the University of Rome. He joined TWA in Rome and
 FREDERICKS -- J. Wayne. Died of a stroke on August 18, in Bronxville, NY at the age of 87. He graduated with highest honors in Engineering from Purdue University in 1938 and worked at the Kellogg Company of Battle Creek, Michigan. During World War II he served as a B-17 bomber pilot, leadin
 HECHT--Alan. On August 20, 2004. The HAFTR community is deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved ''Al Hecht'' devoted teacher, special friend and mentor to generations of our children, faculty and parent body. His passion, integrity and dedication since the founding of our school, will
 HODGES -- Rev. Graham Rushing, 88, died peacefully on Friday, July 9, 2004 surrounded by his family at Francis House, a home for the terminally ill in Syracuse, NY. A 1937 graduate of the University of Mississippi, Rev. Hodges earned a bachelor of divinity degree from Yale University in 194
 KUPPERMAN -- Abner J. Born October 20, 1913 in Newark, NJ. Died August 18, 2004 in Hollywood, FL. Beloved husband of Mary, loving Pop to the late Ron; Ken and Kim. Stepdad to Gil and Richard. Grandfather of Keiko, Francis, and Jason. Brother of the late Adeline and Herbert. Son of the late 
 PIRAINO--Vin B. Died August 14, 2004, age 67. The Jazz Community will miss one of its greatest fans as Vin lost his battle with cancer ''All Too Soon''. He'll be sorely missed by family, friends and many lucky enough to have known him. He was kind, caring and generous and could make you lau
 PUSCHEL--Walter E. With deepest sorrow, F. Schumacher & Co. announces the death of Walter Eggert Puschel, age 97, who died on August 13, 2004. Mr. Puschel served as president of F. Schumacher & Co. from 1957 to 1971. Son of the late Paul H. Puschel and Helene Eggert Puschel, Mr. Puschel was
 PUTTER--Dr. Harmon. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Epilepsy Foundation of Long Island mourn the passing of Dr. Harmon Putter. Dr. Putter served as Executive Director from 1972-1996, leading the Foundation through decades of growth and expansion. Our sympathy goes out to his family.
 ROSS--Dr. Jean D. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Kearny and Fair Haven, NJ died August 17th, 2004 of natural causes. He was 95. Born in a house on Kearny Ave, he was the youngest son of a former Kearny Town Clerk, William B. Ross. He went through the Kearny school system and was recently in
 SEARLE--William L., a respected and influential businessman and philanthropist whose family owned and operated the G.D. Searle Pharmaceutical Company until 1985, has died of complications from lung cancer at Lake Forest Hospital on August 19. Bill Searle was 76. Mr. Searle made his permanen
 SOUZAY--Gerard. We are all deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and colleague. He was a truly beautiful soul and an extraordinarily gifted artist-his kind will not come again. Marilyn Horne and the Marilyn Horne Foundation       
 TITUS -- Joseph Sylvanus. Physicist of Sudbury, MA. A retired sensor systems engineer, died August 18, 2004 after a series of adverse events. He was 74. Mr. Titus was born in East Haven, CT and raised in Branford, CT. He served in the U.S. Army Air Force from 1947-1951. He graduated from Ge
 TOLLMAN--Arnold. A longtime resident of New York passed away in Monte Carlo on August 19, 2004. Arnold will be sadly missed by his wife Sandi Tollman, children and grandchildren. He was a true gentleman and scholar who was loved by all.       
 WEISS--Henry, 94, died August 16 after a long illness. Beloved husband of the late Sadie, loving partner of Marion, loving friend of Gert. Devoted father of Richard, Susan and Martha. Proud grandfather of Laura, Matthew and Katherine Weiss; Jennifer and Joshua Katz; Alexander and Nicholas W
 Ward Smith, a manufacturing executive who was the longtime president of the Cleveland Orchestra's board, overseeing a great expansion of that orchestra's budget, endowment and reputation, died last Sunday at his home in Hunting Valley, Ohio. He was 73. The cause was cancer, an orche
 GRAVE de PERALTA--Armando Jr. Died on Tuesday, the 17th day of August. He died from an electrical shock while preparing to ready his boat for an afternoon sail. Born on December 24, 1957, Armando, Jr. attended schools in Lakeville, CT, Gstaad, Switzerland, England and he completed his educa
 HANLEY--J. Patrick. August 16. Scarsdale. Loving husband of Laurene, father of John, brother of Richard, Claire, Philip and Lawrence. Donations may be made in his memory to Church of the Little Flower, Box 519, Browning, MT 58147; or Immaculate Heart of Mary, Scarsdale.       
 SCHEINMAN--Graham M. Of New York City and Plymouth, NH, on August 21, 2004. Son of the late Israel and Ethel Scheinman. Father of John and Douglas. Grandfather of Julia, Aaron, Jacob, Daniel and Sarah. He practiced law in New York City for over 40 years before retiring to Florida and New Ha
 WISAN--Richard N. Devoted husband of the late Winifred (Lovell). Beloved brother of Wendy Baker. Inspiring uncle to six nephews and one niece. Professor of philosophy for over 40 years at Hartwick College. Unexpectedly taken in his home on August 19.       
 Albert Delacorte, an editor and teacher who helped guide his family's philanthropy, died yesterday at his home in San Francisco. He was 90. The cause was prostate cancer complicated by emphysema, said his daughter Erika Delacorte. Mr. Delacorte was a son of George T. Delacor
 GARIN--Michael. Pantone, 5 Inc.'s officers and employees sadly mourn the loss of its long time Vice President Michael C. Garin. His dedication to his job and loyalty to the firm will be sorely missed. He was recognized by the printing industry as a leading contributor to its advancement. Mi
 HANLEY--J. Patrick. August 16. Scarsdale. Loving husband of Laurene, father of John, brother of Richard, Claire, Philip and Lawrence. Donations may be made in his memory to Church of the Little Flower, Box 519, Browning, MT 58147; or Immaculate Heart of Mary, Scarsdale.       
 JASKEWICZ--Alexander, of Manhattan and East Quogue died on August 22 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Joan Linsky, he was an avid tennis player who was known and admired by his many clients of Alex and Walter Fitness Studio. Funeral service 12:30 Wednesday at the Follett & Werner Fu
 KAMEN--Dr. Saul, 88 died of a stroke on August 23, 2004. Beloved father of Dr. Paul Kamen, Dr. Leonard Kamen and Jon Kamen. Beloved brother of Rebecca Jarmon. Beloved grandfather of Sasha, Ashley, Zoe, Max, Jacob, Lisa and Zack. Beloved father-in-law of Nancy, Sandra, Sandy and Angela. He w
 McELENEY--Neil J., Rev., C.S.P., on Thursday, August 19, 2004 at age 77. Of Washington, DC, formerly of Boston, MA. Scripture scholar studying at Catholic University of America, Rome, Italy and the Pontifical Biblical Institute in Israel. Professor in Menlo Park, CA, St. Patrick's College, 
 McINTYRE--James J. 67, of Marlboro, NJ, died Sunday August 22, 2004, at home, after a long illness. He is predeceased by his parents, John McIntyre of County Mayo, Ireland, and Nora Crotty of County Clare, Ireland. Surviving are his wife, of 15 years, Eileen Drinane McIntyre, a brother and 
 RABIN -- Samuel. Beloved father of Alan, Edward and David. Grandfather of Richard and Michael Rabin, Laura Greco, Michelle Buchner. Great grandfather of Joseph, Nathan, and Sean Greco and Jacob and Sarah Buchner, Remy Rabin. He will be deeply missed. Services Wednesday at 1:30PM at the New 
 ROSENGARTEN--Martin. Of White Plains, N.Y. on August 22, 2004. President and CEO of Shopwell and founder of the Food Emporium. Survived by his wife Gloria, sons Jay and Richard Rosengarten, Adam Rubinson (Susan) and Lori Rubinson. Also survived by eight grandchildren, Karen, Rachel, Daniell
 SCHLOSSBERG -- Jack. Passed away August 23, 2004 after a brief illness. He is survived by his beloved wife Phyllis, his sons Brent and Billy, his brother Neil, his stepsons Michael and Robert Settler, his daughters-in-law Brenda Schlossberg, Roberta Willet, Mona, Susan and Cissy Settler. He
 SPARBER--Norman. The officers, directors and staff of the Herman Goldman Foundation mourn the loss of their colleague and good friend, and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. A past president and longtime director of the foundation, he will be missed for his strength, his warmth and
 WALSH--David. Died August 23, 2004 in his 30th year. Survived by his parents, John F. and Annmarie H. Walsh, his brother Peter, his sister-inlaw Kimberly and his aunt Jean H. Wiley. His sister Caroline and brother James pre-deceased him. David, who had muscular dystrophy and operated from a
 WHITE--Martin J., of New York City and Quogue. Beloved and devoted husband of Mary Ellen Simon, died on Sunday, August 22, 2004. Mr. White is also survived by cousins, Mary Katharine Gannon, Patricia T. Connors, Alfred J. and John J. Talley. He was graduated from Georgetown University and H
 ZIMBALIST--Albert. Retired electrical engineer, ex-Trustee and Mayor, Village of Lake Success. Died peacefully in hospice. Will be missed by his loving family: wife, Bea; sons, Eliot (Debbie), Andy (Pam); daughter, JoAnn; grandchildren, Zack, Matt, Ally, Cara, David. Services Wednesday, 1 P
 LEVINE--Samuel. In loving memory of a wonderful husband, a loving father and an adoring and adored grandfather. We miss him. Mildred Levine and Family       
 Paul G. Garrity, a former Boston judge whose legacy was a cleaner Boston Harbor and improved public housing, died on Saturday at Massachusetts General Hospital. He was 66 and lived in Boston. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Judge Garrity retired in 1990 as a j
 Robert David Lion Gardiner, the last heir to bear the name of the family that has owned Gardiner's Island, off the coast of Long Island, for nearly four centuries, died yesterday at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 93. His death was announced by Jeanne Toomey, a friend and form
 BURKE--Russell Ely, II. 83, of Richmond, VA, passed away Sunday, August 22, 2004. He was preceded in death by his wife, Theo Welles Burke. He is survived by his children, Martha Deprez of Portland ME; Russell E. Burke, III of New York, N.Y.; Laurance G. Burke of Richmond, VA.; seven grandch
 DELACORTE -- Albert. The Board of Trustees, the faculty, students and staff of Teachers College, Columbia University are deeply saddened by the passing of Albert Delacorte, who was a friend of the College and of education. Mr. Delacorte, an alumnus of Teachers College, was dedicated to work
 FITZGERALD--John ''Jack'' Arthur. Of Breezy Point, N.Y. Pressman, New York Times. On August 23, 2004. Beloved husband of Elizabeth. Loving father of John Arthur, Paul and Elizabeth. Fond father-inlaw of Lori and Joseph. Devoted son of the late Robert and Genevieve. Dearest brother of Bobby,
 FRIEDMAN--Joel. Of Boynton Beach, FL passed away on August 22. He is survived by his loving wife, Jacqueline, proud father of Steven, Brad and Robin, adoring grandfather of Amanda, Emily, Zachary, Rachel, Victoria and Alexis. His love and lust for life will be greatly missed by all who knew
 HICKEY--Roderick Lyons, Jr. Age 62. Died Monday, August 23, 2004 of complications from endocarditis. He is survived by his loving wife Nancy, devoted son Roderick L. Hickey, III, daughter-in-law Angela, two grandchildren and sister Joan. No formal services will be held. The family requests 
 JOHNSTON -- Alistair. Of Riverside, CT, and Rancho Santa Fe, CA, died suddenly at his home in California on August 19. He was born in Glasgow, Scotland on June 7, 1937 and, after service in the Highland Light Infantry, began a career in Reinsurance at Lloyds of London. He moved to the U.S. 
 KLEIN--Marshall. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its long-time devoted member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Amy Lemle, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi       
 OSMAN -- Theodore. The Board of Governors and Members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their longtime beloved friend and esteemed member. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Charles Roden, President       
 SPARBER--Norman. The officers, directors and staff of the Herman Goldman Foundation mourn the loss of their colleague and good friend, and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. A past president and longtime director of the foundation, he will be missed for his strength, his warmth and
 WALSH--David. Died August 23, 2004 in his 30th year. Survived by his parents, John F. and Annmarie H. Walsh, his brother Peter, his sister-inlaw Kimberly and his aunt Jean H. Wiley. His sister Caroline and brother James pre-deceased him. David, who had muscular dystrophy and operated from a
 YOUNGBLOOD--Leslie L., Jr. Age 84. Oil executive, Naval officer, Rhodes scholar and godfather. Leslie Youngblood, a key executive of Mobil Oil, Senior Naval Aide in the Eisenhower White House, Commanding Officer of the USS Cushing and Rhodes Scholar, died August 22, 2004 at his residence in
 Hank Borowy, a right-handed pitcher who helped the Yankees capture pennants in 1942 and 1943, then starred for the last Chicago Cubs team to reach the World Series, died Monday at his home in Brick, N.J. He was 88. The cause was cancer, his daughter Mary Ellen Borowy said. F
 AMY--James D. 72, of Port St. Lucie, FL., died August 23rd. Survived by his wife of 42 years, Mary Lou; daughters, Katherine Matthews and Mary Liodori; son, James Jr.; brothers; John and Paul, sister, Ann Shea, and seven grandchildren.       
 BERKOWITZ--William, died August 22, 2004. My close friend for more than 50 years, Bill will always be in my thoughts. I will treasure the good times we had together. Love to his wife, Dale, and the entire Berkowitz family. Fred and the Lansky Family       
 BODIE--Walter John, 75, beloved husband of Gloria Kemper Bodie and devoted father to four children, passed away at his home in Douglas Manor, New York, on Wednesday, August 25, 2004. Relatives and friends may call at Fairchild Sons Funeral Home at 1570 Northern Blvd, Manhasset, NY, on Frida
 DELACORTE -- Albert. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Central Park Conservancy acknowledge with sadness the passing of Albert Delacorte. He was a longtime friend of Central Park and the City of New York. He generously endowed the sculptures, fountains, and theater his father, George D
 LUBIN--Aaron. Passed away August 24, 2004. He is survived by his beloved wife, Marilyn, his sons, Michael and Larry, his adoring grandchildren, Alex, Mark, Evan and Amanda whom he will always love. Services Friday 3pm, Sinai Chapels, 162 St and L.I.E. Fresh Meadows, NY       
 NEUBARDT--Selig B., M.D., on August 24, 2004. Survived by his loving wife Saundra and adoring children Andrew (Jane), Seth and Amanda (Seth Miller) and darling grandchildren. In his role as physician, author, husband, father, grandfather and friend, he reflected the finest qualities of the 
 PEARLMAN--Alexander W., M.D. Died August 24, 2004 in Jamaica Estates, NY at age 90. Beloved husband of the late Sarah Birstein Pearlman; loving father of Beth Smith, Deborah Pearlman and Ellyn Shander; father-in-law of the late Lewis Lofsky Smith; cherished grandfather of Ethan and Rachel S
 POLK--Herbert P. July 8, 1918-August 25, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Irene Josephson. Loving father of Buddy and his wife Debby, Jim and his wife Laney, Jon and his wife Nancy. Proud and cherished grandfather of Richard, Jenna, Alex and Emily. Loving uncle to Francine. Graduate of Cor
 ROBERTS--William ''Jack''. (Retired Naval Architect, Lloyds of London). Of West Islip, LI on August 22, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Winifred. Devoted cousin of Pauline Housden. Mr. Roberts was a longtime member of the NY Yacht Club, Circumnavigators Club, Magoun Landing Yacht Club and
 WHITE--Martin J. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of Martin J. White, a Life Member and former Historian of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Robert J. Reilly, President Henry F. White, Jr.,
 David T. McLaughlin, a business executive who became president of Dartmouth College in the 1980's, a time of academic and political turbulence on its campus, died on Wednesday while on vacation at a lodge in Dillingham, Alaska. He was 72 and lived in Newbury, N.H. The cause has not 
 Eddison Zvobgo, a Zimbabwean nationalist leader and Harvard-trained lawyer who won a reputation for his acerbic wit in negotiations to secure his country's independence from Britain, died in Harare, the capital, last Sunday. He was 69. His death in St. Anne's hospital after a long i
 GOFFIN--Hermann. The Belz School of Jewish Music and Cantorial Council of America of the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary YU express condolences to Cantor Sherwood Goffin, Belz faculty member, CCA honorary President, upon the loss of his beloved father Hermann Goffin. Cantor Bernar
 GOLD--George. The Board of Governors and members of The Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, Florida, acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, George Gold. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Charlotte, and their family. Robert Rachesky, President 
 NEUBARDT--Selig B., M.D. The associates and staff of Gynecology and Obstetrics Associates of New Rochelle mourn the passing of our good friend and associate Selig ''Bud'' Neubardt. A caring, wonderful professional, a dear friend, an extraordinary human being. He will be deeply missed. Joel 
 SPARBER--Norman H. The partners and staff of Brauner Baron Rosenzweig & Klein, LLP mourn the loss of our dear friend and retired partner Norman H. Sparber, who served for more than 50 years as a partner and of counsel to our firm. He addressed legal problems with intelligence and diligence 
 Timothy B. Harbert, the chairman and chief executive of State Street Global Advisors, the Boston-based fund management giant, died Tuesday night. He was 53 years old. The cause was a sudden heart attack at his home in Boxford, Mass., the company said. Mr. Harbert joined the 
 N.A. Jewell, the British submarine commander who set afloat the body of ''the man who never was'' in an elaborate ruse to confuse the Germans about the Allies' invasion plans in World War II, died Aug. 18 in Richmond Upon Thames, Surrey, England. He was 90. His death was confirmed b
 APPLBAUM--Rabbi J. Shelley, age 82. Cherished husband of Marilyn. Loving father of Amy and her husband David, Arthur and his wife Sally, Allen and his wife Barbara. Proud grandfather of Rebecca and her husband Chaim, Seth and his wife Leba, Zachary, Rachel, Emma, Sophie, Zoe and Lily. Adori
 PRESS--Manuel (Manny). On August 26, 2004 at 95. Is now with his beloved wife Susie. Devoted father of Ruth, Pat, Howard and Simeon. Cherished grandfather of Dawn, Bruce, Jessica, Jenn, and Alex and great-grandfather of eight. You will be forever in our hearts and minds. Services Sunday 10A
 WANG--Nian-Tzu, N.T., of Larchmont, NY, died of cancer, on August 26, 2004. Loving husband of Mabel U, devoted father of June, Kay (Leighton Chen), Cynthia (Daniel Sedlis), Geraldine, and Newton, and proud grandfather of Christine, Stephanie and Lucy. A memorial service will be announced la
 WEINER--Morris. Attorney, 94. Of Hackensack, N.J. Died Friday, August 27. Beloved husband of Zelda (Friedenrich) Weiner. Also survived by his niece Toby Abrams and his nephews Cliff Fiedler and Jules Abrams. Services 1 PM, Monday, at Temple Beth El, 280 Summit Avenue, Hackensack, N.J.      
 APPLBAUM--Rabbi J. Shelley. The Moriah School of Englewood deeply mourns the passing of our esteemed Rabbi Emeritus, principal and pillar of Torah education, Rabbi J. Shelley Applbaum. Rabbi Applbaum was principal of Moriah for 18 years and had a major impact on the lives of thousands of st
 BERKOWITZ--William. Age 62, died peacefully in his sleep at his home in Sarasota, FL, on Sunday, August 22, 2004, after a long battle with cancer. Mr. Berkowitz, as President of one of the nation's first and largest retail Money Market Mutual Funds, Dreyfus Liquid Assets, helped to transfor
 BIPPART--Charles H., MD, ''Ace'' 79, respected physician and loving father, died in his home in Norwich, Vermont on Tuesday August 24th. Formerly of Morristown, NJ, husband to the late Eve P. Bippart and Obstetrician at Morristown Memorial Hospital. He is survived by his brother, John, his 
 CORRIDAN--Thomas J. Died August 26, of esophageal cancer, age 55. Treasured husband of Anne, father of Kara, Meghan, Katie and Molly; father-in-law of Kerry Carroll; brother of Susan Lescher and Kevin Corridan; son of the late Thomas and Pearl Corridan. An unforgettable man who will be miss
 FALKENSTEIN -- Jack. Be loved husband of the late Marion. Loving father of Barbara Pollack and Carol and Andrew Lazar. Poppy to Bruce and Meryl Podgur, Lori and Eric Rose and Michael Lazar. Great-grandfather to David, Jessica, and Michael Podgur. Services ''BoulevardRiverside,'' 1450 Broadw
 KELMAN--Charles, MD. The creative spark of the inventor, ophthalmologist, entertainer, friend & loving family man touched the lives of many. He will be affectionately remembered at a tribute on Monday, September 13, 2004 at 11:30AM at the St. James Theater, 44 Street (Broadway and 8th Ave),
 PLUMMER--Paul Calvin, Jr., died of cancer on August 15, after a courageous struggle. A life-long New Yorker, he graduated from Music and Art High School in 1948 and served in the U.S. Army in the Korean War, 1951-1952. In the 1960s he worked at the War Resisters League and Village Gate and 
 REIDT--Warren Alan. Of Bethel, CT, age 52. Husband of Logan Owens Reidt. Father of Samuel and Joshua. Brother of Karen A. Iacovelli, Susan G. Duffy and Bill Reidt. Services Tuesday, August 31, 11 AM, Trinity Church, 130 Main Street, Northport, 11768. Interment Northport Rural Cemetery. Dona
 SAFT--David. Of Delray Beach, formerly of New York City, passed away August 28, 2004. Predeceased by his wife Marion. Survived by daughter Abbey (Richard) Aborn and son Kenneth Saft, grandchildren Jonathan (Kara) Aborn and Lyn Aborn, a brother, Henry (Maria) Saftchick, and many nieces and n
 SPARBER--Norman H. The partners and staff of Brauner Baron Rosenzweig & Klein, LLP mourn the loss of our dear friend and retired partner Norman H. Sparber, who served for more than 50 years as a partner and of counsel to our firm. He addressed legal problems with intelligence and diligence 
 TIGHE--Raymond. Age 67, of Ramsey, died Wednesday, August 18, 2004. Born in New York City, he lived there before moving to Ramsey in 1976. Ray graduated from Fordham University and currently worked as a psychotherapist. In prior years he worked in the insurance industry for Delaney Offices,
 WANG--Nian-Tzu, N.T., of Larchmont, NY, died of cancer, on August 26, 2004. Loving husband of Mabel U, devoted father of June, Kay (Leighton Chen), Cynthia (Daniel Sedlis), Geraldine, and Newton, and proud grandfather of Christine, Stephanie and Lucy. In his autobiography, ''My Nine Lives''
 WEINSTEIN--Milton. Age 82, passed away on August 27, 2004. Predeceased by Lenore, his loving wife of 57 years. Survived by his children Laurel and Lawrence Rosenbluth, Richard Weinstein and David Rockwell, grandchildren Meredith and Stewart Eichner and great-granddaughters Hailey and Emily.
 WIENER--Sidney, on August 27th, 2004. Beloved husband of Shirley. Loving father of Helen Beth Friedlander, Alan Wiener, Bunny Schorr and Kenneth. Adored grandfather of Robert, Deborah, Justin, Jeremy, David, Deborah Anne, Brian, Amy and Kevin. Former National President of Bnai Zion. May his
 JARCHO--Thomas, 53, a passionate musician, American Flyer repairman, and fisherman off the New England coast. He loved best those who will most miss his fierce intelligence and maverick spirit--his wife Fredrica, daughter Julia, son Nicholas, mother Irma, brother Andrew, and other family an
 KAUFMAN--Jess. Age 84, beloved husband of Selma Bruckner Kaufman, died August 28, 2004. Born in Brooklyn, NY, he was the son of the late Samuel and Alice Simon Kaufman. He lived a full life of loving kindness, faith, principle, devotion to family and community. He was a graduate of NYU, and
 KELSEY--John Forsyth, Jr. 80, formerly of Short Hills, on August 27, 2004, at Green Hill Memorial Home. Beloved husband of the late Elsie Luddecke, father of John F. III and his wife Pamela and Bruce C., and grandfather of Katherine Kelsey Pisano and John F. IV. Mr. Kelsey was the retired E
 KESSLER -- Lawrence. On August 27, 2004. Dearly loved husband of Tedda, nee Itzkoff. Beloved father of Michael Kessler and Debra (husband Jules) KesslerSainte. Adored grandfather of Avri Nathaniel KesslerSainte. Dearest brother of Ann Steele and Shirley Dwork. Beloved brother-inlaw, uncle, 
 KIMBALL--William Maltby. Died peacefully in his sleep on Wednesday, August 25 at the age of 81. He was born in Atlanta, GA, on September 19, 1922, and grew up in Buffalo, NY. He graduated from Colgate University and then served in the U.S. Army Infantry in combat in Europe during WWII. He r
 SHIRE--Maurice. 84, of Mt. Vernon. Beloved husband of 54 years, father, brother, grandfather, uncle, father-inlaw, cousin and friend. Born in Brooklyn to Susan and Hyman Shire in 1920, he graduated New York City College and Harvard Law School, and practiced law for over 40 years in the Empi
 WANG--Nian-Tzu, N.T., of Larchmont, NY, died of cancer, on August 26, 2004. Loving husband of Mabel U, devoted father of June, Kay (Leighton Chen), Cynthia (Daniel Sedlis), Geraldine, and Newton, and proud grandfather of Christine, Stephanie and Lucy. In his autobiography, ''My Nine Lives''
 Peter Woodthorpe, the defiantly eccentric character actor who played a significant role in the British postwar theatrical revolution, died on Aug. 13. He was 72. His death was reported in The Guardian of London. While performing with the Marlowe Society as a Cambridge underg
 Peter Woodthorpe, the defiantly eccentric character actor who played a significant role in the British postwar theatrical revolution, died on Aug. 13. He was 72. His death was reported in The Guardian of London. While performing with the Marlowe Society as a Cambridge underg
 David A. Woodward, a British-born geographer, editor and historian of mapmaking who helped create an encyclopedic series of books re-examining the place of mapmaking in world history, died last Wednesday at his home in Madison, Wis., where he taught at the University of Wisconsin for two de
 Dr. Fred L. Whipple, originator of the idea that comets consist of ice with some rock mixed in, died Monday at a hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 97. His death was announced by the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, where Dr. Whipple had served as director for almost tw
 Hans Vonk, a Dutch conductor who was music director of the St. Louis Symphony from 1996 through 2002, helping maintain the orchestra's reputation with interpretations of Romantic and modern works, died on Sunday at his home in Amsterdam. He was 63. Jeff Trammel, a spokesman for the 
 BIANCA--Daniel M. The partners and staff of Mendes & Mount mourn the loss of our dear friend and retired partner Daniel Bianca, who for more than 40 years was our trusted colleague, valued partner and loyal friend. He served many years as a member of the firm's Management Committee, includi
 GOLDFARB--Morton Paul, died of cancer on August 29, 2004 at age 77. Dearly beloved brother and brother-inlaw of Darrilyn and Norman Desser. Loving uncle of Terry and Robin Desser. Dear brother of the late Alvin. He was a brilliant, unforgettable man who will be greatly missed. Services priv
 KAUFMAN--Jess. Jess' many close friends throughout the telecommunications industry sadly mourn his passing. Jess was a leader and a specialist in the telecommunications needs of this and other countries' hospitals and he collaborated with the industry in analysing, then uniquely directing t
 KELSEY--John Forsyth, Jr. 80, formerly of Short Hills, on August 27, 2004, at Green Hill Memorial Home. Beloved husband of the late Elsie Luddecke, father of John F. III and his wife Pamela and Bruce C., and grandfather of Katherine Kelsey Pisano and John F. IV. Mr. Kelsey was the retired E
 KIMBALL--William Maltby. Died peacefully in his sleep on Wednesday, August 25 at the age of 81. He was born in Atlanta, GA, on September 19, 1922, and grew up in Buffalo, NY. He graduated from Colgate University and then served in the U.S. Army Infantry in combat in Europe during WWII. He r
 LANDAU--Alfred. Of Rockville Centre, New York and Prince Edwards Island. August 29 at 85 years. I will sorely miss my dear friend and mentor Alfred, who was the most interesting, well read world traveler, passionate art lover, theater/opera/movie goer. Never missed a great restaurant, nor f
