 Frederick I. Herzberg, a psychologist who became one of the most influential management teachers and consultants of the post-World War II era, died in Salt Lake City Jan. 19 from a heart attack and injuries sustained in a related fall, according to Mark Herzberg, his son. He was 76.        
 BOTWINICK-Joseph. 88, of Edison NJ on January 31, 2000. Born February 1, 1912. Husband of the late Helen (Shlisky), father of Paul and Jill Botwinick, Michael and Harriet Botwinick, grandfather of Jonathan, Daniel, and Lora. A founding member of The Endymions in Bayonne NJ, he worked for th
 FRANKLIN-Harry A. Beloved husband of the late Tillie and treasured father to Roger and Alfred. Family and friends mourn the loss of this special man. Services 12:30 PM, Wednesday, February 2, at Boulevard-Riverside Chapel, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, NY. FRANKLIN-Harry. Temple Israel, L
 FREEDMAN-Kenneth M.. 72, formerly of White Meadow Lake, NJ, died peacefully in his home January 26 surrounded by his family. He is survived by beloved wife Sarah, children Ellen Carron, Karen Quigley, Eric and Nancy Freedman, grandchildren Benjamin, Rebecca & Michael Carron, and Kadyrose & 
 HENKIN-Norman E. On January 30, 2000. Age 79. Beloved husband of Helen D. Henkin, brother of William Henkin, father of Louise Henkin Quigley and Alice Henkin. Father-in-law of Chuck Quigley and John Nicolich, adored grandfather of Ruth, Leah and Sophie (Sunshine). Lifelong Brooklyn resident
 INFANTINO-James Joseph. Died on January 30th, 2000, at age 67. Beloved husband to Lynda, loving father to James and John. Dear brother to Carmine. We will miss this wonderful, creative man. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street Thursday 2-5 and 7-9 P.M. C
 KEESEE-Thomas W. Jr. Of Mt. Kisco, NY, passed away in his sleep on January 31, 2000. Mr. Keesee, born February 11, 1915, is survived by his wife, Patricia, and children, Anne Niemann, Allen P.K. Keesee, and Thomas W. Keesee III, and his grandchildren, Carolyn, Margaret, Patricia, and Charlo
 KOFFSKY-David, 63, of Westport, CT. (Formerly of White Plains). On January 29, 2000. Husband of Judy Koffsky; father of Bruce & Paula Koffsky of Weston, CT., Marcea Koffsky of Norwalk, CT., Daniel & Laura Koffsky of Miami, FL.; Brother of Edward & his wife, Lynn Koffsky of Atlanta, GA.; gra
 KREY-Warren C. On January 29, 2000. Beloved husband of Margaret, loving brother of Nathalie and father of Lewis, Russell, and Douglas. Adored grandpa of Rebecca, Lauren, Nathaniel, Kathleen, Mary Margaret, Adrienne, Jocelyn, and Theodore. He was Vice President and Director of Art Services a
 LEVINE-Sidney. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Sidney Levine. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Joyce, and their family. Morton West, President Daniel Amster, Secretary L
 McMORRIS-LeRoy Sells. Durham, NC resident, age 74, died Tuesday evening, January 25, 2000 at his home. Mr. McMorris was a veteran of the U.S. Army and the U.S. Air Force, having served during both WWII and Korea. He was retired from the City of New York where he worked as an accessibility a
 MUNSON-Oliver Cromwell, 75, passed away January 13, 2000 in the loving arms of his wife Sheryl. He was President and CEO of Grinnell Lithographic Inc. for the last forty-two years. He was a resident of Fort Lauderdale and Babylon, NY. He was an alumnus of Princeton University-Class of 45. H
 PITASSY-Caesar L. The Fordham Law Alumni Association records with deep sorrow the passing of Caesar Pitassy '41, our former President and recipient of our Medal of Achievement, and extends our profound sorrow to his family. George C. Ross, Pres.       
 SCHUBART-Mark. The Board of Directors, Artists, and Staff of The Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center are deeply saddened by the passing of Mark Schubart, a friend, colleague and inspiration to many of us. His pioneering vision for arts education at Lincoln Center in its earliest days se
 SCHULLER-Arthur J. The partners, associates and staff of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield, LLP extend their deepest sympathy to our friend, partner, and colleague, Gary, on the passing of his father, Arthur. Our prayers and condolences go out to Mrs. Dorothy Schuller and family. May G
 SIEGEL-Bernard. Predeceased by his wife, Elsie, daughter, Susie, brother, Ernest, and brother-inlaw, Bernard Hotzman. Beloved brother of Moosie Weinberger (Arthur), Mike (Vicki), Rebecca Holtzman, and Bob (Selma). Dear father of Jerry (Gail), and Lorrie Feil (John). Cherished grandfather of
 SILBERMAN-Samuel J. On January 29. Beloved husband of Lois. Cherished father of Douglas, Allen, Rita Rothenberg, Alfred, Jayne and Peter. Grandfather of six. An innovative leader in philanthropic, civic and educational agencies, and in business. Visitation at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison
 Pat Cetta, who with his brother, Mike, owned Sparks, a renowned New York steakhouse, died on Jan. 24. He was 66. The cause of death was a heart attack, Mike Cetta said. Sparks, at 210 East 46th Street, is the kind of clubby place where pinstriped executives can unburden them
 Alan Pryce-Jones, a London-born book critic, author and journalist who was editor of The Times Literary Supplement, the prestigious British weekly, for a decade, died on Jan. 22 in Galveston, Tex. He was 91 and lived in Newport, R.I. Mr. Pryce-Jones was viewed in the literary world 
 Alfred R. Zipf, a pioneer in computer technology and electronic banking and a former executive at the Bank of America, died on Jan. 1 in Oroville, Calif. He was 82. Mr. Zipf headed the equipment research department at Bank of America when he worked with the Stanford Research Institu
 Des Renford, who began marathon swimming at the age of 39 and went on to swim the English Channel in each of his 19 attempts, died of a heart attack on Dec. 31 while swimming in his local pool in Sydney, Australia. He was 72. Renford was a butcher, a barkeeper, a bookmaker and a min
 George McTurnan Kahin, an authority on Southeast Asia who was an influential critic of Washington's policy during the Vietnam War, died on Saturday at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester. He was 82 and lived in Ithaca, N.Y. Dr. Kahin (pronounced KAY-hin) retired in 1988 after 37 y
 BARDOS-Leslie, (Laszlo), MD, died peacefully at home on January 30, at age 91. Born in Hungary, received medical diplomas from Szeged, Hungary and Vienna, Austria. Practiced internal medicine in Manhattan. He will be greatly missed by his wife, Susan Bardos, his daugher, Judith Lichtmann, s
 BOARDMAN-Dr. Martin V. Alpine Country Club, its Officers, Board of Governors and Members deeply mourn the untimely passing of their fellow member Dr. Martin V. Boardman, Secretary Emeritus, and offer their deepest sympathy to his wife, Pearl, his children and the entire Boardman family. Alp
 INFANTINO-James Joseph. Died on January 30th, 2000, at age 67. Beloved husband to Lynda, loving father to James and John. Dear brother to Carmine. We will miss this wonderful, creative man. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street Thursday 2-5 and 7-9 P.M. C
 JACOBS-Etta, 90, of Brooklyn, NY on January 31, 2000. Loving wife of the late Henry. Cherished mother of Miriam Ravad, David Jacobs and his wife Melinda, and Ellen. Devoted sister, aunt. Grandmother of Guy, Sharon, Dina, Seth and Andy, great-grandmother of Evan. A woman of faith, generosity
 JIMENEZ-Victor A. A resident of Park Slope for more than 25 years, a marine engineer and veteran of World War II, died at his home on January 29, 2000. He was 99. The cause was heart failure, his family said. He served as an engineer during the war in the Pacific and the Atlantic and was ho
 KAUFMAN-Moses. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of its distinguished member. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 KREY-Warren C. On January 29, 2000. Beloved husband of Margaret, loving brother of Nathalie and father of Lewis, Russell, and Douglas. Adored grandpa of Rebecca, Lauren, Nathaniel, Kathleen, Mary Margaret, Adrienne, Jocelyn, and Theodore. He was Vice President and Director of Art Services a
 LARKEY-Joseph L. On Monday January 31, 2000, Joseph of Tewksbury Township, NJ formerly of Livingston, NJ. Beloved husband of Ruth (nee Wolfson) Larkey. Loving father of Cheryl Larkey, Lisa Martins, Adam Larkey, Dean Larkey, and Nicole Witchendahl. Dear father-in-law of Clario Martins, Ann L
 MACKS-Lester. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Lester Macks, husband of Sheila Macks, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, National President Dr. Laura S. Schor, National Executiv
 MARGOLIN-Joel. With extreme sadness and a tremendous sense of loss, we mourn the passing of our very dear friend. He will live forever in our hearts. Our deepest sympathy to Elisa, Wayne, Evan and Elise. The Lichtenstein Family       
 MILANO-Robert J., who passed away January 29 at the age of 87 was a self-made man with a passion for public service and educational opportunity for all Americans. Kind, generous, canny and tireless, he was a rare human being who inspired and energized every organization he served. The membe
 SCHILLER-Herbert I. Beloved husband of Anita, magnetic father of Dan and Zach, visionary grandfather of Lucy and Ethan, fierce and witty foe of injustice. Memorial tribute at 11:00 AM, Sunday, February 13, at La Jolla Woman's Club, La Jolla, California. SCHILLER-Herbert. The faculty
 SILBERMAN-Samuel J. The Alumni Association of the Hunter College School of Social Work offers its sincere condolences to the family of Samuel Silberman. His enormously generous support in establishing and maintaining the School has enabled thousands of persons to be trained in the professio
 WADE-Robert P. On January 31. Beloved husband of Deborah E. Cohen, devoted father of Aryeh Cohen-Wade and Samuel J. Cohen-Wade. Former Public Relations Director for American Friends of Hebrew University. Services Bernheim Apter Goldsticker Suburban Funeral Chapel, 1600 Springfield Avenue, M
 WILLIAMS-Elliott W. died suddenly on Wednesday, January 26, in Los Angeles, CA. He is survived by his mother Dolores Williams; three sisters Wandra WilliamsPerkins, Denise and Teri Williams and a host of relatives and friends. Visitation at Holy Redeemer Church Friday, February 4th from 7-9
 William Eckart, a scenic designer whose innovative sets and costumes enlivened many Broadway productions during the 1950's and 60's, died on Jan. 24 in Dallas, where he lived. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Working with his wife, Jean, Mr. Eckart w
 William McCleery, a playwright and editor, died on Jan. 16 at a hospital in Princeton, N.J. He was 88 and lived in Princeton. Mr. McCleery had two plays on Broadway in the 1940's, ''Hope for the Best,'' with Franchot Tone and Jane Wyatt, and ''Parlor Story,'' with Walter Abel. He al
 Adrian Lajous Martinez, a finance official who resigned his cabinet post in 1982 to protest the nationalization of the banks, died of a heart attack here on Jan. 24. He was 79. Mr. Lajous's refusal to endorse President Jose Lopez Portillo's takeover of the financial system ended his
 Gil Kane, a comic-book artist who infused the Atom, Green Lantern and other characters with vibrant new life even as his own artistic aspirations propelled him to draw comic books of Wagnerian operas, died on Monday at a hospital in Miami. He was 73 and lived in Aventura, Fla. The c
 Hobe Morrison, a longtime drama critic for Variety, died on Jan. 22. He was 95 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Morrison was a fixture of opening nights on Broadway for more than four decades, often writing two reviews a day: one for the New York edition of Variety, and a second for the 
 Dr. James V. Neel, whose work helped uncover the genetic basis of sickle cell anemia and who led extensive studies of radiation's effects on the survivors of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, died on Tuesday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 84. The cause was cancer
 BARDOS-Leslie (Laszlo ) MD Judith and her family mourn the passing of a dear friend. He was honest and warm, a wonderful man, a true gentleman in everyway. We will miss him. Our sincere condolences to Zsuzsi, Judith, Albert, his grandchildren and their families. Judith, Samuel, Shelly Kelln
 deROUSSYdeSALES-Count Aymon. Of New York. Died February 1, 2000. Beloved husband of Elisabeth, devoted father of Pauline. He also leaves behind his children, Chantal, Monica, and Michael. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street on Thursday February 3rd, fro
 JOLOWICZ-Peter. Age 87 of New Haven, CT, died January 29, 2000. Father of Katherine of Los Angeles, brother of Raymundo in Mexico and Franz Dieter Jolowicz of NYC. Also survived by stepdaughter Sasha Dobush of Tenafly, two step-grandchildren Jennifer and Nick, two nephews Alan and Ivan. Mr.
 LEIMAN-Harold I. Distinguished Rabbi and Educator, author of Koheleth: ''Life and its Meaning'' and co-author of ''Science and Judaism''. A disciple of Rav Shraga Feivel Mendlowitz, he served as Assistant Principal of Mesivta Torah Vodaath, 1933-1936; Principal of Mesivta Rabbi Chaim Berlin
 LEVI-Enrico. The Board of Trustees, President David C. Chang, Chancellor George Bugliarello and other members of the Polytechnic University community are saddened by the passing of Enrico Levi on January 30, 2000. Professor Levi was a 1956 and 1958 graduate in electrical engineering, Polyte
 LIBOWITZ-Harvey, on February 1st. Devoted husband to Fran. Loving daddy to daughters, Syd and Marla. Very special grandpa to Baruchi, Andy and Ronnie. Beloved brother of Thelma. A truly unique and incredibly talented man, cherished by all extended family. He will live on in our hearts forev
 REID-Robert. 82, suddenly on January 30. Bob Reid's encyclopedic knowledge of music and recordings was legendary and he will be sorely missed by his many friends and associates in the music world. He is survived by his brother Richard, sister-in-law Connie, many nieces and nephews, and by J
 REUTERSHAN-Donald E. Skidmore College notes with great sadness the death of trustee emeritus and long-time supporter, Donald E. Reutershan. As a member of the Board of Trustees for 25 years and as its chair from 1979 to 1983, he helped to lead Skidmore through a period of monumental change 
 ROBERTS-Harold M. Of New York City and Southampton, died on February 1, 2000. Loving husband to Jill Louise Curry. Most wonderful and cherished father of Stephanie Emma Bliss. His spirit will live in our hearts. He will be forever loved.       
 SEIDOR-Isabelle. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to George Astor on the loss of his sister, Isabelle Seidor. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 SHEPARD-Sidney. Died peacefully February 2, 2000, after a courageous fight against heart disease and cancer. Sidney is survived by his wife, Helaine, with whom he was madly in love for over 53 years. They were best friends who always traveled life's pathways together through good times and 
 SILBERMAN-Samuel J. (Buddy). Fairleigh Dickinson University sincerely regrets the passing of our long-time friend and benefactor. The University community joins us in extending our sincere sympathy to his wife Lois, his children and grandchildren. Mr. Silberman served as a member of our Boa
 WILLIAMS-Elliott W. died suddenly on Wednesday, January 26, in Los Angeles, CA. He is survived by his mother Dolores Williams; three sisters Wandra WilliamsPerkins, Denise and Teri Williams and a host of relatives and friends. Visitation at Holy Redeemer Church Friday, February 4th from 7-9
 Robert John Milano, a self-made millionaire industrialist who briefly served Mayor Edward I. Koch as deputy mayor for economic development, died Saturday at a hospital in Palm Springs, Fla., where he lived. A former New York resident, he was 87. In January 1978, a newly minted Mayor
 T. Dennie Boardman, a retired businessman, died last Friday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 87 and lived in Chestnut Hill, Mass., and Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Boardman retired from two family real estate firms, T. Dennie Boardman of Boston, and Munn, Hull & Boardman of
 Thomas Woodfin Keesee Jr., the retired chief executive of the Bessemer Securities Corporation, died Sunday in his sleep at a hospital near the family's Mount Kisco, N.Y., home, his son, Thomas W. Keese III, said yesterday. He was 84 and had been ill for some time. Mr. Keese was born
 A. E. van Vogt, a writer who smuggled raw emotion into modern science fiction, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 87 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. van Vogt's most memorable stories were published from 1939 to 1951, a period often called science fiction's golden a
 Frank E. Morris, who was president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston from 1968 to 1988, died Monday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 75. Earlier, Mr. Morris was an economist with the Federal Office of Price Stabilization and the Central Intelligence Agency, an assistant to the
 Rear Adm. Frederick B. Warder, a submariner whose exploits in World War II won him a Navy Cross and a nickname he detested, died on Tuesday at his home in Ocala, Fla. He was 95. As a lieutenant commander, he was skipper of the Seawolf from 1939 to 1943. The submarine resupplied the 
 BOCH-Armand O. Devoted husband of Rose and loving father of Richard. Peacefully on February 3, 2000, after a long illness. Funeral service private. Interment Holy Rood Cemetery, Westbury, L.I. Donations is his memory may be made to: God's Love We Deliver.       
 BURKE-Thomas Austin, 75, died January 25, 2000 in Vero Beach, FL. Formerly of Greenwich, CT. Father of Candace Burke of Stamford, CT and Tamzine Kouns of Weston, CT. He was a Vice-President at BBDO and a member of the American Yacht Club. Burial will be later in Tarrytown, NY.       
 DOMINICK-Bayard, of New Canaan, CT and Southern Pines, NC, died January 25, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Elizabeth Yallalee Dominick., Loving father of Joan, Gayer, Margot, Ned and Wilder and big, wonderful ''Bear'' to twelve grandchildren and seven great grans. Formerly Chairman of Do
 HENKIN-Norman E. The City University of New York mourns the passing of Norman E. Henkin, exemplary member of CUNY's Board of Trustees from 1969 to 1973. Attorney & community leader. His many contributions will be long remembered. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. Herman Badill
 LIBOWITZ-Harvey. The Board and staff of Lighthouse International are saddened by the passing of Harvey Libowitz, husband of longtime employee, Fran Libowitz. Harvey unselfishly gave of his time as a volunteer and friend of the Lighthouse. Our condolences to the family. Barbara Silverstone P
 MARINO-Vincent ''Vinny''. Born December 22, 1938 in Manhattan, NY died January 31, 2000. He was 61. Vinny battled liver cancer and hepatitis C for 3 years. Vinny was the founder and executive director of Habilitat, Inc. one of the country's most successful non-profit substance abuse program
 MILANO-Robert L. Sam Walter Foss' tender epitaph from the late 19th Century reappears as we bid farewell to our beloved Daytop Governor, Bob Milano: ''Let me live in my house by the side of the road and be a friend to man!''. And a Friend, indeed, he has been for a quarter-century to captiv
 PATTULLO-G. Robson ''Rob'' died peacefully on February 3, 2000 in New York City. Cherished friend and husband of Susan. Beloved father of Claire. Devoted son of Elizabeth and Pat Pattullo, brother of Betsy, Ann, Greg and Ronald. Uncle of Jess, Gabe, Alissa and Sasha. Associated for nearly 2
 ROSENTHAL-Robert, M.D. of Delray Beach, formerly of Greenwich, CT, passed away unexpectedly on February 2, 2000. Bob was a board certified internist and cardiologist who served as Co-Medical Director and past Chief of Cardiology at Boca Raton Community Hospital. He was singular in his dedic
 TAYLOR-Max, of CosCob, CT. July 5, 1904-January 30, 2000. Survived by wife Edith, sons Michael and Abbott, daughter Anique, 6 grandchildren, stepsons Joel and Jon Shimberg, 5 step-grandchildren. Prominent maritime attorney. Member MLA, Justice Department. Partner, Kriesel Beck & Taylor. Par
 Richard G. Kleindienst, who was President Richard M. Nixon's attorney general for less than a year in the Watergate era and who pleaded guilty to a crime in a peripheral scandal, died today at his home in Prescott, Ariz. He was 76. The cause was lung cancer, his wife, Margaret, said
 Lee Hills, who began a journalism career as a teenage reporter covering mining disasters in Utah, continued it as an editor by bringing Pulitzer Prizes and national renown to The Miami Herald and The Detroit Free Press, and finally spread the gospel of quality journalism around the country 
 DiFRANCESCO-John, M.D. The Ophthalmology Department of Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center of New York notes with sadness the death of John DiFrancesco, M.D. An esteemed physician and active staff member for over 35 years, his clinical acumen, surgical skills and practical good judgm
 MEREDITH-Morley. Age 77, Metropolitan Opera baritone for over 30 years, formerly of Scarsdale, NY died of cancer at Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center (Florida) on February 3, 2000. Born in Winnipeg, Canada, graduated from University of Manitoba before serving in the Canadian Navy. Preceded 
 PATTULLO-G. Robson, 49, died peacefully on February 3, 2000 in New York City. Cherished friend and husband of Susan. Beloved father of Claire. Devoted son of Elizabeth and Pat Pattullo, brother of Betsy, Ann, Greg and Ronald. Uncle of Jess, Gabe, Alissa and Sasha. Associated for nearly 25 y
 SANFORD-Lathan Wade, age 63, of Austin, Texas died Monday, January 31, 2000. He graduated from the University of Texas at Austin, where he was a professor in the Department of Theatre and Dance for 31 years. In the Army he was crytographer in special services. As a dancer on Broadway he wor
 Alan North, a character actor whose career spanned more than 50 years, died on Jan. 19 at a hospital near his home in Port Jefferson, N.Y. He was 79 and also had a home in Manhattan. The cause was kidney and lung cancer, his wife, June, said. Across five decades, Mr. North p
 Anthony Blum, a principal dancer with the New York City Ballet in the 1960's and 70's, died on Dec. 28 at the Wesley Health Center in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. He was 61 and lived in Saratoga Springs. The cause was complications from AIDS, said Patrick Lavin, a friend. Tall and
 David Levy, a television executive and producer who created ''The Addams Family'' series for ABC, died on Jan. 25 in Beverly Hills, Calif., where he lived. He was 87. After becoming vice president for programming at NBC in 1959, Mr. Levy helped to turn around the network with shows 
 Herbert I. Schiller, a teacher, writer and critic who studied the subject of communication, died on Jan. 29 in La Jolla, Calif. He was 80 and a longtime La Jolla resident. The cause of death was not disclosed. Dr. Schiller was trained as an economist, began studying the medi
 BENDA-Charles William. Of Miami, FL, formerly of Katonah, New York. Born September 15th, 1912. Graduate of City College of New York. Employee of The New York Times 1926-1976. Survived by his wife Mary Kathleen, his daughters Gabrielle Palmiotto and Mary Tillman, his sons John, Charles and C
 KLEINDIENST-Richard G. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of our good friend and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Margaret and his children. Laurence W. Levine Jay H. Levine       
 LeBLANC-John of Voorhees, NJ formerly of NYC., husband of the late Ann (nee Mallon). Survived by Edward, Kenneth, Suzanne LeBlanc & Valerie LeBlanc he was father of the late Michael. Also 4 sisters & five grandchildren. Mass 10AM Monday St. Andrew the Apostle Church Gibbsboro, NJ. Viewing S
 LEVENSON-Jerome. 75. Beloved husband of Lillian, loving stepfather of Julie, caring father-in-law of Joshua, devoted and proud grandfather of Gideon and Daniel, and loving brother of Herbert. An honest and valiant heart and a member of ''the greatest generation.'' His generosity and his sen
 MEREDITH-Morley. Age 77, Metropolitan Opera baritone for over 30 years, formerly of Scarsdale, NY died of cancer at Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center (Florida) on February 3, 2000. Born in Winnipeg, Canada, graduated from University of Manitoba before serving in the Canadian Navy. Preceded 
 PATTULLO-G. Robson, 49, died peacefully on February 3, 2000 in New York City. Cherished friend and husband of Susan. Beloved father of Claire. Devoted son of Elizabeth and Pat Pattullo, brother of Betsy, Ann, Greg and Ronald. Uncle of Jess, Gabe, Alissa and Sasha. Associated for nearly 25 y
 REISIG-Joseph E. It is with deep sorrow and affection that we record the passing January 28, 2000 of our devoted member and past president (1993) of The General Society of Mechanics & Tradesmen of The City of New York. For many years, Joseph served on various committees and taught in Mechan
 ROBERTS-Harold M. (Bob), of New York City and Southampton, died on February 1, 2000. Loving husband to Jill Louise Curry. Most wonderful and cherished father of Stephanie Emma Bliss. His spirit will live in our hearts. He will be forever loved.       
 ROSENBAUM-Jacob P. The Board of Governors and we of North Shore Country Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed former member, Jacob Rosenbaum. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Jerome H. Grossman, President Enid Rosenthal, Secretary       
 SHEPARD-Sidney. To our dear, dear friend of many years-the good times, the bad times have all been better having been shared with you. You will be with us in our hearts forever. Love, Jimmy, Sande, Scott, Barry, Jeff and Chris SHEPARD-Sidney. We have lost a very dear, close friend w
 STEIN-Irvin, Dr. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Philadelphia, died on February 3, 2000 at Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD. He was 93. Dr. Stein was born in Fayetteville, NC and graduated from the University of North Carolina. He received his medical training at Jefferson Medical Colle
 STEWARD-Charles Jackson II, born in Augusta, GA on March 29, 1920, passed away in Las Vegas, NV on January 16, 2000. The beloved husband of Rose, he is survived by four of his six children, Harris, Robert, Janet, Michael and his loving brother, Williams Dean. His life was marked by devotion
 TISCHLER-Stanley, M.D. The SUNY Downstate Medical Center community mourns the passing of Stanley Tischler, M.D., former professor of OB/GYN. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. John C. LaRosa, M.D., President Eugene B. Feigelson, M.D., Dean of the College of Medicine       
 VOLLERS-Joseph E., Sr. Age 86. Died on January 30, 2000 in Richmond, California. Retired from New York City Fire Department as Battalion Chief in 1967. Survived by his beloved wife Josephine E. Vollers of El Cerrito, CA; sisters Gertrude Leibel and Florence Miller; sons Joseph E. Vollers, J
 BACHMANN-Louis, Jr. Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health will hold a memorial service to mark the passing last month of generous long-time benefactor Louis Bachmann, Jr., whose philanthropy to Mount Sinai included joining his daughter Bonnie 
 Ustad Alla Rakha, the most important tabla drummer of his generation, died Thursday at his home in Bombay. He was 80. He had a heart attack when he learned of the death of his daughter Razia during cataract surgery, said a spokesman for Moment Records and Zakir Hussain Management, w
 Dr. Clifford H. Keene, a health care executive who helped build the Kaiser Permanente system of staff doctors, hospitals and clinics into the nation's largest nonprofit provider of health care, died Jan. 25 at the Hospice of the Central Coast Counties in Monterey, Calif. He was 89. 
 Frederick Vanderbilt Field, who supported Communist causes in the 1930's, 40's and 50's and was once described as ''the Reds' pet blueblood,'' died Feb. 1 at the Walker Methodist Health Center in Minneapolis. A great-great-grandson of Commodore Cornelius Vanderbilt and a descendant of sever
 DACHS-Martin R. Of Somers, NY. Age 73 years. Died Saturday, February 5, 2000. He is survived by his wife Janet.       
 GOLDENSON-Leonard H. Founder and Chairman of the Board of ABC, Inc., 1953-1986, died in Sarasota, Florida on December 27, 1999 at the age of 94. He is survived by his wife, Isabelle Weinstein Goldenson, his two daughters, Loreen Arbus and Maxine Goldenson, both of Los Angeles, and one grand
 HOUSTON-James W. On February 5, 2000, in his 80th year. Retired employee of Chemical Bank, veteran of Anzio Beach Battle. Son of the late John J. Houston and Catherine Hughes Houston, devoted brother of Teresa Houston Carter and the late John J. Houston Jr. and William J. and Mary. Beloved 
 MEREDITH-Morley. Age 77, Metropolitan Opera baritone for over 30 years, formerly of Scarsdale, NY died of cancer at Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center (Florida) on February 3, 2000. Born in Winnipeg, Canada, graduated from University of Manitoba before serving in the Canadian Navy. Preceded 
 PATTULLO-G. Robson, 49, died peacefully on February 3, 2000 in New York City. Cherished friend and husband of Susan. Beloved father of Claire. Devoted son of Elizabeth and Pat Pattullo, brother of Betsy, Ann, Greg and Ronald. Uncle of Jess, Gabe, Alissa and Sasha. Associated for nearly 25 y
 REHBINDER-Michel. Died January 5, after a prolonged illness which he faced with usual great courage. Surviving: his wife, cousin, nieces, nephews, step-daughter, step-grandson with family, and friends. Michel's warmth, kindness and humor will be greatly missed. Memorial service Sunday, Febr
 ROER-Edwin. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Edwin Roer, and extend to his bereaved wife Dorothy and the members of his family our sincere condolences. Jeffrey Citron, President Marvin Leffler, Secretary  
 STOGEL-Philip. Beloved husband of Florence. Devoted father of Yale and Leslie, Lawrence and Debra. Cherished grandfather of Chase, Chad and Alison. Dear brother of Sanford and the late Dorothy Fagelman. Services at the Hebrew Institute of White Plains, 20 Greenridge Ave, White Plains, NY, t
 STOUDEMIRE-Alan, M.D., 49, of Atlanta, GA, on February 2nd, 2000. It is with profound sadness that the Board of Directors of the Society for Liaison Psychiatry mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague, Alan Stoudemire, M.D., after his second valiant battle with cancer. He was a leader i
 THOMPSON-Peter (Frank L., Jr.). 59, of New York City, died suddenly February 4, 2000. Pianist, arranger, musical director. Loving husband of Lanie Dommu; brother of Marilee and David Thompson and the late Edward Thompson; brother-in-law of James Bialek and Judy and Michael Guthman; uncle of
 Philip Jones, a leading British trumpeter and a music educator, died on Jan. 17. He was 71 and lived in London and Switzerland. Mr. Jones was born in Bath, England, into a family of brass musicians. He began playing the trumpet as a boy, and in 1944 he won a scholarship to the Royal
 Samuel J. Silberman, a philanthropist and former cigar manufacturing executive, died on Jan. 29 in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Mr. Silberman was born in Manhattan, grew up in West Hartford, Conn., and attended Harvard College. In 1934, he went
 William S. Heckscher, a German-born art historian who fled Hitler's Germany and became a professor at Duke University and the director of its art museum, died on Nov. 27 at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 94. Professor Heckscher's wide-ranging scholarship included Rembrandt and a
 Edgar Bowers, a poet whose luminous, finely wrought prose earned him the Bollingen Prize, died on Friday at his home in San Francisco. He was 75. The cause was non-Hodgkins lymphoma, said a friend, Helen P. Trimpi of Palo Alto, Calif. Mr. Bowers was awarded the Bollingen Pri
 A milk carton made Dr. Gad Rausing, who died on Jan. 28 at the age of 77 in Montreux, Switzerland, one of the wealthiest men in the world. The Swedish-born Dr. Rausing, along with his younger brother, Hans, helped develop their father's idea for a new type of paper carton that exten
 Jack Scott, a prominent critic of organized athletics during the 1960's and early 1970's who later gained national attention when he was suspected of helping Patricia Hearst elude capture in the Symbionese Liberation Army case, died Sunday night in Eugene, Ore. He was 57. He had bee
 BEER-Abraham. The Philip and Sarah Belz School of Jewish Music of the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, Yeshiva University, and its affiliate organization, Cantorial Council of America, express their condolences to Cantor Bernard Beer, Director of the Belz School of Jewish Music an
 BOEHM-David A. Peacefully at home on February 6, his 86th birthday. Father of Suzanne Farwell, Diana Kerman, Lincoln Boehm (Suzy), Emily Partin (John) and David L. Boehm. Grandfather of Doug Hope (Dee), Donovan Farwell (Carol), Deborah Kerman (Tom Fare), Phillip Kerman (Diana), Laura Kerman
 GOLDENSON-Leonard H. Founder and Chairman of the Board of ABC, Inc., 1953-1986, died in Sarasota, Florida on December 27, 1999 at the age of 94. He is survived by his wife, Isabelle Weinstein Goldenson, his two daughters, Loreen Arbus and Maxine Goldenson, both of Los Angeles, and one grand
 KAUFMAN-Moshe. The diamond industry mourns the death of our distinguished leader. A member of the Diamond Dealers Club for more than 60 years, and a member of the Diamond Industry Hall of Fame, Mr. Kaufman's loss is felt by his colleagues worldwide. Our deepest sympathies are extended to hi
 KURZ-Edmund P. Of Southbury, Connecticut, age 88 years. Professor Emeritus Queens College, City University of New York, died on Sunday, February 6, 2000. He is survived by Barbara Lathrop Kurz, and sons Peter of Ravena, N.Y., and Roger of Southbury, CT.       
 MEREDITH-Morley. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of our colleague and friend Morley Meredith. A baritone with the company for thirty-one seasons, he is fondly remembered by all those who worked with him. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Joseph Volpe, General Manager J
 ROER-Edwin. Temple Israel Center of White Plains, NY, shares deeply in the grieving for Edwin Roer, a past President of this congregation, a constant source of cheer and encouragement to everyone, a devoted husband, father, grandfather, and brother, a sweet soul. Our condolences go to Dotti
 STOGEL-Philip. The Board of Governors and members of Willow Ridge Country Club sadly note the passing of Philip Stogel, a distinguished member of this club. Our deepest condolences are offered to his wife Florence and to his entire family. Myron Melnikoff, Pres. Board of Governors       
 THOMPSON-Peter (Frank). Our deepest sympathy to Lanie Thompson, his wife, and to all the family at the sudden and unexpected loss of our dear friend and colleague. Peter was our esteemed pianist and collaborator and a pillar of musical genius. His joyous and exuberant approach to life will 
 Christopher Rios, a 698-pound rapper who sold more than a million albums under the name Big Pun, died on Monday. He was 28. The cause was problems related to extreme obesity, said Joseph Cartagena, known as the rapper Fat Joe, who was also Mr. Rios's producer and manager. The Associ
 Claude Autant-Lara, the director who made his name with films like ''Devil in the Flesh'' and ''The Red and the Black'' and who made an infamous foray into far-right politics late in his life, died on Saturday in a clinic in Antibes in the south of France. He was 98. One of France's
 Doug Henning, the ebullient, shaggy-headed magician who sparked a renewed interest in the craft and breathed new life into some of history's most famous illusions, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 52 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was liver cancer, according to The Associa
 Morley Meredith, a versatile baritone who sang 40 roles in 31 seasons at the Metropolitan Opera, died last  Thursday at the Palm Beach Gardens Medical Center in Florida. He was 77. The cause was cancer, said Peter Clark, a spokesman for the Met. Mr. Meredith was born in Winn
 BERMAN-Louis J. Passed away on February 8, 2000 in Tamarac FL. Beloved husband of the late Clara. Devoted father of Steven, Dennis and Ronald. Special fatherin-law of Mina, Marcia and Lynne. Loving grandfather of Erica, Marshall, Andy, Cindy and Tiffany. Caring companion of Frances Mayer. H
 BRENNER-Joseph. On February 7, 2000. Beloved husband of Adele. Cherished father of David and Linda, Harvey and Anne, Stu and the late Susan Mellan. Devoted grandfather to Larry, Barbara, Tara, Stacy, Jamie and Eric. Dedicated brother to Sam, Jack and Mary Rauch. He enriched the lives of all
 COLLINS-Robert M. On February 6. Husband of the late Joyce (Reardon). Father of Scott N. Collins. A Memorial Service will be held in Dennis Union Church, Dennis, MA, on Friday, February 11th. at 11 AM. Memorials in his name may be made to The Gavin Foundation, PO Box E15, South Boston, MA 0
 DELSENER-Ackley Vincent, February 8, 2000, at age 90. Beloved husband of the late Ethel (nee Klein) for 68 years. Devoted father of Harriette Delsener and Ronald Delsener. Devoted father-in-law of Ellin Delsener. Cherished grandfather of Robert, Jeffrey, Riley, Scott David Riley and Samanth
 GOLDENSON-Leonard H. Founder and Chairman of the Board of ABC, Inc., 1953-1986, died in Sarasota, Florida on December 27, 1999 at the age of 94. He is survived by his wife, Isabelle Weinstein Goldenson, his two daughters, Loreen Arbus and Maxine Goldenson, both of Los Angeles, and one grand
 GUARDINO-Alphonso V. 88, of Pompano Beach, FL, and Sheepshead Bay, NY, on February 7, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Rita (nee Carvell), loving, proud and generous father of Anthony and Robert, caring father-in-law of Eleanor, devoted and proud grandfather of Victoria. Friends may call a
 HAMILTON-Thomas Parker, Jr., Dr. Died February 8, 2000. Retired surgeon. Resided Tenafly, N.J. He is survived by his wife Ruth, sons Thomas P. Hamilton, III of Seminole, Fla., Lawrence R. Hamilton of Saratoga Springs, N.Y. and his daughter Virginia H. Idyll of Toronto, Ca; granddaughters Ho
 HILLS-Lee. The Trustees and Staff of the American Federation of Arts are profoundly saddened by the passing of their beloved friend, Lee Hills, a steadfast Trustee of the AFA and active champion of the arts, education, and freedom of expression. We will miss his enlightened leadership, fars
 MEIER-Harry J. age 76 of Basking Ridge, NJ on February 8, 2000. Beloved hsuband of Jane (Armbruster) Meier, devoted father of Frederick J., Patricia J., Susan J., brother of Jane Silverman, Carol Schmidt. Grandfather of Francoise and Harry J. Liturgy of Christian Burial, Friday February 11,
 MORTON-Charles P. Former Republican First Selectman of New Canaan, CT on February 8, 2000. Survived by his wife Mary; three sons, Charles P. Morton Jr., John Paul Morton, and David Peter Morton; and three grandchildren. Funeral service Friday, February 11, 10AM at Hoyt Funeral Home, Main St
 QUICK-Gary D. Passed away peacefully on Monday February 7, 2000 at his Madison home surrounded by the love of his life, Susanne Lancaster Rust.       
 SHERRY-Edward Norman, a prominent attorney retired from the New York law firm of Dewey, Ballantine, passed away at home on February 4, 2000 after a long courageous fight with cancer. He was born in Schenectady, NY on August 25, 1920. He received his B.E.E. at Syracuse Univ. (1943), LL.B Yal
 STONE-Peter W., M.D., 75, of Irvington, NY on February 8th. He was born and raised in Great Kills, Staten Island. Dr. Stone attended Cornell University and graduated from Cornell Medical School in 1947. Dr. Stone interned in surgery at NY Hospital and completed a fellowship in vascular surg
 WASSER-Rabbi Max Raphael. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. Ordained in 1944, he served several pulpits including congregation B'rith Shalom in Bethlehem and Congregation of Mercy and Truth in Pottstown, PA. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Judith, c
 WEINER-Edith, on February 8, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Hyman. Loving mother of Mark and his wife Rose and Jerome and his wife Paula. Cherished grandmother of Robin and Rebecca. Dear sister of Diane Port and Penny Bigelow. Services Thursday 11:30AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and 
 Arthur Seelen, a former actor who with his wife, Rozanne, owned the Drama Book Shop in Manhattan, the oldest performing-arts bookstore in the United States, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 76. In 1958 Mr. Seelen bought the store from Marjorie Seligman, who founded it
 David Alfred Boehm, a publishing entrepreneur who brought the Guinness Book of World Records to the United States and gave the book its name, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86. The short, cherubic man with the immaculate goatee published thousands of titles at the c
 Frederic Lord, a mathematician whose doctoral work at Princeton a half-century ago laid the foundation for scoring the fill-in-the-bubble examinations that have tormented generations of No. 2-pencil-wielding applicants to colleges and graduate schools, died on Saturday at a nursing home in 
 DICK-Lionel A., M.D. Age 75, eminent dermatologist, after a long illness. A wonderful and gentle man devotedly cared for by his beloved wife, Karen. Lovingly remembered by his brother, Dr. Frederick (Marion) S. Dick, niece Barbara Rich, nephew Michael (Marjatta) Dick.       
 ELVIRA-Pablo. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the untimely death of Pablo Elvira. He sang more than 100 performances with our company between 1978 and 1990, including his debut role, Tonio in ''Pagliacci,'' as well as Figaro in ''Il Barbiere di Siviglia,'' Enrico in ''Lucia di Lammermoor,'' a
 GOLDENSON-Leonard H. Founder and Chairman of the Board of ABC, Inc., 1953-1986, died in Sarasota, Florida on December 27, 1999 at the age of 94. He is survived by his wife, Isabelle Weinstein Goldenson, his two daughters, Loreen Arbus and Maxine Goldenson, both of Los Angeles, and one grand
 HOFFMEYER-John T., 72, on February 8, 2000, of Hendersonville, NC, formerly of Westfield, NJ. Survived by children Eugenie Devine, Essex, CT; Adele Hoffmeyer, Ridgewood, NJ; Frederick Hoffmeyer, Mobile, AL; four grandchildren and companion Ann Newe, Hendersonville, NC. He was predeceased by
 SEIDEN-Morton Irving, Professor of English at Brooklyn College, died on February 8, 2000. He was 78 years old. A native New Yorker, Professor Seiden attended New York University and later Columbia, where he received his master's degree and with ''very high distinction'' his doctorate. His t
 SMIT-Leo. The directors and officers of the Aaron Copland Fund for Music deeply regret the passing of our colleague and founding board member Leo Smit. A composer and pianist of skill and sensitivity, Leo was fervently devoted to the art of music and especially to the work of contemporary A
 WALDRUP-Bernard L. On February 6th, 2000. He is survived by 3 daughters, Elizabeth Waldrup, Carey Gross and Leslie Waldrup, a son, Chip Waldrup, son-in-law, Brian Gross and 3 grandchildren, Christopher, Jennifer and Andrew Gross. A memorial service will be held 11AM, Saturday, February 12, 
 WITTKE-Paul. G. Schirmer, Inc. mourns the death of our friend and colleague on February 6. Associated with our firm for nearly half a century, he was the devoted editor of composers Samuel Barber, Leonard Bernstein, Gian Carlo Menotti, Leon Kirchner, John Corigliano, John Adams, and many ot
 WONG-Raybin Q. Died February 5, 2000. Greatly missed by his family and friends.       
 BACHMANN-Louis, Jr. Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital of Mount Sinai NYU Health will hold a memorial service to mark the passing last month of generous long-time benefactor Louis Bachmann, Jr., whose philanthropy to Mount Sinai included joining his daughter Bonnie 
 GAIR-Harry A. Assessing the values and purposes of human conduct, his probity in the practice of the law was most laudable. Herbert       
 Retired Lt. Gen. Claude Raymond, a feared chief of staff of the Haitian Army and minister of the interior and defense during the successive dictatorships of Francois (Papa Doc) Duvalier and his son, Jean-Claude (Baby Doc), died in the Haitian capital, Port-au-Prince, either Sunday or Wednes
 Gus Johnson, a drummer for some of the great jazz bands from the 1930's to the 50's, including those led by Count Basie and Benny Goodman, died on Sunday at Clear Creek Care Center in Westminster, Colo. He was 86 and lived in North Glen, Colo. Mr. Johnson was one of the most highly 
 Ion Gheorghe Maurer, who was prime minister, foreign minister and titular head of state of independent-minded Communist Romania from the 1950's to the 1970's, died Tuesday in Bucharest, the Romanian capital, where he lived. He was 97. Mr. Maurer, whose name is pronounced yon gay-OR-
 Pablo Elvira, a Puerto Rican-born baritone who became a regular member of the New York City Opera in the 1970's and 80's and sang frequently with the Metropolitan Opera, died on Saturday at his home in Bozeman, Mont. He was 62. A coroner's report said that he died of natural causes.
 BRANDT-George W. Sr. of New York City died February 5, 2000 at age 85. He is survived by his wife, Lillian Sampson (Fuhrtz), two children, The Rev. Canon George W. Brandt, Jr. of New York and Judyie Ellen and her husband Shahid Al-Bilali of Edgartown, Mass., and two grandchildren, Hanan and
 DICK-Lionel A., M.D.. Age 75, eminent dermatologist, after a long illness. A wonderful and gentle man devotedly cared for by his beloved wife, Karen. Lovingly remembered by his brother, Dr. Frederick (Marion) S. Dick, niece Barbara Rich, nephew Michael (Marjatta) Dick.       
 ELVIRA-Pablo. New York City Opera mourns the passing of our good friend and colleague, Pablo Elvira. He joined our company in 1974 and remained with us until 1989, providing us with many memorable evenings in the theater as a leading baritone in the Italian repertory. He was a gifted artist
 GOLDENSON-Leonard H.. Founder and Chairman of the Board of ABC, Inc., 1953-1986, died in Sarasota, Florida on December 27, 1999 at the age of 94. He is survived by his wife, Isabelle Weinstein Goldenson, his two daughters, Loreen Arbus and Maxine Goldenson, both of Los Angeles, and one gran
 MARKEL-Edward. The family of Edward Markel mourn the death of their husband, father and grandfather. Mr. Markel was the former city editor of the New York Daily Mirror retiring in Nov. 1963. He was a former trustee for the Manhattan Savings Bank and a member of the board of directors of the
 ROSEMAN-Ronald Ariah., February 10, 2000. Loving husband of Okkyu. Devoted father of Remie and John. Pre-eminent oboist, inspired composer and beloved professor of music. Reposing Walter B. Cooke Funeral Home, 117 W. 72nd St. Wake 6-9, Friday. Mass of Christian Burial Saturday, 10:30am, at 
 WORTHING-Frank. The Lincoln Hall Board of Managers notes with deep regret the passing of Frank W. Worthing who served on the Board from 1983 to 1995. Frank's extensive background and epertise regarding the insurance industry made him an invaluable asset as Chairman of the Audit and Insuranc
 Syd Cassyd, whose idea it was to found the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, which gives the Emmy Awards, died on Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 91. Mr. Cassyd was working for a trade publication when he had the idea, and in 1946 he organized a meeting of influenti
 Wilfred Cantwell Smith, a scholar of Islam and comparative religions who took an early lead in urging intellectual understanding of religious pluralism and dialogue among faiths, died on Monday in a hospital in Toronto. He was 83 and lived in Toronto. The cause was congestive heart 
 Beau Jack, a one-time Georgia shoeshine boy who became the world lightweight champion and Madison Square Garden's biggest boxing draw of the 1940's, then toiled again at a bootblack's stand when the cheering stopped, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Miami. He was 78. The cause wa
 Geoffrey Ernest Maurice de Ste. Croix, a Marxist historian of ancient Greece and Rome whose erudition and sweeping, passionate style won the admiration of colleagues even when they disagreed with his conclusions, died on Feb. 5 at a hospital in Oxford, England. He was three days short of hi
 BLANK-Harold, Dr.., at home CA, February 1. Survived by wife Ruth, sons Ron and Terry, grandchildren Dan, Marni, Eliza, Willa. Sister Muriel Hirsch. A talented and respected Dentist from Great Neck, NY, retired. We will all miss his courageous vitality. Burial private in Lake Placid.       
 DICK-Lionel A., M.D.. Age 75, eminent dermatologist, after a long illness. A wonderful and gentle man devotedly cared for by his beloved wife, Karen. Lovingly remembered by his brother, Dr. Frederick (Marion) S. Dick, niece Barbara Rich, nephew Michael (Marjatta) Dick.       
 EGAN-Fr. Daniel, S.A.., a Friar of the Atonement, Graymoor, Garrison, NY, died on Thursday, February 10, 2000. Referred to as the ''Junkie Priest,'' he became internationally known for his work in drug abuse prevention, rehabilitation and education. Visitation will be held at Pilgrim Hall, 
 ELVIRA-Pablo. We note with great sadness the death of Pablo Elvira, a good friend and colleague. His memorable performance in Donizetti's ''La Favorita'' with Barbara Hendricks, Shirley Verrett, Alfredo Kraus and James Morris will long be remembered, as will his appearance in Boito's ''Nero
 MANDELBAUM-Joseph, Dr.. Of Brooklyn, N.Y., died peacefully at home at age 87. After graduating from Columbia College in 1931 and Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1935, he conducted research on dark adaptation and subsequently went into the private practice of ophthalmology. He
 ROSEMAN-Ronald. The Juilliard School deeply mourns the death of Ronald Roseman, a member of the School's faculty since 1982. A brilliant oboist, creative composer and arranger, dedicated teacher and coach, and caring human being, he was a greatly respected member of the Juilliard community.
 SABINO-Joseph. Born July 19, 1921. Died February 4, 2000 after a long illness which he fought with great courage. Beloved husband and father.       
 TISCHLER-Dr. Stanley. State University of New York-Health Science Center at Brooklyn, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology was saddened to hear of Dr. Stanley Tischler's death. Dr. Tischler was a clinical professor in the Department. He was a member of the faculty for a period of 23 year
 YAMAGUCHI-William E. Sr., died at home in Larchmont, NY on February 10, 2000 at the age of 75. Following a long career with Time-Life, he set up a consulting practice, bridging the Japanese and American business cultures. Survived by his wife Kim; his children Ellen, Chip and Susan; and thr
 Roger Vadim, the French film director who turned Brigitte Bardot into an overnight star and potent sex symbol in his first movie, ''And God Created Woman,'' died today in a Paris hospital. He was 72. Friends said he had died of cancer. During a 40-year career in which he dir
 The Rev. Daniel Egan, whose tireless work in rehabilitating drug addicts brought him the nickname ''the Junkie Priest,'' died on Thursday at a hospital in Peekskill, N.Y. He was 84 and lived at the Graymoor Friary in Garrison, N.Y. Father Egan's work with addicts began in 1952, when
 George Koltanowski, an international chess master and author who excelled at beating opponents without looking at the board, died Feb. 5 in a hospital in San Francisco. He was 96. Mr. Koltanowski, known as Kolti, won several chess titles in Europe in the 1920's and 30's but was best
 BAER-Ralph S. Died at home in Yonkers, NY, on February 11th, 2000, at the age of 85. Beloved husband of Dorothy nee Griesheimer. Devoted father of Denise Resnik, grandfather of Andrew and James Resnik, and brother of Lisa Messinger. He was an active volunteer for the New York Public Library
 EVENSEN-Bryn. 46, of a heart attack on January 4, 2000. A man of extraordinary wit and energy, who could scull ten miles, build out a kitchen, manage a fund raiser and play concertos -all before cocktails. Fresh out of Harvard, he built one of the most successful U.S. fund raising companies
 HECHT-Emanuel M., of New York, White Plains and Lincroft, NJ, died on February 2nd at age 90. Mac was a compassionate listener and energetic helper and lived his strong belief that giving is better than receiving. His many friends and loving family will remember...and smile.       
 JERRY-Martin. On February 7, 2000. Devoted father of Christine and Ashley. Beloved brother of Peter. Loving uncle of Michael and Robert. Cherished brother-inlaw of Ronnie. Co-founder of Jerry/Haines Design Studio, NYC. Memorial service on Wednesday, February 16 at 6:30PM at Chat and Ciao, 1
 MANDELBAUM-Joseph, Dr. Of Brooklyn, N.Y., died peacefully at home at age 87. After graduating from Columbia College in 1931 and Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1935, he conducted research on dark adaptation and subsequently went into the private practice of ophthalmology. He 
 ROBERTS-Stephen M. One week ago today God welcomed you to His home. You will live on in our home, our safe haven always. Your unconditional love and friendship, your infectious optimism, sunny disposition and smile, your loyalty, boundless generosity will live on in my heart. Our time toget
 ROSEMAN-Ronald. We mourn the death of our colleague, teacher and friend. Superb oboist, consummate musician, talented composer, perceptive and dedicated teacher, and warm human being, Ronnie will be profoundly missed. We extend our sympathy to his mother, his wife, and his children. The fac
 STARKEY-George W.B., MD, 81, a resident of Brookline, MA and Norfolk, CT, died February 5 in Boston. He was a graduate of Trinity College and Harvard Medical School. A thoracic surgeon, he was Associate Clinical Professor of Surgery at Harvard Medical School. In WWII, he served as a battali
 WALSDORF-George. Age 50 years, died February 11, 2000, in Rome Memorial Hospital, Rome, NY. He was born March 21, 1949; the son of Murray and Fannie Wyoukark Walsdorf. Last known to have resided in NYC. Will any kin or anyone knowing any next of kin contact Central NY D.S.O. collect at 315-
 YAMAGUCHI-William E. Sr, died at home in Larchmont, NY on February 10, 2000 at the age of 75. Following a long career with Time-Life, he set up a consulting practice, bridging the Japanese and American business cultures. Survived by his wife Kim; his children Ellen, Chip and Susan; and thre
 Peter Tripp, a popular disc jockey in New York in the late 1950's whose career peaked when he stayed awake for more than eight days as a stunt but later plunged when he was found guilty of accepting thousands of dollars in payola, died Jan. 31 in a hospital in Northridge, Calif. He was 73. 
 Tom Landry, the taciturn Texan who coached the Dallas Cowboys for their first 29 seasons and led them to five Super Bowls, died last night in Dallas. He was 75. Landry died at Baylor University Medical Center, where since May he had periodically undergone treatment for acute myeloge
 Charles M. Schulz, the creator of ''Peanuts,'' the tender and sage comic strip starring Charlie Brown and Snoopy that is read by 355 million people around the world, died in his sleep on Saturday night at his home in Santa Rosa, Calif., just hours before his last cartoon ran in the Sunday n
 Lord Kitchener, whose sly wit and graceful melodies made him one of Trinidad's most beloved calypso songwriters, died on Friday at a hospital in Port of Spain, Trinidad. He was 77 and lived in Diego Martin, just outside Port of Spain. The cause was a severe infection brought on by a
 ALLISON-Billy Gene. 67. Family and friends deeply mourn his passing on February 12. Following a distinguished U.S. Army career, his interest in physical conditioning and exercise led him to become a personal trainer in NYC with a large and loyal following. Known for his rapier wit and love 
 AYRES-C. Burgess. In Bedford, MA, formerly of Wallingford, CT, and Jaffrey, NH, February 12. Husband of Katharine (George). Father of Margo Smith of Dedham, MA, Susan Noble of Stony Brook, NY, Burgess N. Ayres of Sheffield, MA, and Robert Ayres of Concord, MA. Brother of Edward B. Ayres of 
 GOODKIND-Louis W., Esq. Of Irvington, NY; born St. Paul, MN, August 29, 1914, died at his home on February 13, 2000. He is survived by his wife, Carol Eaton Bourquin Goodkind, his three daughters, Barbara Pepper, Mary Goodkind Garner and Kathryn Goodkind Boyle, and his stepchildren, Philip 
 HILTZIK-Abraham. The Board of Directors of 175 East 62 St. mourn the passing of Abraham Hiltzik, our good friend, neighbor and former board member. His warmth, intelligence and humor will be missed. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife and our esteemed board member, Anne,
 JACKSON-George. On February 10, 2000, in NYC at 41. Forever loved by wife Yuko, daughter Kona Rose, mother Henrietta Jackson, sister Dr. Sharon Jackson and brother Bobbie Stancil. His spirit and vision lives in his family and his friends at Urban Box Office. Service Monday, February 14, 200
 KATZ-Edward Benjamin, Dr. Lifelong resident of NYC, was born March 13, 1927, and died February 7, 2000. Dr. Katz graduated from Bronx High School of Science in 1945, and received his B.S.S. from City College of New York in 1949. In 1952, Dr. Katz received his M.S.L.S. from Columbia Universi
 KIRSCH-Louis. Beloved husband of Ethel (nee Margolin); devoted father of Joan and Nancy; cherished grandfather of Ezra and Grayson. His sense of humor will be greatly missed. The family will receive friends at his home.       
 SPIVACK-John D. 80, passed away December 23, 1999, in Suffern, NY, after a long struggle with Alzheimer's disease. He received his Ph.D. in chemistry from McGill in 1947, married, emigrated to the United States, and became a loving father to three children. He worked for thirty-six years fo
 STERNS - Philip Olcott. Died peacefully on February 11 in Vermont. Born Detroit, February 9, 1917. Philip will be sorely missed by his many friends, particularly his colleagues within the military miniatures and historical societies the world over. In lieu of flowers, please make donations 
 WALSDORF-George. Age 50 years, died February 11, 2000, in Rome Memorial Hospital, Rome, NY. He was born March 21, 1949; the son of Murray and Fannie Wyoukark Walsdorf. Last known to have resided in NYC. Will any kin or anyone knowing any next of kin contact Central NY D.S.O. collect at 315-
 Screamin' Jay Hawkins, who howled, whooped, gurgled and shrieked his way through some of the most unhinged performances in rock history, died on Saturday in Neuilly-sur-Seine, a suburb of Paris. He was 70 and lived near Paris. The cause was multiple organ failure following emergency
 Tom Landry, the taciturn Texan who coached the Dallas Cowboys for their first 29 seasons and led them to five Super Bowls, died Saturday night in Dallas. He was 75. Landry died at Baylor University Medical Center, where since May he had periodically undergone treatment for acute mye
 Ed Linn, an author and magazine writer who collaborated with the maverick baseball owner Bill Veeck on three books and wrote widely on the Yankees and the Red Sox, died on Feb. 7 at his home in Spring Valley, Calif. He was 77. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Linn 
 George Jackson, who grew up in Harlem to become a movie producer, record company executive and Internet company founder, died yesterday at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital. He was 42. Mr. Jackson died after a stroke a week earlier, said Frank Cooper, his business partner. For t
 James M. Edwards, a senior partner in the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore who counseled a number of multinational corporations, died Tuesday in a hotel in Grand Anse, Grenada, in the West Indies, where he was vacationing. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was kidney ca
 DANIELSON-Ole Willis. Formerly of New York City, died February 7, 2000 at the age of 83 in Newark, DE after a long illness. His wife, Hazel (''Bunny'') Hill Vial died in 1984. He was a 1938 graduate of West Point, and served in World War II in Europe. Joining the United Nations afterwards, 
 GOODKIND-Louis W., Esq. Of Irvington, NY; born St. Paul, MN, August 29, 1914, died at his home on February 13, 2000. He is survived by his wife, Carol Eaton Bourquin Goodkind, his three daughters, Barbara Pepper, Mary Goodkind Garner and Kathryn Goodkind Boyle, and his stepchildren, Philip 
 HILTZIK-Abraham. We mourn the passing of our dear husband, father, grandfather and greatgrandfather. He has left a legacy of love, integrity and family unity. He will be mourned, missed and never forgotten by his wife, Anne; his children, Louise and Arthur Schwartz, George & Linda Hiltzik, 
 LORD-Lester. The Hewlett-East Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Lester Lord, and extends heartfelt sympathy to his wife, Beatrice, and the entire family. Rabbi Stanley Platek Dr. Norman Doctor, President       
 MARQUIS-Roy Porter. Age 57, died February 10, 2000, at home after a brief illness. A memorial gathering was held February 13th at the home of Anita Rogers, his loving companion and partner of 34 years. In addition to Anita Rogers, Mr. Marquis was survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Roy Ma
 SANTANGELO-Robert C. On February 8 of ALS. Beloved brother of Renzo Santangelo of West Roxbury, MA., and Tillie Boyle of Lewes, DE. Loving uncle of many nieces and nephews and cherished by friends galore. Memorial service will be held at Oak Crest Chapel, 8200 Walther Blvd., Parkville, MD o
 SIEGEL-Allan D. Most wonderful, loving father to Julie Bennett, Jodi Siegel and Jocelyn Siegel. Loving Grandpa to Max and Shaefer Bennett, Isaac and Simon Davenport. Beloved brother of Florence Goldberg and Martin Siegel. Loving friend to many. His humor, love of life, dedication to family 
 SIKORA-Alexander J. Jr. Of Yonkers. On Sunday, February 13, 2000 at age 71. A former engineer with ABC Mutual Broadcasting Company and WOR Radio. Beloved husband of Marion (Saban) Sikora. Devoted father of Alexandra Harp, Alexander J. Sikora III, Andrew J. Sikora, Dr. Janet Amendola and Jon
 STEARNS-Philip Olcott. Died peacefully on February 11 in Vermont. Born Detroit, February 9, 1917. Philip will be sorely missed by his many friends, particularly his colleagues within the military miniatures and historical societies the world over. In lieu of flowers, please make donations t
 WEINBERGER-Donald. The Capital Defender Screening Panel for the Second Department expresses sympathy to the family of our colleague and good friend, Donald Weinberger. He will be missed. M. Arthur Eiberson Jeanne E. Mettler Cynthia Diaz-Wilson       
 WINSLOW-Richard Sears. Died February 10, 2000, at age 91 in Exeter, NH. Predeceased in 1998 by Lucy P. Winslow, wife of 56 years. Social worker in Boston in the 1930's. Private in U.S. Army in WW II. Director of post-war refugee camp in Europe. Administrator in international affairs and cit
 The Rev. Richard A. McCormick, for many years the dominant American voice in Roman Catholic moral theology, especially on the daunting questions of medical ethics that have emerged in recent times, died on Saturday. He was 77 and lived at the Colombiere Center in Clarkston, Mich., a residen
 Ronald Roseman, an oboist, composer and teacher who was admired as a soloist and for his work with the New York Woodwind Quintet and the Bach Aria Group, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 66. The cause was cancer, said Ronald Cannava, a spokesman for Queens College, 
 Tony Lee Bettenhausen, a member of a prominent auto racing family who owned a racing team and drove Indy Cars for more than a decade, died yesterday in the crash of a small plane on a farm near Leesburg, Ky. He was 48. The crash, which occurred in midday about 30 miles from Lexingto
 William A. Andres, who led the Dayton Hudson Corporation's expansion from a regional department store chain to a national retailing powerhouse, died Wednesday of lymphoma in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 73. Under the leadership of Mr. Andres from 1976 through the sharp recession of the e
 Dr. Alvin M. Liberman, a retired professor of psychology and linguistics whose innovative research was influential in the study of speech perception, died on Jan. 13 at a hospital in Mansfield Center, Conn. He was 82 and lived in Mansfield Center. He died of complications after open
 Ervin Litkei, a music business executive who owned several companies but whose passion was the composition of patriotic music -- including marches dedicated to every United States president since Franklin D. Roosevelt -- died on Feb. 8 at his home in Manhattan. He was 78. His wife, 
 Harry William Prichett Sr., an architect of television's first attempt at interactive broadcasting with the 1950's children's program ''Winky Dink and You,'' died on Feb. 5 at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Prichett was a graphic artist at an 
 Joseph A. Rothschild, a longtime professor of history and political science at Columbia University and one of the nation's leading authorities on East Central Europe, died on Jan. 30 at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. He died of complications from a nonmalignant brain tumor, said 
 CHU-Chun. Passed peacefully on February 12 in New York City joining his wife Chin-Shun Chao and son Norton Yuen Chu. Survived by daughter-in-law Frances Lian Ghu, sons Suen Heong and Shiu Ying Chiu, and Jose and Shuk Fong Chau, grandchildren Roderick G.W. Chu, Laura and David Burke, So Kuen
 FEINBERG-Elliot. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its long time member and extends sympathy to his bereaved family. Marjorie Miller, President Richard J. Jacobs, Rabbi Kenneth M. Chasen, Asst. Rabbi Stephen Merkel, Cantor Jack Stern Jr., Rabbi Emeritus      
 FRANKEL-Jerome.Passed away February 14. Devoted and loving husband to Lydia. Father to Joshua and Peter. Grandfather to Jake, Madeline and Aerin. A fighter to the end, he will be deeply missed. Invictus.       
 HOLMES-Walter J., 93, formerly of the Bronx died Friday in Albany, NY. He retired as Director of Public Relations for NYS Comptroller Arthur Levitt. He was a 60 year member of the Bronx and Albany Lions Clubs. He was a past district governor of Lions district 20-R2, past International Couns
 MORIARTY-Michael J. Michael in his career worked for First American Title Insurance Company of New York for over 20 years. He held various positions with the company starting as Branch Counsel and rising most proudly to Senior Vice President, as well as a member of the Board of Directors of
 QUINN-John Dillon, 87, of New Canaan, CT., founder of Quinn Construction Group, Inc., died February 13. He is survived by his wife, Agnes and their 10 children: John, Jr., Gerald, Elizabeth, Matthew, Barbara, Karen, Virginia, Regina, Kevin, and Dennis. Visiting will be 4:00-8:00 p.m. on Feb
 QUIRK-William T. The staff of the Kings County District Attorney's Office mourns with deep sorrow the passing of William T. Quirk, father of Dennis Quirk, President of the New York State Court Officers Association and our dear friend. We send our heartfelt condolences to his entire family a
 ROFFMAN-Ruth L. Of Teaneck, NJ on February 14. Beloved and adored wife of the late Sidney. Most precious mother of Barbara Wider and husband Jerry. Loving Nana to Todd, Jedd, Jena & Erez. The memory of her devotion, praise and love will sustain us always. Services ''Gutterman-Musicant'', 40
 SHAW-Dr. Edward J., 84, January 14, St. Louis, MO. Surgeon Yale Medicine '37, in New York City until 1965. Memorial service Saturday, February 19, 2:30PM, Church of the Heavenly Rest, 90th & 5th. Donations may be made in his name, Doctors Without Borders, 6 East 39 St, 8 Flr, NY, NY 10016  
 SIMMONS-Percy. Age 93, passed away peacefully in Indianapolis, Indiana on February 15, 2000. Born in London, England, he resided in Indianapolis for 60 years. He was the former French Consul in Indianapolis, a patron of the arts, founder of the Indianapolis Chevalier du Tastevin Society, a 
 Walter Fletcher, who covered dog shows for The New York Times for more than 60 years and became something of a celebrity in the sport, died yesterday at a hospital in Niceville, Fla., where he lived in a retirement community. He was 93. Mr. Fletcher, who covered more than 40 edition
 Dr. Martin T. Orne, a psychiatrist whose work on hypnosis influenced its use around the world and helped limit its role in criminal investigations, died on Friday in Paoli, Pa. He was 72. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Orne, who was also a psychologist, was consi
 BERNSTEIN-Maurice. On February 10, 2000 in Keene, N.H., formerly of NYC. Loving father and fatherin-law of Peggy and Bill Heyman. Beloved grandfather of Lynn and Chris Hansen, Mark Heyman and Jay Heyman. Dear great-grandfather of Laura and Kyle Hansen. Raised in the Hebrew Orphan Asylum, he
 BOHORODZANER-Chaim. The Young Israel of Holliswood mourns the loss of our esteemed Board Member, Chaim Bohorodzaner. He inspired us with his courage and with his commitment to his family, his community and his faith. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jeruslaem. Ma
 CHU-Chun. Passed peacefully on February 12 in New York City, joining his wife Chin-Shun Chao and son Norton Yuen Chu. Survived by daughter-in-law Frances Liang Chu, sons Suen Heong and Shiu Ying Chiu, and Jose and Shuk Fong Chau, grandchildren Roderick G.W. Chu, Laura and David Burke, So Ku
 CORRADO-Frank L. On February 15, 2000 of Douglaston, NY. Beloved husband of Pearl. Loving father of JoAnna, Frank, Jr., Katherine and Christopher. Grandfather of six. He was an attorney for over 50 years in Queens. In repose at the Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd., Manhasset, T
 DANTONI-Hon. Albert. Formerly of New City, NY. He served as Commissioner and Chairman for the New York Workman's Compensation Board. Reposing Friday, 2-4, 7-9PM at Shook's Cedar Grove Funeral Home, 486 Pompton Ave., Cedar Grove, NJ, (973) 239-1489. Donations in his memory can be made to the
 FEINBERG-Elliot, M.D. Ridgeway Country Club mourns the passing of its esteemed former president, green chairman and Board member, Dr. Elliot Feinberg. His leadership and friendship will be missed by all. Our sincerest condolences to his wife, Lita, and their family. Board of Governors Ridge
 FRANK-Walter Nils, 91. Died Tuesday at Kendal at Hanover, NH. He was born April 22, 1908 in Brooklyn, NY, the son of Louis and Selma (Persson) Frank. He attended Brooklyn schools and entered New York University in 1924. He was married on April 22, 1931 to Ruth Carlson. Mr. Frank had been a 
 HARNIK-Irving. Age 83. Died on Feb. 15, 2000. Beloved and loving husband of 56 years to Isabelle (nee Erlich). Adored father of Alan and Lois. Caring father-inlaw of Gillian and Stuart. Cherished grandfather of Vanessa, Paul and Jessica. Dear brother to Seymour and his wife Shelia. One of t
 HILTZIK-Abraham. We mourn the passing of our dear husband, father, grandfather and greatgrandfather. He has left a legacy of love, integrity and family unity. He will be mourned, missed and never forgotten by his wife, Anne; his children, Louise and Arthur Schwartz, George & Linda Hiltzik, 
 ISSELBACHER-Alfred. February 15, 2000. Age 73. Beloved husband of Carmen. Loving and devoted father of Audrey and her husband David Liebman. Cherished grandfather of Josh and Katie. Devoted brother of the late Hilda Berney and the late Henry Isselbacher. Loving uncle of Jesse, Tina and Gail
 MANDELBAUM-Dr. Joseph. The Board of Trustees and their families and the staff of the League Treatment Center mourn the passing of Dr. Joseph Mandelbaum. Joe and his devoted wife Heddy founded the League Treatment Center. They devoted their energies to creating treatment and education for se
 MARKEL-Herbert F., died February 13, 2000 at the age of 78 at his home in Rye Brook, NY after a long illness. He was a graduate of Port Chester High School, graduated Columbia University and Columbia University School of Law attaining Law Review Honors. A veteran of the Pacific Theatre with
 MERRILL-David. We mourn the loss of our dear friend on February 13, in his Washington, DC home at 38. Formerly of New York City, he is survived by his parents, Lois and Edward Merrill, of Glen Rock, NJ; a brother, Ted, and a sister, Ruth, and his partner, David Carrig of Washington, DC and 
 RHEIN-Ernest. It is with profound sadness that we note the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Ernest Rhein. He was a devoted, dedicated and loyal associate loved by all. The Philipp Brothers Chemicals Inc. family grieves with his loving wife, Getta, his children, Miriam and Ezra, the
 SEIDEN-Morton Irving. The Brooklyn College community mourns the passing of Professor of English, Morton Irving Seiden. His 46 years of teaching and service will long be remembered. Christoph M. Kimmich President, Brooklyn College       
 SIMMONS-Percy. Age 93, passed away peacefully in Indianapolis, Indiana on February 15, 2000. Born in London, England, he resided in Indianapolis for 60 years. He was the former French Consul in Indianapolis, a patron of the arts, founder of the Indianapolis Chevalier du Tastevin Society, a 
 YARIN-Murray. Of Bronxville, N.Y. lost a brave 18-month battle against pancreatic cancer February 15, 2000. Beloved and loving husband of Barbara. Loving and cherished father of Susan, Daniel (Louise). Adoring brother of Marvin (Susan), Jack (Cynthia), brother-in-law (Helen and Howard Glick
 Ronnie Robertson, a silver-medalist figure skater in the 1956 Winter Olympics and an ice-show star who was known as the Blur for his uncanny spins, died on Feb. 4 at a hospital in Fountain Valley, Calif. Robertson, who lived in Irvine, Calif., was 62. The cause was complications of 
 Victor Edward Cohn, a prize-winning science reporter, editor and columnist for The Washington Post and, earlier, The Minneapolis Tribune, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 80. The cause was lung cancer, The Post reported. Mr. Cohn was the author of several boo
 Edwin Singer, a Texas businessman, rancher and philanthropist, died on Saturday at a hospital in Houston. He was 85 and lived in Corpus Christi. Born in New York, Mr. Singer  moved to Corpus Christi in 1937 to engage in business ventures in oil and gas production, refining, banking,
 Isidore Dollinger, a former congressman from the Bronx who was also a state legislator, a district attorney and a judge, died Jan. 30 in a hospital in White Plains, where he had lived for the last several years. He was 96. A Democrat, Mr. Dollinger was a member of the House of Repre
 Ji Pengfei, who took part as China's foreign minister in the Chinese-United States summitry during President Richard M. Nixon's visit to Beijing in 1972, died on Feb. 10 in Beijing. He was 91. Mr. Ji was born into a peasant family in Shanxi province, and at first joined Chiang Kai-s
 Karsten Solheim, one of the world's leading innovators in golf club design, died on Wednesday at his home in Phoenix. He was 88. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, his family said. Mr. Solheim was the founder of Karsten Manufacturing and the creator of Pin
 BILENKER-Mortimer D.. Of Elizabeth, NJ February 16, 2000 in Boynton Beach, FL. Loving husband of the late Hinda F. Bilenker to whom he was married 59 years. Adored father of Dr. Robert (Barbara) Bilenker, Judith (Maynard) Rabinowitz, Ellen (Dr. Martin) Lebofsky and Dr. Arthur (Teri) Bilenke
 BROWN-Mary Murray. Mutual of America, its Board of Directors, together with all of its Officers and Employees, mourn the passing of Mary Murray Brown. Our sincere condolences to Leland Brown, former Chairman of the Board of Mutual of America, and his family. William J. Flynn Chairman of the
 DOHERTY-William H.. On February 15, 2000. Formerly of Summit, NJ and Hilton Head Island, SC. Beloved husband of the late AliceMarie (nee Roux). Loving father of Mary-Anne Westley and Alice Shaber. Grandfather of Amanda, Sarah and Liza Ward and Samantha and Remy Shaber. Memorial Service, Mar
 DOUGHERTY-Elizabeth. On February 16, 2000 at age 69. Beloved sister of John J. Dougherty and his wife Christina, Mary Jane Hansen and Genieve Dougherty and many nieces and nephews. Memorial mass at St. Francis of Assisi Church, 135 West 31 St., Saturday February 19th at 11AM.       
 FRANK-Walter Nils., 91. Died Tuesday at Kendal at Hanover, NH. He was born April 22, 1908 in Brooklyn, NY, the son of Louis and Selma (Persson) Frank. He attended Brooklyn schools and entered New York University in 1924. He was married on April 22, 1931 to Ruth Carlson. Mr. Frank had been a
 GOODMAN-Robert E.. Age 72. Television Director, Songwriter, died at his home in Manhattan on January 31, 2000, from the after effects of a stroke. He is survived by a niece, Betty Jane Goodman, of Munster, Indiana, and his friend of 50 years, Ron Peters.       
 GORDON-Elias W.. Entered into rest February 16, 2000, Elias W. Gordon, of Tucson, AZ and Maui, HI, formerly of Lowell, MA, a graduate of Lawrence Academy and the Univerity of New Hampshire, aged 64 years. Founder and President of Furnistall, Inc. Well-known patron of the arts. Beloved broth
 GREENBERG-Dan. We mourn the passing of our friend and business associate, a man of high standards and high integrity who we held in high esteem. He leaves a wonderful legacy of good family values. The Mack Family       
 ISSELBACHER-Alfred. February 15, 2000. Age 73. Beloved husband of Carmen. Loving and devoted father of Audrey and her husband David Liebman. Cherished grandfather of Josh and Katie. Devoted brother of the late Hilda Berney and the late Henry Isselbacher. Loving uncle of Jesse, Tina and Gail
 LACHMAN-Terry Ross. Friends and family are deeply saddened by the unexpected death of Terry Lachman at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, MD on February 15, 2000. He sustained a cervical fracture in an automobile accident on February 3 and developed complications. Mr. Lachman was originally fro
 LEIDLOFF-Gustav A.. A Vice President of DB Alex. Brown, died suddenly on February 11, 2000 at the age of 76. Gus Leidloff was born in Magdeburg, Germany on February 23, 1924. He, his sister, his late mother, Olga De Mooy, moved to Switzerland just before the outbreak of World War II and cam
 LIFSCHUTZ-Ezekiel. Beloved husband of Rachel, loving father of Nehama and Marcia, devoted grandfather of Reeva, Bram, Eric and Mark and caring great-grandfather of Hannah, Adam and Leah. Services are Friday, February 18, 10:00 A.M. at Gramercy Chapel, 2nd Ave. & 10th St. in NYC. LIF
 OSMAN-Sam. Passed away February 15, 2000. Founder and owner of New York's legendary store, Job Lot/Pushcart. Beloved husband of Eve. Adored and cherished by his loving extended family: Robbie, Donny, Janna and Daniel Osman; Peter, Joan, Vicki, Rachel and Andrew Bergang; Mimi, Nancy and Marc
 SIMMONS-Percy. Age 93, passed away peacefully in Indianapolis, Indiana on February 15, 2000. Born in London, England, he resided in Indianapolis for 60 years. He was the former French Consul in Indianapolis, a patron of the arts, founder of the Indianapolis Chevalier du Tastevin Society, a 
 STERNHEIMER-Rudolph Max. Suddenly on February 16, 2000 at age 73. Retired Senior Physicist at Brookhaven National Laboratory where he worked for over 40 years. Beloved husband of Betty Sternheimer. Dear brother of Paul Sternheimer and his wife Hanne and Michael Sternheimer and his wife Kari
 TANZER-Lawrence. The Board of Trustees of Parker Jewish Institute for Health Care & Rehabilitation extends heartfelt sympathies to Trustee Leonard Tanzer and his family on the passing of his beloved father, Lawrence Tanzer. Lenny, may your memories of him comfort you at this difficult time.
 WEITZMAN-Max. Died on February 15, 2000 of natural causes. He leaves behind three sons and a daughter, four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. He was the owner of a delicatessen on Delancey Street for over 55 years. He will be sorely missed.       
 Sam Osman, who emerged from the throng of pushcart peddlers on the Lower East Side of Manhattan to become the founder of Job Lot Trading, a legendary emporium with a staggeringly unpredictable mix of ultracheap merchandise, died Tuesday at a Manhattan hospital, his son Robby said. He was 88
 Artie Aidala, a New York boxing judge for almost four decades who was at ringside for the Muhammad Ali-Joe Frazier ''fight of the century'' in 1971, died Tuesday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 91. From the early 1940's until the late 1970's, Mr. Aidala was a familiar presence at ch
 Frank V. Fowlkes, a novelist, journalist and editorial consultant, died on Feb. 16 at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 58. The cause was lung cancer, the family said. Mr. Fowlkes wrote two suspense novels, ''The Peruvian Contracts'' (G.P. Putnam's Sons, 1976) and ''Majend
 Miles White, the imaginative costume designer for Rodgers and Hammerstein's first two Broadway hits, ''Oklahoma!'' and ''Carousel,'' and dozens of other musicals as well as movies, ballets, ice shows and circuses, died on Thursday. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. In a career that 
 BARBACK-Harry. Beloved husband of the late Clara. Dear father of Spencer (Ronnie), Pamela and the late Michael. Cherished grandfather of Andrea Abolafia and Michelle. Dear brother of Max and respected uncle and brother-inlaw. Also survived by his loving campanion Eve Burtoff. Services Sunda
 FLOREEN-David A. The Board of Directors and employees of The Atlantic Mutual Companies mourn with deep sorrow the passing of a dear friend. David A. Floreen, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer from 1970 to 1976, passed away earlier this week in Durham, N.C., following a battl
 ISSELBACHER-Alfred. An amusing and stimulating conversationalist, keen on life and ever ready to defend his views, even as a septagenarian. He never complained and kept going, as best he could, until the end, even though circumstances became hard. He was a remarkable and attractive man and 
 MULDOWNEY-James X., 86, of Southbury, CT, died Tues., Feb. 15 at his home. Mr. Muldowney was born Feb. 6, 1914, in Scranton, PA, son of Thomas and Catherine (Thayne) Muldowney. He worked for Rankin & Co. CPA's and made partner before leaving to form Muldowney & Co. in New York City with his
 STERNHEIMER-Rudolph Max. Suddenly on February 16, 2000 at age 73. Retired Senior Physicist at Brookhaven National Laboratory where he worked for over 40 years. Beloved husband of Betty Sternheimer. Dear brother of Paul Sternheimer and his wife Hanne and Michael Sternheimer and his wife Kari
 Walter Nils Frank, a Wall Street executive who served as chairman of the board of governors of the New York Stock Exchange in the mid-1960's, died on Tuesday at a retirement home in Hanover, N.H. He was 91 and had moved to Hanover in 1991. A member of the New York Stock Exchange for
 Goran Tunstrom, one of Scandinavia's most prolific contemporary authors, died on Feb. 5 at his home in Stockholm. He was 62. The apparent cause was heart failure, Swedish new reports said. Mr. Tunstrom published his first collection of poems in 1958. Since then he had produc
 Guy Waterman, who wrote books about hiking in the New England mountains and the preservation of their purity, died on Feb. 6. He was 67 and lived in East Corinth, Vt. Mr. Waterman climbed to the top of Mount Lafayette, a 5,249-foot peak in the White Mountains in northern New Hampshi
 Joachim-Ernst Berendt, a German writer who was best known as a jazz critic but who was also a radio and concert producer and the author of books on nature and acoustical phenomena, died Feb. 4 in Hamburg, Germany. He was 77. He died a day after he was struck by a car, The Associated
 ASHER-William J., Innovator. Bill Asher passed away on February 10, 2000, but not before marrying a lovely lady, producing three wonderful daughters and leading an accomplished career in chemical engineering. He left us after an allout brawl with cancer. He was 65. After winning the Westing
 CUTHBERTSON - Cuthbert. Fe bruary 16, 2000. Age 90, in Essex Fells, NJ. He was Works Manager of the Western Electric Co. in Kearney, NJ, when he retired in 1974. Survived by a son, R. Bruce Cuthbertson of Key Biscayne, FL; a daughter, Terry Cuthbertson Pelster of Manhattan; and grandchildre
 GARSON-William E. Died peacefully in his sleep, February 16, 2000 in Bryn Mawr, PA. Born NYC, December 7, 1908, fourth and last child of Daisy and Eli Garson. Survived by his beloved wife, Diana Hitschler Garson. His remarkably vigorous life spanned almost the entire 20th Century and includ
 GOLDSTINE-Sydney A., MD. Ninety-one years. Passed on February 13 at Mt. Sinai Hospital. Cherished and loving husband of Tamie Laurance Goldstine. Loving father of Jonathan and Thea. Loving grandfather of Susan. Affiliated with Mt. Sinai Hospital forty years, he was a devoted physician and f
 GREENFIELD-Alex (Craig), age 42, February 4th, of a heart attack. Survived by his parents, Don and Elaine of Monroe Twp., NJ, two sisters, Sharon Priore and Gayle Glasson, and niece, Melanie. Services were held February 7th.       
 ISSELBACHER-Alfred. An amusing and stimulating conversationalist, keen on life and ever ready to defend his views, even as a septuagenarian. He never complained and kept going, as best he could, until the end, even though circumstances became hard. He was a remarkable and attractive man and
 LEIDLOFF-Gustav A. A Vice President of DB Alex. Brown, died suddenly on February 11, 2000 at the age of 76. Gus Leidloff was born in Magdeburg, Germany on February 23, 1924. He, his sister, and his late mother, Olga De Mooy, moved to Switzerland just before the outbreak of World War II and 
 MINES-Robert. 12/14/37-2/18/00. Devoted husband of Marlene (nee Peck) for 38 years. Great father to Nicole, Craig and Elizabeth, Amy and Jamie. Awesome ''Pop Pop'' of Zachary and Jared. Social worker for 35 years. He helped many people through difficult times. He was always smiling. He will
 STERNHEIMER-Rudolph Max. Suddenly on February 16, 2000 at age 73. Retired Senior Physicist at Brookhaven National Laboratory where he worked for over 40 years. Beloved husband of Betty Sternheimer. Dear brother of Paul Sternheimer and his wife Hanne and Michael Sternheimer and his wife Kari
 WHITE-Miles. February 17, 2000. Uncle of Carla White, Lee White and Cynthia White. He was a noted theatrical costume designer, the winner of two Tony Awards and two Academy Award nominations. Memorial service to be announced at a later date.       
 Richard Rosenblum, a sculptor and a collector of Asian art, died on Tuesday at his home in Newton, Mass. He was 59. The cause was cancer, said Stanetsky Memorial Chapels in Brookline, Mass. Mr. Rosenblum was known for his collection of Chinese scholars' rocks, which has been
 Anatoly A. Sobchak, the former mayor of St. Petersburg and democratic reformer who gave Acting President Vladimir V. Putin his start in public life, died of a heart attack this morning, officials said. He was 62. Mr. Sobchak, who underwent treatment for heart problems for several ye
 Col. Dean Davenport, the co-pilot of the World War II bomber crew whose role in the Doolittle raid over Japan was recounted in the book and movie ''Thirty Seconds Over Tokyo,'' died on Feb. 14 at a hospital in Panama City, Fla. He was 81. The cause was congestive heart failure and p
 John W. Hannon Jr., a former president of Bankers Trust, died last Monday at Carolina House, an assisted living facility in Pinehurst, N.C. Mr. Hannon, a resident of West End, N.C., was 77. The cause of death was cardiac arrest, said his son, Bruce. Mr. Hannon worked for Ban
 ALLEN-Ronald R., Jr. Of New York City, died February 18, while vacationing in Miami Beach, FL. He is survived by his parents, Mr. and Mrs. Ronald R. Allen, Sr. of Knoxville, TN; his brother Rick; his sister Jennifer; and his companion Connie Jones. The family will receive friends on Tuesday
 BURTON-Maurice. Born December 15, 1912 in Warsaw, Poland. Passed away in Ft. Lauderdale, FL, February 17. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. He is survived by his wife Anna, his sons Philip and Robert, and grandchildren Emanuelle and Joshua. He was a Holocaust survivor who came the to
 FLEISCHER-Gustave. On February 19, 2000, at age 63. Devoted and loving husband to Helen. Beloved father of Cheryl, Linda and son-inlaw Stewart. Graduate of MIT. He was a member of the Moles, American Society of Civil Engineering, the Military Engineer and the British Tunneling Society. He w
 RUBIN-Isaac, Judge. Of Rye, died February 19, 2000. He was 86. Justice Rubin was born in Mt. Vernon, NY, on May 9, 1913, to Hyman and Celia (nee Kahn) Rubin. He married Lucille Lyons on June 19, 1949. He was a veteran of the army serving in World War II. Justice Rubin's career spanned 30 ye
 Rudolph W. Patzert, the captain of a rusty 1904 gunboat that carried more than 1,380 Jewish refugees from Europe to Palestine as part of a secret rescue operation after World War II, died on Jan. 21 in a nursing home in Encinitas, Calif. He was 88. The cause was cancer, said his son
 Barney Childs, a composer and teacher, died on Jan. 11 at his home in Redlands, Calif. He was 73. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his friend and colleague, Phillip Rehfeldt. Born in Spokane, Wash., Mr. Childs grew up there and in Palo Alto, Calif. He studied at the U
 Bob Hite Sr., whose commanding voice made countless fans of ''The Lone Ranger'' pull their chairs closer to the family radio, died on Friday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 86 and had lived in Florida. Mr. Hite began his radio career in the 1930's, when he worked for station WXYZ in
 Clifton Daniel, the courtly North Carolinian who served as managing editor of The New York Times from 1964 to 1969 after a career as a correspondent in wartime London, war-torn Europe and the Middle East, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 . The cause was complicatio
 Justice Isaac Rubin, a former New York State appeals court judge from Westchester County, died Saturday in a hospice in the Bronx. He was 86 and lived in Rye, N.Y. After retiring from the bench in 1990 after 20 years, Justice Rubin continued to work in the court system as a judicial
 BERNSTEIN-Maurice. The Hebrew Orphan Asylum Association mourns the loss of one of its most beloved members, Maurice Bernstein, who died on February 10th at 95. He had been admitted to the HOA during WW I, having lost both parents. The HOA gave him a college scholarship, sent him to social w
 CASSACK-Louis. 102, a member of the Board of Directors of Municipal Concerts, Inc., will be missed for his work in bringing live classical music to the communities of our city. Irwin Feigin, President Julius Grossman, Music Director       
 CHARATZ-Louis, February 21, 2000. Devoted father to his children Steven and Philip, Sandy and Pearl. Beloved brother to Nathan and grandchildren. Services at I.J. Morris, 1895 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, NY at 12:30PM today.       
 KIM-Robert, M.D. Of Portland, OR. A U.S. Air Force veteran and graduate of Union College and Rochester University. Died February 19, 2000. His uncle Philip Hoffer and members of the Hoffer and Liebman families extend their deepest condolences to his mother Pauline, and his wife Barbara and 
 KOCH-WESER-Reimer, 93, on January 24 at his home after a short illness. Beloved father of Gisela O'Brien and Dr. Peter Koch-Weser. Grandfather of Stephen, Christopher and Dennis O'Brien. Susan Koch-Weser, and Jennifer Cullen. Great-grandfather of Margaret Cullen.       
 KOPP-Paul Arnold. Died February 20 at the age of 77, his wife Helene Fuld of 57 years at his side with three sons, Larry, Jeffrey and Mitchell. He had nine grandchildren and six great-grandchildren who were the delight of his life. He had been a Cub Scout Master, Little League Commissioner 
 SWAN-Eugene L., Jr. 90, on February 19, 2000 in Athens, Maine. Survived by his wife Katharine, two daughters Katherine Francis, Josephine Swan, two sons Ripley and Benjamin Swan and five grandchildren.       
 TASSONE-Joseph Francis. On Feb. 19, 2000. Provider, fixer-upper & guiding light. Loving & devoted husband of Audrey (married 57 years). Mr. T. died as a result of injuries sustained in his heroic effort to save his wife from their burning home February 19, 1999. Member of the Floyd Bennett 
 DENERSTEIN-EZRA J. Ever present in our lives. He is dearly loved and deeply missed. Susan and Harris DENERSTEIN-Ezra J. Eight years today, forever in my heart and thoughts. Rita       
 Robert Lamb Jr., the Justice Department's top community liaison for the Pacific Northwest, died on Feb. 9 at a hospital in Seattle. He was 74 and lived in Bellevue, Wash. Mr. Lamb had been in poor health for some time, said the Community Relations Service at the department. 
 Donald Tecumseh (Tee) Carson, who inherited the piano chair from Count Basie after the band leader's health failed, died on Feb. 13 at his home in Cedar Park, Tex. He was 70. The cause was lung cancer, said Shirley Cason, his sister. In addition to his career as a jazz music
 Fernando Benitez Gutierrez, a journalist who helped formulate new visions of Mexican identity in his penetrating reports on the Indian cultures and through the cultural publications that he founded, died of a heart attack on Monday. He was 88, a government biography said. Pe
 Friedensreich Hundertwasser, an Austrian painter and architect famous for his undulating forms and color wizardry a s well as for his  visceral loathing of symmetry and the straight line, died on Saturday on board the Queen Elizabeth 2, Joram Harel, his manager and friend, told The Associat
 G. Leon Netterville, a former president of Southern University and A&M College, the largest historically black college in the nation, died on Feb. 12 at his home in Baton Rouge, La. He was 93. Mr. Netterville was the third president of the college, which has 9,000 students and is in
 Murray Bernstein, who took a narrow store on Broadway and turned it into Murray's Sturgeon Shop, a legendary Upper West Side purveyor of salmon and sable, caviar and camaraderie, died Monday at a nursing home in Lauderhill, Fla. He was 87. Limousines would line up in front of the st
 ANTONUCCI-Anthony J. February 21, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Ida. Devoted father of Peter Anthony. Adoring grandfather of Alexander Peter and Nicole Rose. Dear brother of Lydia Musumeci, Dante Antonucci & the late Santino Antonucci. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison
 BINET-Dennis. Age 76, on Feb. 19, 2000. Survived by his partner, Toni Sacks, and her family, his sons, Larry & Tommy, & their families; four grandchildren; two greatgrandchildren; nieces and nephews & many friends. Hungarian immigrant, served in US Army in WWII, co-founder of 47 year old Un
 KUPFERMAN - Franklyn, DDS. Temple Beth Sholom of Roslyn Heights,NY, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Franklyn Kupferman. We extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Martin Kay, President       
 LANDAU-Edward. The Board of Governors and members of Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Edward Landau, and extend to his bereaved wife Eve Landau and the members of his family our sincere condolences. Jeffrey Citron, President Marvin Leffler, Se
 MARSCHALL-Richard H. Died Friday, February 18th in Fort Lauderdale of cancer at 63. He was formerly a practicing psychotherapist in New York City for the last 20 years. Survived by his daughter Susan Marschall Patterson of Maynard, MA, his mother Ann Egan Marschall of Stamford, CT., and a b
 ROSEN-Marvin D., DDS. Suddenly on January 31, 2000. Of San Bernardino, Calif. Age 75. Only son of the late Drs. James Ralph and Martha Gluck Rosen. Veteran World War II and Korea. Prestigious oral surgeon, accomplished musician, Marvin will be greatly missed by his aunts, numerous cousins a
 RUBIN-Isaac. The Westchester Jewish Center family mourns the passing of our longtime member, Isaac Rubin, and extends our sympathy to his wife, Lucille, his son Charles & wife Susan, his daughter Carol Kahn, her husband Gary and their daughter Gabrielle and to the entire Rubin family. May t
 SCHWAGER-Robert G. A longtime resident of New York City and CEO of International Cultured Pearl passed away February 22, 2000. Born in Vienna, Austria on August 15, 1917. He is survived by his wife Elizabet, his children Susan Wulkan & Ronny Schwager, grandchildren Wendy, Lenny and Joey, an
 STERN-Stanley, 80, died February 20, 2000, after a long & courageous battle with Parkinsons Desease, loving husband of the late Corrine, he is survived by his two sons, Arthur and Robert, two daughtersin-law, Jean and Dawn, and his beloved granddaughter, Madison. In lieu of flowers, the fam
 DRABKIN-Steven Wayne. 10/19/61 -2/23/81. We who held him dear remember. Time will never dim the memory of his loving smile or his warm embrace. Mom and Dad       
 Schroeder Boulton, a 67-year veteran of Wall Street, died on Feb. 13 at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 91 years old. Mr. Boulton was fond of saying that he was one of just four people who began their careers on Wall Street in the depth of the Depression. He was hired in 1931 
 Dr. Susumu Ohno, an influential figure in clinical genetics, died on Jan. 13 at the City of Hope Cancer Center in Duarte, Calif., a Los Angeles suburb. He was 71 and lived in the nearby city of Glendora. The cause was lung cancer, said the City of Hope National Medical Center, where
 AGNUSS-Henry, retired dentist, died on February 21 at the age of 90. He will be sadly missed by his family and friends who truly appreciated his unique individuality, generosity and quick wit.       
 ALPERSTEIN-Les. Our heartfelt condolences to Phyllis, Simon, and Nicky on the loss of your beloved husband and father. He was a trusted colleague and friend. We will greatly miss his professionalism and friendship. We will always remember his kindness and warm smile. Lawrence Ruben Company 
 ANTONUCCI-Anthony J. February 21, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Ida. Devoted father of Peter Anthony. Adoring grandfather of Alexander Peter and Nicole Rose. Dear brother of Lydia Musumeci, Dante Antonucci & the late Santino Antonucci. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison
 BINET-Dennis. Age 76, on Feb. 19, 2000. Survived by his partner, Toni Sacks, and her family, his sons, Larry & Tommy, & their families; four grandchildren; two greatgrandchildren; nieces and nephews & many friends. Hungarian immigrant, served in US Army in WWII, co-founder of 47 year old Un
 CHOU-Ya-Lun. On February 20, 2000, at 2:00 PM. Devoted husband of Pauline (nee Honadel) for over 36 years. Proud father of Carole, Allan and Barbara. Caring fatherin-law of Ricky, Charlene and Howard. Loving grandfather of Daniel, Justin, Sarah, Katie and Elizabeth. Born on July 7, 1923, in
 GOLDBERG-Arthur L., Esq. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Arthur L. Goldberg, Esq., husband of Frances Goldberg, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, National President Dr. Laura 
 HALLINGER-Leonard Dr. We mourn the death by accident of Dr. Leonard Hallinger in Sarasota, Fla., a devoted friend, a compassionate physician, a loving husband, father and grandfather. Our condolences to his wife, Carol, and to Nina, Philip, Todd, and the grandchildren. Abraham and Vera Buch
 HELIKER-John. Painter. Died at age 91 in Bar Harbor, ME on February 22, 2000. A memorial service will be held at a future date. He leaves his companion of 48 years, Robert La Hotan.       
 LAUSON-Henry D., M.D., Ph.D Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with sorrow the passing of our Professor Emeritus, who was the founding chairman of our department of physiology and biophysics in 1955 and served with great distinction in that position until 1978
 NULL-Douglas P. February 21, 2000. Beloved husband of Marcia, loving father of Lisa A. Holdeman, William S. Null, and Michael C. Null. Devoted step-father of Ilene and Seth Tabor. Dear grandfather of Marjorie, Jake, Danielle, Lauren, Will, Miki and Evan. Caring father-in-law to Trena Weiss 
 SCHREIBER-Samuel S. In loving memory of Samuel S. Schreiber, his wife Phyllis H. Schreiber, his sons Dale A. and James, his twelve grandchildren, and two great grandchildren honor his memory with the greatest love and affection. Funeral services will be held at the Greenwich Reform Synagogu
 SULAM-Gabriel. The trustees and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services are saddened to note the passing of Gabriel Sulam, the father of Carol Zicklin, a trustee of JBFCS and founder of our Carol Zicklin LINKS Program. A loving husband, father, grandfather and great gran
 BINET-Dennis. Memorial service Sunday, February 27, 2000, 1:45PM at The Riverside, 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. A gathering to celebrate his life immediately following at Empire Hotel, 44 W. 63rd St., Mezzanine Ballroom, 3:30-5:30PM.       
 NAGER-Philip on February 24, 1980. He infused our lives with his love, wisdom and caring.       
 Ronald Bruce Casey, a progressive voice in Alabama journalism as the Pulitzer Prize-winning editorial-page editor of The Birmingham News, died on Monday in Birmingham. He was 48 and lived in Homewood, Ala. The cause was a heart attack, The News said. Mr. Casey's writing focu
 Sir Stanley Matthews, a legendary figure in British soccer who played professionally until he was 50 years old and was the first pro soccer player to be knighted, died yesterday at a hospital in Newcastle-Under-Lyme, England. He was 85. In a career that spanned more than three decad
 Daniel T. Scannell, a former police officer who worked his way up to become head of New York City's subway and bus system and later held nearly every important executive job at the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, died Tuesday at the Mary Manning Walsh nursing home in Manhattan. He wa
 Julius L. Katz, a deputy United States trade representative who was a chief negotiator of the North American Free Trade Agreement, died on Jan. 27 at a hospital in Washington. He was 74 and lived in Bethesda, Md. The cause of death was stomach cancer, said his daughter, Linda Harris
 Maj. Gen. Kenneth D. Nichols, an Army engineer who supervised the construction of the plants that produced the nuclear fuel for the first atomic bombs, died on Monday at a retirement home in Bethesda, Md. He was 92. In 1942, General Nichols, who also helped establish the nation's ea
 ALPERSTEIN-Les. Dear Phyllis and family, we again express our sincere condolences for your loss of Les. He touched all our lives with his kindness and gentleness. He was enjoyable to be with, always having a positive pleasant attitude. Les was a role model to all who worked with him, for hi
 BINET-Dennis. Age 76, on Feb. 19, 2000. Survived by his partner, Toni Sacks, and her family, his sons, Larry & Tommy, & their families; four grandchildren; two greatgrandchildren; nieces and nephews & many friends. Hungarian immigrant, served in US Army in WWII, co-founder of 47 year old Un
 CLINE-Carroll, died at home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan Thursday morning, February 24th, 2000. He is survived by Katherine, his wife of thirty years, his children, Henry and Rachel, and daughter-in-law, Patricia Wolff, his twin sister, Dorothy Yunghans, sister, Elizabeth Canady, and
 FREEDMAN-Peter H. Of Miami, FL on February 21, 2000 in his 40th year. Son of Dr. Edward S. Freedman of Lancaster, PA and Reva M. Rohlfs of Exton, PA. Relatives and friends are respectfully invited to attend the funeral from Temple Shaarai Shomayim, 508 N. Duke St. Lancaster, PA on Sunday at
 LEVINE-Donald. The members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their friend and member and extend their sympathy to his family. Leonard Danon, President       
 MOORE-Alexander. Alexander Moore of Cincinnati, Ohio and Yemassee, SC died Friday, February 18, 2000 in Colleton Medical Center in Walterboro, SC. Born August 3, 1923 in Bar Harbor, Maine, he was a son of Benjamin and Alexandra Emery Moore. He grew up in Long Island, NY. He graduated from H
 PARSHALL-G. William. Of Sudbury, MA, February 23, 2000. Husband of Anne (Perkins) and the late Mary Lou (Larpenteur), father of B. Lynne Parshall and her husband David Bromley of Carlsbad, CA and Richard W. Parshall and his wife Janet Lee of Washington, NJ, grandfather of Jennifer and Sarah
 PRICE-Frederic S. Beloved son of Ruth and the late Harry Price. Contributions in his memory may be made to UJA-Federation of New York.       
 ROSNER-Lawrence M. Beloved husband of Tobe, father of Caren, David and Susan. Grandfather of Ben, Jonah, Jennifer, Matthew and Emma. Services Sunday, 12 noon at the Westchester Reformed Temple, 255 Mamaroneck Road, Scarsdale, New York. ROSNER-Lawrence. The Congregation of Westcheste
 SCHIFF-Samuel S. Died on February 19, 2000 after a long illness. Widower of Isabelle Pendleton Schiff, with whom he shared a wonderful life for 57 years, who died in October 1998. Beloved brother of Ester Schiff Rom, brother-in-law of Philip Rom and uncle to Alan Jay Rom, Louis Rom and thei
 BINET-Dennis. Memorial service Sunday, February 27, 2000, 1:45PM at The Riverside, 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. A gathering to celebrate his life immediately following at Empire Hotel, 44 W. 63rd St., Mezzanine Ballroom, 3:30-5:30PM.       
 Walter H. Zinn, a nuclear physicist who oversaw construction of the world's first nuclear reactor as part of the Manhattan Project, pioneered the development of commercial atomic reactors and was the first director of the Argonne National Laboratory, died on Feb. 14 at a hospital in Clearwa
 Elliot A. Caplin, a writer who worked in deep obscurity to produce the plot lines for scores of cartoon strips, died on Sunday at his home in Stockbridge, Mass. He was 86. One of his most successful efforts was ''Heart of Juliet Jones,'' in which Mr. Caplin cooperated with the artis
 John Hayter MacFadyen, an architect who designed several of the nation's premier performing arts centers and was the founding executive director of the New York State Council on the Arts, died on Feb. 18 at a hospital near his home in Damariscotta, Me. He was 76. The cause was compl
 ALPERSTEIN-Les. Passed away February 22. ''Kindness and good deeds.'' Fondly remembered and saddly missed. Morris and Jean Goldberg and family. ALPERSTEIN-Leslie. A uniquely gentle and wonderful man, adored and respected by his friends and family around the world. Our deepest sympat
 BIHLER-Rev. Joseph J. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of Father Bihler at Queen of Peace Residence on February 25. Reposing at Queen of Peace Residence, 110-30 221 St, Queens Village on Sunday, February 27 from 2-4 and 7-9PM. Funeral Mass on Monday, February 28 at Queen of Peace
 BINET-Dennis. Age 76, on Feb. 19, 2000. Survived by his partner, Toni Sacks, and her family, his sons, Larry & Tommy, & their families; four grandchildren; two greatgrandchildren; nieces and nephews & many friends. Hungarian immigrant, served in US Army in WWII, co-founder of 47 year old Un
 HALLINGER-Leonard, N., M.D., age 81, in Sarasota, FL. Beloved husand of Carol; father of Nina, Philip and Todd; grandfather of Nathan and Joshua. Loved and respected by the many whose lives he touched. Todd and Colleen Hallinger will be receiving at home on February 27th, between 1-5PM.    
 HELIKER-John. We mourn the passing of John Heliker, artist and friend for over 50 years. His gentle and sensitive nature lives on in his art. Kraushaar Galleries       
 LEHR-Leo, 82, passed away on February 25, 2000 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Shirley, adored father of Janet & Gerald Lazar and Marilyn Lehr. Grandfather of David & Amy Lazar, Jeffrey Lazar and Deborah and Paul Galant. Cherished grandsons William and Andrew Galant, Michael Lazar.
 SCHNEIDER-Alvin. On February 24, 2000. Devoted husband of the late Carolyn. Loving father of Steven, Elyse and Pam. Dear brother of Edward. Cherished companion of Sara. He will be missed by everyone. Memorial service on Sunday, 10:45AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
 WALLISON-Walter, on February 24, 2000, at the age of 93, and even then too soon. The beloved husband of Pearl, adored father of Peter and Frieda, and Jane and Hugh, revered grandpa to Ethan, Jeremy, Elizabeth and George, Rebecca, and Amanda, a gentle, loving and inspiring friend and compani
 BINET-Dennis. Memorial service Sunday, February 27, 2000, 1:45PM at The Riverside, 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. A gathering to celebrate his life immediately following at Empire Hotel, 44 W. 63rd St., Mezzanine Ballroom, 3:30-5:30PM.       
 Samuel S. Schreiber, an urban traffic engineer who became a major force in the conversion of the old trolley lines to modern bus systems in New York, Yonkers and other cities across the country, died Tuesday in Stamford, Conn., after a long illness. He was 91. ''He was a pioneer,'' 
 T.H. Watkins, a historian of the American West, a magazine editor and a prolific writer on environmental issues, died on Wednesday at his home in Bozeman, Mont. He was 63. The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Joan Parker Watkins. Since leaving his last editorial post, 
 Bishop Albert B. Cleage, who after the urban riots of the 1960's built his Detroit church, the Shrine of the Black Madonna, into an important center for black theology and political power, died on Feb. 20 in Calhoun Falls, S.C. He was 88. Bishop Cleage died while visiting Beulah Lan
 Alfred Isselbacher, an art dealer who specialized in 19th- and 20th-century prints, died on Feb. 15at a hospital in the Bronx. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Isselbacher was born in Isselbach, Germany, in 1926. His family emigrat
 Carroll B. Cline, a lighting designer whose clients included the Santa Fe Opera Theater in Santa Fe, N.M., the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge, Mass., and the lobby of 1251 Avenue of the Americas, died Thursday at his home on the Upper West Side in Manhattan. He was 72. The ca
 BINET-Dennis. Age 76, on Feb. 19, 2000. Survived by his partner, Toni Sacks, and her family, his sons, Larry & Tommy, & their families; four grandchildren; two greatgrandchildren; nieces and nephews & many friends. Hungarian immigrant, served in US Army in WWII, co-founder of 47 year old Un
 CLINE-Carroll. The entire staff and family of Cline Bettridge Bernstein Lighting Design note with great sorrow the passing of Carroll Cline, our co-founder, partner, colleague, and friend. Carroll was a brilliant and innovative architectural lighting designer and was a leader among the prof
 COHEN-Paul. 1927 to 2000. A man with an acute sense of social justice and a lifelong commitment to living his ideals, stalwart of the union and civil rights movements, a talented amateur photographer, a vital repository of New York history, and raconteur extraordinaire. His loss will be dee
 CUNNINGHAM-Frank Sr. On January 30, 2000. Former President and CEO of John R. Robinson, Inc. He will be greatly missed.       
 FEINGOLD-Robert Adam. Died January 21, 2000, at age 30, of Hodgkin's Lymphoma. Robert was a wonderful son and friend. He is missed already. Be in peace. Love ya, Ma       
 FRIEDERICH-Peter A., age 71, on February 21, 2000, in a motorscooter accident in Lighthouse Point, Fla. Loving father of Cindy, Peter and Thomas; cherished grandfather of Brandon and Brittany; adored brother of Terre and Barbara; a favorite uncle to many nieces and nephews; an army veteran,
 GARSON-William E. Died peacefully in his sleep, February 16, 2000 in Bryn Mawr, PA. Born NYC, December 7, 1908, fourth and last child of Daisy and Eli Garson. Survived by his beloved wife, Diana Hitschler Garson. His remarkably vigorous life spanned almost the entire 20th Century and includ
 GOLDSTINE-Sydney A., MD. Ninety-one years. Passed on February 13 at Mt. Sinai Hospital. Cherished and loving husband of Tamie Laurance Goldstine. Loving father of Jonathan and Thea. Loving grandfather of Susan. Affiliated with Mt. Sinai Hospital forty years, he was a devoted physician and f
 HANNON-John. Members of the Board of Trustees and staff of the American Red Cross in Greater New York note with sadness the loss of John Hannon. Mr. Hannon was a member of our Executive Board beginning in the early 1960's and served ably as our Treasurer. He was a great supporter of Red Cro
 MATLICK-Floyd Z. February 21, 2000. Survived by his wife, six children and 12 grandchildren. Services were held.       
 MESEROLE-Jere S. Of Burlington, VT, and Boca Raton, FL, died February 24, 2000, at home in Boca Raton with his family. Born May 19, 1922 in Englewood, NJ, son of Clinton and Ida Meserole, graduated Princeton University ('44), decorated veteran of WW II, lived in Burlington, VT, and ran seve
 ORRICK-William Pendleton. Died February 24, 2000, in New Jersey; he was 93. Teacher of Latin, English, Athletic Director, Coach St. James School, Trinity College, The Solebury School. US Navy Aerial Navigator WW II, flew Admiral Ernest King to Potsdam, Yalta conferences, Admiral Bull Halsey
 PEAKE-David Wainwright. 75. Of Houston, TX, died February 20. Survived by his wife of 51 years, Ann Journeay Peake, father of Robin Peake Stuart of Lake Forest, IL, David W. Peake, Jr. of Fredericksburg, TX, and Susan S. Peake of Houston. Also survived by seven grandchildren, and his sister
 PILLINGER-James J. Beloved husband of Evelyn. Devoted father of Marc and Ava,Michael and Judy. Dear brother of Ray Pillinger and Helen Diamond. Adored grandfather of Mara, Ian, Kaley. Services Sunday, 10:30AM, at Schwartz Brothers-Jeffer Memorial Chapels, Queens Blvd at 76 Road, Forest Hill
 RABINOWITZ - David. Passed away on November 24, 1999. In his memory, we will celebrate Dave and Anna's unwavering commitment to each other and their joint commitment to a socialist dream. They touched all our lives with compassion and generosity. Commemoration on March 19. Call 212222-2536;
 ROSENBERG-Albert J. Age 90, of Trumbull, CT, and Delray Beach, FL, on Friday, February 25, 2000. Educator, Senior Corporate Executive, and Philanthropist. Born November 25, 1909, in Baltimore, MD, son of Henry and Laura (Hollinder) Rosenberg, graduated Carnegie-Mellon University (Class of 1
 WALLISON-Walter, on February 24, 2000, at the age of 93, and even then too soon. The beloved husband of Pearl, adored father of Peter and Frieda, and Jane and Hugh, revered grandpa to Ethan, Jeremy, Elizabeth and George, Rebecca, and Amanda, a gentle, loving and inspiring friend and compani
 BINET-Dennis. Memorial service Sunday, February 27, 2000, 1:45PM at The Riverside, 76th St and Amsterdam Ave. A gathering to celebrate his life immediately following at Empire Hotel, 44 W. 63rd St., Mezzanine Ballroom, 3:30-5:30PM.       
 Henry Jernigan Tobler, a gallery director, collector and writer who specialized in contemporary art and folk art, died on Friday at the M. D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston. He was 34 and lived in New York until June, when he moved to Houston for treatment. The cause was leukemia
 John Heliker, a painter and teacher who was a fixture of the New York art world for nearly seven decades, died on Tuesday at the Sonojee Estate, a health center in Bar Harbor, Me. He was 91 and had lived in New York during most of his career, spending summers on Cranberry Island, Me.       
 Joseph Wolfson, an aquatic Peter Pan who was one of the first surfboarders to master complex maneuvers on the smaller ''body board'' in the 1970's, died in a car crash on a Los Angeles freeway last Monday. He was 50. Wolfson became a legend known as Dr. 360 for his ability to spin c
 BENOIT-Gerard. Of New York City. We sadly announce the passing of Gerard Benoit, Thursday, February 24th after a short illness. He is survived by his wife Monique, his son Andre and daughterin-law Christina of Monroe, CT, and his brother Donald of Waitsfield, VT. Interment services will be 
 HELIKER-John. We mourn the passing of John Heliker, artist and friend for over 50 years. His gentle and sensitive nature lives on in his art. Kraushaar Galleries       
 HEWITT-John Hamilton, Jr. Died at home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan on Friday afternoon on February 25, 2000. He is survived by Vivian Davidson Hewitt, his wife of 50 years; his son, Dr. John Hamilton Hewitt III; daughter in-law, Marie Anne Mallonga Hewitt; granddaughters, Leigh Ann 
 JACOBS-Nathan P. Age 91, of NYC, and Palm Beach, FL. Died peacefully in his sleep on February 27, 2000. He is survived by his beloved wife, Lucille (Lucy) and his loving children Carol Ann Leibner, Judith Lynn and Daniel Pace, Alan S. Jacobs and step-daughter Kay Hope Seligson. Cherished gr
 KAZMIERSKI-John T. Age 79, of Edge-water, NJ. Died on February 25, 2000. Upon retiring from the IBM Corporation in 1987, he was involved with volunteer activities, mainly relating to blind people and tutoring student immigrants. Visiting Redden Funeral Home, 325 West 14th St, NYC, Tuesday, 
 PETLUCK-Robert F., Dr. Graduate of Fordham, retired Principal of PS 86 of the Bronx, attorney and former NY Times employee. Of Hampton Bays, formerly of the Bronx. Died on February 25, 2000, at the age of 90. He leaves his dear wife of 67 years, Estelle (Rosenthal). He is survived by his so
 ROSENBERG-Albert J. The Board of Directors of the Henry Nias Foundation, Inc. records with profound sorrow the loss of our esteemed president emeritus. He will be remembered for his wisdom, compassion and sense of humor. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Edith and his sons, Dr. Lawrence
 SELIGSON-Jack M. Age 86, longtime Harrison, NY, resident passed away in Boynton Beach, FL, on February 25, 2000. Survived by wife, Lillian, and two sons, Captain Harold E. Seligson, USN, Retired (wife Marilyn) in Virginia and Dr. Charles D. Seligson (wife Elizabeth) in New Jersey. He leaves
 John Blassingame, a scholar of the history of slavery in America and a former chairman of the African-American Studies program at Yale University, died on Feb. 13 at his home in New Haven. He was 59. The cause of death was not known, said his son, John W. Blassingame Jr. of New Have
 John Nichol Irwin II, a Manhattan lawyer and diplomat who served under General Douglas MacArthur during World War II and later became ambassador to France, died yesterday at a hospital in New Haven, Conn. He was 86. Mr. Irwin, who lived in New Canaan, Conn., held numerous government
 BERGER-Joseph. The National Board of Hadassah, WZOA, mourns the death of Joseph Berger, father of Carol Goldsmith, our esteemed colleague. Our heartfelt condolences go to the entire family. May his memory be for a blessing. Bonnie Lipton, National President Dr. Laura S. Schor, National Exec
 CREAMER-Thomas F. Age 82, former resident Scarsdale, New York, died February 26th, Hilton Head, SC. Retired EVP of Citicorp, Vice-Chairman Economic Development Council, and Director of National Executive Service Corp. Class 1940 MIT. Former director of MIT Corp., US Life, Lord Abbet Managed
 DEUTSCH-Jack. Died February 15 in Goshen, NY, at age 91. He is survived by one son, Stephen Deutsch; two grandsons, David and Gregory Deutsch; one sister, Tina Senft, and several nieces and nephews. Cremation took place. Burial will be private.       
 DUNBAR-Alexander H., on February 18, 2000 in Washington, DC at 76 years of age following a long illness. The Partners of Saugatuck Capital Company mourn the passing of their esteemed partner and longtime friend. He was our partner for 13 years and a dedicated executive and tireless worker. 
 FELDMAN-Sol. The Community Synagogue Max D. Raiskin Center along with the frields and alummni of the East Side Hebrew Institute mourn the loss of our longtime Board member and supporter, Sol Feldman. Our condolences to his wife Jean, to his sons Howard and Gerry and to their families. May t
 IRWIN II-John Nichol of New Canaan, CT. Died Monday, February 28, age 86. Attorney with Patterson, Belknap, Webb & Tyler and former diplomat serving the Truman, Eisenhower, Johnson and Nixon Administrations. Mr. Irwin was Deputy Secretary of State from 1970-73 and Ambassador to France 1973-
 JACOBS-Nathan P. Congregation Emanu-El of the city of New York expresses to the family of our devoted member, Nathan P. Jacobs, our deepest sympathies on the occassion of his passing. It is our hope and prayer that beautiful memories will linger as a legacy to his life. May all who loved hi
 KENT-Seymour M. of Scottsdale, Az. formerly of Manhattan died February 28, 2000. Mr. Kent was the Corporate Vice President, Product & Package Design Avon Products. Prior to Avon he was with Helena Rubinstein, Dorothy Gray and Revlon. Mr. Kent is survived by one son Christopher, one sister S
 KROUWER-Henri. Of Mount Vernon, N.Y. Died peacefully on Feb. 10, 2000. Dearly beloved husband of Nadia. Devoted and loving father of Tom, Peter, & Jan. Proud grandfather of Jennifer, Margot and David. Loving and beloved husband of the late Margot Krouwer. Born in Holland Sept. 5, 1907. Colo
 OAKLEY-Walter Thurston, 86, on February 25, 2000, in Manhasset, NY. Survived by his wife, Helen; two daughters, Valerie Oakley and Deborah Bodner, and four grandchildren. Donations to the Shepherdstown Public Library, P.O. Box 278, Shepherdstown, WV 25443. Funeral service 10 AM, Wednesday, 
 PARKER-Herbert M., DDS. Died on February 19; he was 87. He practiced dentistry in NYC, and taught at NYU Dental School until 1992. He published articles in prosthodontics and was elected a fellow to a number of dental societies. He was married to Dorothy R. Parker for over 50 years. They li
 PETONIAK-Steven G. Died February 24, 2000 of complications from AIDS. Age 46. A direct marketing executive for CBS, Ogilvy and Mather, and Time-Warner, Inc, he was the founder of Lesbians and Gay Men at Time, one of the first corporate gay and lesbian employee groups. He was a driving force
 RENNERT-Joseph, Prof. The Faculty and Staff of the Chemistry Department of The City College of New York deeply regret the loss of our longtime friend and colleague, Prof. Joseph Rennert. At this very difficult time, we extend our deepest condolences and sympathy to Helen Rennert, his devote
 ROSENBAUM-Richard. Beloved husband of Dr. Diana Richardson. Dear, dear son of Herbert and Florence. Adored brother of Barbara and Jim Carey. Loving uncle of Jason and Rita Carey. Richard died on February 28 of cancer, not polio. He was an extraordinary person.       
 STEINBERG-Frederick Theodore ''Ted'' February 27, 2000, of Delray Beach, Fla., formerly of Scarsdale and Chappaqua, N.Y. He was a visionary in the formation of the shopping center industry as it is today. He started the first shopping center on Central Ave. in Scarsdale. He and his brothers
 SUOZZI-Joseph M. We extend our most sincere condolences to the entire family on the sudden and untimely loss of Joseph M. Suozzi. As the son of our trustee, Judge Joseph A. Suozzi, he was a member of our extended ''health system family''. We join in sharing the family's sorrow on the loss o
 ZILBAN-Boris. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member Elliot Zilban and family on the loss of his beloved father. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Tzion and Yerushalayim. Evan Torczyner, President Jay Yaacov Schwartz, Rabb       
