 James R. Cogan, a lawyer who specialized in trusts and estates and was a volunteer for nonprofit organizations, died on Friday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 69. His death was due to lung cancer, according to his wife, Arrial. Mr. Cogan began his legal career in 1953 at 
 Marvin Rothenberg, a director who staged some of the most memorable television moments of the 1950's and 60's -- all during commercial breaks -- died last Thursday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 79. His family said the cause was cancer. If his career had followe
 Stanford L. Opotowsky, a former managing editor of The New York Post and director of news coverage for ABC News, died yesterday at his home in Orlando, Fla. He was 73. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Known for his fast, clear and colorful writing, Mr. Opotows
 Munir Bashir, a virtuoso oud player who was considered one of the greatest living masters of Arabic classical music, died on Sunday in Budapest. He was 67 and lived in Jordan. The cause was a heart attack, according to Helene Browning of the World Music Institute, which had been sch
 Nobuo Fujita, a Japanese pilot who flew bombing runs over Oregon in 1942, apparently the only time that an enemy aircraft has ever bombed the American mainland, died on Tuesday at a hospital near Tokyo. He was 85. The cause was lung cancer, family members said. Mr. Fujita, w
 Stuart Johnston Northrop, a former chairman and chief executive of the Huffy Corporation, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Scottsdale, Ariz. Mr. Northrop, a resident of Naples, Fla., was 72. The cause of death was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, which is known as Lou Gehrig's di
 Al (Jazzbo) Collins, a disk jockey and television host who broadcast his favorite music from the imaginary Purple Grotto, died on Tuesday. He was 78 and lived in Mill Valley, Calif. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Patti. Mr. Collins was born in Rochester,  the 
 Daniel G. Ross, a lawyer and volunteer who supported education in Israel and services for Jewish immigrants in the United States, died on Monday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 93. Mr. Ross, who specialized in corporate law, was a founder and partner of Becker, Ross, Stone, DeSte
 Frederick P. Haas, a lawyer who became general counsel for the Liggett Group, died after a long illness last Sunday at the Watrous Health Center in Madison, Conn. He was 85. Mr. Haas, a graduate of Yale Law School in 1938, served in the Navy from 1943 to 1945 as a lieutenant command
 James C. Cabrera, vice chairman of the executive search firm Drake Beam Morin Inc., died Tuesday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 62 years old. Mr. Cabrera, who lived in Old Greenwich, Conn., died of cancer, his family said. After graduating from Rider Univer
 Jerome H. Lemelson, a prolific inventor who became a hero to fellow inventors when he dared to force giant corporations to pay him for his ideas, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 74 and lived outside Lake Tahoe, Nev. His family said the cause of death was liver
 John A. Stichnoth, a former vice president and general counsel of the Union Carbide Corporation who helped devise the company's legal strategy following the world's worst industrial disaster in Bhopal, India, died on Wednesday at Danbury Hospital, near his summer home in Ridgefield, Conn. H
 Eugene P. Schonfeld, who founded the National Kidney Cancer Association in 1989 after learning that he had the disease, died on Sept. 25 at his  home in Highland Park, Ill., the association said. He was 54. After receiving the diagnosis, with  no hope of a cure and no information av
 A. L. Rowse, the brilliant authority on Shakespeare and Elizabethan England whose grandiose opinions of his scholarship were not always shared by rival historians he invariably dismissed as third-rate, died on Friday at his home in Cornwall. He was 93 and best known for his confident identi
 Donald N. Medearis Jr., who as chief of pediatrics at Massachusetts General Hospital pushed for nationwide improvement in emergency care for children, died last Monday at that hospital. He was 70 and lived in Winthrop, Mass. The cause was heart failure, family members said. 
 Dave Marr, the jocular Texan who won the 1965 Professional Golfers' Association Championship and then traded on that victory and his homespun wit to forge a career as a television commentator, died of cancer yesterday. He was 63. Marr, who was first treated for cancer in 1988, died 
 Haldor E. Rosvold, a retired neuroscientist known as a pioneer in studying the role the brain's frontal lobes and networks play in numerous mental processes, died at his home in Silver Spring, Md., on Sept. 26. He was 81. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said. U
 Lyman T. Johnson, the plaintiff in a lawsuit that led to the integration of the University of Kentucky in 1949, five years before the Supreme Court paved the way for the desegregation of all public schools in Brown v. Board of Education, died on Friday in Jewish Hospital in Louisville, Ky. 
 Johnny Vander Meer, the Cincinnati Reds left-hander who in 1938 threw two consecutive no-hit games -- the only pitcher in major league history to accomplish the feat -- died yesterday at his home in Tampa, Fla. He was 82. The cause was an abdominal aneurysm, his lawyer, Bob Carlton,
 Arthur Tracy, the celebrated Street Singer on radio and recordings in the 1930's and 40's, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 98 and lived in Manhattan. With his richly romantic voice, Mr. Tracy was a musical star for decades, singing his theme song, ''Marta, Rambling Ro
 Arthur E. Smith, an interior designer known for his comfortable yet tailored interiors, died on Friday at New York Hospital. He was 56 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lymphoma, said Andrew Crispo, his companion. Mr. Smith, who was born in Vidalia, Ga., graduated from A
 Frank Davis Ashburn, a lionized Yale graduate who gave up a chance for sure-fire success in business or the law to devote his life to giving other boys the same advantages he had had as a boarding student at Groton, died last Thursday at a nursing home in Westwood, Mass. He was 94 and had s
 Gunpei Yokoi, a brilliant tinkerer who designed the Game Boy and other products that helped transform Nintendo from a sleepy manufacturer of playing cards into a worldwide colossus in video games, was killed in a traffic accident in Japan on Saturday, the company said. Mr. Yokoi, 56
 Otto Ernst Fritz Adolf Remer, an unrepentant Nazi who as a young officer helped Hitler retain control of Germany in the crucial hours after a failed assassination attempt in 1944, died on Saturday at his home in Marbella in southern Spain. He was 84. Mr. Remer died of natural causes
 Yevgeny Khaldei, the photographer whose pictures of Soviet soldiers hoisting the red flag over the Reichstag in Berlin are among the best known images of World War II, died on Monday night in Moscow. He was 80. The cause of death was not given in Russian press reports. Mr. K
 Bertrand Goldberg, an architect who literally changed the shape of the Chicago skyline in the 1960's with a pair of cylindrical apartment towers known as Marina City, died Wednesday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 84 and lived in Chicago. The cause was complicat
 Dario Fo, an iconoclastic Italian playwright-performer known for mixing wacky social farce with sharp political satire, was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature today, to the guarded amazement of Italy's literary establishment and the outright dismay of the Vatican. In its announce
 Lawrence Lachman, a former chairman of Bloomingdale's, died at his home in Manhattan on Tuesday. He was 81 and died of heart failure, a spokeswoman for the company said. Mr. Lachman was one of the key executives in the transformation of Bloomingdale's from a local New York specialty
 Meredith F. Burrill, a toponymist's toponymist who made a name for himself as the world's foremost authority on what people variously -- and sometimes perversely -- call the earth's lakes, rivers, mountains, seas, cities, towns and other physical features and political subdivisions, died on
 Charles B. Branch, a former president and chief executive of the Dow Chemical Company, died last Saturday at Santa Rosa Hospital in San Antonio. He was 82 and lived on a ranch and wildlife refuge in nearby Boerne, Tex. The cause was bacterial pneumonia complicated by emphysema, a  d
 Fred Fang Yu Wang, an artist, calligrapher and expert in Chinese art who helped develop the first computer system to teach Chinese, died on Monday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Wang, who early in life was known as Wang Fang-yu, was born in 
 Millard Lampell, a screenwriter, novelist and songwriter who survived blacklisting to become an award-winning television writer, died on Oct. 3 at his home in Ashburn, Va. He was 78. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Ramona. Mr. Lampell was a socially conscious write
 Orlando Ramon Agosti, a member of the military junta that overthrew the Government of Isabel Peron in 1976, opening one of the most violent periods in Argentina's history, died on Monday. He was 73. The air force press office said that Mr. Agosti, a former brigadier general who serv
 Robert H. O'Brien, an early member of the Securities and Exchange Commission who later presided over the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer film studio in the 1960's, died on Monday in Seattle. He was 93. Mr. O'Brien ran MGM during a particularly turbulent time. While the studio produced some of i
 William B. Spong, a Democrat who successfully challenged Virginia's political establishment to win election to the United States Senate, died on Wednesday at Maryview Medical Center in Portsmouth, Va. He was 77 and lived in Portsmouth. The cause was a ruptured aneurysm, a hospital s
 Dr. Bernard Altshuler, a mathematician who helped lay the groundwork for understanding how the lung is damaged by polluting particles and carcinogens, died on Oct. 4 at his country home in Hillsdale, N.Y. A Manhattan resident, he was 78. The cause was heart disease, said his wife, L
 Dr. Bernard Altshuler, a mathematician who helped lay the groundwork for understanding how the lung is damaged by polluting particles and carcinogens, died on Oct. 4 at his country home in Hillsdale, N.Y. A Manhattan resident, he was 78. The cause was heart disease, said his wife, L
 David Gill, who with his partner, Kevin Brownlow, restored many classic films of the silent era, including Abel Gance's ''Napoleon,'' died on Sept. 28 at his home in Huntington in Cambridgeshire, England. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack, said a friend, Patricia Tobias.      
 Robert L. Wheeler Jr., the track and cross-country coach at Queens College for 18 years and assistant meet director of the Colgate Women's Games for 23 years, died Monday at his home in Flushing, N.Y. He was 67 years old. His wife, Linda, said it was determined in February that he h
 Dr. Theodore G. Klumpp, an executive of the pharmaceutical company Winthrop Laboratories for 31 years and a former official of the Food and Drug Administration, died on Sept. 10 at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 94. He retired as chairman of Winthrop, a division of Sterling
 Thomas Whiteside, a writer who made a career of tackling extraordinarily complex topics -- from toxic chemicals to media conglomeration -- for The New Yorker, died on Friday at his home in West Cornwall, Conn. He was 79. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Marie. Mr.
 Aaron D. Wyner, an information theorist at Bell Laboratories whose research is central to the way data move through through a modem or satellite network, died on Sept. 29 at Morris Hills Nursing Home in Morristown, N.J. He was 58, and lived in South Orange, N.J. The cause was cancer
 Albert E. Blumberg, an idealistic philosophy professor who fought for economic and social reforms as an oft-harassed Communist Party official in the 1940's and 50's, then continued the fight with somewhat more success as a Democratic Party district leader in Manhattan, died on Wednesday at 
 Jean Pasqualini, whose book about the seven years he spent as a political prisoner in China's labor camps first exposed the hidden world of the penal system here, died in Paris on Thursday after a long illness. He was 71. His book, ''Prisoner of Mao,'' is a harrowing account of life
 Wes Gallagher, who as president and general manager of The Associated Press oversaw substantial changes in news coverage and in the use of technology, died on Saturday at St. Francis Medical Center in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 86 and lived in Santa Barbara. Mr. Gallagher, a boomi
 William E. Hartman, whose teachings and research on sex influenced a generation of sex therapists, died on Sept. 26 in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 78 and lived in Long Beach. The cause was myasthenia gravis, a degenerative muscle disease, said Marilyn A. Fithian, his longtime collea
 John Denver, the singer and songwriter who was the voice of wholesome sincerity and simple country pleasures in the 1970's, died on Sunday afternoon when a light plane he was piloting crashed into Monterey Bay in California. He was 53. Mr. Denver, a licensed pilot who flew jets, aer
 Kenneth F. Hahn, a giant of Los Angeles politics for 45 years who helped relocate the Dodgers baseball team from Brooklyn, died on Sunday in Inglewood, Calif. He was 77. The cause was heart failure, said his son, James K. Hahn, the Los Angeles City Attorney. Mr. Hahn served 
 Peter Donald Andreoli, a retired lawyer who prosecuted racketeering cases in New York City and investigated political corruption in Syracuse, died on Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Pelham, N.Y. Mr. Andreoli spent more than 30 ye
 Raymond L. Spangler, a newspaper publisher and a former president of a national journalist organization, died on Sept. 21 at Sequoia Hospital in Redwood City, Calif. He was 93 and lived in Redwood City. Mr. Spangler was the president of Sigma Delta Chi, the national journalism organ
 Richard H. Gallagher, retired president of Clarkson University in Potsdam, N.Y., died on Sept. 30 at Northwest Hospital in Tucson, Ariz. He was 69. He had cancer, said his wife, Terese. From 1988 to 1995, Dr. Gallagher, a civil engineer, was president of Clarkson, a small un
 Harold Robbins, a writer whose formula of sex, money and power made him one of the best-selling authors of his day, died yesterday at Desert Hospital in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 81 and lived in Palm Springs. The cause was pulmonary arrest, said a family friend, Jay Roberts.  Mr. 
 Maurice Braunstein of Schenectady, N.Y., a leading director of bridge tournaments, died on Sept. 20 at his home. He was 83 years old and had been suffering from lung cancer, said his wife, Marion. Mr. Braunstein was the chief director at three world championships, in Guaruja
 Paul Doughty Bartlett, a chemist known for his insights into the mechanics of organic reactions, died on Saturday at a retirement community in Lexington, Mass. A former resident of Weston, Mass., and Fort Worth, he was 90. Dr. Bartlett retired from Harvard University in 1975 as Ervi
 Robert M. Rogers, founder, chairman and chief executive of TCA Cable TV in Tyler, Tex., died on Sept. 18 at his home in Tyler. He was 71. The cause was cancer, a TCA spokeswoman said. Mr. Rogers started the company in 1954 with the purchase of a cable television operator. To
 Brown Meggs, a record company executive who was chief operating officer of Capitol Records in the 1960's and 70's, and who returned to the company as president of its classical division in 1984 after an eight-year hiatus in which he published several novels, died on Oct. 8 at his home in Sa
 Dr. Edgar Haber, a specialist in immunology and cardiovascular diseases noted for his work in protein chemistry and biotechnology, died on Monday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 65 and lived in Weston, Mass. The cause was multiple myeloma, according to the Harvar
 Isadore Twersky, who bridged two worlds, making the study and practice of ancient Jewish traditions the common thread of a life as a Harvard scholar and Hasidic rabbi, died on Sunday at a hospital in Boston. He was 67 and had been the Nathan Littauer Professor of Hebrew Literature and Philo
 Philip L. Ravenhill, chief curator of the National Museum of African Art, part of the Smithsonian Institution in Washington, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 52. The cause was a heart attack, said a museum official. Mr. Ravenhill, an anthropologist, came to t
 Edison Avery Price, the inventive lighting master whose innovative fixture designs give minimalist modern interiors their unobtrusive glow and shed new hidden light on old masters and other museum art, died on Wednesday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 79 and widely recognized as the origina
 Harry D. Gotwals, vice president of development and public and alumni relations at Swarthmore College for the past seven years, died on Oct. 2 at Taylor Hospital in Ridley Park, Pa. Mr. Gotwals, a resident of Swarthmore, was 50. The cause was a heart attack, the college reported.   
 James A. Michener, who survived a Dickensian childhood to win the Pulitzer Prize with his very first book, published when he was about 40, and then became one of America's favorite storytellers with grand-scale novels like ''Hawaii,'' ''The Source'' and ''Texas,'' died in his home in Austin
 Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, who steered The New York Times through 34 years of expansion and enormous changes in the way it delivers the news to its readers, retired yesterday as chairman and chief executive of The New York Times Company, the newspaper's parent company. Mr. Sulzberger h
 Henry Holt, a conductor and music educator, died on Oct. 4 at the University of Virginia Medical Center in Charlottesville. He was 63 and lived in Warrenton, Va. The cause was pneumonia resulting from a six-year battle with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, his family said. Mr. Holt r
 Dr. Richard Gorlin, a cardiologist who developed a method of diagnosing critical blockage of a heart valve without using surgery, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 71, and had homes in Manhattan and Bedford Hills, N.Y. The cause was pancreatic cancer, fam
 Dr. Carl W. Gottschalk, whose work rewrote the textbooks on how the kidney sorts and conserves water, and who played an important role in the extending of Medicare to cover dialysis for patients in the final stages of renal failure, died on Wednesday in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 75 a
 Ira Howard Lustgarten, a Manhattan lawyer and an authority on trusts and estates law, died last Sunday at his East Side home. He was 86. The cause was cancer, said Augusta L. Packer, an officer of Willkie Farr & Gallagher, where Mr. Lustgarten headed the trusts and estates departmen
 Richard Mason, a British author best known for ''The World of Suzie Wong,'' a novel about a Hong Kong prostitute, died on Monday in a hospital here. He was 78 and had lived in Rome for nearly 40 years. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. ''The World of Suzie Wong,'' 
 Roberto C. Goizueta, a Cuban refugee who became chairman and chief executive of the Coca-Cola Company, strengthening its global dominance in soft drinks and building one of the greatest generators of shareholder wealth in corporate history, died early today at Emory University Hospital in A
 Adil Carcani, the last Prime Minister in Albania's Stalinist era, died last Monday, according to press reports from Tirana, the capital. He was 75. Mr. Carcani died at the home of his daughter, Lida Carcani, after a brain hemorrhage, the reports said. He served as head of Go
 Daniel E. Provost 3d, the tobacco executive who got Arthur Godfrey and Ronald Reagan to endorse Chesterfield cigarettes, led the the Liggett & Myers campaign against claims that tobacco is harmful and never abandoned his bedrock position that there is no evidence that smoking causes cancer,
 Dr. Michael E. Burt, a thoracic surgeon who was president of the medical staff at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, died on Oct. 4 in Southampton, N.Y. He was 49 and lived in Manhattan. He was killed in a motorcycle accident. The police said he apparently lost con
 Roy A. Rappaport, an innkeeper turned scholar, anthropologist and director of the program of religion studies at the University of Michigan, died on Oct. 9 at his home in Ann Arbor. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said the university, where he also was a professor of anthropology. 
 Dr. William James McGill, a psychologist and teacher who led Columbia University in the 1970's as it recovered from years of student rebellion and financial distress, died on Sunday at the University of California-San Diego Thornton Hospital in La Jolla, Calif. He was 75 and had lived in La
 Brother James Bonilla, principal of Bishop Loughlin Memorial High School in Brooklyn for the last 12 years, died on Friday at Brooklyn Hospital Center. He was 60. He suffered a heart attack at Brothers' House, his residence adjacent to the school, according to his order, the Brother
 Dolph Camilli, a slugging first baseman who propelled the Brooklyn Dodgers to a long-awaited pennant in 1941 and became one of the most popular players in Flatbush, died yesterday in San Mateo, Calif. He was 90. Noted for his muscular physique and soft hands, Camilli hit 34 home runs, drove
 William S. Ogden, a banker credited with helping save the Continental Illinois National Bank and Trust Company from insolvency after its collapse in 1984, died on Saturday. He was 69 and lived in Stamford, Conn. He died of a heart attack, his son, William S. Ogden Jr., said.        
 Judge Harold J. Rothwax, who began his legal career as a combative defense lawyer and civil rights advocate in New York but who later gained wide attention in a campaign to limit the rights of defendants, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 67. The caus
 Bishop Walter W. Curtis, the former head of the Roman Catholic Diocese of Bridgeport, died on Saturday at St. Joseph Manor, a nursing home in Trumbull, Conn. He was 84. The cause was pneumonia, said the Rev. Michael K. Jones, the vice chancellor of the diocese and the secretary to B
 Herbert W. Whiteman Jr., who began his professional life as a civil engineer and in 1977 became the first black to be named a vice president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, died Saturday at Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 61 years old. The cause of death was he
 John Whitney Hall, the missionaries' child who became a pioneer in the field of Japanese studies and one of the most respected historians of Japan of his generation, died on Tuesday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 81. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Robin.     
 Junichi Ueno, co-owner of Japan's second-largest daily newspaper, Asahi Shimbun, died of pneumonia at a Tokyo hospital on Sunday. He was 87 years old. Mr. Ueno represented the third generation of the family who, jointly with Michiko Murayama, owns the newspaper and its subsidiary bu
 Stanley Williams, an internationally renowned teacher of male ballet dancers, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 72. Mr. Williams died of apparent natural causes, the medical examiner's office said, and was found by his maid. Mr. Williams, a senior faculty memb
 Edward Treutel, a trumpeter who taught at the Juilliard School for nearly 60 years, died on Friday at the Englewood Medical Center in New Jersey. He was 84 and lived in Leonia, N.J. He was born in Philadelphia and studied with Herbert L. Clark, the author of a well-known trumpet-met
 J. Robert Lackey, a health-planning executive and former head of the New Jersey Health Care Facilities Financing Authority, which he helped organize, died on Tuesday at his home in Pennington, N.J. He was 71 and also had a home in Venice, Fla. The cause was liver cancer, his family 
 Jimmy Herbert of New Rochelle, N.Y., who won more races than any other runner at Madison Square Garden, died Thursday night in Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 82 years old. His wife, Mary, said he died of kidney failure, two weeks after surgery to remove a malignant t
 Dr. Thomas H. Hunter, who sought to improve medical care in poor countries as dean of the University of Virginia School of Medicine and later was the university's chancellor and vice president for medical affairs, died on Thursday at his home in Cismont, Va. He was 84. Dr. Hunter, w
 G.E. Kidder Smith, an architectural historian and photographer, died on Oct. 8 at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. The cause was bronchectasis, said his wife, Dorothea. Mr. Smith, who trained as an architect, is best known for books that chronicled the modern architectural 
 Henry L. Gourdine, who spent his life messing about in boats, becoming a Hudson River legend for his passionate, lifelong love of the river, his skills as a commercial fisherman and the delight he took in passing on his lore, died on Oct. 17 at Phelps Memorial Hospital Center in Sleepy Holl
 Dr. Menek Goldstein, a professor of neurochemistry, physiology and biophysics at the New York University School of Medicine, died on Oct. 18 at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 73. The cause was apparently a stroke, said Dr. Mortimer Levitz, a colleague at the school. 
 Dr. Philip D. Marsden, a specialist in tropical medicine who trained doctors in Uganda and Brazil and became a world expert on parasites, died on Oct. 4 in his home in Brasilia, where he had lived since 1974. He was 64. The cause was a stroke, family members said. Dr. Marsde
 Phineas Indritz, a New Deal liberal and civil-rights lawyer who served as counsel to several committees of the House of Representatives, died on Oct. 15 at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 81 and lived in Silver Spring. The cause was cancer, his family said. 
 Buddy Hirsch, a Hall of Fame horse trainer and the son of the renowned trainer Max Hirsch, died Saturday in Bal Harbour, Fla., after a long illness. He was 88. Max and Buddy Hirsch formed one of the rare father-son combinations inducted into horse racing's Hall of Fame in Saratoga S
 Carl Feiss, a visionary architect and pioneering urban planner who helped transform the science of clearing slums into the art of historic preservation, died on Oct. 10 at a retirement home in Gainesville, Fla. He was 90 and had played an important role in historic restorations in Charlesto
 The Rev. Dr. Edwin O. Kennedy, who had been a professor and administrator at Union Theological Seminary and the pastor of Presbyterian churches in New Jersey, died on Oct. 3 at Heath Village, a retirement community in Washington Township, N.J., where he lived. He was 97. Dr. Kennedy
 Parker T. Hart, an American career diplomat who was prominent in Middle East matters in the 1960's, serving as Ambassador to Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Turkey and Assistant Secretary of State for Near Eastern and South Asian Affairs, died on Oct. 15 at his home in Washington. He was 87.      
 Rankin M. Smith Sr., the owner and chairman of the board of the Atlanta Falcons, died at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta yesterday afternoon, just hours before the team kicked off the eighth game of a lackluster season. He was 72. A hospital spokeswoman, Deborah Wexler, described the c
 Arthur Stephen Lane, a lawyer and a former United States District judge, and a former chairman of the New Jersey State Commission of Investigation, died on Thursday at his home in Princeton. He was 86. Most recently, he was a partner in the Trenton firm of Smith, Stratton, Wise, Heh
 George A. Vicas, a producer and director of television documentaries on politics and culture, died on Saturday at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 71. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. For more than 30 years, Mr. Vicas produced documentaries for NBC, CBS, AB
 Helio Beltrao, who served in the cabinets of three governments during Brazil's 21-year military dictatorship, died on Sunday morning here. He was 81 years old. The Brazilian press reported the cause of death as respiratory insufficiency due to a brain tumor. After a long car
 J. Alfred Guest, who developed many programs in his 25 years as alumni secretary of Amherst College and was active in alumni affairs nationally, died on Oct. 6 at Baystate Medical Center in Springfield, Mass. He was 86 and lived in Amherst and Martha's Vineyard. A native of East Ora
 John Peters, who gained an international reputation for spiritual leadership as the supreme medicine man of the Wampanoag nation while making secular waves across the nation as the executive director of the Massachusetts Commission on Indian Affairs, died on Monday at a hospital near his ho
 John Reese Stevenson, an international lawyer who represented the United States at the Law of the Sea Conference in the 1970's and served as board president of the National Gallery of Art until 1993, died on Saturday at his home in Fort Worth, Tex. He was 76. The cause was multiple 
 Luis Aguilar Manzo, a shark fisherman turned actor whose debonair mustache, arching eyebrows and splendid singing voice made him one of Mexico's most durable movie stars, died on Friday at his home here. He was 79. His wife, the actress Rosario Galvez, said the cause was a heart att
 John N. Sturdivant, president of the American Federation of Government Employees, which represents 600,000 Federal workers, died on Tuesday night in Falls Church, Va.  He was 59 and lived in Vienna, Va. The cause was leukemia, said Bobby L. Harnage, the union's secretary-treasurer. 
 Paul Jarrico, a screenwriter and producer whose blacklisted status in the 1950's limited the distribution of  the film ''Salt of the Earth'' until its release on videocassette three decades later, died on Tuesday in a car accident in California. He was 82 and lived in Ojai, Calif. T
 Robert Cahn, a prominent environmental journalist whose influence spanned more than three decades, died last Friday at his home in Boulder, Colo. He was 80. Mr. Cahn helped shape modern environmental affairs not only through his news reporting but also by advising the Government, wo
 T. Dale Stewart, a physical anthropologist who was an authority on human bones, died on Monday in a nursing home in Bethesda, Md. He was 96 and a longtime resident of McLean, Va. Dr. Stewart went to work for the Smithsonian Institution in 1924. After time out to earn a medical degre
 Naoharu Yamashina, the founder of the Bandai Company, the Japanese toy manufacturer behind the Tamagotchi virtual pet and Mighty Morphin Power Rangers crazes, died on Tuesday at the age of 79. The immediate cause of death was respiratory failure, although Mr. Yamashina had been hosp
 William H. Crook, a Texas preacher turned politician who used an abortive race for Congress as a springboard into the Johnson Administration, serving as national director of the Vista program and Ambassador to Australia, died on Wednesday at his home in Corpus Christi. He was 72. Th
