 Allan Carr, the producer behind the popular movie musical ''Grease'' and the Tony Award-winning Broadway hit ''La Cage aux Folles,'' died on Tuesday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 62 and also had a home in Palm Springs, Calif. The cause was liver cancer, Ronni Chasen, a
 James Bernard Boskey, a children's rights advocate and an expert on alternatives to the courts for resolving disputes, died on June 14 at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 57 and lived in North Caldwell, N.J. The cause was cancer, said a spokesman for Seton Hall University. Mr.
 Sir John Woolf, who produced such films as ''The African Queen,'' ''Oliver!'' and ''The Day of the Jackal,''  died on Monday at his home in London. He was 86. Sir John, whose films won 13 Oscars, trusted his instincts so resolutely that he put up half the money for ''The African Que
 William M. B. Berger, who started one of the first mutual funds in Colorado and later sold his fund company and used the proceeds to establish a vast collection of British art, died Tuesday at University Hospital in Denver. He was 73. The cause was complications from heart and kidne
 Joshua Nkomo, the once-fiery African nationalist and guerrilla leader who was father to Zimbabwe's struggle for independence, died today in the Zimbabwean capital, Harare. He was 82. Although he spent his final decade as the country's Vice President, he had long ago been outmaneuver
 William Whitelaw, a key aide to his fellow Conservative Margaret Thatcher while she was Britain's Prime Minister, died in his sleep overnight, his family said yesterday.  He was 81 and was long associated with the town of Penrith in northwestern England. Lord Whitelaw had been ill f
 Randolph Guggenheimer, a Manhattan lawyer who helped spearhead the development of a community hospital serving the residents of Harlem, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. When the Hospital for Joint Diseases moved from Madison Avenue and 124th Street in 1979, Mr. Gu
 Edward Dmytryk, the versatile director whose best films were taut, realistic and at times explosive and who, as one of the ''Hollywood 10,'' was jailed for refusing to tell a Congressional committee whether he was a Communist, died on Thursday at his home in Encino, Calif. He was 90 and the
 Forrest Mars Sr., creator of the M & M, died Thursday at his home in Miami. He was 95 years old. In a final nod to Mr. Mars's lifelong desire for secrecy, a spokeswoman for his company, Mars Inc., refused to provide details yesterday. While Mr. Mars ardently sought to avoid 
 John T. Mullin, who brought broadcasting and the record industry together with the magnetic audiotape technology that revolutionized them in the late 1940's, died on June 24 at his home in Camarillo, Calif. He was 85. An electrical engineer, Mr. Mullin became interested in magnetic 
 Mario Puzo, the best-selling novelist and screenwriter who created ''The Godfather'' and made the Corleones the most famous -- and infamous -- of Mafia families and an enduring myth in American culture, died yesterday at his home in Bay Shore, N.Y. He was 78. The cause was heart fai
 Robert B. Polhill, an American business professor who was held hostage for 39 months in Lebanon a decade ago, died on Thursday at Georgetown University hospital in Washington. He was 65 and lived in Arlington, Va. Mr. Polhill learned that he had throat cancer four days after his rel
 Dr. Alan Angus McLean, a psychiatrist and an authority on mental health in the workplace, died Monday at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. He was 73 and lived in Westport, Conn., and Gig Harbor, Wash. The cause was complications of cancer of the esophagus, his family said. Fo
 Dennis Brown, a popular and prolific Jamaican reggae singer, died on Thursday at University Hospital in Kingston, Jamaica. He was 42. The cause was respiratory failure, said a spokesman for Heartbeat Records, which has released several of Mr. Brown's albums. Born in Kingston
 Joseph B. Wheelwright, a driving force behind the spread of Jungian psychoanalytic teaching, died on June 22 at a convalescent home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 93. In 1946, Dr. Wheelwright asked Carl G. Jung, the Swiss psychoanalyst, for his blessing in establishing an institute
 Adm. Isaac Campbell Kidd Jr., who capped a 40-year Navy career by becoming an authority on the Law of the Sea, died on June 27 at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 79. The cause was prostate cancer, said a spokesman for the John M. Taylor Funeral Home in Annapolis, Md. Admi
 John Stears, the father of James Bond's lethal Aston Martin, the Jedi Knights' light sabers, the endearing robots R2-D2 and C-3PO and a host of other ingenious movie gadgets and special effects, died on Monday at the UCLA Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 64. The cause was a str
 Victor A. Bonomo, who created and marketed Bonomo's Turkish Taffy, the brittle candy bar whose wrapper instructed buyers to smack it and crack it into many edible pieces, died on June 26 at his home in Bal Harbour, Fla. He was 100. The candy, which first appeared as a nickel bar aft
 Frank Tarloff, an Academy Award-winning screenwriter who was blacklisted during the McCarthy era, died on June 25 at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 83. Mr. Tarloff, along with S. H. Barnett and Peter Stone, won an Oscar in 1964 for the screenplay of ''Father Goose,'' a com
 Geoff Lawson, an Englishman whose designs of recent Jaguar automobiles displayed sensuous, feline grace and elegant British refinement, but whose personal style reflected his rebellious nature and a love of American hot rods and handguns, died on June 24 in Coventry, England. He was 54.    
 Gilman Kraft, the owner of Playbill magazine in the 1960's and more recently the owner and president of Performing Arts magazine in California, died on June 27 at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 73 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. The cause was cancer, according to a statement r
 Guy Mitchell, the jocular pop crooner of lightweight songs who epitomized the clean-cut boy next door in the early 1950's, died on Thursday at Desert Springs Hospital in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 72 and lived in Las Vegas. The cause was complications following surgery, said his wife, B
 Viktor M. Chebrikov, who led the Soviet K.G.B. through much of its final tumultuous confrontation with the West in the 1980's, died unexpectedly on July 1, the intelligence service's successor, the Federal Security Service, reported on Saturday. Mr. Chebrikov was 76 years old. The s
 Edouard Boubat, one of France's most celebrated postwar photographers who was best known for his poetic images of children, died here on Wednesday. He was 75. The cause was leukemia, said Liberation, the newspaper. Mr. Boubat traveled widely during a career that lasted almos
 Eugenio Florit, a Cuban poet, translator and critic, died on June 29 at his home in Miami. He was 95. Mr. Florit, who was professor emeritus of Latin American literature at Barnard College, joined the faculty in 1944 and taught Spanish and Latin American literature until he retired 
 Mark Sandman, the leader of the idiosyncratic Boston rock trio Morphine, died on Saturday during a performance at the Giardini del Principe in Palestrina, near Rome. He was 47. The cause was a heart attack, according to The Associated Press. Mr. Sandman collapsed in front of several
 AT 9:15 this morning, a sleep-deprived Howard Wolfson is to accompany a lawyer to the Federal Election Commission in Washington as the lawyer files a  piece of paper establishing the Hillary Rodham Clinton for United States  Senate Exploratory Committee. After tending to the television came
 Dr. Wallace E. Howell, a meteorologist whose celebrated rainmaking efforts during a water shortage 50 years ago were admired by parched New Yorkers and detested by drenched Catskill farmers, died on June 12 at Thornton Medical Center in San Diego, Calif., where he lived. He was 84. 
 Beveridge Webster, a pianist and teacher who was best known for his elegant performances of the French repertory and his commanding accounts of contemporary American scores, died on June 30 at Kendal-at-Hanover, a retirement community in Hanover, N.H. He was 91. Mr. Webster was a pa
 Bob Backus, who used weight training to help overcome serious illness and became the world's best weight thrower, died on June 30 at Vencor Hospital in Boston. He was 72. Backus had been in poor health for several years and had suffered a stroke last December, his lawyer, J. Marlin 
 J. Curtis Counts, a veteran labor negotiator who directed the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service for an old friend, President Richard M. Nixon, died on June 30 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 83. Trained as a lawyer, Mr. Counts had a 28-year career with the Douglas Aircra
 Dr. C. Walton Lillehei, a pioneer in open-heart surgery, valve replacements and the electronic pacemaker, died on Monday at his home in St. Paul. He was 80. The cause was cancer, said St. Jude Medical Inc., the medical equipment manufacturer in St. Paul where Dr. Lillehei had worked
 Joaquin Rodrigo, a major figure in Spanish classical music whose haunting masterpiece, ''Concierto de Aranjuez,'' inspired dozens of interpretations worldwide, including a jazz version by Miles Davis, died on Tuesday at his home in Madrid. He was 97. Maestro Rodrigo, as the blind co
 Thor Axel Kappfjell, a parachutist who frustrated the police and entertained the public with daredevil leaps from some of the world's tallest buildings, including the World Trade Center, the Empire State Building and the Chrysler Building in New York, was killed on Tuesday after he miscalcu
 Ronny Graham, an actor and writer who worked in theater and films and who was known for his frenetic pacing and ear-to-ear leer, died on Sunday at Century City Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 79 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was complications from liver disease, his son Ronald
 Shafik al-Wazzan, Prime Minister of Lebanon during the tumultuous 1980's, died yesterday at his home in Beirut. He was 74. The cause was a heart attack, the Beirut radio reported. Mr. Wazzan was a lawyer, a moderate Sunni Muslim and a former Minister of Justice when he becam
 James Farmer, a principal founder of the Congress of Racial Equality and the last survivor of the ''Big Four'' who shaped the civil-rights struggle in the United States in the mid-1950's and 60's, died yesterday at Mary Washington Hospital, in Fredericksburg, Va., where he lived. He was 79.
 Pete Conrad, who flew to the Moon nearly 30 years ago and became the third man to walk upon it, died Thursday evening after crashing his motorcycle near Ojai, Calif. The former astronaut and Navy captain, who had survived more than 1,100 hours of often perilous space exploration, wa
 Angus MacDonald, whose verve and virtuosity made him one of the world's best and best-known bagpipe players, died on June 25 in a hospice in Edinburgh, Scotland, where he lived. He was 60. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said a friend and fellow professional bagpiper, Donald McBrid
 Harry H. Eckstein, a political scientist who argued that a critically important role in determining whether democracy succeeded in a country was played by the country's political culture, or what he called its authority patterns, died on June 22 in Hoag Hospital in Newport Beach, Calif. He 
 Malcolm Breckenridge Carpenter, a retired neuroanatomist who helped map the pathways of the brain that coordinate movement and equilibrium, died on June 25 at Hershey Medical Center in Pennsylvania. He was 77 and lived in Hershey. The cause was a heart attack, his family said.      
 Mark O'Brien, the subject of an Academy Award-winning documentary about his journalism career, conducted mostly from an iron lung,  died on July 4 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 49. The cause was complications from bronchitis, said Mr. O'Brien's brother, Kenneth. The
 Michael K. Hooker, the chancellor of the University of North Carolina who took a high-technology, community-oriented approach to higher education, died on June 29 at U.N.C. Hospitals. He was 53 and lived in Chapel Hill, N.C. The cause was complications from non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, t
 Morris D. Crawford Jr., who headed the Bowery Savings Bank from 1965 until 1980, died of congestive heart failure, according to his wife, Dorothy, on Wednesday at his home in Riverside, Conn. He was 83. During his 40 years as a lawyer and banker in New York, Mr. Crawford served as a
 Thomas Aquinas Harnett, a lawyer specializing in insurance who was Superintendent of the State Insurance Department in the 1970's, died on Wednesday at his home in Ridgefield, Conn. He was 75 and had formerly lived in Manhattan and Suffern, N.Y. The cause was cardiac arrest, his fam
 Igor Belsky, the artistic director of the Vaganova Ballet Academy of St. Petersburg and a former director of Russia's Kirov Ballet, died at a hospital in St. Petersburg on July 3. He was 74. The cause was a stroke, said Igor Stupnikov, the St. Petersburg correspondent for The Dancin
 James A. Barnes Jr., who in 1962 piloted a U-2 spy plane that helped alert the United States to the threat of a Soviet missile buildup in Cuba, died on Tuesday at El Camino Hospital in Mountain View, Calif. He was 70 and lived in Los Altos, Calif. The cause was a stroke, his son Rob
 Samuel Sanders, a pianist who was the recital partner of choice of Itzhak Perlman, Mstislav Rostropovich, Robert White and many other instrumentalists and singers, died Friday night at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 62 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver failure, sai
 Carlos D. Ramirez, the publisher of the oldest and one of the largest Spanish-language newspapers in the United States, El Diario/La Prensa, died on Sunday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 52 and lived on City Island in the Bronx. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Rosanna Rosa
 Earl W. Foell, a longtime senior editor of The Christian Science Monitor with a romantic attachment to precision and clarity, died on Saturday at the M.I.T. Medical Department Inpatient Unit in Cambridge, Mass. He was 69 and lived in Boston. Mr. Foell (pronounced fell) died after wh
 William Riva, a scenic designer who worked in theater and television, died on July 3 in Bern. He was 79. Mr. Riva's credits included the sets and lighting for a 1950 production of Gian Carlo Menotti's operas ''The Telephone'' and ''The Medium,'' presented in the round at the Arena T
 Aaron S. Lapin, a St. Louis businessman best known for putting whipped cream in a spray can, a product he named Reddi-wip, died on Saturday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 85. Originally, Mr. Lapin, who was known as Bunny -- in French, lapin means rabbit -- was a clothing sales
 Dr. John Robert Philip, one of Australia's foremost environmental scientists, died on June 26 in Amsterdam while on a professional visit. He was 72 and lived in Campbell, near Canberra. He was killed when a car struck him, said the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Org
 Clarence L. Harris, whose contribution to the civil rights struggle of the 1960's was that he did nothing at all when four black college students held the first successful sit-in demonstration at a dime store lunch counter he managed, died on Monday in Greensboro, N.C. He was 94 and spent m
 Donald D. Engen, the head of the National Air and Space Museum at the Smithsonian Institution and a former administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, was killed on Tuesday when the glider he was in broke apart over Nevada and plunged to the ground. He was 75 and lived in Alexandr
 Henry Kimbro, a perennial All-Star center fielder during the 1940's in a Negro leagues career that spanned 17 seasons, died Sunday at his home in Nashville. He was 87. An outstanding hitter, speedy on the basepaths and a superb outfielder with a strong arm who played mostly with the
 Dr. Ernst Ludwig Wynder, who was the founding president of the American Health Foundation and who posted early warnings of cancers for smokers, died on Wednesday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan and in Westport, Co
 Leslie Alexis Marchand, considered the leading authority on the poet Lord Byron, died on Sunday at his home in Englewood, Fla. He was 99. Mr. Marchand's lifelong pursuit of Byron, an elusive figure who described himself as ''being everything by turns and nothing long,'' began in 193
 Stanley H. Durwood, an entertainment industry executive who is credited with inventing the multiplex movie theater, died Wednesday night at his Kansas City, Mo., home after a two-year illness. He was 78. The cause was esophageal cancer, according to a statement from AMC Entertainmen
 Burton Spencer Dreben, a former Harvard dean who brokered some of the most difficult negotiations between the Harvard administration and leaders of the student uprisings there in the late 1960's, died of lymphoma on Sunday at Massachusetts General Hospital. He was 71 and lived in Brookline,
 Representative George E. Brown Jr., an 18-term California Democrat who used his seniority and influence to promote science in general and space exploration in particular, died early today in Bethesda Naval Hospital in Maryland. He was 79 and lived in San Bernardino, Calif. Mr. Brown
 Joe Hyman, a British magnate who took a brand name associated with cozy pajamas and turned it into one of the great textile empires of the 1960's, died July 6 at the age of 77. At the height of his success, he was seen as a swashbuckling, impatient autocrat and as a pioneering propo
 M. Lawrence Noyer Jr., a former Federal prosecutor who headed the mail fraud case against Armand P. D'Amato, the brother of former Senator Alfonse D'Amato, died July 7 at the Albert Einstein Medical Center in the Bronx. Mr. Noyer, who lived in Larchmont, N.Y., was 40. The cause was 
 Ronald N. Yurcak, a pioneering junk bond trader at Salomon Brothers who later worked closely with Michael R. Milken during Drexel Burnham Lambert's heyday in the late 1980's, died Tuesday. He was 57. Mr. Yurcak suffered a heart attack in his car after jogging near his home in Far Hi
 The Venerable Dharmawara Mahathera, a high-ranking Buddhist monk who advised kings and prime ministers and established a new life after the age of 90 as a Buddhist leader in the United States, died on June 26 in Stockton, Calif., and his body was cremated as part of a 14-day ceremony that e
 Chester Herwitz, who with his wife, Davida, amassed one of the world's largest collections of modern art from India, died on June 17 in a three-car collision in Petersham, Mass. Mr. Herwitz, who lived in Worcester, Mass., was 72. His wife was injured in the crash. Mr. Herwit
 Stanley Soble, casting director for the Center Theater Group/Ahmanson Theater and the Mark Taper Forum in Los Angeles, died on July 6 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 59. The cause was complications after surgery, said a spokeswoman for the Mark Taper Forum.    
 Donal McCann, whose often understated but emotive, transfixing style won him widespread recognition as Ireland's best actor, died on Saturday at Our Lady's Hospice here. He was 56. The cause was cancer of the pancreas, which he had had since 1997, Irish national radio reported.     
 John F. Kennedy Jr., a scion of the nation's most celebrated political dynasty, was reported lost and presumed dead in an accident that resounded this weekend with echoes of the family's many misfortunes. Mr. Kennedy, 38, has been missing since Friday night after the plane he was fl
 Whitlow Wyatt, a key figure in the Brooklyn Dodgers' celebrated 1941 National League pennant victory and a leading pitcher of the early 1940's, died Friday at a hospital in Carrollton, Ga. Wyatt, who lived in Buchanan, Ga., was 91. After struggling for a decade with three American L
 Charles P. Roman, the not particularly husky ad man and executive who created classic advertisements for the bodybuilder Charles Atlas, including the one about a 97-pound weakling, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 92 and lived in the Chelsea section of Manhattan.        
 Everett Greenbaum, an award-winning film and television comedy writer for programs like ''Mr. Peepers,'' ''The George Gobel Show,'' ''The Andy Griffith Show'' and ''M*A*S*H,'' died on July 11 at St. Joseph's Hospital in Burbank, Calif. He was 79 and lived in Encino, Calif. The cause
 Stanley Tretick, the Look magazine photographer known for his intimate pictures of the Kennedy White House, including one of John F. Kennedy Jr. as a toddler playing under his father's desk, died yesterday at a nursing home in Gaithersburg, Md. He was 77. The cause was pneumonia, sa
 Arthur Katz, whose Corgi brand of miniature cars thrilled a generation of children, many of whom became collectors as adults, died on June 25 near his home in London. He was 91. Before Mr. Katz introduced the Corgi line in 1956, most die-cast metal toy cars were fairly crude. Many c
 Hugh Fish, a British environmental engineer whose love of pristine rivers helped clean up the Thames -- clean enough for salmon to thrive after 150 years -- died on May 26 in Wallingford, Oxfordshire. He was 76. Working for the Thames Conservancy and the fledgling Thames Water Autho
 Dr. Seymour Tilles, a vice president and founding partner of the Boston Consulting Group who also helped found the Technion Institute of Management in Israel, died June 29 at a hospital in Boston. He was 74 years old. He died of leukemia, his wife, Gloria, said. Before joining Bosto
 Daniel H. H. Ingalls, an impassioned scholar of the ancient Indian language Sanskrit and a longtime professor at Harvard University, died on Saturday at Bath County Community Hospital in Hot Springs, Va. He was 83 and lived in Hot Springs. Professor Ingalls, an expert on Sanskrit li
 David Ogilvy, the ad executive who dreamed up the eye-patch wearing ''man in the Hathaway shirt'' and many other iconic advertising campaigns, died yesterday at Chateau Touffou, his home near Bonnes in the Loire Valley of France, after a year of declining health, according to a spokeswoman 
 John R. Steelman, a onetime hobo from Arkansas who later earned a Ph.D. in economics and became one of President Harry S. Truman's closest aides, particularly on labor matters, died on July 14 at a retirement home in Naples, Fla. He was 99. With the official title of the assistant t
 Dr. Ludwik Gross, who influenced cancer research by showing that viruses could cause cancers in animals, died on Monday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 94 and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. The cause was stomach cancer, said his daughter, Dr. Augusta 
 Paul Flato, the innovative American jeweler whose diamonds were worn by Hollywood stars like Greta Garbo, Rita Hayworth and Merle Oberon, died July 17 in a nursing home in Fort Worth. He was 98. In the 1930's, he counted both socialites and movie stars as clients and his creations w
 Frank M. Johnson Jr., the legendary Federal jurist from Alabama whose historic civil rights decisions led to ostracism, cross-burnings and death threats but helped to change the face of the segregationist South in the 1950's and 1960's, died yesterday. He was 80. Judge Johnson fell 
 Dr. Henry Walter Brosin, a former president of the American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology, the American Psychiatric Association and the American College of Psychiatrists, died in Tucson, Ariz., on July 3, three days short of his 95th birthday. Dr. Brosin had been a resident of T
 King Hassan II, who ruled Morocco for 38 years, acted as a go-between in Egyptian-Israeli efforts to make peace and prolonged the life of his 300-year-old dynasty in an era when monarchies in Libya, Egypt, Iraq and Iran fell to socialist revolutions or the force of militant Islam, died yest
 Claudio Rodriguez, whose five books of verse since the 1950's were enough to convince peers that he was among the best Spanish poets of the century, died on Thursday in a Madrid hospital. He was 65. The cause was colon cancer, the Spanish press reported. Mr. Rodriguez had a 
 David Kent Hildebrand, a professor of statistics who often wrote about the subject, died on July 13 at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. He was 59 and lived in Wynnewood, Pa. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Hildebrand joined the facul
 William X. Scheinman, a self-taught Wall Street analyst who became an enthusiastic supporter of the independence movement in Africa, died on May 24 at his home in Reno, Nev., of kidney failure. He was 72. His ashes were taken to Africa in mid-June, according to his son, William, and
 William Targ, a widely admired book editor and former editor in chief of G. P. Putnam's Sons who agreed to publish Mario Puzo's novel ''The Godfather'' sight unseen, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92. Considered among his peers to be one of the greatest post-World
 Abelardo Diaz Alfaro, whose short stories gave voice to Puerto Ricans' quest for identity, died on Thursday at his home in Guaynabo, a suburb of San Juan. He was 81. The cause was complications from repeated strokes, said his wife, Gladys Meaux de Diaz Alfaro. ''He was an ex
 Peter A. Bordes, the co-founder, chairman and chief executive of Greater Media Inc., a broadcasting and publishing company based in East Brunswick, N.J., died on July 19 at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said his administrative assistant, Emily Szestako
 Sal G. Marzullo, a Mobil executive who helped put into effect a code of employment practices drawn up for American multinational companies working within the apartheid system in South Africa, died on July 13 at his home in Orlando, Fla. He was 72. The cause was heart failure, his so
 Larry Kent, who as the first president of NFL Properties, the licensing and marketing arm of the National Football League, lived to see it grow from gross revenue of $36,647 in 1963 to $3 billion in 1998, died July 14 in his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 86. Before Pete Rozelle be
 Martin Agronsky, a veteran broadcast news correspondent who worked for all three major networks and PBS, died on Sunday at his home in Washington. He was 84. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son Jonathan. Mr. Agronsky helped develop one of the first news prog
 Raul S. Manglapus, the former Philippine Foreign Secretary who embodied his country's mixture of defiance and love for the United States, died on Sunday. He was 80. The cause was cancer, his family said. A former World War II guerrilla, Mr. Manglapus was both a senator and F
 JERRY HAUER, to put it bluntly, likes guts. Meaning viscera, innards, the stuff things are made of. There is one story he tells in which this fascination is quite literal (more on that later). But another illustration, a bit more metaphorical, is hard to miss when you walk into his 
 Alan J. Karcher, the fiery liberal Speaker of the New Jersey Assembly for two terms in the 1980's and a longtime Democratic member of the Assembly from Middlesex County, N.J., died on Monday at the home of a friend in Neptune, N.J. He was 56. The cause of death was lung cancer, said
 Benedict Wolf, a New York lawyer and veteran mediator who served on the original Federal labor board, died on Friday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 94. Mr. Wolf was summoned to Washington from his private New York practice in 1933 to become executive officer
 Denis de Coteau, a conductor of wide experience who was the San Francisco Ballet's longtime music director, died on Friday in San Francisco. He was 70 and lived in South San Francisco. The cause was cancer, the ballet  company said. Mr. de Coteau joined the San Francisco Bal
 Kelvin J. Lancaster, whose theoretical writings reshaped the economics profession's ideas about trade, industrial structure and regulation, died on Friday at his home in New York City. He was 74. The cause was cancer, his son, Clifton, said. Mr. Lancaster made two powerful c
 Walter Jackson Bate, an emeritus professor of English at Harvard University who won Pulitzer Prizes for biographies of John Keats and Samuel Johnson, died on Monday at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. He was 81 and had homes in Cambridge, Mass., and Amherst, N.H. Mr. 
 Alexander S. Farkas, who helped build Alexander's department stores into the place where New Yorkers went to get stylish fashions for a bargain and then watched as the chain went bankrupt, died yesterday at his home in Highland Park, Fla. He was 69. The cause was cancer, said his br
 Harry (Sweets) Edison, a member of the Count Basie band from 1938 to 1950 and a trumpeter of original, minimalist conviction who played behind singers like Billie Holiday, Ella Fitzgerald and Frank Sinatra, died on Tuesday at his home in Columbus, Ohio. He was 83. Jazz is full of lu
 Dr. Edmund Klein, whose pioneering work on skin cancer was honored with a Clinical Research Award from the Albert and Mary Lasker Foundation in 1972, died on Saturday at Millard Fillmore Hospital in Buffalo. He was 77 and lived in Williamsville, N.Y., a Buffalo suburb. The causes we
 Malachi Brendan Martin, an Irish-born former Jesuit priest and Vatican scholar who went on to write thrillers about the Roman Catholic Church, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a head injury resulting from a fall, sa
 Phaidon Gizikis, a Greek general who as President of Greece played a key role in paving the way for the return of democracy after seven years of dictatorial rule, died on Monday at the Nimits military hospital in Athens. He was 82 and a longtime resident of Athens. The cause was not
 Simon Mahlathini Nkabinde, a singer better known as the lead groaner of the Zulu music group Mahlathini and the Mahotella Queens, died tonight, the national radio network reported. He was 62. Few details were available, but Mr. Mahlathini had been sick for some months and the group 
 Thomas L. Kimball, former chief executive of the National Wildlife Federation, died on July 20 at Manor Care Convalescent Home in Citrus Heights, Calif. He was 81 and lived in Roseville, Calif. The cause was a stroke, said his wife, Arvella Allen Kimball. As chief executive,
 Charles F. Mansfield, a former president and chief executive officer of the Marine Midland Bank in Manhattan, died Monday at a hospital in Rockville Centre, N.Y. He was 77 years old. According to a statement released by his family, Mr. Mansfield died of cardiac arrest following a br
 Clint Youle, a weatherman at WNBQ television in Chicago who was the first to present the weather on a national television news program, died on July 23 at a hospital in Galena, Ill. He was 83 and had lived on a 120-acre homestead in nearby Scales Mound, Ill. Mr. Youle made that firs
 Gregory Charles Minor, one of three middle-management engineers who caused a stir when they quit the General Electric reactor division in 1976 to protest nuclear power, died on July 20 at his home in Telluride, Colo. He was 62. The cause was leukemia, which had been diagnosed in ear
 H. Smith Richardson Jr. grew up in a household in which Vicks Vaporub, the cold remedy, meant more than relief from a hacking cough. He was the grandson of the man who developed that product, and he eventually led the family business, Richardson-Vicks Inc. Mr. Richardson died on Tue
 John Dudley Dawson, an Antioch College administrator who became known to generations of students as Mr. Antioch for his role in revitalizing the college's approach to co-operative work-study education, died on Thursday at Greene Memorial Hospital in Xenia, Ohio. He was 97 and lived in Yello
 Leo Vladimir Berger, a Hungarian immigrant who spent much of his childhood in New York orphanages before becoming one of the country's largest shipping magnates, died on July 24 at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Miami Beach. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, his lawyer, Harvey
