 John Harry Niemeyer, president emeritus of the Bank Street College of Education in Manhattan, died on April 19 in the Florida Keys. He was 95 and had moved there from Greenwich Village four years ago. His death was announced by his family. During his presidency, from 1956 to
 Joseph F. Cullman 3rd, an urbane tobacco man who in the face of rising health concerns about smoking led a relatively lackluster cigarette company called Philip Morris through Marlboro Country to become one of the largest corporations in America and the maker of the best-selling product in 
 COHEN--Marc. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 CULLMAN--Joseph F. The Board and Staff of Lincoln Center Theater are deeply saddened at the death of beloved Joe, bereft and dispirited by the painful loss of Joan just six weeks ago. Joe avidly seconded Joan's devoted commitment to Lincoln Center Theater and was wonderfully supportive and 
 DANIELS--Barnard J., on April 23, 2004. Beloved husband of Raynor. Loving father of Jonathan and his wife Ronna, and Michael. Adoring grandfather of Marla Daniels. Service Sunday 9:45AM, at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Family will receive visitors Sunday, 3:309:30PM, Monday
 GITTLER--Robert D., MD. On Thursday, April 29, 2004 in New York. A man of great intellect, love and compassion, Bob will be deeply missed by his loving wife, son, daughterin-law, grandsons, and many dear friends. During a distinguished career, Bob practiced medicine for 40 successful years,
 KIRSCHNER--Philip. On April 29th, age 90. Beloved father, loving grandfather and greatgrandfather. Former President of Motor Parts Industries. Inspiration to his family, friends, synagogue and community. Your strength and indomitable spirit will never be forgotten. Services May 2, 11:00 AM 
 KRONLEY--Samuel, 89. On April 28, 2004. Predeceased by Shirley, his beloved wife of 63 years. Loving father of Robert and Ann (Rosewater) and Michael and Rhonda. Adoring grandfather of Ali and Neal. Services in Delray Beach, FL. Donations may be made to Gift and Memorial Scholarship Fund, D
 LAUDER--Estee. The Western Wall Heritage Foundation extends condolences to our ''My Jerusalem Founder'' Ronald S. Lauder on the passing of his mother. May the family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Ingeborg Rennert, Chair Joseph Yogi Loshinsky       
 SIEGEL--Paul N., 87, April 26, 2004. Shakespearean professor emeritus, Marxist scholar and political activist. Well loved and revered father of Rosalind Robertson and grandfather of Christie, Jenni, Noah and Jessica Robertson and Halle Tecco. Truly a uniquely principled, generous and dedica
 STOLLER--Leslie. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed Honorary Member and loyal employee who died at the age of 83 and worked at Metropolis Country Club for 54 years. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his daughter Tor
 John D. Hess, a prolific writer who originated one of the earliest television soap operas, ''Love of Life,'' died April 15 at his home in New Hope, Pa. He was 85. The cause was lung cancer, said his brother, Carl B. Hess. Mr. Hess was the originator of ''Love of Life.'' ''Se
 ADAMS--Warren Sanford, 2d. Was born September 4, 1910 in Cleveland, Ohio to Otis Howard Adams and Hermine Weis Adams, and raised in Framingham, Massa chusetts. He passed away peacefully at his home in Austin, Texas on Sunday, April 25, 2004. Mr. Adams was a loving father to his only child C
 CHERNOV--Sandick. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of Sandick Chernov, father of our Executive Director, Beryl P. Chernov. We extend to Roberta and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May his memory remain for a blessing. David H. L
 CULLMAN--Joseph F., 3rd on April 30, 2004 at age 92. Loving father of Dorothy Treisman. Dear grandfather of Joel and Jeffrey Treisman, stepfather of Bernard Straus, Jr. and Tracy Straus and great grandfather of three. Devoted brother of Edgar M. and Lewis B. Cullman. Interment private. Memo
 GITTLER--Robert D., M.D. The Board of Trustees, the Department of Medicine and the Medical Staff of Lenox Hill Hospital express their profound sorrow at the death of Robert D. Gittler, M.D, a distinguished member of our medical staff for more than 40 years. Dr. Gittler, a respected endocrin
 GOMPERTZ--Fred, 80, on April 29, 2004. Born in Germany, he escaped Nazi persecution and immigrated to New York in 1939. Under his professional name ''Mr. Fred'' he achieved recognition for his innovative fur fashion designs and frequently appeared in the media. His customers were a ''Who's 
 HENNING--Robert V., Sr., age 87, of Glen Cove, NY, formerly of Garden City, NY on May 1, 2004. Devoted husband of Eleanor for 63 years. Father of Robert Jr., (Jean Smith), Margaret Minnick (Jeffrey), Richard (Eileen Kelly), Patricia Cochran (David), Douglas, and Eleanor Clark (Walton). Affe
 KEVELSON -- Stanley. Our brother and uncle Stanley was an inspiration to us. He was a man who met the challenge of life with amazing fortitude and a sense of humor. We all loved you and will miss you. Irene & Emanuel, Joan & Donald and Richard Schaeffer and Susan & Hal Martin and families  
 KRONLEY--Samuel, 89. On April 28, 2004. Predeceased by Shirley, his beloved wife of 63 years. Loving father of Robert and Ann (Rosewater) and Michael and Rhonda. Adoring grandfather of Ali and Neal. Services in Delray Beach, FL. Donations may be made to Gift and Memorial Scholarship Fund, D
 LEVY--Jon R., died on April 29, 2004, in Southampton, NY, of cancer at the age of 63. He was the founder of the Gillian Group of which he was the president and CEO for 24 years until 1995. At the time of his death, he was working on Wall Street as a research analyst. He is survived by his t
 MORRISON--John C. A longtime resident of Water Mill, L.I., died on April 16 at his home in Naples, FL. A graduate of the Cranwell Prep School and Georgetown University, he served in the Marine Corps as a 1st Lt. during the Korean War. In Water Mill, he involved himself in various local char
 NIEMEYER--John H., 95, died April 19 in the Florida Keys. Born in Scranton, PA; graduated from Hamilton College, Clinton NY, 1930; taught at Harley School, Rochester, NY 1934-46; Headmaster, Oak Lane Country Day School, Philadelphia, 1946-55; President, Bank Street College of Education, NYC
 PARKER--Treadway C., PhD. Age 71, died April 24, 2004 at his home in Sanibel Island, Florida. Retired from the American Management Association in NYC.       
 ROSS--Ben. Died April 24 from complications of pneumonia. Photographer/gunner in the 8th Air Force Combat Camera Unit, WWII. Specialized in aviation photography and later as a free-lance photojournalist with work appearing in many books and magazines, including Look, Parade, People and Ster
 TELSON--Howard. On April 5, 2004 from cancer at age 49. Dr. Telson of New York City obtained his B.A. at Princeton and his M.D. at Yale. He was a Clinical Associate Professor of Psychiatry at NYU School of Medicine where he trained as a psychiatrist and was on the faculty for 20 years. He d
 WARE--Mac. Died on April 26, 2004 in Coconut Creek, Florida at age 93. Loving father of Robert, Stephen and Lewis, father-in-law of Teresa and Lois and beloved grandfather of Benjamin, Samuel, Anthony and Nicholas. May he rest in peace.       
 Dr. Clayton S. White, a medical researcher who studied the effects of nuclear blasts on people, died on April 26 in Albuquerque at the Lovelace Medical Center, which he helped establish in 1947. He was 91. His death was reported by his daughter Meredith. Dr. White, known as 
 Dr. Arthur J. Naparstek, an expert on urban redevelopment whose ideas for rebuilding Cleveland's impoverished neighborhoods became the model for a federal program, died April 24 at University Hospitals of Cleveland. He was 65. The cause was complications from lung cancer, said his s
 Gaetano Badalamenti, the Sicilian crime boss who was convicted in an epic Mafia trial in the 1980's of being the ringleader of a sophisticated operation that smuggled heroin and cocaine into the United States, has died, a Justice Department spokesman said. He was 80, according to the Federa
 Harold H. Harmatz, who owned Ratner's, the Lower East Side kosher dairy restaurant, and who, in the 1960's, helped lead the successful fight against Robert Moses' plan to built an expressway across Lower Manhattan, died last Tuesday at an assisted-care home in Melville, N.Y. He was 91.     
 BRAILOVE--Sylvia B. On May 1, at age 89. Beloved wife for 66 years of the late Morris. Loving mother of Michael Brailove, his late wife Kathy, and Jane B. Rutkoff. Devoted grandmother of Adam and Rachel Brailove, Joshua and Rebekah Rutkoff.       
 BUSCHMANN--Robert M., on April 29, 2004, at age 51. Partner in the firm of Winston & Strawn. Beloved husband of Lucy Olwell Buschmann. Loving father of Charles, Edward and Mary Catherine Buschmann. Devoted son of Sally Matter Buschmann. Dear brother of Sarah Reinmund. Friends may call at Fr
 CHWATT--Edward A. On May 1, 2004. A powerful, loving, supportive and stable force in our lives was transformed by the sudden passing of our beloved husband, father, stepfather, brother, grandpa, uncle and friend. He was an adoring husband to Sara, whom he cherished. He was a fiercely devote
 CULLMAN--Joseph F., 3rd on April 30, 2004 at age 92. Loving father of Dorothy Treisman. Dear grandfather of Joel and Jeffrey Treisman, stepfather of Bernard Straus, Jr. and Tracy Straus and great grandfather of three. Devoted brother of Edgar M. and Lewis B. Cullman. Interment private. Memo
 EISENBERG--George W.T. 77 years old on Sunday, May 2, 2004, of Bonita Springs, FL, spending his last days in Northport, L.I., with his daughter and son-in-law. Beloved husband of the late Mary L. Eisenberg. Loving father to Nancy O'Connor (Ben Venohr), and Thomas A. (Barbara). Caring grandf
 FEINMAN--Andrew J. A prominent entertainment attorney for nearly half a century, Andrew J. Feinman served noted celebrities such as Aretha Franklin, Paul Anka, Dionne Warwick, Burt Bacharach and numerous others. He died on May 1, 2004, at age 86. He was a veteran of WWII. He is survived by 
 GITTLER--Robert D., M.D. We extend our deepest sympathies to Rosalie, Andrew, Alice, Daniel and Evan. For 45 years Dr. Bob was our physician, counselor and wonderful friend. We will sorely miss him. With love, Cynthia and Neal Hochman       
 HENNING--Robert V., Sr., age 87, of Glen Cove, NY, formerly of Garden City, NY on May 1, 2004. Devoted husband of Eleanor for 63 years. Father of Robert Jr., (Jean Smith), Margaret Minnick (Jeffrey), Richard (Eileen Kelly), Patricia Cochran (David), Douglas, and Eleanor Clark (Walton). Affe
 HOPFAN--Seymour, M.D. 89, of Roslyn Heights, NY, formerly of Glens Falls, NY, on May 1, 2004. He served over forty years as a member of Radiology/Oncology Department at Memorial Sloan-Kettering. Survived by his wife Frances, son Job, brother Herbert, and nieces and nephews.       
 INGERSOLL--Raymond Crary. 85, died at his home on Duck Island, May 1. He was the son of Raymond Vail Ingersoll, Borough President of Brooklyn during the LaGuardia administration. He is survived by his wife Eleanor, daughter Carolyn Gagnon, son Raymond Vail, two grandchildren and a greatgran
 KLEIN--Jerome E. Beloved husband of Jean Elise Klein. Loving father of Robert Klein and Judith and her husband Richard Frimer. Devoted grandfather of Devon Klein and Danielle and Kayla Frimer. Jerome was a founding member of The Public Relations Society of America. He was former Director of
 REICH--Jay. Lived a full life and died on May 1, 2004. He is survived by his beloved wife June, his daughters Ronni, Sharon and Jill, and son-inlaw Gregg. He is cherished by his father Louis, sister Honey and brother-in-law Norman, and late mother Kitty. He will be profoundly missed by his 
 STAVIS--Frank. 70, of Beacon Hill Dr, West Hartford, CT, retired president of King Koil of New England and Jewish community leader of Hartford, CT, died May 1, 2004. Past president of Greater Hartford Jewish Community Center and Jewish Federation of Greater Hartford. Devoted husband of Reev
 WINNERMAN--Robert. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Robert Winnerman. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife Shirley and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary  
 O'CONNOR--Cardinal John. We are here to offer mute testimony to the memory of Cardinal O'Connor, first and foremost a Catholic priest. May the cause for his canonization be speeded. Margaret Mary McDermott       
 BUSCHMANN -- Robert M. The partners, associates and staff of Winston & Strawn are deeply saddened by the untimely passing of our partner and friend, Bob Buschmann. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to his wife, Lucy and their children, Charles, Edward and Mary Catherine. Bob will be sorely
 CHWATT--Edward A. Late Sunday afternoon I retrieved a phone message that started, ''I have bad news'' and the news was indeed very bad; not only had a valued client, but a friend, Ed Chwatt had suddenly died. The shock was profound. Ed is not a person one remotely associates with death. Bei
 COHEN--Ira Carl. The officers and staff of the Jewish Labor Committee note with sadness the passing of Ira Carl Cohen, brother of our Administrator, Florence R. Cohen, and the son of the late Belle and Louis Cohen. A devoted son and brother, Ira will be deeply missed. Heartfelt condolences 
 CULLMAN--Joseph F., 3rd. The Atlantic Salmon Federation mourns the loss of our dear friend, former Chairman and longtime Board Member. Joe's passion for Atlantic salmon fishing inspired his involvement as a leader in the conservation movement. His great determination to save the wild Atlant
 DIAMONDSTEIN--Milton, on May 2, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Ruth. Devoted father of Jerry Diamondstein, Barbara and Lester Ostrick, Joanne and Michael Goldstein. Adored grandfather of Brian, Robert, Jeffrey and Ruthi, Felicia and Gary, Ellen and Richard. Proud great-grandfather of Spe
 GARDNER--Daniel E. Jr., of East Meadow, LI on May 2, 2004. (Graduated from Riverdale Country School and Harvard University; Retired NY Times-Book Advertising). Beloved husband of the late Joan F. Loving father of Nancy J. McBride (Charles) and Daniel E. III (Gloria). Dear brother of Ret. Co
 GREENBERG--Michael. The faculty and staff of the NYU Cancer Institute record with sorrow the untimely death of Michael Greenberg, son of their beloved benefactor, Arnold Greenberg and his late wife Marilyn, and stepson of Roberta Greenberg, a tireless supporter of the Institute's activities
 KLIOT--David, M.D. 71, beloved husband of Harriet. Loving father of Greg, Nancy and Ben. Doting grandfather of Alex and Jay. Will be greatly missed. Dr. Kliot, proponent of natural childbirth, incorporated midwifery and LeBoyer into his Brooklyn OB/GYN practice. He received his B.A. from th
 LANGER--Arthur D., a retired teacher, died Sunday, May 2, 2004 in Kingston, NY. He was 86. Husband of the late Arlyne Singer Langer, father of Andrew and Richard Langer, grandfather of Jesse Langer. Graveside services will be held Tuesday at 11:30 AM in Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Flushing. Memori
 PESSIN--Ray. On May 3, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Harry Pessin. Devoted mother of Marc Pessin, his wife Dorothy and Norman Pessin and his wife Sandy. Cherished grandmother of six and great-grandmother of one. Funeral services Wednesday, 9:30 AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue,
 REICH--Jay. Lived a full life and died on May 1, 2004. He is survived by his beloved wife June, his daughters Ronni, Sharon and Jill, and son-inlaw Gregg. He is cherished by his father Louis, sister Honey and brother-in-law Norman, and late mother Kitty. He will be profoundly missed by his 
 WIESENTHAL -- Melvin L. Born December 25, 1924 to Herman and Evelyn Wiesenthal. Adored husband of Margery Beck Wiesenthal. Loving brother of Jerome and Richard (deceased). Loving and devoted father of Diana Singer, Caroline Lion and Linda Alderman. Fatherin-law and friend of James Singer, M
 Aleksandr Y. Bovin, one of the most colorful and daring commentators of the late Soviet period and for more than five years Russia's ambassador to Israel, died during the night of April 27-28. He was 73. His wife said the cause of death was a long-standing vascular problem. 
 Andrew Robert Buxton Cavendish, the 11th Duke of Devonshire, who maintained his family's historically grand way of life by selling art masterpieces and converting his Chatsworth estate into one of Britain's most visited attractions, died Monday night at Chatsworth. He was 84. His de
 Homer Avila, a dancer and choreographer who went on to a new career in dance after the amputation of his cancerous right leg and hip, died on April 27 in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 48. The cause was the spread of cancer to his lungs, said Ivan Sygoda, a colleague and friend. 
 CHWATT--Edward A. On May 1, 2004. A powerful, loving, supportive and stable force in our lives was transformed by the sudden passing of our beloved husband, father, stepfather, brother, grandpa, uncle and friend. He was an adoring husband to Sara, whom he cherished. He was a fiercely devote
 COHEN--Ira Carl. The officers and staff of the Jewish Labor Committee note with sadness the passing of Ira Carl Cohen, brother of our Administrator, Florence R. Cohen, and the son of the late Belle and Louis Cohen. A devoted son and brother, Ira will be deeply missed. Heartfelt condolences 
 CULLMAN--Joseph F., 3rd. The Atlantic Salmon Federation mourns the loss of our dear friend, former Chairman and longtime Board Member. Joe's passion for Atlantic salmon fishing inspired his involvement as a leader in the conservation movement. His great determination to save the wild Atlant
 GIDDING -- Nelson, distin guished novelist (''End Over End'', 1946) and screenwriter (many feature credits, including: ''I Want to Live'', 1958;''Odds Against Tomorrow'', 1959; ''The Haunting'', 1963; ''Nine Hours to Rama'', 1963; ''The Andromeda Strain'', 1971; ''The Hindenburg'', 1975). O
 JACOBS--William Jay. On Friday, April 30 in Greenwich, Connecticut. Dr. Jacobs was a teacher and writer of history and biography for young readers. He was associate professor of social studies education at Hunter College, and director of Teacher Education at Ramapo College of New Jersey. Fr
 JENKINS--Andrew. We are devastated by the tragic passing of a dear and very special friend, a gentle young man who we grew to love as a member of our own family. Our hearts go out to his mother Barbara, his brother Christopher, his bride of ten days, his step father Arnie and his sister-in-
 JOHNSON--Bernhard W. Jr., 88, died May 2, 2004. Survived by his loving wife Marian Johnson and his five children, Marion Cross, Thomas S. Johnson, Bernhard W. Johnson III, Sarah Gardella and Christiana H. Johnson, seven grandchildren and one great grandchild. He attended Brunswick School, H
 LEB--Harry. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Harry Leb, beloved father of our dear friend and colleague, Alvin Leb, MD, attending physician at the hospital's Kings Highway Division (KHD). To Alvin, his family, and all of his father's love
 MELTZER - - MARVIN. Fe bruary 13, 1927-May 5, 2003. In memory of Marvin (Mickey) Meltzer, his family has dedicated a bench in Central Park, New York City. Sit, remember, enjoy. Please call Carol Meltzer at 800-221-0243 for information. Family of Marvin Meltzer       
 PRINCIPE--Francis J. Passed away quietly on Monday morning May 3, 2004 at the very caring St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn. Considered ''Mr. Maspeth'' for his lifelong civic activism. Mr. Principe, a civil engineer, was a maverick in the concrete industry through the development of its standa
 SABIN--Charles. The partners, associates and staff of Sabin, Bermant & Gould are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved former senior partner, mentor and friend, Charles Sabin. Our deepest sympathies are extended to his wife Ruth, daughters Alix and our partner Liz, as well as the en
 SNYDER--Martin F. 94, of NYC and Miami, Fla on May 3, 2004. Cultured, elegant and a veteran traveler, he enjoyed fifty years operating Martin Snyder Travel and taking special audiences to theatrical events around the world. Survived by his sister Sylvia Zimmerman, nieces, Ellen Zimmerman, M
 STAVIS--Frank. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Frank Stavis, beloved father of Robert Stavis and Patricia Dweck; father-in-law of Amy Stavis; cherished leaders of the New York Jewish community. We are privileged that Frank's leg
 Coxsone Dodd, the record producer and entrepreneur who helped invent the Jamaican music industry, died on Tuesday night at his studio in Kingston. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter Carol Dodd. Mr. Dodd was best known as the force behind Studio One, a
 Darrell Johnson, who managed the Boston Red Sox to the brink of the 1975 World Series championship in a dramatic seven-game duel with the Cincinnati Reds, died on Monday at his home in Fairfield, Calif. He was 76. The cause was leukemia, his daughter Denise Johnson said. The
 Frederick R. Karl, a literary critic and author of books on the lives and works of Joseph Conrad and other literary figures, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived in East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was kidney disease, his family said. Though his scholarly work covere
 ANTOR--Seymour. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved, founding member. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 BAKST--Ira, of Randolph, NJ, originally from Brooklyn, NY, passed away April 28th, 2004. He recently celebrated his 60th birthday. Ira was a family man that brightened every room he entered. His humor and unparalleled zest for life will be forever missed by his family and friends. Ira atten
 CARUSO--Enrico. June 22, 1919-April 30, 2004. Enrico Caruso, 84, died April 30 in Fort Lauderdale, FL of complications related to heart disease. He is survived by his wife of 61 years, Mae; his three children, Michele, Enrico, Jr. and Michael; his brother, Julius; and two grandchildren, Chr
 DOWLING--John L. 66, on May 4, 2004, died at his home in Boca Grande, Florida. Beloved husband of Hebe S. Dowling. Devoted father of Meaghan, John and Peter Dowling. Cherished father-inlaw of Michael Chorske and Rebecca Dowling. Loving grandfather of Jack Chorske. Friends may call at Frank 
 EBIN--Leonard, Dr. Beloved husband of Dr. Eva. Cherished father of Dr. Jane, Dr. Susan, Amy & the late Dr. Paul. Accomplished radiologist of 50 years. Deeply loved by his many grandchildren, great-grandchild, sons-in-law, colleagues, staff, relatives and friends. With a kind heart and gener
 KLIOT--David A., MD. The SUNY Downstate Medical Center community mourns the passing of David A. Kliot, MD, former clinical professor of OB/GYN, and a graduate of the College of Medicine in 1959. Dr. Kliot will be remembered for his many years of service to our institution and to the people 
 KOHEN--Edwin A., 80. Of Delray Beach, FL. Passed away May 5, 2004. Former Executiove Director of Temple Sinai of Roslyn, New York. He is survived by his wife Carolyn, his two daughters Beth (Michael) Jarvis and Hilary (Ken) Leboff and five grandchildren. Funeral services will be held Friday
 POOL--J. Lawrence. We note with sadness the passing of Dr. J. Lawrence Pool, Professor Emeritus of Neurological Surgery at Columbia University's College of Physicians & Surgeons and former Chairman of the Department of Neurological Surgery at the Neurological Institute of New York of Columb
 SABIN--Charles. The partners, associates and staff of Sabin, Bermant & Gould are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved former senior partner, mentor and friend, Charles Sabin. Our deepest sympathies are extended to his wife Ruth, daughters Alix and our partner Liz, as well as the en
 SILVERS--Harry, 95, on April 26. Husband of the late Helen ''Kewpie,'' beloved father of Bonnie, Michael (Lois). Loving grandfather of Rebecca and Emma. He will be missed by all whose lives he touched and remembered for his sense of humor and fortitude in the face of adversity.       
 SNYDER--Martin F. 94, of NYC and Miami, Fla on May 3, 2004. Cultured, elegant and a veteran traveler, he enjoyed fifty years operating Martin Snyder Travel and taking special audiences to theatrical events around the world. Survived by his sister Sylvia Zimmerman, nieces, Ellen Zimmerman, M
 Dr. Ray W. Gifford Jr., an expert on hypertension who carried out some of the early research on treatments for the disease, died Tuesday at his home in Fountain Hill, Ariz. He was 80. The cause was pancreatic cancer, according to the Cleveland Clinic Foundation, where he spent most 
 Leland King, an architect who, as a State Department official, commissioned some of the most distinguished buildings representing the United States overseas, died here on April 20. His death was announced by his family. He was 96 and lived in Bodega Bay. In her 1998 book ''T
 John L. Dowling, once a leading commercial real estate broker in New York and around the country who represented a roster of blue-chip corporations, died on Tuesday at his home in Boca Grande, Fla. He was 66 and also had a home in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack brought on b
 De CEUNYNCK--Robert. On May 4, 2004. Beloved husband of Harriet. Devoted father of Andrew (Robin) of Seattle, WA and Matthew (Claire) of Chicago, IL. Cherished brother of Simone Anderson of Nebraska City, NE, Suzanne McBride of Murrieta, CA and Lea Siders of Medford, OR. Was a member of the
 DOWLING--John L. 66, on May 4, 2004, died at his home in Boca Grande, Florida. Beloved husband of Hebe S. Dowling. Devoted father of Meaghan, John and Peter Dowling. Cherished father-inlaw of Michael Chorske and Rebecca Dowling. Loving grandfather of Jack Chorske. Friends may call at Frank 
 EBIN -- Dr. Leonard. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 FREELANDER--Aviva. It is with great sorrow that the Board of Directors of the Zamir Choral Foundation extends condolences to Rabbi Daniel Freelander and his family upon the loss of his beloved mother Aviva. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Matthew Lazar Founde
 HUTCHINSON--Keith Wayne. Of NYC. Retired school psychologist, Yonkers public school system. Received his Ph.D. Yeshiva University 1978. Memorial service Greenwich Village Funeral Home, 199 Bleecker Street, Saturday, May 8, 2004, 11:00AM-12:30PM.       
 KOHEN--Edwin A., 80. Of Delray Beach, FL. Passed away May 5, 2004. Former Executiove Director of Temple Sinai of Roslyn, New York. He is survived by his wife Carolyn, his two daughters Beth (Michael) Jarvis and Hilary (Ken) Leboff and five grandchildren. Funeral services will be held Friday
 MELTZER - - MARVIN. Fe bruary 13, 1927-May 5, 2003. In memory of Marvin (Mickey) Meltzer, his family has dedicated a bench in Central Park, New York City. Sit, remember, enjoy. Please call Carol Meltzer at 800-221-0243 for information. Family of Marvin Meltzer       
 POOL--J. Lawrence. We note with sadness the passing of Dr. J. Lawrence Pool, Professor Emeritus of Neurological Surgery at Columbia University's College of Physicians & Surgeons and former Chairman of the Department of Neurological Surgery at the Neurological Institute of New York of Columb
 SABIN--Charles. The partners, associates and staff of Sabin, Bermant & Gould are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved former senior partner, mentor and friend, Charles Sabin. Our deepest sympathies are extended to his wife Ruth, daughters Alix and our partner Liz, as well as the en
 SNYDER--Martin F. 94, of NYC and Miami, Fla on May 3, 2004. Cultured, elegant and a veteran traveler, he enjoyed fifty years operating Martin Snyder Travel and taking special audiences to theatrical events around the world. Survived by his sister Sylvia Zimmerman, nieces, Elyn Zimmerman, Ma
 The Rev. Edmund P. Joyce, who presided over one of the nation's most high-profile collegiate athletic programs for more than three decades as a senior official at the University of Notre Dame, died on Sunday at the campus in South Bend, Ind. He was 87. His death was announced by Not
 Barney Kessel, a guitarist who was both a celebrated jazz soloist and a ubiquitous but anonymous studio musician, died on Thursday at his home in San Diego. He was 80. The cause was brain cancer, said his wife, Phyllis. Mr. Kessel had been inactive since a stroke in 1992, and he lea
 David S. Sheridan, an inventor whose decision to give up the flooring business and turn his attention to designing a better catheter has been credited with helping save many lives, died on April 29 at his home in Argyle, N.Y., his family said. He was 95. Catheters help rid the body 
 Lee Loevinger, a tough and exacting chief of the Justice Department's antitrust division under President John F. Kennedy and later a member of the Federal Communications Commission, died on April 26 at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 91. The cause was complications of
 ALBERT--Michael, 52, of Las Vegas passed away April 30, 2004. He was born May 16, 1951 in NYC. He is survived by his life companion, Vicki Smith; daughter, Samantha Albert, son John Albert, and their mother, Resi Albert; stepdaughters, Jordan and Taylor Adams; parents Martin and Thelma Albe
 DOWLING--John L. 66, on May 4, 2004, died at his home in Boca Grande, Florida. Beloved husband of Hebe S. Dowling. Devoted father of Meaghan, John and Peter Dowling. Cherished father-inlaw of Michael Chorske and Rebecca Dowling. Loving grandfather of Jack Chorske. Friends may call at Frank 
 HOFFMANN--Ernst Fedor, a longtime member of the German Department at Hunter College, CUNY, died on April 15, after a brief illness. His career at Hunter and the CUNY Graduate Center spanned over twenty-seven years. He was born in Munich in 1928, the son of Iphigenia (nee Gysis) and Ernst Lo
 POOL--J. Lawrence. The College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University notes with sorrow the death of Dr. J. Lawrence Pool, devoted alumnus, professor emeritus of neurological surgery, and former chairman of neurosurgery. His innovations in neurosurgery included introduction of th
 RESNICK -- Lawrence M., M.D. The American Journal of Hypertension, Ltd. sadly announces the passing of its Co-Executive Editor, Lawrence M. Resnick, M.D., on Thursday, May 6. Dr. Resnick was an integral part of the American Society of Hypertension and of the American Journal of Hypertension
 SNYDER--Martin F. 94, of NYC and Miami, Fla on May 3, 2004. Cultured, elegant and a veteran traveler, he enjoyed fifty years operating Martin Snyder Travel and taking special audiences to theatrical events around the world. Survived by his sister Sylvia Zimmerman, nieces, Elyn Zimmerman, Ma
 WINKLER--William Max, Jr. Age 60, died suddenly of a heart attack on May 2, 2004. He is survived by his loving wife Christina, son William, stepson James, nephews Rob and Chris and brother Robert. He was loved dearly and will be greatly missed.       
 Tage Frid, a native of Denmark who helped revive the art of handmade furniture in the United States, beginning in the late 1940's, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Newport, R.I. He was 88 and lived in Middletown, R.I. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said his 
 Joe Kennedy Jr., a classically trained violinist who performed with many jazz greats, including his cousin Benny Carter, died on April 17 in Richmond, Va. He was 80. The death was reported by Mr. Kennedy's wife, Jennifer. Mr. Kennedy, who became one of the first African-Amer
 BERNABO -- Raymond A. Born January 1, 1930 in New York, died May 6th. A graduate of Harvard College, a Fulbright scholar and Columbia Law School graduate. Mr. Bernabo retired from the former Primerica Corporation as Vice President and Deputy General Counsel. Mr. Bernabo, the son of the late
 DAVIS--Dwight F. III. The grandson and namesake of the donor of the Davis Cup, died at age 68, on May 7, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering, in New York. Following graduation from Harvard College in 1959, Mr. Davis began a long career in advertising. He served as a Board member and director of the
 DOWLING--John L. 66, on May 4, 2004, died at his home in Boca Grande, Florida. Beloved husband of Hebe S. Dowling. Devoted father of Meaghan, John and Peter Dowling. Cherished father-inlaw of Michael Chorske and Rebecca Dowling. Loving grandfather of Jack Chorske. Friends may call at Frank 
 DREZNER -- Louis. 101 blessed years, passed away on May 7, 2004. Devoted husband to the late Sadye Hirsch Drezner, dear brother to older sister Shirley Rodkinson, treasured father to Susan Drezner Ultan, Leslie Barry Ultan, M.D., Alan David Drezner, M.D., and Esther B. Drezner. Loving grand
 DuBow -- Myron B. (76). Passed away on April 30, 2004 in Los Angeles, California. Born in the Bronx, New York moved to Los Angeles in 1980. He is survived by his wife Carrie of nearly 50 years, his children Richard (Cathryn), Ken (Fern), and Amy Ossip (Ron). He will always be loved and reme
 KREIZEL--Steven (49). Son of Gloria and the late William Kreizel, brother of James (Dion) and Susan (William Weintraub). Uncle of Brian, Keith, Nicole, Jennifer and Ashley. He was former Controller of PMK, President of CriHelp, a drug rehab program, and an advocate for the hearing impaired.
 LAZARUS--Maurice. Public Agenda sends its deepest condolences to Nell and her family. For its first 25 years, we benefited from Mogie's guidance and unwavering commitment as well as his wry humor, grace, and brilliant leadership. We will honor his memory by continuing the work he championed
 RESNICK -- Lawrence M., M.D. The American Journal of Hypertension, Ltd. sadly announces the passing of its Co-Executive Editor, Lawrence M. Resnick, M.D., on Thursday, May 6. Dr. Resnick was an integral part of the American Society of Hypertension and of the American Journal of Hypertension
 ROBERTS--Arthur. 91 of Honolulu, formerly of Lombard, Illinois, April 22, 2004. Born in the Bronx, NY. Retired high energy particle physicist, musician and composer. Ground-breaking researcher in early nuclear medicine and team physicist on pioneering use of radioactive isotopes in medicine
 SMITH--Karen. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Karen Smith, beloved daughter of our dear friend and longtime colleague, Howard Berk, MD, attending physician in Beth Israel's Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology. To Howard, his wife Ela
 WARSHAW--Abraham. On May 5, 2004. Beloved husband of Marsha. Devoted and adored father of Stevie, Jay and Mikey and his wife Aviva. Adored grandfather of Yoni, Ari, Noah and Gabi. Dear brother of Anne, Bernard, Simeon, Faye, Louis and Moe. Loved uncle. Abe was a builder, creator, master plu
 MELTZER - - MARVIN. Fe bruary 13, 1927-May 5, 2003. In memory of Marvin (Mickey) Meltzer, his family has dedicated a bench in Central Park, New York City. Sit, remember, enjoy. Please call Carol Meltzer at 800-221-0243 for information. Family of Marvin Meltzer       
 PELLICANE--Molly T., May 24, 2003. Robert D. Jones, May 19, 2003. And until we meet again, may God keep you in the hollow of His hand. Happy Mothers Day. XO       
 Alan King, the stand-up comedian who parlayed a borscht-belt sense of humor, a tummler's cheek and a big appetite for the limelight into a thoroughgoing show business career that lasted more than half a century, died Sunday morning at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He 
 Fred Karlin, a prolific composer of film and television soundtracks who won both an Academy Award and an Emmy Award, died on March 26 in Culver City, Calif., where he lived. He was 67. The cause was cancer, said Pat Connolly, a family friend. Mr. Karlin wrote music for more 
 John J. Dios, who was regarded as New Jersey's first Hispanic judge, died on April 21 at his home in Bradley Beach, N.J. He was 80. The cause was stomach cancer, said his wife, Marcela. Judge Dios was appointed to the Municipal Court in Newark at a time of rising Hispanic ac
 AINSBERG--William Bernard. Beloved husband of Zelda. Dearest father of Arthur and Richard (Suzy). Loving grandfather of Joseph, Aliza, Zachary and Alex. Devoted brother of Louis, and Jeannette Ikka. A man whose greatest love and devotion were to his family.       
 BERNABO -- Raymond A. Born January 1, 1930 in New York, died May 6th. A graduate of Harvard College, a Fulbright scholar and Columbia Law School graduate. Mr. Bernabo retired from the former Primerica Corporation as Vice President and Deputy General Counsel. Mr. Bernabo, the son of the late
 BOSTELMAN--William T. Of Ringwood, NJ, on May 5, 2004. Loving husband of Leta (nee Buchanan). Father of Patricia, John and his wife Emily. He was President of Bostelman Assoc., a public relations firm in New York City. He served as a Lieutenant, US Navy, WWII in the Asiatic Pacific Theater 
 BUTLER--Matthew Anthony. 69, died Friday, May 7th, 2004, at his home in Rhinebeck. Most wonderful husband of Catherine Sheehan Butler. Most loving father of Mark & Kerri and David & April. Very proud grandfather of little Eleanor Jane. Loved by dear brother Denis and deceased brothers: John
 DAVIS--Dwight F. III. The grandson and namesake of the donor of the Davis Cup, died at age 68, on May 7, at Memorial Sloan-Kettering, in New York. Following graduation from Harvard College in 1959, Mr. Davis began a long career in advertising. He served as a Board member and director of the
 DREZNER -- Louis. 101 blessed years, passed away on May 7, 2004. Devoted husband to the late Sadye Hirsch Drezner, dear brother to older sister Shirley Rodkinson, treasured father to Susan Drezner Ultan, Leslie Barry Ultan, M.D., Alan David Drezner, M.D., and Esther B. Drezner. Loving grand
 KING--Alan. The Officers, Governors and members of the Friars Club are deeply saddened by the passing of their esteemed Abbot and dear friend Alan King. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Actor, comedian, raconteur--Alan was the epitome of show biz. A Friar for more than half 
 KOHN--Elliot S. Beloved husband of the late Shirli. Devoted father of Lisa, Jennifer and Melvin. Cherished grandfather of Sara, Sharon, Ari, Gabrielle and Miriam. Loving brother of Edwin. Also survived by many loving nieces and nephews. Services Monday, 11:30 am, at RiversideNassau North Ch
 KROWNE--Nathan P. Of Great Neck, NY, formerly of Boca Raton, FL, and Springfield, NJ, after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Freda for over 65 years. Devoted father of Kenneth, Perry and Ronald. Loving father-in-law of Karen and Lilian. Cherished grandfather of Cary, Lindsey, Andrew, Jef
 LYNCH--Joseph F. On May 8, 2004. He is survived by his beloved wife Peggy, his two daughters Maureen and Carol, his late son Michael, his most beloved sisters Ann and Agnes and various nieces and nephews. Joseph served in WWII during the invasion of Normandy. He was stationed in Okinawa whe
 POPE--Frank Elliot, M.D. Died May 7, 2004. Born October 27, 1908, Pasquariello, Terranova, Italy. Immigrated to New York City, October 1912, celebrating his fourth birthday on the ship in New York Harbor. He was raised and educated in New York, graduate of the University of Alabama and the 
 SHATTAN--Boaz M., D.D.S. 84, died on May 9, after fighting coronary disease and in grief at the sudden death of his beloved wife Mimi. Devoted father of Boaz Jr. (Buzz) and Thomas, adoring father-in-law of Kate Shattan and loving grandfather. Bo was a dedicated and revered oral surgeon who 
 SCHULSKY--Anne and Alexander. Mom and Dad, Grady grows longer and stronger, and his sunny disposition brightens our lives, day after day. Oh, how we wish you could share these precious moments with us       
 BECKER--Charles on May 8th, 2004 of Marlboro, NJ. Beloved husband of Sheryl, loving father of Lance and Sammantha and adored brother to Richard. Beloved son of late Dr. Samuel and Lillian Becker of NYC. Loved and cherished by his numerous friends and business associates. You taught us all h
 CORNWALL--L. Peter, 87, of New Canaan, CT, on May 2, 2004. Husband of the late L.W. Cornwall. He retired after 38 years with Pan American. Author of ''Ride The Sandy River'' and other railroad books and articles. He is survived by his son Peter, sister Priscilla Norwood and friend Carol Smi
 CUSACK--F. Howard. May 8, 2004 in his 98th year. Predeceased by his beloved wife Miriam; loving father of Peter and Howard Crispin; brother of Victor Aubrey and the late Walter Thomas; grandfather of Michele, Heather Tetrault, Charles Crispin and Timothy Brendan; great-grandfather of seven.
 DAVIS--Dwight F. III. The Board of Directors and staff of the USTA Tennis and Education Foundation mourn the loss of our much respected board member Dwight F. Davis III. His dedication and enthusiasm toward improving the lives of disadvantaged children will be greatly missed. Our heartfelt 
 GOLDEN--Allen Philip. We mourn his death on May 8, beloved father of Glynnis, grandfather of Gabriel, companion and dearest friend of Richard Upton and beloved brother of Irene Dash.       
 KING--Alan. The Board and staff of the National Foundation for Jewish Culture mourn the death of our friend and patron, Alan King. The namesake and first recipient of the Alan King Award in American Jewish Humor, he had a love, and a loving quip, for all things Jewish. He taught us how to l
 KLOBERG--Thomas F. of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Florham Park, NJ on May 6, 2004. Husband of the late Pat C. (Brewster) Kloberg. Father of Thomas F., Jr. of Bridgewater, NJ; Kevin G. of Stockton, NJ; Mark of Vero Beach, FL, and the late Kathleen A. Kenyon. He is also survived by six grandc
 KRAYTON--S. Jack. Of Lake Peekskill, NY, died at home on May 9, 2004. He was a Veteran of WWII and a pharmacist for 37 years. Jack was also a multi-talented artist who worked in many media particularly the creation of custom stained glass pieces. His creativity merged with his generosity as
 La VINE--Kenneth Nettleton of Vero Beach, FL died at his home on May 9, 2004. He was born in Brooklyn, NY in 1911, a son of the late Louis and Irene (Nettleton) La Vine. He graduated from Dartmouth College in 1932 and from Yale Law School in 1935, where he was a member of the Yale Law Journ
 SILINONTE--Joseph M. Born August 4, 1956, died May 8, 2004. Survived by his everloving mother Eileen and brother Stephen. Joseph was a master genealogist, he was a noted author and international lecturer. Joseph passed away in Brooklyn while preparing his 30th High School reunion. He will b
 Robert E. Fulton Jr., an adventurous inventor whose more than 70 patents included a car that could fly and a rescue system for spies behind enemy lines that was used by the C.I.A. and a James Bond movie, died on Friday at his home in Newtown, Conn. He was 95. His death was announced
 AMOLS--William, M.D. The Department of Neurology of Columbia University deeply regrets the death of William Amols, M.D., on April 20. Dr. Amols trained in neurology at the Neurological Institute of the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center and was chief resident in 1952-1953 before joining t
 COHEN--Alan J. The most loving and devoted father to Alison, whose spark, determination and daily accomplishments gave him immense joy. Beloved Husband of many years to Louise Cohen. Cherished brother of Ronnie and Bill Lane, uncle to Craig and Anna, Drew and Samantha, great-uncle to Claudi
 DAVIS--Dwight F. III. The Board of Directors and staff of the USTA Tennis and Education Foundation mourn the loss of our much respected board member Dwight F. Davis III. His dedication and enthusiasm toward improving the lives of disadvantaged children will be greatly missed. Our heartfelt 
 KING--Alan was a very good friend, Somebody I loved and respected for many years. We will miss him. My love and warmth at this time go to his lovely wife, Jeanette, and all their family. Mariana and George Kaufman       
 LA BELLA--Joseph. Passed away May 09, 2004. Our sincere condolences to his family. A warm and giving man, who showered his children and grandchildren with love. Reuben, Raquel, and Charles Hoppenstein, David, and Ava Shore, and Richard and Tivia Kramer.       
 La VINE--Kenneth Nettleton of Vero Beach, FL died at his home on May 9, 2004. He was born in Brooklyn, NY in 1911, a son of the late Louis and Irene (Nettleton) La Vine. He graduated from Dartmouth College in 1932 and from Yale Law School in 1935, where he was a member of the Yale Law Journ
 LIBSOHN--David, in the 87th year of his life and in the 60th year of our glorious marriage. Cherished husband of Mitzi. Adored father of Pauli Rose. Destiny put us together when we met by the beautiful sea. We believed in the unbelievable and in a moment of madness we wed. Like SooYin and M
 OBERMAN -- Seymour. Of Brookline, MA. and Tamarac, FL. Passed away on May 9, 2004. Survived by his loving family, his wife Anita, his daughters, Linda and Fred Handsman, Joyce and Ed Golden, five grandchildren Elizabeth, Hillary, Morgan, Ian and Michael. Services Thursday, 12 Noon, Levine F
 WINNERMAN--Robert H., 83. A memorial service will be held at 10 A.M. Friday in the Bernheim - Apter - Kreitzman Suburban Funeral Chapel, 68 Old Short Hills Rd, Livingston, NJ. Mr. Winnerman, who died May 1, was founder of US Home. During WWII he was a bombardier and was awarded 10 combat ci
 Phil Gersh, the last of the Hollywood agents who dominated the talent business in the 1940's and 50's and represented some of the great stars and filmmakers of Hollywood's golden age, died on Monday at his home in Beverly Hills, his family announced. He was 92. Mr. Gersh was one of 
 ASCH--Julius T. May 11, 2004, at age 92. Husband of the late Isabelle Asch. Father of Barbara, Geraldine, and the late Peter. Grandfather of Ben, Emily, Nick, and Joseph. Brother of the late John Asch. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Memorial service Sunday May 16 at
 BRODSKY--Jack R. 80, died May 12, 2004 after a long illness. Best friend and beloved husband of Gilda, most wonderful Daddy of Jodi (Jeffrey) and Kathy (Luis), loving grandfather of Lexi, Noah, Becca and Daniel. He was a beautiful human being and will be missed by all who knew him. You will
 FEINBERG--Fred (Chic). The employees of Tiger Button Co. Inc. offer our sincere condolences to our esteemed president Bernie Feinberg and his family on the loss of his dear brother Fred. Bernie and Fred founded Tiger Button 37 years ago and Fred was active until his retirement in 1996. Fune
 FRANKLIN--Leonard, dear husband of Deborah Wildenberg Franklin; father of Susanna and Daniel; grandfather of Joshua and Jessica. He was a practicing attorney in New York and Texas. Died May 10, 2004, after complications from surgery. He will be missed by his family and many friends.       
 KING--Alan was a very good friend, Somebody I loved and respected for many years. We will miss him. My love and warmth at this time go to his lovely wife, Jeanette, and all their family. Mariana and George Kaufman       
 MURRAY--Samuel J., 85, of Winter Park, FL and Greenwich, CT, beloved husband of Evelyn Hardart, died April 28. Born December 7, 1918 in Cincinnati, OH to William and Anna Ahearn Murray. Graduated Georgetown U. 1941, Columbia Law School 1947. Served US Army 1942-47, 2nd Infantry Div. in Fran
 NORTON--Paul Allen. The Boy Scouts of America, Greater New York Councils acknowledges the passing of Paul Allen Norton, and extends its sincere sympathy to his son Richard, his daughter Carolyn and his many friends. Mr. Norton's leadership in the insurance industry was well known. His suppo
 POTTER--William S. On May 11, 2004. Beloved husband of Rita. Father to Donald. Grandfather of Eileen. Greatgrandfather of Katherine and Elizabeth. Served in the British Navy during WW II. Constable in London. Resident manager of Peter Cooper Village/Stuyvesant Town. Friends may call at Andr
 RUEBEN--Stanley. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Stanley Rueben, treasured friend and colleague, who selflessly served as Director of Administrative Services until his retirement in 1989. We extend our deepest sympathies to his 
 WIENER -- Sol. East End Temple mourns the passing of one of our valued past presidents and extends sympathies to his wife Gertrude and his entire family.       
 Jean-Jacques Laffont, an economist known for developing mathematical models to estimate what something is worth in situations of deep uncertainty, died on May 1 in Toulouse, France. He was 57. The cause was cancer, said Jean Tirole, his colleague at the University of Toulouse.      
 Nelson Gidding, a Hollywood screenwriter who worked on classics like the Susan Hayward prison drama ''I Want to Live!,'' died on May 2 at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 84 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Giddi
 BELISLE--Dennis R. Beloved husband of Catherine, devoted and loving father of Nicole and Michael, cherished son of Florence and Raymond. Also survived by a host of many uncles, aunts, nieces, nephews, cousins and other relatives and friends. Graduate of LaSalle Academy in Providence, RI; at
 BLUM--Gertrude. Our deepest sympathy to Kerry Blum and his family on the loss of his mother, the wife of the late Charles Blum. A creative, independent, loving individual of incredible courage will be missed by all of us. Citrin, Weil, Goldstein and Kalikow Families       
 KRAININ--Ewing, 91, on May 8th at home in Kailua, Hawaii. Photographer, world traveler, he will be missed by family and friends. Survived by wife Bette, daughter Cameron, niece Marge Neuwirth. Memorial in June in NY.       
 LIPMAN--Arnold T. Beloved husband of Adrienne. Loving father of Stacey Burch, Lori Lipman and step-father of Lisa Rothenburger, Jill Sverdlove and Harry Sverdlove. Cherished grandfather of Michael and Rachel, Noah and Eliza. Service today 12 noon at Riverside, 21 West Broad St, Mt Vernon, N
 MAYER--Frederick Asher. Of Miami, FL and Bedford, NY. Beloved husband of Elizabeth, beloved brother-inlaw of Melissa and adored uncle of Kati. Passed away May 8, 2004. Services to be held Monday, May 17 at 11:45 AM at Riverside Memorial Chapel in Manhattan. In lieu of flowers donations in h
 POTTER--William S. On May 11, 2004. Beloved husband of Rita. Father to Donald. Grandfather of Eileen. Greatgrandfather of Katherine and Elizabeth. Served in the British Navy during WW II. Constable in London. Resident manager of Peter Cooper Village/Stuyvesant Town. Friends may call at Andr
 John D. LaPorta, a classically trained clarinetist who performed with the stars of early modern jazz before beginning a long teaching and composing career, died here on Wednesday, his family announced. He was 84. Mr. LaPorta played and recorded with many prominent jazz musicians, in
 LeRoy Myers, a dancer who was one of the last of the Copasetics veteran tap ensemble, died on April 26 in Manhattan, members of the troupe said. He was 84. Born in North Philadelphia, Mr. Myers began his professional career as a child, singing with Kiddies' Hour, a black amateur rad
 BRENT -- Michael. Beloved brother of Martha Saunders. He was a former interior decorator at B. Altman & Co.       
 KING--Alan. The Board of Directors, staff and children of the Israel Children's Centers and the Israel Tennis Centers mourn the passing of our dear friend Alan, and will miss his wonderful support.       
 APPELBAUM--David, 76. A most esteemed Pythian Knight died May 12, 2004. David served in WW II and Korea in the US Navy. His wife Marcia, children, Anita, Linda, and Howard, and four grandchildren survive him. David served the Knights of Pythias as Grand Chancellor of NY 1996/1997, and as De
 BRODSKY--Jack R. 80, died May 12, 2004 after a long illness. Best friend and beloved husband of Gilda, most wonderful Daddy of Jodi (Jeffrey) and Kathy (Luis), loving grandfather of Lexi, Noah, Becca and Daniel. He was a beautiful human being and will be missed by all who knew him. You will
 COHEN--Robert L. May 23, 1928-March 24, 2004. Our beloved Bob died suddenly in Bayside, N.Y. He is survived by his loving daughter Aimee Cohen and her partner Beverly Greeb of Martinez, CA., son Steven Cohen, cherished sisters, Beverly (Ray) Howell and Rosemary Green of Los Angeles, and Bob
 CRAWFORD--Homer. Died May 4, 2004, in Valatie, NY, son of Raymond Sheldon and Mary Homer Crawford. Born St Louis, MO, November 28, 1916, Mr. Crawford grew up in Bronxville, NY. BA, Amherst College '38, LLB U of VA '41, General Counsel VP Corp Secretary at St Regis Paper Company '56-'82, Ass
 FOSTER--John P. A retired diplomat, FEMA public affairs officer and broadcaster, died at age 75 of a brain tumor in Washington, DC on May 5, 2004. Retired to NH after a 23-year career in the Foreign Service, Foster continued working with State's International Visitors Program and FEMA. Inte
 GELLER--George, 91, of Scarsdale, NY, died May 1, 2004. ''Uncle George'', Owner of Camp Winston, Sackett Lake, NY, Developer in Westchester. Husband of the late Fay, father of Michael and Sandra, grandfather of Wendy, Bob, Lori and Jackie, great-grandfather of Alessandra, Rachel and Jake. H
 IMMERMAN--William, ''Velvel'', age 87, of Brooklyn, and lately of West Palm Beach, FL. Died May 13, 2004. Husband of the late Anita Baron Immerman. Companion of Arline Warrence. Father of Marc, Arlene & Bob. Grandfather of nine. We will miss his wit, poetry, talent, and charm. Memorials Sun
 KRAININ--Ewing, 91, on May 8th at home in Kailua, Hawaii. Photographer, world traveler, he will be missed by family and friends. Survived by wife Bette, daughter Cameron, niece Marge Neuwirth. Memorial in June in NY.       
 MAGALANER -- Marvin. A leading scholar of James Joyce and Virginia Woolf, a retired Professor Emeritus of English of the Graduate School and the University Center of CCNY and adjunct professor at NYU, died Saturday morning at the age of 83. Inspiring teacher, loving and devoted husband, fat
 MAYER--Frederick Asher. Of Miami, FL and Bedford, NY. Beloved husband of Elizabeth, beloved brother-inlaw of Melissa and adored uncle of Kati. Passed away May 8, 2004. Services to be held Monday, May 17 at 11:45 AM at Riverside Memorial Chapel in Manhattan. In lieu of flowers donations in h
 POTTER--William (Bill) S. The Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York, (ABO), mourns the passing of its former Assistant Executive Director, William (Bill) S. Potter. Ever the consummate gentleman and industry professional, he will be missed. During his tenure at ABO, Bill brough
 ROLLAND--Alan. Passed from us on 11 May 2004, in his 79th year. He was a beautiful person with a magnetic personality. Alan's enthusiam for life was infectious. His grace and sweetness touched all. Adored husband of Mickey; loving father of Joan and Ann; grandfather of Staci. Information Be
 SACHS--Charles. With a deep sense of sadness we extend our sincere condolences to the family of Charles Sachs who passed away May 7th. A devoted husband, father and dear friend to all. He was Secretary of the Union Mutual Benefit Association for 20 years and Trustee of the Allied Educationa
 SMITH--Robert L. 40, on April 21, 2004, in Los Angeles, a scenic and lighting designer. He is survived mother Rhonda, two sisters Ginger and Tami, three nieces, one nephew and many friends. For LA memorial service, email ajpacella@comcast.net       
 VOGT--Evon ''Vogtie'' Zartman of Cambridge, MA on May 13, 2004. Professor Emeritus and former Chairman of the Department of Anthropology at Harvard University. He is lovingly remembered by his wife of 62 years, Catherine C. ''Nan'' Hiller Vogt, his children: Countess Shirley Vogt Teleki of 
 Stanley Harris Feldberg, a prominent discount retailer who helped build the Zayre chain, forerunner of the TJX Companies, which owns the T. J. Maxx and Marshalls stores, died on April 24 in Charleston, S.C. He was 79 and lived in Hilton Head, S.C., where he moved from Wellesley, Mass., abou
 Col. Robert Morgan, who piloted a B-17 bomber that soared into history and Hollywood movies as an icon of World War II, died Saturday night in Asheville, N.C., after breaking his neck in a fall, said his wife, Linda. He was 85 and lived in Asheville. For six months over battle-torn 
 Jack Holland, a Belfast-born author and an authority on Irish culture and the sectarian strife in Northern Ireland, died on Friday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in New York. He was 56 and lived in Brooklyn Heights. The cause was lymphatic cancer, said his daughter, Jenny. 
 EVERETT -- Henry. The Board and Staff of the New York Botanical Garden are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend Henry Everett. Henry, with his wife Edith, brought joy, fun, and learning to hundreds of thousands of NYC schoolchildren and their families through the creation of the E
 GATES--John Monteith. Of New York, Southampton and Palm Beach, died on May 14, leaving his wife Letitia, brothers Peter, Arthur and Jonathan, sisters Ellen, Evelyn and Ada, and seven nephews and nieces. Service private. Contributions may be made to St. John's Episcopal Church, Southampton, 
 GROISSER--Philip L., Ph.D. Of Monroe Twp, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn, on May 16, 2004. Retired in 1981 as Superintendent of Brooklyn, NY, High Schools. Devoted and beloved husband of Louise, father of Debra Greenberger and David Groisser, father-inlaw of Gerald Greenberger, brother of William
 IMBER--Sol. The members and staff of Elmwood Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member and friend, Sol Imber. We wish to express our deepest sympathies to his wife Diane and his entire family.       
 IMMERMAN--William, ''Velvel'', age 87, of Brooklyn, and lately of West Palm Beach, FL. Died May 13, 2004. Husband of the late Anita Baron Immerman. Companion of Arline Warrence. Father of Marc, Arlene & Bob. Grandfather of nine. We will miss his wit, poetry, talent, and charm. Memorials Sun
 KESSLER -- Bertram E. Passed away after a brief illness on May 16, 2004. Beloved husband of Gloria. Devoted father of Lori Sidman and father-in-law of Matthew Sidman. Loving brother of Gerald. Respected lawyer and educator who loved his family and profession. We will miss you terribly. Serv
 KLEIN--John. Beloved husband of the late Miriam. Devoted father of Ruth and Fred Schwalbe. Loving grandfather of Evan and Jason. Services Monday, 11:30 am, Park East Synagogue, 163 East 67 St. The family would appreciate donations to the Friends of the IDF, 298 5th Ave or Dr. Gail Roboz Leu
 NEWMAN--Walter. Passed away at his home in Briarcliff Manor, NY, on May 15 at the age of 86. Formerly of Bronxville, NY, and Lake Placid, NY, Dr. Newman was a graduate of Columbia College ('39) and P&S Medical School ('43M). Conducted research through the 40's and 50's as the Chief of Cardi
 SAYLES--Thomas D. Of Chatham, NJ, on May 15, beloved husband of Patricia Sayles (Blake), father of Lynn Poulo of Morristown, Rick Sayles of Mendham, and Stephen Sayles of Lake Hopatcong, brother of Nancy Sayles-Evarts of Garrison, NY, and grandfather of Brandon, Gregory, Kimberly, Amy and B
 ZARO--Philip. 82, of Harrison, NY, on May 14, 2004. Beloved husband to Dorothy. Devoted father of Stuart and his wife Keri, Andrew and his wife Lois, Joseph and his wife Nancy. Loving grandfather to Michael, Brian, Scott, A.J., Alex, Olivia, Stephen, Victoria, Zachary, Jeremy and Richard. B
 Syd Hoff, a prolific children's book author, illustrator and cartoonist for The New Yorker who was best known for ''Danny and the Dinosaur,'' an enduring best seller for beginning readers, died on Wednesday at his home in Miami Beach. He was 91. His death was announced by Josette Ku
 ABERBACH--Julian J., 95, of New York City, New York, Southampton, New York, Palm Beach, Florida. Beloved husband of 50 years of Anne Marie Aberbach, loving father of Belinda Aberbach Stevenson Agar, loving grandfather of Vanessa Stevenson, Elie Stevenson, Max Stevenson, Ezra Stevenson and C
 DE CESAR--Charles. On May 17, 2004. Survived by his niece Valerie Seitz and nephew Fred Seitz. Visitation Wednesday, 2-5 and 7-9 P.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave.       
 EVERETT--Henry. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) are deeply sorrowed by the passing of our esteemed Board member. Henry Everett's lifelong commitment to social justice and his desire to reach out and help those whose needs
 GATES--John Monteith. Of New York, Southampton and Palm Beach, died on May 14, leaving his wife Letitia, brothers Peter, Arthur and Jonathan, sisters Ellen, Evelyn and Ada, and seven nephews and nieces. Service private. Contributions may be made to St. John's Episcopal Church, Southampton, 
 HOROWITZ--Lewis. Age 58, unexpectedly and tragically passed away on Saturday, May 15. A man who traveled many diverse paths in his life, which came to its end much too soon. He will be missed by all those whose life he touched, most especially Elaine, his partner in life, and her children a
 KESSLER -- Bertram E. Passed away after a brief illness on May 16, 2004. Beloved husband of Gloria. Devoted father of Lori Sidman and father-in-law of Matthew Sidman. Loving brother of Gerald. Respected lawyer and educator who loved his family and profession. We will miss you terribly. Serv
 KLEIN -- John, Executive member of the American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors. He was especially devoted and active for Israel and the Israel Defense Forces. We extend our deepest sympathies to his daughter Ruth Schwalble, her sonin-law Fred, his grandsons Evan and Jason and exten
 KOTZ--Richard Paul, 63, passed away peacefully after a long and courageous battle with lymphoma on May 15th, 2004. Formerly of Wilton, CT, Basking Ridge, NJ and Manhattan, he relocated to Bonita Springs, FL in 1999. He was a Wealth Management Advisor at Merrill Lynch after a long career as 
 KUPRIS -- Valdis. Beloved father of Avia, Maija and Aara, grandfather of Sienna, and companion to Bronnie. A memorial celebration of his life and art will be held June 12th at the Friends Meeting House, East 15th Street and Rutherford Place at 10AM.       
 LARKIN--Frank Yoakum. Of Greenwich, CT & New York City. Beloved husband of June Noble Larkin, died on Sunday, May 16, 2004, in Greenwich, CT, of heart failure. He was a former Executive Vice President of The Putnam Trust Company of Greenwich, and was a graduate of Princeton University, Ford
 MANDEL--Stephan Marton. On May 15, of lung cancer. Beloved husband of Heidi S. Fiske. Beloved brother of Linda E. Mandel and beloved brother - in - law of Pierre Clerk. At his death at age 67, President of the Columbia County Historical Society; for many years President of Summer Stores Cor
 MORRIS--Arthur I., 61, passed away May 16th, 2004. Loving brother of Linda, father of Stacey (Adam), Barri (Michael) and Gia. Grandfather of Rebecca, Joshua, Dylan and Andrew. He will be in our hearts forever. Funeral services will be held at Riverside Chapel (76th and Amsterdam) on May 18t
 NUSSBAUM--Aaron of Lakewood, NJ died on May 16, 2004 at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital @ Rahway, Rahway, NJ. He was 73 years old. Mr. Nussbaum was a loving husband, father and grandfather. He was brave, courageous and had a most generous heart and spirit. He is survived by his wife
 SMITH--Mason, 81, on May 16, 2004, of Washington, CT. Former president of Caleb V. Smith Inc. Uniform Manufacturers in NYC. Survived by his wife, Barbara Ballou Smith; sons, Mason B., Gary, and Douglas Smith; a brother, Howard Smith, and one grandchild, Whitney Smith. A memorial service wil
 ZARO--Philip. The Yeshiva University family deeply mourns the passing of one of our community's most dedicated and generous supporters, who championed higher education as a respected board member of YU's Wurzweiler School of Social Work. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Doro
 Elvin Jones, whose explosive drumming powered the John Coltrane Quartet, the most influential and controversial jazz ensemble of the 1960's, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan and Nagasaki, Japan. Mr. Jones's death, which came after several months of faili
 Henry J. Everett, a New York investment manager, supporter of many Jewish, educational and cultural institutions and namesake of the acclaimed Everett Children's Adventure Garden in the Bronx, died on Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived on the 
 ABERBACH--Julian J., 95, of New York City, New York, Southampton, New York, Palm Beach, Florida. Beloved husband of 50 years of Anne Marie Aberbach, loving father of Belinda Aberbach Stevenson Agar, loving grandfather of Vanessa Stevenson, Elie Stevenson, Max Stevenson, Ezra Stevenson and C
 BRENNAN--William J. III. Founding chair of the Brennan Center for Justice at NYU School of Law. In word and deed, Bill made it plain how much this institution and its work meant to him; his leadership meant as much to us. Bill has our lasting gratitude for striving with us to advance the id
 CHAIKIN--Lawrence, DDS, on May 17, 2004 in Rancho Mirage, CA. Beloved husband of Sheila, cherished father of Kathleen Bernstein (Gerald) and John, devoted grandfather of Benjamin Chaikin, Daniel and Michael Bernstein. Retired professor of oral surgery at NYU and Loma Linda University. Capta
 DE GUNZBURG -- Baron Alain. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn the passing of Baron Alain de Gunzburg, father of former Board member Charles and his wife, Natalie, and of Jean and uncle of Matthew Bronfman, our devoted chairman. Our hearts and prayers are with them and the de Gunzburg 
 EVERETT--Henry. The staff and board of Teach For America mourn the loss of Henry and celebrate his many contributions to our organization. Along with his dear wife Edith, Henry was so interested in the young people who serve through Teach For America, so full of genuine concern for us as pe
 FLEISCHER--Alvin J. of Delray Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Lenore, adored father of Bruce, Patti and Ilene, proud grandfather of Bonnie and Adam. He fought the good fight, he was our hero. Services Thursday, May 20, 2004, at Gutterman Warheit Memorial Chapel in Boca Raton, FL. 800-992-9262
 GATES--John Monteith. Of New York, Southampton and Palm Beach, died on May 14, leaving his wife Letitia, brothers Peter, Arthur and Jonathan, sisters Ellen, Evelyn and Ada, and seven nephews and nieces. Service private. Contributions may be made to St. John's Episcopal Church, Southampton, 
 HERSH--Michael. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President       
 HOROWITZ--Lewis. Age 58, unexpectedly and tragically passed away on Saturday, May 15. A man who traveled many diverse paths in his life, which came to its end much too soon. He will be missed by all those whose life he touched, most especially Elaine, his partner in life, and her children a
 KLEIN--John. We deeply mourn the death of John Klein, who devoted his life to aid the well-being of Israel's Soldiers. He will be dearly missed. Our deepest condolences to Ruth, Fred, Evan and Jason. Larry Hochberg, Chairman Jack Lahav, President Jerry Kaplan, Executive Vice President Allen
 LARKIN--Frank Yoakum. Of Greenwich, CT & New York City. Beloved husband of June Noble Larkin, died on Sunday, May 16, 2004, in Greenwich, CT, of heart failure. He was a former Executive Vice President of The Putnam Trust Company of Greenwich, and was a graduate of Princeton University, Ford
 LEMAY -- Richard Joseph. Richard Lemay, Professor Emeritus of History, died on 11 May after a long illness. Born 30 June 1916 in Montreal. A pioneer in recognizing the importance of the Arabic impact on medieval learning, Professor Lemay was a world authority on the twelfth-century transmis
 MOORE--Carl. Citymeals-onWheels' Board and staff mourn the passing of Carl Moore, a long-time friend who gave of his talents so generously. We extend our condolences to his loving wife, Mary, and to all his family.       
 RANDALL--Tony, 84, on May 17, 2004. Beloved husband of Heather. Loving father to Julia and Jefferson. Services will be private. A public memorial service will be held at a later date. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be sent to the National Actors Theatre, One Pace Plaza, New York, New
 SCHREIBER--Sidney, 95, of Chicago, formerly of Cedarhurst, NY, passed away on Saturday, May 15, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Hazel Sukoff Schreiber, loving father of Betsy Louise Schreiber Katz (Paul) and Eliot Bruce Schreiber (Jayne), devoted grandfather of Amy and David Katz, Abigail
 WERSHALS--Paul. The firm of Lipsky & Miller wishes to express our heartfelt sorrow for the untimely death of Paul Wershals. Paul was our good friend and we will miss him dearly. Michael Lipsky, Walter Miller       
 Philip Zaro, a co-founder of the bakery chain that provides countless commuters with bagels and muffins at Grand Central Terminal and Pennsylvania Station, died on Friday at his home in Harrison, N.Y. He was 82. The cause was a stroke, but he had suffered from congestive heart failu
 Tony Randall, the sardonic actor with the commanding voice and precise diction whose career in light-comic parts in Hollywood and on the New York stage seemed the perfect preparation for his signature role as the fussbudget Felix Unger in the classic television series ''The Odd Couple,'' di
 Arnold O. Beckman, a chemist whose invention in 1934 of a device to measure the sourness of lemons led to a lucrative career developing accurate and easy-to-use scientific instruments, died Tuesday at a hospital in San Diego. He was 104 and lived in Newport Beach, Calif. Dr. Beckman
 BECKMAN--Arnold O, Ph.D. Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory's Board of Trustees, administration and staff extend deepest sympathy to the family and friends of Arnold O. Beckman, Ph.D. Dr. Beckman, through the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation, was a generous supporter of the research, infrastr
 CHAIKIN--Lawrence, DDS, on May 17, 2004 in Rancho Mirage, CA. Beloved husband of Sheila, cherished father of Kathleen Bernstein (Gerald) and John, devoted grandfather of Benjamin Chaikin, Daniel and Michael Bernstein. Retired professor of oral surgery at NYU and Loma Linda University. Capta
 CHERKIS--Carl. Of Southbury, CT and Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of Estella, father of Lawrence and Linda, grandfather of six, great grandfather of five. He was a noted educator, scholar, poet. His gentle nature, integrity and kindness will be missed by the many lives he touched.       
 EVERETT--Henry J. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of former Board member Henry Everett. A supporter of the Weizmann Institute's work, together with his wife Edith, he established the Everett Technology Workshop of the Clore Garden of Science a
 FLEISCHER--Alvin J. of Delray Beach, FL. Beloved husband of Lenore, adored father of Bruce, Patti and Ilene, proud grandfather of Bonnie and Adam. He fought the good fight, he was our hero. Services Thursday, May 20, 2004, at Gutterman Warheit Memorial Chapel in Boca Raton, FL. 800-992-9262
 GATES--John Monteith. Of New York, Southampton and Palm Beach, died on May 14, leaving his wife Letitia, brothers Peter, Arthur and Jonathan, sisters Ellen, Evelyn and Ada, and seven nephews and nieces. Service private. Contributions may be made to St. John's Episcopal Church, Southampton, 
 GERSON--Jules L. On May 18, 2004 in Bal Harbour, FL at the age of 100. Born in Russia in 1903 he was the son of Rachel and Harry Garzick the oldest brother of eight. The family immigrated to New York where Jules became a self taught jeweler and founder of Goldstein & Gerson Jewelers and the
 HATTENBACH--Mark. Director, Benefactor and long-time friend. The Officers and Directors of the Dysautonomia Foundation sadly mourn the untimely passing of Mark Hattenbach, and extend sincerest condolences to his beloved family, Ellen Sue, Charles and Laime, Alexander and Theodore. David Bre
 KAUFMANN -- Steven N., passed away May 18 in New York in his 91st year. A lifelong resident of the city, he was predeceased by his parents, Nathan and Selma Kaufmann of Pittsburgh, PA, and also predeceased by his sister, Marion Louise Hommel. Steven was a wellknown and respected men's fashi
 KLEIN--William, on May 19. Son of the late Bessie and David. He brought joy to his friends and family. Services today, 1:30PM at Mount Zion Cemetery.       
 LARKIN--Frank Yoakum. Of Greenwich, CT & New York City. Beloved husband of June Noble Larkin, died on Sunday, May 16, 2004, in Greenwich, CT, of heart failure. He was a former Executive Vice President of The Putnam Trust Company of Greenwich, and was a graduate of Princeton University, Ford
 LISS--Elliott Raymond, 72. Beloved husband of 46 years of Dorothy. Adored father of Laurie and Matthew and their partners Kate and Jack. Loving grandfather of Timothy Elliott and cherished brother of Barbara Fox. Son of the late Sally and Murray. He will be missed by his family, friends, bu
 RANDALL--Tony. The Board of Trustees, staff and consumers of the YAI/National Institute for People with Disabilities Network mourn the passing of Tony Randall, longtime friend and Honorary Sponsor of our organization. As a frequent spokesperson for YAI/NIPD, Mr Randall played a pivotal role
 WOLSTEIN--Bertram. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem note with profound sorrow the loss of Bertram L. Wolstein. Bert was committed to Hebrew University and Israel's people. Bert and Iris Wolstein spearheaded the Iris S. and Bert L. Wolstein Acc
 ZARO--Philip. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Philip Zaro, a treasured friend and leader of the New York Jewish community. We extend our deepest sympathies to his children: Stuart, and his wife Keri; Andrew, and his wife Lois; J
 Julian J. Aberbach, who owned the publishing rights to Elvis Presley's music and set up a music publishing system that revolutionized the rock and country music industries, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 95 and lived in Southampton, N.Y. The cause was he
 CULLMAN--Joseph. For the past decade, Joseph Cullman has been a significant and steadfast supporter of Women In Need's homeless families. His understanding and generosity for the needs of the women and children in our care has been extraordinary. On behalf of WIN's families, the staff and t
 DE GUNZBURG -- Baron Alain. The Trustees and staff of The Jewish Museum mourn the passing of Baron Alain de Gunzburg, father of our Trustee Charles de Gunzburg and brother-in-law of our Trustee Andrea Bronfman. We extend our deepest condolences to Charles, his wife Nathalie, and to the enti
 DORSEY--Thomas F., 78, of East Lyme, CT on May 18, 2004, of cancer. He taught English and coached football for 39 years. He was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Brown University '48 and an AllAmerican football player. For arrangements, see neilanfuneralhome.com       
 ELLIS -- Abraham. The trustees, faculty and staff of NYU Medical Center note with sadness the passing of our cherished friend, devoted supporter and generous benefactor, Abraham Ellis. Abe's analytical mind and keen sense of humor were greatly valued by the members of the NYU Medical Center
 EVERETT--Henry. Human Rights Watch mourns the loss of a tireless advocate of the cause of human rights and justice. Along with his wife Edith, Henry Everett has been a longtime advisor to and trusted supporter of Human Rights Watch. His contributions to the cause of human rights will be gre
 GRAD--James. He was unbelievable. Giving. Involved. Smart. Loved. One of a kind. Nothing can fill the void he leaves in the lives of his family and friends. Oh, How we will miss him. Fran and Al Newman       
 HATTENBACH--Mark Roger, age 62, of Norwalk, CT, was the owner of Vanguard Temporary Services, located in New York and Connecticut, Colonial Wines and Spirits in Norwalk, and Hattco Properties. He died on May 19th after a long battle with lung cancer at his home in Delray Beach, FL. Mark ser
 KAUFMANN -- Steven. DC Moore Gallery mourns the passing of our good friend Steven Kaufmann. We will always remember with pleasure his generosity of spirit, inimitable sense of humor and incomparable sense of style. Our deepest sympathies to his family and especially to Edward. Bridget, Suza
 KONNER--Ruth. The Partners and staff of Ross & Cohen, LLP wish to express our deepest sympathy to our Partner, Dennis Konner and his family on the loss of Ruth Konner, beloved mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother.       
 LARKIN--Frank Yoakum. Of Greenwich, CT & New York City. Beloved husband of June Noble Larkin, died on Sunday, May 16, 2004, in Greenwich, CT, of heart failure. He was a former Executive Vice President of The Putnam Trust Company of Greenwich, and was a graduate of Princeton University, Ford
 MAYNARD--Daniel S. The Port Authority of NY & NJ was saddened to lose its colleague and friend, Dan Maynard. He provided astute and sensitive guidance on many regional issues, especially regarding the Port of NY/NJ. He was a knowledgeable and respected voice for our agency. We will miss his
 RAK--Mayer. On May 20, 2004, in his 93rd year. Devoted husband of the late Guta, beloved father of Eda. Deeply mourned by his son-in-law Richard Neugebauer, granddaughters Sabina and Lila, family and friends. He was a respected Yiddish journalist and a commited socialist whose life and work
 RANDALL--Tony. Man of Arts and Letters; opera devotee; comedian, tragedian, wit and philanthropist. Colleague and friend, given the joys of youth in his later years. We miss you. Alvin Deutsch for McLaughlin & Stern       
 DAVIDSON--Nathan J. May 21, 1999. Thank you, God, for the gift of his life--a joy to so many--an inestimable treasure to me. KM       
 William Joseph Brennan III, an influential New Jersey lawyer who was a senior partner in a Princeton firm and a former president of the New Jersey State Bar Association, died on Monday at Princeton Hospital. He was 71 and lived in Princeton. The cause was cancer, his family said.   
 James A. Krumhansl, a physicist and administrator at Cornell University who raised an early voice against a federal research project that would have created the nation's largest particle accelerator, the supercollider, died on May 6 at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He 
 Melvin J. Lasky, the editor of two major intellectual journals and a man at the vortex of the debates and controversies thrown up by the cold war, died Wednesday at his home in Berlin. He was 84. The cause was heart failure, Marc Svetov, his secretary, said. Probably no pers
 ARLOW--Dr. Jacob A. at the age of 91. Beloved husband of the late Alice. Devoted father of Michael, Allan, Seth and the late Jonathan. Father-inlaw of Freda, Karen and Vicky. Also survived by seven grandchildren. Services Sunday 1:15PM at RiversideNassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaz
 BACKSTEDT -- Larry. We mourn the passing of our beloved friend, Larry Backstedt. His generosity, wisdom, humor and kindness will be with us forever. Our hearts are with his loving wife, Roseanne, and cherished daughter, Simone. Gil and Michele Schaye and Family       
 GRAD--James, 85, on May 20, died after a long and courageous fight against cancer. Husband of the late Thelma (Lewis). Beloved and loving father of Adrian, Maxine and the late John. Devoted grandfather of Arlen Gaines, Rebecca Grad and Aaron Grad, Julia Adolphe, and Sophia, Noa and Elan She
 KORET -- Samuel (Sonny). Born in Brooklyn, N.Y. and living in Houston, Tx for the past 28 years, passed away on May 20, 2004, two days before his 87th birthday. He was pre-deceased by Bernice, his adored wife of 51 years, and is survived by his loving son David, his devoted daughter Tia Pie
 MANELSKI--Denis M. Widely regarded as the ''father of home banking'' for his pioneering work allowing consumers to bank by telephone, died May 17, 2004 of pancreatic cancer. Dr. Manelski is survived by his wife of 41 years, Maureen (nee Penman), five children: Jeanmaire, Denis, Darren, Dirk
 RAK--Mayer. On May 20, 2004, in his 93rd year. Devoted husband of the late Guta, beloved father of Eda. Deeply mourned by his son-in-law Richard Neugebauer, granddaughters Sabina and Lila, family and friends. He was a respected Yiddish journalist and a commited socialist whose life and work
 Samuel Iwry, an expert on Hebrew who helped prove the antiquity of the Dead Sea Scrolls, died in Baltimore on May 8, Johns Hopkins University announced. He was 93. A professor emeritus at Johns Hopkins, Dr. Iwry (pronounced EVE-ree) was a graduate student at the university when the 
 William H. Hinton, whose accounts of Chinese village life helped shape America's understanding of Mao Zedong's revolution, died last Saturday at a nursing home in Concord, Mass., where he had been living for several years. He was 85. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his 
 Dr. Evon Z. Vogt Jr., an anthropologist whose extensive fieldwork in southern Mexico helped advance the understanding of modern Maya culture, died on May 13 in Cambridge, Mass. He was 85. The cause was complications from pulmonary fibrosis, said his son Eric. Dr. Vogt, a lea
 Fred Asher Mayer, a tour and cruise executive who ran some of the earliest and most star-studded theme cruises, died on May 8 at Westchester Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 69 and lived in Bedford, N.Y., and Miami. The cause was post-surgery complications, his family said.  
 Mortimer D. Turner, a prominent polar geologist who helped open the Antarctic frontier to geological exploration, died May 1 in Boulder, Colo. He was 83. The cause was a seizure, said his wife, JoAnne Church Turner. In 1959, Dr. Turner joined the National Science Foundation 
 ARLOW--Dr. Jacob A. at the age of 91. Beloved husband of the late Alice. Devoted father of Michael, Allan, Seth and the late Jonathan. Father-inlaw of Freda, Karen and Vicky. Also survived by seven grandchildren. Services Sunday 1:15PM at RiversideNassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaz
 BACKSTEDT -- Larry. We mourn the passing of our beloved friend, Larry Backstedt. His generosity, wisdom, humor and kindness will be with us forever. Our hearts are with his loving wife, Roseanne, and cherished daughter, Simone. Gil and Michele Schaye and Family       
 BARASH--Helene F. Childhood sweetheart and beloved wife of Simon. Beloved mother of Bruce, Kenneth and Andrea, and grandmother of David, Jason, Rachel, Ross, Daniel and Andrew. Sixtyfour years of joyous love never to be forgotten. Funeral services Sunday, May 23, Gutterman's, Woodbury, NY. 
 BLANK--Jeffrey C., age 61, of Abington, PA. Beloved husband of Carol Baker Blank, died on May 16, 2004. He is survived by his wife Carol, daughter Jill and her husband Paul Aschkenasy and their children Kate, Ben and James, daughter Sally and her husband Devin Aronstam, son Philip, mother R
 COX--W. Bingham. On May 21, 2004, at age 93. Beloved husband of the late Elise Conley Cox. Loving father of W. Bingham Cox Jr., Louis D. Cox, Peter B. Cox, Elise E. Cox and Jan Cox Weber. Devoted grandfather of ten and great - grandfather of 12. Friends may call at The Abbey, 1076 Madison A
 GRAD--James, 85, on May 20, died after a long and courageous fight against cancer. Husband of the late Thelma (Lewis). Beloved and loving father of Adrian, Maxine and the late John. Devoted grandfather of Arlen Gaines, Rebecca Grad and Aaron Grad, Julia Adolphe, and Sophia, Noa and Elan She
 GROSSMAN--Howard S. On May 17, 2004. Devoted husband of Joan, whom he adored, married a wonderful 56 years. Loving father of Harold and Bobby. Father-in-law of Chana. Grandfather of Rebekah and Sarah. We will miss you. Contributions may be made to Hospice of Southwest Florida, 5955 Rand Blv
 HAMMEL--Dr. Leslie M., on May 8th, 2004 in Palm Desert, CA. Born-October 5, 1911, Budapest, Hungary. An International Mining Geologist, received his doctorate in 1936 from the Royal Hungarian Joseph Nador University of Technical and Economical Sciences, in Budapest, Hungary. He authored a t
 HARKINS--Joseph J. A retired Executive Vice President of the Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A., died at St. Luke's Hospital in Jacksonville, Florida, Tuesday, May 11, 2004. The cause was a stroke suffered while at home in Ponte Vedra Beach. He was born in New York City in 1931 and attended Fordham
 HATTENBACH -- Mark. We mourn his passing. We will always remember his wise counsel, kindness, integrity and generosity of spirit. We extend heartfelt condolences to his dear wife Ellen Sue, son Charles (Laime), grandchildren and the entire Hattenbach family. He will be missed by all whose l
 HINTON--William H. In Concord, MA, formerly of Fleetwood, PA., May 15, 2004. Husband of Katherine (Chiu) and the late Joanne (Raiford). Memorial services at The Putney School, Putney, VT, Saturday, August 21 at 3PM. In lieu of flowers, gifts in his memory may be sent to The Putney School, A
 KOTZ--Richard Paul, 63, passed away peacefully after a long and courageous battle with lymphoma on May 15th, 2004. Formerly of Wilton, CT, Basking Ridge, NJ and Manhattan, he relocated to Bonita Springs, FL in 1999. He was a Wealth Management Advisor at Merrill Lynch after a long career as 
 LEONARD--Charles Inman, 80, of New York City, died May 6 at the Veterans Administration Hospital. He is survived by his wife Mary Anne Leonard, his daughter Christopher I. Silva, his son Kim W. Leonard and four granddaughters, Victoria, Rebecca, Christina and Sarah. He was born January 6, 1
 MAYNARD--Daniel S. The Port Authority of NY & NJ was saddened to lose its colleague and friend, Dan Maynard. He provided astute and sensitive guidance on many regional issues, especially regarding the Port of NY/NJ. He was a knowledgeable and respected voice for our agency. We will miss his
 NATHANSON--David Mark. On May 22, 2004. Beloved husband of Sue Ellen. Dear father of Lisa, Mitchell and Howie. Loving Pop Pop to his grandchildren Zachary and Samantha. Brother of Sara and Aaron. Son of the late Esther and Lloyd. The world is a lesser place with the loss of this great man o
 PASKEWICZ--Anthony W., on May 20, 2004 of New York City. Beloved husband of Mary L. Also survived by his brother Charles. Visiting at the Fairchild Chapel, Franklin Ave. at 12th St., Garden City, 7-9 PM Sunday and 2-4 and 7-9 PM Monday. Mass of Christian Burial St. Joseph's Church, Garden C
 ROTH--Jules K. On May 20, 2004. Dear brother of Dr. Gerald Roth and his wife Barbara. He will be missed by his family and friends.       
 SANDT--John J., M.D. Rochester, N.Y. May 16, 2004; Age 78. Born Woodhaven, Grad Regis HS 1943, USN-USS St. Paul 1944-45. Vanderbilt U. 1948, Magna Cum Laude, Yale 1949, MA. Vanderbilt 1957, MD SUNY-Syracuse, Post Grad Psychiatry. He taught English, was assistant professor and supervised psy
 WIEN--Leonard A. The younger brother of the late Lawrence A. Wien, Leonard A. Wien was born May 6, 1909. They had three other siblings including a sister, Irma Hein who is the only survivor. He graduated from NYU. Leonard met Marjorie Feterson at a fraternity party in 1931. They were marrie
 Gill Fox, a jack-of-all-trades cartoonist who collaborated with the first generation of comic-book creators on innovative characters including Plastic Man and the Spirit, died on May 15 in Redding Ridge, Conn., his daughter Donna Morency said. He was 88. As an editor, artist and wri
 Dr. Jacob A. Arlow, a former president of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute whose work helped form the core of modern analytic thinking, died on Friday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 91. The cause was prostate cancer, said his son Seth. Dr. Arlow, who practiced u
 ARLOW--Jacob A., M.D. The Long Island Psychoanalytic Society mourns the loss of our most highly respected honorary member, teacher, and colleague. Our condolences go out to his famly Shirley Papilsky, President Luba Kessler, Vice President Martin Blum, Secretary Marc Reubins, Treasurer     
 BARASH--Helene F. Childhood sweetheart and beloved wife of Simon. Beloved mother of Bruce, Kenneth and Andrea, and cherished grandmother of David, Jason, Rachel, Ross, Daniel and Andrew. Sixty-four years of joyous love never to be forgotten. BARASH--Helene F. When a man gets married
 COX--W. Bingham. On May 21, 2004, at age 93. Beloved husband of the late Elise Conley Cox. Loving father of W. Bingham Cox Jr., Louis D. Cox, Peter B. Cox, Elise E. Cox and Jan Cox Weber. Devoted grandfather of ten and great - grandfather of 12. Friends may call at The Abbey, 1076 Madison A
 DiIORIO--Julio. 63, born in the Bronx, father, friend and advertising creative. Lost his 18 month battle with emphysema on May 19, 2004, after a courageous fight. Through the most difficult of times, Julio never lost his charismatic wit, his willingness to laugh and his ability to deeply mo
 GRAD--James, 85, on May 20, died after a long and courageous fight against cancer. Husband of the late Thelma (Lewis). Beloved and loving father of Adrian, Maxine and the late John. Devoted grandfather of Arlen Gaines, Rebecca Grad and Aaron Grad, Julia Adolphe, and Sophia, Noa and Elan She
 HERSHMAN--Seymour. At age 75, on May 22, 2004. Loving husband to Sonia. Unparalleled father to Elliott and Susan, Jack and Ingrid, Richard and Ute, Beth and David. Devoted grandfather to Todd, Melissa, Jennifer, Daniel, Neil, Monica, Marc, Ross, Brett and namesake Sawyer. A man of simple pl
 ISQUITH--Santley. February 28, 1907-May 22, 2004. Husband of Rita. Father to Fred and Aaron. Grandfather to Daniel, Fred and Rebecca. Santley was the youngest of ten brothers and one sister. He had a full life: student, baker, attorney, holder of two master's degrees, businessman, counselor
 LOPP--Walter James III. We mourn the death of our beloved son and brother after a valiant fight. We will miss his wit, humor and spirit. He will be dearly missed by his mother, Karin Draddy Lopp, his sister, Kim Lopp-Manocherian, his brother, Daniel Gregory Lopp, and his sister, Ruth Hatric
 NATHANSON -- David. The Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of Engineers Country Club mourn the passing of our beloved member, David Nathanson, on May 22, 2004, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Sue, daughter Lisa, son Mitchell and their families. Jonathan Gold, Presid
 SHUKOW--Gerald. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, Inc., expresses its deep sorrow at the passing of Gerald Shukow, beloved husband of Blanche, of blessed memory, cherished father of Marjorie Shukow, Judith and Moshe Mann, Susan and Ira Shapiro, and doting grandfather of
 Dr. Paul F. Wehrle, a pediatrician and researcher who helped diagnose and devise treatments for polio, smallpox and other infectious diseases, died May 11 in San Clemente, Calif. He was 82. The cause was complications following a long illness, said a son, Dr. Malcolm Wehrle of La Ca
 Percy M. Young, a leading British musicologist, died on May 9 in York, England, The Independent of London reported. He was 91. A prolific scholar, Mr. Young wrote and edited more than 50 books, including studies of Elgar, Handel, Vaughan Williams and the Bach family. He also created
 Samuel Curtis Johnson, an innovator who for decades served as the head of S. C. Johnson, one of the most successful family businesses in the country, died on Saturday in Racine, Wis., where he lived. He was 76. The cause was stomach cancer, said a spokeswoman for the company.       
 Bernard Lefkowitz, a journalist, author and teacher who used storytelling to illuminate complex social issues, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 66. The cause was cancer of the thymus gland, said his wife, Rebecca Aikman. Mr. Lefko
 Carlos Orta, a longtime leading dancer and teacher with the Jos Limn Dance Company and a choreographer, died suddenly on May 15 outside the Limn studios on Broadway and Houston Street in Manhattan. Mr. Orta was 60 and lived in Manhattan. He is believed to have had a heart atta
 ARLOW--Jacob A., M.D. The Officers and Members of The New York Psychoanalytic Society and Institute mourn the loss of our esteemed and beloved colleague, Dr. Jacob A. Arlow. He was a wonderfully gifted analyst, a renowned scholar, and a great teacher and friend. He served as President of ou
 BRUEN--Edward F.L. The Board of Directors of Youth Foundation, Inc. notes with profound sorrow the passing of its distinguished Director Emeritus, Edward F.L. Bruen on May 23, 2004. He was the Foundation's long serving Vice President in which capacity he gave unstintingly of his time and en
 COX--W. Bingham. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the city of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of W. Bingham Cox a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Robert J. Reilly, President Henry F. White, Jr. Historian       
 ENGLANDER--Alan J. on May 24, 2004, at home. His wife Mary, daughter Diane, son-in-law Mark Underberg, grandchildren Andrew Englander Underberg and James Englander Underberg will always remember his gentle humor, intelligence and quiet affection. Memorial service will be held on June 4 at 3
 FINDLING--Sidney, on May 23, 2004. A loving and devoted husband and father and an accomplished lifelong artist. A sweet, kind, tolerant, generous human being, and a real mensch. He will be sorely missed by all who knew him.       
 GOLDBLATT--Gerald (Jerry). Of Haworth, NJ, passed away May 23, 2004, at age 74. Surviving: his wife Marleigh (nee Sibiskie), daughter Melissa & husband Ron Brattain, son Adam and wife Maria, and two grandsons.       
 HAGER--David R. On May 21, 2004. Beloved son of Jane and Edward Hatchadoorian and Fred and Mildred Hager. Loving brother of Lisa Hatchadoorian. Services will be held at Crestwood Memorial Chapel, 33 Spring Street, NYC, on Thursday, May 27, 3-5 p.m. In memory of David, contributions to Mirac
 ISQUITH--Santley. February 28, 1917-May 22, 2004. Husband of Rita. Father to Fred and Aaron. Grandfather to Daniel, Fred and Rebecca. Santley was the youngest of ten brothers and one sister. He had a full life: student, baker, attorney, holder of two master's degrees, businessman, counselor
 JOHNSON--Samuel C. Cornell University mourns the loss of a devoted alumnus and trustee emeritus, Samuel C. Johnson, a visionary leader whose entrepreneurial spirit, deep commitment to his family, and loyalty to the University were extraordinary. A member of the Class of 1950 and a much - ho
 NATHANSON -- David. The Merrick Jewish Centre mourns the passing of our dear member David Nathanson, and extends heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Sue and family. We pray they will be consoled with all the mourners of our people. Linda Altman, President Rabbi Charles A. Klein       
 PERLOW--George J., age 84. Beloved brother of Diane Hempel and loving uncle of Miranda/Toby Hempel and Peter Hempel. Dear friends who mourn his loss along with legal and accounting colleagues. Mr. Perlow was a member of the Bar of the United States Supreme Court, Finance Chairman of North S
 POLEN--Al. Beloved stepfather, father-in-law and grandfather. His unexpected yet peaceful departure leaves us saddened. His sweet and kind nature will live on in those of us he touched with his love. Lauren, Ross, Charlotte, Ben POLEN--Alvin Zachary. May 23. Dearest friend Boomie, y
 ROUBLEV -- Michel. Died May 19, 2004. Beloved partner of Dorrie Slutsker, adored father of Dror Lam, proud grandfather of Lee and Mia. Giant intellect, giant heart. Loved and respected worldwide. His story will never end. Contributions to Bat Shalom; Middle East Children's Alliance; KPFA Ra
 SELTZER--David J. Died suddenly on May 23, 2004. Beloved husband and partner of Nancy Derene Seltzer. Devoted father of James and Peter. Devoted son of Philip Seltzer and the late Rose Seltzer. Brother of Eric. David was a former Broadway producer, Republican advisor, and successful real es
 Walter Beinecke Jr., who combined good business with historic preservation on the island of Nantucket by investing in the saving and enhancing of the traditional architecture of its old whaling port, died on Sunday at the Nantucket home of his daughter Ann Oliver. He was 86. The cau
 Alex Woodley, who coached and mentored many Olympic gold-medal sprinters in the 1960's and 1970's as head of the Philadelphia Pioneer Club, died on Saturday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 71. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Jean, said. Woodley's athletes who won
 Henry Ries, a Berlin-born photographer who fled Hitler and returned to take evocative pictures of postwar Germany, most memorably his images of the Berlin airlift in 1948 and 1949, died on Monday at his home in Ghent, N.Y. He was 86. Wanda Ries, his wife and only immediate survivor,
 Joel Dean, half of the team that created Dean & DeLuca, a store that redefined the fancy food market and edited America's pantry, died on Monday evening at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 73. The cause was a staph infection that he had been battling for sever
 BODANZA--Christopher J. on May 22, 2004 of Port Washington, LI. Formerly of Stoughton, MA. Beloved husband of Michele. Loving father of Taylor Lynn. Cherished son of Joseph F. Bodanza, Jr. and the late Linda A. Robichaud Bodanza. Dear stepson of Angela Bodanza. Adored brother of Heather L. 
 BRADEN--William. Died May 22 at home in Lloyd Harbor. He was 85. A retired vice president in the investment department of Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. in New York, Mr. Braden had run the bank's European investment operations in Paris from 196772. Mr. Braden was a lieutenant in the U.S. Navy du
 COK--Andres. Beloved husband of Violeta, revered father of Silvia and Vivian, respected father-in-law of Manny Wong, passed away on May 23rd in a swimming accident in Miami Beach, FL. He was 84. Andres was loved and respected by all those who were fortunate to know him during his full and i
 COLEMAN--Lee H. Age 79. On Saturday, May 15, 2004, Lee H. Coleman of Arlington, VA. passed away at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, DC. Born July 6, 1924 in New York, NY he is a graduate of the Bronx High School of Science. The son of the late Harry and Sarah Cohen, he is survi
 DEUTCHMAN -- Julius. Passed away May 23, 2004 at the age of 92. He was a master boat craftsman and World War II veteran. Julius was a beloved brother, uncle and friend. He will be remembered and missed by numerous family members and friends. Memorial service was held Tuesday, May 25.       
 ENGLANDER--Alan J. on May 24, 2004, at home. His wife Mary, daughter Diane, son-in-law Mark Underberg, grandchildren Andrew Englander Underberg and James Englander Underberg will always remember his gentle humor, intelligence and quiet affection. Memorial service will be held on June 4 at 3
 FRIEDMAN--Stanley, M.D. Passed away May 19, 2004, his 79th birthday. He leaves three loving children, Jennifer, Steven and William, two adoring grandsons, Silas and Samuel, devoted sister, Sybil and three loving children-inlaw, Jonathan, Val and Brooke. He was a WW II U.S. Maritime Service 
 JOHNSON--Samuel C. Cornell University mourns the loss of a devoted alumnus and trustee emeritus, Samuel C. Johnson, a visionary leader whose entrepreneurial spirit, deep commitment to his family, and loyalty to the University were extraordinary. A member of the Class of 1950 and a much - ho
 REDSTONE--Gabriel Adam, age 20, died tragically in an accident on Monday evening, May 24, 2004. Formerly of Boston, MA, where he attended Milton Academy, Gabriel was most recently a resident of Los Angeles and Rancho Mirage, CA. He was attending California State College in Northridge and he
 David Dellinger, whose commitment to nonviolent direct action against the federal government placed him at the forefront of American radical pacifism in the 20th century and led, most famously, to a courtroom in Chicago where he became a leading defendant in the raucous political conspiracy
 BARASH--Irving, May 25, 2004. Son of Jacob and Ruth, brother of Florence and husband of the late Adele Levine Barash. Survived by his sons, Michael and Stephen; grandson, Adam; and great-granddaughter, Sophia.       
 COFFEE--Donn. Suddenly, at his home, on May 24. Beloved husband of Toni, adored and adoring father of Peter, Susan, and Eve (Jeffers) and grandfather of six. Also survived by his five brothers and sisters. Next to his family, he loved Columbia best; contributions to the Columbia College Fun
 DALY--Raymond Glennon, 81, of Naples, FL, passed away on May 22, 2004. He is survived by a son, David (Sandy), of White Plains, NY and two grandchildren Dylan and Cherie. A memorial service will be held today, May 27, 2004 at 2:00pm at the Fuller Funeral Home in Naples, FL. Contributions in
 HEALEY--Rev. Timothy A. S.J. on May 26, 2004. Beloved brother of Sr. Nora Healey O.P. and Kathleen Ryan. He was a teacher at Regis High School from 1963-1984 and later became a chaplain at Goldwater Hospital to the present. Friends may call at the Jesuit Residence at 53 East 83rd Street on 
 MOORE--Millard Smith, 97 in Branford, CT May 24th. Born in Glen Ridge, NJ in 1907, he was the loving husband for 73 years to the late Ruth C. Moore. As general manager of Todd Ship Yards, Hoboken, NJ during the 2nd World War, he was instrumental in preparing the D Day invasion fleet. He als
 QUINN--David C., on May 25, 2004, in North Salem, NY. A trial lawyer, actor, rare book collector and aviator, he flew in World War II and the Vietnam War. Flying air-sea rescue in 1945, he made the first landing to pick up a downed pilot off the coast of Japan--a feat recorded in the book, 
 REDSTONE--Gabriel Adam, age 20, died tragically in an accident on Monday evening, May 24, 2004. Formerly of Boston, MA, where he attended Milton Academy, Gabriel was most recently a resident of Los Angeles and Rancho Mirage, CA. He was attending California State College in Northridge and he
 STRAUS--Roger W., on May 25th, age 87. Husband of Dorothea, father of Roger III, grandfather of Laura, Rachel and Tamara. Brother of Florence and Oscar. Founder, president and publisher of Farrar, Straus & Giroux. Funeral at Temple Emanu'El on Friday, May 28. Memorial service at a future da
 WRIGHTSON--George D. Jr. 83, Longboat Key, FL. Died May 25 at Sarasota Memorial Hospital. Leaves his wife, Patricia, son, George III, daughters, Mary Boothby and Ann Wrightson. A graduate of Hotchkiss School, Class of '39, attended Williams College, and served in the artillery of the U.S. A
 Roger W. Straus Jr., the brash and opinionated grandee who presided for nearly six decades over the book-publishing company that bore his name, the last surviving representative of the age of independent houses owned privately by gentlemen of literary taste, died Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospi
 Carl Allen, who raised, raced and trained world champions in harness racing and whose horses earned almost $15 million, died Monday after a tractor accident at his Marion County farm. He was 74. A sheriff's office report said that Jason McInturf, a relative of Allen's, said that All
 COFFEE -- Donn T. The Trustees of the Columbia University Club Foundation mourn the loss of their friend and fellow Trustee, Donn Coffee. We extend our condolences to his wife, Toni, his family, and his brother Joseph, a longtime, loyal friend and former Trustee as well. Arthur M. Delmhorst
 GOODWIN--Harry, 85, of Monroe Township, died Wednesday, May 26, 2004 at Park Place Center, Monmouth Junction. Born and raised in the Bronx, NY, Mr. Goodwin lived in Plainview, NY for 29 years before moving to Cranbury 17 years ago. Mr. Goodwin was an officer in the US Army, took part in the
 HOLTZMAN -- Lillian (nee Bratter). On May 27, 2004. Age 97, at home peacefully. Beloved wife of the late Louis R., loving mother of Julian and his late wife Joan, David and his wife Francine, adoring grandmother of Robert and his wife Debra, Elena and her husband Bruce, Beth and her husband
 LAZERUS -- Gilbert (Gil), passed away on May 24, 2004. Born June 24, 1912, in New York City. Son of Jacob and Bessie Lazerus. Married in 1940 to his late beloved wife, Judith Kaplan. Devoted father of Bruce, June and daughter-in-law Allison. Doting grandfather of Jackie and Amanda. Dear fri
 MANSKI -- Benjamin. With great sadness and a keen sense of loss, we mourn the passing of our beloved husband, father, father-in-law, and grandfather Benjamin (Ben) Manski. In the 91 years of his life, he helped and supported many in Poland, Russia, Israel and the USA. His memory will be che
 PABST--Donald P. of Phoenix, Arizona, on May 15, 2004. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother and father-in-law. He will be remembered & missed by all.       
 REBENFELD -- Ludwig of Princeton, died May 26, 2004 at the University Medical Center at Princeton after a brief illness. Born in Prague, the Czech Republic, the son of Carl Rebenfeld and Martha Rebenfeld, he has been a Princeton resident since 1951. He was a graduate of the University of Lo
 REDSTONE--Gabriel Adam, age 20, died tragically in an accident on Monday evening, May 24, 2004. Formerly of Boston, MA, where he attended Milton Academy, Gabriel was most recently a resident of Los Angeles and Rancho Mirage, CA. He was attending California State College in Northridge and he
 STRAUS--Roger W. On May 25th, age 87. Husband of Dorothea, father of Roger III, grandfather of Laura, Rachel and Tamara. Brother of Florence and Oscar. Founder, President and publisher of Farrar, Straus and Giroux. Funeral Friday, May 28th, 10:30 AM at Temple EmanuEl, 5th Ave at 65 St. Memo
 WEBER -- Martin. Suddenly on May 27th, 2004. Beloved husband of Selma. Cherished father of Lynne-Carol Saltzman and her husband Errol and Steven Weber and his wife Pati. Proud and loving grandfather of Evan, Scott, Brent and Matthew. Graveside services today, 1PM at Cedar Park Cemetery, Par
 Prentice H. Marshall, who as an activist federal judge in Chicago presided over cases that changed the makeup of the Chicago police force and sent the head of the Teamsters union to prison, died on Monday in Ponce Inlet, Fla., where he had lived for 14 years. He was 77. The cause wa
 BELKIN -- Myron. Devoted and beloved husband of Janet Ehrenreich Belkin, cherished father of Lisa, Gary and Kira, and father-in-law of Bruce Gelb, Saul Fishman and Masha Schiller Belkin. Adored and proud grandfather of Evan, Alex, Annie, Emma, Talia, and Ruth (and Riley). He was kind and ge
 GUSSMAN--Lawrence, 88, of Scarsdale, NY, on May 28, 2004. Devoted husband of the late Catharine. Survived by brother Herbert Gussman of Tulsa, OK. Beloved father of William Gussman of Atlanta, GA, Margaret McCormack of Laurel Hollow, NY, and John Gussman of Hilo, HI. Adoring grandfather of 
 SHAPIRO -- Salem Seeley. Age 95, died at his home in Redding, CT Thursday night. Born in 1909 in Fort George, or, as he liked to put it, ''in a farmhouse on Manhattan Island,'' he lived to see a world of wonders from radio to the Internet, and reveled in every minute of it. An NYU graduate,
 Ronald J. Prokopy, a scientist whose research on fruit flies in apple orchards led to environmental pest-control programs using fewer pesticides, died on May 14 in Franklin Medical Center in Greenfield, Mass. He was 68. The cause was cardiopulmonary arrest, said his wife, Linda L. P
 Umberto Agnelli, who stepped into the limelight at Fiat, the Italian auto empire, after a lifetime in the shadow of relatives renowned for their flamboyance, died late Thursday in the family's villa, La Mandria, outside Turin. He was 69. The cause was lymphoma, a cancer of the lymph
 Archibald Cox, the special Watergate prosecutor who was fired by the Nixon White House in the ''Saturday Night Massacre'' in 1973, died yesterday at his home in Brooksville, Maine. He was 92 and died of natural causes, his wife, Phyllis, said. Mr. Cox, a former solicitor gen
 Edward Wagenknecht, a biographer, critic and editor, died on Monday in St. Albans, Vt., where he lived, his son Walter said. He was 104. A prolific writer, Mr. Wagenknecht produced some 70 books, including studies of Dickens, Milton, Mark Twain, Henry James and Shakespeare; a histor
 ALLEN--George H. 89, of Osprey, Fl. and Guilford, Conn., died May 7th in Sarasota, Florida. Mr Allen attended Westboro, Mass. High School; University of Mass., Amherst BS 1936, LLD (Hon) 1967; Harvard Business School MBA 1938. First of his generation with successful operating experience in 
 BELKIN -- Myron. Devoted and beloved husband of Janet Ehrenreich Belkin, cherished father of Lisa, Gary and Kira, and father-in-law of Bruce Gelb, Saul Fishman and Masha Schiller Belkin. Adored and proud grandfather of Evan, Alex, Annie, Emma, Talia, and Ruth (and Riley). He was kind and ge
 BLOOM--Aaron M. 90, formerly of Yonkers, died May 28. Husband of the late Rose (Landau) Bloom, he is survived by Mark and Susan Bloom of Larchmont, granddaughters Joanna Josephson and Erica Bloom, and brother Bernard. Funeral Mt. Hope Cemetery, Hastings, Tuesday June 1, 11 AM. Contributions
 COFFEE--Donn. Suddenly, at his home, on May 24. Beloved husband of Toni, adored and adoring father of Peter, Susan, and Eve (Jeffers) and grandfather of six. Also survived by his five brothers and sisters. Next to his family, he loved Columbia best; contributions to the Columbia College Fun
 DAVENPORT--Douglas. 75, May 22, 2004. Beloved father of Dori Davenport, grandfather of Joanna, Charlie, and Richie Leunig of Milwaukee, WI. He was predeceased by his wife of 26 years, Alice Rudder Davenport. He worked for 30 years in TV news in NYC, including 20 years at NBC News, from wher
 FINDLING--Sidney, on May 23, 2004. A loving and devoted husband and father and an accomplished lifelong artist. A sweet, kind, tolerant, generous human being, and a real mensch. He will be sorely missed by all who knew him.       
 FORRESTAL--Robert P. The Board of Directors, officers, and staff of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta are deeply saddened by the loss of Robert P. Forrestal, former president and chief executive officer. He died of cancer on May 26 at the age of 72. A native of New York City and graduate 
 GABRIELSON--Dr. Robert M. 87, of Morristown, NJ, on May 27. He is survived by his wife Dorothy (Vaughan); a daughter, Katryn of North Yarmouth, MA; three sons, George of Middlebury, CT, Max of Wilton, CT, and John of Casper, WY; his sister Muriel Tilley of North Carolina; and eight grandchi
 GRIMBILAS--George C. on May 27, 2004 at age 86. Beloved husband of Georgia Olga. Loving father of George, Jr, grandfather of George Philip and father-in-law of Susan Ann. Dear brother of Michael, Sr. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St, Wednesday June 2nd, 2-5
 GUSSMAN--Lawrence, 88, of Scarsdale, NY, on May 28, 2004. Devoted husband of the late Catharine. Survived by brother Herbert Gussman of Tulsa, OK. Beloved father of William Gussman of Atlanta, GA, Margaret McCormack of Laurel Hollow, NY, and John Gussman of Hilo, HI. Adoring grandfather of 
 KIRSCHNER--Philip. On April 29, age 90. We mourn the passing of our father, Philip Kirschner, and celebrate his life and achievements. Dad was President of Motor Parts Industries for 50 years; Cofounder and active member of Temple Isaiah of Great Neck, a founding member of Temple Emanuel, a
 LaPORTE--James A. Died May 26. Born November 11, 1928 in Kankakee, IL. LaPorte was vice president of Lionel D. Edie Co. and Edie International. He also worked for Merrill Lynch and Abel/Noser. James was a proud member of the Explorers Club, the Yacht Club and the New York University Club. P
 MASSAVE--Burton. Of New York City, died May 28, 2004, at home. He was a Partner in the accounting firm of Anchin, Block and Anchin. Beloved husband of Lillian. Devoted father of Gordon and Jenifer. Cherished father-inlaw of Sarah and Drew. Adored grandfather of Jake, Matthew and Nathan. We 
 MORAR--Julius, MD, departed on May 22. He is greatly missed by his surviving three children and eight grandchildren, his friends and patients. He will be always in our hearts. He practiced medicine in Whitestone, NY, and retired to Hollywood, FL.       
 QUINN--David C., on May 25, 2004, in North Salem, NY. A trial lawyer, actor, rare book collector and aviator, he flew in World War II and the Vietnam War. Flying air-sea rescue in 1945, he made the first landing to pick up a downed pilot off the coast of Japan--a feat recorded in the book, 
 REBENFELD -- Ludwig of Princeton, died May 26, 2004 at the University Medical Center at Princeton after a brief illness. Born in Prague, the Czech Republic, the son of Carl Rebenfeld and Martha Rebenfeld, he has been a Princeton resident since 1951. He was a graduate of the University of Lo
 REDSTONE--Gabriel Adam, age 20, died tragically in an accident on Monday evening, May 24, 2004. Formerly of Boston, MA, where he attended Milton Academy, Gabriel was most recently a resident of Los Angeles and Rancho Mirage, CA. He was attending California State College in Northridge and he
 SANDT--John J., M.D. Rochester, N.Y. May 16, 2004; Age 78. Born Woodhaven, Grad Regis HS 1943, USN-USS St. Paul 1944-45. Vanderbilt U. 1948, Magna Cum Laude, Yale 1949, MA. Vanderbilt 1957, MD SUNY-Syracuse, Post Grad Psychiatry. He taught English, was assistant professor and supervised psy
 SHAPIRO -- Salem Seeley. Age 95, died at his home in Redding, CT Thursday night. Born in 1909 in Fort George, or, as he liked to put it, ''in a farmhouse on Manhattan Island,'' he lived to see a world of wonders from radio to the Internet, and reveled in every minute of it. An NYU graduate,
 VEITCH--Robert A. Of Commack, NY and Stuart, FL, on March 6, 2004. Beloved husband of Pearl (nee Pecorella). Loving father of Robert Alan Veitch and Joann Schedra Sterber. Robert served in the U.S. Army from 1943-1945. He also graduated from Massachusetts Institute of Technology with a degr
 Samuel Dash, a champion of legal ethics who became nationally known during the Watergate scandal as the Senate's methodical chief counsel, died Saturday after a long illness. He was 79. Mr. Dash, a professor at the Georgetown University Law Center for almost 40 years, died at the Wa
 Archibald Cox, the special Watergate prosecutor who was fired by the Nixon White House in the ''Saturday Night Massacre'' in 1973, died Saturday at his home in Brooksville, Me. He was 92 and died of natural causes, said his wife, Phyllis. Mr. Cox took over the Watergate inve
 Ned Schnurman, an Emmy-winning producer who was a pioneer in the presentation of news media criticism on television, died on May 20 in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 78. The cause was complications after hip-replacement surgery, said a friend, Kathleen Landis. Mr. Schnurm
 FRIEDMANN--Peter L. On May 30, 2004, at age 72. Beloved husband of Marian. Loving father of Eric, Elizabeth and Jessica. Adoring grandfather of Maxwell and Grace. Devoted brother of Toni Gales. Dear father-inlaw of Melvyn Palmer and Dr. Irene Barbazetto. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 
 GRIMBILAS--George C. on May 27, 2004 at age 86. Beloved husband of Georgia Olga. Loving father of George, Jr, grandfather of George Philip and father-in-law of Susan Ann. Dear brother of Michael, Sr. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St, Wednesday June 2nd, 2-5
 GUSSMAN--Lawrence. My friend shared with me his love of the Israel Museum, Jerusalem, and African Art. Over several years, he donated a large and important collection of Central African art which resulted in the Israel Museum having a leading world collection. He will forever be remembered,
 HALBREICH--Irwin (Sonny). 84, of NYC, died peacefully at home in Fairfield, CT, on May 29. Devoted father of Kathy and John. He was blessed to be loved by two wonderful women, Marilyn Mikulsky and Betty Halbreich. He is survived by his sister Mildred Katleman. Father-in-law of Mali Kelly an
 LEVINE--Mike. On May 29, 2004. Beloved husband of Vilma. Devoted father of Edward and adoring grandfather of Lily. Brother to Dorothy Nissim and the late Vivian Levi; father-in-law to Renee. Contributions in his memory can be made to the Great Neck (New York) Senior Center.       
 McCARTNEY--Dr. Joan M. On May 28, 2004. Beloved wife of James E. Loving mother of James J. and his wife Mary. Devoted grandmother of Christian, Joseph and Gabrielle. Visiting at the Fairchild Chapel, Franklin Ave at 12th St, Garden City, Sunday and Monday, 2-4 and 7-9 pm. Mass of Christian 
 Samuel Dash, a champion of legal ethics who became nationally known during the Watergate scandal as the Senate's methodical chief counsel, died Saturday after a long illness. He was 79. Mr. Dash, a professor at the Georgetown University Law Center for almost 40 years, died at the Wa
 Simon Nathan, a photographer and writer whose ''Simon Sez'' columns in popular photography magazines kept professionals and hobbyists up to date with the innovations of camera makers after World War II, died on May 19 in the Bronx. He was 82. A longtime Manhattan resident, he died i
