 Louis J. Sigel, a Teaneck, N.J., rabbi who was a prominent voice for integration of the township's public schools in the early 1960's, died on Sunday at his home in Hackensack, N.J. He was 81. His wife, Miriam, announced his death. Teaneck became the first town in America to
 Oliver Jensen, a founder and former editor of American Heritage magazine, died early yesterday morning in Chester, Conn. He was 91 and had lived in Old Saybrook, Conn., for many years. Mr. Jensen died in his sleep at an assisted-living facility, his stepdaughter, Penelope Hargrove, 
 DRUCKER--David L., 73 years of age, a longtime dentist in Queens, died on Monday, June 27th, 2005 in Portland, ME. He was born in Brooklyn and was a graduate of Queens College and Columbia Dental School. He is survived by his wife Barbara Schulhoff Drucker of Portland, ME, two daughters Cla
 FRIEDLAND--Louis N., 92, died peacefully on June 29th with his adoring family around him. Beloved husband of the late Billie, cherished father of Joanne Friedland Roberts and Eric Friedland, devoted grandfather of Lola Beatrice Friedland Roberts, loving father-in-law of Alyson Denny and unc
 HARNETT--John J. On June 29, 2005. Retired Lieutenant of FDNY. Beloved husband of Irene (nee Stack). Loving father of Mary and Nancy. Dear brother of Lillian Mooney, Noreen Malanaphy, the late Joanne Steakelum, Mary Mooney, James Harnett and Eileen Phelan. Also survivecd by 34 nieces and ne
 Louis N. Friedland, a retired broadcast executive who played a prominent role in the development of syndicated television programming, died on Wednesday in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 92 and lived in Kings Point, N. Y. His death, at North Shore General Hospital, after a short illness, w
 Luther Vandross, the silky-voiced R&B crooner who spun romance into hits like ''Here and Now'' and ''Any Love,'' winning eight Grammy Awards, died yesterday afternoon at John F. Kennedy Medical Center in Edison, N.J. He was 54. The medical center, which did not disclose the cause, r
 Obie Benson, an original member of the Motown singing group the Four Tops and a lyricist best known for the antiwar song ''What's Goin' On,'' died here this morning. He was 69. The cause was lung cancer, said Matt Lee, the group's publicist. Doctors discovered cancer a few weeks ago
 COBLE--David Leland, 6, on June 29, 2005. Artist, paleontologist. He loved Spider-man and Venom. Superheroes, reptiles, dinosaurs, cats big and little, and all things fierce. David inspired us to be our best. We love him. He loved flowers, but donations may also be made to Memorial Sloan-Ke
 FLECKNER--Jay K., DDS, June 30, 2005, age 56, after courageously battling mesothelioma. Survived by loving wife Stephanie, adored children Sari, Jaime, Allison and Ryan. Devoted son of David and Dorothy (deceased); loving brothers and sisters-in-law Richard, Rusty, Phyllis, Bonnie, Rhonda, 
 FRIEDLAND--Louis N., 92, died peacefully on June 29th with his adoring family around him. Beloved husband of the late Billie, cherished father of Joanne Friedland Roberts and Eric Friedland, devoted grandfather of Lola Beatrice Friedland Roberts, loving father-in-law of Alyson Denny and unc
 PRESENT--Ignatz, July 30, 2005, age 93. Beloved husband for 60 years to Rose; devoted father to David (Karen) and Larry (Suzy); cherished grandfather of Alex, Emily, Michael, Adie and Elie. We will always remember his strength of character, love for his family, devotion to Jewish life and l
 RASKIN--William on June 30, 2005. Beloved husband of Ruth. Loving father of Gabriel, Joshua and Jonah and father-in-law of Melissa. Dear brother of Roslyn. His leadership of industry, community, religion and family will be missed. He was loved by all. Service Sunday, 11:45 AM at ''The River
 ROTHSCHILD -- Fred D. peacefully on June 30 surrounded by his loving wife of 59 years, Helen, and his adoring children Evelyn Wolovnick, Maureen DiTata, Ron and Ted. He will be missed by his dear sister Aleece of Johannesburg, S.A. and numerous daughters- and sons-inlaw, grandchildren, neph
 Philip Hobsbaum, a British poet and literary critic whose workshops and criticism helped inspire a new generation of writers, including Seamus Heaney, died on Tuesday in Glasgow. He was 72. The cause was complications of diabetes, said the University of Glasgow, where he was a profe
 William J. Brink, a former managing editor of The Daily News of New York who was responsible for one of the most memorable headlines in American journalism, FORD TO CITY: DROP DEAD, died yesterday morning in Norwalk, Conn. He was 89 and lived in Westport, Conn. The cause was congest
 ACHS--Robert. 54, film maker, passed away June 21 of cancer, in NYC. Survived by his wife Jackie Leopold, daughter Rachel Achs, father Samuel Achs, sister Naomi Foner-Gyllenhaal and family Jake, Maggie and Stephen Gyllenhaal. Donations to: NYU Cancer Institute Research Fund, C/O Drs. Chacho
 AMES--Harold S. Of Kings Point and Westhampton Beach, NY, passed away Friday evening, July 1, 2005 in North Shore University Hospital after a long illness. Dearly beloved husband and life partner of Dorothy; adoring father of Elizabeth and Allison; father-in-law of Charles Opolinsky; devote
 CABRAL -- Raymond. The president of Syn-Cronamics Inc., an international management consultant company founded by him in 1963 who also had considerable business interests in Stowe, Vermont, Provincetown, Massachusetts, and Tranquility, New Jersey, died on June 22 in Burlington, Vermont. The
 COBLE--David Leland, 6, on June 29, 2005. Artist, paleontologist. He loved Spider-man and Venom. Superheroes, reptiles, dinosaurs, cats big and little, and all things fierce. David inspired us to be our best. We love him. He loved flowers, but donations may also be made to Memorial Sloan-Ke
 FISCHGRUND--William. 79. Everybody loved Billy--his wife, Fran; children, Lisa and Andy and their husbands, Jack and Marty; grandchildren, Judd and Zack; and friends, Gus, David, Manya, Bernie, Bill, Norman, and especially George.       
 FRIEDLAND--Louis N., 92, died peacefully on June 29th with his adoring family around him. Beloved husband of the late Billie, cherished father of Joanne Friedland Roberts and Eric Friedland, devoted grandfather of Lola Beatrice Friedland Roberts, loving father-in-law of Alyson Denny and unc
 GORMAN--Robert E. On June 30, 2005. Robert served in the U.S. Navy during WWII, and began a career as a stockbroker at McDonald and Company. At the time of his death was employed at UBS Securities. Robert was a member of Sovereign Military Order of the Templar Knights of Jerusalem, the Manh
 HOLDSWORTH -- Frederick Jr. of Hastings-on-Hudson, NY and Gloucester, MA, died on June 25, 2005 of Parkinson's-related pneumonia. He was born October 23, 1917 in Arlington, MA, the son of Frederick Holdsworth and Jessie McCreary Holdsworth (Hilton), and spent his boyhood in Brookline, MA. H
 OGILVY -- Stephen Hunter, age 88, of Westport, CT, passed away on June 16, 2005. Mr. Ogilvy was born on November 9, 1916 in New Rochelle, NY. Mr. Ogilvy graduated from Princeton University in 1939. He founded the AA Hearing Aid Center in 1946. An avid tennis player, he was inducted in the N
 OLSON--Karl A., June 29, 2005, at 87. The son of Swedish immigrants, he worked his way through the University of Washington and Harvard Business School, then rose to become treasurer of IBM World Trade. He is survived by his wife of 63 years, Mary Lou, and a loving family. Services were hel
 RASKIN--William on June 30, 2005. Beloved husband of Ruth. Loving father of Gabriel, Joshua and Jonah and father-in-law of Melissa. Dear brother of Roslyn. His leadership of industry, community, religion and family will be missed. He was loved by all. Service Sunday, 11:45 AM at ''The River
 ROTHSCHILD -- Fred D. peacefully on June 30 surrounded by his loving wife of 59 years, Helen, and his adoring children Evelyn Wolovnick, Maureen DiTata, Ron and Ted. He will be missed by his dear sister Aleece of Johannesburg, S.A. and numerous daughters- and sons-inlaw, grandchildren, neph
 SCHOTT--Howard M. 82, of Boston, on June 23rd, 2005. Howard was raised in New York and attended Yale University (1944) and Yale Law School (1948). He served in the U.S. Army Military Intelligence Service during WWII. After a 20-year career in international law, he returned to the study of k
 STEPHENS--William J. 76, of New York City; died on June 23, 2005. For more than 25 years he ran the well respected business, Wallpapers East. He is survived by his brother Lawrence, his partner Tony Sacco and many wonderful friends.       
 WALTON--John T. It is with great sadness that the InnerCity Scholarship Fund family notes the passing of one of the founders of Children's Scholarship Fund. We are so grateful for Mr. Walton's profound commitment to children-in-need throughout the country, and especially to those boys and g
 Brian C. Pohanka, whose passion for the Civil War led him to a prominent role in starting the recent movement to preserve Civil War battlefields, died on June 15 at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 50. The cause was melanoma, said his wife, Marylynne, who is known as Cricket.     
 Gaylord A. Nelson, a former senator from Wisconsin who was one of the architects of America's modern environmental movement and the founder of Earth Day, died yesterday in Kensington, Md. He was 89. The cause was cardiovascular failure, Bill Christofferson, a family spokesman, told 
 AMES--Harold S. Of Kings Point and Westhampton Beach, NY, passed away Friday evening, July 1, 2005 in North Shore University Hospital after a long illness. Dearly beloved husband and life partner of Dorothy; adoring father of Elizabeth and Allison; father-in-law of Charles Opolinsky; devote
 FRIEDLAND--Louis N., 92, died peacefully on June 29th with his adoring family around him. Beloved husband of the late Billie, cherished father of Joanne Friedland Roberts and Eric Friedland, devoted grandfather of Lola Beatrice Friedland Roberts, loving father-in-law of Alyson Denny and unc
 LENNARD--Henry L. June 22, in Venice, Italy. Professor, Columbia University and Berkeley, expert in family studies. Co-author of ''The Anatomy of Psychotherapy and Patterns in Human Interaction.'' He challenged the drug industry in ''Mystification and Drug Misuse.'' With his wife, Suzanne C
 SPAR--Harry. 94, died on July 2, 2005. A kind, intelligent, and gentle man who enjoyed life. Much loved by his wife Amelia, and his late wife Gertrude. Beloved father of Marianne and Harvey Bernstein, and Arlene and Peter Topol. Adored grandfather of Jodi, Stacey, Bradford, and Lance. Cheri
 YOUNG--T. Gordon. On July 2, 2005 at the age of 88, formerly of Briarcliff Manor and Ossining, NY. Retired Director and Vice President of Hospital for Special Surgery, NYC for 35 years. He served as President of the Greater New York Hospital Association, member and President of the Board of
 Christopher Fry, the British playwright who created memorable parts for John Gielgud, Laurence Olivier and Edith Evans, gave Richard Burton his first role on Broadway, and was primarily responsible for the script of ''Ben-Hur,'' among other films, died on Thursday in Chichester, England. He
 Hank Stram, the innovative Hall of Fame coach who took the Kansas City Chiefs to the first Super Bowl, in 1967, and coached them to a Super Bowl victory in 1970, died yesterday at a hospital in Covington, La., near New Orleans. He was 82. The cause was complications of diabetes, his son Dal
 AMES--Harold S. Of Kings Point and Westhampton Beach, NY, passed away Friday evening, July 1, 2005 in North Shore University Hospital after a long illness. Dearly beloved husband and life partner of Dorothy; adoring father of Elizabeth and Allison; father-in-law of Charles Opolinsky; devote
 FLYNN--Rev. Joseph P., 87, on July 3, 2005 in Manhattan. A priest of The Paulist Fathers; born and raised in Manhattan. Beloved brother of the late John Flynn and Sr. Loretta Anne Flynn, SC; survived by his brother Michael Flynn. During sixty-one years as a priest, he served with Paulist mi
 FRIEDLAND--Louis N., 92, died peacefully on June 29th with his adoring family around him. Beloved husband of the late Billie, cherished father of Joanne Friedland Roberts and Eric Friedland, devoted grandfather of Lola Beatrice Friedland Roberts, loving father-in-law of Alyson Denny and unc
 GLUCK--Michael I. Beloved husband of Liana. Loving father of Andrew and the late Nancy Regan (Gluck). Cherished stepfather of Maritza Chateau and Edward Wild. Fond brother of Larry. Adored grandfather of Daren and Evan McKelvey, Genny Regan, Camila and Gabriela Chateau and Paula Wild. Forme
 GREEN--Isidor. Of New York and Palm Beach, 93, died on July 3 after a brief illness. He was born in Milowka, Poland on September 23, 1911. With his beloved wife of 61 years, Marysia he escaped the atrocities of the Holocaust. He moved to the United States in 1947 and established with his fa
 KLENOSKY--Irwin, peacefully to the sounds of the ocean at his home in Long Beach, NY at the age of 77 on July 4, 2005. Cherished husband of Gerri and the late Janice. Loving father of Larry and the late Holly, Debbie and Rick, Missy and Chris, David and Laurie. Stepfather to Patti and Ira a
 KNOTHE--Stannard B., 82, died peacefully on June 27. Predeceased by his wife, Doreen Drexel Knothe. Survived by his sister, Nancy, his children, Peter, Wendy and Jeff, and his grandchildren, Christopher, Leah, Anna and Katherine. Served in the U.S. Naval Armed Guard in WW II from 1942 throu
 SPAR--Harry, 94. Died on July 2, 2005. A kind, intelligent and gentle man who enjoyed life. Much loved by his wife Amelia and his late wife Gertrude. Beloved father of Marianne and Harvey Bernstein, Arlene and Peter Topol and the late Herbert Spar. Devoted stepfather and grandfather of Stew
 Ernest Lehman, a noted Hollywood screenwriter whose work included classic films of the 1950's and 60's like ''North by Northwest,'' ''Sweet Smell of Success'' and ''The Sound of Music,'' died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 89 and lived in Los Angeles. The apparent cause was a he
 Gerard C. Bond, a marine geologist at Columbia University who conducted novel studies of earth's climate changes by interpreting sediments taken from beneath the seafloor, died last Wednesday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 65 and lived in Pearl River, N.Y. The cause was ca
 Vice Adm. James B. Stockdale, a highly decorated Navy pilot who inspired fellow prisoners of war in North Vietnam and later ran for vice president as H. Ross Perot's running mate in 1992, died on Tuesday in Coronado, Calif. He was 81. Admiral Stockdale's death was announced by the N
 Joel Gersmann, the longtime artistic director of the Broom Street Theater, a provocative experimental company based in Madison, Wis., died at his home there on June 24. He was 62. The cause was a heart attack, said Rod Clark, the company's acting chairman. Working out of a b
 AMES--Harold. The Board, Administration and Staff of the Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center mourn the passing of Harold Ames, a founding member of the Board. He will long be remembered for his advocacy and commitment to our Center. Our sincere condolences to the family. Lawrence Simon, Chairman
 ELIAS--Egbert Thias Adolf, at his home in Workington, Cumbria, UK, on Sunday 26 June 2005, age 66 years. Best beloved of wife Penelope (nee Winship), son Andre, daughters Saskia, Danielle, Michelle and son-in-law Greg. Inquiries to John Sandelands, Funeral Directors +44 1900 602753.       
 FLYNN--Rev. Joseph P., 87, on July 3, 2005 in Manhattan. A priest of The Paulist Fathers; born and raised in Manhattan. Beloved brother of the late John Flynn and Sr. Loretta Anne Flynn, SC; survived by his brother Michael Flynn. During sixty-one years as a priest, he served with Paulist mi
 GLUCK--Michael I. Beloved husband of Liana. Loving father of Andrew and the late Nancy Regan (Gluck). Cherished stepfather of Maritza Chateau and Edward Wild. Fond brother of Larry. Adored grandfather of Daren and Evan McKelvey, Genny Regan, Camila and Gabriela Chateau and Paula Wild. Forme
 GREEN--Isidor. Of New York and Palm Beach, 93, died on July 3 after a brief illness. He was born in Milowka, Poland on September 23, 1911. With his beloved wife of 61 years, Marysia he escaped the atrocities of the Holocaust. He moved to the United States in 1947 and established with his fa
 LUKASHOK -- Martin. The Board of Governors, Membership and Staff of the East Hampton Tennis Club extend our deepest sympathy to the family of our esteemed member, Martin Lukashok, on his untimely passing. Jeff S. Krevat, President       
 MANNING--Joseph V. of Solana Beach, CA, passed away peacefully at home with his family at his side on Sunday, July 3, 2005. The flight engineers of American Airlines are indebted to him for his 30 years of dedicated service as president of the Flight Engineers Union. There will be a private
 RASKIN--William. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of William Raskin, an esteemed friend of the New York Jewish community whose commitment to our Office Products Division strengthened our ability to serve those in need, enriching mil
 SCHWAB--Dr. Stuart, Scientist, 47, died on June 30 in Houston Texas after a valiant two year fight against leukemia. A resident of Albuquerque, New Mexico, Dr. Schwab grew up in Oyster Bay, New York. Dr. Schwab attended St. Mark's School and graduated from the Milbrook School. He graduated 
 SCHWARTZ--Sing-Si. Born October 20, 1954. Son of Diana Kan Schwartz and the late Paul Schwartz. Died in his sleep July 3, 2005. He was a photographer and a computer consultant for Apple Computers. A memorial services will be held at the National Arts Club, Gramercy Park South, Wednesday, Ju
 WEILER--Gerald E. July 3, 2005, after a valiant struggle with Parkinson's disease. He is survived by his companion Sally J. Evers. He was a gentle and generous man. Donations in his memory may be made to the National Parkinson's Foundation, 1501 NW 9th Avenue, Miami, Florida 33136-1494. A m
 WIMPFHEIMER -- Kurt. 92. Devoted husband of the late Ruth. Beloved father of Steven (Ruth) Wimpfheimer and Judith (Zvi) Bodie. Loving grandfather of Lara (Sundar), Robert, Debra, Amy and Moriya. Adoring great grandfather of Ruby. Loving brother of Felix. Died peacefully on July 5. A humble 
 Bernard Kilbourn, New York's first Republican state chairman in the fractious post-Rockefeller era, died on June 29 at his home in Port Jervis, N. Y. He was 81. His death was announced by the Gray-Parker Funeral Home in Port Jervis. Dr. Kilbourn, a dentist by profession in C
 Evan Hunter, the author who as Ed McBain virtually invented the American police procedural with his gritty 87th Precinct series featuring an entire detective squad as its hero, died yesterday at his home in Weston, Conn. He was 78. The cause was cancer of the larynx, said his agent,
 L. Patrick Gray III, the former acting director of the F.B.I. whose misplaced trust in Richard M. Nixon and early missteps in handling the Watergate investigation made him a lasting victim of a scandal he ultimately helped to expose, died yesterday at his home in Atlantic Beach, Fla. He was
 BLUMENFELD--Charles A. July 5, 2005, of Cherry Hill, NJ, husband of Ethyl (nee Fishman), father of Alan L. (Helene), Toby J. (Matthew) Holtzman, and Lisa. Brother of Marvin. Survived by four grandchildren. Graveside services on Thursday, 1 PM, Old Montefiore Cemetery, Queens. Contributions 
 FONTANA--Vincent J., M.D. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The New York Foundling and the Vincent J. Fontana Center for Child Protection mourn the sudden passing of our esteemed and beloved Medical Director and Pediatrician-in-Chief, Dr. Vincent J. Fontana. During his 43 year career at Th
 GORDON--Robert, on July 5, 2005, of Tamarac, FL. Beloved husband of the late Leah. Devoted father of Judith Dunne and Jill Little. Loving father-in-law of Jeffrey. Dear brother of Edith Lacey and Victor Gordon. Cherished grandfather of Heather and Joshua. GORDON -- Robert. The membe
 GREEN--Isidor. Of New York and Palm Beach, 93, died on July 3 after a brief illness. He was born in Milowka, Poland on September 23, 1911. With his beloved wife of 61 years, Marysia he escaped the atrocities of the Holocaust. He moved to the United States in 1947 and established with his fa
 PRESENT--Ignatz. Deepest sympathy to the Present family on the loss of their beloved father. A Silver Founder of the Medical Center together with his wife, Ignatz was a kind person who lived his life according to the highest values of Jewish tradition. May his sons, David and Larry be comfo
 SHAPIRO--Dr. Robert S. Passed away Tuesday, July 5, 2005. He is survived by his beloved wife, Melba. Devoted father of Mark (Roberta) and Jonathan (Elaine). Cherished grandfather of Rebecca, Sara, Samuel, Jessica and Lara. Loving brother of Dr. Theodore (Joan) Shapiro. He also leaves many l
 SHATTUCK--James H. died peacefully at his home in Guilford, CT late Sunday night, July 3rd 2005. He was born on August 5th, 1915 in Neenah, Wisconsin, the son of Ruth and S.F. Shattuck. His friends called him Jim. He was a member of the Yale class of 1939 as well as a student at Tufts Unive
 SMITH--Dr. Craig Neelands, 86, of Main St, South Windsor, CT on July 5, at Kimberly Hall Hospice in Windsor, CT. Born in Ottawa, Canada in 1918. Son of the late Dr. and Mrs. Joseph Smith. He is survived by his wife, Marion Farnum Smith, and two daughters, Caroline Beattie Smith and Elizabet
 STRASSER--Robert Charles, of Newport News, VA., died Saturday, June 25, 2005. He leaves behind his wife, Patricia Pomeroy Strasser. Contact Peninsula Funeral Home, Newport News, VA.       
 WIMPFHEIMER -- Kurt. 92. Devoted husband of the late Ruth. Beloved father of Steven (Ruth) Wimpfheimer and Judith (Zvi) Bodie. Loving grandfather of Lara (Sundar), Robert, Debra, Amy and Moriya. Adoring great grandfather of Ruby. Loving brother of Felix. Died peacefully on July 5. A humble 
 ZEFF--Kal. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of Kal Zeff of Englewood, CO, a generous and loyal friend. A Technion alumnus, Mr. Zeff served on the ATS National Board of Directors and was a chair of the Denver Chapter. A civil engineer, he us
 ZEGLER--Manuel. The New York Philharmonic mourns the passing, on June 21, of Manuel Zegler, former Principal Bassoon of the Philharmonic. A graduate of The Curtis Institute of Music, Mr. Zegler performed with the NBC Symphony under Toscanini before joining the Philharmonic in 1945; he retir
 Charles R. Thomson, a leading federal firearms and explosives investigator who helped track down the people who bombed the World Trade Center in 1993 and those who blew up the Federal Building in Oklahoma City two years later, died Sunday at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 61. Th
 BEAN--Robert William. Aged 87, died on July 2, 2005 in Phoenix, AZ. Born and educated in Council Bluffs, IA, he became a National Scholar, honor graduate and member of Phi Beta Kappa at Harvard University. As an American Scandinavian Foundation Fellow, he studied at the University of Oslo, 
 BLISS--David. We mourn the passing of a good friend and co-worker who tried so hard to overcome his illness, but in the end, succumbed to its devastating effects. We remember him as Publisher of Private Label Magazine (1993-1996), as Director of Marketing for Private Label Manufacturers Ass
 FONTANA--Vincent J., M.D. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The New York Foundling and the Vincent J. Fontana Center for Child Protection mourn the sudden passing of our esteemed and beloved Medical Director and Pediatrician-in-Chief, Dr. Vincent J. Fontana. During his 43 year career at Th
 GROSS--Rubin, 97, died peacefully at home in New Jersey. He was a quiet man who brought strength, wisdom, love, and his famous sense of humor to so many people. His family will deeply miss him.       
 HUNTER--Evan. The Writers Guild of America, East mourns the passing of its distinguished member Evan Hunter. A strong proponent of creative and economic rights for writers, Evan Hunter served on WGA East Council for ten years and was awarded the Ian McLellan Hunter Award for ''Lifetime Achi
 LITTLE--William Spencer, 93, on July 6, 2005. Bill was the husband of the late Verbena May Little and the father of Wm. Brian and Christopher, both deceased. He had a 47 year career with Becton Dickinson and Co. After living for 40 years in Ridgewood, NJ and Essex, CT he moved to Santa Barb
 MENDELL--Ira Lebeck. Beloved husband of Joan Armour and the late Peggy Postley died at the age of 92 at his summer home in Purchase, NY. He was a resident of Sarasota, FL. He was a devoted father to his three children and their spouses: Thomas and Andrea Mendell, Alice and Kenneth Starr, Ja
 PATRON--Irving. Of Boca Raton, FL and Floral Park, NY. Died July 7 at his home in Florida after a long illness. Beloved husband of Maureen. Father of Glenn, Lisa and Eugene. Born NYC in 1912 to a family of modest circumstances. In his early 20's he played minor league baseball for the NY Gi
 SHAPIRO--Robert S., M.D. The Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research, and the Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine express our deepest sorrow over the death of our esteemed colleague, Dr. Robert S. Shapiro. We send our condolences to his wife, Melba; sons, Mar
 VEAR--Judd Gray. August 23, 1923-July 5, 2005. Born in Albion, MI, Judd grew up in Wheaton, IL. He enlisted in the Army Air Corps in 1943 and was a fighter pilot of P51 Mustangs in the European theater during WWII. Judd graduated from the University of Michigan in 1947 and married Rita Sull
 Judge Vito J. Titone, long a firm liberal voice on the New York State Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, died on Wednesday on Staten Island. He was 76. The death was announced by the Court of Appeals in Albany, to which he was elevated as an associate judge in 1985 by Gov.
 Dr. Vincent J. Fontana, a national voice for abused and neglected children and the longtime medical director of the New York Foundling, the service agency for such children and their families, died on Tuesday while vacationing on Block Island, R.I. He was 81 and lived in Stony Brook, N.Y.  
 GREENBAUM -- Abraham. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, New York, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Abraham Greenbaum. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Lawrence B. Glass, President       
 HARTZBAND--Bernard. Of Fort Lee, NJ, formerly of Hewlett Neck, NY. Survived by his beloved wife, Elaine, three children and ten grandchildren.       
 LANE--Peter A. Dad, we can't imagine life without you. You have always been our backbone, always larger than life. There will not be a minute where you leave our thoughts. Mom, Eric, Adam and Sarah LANE--Peter A. The Board of Directors, Administration and Staff of The United Hebrew 
 MARTIN--Daniel S., MD. Friends and colleagues of Dr. Dan Martin, Visiting Investigator at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, express their profound grief at his tragic accidental death. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his family. A prominent surgeon, a former Director of Cancer 
 MENDELL--Ira Lebeck. Beloved husband of Joan Armour and the late Peggy Postley died at the age of 92 at his summer home in Purchase, NY. He was a resident of Sarasota, FL. He was a devoted father to his three children and their spouses: Thomas and Andrea Mendell, Alice and Kenneth Starr, Ja
 PATRON--Irving. Of Boca Raton, FL and Floral Park, NY. Died July 7 at his home in Florida after a long illness. Beloved husband of Maureen. Father of Glenn, Lisa and Eugene. Born NYC in 1912 to a family of modest circumstances. In his early 20's he played minor league baseball for the NY Gi
 RAY--Dr. Eric. Beloved husband of Natalie (Lali) Ray. Dearest father of Danielle (Alistair), Jason and Ken (Nichole). Loving grandfather of Samantha, Alex and Adam. Master Scribe, fighter for Israel. Services Sunday 1 PM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, Great Neck, NY. Shivah until Friday
 SCHERR--Herman. Age 94, died July 7, 2005. Funeral services will be held at Riverside-Nassau North, Great Neck, Sunday at 12 PM. He graduated from CCNY with a Master's in Mechanical Engineering in 1934. Despite the Depression & discrimination in the private sector against Jewish engineers, 
 STUTMAN -- Leonard Jay, M.D., died at Thursday morning at his home in West Nyack, NY. He was 77. Born in Boston to Hyman and Nellie (Wiener) Stutman, he graduated from the Boston Latin School and earned a B.S. from MIT, an M.A. from Boston University, and his M.D. from University of Rochest
 TABAK--T. Lawrence. We are deeply Saddened to have lost Our Brother, Our Uncle, Our Friend. We will miss you. Sheldon, Marian, Robert, Jeffrey and Steven TABAK--Ted L., died July 6, 2005, devoted his life to his family, the legal profession and the enjoyment of Manhattan. A man of g
 TALBOT--Paul, 86, a television industry pioneer, died on Wednesday at his family home in Brewster, MA. He was a lifelong resident of Manhattan. Along with his wife of 39 years, Susan Talbot, he is survived by his daughter, Rachel, and his three sons, Keith, John and Thomas. As President and
 TITONE--Hon. Vito J. Wisdom, compassion and understanding are benchmark qualities of a life well-lived! In navigating the shoals of life's journey, they serve to arm the traveler with renewed strength of character. Judge Vito Titone came to the side of a legion of this town's shadow--childr
 Claude Simon, the French writer who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1985 and is best remembered for his place in the so-called nouveau roman movement, died on Wednesday, his publisher said Saturday. He was 91. His publishing house, Éditions de Minuit, said the author was burie
 FONTANA--Vincent J., M.D. The Board of Trustees and Staff of The New York Foundling and the Vincent J. Fontana Center for Child Protection mourn the sudden passing of our esteemed and beloved Medical Director and Pediatrician-in-Chief, Dr. Vincent J. Fontana. During his 43 year career at Th
 HASKINS--James, of New York and Gainesville, FL. On July 6, 2005. Beloved husband of Kathleen, father of Michael, Elisa and Margaret; brother of James McKinney, Will, Henry Jr., Eddie Lee, Alfred, Julia H. Foster, Virginia H. Webb, and Johnny Ray; adoptive brother of Nathaniel and Inez M. S
 KOONS--Tilghman B. 79, on July 7, 2005, at his home in East Hampton. Son of Margaret O'Hara and Lucius Koons. Beloved and admired by his friends, ''Skip'' Koons had a wide-ranging career in the military, government and banking. Born in Plainfield, NJ, he received his B.A. from Princeton, wi
 LANE--Peter. On July 8, 2005. Beloved husband of Rita. Loving father of Eric and Adam. Services Sunday, July 10, 11:45 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions to THANC Foundation, c/o Evelyn Rossetti, 10 Union Square East, Suite 5B, NY, NY 10003. LA
 LITTLE--William Spencer, 93, on July 6, 2005. Bill was the husband of the late Verbena May Little and the father of Wm. Brian and Christopher, both deceased. He had a 47 year career with Becton Dickinson and Co. After living for 40 years in Ridgewood, NJ and Essex, CT he moved to Santa Barb
 NENNER--Rafael, M.D. The Zankel family--Arthur, Judy, Kenny, Tommy, Mark and Jimmy--wishes to express its most sincere condolences to the entire Nenner family. Ray was a special man--lovely, sweet, kind, funny, smart. He fought to live from his earliest to latest days. He was a real trouper
 PATRON--Irving. Of Boca Raton, FL and Floral Park, NY. Died July 7 at his home in Florida after a long illness. Beloved husband of Maureen. Father of Glenn, Lisa and Eugene. Born NYC in 1912 to a family of modest circumstances. In his early 20's he played minor league baseball for the NY Gi
 STEINBERG--Rabbi Paul M. The President, Board of Governors, administration, faculty and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion deeply mourn the death of our beloved colleague, Dr. Paul M. Steinberg. For 50 years, the name of Paul M. Steinberg has been synonymous with 
 TZIRLIN--Ronald M. Devoted husband and soulmate of Rita. Loving father of Stacie, Steven, Barbara, and Hal, grandfather of Dylan and brother of Jody. A generous and loving spirit, he will long be remembered. Service Monday, July 11, 12 noon, at ''Sinai Chapels,'' 162-05 Horace Harding Expre
 ZAFREN -- Herbert Cecil. 1925--2005. The Zafren family has been devastated by the loss of their very dearly beloved husband, father, grandfather and friend, Herbert C. Zafren, on June 30, 2005 in Cincinnati, Ohio. Born in Baltimore, he graduated from Baltimore Hebrew College and Johns Hopki
 Rowland B. Wilson, whose watercolor cartoons were instantly recognizable to readers of Playboy, The Saturday Evening Post, Esquire and The New Yorker, died on June 28 at Scripps Memorial Hospital in Encinitas, Calif. He was 74 and lived in La Costa, Calif. The cause was heart failur
 Byron C. Preiss, an author and a publisher who specialized in illustrated books by celebrities, graphic novels and science fiction, died in a traffic accident on Saturday in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 52 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Preiss was the president of Byron Preiss Visual Publ
 James Haskins, an educator who in seeking to make up for the dearth of children's books on black historical figures ultimately became one of America's most prolific children's book authors with more than 100 works of nonfiction to his credit, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He w
 John Stubblefield, a tenor saxophonist who worked with Mary Lou Williams, Charles Mingus, Tito Puente, Miles Davis, Anthony Braxton and Abdullah Ibrahim, among other jazz musicians, died last Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 60 and lived in Manhattan. He had been hosp
 ALLIS--Anthony Arthur. Died Tuesday, July 5, 2005, at age 83. He will always be remembered for his positive spirit and the ''light'' he brought to every gathering. He will be missed dearly by his family and friends. He is survived by his devoted wife of 57 years, Christine G. Allis, and his
 FEUERSTADT -- Oscar. A true friend of 60 plus years, he will be missed and ever be remembered. With love to Rita, Ivy and the family. The Rudolphs, Winikoffs and Zuckermans       
 HASKINS--James, of New York and Gainesville, FL. On July 6, 2005. Beloved husband of Kathleen, father of Michael, Elisa and Margaret; brother of James McKinney, Will, Henry Jr., Eddie Lee, Alfred, Julia H. Foster, Virginia H. Webb, and Johnny Ray; adoptive brother of Nathaniel and Inez M. S
 HERTZBERG--Bob. 92, newspaperman. Husband of the late Claire Hertzberg, father of Michael, Papa of Julie and David. He quit high school to work for the ''Daily Mirror'' as a copy boy, reporter, and News Editor until the paper's demise in 1963. He then was a Features Editor with the ''Daily 
 HORWITZ--Myron S. Suddenly, on Saturday, July 9, 2005, of River Edge, NJ. Beloved husband of Isabel S. (nee Kanner) Horwitz. Devoted and loving father of Dr. Steven M. Horwitz and his wife Samantha of North Bethesda, MD, and Robert S. Horwitz and his fiancee Jodi Minkin of Kirkland, WA. Ser
 KAY--Stanley. On July 9, Stanley Kay of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Wantagh, NY, beloved husband of Arlene; devoted father of Ellen, Jody and Ira, Barbara and Keith; loving grandfather of Jason, Stacey, Bari, Jacob and Stevie; dear brother to Arthur. He will be in our hearts and memory f
 KOONS--Tilghman B. 79, on July 7, 2005, at his home in East Hampton. Son of Margaret O'Hara and Lucius Koons. Beloved and admired by his friends, ''Skip'' Koons had a wide-ranging career in the military, government and banking. Born in Plainfield, NJ, he received his B.A. from Princeton, wi
 PATRON--Irving. Age 92. Of Boca Raton, FL, and Floral Park, NY. Died July 7 at his home in Florida after a long illness. Beloved husband of Maureen. Father of Glenn, Lisa and Eugene. In his early 20's, Irving played minor league baseball for the NY Giants, earning the nickname ''Red Patron.
 PREISS--Byron. Beloved and cherished husband of Sandi Mendelson, devoted and adored father to Karah and Blaire, devoted and loving son of the late Edmund and Pearl Preiss, caring son-inlaw of Norman and the late Belle Mendelson, admiring brother-in-law of Alan Mendelson, and revered uncle o
 PSALTOS--Dimitrios Megris (''James''). On July 8, 2005. He was 73. A devout Christian; Korean War veteran; Vice President of Equity Sales for Shearson Lehman; graduate of Pace University and George Washington High School; archon; past president and life long member of St. Spyridon Greek Ort
 STEINBERG--Rabbi Paul M. The President, Board of Governors, administration, faculty and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion deeply mourn the death of our beloved colleague, Dr. Paul M. Steinberg. For 50 years, the name of Paul M. Steinberg has been synonymous with 
 Gustaf Sobin, an American-born writer who for more than 40 years wove the history, sensations and language of his adopted Provence into his poetry and prose, died on July 7 at a hospital in Cavaillon, Vaucluse, near his home in Goult in the south of France. He was 69. The cause was 
 BLACKWELL -- Edward S., Jr., of Basking Ridge, NJ, formerly of Dorset, VT, Short Hills, NJ and Point O'Woods, NY, on July 9, 2005 at the age of 94. A graduate of Williams College 1933 and Harvard Law School, he had a distinguished career in commercial insurance brokerage. He is survived by 
 FELDMAN -- Bernard. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our devoted member. We extend our condolences to his family. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Charles Berman, President       
 FERRIS--Neal Anthony. 66. Beloved husband of Sarah & son of loving mother, Lesley Ferris & his two sisters Lynn Steinman and Pamela FerrisOlsen. He leaves behind two children Brian and Christy Webster and one grandchild. The ceremonies will be held in San Francisco.       
 FINGER--Ambassador Seymour Maxwell. The Ralph Bunche Institute for International Studies of The City University of New York, extends its heartfelt condolence to Max's wife Annette and entire family on his passing on July 10. Max's directorship of the institute from 1971 to 1982 and insights
 FONTANA--Dr. Vincent J. In memoriam to our esteemed colleague and friend, Stony Brook University mourns the death of Dr. Vincent J. Fontana, who devoted his life to the care of children. We offer our most heartfelt condolences. A funeral Mass was held Monday, July 11 at St. Patrick's Cathed
 PATRON--Irving. Age 92. Of Boca Raton, FL, and Floral Park, NY. Died July 7 at his home in Florida after a long illness. Beloved husband of Maureen. Father of Glenn, Lisa and Eugene. In his early 20's, Irving played minor league baseball for the NY Giants, earning the nickname ''Red Patron.
 PREISS--Byron C. Colleagues of Byron Preiss, President and Publisher of ibooks and Byron Preiss Visual Publications express their profound grief and sense of loss following his tragic accidental death on Saturday, July 9. Under Byron's visionary leadership, all of us over the years have bee
 STEINBERG--Dr. Paul M. JBI (formerly the Jewish Braille Institute) is deeply saddened by passing of Dr. Paul M. Steinberg, a long time Trustee and good friend to JBI. We are particularly grateful for his caring generosity in helping enrich the cultural lives of the Jewish blind and visually
 STRUM--Elias. Passed away Sunday, July 10. Beloved husband of Elaine, father of Nina Weinstein and Jeffrey, stepfather of Harold and Jeffrey Verschleiser and Joy Pearl. Grandfather and great grandfather, brother of Anita Gluck and Marilyn Frisch. Services 10AM Tuesday, Temple BethEl, North 
 ZAKARIA--Rafiq. Scholar, politician, philanthropist, humanist and lover of life. The American friends and admirers of Rafiq Zakaria mourn the passing of a towering figure and send their condolences to his beloved wife Fatma, his children Tasnim, Mansour, Arshad, and Fareed, and their famili
 James G. Baker, an astronomer who designed powerful lenses and cameras for the U-2 spy plane in the 1950's and became a pioneer of satellite reconnaissance in the cold war, died on June 29 at his home in Bedford, N.H. He was 90. His death was reported by his son Neal. Dr. Ba
 Karim Emami, a prominent Iranian translator and editor who for more than 50 years devoted his life to Persian literature and art, died at his home in Tehran on Saturday. He was 75. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Mr. Emami was best known for his translations from En
 Lord King, a tough-minded executive who in 1981 took over British Airways when its initials were said to signify ''bloody awful,'' and turned it into a sleek, profitable airline attractive enough to draw throngs of public investors when it was privatized six years later, died yesterday at h
 BLACKWELL -- Edward S., Jr., of Basking Ridge, NJ, formerly of Dorset, VT, Short Hills, NJ and Point O'Woods, NY, on July 9, 2005 at the age of 94. A graduate of Williams College 1933 and Harvard Law School, he had a distinguished career in commercial insurance brokerage. He is survived by 
 EPSTEIN--Jack, on July 11, 2005. Beloved uncle of Susan Tofel and George Hecht. Widower of Ruth Gutman, sculptor. Born in Pikesville, MD. A graduate of the Friends School in Baltimore and of Babson College in 1929. Jack resided in New York City for more than 50 years. He headed the New York
 FREYTAG--Richard A. Citicorp Banker, of Wilmington, DE, age 71, died on July 4, 2005. He retired in 1996 as President and CEO of Citicorp Banking Corporation, New Castle, DE after 34 years service with the bank and he retired from the U.S. Air Force with the rank of Major General after 38 y
 GLOTZER--George. Age 93. Died July 12, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Diana (Sorkin). Loving father of Sandy Wang (Michael) and Alan (Susan Miller); proud grandfather of Andy Wang (Karen), Kathy Seward (Duane), Emily, and Owen; adoring great grandfather of Lydia and Sophie Wang, and Zach
 GORDON--George, age 91, on July 9, 2005. Husband of the late Elsie Wexler Gordon. Father of Judith and Henry. Grandfather of Jason and Evan Brown, Lily, Paul and Maya Gordon. Graduate of Columbia Law School, he had a 45-year career with West Publishing Co. as an editor of Corpus Juris Secun
 GREGER--Lester. On July 7, 2005, Age 95. Married for 75 years to his beloved wife Frances. Family historian, astute businessman, the Baron Dukey King, exuberant soul. We will miss him. Laurie & Dave       
 HORAN--Dan. CPA. A fine accountant, a wonderful gentleman and a true friend in time of need. We mourn his passing and offer our condolences to his family. Carl and Loretta Neuman       
 JUST--Hal. Saddened by the death of Hal Just, extraordinary illustrator and great personal friend. He will be missed. Heartfelt condolences to his beloved wife Judi, his daughters Riki, Layne and his son-in-law Luis. Anita Grien & Julius Medwin       
 PATRON--Irving. Age 92. Of Boca Raton, FL, and Floral Park, NY. Died July 7 at his home in Florida after a long illness. Beloved husband of Maureen. Father of Glenn, Lisa and Eugene. In his early 20's, Irving played minor league baseball for the NY Giants, earning the nickname ''Red Patron.
 SCHULNER--Lawrence. The Union for Reform Judaism mourns with deep sorrow the passing of Lawrence Schulner, of Agoura, CA, a member of its Board of Trustees since 2002. In a variety of roles, Mr. Schulner served the Union with great devotion. We extend deepest condolences to his entire famil
 SHINE--Jacob David. On July 10, 2005. CPA. Beloved husband of Sylvia for 65 years. Loving father of Carol Horemis and her husband Spyros, and Joseph Shine Sr. and his wife Stephanie. Devoted grandfather of Joseph Shine Jr. and his wife Kelly and Vincent Shine. Ecstatic great grandfather of 
 STRUM--Elias. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Elias Strum, beloved husband of Elaine Verschleiser Strum and stepfather of Jeffrey Verschleiser, treasured friends and leaders of the N.Y. Jewish community. The Strum and Verschleis
 SUNDERLAND -- J.B. Born Aug. 14, 1928, died at home on June 8, 2005. He was President of Aminoil and Transpacific Geothermal Co., a director of the Near East Foundation since 1966, and a founder and director of Americans for Middle East Understanding since 1967. He was also a Member of the 
 ZAKARIA--Rafiq. Scholar, politician, philanthropist, humanist and lover of life. The American friends and admirers of Rafiq Zakaria mourn the passing of a towering figure and send their condolences to his beloved wife Fatma, his children Tasnim, Mansour, Arshad, and Fareed, and their famili
 ZORENSKY--Louis I. The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourns the passing of its lifetime Board Member, and generous supporter, Louis Zorensky, who, from his home base in Saint Louis, reached out to Jewish communities around the globe. He had a special concern for jews in
 Seymour M. Finger, a retired United States diplomat at the United Nations and a recognized authority on foreign affairs, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90. The cause was aspiration pneumonia, his wife, Annette, said. At his death, Mr. Finger was a senior fel
 Arthur A. Fletcher, a Republican civil rights advocate whose plan in the 1960's requiring the government to enforce timetables and goals in the hiring of minority workers became the framework for affirmative action, died Tuesday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington, D.C. H
 Mortimer Levitt, an irrepressible and outspoken patron of the arts who made a fortune selling custom-made shirts to celebrities, business executives, political figures and others who didn't have to ask the price, died on Tuesday at his home in Green's Farms, Conn. He was 98. His fam
 BRIZEL--Milton ''Breeze''. Of Fallsburg and formerly of NYC, retired professor died July 11, 2005. Graveside service today at Sullivan County Veteran's Cemetery, Sunset Lake Rd, Liberty, NY, 10 am with full Military Honors. For info www. colonialbryantfuneralhome.com BRIZEL--Milton,
 DENNIS--Clarence, M.D. The SUNY Downstate Medical Center community mourns the passing of Clarence Dennis, M.D., master surgeon, chair of surgery from 1951 to 1972, originator of the heartlung machine, and generous benefactor. A graduate of Harvard College in 1931, and Johns Hopkins Medical 
 DOLGIN--Israel M. We cannot believe what life will be like without you. You have given us the memory of your memories to carry with us forever. The stories of growing up with your brother and sister and most of all your beloved twin, Jeannette (Post), all of blessed memory, will mingle in o
 EPSTEIN--Jack, on July 11, 2005. Beloved uncle of Susan Tofel and George Hecht. Widower of Ruth Gutman, sculptor. Born in Pikesville, MD. A graduate of the Friends School in Baltimore and of Babson College in 1929. Jack resided in New York City for more than 50 years. He headed the New York
 HORAN--Dan. CPA. A fine accountant, a wonderful gentleman and a true friend in time of need. We mourn his passing and offer our condolences to his family. Carl and Loretta Neuman       
 LEVITT--Mortimer. On July 12, your great and courageous heart could no longer sustain life in you. During the 98 years you spent on this earth you were known as merchant prince, philanthropist, producer, author, and above all as a confirmed iconoclast. You wanted to live to 104, but you wil
 NEWMAN--Lester, age 90, passed away July 1 at his home in Oak Park, IL. He was a long time resident of New York; loving father of Richard & Judith; proud grandfather of Audrey & Sarah and great-grandfather of Logan; preceded in death by his loving wife Celia. He will be missed by all. For i
 NYMARK--Jan A. On July 13, 2005, at age 58. Beloved husband of Raya, loving father of Michael (Jenna) and Natalie. Future grandfather of Maryn. Dear brother of Richard. Cherished uncle. Born in Poland, married in Cyprus and built his life in New York City. Friends may call at Andrett Funera
 PATRON--Irving. Age 92. Of Boca Raton, FL, and Floral Park, NY. Died July 7 at his home in Florida after a long illness. Beloved husband of Maureen. Father of Glenn, Lisa and Eugene. In his early 20's, Irving played minor league baseball for the NY Giants, earning the nickname ''Red Patron.
 POTTER--Harmon S. Of Bellport, NY, at the age of 90 on July 13, 2005. The son of Dr. James H. Potter and Nina Potter, he was born in New York City on October 3, 1914. He was the valedictorian of P.S. 186 and graduated from Columbia University (A.B. 1935) and Columbia University Law School (
 PUISSEGUR--Daniel. 53, from Manhattan on July 10. Survived by his life partner William Way. Also survived by his brother Frank and sister Alby and his parents Alba and Daniel Puissegur from Lakeland, FL.       
 RICHTER--Robert C., formerly of NYC, July 8, 2005 at Crosslands, Kennett Square, PA. A Graduate of NYU and Hamilton College, he served as an officer in the US Navy. He was survived by cousins and many friends. Memorial Service at 1:30pm, Friday, July 15 at Crosslands, Crossland Dr., Kennett
 STEINBERG--Dr. Paul. His wisdom and his caring will be deeply missed. Our heartfelt sympathy to Trudy Steinberg and to the children. Ruth Bar-On, Prof. Dan Amir Selah, The Israel Crisis Management Center       
 SULTANOV -- Alexei. The House of Steinway & Sons notes with sadness the passing of the pianist Alexei Sultanov on June 30 in Fort Worth, Texas, at the age of 35. A Russian native, Alexei Sultanov was a valued member of our Steinway Artist family for 16 years. Brought to the spotlight by win
 Daniel P. Weadock, who rose from an accounts payable clerk at the ITT Corporation to lead its Sheraton hotels unit, died on Tuesday at a Boston hospital of injuries from an automobile accident in Maine. He was 66 and made his home in Concord, Mass. Nadeen N. Ayala, a spokeswoman for
 Mickey Owen, the Brooklyn Dodger catcher remembered for a misadventure in the 1941 World Series that propelled the Yankees to the championship and overshadowed his All-Star career, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Mount Vernon, Mo. He was 89. The cause was complications of Alzhei
 AGRY--Warren Cram, Jr. of Greenwich, CT died on July 12. He was 82. His wife Nancy Vogt Agry predeceased him in 2000. He is survived by his son Bradford W. Agry of New York City. A long time resident of Rye, New York, Mr. Agry was a member of the Rye Presbyterian Church and The Apawamis Clu
 BRIZEL--Milton, died Tuesday July 12, 2005. Husband of Marilyn. Father of Robert. Brother of Rita. Preceded in death by parents Sarah and Sigmund Brizel and brother Irving. Born in the Bronx and resided in South Fallsburg for 80 years. Served as an officer in the US Army in WWII as well as 
 CHALEFF--Philip Lee, 54 years, formerly of NYC passed away on July 14, 2005 in Yardley, PA. Devoted husband of Alice, Loving ''father'' to Frank Renner and Michele (Rich) Massey. Brother of Jane (Peter) Gruber. Beloved Uncle. Family and Friends are invited to his life celebration on Saturda
 LAUTMAN--Benjamin Harris. With profound sadness, William and Wendy (King) Lautman mourn the loss of their dearly loved son, Benjamin Harris Lautman, whose little heart failed on July 14, 2005. His four short years filled his family with tremendous joy and an extraordinary appreciation for t
 LEVITT--Mortimer. On July 12, your great and courageous heart could no longer sustain life in you. During the 98 years you spent on this earth you were known as merchant prince, philanthropist, producer, author, and above all as a confirmed iconoclast. You wanted to live to 104, but you wil
 ROBIE--Edward Adams. 86, died peacefully in the early morning of July 11, 2005 surrounded by his family and loved ones at his Orono, ME home. Ed served on CARE's Executive Board from 1979-1996, acting as Chair from 1986-1989. He embraced CARE's mission of reducing poverty through empowermen
 SCHULTE--John H., 85, of State College, formerly of Brooklyn and Massapequa, New York, died Tuesday, July 12, 2005. Born October 7, 1919 in New York City, he was a son of the late William and Rose Casey Schulte. He grew up in Brooklyn during the Depression and helped support his mother, dis
 WEADOCK--Daniel P., of Concord, MA. July 12. Husband of Florence T. (Towey) Weadock. Father of Daniel P. Jr. and his wife Jessica of Bolton, MA, Bryan T. and his wife Elyse of NYC, Kevin M. of NYC and Ann M. Specht and her husband Robert of Carlisle, MA. Grandfather of Olivia and Daniel Wea
 WHITESIDE--Andrew Gladding, passed away July 10, 2005 at age 83. Ph.D. in history from Harvard, full professor at Queens College and author of two books, he will be remembered for his wit, love of cats and the history lesson that was included in every conversation. He is survived by Alice H
 WILCOX--Ronald M. 79, of NY died on July 12, 2005. Former chief of psychology for the Manhattan VA Hospital. He is survived by his wife Venoris, three children; Ronald, Shonna and Keith, and three grandchildren. Services 12:30 PM Sunday, Marble Collegiate Church, 5th Ave and 29th St., NY, N
 WITKOFF--Martin. Dearest Marty, we will forever remember your quiet demeanor, gentle kindness and loyal friendship. We enjoyed endless bridge games, Thanksgiving dinners, and decades of summers at the beach together (especially the one of Camp ''Jac-off''). Our hearts and prayers are with y
 Ronald W. Haughton, an innovative mediator and arbitrator whose work put him in the forefront of major national labor disputes over 40 years, died on July 4 at his home in Palm Harbor, Fla. He was 88 and also kept a residence on Martha's Vineyard, Mass. The cause was complications after a s
 Alberto Lattuada, a highly regarded Italian filmmaker of the postwar years who was also known for giving a young screenwriter named Federico Fellini his first directing job, died on July 3 at his home outside Rome. He was 90. Rome city officials announced the death to The Associated
 Harold W. Stevenson, a psychologist specializing in child development who produced the first comprehensive study highlighting the difference between the academic achievement of American children and children overseas, particularly in Japan and Taiwan, died on July 8 at a hospital in Palo Al
 Norman Raab, a co-founder of the Villager line of women's clothing that was a mainstay of country club and collegiate style in the 1960's, died Saturday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 89. The cause was complications of pneumonia, his family said. Villager style 
 HARTZ--William N. July 13, 2005 at age 83. Beloved husband of Joan (Fellerman). Devoted father of Randee, David, Cindi, Suzie and the late Kenneth. Cherished grandfather of eight. Loving brother of Toby Hornstein and Allan Kaplan. Alumnus of Baruch College of CCNY. Bill's integrity, intelli
 LAUTMAN--Benjamin Harris. Dearest Wendy and Bill, we grieve for the loss of sweet Baby Ben. While barely four years old, he was indeed an Old Soul, who touched all of our lives. His fight was valiant and inspirational. We will remember and rejoice Ben & his spirit forever. With much love: M
 LEVITT--Mortimer. On July 12, your great and courageous heart could no longer sustain life in you. During the 98 years you spent on this earth you were known as merchant prince, philanthropist, producer, author, and above all as a confirmed iconoclast. You wanted to live to 104, but you wil
 THAL--Rudolf. Age 83. Of Englewood Cliffs, N.J. and formerly of Bernkastel-Kues, Germany, on July 14, 2005. Loving and devoted husband of Ruth Thal. Dear brother of Hilda Herbst of Boca Raton, FL. Beloved father and father-in-law to Susan Thal and Elliot of Teaneck, N.J. and Gary Thal and K
 WILCOX--Ronald M. 79, of NY died on July 12, 2005. Former chief of psychology for the Manhattan VA Hospital. He is survived by his wife Venoris, three children; Ronald, Shonna and Keith, and three grandchildren. Services 12:30 PM Sunday, Marble Collegiate Church, 5th Ave and 29th St., NY, N
 John J. Ford Jr., a coin dealer and collector known for catalogs that brought new clarity to numismatics and whose collections, including the earliest American coins and prized Confederate pennies, have dazzled recent auctiongoers, died on July 7 at a nursing home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He wa
 BAKER--William Graham, Jr., 86, of Sanibel, Florida, died on July 9, 2005. He was a retired Vice President of the F.W. Woolworth Co. He is survived by his wife, Janice, daughters, Linda, Kim, Cindy, Leigh, sons William III, Robert, nine grandchildren, two great grandchildren, sisters Margar
 BOROFSKY--Harold. Age 79, on July 7, 2005, at home in Princeton, NJ. Beloved husband of the late Dr. Leatrice Borofsky, father of David Borofsky, Lewis Borofsky and Rosalyn Ritts. Devoted grandfather of Eliana Ritts, Jacob Ritts and Joshua Borofsky, he was also loved as a father by his son-
 COHEN--Robert F., 79, died July 8 at home, Pt. St. Lucie, FL. Formerly Executive Director, Stephen Wise Free Synagogue and Rodeph Shalom in Manhattan, Temple Emanuel, Westfield, NJ. Survived by his wife Charlotte, daughter Susan, grandchildren, great-grandchildren.       
 DENNIS--Clarence, M.D. The SUNY Downstate Medical Center community mourns the passing of Clarence Dennis, M.D., master surgeon, chair of surgery from 1951 to 1972, originator of the heartlung machine, and generous benefactor. A graduate of Harvard College in 1931, and Johns Hopkins Medical 
 FASSBERG -- Hyman. Died peacefully on July 14, 2005 in NYC. Born in NYC on July 27, 1915. A decorated veteran of WWII who served with distinction and honor. He is survived by his wife Annette, daughter Iris, son Neal and granddaughter Jara. The services will be held at Plaza Memorial Chapel
 FORD--John J., Jr. Born March 5, 1924 in Los Angeles, California, died July 7, 2005 in Scottsdale, Arizona. John was a renowned numismatist who began working in the coin business at age 15. He had a lifelong fascination with history. His exhaustive research and vast knowledge on a range of 
 GOLDMAN--Ralph M. Died Sunday, July 10th in his home at age 85. Specializing in American and transnational political parties, Professor Goldman championed the use of parties as the institutional alternative to civil and international war, and as crucial to overcoming terrorist and anti-demo
 GRAZIANI--Charles P., DDS. 93, of Santa Barbara, CA., formerly of Brooklyn, N.Y. and Plandome, L.I. Passed away on July 7, 2005. Beloved husband of Anne and the devoted and loving father of Clara Graziani Bronson, Audrey Graziani Brown and Charles Graziani, Jr. He was the cherished grandfat
 HARTZ--William N. July 13, 2005 at age 83. Beloved husband of Joan (Fellerman). Devoted father of Randee, David, Cindi, Suzie and the late Kenneth. Cherished grandfather of eight. Loving brother of Toby Hornstein and Allan Kaplan. Alumnus of Baruch College of CCNY. Bill's integrity, intelli
 HORNE -- William G., 81. Passed away at home June 22 as a result of cancer. Survived by Esther R. Horne of New York, their son Adam G. Horne, also of New York, and his sister Judyth H. Whitaker of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and our extended families. Served aboard U.S.S. Murray in World War II
 LEVITT--Mortimer. On July 12, your great and courageous heart could no longer sustain life in you. During the 98 years you spent on this earth you were known as merchant prince, philanthropist, producer, author, and above all as a confirmed iconoclast. You wanted to live to 104, but you wil
 ROMAINE--Ralph O. Age 87. On June 26, 2005 in Hastings, Nebraska. Born April 14, 1918 in Portland, Oregon to Lillian and Orie Romaine, Ralph began his career in aviation with his first solo flight in a Taylor Cub at the age of 18. Never far from the stick and rudder thereafter, he became a 
 ROMM--Sol. 88, of Sarasota, FL, formerly of NYC, died in Portland, OR after a short illness. He leaves his wife Arline, three daughters, Carole, Jill, Vicki, stepson David, three granddaughters and a great granddaughter. His first wife, May, predeceased him. Remembrances to the Southern Pov
 STOLER--Barney. Of Sunrise, FL. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY, passed away gently and peacefully in his sleep on July 14, 2005. Barney enjoyed over 90 glorious years, 62 years of which he shared with his wife, Jean. Barney was a devoted and adored father of his loving daughter Marcia (William) B
 SUNDERLAND -- J.B. Born Aug. 14, 1928, died at home on July 8, 2005. He was President of Aminoil and Transpacific Geothermal Co., a director of the Near East Foundation since 1966, and a founder and director of Americans for Middle East Understanding since 1967. He was also a Member of the 
 THAL--Rudolf. Alpine Country Club, its officers, Board of Governors and members deeply mourn the untimely passing of their fellow member, Mr. Rudolf Thal, and offer their deepest sympathy to his wife, Ruth; his children and the entire Thal family. Alpine Country Club Sam Terner, President  
 Sir Edward Heath, who as prime minister took Britain into the European Economic Community in 1973 and for decades was the Conservative Party's leading advocate of European unity, died yesterday at his home in Salisbury, his spokesman said. He was 89 and had retired from the House of Commons
 John L. Procope, an entrepreneur and former publisher of The New York Amsterdam News, died on Friday. He was 82 and lived in Queens. The cause was complications from pneumonia, according to E.G. Bowman Co., where he had served as chairman. Mr. Procope, a graduate of Morgan S
 BARNETT--Bernard. Died of cardio-respiratory failure on July 2nd in Sleepy Hollow, New York, at the age of 84. He graduated magna cum laude from CCNY in 1941 with a degree in accounting. He was with Apfel & Englander from 1941-1969, becoming a senior partner; with Seidman & Seidman from 197
 GISSEN--Benjamin. Of Tamarac, FL, and formerly of Mount Vernon, NY, on July 15, 2005, pre-deceased by wife, Bernice. Loving and devoted husband of Hilda. Cherished father of Dr. Rhona Stanley of New York, Malcolm Gissen of San Francisco and Philip Gissen of Milwaukee. Dearest grandfather of
 LEVITT--Mortimer. Your favorite classic work was Schumann's ''Warum?'' (''Why?''). And, you always asked why, never accepting conventional wisdom, or the bureaucrats who think they know, when they don't know. May your questioning style become pervasive in this too-accepting world. Sarah and
 MORRIS -- Norman David. July 15, age 94. Devoted husband of the late Sylvia, with whom he shared 65 wonderful years. Beloved father of Barbara (Kuperman) and Fredric and father-in-law of Leonard and Marcia. Cherished by his North American and South American grandchildren. Loving brother-inl
 RUTMAN--Craig. The students, faculty, and staff of Monroe College have lost a very special person, a true leader and teacher who everyone admired. As Chair of the Culinary Arts Program, he loved what he did, most of all working with and seeing the success of his students. He will be missed 
 SHERR--William Charles. 80, beloved husband of Miriam Sherr for 51 years, and loving brother to Jessie Wallerich and Nettie Kitzes, died on July 15, 2005 in Phoenix, AZ. Mr. Sherr graduated from the University of Wisconsin and received his Law Degree from Fordham University in 1949. He also
 SPARBERG -- Lester. Died peacefully at home in Great Neck, New York, on June 25, at age 88. Beloved husband of Esther Braun Sparberg. Loving father of Alice and Nick Alexiou, and Andrew and Donna Sparberg. Grandfather of Alex and Joseph Alexiou, and Mark (Rebecca) and Neil Sparberg. We all 
 Gavin Lambert, an incisive observer of life in Hollywood through his screenplays, novels and film histories, died on Sunday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 80. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said Mart Crowley, the executor of his estate. Mr. Lambert's fiction and non
 Gen. William C. Westmoreland, who commanded the United States forces in Vietnam from 1964 to 1968, overseeing the vast troop buildup and the height of the fighting, died last night in a retirement home in Charleston, S.C., his son, James Ripley Westmoreland, announced. The general was 91.  
 BRENNER--Arthur. Sutton Place Synagogue records with sorrow the loss of our longtime member, friend and worshipper, a gentle man appreciated by all. Sincere condolences to his beloved wife Miriam, children, grandchildren and the entire bereaved family. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Mark Wiener, Pres
 CALVERT--George. The New York Housing Conference mourn the passing of our longtime board member, colleague, and friend George Calvert, an outstanding community leader in East Harlem and a tireless advocate for human services and affordable housing for all New Yorkers. Our most sincere condo
 FINKELSON--Seymour. July 18, age 85. Dearest Darling of his wife Anita for 62 years and sister Rita Horbar and her husband Stanley. He was a true gentleman, loving and lovable. He leaves behind his son Allen for whom he had so much pride and respect and his adorable wife Christine, his daug
 FREEDBERG--Irwin M., MD. 74, of New York, New York and Holderness, NH, formerly of Newton, Massachusetts. Husband for 51 years of Irene (Lisman) Freedberg. Father of Marjorie F. Bogdanow and her husband Michael of Lexington, Kenneth A. and his wife Joyce Jen of Weston, and Deborah A. and he
 GISSEN--Dr. Ben, D.D.S. The Harris/McEvoy family notes with profound sadness the passing of their beloved cousin, uncle, friend and ''rabbi.'' Ben will always be remembered for his wisdom and wit, kindness and generosity, devotion and determination. Arlene, Gail, Joseph, Alexandra and Saman
 GLICKSMAN--Albert. Beloved husband of Frances A. Devoted son of the late Frances. Truly a Renaissance man with a love for baseball to books and classical music, to the rescue and humane treatment of animals. A student of learning all his life. Services will be held on Wednesday, 1 P.M., at 
 GOODYEAR--John ''Jack,'' Jr., July 6, 2005, in Cherry Valley, New York. To everything he did, Jack brought a sharp eye and an even sharper wit, intelligent and wide-ranging curiosity, a gift for writing born of the pleasure he took in sharing his passions with others, the ability to take th
 HIRSCH--Michael ''Mickie''. Devoted husband of Patricia. Cherished father of Nancy Meredith and Kathy Jo. Dearest grandfather of Bradley, Brooke, Ryan and Kelsey. Beloved father-in-law of Dan Geoffrey and brother of Stanley. Loved by all who knew him for his humor, and caring and loving nat
 KAPPES--Carl Henry III. 68, of Sun Valley, ID, died with dignity July 13, 2005, in Hailey, ID. He graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy in 1955 and Princeton University in 1959. He was a Field Artillery Officer in the US Marine Corps. Survivors are his sisters Karen Kappes of Holden, MA, a
 MASUR--Allan A., 81. Died peacefully on Sunday July 17, surrounded by many of his loving friends and family. He graduated City College Phi Beta Kappa and received a law degree from Columbia University. He served in the Army in WWII. He practiced law all of his life in NYC. He played an inst
 McGINN--Timothy J., age 54, on July 18, 2005. Beloved husband of Mary (nee Ehmann). Devoted father of Timothy Jr, Brian and Maura. Cherished son of Alice and the late John. Graduate of Regis H.S. '68, Fordham College '72 and Fordham School of Law '76. Friends may call at The Andrett Funeral
 MILLER--Norman. Beloved uncle and brother, distinguished football writer and columnist, died Thursday, July 14, in New York City, after a long decline in health. He was 87. Born October 28, 1917, in Springfield, Massachusetts, Mr. Miller graduated from the University of Michigan in 1942. Af
 OREMLAND--Melvyn Jay, Ph.D. 66, on July 17, 2005, in NYC. Devoted Professor of Physics at Pace University. Loved by his students and all who knew him. Will be greatly missed by his wife of 41 years, Lenore, daughter, Patricia, son, Dr. Gordon, and his wife, Dr. Carrie, grandson, Colin, brot
 SPARBERG -- Lester. Died peacefully at home in Great Neck, New York, on June 25, at age 88. Beloved husband of Esther Braun Sparberg. Loving father of Alice and Nick Alexiou, and Andrew and Donna Sparberg. Grandfather of Alex and Joseph Alexiou, and Mark (Rebecca) and Neil Sparberg. We all 
 Dr. Clarence Dennis, a pioneering developer of the heart-lung bypass machine and other mechanical heart devices that have extended the lives of millions, died on July 11 in St. Paul. He was 96. The cause was dementia, his family said. Dr. Dennis trained hundreds of surgeons 
 John Seitz, a mainstay of the Off Broadway stage for 40 years, died on July 4 at an assisted-living residence in Baltimore. He was 67 and had lived most of his life in Manhattan. He died of congestive heart failure, said his daughter, Becca Seitz. A physically commanding pre
 FREEDBERG--Irwin M., M.D. The Department of Dermatology at the Weill Medical College of Cornell University and the New York-Presbyterian Hospital notes with great sorrow the passing of Irwin M. Freedberg, M.D., until recently the Chairman of the Department of Dermatology at New York Univers
 GISSEN--Dr. Ben, D.D.S. The Harris/McEvoy family notes with profound sadness the passing of their beloved cousin, uncle, friend and ''rabbi.'' Ben will always be remembered for his wisdom and wit, kindness and generosity, devotion and determination. Arlene, Gail, Joseph, Alexandra and Saman
 MAGUIRE--Robert A. His many musician friends mourn his loss and will remember forever the delight of playing chamber music with this talented violist, a deeply generous, erudite, optimistic and funny man.       
 POTTISH--Morris, age 97, died at home in New York City with loved ones at his side. A memorial gathering will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapels Sunday, July 24 at 1 PM. POTTISH--Morris. The residents of the Kenilworth Apartments are saddened by the death of one of our longtime n
 QUIGLEY--Gerard Joseph, on July 17, 2005 at Alexandria, VA. A Bronx native, graduate of Regis High School, Holy Cross and Catholic University. Worked with inner city youth, runaways, mentally challenged adults and terminally ill while with the Jesuit New York Province. Was an Assistant Dean
 RANDISI--Hon. Martin A. Class of 1948, Saint John's University School of Law. A talented, distinguished jurist possessed of impeccable legal scholarship. Totally devoted to his ever loving wife Anne, who has been his life's partner. Marty was a mainstay at Saint John's School of Law and hel
 RUSSELL--John Burnett. Chapel Hill, NC, 82, on July 19, 2005. Former president of Burlington Industries International and chairman of Dan River International. He graduated from Pomfret School and in 1945 from Yale University. He served two years in the Navy during WW II and was awarded Man 
 STANLEY--Charles J., AKA Carlo Pittore. My dearest brother lived his life as he chose...to be a true and honest artist. He lived his life to its fullest--just not long enough. His wish was for all to appreciate his art. It was what he worked for and lived for. Art was his life. His inspirat
 Paul Duke, the longtime moderator of the ''Washington Week in Review'' program on public television, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 78. The cause was acute leukemia, his family said. In 1974 Mr. Duke took the chair at what was then a locally broadcast weekl
 Gen. William C. Westmoreland, the Army artilleryman and paratrooper who failed to lead United States forces to victory in Vietnam from 1964 to 1968 and then made himself the most prominent advocate for recognition of their sacrifices, spending the rest of his life paying tribute to his sold
 Gerry Thomas, who designed clever packaging for a frozen meal and called it the TV dinner, died on Monday in Phoenix, Ariz. He was 83. The cause was cancer, his wife, Susan Mills Thomas, said. In the early 1950's, Mr. Thomas was a salesman for C.A. Swanson & Sons, a frozen f
 Dr. Irwin M. Freedberg, a dermatologist and an influential educator at New York University who led national medical organizations and advanced the study of the genetic foundation of the skin, hair and nails, died on Sunday at N.Y.U. Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 74. The cause 
 James Doohan, who faked a Scottish burr to create one of television's most endearing characters -- Scotty, the chief engineer of the U.S.S. Enterprise on the original ''Star Trek'' -- died yesterday at his home in Redmond, Wash. He was 85. Mr. Doohan, who had Alzheimer's disease, di
 Jim Parker, who was the first full-time offensive lineman elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame and is widely regarded as the best offensive lineman ever, died Monday at a nursing home in Columbia, Md. He was 71. The cause was congestive heart failure and chronic kidney disease, 
 John H. Ostrom, a paleontologist influential in the revival of scientific research about dinosaurs, notably previously unsuspected clues to their speed and agility and their probable ancestral link to modern birds, died on Saturday in Litchfield, Conn. He was 77. His death, from com
 BLACKMAN--Stanley F. Age 88 died peacefully at home on July 18, 2005 surrounded by his loving family and devoted caregivers. He spent much of his life in Florida, graduating from the University of Miami in 1940 and serving in the Coast Guard during WWII. An inventor, he held numerous patent
 BROWN--Fred. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member Dr. Fred Brown. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, Pres       
 DUKE--Paul. On behalf of the Board of Trustees, staff and volunteers of Educational Broadcasting Corporation, licensee of Thirteen/WNET and WLIW21, we express our profound sadness at the passing of Paul Duke and extend our condolences to his family. A journalist of the utmost integrity and 
 FREEDBERG -- Irwin, M.D. The faculty and residents of the Department of Dermatology, Henry Ford Hospital, Detroit, Michigan, note with sadness the passing of Irwin Freedberg, M.D., Chairman of the Ronald O. Perelman Department of Dermatology at NYU. Dr. Freedberg was one of the greats in de
 GREENFIELD--Irwin Gilbert Ph.D. On July 16, 2005, of Kennett Square, PA, husband of Louise Truesdale Loening and the late Barbara (nee Shapiro); father of Richard (Nancy) Greenfield, Hermine (Paul) Brindak and Steven (Emily) Greenfield; brother of Milton (Micky) Greenfield; also survived by
 JOHNSON--Sydney P. 60, of Ridgefield, CT., husband of Cynthia and father of St. John on July 18, 2005 at his home. Graduate of Lehigh University and the University of York, U.K., he was formerly a VP of computers for Louis Harris & Associates and a 4th Degree Knight of Columbus. Service Jul
 RANDISI--Hon. Martin A. Class of 1948, Saint John's University School of Law. A talented, distinguished jurist possessed of impeccable legal scholarship. Totally devoted to his ever loving wife Anne, who has been his life's partner. Marty was a mainstay at Saint John's School of Law and hel
 RUSSELL--John Burnett. Chapel Hill, NC, 82, on July 19, 2005. Former president of Burlington Industries International and chairman of Dan River International. He graduated from Pomfret School and in 1945 from Yale University. He served two years in the Navy during WW II and was awarded Man 
 SCHAFFER--Laurence on July 19, 2005. Beloved husband of Loretta, devoted father of Roni, cherished grandfather of Jamie and Jocelyn. Loving son of Milton and the late Harriet. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him.       
 Piero Cappuccilli, considered one of the finest Italian baritones of his generation, died on July12 in Trieste, Italy. He was 75. His death was reported by the newspaper Il Piccolo di Trieste, which said he had been in fragile health since a car accident in 1992. Though Mr. 
 Alex Shibicky, who was a mainstay of the Rangers team that won the 1940 Stanley Cup and is believed to be the first player to use a slap shot in a National Hockey League game, died July 9 in South Surrey, British Columbia. He was 91 and lived in Surrey. The cause of death was conges
 ALDEA--Adrian, MD. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the physicians and staff of the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our beloved friend and former colleague Adrian Aldea, MD, who provided thirty-three years of dedica
 BARUH--Nesim, 93, died on July 21, in Nice, France. Born 1912, Nesim lived in Turkey until he retired to France in 1978. He is survived by his wife, Kler Baruh and his four sons Isak & Semi of Switzerland, and Semih & Victor of New York. Funeral Services will be held on July 22 in Nice, Fra
 BROWN--Fred, Ph.D. The Mount Sinai Medical Center and its Board of Trustees mourn the passing of of Fred Brown, Ph.D., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry, at the age 0f 100. Dr. Brown was selected as the first full time psychologist and Director of Psychology at The Mount Sinai Hospital in 19
 BULLEN--Richard H., on July 18, 2005, of congestive heart failure, having wondrously and with singular grace survived several years of failing health. Beloved and loving husband of Anne Marie; devoted father of Richard and Thomas; grandfather of Valerie, Georgia, Juliana and Richard. Born M
 DUDENSING--Patrick. Died at his home in Naples, FL on July 19, 2005. He was born in Ithaca, NY on June 7, 1926. Pat was educated at the Park Lodge School in Pau, France, Deerfield Academy, Harvard College and Dartmouth College. He served in the U.S. Army in the South Pacific during World Wa
 FANCY--Anwar Amirali. The family of Anwar Amirali Fancy is deeply saddened to announce his sudden passing on July 20, 2005 in New York City. Born in Tanzania, Mr. Fancy was educated in Pakistan and U.K. and was a 1966 Yale graduate. He was an entrepreneur, international businessman and phil
 GRANT--Charles J., Jr., 79, on June 28, 2005 in his sleep at St. Vincent's Hospital recovering from neck surgery. Preceded in death by his beloved companion of 23 years, Zan E. Van Antwerp. His wife, Joyce, died in 1973, and his stepdaughter, Joy, died in 1995. Survived by Zan's family, his
 HORNE -- William G., 81. Passed away at home June 22 as a result of cancer. Survived by Esther R. Horne of New York, their son Adam G. Horne, also of New York, and his sister Judyth H. Whitaker of Baton Rouge, Louisiana, and our extended families. Served aboard U.S.S. Murray in World War II
 JACOWLEFF--William S. Age 74, of Ansonia, CT., a resident of New York City for most of his life, died on July 20, 2005.       
 LEVITT--Mortimer. The Board and membership of The Collegiate Chorale wish to express their heartfelt condolences to the family of Mortimer Levitt who died on July 12, 2005. Mr. Levitt was a great patron of the arts and we feel fortunate to have benefited from his personal friendship and vis
 MANNE--Jacob. On July 20, 2005. Beloved husband of June. Devoted father of Joseph and Benjamin. Jacob was an accomplished engineer, businessman and inventor. He had been a part of The Manhattan Project. He had served on the Board of United Hebrew Geriatric Center. He was respected and admir
 PREISS--Fredric H. Age 84. Died peacefully on Thursday July 21 after a long illness and valiant fight. He was a man of wide-ranging interests and talents--a musician, athlete, collector of art and an involved citizen of White Plains, NY. He was the deeply loved husband of Henriette, devoted
 RINGLER--Isidore. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the husband of our member, Miriam Ringler, father of Rachel Ringler and father-in-law of Yossi Siegel. May their entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion & Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Joseph S. Kaplan, President Paule
 RUSSELL--John Burnett. Chapel Hill, NC, 82, on July 19, 2005. Former president of Burlington Industries International and chairman of Dan River International. He graduated from Pomfret School and in 1945 from Yale University. He served two years in the Navy during WW II and was awarded Man 
 SEH--Edward. On July 20, at age 78. Beloved husband of Carmen Seh. Loving father of Jody Berman and Ellen Seh. Cherished grandfather of Jeb Berman. Dear brother of Rowie Samson. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 Street, Saturday 7-9PM with service Sunday, 1:30 PM
 TILLES--Norman. It is with profound sorrow that we mourn the passing of Norman Tilles, who had a long and distinguished history of service to the American Jewish community, and especially to HIAS the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, for which he served as Board President from 1995 to 1998. Nor
 WILKER--Jay H., in Danbury (CT) Hospital, July 20, 2005, at the age of 66. A loving husband and father, and a devoted son. Survived by his wife, Dianne Pearce Wilker; his sons, Noah Pearce Wilker and Max Tom Pearce Wilker; his parents, Lewis and Sophie Wilker; and his sisters, Joyce, Bonnie
 Blue Barron, one of the last surviving leaders of the sweet bands that rivaled the popularity of the hot bands of the swing era, died last Saturday in Baltimore. He was 91. He died in his sleep, his sister, Clarisse B. Mechanic, told The Baltimore Sun. The Blue Barron orches
 David Daiches, who was an authority on Scotch whiskey as well as Scottish and English literature, died on July 15 in Edinburgh. He was 92. A prolific literary biographer, historian, essayist, critic and poet, he was a former director of the Institute for Advanced Studies in the Huma
 Eugene Record, the leader of the 1970's harmony group the Chi-Lites, which scored hits with mellifluous soul ballads like ''Oh Girl'' and ''Have You Seen Her?,'' died yesterday. He was 64. The cause was cancer, Jack Bart, the president of the group's booking agency, told The Associa
 John Herald, a guitarist and singer whose group the Greenbriar Boys was among the first bluegrass bands in New York in the 1960's, died on Monday at his home in West Hurley, N.Y. He was 65. The Ulster County medical examiner has not ruled on the cause of death, but the state police 
 EFFRON--James W., 73, died peacefully after a brief illness on July 21 after a happy and well-lived life. He was the beloved husband of Dawn; adored father of Craig (Caryn), Blair (Cheryl), Drew (Sandra) and Brooke (Ross); and cherished grandfather of eight. He was born and lived proudly hi
 KAUFMAN -- Samuel. The Board of Governors and the members of the Seawane Club, record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member Samuel Kaufman. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his wife Elaine and family. Mark Kirschner, President       
 PREISS--Fredric H. Age 84. Died peacefully on Thursday July 21 after a long illness and valiant fight. He was a man of wide-ranging interests and talents--a musician, athlete, collector of art and an involved citizen of White Plains, NY. He was the deeply loved husband of Henriette, devoted
 SEH--Edward. On July 20, at age 78. Beloved husband of Carmen Seh. Loving father of Jody Berman and Ellen Seh. Cherished grandfather of Jeb Berman. Dear brother of Rowie Samson. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 Street, Saturday 7-9PM with service Sunday, 1:30 PM
 The Rev. George E. Calvert, a minister who became a pioneer in efforts to revitalize East Harlem by providing low-cost housing, died on July 17 at his home in Andes, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was colon cancer, his wife, Elizabeth Calvert, said. He was one of the founders of 
 Alain Bombard, who deliberately drifted across the Atlantic for 65 days in a lifeboat with no provisions -- subsisting on plankton, saltwater and raw fish -- to prove it was possible, died on July 19 at a hospital in Toulon, France. He was 80. His death was reported by French, Engli
 George Crews McGhee, a geophysicist who struck it rich in oil and became a top-ranking State Department troubleshooter and ambassador to West Germany in the cold war era, died on July 4 in Leesburg, Va. He was 93 and lived on his farm in Middleburg, Va. His death was announced by hi
 BORUM -- John Franklin (Jack). Of Huntington, NY, died of a stroke June 27, 2005. Born and raised in California, he was a W.W. II veteran serving in Okinawa and the Philippines with the 86th and 96th Infantry Divisions. He was the loving husband of Joan Penrose-Borum for 50 years, and the l
 BULLEN--Richard H., on July 18, 2005, of congestive heart failure, having wondrously and with singular grace survived several years of failing health. Beloved and loving husband of Anne Marie; devoted father of Richard and Thomas; grandfather of Valerie, Georgia, Juliana and Richard. Born M
 EFFRON--James W., 73, died peacefully after a brief illness on July 21 after a happy and well-lived life. He was the beloved husband of Dawn; adored father of Craig (Caryn), Blair (Cheryl), Drew (Sandra) and Brooke (Ross); and cherished grandfather of eight. He was born and lived proudly hi
 GOODMAN--Gus. 82, died suddenly and unexpectedly near his home in Long Island. He is survived by Harriet, his wife of 58 years, daughter Karen Stefano, sons David, Clifford and Mark, and four grandchildren.       
 GRANT--Charles J., Jr., 79, on June 28, 2005 in his sleep at St. Vincent's Hospital recovering from neck surgery. Preceded in death by his beloved companion of 23 years, Zan E. Van Antwerp. His wife, Joyce, died in 1973, and his stepdaughter, Joy, died in 1995. Survived by Zan's family, his
 JACOBSON--Ishier. Retired public utility executive, World War II veteran, and long-time resident of Stamford, CT., died July 20, 2005, at age 83. He was born in Worcester, MA. and raised in Waterbury, CT. He earned a B.A. from Clark University, M.S. in engineering from Harvard University, a
 LEVITT -- Mortimer. New York City Opera mourns the loss of Mortimer Levitt, champion of the arts and dear friend. We will remember especially his candor and creativity, but most of all, his friendship. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife Mimi, daughter Elizabeth, and son Peter. Sus
 MASUR--Allan. Congregation B'nai Olam is forever grateful to its founder, its spirit and its Chairman. For over 40 years, Allan guided our Fire Island Pines community with his love and devotion, not only on the High Holidays, but throughout the year. His energy and his leadership will live 
 MEAD--James M., Esq. 76, of Washington, DC, Naples, FL, and Albuquerque, NM, died Thursday, July 21, 2005. He was born in Erie, PA. A graduate of Phillips Academy at Andover, Princeton University, University of Virginia, he also graduated from the George Mason University Law School. Mr. Mea
 NENNER--Raphael P., M.D. The Board of Directors, administration and staff of IPRO deeply regret the passing of Dr. Raphael P. Nenner, former Vice-President for Medical Affairs and member of the board. During his many years of dedicated service he greatly contributed to improving the health 
 O'BRIEN--Martin G. Of Roxbury, CT, died July 22, 2005. Born in Nyack, NY, March 30, 1957, Martin had a distinguished career as an international advisor to the hotel industry. He was President and CEO of The Page Group, a hotel management firm. His most recent projects included Brazilian Cou
 ONKEN--George Marcellus (1913-2005). On July 21. The consummate gentleman, his uncompromising integrity, wit and style are treasured memories. Above all, he loved his ''girls'' who miss him dearly--beloved wife Mildred and adoring daughters Jane and Nancy. WLYSMIU. Memorial service at Grace
 RICHARDSON -- Ralph E. Died July 20, 2005 after a brief illness. Born November 1, 1927 Bristol, CT, son of the late Dr. Ralph and Estelle Richardson. Brother of Lynn and the late Martha Smith. U.S. Army Veteran Korea, graduate of Wesleyan University. Ralph worked at Wood Struthers before a 
 ROSENTHAL--Arthur A. July 17, 2005, passed peacefully at age 90 in St. Thomas, VI, formerly of Larchmont, New York. Former president of Rochester Button Company, 50 years in the button industry. Loving husband of the late Edna, beloved father of Arthur Rosenthal, Jr. and Myrna Golden, fathe
 SEH--Edward. On July 20, at age 78. Beloved husband of Carmen Seh. Loving father of Jody Berman and Ellen Seh. Cherished grandfather of Jeb Berman. Dear brother of Rowie Samson. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 Street, Saturday 7-9PM with service Sunday, 1:30 PM
 WEISBAND--Philip N. Age 93, on July 17, 2005. Beloved husband of Ethel for 64 wonderful years, much devoted father of Nina and husband Denis, loving grandfather of Sari, the light of his life, and dear brother of David. Your goodness is with us now and forever. 1 - 4 - 3.       
 Franz Weissmann, one of Brazil's most prominent Modernist sculptors and the last surviving member of the Neo-Concrete movement of the early 1960's, died at his home in Rio de Janeiro on July 18. He was 93. His death was reported by The Associated Press. Like many ambitious B
 Long John Baldry, a British blues-rock singer who helped start the careers of the Rolling Stones, Rod Stewart, Elton John and other British stars, died on Thursday in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 64 and had been a longtime resident of Vancouver. The cause was a severe chest i
 Myron Floren, an accordion virtuoso whose televised solos with the Lawrence Welk band became a staple of the cheerful folksiness that was the Welk show's hallmark, died on Saturday at his home in Rolling Hills, Calif., said Margaret Heron, syndication manager for the show. He was 85.       
 BENENSON--Edward Hartley. Born March 27, 1914, in NYC. Beloved husband of Gladys. Loving father of Thomas, James and Deb, Amy and Clifford Aronson, Lisa and Joseph Quattrocchi, and Andrew Benenson and Ronnie and George Igel. Adored grandfather of 14 grandchildren and great grandfather of fi
 COLEMAN--Chester. Age 95, on July 23, 2005. Beloved husband of Beatrice. Father of Martin and Enid, daughter-inlaw Gail, and grandchildren Alina and Vytas. His life was devoted to the students of the High School of Music and Art whose lives he touched in so many ways. In lieu of flowers con
 EFFRON--James W., 73, died peacefully after a brief illness on July 21 after a happy and well-lived life. He was the beloved husband of Dawn; adored father of Craig (Caryn), Blair (Cheryl), Drew (Sandra) and Brooke (Ross); and cherished grandfather of eight. He was born and lived proudly hi
 EFFRON--James Wilbur. We are saddened by the death of our much loved classmate. Jim was our president, 1996-1998. We will remember his integrity, loyalty, generosity, kindness and great, good, robust humor. Our sympathies to Dawn and their four children. Class of 1953, Princeton       
 FRANKFORT--James. Noted painter and cartoonist known as JAF, died July 22 of a heart attack in his home state, Oregon. He was a veteran of the Korean war. He is survived by his children Michele, Jacob, Reina, Madrone and Simon, two grandchildren, Simon and Ceder, and sister Terry and her hu
 HARVEY -- Bruce. 96, of Greenwich, CT, died July 20, 2005. He was active in many organizations in NYC. Predeceased by his wife, Amy Aspegren Harvey, survived by three daughters, Lucille Taff, Marianne Olsen and Joan Wilson, five grandchildren and five great-grandchildren. Burial is private.
 JACOBSON--Ishier. Retired public utility executive, World War II veteran, and long-time resident of Stamford, CT., died July 20, 2005, at age 83. He was born in Worcester, MA. and raised in Waterbury, CT. He earned a B.A. from Clark University, M.S. in engineering from Harvard University, a
 KAMIS--Frederick Wolfe. On July 23, at age 62, in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved son of Evelyn and Matthew Rosenfield of Delray Beach, FL, and the late Bernard Kamis; devoted brother of Richard, Aaron and the late Arthur Kamis; loving father of Daniella and Gordon Brown, Josh and Nikki Kamis, Shos
 KAPLAN--Simon. Died on Shabbat, peacefully, in his 90th year. Loving and beloved husband for almost 65 years of Gertrude, nee Gross; cherished father of Lawrence, Joseph and Sharon, and Rena and Bruce Spinowitz; adored grandfather of Zvi and Alisa, Yaffa and Ed, Pearl, Micole, Daniele, Gila
 YOUNG--Dr. Kevin Scott. Died peacefully in his sleep on July 23 at his home in Easthampton, NY, surrounded by his family and friends: he was 43 years old. Dr. Young, a graduate of Colby College and NYU Medical School, practiced internal medicine in NYC for the last 15 years. He is survived 
 Rabbi Paul M. Steinberg, a dean at Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion in New York for 50 years, died on July 8 at a hospice in Riverdale, the Bronx. He was 79. Dr. Steinberg, whose home was in Scarsdale, N.Y., had been ill for some time but remained a presence on the 
 Glynn Ross, the founding general director of Seattle Opera, who established the company's tradition of performing Wagner's ''Ring'' cycle, died on Thursday in Tucson. He was 90 and lived in Tucson and Seattle. The cause was complications of a stroke, the opera company announced.    
 BENENSON--Edward Hartley. Born March 27, 1914, in NYC. Beloved husband of Gladys. Loving father of Thomas, James and Deb, Amy and Clifford Aronson, Lisa and Joseph Quattrocchi, and Andrew Benenson and Ronnie and George Igel. Adored grandfather of 14 grandchildren and great grandfather of fi
 COPPEDGE--Henry A. on July 15, 2005. Survived by brother Arthur Coppedge (artist), sister Margot of Kentucky, nephew Daymond John founder of the F.U.B.U. Collection, and niece Courtney. He was a guidance counselor for the School of Global Studies and also John Jay High School. He was respec
 EFFRON--James W., 73, died peacefully after a brief illness on July 21 after a happy and well-lived life. He was the beloved husband of Dawn; adored father of Craig (Caryn), Blair (Cheryl), Drew (Sandra) and Brooke (Ross); and cherished grandfather of eight. He was born and lived proudly hi
 GEWIRTZ--Stanley, 87, died on July 23, at his home in Manhattan following an amazingly brave struggle of many months. He is survived by his loving family, including his wife, Margie; daughters, Katherine Leiner and Marie Gewirtz; grandchildren, Dylan Leiner, Julien Gervreau and Makenna Good
 GREENBERG -- Ralph. Our most sincere condolences to the Greenberg family. We are saddened about the passing of our dear devoted friend and most loyal employee of fifty years. Ralph will be greatly missed. He will be remembered always. The officers and employees Acker & Jablow Fabrics       
 HERTZBERG--Sidney Sonny. Beloved husband of Irene. Loving father of Lois & Bob and Howard & Leslie. Grandfather of Alyse & David, Lindsey & Jerry, Dana & Nikki. Former NY Knick and Boston Celtic. Services ''BoulevardRiverside,'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, LI, 11:30 Tuesday. HERTZBERG--
 KAMIS--Frederick Wolfe. On July 23, at age 62, in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved son of Evelyn and Matthew Rosenfield of Delray Beach, FL, and the late Bernard Kamis; devoted brother of Richard, Aaron and the late Arthur Kamis; loving father of Daniella and Gordon Brown, Josh and Nikki Kamis, Shos
 KENLY--William S. III. Died suddenly on July 21. Former publicist and film historian with Paramount Pictures. Companion to Richard Buban for many years. He will be missed by many. KENLY--William S. July 5, 1918-July 21, 2005. We remember with great affection Bill Kenly, our long-tim
 MARGOLIN--Joel A. On July 23 in New York at the age of 71. A respected psychoanalyst. He was loved by family and friends. Joel was a gifted man. One of his greatest gifts was his ability to understand you, those whom he helped to understand themselves, their feelings and the world around th
 MURPHY--Charles E. Artist, seventy-two, of New York City. Died July 23, 2005, of cancer at The Jacob Perlow Hopice, Beth Israel Hospital. Painted the decades-long series of oils-on-linen, ''New York Impressions.'' His paintings reveal the changing cityscape through his palette of mood-setti
 RUSKAY--Joseph A., on July 24, 2005 in his 95th year in NYC. Beloved husband of 57 years of Margot. Devoted father of David and Deborah. Loving grandfather of Morgan, Meagan & Benjamin. He was a highly successful attorney, specializing in anti-trust law, with a lifetime commitment to and pa
 SEH--Edward. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member Edward Seh. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred D. Youngwood, Pres       
 SHURMAN--Jack. On July 25, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Helen R. Shurman, loving father of Paul, his wife, Bari, Bill, his wife, Jenn, and the late Andy Shurman. Fond son-in-law of Ida Fishman, and brother of the late Lenore. Cherished grandfather of Jared, Jake, and Julia. Funeral ser
 YOUNG--Kevin. The entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Kevin Young, MD, a long time member of St. Luke's-Roosevelt's Department of Medicine. To his family, friends and all of those who loved him, we extend
 Sir Richard Doll, a British epidemiologist whose pioneering studies lasting more than 50 years linked smoking to lung cancer, emphysema, heart attacks and many other ailments, died on Sunday in John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, England. He was 92. Sir Richard worked until his death
 A. William Holmberg Jr., a newspaper executive and civic leader who was chief business officer of The Chattanooga Times from 1970 until the paper's sale in 1999, died yesterday at a hospital in Chattanooga, Tenn. He was 81. The cause was complications of pulmonary disease, the famil
 BENENSON--Edward Hartley. Born March 27, 1914, in NYC. Beloved husband of Gladys. Loving father of Thomas, James and Deb, Amy and Clifford Aronson, Lisa and Joseph Quattrocchi, and Andrew Benenson and Ronnie and George Igel. Adored grandfather of 14 grandchildren and great grandfather of fi
 BORUM -- John Franklin (Jack). Of Huntington, NY, died of a stroke June 27, 2005. Born and raised in California, he was a W.W. II veteran serving in Okinawa and the Philippines with the 86th and 96th Infantry Divisions. He was the loving husband of Joan Penrose-Borum for 50 years, and the l
 EFFRON--James W., 73, died peacefully after a brief illness on July 21 after a happy and well-lived life. He was the beloved husband of Dawn; adored father of Craig (Caryn), Blair (Cheryl), Drew (Sandra) and Brooke (Ross); and cherished grandfather of eight. He was born and lived proudly hi
 GREENBERG -- Ralph. Our most sincere condolences to the Greenberg family. We are saddened about the passing of our dear devoted friend and most loyal employee of fifty years. Ralph will be greatly missed. He will be remembered always. The officers and employees Acker & Jablow Fabrics       
 HIRSCHHORN--Jack 84, on July 26, of Palm Beach, FL. He was the Executive Vice President of Alexander's Department Stores for over thirty years and a recipient of the Bronze Star from the U.S. Army during active service in World War II. Survived by his beloved wife of almost sixty years, Rut
 MEYER -- Robert. Beloved husband of Sophie (Sunnie). Loving father of Jacqueline. Father - in - law of Martin. Cherished grandfather of Allison and Gillian. He was the finest of Human Beings. We love you and will miss you always.       
 MURPHY--Charles E. Artist, seventy-two, of New York City. Died July 23, 2005, of cancer at The Jacob Perlow Hopice, Beth Israel Hospital. Painted the decades-long series of oils-on-linen, ''New York Impressions.'' His paintings reveal the changing cityscape through his palette of mood-setti
 RUSKAY--Joseph A., on July 24, 2005 in his 95th year in NYC. Beloved husband of 57 years of Margot. Devoted father of David and Deborah. Loving grandfather of Morgan, Meagan & Benjamin. He was a highly successful attorney, specializing in anti-trust law, with a lifetime commitment to and pa
 SAM--Dr. David. In the deepest and most loving memory of Dr. David Sam. He will always be loved, remembered and missed in the heart of his dearest beloved wife, Stephanie Cheung, parents, King and Meiling Sam, and siblings, Millie and Donnie Sam. The family will receive friends on Thursday,
 SOMMER--Rudolph. Loving husband of Evelyn, father of Peter, Cathy, and Timothy, grandfather, brother, and uncle, died peacefully on July 24, 2005 in Stamford, Connecticut. Born in Lemberg, Poland (now Lvov, Ukraine) in 1925, he was graduated from City College, CUNY; Brooklyn Law School; and
 TILLES--Norman. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of The American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourn the passing of our esteemed, long-time Board member, Norman Tilles, whose steadfast support for JDC's efforts attests to his abiding concern for humanitarian needs and 
 Bruce A. Bolt, a seismologist who made important observations about earthquakes in California and later helped translate the research into safer and more resilient bridges and buildings, died on July 21 in Oakland, Calif. He was 75. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. 
 Danny Simon, a veteran television writer and teacher whose comedy writing partners over the years included Mel Brooks, Larry Gelbart, Woody Allen and his younger brother, the playwright Neil Simon, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Portland, Ore. He was 86. The cause was complica
 APPLETON--Shelley, humanitarian. Friend and husband of Jean Dubinsky Appleton, beloved father of Ryna and grandfather of Emma. Interment private. A memorial service will be arranged. He labored all his life for workers' rights and social welfare. His journey and selfless dedication involved
 BENENSON--Edward H. Benenson Capital Partners mourns the loss of our distinguished cousin, partner and friend, Edward H. Benenson. We will miss his intelligence and sense of humor. We have over 60 years of business and friendship together to remember and cherish. We will always remember a m
 COOPER--Dr. Eugene. 66, distinquished North Shore physician, died on July 26, 2005. He is survived by his beloved wife Marcia, his loving children Stacy Cooper and Dr. Kimberly Cooper, his sons-inlaw Andrew Lottman and David Elbaum, and his adoring grandchildren Julia, Lily and Carly. Dr. C
 FREEDBERG--Irwin M. The Department of Dermatology of Columbia University/New York Presbyterian Hospital mourns the death of Irwin M. Freedberg, the MacKee Professor and Chair of Dermatology at New York University. He was a charismatic and passionate physicianscientist who inspired generatio
 GOLDBLUM--Murry. We are shocked and terribly saddened by the sudden death of Murry. To his loving wife, Maxine, his 4 wonderful children, and their spouses, and his eight beloved beautiful grandchildren, we share your loss. Malka, Mannes and Ghita       
 HARTSHORNE--R. Kimball, of Pt. Pleasant, New Jersey, died on July 26. He was 85. A professional pianist, he was a successful entertainer as well as a composer and arranger. During World War II he served in the U.S. Army and was awarded a Bronze Star. After World War II he left the music wor
 MARCUS--Victor died peacefully at his home in Riverdale, New York, on July 27, 2005. He was 92 years old. A superb writer and editor, he was a retired editor for national news at the New York Times. Before that, he was an assistant national news editor at The New York Herald Tribune. A man 
 RICHTER--Nathaniel, of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of the Bronx. NYU graduate, owned Joseph Richter Inc., lighting fixture and interior design business. Survived by his loving family: wife, Anita; son, Michael, and his wife, Susan; son, Jason; daughter, Rosalyn, and her partner, Janet; and gra
 SCHONFELD--Herb. Sue, Steven, Bobby, and Michael. Our heartfelt condolences to you. We feel your pain, and know that your love and fondest memories will help you through this time. We will all miss his sense of humor, and his love of cards. We love you all. Kathy, Chris, Oliver, and Quinn  
 Al Held, an American painter widely recognized for his often immense geometric abstractions, died on Tuesday at his home in Todi, Italy. He was 76. He was found in his swimming pool, but his dealer, Betsy Wittenborn Miller of the Robert Miller Gallery in New York, said the cause of 
 APPLETON--Shelley, humanitarian. Friend and husband of Jean Dubinsky Appleton, beloved father of Ryna and grandfather of Emma. Interment private. A memorial service will be arranged. He labored all his life for workers' rights and social welfare. His journey and selfless dedication involved
 AUER--Louis V., of Westhampton Beach, New York, and La Quinta, CA, passed away at his home in California on July 26, 2005. He was 78. He graduated Yale University in 1947. He worked on Wall Street for 30 years. He was predeceased by his wife of 50 years, Jean Patchett, and his son, Bart. He
 BENENSON--Edward H. Benenson Capital Partners mourns the loss of our distinguished cousin, partner and friend, Edward H. Benenson. We will miss his intelligence and sense of humor. We have over 60 years of business and friendship together to remember and cherish. We will always remember a m
 COOPER--Dr. Eugene. The Long Island Jewish Medical Center Staff Society mourns the loss of our respected colleague, Dr. Eugene Cooper. Dr. Cooper has been on staff at the LIJ Medical Center for over 40 years. Dr. Cooper was a resident in the LIJ Department of Internal Medicine from 1964 to 
 DiSTASIO--John. Age 55. Died on July 27, 2005 after a long illness. Cherished husband of Elizabeth, devoted father of Anthony, Johnny, Priscilla and Jeanine. He was a retired New York Times employee and member of Paperhandlers Local 1. He will be greatly missed by his loving family and frie
 EDWARDS--George. We celebrate the life of George Edwards, a most incredible caring human being. Loved and honored by his late wife Esther and best friend John; sister Yvonne; children Brenda, Ronald, Rick, Nancy and Richard; grandchildren Debra, Craig, Brian, Jodi, Danny and Laura; great-gr
 FRIEDMAN--Pepi. On July 27, 2005. Widow of Mark H. Friedman. Mother of Ruth Simring and Jeremiah Friedman. Grandmother of Mia and Noah Simring, and Rose, Sophie and Nina Friedman. Loving mother-in-law of Carolyn Fine Friedman and James J. Simring. Retired teacher at BOCES, active community 
 JULIG--Anton F., 72, on July 22. Father of Lisa (Alexander), Louis, Suzanne (John) and Linda. Grandfather of Alexandra, Ricky and Olivia. A leading fragrance industry sales executive, his wit, love of nature and music, and beautiful voice will be missed.       
 KIVELSON -- Arnold J. A unique, creative genius who always saw opportunity and pursued it doggedly. Gifted tennis player and golfer. He will be missed by all those he touched as he touched so many of us in his own special way. Beloved husband of the late Clare F. Kivelson. He is survived by
 KRUMBEIN -- Aaron. Born April 13, 1921, of Aventura, Florida, formerly of Forest Hills, NY, died July 27, 2005. Dear husband of Leona (nee Summerfield). Loving father of Hannah Miriam (the late Richard) Miller. Loving son of the late Abraham & Sarah (nee Milberg) of Boro Park and NYC. Carin
 LITVACK--Julius (Julie). We are saddened by the sudden passing of our dear friend Julie. To his beloved wife Elaine, his children and grandchildren, we send our heartfelt condolences. Enid and Mel Zuckerman & the Canyon Ranch Family       
 PARKS--Marshall Miller, M.D., of Washington, DC, on July 27, 2005. Beloved husband of Martha McSteen Parks and the late Angeline Miller Parks. Devoted father of Gwendolyn Parks, Ann Napp, John Parks, Grace Mitchell, James Parks, Mark Parks, Mary Heersink, Paul Parks, Philip Parks, Joan Whit
 SCOTT--Walter G., Jr. Suddenly on Thursday, July 28, 2005, of Brielle, N.J. formerly of Far Hills, N.J. Survived by Grete Garheim Scott of Brielle, N.J., his son Walter G. Scott and daughter-in-law Christine Scott of Norton, MA., his daughter Ellen J. Scott Presutti and son-in-law William P
 VAVRUSKA--Charles. Passed away peacefully on July 28, 2005 in Jackson Heights, Queens. He was a lifelong resident of Queens. He served in the Navy as a navigator on the aircraft carrier Bennington during the Korean War. He was very active in cooperative and community affairs. He received hi
 Shelley Appleton, a former general secretary of the old garment workers' union, chairman emeritus of the World ORT Union and board president of The New Leader magazine, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Manhattan. He was 86 and formerly lived in Greenwich Village. The death was
 Sonny Hertzberg, the scoring leader for the Knicks in their inaugural 1946-47 season, when the set shot reigned and the new franchise seemed an extension of the New York City college basketball scene, died Monday at his home in Woodmere, N.Y. He was 82. The cause was heart failure, 
 Arthur Zankel, a financier who oversaw the Carnegie Hall endowment fund and made a $10 million donation that led to the construction of a new concert space there named for him, died in a fall from his Upper East Side apartment building on Thursday. He was 73. Mr. Zankel, who had bee
 BENENSON--Edward H. Benenson Capital Partners mourns the loss of our distinguished cousin, partner and friend, Edward H. Benenson. We will miss his intelligence and sense of humor. We have over 60 years of business and friendship together to remember and cherish. We will always remember a m
 BERGER--Mark H. 77, of New York, N.Y., suddenly on July 27, 2005. Loving husband of 51 years of Margaret, beloved father of Joshua (Leeza) and David (Tracey), and wonderful grandfather of Tashi and Noah. He was an alumnus of Polytechnic University (1947) and of Harvard Law School (1950). Se
 DAVIS--John Ignatius, of Englewood Cliffs, NJ suddenly July 29, 2005. Born August 9, 1919, much loved husband for 55 years of Mariam Prisament Davis. Cherished father of Ted and Susan, Judy and Jeff Fagan, Gerry and Debbie. Loving grandfather of James and Alison Fagan, Brandon, Jessica, Eli
 FARBER--Leonard L. On July 28, 2005, Leonard died peacefully in his home in Fort Lauderdale, FL. He was 89 years old and for years fought Parkinson's Disease with great courage and success. Beloved and adoring husband of Antje, his wife of 30 years. Loving and supportive father of Lindy Lin
 FIX--Howard D. Devoted father of Audrey (Steven) Schaeffer and Steven (Terri) Fix. Adored grandfather of Rebecca and Joey Schaeffer and Rachel and Jessica Fix. Beloved brother of Emily (Larry) Aibel, Florence (Irwin) Zahn, Marjorie (Robert) Davis. A gentle man who loved and was loved by his
 KIVELSON--Arnold. A bright, creative, and loving friend, we will miss him very much. To his family and companion Lee Tolchin, we extend our deepest sympathies. Sy Finkelstein and Herta Gordon       
 WIENER--Ronald Charles. Died July 29, 2005 of natural causes. Adored husband of Heather. Loving father to Kaitlin, Nicholas and MacGregor. Caring uncle to Elizabeth, Oliver, Annabel, Jackson, Kennedy, Hudson, Lucy, Ross and Brody. Beloved brother-in-law to Victoria, Cammie, Kimberly, Blake,
 ZANKEL--Arthur on July 28, 2005 at age 73. Founding partner of High Rise Capital Management, former director of Citigroup, former comanaging partner of First Manhattan Company, ViceChairman of Carnegie Hall and Trustee of Teachers College. Beloved husband of Judy. Loving father of Kenneth, 
 AARONI--Abraham. 98, beloved husband of Celia (Siegel) who predeceased him two weeks ago, dear brother of Yetta, Minnie, Ida, Sam, Tillie and Paul, adored by his many nieces, nephews, great and grand nieces and nephews. Cherished by generations of devoted students and loyal friends. Most of
 APPLETON--Shelley. We admire our friend's tireless efforts on behalf of workers. He fought the good fight. He finished the race. He kept the faith. Marvin and Evelyn Jones Rich       
 BERGER--Mark H. 77, of New York, N.Y., suddenly on July 27, 2005. Loving husband of 51 years of Margaret, beloved father of Joshua (Leeza) and David (Tracey), and wonderful grandfather of Tashi and Noah. He was an alumnus of Polytechnic University (1947) and of Harvard Law School (1950). Se
 CRAIG--Ambrose Leo. Died July 30, 2005, at age 73. Son of John and Mary Craig. Predeceased by his brother John and sister Mary. Survived by sisters Catherine Germaine Dodd (Frank) and Patricia Ann Ruas (Albert), seven nieces and nephews, and eight grandnieces and nephews. Wake at Ruggiero F
 DAVIS--John Ignatius, of Englewood Cliffs, NJ suddenly July 29, 2005. Born August 9, 1919, much loved husband for 55 years of Mariam Prisament Davis. Cherished father of Ted and Susan, Judy and Jeff Fagan, Gerry and Debbie. Loving grandfather of James and Alison Fagan, Brandon, Jessica, Eli
 FARBER--Leonard L. On July 28, 2005, Leonard died peacefully in his home in Fort Lauderdale, FL. He was 89 years old and for years fought Parkinson's Disease with great courage and success. Beloved and adoring husband of Antje, his wife of 30 years. Loving and supportive father of Lindy Lin
 FEDER--Dr. Stuart. 75, of Manhattan, died July 29, 2005. Predeceased by his beloved and cherished wife Carol. Dear and devoted father to Susanna, Adam, and Aaron. Caring father-in-law to Colleen. Loving grandfather to Katlyn and Allison. Devoted friend to his companion Charlotte. Dr. Feder 
 FIX--Howard D. Devoted father of Audrey (Steven) Schaeffer and Steven (Terri) Fix. Adored grandfather of Rebecca and Joey Schaeffer and Rachel and Jessica Fix. Beloved brother of Emily (Larry) Aibel, Florence (Irwin) Zahn, Marjorie (Robert) Davis. A gentle man who loved and was loved by his
 GIAMELLI -- Joseph. New York Medical College is stunned and grieved by the sudden loss of our Board of Trustee member Joseph Giamelli who died from injuries sustained in a car accident on July 28, 2005. Mr. Giamelli resided in Irvington, NY. Mr. Giamelli is survived by his loving wife of 34
 GILL--The Rev. Dr. Theodore Alexander. 85, a former provost of John Jay College of Criminal Justice in the City University of New York (CUNY), and formerly president of San Francisco Theological Seminary, died Friday, June 10, 2005, in Princeton, NJ following a lengthy illness. Born in Evel
 GOLDBERG--Charles. 88, of Tamarac, Florida, formerly of New York, passed away July 28, 2005. Beloved husband of Rose. Loving father of Susan Lindenbaum and Joan. Cherished grandfather of Brett, the late Marni, and Jayme. Adored great-grandfather of Melanie, Avery, and Dylan. Will be greatly
 HERSH--Benjamin B. On July 23rd 2005, at age 91 Ben Hersh passed away. He was a well-respected resident and attorney of Peekskill, New York. He graduated New York University Law School in 1928 and began practicing law. He started his law career at Pines and Sterling, a leading firm in Peeks
 HUMES--William. Died July 5, 2005 in Tigard, OR. Born March 15, 1918 in Altoona, PA to the late Anna and Frank Humes. Graduated Harvard University in 1940. Worked for over 20 years for Union Carbide Corporation, becoming group vice president for consumer products. Assumed position of vice p
 JACOBSON--Ishier. The staff and directors of Silver Hill Hospital mourn the passing of Ishier Jacobson, a Director since 1988 and Chairman of the Board of Directors from 1990 to 2002. Ishier guided the hospital with unfailing wisdom, clarity and devotion. His commitment to the mission of th
 JEZER--Marty. Marty Jezer, 64, activist and author, died June 11, 2005 at home in Brattleboro, VT. Born and raised in the Bronx, he influenced four decades of progressive politics. He considered his greatest accomplishment his co-founding of the Working Group on Electoral Democracy and co-a
 JULIG--Anton F., 72, on July 22. Father of Lisa (Alexander), Louis, Suzanne (John) and Linda. Grandfather of Alexandra, Ricky and Olivia. A leading fragrance industry sales executive, his wit, love of nature and music, and beautiful voice will be missed.       
 KRIVELOFF -- Joseph. Of NYC, died peacefully on July 29, 2005, at the age of 84. Devoted husband of Natalie for 56 years; loving father of Adam, Susan and the late Martha; affectionate fatherin-law of Andrew and Estrellita; and adoring ''Poppy'' of Allison, Robert and Emily; dear brother of
 LITVACK--Julius (Julie). We are saddened by the sudden passing of our dear friend Julie. To his beloved wife Elaine, his children and grandchildren, we send our heartfelt condolences. Enid and Mel Zuckerman & the Canyon Ranch Family LITVACK--Julius. Julie you will be in our hearts, 
 McINTYRE--''Harry'' (Henry Pierre). Passed away July 12, 2005 in Reston, VA at the age of 81. Harry was born in Boston, MA on January 18, 1924, the son of Alfred R. and Helen H. McIntyre, and older brother to Ann. He attended Milton Academy and Harvard Univerity before graduating from Colum
 SCHNEIDER--Jeff Stewart, 51, on July 23 in Boca Raton, FL. Cherished son of Phyllis, and of Jack who predeceased him. Loving brother of sister Ann, brother Bill and sister-inlaw Dr. Catherine Irwin. Loving stepfather of Cherie Hourigan and of his special companion, the chihahua mix he rescu
 TALBERT--Alfred A. 85, died on July 20. He resided in Lenox, MA., and Highland Beach, FL. The Talberts lived in Rockville Centre, NY for 50 years. He earned his BS in engineering and his MBA at NYU. A Sergeant in the US Air Force he served during WWII. He was Vice-President of the former Co
 Van AMBURG--Dr. James E. A leading educator in independent schools died on Tuesday, July 26, 2005. He was 59 years old. The cause of death was a cerebral hemorrhage, his wife, Penelope Van Amburg, said. Dr. Van Amburg was the Head of Windward School in White Plains, New York since 1999. Win
 WATERS--Stuart. As ''Reader's Digest'' used to chronicle, ''the most unforgettable person we ever met.'' The friends and family of Stu Waters mourn his sudden passing from complications of leukemia on July 29, at the age of 67. Born in Brooklyn, a graduate of Lafayette High School and Flori
 WIENER--Ronald Charles. Died July 29, 2005 of natural causes. Adored husband of Heather. Loving father to Kaitlin, Nicholas and MacGregor. Caring uncle to Elizabeth, Oliver, Annabel, Jackson, Kennedy, Hudson, Lucy, Ross and Brody. Beloved brother-in-law to Victoria, Cammie, Kimberly, Blake,
 WINSTON--Jerome (Jerry). Of Greensboro, NC and NYC, died on July 28, 2005. Beloved husband of Sylvia. Father and father-in-law of Gail Winston, Gary Donaldson, Silver Spring, MD; Patricia and Glenn Werner, Roslyn, NY; Charles Winston, Tampa, FL. Grandfather of Bradley and Andrew Werner; Ale
 ZANKEL--Arthur on July 28, 2005 at age 73. Founding partner of High Rise Capital Management, former director of Citigroup, former comanaging partner of First Manhattan Company, ViceChairman of Carnegie Hall and Trustee of Teachers College. Beloved husband of Judy. Loving father of Kenneth, 
 LIEBERMAN--William S. The Metropolitan Museum of Art will hold a memorial service for William S. Lieberman on Monday, September 12, at 5:30PM. He was the Museum's Jacques and Natasha Gelman Special Consultant for Modern Art at the time of his death on June 1, and for the previous 24 years s
 Robert Alan Maguire, an authority on early Soviet literature and the writings of Nikolai Gogol, died on July 8 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 75 and lived in Morningside Heights in Manhattan. The cause of death was cancer, according to Columbia University, where he was the
