 Allen Eager, a top saxophonist during the bebop era who after a short career quit jazz for the high life in Europe and elsewhere, died on April 13 in Daytona Beach, Fla. He was 76. The cause was liver cancer, his daughter Omine said. Mr. Eager was, with Zoot Sims, Stan Getz,
 BERKMAN--Allen H. Age 91, died Thursday, May 29, 2003 after a brief illness. Born Cadiz, Ohio, January 7, 1912. Beloved husband of the late Selma Wiener Berkman; loving father of Barbara and Alan Ackerman, Susan and David Rahm, Richard and Toni Berkman, Helen and John Habbert, James and McK
 BLAIR--Thomas S., Chairman Emeritus of the Board of Directors of Blair Strip Steel Company, New Castle, PA, died of heart failure on Saturday, May 10, 2003, in Boynton Beach, FL. Mr. Blair was born April 15, 1922 in New Castle, PA, the son of George Dike Blair Jr. and Hazel Slingluff Blair.
 DALANE--Rolf. On May 14, 2003, at age 80. Beloved husband of Lillian for 57 years. Survived by his children Jane, Nancy, Richard and Timothy. Retired AT&T in 1982. Will be remembered fondly as a wonderful family man, good friend and true gentleman. >>AD#       
 FINCKE--Benjamin G. C. Director Emeritus of Buxton School died at home in Williamstown, MA, February 18th in the company of his family. Born in NYC, October 24, 1914, son of William M. and Helen Hamlin Fincke, he attended Avon Old Farms School in Avon, CT, and graduated in 1937 from Harvard
 FOSTER--Malcolm, Jr. Beloved son of the late Malcolm Foster and Helen F. Foster. Brother of the late Barbara Foster Hamilton. Died May 29, 2003. Mike was a good, loyal and generous friend to many. His vitality, good nature and philanthropy will be sorely missed by those who knew him, enjoye
 GAULT -- Mark William. Passed away May 24th, 2003, at age 45. Beloved husband of Susie. Devoted father to Harry and Jack. He is survived by his parents, Phyllis and Jim, and by his brothers, Philip and Hugh. He was Worldwide Executive Vice President and Regional Director of McCann-Erickson 
 HAUBEN--Robert, of Merrick, formerly of Fort Lee, at age 77, on May 23rd, 2003. Devoted father of Howard and Ronald. He was interred with his wife Ruth in Cedar Park Cemetery. >>AD#       
 LATTES--Raffaele, M.D. The Columbia University Department of Surgery mourns the passing of Dr. Raffaele Lattes, a trained surgeon in his native Italy who was a pioneer in the field of surgical pathology and a superb teacher and scientist. As a member of the Columbia faculty for more than 30
 LOVELESS--Robert F. May 20, in Las Vegas, formerly of Staten Island. 84 years. Distinguished career with Illinois Power, Stone & Webster, EBASCO and Pandick Press. Bob was an expert in public utility finance and leaves his wife, Faith Loveless, and a sister in Illinois. He will be greatly m
 MILTON--Jules. On May 31, 2003, at age 80, formerly of Great Neck, NY. Beloved husband of 50 years to Muriel. Devoted father of Valerie (and Dennis) Bernstein and Sandra Milton. Adored Poppy of Allison, Lori and Jessica. Survived by his sister Ruth. >>AD#       
 POWERS -- William Doyle. Retired attorney with the Bell System. A lifelong resident of Manhattan. Died on May 30, 2003, after an extended illness. He was 74. Mr. Powers was a 1950 graduate of Fordham University and received his bachelor's and master's degrees in law from New York University
 ROSNER--Erwin. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Erwin Rosner, on May 29, 2003. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Private services were held. Alan King, Abbot Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, E
 ROUSE--Willard G. III, on May 27, 2003, age 60, of Phoenixville, PA. Beloved husband of Susannah. Father of Molly, Anne, Tanner, Hadley, Griffin, Lydia, Traighe and Tilghman. Grandfather of Karly and Ella. Also survived by sisters Lee, Kathy, and Ellen and his brother Roth. A private memori
 George H. Williams, who was president of American University in Washington from 1968 to 1975, died on May 18 in Evanston, Ill., where he lived. He was 85. The cause was complications of an infection, The Chicago Daily Law Bulletin said. Born in Hempstead, N.Y., George Howard
 Leon Robbin, a patent lawyer who headed the legal department of the old P. R. Mallory Company when it invented the long-life sealed alkaline battery now known as Duracell, died on May 22 at his home in Key Biscayne, Fla. He was 101. Mr. Robbin drafted the patents for the company's p
 Mac Colville, who teamed with his brother Neil, a Hall of Famer, to help propel the Rangers to the 1940 Stanley Cup championship, died last Tuesday at his home in Calgary, Alberta. He was 87. In the late 1930's and early 40's, Mac Colville on right wing, Neil Colville at center and 
 GARDAM--James E.D., M.D. 81, of Vineland, NJ, May 31, 2003. Graduate of Newark Academy, Wesleyan University, Yale School of Medicine. Retired LCDR, MC, USNR and retired VP/Medical Services, Prudential Insurance Co. Survived by beloved wife Dorothy Williamson Whiting Gardam and children Eliz
 HILL--Serge J. On May 31, 2003 at the age of 86. Devoted husband of 60 years to Priscilla Baker Hill. Father of Serge Hill, Jr. of Somerville, NJ, Robert Foote Hill of New York City, Sally Hill Lloyd of New York City and Priscilla Hill Alexandre of Bernardsville, NJ. He is also survived by 
 HUTNER--S.H. 91, passed away June 1, 2003. Seymour Hutner received his undergraduate degree from City College in 1931 and his Ph.D. from Cornell University in 1937, with studies in microbiology, biochemistry and botany. Dr. Hutner worked at Haskins Laboratories, a non-profit research labora
 McGOVERN--Thomas A. On May 30, 2003, of Danbury, CT, formerly of Briarcliff Manor, at 70 years of age. Retired Vice President of Services at Consolidated Edison in 1994 after 37 years. Survived by his wife Mimi, three daughters, Cecilia, Louise and Pam, son-in-law Mike Amodio and his belove
 POWERS -- William Doyle. Retired attorney with the Bell System. A lifelong resident of Manhattan. Died on May 30, 2003, after an extended illness. He was 74. Mr. Powers was a 1950 graduate of Fordham University and received his bachelor's and master's degrees in law from New York University
 Burke Marshall, the government's legal strategist on civil rights in the era of freedom rides, the Birmingham church bombing and the March on Washington, died yesterday at his home in Newtown, Conn., near Danbury. He was 80. The cause was myelodysplasia, a bone marrow disorder, said
 BERK--Brian. You left us too soon. We will miss your infectious good humor, quick wit, intelligence, warmth and kindness. There are no words to express our sadness. Pat and Mike BERK--Brian. Franklin, Weinrib, Rudell & Vassallo mourns the passing of their friend and colleague Brian 
 COHART--Henry C. On June 1, 2003 at age 87. Loving husband of Beatrice H. for 59 years, cherished father of Judith Cohart of Washington, D.C. and Richard Cohart of San Francisco, CA. A highly regarded estate tax attorney, he worked for the IRS for 41 years, followed by private practice. He 
 CRANEFIELD--Paul F., Jr., died May 31, 2003, age 78, after a brief illness. Son of the late Paul F. Cranefield and Edna Rothnick Cranefield, of Madison, Wisconsin. M.D., PhD., retired professor, Rockefeller University. Editor of The Journal of General Physiology from 1966 to 1995, where he 
 DRESCHER--Mayer. 91, died peacefully June 2. Devoted husband to Dora, loving father to Sol, Jack, and Murry. Loving father-in-law to Anne, and cherished Zayde of Daniel, David, Rebecca and Benjamin. Beloved brotherin-law of Bea and Martin Gayer. From Krastnystaw, Poland, he escaped the Nazi
 EDELSTEIN--Haskell. On this date, 16 years ago, Haskell Edelstein was elected as Trustee of The New York Youth Symphony, serving each of those years with undemanding dedication and a passion for the young musicians whose lives were touched forever because of his caring and generosity. Symbo
 GURFEIN--Capt. Arthur M., Esq., USMC (Ret.), of Great Neck, NY, on May 30, 2003. Survived by his wife, Vivien, children, Gedaliah and David, four grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren. >>AD#       
 HALL--Donald, 74, of East Street, Bethlehem, CT, died Friday at his home. Mr. Hall was born in Scarsdale, NY on May 9, 1929. Son of the late George William and Alicia (Cashen) Hall. He was raised in Scarsdale and lived in Manhattan for 40 years before retiring to Bethlehem, CT 10 years ago.
 HANDY--Michael J. Director of the N.Y.C. Mayor's Office of Veterans' Affairs and, since, 1991, Board member of the New York Chapter of the American Red Cross in Greater N.Y. He was a gracious leader and a generous volunteer who always had time to offer his expertise. Directors of N.Y. Chapt
 HEYMAN--George Harrison, Jr. Died peacefully at home on June 1, 2003 at age 86. Dearly beloved husband of Edythe. Devoted father of William and John and adoring grandfather of Brett and Mallory. Respected by his family, friends and colleagues for his intelligence, knowledge, wisdom and inte
 MARSHALL--Burke. Chair of the Vera Institute of Justice from its founding until 1987 and active trustee until he was elected chair emeritus in 2002. A model leader and a wise advisor for generations of trustees, staff, colleagues, and students. Burke shaped the Vera Institute; he helped ass
 MATHIAS--Michael, Nenad Matijasevic (Patak), 57, died far too soon on May 28th, 2003. In one word, Mike was a creator. He is survived by his loving wife of 30 years, Patricia, and his adoring daughters, Maria and Katya. His family and friends will miss his enthusiasm, his magnetic charisma 
 PRESAR--Jules. Passed on May 31. Age 78. Beloved husband of Kay and loving father of Barbara and Robert. One of a kind, he will be greatly missed. >>AD#       
 ROBBINS--Richard D., M.D., F.A.C.S., Colo-rectal surgeon, died May 31, at home in his bed after a valiant eightmonth battle with pancreatic cancer. Graduate of Harvard and Bellevue/NYU. He retired from practice at Lenox Hill Hospital in '98 to return to an early passion--writing. He publish
 SACKS--Cal. The officers and members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved member Cal Sacks. He will be missed by all who knew him. >>AD#       
 SHERMAN--Dr. Paul Alan, of White Plains, died on June 1, 2003 at age 70. Born in Chicago on October 18, 1932 to Hyman & Miriam Rosenblith Slivnick. He received a PhD from Illinois Institute of Technology in 1961 where he majored in psychology. Dr. Sherman was an industrial psychologist. Fro
 STRUNSKY--W. English. Age 94. Died June 2, 2003 in San Francisco, CA. Long-time resident of New York City and husband of Lucy Stampleman, who passed away July 22, 2002. Brother-in-law of Ira Gershwin and Co-Trustee of his musical estate. Father of Michael. Father-inlaw of Jean Zimmerman and
 TERRY--Wallace. The staff of ''Parade'' magazine mourns the loss of a friend and colleague. In his nearly 15 years as a Contributing Editor to Parade, Wallace Terry helped its readers bridge a racial divide through coverage of civil rights and influential African-Americans, from entertainer
 TRACY--Billy T. Died on May 31, 2003 at the age of 79. Surviving are his wife of 57 years, Lazelle Wood Tracy, his children Billy T. Tracy, Jr. and, Elizabeth Tracy Monge, and grandsons Thaddeus and Emmett Tracy and Justin and Lindsay Monge. Visitation on Tuesday, June 3, 48PM at the Frank 
 WALLACH--Richard W. On June 1, 2003. He is survived by his devoted companion and fiancee, Marli Hinckley, his sons Roger and Jon from his marriage to Elinor Weshsler Levin and his five grandchildren Aaron, David, Michael, Matthew and Kyle. We will always miss you dearly. Contributions may b
 FRIEDBERG -- Joseph. On June 2, 2003 at age 104. Beloved husband of the late May. Devoted father of Roy and his wife Pearl, and Richard. Loving grandfather and great grandfather. >>AD#       
 Anil Biswas, a composer credited with introducing orchestral music to India's popular song-and-dance films, died here on Saturday. He was 89. By the time Mr. Biswas retired from composing in 1965 to become director of the national orchestra on All India Radio, he had written songs f
 Basil Langton, a British-born actor, director and theater manager who had a long and successful career on both sides of the Atlantic, died on Thursday in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 91. In World War II Mr. Langton founded the Traveling Repertory Theater, which toured Britain, perfor
 Dick Cusack, who in his middle age broke loose from an advertising career to work in the movies, as his five better-known children do, died on Monday at his home in Evanston, Ill. He was 77. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his son John said. Mr. Cusack's daughters, Susan, o
 George H. Heyman Jr., a philanthropist and financier who was president of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York from 1969 to 1971 and a trustee of New York University and its Medical Center in the 1980's and 1990's, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86. M
 Mark Gault, a longtime executive at McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, died on May 24 at his home in Woodbury, Conn. He was 45. The cause was a heart attack, the agency said. Mr. Gault, a native of England, started in 1980 as a
 BURKE--Donald P. of Monmouth Beach, NJ formerly of Tinton Falls, NJ died on Monday, June 2, 2003 at Riverview Medical Center, Red Bank, NJ. Husband of the late Joyce Burke. Father of Michael J. Burke and Michael's fiancee, Gretchen J. Fitzer; Robert C. Burke, II and the late Sheila Anne Bur
 CUSACK -- Richard. The Schoolhouse Foundation extends our heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Board member, John Cusack, on the passing of his father, Dick Cusack. To Mrs. Cusack, Anne, Joan, Billy and Susie, know that Robert Browning wrote ''make us happy and you make us good.'' Dick mad
 FESSENDEN--Edward Everett Sr., formerly of Lloyd Harbor, NY, on May 30, 2003, at age 90. Married 52 years to the late Helen H. Fessenden and nine years to the late Marion S. Fessenden, he will be dearly missed by his children, Edward E. Fessenden, Jr., Joan F. Hunt and Suzanne Fessenden; st
 FRIEDBERG -- Joseph. On June 2, 2003 at age 104. Beloved husband of the late May. Devoted father of Roy and his wife Pearl, and Richard. Loving grandfather and great grandfather. >>AD#       
 GURFEIN--Capt. Arthur M., Esq., USMC (Ret.), of Great Neck, NY, on May 30, 2003. Survived by his wife, Vivien, children, Gedaliah and David, four grandchildren, and five great-grandchildren. >>AD#       
 HEYMAN--George Harrison, Jr. Died peacefully at home on June 1, 2003 at age 86. Dearly beloved husband of Edythe. Devoted father of William and John and adoring grandfather of Brett and Mallory. Respected by his family, friends and colleagues for his intelligence, knowledge, wisdom and inte
 IGRA--Dr. Jacob. The Board of Directors of Keren Or mourn the passing of Dr. Jacob Igra, on Sunday, June 1 at age 93. He founded the Keren Or Jerusalem Center for Multi-handicapped Blind Children. Our condolences to his wife Esther and his family. Dr. Edward L. Steinberg, Chairman of the Bo
 LAUER--Murray. 88, died June 2, 2003. Survived by his wife Hilda; daughter Marilyn Sticklor, son-in-law Howard; grandchildren Dawn, Russell, Laurel, Amy. Funeral Wednesday, June 4, 11:30 am, Midwood Chapels, Coney Island Ave., Brooklyn. Interment Old Montefiore Cemetery, Springfield Gardens
 LEMONIDES--George. Died on June 1st at age 73. Surviving are his sons, Evan, Charles, Dimitri, Eric and their mother Joanne, and his brother Jim. Visitation on June 4th, 2-4 and 7-9pm, at Dahill Funeral Home, Brooklyn. Funeral service Thursday, June 5, 10am, Three Hierarchs Church, Brooklyn
 MERLE - SMITH -- The Rev. Van S., Jr., a minister and educator, died June 1, 2003 in Bethlehem, PA. He was 85. Memorial Service on Wednesday, June 4, 2003 at 11am in First Presbyterian Church, 2344 Center St., Bethlehem, PA. There will be a memorial service in Keene Valley, NY at a later da
 PATTON--Henry. The Board of Directors of The Daniel and Florence Guggenheim Foundation mourn the passing of their fellow Director, Henry Patton. He served the Board, and the community in New York City and in Palo Alto, California, with great distinction. We will miss his wise counsel, his f
 RIVLIN--Michael Adrian. 52, beloved son of Norma and Archie Rivlin and brother of the late Robert Rivlin. Died on June 1 at Lenox Hill Hospital, New York City after a long illness. He was an accomplished writer and activist who devoted his short life to environmental concerns. Services priv
 SPANIER--Jeffrey P. 62, died on Sunday, June 1, at his residence in Sag Harbor, NY. An architect and developer born in Great Neck, NY, Jeff is survived by his wife, Paula; siblings, Alan and Megan Jacob Spanier; parents, Irving and Elaine Spanier, and children Adam, Carmen, and Erin Spanier
 STRUNSKY--W. English. Age 94. Died June 2, 2003 in San Francisco, CA. Long-time resident of New York City and husband of Lucy Stampleman, who passed away July 22, 2002. Brother-in-law of Ira Gershwin and Co-Trustee of his musical estate. Father of Michael. Father-inlaw of Jean Zimmerman and
 SVESKO--Velimir, M.D. On May 31, 2003. Beloved husband, father and grandfather. Physician at Saint Vincent's Hospital, Manhattan. Member of NYAC. Loved his family, the Giants and nature. Will be terribly missed by his family and all who knew him. ''Vade in Pace.'' >>AD#       
 TECLAFF--Ludwik A. Fordham University School of Law records with profound sorrow the death of Professor Emeritus Ludwik A. Teclaff, former director of the Fordham Law Library (1963-1986). A Polish diplomat and noted authority on international law and water law, his gentle manner will always
 TOPFER--Angela. The entire Brooklyn College community mourns the passing of Angela Topfer, wife of alumnus and Brooklyn College Foundation Trustee, Morton Topfer. Angela's loyal support and generosity has transformed Brooklyn College and will always be remembered on campus. We express deepe
 Richard Wingard Wallach, a New York state appeals court justice for the last 17 years, died Sunday at Bellevue Hospital Center. He was 75 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He died after a weeklong coma following an aortic aneurysm, his law secretary, Peter A. Berkowsky,
 Mickie Most, a leading British pop record producer of the 1960's and 70's who recorded the Animals, Donovan, Herman's Hermits and others, died on Friday at his home in London. He was 64. The cause was cancer, said his friend and colleague Deke Arlon. Mr. Most emerged as an i
 BAKER--Irving, 92 years old, of Newark, NJ, and Tamarac, Fla., died on June 4, 2003. Beloved husband of Florence. Devoted father of Frances and Norman, and adored grandfather and great-grandfather. He will be terribly missed by all his family and all who knew him. >>AD#       
 HANDY--Michael J. Our deepest sympathy to Edna Wells Handy on the loss of her husband, Michael J. Handy, the Director of the Mayor's Office of Veterans Affairs for the City of New York, and also to Michael's four daughters, Jacqueline, Jannah, Kenya and Dawn, son-in law Craig, three grandch
 HEYMAN--George H., Jr. The Board and Staff of the New York Legal Assistance Group (NYLAG) mourns the passing of George Heyman, philanthropist. In addition to his many contributions to worthwhile causes, we will not forget the valuable support he provided to NYLAG. He will be sorely missed. 
 KOSORESOW--Andrew Peter. Age 39, on June 1, 2003 at his home in New York City of heart failure. An adored Assistant Professor of Computer Science at Columbia University since 1997, he was an alumnus of Cathedral School, 1978; Collegiate School, 1982; Columbia College, 1985; and Stanford Uni
 SIEGEL--Sidney, James, Dr. Our beloved Uncle Sid, a gentle man who gave unconditional love to all of us. We will miss your unselfish kindness, caring and always expert advise. Lisa and Marc and family Julie and Eric and family Stacey and Jason SIEGEL--Dr. Sydney. We mourn the passin
 SPANIER--Jeffrey P. 62, died on Sunday, June 1, at his residence in Sag Harbor, NY. An architect and developer born in Great Neck, NY, Jeff is survived by his wife, Paula; siblings, Alan and Megan Jacob Spanier; parents, Irving and Elaine Spanier, and children Adam, Carmen, and Erin Spanier
 STRUNSKY--W. English. Age 94. Died June 2, 2003 in San Francisco, CA. Long-time resident of New York City and husband of Lucy Stampleman, who passed away July 22, 2002. Brother-in-law of Ira Gershwin and Co-Trustee of his musical estate. Father of Michael. Father-inlaw of Jean Zimmerman and
 TRUSSEL -- Marc Charles, Educator, 53, of Gainesville, FL, died Tuesday, June 3, from a sudden heart attack. Born in Far Rockaway, NY, Marc grew up in Jacksonville, FL, moving back to his hometown, where he attended Lawrence Junior and Senior H.S. Marc graduated with honors from the Univers
 Pierre Restany, an influential French art critic and curator, died in Paris on May 29. He was 72 and lived in Paris and Milan. The cause was heart failure, said Isabella Di Nunno, assistant to the editor of Domus magazine. Mr. Restany was best known as one of the founders an
 Robert D. Cross, a historian who was briefly president of Hunter College and Swarthmore College, died on Saturday in Charlottesville, Va., where he lived. He was 79. The cause was a head injury suffered in a fall, the University of Virginia said in announcing his death. Prof
 George Trescher, a formidable fund-raiser who for more than three decades organized glittering celebrations and other special events for some of New York's top charities and companies, died yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital North in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived in the Murray Hill neighbor
 KOSORESOW--Andrew Peter. Age 39, on June 1, 2003 at his home in New York City of heart failure. An adored Assistant Professor of Computer Science at Columbia University since 1997, he was an alumnus of Cathedral School, 1978; Collegiate School, 1982; Columbia College, 1985; and Stanford Uni
 MARCOLLA--Joseph, 89, on June 4, 2003. Husband of the late Marguerite Beattie Marcolla. Survived by his children Nancy Fankhanel of Wilton, CT, and Michael Marcolla of Ghent, New York >>AD#       
 SCHER--Jack O. Of Faber, VA. Dynamic and loving, Jack O. Scher died peacefully in his sleep, at home, on the evening of June 4, 2003. He was 76 years old. He is survived by his wife Judith Geller Scher, three children-Liza, Adam and Emily. Two stepchildren-Batsheva and Dorothy, and four gra
 TRESCHER -- George. We profoundly mourn the loss of our leader. George was brilliant, charming, the orignal master in his field. We are in awe of his wisdom, his insight, and instincts. We feel so lucky to have learned from the best and to have worked along side this giant. Staff of George 
 VOGEL--Gerhard. Departed this life on May 12, 2003, at his residence in Riverton, N.J. He leaves behind his beloved wife Eileen, daughter Karen Greenan and niece Elaine Harbold. He was the chairman of Maltbie Association. His long and successful career was in the fabrication and installatio
 HEMING--Charles E. Died on June 6, 2003 at home in Scarsdale, NY of heart failure. Beloved husband and best friend of Barbara (nee Krueger). Father of Michael C. Heming of Larchmont, NY, Lucy Hutchinson of Alexandria, VA, and Amanda Minsky of Santa Barbara, CA: his children from his first m
 McELROY -- David Brown formerly of Brookville, NY and St. Louis, MO died peacefully on May 12, 2003 in Hobe Sound, FL. He was 95 years old. He was married for 49 years to the late Marjorie LeBoutillier Iglehart of Old Westbury, New York. Mr. McElroy was born March 17th 1908 in St. Louis, MO
 SCHWINGER -- Melvin. Of Emerson, N.J. Formerly of Westbury, N.Y. On Friday, June 6 at the age of 74. Beloved husband of the late Thelma. Loving father of Valerie, Seth, Susan and Glenn. Devoted brother of Aaron and Lorelei. Special grandfather of Tara, the ''light of his life '' and a frien
 TRESCHER -- George. The patients and staff of the AIDS Care Center of the New York Presbyterian Hospital mourn the passing of our friend. George was very wise in the ways of New York. After taking our program to heart more than a decade ago, he shared that wisdom to nurture our growth. We w
 Charles E. Heming, a former president of the New York State Bar Association who advocated simplifying the legal system, died on Friday at his home in Scarsdale. He was 77. The cause was complications from pneumonia, his wife, Barbara, said. Mr. Heming was a specialist in tru
 Karl Genus, a prolific and versatile early director of television programs, mainly on cultural subjects, died on May 29 at his home in Asheville, N.C. He was 84. Mr. Genus (pronounced JEN-us) worked for almost a decade for CBS, beginning in 1954. Among the hundreds of shows he direc
 BAKER--Irving, 92 years old, of Newark, NJ, and Tamarac, Fla., died on June 4, 2003. Beloved husband of Florence. Devoted father of Frances and Norman, and adored grandfather and great-grandfather. He will be terribly missed by all his family and all who knew him. >>AD#       
 BROWN -- Rea Porterfield. Died June 3 in Bradenton, FL. Born March 7, 1927, in Montclair, NJ. He attended Dartmouth and was an award winning creative director with Geer DuBois Advertising in New York City. His words, vision and wit are his legacy. Survived by wife Bonni, sister Phoebe, chil
 CRANEFIELD--Paul F. The Rockefeller University community mourns with deep sadness the loss of our distinguished colleague and beloved friend, Paul F. Cranefield. Professor Cranefield, a valued member of The Rockefeller University research community for more than 35 years was a pioneer in th
 EISEN--Isidore. Died on June 3, 2003 at his home in Brooklyn, NY. Beloved husband of Ida Eisen; Brother of Florence Eisen; Uncle of Howard and Joyce Lieb, Eugene and Anne Lieb, Ruth Hoffman, Jane McIntyre, Barbara Lipsky and Patrick Herbst, and Alan Lipsky and A.J. Rhodes; Great-uncle to Ja
 HEMING--Charles E. Died on June 6, 2003 at home in Scarsdale, NY of heart failure. Beloved husband and best friend of Barbara (nee Krueger). Father of Michael C. Heming of Larchmont, NY, Lucy Hutchinson of Alexandria, VA, and Amanda Minsky of Santa Barbara, CA: his children from his first m
 LEVINE--David T, 98, on June 4, 2003. Adored father of Bette Ann (Betsy); Loving husband of Rose and the late Helen; Uncle of Father Robert I. Gannon, Virginia Gannon, Michael Jr., Katharine and Daniel O'Leary. Contributions in his memory may be sent to Penn South Social Services, 290 9th A
 LICHTMAN--Arthur. Major, USMC (Retired), age 70 on June 7th. Beloved husband, helpmate, companion, and friend for 38 years of Celia. Devoted and much loved father of Adam David Lichtman, M.D. and Sarah Ann Lichtman, M.A. Cherished father-in-law of Jaquelline Pearlman, M.D. and Rachel Kueny 
 PLAPINGER--Jerome Stanley, of Washington, D.C., on May 31, 2003. A graduate of Townsend Harris, City College of New York and New York University School of Law, he had a lengthy and varied career as a lawyer in both the U.S. Government, where he served for more than 32 years, and the private
 ROSENBAUM--Milton, M.D. On May 18, 2003 at age 92. The Scheuer, Sofaer and Ungerleider families extend their deepest sympathies to his children, Michael (MajBritt) Rosenbaum, Elizabeth (Raphael) Magnes, Mary (Rob) Dwan, his sister Bernice, his 11 grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. M
 SCHWINGER -- Melvin. Of Emerson, N.J. Formerly of Westbury, N.Y. On Friday, June 6 at the age of 74. Beloved husband of the late Thelma. Loving father of Valerie, Seth, Susan and Glenn. Devoted brother of Aaron and Lorelei. Special grandfather of Tara, the ''light of his life '' and a frien
 SIZER--Robert Ryland, III. Age 44. Beloved son of Hollis S. Brown, and the late Robert Winston Sizer, died at his home in Front Royal, VA on June 2nd after a courageous 20 year struggle. In addition to his mother, he is survived by his loving sister and brotherin-law, Suzi and Joe Gillette,
 TRESCHER -- George. The Development and Public Affairs offices of NewYork Weill Cornell Medical Center mourn the loss of George Trescher, our dear friend and most amusing muse. His leadership, passion, common sense and style helped this institution raise tens of millions of dollars in suppo
 WIMER -- Rabbi Manfred. May 4, 2003 in Silver Spring, MD, age 89. Beloved husband of Marguerite (nee Bensinger) for 59 years. Loving father of Rose and Izzie Miller and Charles and Susan Wimer. Proud and adoring grandfather (Sabah) of Racheli, Ayeli and Dovi Miller and Eric Wimer. Survived 
 WITKIN--Arthur A. 81 years old of Hartsdale, NY. Professor at Queens College and Founder of the Personnel Sciences Center in New York, NY. Died on June 5, 2003. Beloved father of Jill, Richard and Jeannie. Survivors include his eight grandchildren, his brother, two nieces and several cousin
 Wallace Terry, a journalist who covered the civil rights movement and the Vietnam War in the 1960's and compiled a best-selling oral history of black soldiers in Vietnam, died on May 29 in Reston, Va. He was 65. The cause was an inflammation of the blood vessels, said his sister-in-
 BENDER--Dr. Israel B. (IB). Loving husband of Lillian (nee Zeebooker). Beloved father of Andrew (Janet), Susan. Brother of Esther Starer and Ruth Sacks. Grandfather of Rachel (Arthur), Deborah (Todd), Eve and Zachary. Great-grandfather of Emily, Nathan, Elena and Nicholas, and uncle. Collea
 HOBBY--Martin Peter. Of New York City, died unexpectedly June 6. He was 87. Born in the Bronx on October 27, 1915. ''Marty'' was a First Sergeant in the 27th Battalion, 9th Armored Division Infantry during WWII. He received his B.S. from Pace University. He worked for NYSE for 30 years as a
 KADUSON--Jack. 89, of Farmington, ME, formerly of Roslyn Heights, Long Island, New York, died Thursday in Farmington. He was born April 29, 1914, in New York City, the son of Abraham and Ethel (Kushner) Kaduson. He received his education in New York schools. On May 7, 1942, he married Elain
 KANTROWITZ -- Philip. Loved, cherished, revered by his wife Joyce, children Linda and Larry Hanibal, Mark and Meryl Kantrowitz, grandchildren Brian and Rachel, Cara and Andrew, sisters Harriet Sloane and Anita Hoffman. Phil taught for 35 years in New York City. After his retirement he worke
 LICHTMAN--Arthur. Major, USMC (Retired), age 70 on June 7th. Beloved husband, helpmate, companion, and friend for 38 years of Celia. Devoted and much loved father of Adam David Lichtman, M.D. and Sarah Ann Lichtman, M.A. Cherished father-in-law of Jaquelline Pearlman, M.D. and Rachel Kueny 
 SCHWINGER -- Melvin. Of Emerson, N.J. Formerly of Westbury, N.Y. On Friday, June 6 at the age of 74. Beloved husband of the late Thelma. Loving father of Valerie, Seth, Susan and Glenn. Devoted brother of Aaron and Lorelei. Special grandfather of Tara, the ''light of his life '' and a frien
 SILVERSTEIN--Frank. The partners, associates and staff of Bender, Jenson & Silverstein, Esqs. of White Plains, NY, mourn the loss of their friend and colleague Frank. The firm and the profession will miss him. Frank was on the Board of Managers of the New York Chapter of the American Academ
 TRESCHER--George. It's just possible that The Municipal Art Society would not have survived to celebrate its 100th birthday, let alone last year's 109th had there been no George Trescher to organize and bully us into one beautiful and beautifully profitable fundraising dinner after another.
 Dr. Richard A. Gardner, a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who developed a theory about parental alienation syndrome, which he said could lead children in high-conflict custody cases to falsely accuse a parent of abuse, died on May 25 at his home in Tenafly, N.J. He was 72. The cause 
 Art Cooper, who in nearly 20 years as editor of GQ magazine helped to transform it into a showplace for literary journalism, died yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 65. Mr. Cooper died of complications from a stroke he suffered during lunch on Thursday at the Four Seasons, his f
 The Rev. Dr. Elam Davies, pastor emeritus of the Fourth Presbyterian Church of Chicago, who helped it build a major church-sponsored community services institution on the city's Near North Side, died Friday in Bethlehem, Pa., where he had retired in the 1980's. He was 86. Dr. Davies
 BALET--John W. 98, a longtime resident of Pelham, NY, died Monday, June 9. He graduated from Columbia College in 1925 and from Columbia's School of Engineering in 1927. He retired from Con Edison after 35 years in 1969. John Balet leaves behind four children, twelve grandchildren and five g
 BENDER--Dr. Israel B. The Manhattan School of Music is saddened by the loss of Dr. Israel B. Bender, beloved father of Susan Bender Blumstein, the school's Vice President External Affairs. Manhattan School of Music is very grateful to Dr. Bender for his generous support of its annual interd
 COOPER--Art. The Officers, Board and Staff of the American Society of Magazine Editors are deeply saddened by the tragic death of our dear friend and colleague Art Cooper. He has left an indelible mark on the magazine industry and all of us will remember him fondly. We extend our heartfelt 
 GERLITZ--Chaim, Rabbi. The Officers, Trustees and congregation of Temple Israel of Riverhead join his beloved wife, Malka and his family in mourning this very special man. Our spiritual leader since 1986, Rabbi Chaim was a master reader of Torah and an incomparable teacher of children and a
 GOLDMANN--Kurt. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing of our cherished member and conveys sincere condolences to his bereaved family. Rabbi Tom Weiner Rabbi Shira Milgrom Lisa Borowitz, President >>AD#       
 KAFFEE--Oscar. Of North Miami Beach FL, formerly of White Plains NY, on June 9, 2003. Survived by his beloved wife Beatrice, loving children Arthur, Stuart and his wife Jackie and Marcia and her husband Harvey Richer, sister Claire Kurzrok, brothers Norman and Sidney, adored grandchildren J
 NEHR--Raoul H., 90, on Saturday, June 7, 2003. Surviving is his wife, Jo-Ann Fiordaliso of Skillman, NJ; a brother-in-law and his wife, Joseph and Marilyn Fiordaliso of Livingston, NJ. Also survived by thirteen nieces and nephews and several cousins. Funeral will be Wednesday, June 11, 2003
 PIERSON--Dr. Willard J. On June 7, 2003, Resident of West Hempstead. Beloved husband of the late Joy Kell Pierson. Devoted father of Mark, Mary Jean and Arthur. Loving brother of Vaughn. Cherished grandfather of Alexander, Ian and Sean. Renowned Research Professor at City College in New Yor
 POLAN--Lawrence. Beloved husband of Shirley. Loving father of Jeffrey. Dear brother of Joyce Potter. Cherished brother-in-law of Bob and Edith Weinstein. Loving uncle of Dr. Seth, Robert, Warren, Rachel, Stephanie, Perri, Julian and Dr. Clifford and Dr. Lee. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside,'
 RAVEN--Claus (born Rawitscher) of Clifton, NJ. Holocaust survivor born in Berlin, Germany. Age 81, on June 7, 2003. Beloved husband of 60 years to the former Rahel Karlsberg. Devoted father to David Raven and Diane Raven Reilly. Beloved father-inlaw of Michele and Patrick. Special ''Pop'' t
 ROSEN -- Jacob, M.D., at home on June 8th, 2003 at age 95. Survived by his beloved wife, Gertrude, his children, Judith and Michael, his daughter-in-law and son-inlaw, Tove and Stuart, and his grandchildren, Jennifer, Nathaniel, Sarah, Rachel, and Rafael. We shall all miss him. Funeral serv
 SCHEINES--Morton, 72, died of pneumonia, June 8, in New Milford, CT. This dedicated cineaste and soft-hearted curmudgeon is survived by his wife Tricia, his son Prof. Richard of Carnegie Mellon Univ., his daughter Elizabeth, a film archivist, & brother Joseph, as well as by 5 loving but irr
 Donald T. Regan, the steel-willed financier who was Treasury secretary and, later, an uncommonly powerful chief of staff to President Ronald Reagan until his bitter departure in 1987, died yesterday in Virginia. He was 84 and lived in Williamsburg, Va. The cause was cancer, said a s
 Morris B. Rotman, a founder and former head of Harshe-Rotman & Druck, the large independent New York public relations firm, died on Sunday in Chicago. He was 85 and lived in Rancho Mirage, Calif., and Chicago. Mr. Rotman was chairman and chief executive of Harshe-Rotman & Druck from
 BURNS--John Stuart. On June 8, 2003. Born in Atlanta, a neighbor of Margaret Mitchell, a Yalie, a New Yorker and, finally, a resident of Cutalossa Road, Bucks County, PA. A patron of The Metropolitan Opera, fine restaurants and co-founder of a great wine cellar (remember the Leonardo Da Vin
 DYSTEL--John Jay. Of Rye Brook, NY, on June 7, 2003, from complications of his long and courageous battle with Multiple Sclerosis. Survived by his loving parents, Oscar and Marion Dystel, his devoted sister Jane Dystel and her husband Steven Schwinder, and his niece Jessica, and nephew Zach
 GESTAS--Gilbert. Age 70. On June 7, 2003. Antiquaire, Veteran of France, Raconteur, Bon Vivant and Friend to All. Beloved partner of Craig Morrison. Devoted brother of Guy, Yvonne, Jeanine, Heugette and Jean Claude. A Mass and celebration of his life will be scheduled at a later date. >>AD#
 HADIKS--Dean, 50, died suddenly June 8, 2003. A loving and passionate husband to Cheryl, father to Ari, brother to Milton and son to Themis Revis. Dean was a dedicated psychologist who worked as the director of psychology at New York Methodist Hospital in Brooklyn and also maintained a priv
 HEMING--Charles E. The partners, associates, counsel and staff of Wormser, Kiely, Galef & Jacobs LLP note with sorrow the passing on June 6, 2003 of our partner and friend, Charles E. Heming, and extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife, Barbara, and his family. Charles was one of the '
 HIRSCH--Jack. Heartfelt condolences to the Hirsch family on the loss of Jack Hirsch, husband of Gladys, father of Stuart and Bryan, brother of Benjamin Hirsch and our beloved Reverend A. Asher Hirsch, Golden Founder and Director of Religious Affairs at Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusal
 KAHN--Leon. We mourn the loss of Leon Kahn, a native of the Shtetl of Eishyshok, partisan, Holocaust survivor, successful businessman and dedicated friend. Our condolences to his family. Dr. Yaffa Eliach, Shtetl Foundation David Eliach, Yitzhak and Shoshana Sonenson >>AD#       
 NEUSTADTER--Murray Irving. Died peacefully with family by his side on June 8, 2003. Born March 1, 1926 in Brooklyn. Devoted husband of the late Phyllis. Loving father of Miriam (Les) Kaplan, Judith (Kahu) Neustadter Naone and Jonathan. Cherished grandfather of Adam and Jesse Kaplan. Caring 
 NONNENMACHER--Carl Eugen, aka Carl Eugen Norris was born in Brooklyn, NY, May 29, 1909. He died Friday June 6, 2003 at the age of 94 of natural causes at 300 Willow Valley Lakes Dr., Willow St., PA. He was the son of the late Eugen and Marie Hubler Nonnenmacher. His elementary education was
 SANTALIZ--Gilberto. On June 9th, 2003. Beloved father of Gilberto & his wife Michelle. Loving grandfather of Kate. Reposing Redden Funeral Home, 325 W. 14 St, New York City, Wednesday, 5-9PM. Mass of Christian Burial Thursday, 10:30AM, Epiphany Church. Interment Calverton National Cemetery.
 WOLIN--Richard A. On June 9, 2003. Devoted father of Brian & Haley. Dear brother of Kenneth and Nora. Loving grandfather of Brett. Cherished son of the late Irving & Tillie. Loved and admired by all who knew him. Services Wednesday, 10AM, at ''Weinstein - Garlick - Kirschenbaum Chapels'', 1
 SHEPPARD--Dr. H. L. (Shep). 11 years. At the blueness of skies and in warmth of summer we remember him. We remember him as long as we live as he is a part of us       
 Maurice Rosenthal, a French composer and conductor who was a student of Ravel and a vigorous champion of French composers from Offenbach to Messiaen, died on June 5 at his home in Paris. He was 98. As a composer, Mr. Rosenthal was known for a flexible style that reflected its time, 
 BENFORADO--David M. of Woodbury, MN, 77, formerly of New York, NY, passed away peacefully on Sunday, 1 June 2003, at the Pillars HealthEast Hospice, with his family at his side, after a long battle with cancer. He was born in New York City, NY, 17 November 1925, graduating Columbia Universi
 DERITO--Benjamin D. Of Beverly, MA. on June 10, 2003. Age 29. Financial Analyst at Satellite Asset Management of New York. Son of Lawrence E. Derito of Jupiter, FL. and Margaret (Nealon) Derito of Beverly, MA. Brother of Jonathan Derito. Grandson of Catherine (Edwards) Derito of Brockton, M
 HOOPER--Adrian Spotten. Of Philadelphia, PA, formerly of Devon, PA, on June 10, 2003. Husband of Susan (nee Borresen), and the late Elizabeth (nee Shober). Father of Adrian S. Jr., Suzanne H. Hooper, Elizabeth H. Hooper, and Dana H. Hooper. Also survived by four grandchildren, and two step 
 PERINI--John D. Former Executive Vice President at Merrill Lynch, died June 2nd at his home in Cambridge, NY. He was 64. Mr. Perini spent 33 years at Merill Lynch where he founded and built a financial trading team into one of the industries' largest and most lucrative global trading operat
 REGAN--Donald T. A visionary, a leader of men and a man of profound integrity. The honor and privilege of his friendship was mine. I'll miss him. Lee Roselle >>AD#       
 ROSEN--Harvey, on June 11, 2003. Beloved husband of Terry. Loving father of Stephanie Moro. Dear brother of Sidney Rosen. Cherished grandfather of Gigi, Evie, Cliff and great grandfather of Ryan and Ethan. Services Friday 10AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Visiting 
 SCHERBATOW--Prince Alexei Pavlovich. We are sorry to inform you that the Honorary Chairman of the Russian Nobility Association in America (RNA), Professor of History, Prince Alexei Pavlovich Scherbatow passed away at 6pm on June 10, 2003 in NYC. Alexis Scherbatow was born in St. Petersburg 
 SKAF--Richard A. Sr. Passed away on June 2nd, at home after a brief illness. He is survived by his wife and children. He was born in Brooklyn, NY. He was the son of Anna and George Skaf. Survived by a sister and a brother, and several nieces and nephews. He was a member of TypoPublishers Un
 WEBER--Samuel, age 76, on June 2nd in NYC. Father of Robert and Bruce, grandfather of Jacob, devoted husband to his late wife, Eileen. He was brave, decent and wellloved, and he is already missed. >>AD#       
 Winthrop Patterson Baker Jr., who went from trailblazing as a Westinghouse Broadcasting television executive to doing the same for deluxe bed-and-breakfasts in New England, died on Saturday at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. He was 71 and lived in Wilton, Conn. The cause was compli
 David Brinkley, the wry reporter and commentator whose NBC broadcasts with Chet Huntley from 1956 to 1970 helped to define and popularize television news in America, died on Wednesday night at his home in Houston. He was 82. In 1950, when Mr. Brinkley first went on the air, major ne
 Gregory Peck, whose chiseled, slightly melancholy good looks, resonant baritone and quiet strength made him an unforgettable presence in films like ''To Kill a Mockingbird,'' ''Gentleman's Agreement'' and ''Twelve O'Clock High,'' died early yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 87.  
 EISENBERG--Emil. 90, of 80 Salisbury Street, Worcester MA., died Thursday June 12th at UMASS Medical Center after a long illness. Mr. Eisenberg leaves his wife, Lillian H. Eisenberg, a daughter, Denise Rich of New York City, a stepdaughter Helen Ann Browdy of Atlanta, Georgia, a stepson Law
 FEINSTEIN--Samuel (Sam). Born 1915 in Russia. Longtime NYC resident, painter and teacher of art passed away peacefully at his summer home in Dennis, MA on June 10. Adored husband of Patricia Stark, loving father of Sascha, dear grandfather of Kiran and Divia, and beloved brother of Hy. A me
 FLEISS--Dr. Joseph L. On Thursday, June 12, 2003 in Ridgewood, NJ. Formerly of Wayne, NJ. Beloved husband of the late Isabel Bogorad Fleiss. Cherished father of Arthur, Deb, Liz and Phyllis. Loving grandfather of Amir, Yamit, Eden, Shanna, Sarah and Jesse. Brother of Israel and devoted son-
 GOLDFARB--Gene Stanley. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Gene Stanley Goldfarb and extends sincere sympathy to his family and friends. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary >>AD#       
 GREENBERG--Joseph, MD. On June 11, 2003 died peacefully with his loving family at his side. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Paula and Marlon Dennis and Janis Heller. Adoring grandfather of Sloane Heller and Noah Dennis. You will be in our hearts forever. Contributions in his m
 HILL--Fred. Died peacefully on June 11, 2003 at age 91. Loving son of the late Benjamin and Ida Hill. Dear brother of the late Arthur and Selma Hill. Adoring husband of the late Sylvia. Devoted father of Steven and Linda Hill, Joan and Michael Resnick, Nancy Darcy and Bruce Pankonin. Belove
 HUSAIN--Dr. Syed Qasim, son of Dr. Abid Husain and Dr. Anwari Husain, passed away in Staten Island on June 6, 2003 unexpectedly. My father graduated from M.I.T. and the University of Liverpool, England with a PhD in Pure Mathematics. At M.I.T., he was a student of the esteemed Professor Joh
 LEWIS--Max. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Myron Fenster, Int. Sr. Rabbi Sidney Freedman, President >>AD#       
 MESSING--Elias. The members of Hays St. John Abramson & Heilbron mourn the passing of our friend and partner. He was a good and gentle man. We extend condolences to his wife Anne and their family. >>AD#       
 PECK--Gregory. We mourn the loss of our esteemed and beloved member. He was a great actor and a great American icon, but we will always remember him fondly as a true gentleman and great guy. Our deepest sympathies and affection to Veronique and the Peck family. The Players >>AD#       
 REGAN--Donald T. 1918-2003. Wally Findlay Galleries deeply mourns the death of our esteemed friend and painter. Donald Regan's third phase as a painter captured his subject matter with simple gestures and innocent perspective. His painting was a medium for his contemplation, cherished memor
 ROSEN--Harvey. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Harvey Rosen, on June 10, 2003. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel on Friday, June 13, at 10:00 AM. (
 SCHERBATOW -- Prince Alexis. Count Nicholas Bobrinskoy, Grand Prior of the Sovereign Order of the Orthodox Knights Hospitaller of Saint John of Jerusalem notes with deep sorrow the passing of Hereditary Family Commander, advisor and close friend, Prince Alexis Scherbatow, and extends the Or
 SKLAR--Leo J., M.D. Died peacefully with devoted family at his side on June 12, 2003. Beloved husband and best friend of Rita Gruber Sklar. Loving father of Susan and Fred Drath, Peter and Joyce, and Patty and Steven Greenstein. Cherished Poppi of Caroline and David Perel, Matthew and Rache
 SKOBLE--Herbert, of New Rochelle, NY, passed away at home June 10th, 2003. He was a television commercial film director who spent his career in NYC and in Europe. He was known for his love of travel, tennis, friends, food and cooking. He is survived by his three daughters, Luisa of Westerly
 STERN--Melvin E., on June 12, 2003. The Board of Governors and members of Rockrimmon Country Club are saddened by the passing of their longtime beloved friend and esteemed member. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Charles Roden, President >>AD#       
 John Semple Galbraith, a historian of 19th-century Britain whose tenure as the second chancellor of the University of California's San Diego branch in the 1960's secured its position as an equal member of the university system, died on Tuesday in San Diego. He was 86. Dr. Galbraith,
 EATON--Dwight Field. Died suddenly at age 91 on June 7, 2003. Survived by his wife of 64 years Wilma of Pennswood Village in Newtown, PA; his sons Douglas of Manhattan and Craig of Langhorne, PA; his grandsons Noah and John of Langhorne. >>AD#       
 FELDMAN--Martin H., 81. Of Long Beach, N.Y. Passed away June 12, 2003. Cherished husband, father, grandfather, nephew and friend. He is survived by beloved wife Gilda, children Jed and Leslie, Jodi and Denton, Kenneth, Douglas and Susan and Maura. Grandchildren Jared and Gavin. Services wil
 GOLDFARB--Gene. The Officers and Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of their dear friend and fellow Member Gene Goldfarb. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Judith, to his children and other members of his family. Paul J. Konigsberg, President >>AD#       
 ROSEN--Harvey. The officers, governors and members of the New York Cardiac Center mourn the loss of their colleague, Harvey Rosen, on June 10th and extend our condolences to his family. Richard Glazer, President >>AD#       
 Prince Alexis Scherbatow, who left Russia in 1920 and taught history and political science at Fairleigh Dickinson University for two decades, died on Tuesday at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. Long prominent in the Russian Nobility Asso
 Sir Bernard Williams, the lightning-witted Oxford professor who is credited with reviving the field of moral philosophy and was considered by some to be the greatest British philosopher of his era, died on Tuesday in Oxford. He was 73 and lived at All Souls College, Oxford. No cause
 Felix de Weldon, whose imposing sculpture of marines raising the American flag on Iwo Jima became an emblem of the Marine Corps, died on June 2 in Woodstock, Va. He was 96. Mr. de Weldon made more than 2,000 other public sculptures, including one of Admiral Richard E. Byrd in Antarc
 ARFA--Milton. On June 13, 2003. Distinguished Rabbi, author and professor of Hebrew literature and philosophy. Dr. Arfa taught generations of students at Yeshiva University, Herzliah Hebrew Teachers Institute, Hunter College, HUC-JIR and NYU. As chairman of the Israel Matz Foundation, Dr. A
 COLE--James A., Jr., 80, retired Texaco marine executive, died of cancer at home in New Canaan, CT on June 5. Mr. Cole, born in Floral Park, NY, graduated from Kings Point Merchant Marine Academy '43 and New York University '49. During WWII he served in the Merchant Marine. His 37-year care
 DELMAN--Jacob J. 87, of Boca Raton, FL, passed away June 13, 2003. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Steven, Meryl, Richard & Paula. Loving grandfather of Marni, Jennifer, Chris, Scott, Denise, Jacqui, Michael & Robyn. He will be missed by all who knew him. Graveside service, Beth 
 DRATEWKA -- David. Died May 28th in Brooklyn, NY. We deeply mourn the untimely death of a most excellent son, brother and true friend to many. We will celebrate his passion for life always. For information on his memorial service call 212-229-8359. >>AD#       
 EATON--Dwight Field. Died suddenly at age 91 on June 7, 2003. Survived by his wife of 64 years Wilma of Pennswood Village in Newtown, PA; his sons Douglas of Manhattan and Craig of Langhorne, PA; his grandsons Noah and John of Langhorne. >>AD#       
 FEFFER--Paul Evan. On June 14, 2003. Beloved husband of Juliette. Loving father of Emily, Nicholas, Joseph and Alison. Cherished grandfather of eleven and greatfather of two. Deeply loved, highly respected and an inspiration to all who knew him. He was a prince among men and our guiding lig
 FELDMAN--Martin H., 81. Of Long Beach, N.Y. Passed away June 12, 2003. Cherished husband, father, grandfather, nephew and friend. He is survived by beloved wife Gilda, children Jed and Leslie, Jodi and Denton, Kenneth, Douglas and Susan and Maura. Grandchildren Jared and Gavin. Services wil
 GERBER--Donald S., M.D., Ophthamologist, died at only 53 years of age at home in Australia following a courageous battle with M.N.D. He graduated from Jamaica High School, Princeton University, Stanford Medical School and his residency was at NYU. In 1978 he married Cynthia Asness of Little
 GOLDFARB--Gene Stanley. Died peacefully on Tuesday, June 10, 2003 at his home in Palm Beach. The son of Frances and Samuel J. Goldfarb, he was born in Chicago, IL. on July 31, 1926 and raised in New York. He graduated from Columbia Grammar School, and attended Syracuse University and New Yo
 GREENBERG--Dr. Joseph. We have all lost a truly great man with the passing of Joe Greenberg. Joe's life and legacy defined for all of us, and so many others, what the terms ''friendship'' and ''support'' really mean. We will celebrate his life, his kind spirit, and his great accomplishments
 KATZ--Morris W. (Murray, Moishe, Ken). 88, on June 14, 2003, at Ridgewood, NJ. Survived by his beloved wife of 61 years, Rebecca (Mel). Loving father of Marilyn and Howard Sandler, Roy and Ellen Katz. Cherished grandfather of Craig and Janice Sandler, Todd and Randi Sandler, Rachel and Cher
 KAY--Michael. We deeply mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Michael Kay, and extend our warmest sympathies to his wife, Carol, and their entire family. We will always remember his kind and caring demeanor and all that he has given to us, individually and as a company overall. C
 KRAUS--Eugene. Died in Tampa, FL on June 2, 2003 at age 77. He will be honored for his kindness and generosity and remembered with great love by his wife Lois, daughter Elizabeth (Dejan), son Anthony (Susan), grandchildren, and brother Kenneth. Services will be held in New York at a later d
 LEHMAN--Rabbi Emeritus Dr. Robert L. In New York City, on June 13, 2003. It is with great sadness that the Officers, Board of Trustees, Clergy and the entire membership of the Hebrew Tabernacle Congregation deeply mourn the sudden passing of our beloved and esteemed Rabbi Emeritus Dr. Rober
 READE--Richard. Age 78, of Oldfield, NY, on June 8, 2003. Graduate of Cornell University 1949; U.S. Naval Aviator 1942-1945; continued as an active Naval Reservist specializing in helicopters until his retirement as Captain. Engineer in the aviation industry, eventually retiring from Grumma
 ROSENTHAL--David B. On June 10, 2003 in Boca Raton, at the age of 99. Beloved husband of the late Edna, loving father of Charles & Phyllis Rosenthal and Joan & Murray Suskin. Proud grandfather of Nicole & Michael Hartnett; Tom, Stephanie, Steven, Helen, Jane & James Suskin; and the late And
 TRESCHER -- George. We mourn the loss of our dear friend, colleague and past Board member, George Trescher. His commitment to supporting causes that benefit those less fortunate on the East Side will be truly missed. Lenox Hill Neighborhood House >>AD#       
 SMITH--Philip. Josh did it. You must be proud of him. We love you and miss you. Michael and Jeffrey >>AD#       
 Ricardo Can, a singer and percussionist in the Afro-Cuban group Los Muequitos de Matanzas, died on June 5 in a hospital in Matanzas, Cuba, where he lived. He was 54. The cause was a heart attack, said Caridad Diez, the group's manager. Los Muequitos was formed in 1952 
 Jimmy Knepper, a jazz trombonist best known for his productive but stormy association with Charles Mingus, died on Saturday in Triadelphia, W.Va. He was 75. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his wife, Maxine, said yesterday from their Staten Island home. Mr. Kneppe
 Leighton Rees, an imposing Welshman who became the world's first professional dart-throwing champion, died on June 8 in Pontypridd, South Wales. He was 63. The cause of death was cardiac arrest, said his wife, Debbie. In 1978, before the finals of the first Embassy World Pro
 BERCIK -- The Honorable Steven J., former Union County, NJ, judge, Waterfront Commissioner for New Jersey and ex-Mayor of Elizbeth, died Saturday, June 14, 2003. He was elected Mayor of Elizabeth from 1956-64 and established the Elizabeth Human Relations Commission. Appointed by Gov. Richar
 BERNBACH--Paul. 57 years old. Died on June 14, after a long illness. Husband of Therese; father of Elizabeth, Sarah and Matthew; brother of John; father-in-law of Nelson Hancock and Daniel Srebnick. Visiting will take place Monday evening from 7 to 9 PM, and a service will be held Tuesday m
 CHEUNG--Dennis C. Died on June 9, 2003, in New York City. Survived by his wife Lillian and children Eric and Tracy. Funeral services will be held on June 17, at 11:30 AM, at the United Nations Chapel, 1st Ave and 44th St. >>AD#       
 CONSIDINE--Mardi. Died Saturday, June 14, 2003. Daughter of Margaret Burlee Considine of Princeton, NJ, and the late Norbert A. Survived by brothers: Kevin H. and his partner, Gilbert Dumas; Brian B. and Pam Posey and their sons, Liam and Caleb; and Norbert A. and Eileen and children: Wylie
 DELMAN--Jacob J. The Board of Directors and members of Bocaire Country Club with deep regret and sorrow announce the passing of our dear friend and esteemed member, Jacob J. Delman, on Friday, June 13, 2003. We extend condolences to all of his family. Services will be private. Kurt Merl, Pr
 EATON--Dwight Field. Died suddenly at age 91 on June 7, 2003. Survived by his wife of 64 years Wilma of Pennswood Village in Newtown, PA; his sons Douglas of Manhattan and Craig of Langhorne, PA; his grandsons Noah and John of Langhorne. >>AD#       
 GETTINGER -- Stephen A. Died peacefully in his sleep on Saturday, June 14, at his home in Huntington Bay, NY, at the age of 77. He is survived by his wife of 50 years, Barbara, his brother Peter, of New York City and East Hampton, NY, his three sons, Andrew, of Hanover, NH, Matthew, of Ranc
 SANTIAGO--Nestor Villarosa. On Thursday, June 12, 2003, of Washington, DC. Most beloved and most loving husband of Aurora Asperilla Santiago, most beloved and most devoted father of Nina Cecilia Asperilla Santiago, most beloved and most devoted son of the late Teodoro P. and Emilia Villaros
 Henry Robin Ian Russell, the 14th Duke of Bedford, a diffident British aristocrat who despite ill health combined a lucrative business career in London with successful management of his enormous family seat at Woburn Abbey in Bedfordshire, died on Friday in London. He was 63. No cau
 Harold Ashby, a saxophonist whose long association with Duke Ellington began before he joined Ellington's orchestra and continued after Ellington's death, died on Friday at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78. No cause of death was announced, but he entered the hos
 Hume Cronyn, one of the foremost character actors of the American stage and screen for more than 60 years, died on Sunday at his home in Fairfield, Conn. He was 91. Mr. Cronyn, a compact, restless man who was once an amateur boxer and remained a featherweight 127 pounds all his life
 BERNBACH -- Paul. The Trustees and staff of the Brooklyn Museum of Art record with deep sorrow the death of esteemed Trustee Paul Bernbach, and extend deepest sympathies to Therese, Elizabeth, Sarah, Matthew, and to all the Bernbach family and friends. Robert S. Rubin, Chair Arnold L. Lehma
 CRONYN--Hume. We mourn the loss of one of our most beloved members and a truly great figure of the American stage. His urbane wit, his jaunty personality and his mere presence will be sorely missed. Our deepest sympathy and affection to Susan and the Cronyn family. The Players >>AD#       
 FENSTER--Milton, passed on June 16th. Beloved husband of Lilian of 25 years. Loving father of Amber, Randese Leoni and Barbara Smithen. Dear uncle of Richard. Loving father-in-law of Serge Leoni and Dr. Charles Smithen. Cherished grandfather of Oliver and Hugh. Step-grandchildren Lindsay, K
 GOOD--Robert A., M.D., Ph.D. The Jeffrey Modell Foundation has lost a cherished friend, the world has lost a brilliant immunologist, prolific author and gifted scientist. Our son, Jeffrey, knew him as his caring, compassionate, and dedicated physician. Dr. Robert Good, was an indomitable fo
 HALL--Agnes (nee Finnie). On June 13, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Thomas J. Devoted mother and motherin-law of Thomas and Linda Hall. Loving grandmother of Carolyn, Tom and his wife Kim, and great-grandmother of Amanda Grace. Dear sister of Isabel Finnie. Services Wednesday, 11 AM, at Gr
 MARRAN--William R., of Vero Beach, FL and East Hampton, NY died on June 14th after a long and hard fought battle with Alzheimer's disease. Born in 1923 to Marcelle and Francis Marran. He received a BA from the University of Pennsylvania, Wharton Business School, Class of 1948, where he rowe
 McGONAGLE--Henry J., 62, of Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. Died peacefully on June 15, 2003, at his home in Newburyport, MA, surrounded by wife Kathie; daughters Lisa and Dara; son-in-law Dany; beloved infant granddaughter Elia; sisters Betty and Rita; and brothers-in-law Bill and Dick. Dear friend o
 ROSEN--Leon, a resident of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Scarsdale, NY, passed away on Sunday, June 15th, 2003 is survived by beloved wife Kathy and was a devoted father to Arthur, Amy, James and Brian and loving grandfather to Paul and Alec. Services at 12 noon, Wednesday, June 18th at Hawth
 VARIAN--Gene, 52, night crew general assistant for the Metropolitan Opera, after a very long and courageous battle with liver disease. Beloved husband of Kathy and proud, loving father of Sean and Gene Jr. Cherished son of Theresa and the late George Varian. Irreplaceable brother of George 
 Yevgeny Kolobov, a conductor who was a founder of one of Moscow's most popular opera theaters, the Novaya Opera, died here on Sunday. He was 57. The cause was a heart attack, the Russian press reported. Mr. Kolobov, who was chief conductor and artistic director of the Novaya
 CRONYN--Hume. With enduring memories of a treasured relationship, the Academy mourns the loss of its esteemed alumnus Hume Cronyn. Through his efforts and support, a Cronyn/Tandy scholarship was established at the Academy in 1988 to help Canadian students. Our heartfelt sympathies go out to
 FENSTER--Milton. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member, Friar Milton Fenster, on June 16, 2003. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held at Riverside Memorial Chapel on Wednesday, June 18, at 11:1
 KOTON--Theodore. Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our member, Theodore Koton. May He who consults the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem bring comfort to his family. Dr. Harlan J. Wechsler, Rabbi Daniel J. Beller, President >>AD#       
 RIENECKER--Raymond H. ''Ray,'' 79, of Tierra Verde, FL died June 15, 2003. He worked as a Sales Manager in the Textile Industry and is survived by a loving family. >>AD#       
 RODRIGUEZ--Daniel Juan. Suddenly on June 15, 2003, of Meadows of Dan, VA, formerly of Manhasset Hills, NY and Roanoke, VA. Devoted father of Elizabeth. Beloved son of Adrienne and the late Juan Rodriguez. Loving brother of Ronald. Cherished uncle of Candi and Cristina. Beloved friend of Fel
 ROSEN--Leon, a resident of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Scarsdale, NY, passed away on Sunday, June 15th, 2003 is survived by beloved wife Kathy and was a devoted father to Arthur, Amy, James and Brian and loving grandfather to Paul and Alec. Services at 12 noon, Wednesday, June 18th at Hawth
 SILVERMAN--Rabbi Israel. It is with great sorrow that the officers, Board of Directors and staff of the Masorti Foundation for Conservative Judaism in Israel and the Masorti Movement in Israel mourn the passing of Rabbi Israel Silverman, father of our President, Riva Silverman, on June 16, 
 SEAGRAVE--Kevin M. June 18th, 1993. Sorely missed. Forever loved. His Family >>AD#       
 Dr. Robert Alan Good, a founder of modern immunology and a pioneer in bone marrow transplantation, died on Friday at his home in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 81. The cause was esophageal cancer, his family said. A pediatrician, microbiologist and pathologist, Dr. Good gained 
 Donald Arthur MacDonald, a vice chairman emeritus of Dow Jones & Company, publisher of The Wall Street Journal, Barron's and other financial publications, died last Friday at a hospital in Red Bank, N.J. He was 83 and lived in Rumson, N.J.. The cause was lung cancer, the company sai
 Larry Doby, who broke the color barrier in the American League in 1947, three months after Jackie Robinson became the first black in modern major league baseball, died last night at his home in Montclair, N.J. He was 79. He had been ill for some time, his son Larry Jr. told The Asso
 DAVIDOFF--Milton. Lawyer, political activist and soldier, Milton Davidoff died June 11, 2003, at the age of 97. One of New York University Law School's oldest surviving graduates, he was editor of the Law Review in his senior year (1927) and subsequently practiced law in New York City for 6
 DONAHUE--Theodore P. age 77, died in Palm Beach, FL on the 18th of June surrounded by his loving family. He was the son of the late Col. and Mrs. A.J. Donahue. He is survived by his wife, Marion Casey Donahue, eight children, T.P. Donahue Jr., J. Barry Donahue, Mary Ellen McCarthy, Barbara 
 FREEDMAN--Ellis. The directors and officers of the Aaron Copland Fund for Music, Inc. and the Virgil Thomson Foundation, Ltd. express their sorrow at the loss of one of our founding directors, Ellis Freedman. Ellis' foresight and wise counsel led to the formation of our organizations, and e
 GELERNT--Jules, PhD, 74, of Monroe Twp., NJ (formerly of The Bronx) on June 17, 2003. Retired Professor of English & Comparative Literature and former Chair of English Department of Brooklyn College. Professor Gelernt received his BA and MA in English from City College, and PhD in English &
 GONZALEZ -- Emma. Col leagues of Hon. Arthur Gonzalez express their sympathies on the passing of his mother Emma Gonzalez. >>AD#       
 GROVE--John L. Greencastle, PA, renowned entrepreneur and local philanthropist, died on Monday, June 16, 2003 at his home following an extended illness. Mr. Grove was known worldwide in the equipment industry having co-founded Grove Manufacturing Company in 1946 manufacturing the first hydr
 KOTON--Theodore. Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our member, Theodore Koton. May He who consoles the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem bring comfort to his family. Dr. Harlan J. Wechsler, Rabbi Daniel J. Beller, President >>AD#       
 LEISTNER--Irving, 86, survivor of the Holocaust. Beloved husband of Pauline. Devoted father of Rosalyn and George Bornstein, Eillene Leistner and Barry Winiker, Phyllis and Jeff Stiefel. Loving grandfather of Matthew, Ilana, Batsheva, Binyamina, Daniel, Evan, Amy, Linda and Kenneth. Doting 
 POLANSKY--David. Basketball coach at CCNY for over 30 years, Dave was a mentor and an outstanding example of honesty and excellence for all who knew and loved him. Our condolences to his wife, Corinne, and his sons, Jerrold and Jon. Services Friday 11:15AM, The Riverside, 76th St & Amsterda
 SCHAEN--Lester. Age 71, of Rye Brook, New York, and Long Boat Key, FL, died on June 18, 2003. Beloved husband of Susan for the past 48 years. Loving father of Sandi and Nathan, Barry & Laurie. Dear brother of Bernice Poland and Lorraine Futterman. Cherished grandfather of Jessi, Victoria, E
 SEALS--Jarrett Tahir. Suddenly, on June 9, 2003. Survived by his mother Joanettia Grier, father Jerry Seals, brother Kylan, sister Kia, aunts, uncles, cousins and friends. Memorial service June 21, 10:30 AM at The Riverside Church in Manhattan. In lieu of flowers donations to the Livengrin 
 SILVERMAN--Rabbi Israel N. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, rabbi emeritus of Beth Jacob Synagogue, Hamilton, Ontario. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate. >>AD#       
 WECHSLER--Robert R., who for 63 years was a sales executive at Einson Freeman Inc. following three years at the NY Times, died Sunday of complications of a stroke. A Greenwich, CT. resident, he had celebrated his 90th birthday this past January. Bob Wechsler is survived by his wife of 59 ye
 WOLLOCH--Zygfryd B. On June 17, 2003. Beloved husband of Helene. Loving father of Norbert and Claudia, Richard and Nora, Michael and Beth, Daniel and Valerie. Cherished grandfather of Samuel, Jonathan, Adam, Deena, Elana, Zachary, Hannah, Allyson and Charles. A Holocaust survivor, philanthr
 Peter Redgrove, a prize-winning British poet and author, died on Monday in Falmouth, in southwest England. He was 71. He had Parkinson's disease in his final months, The Daily Telegraph reported. A versatile and prolific writer, his output included about 50 verse collections
 Larry Doby, who broke the color barrier in the American League in 1947, three months after Jackie Robinson became the first black in modern major league baseball, died Wednesday night at his home in Montclair, N.J. He was 79. The cause was complications of cancer, a granddaughter, N
 ALZEREZ--Nestor, 74, of White Plains, NY. On June 17, 2003. Loving husband of Ellen and beloved father of Nancy. A businessman involved in the dairy industry for more than 50 years. He was a friend and mentor to many, and will be deeply missed by family and friends. >>AD#       
 BENEDETTO--James (''Jimmy Red''). Age 64, on June 19, 2003. Well-loved NYC restaurateur. Owned Village landmark ''Googies'' 1962-2003. He opened ''Les Routiers Bistro'' on the Upper West Side in 1990. He is mourned by his wife Susan, son Michael, twin daughters Emily and Katy, mother Mary, 
 FREEDMAN--Ellis. The directors and officers of the Aaron Copland Fund for Music, Inc. and the Virgil Thomson Foundation, Ltd. express their sorrow at the loss of one of our founding directors, Ellis Freedman. Ellis' foresight and wise counsel led to the formation of our organizations, and e
 HIRSCHFELD--Milton S. on June 18, 2003. Devoted husband of Irene. Cherished brother of Polda. Loving father of Michael and Audrey, daughter - in - law Gabrielle and son - in - law Daniel. Adored grandfather of Ned, Natasha, Jessica and Mallory. A Holocaust survivor, he put his family and hi
 KELLY--Frank X., 79, of Annandale, VA, died peacefully on June 19. Loving husband of Marie. Devoted father of Frank, Rick and David. Beloved brother of Virginia and father-in-law of Karen, Elaine and Lynette. Adored grandfather of Meaghan, Jonathan, Colleen, Laura, Caitlin and Malik. We lov
 LIU--Henry W. A retired electrical engineer died on June 8, 2003. He was 98. Born on a farm in China, he was the first in the family to attend college, graduating from Shanghai Jiaotong University in 1930. After the communist takeover in 1949, the family fled to Taiwan. They emigrated to th
 RUGGIERI--Frank. The New York Philharmonic notes with sadness the death, on June 18th, of Frank Ruggieri, Second Bassoonist of The Philharmonic from 1949-1972. A graduate of The Curtis Institute of Music, Mr. Ruggieri played first bassoon with the National Symphony in Washington, DC and wit
 WOLLOCH--Zygfryd. We are saddened beyond words by the sudden passing of our dear friend Zygie. Our lives have been entwined for over fifty years through our intimate & binding friendship. Zygie, you have left a void in our lives & all those you have touched. We share our deep grief with Hel
 Rudolf Franz Hoelker, a member of Wernher von Braun's original team of rocket engineers, died on Saturday in Newton, Mass. He was 91 and lived in Wellesley. Trained as a mathematician, Dr. Hoelker worked on the trajectory aspect of the guidance system that steered the Saturn rockets
 Dave Polansky, who replaced the highly respected Nat Holman as basketball coach at City College and carved out a solid record of his own, died last Monday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan. Taking over as coach for Holman was a regular practice fo
 Doug Michels, an architect and artist and a founding member of Ant Farm, a radical art and design collective of the late 1960's and 70's, died on June 12 at Eden Bay near Sydney, Australia. He was 59 and lived in Houston. Mr. Michels fell to his death while climbing alone to a whale
 Howard David Samuel, a veteran A.F.L.-C.I.O. leader who served as a liaison with its industrial union components as well as with government and private organizations, died on Thursday in Washington. He was 78 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. The cause was cancer, his family said.      
 McCARTHY -- Patrick. 59. Born in Johannesburg, South Africa. Resident of New York City for the last 23 years. Artist and builder by hand, intellect and heart. Died June 17 suddenly. He is survived by his son Joshua of Toronto, Canada, two brothers in South Africa, his loving and devoted par
 William Marshall, a character actor who performed for more than 40 years on Broadway, on television and in movies, died on June 11 in Los Angeles. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, said Sylvia Jarrico, his partner of 42 years. Mr. Marshall, a serious actor who also pl
 Dr. Belding H. Scribner, who invented a device that allowed millions of people to live on long-term kidney dialysis and pioneered the development of bioethics committees, died on Thursday in Seattle. He was 82 and a professor emeritus at the University of Washington. A kayaker found
 Johnny Miles, a grocery deliveryman from Nova Scotia who came out of obscurity to win the 1926 Boston Marathon in one of distance running's greatest upsets, died last Sunday in Hamilton, Ontario. He was 97 and the marathon's oldest surviving winner. When he arrived in Boston in Apri
 BAUM--Audrey. On June 19, 2003. Beloved wife of Sy. Dear mother of Andrew (Mary), Dan (Margaret), and the late Michael. Cherished grandmother of Jeff and Rosa. Services Sunday, June 22, 1:15 PM at ''the Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Ave. BAUM--Audrey. Our sister-inlove whose 
 BERNARD--Andre. On May 23, 2003, at age 78. Renowned afternoon music host for 25 years on WNYC Radio. Masterful teacher at New York University for over 30 years--a profound influence in the modern dance community. Wonderful, gentle, wise man with a powerful voice and astute knowledge of the
 FREEDMAN--Ellis. The directors and officers of the Aaron Copland Fund for Music, Inc. and the Virgil Thomson Foundation, Ltd. express their sorrow at the loss of one of our founding directors, Ellis Freedman. Ellis' foresight and wise counsel led to the formation of our organizations, and e
 HENDERSON--Gregory M., 51, of Palm Beach, FL, died Wednesday, June 18, at home. Born in South Orange, NJ, he lived in Rumson for most of his life. Prior to his retirement in March 2000, he was a Senior Vice President of Henderson Brothers, Inc. as well as a member of the New York Stock Exch
 KUNSTADTER--John W., on June 18, 2003 at age 75, philanthropist, physicist and international banker, died peacefully at home. Beloved husband of Geraldine Kunstadter. Loving father of John Jr., Lisa and Chris Kunstadter and Elizabeth von Habsburg. Devoted grandfather of eight. Dear brother 
 McKEAGE--Bud. June 12. New Millford, CT. Beloved husband, friend and mentor. He lived his life well beyond the obvious. Ci vediamo. >>AD#       
 McNALLY--Conor. Age 21, of Bernardsville, on Wednesday, June 18, 2003. Son of Michael P. and Louise (Ward) McNally. Brother of Whitney and Alden McNally. Grandson of Mrs. William W. Ward and Mr. and Mrs. Richard D. McNally. Also survived by many aunts, uncles and cousins. A memorial service
 ROBBINS--Sherman M. 57, Editor - In - Chief of Palm Beach Media Group, died suddenly June 18 at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. Survived by his wife, Mary Gottlieb Robbins; children Scott Robbins and Stephanie Robbins Antone; step-children Brian Gottlieb and Jeffrey Gottlieb; and sister
 ROTHSCHILD--Walter N. Jr. ''Bill.'' 83 of Syosset, LI, peacefully, on June 20. Husband of Virginia, father of Trip Rothschild of New Millford, CT, Nina Rothschild-Utne of Minneapolis, Suzanne Rothschild of Arlington, MA, and Jane Rothschild of Sydney, Australia, brother of Carol Noyes of Sy
 SERRA--Raymond. The Officers, Governors and Members of the New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their esteemed Member Friar Raymond Serra on June 20, 2003. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on June 23 at 11:00 AM at Blessed Sacrament Church. 718-442-158
 SQUIRE -- James Robert. Born October 14, 1922 in Oakland, California died June 9, 2003 in Houston, Texas after a short illness. James attended Pomona College and served during World War II. He received his Doctorate in English Education from the University of California at Berkeley. He then
 Paul Bernbach, a philanthropist and real estate investor, died on June 14 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 57 and a lifelong resident of Brooklyn. The cause was melanoma, his family said. Mr. Bernbach was born in Brooklyn, a son of William Bernb
 Roger Neilson, the coach of eight National Hockey League teams and an assistant coach of four for more than a quarter-century, and one of the game's great innovators, died yesterday at his home in Peterborough, Ontario. He was 69. In 1999, Neilson was told he had multiple myeloma, c
 George Axelrod, a writer whose sexually frank farces and feverishly witty satires of the 1950's and 60's heralded the more hedonistic and cynical pop-culture sensibility of later decades, died Saturday at his home in the hills overlooking Los Angeles. He was 81. His daughter, Nina A
 CANDEE--Edward DeForest II. Age 88, of Oakland, CA, and Gulf Stream, FL, formerly of Ridgewood, NJ, Darien, CT, Old Greenwich, CT, Cazenovia, NY, Poughkeepsie, NY, died June 19, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Anita (Jones) for 44 years in 1985, and the late Jane (Morgan) in 2002. Loving 
 FRIEDMAN -- Dr. Samuel Joshua. Beloved son of Miriam and Willam Friedman. Devoted friend of Dr. James Roman and his family, wife Mardee and children. A long tenure as a school psychologist. He touched the hearts of many and will be sadly missed. Services 1:30 PM, at New Mt. Zion Cemetery in
 KUNSTADTER--John W., on June 18, 2003 at age 75, philanthropist, physicist and international banker, died peacefully at home. Beloved husband of Geraldine Kunstadter. Loving father of John Jr., Lisa and Chris Kunstadter and Elizabeth von Habsburg. Devoted grandfather of eight. Dear brother 
 LEBOR--John F. A retired business executive and director of many corporations, died at his home in North Palm Beach, FL, Friday morning, June 20, 2003. He was 97 years old. After a 36 year career in investment management, motion pictures, air conditioner manufacturing, and retailing, he ret
 MESSINGER--Fred. 90. Born in Alsace Lorraine in 1913. Beloved husband of Lisa (Baer). Treasured father of June and Terry Aranoff. Adored by his grandchildren Ronnie and Jennifer Aranoff, Joanne and Barry Aranoff and Alana and Philip Green. He was so very fortunate to enjoy his greatgrandchi
 POSTER--Mae. On June 21, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Irving Poster. Loving mother of Paul and his wife Margaret and Jeffrey Poster. Cherished grandmother of Michael, Emily and Kathryn, and great-grandmother of Avery. Dear sister of Irving Zohn. Services Frank E. CampbellThe Funeral Chape
 ROTHSCHILD--Walter N. Jr. ''Bill.'' 83 of Syosset, LI, peacefully, on June 20. Husband of Virginia, father of Trip Rothschild of New Millford, CT, Nina Rothschild-Utne of Minneapolis, Suzanne Rothschild of Arlington, MA, and Jane Rothschild of Sydney, Australia, brother of Carol Noyes of Sy
 SALZBERG--Alfred L. Age 84. Activist, orthodontist; strong, gentle man and a giant in his convictions. Treasured husband of Doris. Father of Diane and Barbara. Poppy of David and Lizzie. A volunteer and veteran of WWII, he maintained his devotion to working toward diplomatic resolutions to 
 Roger Neilson, the coach of eight National Hockey League teams and an assistant coach of four for more than a quarter-century, and one of the game's great innovators, died Saturday at his home in Peterborough, Ontario. He was 69. In 1999, Neilson was told he had multiple myeloma, ca
 Victor Perera, a memoirist, journalist and novelist fascinated by the enduring cultures of Sephardic Jews and the Maya Indians, died on June 14 at his home in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 69. The cause was a stroke, said Bernard Taper, a friend. Mr. Perera, who was born in Guat
 Walter N. Rothschild Jr., who stepped down as president of the Abraham & Straus department store chain to pursue a civic career, died Friday at Huntington Hospital on Long Island. He was 83. The cause was complications from surgery, his son, Trip, said. After spending nine y
 Joseph Chaikin, an actor and director who invigorated the American stage with his experimental Open Theater in the 1960's and early 70's, died on Sunday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 67. The cause was congenital heart failure, said his sister Shami, an actress who perform
 Leonard Koppett, a sportswriter and author known for an analytical approach that went beyond the frenzy of the sports moment, died Sunday at a concert in San Francisco. Mr. Koppett, who lived in Palo Alto, Calif., was 79. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Suzanne, said.       
 Maynard H. Jackson Jr., who as this city's first black mayor embodied the seismic shift in political power from Atlanta's white establishment to its growing black middle class, died this morning after collapsing at an airport in Washington. He was 65. He was resuscitated at Reagan N
 FANTA--Eugene, M.D. His friends and colleagues at Lutheran Medical Center mourn the loss of Dr. Eugene Fanta. Dr. Fanta was affiliated with Lutheran for more than 60 years. He served as Director of Emergency Medicine for several years and was responsible for the creation of Lutheran's Famil
 FERBER--Mel, 80, of NYC and Encino, CA, on June 19, 2003, of heart disease. Mel is survived by his beloved wife Bette, four children, six grandchildren, and four siblings. A graduate of CCNY and recipient of the Croix de Guerre in WWII, Mel enjoyed a long and successful career as a televisi
 FREEDMAN--Ellis. We are deeply saddened to lose Ellis Freedman, friend and advocate of composers, spirited supporter of new music. We send our sympathies to his family and friends. Jennifer Bilfield, President Boosey & Hawkes >>AD#       
 MORGENSTERN--Leo, M.D. The entire community of Dunewood mourns the passing of Leo Morgenstern. He was a longtime resident and friend. He will be missed by all. We send condolences to his wife Micky, his children and his family. Dunewood P.O. Assoc. >>AD#       
 ROTHSCHILD--Walter N. Jr. ''Bill.'' 83 of Syosset, LI, peacefully, on June 20. Husband of Virginia, father of Trip Rothschild of New Millford, CT, Nina Rothschild-Utne of Minneapolis, Suzanne Rothschild of Arlington, MA, and Jane Rothschild of Sydney, Australia, brother of Carol Noyes of Sy
 SAUL--Andrew, 45, of Port Washington, NY, on June 18, 2003 after a long, courageous battle with cancer. Women's clothing manufacturer, adventurer, lover of life and all worldly things. Treasured son of Leslie and Irma Saul, beloved husband of Claire, devoted father of Jourdan, Samantha and 
 SMITH--Forrest L. Restauranteur, philanthropist and professional athlete dies at 58. Mr. Smith died Wednesday, June 18 in Florida as a result of injuries sustained in an automobile accident. He was the grandson of Lou Smith, founder of Ithaca Gun Company and twice Mayor of Ithaca, NY. Mr. S
 Peanuts Hucko, a jazz clarinetist who worked with Glenn Miller and Louis Armstrong but was probably best known for his association with Lawrence Welk, died on Thursday in Fort Worth. He was 85 and lived in Denton, Tex. Jazz aficionados admired Mr. Hucko, whose style was modeled clos
 Fred Sandback, a sculptor internationally known for his Minimalist works made from lengths of colored yarn, died on Monday at his studio in New York. He was 59. Mr. Sandback, who suffered from depression, committed suicide, said his wife, Amy Baker Sandback. For almost 40 ye
 Leon Uris, the high school dropout who became a brand-name novelist with his best-selling ''Exodus,'' the 1958 historical pageant about the founding of modern Israel, died on Saturday at his home on Shelter Island, N.Y. He was 78. The cause was renal failure, his former wife, the ph
 Lester Maddox, the Atlanta restaurant owner and archsegregationist who adopted the pick handle as his symbol of defiance in a successful bid for the Georgia governorship in 1966, died on Wednesday in Atlanta. He was 87. Mr. Maddox first came to national attention in 1964, after he v
 ALTMAN--Edwin J. On June 24, 2003 at age 90. Beloved husband of Glen, cherished father of Pat Falkenberg, Ginny Aaron and Tracy Warner. Dear father-in-law of Edward Falkenberg, Roger Aaron and Greg Warner. Loving grandfather of Chris, Kai and Merrill Falkenberg, Peter and Todd Aaron, Haley 
 BROADBENT--William W., Sr., 77. Retired Insurance Executive. Died of cancer on June 22, 2003 in New London, NH. Mr. Broadbent was vice president of Estate, Business and Financial Planning for the Guardian Life Insurance Company of NY. He retired in 1995 after 31 years with the company. Born
 DONENFELD--Harvey. Husband of Helen, brother of Belle Nathanson, uncle to many loved nieces and nephews. Harvey and Helen shared a life of love and devotion to each other. Harvey was a man who will be missed by all the lives he touched. Services to be held Wednesday, June 25, 11 AM at The R
 GOLDEN--Howard N. The partners, associates and staff of Golden & Mandel, LLP mourn the loss of their beloved senior partner, Howard N. Golden, on Monday, June 23, 2003. Howard was a friend and mentor to all of us, and his memory will be cherished as an inspiration to compassion and decency.
 HELFANT--Gerson, peacefully, on June 24. A graduate of Erasmus Hall High School, attended Syracuse University. A self-made success as CEO of Bennett Utilities, served as president of Westhampton Beach Rotary, Commodore of Westhampton Yacht Squadron. Survived by his wife Judith, daughters Id
 HUNT--William Morris of Brookline, MA, on June 23, 2003. Harvard Class of 1936. Along with Robert Whitehead produced ''Much Ado About Nothing'' featuring Sir John Gielgud, Margaret Leighton and Jean Marsh; also produced ''Saint Joan'' with Siobhan McKenna, both in the 1950's. Lovingly remem
 KINNEY--Frederick G. Krinsky ''Freddie,'' 77, of Orlando, Florida, and formerly of Manhattan, New York, died June 22, 2003. He is survived by his wife, two daughters, and one sister. Online guestbook @ www.andersonmcqueen.com St. Petersburg, FL. >>AD#       
 KOPPETT -- Leonard. The trustees, faculty, alumni and staff of Poly Prep Country Day School mourn the passing of Leonard Koppett, Class of 1940. We, along with his fans, will miss his sports writing, which earned for him a place in the Baseball Hall of Fame. He will be missed but never forg
 KUNSTADTER--John W., on June 18, 2003 at age 75, philanthropist, physicist and international banker, died peacefully at home. Beloved husband of Geraldine Kunstadter. Loving father of John Jr., Lisa and Chris Kunstadter and Elizabeth von Habsburg. Devoted grandfather of eight. Dear brother 
 LEBLANG--Mack. Park East Synagogue mourns the passing of our Honorary President and Chairman of the Board, Mack Leblang. His leadership was crucial to the development of the Minskoff Cultural Center Rabbi Arthur Schneier Park East Day School. Deepest sympathy to the entire family. Rabbi Art
 LECKEY -- Thomas Philip, suddenly on June 23, 2003, in Arlington, VA. He was born in Manhattan on May 15, 1934 to Tom and Molly Leckey of the Bronx. A graduate of Fordham Preparatory School, Columbia College and the University of Notre Dame, he maintained a life-long love of history. From 1
 McEWEN--O. Currier, M.D. The faculty and staff of NYU School of Medicine express their deepest sadness over the death of O. Currier McEwen, M.D., former Dean of the School of Medicine and a distinguished member of the faculty for thirty-eight years. Dr. McEwen graduated from the School of M
 PHELPS--Paul Edwin, age 62, passed away June 22, 2003 after a valiant struggle with multiple myeloma. Paul was an award-winning jewelry designer, model-maker, fine jewelry manufacturer, craftsman and inventor holding three patents. He was employed by M.S. Nelkin & Co., and was past presiden
 SANDBACK -- Fred. The Trustees and Staff of Dia Art Foundation mourn the loss of a great artist and friend, Fred Sandback. All of our lives have been enriched by Fred's life, spirit, energy, and work, and he will be deeply missed. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to Fred's family. L
 SHERMAN -- Jacques Jr., M.D. The medical staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with sorrow the death of Dr. Jacques Sherman Jr. He was associated with Maimonides Medical Center until his retirement. Dr. Sherman was the first medical director of the Medical Center. We extend sincere con
 URIS--Leon. The American Friends of The Ghetto Fighters' Museum notes with sadness the passing of Leon Uris, a former Board member whose path-breaking literary work, Mila 18, helped bring to the world's attention the heroic struggle of the Warsaw Ghetto Resistance during the Holocaust. His 
 WADDELL--Harry Lee, of Yachats, OR (formerly of NYC, Port Jervis and Garden City), on June 25. A newspaper and magazine editor and executive, he worked for the Buffalo Evening News, McGraw-Hill, Doubleday & Co., and Simmons-Boardman. In 1983 he retired to Port Jervis with his second wife He
 WINTER--Philip L., Esq. Formerly of Larchmont, N.Y. passed away Tuesday, June 24, 2003 in Jensen Beach, FL. He was predeceased by his wife Sarah ''Scat'' Winter and their daughter Jeanie. He is survived by two grandchildren, his stepson and two nieces and nephews. He graduated Harvard Colle
 POST--Sheldon. 9/5/36-6/25/88 Founder, Chelsea Pines Inn. Chair, NYC Gay Men's Chorus. Board, Congregation Beth Simchat Torah. 15 years gone: a moment, a lifetime. As we celebrate Gay Pride this week, we recall those in our community who were lost too soon in the ongoing war against AIDS. S
 Fred Sandback, a sculptor internationally known for his Minimalist works made from lengths of colored yarn, died on Monday at his studio in New York. He was 59. Mr. Sandback, who suffered from depression, committed suicide, said his wife, Amy Baker Sandback. For almost 40 ye
 Lester Maddox, the Atlanta restaurant owner and archsegregationist who adopted the pick handle as his symbol of defiance in a successful bid for the Georgia governorship in 1966, died on Wednesday in Atlanta. He was 87. Mr. Maddox first came to national attention in 1964, after he v
 ALTMAN--Edwin J. On June 24, 2003 at age 90. Beloved husband of Glen, cherished father of Pat Falkenberg, Ginny Aaron and Tracy Warner. Dear father-in-law of Edward Falkenberg, Roger Aaron and Greg Warner. Loving grandfather of Chris, Kai and Merrill Falkenberg, Peter and Todd Aaron, Haley 
 HELFANT--Gerson, peacefully, on June 24. A graduate of Erasmus Hall High School, attended Syracuse University. A self-made success as CEO of Bennett Utilities, served as president of Westhampton Beach Rotary, Commodore of Westhampton Yacht Squadron. Survived by his wife Judith, daughters Id
 KINNEY--Frederick G. Krinsky ''Freddie,'' 77, of Orlando, Florida, and formerly of Manhattan, New York, died June 22, 2003. He is survived by his wife, two daughters, and one sister. Online guestbook @ www.andersonmcqueen.com St. Petersburg, FL. >>AD#       
 KUNSTADTER--John W., on June 18, 2003 at age 75, philanthropist, physicist and international banker, died peacefully at home. Beloved husband of Geraldine Kunstadter. Loving father of John Jr., Lisa and Chris Kunstadter and Elizabeth von Habsburg. Devoted grandfather of eight. Dear brother 
 McEWEN--O. Currier, M.D. The faculty and staff of NYU School of Medicine express their deepest sadness over the death of O. Currier McEwen, M.D., former Dean of the School of Medicine and a distinguished member of the faculty for thirty-eight years. Dr. McEwen graduated from the School of M
 SANDBACK -- Fred. The Trustees and Staff of Dia Art Foundation mourn the loss of a great artist and friend, Fred Sandback. All of our lives have been enriched by Fred's life, spirit, energy, and work, and he will be deeply missed. We extend our most heartfelt condolences to Fred's family. L
 WADDELL--Harry Lee, of Yachats, OR (formerly of NYC, Port Jervis and Garden City), on June 25. A newspaper and magazine editor and executive, he worked for the Buffalo Evening News, McGraw-Hill, Doubleday & Co., and Simmons-Boardman. In 1983 he retired to Port Jervis with his second wife He
 WINTER--Philip L., Esq. Formerly of Larchmont, N.Y. passed away Tuesday, June 24, 2003 in Jensen Beach, FL. He was predeceased by his wife Sarah ''Scat'' Winter and their daughter Jeanie. He is survived by two grandchildren, his stepson and two nieces and nephews. He graduated Harvard Colle
 John G. Adams, a former general counsel for the Army whose repeated clashes with the anti-Communist crusader Joseph R. McCarthy in the early 1950's ultimately helped bring him down, died today at his home in Dallas. He was 91. Despite a long career in public service during five deca
 ALTMAN--Edwin J. On June 24, 2003 at age 90. Beloved husband of Glen, cherished father of Pat Falkenberg, Ginny Aaron and Tracy Warner. Dear father-in-law of Edward Falkenberg, Roger Aaron and Greg Warner. Loving grandfather of Chris, Kai and Merrill Falkenberg, Peter and Todd Aaron, Haley 
 ANELLO--Robert, who lived a fabulous life, passed away on June 26th, 2003. He experienced his American dream as a soldier, tailor, printer, real estate broker, composer and avid New York Yankee fan. He enriched the lives of his wife Rose, his children and his five grandchildren. He will be 
 CHAIKIN--Joseph. The Cherry Lane Theatre, its Board, staff and families mourn the loss of our beloved colleague Joe Chaikin, actor, director, innovator, mentor and friend. His spirit and selfless love of the theatre and all its possibilities will surely be missed. >>AD#       
 CHAITE--Arthur M. Died peacefully in Hanover, NH after a short illness on June 25, 2003 at age 92. Beloved husband of the late Miriam Chaite, loving father of John and Arthur M. Jr., devoted father-in-law of Melinda, grandfather of Arthur M., III and his wife Courtney; survived by his siste
 EILE--Martin. Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Martin Eile. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Alfred Youngwood, President >>AD#       
 GOLDFARB -- Gene. More than a good friend, a person who always made you feel good about yourself. We will always miss him and our hearts and love and tears go out to Judy, Ellen and Lauren and their children. Tina & Bill Flaherty >>AD#       
 HOLLAND--Sidney Jr. Died peacefully on June 26 at age 70. Born in Childress, TX, he received his B.A. and M.B.A. at University of Texas, Austin. Arrived in New York and became a self-made success as a Vice President at Kidder Peabody. Served in the ''Great War'' between Korea and Vietnam an
 KRESIN -- Mark ''Marky''. Died June 23. Survived by his son Marshal. They are burying you today. The sorrow of it. You were too good for us anyway. Most didn't know what a dark place you were in or for how long. Fortunately and hopefully we will never know that place. We know you are at pea
 KUNSTADTER--John W., on June 18, 2003 at age 75, philanthropist, physicist and international banker, died peacefully at home. Beloved husband of Geraldine Kunstadter. Loving father of John Jr., Lisa and Chris Kunstadter and Elizabeth von Habsburg. Devoted grandfather of eight. Dear brother 
 MESSINGER--Fred. We will miss our lifelong friend whose sense of humor brightened our lives. We will especially miss Fred as a kibbitz and admire the legacy he left to his wonderful June, grandchildren and great-grandchildren. Our hearts go out to Lisa at this difficult time. >>AD#       
 SMITH--Joseph B. on June 25, 2003. Beloved husband of Catherine (nee McAuliffe) loving father of Kathy, Betty Maffeo, Joseph and Michael. Survived by nine grandchildren and one great grandchild. Brother of Annette, Teresa O'Neill and Loretta (Sr. Alice Smith, OP). Reposing at Gannon Funeral
 SPELLMAN--Dr. Sidney of Bronxville. Died June 25, 2003 at age 84. Survived by his wife Leonore (nee Pincus) Spellman, sons Dr. Eric Spellman and Dr. Dean Spellman. For information Zion Memorial Chapel 914-381-1809. >>AD#       
 FREUND--Lucas Samuel. Someone passes, And while I wonder If it is he, The midnight moon Is covered with clouds. With all our heart and love, Mom, Dad and Charlotte FREUND--Lucas Samuel. December 5, 1981-June 27, 1997. The bird of sorrow will always nest in our hair. Love ya, Grandma
 Richard H. Pough, a founder of the Nature Conservancy whose many decades of conservation efforts, initially undertaken as a concerned individual, led to the establishment of nature preserves from Florida to Maine and as far west as Arizona, died on Tuesday at his home in Chilmark, Mass. He 
 Sir Denis Thatcher, steadfast husband of former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher and a man who embraced his role as second fiddle with aplomb and humor, died today in a London hospital. Sir Denis, 88, who had been in frail health, died with his wife and twin children, Carol and Mark
 Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, a central figure in the political transformation of the South and the longest-serving senator in American history, died yesterday in Edgefield, S.C. He was 100. He had been living in Edgefield, his hometown, since retiring from the Senate in January
 David Newman, the screenwriter who collaborated with the director Robert Benton on the groundbreaking crime-spree film ''Bonnie and Clyde,'' died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 66. The cause was a stroke, said Bobby Zarem, a family friend. When ''Bonnie and Clyde'' opened in
 I. Bernard Cohen, a Newton scholar and Harvard educator whose life's work molded the history of physical science as an academic discipline in the United States, died on June 20 at his home in Waltham, Mass. He was 89. Dr. Cohen joined the Harvard faculty as an instructor in physics 
 FRANKEL--Bruce. On June 26, 2003 at age 54. Cherished husband of Anita. Beloved son of Hannah and Arthur. Devoted brother to Gale Schwartz and Randi Reikes. Loving uncle of Meredith, Lauren and Jeremy. Senior partner of Angel & Frankel, P.C. Service Sunday, June 29, 10AM at Congregation Rod
 GOLBERT--Melvin H. Beloved husband of Evelyn. Devoted father of Ellen Magdassi, Stan, and the late Steven. Loving grandfather of Dana, Talia, and Noa. Brother of Helen Goldsmith. Services Sunday, 2:00 PM at RiversideNassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY. GOLBE
 GOLDFIN--Alfred ''Shakey'' on June 25, 2003. Husband of the late Dollyann (nee Micklin) Goldfin of Moorestown. Father of Hugh Scot (Sonny) Goldfin, Robin Ellis Goldfin, Pamala (Jack) Goldfin Clowar, Avery Austin Goldfin, Craig Julian Goldfin and Glen Marc Goldfin. Brother of Joyce Goldfin. 
 KUNSTADTER--John W., on June 18, 2003 at age 75, philanthropist, physicist and international banker, died peacefully at home. Beloved husband of Geraldine Kunstadter. Loving father of John Jr., Lisa and Chris Kunstadter and Elizabeth von Habsburg. Devoted grandfather of eight. Dear brother 
 RADUTZKY--Harry. On June 27, 2003, at age 92. Beloved husband of Beatrice, adored father to Roslyn Wiener and Ellen Radutzky Stockel, loving grandfather to Sanford Wiener, Amy Wiener, Giulia Stockel, Bruno Stockel and great-grandfather to Jacob and Madeliene Wiener. A trusted and inseparabl
 SMITH--Joseph B. on June 25, 2003. Beloved husband of Catherine (nee McAuliffe) loving father of Kathy, Betty Maffeo, Joseph and Michael. Survived by nine grandchildren and one great grandchild. Brother of Annette, Teresa O'Neill and Loretta (Sr. Alice Smith, OP). Reposing at Gannon Funeral
 URIS--Leon. 78, well known for his history-based novels, passed away in his home on Shelter Island, NY, on Saturday, June 21, 2003. Mr. Uris is survived by his sister Esther (Essie) Kofsky of Baltimore; three children, Karen UrisDuffy (Matthew) of San Diego, Mark Jay (Patricia) of Denver, a
 Strom Thurmond of South Carolina, a central figure in the political transformation of the South and the longest-serving senator in American history, died on Thursday in Edgefield, S.C. He was 100. He had been living in Edgefield, his hometown, since retiring from the Senate in Janua
 John Henry Redwood III, a playwright, actor, librettist and lyricist whose work reflected different racial and ethnic experiences in America, died on June 17 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 60. The cause was heart disease, said John Essay, his New York manager. Mr. Redwo
 ALTMAN--Edwin J. On June 24, 2003 at age 90. Beloved husband of Glen, cherished father of Pat Falkenberg, Ginny Aaron and Tracy Warner. Dear father-in-law of Edward Falkenberg, Roger Aaron and Greg Warner. Loving grandfather of Chris, Kai and Merrill Falkenberg, Peter and Todd Aaron, Haley 
 BERLIN--Joseph. Age 87. Beloved husband of Helen. Loving father of Kenneth, Richard and Jeffrey. Dear fatherin-law of Sue Ann and Janine. Devoted grandfather of Jennifer, Teddy and Luke. He passed away with his adoring family close by. He had been President of the Robert Hall Stores and a l
 CITRON--Peter. Omaha, NE, died at home, Thursday, June 26th. Survived by his mother Ruth, of Chatham, MA, brother and sister-in-law, John and Ellen, of South Harwich, MA, nephew, James and niece, Marjory. Contributions can be made to Helen Keller Worldwide, 352 Park Avenue South, New York, 
 DOWNS--Warren J., passed away June 25, 2003 at his home in Tucson, AZ. Formerly of Bronxville, NY. After a long and courageous battle with Progressive Supernuclear Palsy. Survived by his wife of 46 years, Rita (nee Curry). Proud father of Stephen (Kelly) of Grand Rapids, MI, Brenda of Tucso
 FADER--Daniel N., 73, distinguished teacher and author, died on June 23, 2003, at his home in Truro on Cape Cod, after an extended battle with cancer. Professor of English at University of Michigan. Beloved husband of Professor Christine Verzar; loving father of Dr. Paul Fader and his wife 
 FRANKEL--Bruce. On June 26, 2003 at age 54. Cherished husband of Anita. Beloved son of Hannah and Arthur. Devoted brother to Gale Schwartz and Randi Reikes. Loving uncle of Meredith, Lauren and Jeremy. Senior partner of Angel & Frankel, P.C. Service Sunday, June 29, 10AM at Congregation Rod
 GLANZ--Alfred. On June 23, 2003, in San Diego, died of heart disease. Preceded in death by beloved wife, Evelyn Glanz. He was deeply loved by daughters, Tobey Glanz, of San Diego, and Kitty Glanz, of Santa Barbara, sister, Grace Hasenbush, of Boston, and nephews, Joe and Henry Hasenbush. He
 HIRSCH--Philip J. Died on June 27 after a brief illness at home in Scottsdale, Arizona. Devoted and loving husband, father and grandfather, he is survived by his wife, Judith; son, Lawrence; daughter-inlaw, Iva, and grandchildren, Adina and Rebecca. He leaves behind many served wisely and f
 IDOL--Charles William Sr. Died on June 20, 2003, in Vero Beach, Florida, at the age of 85. He was born in High Point, North Carolina, and raised on a 500-acre farm with his six brothers and seven sisters. Mr. Idol graduated from The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1941. He pl
 KLOORFAIN--Stuart ''Stuey''. 77, died June 27, 2003. A longtime resident of North Miami Beach, Fla., formerly from the Upper West Side, Manhattan. Survived by his sister and brother-in-law, Mitzi and Keith Duncan; his nephews, Jeffrey Stamm, Philip Stamm; his niece, Robbie Olivo, and loving
 KOPPETT--Leonard. The Columbia University Department of Athletics mourns the passing of Leonard Koppett, one of the nation's most revered sports journalists and observers. A friend and advisor to Columbia Athletics for more than 50 years, Leonard stands with Lou Gehrig and Eddie Collins as 
 KUNSTADTER--John W., on June 18, 2003 at age 75, philanthropist, physicist and international banker, died peacefully at home. Beloved husband of Geraldine Kunstadter. Loving father of John Jr., Lisa and Chris Kunstadter and Elizabeth von Habsburg. Devoted grandfather of eight. Dear brother 
 LAING--William James Scott. Former Consul General (commercial) New York 1954, career British Diplomat 1937-1959 various posts in Buenos Aires, Helsinki, Brussels. Member of the United Nations staff 1960-1976, consultant to motor industry publications, Economist Intelligence Unit 1977-1992. 
 LAVINSKY--Emanuel. Died June 24th at age 83. Beloved husband of Deborah. Beloved father of Barbara (Steve) and Roger (Jeri). Proud grandfather of Ethan. Brother of Larry (Dena) and brother-inlaw of Rhoda and Charles. Loving uncle of Andrea, Edwin, Joshua, Avram (Priscilla) and Ezra. Devoted
 MAHLER--Joseph J. On June 27, of Manhasset, NY. Beloved husband of Marion. Dear father of Joseph, Patricia and Christopher. Cherished grandfather of Brittany, Caitlin, Kristen, Christopher, Eileen, Timothy, Brendan, Stephanie. Brother of William, Barbara and Thomas. In repose at The Fairchi
 MARSH--Spencer S. Jr., 96, former Vice President of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, died June 26, 2003. He is survived by wife Doris, and sons Spencer, Stuart, and Theron. Services at St. Peter's Episcopal Church, Morristown, NJ, Tuesday, July 1, 10 AM. Donations in lieu of flowers to
 McLEAN--James F., CSP. On June 26, 2003, at age 95. Born in The Bronx, NY, he was ordained a Paulist Priest by Francis Cardinal Spellman June 7, 1941. Shortly after ordination he served as a naval chaplain during the Second Wold War. His other assignments included St. Olaf's in Bountiful, U
 MEYERS--Lawrence, M.D. 88, of NYC, died June 27, 2003. Beloved husband of Judith. Father of Alice Corjescu and Dr. Frederic and his wife Sue Meyers. Grandfather of Zack and Alex. Funeral service and interment private. For information, W.J. Leber Funeral Home, Chester, NJ; 908879-3090. >>AD#
 RADUTZKY--Harry. On June 27, 2003, at age 92. Beloved husband of Beatrice, adored father to Roslyn Wiener and Ellen Radutzky Stockel, loving grandfather to Sanford Wiener, Amy Wiener, Giulia Stockel, Bruno Stockel and great-grandfather to Jacob and Madeliene Wiener. A trusted and inseparabl
 TREDANARI -- Leonard J. ''Lee'' ''Tred''. Age 79. Of New York City and East Hampton, N.Y. On June 14, 2003. Born in South Philadelphia. Decorated WWII veteran. Live TV director in the '60's for JFK's presidential campaign and leading programs including ''Person to Person'' and ''Voice of Fi
 TROTTENBERG--Arthur, 85, of Cambridge, MA on June 20, 2003. Graduated Harvard 1948. Served as Associate Dean of the faculty of Arts and Sciences 1950-1968. Vice President, Ford Foundation, 1968-1979. Beloved husband of Markie. Loving father to Jan, Mark and Polly. Capable grandfather to Sar
 URIS--Leon. 78, well known for his history-based novels, passed away in his home on Shelter Island, NY, on Saturday, June 21, 2003. Mr. Uris is survived by his sister Esther (Essie) Kofsky of Baltimore; three children, Karen UrisDuffy (Matthew) of San Diego, Mark Jay (Patricia) of Denver, a
 VITRIOL--Herbert A., of Toronto, formerly of Brookville, NY and Manhattan, died peacefully on June 23, 2003 at age 86. Beloved husband of Muriel (Courshon) for 57 years. Cherished father of Nancy V. Salzman (Lorne) of Toronto and William A. Vitriol (Laurie Ellen) of Manhattan. Loving grandf
 WASHINGTON--Rev. Dr. Preston R. Sr. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the passing of our friend and brother, Rev. Dr. Preston R. Washington Sr., Senior Pastor of Memorial Baptist Church. Rev. Washington inspired our congregation as well as his own with his brillance, passion and faith. Our 
 WEINBERG--Charles. We will miss our caring and gentle friend. In our memories we will hear his Noel Coward and Gilbert and Sullivan, and see him happily swimming. He was our scholar, our literature, art and music maven. He is now at peace. Our hearts go out to Dorothy, Liz and Nancy at this
 Robert R. Wechsler, an advertising executive who had a hand in the creation and continuing success of one of the most popular promotional campaigns ever, the Miss Rheingold Contest, died on June 15 in Rye Brook, N.Y. He was 90 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. Mr. Wechsler was a 26-year
 Fielder Cook, an award-winning director of films and television dramas, died on June 20 in Charlotte, N.C. He was 80 and lived in Charlotte and San Francisco. The cause was a stroke, said his brother-in-law, John Germany. From the medium's earliest days, when dramas were per
 Freddie Meeks, a former sailor whose presidential pardon four years ago recalled the largest mutiny case in American history and the plight of black servicemen in the segregated military of World War II, died on June 19 in Los Angeles. He was 83. The cause was complications from dia
 BAXT--George. 80, an acclaimed screenwriter and mystery novelist, most widely known for his Pharaoh Love detective series, died in New York on June 28 from complications following heart surgery. An uniquely talented man, George was the son of the late Lena and Sam Baxt, brother of Juliette 
 BERLIN--Joseph. Age 87. Beloved husband of Helen. Loving father of Kenneth, Richard and Jeffrey. Dear fatherin-law of Sue Ann and Janine. Devoted grandfather of Jennifer, Teddy and Luke. He passed away with his adoring family close by. He had been President of the Robert Hall Stores and a l
 BUTTERMAN -- Donald Je rome. Died on Saturday, June 28, 2003, at age 68, of cancer. He leaves behind his beloved wife, Roz Kamlet Butterman. With much sadness he will be missed by his brother Edward and step-children Leslie and Adam. Loving grandfather to Rachel and Katie. Memorial service 
 HIRSCH--Philip J. Died on June 27 after a brief illness at home in Scottsdale, Arizona. Devoted and loving husband, father and grandfather, he is survived by his wife, Judith; son, Lawrence; daughter-inlaw, Iva, and grandchildren, Adina and Rebecca. He leaves behind many served wisely and f
 KAPLAN -- Yetta. 100 of Mount Vernon, NY, on June 28, 2003. Devoted wife of the late Irving. Beloved mother of Phyllis and her husband Joseph. Loving grandmother to Mark, Gregg and his wife Roxanne, and Roy and his wife Claudia. Great-grandmother to Gregory, Brian, Jonathon and Harrison. Se
 KUNSTADTER--John W., on June 18, 2003 at age 75, philanthropist, physicist and international banker, died peacefully at home. Beloved husband of Geraldine Kunstadter. Loving father of John Jr., Lisa and Chris Kunstadter and Elizabeth von Habsburg. Devoted grandfather of eight. Dear brother 
 NEWMAN--David. We mourn the loss of our distinguished and admired fellow member. A friend to us all, he loved the company of writers. Herb Sargent, President Mona Mangan, Exec. Dir. Writers Guild of America, East >>AD#       
 NONAS--Dr. Gerson. On June 28, 2003, at age 90. A dedicated internist of exceptional talent, beloved by his patients for his thoroughness and kindness, who right up to the day of his retirement at age 88, was still making house calls. Survived by his daughters Barbara Nonas and her husband 
 O'KANE--Denis J. 48, of Oyster Bay, passed away suddenly on June 27, 2003, while vacationing with his family on Cape Cod. Denis loved life to the fullest and he was full of love. He adored his wife Trish and their five children, Brendan, Denis II, David, William and Sarah. Devoted son of Hu
 SLOBODIN--Alex. 88, died on Saturday, June 28, 2003, in Englewood, NJ. He enlisted in the US Army, rising to the rank of major. Mr. Slobodin had a long and distinguished career as Executive Vice President and Director Treasurer of J. W. Mays, a position he held full time until his passing. 
 URIS--Leon. 78, well known for his history-based novels, passed away in his home on Shelter Island, NY, on Saturday, June 21, 2003. Mr. Uris is survived by his sister Esther (Essie) Kofsky of Baltimore; three children, Karen UrisDuffy (Matthew) of San Diego, Mark Jay (Patricia) of Denver, a
 VANDER POEL--Halsted Billings. 91, died at home in Washington, D.C., on Friday, June 27, 2003. Following a distinquished stint in the navy during World War II he then went on to serve in the Executive Office of the President of the United States (1951-1954). Mr. Vander Poel served under Pre
 Rabbi Robert L. Lehman, a prominent Reform rabbi and a refugee from Nazism who eventually returned to a pulpit in Vienna, died on June 13 at a hospital in Nassau County. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a brain hemorrhage, his family said. Rabbi Lehman retired
