 Bernard H. Siegan, a conservative legal scholar whose unsuccessful nomination to a federal appellate judgeship was one of the most bitterly disputed judicial nominations of the Reagan era, died on Monday in Encinitas, Calif. He was 81 and lived in San Diego. The cause was complicati
 E. S. Anderson, a British microbiologist who was one of the first to warn that giving antibiotics to livestock could backfire, with dangerous consequences for humans, died on March 14 in London. He was 94. Dr. Anderson's death was reported by the British Health Protection Agency.   
 Norman Leonard, an eloquent courtroom voice for unpopular causes -- West Coast longshoremen in the 1930's, left-wing dissenters in the 1950's, free-speech rebels and antiwar protesters in the 1960's and 70's -- died on March 7 at a hospital in San Francisco. He was 92. His death was
 Matt Kennedy, who was born in Coney Island more than a century ago and went on to become its biggest booster, gaining fame for gargantuan cigars, a George Burns sense of timing and a verve for extravagant exposition, died on March 22 in Brooklyn. He was 101, and his last act before 
 Stephen Procuniar, a painter, photographer and master printmaker who became a familiar presence in SoHo after arriving there in 1970, died on March 16 in his Mercer Street apartment. He was 60. He died from complications of gallbladder surgery, said his son, David Procuniar. At his 
 Caleb Foote, whose moral sense influenced him to go to prison for refusing to do even noncombatant work in World War II, then led him to become a law professor known for advocacy of criminal rights, died on March 4 at a hospital in Santa Rosa, Calif. He was 88. The cause was a blood
 Jackie McLean, an acclaimed saxophonist who took a midcareer detour to become a prominent jazz educator, died on Friday at his home in Hartford. He was 74. His death was confirmed by a spokesman for the University of Hartford, where Mr. McLean had taught since 1970. No cause was giv
 Red Hickey, who introduced the spread offense known as the shotgun to the National Football League while coaching the San Francisco 49ers in the early 1960's, died Thursday at a hospice in Aptos, Calif. He was 89. His death was announced by his son Jeffrey. Coaching the 49er
 Barry Bingham Jr., former editor and publisher of The Louisville Courier-Journal and The Louisville Times, whose corrosive feud with two sisters led to the 1986 sale of the newspapers in a high drama that ended the family stewardship of an acclaimed journalistic enterprise, died yesterday i
 Don Alias, a percussionist who had a long career as a sought-after sideman, working with an illustrious array of artists in jazz and pop including Nina Simone, Miles Davis and Joni Mitchell, died on March 28 at his home in Manhattan. He was 66. His death was announced by Melanie Fut
 Gene Pitney, the clean-cut crooner who became a teenage idol in the early 1960's with hits like ''Town Without Pity,'' ''(The Man Who Shot) Liberty Valance'' and ''Only Love Can Break a Heart'' -- songs that showcased his keening tenor -- was found dead yesterday in a hotel in Cardiff, Wale
 Marshall Goldberg, an All-American running back who led the University of Pittsburgh team to the consensus national championship in 1937 and who later became a six-time All-Pro defensive back for the Chicago Cardinals, helping them win the N.F.L. championship in 1947, died on Monday in Chic
 Rudolf Vrba, who as a young man escaped from Auschwitz and provided the first eyewitness evidence not only of the magnitude of the tragedy unfolding at the death camp but also of the exact mechanics of Nazi mass extermination, died on March 27 at a hospital in Vancouver, British Columbia. H
 Dr. Charles L. Schepens, an eye researcher who developed sight-saving procedures and invented a device for viewing the retina that has, in turn, brought about new treatments to prevent blindness, died on March 28 at a hospital in Salem, Mass. He was 94. His death was announced by th
 Canon Frederick B. Williams, whose ministry of a historic Episcopal church extended to the pressing needs of its Harlem neighborhood, and who spoke eloquently to national and international issues, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 66. A statement from his church, the 
 Doug Coombs, who was revered in the high-altitude world of extreme skiing for his perilous, pioneering runs and who was also a guide and teacher to many who pursue the sport, died Monday in an accident in the French Alps while skiing with three other Americans. He was 48. The police
 J. B. Fuqua, a self-made businessman who built a multibillion-dollar conglomerate and became one of Duke University's biggest benefactors, died Wednesday at a hospital in Atlanta. The cause of death was complications from bronchitis. Mr. Fuqua was 87. The company he built, F
 Allan Kaprow, an artist who coined the term ''happenings'' in the late 1950's and whose anti-art, audience-participation works contributed to radical changes in the course of late-20th-century art, died on Wednesday at his home in Encinitas, Calif., near San Diego. He was 78. He die
 Dr. William A. Barnes, a New York surgeon and stomach specialist who developed an early device that improved the catheterized feeding of patients with a blockage of the esophagus, died on March 26 at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 94. His family confirmed his death.      
 Jim Clack, an offensive lineman who played 11 seasons in the National Football League and won two Super Bowl rings with the Pittsburgh Steelers, died Friday in Greensboro, N.C. He was 58 and lived in Greensboro. His wife, Susan, said the cause of death was atrial fibrillation. She s
 Vilgot Sjoman, a Swedish filmmaker whose notoriously risqué ''I Am Curious (Yellow),'' made in 1967 for $160,000, sufficiently alarmed censors to generate millions at the box office and jump-start a new cinematic explicitness, died on Sunday at a Stockholm hospital. He was 81. The 
 Fred Christensen, a leading American ace who shot down six German transport planes in a single day in 1944, died April 4 at a nursing home in Northborough, Mass., near Worcester. He was 84. The cause was complications of diabetes, his daughter Diane Haagensen said. Flying si
 Rajkumar, a child actor who became one of south India's most popular movie stars, with a legion of worshipful fans, died here on Wednesday. He was 77. The cause was cardiac arrest, Dr. Ramana Rao, Mr. Rajkumar's personal physician, told The Press Trust of India. Born Muthura
 The Rev. William Sloane Coffin Jr., a civil rights and antiwar campaigner who sought to inspire and encourage an idealistic and rebellious generation of college students in the 1960's from his position as chaplain of Yale University, then reveled in the role of lightning rod thrust upon him
 Richard Pearlman, a stage director and educator who led one of the country's leading programs for training young professional opera singers, the Chicago Lyric Opera Center for American Artists, died on Saturday in Chicago. He was 68. The cause was cancer, said Susan Mathieson Mayer,
 Shin Sang Ok, a pioneering film director who said that his life was too unbelievable to be a movie plot, what with his introducing the kiss to North and South Korean cinema, being kidnapped by a movie-loving dictator and turning up in Hollywood to create the ''3 Ninjas'' movies, died Tuesda
 Frank Gibney, a noted writer on Asian affairs who was an authority on the culture and business practices of postwar Japan, died on Sunday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 81. The cause was heart failure, his son James said. Until shortly before his death, Mr. Gibn
 Frederick H. Pough, a mineralogist and museum curator who wrote a guide to collecting gems and minerals that became an essential tool for budding geologists, died on April 7 in Rochester. He was 99. The cause was a heart attack, said a grandson, Thomas F. Moore. Dr. Pough (pronounce
 Gwin J. Kolb, a University of Chicago scholar who passed his singular passion for the works of Samuel Johnson on to several generations of literature buffs, died on April 3 in Chicago. He was 86. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, his son, Jack Kolb, said. C
 Francis L. Kellogg, a diplomat and prominent New York socialite who was a special assistant to two secretaries of state, William P. Rogers and Henry A. Kissinger, died on April 6 at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 89. The cause was pneumonia, his son-in-law, Kirk Henckels, said. 
 William F. Woo, the first Asian-American to be the editor of a major daily American newspaper, The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, and the first person outside the Joseph Pulitzer family to be at the editorial helm at that paper, died Wednesday at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 69. T
 Thomas J. Abercrombie, a noted photographer and writer for National Geographic who in nearly 40 years with the magazine visited every corner of the globe, from the sands of the Sahara to the windswept plains of Antarctica, died on April 3 in Baltimore. He was 75 and lived in Shady Side, Md.
 Peter F. Karches, a former Wall Street executive who spent 25 years at Morgan Stanley, died Thursday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 54. The cause was chronic lymphocytic leukemia, said his wife, Susan. Mr. Karches, who earned a bachelor's degree in finance
 Walter W. Ristow, who was known never to have gotten lost and would have had no excuse if he had -- considering he was in charge of more maps than anybody else in the world -- died April 3 in Mitchellville, Md. He was 97. The cause was coronary artery disease, his family said.      
 Philip J. Hyde, whose evocative wilderness photographs, taken over five decades, became a potent weapon in the battle against environmental degradation, died on March 30 in Reno, Nev. He was 84. The cause was complications of a stroke, his son, David Hyde, said. The primary 
 Rabbi Arthur Hertzberg, a provocative scholar of Judaism whose contrarian religious and political views and dedication to civil rights found prolific expression in books, articles and essays, died yesterday. He was 84 and lived in Englewood, N.J. The cause was complications of heart
 Philip J. Hyde, whose evocative wilderness photographs, taken over five decades, became a potent weapon in the battle against environmental degradation, died on March 30 in Reno, Nev. He was 84. The cause was complications of a stroke, his son, David Hyde, said. The primary 
 Rabbi Arthur Hertzberg, a provocative scholar of Judaism whose contrarian religious and political views and dedication to civil rights found prolific expression in books, articles and essays, died on Monday. He was 84 and lived in Englewood, N.J. The cause was complications of heart
 Richard Eckersley, an award-winning graphic designer who introduced unconventional typography to staid-looking university-press books, died on Sunday at his home in Lincoln, Neb. He was 65. The cause is not yet known, although he had been in failing health for more than a year, said
 Dr. Lynn A. Smaha, an interventional cardiologist and former president of the American Heart Association who drew attention to behavioral factors in the prevention of heart disease, died on April 14 at his home in Penn Yan, N.Y. He was 63. The cause was a heart attack. Dr. Smaha was
 Henderson Forsythe, an accomplished character actor who demonstrated his versatility in plays by dramatists like O'Neill, Beckett and Pinter and in rollicking musicals, movies and television -- including 31 years on the soap opera ''As the World Turns,'' died on Monday at his home in Willia
 The Rev. Seymour St. John, who as headmaster of the Choate School steered it through turbulent changes in the 1960's and early 70's, including its merger with Rosemary Hall in 1971, died on Monday at his home on Jupiter Island, Fla. He was 94. His wife, Marie, said he died in his sl
 Warren Platner, an architect and designer who created a furniture collection that has proved to be an enduring icon of 1960's Modernism and designed several prominent interiors in New York, including offices for the Ford Foundation building and the original Windows on the World restaurant, 
 Dennis Duggan, who chronicled life in New York City over six decades for five newspapers, started a column about the subways that inspired other papers to run features on commuting and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan. He was 7
 Eberhardt Rechtin, an electrical engineer and telecommunications expert who helped design the network of earthbound antennas that NASA uses to track radio signals emanating from space, died on April 14 in Torrance, Calif. He was 80. His death was confirmed by his family, which did n
 Scott Crossfield, a legendary test pilot of the post-World War II era who was the first person to fly twice the speed of sound, was killed Wednesday morning when his plane crashed in northern Georgia. He was 84. Mr. Crossfield, who lived in Herndon, Va., just outside Washington, was
 George C. Minden, who for 37 years ran a secret American program that put 10 million Western books and magazines in the hands of intellectuals and professionals in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, died on April 9 at his home in Manhattan. He was 85. The cause was complications o
 Alexis Bespaloff, wine columnist for New York Magazine for more than two decades, the author of six books on wine and a frequent contributor to food, wine and travel magazines, died on Saturday at his home in Las Cruces, N.M. He was 71. The cause was cancer, according to his wife, C
 Tom Ferguson, who spent his life as a physician persuading people to take the reins of their own health care and to use the Internet as a powerful tool in that quest, died on April 14 in Little Rock, Ark. He was 62. He died at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences while be
 Moses Teitelbaum, the grand rabbi of the Satmar Hasidim, one of the world's largest and fastest-growing sects of Orthodox Jews, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 91 and lived in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. His family, through spokesmen, said he died at Mount Sinai Medical Center, wher
 William P. Gottlieb, who with a boxy, old-fashioned press camera indelibly defined what jazz looked like in a brief, magical time when both early legends like Armstrong and Ellington and the emerging beboppers ruled the bandstands and radio waves, died on Sunday at his home in Great Neck, N
 Edward M. Davis, the blunt-speaking Los Angeles police chief during the Symbionese Liberation Army shootout and the Charles Manson killings who later angered conservatives with his surprisingly moderate positions as a state senator, died Saturday in San Luis Obispo, Calif. He was 89.       
 Fausto Vitello, an entrepreneur and publisher who helped take the dying pastime of skateboarding out of the suburbs and into the streets, where it became a rude and riotous multibillion-dollar business, died Saturday while riding his bicycle in Woodside, Calif. He was 59 and lived in Hillsb
 Alexander B. Trowbridge, a commerce secretary in the Lyndon B. Johnson administration, a former president of the National Association of Manufacturers and a longtime member of the Washington establishment, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 76. The cause of death was d
 Howard A. Newman, who helped transform a struggling coal-mining company into a diversified conglomerate in the 1950's and 60's and later employed a similar strategy with the Western Pacific Railroad, died on April 12 at his home in Wellington, Fla., near West Palm Beach. Mr. Newman, who als
 Isaac Witkin, a sculptor whose bold, colorful abstractions helped to shake up the art scenes in London and New York in the 1960's, died on Sunday at his home in Pemberton, N.J. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter Nadine Witkin. In his 20's in London, M
 John Kenneth Galbraith, the iconoclastic economist, teacher and diplomat and an unapologetically liberal member of the political and academic establishment that he needled in prolific writings for more than half a century, died yesterday at a hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 97. 
