 BOYNTON--James. Cushing Academy is deeply saddened by the passing of James Boynton, a longtime trustee and the parent of an alumna. Jim's friendship, trusted wisdom and leadership will be greatly missed. We extend our deepest condolences to his wife, Kate, and children Carrie and James. Mar
 COLEMAN--Henry S. Austin E. Quigley, Dean of Columbia College, The Columbia College Board of Visitors and The Columbia College Alumni Association mourn the passing of Henry S. Coleman, of The Class of 1946 on January 31, 2006. Harry, as he was known, served in many administrative positions 
 COUPER--Richard W. The trustees and staff of the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation grieve the passing of a respected colleague and faithful friend who was a dedicated trustee from 1975 to 1994. Richard Couper not only understood and supported the Foundation's goals and ideals, but a
 FEINBERG--Samuel. The Board of Directors of The Zamir Choral Foundation expresses its profound sorrow on the passing of Samuel Feinberg, beloved father of our esteemed Board Member, Vivian Lazar (and father-in-law of our Founder and Director, Matthew Lazar). May they and their extended fami
 FRANK - Morton. Passed away January 30, 2006. Beloved husband of Charlotte. Devoted father of Peter, Jeffrey and Jonathan; father-inlaw of Carol. Loving grandfather of Dara and David. Caring uncle to many nieces and nephews. Brave officer in World War II. Services Wednesday, February 1, 11 
 GALLO--Samuel E. Sculptor & muralist. 1925-2006. Educated at Oberlin and the Accademia di Belle Arti in Rome. His work graces many private and corporate collections around the world. Beloved husband of Mildred (nee Coiro) and devoted father of Eliza & Carla. Deeply loved and missed by all w
 HALPERN--Arie. It is with profound sadness that we mourn the passing of Arie Halpern, a business leader, builder of Jewish communities, philanthropist, and our dear friend. His life of Torah and Mitzvot will continue to thrive through the deeds of his family. To his wife Eva and their child
 KOSTELANETZ--Boris. On January 31, 2006. A gentleman lawyer. Beloved husband of the late Ethel. Loving father of Lucy and Richard and cherished grandfather of Eliza. Services Thursday 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. $(6$)KOSTELANETZ--Boris. The NYU communit
 McINERNEY - Denis. The partners, associates and staff of the firm of Cahill Gordon & Reindel LLP are profoundly saddened by the passing of Denis McInerney, our distinguished former partner and friend of over 40 years. The former President of the New York County Lawyers Association, and a Fe
 MECZ--Sidonie. On January 30, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Leopold Mecz for sixtythree years. Dear mother of Adrian and his wife Jane. Adored grandmother of Karen and Elizabeth. Cherished friend and relative of Lucille Meidler, Arthur and Carola Rowe. Services today February 1, 1 PM at ''
 MODESTINI--Mario. Art Restorer and Connoisseur of Old Master Paintings, on January 28 at home. A Mass of Christian Burial will be celebrated Thursday, February 2, at St. Ignatius Loyola Church, Park Ave. and 84th Street, NYC, at 11 AM. Cremation to follow at Greenwood Cemetery, Brooklyn, NY
 PAIK--Nam June. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Whitney Museum of American Art notes with great sadness the passing of Nam June Paik. A beloved artist in our Permanent Collection, Nam June was a foremost pioneer of video art and remained one of the medium's most influential figures t
 RYAN--Peter J. Retired pressman, writer, World War II veteran, producer at Carnegie Hall. Beloved husband of the late Frances Kennedy Ryan, loving father of Sally and Angelo, John and Diane, Matthew and Rosalie and the late James. Dear brother of Billy, Julie and the late Rose, Sally, James
 SILVERMAN--Morris. Lighthouse International mourns the death of Morris Silverman, father of Lorin, a generous supporter of the Lighthouse mission to help people of all ages overcome the challenges of vision impairment. On behalf of the Lighthouse Board of Directors, our staff and clients, w
 SOMERFIELD--Ralph Murray died at home January 31 in Floral Park, NY. Ralph was a life long resident of NYC, born of immigrant parents, Benjamin and Sophie, in 1915. His childhood was immersed with the joys of dance, opera, the Yiddish Theater, and a precious friendship with Manny Dichter. H
 TROSS--Leonard. Loving and beloved husband of the late Ann. Cherished father of Roberta Cook and Susan Tross, and father-in-law of Michael Cook. Proud Papa of Jonathan and Alexander Cook. Devoted brother and brother-in-law of Frieda and Del Zucker, the late Laura and Jerry Weinthal and the 
 WOLFF--Walter C. This exceptional and loving man is survived by his wife Janet Bennett, his former wife Lila Wolff and children Nina Feld and David Wolff, grandchildren Giuliana Wolff, Jacob Feld, Matthew and Nicholas Wolff. He will be greatly missed by his son-in-law Jonathan Feld and step
 Stew Albert, who with Abbie Hoffman, Jerry Rubin and a handful of similarly scruffy, leftist anti-establishmentarians formed the Yippie party to protest the Vietnam War, mock institutional authority and nominate a pig, Pigasus, for president, died on Monday at his home in Portland, Ore. He 
 Christopher J. Makins, who followed his father into the British diplomatic service and then shifted course to become an influential expert on United States-European relations for Washington research organizations, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 63. The cause was 
 BEHLER--John L. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the Wildlife Conservation Society are profoundly saddened by the death of our esteemed colleague, John L. Behler. As Curator of Herpetology, Behler began his WCS career in 1970 in the Reptile Department and as an intern. John's knowledge an
 BERNSTEIN--Steven M. On February 1, 2006 of complications of colon cancer. Loving father of Charles Bernstein, devoted husband to Marcia Levy, spectacular brother, and brother-in-law to Susan and Stanley Gebler, Reesa and Steve Levy, Miriam and Leon Luck, warm and supportive uncle to Adam a
 BERSON--Ronald. On January 31. An active litigation lawyer, lover of life with many varied interests. Above all, a devoted family man. He is survived by his wife Carol, his daughter Jill Friedlander, his son Dr. Daniel Berson, and three wonderful grandchildren, Lucy, Adam and Mazzi. He will
 CARMICHAEL--Joel. Noted scholar, author and editor. Midstream Magazine mourns the passing of its Editor Emeritus who served as editor from 1975 to 2001 with distinction. He will be missed. Kalman Sultanik Rabbi Arthur Schneier Leo Haber       
 FRANK--Morton. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Morton Frank. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife Charlotte & their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary       
 HALPERN--Arie. The Board of Directors of The Zamir Choral Foundation expresses its profound sorrow on the passing of Arie Halpern, beloved father of our esteemed Vice President Henry Stein (and father-in-law of our dedicated Board Member Sherry Stein). May they and their extended family be 
 KAMERMAN--Morton. Died February 1, 2006, at the age of 79, in Martin Memorial Hospital, Stuart, Florida, at the end of a long battle with heart problems. He enjoyed a successful and fulfilling life and will be missed and long remembered by his beloved wife of 58 years, Sheila Brody Kamerman
 KARTEN--Morton K. Innovative marketeer and industrialist from Manhattan Beach, NY, died at his Boca Raton, FL home January 30, 2006. Beloved by so many for his unique spirit, intellect and wit; generous with his wisdom and kindness. Deeply committed to service of country through the Army Co
 KOENIG--Simon M., 92. Of Manhattan and Providence, RI, a prominent matrimonial attorney, died January 31 at the Palm Beach, Florida Hospice. He was the husband of Dorothy Oskern Koenig. Born in New York City, the son of the late Samuel and Pearl (Schifter) Koenig, he held degrees from Fordh
 KOSAK--Alvin. Inspiring chemistry professor, stoic humanitarian, and special friend. He left a legacy of concern, thoughtfulness and compassion. Special condolences to his wife Judy, his children David, Andrew & their families. Ira Kukin       
 McINERNEY -- Denis, died peacefully at home on January 31, 2006. Beloved husband of Irene Murphy McInerney. Devoted father of Kathleen O'Hare, Denis J. McInerney and Maura Romano. He is also survived by eight grandchildren. The family will receive friends at the Graham Funeral Home, 1036 Bo
 PAIK--Nam June. A dear friend of the family, collaborator in thermographic imaging and the philosophy of heat in chronic pain. To Shigeko, his devoted wife, our deepest condolence. Mathew Lee, MD Howard A. Rusk Professor of Rehabilitation Medicine Director, Kathryn Walter Stein Chronic Pain
 SCHNITZER--Raymond Leroy, 84. Died on January 29, 2006, in NYC. Beloved and devoted husband of Shirley. Adored and adoring father of Michael. As a long-time radio announcer at Station WNYC, he hosted many classical music programs, anchored news broadcasts and was the host of a long-running 
 SUESHOLTZ--Henrick Daniel ''Herb''. 91, Pioneer in TV and Picture - framing industries. Herb Suesholtz was born in Flatbush, Brooklyn in 1914. In 1935 he received a degree in chemical engineering from prestigious Cooper Union. During the war years he worked for RCA under an important govern
 TROSS--Leonard. Loving and beloved husband of the late Ann. Cherished father of Roberta Cook and Susan Tross, and father-in-law of Michael Cook. Proud Papa of Jonathan and Alexander Cook. Devoted brother and brother-in-law of Frieda and Del Zucker, the late Laura and Jerry Weinthal and the 
 WOLFF--Walter C. An omission from yesterday's notice: Also survived by his beloved sister, Ellen Ducat.       
 KOSTELANETZ--Boris, The Justices of the New York State Supreme Court, Appellate Divsion First Judicial Department mark with sadness the passing of a great friend of the Court and as Chair of the Character and Fitness Committee from 1985-1998 and later as Chair Emeritus, he served the Court 
 Denis McInerney, a specialist in antitrust law whose clients included the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company, W. R. Grace & Company and Goodyear Tire, died on Tuesday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 80. His death was confirmed by his family. Mr. McInerney was a retired p
 APSEL--Abe. Of Boca Raton, FL, died peacefully, on February 1st, at the age of 89. Beloved husband and devoted caregiver for the late Ruth, who battled ALS. Cherished father of Dorine Gordon, and Linda and Nick Faraci. Adored grandfather of Felicia and David. He will be greatly missed by hi
 BERNSTEIN--Steven M. On February 1, 2006 of complications of colon cancer. Loving father of Charles Bernstein, devoted husband to Marcia Levy, spectacular brother, and brother-in-law to Susan and Stanley Gebler, Reesa and Steve Levy, Miriam and Leon Luck, warm and supportive uncle to Adam a
 BERSON - Ronald. Dear friend for 35 years! A polymath dedicated to his family, colleagues, profession and the social order! You will be missed by all. Herbert       
 COLEMAN--Matthew Treanor. Age 24 of New York City and Palm Beach FL, passed away suddenly on February 2, 2006. Loving son of Denis and Annabelle Coleman of Palm Beach, FL. In addition, he is survived by his dear brothers Denis, Nicholas and Timothy. Visitation will be held Saturday and Sund
 DORAN--Charles E. 77, beloved husband of Anne (McGovern) passed away on February 1, 2006. Born in Hartford, CT on March 31, 1928, he was the son of the late Charles Edward and Josephine Maher Doran. Charles was a true gentleman in every sense of the word and a loving, devoted and caring hus
 KAMERMAN--Morton. Died February 1, 2006, at the age of 79, in Martin Memorial Hospital, Stuart, Florida, at the end of a long battle with heart problems. He enjoyed a successful and fulfilling life and will be missed and long remembered by his beloved wife of 58 years, Sheila Brody Kamerman
 KOSAK--Alvin. The faculty and staff of NYU's Department of Chemistry note with sorrow the passing of Alvin Kosak. Dr. Kosak came to the Department of Chemistry as an Associate Professor in 1955. He later served as Chairman of the department for over 15 years, ending his tenure as chair in 1
 McINERNEY - Denis, died peacefully at home on January 31, 2006. Beloved husband of Irene Murphy McInerney. Devoted father of Kathleen O'Hare, Denis J. McInerney and Maura Romano. He is also survived by eight grandchildren. The family will receive friends at the Graham Funeral Home, 1036 Bos
 MOUNTAIN--John D., MD. We note with great sorrow the death of John D. Mountain, MD, an extraordinary clinician, surgeon, teacher and humanist. In 1953, Dr. Mountain became one of the first surgeons at the newly opened North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, NY, which was then a 169-bed community
 SPEVOK--Gregory J. It is with deep regret that we announce the passing of Gregory J. Spevok, of Kenilworth, IL, on Sunday, January 29, 2006 in an auto accident. Beloved husband of Elisabeth (nee Pratt), loving father of Katherine, Eleanor, and Phillip, loved son of Stanley and Catherine. Gr
 KOSTELANETZ - Boris. St. John's School of Law notes with sorrow the passing of a most distinguished alumnus, supporter, and friend. Boris Kostelanetz, Esq., Partner at the law firm of Kostelanetz & Fink. Mr. Kostelanetz graduated from St. John's School of Law in 1936 and became one of the p
 Boris Kostelanetz, considered the dean of tax defense lawyers, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital near his home in Manhattan. He was 94. The cause was complications after a hip injury, his daughter, Lucy Kostelanetz, said. Mr. Kostelanetz, a founding partner of Kostel
 Henry S. Coleman, who arrived at Columbia University as a freshman who would have preferred Princeton and stayed for a third of a century as an administrator, including a memorable 24 hours in 1968 when student demonstrators took him hostage, died on Tuesday in Norwalk, Conn. He was 79.    
 COLEMAN--Matthew Treanor. Age 24 of New York City and Palm Beach FL, passed away suddenly on February 2, 2006. Loving son of Denis and Annabelle Coleman of Palm Beach, FL. In addition, he is survived by his dear brothers Denis, Nicholas and Timothy. Visitation will be held Saturday and Sund
 McINERNEY--Denis. The Society of the Friendly Sons in the City of New York mourns the passing of its Life member, Denis McInerney, distinguished counsel, father and grandfather. The Society extends its deepest sympathy to his family. Alfred E. Smith IV, President Henry F. White, Jr., Histor
 QUINN--Kevin B. Of Somers, New York, and Bolton Landing, New York, passed away at home on February 2nd after a long and courageous battle with pancreatic cancer. He was 63 years old. Kevin worked on the trading floor as a stock specialist and partner with M.J. Meehan & Co. for 30 years. He 
 ROSENBERG -- Murray I. Died on February 2, 2006. Preceded in death by his cherished wife Sandra. Beloved father of Donna, Joe and Amy. Loving grandfather of Noah, Emma, Juliet, Hannah, Ilana and Abby. Born August 1, 1923. Grew up on Hopkinson Av. in Brooklyn and graduated Brooklyn College. 
 SHANOK--Hazzan Morton. The Cantors Assembly notes with profound sadness the passing of one of its founding members, Hazzan Morton Shanok. The first editor of the ''Cantor's Voice'' later to become the ''Journal of Synagogue Music'', Hazzan Shanok devoted most of his pulpit career to serving
 SILVERMAN--Marty. On behalf of the Board of Trustees and the students, faculty, and staff of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, the nation's oldest technological research university, we mourn the passing of a noble son of Troy and our visionary benefactor. To his family we extend our sincere
 TUKEL--Kenneth. Of NYC passed away peacefully on January 31. Beloved husband of Sydell. Loving father of George, Donna and Stephen. Devoted grandfather of Sam and Sky. Cherished uncle and father-in-law. He will be greatly missed by all who were touched by his gentleness and generosity of sp
 WECKSELL--Dr. Irving. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Jerome Seiler, MD, President       
 KOSTELANETZ - Boris. American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the passing of Boris Kostelanetz. A distinguished attorney and humanitarian, Boris was devoted to Israel and the cause of higher education. An AFHU board member and recipient of Ameri
 Romano Mussolini, the Italian jazz pianist whose fame as the fifth and youngest child of the Italian dictator Benito Mussolini was ultimately rivaled by his musical renown, died on Tuesday in Rome. He was 79. His death was announced on the Web site of the small right-wing party Alte
 A memorial service for Skitch Henderson, the ''Tonight'' show bandleader and founder of the New York Pops, will be held on Monday at 4 p.m. in Carnegie Hall. He died on Nov. 1 at 87. The service, which will be open to the public, is to include performances by the New York Pops with 
 Herbert Schilder, a Boston dental surgeon who refined the instruments and techniques used to perform root canals and made the procedure safer and more successful, died on Jan. 25 at his home in Newton, Mass. He was 77. The cause was Lewy body disease, a brain malady, his family said
 John L. Behler, a naturalist and curator of herpetology at the Bronx Zoo who became an influential and international voice for saving endangered turtles, snakes and other reptiles, died on Jan. 31 at his home in Amawalk, N.Y. He was 62. The cause was congestive heart failure, his fa
 ADAMS--Mark. Prominent San Francisco artist, died peacefully January 24, 2006. Born in Fort Plain, New York, 1925, son of Earl and Edith Wohlgemuth Adams, brother of Lucile Adams Smithe. Survived by wife of 52 years, Beth Van Hoesen; nieces Judy Bailey and husband Vernon, Davenport, New Yor
 ALVAREZ - Ernesto. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Casita Maria, the oldest settlement house in New York serving the Hispanic communities of the South Bronx and East Harlem, are deeply saddened by the sudden loss of their esteemed colleague and fellow Trustee, Ernesto Alvarez. His longti
 APPLETON--John Johnston. 81, on January 30, at home in NYC. Editor, writer, friend of all who crossed his path. Survived by his wife of 43 years, Myra; a brother, William W.; a sister, Tina Bishop; various nephews, nieces, cousins and godchildren. A memorial service to be announced.       
 ASH--David H. July 4, 1922-January 24, 2006. David passed with his loved ones at his side. Born in E. Norwalk, Conn., David was preceded in death by parents Bessi and Harry, brothers Jacob and Barney, and sisters Miriam, Nedi and Ruth. His children Jodi, Marc and Robin, his grandson Morgan,
 CARRUTH--Gorton V. Of Briarcliff Manor, NY. An author and editor, he died January 30, 2006, at home at age 80. Visiting hours Monday, 4-8 pm, February 6, 2006, at Beecher Funeral Home, Pleasantville, NY; 914-769-0001.       
 COLEMAN--Henry S. The Senior Society of Nacoms honors Henry S Coleman for his service to Columbia and his 60 years with the Society. Harry's words and memory will always inspire us. The Advisory Committee       
 COLEMAN--Matthew Treanor. Age 24 of New York City and Palm Beach FL, passed away suddenly on February 2, 2006. Loving son of Denis and Annabelle Coleman of Palm Beach, FL. In addition, he is survived by his dear brothers Denis, Nicholas and Timothy. Visitation will be held Saturday and Sund
 ELLERS--Peter, 50. Much beloved husband of Pam Sommers, died at home on February 2nd. Peter is also survived by his parents Elaine & James Ellers, sister Penny Ellers-Britton, her husband Michael & daughter Emma, mother-in-law Carol Sommers, sister-in-law Florie Sommers Huppert and her husb
 GOODMAN--Norman H. 83, died peacefully January 24, at his Greenwich Village home, with his wife Barbara at his side. They had been married 60 years. Besides his wife, he is survived by his daughters, Vanina and Chryse, their husbands, six grandchildren, and his brothers, Peter & Thomas and 
 HENRY--Charles, 78. Of Las Vegas, NV. A 31 year veteran of the New York City Police Department died in Las Vegas on February 1, 2006 after a brief illness. Henry was appointed to the NYPD in 1951 and was one of the Department's first African American Chiefs. Henry worked a majority of his c
 HERKO--Robert W. Of Harrison, NY, died Saturday, February 4, 2006, after a long illness with lung cancer. He is survived by his wife Robin, his two sons, Russell and Randall, his daughter Regina and step-daughters, Royce Abrams and Amy Kean. His seven grandchildren, Collin, Gillian, Shea, C
 HYMAN--Fredrick. February 1. Predeceased by wife Mildred. Beloved father to Steven, Kenneth and Debra, and loving husband to Gail. Founder of Grand Lumber Jersey City, NJ. His memory will be with us forever.       
 KAMERMAN--Morton. The Board of Directors and all tenant shareholders express our deep sorrow at the passing of Morton Kamerman, a resident at 1125 Park Avenue for nearly 50 years. A gentle, thoughtful, intelligent and witty man, Mort's passing is a great loss. Our condolences to his wife Sh
 LAZAR--Norman K. On February 2, 2006. He enjoyed a successful and fulfilling life and will be dearly missed by his beloved wife of 58 years, Marilyn, and children Ronald (Gloria), Andrew (Carol) and Douglas, and his grandchildren Lori (Eric), Michael, Jason and Ethan. A sweet, gentle and ex
 QUINN--Kevin B. Of Somers, New York, and Bolton Landing, New York, passed away at home on February 2nd after a long and courageous battle with pancreatic cancer. He was 63 years old. Kevin worked on the trading floor as a stock specialist and partner with M.J. Meehan & Co. for 30 years. He 
 RYAN--Donald Carney.Died New York City October 12, 2005. Born in Burlington, VT on December 6, 1920, son of Owen E. and Alice Carney Ryan. Graduate of Burlington HS, 1939 and the University of VT, 1949. Served three years in WW II. Studied banking and finance at NYU. Worked for many financi
 SOLANTO--Dr. Gregory A. Of Rye, La Jolla, CA, Pelham Manor, on February 1, 2006, age 91. A captain during WWII and Bronze Star recipient. A graduate of New York Medical College, he was a dedicated physician and surgeon. Beloved husband of the late Geraldine. Cherished father of Mary V. Sola
 SOMERFIELD--Ralph Murray died at home January 31 in Floral Park, NY. Ralph was a life long resident of NYC, born of immigrant parents, Benjamin and Sophie, in 1915. His childhood was immersed with the joys of dance, opera, the Yiddish Theater, and a precious friendship with Manny Dichter. H
 WECHSLER--Lewis S. Died Friday, February 3, 2006, at the age of 79, after a long and brave battle with heart disease. He leaves behind his wife of 31 years, Joan Kirkendall Wechsler, his children Zachary Wechsler, Hilary Wechsler Gibson. His grandchildren Teddy, Adam and Miranda. His sister
 KOSTELANETZ--Boris. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member and Mens Club Honorary Director, Boris Kostelanetz. To his family and loved ones, we express our profound sympathy. May beautiful memory bring comfort to those who mo
 BELFER--Ira. 1911--2001. He cherished the gift of life. Belfer Family       
 Basil V. Worgul, a biologist at Columbia University who studied radiation's harmful effects on the eye, particularly as a cause of cataracts, and helped lead a long-term international study of thousands of workers exposed to radiation in the Chernobyl disaster in 1986, died on Jan. 19 at hi
 John S. Bainbridge, who organized a law-education program that trained many leaders in emerging African nations in the 1960's and later helped establish the Touro College law center in Huntington, N.Y., died on Jan. 25 in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 90. His family said he died after 
 Myron Waldman, an animator and illustrator who worked on such celebrated characters as Betty Boop, Popeye, Superman and Casper the Friendly Ghost during his long career, died Saturday at New Island Hospital in Bethpage, N.Y. He was 97 and lived in Wantagh, N.Y. The cause was congest
 ASH--David H. July 4, 1922-January 24, 2006. David passed with his loved ones at his side. Born in E. Norwalk, Conn., David was preceded in death by parents Bessi and Harry, brothers Jacob and Barney, and sisters Miriam, Nedi and Ruth. His children Jodi, Marc and Robin, his grandson Morgan,
 BELKIN--Marvin. Died February 3rd, 2006. Esteemed research executive at Seagram Philips Electronics and The Brain Group. Our sincere condolences to his family. Elissa Moses and Mark Shornick       
 COTLER--Charles. 77, of Boynton Beach, Florida. Passed away February 4, 2006. Charles will be greatly missed by his beloved Barbara Hornrich. Daughter Tina Bilangino (David), son Mark Cotler (Janet) and grandchildren Alex, Jason, Matthew and Rina. Charles was predeceased by son Michael. Int
 MODESTINI - Mario. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the death of Mario Modestini, a generous benefactor whose gifts of a Chiari painting of Bathsheba and, with his wife, a Granacci Madonna enhanced the Musem's European paintings collection. His connoisseurship 
 SMITH--Robert A. Loving and devoted husband of Roslyn. Cherished father of Penny Novick, and Howard and Amy Smith. Adored grandfather of Jeffrey and Stephanie Smith, and Brett and Drake Novick. A compassionate man who always put his family first, he could not do enough for family and friend
 Ronald Hector, the silver-haired fellow in the morning suit behind the front desk of the Carlyle hotel whose aplomb in juggling room preferences and protecting the privacy of princesses, prime ministers and pretenders was the stuff of lobby legend, died on Jan. 29 at Memorial Sloan-Ketterin
 The bandleader Skitch Henderson, who died on Nov. 1 at 87, was honored yesterday at a Carnegie Hall memorial service as a towering influence over American entertainment who retained a wry sense of humor and common touch on the streets of New York. The service, on a stage where Mr. H
 John Vaught, who coached the University of Mississippi to national football prominence and developed the star quarterbacks Charlie Conerly and Archie Manning, died Friday in Oxford, Miss. He was 96. His death was announced by the university. In 25 seasons as head coach, Vaug
 Martin Feinstein, who helped the Kennedy Center in Washington and its resident opera company grow and fill a large, empty niche in the capital's cultural life as executive director of one, then general manager of the other, died on Sunday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 84. The c
 CEDARBAUM--Bernard, 77. Died at home, February 5, 2006. Much beloved husband of Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum, loving father of Daniel and Jonathan and father-inlaw of Caryn Jacobs and Alice Winkler, devoted brother of Dr. Harvey Cedarbaum, proud grandfather of Jacob, Samuel, Louis and Dahlia. F
 COLEMAN--Henry S. It is with great sadness that we note the passing of our Trustee Emeritus, Henry S. Coleman. Harry served as Chairman of the Foundation's Scholarship Committee for many years. He was a valued friend of ours and a great friend of the entire Columbia community. We extend our
 EHRLICH--Harvey B. Died peacefully at age 98 after a brief illness. Beloved husband of the late Belle ''Bubbles''; father of Barbara and Jules Reich, and Jerrold and Vivian (Fenster) Ehrlich; grandfather of Mark and Insuk, Bruce and Lisa (Mirowitz), Alan and June, Randi and Alan Kahn, Phili
 FAZIO--Charles R. A prominent international consultant, died suddenly on February 3, 2006. Born in Brooklyn, NY in 1936, son of George and Helen (Mulcahy) Fazio. Survived by his wife Carolyn; his children Carla Fazio, Teresa Fazio Hoffman and Steve Hoffman, Charles and Nanette Fazio, Victor
 FISHMAN - Bernard. The Jewish Theological Seminary community mourns the death of Bernard Fishman of Philadelphia, a former member of JTS's Board of Trustees. A leading philanthropist and longtime friend of JTS, Bernie was highly respected in the business and Jewish community for his integri
 HECHT--Manfred. The Postgraduate Psychoanalytic Society mourns the loss of our esteemed founding member and first president. We send condolences to his family.       
 LENGEMANN--George L. On February 5, 2006 at the age of 78. Beloved husband of Ruth C. Haupert-Lengemann. Loving brother of Dorothy Lengemann Walker and caring uncle of Wendy L. Walker, both of Virginia, and Dr. William H. Walker of Pittsburgh. George waged a valiant battle against cancer fo
 PEABODY--John Damon Jr. Died January 23, 2006 at his home in Hancock, New Hampshire. He served in the Naval Air Corps in World War II. He married Virginia Boyd who died in 1983. He worked in the US State Department in the Agency for International Development in Turkey, Brazil and Honduras. 
 REUVEN--Frank, 85. Of Tenafly, NJ on February 5, 2006. Survived by his wife Bernice (nee Kaplow), sons Peter and James & his wife Belle, sister Devora Wagenberg, grandchildren Will and Rebecca. Donations to Ben Gurion University of the Negev and Englewood Hospital. Services Wednesday, 1:00 
 SHAPIRO--Alan. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Alan Shapiro, an esteemed member, and extend to his beloved wife, Susan, and family its deepest sympathy. David Rifkin, President Harry J. Berg, Secretary       
 SMITH--Robert A. Loving and devoted husband of Roslyn. Cherished father of Penny Novick & Howard and Amy Smith. Adored grandfather of Jeffrey & Stephanie Smith, and Brett and Blake Novick. A compassionate man who always put his family first, he could not do enough for family and friends ali
 YONG--Rose. The Board of Directors and staff of the JCC Mid - Westchester extend their sincere condolences to Stephen E. Yong on the passing of his beloved mother. Cookie Quittman, President       
 Reuven Frank, a pioneering television news producer whose career at NBC ran from Huntley and Brinkley (whom he first paired on the evening news in the 1950's) to Tom Brokaw (whom he installed as a solo anchor in the 1980's), died Sunday at Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. He was 85
 Lou Jones, a former world-record holder in the 400 meters and a member of the United States 4x400-meter relay squad that won a gold medal at the 1956 Melbourne Olympics, died Friday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 74 and lived in New Rochelle, N.Y. His death was an
 ALVAREZ--Ernesto. Died on February 1 in Palm Beach of a thoracic aneurism. Coffee grower, entrepreneur, patron of the arts, and philanthropist, he was born in El Salvador. He graduated from the Hackley School and from Yale University. He served as a trustee of Casita Maria, Inc., and of the
 CATTON--Sam E. The Magen David Yeshivah Family mourn the passing of our much loved and highly respected friend, founder and patriarch Sam Catton. His knowledge of Sephardic tradition, history and literature is unsurpassed. As a founder of the Sephardic Heritage Foundation and author of our 
 CEDARBAUM--Bernard, 77. Died at home, February 5, 2006. Much beloved husband of Miriam Goldman Cedarbaum, loving father of Daniel and Jonathan and father-inlaw of Caryn Jacobs and Alice Winkler, devoted brother of Dr. Harvey Cedarbaum, proud grandfather of Jacob, Samuel, Louis and Dahlia. F
 FAZIO--Charles R. A prominent international consultant, died suddenly on February 3, 2006. Born in Brooklyn, NY in 1936, son of George and Helen (Mulcahy) Fazio. Survived by his wife Carolyn; his children Carla Fazio, Teresa Fazio Hoffman and Steve Hoffman, Charles and Nanette Fazio, Victor
 FRANK--Harold M. Of Wayne, NJ. Retired Dentist. Husband of Ruth S. Frank. Father of Susan and Martin. Grandfather of Stephen, Rebecca, David and Joshua. His generosity, loving kindness and humor will be remembered by all of us. Services are Thursday, at 11:30 AM at Robert Schoem's Menorah C
 FRANK--Reuven, 85. Of Tenafly, NJ on February 5, 2006. Survived by his wife Bernice (nee Kaplow), sons Peter and James and his wife Belle, sister Devora Wagenberg, grandchildren Will and Rebecca. Donations to Ben Gurion University of the Negev and Englewood Hospital. Services Wednesday, 1:0
 GERSTEN--Herbert. Adored companion of Joan Rosenblum. Beloved father of Yetta Pond. Dear brother of Bernard (Cora) and Leon. Sweet uncle of Alexandra, Jenny, Jillian and Katy. Best friend of Wendy, Ken, Cory and Andy Schuman. Thanks to Dr. Romanello and Chandra. He always saw the light at t
 KASE--Dr. Harold M. Pelham Manor Owners, Inc. records with deep sorrow the passing of Dr. Kase, our original Board member and guiding light for over 25 years. Those who follow in your footsteps will miss your inspiration and leadership. Harrin K. Platzner Managing Agent Susan Perrotti Presi
 LENGEMANN--George L. On February 5, 2006 at the age of 78. Beloved husband of Ruth C. Haupert-Lengemann. Loving brother of Dorothy Lengemann Walker and caring uncle of Wendy L. Walker, both of Virginia, and Dr. William H. Walker of Pittsburgh. George waged a valiant battle against cancer fo
 MARCUS--Samuel. On February 5, 2006 at home with Sylvia, his beloved wife of over 50 years. Cherished father of Andrew & Rhonda, adored grandfather of Sydney, friend of Carolyn. He will be deeply missed and never forgotten. Love for children and nature but most of all his family made him th
 MILLER--Lewis H. Peacefully on February 6. Beloved husband of Joanne. Loving father of Harry (Nancy) and Dawn (Richard). Adoring grandfather of Ari, Noah, Kyla, Amy, Nina and Rachel. Cherished brother to Caryl Bank. Graduate of Lowell Tech 1957 and resident of Roslyn for over 40 years. CoFo
 PEABODY--John Damon Jr. Died January 23, 2006 at his home in Hancock, New Hampshire. He served in the Naval Air Corps in World War II. He married Virginia Boyd who died in 1983. He worked in the US State Department in the Agency for International Development in Turkey, Brazil and Honduras. 
 STOCK--Robert E., 75. Died February 6, 2006. Beloved husband of Nadine, father of Richard, Matthew and Wayne and their wives Dana, Irina and Melina. Loving grandfather of Gianna, Cooper, William, Maxim and Denis. Art teacher at Bayside High School and past president of the Bayside Jewish Ce
 ZIERLER--Sidney. The Counselors of SCORE note with sadness the passing of our esteemed colleague. He served eighteen years of dedicated activity.       
 ORENTLICHER--Dr. William A. Revered rabbi of the Bayside Jewish Center for 50 years. Accomplished Jewish scholar and university professor. Beloved and loving husband of Jeanne, devoted and adored father of Allen, Harriet, Gary, Paul and Rona, and doting grandfather of 11 grandchildren. He w
 Peter Ladefoged, an internationally renowned linguist who spent his life blissfully awash in the whistles, murmurs, pops, clicks and trills that make up the world's spoken languages, died on Jan. 24 in London. Professor Ladefoged, who was returning to his home in Aliso Viejo, Calif., from f
 The Rev. William A. Jones, who marshaled his golden voice and forceful personality to exert influence far beyond his Brooklyn pulpit in support of local and national civil rights causes, died on Feb. 4 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 71. The cause was complications of kidney disease
 Frank Goodman, one of the last of the old-time Broadway press agents, a star handler and headline hustler, died on Friday at the Tisch Hospital of the New York University Medical Center. He was 89 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The cause was congestive heart failure,
 DATTELBAUM--Mervin, 86 year old avid tennis player, loving husband of Harriet, devoted father of Marlene (Gross), Carole (DeRoberts) and Jeff Dattelbaum, adored grandfather of Randi, Peter, Royce and Kyle, great-grandfather of Ethan and Dylan, brother of Paul and late Arthur. He'll be deepl
 LENGEMANN--George L. On February 5, 2006 at the age of 78. Beloved husband of Ruth C. Haupert-Lengemann. Loving brother of Dorothy Lengemann Walker and caring uncle of Wendy L. Walker, both of Virginia, and Dr. William H. Walker of Pittsburgh. George waged a valiant battle against cancer fo
 MALOOF--Harding. Award winning photographer, collector and fisherman, died in his home February 7, 2006. He is survived by his sisters Lourice, Alice, Renee and Camille. Funeral services will be held Friday, 10AM at Ortiz Funeral Home and St. Elizabeth Church.       
 MARCUS--Samuel. On February 5, 2006 at home with Sylvia, his beloved wife of over 50 years. Cherished father of Andrew & Rhonda, adored grandfather of Sydney, friend of Carolyn. He will be deeply missed and never forgotten. Love for children and nature but most of all his family made him th
 PETTOLINA -- Anthony Mi chael. On February 6, 2006 in his 34th year. Beloved son of Megan and Paul Tourlis, and the late Anthony. Cherished grandson of Mr. and Mrs. Walter G. Hooke. Dear brother of Timothy C. Also survived by many loving aunts, uncles and cousins. Reposing Thursday 2-5 and 
 RUNCH--Daniel. Born on June 16, 1911 on the Lower East Side of Manhattan; died in Margate, Fla., on February 7, 2006. Danny says goodbye to his beloved New York. The family may be contacted thru Riverside Gordon Memorial Chapel, 6701 W. Commercial Blvd, Tamarac, FL.       
 SCHAFFER--Stanley J. Our Skipper. Beloved husband of Caryl. Adored father of Laurie and Dr. Ellis Disick, Cathie and Dr. Dean Schaffer. Grandfather of Dr. Grant and Tia and Dr. Evan Disick and Paul Schaffer. Great grandfather of Noah Disick. Brother of Monroe, Gladys and the late Horace. Lo
 SCHUKIN--Harvey, 64. On February 5. He was cherished and will be dearly missed by his beloved wife Adrienne, adoring daughters Amy and Sandra, devoted son-in-law Steve and many family and friends with whom he shared his warmth, wit and laughter. Retired Local 3 IBEW, volunteer fireman, and 
 SHEBITZ--George. The law firm of Shebitz Berman & Cohen, P.C. is sad to announce the passing of its founding senior partner and visionary leader, George Shebitz, on February 8, 2006. He was 58. George was nationally recognized as a leading expert on education law. He began his public servic
 TAYLOR--Hunt. The Stern Family and staff of Hartz Trading are deeply saddened at the loss of Hunt Taylor, who we were lucky to work with for a period of six years. His insight, openness, honesty & creativity set an example for all of us. We send our love & deepest condolensces to Martha, Ju
 COVER--Franklin. 77, died peacefully at the Actors Fund Home on February 3rd 2006. An actor whose career spanned six decades, he created countless roles in regional theatre, Broadway, television and film and is best known for playing Tom Willis on The Jeffersons. His talent, infectious humo
 FAGAN--Msgr. John T. A priest of the diocese of Brooklyn for more than 50 years died peacefully on February 9 at Little Flower Children and Family Services in Wading River, NY. Beloved brother of Msgr. Robert Emmet Fagan, Jane Fucigna, Helen Marie Murphy and Kathleen Fagan RSHM and brother-
 FAUSER--Joseph E., 88. On February 8, 2006. Known as Buddy. He was the beloved husband of Helen. For 62 years no day passed without Helen and Buddy expressing their love for each other. Also, the proud father of Robert and Arlene Fauser, Jill and Richard Israel, dear brother of Doris Brisba
 HOFFMANN--William J. Jr. Long associated with broadcasting, advertising and musical circles, died on February 3, 2006. He was 91 years old and lived in Larchmont, New York. He is survived by his beloved wife Judith Telep-Ehrlich, son William J. Hoffmann III and daughter Elizabeth Patricia H
 RABHAN--Dr. Nathan Benami, 67. On February 7, 2006. Beloved husband of Jane Sonnenschein Rabhan for 43 years. Adored father of Rabbi David, Laura, and Rachel. Loving grandfather to six. Dear brother to Debora Hynda of Tel Aviv, Israel and Charlotte, N.C. Revered brother-in-law to Marc Sonne
 SALTZMAN--Eric M.D. The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center records with sorrow the passing of Eric I. Saltzman, M.D., distinguished and esteemed Chief Emeritus of Head and Neck Surgery. He was a revered and beloved member of the Brookdale family for over thirty-eight years. We
 SCHAFFER--Stanley J. Our Skipper. Beloved husband of Caryl. Adored father of Laurie and Dr. Ellis Disick, Cathie and Dr. Dean Schaffer. Grandfather of Dr. Grant and Tia and Dr. Evan Disick and Paul Schaffer. Great grandfather of Noah Disick. Brother of Monroe, Gladys and the late Horace. Lo
 SCHULBACK - Jules. Died peacefully on February 8 at 93 years of age. Devoted husband to Edith for 59 years. Loving father to daughters Eve Schulback and Helen Siegler and son-in-law Steve. Adoring grandfather to Rayna, Bonnie and Nomi Joy and great grandchildren Arin, Buster and Oscar. He w
 SHEBITZ--George. Our condolences to the family, colleagues and friends of George Shebitz, of Shebitz, Berman & Cohen. George was a longtime friend and supporter of Independence Residences Inc., and we mourn his untimely death. Ruth Migliorelli, Board President Raymond DeNatale, Executive Di
 SMITH--Robert A. The Members of Delaire Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed member, Robert A. Smith. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to his entire family. Mel Katz, President       
 TAYLOR--Hunt. A funeral for Hunt Taylor, killed last Sunday, Februay 5th in a motorcyle accident while on vacation in Arizona, will be held this Sunday, February 12th at 2 P.M. for family and close friends. The viewing will be from 11 A.M. to 2 P.M. The address of Graham Funeral Home is 103
 Samuel W. Koster, who was an Army major general in 1968 and became the highest military officer to be charged in the massacre of South Vietnamese civilians at the village of My Lai, died on Jan. 23 at his home in Annapolis, Md. He was 86. The cause of death was renal cancer, said hi
 Dr. Norman E. Shumway, the Stanford cardiac surgeon who in 1968 performed the United States' first successful human heart transplant and later made the operation a standard procedure after virtually all other surgeons had abandoned it, died yesterday at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 
 ALVAREZ--Ernesto. The Board of Directors of Friends for EL Salvador mourn with profound sadness the loss of our dear friend and President Ernesto Alvarez. His leadership as a founder has strengthened our community and set a standard of commi tment to help the Salvadorian's here and abroad. 
 FAGAN--Msgr. John T. A priest of the diocese of Brooklyn for more than 50 years died peacefully on February 9 at Little Flower Children and Family Services in Wading River, NY. Beloved brother of Msgr. Robert Emmet Fagan, Jane Fucigna, Helen Marie Murphy and Kathleen Fagan RSHM and brother-
 FAUSER--Joseph E., 88. On February 8, 2006. Known as Buddy. He was the beloved husband of Helen. For 62 years no day passed without Helen and Buddy expressing their love for each other. Also, the proud father of Robert and Arlene Fauser, Jill and Richard Israel, dear brother of Doris Brisba
 FEDEROFF--Seymour. On February 9, 2006. Beloved husband of Ruth (nee Geller). Devoted father of Ilene and Fran Popock (Barry). Cherished grandfather of Coryn and Brett. Retired Lt. FDNY (Ladder 50) and Retired Lt. Col. US Air Force. Humanitarian, patriot and gentle heart. He will truly be m
 FELDMAN--Herman. August 14, 1906--February 8, 2006. Spent many rewarding, happy years as Principal of Frederick Douglas and Horace Greeley JHS. Loved by friends, family, teachers, students and staff. Died at home with his family living independently on his own terms. Memorial donations: Ros
 KARGER--Stewart J. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Scarsdale, NY on February 10, 2006, peacefully at home. He is survived by his beloved wife, Joyce, daughter, Lanny Alexander, grandchildren, Nicole Schlesinger, Dori and Rick Acampora, and great-granddaughter, Francesca.       
 SARASOHN--Ira, 88, of Bocaire Country Club, Boca Raton, FL, formerly of South Orange, NJ, passed away suddenly on Friday, February 10th. He was the loving husband and best friend for 31 years to Helen, devoted father to Ellen, Wendy, Stephen, Meta and JoAnn, doting Papa to Elizabeth, Jamie,
 TAYLOR--Hunt. Beloved husband of Martha & father of Julia (17) and Davis (13) died in a motorcycle accident while on vacation in Arizona on February 5, 2006. Hunt Taylor lived his life and loved his family ''with all his might,'' which were his last words to a close family friend. His love 
 WEINSTEIN--Solomon, JD, LLM, 90. Of Haworth, NJ, passed away on Thursday, February 9, 2006. Loving husband of the late Selma of 62 years. Devoted father of Neal (Mildy) and Marci. Beloved grandpa of Jillian and Russell. Dear brother of Lou and Herb. A graduate of NYU and NYU Law School, he 
 Freddie Laker, who introduced low-cost trans-Atlantic flights with Laker Airways in the late-1970's and helped usher in an era of more affordable travel, died Thursday in Hollywood, Fla. Sir Freddie, 83, died after suffering from heart problems, his son, also named Freddie, said.   
 Charles O. Henry, a former chief of the New York City housing police who commanded some of the city's toughest precincts in troubled times, died at his home in Las Vegas on Feb. 1. He was 78. He died after a brief illness, his family said. Mr. Henry joined the New York Polic
 Msgr. John T. Fagan, who retired in 2001 as director of Little Flower Children and Family Services of New York, one of the largest social service agencies in the country, died on Thursday at his home in Wading River, N.Y. He was 79. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said Herbert W.
 BAINBRIDGE--John S. Touro College and the Jacob D. Fuchsberg Law Center communities are saddened by the passing, at age 90, of our beloved friend and former Dean, John S. Bainbridge. Dean Bainbridge was a scion of one of America's most distinguished and historic families. He had a distingui
 BALKIND -- Benjamin Lee died February 8, 2006. Beloved son of Mary Jo & Benjamin Balkind; dearest brother of Sarah Balkind Adler & Jonathan Buck Balkind; fond uncle of Max & Sam Adler, Karey Jo & Teddy Balkind. We will never be the same without him.       
 BERRY--Harold J. Died on February 7, 2006, in Jackson, WY after a brief illness. Born April 12, 1913 in Westwood, NJ. Graduated Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania in 1935 and joined Brown Brothers Harriman & Co. He served in the Navy 1941-1945, attaining the rank of Lt. Commander. A
 CARMICHAEL--Joel. 90. Writer, editor, linguist, translator and lecturer died at home on January 27th. Mr. Carmichael edited Midstream magazine and wrote numerous books on the origins of Christianity, Islam, and Anti-Semitism, and on Marxism and Russian history. His 1960 translation of Tolst
 COVER--Franklin. 77, died peacefully at the Actors Fund Home on February 3rd 2006. An actor whose career spanned six decades, he created countless roles in regional theatre, Broadway, television and film and is best known for playing Tom Willis on The Jeffersons. His talent, infectious humo
 DAWSON--Donald S. Gen. USAF Ret. Exec. Asst. to Harry S. Truman, attorney, humanitarian, loving husband, father and friend. Died December 25 at age 97 of stroke at his home in Bethesda, MD. surrounded by family & friends. A true American patriot, born in El Dorado Springs, Missouri, graduat
 EASON--Charles Francis, Sr. On January 21, 2006 at age 93 in Bethesda, MD. Born April 7, 1912 in Brooklyn, NY to Charles Aloysius Eason and Katherine Marie Larkin. He was predeceased in 2005 by Eleanor Butler Eason, his wife of 54 years. He leaves 4 sons, Charles Francis Eason, Jr. of Washi
 JAMES--Luther. A stellar African American veteran of stage, film and television, died after an extensive illness on Sunday, February 5, 2006. A native of Harlem, NY, Luther James started his career as an actor on the New York stage, and graduated to writing and directed more than 50 stage p
 KARGER--Stewart J. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Scarsdale, NY on February 10, 2006, peacefully at home. He is survived by his beloved wife, Joyce, daughter, Lanny Alexander, grandchildren, Nicole Schlesinger, Dori and Rick Acampora, and great-granddaughter, Francesca.       
 KASS--Robert, ''Rob.'' We deeply mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Rob Kass, and extend our warmest sympathies to his wife Linda Lagos-Kass, his sons Michael and Jason, and daughter-in-law Amy, as well as a wonderful extended family and many friends. We also remember the supp
 MOFFETT--John ''Jack'' was born December 5, 1929 in New York City and passed away on January 23, 2006. Preceded in death by his wife, Elisa Valverde Moffett. He was a Seton Hall graduate and Korean War vet. Services will be February 17, 2006, at 10 AM at Calvary Hill Funeral Home in Dallas,
 NORTON--James A. At home on the morning of February 8, 2006. He will be greatly missed by his wife of 37 years, Femma. Also missed by his mother Kris, sisters Judy (Gene) & Lynn (Gayle). Cherished father of Lesley (Jill), Shauna (Colin), Tom (Norma), Jared and Joshua. Adored ''Pop'' to gran
 SARASOHN--Ira, 88, of Bocaire Country Club, Boca Raton, FL, formerly of South Orange, NJ, passed away suddenly on Friday, February 10th. He was the loving husband and best friend for 31 years to Helen, devoted father to Ellen, Wendy, Stephen, Meta and JoAnn, doting Papa to Elizabeth, Jamie,
 SCHULBACK - Jules. Died peacefully on February 8 at 93 years of age. Devoted husband to Edith for 59 years. Loving father to daughters Eve Schulback and Helen Siegler and son-in-law Steve. Adoring grandfather to Rayna, Bonnie and Nomi Joy and great grandchildren Arin, Buster and Oscar. He w
 SEGAL--Alfred M. Adored father of Nancy and Anne, devoted husband of the late Esther Segal, beloved grand father of Adam and father-inlaw of Mark. He served as a navigation officer in W.W. II and had a long and successful career as a lawyer. We love you and miss you.       
 SEIFERT--Aurel Martin. 5th of February, at his home in Manhattan. Born in Bronx of Hungarian parentage, 15th of December 1924; educated at the High School of Music and Art, Haverford College, and Columbia University; professor of physics at City College; Army Air Corps veteran of World War 
 TAYLOR--Hunt. Beloved husband of Martha & father of Julia (17) and Davis (13) died in a motorcycle accident while on vacation in Arizona on February 5, 2006. Hunt Taylor lived his life and loved his family ''with all his might,'' which were his last words to a close family friend. His love 
 WARRINER -- Lendall Pitts, 93, February 10, 2006, Bedford, MA, St. Michaels, MD and Ardsley-on-Hudson, NY. A mining geologist with a BA from Princeton, 1934; he also graduated from St. Mark's School. An avid birder, golfer and joke-teller, he loved to fish at Pocono Lake Preserve. Survived 
 WISNER--Louis (Lukie). On February 10, 2006 of Forest Hills, NY. He is survived by his wife Lillian (nee Bernstein). Sister Belle Littenberg and nieces Charlotte Futterman, Abby and Nancy Bloom and their extended families. A graduate of Erasmus Hall High School and The City College of New Y
 ZWIRN--Jack, 81. Retired Army Reserve Colonel, died February 7, 2006. He is survived by his wife Mitzi, their daughters and grandchildren.       
 ZUCKER--Leonard. March 18, 1916, to February 12, 1993. Great father, friend, and wit. Missed by all who knew him. Marian and Laura       
 Sir Nicholas Shackleton, a geologist who studied cycles of climate changes going back more than a million years and who issued some early warnings on global warming, died Jan. 24 at his home in Cambridge, England. He was 68. The cause was leukemia, said Joyce Gavin, a climate resear
 Dave Tatsuno, a Japanese-American businessman and amateur filmmaker whose home movies, shot in secret in the 1940's, offer a rare documentary portrait of life in an American internment camp during World War II, died on Jan. 26 at his home in San Jose, Calif. He was 92. Mr. Tatsuno's
 COHEN - Manny. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia, devoted father of Nancy Druckman and Rick Cohen. Loving grandfather of William and Katherine, dear brother of Grace Jaffe. Visitation Monday at The Riverside, 76th St and Amsterdam Ave, 7-9 pm. Funeral at Stephen Wise Free Synagogue, Tuesda
 FINE--Dr. Leonard, 86, of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Lake Success, NY. Loving husband of the late Shirley Forman Fine and husband of Beverly Garelick Fine. Devoted and adored father of Madeline (Wesley) Finch, Ira (Lisa) Fine, and Jan Eisenberg. Cherished grandfather of Tracey (Gabriel) 
 GENDEL--Edward, M.D. 93, peacefully at home, February 10, 2006. Survived by loving wife Claudine, stepchildren, Jeffrey and Randi Kapelman, and Jacqueline and Peter Dervan, and by three loving grandchildren, Joshua, Samantha and Elizabeth. Also survived by his brother Milton of Italy. His d
 KASS--Robert, ''Rob.'' We deeply mourn the loss of our dear friend and colleague, Rob Kass, and extend our warmest sympathies to his wife Linda Lagos-Kass, his sons Michael and Jason, and daughter-in-law Amy, as well as a wonderful extended family and many friends. We also remember the supp
 MEHLMAN - Emily. Of Brookline, MA, February 11, 2006. Beloved wife of Rabbi Bernard Mehlman. Devoted mother of Jonathan and his wife Marla, David and his wife Marcy, all of New York. Dear grandmother of Sarah, Jillian, Aliza and Ari. Loving sister of Harriet Steinberg. Services at Temple Is
 SCOLNICK--William Stuart, died February 11, 2006, at his residence in St. Petersburg, FL. Bill was born in New Haven, CT, spent his youth there and graduated from Yale College in 1939. In 1941 he went overseas as a Lieutenant with the 105 Field Artillery of the 27 Infantry Division. At war'
 Peter Benchley, whose 1974 novel ''Jaws'' turned shark attacks into a national obsession and who later used what he called his ''fish story'' to help promote oceanic conservation, died yesterday morning at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 65. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, a pr
 James Yancey, the innovative and influential hip-hop producer known as J Dilla or Jay Dee, died on Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 32. The cause was cardiac arrest, according to his mother, Maureen Yancey. She said he had been suffering from lupus and had recently been hos
 BENCHLEY--Peter. On behalf of the trustees and staff of Environmental Defense, it is with great sadness that we note the passing of Environmental Defense supporter Peter Benchley on February 11. Peter was a passionate, powerful, advocate for the Oceans. Generous with his time and an engagin
 BERGER--Edward. Age 88 on February 10, 2006. Beloved father, grandfather, brother & uncle. Decorated WWII combat veteran and ex-POW. Retired 38-year employee of R.H Macy's. Will be remembered by all who knew him for his enjoyable sense of humor and love of life. Interment will be private. I
 de GUNZBURG--Baron Guy Georges, born in Paris January 1, 1911. With great sorrow, we announce the death of Baron de Gunzburg, January 16, 2006 in Miami. He will be mourned by his wife Baroness Mary de Gunzburg, his sister Madame Giorgio Uzielli; his children Baron JeanLouis de Gunzburg, Mad
 DOLGIN--Dr. Martin, 86. Of Ardsley, NY on February 12, 2006. Loving father of Barbara and Hanna, Debbie and Robert, Stuart and Deborah. Cherished grandfather of Rachel and Sam. Memorial service will be announced at a later date. Donations to the New York University School of Medicine.      
 ITZLER--Ronald S. Passed February 12, 2006. Loving husband of the late Ronnie Itzler. Adored father of Jane and David Armour & Jason. Cherished Poppy of Ryan, Dylan & Max. Caring brother of Lois and Barbara. Devoted companion of Bonnie, who filled his heart with joy. Services Wednesday, Feb
 JACOBSON--Robert J., died peacefully February 13, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Jean L. Jacobson. Cherished father of Arthur, Robert Jr., and James. Loving grandfather of Elizabeth, Arthur Jr., Thomas, Lyn, Tamara, Lori and Kristi. Adored by his 13 great-granchildren. Loved brother of J
 KAUFMAN - Seymour. On February 13th, Seymour Kaufman, 76, died quietly and in peace after a long illness with his family by his side. Sy was loved by everyone who knew him, his family and many friends. For more than 50 years he was an educator, as a teacher and principal in New York City, a
 LERMAN--Morris (Murray). Of Lake Worth, FL, formerly of Woodmere, NY on February 10, 2006. Beloved husband of 55 years to Blanche (Useloff) Lerman. Loving father of Roberta and Alan Herman and Andy and Judi Lerman. Proud grandparent of Jaime and Daniel Herman and David and Adam Lerman. Brot
 REBHUN--Dr. Lionel Earl. Of Boca Raton, FL. formerly of Lake Success, NY passed away February 10 after a long illness. Dr. Rebhun practiced Dentistry in Flushing, NY. He graduated with honors from Columbia University Dental School in 1948. Dr. Rebhun was a member of William Jarvie Society a
 RISLEY--William S. Educational consultant and longtime resident of Washington, CT. Died February 12 of postoperative complications at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in New York. Beloved husband of Jane, father of Mandy and Emily, stepfather of John and grandfather of Julia. He is deeply mou
 MAKRIANES--James K Jr. The Trustees, the Womens Board and the staff of The Boys Club of New York express their deepest sympathy to his wife, Judy and the family of their dear friend. He was elected to the Board of Trustees in 1976. His generosity, good humor and commitment to the welfare of
 John Belluso, a young playwright who translated his own experiences with physical disability into a prolific body of promising work, died on Friday at a hotel in Manhattan. He was 36 and lived in Los Angeles. A spokesman for the police department said an investigation was continuing
 Michael Gilbert, who somehow managed to produce dozens of intricately plotted and gracefully written detective stories, police procedural novels, espionage thrillers, puzzle mysteries and crime-based plays for stage, radio and television while carrying on a separate career as a senior partn
 CRIMMINS--Ethan Custis, 42. Beloved husband of Jo Crimmins & beloved son of Marcy Crimmins of Princeton, NJ and James Custis Crimmins of Santa Barbara, CA. Ethan died in his sleep from respiratory complications. He was a graduate of the Hotchkiss School 1981 and a graduate of the University
 DAWSON--Donald S. Gen. USAF Ret. Exec. Asst. to Harry S. Truman, attorney, humanitarian, loving husband, father and friend. Died December 25 at age 97 of stroke at his home in Bethesda, MD. surrounded by family & friends. A true American patriot, born in El Dorado Springs, Missouri, graduat
 de GUNZBURG--Baron Guy Georges, born in Paris January 1, 1911. With great sorrow, we announce the death of Baron de Gunzburg, January 16, 2006 in Miami. He will be mourned by his wife Baroness Mary de Gunzburg, his sister Madame Giorgio Uzielli; his children Baron JeanLouis de Gunzburg, Mad
 DOLGIN--Dr. Martin, 86. Of Ardsley, NY on February 12, 2006. Loving father of Barbara and Hanna, Debbie and Robert, Stuart and Deborah. Cherished grandfather of Rachel and Sam. Memorial service will be announced at a later date. Donations to the New York University School of Medicine.      
 FRANK--Jacob. Born in Lublin, Poland in 1913, he was the only member of his 64 person family to survive the concentration camps. He emigrated to the US in 1946 and became a successful tailor in New York City. He is survived by his beloved children Shirley and Steve and his grandchildren Eri
 ITZLER--Ronald S. ''Uncle'' Ronnie, you were more than just our cousin, you were an Uncle, a big brother and a great friend. You were a life force the likes of which we shall never see again. Your kindness and thoughtfulness, especially to our mom, your Aunt Cyn, will always be remembered. 
 JACOBSON--Robert J. Died peacefully February 13, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Jean L. Jacobson. Cherished father of Arthur, Robert Jr., and James. Loving grandfather of Elizabeth, Arthur Jr., Thomas, Lyn, Tamara, Lori and Kristi. Adored by his 13 great - grandchildren. Loved brother of
 JUTKOWITZ--J. David, Esq. Of Rye, on February 14, 2006. Born in Yonkers 1911 to Jacob and Rose (Weiss) Jutkowitz. Mr. Jutkowitz was a First Lieutenant in the Quarter Master Corps during WWII. Husband of the late Bernice, father of Linda Jutkowitz Meyers and the late John G. Jutkowitz, grand
 LEVIN--Alan M., 79. Of Maplewood, NJ, died peacefully in his sleep February 13, 2006. Loving husband of the late Hannah Jane Alexander Levin. Devoted and beloved father of Marc and his wife Ellin, Nicole, Danielle and her husband David and Juliette and her husband James; grandfather of Sara
 LIEBERMAN - Herbert. On February 13, 2006 of East Hills, NY. Devoted husband of Jeanette. Beloved father of Lance, Eric and Jill. Adored grandfather of Ariel, Alexandra, Whitney and Lindsay. Also survived by brother Bernard. Services Wednesday, at 1:00 P.M. at ''Gutterman's,'' 8000 Jericho 
 MAKRIANES--James K. The Board of Trustees and Staff of the East Hampton Healthcare Foundation are saddened by the loss of their longtime Trustee, James K. Makrianes, who has worked tirelessly to improve healthcare in our community. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his devoted wife Jud
 RISLEY--William S. Educational consultant and longtime resident of Washington, CT. Died February 12 of postoperative complications at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in New York. Beloved husband of Jane, father of Mandy and Emily, stepfather of John and grandfather of Julia. He is deeply mou
 RUBIN--Sam. The Board of Governors and members of the Falls Country Club, Lake Worth, FL acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Sam Rubin. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Dorothy, and family. Robert Rachesky, President       
 ZUCKER--Seymour, M.D. Age 97. Husband of the late Cynthia Prince. Died peacefully February 13, 2006. Longtime staff member and teacher at Beth Israel Hospital. His loves were his family and medicine. He will be sorely missed by his children, Jane and Jonathan, his grandchildren, Amanda and 
 DASSEVILLE--Rev. Armand. The Capuchin Mission Association offers their prayers for Fr. Armand who passed into Eternal Life on February 13, 2006. Fr. Armand was a known preacher, promoter of the Province of St. Mary's Burse program and foreign missions, Director of the Secular Franciscan Ord
 Robert B. Hotz, an aviation expert and writer who helped investigate NASA's role in the explosion of the space shuttle Challenger in 1986 and became a strong critic of the agency, died Feb. 9 at a hospital in Frederick, Md. He was 91. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disea
 Norton J. Kiritz, who found his niche teaching people with a worthy cause how to pitch it effectively to potential sponsors, died Jan. 30 in Los Angeles. He was 70 and lived in Redondo Beach, Calif. The cause was melanoma, according to the Grantsmanship Center, of which he was the f
 BELLUSO--John. The Public Theater deeply mourns the loss of John Belluso--a brilliant playwright, a tireless advocate for the disabled, a profound thinker, and a warm and generous friend. His words will inspire generations to come. Our heartfelt sympathies to his mother Sally & his sisters 
 BINGLEY--Rev. Howard O., 93, in Topsham, ME, on February 14. Episcopal priest for 30 years in the Diocese of New York; rector emeritus of St. John's Church, Staten Island. He led a life of service and was beloved by many. During WWII he fought in N. Africa, Italy (Battle of Anzio), Germany,
 BURBECK--Joseph Grant of Rye, New York, died February 13, 2006 at age 74. He is survived by his wife, Theresa Burbeck, daughter, Jennifer Burbeck Gardner, Fairfield, CT and grandchildren Colby and Libby Gardner. A graduate of Dartmouth College (1953) he served as Ensign/ LTJG in Navy 1953-1
 JUTKOWITZ--J. David. We will miss David--a true friend. Our condolences to his daughter Linda, his grandchildren, great grandchildren and his family. Arlette & Alex Buchman       
 LITUCHY--Dr. Stanley. The Westchester Psychoanalytic Society mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague Dr. Stanley Lituchy. Past President of the Society, his skillsas leader, teacher and clinician will be dearly missed by all who knew him.       
 OGDON--Thomas H. Died February 15, 2006 in New York. Tom grew up in Tarrytown, NY. He was graduated from Amherst College and was Founder and President of The Ogdon Partnership, an executive search firm. He is survived by his beloved wife, Michele, adoring daughter, Kristin, sons, David H., 
 RISLEY--William S. Educational consultant and longtime resident of Washington, CT. Died February 12 of postoperative complications at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in New York. Beloved husband of Jane, father of Mandy and Emily, stepfather of John and grandfather of Julia. He is deeply mou
 MELTZER--Elton. Remembered with everlasting love and treasured memories, by his adoring wife, children and grandchildren       
 Rabbi Yehuda Chitrik, a legendary storyteller in the Lubavitcher community, died on Tuesday at Maimonides Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 106 and lived in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, the hub of the worldwide Lubavitcher Hasidic movement. The death was announced by Rabbi Zalman Shmotkin of
 Robert W. Peterson, whose pioneering history of the Negro leagues, ''Only the Ball Was White,'' recaptured a lost era in baseball history and a rich facet of black life in America, died Saturday at a hospital in Salisbury Township, Pa. Mr. Peterson, who lived in Lower Macungie Township, Pa.
 Alan M. Levin, a documentary filmmaker whose work exploring political and social issues won major awards during a long career in television journalism, died on Monday at his home in Maplewood, N.J. He was 79. Mr. Levin died in his sleep, his son Marc said. Mr. Levin's work i
 Ernie Stautner, an undersized defensive tackle who became the best player on the Pittsburgh Steelers' woeful teams in the 1950's and was later enshrined in the Pro Football Hall of Fame, died yesterday in a nursing home in Carbondale, Colo. He was 80 and lived in Vail, Colo. The cau
 CRIMMINS--Ethan Custis, 42. Beloved husband of Jo Crimmins & beloved son of Marcy Crimmins of Princeton, NJ and James Custis Crimmins of Santa Barbara, CA. Ethan died in his sleep from respiratory complications. He was a graduate of the Hotchkiss School 1981 and a graduate of the University
 EDERY--Albert, on February 15, 2006. Successful international businessman. Beloved husband, father, grandfather, brother, uncle, cousin and friend who was a blessing to all who knew him. Service Friday, 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue, NYC.       
 LIGGETT--Joseph. Beloved husband, father and grandfather died February 16 from complications of Parkinsons. He was 82 years old. Memorial service will be held on February 19 at 12 noon at Temple Emanu-El, 65 Street and 5th Avenue. Mylene, Joseph, Peter, Rosy and JP Liggett LIGGETT--
 LITUCHY--Stanley, M.D. The Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research, and The Association for Psychoanalytic Medicine express our deepest sorrow over the death of our esteemed colleague Dr. Stanley Lituchy. We send our condolences to his wife, Leila, his sons Matth
 LUSTBERG--Richard H., 80. Died unexpectedly February 14, of heart failure. ''Dick'' was the loving husband of Rena (Churgin), devoted father of David, Jamie, sonin-law Mark and adoring grandfather of Alexander. He is also survived by his brother, William of CA, his sister-inlaw Roseann and 
 MAKRIANES -- James. The Auxiliary to Bellevue Hospital notes with sorrow the loss of James Makrianes, beloved husband of our Board member and Secretary, Judith Makrianes. Jim was a warm, caring friend in his support of us and we are grateful for his life. Our love and deepest sympathy goes 
 MARQUESS--Gerald E. ''Jerry'', 78. Died February 12th at home in White River Junction, VT. He was born in Kansas City, MO.       
 STAUFFACHER--Charles B. Of Palm Beach Gardens, Florida died on February 11, 2006 at home. Mr. Stauffacher attended Pomona College and Harvard University Business School. He was with the US Budget Bureau from 1941 to 1952. Mr. Stauffacher was employed by Continental Can Company from 1952 to 
 Robert E. Rich, who abandoned his family's dairy business to create the first nondairy whipped topping, died on Wednesday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 92. A spokeswoman for the company Mr. Rich founded, the Rich Products Corporation, based in Buffalo, said he died after a 
 Barry Martin, a modern dancer who turned to a career in choreography after an accident made him a quadriplegic, died on Feb. 6 at his home in Manhattan. He was 44. The cause was apparently heart failure, said a friend, Valerie Gladstone. Born in New York City, Mr. Martin tra
 REINHOLD--Walter, 66. Died February 15 of cancer. Walter was a prolific local teacher and scholar who taught music history at NYU since 1968, honored by his students as NYU Teacher of the Year in 1992 and again in 1999. Other professional activity included his work since 1961 at the First P
 ZEIGEN--L. Marshall. On Valentine's Day, one week after his 76th birthday. Beloved son of the late Bess and Samuel Zeigen. Cherished brother of H. Lylla Kleiman and her husband George. Devoted and loyal friend to many. U.S. Army Veteran. The family will leave Riverside Memorial Chapel on Su
 Ray Barretto, a percussionist who helped define the role of the conga drum in jazz and became an influential figure in both jazz and Latin music during a career spanning more than 50 years, died yesterday at the Hackensack University Medical Center in New Jersey. He was 76 and lived in Norw
 Robert Lewis, the owner of the Kentucky Derby winners Silver Charm and Charismatic, died yesterday at his home in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 81. The cause of death was heart failure, said his son Jeff, who added that Lewis had been in failing health. Lewis, who owned a bee
 Roy Chapman, the owner and breeder of Smarty Jones, the 2004 Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes champion, died yesterday at his home in Doylestown, Pa. He was 79. Chapman died after a long battle with emphysema, according to his business associate Anthony Tigano, who announced his 
 George T. Davis, a swashbuckling criminal lawyer who over a half century gained fame in high-profile cases, more than 200 of them involving the death penalty, by marshaling a keen intelligence and artful folksiness, died on Feb. 4 at a resort on the Big Island of Hawaii. He was 98. 
 Helmut W. Schulz, a chemical engineer who received 64 patents in disparate fields like nuclear physics, rocketry and waste-to-energy processes despite having been blinded in a laboratory accident as a young man, died on Jan. 28 at a hospital in White Plains. Dr. Schultz, who lived in Harris
 BERNFELD--Stanley C. Of Woodland Hills, CA, formerly of Scranton, PA and Brooklyn, died peacefully on February 3. Survived by his loving family, wife Annette, daughters Lisa Bernfeld and Betsy Asen, son-in-law Ben Asen, grandsons Ivan and Harrison, his sister Pearl Shmishkiss. He was the sm
 CORTESE -- Armand, M.D. The Department of Surgery deeply mourns the loss of our distinguished colleague, Dr. Armand Cortese, Clinical Associate Professor Emeritus of Surgery. His internationally renowned professional career as a thoracic and general surgeon at New York Presbyterian/Weill Co
 FELLER--Sid. We mourn the passing of a fine musical talent and dear friend. His arrangements for singers Jane Froman, Ray Charles and Mel Torme were brilliant and enduring. His humor was irrepressible, his love of family and friends, limitless. Our deepest sympathy goes to his wife Gertrude
 LIGGETT--Joseph. Beloved husband, father and grandfather died February 16 from complications of Parkinsons. He was 82 years old. Memorial service will be held on February 19 at 12 noon at Temple Emanu-El, 65 Street and 5th Avenue. Mylene, Joseph, Peter, Rosy and JP Liggett       
 LUQUER--L. Shippen. 74, Died peacefully February 7 in Milan. He is survived by his devoted wife Giovannella (nee Cherichetti), a son Dominick, a daughter Nathalie du Bot, and five grandchildren. He also leaves a brother Peter C. in Vermont, and a sister Grace L. Madeira in Philadelphia. Bur
 LUSTBERG--Richard H., 80. Died unexpectedly February 14, of heart failure. ''Dick'' was the loving husband of Rena (Churgin), devoted father of David, Jamie, sonin-law Mark and adoring grandfather of Alexander. He is also survived by his brother, William of CA, his sister-inlaw Roseann and 
 NORRIS--John. Died peacefully at his home in Canada on Saturday, February 11, 2006. John was a construction industry icon, legendary builder, mentor, friend, teacher, athlete, fierce competitor, jokester and renaissance man. No better man to meet and beat any challenge. His skyline signatur
 SCOLNICK--William Stuart. The Board of Directors, Officers and associates of Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation mourn the passing of Bill Scolnick, Director Emeritus and former Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer. Bill was a dedicated associate for over two decades, served as 
 SWISS--Keith Arthur. 81 years young. Beloved husband, confidant and partner of Shirley Myra for 57 years. Loving and devoted father of Nancy and Nelson, Jonathan, and Abbe and Stephen. Cherished grandfather (PaDaddy) of Amanda, Megan, Ashley, Hailey, Becky and Maxwell. He was adored by all 
 WEST--Steven G. Beloved husband to Mary. Loving father to Dan and Lee. Beloved brother to Marilyn. To all his dear friends at West Point, Annapolis, and the boating people. Interment Arlington National Cemetery, Tuesday, February 21, 11 AM.       
 ZEIGEN--L. Marshall. On Valentine's Day, one week after his 76th birthday. Beloved son of the late Bess and Samuel Zeigen. Cherished brother of H. Lylla Kleiman and her husband George. Devoted and loyal friend to many. U.S. Army Veteran. The family will leave Riverside Memorial Chapel on Su
 ZOLT--David. On February 17, 2006. Beloved husband of Beatrice. Loving father of Richard and Judy and Steven. Cherished grandfather of Alana & Tyler. Dear brother of Dorothy Farb. He will be forever in our hearts. Services Mt. Lebanon Cemetery, Queens, NY, 11:30AM Sunday       
 BROADWATER--Bowden. There will be a memorial program for Bowden Broadwater at 5 PM, Wednesday, February 22 at St. Bernard's School, 4 East 98th St. Contributions may be made in his name to St. Bernard's Scholarship Fund.       
 Don Paarlberg, a farmer, writer and professor of agricultural economics who, as a White House assistant, helped President Dwight D. Eisenhower prepare and run his Food for Peace initiative, died Tuesday in West Lafayette, Ind. He was 94. His death was announced by Soller-Baker Funer
 Joel Dorius, one of three gay professors of literature caught in a pornography scandal and forced out by Smith College in 1960 only to be exonerated in a celebrated case of sexual McCarthyism, died on Tuesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 87. The cause was bone marrow cancer,
 BALSAMO--Ralph. A former partner at Eisner LLP, died February 1, while in hospice. A memorial service for Ralph will be held on Monday, February 27, at 5:30 PM at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue in New York City. Ralph was a determined, passionate man who wil
 BEILIN--Frank. Friday, February 17, at age 85, after a long illness. He grew up in NYC, was the caring brother of Irwin, and leaves many loving friends who will miss his enthusiasm and generosity. After a theater career, he headed Saks Fifth Avenue's direct mail operation, then becoming adv
 CORTESE--Armand F. The family of Armand F. Cortese, M.D., mourns the loss of a devoted husband and father. At his death, he was Clinical Associate Professor Emeritus of Surgery at New York Presbyterian/Weill Cornell Medical Center. Family was the focus of his life. His honest, gentle and in
 GEWIRTZ--Julius. The family of Julius Gewirtz is saddened to announce the passing of their beloved husband, father, grandfather and greatgrandfather. Julius Gewirtz died Satruday morning after a difficult illness. We know he is now at peace. Julius Gewirtz, the founder of Joyce Leslie, live
 KOBREN -- Abraham, M.S. D.D.S. Age 88, on February 16, 2006. Beloved husband of 63 years to Ruth Spevack Kobren, loving father of Susan and Murray Morrison of Fairfield, CT, Leonard and Barbara Kobren of Briarcliff Manor, NY, Roberta and Mark Simon of Scarsdale, NY, and devoted grandfather 
 LUQUER--L. Shippen. 74, Died peacefully February 7 in Milan. He is survived by his devoted wife Giovannella (nee Cherichetti), a son Dominick, a daughter Nathalie du Bot, and five grandchildren. He also leaves a brother Peter C. in Vermont, and a sister Grace L. Madeira in Philadelphia. Bur
 OHLSSON--Alvar. Died February 17, 2006, of melanoma. Born in Jonkoping, Sweden, he became a US citizen and worked at Electrolux as manager until retirement. He also worked briefly with AGA Industries of Sweden, then headed up CAG ONE Skate Sharpeners. Avid tennis player, proud of partnering
 Richard Bright, a veteran character actor who appeared in all three ''Godfather'' films and ''The Sopranos,'' died on Saturday in New York. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan. He was hit by a bus as it rounded the corner of Columbus Avenue and 86th Street at about 6:30 p.m., and was p
 Curt Gowdy, the Wyoming-bred outdoorsman whose voice defined big-game network television sportscasting during the 1960's and '70's, died yesterday. He was 86. Mr. Gowdy died at his home in Palm Beach, Fla., after a long battle with leukemia, said a spokesman for Mr. Gowdy's son, Cur
 ALLEN--Rose, 88. On February 19, 2006. Beloved wife of the late David. Loving mother of Joseph and his wife Annette. Cherished grandmother of Jade and London. Funeral services Thursday, 9:30 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. Interment to follow at Mt. Zion Cemetery.   
 BARRETTO--Ray. It is with deep regret and sadness that the family of the legendary Ray Barretto announces that the acclaimed Conga Maestro died Friday, February 17, 2006. Mr. Barretto died at the Hackensack University Medical Center in Hackensack, NJ at 5 AM EST. His family was at his bedsi
 BROWN--James. 77, of Wyckoff, NJ, died Saturday, February 18. Born April 4, 1928 in Washington Heights, NY. A graduate of Cardinal Hayes High School and Fordham University. Beloved husband to Mary; cherished father of Patricia, James, Carolyn, Denise and Erin and daughterin-law Suzy; adored
 CAPUTO--Daniel V., 72. Emeritus Professor, Queens College, died of a heart attack on Thursday, February 16. He was Chair of the Psychology Dept. from 1974 to 1977, a Fellow of the New York Academy of Science, and he maintained a practice in clinical psychology. His research was in the area 
 GEWIRTZ - Julie. Deepest sympathy to the Gewirtz family who, as everyone else who knew him, will forever be blessed with the memory and inspiration of this most gracious, honorable, kind man of extraordinary wisdom, sensitivity and humility. Peter L. Levine       
 HERMAN--Stewart W. The trustees of Union Chapel in the Grove, Shelter Island Heights, New York, mourn the passing of their past chairman, Dr. Stewart W. Herman. This internationally renowned Lutheran theologian energized our chapel in his retirement years, developed its endowment and its in
 IALOMITZA--Dr. George C. 82. Died in a tragic accident. He was a highly regarded general surgeon with Cabrini Medical Center since 1966. George is survived by his brother Mihail Constantinescu. Wake: Friday February 24 (11AM-1PM), at Park Funeral Chapels 516-747-4300.       
 JOGODNIK--Richard, 70. Died on February 19, 2006. Beloved husband of Victoria. Father to Carrie Cohen, Benjamin Jogodnik and Amy Warshawsky. Father-in-law to Stephen, Jennifer and David. Grandfather of Brandon, Aaron, Leah, Jessica, Lina, Matthew and Kaya. Brother to Larry and his wife Barb
 MISTRETTA - Charles. Of Ridge, NY, formerly of Searingtown, NY. Passed away on Saturday, February 18, 2006. He will be greatly missed by his wife Rose. Besides his wife, he is survived by his three children: Dorothy Turano, Carole Ross and Martin Mistretta, as well as nine grandchildren and
 OLSEN--Theodore James. Died February 15. Born on September 8, 1929, in Manchester, IN, to Howard and Dorothy (Scull) Olsen. Graduated with distinction from Indiana University in 1951 and with MBA in 1954. Corporate VP at Olin Corp and Pitney Bowes, member of Executive Committee at Touche Ro
 SAKOFSKY - Murray. Of Brooklyn, NY, died peacefully in Fort Lauderdale, FL, on Friday, February 17, at age 91. He is survived by his wife of 63 years, Isabelle, his children Judi (Alan) Englander, Richard (Sharon) Sakofsky and by his grandchildren, Jason, Andrew and Amanda Englander, and Ev
 TOMBACK--Lester Elliot. Died peacefully of heart failure at the age of 98, one month short of his 99th birthday. He was the beloved husband of the late Mildred Gluck Tomback, father of Elinor Fine and Peter and daughter - in - law Roberta, grandfather to Melissa and Andrew, and great-grandf
 VOLKMAN--Samuel. 97. The family of Rabbi Samuel Volkman sorrowfully announces his death on February 18. His rabbinical leadership endured for over 70 years with brilliance, a profound sense of duty and great dignity. His wife was the late Sally B. Volkman. He is survived by two beloved daug
 William Cowsill, the lead singer and guitarist of the Cowsills, a sweet-toned 1960's family band that inspired ''The Partridge Family'' television series, died on Saturday at his home in Calgary, Canada. He was 58. No cause of death was reported, but a longtime friend and producer, 
 Paul C. Marcinkus, a prominent American archbishop and longtime head of the Vatican bank who was linked to a major Italian banking scandal in the 1980's, was found dead on Monday at his home in Sun City, Ariz. He was 84. No cause of death had been determined yesterday, according to 
 Eli J. Segal, who was the chief of staff in Gov. Bill Clinton's victorious campaign for president in 1992 and who went on to become an assistant in the Clinton White House, died Monday at his home in Boston. Mr. Segal, who headed the Clinton administration's AmeriCorps and Welfare-to-Work i
 ALLEN--Mark Henry. A retired senior partner of the New York law firm Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft died on February 20, 2006 at his residence in the Duncaster Community, Bloomfield, CT. Born in Brooklyn, NY, May 16, 1909, Mr. Mark was the son of the late Henry A. Mark and Mary Clyde McCarro
 ALLEN--Rose, 88. On February 19, 2006. Beloved wife of the late David. Loving mother of Joseph and his wife Annette. Cherished grandmother of Jade and London. Funeral services Thursday, 9:30 AM, at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. Interment to follow at Mt. Zion Cemetery.   
 ALLERHAND - Irving. The Yeshivah of Flatbush mourns the passing of its Honorary President, Irving Allerhand, A''H. Along with his wife, Ida, A''H, he served as a role model of dedication to family, Jewish education, and community for generations of Yeshivah of Flatbush, students, parents, f
 BRODSKY--Irvin. American Friends of The Hebrew University mourn the passing of Irvin Brodsky, an AFHU national board member and Hebrew University Benefactor. Along with his wife, Charlotte, Irvin was devoted to the State of Israel and to the cause of higher education. His generous acts of p
 CARDOZO--Rev. Abraham Lopes. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a deeply cherished friend and member of the Sephardic Council of Overseers (SCO) who served for many years as Instructor of Occidental Sephardic Liturgy at the Philip and Sarah Belz School of Jewish Music, and 
 DOBKIN--Milton. Co-founder of Coney Island's Bat-A-way Concession. A beautiful, loving, caring, gregarious, friend and loyal partner. They were great moments in time. To his loving partner Rita our love and sympathies. He will be missed. Jerome and Maxine Belson       
 ELLIOT--Richard M. of New Rochelle, N.Y., died peacefully on February 20, 2006. His love of life and love of family inspired all who knew him. His beloved wife Beebe, adoring daughters Liz and Vicki and their husbands, Dennis and Nick, and cherished grandchildren Clifford, Julie, Remy and K
 FRIEDLAND--Sidney S., 74, Hartsdale, NY, died suddenly on February 20, 2006. He was the devoted husband and best friend of Selma for 51 years; loving father to Andrew (Katie), James Silverstein (Seth) & Steven (Randi); Poppa to Jeffrey, Jared, Craig, Jonathan, Ethan, Kyra and Liza; brother,
 FURMAN--Seymour, M.D. On February 20, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Evelyn. Devoted father of Bruce, Gary and Neil. Surgeon at Montefiore Hospital for over 50 years. Services Thursday 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. $(6$)FURMAN -- Seymour, M.D. Died February 2
 GEWIRTZ - Julius. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of a most cherished member of its extended family. Julie (''Yidel''), a Chai Founder together with his partner in life, Hermine, was a respected founding member of our Board of Directors and also served with disti
 HEALD--Dave. Age 86. In Concord, NH on February 20, 2006. Of Elkins, NH and former National Marketing and Sales Manager to the Putnam Group of Mutual Funds in Boston, MA. Served in US Army during WWII. Survived by wife of 65 years, Jane (Winey) Heald of Elkins, NH; children, Dave of Riverwo
 LEVIN--Alan M. The management and staff of Thirteen/WNET New York bid a fond farewell to our esteemed colleague Alan M. Levin. He raised our consciousness and, in doing so, won our everlasting affection and admiration. The awardwinning programs he produced for Thirteen and for public televi
 LUCA--Adolfo. On February 20, 2006. Adolfo was born in Brooklyn, NY in 1928 and was educated at Stuyvesant High School, New York University, and Harvard Law School. He was an attorney in private practice and then for NBC. Beloved husband of Betty for 50 years. Loving father of Mark, Robin W
 NAGLE--Joseph M. Of Bronxville, on February 20, 2006. Beloved husband of Linda Fortuna Nagle. Loving father of Lauren & Matthew. Devoted brother of Richard, Thomas (Carol), John (Eva), Andrew (Maureen) Nagle, and John Murray (Maryann), and the late Michael Nagle. He worked for Axa Equitable
 NORRIS--John F. All of us at Forest City Ratner Companies mourn the passing of our friend and colleague John Norris. John excelled in everything he did-from ensuring the Queen of England's safety as a member of the Royal Horse Guards of the Household Cavalry to overseeing the construction o
 STERN--Robert J., 58. Of New City, NY, died Monday, February 20, 2006. Mr. Stern was a retired NYC School Principal. Mr. Stern is survived by his beloved wife Risa, the joys of his life, daughters Nicole and Robyn, his loving mother Edith, his sister Rima, and his brother-in-law, Stephen Ju
 STILLMAN--Israel H. In his 93rd year. Adoring husband and soulmate of Leona, married for 66 wonderful years. Loving father of Celine and Pascal and Tom and Kathy. Grandfather of very special granddaughter Isabelle. A man of compassion, generosity and humor. Always true to himself, he lived 
 TOMBACK--Lester. The Officers, Board of Governors and members of Metropolis Country Club mourn the passing of our esteemed Honorary Life Member, Lester Tomback, who died at the age of 98 and extend our heartfelt condolences to his son and daughter-in-law, Peter and Roberta Tomback, his daug
 ZABAVA--John Steven. Born March 9, 1970. Began his new journey February 21, 2006. Beautiful soul, uncompromising individual, you lived by no one's rules but your own. Deeply loved by family and friends. We know you'll be visiting us again soon.       
 WERTHEIMER--Walter. The Wachen family: Elizabeth and Harry, Kimberly & David and Hallie and Mark, mourn the passing of their brother-in-law and uncle. He was a gentle kind man who enjoyed life.       
 BROADWATER--Bowden. There will be a memorial program for Bowden Broadwater at 5 PM, Wednesday, February 22 at St. Bernard's School, 4 East 98th St. Contributions may be made in his name to St. Bernard's Scholarship Fund.       
 Theodore Draper, a combative historian and social critic and one of the last of a generation of freelance intellectuals who wrote and lectured largely without academic affiliations or formal credentials, died yesterday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 93. His death was announced by his
 The Rev. Abraham Lopes Cardozo, the longtime cantor of a historic Manhattan synagogue and a major force in recovering and preserving the liturgical music of Spanish and Portuguese Jews, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 91. Mr. Cardozo had been in failing h
 Bruce Hart, who wrote lyrics for ''Sesame Street'' and ''Free to Be  You and Me,'' died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Carole. Mr. Hart and his wife were among the first writers on ''Sesame Street'' when it began in 
 James E. Hinton Jr., a documentary photographer who chronicled the racial and social upheavals of the 1960's, died on Sunday at a hospital in the Bronx. He was 69 and lived in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. The cause was metastasized prostate cancer, his family said. Mr. Hinton's picture
 Ken Keuffel, the head football coach for 21 years at the Lawrenceville School in New Jersey and for 6 years at Wabash College and one of the last exponents of the single-wing offense, died Sunday at the University Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Lawrenceville, outsi
 ARNOLD--Joseph, CPA. Of New York City and Easthampton, passed away on February 22, following a brief illness. Joe was preceded in death by his wife of 63 years, Ruth, last November. Born in Brooklyn in 1920, Joe attended Boys High and the City College of New York and served in the Army Air 
 BUVITT--Anne. On February 22, 2006. Loving mother of Seymour and his wife Linda. Beloved grandmother of Danielle Schwartz and Beth Herbst. Adoring great-grandmother of Jack, Adam, Andrew, Sam and Maxine. Dear sister of Seymour and Tamara Pristin Graveside services Friday, 1:15 P.M. at Beth 
 COHANE--Jakob T., MD. Jaks sheer brilliance, his mastery of seven languages, his insight into human nature and his gentleness endeared him to all those lives he touched. Against all odds, Jak put himself through medical school, he became a renowned internist, specializing in endocrinology, 
 CORTESE--Armand F., M.D. The Physicians and Staff of the Center for Specialty Care, Inc. mourn the death of their highly respected, dedicated and well-loved colleague and friend. His devotion to his patients and peers remains an inspiration to all. We extend our sympathy to his wife Pat and
 COX--Donald Morgan. August 31, 1922 - February 22, 2006, Ponte Vedra Fl., Retired Sr. VP & Director of Exxon Corp., past President & Trustee, Teagle Foundation, American Fed. of Arts, Trustee, Trustee, Amer. Acad. in Rome Emeritus, Polytechnic Inst. Of NY., Bluefield College, Past Director 
 ELKINS--James Anderson Jr. Loving husband, father, grandfather, and friend, died February 21, 2006. Born March 24, 1919 on Galveston Island to Isabel Sims Mitchell and -Judge-J. A. Elkins, he attended Kinkaid School, San Jacinto High School, The Hill School, and Princeton University, gradua
 FRIEDLAND--Sidney S., 74, Hartsdale, NY, died suddenly on February 20, 2006. He was the devoted husband and best friend of Selma for 51 years; loving father to Andrew (Katie), Jane Silverstein (Seth) & Steven (Randi); Poppa to Jeffrey, Jared, Craig, Jonathan, Ethan, Kyra and Liza; brother, 
 KRANER--Bruce J., 67. Of Aventura, FL. Passed away February 21, 2006. He is survived by his devoted children Jason (Bonnie) Kraner and Debbie Schneider, four cherished grandchildren and dear sister Nancy (Henry) Silverman. Graveside services 12:45PM (Today) at Lakeside Memorial Park, Miami.
 MORIARTY--James P. On February 22, 2006. Manhattan College School of Engineering, Class of 1954. Postgraduate studies NYU and Columbia. Veteran United States Army Corps of Engineers. President of T. Moriarty & Son. Past President of the Emerald Society of Long Island, the Friendly Sons of S
 SELBY--Murray. On February 21, age 97, an attorney for 50 years. Loving husband of the late Yetta. Devoted brother of Rose and the late Phil and Victor. Proud father of Arnold, Carole and Nancy. Beloved ''Poppy'' of Alyson, Andrew, Brett, Evan, Joelle, Margo and Stefanie and six great grand
 STILLMAN--Israel H. In his 93rd year. Adoring husband and soulmate of Leona, married for 66 wonderful years. Loving father of Celine and Pascal and Tom and Kathy. Grandfather of very special granddaughter Isabelle. A man of compassion, generosity and humor. Always true to himself, he lived 
 THOMPSON--Richard M.H. Thompson, a chairman of a pioneering fuel-cell technology company, died yesterday at his home in Florida of cancer. He was 71. He served with Britain's Household Cavalry as a Queen's Lifeguard and graduated from Cambridge University and Harvard Business School. His fa
 Peter Hamilton, a dancer who performed with Charles Weidman and in Broadway musicals, died on Jan. 31. He was 90 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, said Don Liberto, his companion of 62 years and only immediate survivor. Born in Trent
 Thomas Malcolm Taylor, who managed money for the billionaire Bass brothers of Texas for more than 20 years, died Sunday in a snowmobile accident in the Adirondack region of upstate New York. He was 63. Mr. Taylor, known as Tommy, was part of a guided snowmobile tour near Saranac Lak
 AMES--Lincoln, 73. Of Montclair, NJ, and Little Compton, RI, died suddenly from a stroke on Wednesday, February 22. Beloved husband of Aubin Zabriskie Ames; devoted father of Hyla Ames Bauer, Mark Zabriskie Ames, and David Wyllys Ames; loving grandfather of Liesel Bauer, Clara Bauer, and An
 ARNOLD--Joseph. The Easthampton Tennis Club mournfully records the passing of Joe Arnold, a gentleman, admired by all for his encyclopedic knowledge of the game, his championship play, his graciousness to those less gifted and his devotion to the club. He and Ruth are sorely missed by their
 BARR--Sumner, 78. Of Parkinson's disease. Survivors include his beloved partner, Howard Fine, his brothers, Ben, Richard, Burton, and his sister, Elaine Sandler, and their families, and many loving friends. Donations to Leir/ Ridgefield Foundation, 570 Lexington Ave., NY NY 10022 would be a
 BARRY--John A. (Jack). Age 76, of Newtown, Connecticut formerly of Larchmont, New York passed away February 21, 2006 at his home. Born and raised in Larchmont, he is predeceased by his parents John R. and Edna Barry. Jack attended Iona Prep and Holy Cross College. He was with the U.S. Marin
 BEINFIELD--Malcolm. Long time Westport Physician, dies at 84. Malcolm S. Beinfield, the first board-certified surgeon in Westport, Connecticut died Monday, February 20th at his home. He was 84. In 1976, the Yale-educated Beinfield founded the first community-based Surgical Residency program
 CARDOZO--Rev. Abraham Lopes. The 1654 Society mourns the passing of the renowned Hazan Emeritus of Shearith Israel. He dedicated his life to preserving Sephardic liturgical tradition and Dutch Jewish culture. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Irma, daughters, Deborah, Judith & f
 COHANE--Jakob T., MD. Jaks sheer brilliance, his mastery of seven languages, his insight into human nature and his gentleness endeared him to all those lives he touched. Against all odds, Jak put himself through medical school, he became a renowned internist, specializing in endocrinology, 
 CORTESE--Armand F., M.D. The Physicians and Staff of the Center for Specialty Care, Inc. mourn the death of their highly respected, dedicated and well-loved colleague and friend. His devotion to his patients and peers remains an inspiration to all. We extend our sympathy to his wife Pat and
 COX--Donald M. The trustees and staff of the American Federation of Arts are deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and Vice President of the Board, Donald M. Cox. We will be forever grateful for his many contributions and immense generosity to the organization during his 26 years a
 FURMAN -- Seymour, MD. The President, Board of Trustees, and the entire Montefiore Medical Center community are profoundly saddened by the death of Seymour Furman, MD, an esteemed colleague and friend. Dr. Furman, on the faculty at Montefiore for half a century, was internationally renowned
 KURTZ--Dr. Kent Worthington, 65, Arcadia, CA died at 9:20 A.M. Saturday, February 18, 2006 after a short, but courageous battle with cancer, ending in peace. He was employed as professor of Ornamental Horticulture by California State Polytechnic University at Pomona, CA for 36 years. A memo
 LUFRANO--Carmine (Carm). Age 89, died on February 20 after a long struggle with Alzheimer's Disease. He is survived by his wife of 58 years, Joan (nee O'Brien), his sister Marie Maier, his brothers Louis (Rosemary) and Edward (Anne), sisters-in-law Rose O'Brien, Anne Kenny, Marie King and J
 WEIL--Fred, 81. Of Newtown, PA, died at home on February 18, 2006. He was born in Baden, Switzerland on January 27, 1925. He left Germany with his family in 1937 for New York. He served in the U.S. Army during W.W. II, throughout Europe and the Pacific. Fred was the owner of Winter-Wolff, I
 WILLIAMS--Bruce D. Of Hackensack, NJ, February 21 at Englewood Hospital. Born June 15, 1932, Washington, DC. Raised in the Midwest, graduated Harvard 1954. Stanford MBA 1956. Spent 30 years as a corporate financial officer in industries including petroleum, heavy machinery, and M&A. Board m
 MAKRIANES--James K. Memorial gathering in celebration of his life will take place Wednesday March 1, 2006, The Racket and Tennis Club, 370 Park Ave, New York City, at 5:30 PM.       
 Paul Avrich, a historian of the anarchist movement that played a role in the Russian Revolution and flourished in America in the 19th and early 20th centuries, died on Feb. 16 at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's dis
 Robert E. Fischer, a New York judge who prosecuted organized crime during the Rockefeller administration and opened the criminal inquiry into the 1971 rebellion at Attica prison, died on Feb. 16 in Binghamton, N.Y., his birthplace. He was 88. The cause was congestive heart failure, 
 Benno Besson, a disciple of Bertolt Brecht who became one of the most admired stage directors in Europe, died on Feb. 16 in a Berlin hospital. He was 83. Mr. Besson died after a long illness, said one of his daughters, Katharina Thalbach, a noted German actress and director.        
 Harold Hunter, whose skateboarding prowess and outsize personality led him to modeling and movie roles, celebrity friendships and prominence in the downtown Manhattan scene, was found dead on Feb. 17 in the East Village housing project where he grew up. He was 31. His brother, Ronal
 Henry N. Michael, an anthropologist and geographer who used the growth rings of ancient pine trees to help resolve problems of radiocarbon dating in archaeology, died last Sunday at a hospital in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 92 and a resident of nearby Ardmore. Dr. Michael's family confirm
 COHANE--Jakob T., MD. Jaks sheer brilliance, his mastery of seven languages, his insight into human nature and his gentleness endeared him to all those lives he touched. Against all odds, Jak put himself through medical school, he became a renowned internist, specializing in endocrinology, 
 COX--Donald M. Trustees, Fellows, and staff of the American Academy in Rome mourn the loss of a beloved friend, Trustee (1983-2003), Trustee Emeritus (2003 onward) and inspired Chair of the Finance committee. His tender guidance, generosity, wisdom, and deep commitment to the institution, a
 ESTRIN--Joseph, M.D. Of Brooklyn, NY died after a brief illness on February 23 at the age of 93. Beloved son of the late Max and Anna Estrin. Brother of the late Eva Kanof. Dr. Estrin received his undergraduate training at the City College of New York and received his M.D. degree from the L
 FERBER--Dr. Robert M. July 25, 1920--February 23, 2006. Beloved husband, father, grandpa, friend--He was a great conversationalist who took pleasure in being an independent thinker and superb craftsman. We miss him so much. ''He plays the violin. He tucks it right under his chin, and he bow
 MARK--Henry Allen. A retired senior partner of the New York law firm Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft died on February 20, 2006 at his residence in the Duncaster Community, Bloomfield, CT. Born in Brooklyn, NY, May 16, 1909, Mr. Mark was the son of the late Henry A. Mark and Mary Clyde McCarro
 MORIARTY--James P. The Society of the Friendly Sons of Saint Patrick in the City of New York records with profound sorrow the death of James P. Moriarty, a Life Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Robert J. Reilly, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historian     
 VAN DYKE--William D, 85, died February 23. He is survived by his devoted wife, Lee Van Dyke. Bill was a Captain US Army, WWII awarded the Purple Heart and Silver Star. He will be deeply missed and forever loved. He leaves a brother, Robert Van Dyke and sister, Camilla Thomas. Memorial servi
 CHOPE--Robert Lincoln II. Died suddenly on February 12 at his home in Marietta, GA. He is survived by his wife of 56 years Martheen Baker Chope and his four children; Christine Peters of Richland, WA, Nancy Lezinsky of Marietta, GA, Robert Chope III of Toms River, NJ and Pamela Mozier of De
 COHANE--Jakob T., MD. Jaks sheer brilliance, his mastery of seven languages, his insight into human nature and his gentleness endeared him to all those lives he touched. Against all odds, Jak put himself through medical school, he became a renowned internist, specializing in endocrinology, 
 CURTIS--Frederick S., formerly Fritz Idstein, of Mannheim and Krefeld, Germany, passed away peacefully on February 21, 2006, at Mary Manning Walsh Home in New York shortly before his 96th birthday. He was the dearly beloved and loving husband of Ursel (nee Blumenheim) for 45 years. Cherishe
 ESTRIN--Joseph, MD. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center is deeply saddened by the death of Dr. Joseph Estrin. Dr. Estrin was a surgeon, par excellence, in the Dept. of Surgery for over 50 years. His many other talents included art, writing and teaching. He was involved with many 
 FELD--Herman, 86. After a valiant long struggle, ''Hy'' passed away February 19th. He was a most devoted husband to Lillian for 61 years and an extremely proud father to Adam (Debbie), Ross (Ellen) and Susan (both predeceased). His grandchildren Aaron, Zachary, Nicole and Joshua greatly enr
 FRIEDLAND--Sidney S., MD, 74, Hartsdale, NY, died suddenly on February 20, 2006. He was the devoted husband and best friend of Selma for 51 years; loving father to Andrew (Katie), Jane Silverstein (Seth) & Steven (Randi); Poppa to Jeffrey, Jared, Craig, Jonathan, Ethan, Kyra and Liza; broth
 HARDESTY--Egbert. Retired Partner and son of Hardesty & Hanover's namesake, Shortridge Hardesty, died on January 30, 2006. Mr. Hardesty was an outstanding civil engineer who was responsible for the design of expressways, movable and fixed bridges, and special projects. He received his engin
 LICHTENSTEIN--Ira. Former President of Eric Marder Associates, the market research company in New York City, and formerly a chemical engineer, died February 6, 2006 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering. He was 68 years old, born in Brooklyn, New York. He was the son of Irene Polansky Lichtenstein an
 PHELAN--James Francis. after a gallant battle with cancer, died on Friday, February 24, 2006 at his East Side Manhattan home with his beloved wife Joy Tomlinson Phelan at his side. Devoted father of Patrician O'Donnell, John Phelan and Coral Gwyn - Williams. Adoring grandfather to James, Ma
 RUBIN--Sam. Died in Palm Beach, FL. on February 13, 2006. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Devoted father of Phyllis Leighton. Grandfather of Greg and David Leighton. Great-grandfather of Zachary, Mitchell, Jennifer and Allison. Sam was a legend in both the toy industry and in the thoroughbred r
 TAYLOR--Thomas M. 63, ''Big T'', of Fort Worth, Texas, Greenwich, Connecticut and Nantucket, Massachusetts, died tragically on Sunday, February 19. Founder and Senior Partner of The Taylor Companies, an alternate investment and insurance advisory company. Beloved husband of Linda; loving fa
 VAN DYKE--William D, 85, died February 23. He is survived by his devoted wife, Lee Van Dyke. Bill was a Captain US Army, WWII awarded the Purple Heart and Silver Star. He will be deeply missed and forever loved. He leaves a brother, Robert Van Dyke and sister, Camilla Thomas. Memorial servi
 WILLIAMS--Bruce D. Of Hackensack, NJ, February 21 at Englewood Hospital. Born June 15, 1932, Washington, DC. Raised in the Midwest, graduated Harvard 1954. Stanford MBA 1956. Spent 30 years as a corporate financial officer in industries including petroleum, heavy machinery, and M&A. Board m
 DUTTON--Gardiner. Of Nantucket, Massachusetts and Phoenix, Arizona on February 19, 2006. Beloved husband of 24 years to Cam Dutton; loving father to Sarah Dutton, Jennifer Whyte, Joe Therrien, Jeff Dutton and Jill Dutton; and devoted grandfather to Janet, Anais, Dennis Patrick, Hunter and M
 DRABKIN--Steven Wayne. 10/19/61 - 2/23/81 25 years have not dimmed his memory. We who held him dear remember.       
 MAKRIANES--James K. Memorial gathering in celebration of his life will take place Wednesday March 1, 2006, The Racquet and Tennis Club, 370 Park Ave, New York City, at 5:30 PM.       
 Darren McGavin, an actor with hundreds of television, movie and theatrical credits to his name, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 83. The cause of his death, which was reported to The Associated Press by his son Bogart, was not announced, nor was the precise location, identifi
 Kenneth McCabe, an investigator who became a quiet legend among crime fighters by spying on and testifying against mobsters to help topple godfathers, died on Feb. 19 at his home in Breezy Point, Queens. He was 59. His daughter, Kelly McCabe Casey, a prosecutor in the office of the 
 ESTRIN--Joseph, M.D. The Department of Medicine of Maimonides Medical Center mourns the loss of our surgical colleague, Dr. Joseph Estrin. He was a respected surgeon, educator and friend. He taught us all how to be better physicians. Edgar Lichstein, M.D. Chairman, Dept. of Medicine       
 KESSLER--Jerome M. 78, real estate developer, attorney and bonsai enthusiast, died on February 25, 2006. Jerry is survived by his beloved wife Norma, children, Lisa, David and Mitchell, step-daughters Sharona and Tammy, and grandsons Brian and Daniel. Memorial Services will be held noon, on
 KEUFFEL--Ken. I rejoice in the life of Ken Keuffel. He is a gentle man and my first mentor. My thoughts are with his family. Allan Lenzner       
 KOHLOFF--Roland L. 71. On February 24, 2006. Beloved husband of Janet (nee Unger), loving father to Jami (Mark) Grassi and Steven, grandfather of Cassandra and Gianna, brother of Cindi and George. For 32 years, he was principal timpanist in the New York Philharmonic, and 16 years prior as P
 MARTIN--Eugene F. Jr. Died on February 24, 2006. Husband of the late Catherine Attridge and brother of Therese Martin. Mr. Martin attended Canterbury School in New Milford, CT, and St. John's School in Annapolis, MD, and received his degree from the University of Virginia (Class of 1952). H
 Dennis Weaver, whose portrayal of Deputy Chester Goode in the classic television western ''Gunsmoke'' made him the favorite sidekick of the early television era, died on Friday at his home in Ridgway, Colo. He was 81. The cause was complications of cancer, said Julian Myers, his pub
 Otis Chandler, who inherited The Los Angeles Times from his parents and then, as its publisher, transformed it into one of the most respected, widely read and profitable newspapers in the United States, died yesterday at his home in Ojai, Calif. He was 78 years old. Mr. Chandler die
 BAREISS--Molly. The staff and Committee of Prints and Illustrated Books at The Museum of Modern Art extend heartfelt condolences to Walter Bareiss, long-standing Committee member and valued friend of the Museum, for the loss of his wonderful wife, Molly. We offer our most sincere sympathy t
 BAUM--Jack. Businessman, civic leader; survived by his wife Marion, son Steve, daughter Yvonne Baum Silverman and granddaughter Justine Silverman.       
 DOKTOFSKY--Max, CPA. Of New York City. Died suddenly on February 26, 2006. A dedicated practitioner, he served his clients with integrity and devotion for over 50 years up until his death. Served with the U.S. Army in Europe during WWII. He was righteous and honest as a professional and as 
 ESTRIN--Joseph, M.D., 93. Dr. Joseph N. Cunningham and the Department of Surgery at Maimonides Medical Center mourn the passing of our respected and admired educator and colleague, Dr. Joseph Estrin. He mentored generations of surgeons and was a source of wisdom and inspiration to us all. A
 FRIEDMAN - Nathan. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our longtime member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Charlotte, and their loved ones. May his memory be for blessing. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein Michael H. Laufer, President       
 KEUFFEL--Ken. I rejoice in the life of Ken Keuffel. He is a gentle man and my first mentor. My thoughts are with his family. Allan Lenzner       
 KOHLOFF--Roland L. 71. On February 24, 2006. Beloved husband of Janet (nee Unger), loving father to Jami (Mark) Grassi and Steven, grandfather of Cassandra and Gianna, brother of Cindi and George. For 32 years, he was principal timpanist in the New York Philharmonic, and 16 years prior as P
 KUCKER--Joseph. In his 95th year. Beloved father of Miles and Michele, Stuart and Jackie. Cherished grandfather of Michael, Stephanie, Lauren, and Jason and Lada. Loving great-grandfather of Lily and Oliver.       
 LEVY--Michael H. Founder and former CEO of the Standard Security Life Insurance Company of NY, died from complications resulting from a reaction to a diagnostic injection on February 25. At age 92, Mike was still working full time as a Financial Planner. Mike was a highly decorated Ranger C
 LUKOFF--Irving Faber. On February 27, 2006. Columbia University professor, author, scholar, mentor. WWII naval officer; commanded LSTs during Normandy Invasion; saw action in both Atlantic and Pacific Theaters. Beloved father of David, Jonathan, and Carol, proud grandfather of Benjamin, Kai
 MARTIN--Eugene F. Jr. Died on February 24, 2006. Husband of the late Catherine Attridge and brother of Therese Martin. Mr. Martin attended Canterbury School in New Milford, CT, and St. John's School in Annapolis, MD, and received his degree from the University of Virginia (Class of 1952). H
 MARVEL--James Peter. On February 27, he was 93. WWII Veteran, loving husband of the late Lillian. Beloved father of Alexis DiGrazia and the late Patricia. Cherished grandfather of Marisa Milo, Christina Morlano, Jessica Marvel-Piccolo, Alex Marvel and great grandfather of Jordan and Michael
 MCGAVIN--Darren. The Officers and Governors of the Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of Friar Darren McGavin. We extend our sincere condolences to his family. Private services were held. Freddie Roman, Dean Jean-Pierre Trebot, Executive Director       
 MISHRICK--Abdallah S., M.D. on February 26, 2006 of Garden City. Beloved husband of Jacqueline. Loving father, grandfather and friend. Visiting at the Fairchild Chapel, Franklin Ave at 12th Street, Garden City 7-9PM Tuesday and 2-4 & 7-9PM Wednesday. Religious service Cathedral of the Incar
 PONTE--Vincent Pasciuto. A Harvard graduate and a world renowned town planner, died peacefully on February 9, 2006. He is survived by his two aunts, Ruth Mitrano and Esther Robertello. He worked with the world's most prestigious architectural firms designing concepts to minimize pedestrian 
 RAPHAEL--Harvey D. Born March 9, 1930. Beloved husband of Nadine. Adored father of Caren, Cathy, James and Julia. Beloved father-inlaw of Mel, Stacey and Jeffrey. He will be dearly missed by his five grandchildren Gabe, Max, Alec, Ben and Isabella. Funeral services Tuesday 11:30AM at Frank 
 SCHERZER--Irwin S. Passed away at the age of 73 on February 24, 2006. Beloved son of the late Hyman and Bertha Scherzer. Irwin grew up in Lynn, Massachusetts and was an honors graduate of Harvard College Class of 1954 and Harvard Business School Class of 1956. He served for two years as a c
 WOLFF--Dr. Roy I. Beloved husband of Harriett for almost 60 years, adored father of Natalee, Susan and her husband Stuart, loving grandfather of Bennett, Harris, Alex and Leah. Died in sunny Tucson, Arizona on February 25, 2006. He practice dentistry for 52 years in Manhattan. He will be so
 Brig. Gen. Robert L. Scott Jr., one of America's most celebrated World War II fighter pilots and author of the best-selling wartime memoir ''God Is My Co-Pilot,'' died yesterday at an assisted living center in Warner Robins, Ga., home of Robins Air Force Base, near Macon. He was 97.        
