 Bernard Green, who began hawking newspapers on the streets and subways at 11 and never quite got over being a newsboy -- even when he became the owner of one of New York City's biggest chains of newsstands -- died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 91. His son Michael said he died at 
 Dr. J. Desmond Clark, an authority on ancient Africa and a leader of archaeological expeditions that helped outline the history of the continent as well as the history of humans, died on Feb. 14 in Oakland, Calif. He was 85 and retired from a  professorship at the University of California a
 John L. S. Holloman Jr., a doctor who in his private practice, in leadership roles with medical associations and as head of New York City's hospitals battled for health care for the poor, died on Wednesday in Queens. He was 82 and lived in East Elmhurst, Queens. The cause was a stro
 Fred Decré, former co-owner of the Manhattan restaurant La Caravelle, died on Feb. 20 in Palm Beach, Fla., where he lived. He was 82. He had a heart ailment, his colleague Roger Fessaguet said. He was born in Illinois and grew up in France and Italy. He returned to the Unit
 Stanislav Libensky, the Czech artist who with his wife, Jaroslava Brychtova, transformed glass from tabletop decoration to a serious art form in architecture and sculpture, died on Feb. 24 in Zelezny Brod, Czech Republic. He was 80. Having started his career in 1945 as a teacher at 
 Arthur Lyman, a Hawaiian vibraphonist who squawked, rattled, thumped, hooted and cawed his way to the top of the world of Polynesian mood music in the 1950's and early 1960's, died on Feb. 24 in Honolulu. He was 70 and had been regularly performing his old hits -- including his signature tu
 David Hawkins, a philosopher of science who was an assistant to J. Robert Oppenheimer when he directed the Manhattan Project to build an atomic bomb and the official historian of the project, died on Feb. 24 at his home in Boulder, Colo. He was 88. After the project, of which he was
 Harold Weisberg, an implacable critic of the government's investigation of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, died on Feb. 21 at his home in Frederick, Md. He was 88. A former journalist, investigator for the Senate Committee on Civil Liberties and analyst for t
 Herbert Houck, the World War II naval ace who directed the final attack on the battleship Yamato, the pride of the Japanese Navy, in the fighting for Okinawa, died on Feb. 24 in Cape Coral, Fla. He was 86. Five days after American troops began landing on Okinawa, and on the day that
 James B. McKenzie, the longtime executive producer of the Westport Country Playhouse in Westport, Conn., where he lived, and a force in regional and summer theater throughout the country, died on Feb. 20 at a hospital in Norwalk, Conn. He was 75. The cause was cancer and recurring p
 Dr. Alvin Radkowsky, a nuclear engineer who developed a reactor fuel that does not generate waste that can be reused for nuclear weapons, died on Feb. 17 in Israel. He was 86. Born in the United States, Dr. Radkowsky was the chief American scientist for the design of nuclear reactor
 Leo Ornstein, a Russian-born composer and pianist who in the early 20th century was a leading figure of the American avant-garde, died on Feb. 24 in Green Bay, Wis. He was either 108 or 109. Viewed as a radical composer, Mr. Ornstein was ranked with Stravinsky and Schoenberg in the 
 Marvin E. Frankel, an outspoken litigator, judge and legal scholar whose views helped to establish sentencing guidelines for the federal courts, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was prostate cancer, his daughter Mara said. In a career of more tha
 The Rev. Donald G. Lothrop, the radical minister of what was once one of Boston's most prominent Protestant churches, who defied politicians who called him a Communist -- mistakenly, he emphasized -- by warmly welcoming Communists to his congregation, died on Feb. 20 in Belfast, Me. He was 
 Stanley Saplin, a sports historian and statistician in New York for more than a half-century, died Friday night at New York University Medical Center. He was 88. From the 1950's to the 1990's, Mr. Saplin was the field-events announcer at the Millrose Games. He was the historical edi
 C. Farris Bryant, who straddled two eras in a four-year term as governor of Florida, died on Friday in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 87. Elected as a segregationist in 1960, Mr. Bryant helped transform the state by increasing financing for the highways and universities that helped attra
 C. Farris Bryant, who straddled two eras in a four-year term as governor of Florida, died on Friday in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 87. Elected as a segregationist in 1960, Mr. Bryant helped transform the state by increasing financing for the highways and universities that helped attra
 Former Senator Howard W. Cannon of Nevada, who served four terms as a moderate Democrat and was unseated after Teamsters union officials were accused of offering him a bribe, died today at a hospice in Las Vegas. He was 90. Mr. Cannon had been in ill health for several years and die
 Hugh Morris Gloster, who as president of the historically black Morehouse College greatly strengthened its endowment and faculty in the civil rights era, died on Feb. 16 in Decatur, Ga. He was 90. As Morehouse's seventh president and the first graduate to lead the school, he served 
 Lee Jackson, a New York-born painter who made the city the subject of many of his paintings, died on Feb. 19 in Southampton, N.Y., his family said. He was 93 and lived in Southampton. Mr. Jackson studied at the Art Students League under John Sloan and George Luks, who were members o
 Vincent Wagner, a classical music manager who was the music director of the summertime Maverick Concerts in West Hurley, N.Y., just outside Woodstock, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 57 and lived in Manhattan and West Hurley. The cause was cancer, said Cornelia H. Rosenblum, the
 Walter Goodman, a former reporter and critic at The New York Times and the author of a widely read history of the House Committee on Un-American Activities, died yesterday at a hospital in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 74 and lived in Greenburgh, N.Y. The cause was kidney failure, said his 
 Charles F. Wagner, a founder of Caymus Vineyards, producer of some of the greatest California cabernet sauvignons, died on Feb. 20 in Rutherford, Calif. He was 89. Caymus is best known for its Special Selection Napa Valley cabernets, intense, deeply flavored wines. In 1998, 10 vinta
 Guenter Hensler, a record business executive who worked with classical and popular music but was best known for restructuring the American classical divisions of Polygram in the 1980's and Bertelsmann in the 1990's, died on Sunday at a hospital in Friedrichshafen, Germany. He was 63 and liv
 Howard R. Young, a director and former partner at Goldman, Sachs, died on Feb. 21 at his home in Rumson, N.J. He was 83. The cause was liver cancer, his wife, Betty, said. Mr. Young, who was known as Ray, joined Goldman, Sachs, then a private securities firm, as a securities
 Leon Mandel III, an influential figure in the auto industry as editor in chief and publisher of AutoWeek magazine, died on Tuesday at his home in Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich. He was 73. He had leukemia, Crain Communications Inc., the parent company of AutoWeek, said in announcing his 
 Thomas M. Whalen III, mayor of Albany from 1983 to 1993, who moved it away from machine politics and helped revitalize its economy, died Monday evening when his car hit a tree near his home in Feura Bush in Albany County. He was 68. Mr. Whalen was driving alone in the car. The Assoc
 Alvin M. Eicoff, an advertising executive in Chicago who gained his reputation making television commercials aimed at bleary-eyed late-night viewers, died last Saturday in Highland Beach, Fla. The cause was congestive heart failure, said the advertising agency he started, A. Eicoff 
 Dr. Paul Carbone, a cancer researcher who was honored for his work involving Hodgkin's disease, chemotherapy and other aspects of the treatment and prevention of cancer, died on Feb. 22 in Singapore, where he had gone to encourage cancer research. He was 70 and lived in Middleton, Wis.     
 Samuel W. Hawley, a former president of the National Association of Mutual Savings Banks, died on Feb. 28 at his home in Fairfield, Conn. He was 92. From 1956 to 1975, Mr. Hawley was president of what is now People's Bank, based in Bridgeport, Conn., which was formerly the People's 
 Joseph B. Hartranft, the founder of the Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association and a pioneer of general aviation, died on Feb. 22 in Annapolis, Md. He was 86. His influence on flying was profound, straddling military and civilian aviation for nearly 50 years. Phil Boyer, pre
 The Rev. Robert V. Lott, a Roman Catholic priest who played a leading role in the building of low-rent housing and an assisted-care residence in East Harlem, died on Feb. 27 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 62. The cause was cancer, friends said. Until his death,
 Alan Manson, an actor who appeared in ''This Is the Army,'' ''The Tenth Man'' and other Broadway shows, died on Tuesday in Jamaica, Queens. He was 83 and lived in Easthampton, N.Y. Mr. Manson was one of the 310 real-life soldiers chosen to be in ''This Is the Army,'' Irving Berlin's
 Ronald L. Freed, a classical music publishing executive, died on Feb. 20 in Miami. He was 64 and lived in Miami Beach and New York. The cause was a brain hemorrhage, said Sean Marino, a friend and colleague and the executor of Mr. Freed's estate. Mr. Freed was the president 
 Edward F. Stancik, who as chief investigator of the New York City school system over the last 12 years gained a reputation as a relentless -- some school officials said overzealous -- pursuer of corruption and misconduct, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 47. The cause was not dis
 Howard Thompson, a movie reporter for The New York Times who turned to writing one-liner reviews in the newspaper's television section that amused, infuriated and astounded readers for more than 20 years, died on Sunday at his home in Cape Canaveral, Fla. He was 82. The cause was pn
 Dr. James Tobin, a professor emeritus of economics at Yale who was a top adviser in the Kennedy administration and received the Nobel Prize in economics in 1981, died on Monday in New Haven. He was 84 and lived in New Haven. The cause was a stroke, a Yale spokeswoman, Dorie Baker, s
 Dr. Roy Porter, the popular British author, commentator and historian whose prolific scholarship covered topics as diverse as the Enlightenment and the history of medicine, died on March 3 near his home in St. Leonards-on-the-Sea, England. He was 55. The cause appeared to be a heart
 Harry V. Keefe Jr., a founder of the Keefe, Bruyette & Woods brokerage firm and later a manager of an investment fund, died Friday at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. The cause was a head injury after a fall, his wife, Anita, said. Mr. Keefe was 79 and lived in Greenwich, Conn.  
 Sir Raymond Firth, an anthropologist who wrote extensively on the cultures of remote Polynesian islands and was noted for his close attention to scientific evidence, died on Feb. 22 in London. He was 100. Sir Raymond began his fieldwork in Polynesia in the 1920's and remained fairly
 Spyros Kyprianou, a former president of Cyprus who refused to compromise with the island's breakaway Turkish minority, died on Tuesday in Nicosia, the capital. He was 69. The cause was pelvic cancer, The Associated Press reported. Elected president in 1977 after the death of his men
 Leonid M. Ozernoy, a prominent Soviet-born astrophysicist whose campaign to emigrate to the United States in the 1980's drew international attention, died on Feb. 28 in a hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 62 and lived in University Park, Md. The cause was cancer, his family said
 Thomas Winship, who as editor of The Boston Globe for two decades propelled the newspaper to regional leadership and national stature, in part through tireless coverage of the court-ordered school busing that split the city in the 1970's, died yesterday in Boston. He was 81 and lived in Lin
 Gilmore T. Schjeldahl, an enterprising American inventor whose knowledge of plastics, adhesives and electronics enabled him to create the world's first communications satellite, died on Sunday in the Berkshire community of Lenox, Mass., his hometown since 1999. He was 89 and had earlier liv
 Henry Woods, a federal district judge who presided over a long school desegregation battle in Little Rock, Ark., in the 1980's and was removed from a Whitewater case because of his friendship with President Bill Clinton, died on Thursday in Little Rock. He was 83. The desegregation 
 Thomas F. Leahy, a former president of the CBS television network, died March 8 in Manhattan. He was 64 and lived in Bronxville, N.Y. He had been undergoing treatment for cancer, CBS said. Mr. Leahy led the network from 1986 through 1989, after which he became president of a
 Herbert Spencer, an English graphic designer and author who was the editor of an influential postwar review of typography and the visual arts and who played a vital role in introducing experimental typography to commercial art, died on Monday in Falmouth, England. He was 77. The cau
 Thomas Griffith, who began his journalism career as a police reporter in Seattle and went on to become one of the most powerful editors at Time Inc. during a 30-year career there, died Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. Once called the ''house liberal
 Avraham Tory, a Lithuanian Jew whose meticulous diary chronicled three years of murderous Nazi rule and was later included as evidence in war crimes trials, died on Feb. 24 at his home in Tel Aviv. He was 92. In the Jewish ghetto in Kovno, in central Lithuania, Mr. Tory, a lawyer, s
 Sylvester L. Weaver Jr., a pioneering television executive who created the NBC programs ''Today'' and ''Tonight'' and did much to shape the medium's pervasive influence, died Friday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 93. Mr. Weaver, who worked at NBC from 1949 until 1956, w
 Thomas Griffith, who began his journalism career as a police reporter in Seattle and went on to become one of the most powerful editors at Time Inc. during a 30-year career there, died Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. Once called the ''house liberal
 Warren J. Harding, a legend among rock climbing aficionados since his years of dogged assaults on the towering ramparts of Yosemite Valley, died Feb. 27 at his home in the mountain and lake country near Anderson, Calif. He was 77. He began climbing in the early 1950's, when popular 
 David Mann, who wrote the music for the popular 1955 song ''In the Wee Small Hours of the Morning,'' which was recorded by Frank Sinatra, died on March 1 in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Kinnelon, N.J. Mr. Mann, who was known professionally as Dave Mann, was also a piani
 John Erickson, one of the foremost scholars on the development of the Red Army and its role in World War II, died on Feb. 10 in a hospital in Edinburgh. He was 72. He had come down with a bad case of the flu and then contracted an infection, from which he died, said a friend, David 
 Paul Runyan, who twice won the P.G.A. Championship in the 1930's, the second time routing Sam Snead in match play for one of golf's most stunning upsets, died Sunday in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 93. ''I've taken some pleasure out of being the little guy who has beaten the big fell
 Alonzo Galloway Decker Jr., who made Black & Decker into a household name by putting power tools on the do-it-yourselfer's work bench, died Monday at his home in Earleville, Md. He was 94. The idea underlying the company's success came to him during World War II when he was vice pre
 Arthur G. Altschul, an art collector, investment banker and philanthropist, died on Sunday at his home in Centre Island, N.Y.. He was 81 and also lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He had been in declining health for several months, his son Arthur G. Jr. said. Mr. Al
 Joseph Charles, who became famous by being very, very friendly, died on Thursday in Oakland, Calif. He was 91. Every weekday morning for three decades, Mr. Charles stood on a street corner in adjacent Berkeley and waved to each passing motorist. It made him a local legend, indeed, s
 John E. Robson, whose leadership as president and chairman of the Export-Import Bank of the United States helped shape the Bush administration's trade and foreign policy agenda, died today. He was 71. The cause was complications from a six-month battle with cancer, according to a st
 Leonard Gershe, a playwright and screenwriter who was the author of the hit play ''Butterflies Are Free,'' died on March 9 in a hospital in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 79 and lived in Beverly Hills. The cause was complications from a stroke, said Harold Nelson, his business manager
 Milton C. Rose, a partner at the Wall Street law firm of Mudge Rose Guthrie Alexander & Ferdon, died on Tuesday at his home in Alford, Mass. He was 97 and had worked as a lawyer for over 60 years. The Mudge Rose firm closed in 1995 but not before gaining fame, and considerable busin
 Walter J. Rockler, a Washington lawyer who was the first director of the Justice Department agency that identifies and deports former Nazis, died on March 8 at his home in Rockville, Md. He was 81. The cause was lung cancer, his daughter, Julia Tillery, said. Mr. Rockler, wh
 William Root, one of America's greatest bridge players, died on Monday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 78. The cause was cancer, said Michael Rogers of Boynton Beach, Fla., a professional colleague. Mr. Root, a professional bridge instructor who may have had more students than an
 Former Senator Herman E. Talmadge, an old-fashioned Southern populist who built schools as governor of Georgia and then called for stopping desegregation by closing them, died today at his Hampton, Ga., home. He was 88. Mr. Talmadge, a Democrat who was elected governor twice, lost h
 The Rev. Carl McIntire, a fiery radio evangelist who preached an amalgam of fundamentalist Christianity and hawkish patriotism, died Tuesday in Voorhees, N.J. He was 95. His daughter Marianna Clark said he had lived in the same house in Collingswood, N.J., since 1939. Mr. Mc
 James J. Dunn, the publisher of Forbes magazine for 20 years, died on Monday at his home in North Palm Beach, Fla. He was 81 and formerly lived in Greenwich, Conn. Mr. Dunn was publisher of Forbes magazine, as well as vice president of Forbes Inc., from 1966 to 1988. He move
 Rabbi Israel Miller, a leading advocate for Holocaust survivors as president of the Conference on Jewish Material Claims Against Germany, died on Thursday at his home in Jerusalem. He was 83 and had moved to Israel from Manhattan about two years ago. He had a brief illness, the conf
 Steve Gromek, the Cleveland Indians pitcher who provided a signature moment in the integration of Major League Baseball when he was photographed in a joyful embrace with Larry Doby at the 1948 World Series, died March 12 at a hospital in Clinton Township, Mich. He was 82. Gromek, wh
 William H. Scholl, the son of a founder of the Dr. Scholl's company and the developer of the wooden sandals that became as much fashion as foot care, died March 15 at a hospital in Douglas, on the Isle of Man. He was 81 and lived on the Isle of Man, an autonomous British crown autho
 Jean-Paul Riopelle, one of Canada's most celebrated modern artists and an important figure in postwar French art, died on March 12 at his home on the Île aux Grues, an island in the St. Lawrence River east of Quebec City. He was 78. Living in France during the most productive decad
 Hans-Georg Gadamer, a leading figure of 20th-century philosophy who spent an extraordinarily long career contemplating the nature of meaning and understanding, died in Heidelberg, Germany, on March 13. He was 102. A student of Martin Heidegger and the successor of Karl Jaspers at He
 Dr. John M. Eisenberg, a former medical educator who led the federal agency that monitors quality and safety in health care and research, died on March 10 at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 55. The cause was a brain tumor, said Tommy G. Thompson, secretary of health and human servic
 Big John Patton, a soul-jazz organ player who was a mainstay of the East Coast organ-club circuit since the early 1960's, died on Tuesday in Montclair, N.J. He was 66. The cause was complications from diabetes and kidney malfunction, his wife, Thelma, said. Mr. Patton's styl
 Dr. César Milstein, who shared the 1984 Nobel Prize in Medicine for a revolutionary technique to produce antibodies that latch onto specific proteins, died on Sunday in Cambridge, England. He was 74. The cause was a heart ailment, according to the laboratory at Cambridge University
 Ernest van den Haag, a conservative commentator on social issues, especially crime, and a leading advocate of the death penalty, died on Thursday in Mendham, N.J. He was 87 and a longtime resident of the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He died at a nursing home, succumbing ''to the my
 Thomas J. Kelly, the engineer who led the team that designed and built the spacecraft that landed Apollo astronauts on the Moon, died on Saturday at his home in Cutchogue, N.Y., on Long Island. He was 72. The cause was respiratory failure related to his six-year battle with pulmonar
 Dudley Moore, the multitalented British actor, comedian and musician noted for his performances in the 1960's stage revue ''Beyond the Fringe'' and the films ''10'' and ''Arthur,'' died yesterday at his home in Plainfield, N.J. He was 66. A spokeswoman for the actor said that the ca
 Mace Brown, an outstanding relief pitcher who yielded one of baseball's most memorable home runs, Gabby Hartnett's ''homer in the gloamin' '' that propelled the Chicago Cubs to the 1938 National League pennant, died Sunday at his home in Greensboro, N.C. He was 92. In the years befo
 Milton Berle, the brash comedian who emerged from vaudeville, nightclubs, radio and films to become the first star of television, igniting a national craze for the new medium in the late 1940's, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 93. The uninhibited Mr. Berle almost s
 Alfred H. Lane, a librarian who worked without pay for years just for the love of research and picked up enough pennies on the street to give hundreds of dollars a year to the needy, died on March 20 at St. Vincent Catholic Medical Centers in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Greenwich Vill
 Billy Wilder, the caustic writer and director who won six Academy Awards and international acclaim as one of the world's great filmmakers and then spent the last 21 years of his vivid life imploring Hollywood to let him make another movie, died on Wednesday night at his home in Beverly Hill
 Rafael A. Lafferty, a prolific science fiction writer best known for his short stories and his fresh, eccentric style, died on March 18 in Broken Arrow, Okla. He was 87. Mr. Lafferty, who wrote under the name R. A. Lafferty, had a strong, satirical style and pushed the limits of his
 Rod Rodgers, a modern-dance choreographer known for dances with an unforced, thoughtful physicality often motivated by social themes expressed with quiet passion, died on Sunday at a Manhattan hospital. He was 64 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from a stroke, sai
 Thomas Flanagan, a professor who turned a flash of inspiration into a prize-winning historical novel of Ireland, then followed it with two more acclaimed books in the same vein, died on March 21 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, said his daught
 Astin Jacobo, a community advocate who played an important role in the renewal of his problem-ridden Bronx neighborhood, Crotona, died on March 20 in Manhattan. He was 73 and had lived in Crotona, in the central Bronx, since 1970. The cause was a heart infection, said Heidi Hynes, e
 Dause L. Bibby, an executive who spent more than 40 years in the emerging fields of electronics and technology, died March 14 at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 90. The cause was complications after pneumonia, his son, Douglas, said. Mr. Bibby held posts at companies like Stromberg-
 Richard Bradford, a novelist of the Southwest who wrote ''Red Sky at Morning,'' died last Saturday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 69. The cause was lung cancer, said Jacquita Jones, his companion of 10 years. Mr. Bradford was born in Chicago and brought up in New Orlea
 Richard Sylbert, a prolific and influential production designer who created the visual setting for dozens of films and won two Academy Awards for his work, died last Saturday at a hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 73 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause of death was cancer, s
 Dr. Merton Bernfield, a pediatrician and microbiologist whose research advanced knowledge of the human cell structure, died on March 18 in Boston, where he was previously chief of newborn medicine at Children's Hospital. He was 63. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease,
 Ralph Rumney, an English-born artist who romanced just about every eccentric left-wing intellectual movement he encountered over a half-century -- and helped start a few -- died on March 6 at his home in Manosque in the Provence region of France. He was 67. The cause was cancer, the
