 Dr. Gordon Randolph Willey, a Harvard archaeologist who broadened the study of vanished societies from the examination of the tombs of the elite to include the economic and social lives of ordinary people, died on Sunday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 89. A prolific scholar of pre-Colum
 BERNSTEIN-Sidney. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a highly respected community leader, husband of Ethel and father of Richard (and Amelia) Bernstein, YU Guardians and Barry (and Betsy) Bernstein. Heartfelt condolences are extended to the entire family. May they b
 GOULD-Roger V. April 29, 2002. Husband of Erin Graves, son of Lois and Robert; brother of Tony. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Saturday, May 4, 11:30 AM. In lieu of flowers donations may be made in his name to People for the Ethical Treatment of Animals.
 KIRSHEN-Morris. On April 27, 2002 at age 96. He is survived by his children Carl Kirshen and Judith Levine, daughter-in-law Marjorie Kirshen, grandchildren Bob and Jim Levine and Sarah Kirshen, and brothers Harry & Max Kirshen. He was very much loved and will be remembered for his intellige
 LOOKER-Charles, 93. Died on April 26 after a long illness. Beloved father of Andrew N. and Thomas G., grandfather of Charles A., father-in-law of Tamsin B., husband of the late Jeanette Albert (died 1988), dear companion of Miriam Horowitz. Charles Looker was a member of the law firm, Prosk
 McCLAVE-Scott. On April 29, 2002, at age 41. He is survived by his wife Jane Novatt, his parents Bill and Mary Ben, his sister Lori, his brother Michael and his nieces and nephews. A loving, gentle soul who enriched all those who knew him. He lives on in our hearts. Services today, May 1, 1
 NUGENT-Colonel Robert E., of Holland, MI, on April 26, 2002. Devoted husband of Jacqueline Verbrugge for 47 years. Loving father of Greg, Chris and Carol. Grandfather of Alex and Elizabeth. Brother of Rev. John Nugent, CM; James, Eileen and Martha Ann. Born Brooklyn, NY. Loughlin Hall of Fa
 PICCOZZI-Johnnie. 90. Of Miami Springs, FL passed away on April 24, 2002. Johnnie was a PGA teaching Pro and lifetime member. Johnnie's career spanned more than 25 years which included Head Pro at Island's End Country Club (1965-1990). Also the AssistantHead Pro at the Doral Country Club an
 SEGAL-Marvin. Age 78, of Long Beach, NY, on April 30. Beloved and devoted husband of Doris. Cherished and adored father of Scott and Edan, and Danny and Wendy, and loving grandfather of Courtney and Jake. A man of great warmth, love, compassion and humor, with the desire to live life to its
 VEGA-Timothy. On April 29, 2002, passed away in his sleep. Beloved son of Patricia Vega. Loving brother of Suzanne, Alyson and Matthew. Dear uncle of Sachi and Ruby. Beloved son of Edgardo Vega. He will be deeply missed by his girlfriend Lauren and his countless friends. Service Friday 2pm,
 WADE-Clint. A public relations professional since 1954, died April 27, 2002, following a stroke. He lived in Manhattan and Roxbury, CT. During his career, he worked for United Press International, advised the presidential campaign of Tennessee Sen. Estes Kefauver, and was a consultant and f
 John P. Morris, a battle-scarred Teamsters firebrand who rose to vice president of the union and was called ''the last of the Molly Maguires,'' died on Sunday in Philadelphia. He was 76 and lived a few yards from his old union hall there. The cause was complications of arterial surg
 Msgr. George G. Higgins, for decades a major adviser to the nation's Roman Catholic bishops, an outspoken supporter of organized labor and an influential figure in improving ties between Catholics and Jews, died yesterday in LaGrange Park, Ill. He was 86 and lived much of his life in Washin
 AKIN-Robert M. III, age 66, on April 29, 2002. Survived by wife Ellen, children Susan, Robert and Johanna, brother William and three grandchildren. Memorial service, Saturday, May 4, 2:30, Mt. Kisco Presbyterian Church. In lieu of flowers, donations to Hackley School, Tarrytown NY 10591.   
 BASCH-Morris. We mourn the loss of our beloved friend and treasured colleague. A gentle soul, his warmth and humor endeared him to all who knew him. Heartfelt condolences to Sylvia, Debbie, Jeff, Norman, Irene, Heshi, Wendy and all the grandchildren. May they be comforted among the mourners
 BESWICK-Terry. April 30, 2002. Partner of Salvatore Dirschberger. Son of Lanelle & Lee Beswick. Brother of Christy and Cheryl. Nephew of Donna Reeves. He was much loved and respected by his friends and colleagues at Lehman Brothers and will be deeply missed. Friends may call Friday, May 3, 
 DRILLING-Michael. On April 30, 2002, at 66, after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved husband and best friend to Martha. Proud and loving father of Eric, Betsy and Neil, Paul and Amy, and Abby and Gerard. Adored Grandpa to Julia and Lily, Zoe and Olivia, and Hannah. Dear brother to Lin
 EDELSTEIN-Leo. 90 years old. Died on May 1, 2002. Beloved husband of Edith. Adored and adoring father of Rhonda (Dr. Aaron) Harrison and Dr. Barbara Edelstein (Dr. Kenneth Goldman). Beloved grandpa of Jonathan and Alison Goldman and David and Brett Harrison. Died peacefully after a short il
 GARGIULO-Gene. It is with deepest regret that we mourn the passing of Gene Gargiulo, our friend and collegue. He will be sorely missed. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to the family. HCFP/Brenner Securities       
 LOOKER-Charles. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of The Jewish Guild for the Blind, are deeply saddened by the death of Charles Looker, a former member of the Board of Directors and longtime supporter and friend of The Guild. His valued counsel as a Director and Trustee will be mi
 MEDBY-Magnus Erling. Born in Tromsoe, Norway, Magnus was a resident of Staten Island, N.Y. He died April 29, 2002 at 70 years of age. Beloved & devoted husband of Louise (Wechsler) & cherished brother-in-law of Joyce Wechsler. He leaves family in Norway: a brother, two sisters, children Per
 MILGROM-Ida. We extend condolences to Israeli Deputy Prime Minister Natan Sharansky and his family on the passing of their mother, a tireless champion with them in the Soviet Jewry and Zionist Movements. NCSJ: Advocates on behalf of Jews in Russia, Ukraine, The Baltic States & Eurasia Harol
 MONBLATT-Isidore. On April 30, 2002. W.W. II veteran and Lehman Brothers Assistant Comptroller, but he would like to be remembered most as Nancy's adoring, devoted husband of 60 years, loving father to Steve, Joan and Cathy and doting grandfather to Rebecca and Gabriela. We will always reme
 MUFSON-Robert. Age fifty-six passed away on April 30 in Boca Raton, FL. after a courageous and extraordinary battle with cancer. A man of boundless energy and creativity, Robert wrote poetry in celebration of life as his illness ravaged his body. A successful custom home builder, he played 
 MULDOWNEY-Jerome T., 56. Of Norwalk, CT, died April 30, 2002. He was the husband of Diane R. Muldowney. Mr. Muldowney was Senior Managing Director for AIG Global Investment Corporation in Manhattan. Survivors also include a daughter, Meghan C. Muldowney, 5 brothers & sisters. Services on Sa
 NEWMAN-Daniel. On April 30, 2002 in Naples, Florida. Devoted husband of Barbara, loving father of Jeffrey and Charles, cherished grandfather of David, Deborah, Hannah, and Samuel. Former President of Fairchild Publications, he was a worthy role model, a generous benefactor-and an exceptiona
 OWEN-Kenneth Dale. The son of Lucille Eagle and Richard Owen, was born August 24, 1903 and passed away on April 28, 2002, in the town of his birth. He was the great-great grandson of Robert Owen, the Welsh social reformer and owner of the celebrated textile mills in New Lanark, Scotland. Ro
 SEGAL-Marvin. Age 78, of Long Beach, NY, on April 30. Beloved and devoted husband of Doris. Cherished and adored father of Scott and Edan, and Danny and Wendy, and loving grandfather of Courtney and Jake. A man of great warmth, love, compassion and humor, with the desire to live life to its
 STERN-Gerald D. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Gerald D. Stern, and extend sincere condolences to his family. Alex C. Solowey, President       
 WEI-Mark. Died at 84 years of age on April 30, 2002 in his home in Manhattan. Born in Hong Kong, China, Mr. Wei came to New York from China in April of 1941. Mr. Wei began his insurance career at Chubb & Son, Inc. in 1947 and retired after 35 years of service. At the time of his retirement,
 Bob Akin, who twice won the 12 Hours of Sebring, America's oldest automobile endurance race, died on Monday of injuries sustained during a test run last Friday. Akin, of Pocantico Hills, N.Y., was 66. He was testing a 1988 Nissan GTP ZX-Turbo he planned to drive last weekend in the 
 David Wood, a leading soloist with the Martha Graham Dance Company for 15 years and the founder of the dance program at the University of California at Berkeley, died at home in Berkeley on April 21. He was 77 and also lived in New York. The cause was complications from Parkinson's 
 Ismith Khan, an American writer and teacher whose tales of his native West Indies drew generations of readers, died on April 24 in Brooklyn. He was 77 and lived in Park Slope. He suffered a long illness, his family said. Mr. Khan's ear for dialect and his ability to render i
 ATKINSON-Clinton J. Please join Clint's family in celebrating his life on Friday, May 10, at 4 PM, All Souls Church, Lexington at 80th St.       
 BESWICK-Terry. April 30, 2002. Partner of Salvatore Dirschberger. Son of Lanelle & Lee Beswick. Brother of Christy and Cheryl. Nephew of Donna Reeves. He was much loved and respected by his friends and colleagues at Lehman Brothers and will be deeply missed. Friends may call Friday, May 3, 
 CRAVEN-Jay H. Of Manhattan Beach, California. The directors, officers and staff of Sterling Bancorp and Sterling National Bank extend their deepest, heartfelt sympathies and condolences to his beloved wife, Cheryl; his adored children, Isabella (7) and Jack (5); his mother, Antoinette Nardi
 FELDMAN-Nathan. Of Belle Harbor, NY, at home on May 2, 2002, surrounded by his family. Beloved husband of Estelle, cherished father of Ira (Marilu) & Beth Kempner (Jim), adored and adoring grandfather of Will, Matthew and Lena. Dear brother of Mildred Hyman. Retired owner of A.N. Falik, Inc
 HIGGINS-Msgr. George. An extraordinary individual who has influenced and made extraordinary efforts in promoting Catholic-Jewish dialogue, who was most recently honored in June 2001 by the International Catholic-Jewish liaison committee (sponsored by the Vatican and the International Jewish
 LOOKER-Charles. The entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center family joins with our colleagues at the Kathryn & Gilbert Miller Institute for Performing Artists in acknowledging with sadness the passing of one of the Center's founders and longtime supporters, Charles Looker, president of t
 MAIMIN-Joseph G. Beloved husband of Carolyn. Adored father of Barbara and Steve Regen and Hank Maimin. Loving grandfather of Rachel and Ben Maimin, Jill Regen and Michele and Rob Rosenstein. Dear brother of Patricia Plaut and brother-in-law of Robert Plaut, Charlotte Rosen and the late Abbo
 PINNEY-Attorney A. Searle, age 81, of Brookfield, CT, retired senior partner in the law firm of Pinney, Payne, Van Lenten, Burrell, Wolfe and Dillman of Danbury, CT, died on Tuesday, April 30, 2002 at his residence. He was the husband of the late Evelyn (Roberts) Pinney. Attorney Pinney was
 PREZZANO-Wilbur J., DDS, 90, of Vero Beach, Florida died on May 1, 2002. Loving husband of Adelaide. Devoted father of sons Dr. Peter, Vero Beach, Fl; Wilbur, Jr, Charleston, SC; Richard, West Lake Village, CA; Robert, Alpharetta, GA; Paul, Pittsford, NY, 13 grandchildren and six greatgrand
 SCHEINBAUM-Abraham. Age 92, died on April 30, 2002, at his residence in Newark, DE. For additional information, call R.T. Foard and Jones 1-800-832-2283.       
 WADE-Charles. No one could have known a more loyal and sincere friend than Charles Wade. We had known each other for over 30 years and had worked together for over 20 years. He was a man of integrity and dignity; his sincerity, along with his insight, were appreciated by all who knew him. H
 O'CONNOR-His Eminence John Cardinal. Cardinal O'Connor is still sorely missed for his inspirational homilies and is always remembered in our prayers and thoughts. Margaret Mary McDermott       
 Livingston L. Biddle Jr., a descendant of the storied Philadelphia family who wrote the legislation that led to the creation of the National Council on the Arts and the National Endowment for the Arts and was chairman of the endowment from 1977 to 1981, died today at a hospital here. He was
 Mohan Singh Oberoi, who as a penniless hotel clerk in Simla, India, mortgaged his wife's jewelry to buy the first hotel in an international luxury chain that bears his name, died yesterday at his home near New Delhi. He was 103, although for years he had said he was born in 1900 bec
 MULDOWNEY-Jerome T. We mourn the sudden and untimely loss of our good friend & Advisory Board member. We remember his intelligence, wise counsel, integrity and good humor. Our deepest sympathy to his wife, daughter and other family members. Desai Capital Management       
 SCHIFF-Herbert H., 85. A philanthropist and business leader, died May 2, 2002. He is survived by wife, Betty T. Schiff, daughters, Suzanne Gallant, Patricia (Richard) Hershorin and Jane Schiff; 6 grandchildren and 4 great grandchildren; sisters, Florence ''Fredi'' Levin & Mildred Lee. A gra
 ZIELONKA-John. The Council of School Supervisors and Administrators of New York City mourns the passing of John Zielonka. We will miss his passion for living, his intelligent wit, his unique insights, and his friendship. CSA extends its sympathy to his wife, Judy, and their children, Jana a
 JACKS-Frederick. In memory of Frederick A. Jacks, died May 4th 1976, a loving devoted husband, a wise tender father. Remembered and loved always by his family.       
 Roger V. Gould, an influential sociologist who sought explanations for social upheavals large and small in the subtle texture of interpersonal relationships, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 39 and made his home in New Haven. The cause wa
 Donald Wilson, a scriptwriter and BBC producer who had the idea of making a television version of ''The Forsyte Saga,'' which became an international success, died on March 6 at his home in Gloucestershire, England. He was 91. In 1965, he and three other writers began work on a scri
 DEMAREST-Daniel A. On May 3, 2002, of lung cancer. Lawyer and trustee. Retired partner of the former law firms of Beekman & Bogue and Gaston & Snow, he specialized in corporate and securities law. He graduated from St. George's School in Newport, RI in 1942, served in the U.S. Army 194346, 
 DRILLING-Michael. On April 30, 2002, at 66, after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved husband and best friend to Martha. Proud and loving father of Eric, Betsy and Neil, Paul and Amy, and Abby and Gerard. Adored Grandpa to Julia and Lily, Zoe and Olivia, and Hannah. Dear brother to Lin
 GOLDWASSER-Martin. Formerly of Brooklyn Heights, passed away May 3, 2002 at age 95. He is survived by his wife Elizabeth S. Teter, son Hank, daughter Janet, grandchildren Jonathan, Missy Carvin and Douglass Dowty, and a sister, Esther Natt. He was preceded in death by his first wife, Paula 
 HERNANDEZ - VERGARA - Raul Enrique, M.D. On Saturday, May 4, 2002, age 32, after a courageous battle with cancer. He was the beloved husband of Robin Unger. Devoted son of Olga and Gabriel Vargas, Amparo and Raul Hernandez and Marcia and Walter Unger. Grandson of Ligia Esther De Hernandez. 
 JOSEPH-Robert L. Writer and producer, age 79. A totally cerebral, extraordinary mensch with an inquiring mind, never satisifed with the ''pat'' answer. An intellectual surgeon who drew much more out of people than they felt they had. Always a playwright and author searching for a different 
 KLECZEWSKI-Alfred H. Born in Warsaw, Poland, in 1915. Passed away after a long illness on April 30, 2002. He will always be remembered with love by his wife Maria, his children Michael and Eloiza, his grandchildren Stefan, Kara, Adam and his many friends.       
 LAYNE-Abner A. Age 82. Died on May 1, 2002. Graduate of Cornell University, retired journalist. Beloved husband of the late Mary Elizabeth. Loving brother of Robert (Rita) and Sidney (Phyllis). Survived by sisters-in-law Roberta Rosen & Jessica Newton, brotherin-law Donald Newton (Barbara),
 LEWIN-David. On May 1, 2002. Beloved husband of Flora. Loving father of Erik. Dear brother of Israel Levin. An extraordinary man, a loving father and husband whose vision and vibrancy created kingdoms from nothing-a true character who did it his way... Service Sunday, 11:45 AM, at ''The Riv
 LOOKER-Charles. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Charles Looker, a cherished friend, exemplary leader, and lifetime trustee of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies. We extend our deepest sympathies to Charles' sons, Andrew and 
 McMAHON-Thomas. National benefits leader. A financial executive who dedicated his life to making the lives of others better, died on Friday in Napa, California. He was 55. Tom (as he preferred to be called) was Senior Vice-President of Finance and Administration for the Pacific Maritime Ass
 MOSLEY-Robert. The celebrated bass-baritone Robert Mosley, who thrilled The Met and other major opera audiences as Porgy in Porgy and Bess, Amonasro in Aida, the title role in Rigoletto and many other roles, died April 30 after a long illness. Mr. Mosley was a pioneer in breaking the barrie
 SCHIFF-Herbert H. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of a highly respected international leader of world Jewry from Columbus, Ohio, who was the founding Chairman and Chairman Emeritus of the Board of Governors of the Wurzweiler School of Social Work, where he established the H
 SCHWARTZ-Harold M. Died peacefully on May 2, 2002. Cherished husband of Yvette (Kass) for 53 years. Much loved father of Hillary and Dr. Joseph, respected father-in-law of C.B. Miles of Atlanta & Lisa Schwartz of Morganville, New Jersey. Proud grandfather of Heather & Daniel. Harold was dev
 SHEEHAN-John J. Of Point Lookout, LI, on May 2, 2002, in his 91st year. Son of the late Thomas and Teresa (nee Dolphin). Predeceased by brothers Thomas, William, Vincent, Paul and Conrad and cousin Helen Holland. Survived by his brothers and sister, Sr. Teresa, Society of Helpers, Charles, 
 SIGAL-Robert Elihu. Of Jerusalem, Israel, died on April 16, 2002. He was the elder son of the late Dr. Jacob Sigal and the former Anna Helen Land and stepson of the former Roberta Rosenfeld. He was born on July 5, 1936, in Hartford, Connecticut, and graduated from Phillips Academy in Andove
 VOEGE-Harry Walter. April 30, 2002. Longtime beloved companion of Martha Dehli. Beloved sister of Anna May Tunmore. Devoted uncle of Barbara Conrad. Also survived by numerous grand-nephews and nieces. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Funeral service private. A memoria
 WASSERMAN-Mel, 72, died peacefully in his sleep at his home in Carmel, CA on Monday April 29, 2002. As co-founder of CEDU Education with his wife Brigitte, Mel has touched the lives of thousands of families. CEDU was founded in 1967, when they welcomed troubled children into their home. Sin
 WEI-Mark. Died at 84 years of age on April 30, 2002 in his home in Manhattan. Born in Hong Kong, China, Mr. Wei came to New York from China in April of 1941. Mr. Wei began his insurance career at Chubb & Son, Inc. in 1947 and retired after 35 years of service. At the time of his retirement,
 ZIELONKA-John. The Council of School Supervisors and Administrators of New York City mourns the passing of John Zielonka. We will miss his passion for living, his intelligent wit, his unique insights, and his friendship. CSA extends its sympathy to his wife, Judy, and their children, Jana a
 Siegbert Freiberg, who escaped death in the Holocaust by a series of seeming miracles and became perhaps the first survivor to tell his story in English on American radio, died at his home in Middle Village, Queens, on April 20. He was 75. The cause was congestive heart failure, his
 Yevgeny Svetlanov, the renowned Russian conductor who led his nation's State Symphony Orchestra for 35 years and was a guest conductor of orchestras around the world, died Friday at his home in Moscow, The Associated Press reported, quoting Russia's NTV television. He was 73. A lead
 Eric Louis McKitrick, a Columbia University historian who chronicled the evolution of the American republic, died on April 24 at Amsterdam House, a home for the elderly, in Manhattan. A resident of the Upper West Side, he was 82. Dr. McKitrick was best known for his ''Andrew Jackson
 COOPER-Samuel, Dr. Beloved husband of Diana, devoted father of Dr. Stephen Cooper, and friend of many. Died peacefully in his sleep at home, at age 95. He will be greatly missed.       
 HERTZIG-Morris. 93, died at Sweetbrook Care Center, Williamstown, MA, May 4th, 2002. Born in Chicago, IL, August 3rd, 1908, the son of Harry and Celia Tannenbaum Hertzig, he was raised in Brooklyn, NY. Following graduation from Boys High School in Brooklyn, he attended the College of the Ci
 JOSEPH-Robert L. Writer and producer, age 79. A totally cerebral, extraordinary mensch with an inquiring mind, never satisifed with the ''pat'' answer. An intellectual surgeon who drew much more out of people than they felt they had. Always a playwright and author searching for a different 
 KAHN-Jerome. On May 3. Survived by his loving sister, Florrie Gotlib. Beloved uncle of Jilian, Daven and Peter. He was a well respected theatrical agent. His passion for theater and enthusiasm for life will be well remembered. Services were held Sunday.       
 KIEVES-Lawrence. At age 54. Beloved son of George and Ethel. Cherished brother of Linda, William and the late Ellen. Dear uncle of Bradley and Philip. Services Tuesday, May 7, 10 AM, at The Riverside-Nassau North Chaples, 55 North Station Plaza (opposite LIRR), Great Neck, NY. In lieu of fl
 LEWIN-David. He lit up the room and our hearts. We miss you already. Usha, Al, Loni, Frank, Renee Murray, Grace and Peggy       
 McKENNA-James J. Rev. Msgr. On May 3, 2002. Beloved son of the late Thomas Joseph and Elizabeth Agnes McKenna. Dear brother of the late Thomas and Sr. Mary P. McKenna C.S.J. Brother-in-law of Setsuko McKenna and uncle of Lisa Romo and Tom McKenna. Msgr. McKenna was Pastor Emeritus of St. Ma
 MOUKAD-Joseph E. 91, on May 3rd, 2002. Beloved husband of Anne Connorton Moukad. Devoted father of Rosemary, John (Lori) and the late Joseph D. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Monday, May 6th, 6-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial at Church of the Epiph
 PLOTKIN-Samuel. On May 4, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Helen. Devoted father of Fred, Stuart, Gail and Talib. Dear fatherin-law of Janet, Anita, Murray and Herb. Loving brother of Ruth. Cherished grandfather of Michelle, Lori, Sabrina, Joshua, Adam, Carolyn, Amanda, Jonathan. Cherished
 SCHIFF-Herbert. We mourn the loss of a generous friend, dedicated to the Jewish people in Israel and elsewhere. Our deep sympathy to his family. Friends of Beit Daniel Rabbi Azari, Gerard and Ruth Daniel       
 VEHSLAGE-Stephen T. Age 62, died peacefully May 5 in Greenwich Hospital, Greenwich, CT after a yearlong battle with brain cancer. He graduated from the Haverford School, Haverford, PA in 1957 and from Princeton University in 1961. He spent his business career with the IBM Corporation where 
 ZIELONKA-John. The Council of School Supervisors and Administrators of New York City mourns the passing of John Zielonka. We will miss his passion for living, his intelligent wit, his unique insights, and his friendship. CSA extends its sympathy to his wife, Judy, and their children, Jana a
 Sir Peter Shepheard, a British architect, planner and landscape designer who was a dean and a professor at the University of Pennsylvania, died on April 11 at his home in London. He was 88. Sir Peter, who was knighted in 1980 for ''services to architecture,'' emphasized the relation
 Yevgeny Svetlanov, the renowned Russian conductor who led his nation's State Symphony Orchestra for 35 years and was a guest conductor of orchestras around the world, died Friday at his home in Moscow, The Associated Press reported, quoting Russia's NTV television. He was 73. Mr. Sv
 A. Searle Pinney, a former Connecticut state Republican chairman, died April 30 at his home in Brookfield, Conn. He was 81. A lawyer and former state legislator, Mr. Pinney was a retired senior partner of Pinney, Payne, Van Lenten, Burrell, Wolfe & Dillman, in Danbury. He was a co-f
 Antoine Riboud, the banker's son who built one of the biggest food groups in Europe and exercised a far-reaching and often paternalistic influence over its global empire, died at his Paris home early Sunday. He was 83. Mr. Riboud, who built the Danone group over several decades befo
 BARMAN-Malcolm. On May 3, 2002. He is survived by wife, Marion; son John; daughter Rosemary; son-in-law Steven Orbach; and granddaughther Rachel Orbach. A graduate of Columbia Grammar and the University of Pennsylvania, he was an attorney who devoted the latter part of his life to his real 
 DAVIS-Angela Silveri. Nassau AHRC sends their deepest sympathies to AHRC Foundation Board Member Angelo Silveri and his wife Connie for the passing of their beloved daughter Angela Silveri Davis. Our thoughts and prayers are with the Silveri and Davis families. Nassau AHRC Foundation, Jack 
 EDELMAN-Sidney. Beloved husband of the late Sylvia. Loving father of Barbara and Susan. Adored grandfather of Russell and Douglas. Sid was truly one of a kind. He touched our lives deeply and always knew how to make us laugh and smile. He will be in our hearts forever. Donations in his name
 FEINBERG-Samuel. On May 5, 2002. Loving devoted husband, father and grandfather. Survived by wife Nettie. Daughter Alice Batson. Sons Lawrence and Richard. Grandsons Jacob, Teddy and Ian. Daughters-in-law Sandra and Nana and son-in-law Kevin. Worked for Fairchild Publicatoions from 1937 to 
 FENLON-Thomas B. The partners of Emmet, Marvin & Martin LLP note with sorrow the death on May 4, 2002 of their retired partner Thomas B. Fenlon. Emmet will always be indebted to Tom Fenlon for his long and productive career with the firm from 1928-2001. We will miss him.       
 HAVENICK-Arnold Joseph. Of Palm Beach, FL, died on May 6, 2002. He was born in New York on April 26, 1916. Devoted husband of Tillie; father of Nancy (Stephen) Fiverson and Fred (Barbara) Havenick of Coral Gables, FL; devoted grandfather of Izzy Havenick, Jenny Havenick, Alex Havenick, Mich
 HOGGARD-Bishop J. Clinton. On Sunday, May 5, 2002. Beloved father of Jay Clinton Hoggard and Dr. Paul Hoggard. Grandfather of Jamal and Kalila Hoggard. He is also survived by a brother Francis Hoggard, two daughters-in-law, other relatives and friends. From 9-11 A.M., Thursday, May 9, frien
 HOLMES-Lee. Passed away on May 5, 2002. A graduate of Colby College, Waterville, ME, he was a career employee of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. Survivied by his children Laurie Holmes, Carolyn Taylor, Kathy Holmes Robb, Patricia Holmes and L. Robert Holmes. Grandfather of three. Also
 LANDOW-Mitchell. Of Palm Beach, FL. Beloved husband of the late Beulah Kinsman Landow. Passed away May 6, 2002. He was born in 1905. Mr. Landow, formerly of Manhattan, is survived by Mrs. Landow's family. His quiet dignity will be missed. The Bassine and Cohen Families       
 McMAHON-Thomas. National benefits leader. A financial executive who dedicated his life to making the lives of others better, died on Friday in Napa, California. He was 55. Tom (as he preferred to be called) was Senior Vice-President of Finance and Administration for the Pacific Maritime Ass
 MOGULESCU-Joseph. On May 6, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Milly, loving father of Bill and John. Father-in-law to Bonne and Marian. Devoted and proud grandfather of Sara, Amy, Kate and Laura. A pioneer businessman, fighter for justice and peace. A gentle, gracious and caring man who tou
 MOUKAD-Joseph E., 91. On May 3rd, 2002. Beloved husband of Anne Connorton Moukad. Devoted father of Rosemary, John (Lori) and the late Joseph D. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Monday, May 6th, 6-9 PM. Mass of Christian Burial at Church of the Epip
 PLOTKIN-Samuel. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Samuel Plotkin, a cherished friend who expressed a commitment to helping those in need. Mr. Plotkin's legacy lives on in the exemplary activities and extraordinary generosity of the
 SHAMOS-Morris H. Scientist, biophysicist, executive & educator, Emeritus Professor of Physics at New York University, Senior Vice-President and Chief Scientific Officer of Technicon Corporation, Past President of the National Science Teachers Association and the New York Academy of Sciences
 ZALMAN-Alexander, 83. Died on Saturday, May 4, 2002 in Tamarac, FL. He is survived by Freda, devoted wife of 55 years, brother Gilbert, sister Peggy, three sons, Richard, Joseph and Andrew, two daughters-in-law and seven grandchildren. A native of Brooklyn, NY, Alex was a highly decorated W
 WINTER-Marvin S. May 7, 1999. His love, his wit, his humor remain with us always. The Winter Famil       
 Paul Szasz, a longtime United Nations expert on international law who helped draft Constitutions for the new states of Namibia, in southwest Africa, and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was carved out of the former Yugoslav Federation, died April 30 at his home in Germantown, N.Y. He was 72.  
 Kevyn Aucoin, the makeup artist who attained an unusually wide-reaching fame ministering to faces both iconic and ordinary, died yesterday at the Westchester Medical Center. He was 40. The cause was complications relating to a pituitary brain tumor, said Marcy Engelman, his publicis
 Lou Thesz, the most celebrated professional wrestler of the mid-20th century and one of the last who relied on physical skills rather than show business gimmicks, died on April 28 in a hospital in Orlando, Fla. He was 86 and had undergone triple-bypass surgery and aortic valve replacement t
 Michael Bryant, a quietly virtuosic character actor who was a mainstay of the National Theater in England for the last 25 years, died on April 25 at his home in Richmond, Surrey. He was 74. With diligence and modesty, Mr. Bryant played characters of the widest range, in plays by Sha
 Michael Todd Jr., son of the producer of ''Around the World in 80 Days,'' who took over his father's production business and made a Smell-o-Vision film that combined movies with changing odors, died on Sunday at his home in County Carlow, Ireland. He was 72. The cause was lung cance
 Morris Herbert Shamos, a nuclear physicist and science educator who attracted attention with his arguments that only those seeking careers in science should have to wrestle with a full scientific curriculum, died on Monday at New York Hospital. He was 84. The cause was a stroke, his
 BROWN-James ''Buster''. NY Committee to Celebrate Tap Dance Day mourns one of the last performing members of the Copasetics. Teacher, choreographer, dear friend, over 70 years a performer. He will be greatly missed.       
 DEMAREST-Daniel A. On May 3, 2002, of lung cancer. Lawyer and trustee. Retired partner of the former law firms of Beekman & Bogue and Gaston & Snow, he specialized in corporate and securities law. He graduated from St. George's School in Newport, RI in 1942, served in the U.S. Army 194346, 
 FENLON-Thomas B. Of Pelham, New York. Died May 4, 2002. Husband of the late Juliet Ludford Fenlon. Father of Mary Ann Knowles, Rev. Thomas B. Fenlon, Juliet Fenlon Nagle, Lois Fenlon and the late Henry L. Fenlon. Brother of Margaret Pratt and Hugh Francis Fenlon. Grandfather of 18 and great
 GETRAER-Joseph L., 60. On May 6, 2002. Beloved husband of June, devoted father of Andrew and Jean Getraer, absolutely adored grandfather of Sandy, Alec, Benjy and Lindsay. Cherished son-in-law, brother-in-law, nephew, cousin and friend. We mourn the passing of this man of kindness, intellec
 GREENBERG - Norman. The Board of Governors and members of Montammy Golf club express their deepest sorrow at the passing of their beloved member, and extend their heartfelt sympathy to the family. Kenneth R. Orr, President GREENBERG-Norman. The families of Kaskel, Schragis and Roe e
 HAVENICK-Arnold. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Arnold Havenick, and extends sincere sympathy to his family and friends. David S. Mack, President Michael Stein, Secretary       
 HOLMES-F. Stacy II. On Sunday, May 5, 2002. Husband of Ann Levine, brother of Henry Cobb Holmes, uncle of Sukanya Emily Holmes & Denwood Nathan Stacy Holmes. A graduate of Harvard, Class of 1956, all-Ivy soccer player, Marine officer and satirical songwriter. His ability to make others laug
 MOOSEN-Morton A. May 7, 2002. We mourn the loss of a most special man whose life force, creativity and generous devotion to those he loved remain as a remarkable legacy. Wife, Vicky; children, Deborah, Alexandra, Ross and Bruce; grandchildren, Jessica, Daniel, Matthew, Joshua, Zachary; sist
 MURPHY-Daniel J., Jr. May 3, 2002 of Gladwyne, PA, age 81. Beloved husband of Mary Ann (nee Fluehr). Loving father of Ian A. of Florida, Keith J. of Exton, PA, Meredith A. Krechmer of King of Prussia, PA, Daniel J. III, D.V.M. of Washington, DC and Mary Jane Dutton of Phila., PA. Proud gran
 PLOTKIN-Samuel. It is with great sadness that the entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges the passing of Samuel Plotkin, beloved father of our devoted friend, Fred Plotkin, whose support of Beth Israel and its many programs and services has been a source of enormous pride for 
 POMPOSELLO-Joseph R. Of Yonkers, died May 5, 2002 at age 60. Born November 5, 1941 in the Bronx to Arthur and Connie Bellafatto Pomposello. He was a hair stylist, NYC dance instructor and award - winning ballroom/Latin dancer. Survived by brothers, Arthur and Thomas Pomposello. Visitation o
 SCALI-Thomas. The entire Long Island College Hospital family mourns the passing of Thomas Scali, M.D., devoted physician and esteemed colleague and friend. He will be greatly missed by all who knew and worked with him. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and all of his loved one
 SCHIFF-Herbert. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) mourn the passing of our friend and honorary Board Member, Herbert Schiff. For many years, Herb moved JDC forward as an organization through his careful decisions and decisiv
 SCHIFF-Herbert H. American Friends of The Hebrew University deeply mourn the passing of Herbert H. Schiff, of Columbus, Ohio, and Sarasota, FL. He was a dedicated leader and supporter of many local and national organizations. As a long-time supporter, he formerly chaired The Audit Committee
 SCHNEIDER-Jerry. Age 45. Died May 6, 2002 at home in Brooklyn after a two year struggle with lymphoma. Ever the tireless handyman, Jerry will be missed always by his mother Helen, sister Esther, brother-in-law Franklin, nieces Rebecca and Devorah, and his many friends in Bensonhurst.       
 SHAMOS-Morris H. Scientist, biophysicist, executive & educator, Emeritus Professor of Physics at New York University, Senior Vice-President and Chief Scientific Officer of Technicon Corporation, Past President of the National Science Teachers Association and the New York Academy of Sciences
 Buster Brown, one of the last veteran tap stars who danced together as the Copasetics, died on Tuesday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Brown had a long and varied career as a teacher, a choreographer and a dancer on stage and tel
 Franklyn M. Branley, a persistent advocate for improving science education for children both as the chairman of the Hayden Planetarium and as the author of more than 140 books, died on Sunday in Brunswick, Me. He was 86. Dr. Branley took the helm of the planetarium at the American M
 Otis Blackwell, who wrote ''All Shook Up,'' ''Don't Be Cruel,'' ''Great Balls of Fire,'' ''Fever'' and more than 1,000 other songs, and had a major part in shaping the sound of rock 'n' roll, died on Monday in a hospital in Nashville, where he lived. He was 70. The cause was a heart
 AUCOIN-Kevyn. The Board of Directors and staff of the American Foundation for AIDS Research (amfAR) mourn the loss of our cherished friend and longtime volunteer and supporter Kevin Aucoin. A preeminent master of makeup artistry, Kevyn was celebrated for his uniquely understated and creativ
 DEMAREST-Daniel A. On May 3, 2002, of lung cancer. Lawyer and trustee. Retired partner of the former law firms of Beekman & Bogue and Gaston & Snow, he specialized in corporate and securities law. He graduated from St. George's School in Newport, RI in 1942, served in the U.S. Army 194346, 
 FENLON-Thomas B. Of Pelham, New York. Died May 4, 2002. Husband of the late Juliet Ludford Fenlon. Father of Mary Ann Knowles, Rev. Thomas B. Fenlon, Juliet Fenlon Nagle, Lois Fenlon and the late Henry L. Fenlon. Brother of Margaret Pratt and Hugh Francis Fenlon. Grandfather of 18 and great
 GETRAER-Joseph, Esq. Beth Israel Synagogue of Westport/Norwalk mourns the untimely passing of its beloved member of the Board, Joseph Getraer, Esq. of Greens Farms, Connecticut. A pillar of the Jewish Community and a leading philanthropist supporting our synagogue's Aleph Bet Preschool and 
 GREENBERG-Norman. On May 7th, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Mildred. Devoted father of Lynn, Jill and Martin. Loving brother of Harold, Barbara and the late Helen Greenberg. Cherished grandfather of six. Services Thursday, May 9, 2 PM, at ''Plaza Jewish Community Chapel,'' 91st Street a
 KHADIR-Omar. On May 7, 2002. Born Nov. 29, 1937 in Casablanca. Lived in New York since 1965. Chief Chef to the Moroccan Ambassador to the UN and to other distinguished people. We will miss his warm charm and good sense of humor. He was a wonderful companion and friend. God bless. Funeral se
 LEFF-Joel B. Died on May 7, 2002 in New York , New York. Beloved husband of Jeanne, father of Adam, brother to Richard, and ol dest son of Zena Leff. Co-founder and Chairman of ForstmannLeff Assoc. LLC. Joel Leff was not merely a financial wizard, but a master of Art, and dedicated phillant
 MEYERS-Herbert. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member Herbert Meyers. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Services will be held at Temple Sinai of Roslyn, at 12 noon on Friday, May 10, 2002. Rabbi Michael A. White Rabbi Norman Kah
 OSTROVE-Lester, M.D. Good friend and golf buddy, a truly kind and gentle man. We'll miss his company on and off the golf course. Sam Schwartz and Herb Spiegel       
 SINGH-Amar, 69. Late of Bryn Mawr, PA; passed away on May 7, 2002. Beloved husband of Sally Singh (nee Sarah Leonard), devoted father of Karun, Sharda, Natasha and Nikhil; also survived by his daughter-in-law, Moira, and his grandchildren, Mikhaela and Gabriella. Family and friends are invi
 Dan Devine, a head football coach for 22 years at three colleges and for four tumultuous years with the Green Bay Packers, died yesterday at his home in Phoenix. He was 77. The cause was complications from heart surgery 15 months ago, his family said. He underwent quintuple bypass s
 Howard Merrill, a writer for radio and television who began his career as a child film actor and later produced a play on Broadway, died on April 20 at a hospital in Los Angeles, his family said. He was 85 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. Mr. Merrill, who was born in New York City
 Joel B. Leff, a founder and co-chairman of the investment management firm Forstmann-Leff Associates, died at his Manhattan home on Tuesday. He was 67 years old and had suffered from cancer. Mr. Leff combined an eclectic approach to investing with an equally eclectic approach to coll
 BLOCK-Stanley. 0n May 8, 2002. Of Valley Stream, NY. Survived by his loving wife of 60 years, Minnie. Devoted father of Jerome (Blythe) and Ellen (Fred); cherished grandfather of Jenna, Elliot, Lisa, Carly, Mariel and Dena; beloved brother, uncle and friend. He will be missed. Services toda
 DEMAREST-Daniel A. On May 3, 2002, of lung cancer. Lawyer and trustee. Retired partner of the former law firms of Beekman & Bogue and Gaston & Snow, he specialized in corporate and securities law. He graduated from St. George's School in Newport, RI in 1942, served in the U.S. Army 194346, 
 GETRAER-Joseph L. We are deeply saddened by the untimely loss of our good friend and partner with whom we shared so many wonderful times. He will always be fondly remembered and sorely missed. Cooki and Joel Yunis       
 GUTH-Paul C. Of New Canaan, CT on May 7, 2002. Lawyer. Born Vienna, Austria, 1922. Graduated Columbia College (1943) and Columbia Law School (1947). Served in the U.S. Army in Europe. Partner, Lauterstein & Lauterstein, NYC, 1952 to 1981, and then joined Kelley Drye & Warren, NYC, in 1981 a
 KEEGAN-Robert E. Of the Bronx, died on May 8, 2002. Robert was a former Secretary of the Committee on Character & Fitness, Appellate Division First Department. He is survived by his beloved wife, Yvonne; his children, Gary, Glenn, and Nancy; and grandchildren Stacy, Zachary, and Morgan. Vis
 LEFF-Joel B. Died on May 7, 2002 in New York, New York. Beloved husband of Jeanne, father of Adam, brother to Richard, and oldest son of Zena Leff. Co-founder and Chairman of ForstmannLeff Assoc. LLC. Joel Leff was not merely a financial wizard, but a master of Art, and dedicated phillanthr
 LOHF-Kenneth A., 77. On May 9, 2002 after a brief illness. He is survived by his companion of many years, Paul Palmer, and three nephews, Gerald K. Freitag, Ronald Freitag and Donald J. Freitag, of Franklin, Wisconsin. Director for 25 years of Columbia University Rare Book and Manuscript Li
 ROGERS-Franklin M. Passed on to eternal life. Born in Irvington, NJ, graduate of Seton Hall University in 1941. A W.W. II naval officer aboard the USS Taylor & PT Boat Squadron Commander in South Pacific, fighting in Guadalcanal, New Guinea, and providing escort for General MacArthur's retu
 SHAVIT-Buma. Passed away May 8, 2002, in Tel Aviv, Israel. A prominent industrialist and political figure, former Chairman of ElAl Airlines and the Israel Manufacturers Association; an early leader in the development of the State of Israel Bonds in the United States. Our beloved cousin and 
 William Tutte, a theoretical mathematician who contributed substantially to breaking codes in World War II, died on May 2 in Kitchener-Waterloo, Ontario. He was 84. The cause was congestive heart failure complicated by cancer of the spleen, the University of Waterloo announced. He w
 David Riesman, the sociologist whose 1950 scholarly book, ''The Lonely Crowd,'' unexpectedly tapped a deep vein of self-criticism among Americans and became a perennial best seller, contributing ideas and descriptive phrases to popular culture, died yesterday in Binghamton, N.Y. He was 92 a
 BURRIS-H. Barry. On May 10, 2002, at age 72. Beloved by all. Father of David Burris, Joel Burris, and Ellen Burris Kramer. Husband of Rita Burris. Father-in-law of Susan Burris, Pam Esterman, and Andrew Kramer. Devoted grandfather of Rachel, Sarah, Justin, Paige, Joshua, Emily and Daniel. R
 DUNLAP-John, 46. Sales Executive for Penthouse Magazine and other general media publications, died May 10 at the Cabrini Medical Center after a long battle with AIDS and cancer. In addition to his position at Penthouse, John also tried his hand at various other ventures including selling hi
 GUTH-Paul C. Of New Canaan, CT on May 7, 2002. Lawyer. Born Vienna, Austria, 1922. Graduated Columbia College (1943) and Columbia Law School (1947). Served in the U.S. Army in Europe. Partner, Lauterstein & Lauterstein, NYC, 1952 to 1981, and then joined Kelley Drye & Warren, NYC, in 1981 a
 LEFF-Joel B. The attorneys and staff of Fulbright & Jaworski L.L.P. mourn the passing of our client and friend, Joel B. Leff, cofounder and chairman of Forstmann-Leff Associates LLC. We extend our deepest sympathies to his wife, Jeanne Sorensen Leff, his son, Adam B. Leff, his mother, Zena 
 LOHF-Kenneth A. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the loss of a respected member of the Museum's Trustee Committee on Museum, Library, and Research as well as its Library Council. Mr. Lohf, who was a distinguished librarian, scholar and author, will be deeply missed b
 TOTO-Joseph R. Of Rye, NY and formerly of Croton-on-Hudson, NY died on May 9, 2002. He was 64. Mr. Toto until recently was a Creative Director and Senior Vice President at the D'Arcy Advertising Agency in New York City. He is survived by his wife Maria, his two children Michael Toto of Wash
 Yves Robert, a popular French actor, director and producer best remembered for his 1961 movie about street urchins, ''The War of the Buttons,'' and his 1970's spy comedies, ''The Tall Blond Man With One Black Shoe'' and ''The Return of the Tall Blond Man With One Black Shoe,'' died today in
 Earl Shaffer, who put one foot in front of another about five million times to become the first person to hike the Appalachian Trail in one trek, and then was first to do it in the opposite direction, north to south, died on May 5 at a hospital in Lebanon, Pa. He was 83. The cause w
 Joseph Bonanno, who founded one of the nation's most enduring Mafia families and rose to the pinnacle of organized crime in America, died yesterday in Tucson, where he had been living for many years. He was 97. His death was reported by his lawyer, Alfred Donau, according to The Ass
 ARMSTRONG-James G. On May 8, 2002 at the age of 87. Husband of the late Marion Byers Armstrong and father of Kate Galloway of Charlottesville, VA and James B. Armstrong of New York, NY. Native New Yorker; graduate of Adelphi Academy, Brooklyn and Williams College; member of Theta Delta Chi;
 BURGOYNE-John. 70, of New York City. Survived by wife of 30 years Jane, four wonderful children, two grandchildren, many nieces and nephews. The family requests that donations be made in John's name to a charity of your choice. BURGOYNE-John. The Gamesmen mourn the death of John Bur
 BURRIS-H. Barry. On May 10, 2002, at age 72. Beloved by all. Father of David Burris, Joel Burris, and Ellen Burris Kramer. Husband of Rita Burris. Father-in-law of Susan Burris, Pam Esterman, and Andrew Kramer. Devoted grandfather of Rachel, Sarah, Justin, Paige, Joshua, Emily and Daniel. R
 CARR-Charles Noell, 73 years old. Of the United Methodist Retirement Community, Winston-Salem NC, was born in Durham, NC, May 25, 1928 to Austin Heaton Carr and Laura Noell Carr Chapman. He was a graduate of Harvard University, Cambridge, MA., and the Arts Students League in NYC. He served 
 GAIGE-Truman. Died April 17, 2002 at The Actors' Fund Homes in Englewood, NJ at the age of 95. An actor of consummate skill and diversity, he began his career at the age of 16, made his Broadway debut in ''Blossom Time'' in 1931, and made his last Broadway appearance in ''Hadrian VII'' in 1
 GOLDWASSER-Martin. Formerly of Brooklyn Heights, passed away May 3, 2002 at age 95. He is survived by his wife Elizabeth S. Teter, son Hank, daughter Janet, grandchildren Jonathan, Missy Carvin and Douglass Dowty, and a sister, Esther Natt. He was preceded in death by his first wife, Paula 
 GUTH-Paul C. Of New Canaan, CT on May 7, 2002. Lawyer. Born Vienna, Austria, 1922. Graduated Columbia College (1943) and Columbia Law School (1947). Served in the U.S. Army in Europe. Partner, Lauterstein & Lauterstein, NYC, 1952 to 1981, and then joined Kelley Drye & Warren, NYC, in 1981 a
 HUNTINGTON-George K. 65. Died at his home in East Hampton, NY on April 30, 2002 after a long battle with lung cancer. Survived by his life partner of 39 years Louis F. Parker and a brother Thomas of Prattville, AL. A celebration of his life will be held at a future date.       
 KANIGHER-Robert. The Wolff family mourns the passing of Bob Kanigher on May 7; predeceased by his wife, Bernice Wolff. Robert Kanigher was recognized worldwide for his talents and accomplishments as a writer and editor of comic books over several decades. Thousands of his fans will miss him
 KUNOFSKY-Arthur M. Of New York, New York, on May 10, 2002, at age 64. Beloved husband of Rita Robbins Kunofsky, son of Helen Kunofsky and the late Herman Kunofsky, father of Glen and Harris Kunofsky, and sister of Shirley Vituli. His dear nieces and nephews, and dozens of other family membe
 LEFF-Joel B. Died on May 7, 2002 in New York, New York. Beloved husband of Jeanne, father of Adam, brother to Richard, and oldest son of Zena Leff. Co-founder and Chairman of ForstmannLeff Assoc. LLC. Joel Leff was not merely a financial wizard, but a master of Art, and dedicated phillanthr
 LOHF-Kenneth A., 77. On May 9, 2002 after a brief illness. He is survived by his companion of many years, Paul Palmer, and three nephews, Gerald K. Freitag, Ronald Freitag and Donald J. Freitag, of Franklin, Wisconsin. Director for 25 years of Columbia University Rare Book and Manuscript Li
 MARGOLYES-Arthur. 102, of NYC, died peacefully on Friday, May 10. Mr. Margolyes was a furier for over 65 years. He is survived by his granddaughter Ellen Lorenzo, great-grandchildren Jarrett Lorenzo, Lisa and Rogelio Pena, and great-great-grandchildren, Nikolas and Mariella.       
 OSTROVE - Lester L. M.D., F.A.C.S., May 4, 2002. Inspiration to three generations of family, friends and colleagues for his integrity, steadfastness, generosity of spirit and love of learning. Born July 4, 1913. Served as flight surgeon in WW II. Practiced general surgery at Lincoln Hospita
 PORTER-Patrick. Died on May 9, 2002 in New York City. The many friends of Patrick Porter mourn his loss. As a member of the British Army's invading force, he landed on Normandy Beach on DDay. An extraordinarily creative fashion designer and former Professor of Design at the Pratt Institute.
 SANGER-Edwina Campbell, M.D. The Board and Staff of Planned Parenthood of New York City extend their deeepest sympathies to its former President and CEO, Alexander Sanger, upon the passing of his beloved mother. Dr. Edwina Sanger was a loyal supporter of PPNYC and will be missed. Our heartf
 SCOTT-S. Spencer Jr. Samuel Spencer Scott Jr., resident of Lyme, CT, formerly of New Canaan, died on May 9, after a long battle with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. He was 77. ''Bud'' Scott grew up in Scarsdale, NY. He graduated from Phillips Andover Academy, 1942, and Princeton University, 1946. D
 STEINER-Martin J. 83. Beloved husband, brother, father, grandfather and friend, was born in Long Island City, NY, on August 30, 1918. Raised in Woodmere, LI, Martin was an officer in the Signal Corps Photograph Center in Astoria, NY, during World War II. There he met his bride, Esther Rosen
 WALLACE-Donald Lloyd. On May 9, 2002 at age 76. Devoted godfather of John B.M. Place Jr, Judith P. Sloan and Marian R. Place. Wonderful friend to many. He will be remembered fondly by all. Cheers!       
 WERTHEIMER-Franc. Died on May 10, 2002, of Bethesda, MD, formerly of Livingston, NJ, and New York City. Beloved husband of Sidelle Wertheimer. Devoted father of Laura and David Werthheimer, and sage father-in-law of Andrew Pincus. Adoring grandfather of Josh and Kate Pincus. Born in Nurembe
 ZWERLING-Samuel, DDS. Died April 11 at the age of 94 in Deerfield Beach, FL. Beloved husband of the late Edith Zwerling, he was a graduate of Harvard University's School of Dental Medicine. Lovingly remembered by his nieces, Molly Zwerling O'Byrne of New Fairfield, CT and Mimi Zwerling of A
 J. Royden Stork, a flier in the Doolittle raid over Japan that thrilled an American home front reeling from the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, died on May 2 in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 85. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Kay. On April 18, 1942, crew
 Joseph Bonanno, who founded one of the nation's most enduring Mafia families and rose to the pinnacle of organized crime in America, died Saturday in Tucson, where he lived for many years. He was 97. His death was reported by his lawyer, Alfred Donau, according to The Associated Pre
 BURRIS-H. Barry. The Directors of GNY Insurace Companies deeply mourn the loss of our esteemed Director and colleague. Barry had a great intellect, and was a man of principal and integrity. His presence on our board will be deeply missed. We extend our sincere condolences and sympathy to hi
 GRILL-Adrienne. 75 of Yonkers, NY, on May 11, 2002. Devoted mother of Tina Grill-Sferlazzo and Mark and his wife Monica Grill. Cherished grandmother of Matteo and Julia. Loving sister of Emily Goldstein. Services will be 12 noon at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 21 W. Broad St, Mt. Vernon, NY. 
 GUTH-Paul C. The partners, associates and staff of Kelley Drye & Warren LLP mourn with deep sadness the passing of our partner and dear friend. Paul's professional and personal contributions to the Firm are invaluable, and will continue to be felt for years to come. Both the Firm, and its c
 KAPPRAFF-Morris. 92, born in Russia and came to the US in 1923. Worked as an accountant for 40 years with David Berdon & Co., NY. And an active member of the Jewish Community of the Bronx and a member of the Jacob A. Schiff Center. He was a ''pillar of strength'' and a ''true love'' of Pear
 LEFF-Joel B. Died on May 7, 2002 in New York, New York. Beloved husband of Jeanne, father of Adam, brother to Richard, and oldest son of Zena Leff. Co-founder and Chairman of ForstmannLeff Assoc. LLC. Joel Leff was not merely a financial wizard, but a master of Art, and dedicated phillanthr
 LOHF-Kenneth A. The Trustees and staff of the Morgan Library note with sadness the death of Kenneth A. Lohf, a Fellow since 1980. His distinguished career in the rare book world made him a valued member of the Council of Fellows. He was an erudite, discerning, creative collector. His unsurp
 SCOTT-S. Spencer Jr. Samuel Spencer Scott Jr., resident of Lyme, CT, formerly of New Canaan, died on May 9, after a long battle with non-Hodgkin's lymphoma. He was 77. ''Bud'' Scott grew up in Scarsdale, NY. He graduated from Phillips Andover Academy, 1942, and Princeton University, 1946. D
 SULLIVAN-Jean L. (Bill). Formerly of Yonkers, NY, and Cranbury, NJ, died on May 12, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Mildred. Father of Monsignor Kevin Sullivan. Also survived by his sister Veronica Rodgers. Reposing at the Queen of Peace Residence, 110-30 221 St, Queens Village, NY, Monda
 WALLACE-Donald Lloyd. On May 9, 2002 at age 76. Devoted godfather of John B.M. Place Jr, Judith P. Sloan and Marian R. Place. Wonderful friend to many. He will be remembered fondly by all. Cheers!       
 WERTHEIMER-Franc. Died on May 10, 2002, of Bethesda, MD, formerly of Livingston, NJ, and New York City. Beloved husband of Sidelle Wertheimer. Devoted father of Laura and David Werthheimer, and sage father-in-law of Andrew Pincus. Adoring grandfather of Josh and Kate Pincus. Born in Nurembe
 Edward M. Carey, an oil industry executive who helped finance the political ambitions of his younger brother Hugh L. Carey, the former governor of New York, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 85. After founding the Peerless Oil and Chemical Company with his father in the late 1930'
 AMORY-Charles M., a WWII hero, died in his 86th year in Palm Beach, Florida on May 11, 2002. He is survived by his wife Julia Aspuru Amory, his two sons Minot and Peter, and five grandchildren. Services will be held on May 15 at 11am, at Bethesda by-the-Sea, Palm Beach. Donations may be giv
 BURRIS-H. Barry. The Directors of GNY Insurace Companies deeply mourn the loss of our esteemed Director and colleague. Barry had a great intellect, and was a man of principal and integrity. His presence on our board will be deeply missed. We extend our sincere condolences and sympathy to hi
 CAREY-Edward M. To the eldest of our generation, you showed us determination, style, perserverance and wit. Thank you for all you have done. Love, your brother, Governor Hugh L. Carey CAREY-Edward M. On May 12, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Elizabeth A. Carey, loving father of E
 FEINSTONE-Emanuel M. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife, Lorraine and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd Paul S. Schreibe
 HUPP-Stuart Russell, 80. Of New York City, died May 11, 2002. He was the son of the late Mrs. Rand Lewis Hupp, and the late William F. Hupp. He is survived by a sisterin-law, Mrs. Stamford Gray Hupp, a nephew, Ronald Hupp, a niece, Mrs. Denise Pietrucha, as well as two great nephews and a g
 KRAUS-Herman I. The Central Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Herman I. Kraus. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Peter J. Rubinstein, Rabbi Samuel Wasserman, President       
 LEFF-Joel B. Died on May 7, 2002 in New York, New York. Beloved husband of Jeanne, father of Adam, brother to Richard, and oldest son of Zena Leff. Co-founder and Chairman of ForstmannLeff Assoc. LLC. Joel Leff was not merely a financial wizard, but a master of Art, and dedicated phillanthr
 MARKS-Daisy (Theresa). On May 12, 2002, at age 94. Beloved wife of the late Duke Marks. She is survived by sons, Walter, and his wife, Joan, Peter and his wife, Jean, and three grandchildren, Benjamin, his wife, Elizabeth Morrison, Annie and Sam, and greatgranddaughter, Sophia Morrison Mark
 O'CONNELL-Daniel A. Sr. On May 12, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Margaret ''Peggy'' (nee Maher). Devoted father of Daniel, James, Margaret and Patricia. Adored grandfather of Deirdre, Matthew, Maureen, Daniel and Kathryn. Dear father-in-law of Mary Alice and Kathleen. Predeceased by his
 PITTMAN-Howard. Of Delray Beach. Passed away May 12, 2002. Loving husband of Mildred. Adored father of Lance Pittman and Bonnie Littlefield. Beloved grandfather and great-grandfather. Memorial contributions to American Israel Public Affairs Committee, 444 Madison Avenue, 22nd Flr, NY, NY 10
 SHWISBERG-Soll, 87. Born March 10, 1915 died on Friday, May 10, 2002 in La Jolla, California. He is survived by his son Eric and daughter Phyllis. Funeral services were held Monday, May 13th, 2002 at 10:00 A.M. in San Diego.       
 WHITEMAN-Dr. Harold Bartlett, Jr., 82. Died May 6, 2002 at his home in Nashville, TN. Dr. Whiteman was born on April 22, 1920, son of Emma Anderson Whiteman & Harold Barlett Whiteman. He attended the Taft School in Watertown, CT., and Yale College in New Haven, CT. where he was a member of 
 Peter Bauer, a British economist who challenged the utility of giving development aid to poor countries, believing that it often perpetuated their poverty, died on May 2 at his home in London. He was 86. The Cato Institute, a conservative research institution in Washington, was sche
 Stanford Calderwood, a businessman and arts patron who brought the Masterpiece Theater to public television in America, died Thursday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 81 and lived in Belmont, Mass. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his attorney, John M. Cornish, sa
 Dr. Hugh Francis Hicks, a dentist whose fascination with light bulbs is said to have begun when his mother tossed one into his crib and culminated in his owning 60,000 bulbs, died on May 7 in Baltimore. He was 79. He had a heart attack, his daughter Frances Hicks Apollony, said.    
 James P. McFarland, who led General Mills through a period of robust growth before retiring in 1977, died on Friday at his home in Wayzata, Minn., a suburb of Minneapolis. He was 90. Mr. McFarland spent his entire career with General Mills, the Minneapolis food giant, which as recen
 Joseph Lowenbach Steiner, a co-founder of the company that made toys like the Bubble Rocket and the Easy-Bake Oven, died on Saturday at a hospital in a suburb of Cincinnati. He was 95. Mr. Steiner was born in Baltimore and was raised in Cincinnati. He obtained a bachelor's degree in
 ALBERT-Irving, 80. Died suddenly on May 13, 2002 at home. Born in Poland, came to the United States in 1938. An honored union organizer and committed leftist. He served in the U.S. Armed Forces in the invasion of North Africa, landed in Anzio and marched to Rome. Supported many Jewish cause
 ANSPACH-Ernst. The members, officers and staff of Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church give thanks to God for the life and ministry of their beloved member Ernst Anspach, who died in his home in New York City, April 27, 2002, at the age of 89, and extend our sympathies and prayers to his wife
 CAREY-Edward M. To the eldest of our generation, you showed us determination, style, perserverance and wit. Thank you for all you have done. Love, your brother, Governor Hugh L. Carey CAREY-Edward M. On May 12, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Elizabeth Anne Carey, loving father of
 COHEN-Eli. On May 14, 2002, of Manhasset, LI. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Devoted father of Lorrie and Michael Cohen and Jill and Eddie Lumish. Brother of Jack Kogen. Loving grandfather of Daryn, Jamie, Josh, Perri, Jordan and Dean. Services Thursday, 12 Noon, at ''Gutterman's'', 8000 Jeric
 FEIGELMAN - Julius. Yeshivat Sha'alvim, extends heartfelt condolences to our Vice President Dr. Michael Elman upon the loss of his dear father, Julius Feigelman. Beseiva Tova, Hamakom Yenachemchem.       
 IMPERATO-Frank. Born November 11, 1960. Died May 13, 2002. With deep sorrow and affection, we mourn the passing of our brother and dear friend. Frank brought a sense of drama, comedy and passion to everything and everyone he touched. He will always be remembered because he was truly unforge
 LEFF-Joel. With deep sorrow and affection, we mourn the passing of our dear friend and co-founder. Joel brought remarkable wisdom, energy and good humor to everything and everyone he touched. He will always be remembered. We extend our sincere condolences and sympathy to his family and frie
 MAAS-Michael. Of Westhampton Beach, NY. On May 12, 2002 at the age of 70. Beloved husband of Jane Maas, loving father of Katherine and Jennifer Maas, adoring grandfather of Jenna Maas. Brother of the late Peter. A Fellow of the American Institute of Architects and a member of its national B
 PITTMAN-Howard. With deep sorrow and affection, we mourn the passing of our dear friend, Howard. Howard was ''one in a million'',''a mench'', always with kindness in his heart and a smile on his face. He will always be remembered. We extend our sincerest condolences and sympathy to Millie a
 SELIGMAN-Paul. On May 13, 2002, at age 77. Photojournalist. Author of ''Debuts & Farewells: A Two-Decade Photographic Chronicle of the Metropolitan Opera'' (Knopf). His work is in the permanent collections of the Museum of Modern Art and the Brooklyn Museum. He exhibited in numerous one-man
 SPORN-Col. Martin, U.S.A.F. Retired. Of Satellite Beach, FL. Devoted husband, father and grandfather died on May 5, 2002. Predeceased by his wife Anita Hart Sporn. Survived by son Michael (Stephanie), grandchildren Jamie and Jeremy. Interment at Arlington National Cemetery.       
 Douglas Pike, who arrived in Vietnam as a government information officer the same month the Vietcong were formed and spent the rest of his life explaining the war in eight books and scores of articles, died on Monday at a hospital in Lubbock, Tex. He was 77. His wife, Myrna, said he
 John Sharnik, an award-winning television producer and news executive for CBS, died on Saturday at his home in Rowayton, Conn. He was 78. The cause was congestive heart failure, his daughter Pamela Jones said. Mr. Sharnik received an Emmy for his 1972 documentary ''A Night i
 ALBERT-Irving, 80. Died suddenly on May 13, 2002 at home. Born in Poland, came to the United States in 1938. An honored union organizer and committed leftist. He served in the U.S. Armed Forces in the invasion of North Africa, landed in Anzio and marched to Rome. Supported many Jewish cause
 BRUSH-Graham M. Jr., 78, of Warren, CT, on May 14, 2002. Husband of Katharine Van R. Brush, father of Graham M. Brush III and Jonathan H. Brush, brother of Donald K. Brush, grandfather of Patrick and Keelan. No services. Donations in his memory may be made to Eden Institute, 14 Logan Drive,
 CAREY-Edward M. To the eldest of our generation, you showed us determination, style, perserverance and wit. Thank you for all you have done. Love, your brother, Governor Hugh L. Carey CAREY-Edward M. On May 12, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Elizabeth Anne Carey, loving father of
 COHEN-Eli. It is with deep sorrow and regret that we mourn the untimely passing of our friend and esteemed partner, Eli Cohen. From his start in the firm in 1958 until his retirement in September 2000, Eli spent his entire professional career at the firm. With that came a keen business sens
 GILLET-Francis Warrington, Jr, of Palm Beach, Florida, died peacefully on May 13, 2002 of heart related complications. Born in Baltimore, Maryland on July 17, 1930, he was the son of Francis Warrington Gillet, Sr. and Louise Warfield Harris Gillet. He is survived by his wife, Elesabeth Inga
 IMPERATO-Frank. Born November 11, 1960. Died May 13, 2002. With deep sorrow and affection, we mourn the passing of our brother and dear friend. Frank brought a sense of drama, comedy and passion to everything and everyone he touched. He will always be remembered because he was truly unforge
 LEFF-Joel. With deep sorrow and affection, we mourn the passing of our dear friend and co-founder. Joel brought remarkable wisdom, energy and good humor to everything and everyone he touched. He will always be remembered. We extend our sincere condolences and sympathy to his family and frie
 LEVY-Arnold. On Tuesday, May 14, 2002, of Washington, DC. Beloved husband of Clarice Leiner Levy. Devoted father of Joan Layton (William) Furth, Andrew Harris Levy (Tovah Feldshuh), Laurie Levy (Yves Gerard) Issembert. Cherished grandfather of Elisabeth Layton (Louis Jacobson), Julie Layton
 MARKS-Daisy (Theresa). On May 12, 2002, at age 94. Beloved wife of the late Duke Marks. She is survived by sons, Walter, and his wife, Joan, Peter and his wife, Jean, and three grandchildren, Benjamin, his wife, Elizabeth Morrison, Annie and Sam, and greatgranddaughter, Sophia Morrison Mark
 RONDELL-Thomas. September 16, 1933-May 11, 2002. In Palo Alto on May 11, 2002 Tom passed away after a courageous battle with pancreatic cancer. He was 68 years young. Tom was a native of New York City and had lived in Northern California since 1966, most recently in Mountain View. A loving 
 SATT-Jack. On May 13, 2002. Shoah survivor. Husband of Chana. Father of Goldie and Henry. Beloved grandfather to Moshe, Mimi, Aryeh, Batsheva, Zvi, Avi, Yitzi and Shlomo Satt and Minda and Sara Arrow. May his memory remain as a blessing.       
 WHITTEN-Marvin. Formerly of Baldwin, NY, died May 15, 2002 in Sarasota, FL. He was 81. Adoring husband of Elsbeth, beloved father of Donald, dear brother of Laurette, and cherished friend to many. Donations in his memory may be made to the Parkinson's Foundation or a charity of your choice.
 Sam Walton, who as a rookie started every regular-season game at right tackle during the New York Jets' Super Bowl season of 1968, but who ended up a homeless vagrant, was found dead in a vacant apartment in Memphis on Sunday night, the police said. He was 59. Lt. Walter Norris of t
 Dr. Charles M. Rick, whose encyclopedic knowledge of the evolution and genetics of the tomato enabled him and other botanists to produce healthier and tastier tomatoes through crossbreeding, died on May 5 in Davis, Calif., where he was a professor emeritus at the University of California. H
 Jos Lutzenberger, one of the principal founders and most outspoken advocates of the environmental movement in Brazil, died Tuesday in Prto Alegre. He was 75. He died after a heart attack, his associates said. For three decades, first as an anti-establishment gadfly and e
 ALBERT-Irving, 80. Died suddenly on May 13, 2002 at home. Born in Poland, came to the United States in 1938. An honored union organizer and committed leftist. He served in the U.S. Armed Forces in the invasion of North Africa, landed in Anzio and marched to Rome. Supported many Jewish cause
 GRABOWSKI-Benjamin. On April 30, 2002, former New York Times employee Benjamin Grabowski passed away at his home at 5036 Abagail Drive in Springhill, Florida. Mr. Grabowski is survived by his wife Ann of 41 years and his two step sons Sal and Michael. Mr. Grabowski was employed in the produ
 KRAININ-Dr. Philip. Passed away on May 14, 2002, just two weeks shy of his hundredth birthday. Dr. Krainin spent his last years near his daughter in Bethesda, MD. He died after a long illness. He had spent his earlier retirement years in Naples, ME and Boca Raton, FL. He was born in Manhatt
 LANDSMAN-Irving. 94. On May 12 of Long Beach, New York. With deep affection we mourn the loss of the beloved husband of Shirley, devoted father of Richard, Linda and Jules, loving grandfather of Lena, Benjamin, Kira and Nerys. Noted attorney, valuation expert, entrepreneur, teacher, author,
 MAAS-Michael. On May 12, 2002, at the age of 70. Funeral Mass on Friday, May 17, at 10:30 A.M., at St. Thomas More, 65 East 89th Street. MAAS-Michael. The partners and staff of HLW mourn the untimely passing of Mr. Michael Maas. His 40 years with HLW, particularly those spent as Sen
 REINER-Charles. On May 15, 2002. With profound sadness and an overwhelming sense of loss, his devoted family and friends mourn his untimely passing after a brief illness. Born in NYC 1946 and raised in Great Neck, NY, he made his homes in Larchmont, NY and West Otis, MA. The son of Norma an
 ROSENWASSER-Robert. Passed away on May 16, 2002, after a long and dreadful illness. Dearest husband of Dorothy, devoted father of Carol Harris & Marsha and Tim Schaffner, stepfather of Jonathan and Terrence Paret, loving grandfather of Debby and Will Gans and Dan and Rivka Bushell, greatgra
 SHNEIDER-Sidney. The Board of Governors and members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Sidney Shneider. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Suzanne, and their family. Richard R. Bornstein, President Leon Fassler, Secre
 STRAUSS-Charles S., 88. Of Larchmont, died on May 15 due to complications in the last few months. He was born December 31, 1913 in Haverhill, MA. to Ansel and Helen Strauss. He spent his youth in Pelham, New York. He graduated from Andover in 1931 and Yale in 1935. Charlie served as a First
 TARRY-Victor. Our Executive Secretary Emeritus. Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue, mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends its deepest sympathy to his family. Alvin Deutsch, Parnas       
 Robert G. Wilder, the former chairman and president of Tierney Communications, an advertising agency in Philadelphia, died on May 1 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 82. The cause of death was heart disease, his wife, Annabel, said. Mr. Wilder joined Lewis & Gilman, a pre
 Xavier Montsalvatge, a Spanish composer and music critic best known for the lush, Neo-Romantic works he composed in the 1940's and 1950's, died on May 7 at his home in Barcelona. He was 90. Mr. Montsalvatge composed numerous ballets, orchestral works and concertos, but for many year
 Bill Peet, an illustrator, screenwriter and children's book author almost as well known for his tempestuous, 27-year relationship with Walt Disney as for the cartoon characters he created, died last Saturday at his home in Studio City, Calif. He was 87. Mr. Peet, who wrote and illus
 Joe Black, the Brooklyn Dodgers pitcher who was the National League rookie of the year in 1952, the year he also became the first African-American to win a World Series game, died yesterday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 78. The cause was prostate cancer, The Associated Press reported.
 Kenneth A. Lohf, a Columbia University librarian who in a quarter century more than doubled the university's collection of rare books and manuscripts, died on May 9 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 77 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from a stroke, 
 ALBERT-Irving, 80. Died suddenly on May 13, 2002 at home. Born in Poland, came to the United States in 1938. An honored union organizer and committed leftist. He served in the U.S. Armed Forces in the invasion of North Africa, landed in Anzio and marched to Rome. Supported many Jewish cause
 ALTMAN-Jack. 87. Passed away May 17, 2002. A devoted husband and father, Jack cherished family above all else. For over 60 years, he worked as a journeyman plumber. Among the many structures that bear his signature is the Technology Building at CCNY built in the 1960s. He excelled in handba
 ARONSON-Sidney. On May 5, 2002. Beloved husband of Letty. Loving father of Christopher, Erika and Alexa. Adoring grandfather of Katherine and Ethan. He will be missed by his family and friends. Service Sunday 3pm at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in his me
 LANDIS-Morris B. Of Highland Park, NJ and Aventura, FL. Beloved husband of Raye nee Rosenbaum. Devoted father of Mark, Alan, Diana, Ilene, Mitchell and Tefera. Father-in-law of Carolyn, Linda, Jeffrey and Linda Jean. Dear brother of Alex and Sam. Loving grandfather of 12 grandchildren and 2
 LEPLER-Morton M. MD. Age 94. Of Lenox, Mass. Died Wednesday, May 15, 2002 at his home. Husband of the late Gertrude (Fine) Lepler. Survivors include two sons, Harold Lepler of Brewster, N.Y. and Edward Lepler of San Francisco, Calif. Funeral Service Sunday, May 19, 1PM at Riverdale Temple, 
 MURPHY-Mary Judith, M.D., M.P.H. The faculty, students, alumni and staff of Columbia's Mailman School of Public Health deeply mourn the passing of Mary Judith Murphy, loving wife of our dedicated & distinguished faculty member, and longtime head of the Department of Environmental Health Sci
 REINER-Charles, on May 15, 2002. With profound sadness and an overwhelming sense of loss, his devoted family and friends mourn his untimely passing after a brief illness. Services Sunday 10 A.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 ROSENWASSER-Robert. Passed away on May 16, 2002, after a long and dreadful illness. Dearest husband of Dorothy, devoted father of Carol Harris & Marsha and Tim Schaffner, stepfather of Jonathan Peret and Terrence and Joanne Paret, loving grandfather of Debby and Will Gans and Dan and Rivka 
 STRAUSS-Charles. The Board of Directors and Members of the Quaker Ridge Golf Club record with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Charles Strauss, whose many years of friendship, kindness & enthusiastic spirit will always be remembered. We send our sincere condolences to his fam
 Michael Maas, a versatile New York architect who had been president of the Fifth Avenue Association, died last Sunday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Westhampton Beach, N.Y. The cause was complications from cancer, said his wife, Jane. 
 ALBERT-Irving. 80. Died suddenly on May 13, 2002, at home. Born in Poland, came to the United States in 1938. An honored union organizer and committed leftist, he served in the U.S. Armed Forces in the invasion of North Africa, landed in Anzio and marched to Rome, supported many Jewish caus
 ARONSON-Sidney. On May 15, 2002. Beloved husband of Letty. Loving father of Christopher, Erika and Alexa. Adoring grandfather of Katherine and Ethan. He will be missed by his family and friends. Service Sunday 3pm at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Contributions in his m
 BARNES-William S. In Concord, MA, April 14, 2002. Husband of the late Mary (West). Memorial services in Trinity Chapel in the Church Yard Cemetery, RT 175, across from the Holderness School, Holderness, NH, Sunday, May 26 at 2 p.m. In lieu of flowers, gifts in his memory may be sent to the 
 BRYAN-Robert F. Of Delray Beach, Florida, formerly of Rye, NY. On May 16, at the age of 89, due to complications from Parkinson's Disease. A graduate of Oberlin College, Phi Beta Kappa, in 1934, he earned a Ph.D. in Economics from Yale University in 1939 having been an instructor at both Ya
 COOKE-Len B. Jr. On May 17, 2002, of Bellrose Village. Beloved husband of the late Patricia and former husband of Constance. Loving father of Len B. III, Barbara, Laurie and Duncan. Cherished grandfather of Robert, Leslie, Justin, Patricia and Emily. For over 50 years Mr. Cooke has been wel
 FALLIS-George A. Of Valley Stream, NY on May 11, 2002 at the age of 90. He was an Archon of the Greek Orthodox Church of America and an incredibly loving and generous man to all who knew him. Survived by his wife of 64 years, Penelope, sister Marika Doukas, daughter Sophia Drakoulias and he
 FEINSTONE-Emanuel, 96 years young, a ''tough cookie'' with a passion for living and life-cigars, Canadian Club, country club''he did it his way.'' He left us heartbroken on May 12th, 2002. We love you, husband, father, grandfather, great grandfather.       
 GARNETT-Alan. La Coquille of Westhampton Beach, Inc, records with sorrow the passing of member Alan Garnett. Condolences to his wife Margo. The Board of Directors La Coquille of Westhampton Beach, Inc.       
 GASPARINETTI-Luigi. The Board of Directors of Career Transition For Dancers, and the dancers it serves, nationwide, mourn the immense loss of our dear friend, mentor, & fellow board member. Luigi was respected for his dedicated, personal service to CTFD's board, and beloved for his warmth, 
 GRAU-Richard. May 7, 2002. He was fearless, legendarily generous, unequivocally devoted to his family, loyal to friends, movie-star handsome, elegant, funny, smart, street-smart, strong, possessed of the most refined instincts, endlessly energetic, a terrific father to young children, the b
 HUPP-Stuart Russell, 80. Of New York City, died May 11, 2002. He was the son of the late Mrs. Rand Lewis Hupp, and the late William F. Hupp. He is survived by a sisterin-law, Mrs. Stamford Gray Hupp, a nephew, Ronald Hupp, a niece, Mrs. Denise Pietrucha, as well as two great nephews and a g
 LANDIS-Morris B. Of Highland Park, NJ and Aventura, FL. Beloved husband of Raye nee Rosenbaum. Devoted father of Mark, Alan, Diana, Ilene, Mitchell and Tefera. Father-in-law of Carolyn, Linda, Jeffrey and Linda Jean. Dear brother of Alex and Sam. Loving grandfather of 12 grandchildren and 2
 LOOKER-Charles. The Board of Directors of the Musicians Foundation mourn the passing of Charles Looker, a devoted friend and supporter of musicians. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family and friends. Anne Bigelow Stern, President Hans Tausig, Vice President       
 McGUIRE-George William. 74, passed away at his home on May 1, 2002. He was born in Brooklyn, NY, served in the U.S. Navy and graduated from New York University. He had a long and distinguished career in advertising, including positions with DuPont, Grey Advertising and Peterson Publishing, 
 PEARSON-Paul David. Architect, Professor of Architecture, City College, on May 8, 2002. It is with great sorrow that his friends at Boris Baranovich Architects mourn David's sudden passing. We extend our deepest sympathy to his son Paul Christopher Pearson of San Diego, CA. Funeral services
 REINER-Charles, on May 15, 2002. With profound sadness and an overwhelming sense of loss, his devoted family and friends mourn his untimely passing after a brief illness. Services Sunday 10 A.M. at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 ROSENWASSER-Robert. Passed away on May 16, 2002, after a long and dreadful illness. Dearest husband of Dorothy, devoted father of Carol Harris & Marsha and Tim Schaffner, stepfather of Jonathan Paret & Terrence and Joanne Paret, loving grandfather of Debby and Will Gans and Dan and Rivka Bu
 SHAPIRO-Arnold B. Of Mamaroneck, NY on May 10, 2002. He was born on May 30, 1917 in Waterbury, Connecticut to Isaac Aaron and Hattie (nee Goldberg) Shapiro. He is survived by his loving wife Claire of 48 years, his cherished daughter Meryl Ann Rogers (husband Michael) of Valley Stream and h
 SMITH-Carol. We extend our heartfelt condolences to our President Park Smith on the passing of his beloved wife. The Board of Directors of the Home Fashion Products Association       
 STRAUSS-Charles S., 88. Of Larchmont, died on May 15 due to complications in the last few months. He was born December 31, 1913 in Haverhill, MA. to Ansel and Helen Strauss. He spent his youth in Pelham, New York. He graduated from Andover in 1931 and Yale in 1935. Charlie served as a First
 YOUNG-Jeremy S., 39, on May 11, 2002. Too young, too soon. Loving son, brother, nephew, cousin, friend and co-worker at Sungard Data Systems and Financial Technologies International. Jeremy lived life to the fullest, combining tennis with writing poetry; squash with using computers and the 
 Warren Brandt, a painter whose dalliance with Abstract Expressionism gave way to a style of realism and domestic warmth, died May 5 in Sykesville, Md., his family said. He was 84 and lived in New York City. Mr. Brandt was born in Greensboro, N.C., and moved to New York after high sc
 Alec Campbell, the last survivor of 50,000 Australians who fought in the heroic, ill-fated campaign against the Turks at Gallipoli in 1915, helping forge their new nation's identity, died May 16 at the age of 103. He died in Hobart, in Tasmania, where he was born in 1899, one year b
 Noel Da Costa, a composer and professor at Rutgers University, died on April 29 at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. A member of New York's small but close-knit group of African-American composers, Mr. Da Costa wrote music that drew from the American classical tradition, spirituals 
 de ROCHEFORT-Jean. The Count de Rochefort, on May 18th, New York, after a brief illness. Senior advisor to the Commission of the European Communities Banking Sector Reform Program. Survived by his wife Sabina, former wife Danna, their children Marc, Ghislaine, Pierre, Laurent, Alexandra, gr
 HEFFERNAN-Maurice D. On May 17, 2002, of Franklin Lakes. Beloved husband of Betty (nee Gaffney). Devoted father of Maurice D. Heffernan Jr. of Santa Barbara, CA, Kevin Heffernan of South Burlington, VT, Paul Heffernan of New Hope, PA, Patrice Cahill of Franklin Lakes, John Heffernan of Fran
 KORTVELESY-Jack. Of Greenvale, NY, suddenly on May 18, 2002. He is pre-deceased by his first wife Jeanne. He is survived by his beloved wife Mary. Brother and sister-in-law Robert and Brook Kortvelesy, his adoring children Scott, Nancy Hall, Jill Mennicken, Peggy Kortvelesy, Joanne Kortvele
 MILLER-Newton Forrest, M.D. Beloved husband of Dorothy Sells for 57 years. Father of Dr. Elisabeth Post Madden (Fred), and Nancy Kurzweil (Dr. Peter Kurzweil). Grandfather to Miriam Post, Arielle and Missy Kurzweil. Loving brother of Dr. Harry Miller and Robert Miller. Graduated Jamaica Hig
 ROSEN-Jules S. Age 91. Beloved husband of the late Tira Rosen. Loving father of Mia Rosen and the late Diane Kaye. Devoted brother of Etta Diane Katz. Warm, witty, sensitive and creative. His grace and indomidable spirit will remain with all those who knew him. Graveside services at 12 noon
 ZIRINSKY-Richard W. Sr. 86, died suddenly in South Hampton, Saturday, May 18. He was a lifelong resident of New York City, where for more than fifty years, he was a prominent and highly respected real estate owner, builder and developer. He was also a most beloved husband, father, brother a
 Harry L. Sears, a lawyer and New Jersey Republican legislative leader who delivered a briefcase holding $200,000 in $50 and $100 bills from the financier Robert Vesco to President Richard M. Nixon's re-election campaign in 1972, died on Friday in Denville, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Mount 
 CLARK-Richard S. An intellectual property law attorney died on Saturday, May 18 of heart failure. He was 59 and lived in Croton Falls, NY for the past 26 years with his wife Monika. Mr. Clark was born and raised in Fairview Park, OH. He graduated from Northwestern University in 1965 and Nor
 DAVIS-Harris Wolf. May 17, 2002. Beloved husband of Judith Davis; dear father of Shari Davis; our dear brother, brother-in-law, uncle and friend. Mr. Davis was part of the New York City Opera for 39 years and was on the Board of Governors of the American Guild of Musical Artists (AGMA) for 
 GASPARINETTI-Luigi. The Board of Trustees and staff of WLIW21 mourn the untimely passing of our esteemed Board Member, Luigi Gasparinetti on May 16, 2002. Luigi was a dedicated member of our Board and a generous contributor of both time and money in support of our mission of bringing the fi
 KRAMER-David T. Died suddenly on May 17, 2002 at age 51. Of Silver Spring, MD, formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved husband of Karen, loving father of Miriam Kramer and Aaron Levy, Danny and Miri Kramer, and Adina L. Kramer. Adoring grandfather of Kayla and Rochel Kramer. Devoted son of Milton
 LANDIS-Morris B. Of Highland Park, NJ and Aventura, FL. Beloved husband of Raye nee Rosenbaum. Devoted father of Mark, Alan, Diana, Ilene, Mitchell and Tefera. Father-in-law of Carolyn, Linda, Jeffrey and Linda Jean. Dear brother of Alex and Sam. Loving grandfather of 12 grandchildren and 2
 LORD-Walter, 84. Author of historical books, including ''A Night to Remember'' and ''Day of Infamy.'' Died May 19, after suffering for many years from Parkinson's. No immediate survivors, but a host of devoted friends. Memorial gathering at 12, Monday, June 10, at The New-York Historical So
 PASTORELLE-Dominic Joseph Jr., M.D., of Mystic, and North Hutchinson Island, FL. formerly of White Plains, NY, died Sunday, May 19, at the Groton Regency after a courageous battle with a brain tumor. He was born in White Plains, NY, son of Dominic and Marguerite Xavier Pastorelle. Dr. Pasto
 ROSENWASSER - Robert. Our deepest condolences to the family of Robert Rosenwasser for their immeasurable loss. He will be greatly missed by those who had the privilege of knowing this fine human being. Costas, Kondylis & Partners       
 SHAY-Laurence Marcuse. Of New York, NY, died Sunday, May 19 at Norwalk Hospital. Mr. Shay is survived by his wife, Karen Weitzman Shay, his parents, Morrie and Christine, and his siblings, Russell Shay and Julie Shay, his sister-inlaw, Debby, his aunt, Rose Sutro, his cousins, Denise and Cl
 YAVELOW-Bernard. Age 86. Of New York City. Beloved husband of Vivian. Loving father of Mark, and Jonathan and his wife Joy. Adoring grandfather of Ivia. Devoted brother of Charlotte, dear uncle, great uncle and friend to many. Funeral service will be held at Plaza Funeral Home, 630 Amsterda
 ZIRINSKY-Richard W. Sr. 86, died suddenly in South Hampton, Saturday, May 18. He was a lifelong resident of New York City, where for more than fifty years, he was a prominent and highly respected real estate owner, builder and developer. He was also a most beloved husband, father, brother a
 DAVIDSON-Nathan J. May 21, 1999. Thank you, God, for the gift of his life-a joy to so many-an inestimable treasure to me. KM       
 Peter F. Cannell, a former director of the Smithsonian Institution's book-publishing division and an expert on songbirds' voices, died on Saturday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 47. The cause was a brain tumor, said his brother Michael. Dr. Cannell had worked in editori
 Richard W. Zirinsky Sr., a real estate developer and owner active in Queens and Brooklyn since the 1940's, died on May 18 in Southampton, N.Y. He was 86 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan. Over the years, his family firm, Richard Zirinsky Associates, has built, renovated, lease
 Stephen Jay Gould, the evolutionary theorist at Harvard University whose research, lectures and prolific output of essays helped to reinvigorate the field of paleontology, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 60. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Rhonda Roland Shearer.
 Walter Lord, the narrative historian whose books -- most notably ''A Night to Remember,'' a riveting account of the sinking of the Titanic -- were characterized by intensive research and exhaustive interviews, died on Sunday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 84. Mr. Lord, a onetime
 David Abrahamsen, a forensic psychiatrist, psychoanalyst and author who wrote book-length analyses of Richard M. Nixon and of David Berkowitz, the serial killer known as Son of Sam, died on Monday night at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 98. Dr. Abrahamsen, who was born in Norway a
 The Rev. Dr. M. Moran Weston, who led one of Harlem's most prominent churches, helped found what became the nation's largest black-owned financial institution and built housing for thousands, died on May 18 at his home in Heathrow, Fla. He was 91. In 1948, Dr. Weston joined with 14 
 CLARK-Richard S. On May 18, 2002. The partners and staff of Dorsey & Whitney LLP mourn the sudden passing of our partner and colleague, Rick Clark. Rick was a leading member of the patent bar. He headed the patent practice of our New York office and was widely respected for his professional
 GASPARINETTI-Luigi. The fellow Foundation members of The Howard Gilman Foundation express their sincere sympathy to Ronald, Trutti and John Gasparinetti at the untimely death of their dear brother, Luigi. Bernard D. Bergreen Dr. Jeffrey Borer Donald Bruce Ambassador Marcello Guidi Natalie P
 GROSSMAN-Robert M. Late of Southampton, NY died May 20, 2002 in CT Hospice. Born in 1922 in Philadephia, son of the late Isaac and Grace Grossman, he is survived by a brother and sister-inlaw, Jon and Joan Grossman of Stony Creek (Branford) CT, a nephew Perry Grossman and niece Linda Grossm
 KAHN-Rabbi Arthur Dov. The Yeshiva University family is deeply saddened by the passing of a beloved alumnus of Yeshiva College and of our affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary, a brilliant and distinguished rabbinic scholar and leader, and rabbi emeritus of Congregation B'nai
 LANDIS-Morris B. Of Highland Park, NJ and Aventura, FL. Beloved husband of Raye nee Rosenbaum. Devoted father of Mark, Alan, Diana, Ilene, Mitchell and Tefera. Father-in-law of Carolyn, Linda, Jeffrey and Linda Jean. Dear brother of Alex and Sam. Loving grandfather of 12 grandchildren and 2
 LORD-Walter, 84. Author of historical books, including ''A Night to Remember'' and ''Day of Infamy.'' Died May 19, after suffering for many years from Parkinson's. No immediate survivors, but a host of devoted friends. Memorial gathering at 12, Monday, June 10, at The New-York Historical So
 MYERS-Robert Holt. 84. Died on May 11 at home in Chevy Chase, Maryland. He was born on March 2, 1918, in Washington, D.C. Mr. Myers practiced law as a partner of the Washington, D.C. law firm Williams, Myers & Quiggle. He served on the board of the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation and then be
 SCHMITT-Julius Henry, 93, of Franklin Lakes, NJ, died peacefully on Sunday, May 19, 2002. Before retiring in 1973, he was Director of Classified Advertising for The New York Times where he had worked for 50 years. He began working for The Times as an office boy at age 14 and assumed positio
 WESTON-Rev. M. Moran, Ph.D. The Board of Directors, staff and consumers of Weston United Community Renewal, Inc. deeply mourn the passing of our Founder and Chairman Emeritus, The Reverend M. Moran Weston, Ph.D. A visionary who ministered to the physical as well as spiritual needs of the pe
 ZIRINSKY-Richard W. Sr. 86, died suddenly in South Hampton, Saturday, May 18. He was a lifelong resident of New York City, where for more than fifty years, he was a prominent and highly respected real estate owner, builder and developer. He was also a most beloved husband, father, brother a
 Sir John Gorton, who became prime minister of Australia by accident and voted himself out of office after three years, died in Sydney on Sunday. He was 90. Sir John, the first Australian senator to become prime minister, succeeded Harold Holt, who drowned while surfing near Melbourn
 Charles W. Roll Jr., a political polltaker for prominent leaders like Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York and co-author of a classic text on polling, died on May 12 at a hospital in Trenton. He was 73 and lived in Lawrenceville, N.J. The cause was coronary and vascular complicati
 Jack Kruschen, a versatile character actor whose six decades in movies and television included an Oscar nomination for best supporting actor for his 1960 role in ''The Apartment,'' died on April 2. He was 80. He had been ill for several years, his family said, and died while traveli
 ABRAHAMSEN-David. MD, On May 20, 2002 at age 98. Beloved husband of the late Lova Abrahamsen; loving father of Inger Elliott and Anne-Marie Foltz; cherished grandfather of Kari, Alec and Marit McCabe, and Peter and Jeremy Foltz; caring step-grandfather of Diana Lidowsky, Cynthia and Dorinda
 BASKIN-Dr. Samuel. Passed away suddenly on May 20, 2002 after an eight month recuperative period following a car accident. Dr. Baskin spent his entire professional life in the education field, and was a pioneer in creating and developing alternative life study programs. Dr. Baskin was a nat
 DIAZ-William A. Age 56. Passed away at his home in St. Paul, Mn. on May 18, 2002. A man of great strength, courage and generosity, he was born in New York City and received his undergraduate, M.S. and PhD at Fordham University. Bill was a Senior Fellow and professor at the University of Min
 DUCKETT-Richard B. 79. Died May 5, 2002. He attended the U.S. Naval Academy and George Washington University. During WWII while a pilot on the U.S.S. Intrepid he was awarded the Navy Cross, and a Silver Star. He is survived by his wife, Lemeau ArrottWatt Duckett, NY, NY; and five children a
 FEINSTONE-Emanuel. The Officers and the Members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of their dear friend and fellow member Emanuel Feinstone. Heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife Lorraine and to other members of his family. Paul J. Konigsberg, President       
 GROSS-Aaron J. Loving husband of Joanne. In his heart, caring father of Michael, Andrew and Elizabeth, and loving father-in-law to Lynn, Fred and Suzanne. Cherished uncle to Toni, Hilary, Eric, Susan, Mindy and Adam. Adoring grandfather to Kristen, Alex, Matthew, Kevin, Nicholas and Brian. 
 LANDIS-Morris B. Of Highland Park, NJ and Aventura, FL. Beloved husband of Raye nee Rosenbaum. Devoted father of Mark, Alan, Diana, Ilene, Mitchell and Tefera. Father-in-law of Carolyn, Linda, Jeffrey and Linda Jean. Dear brother of Alex and Sam. Loving grandfather of 12 grandchildren and 2
 LONG-Kathleen E. On May 22, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Thomas F. Long. Devoted mother of Thomas, his wife Betty; Brian, his wife Patty; Gerard, his wife Peggy; and Kathleen, her husband Kevin. Cherished grandmother of 13 loving grandchildren. Fond sister of Walter Hasson. Family will re
 LORD-Walter, 84. Author of historical books, including ''A Night to Remember'' and ''Day of Infamy.'' Died May 19, after suffering for many years from Parkinson's. No immediate survivors, but a host of devoted friends. Memorial gathering at 12, Monday, June 10, at The New-York Historical So
 RESNIK-Paul. 64. Died at his home in Santa Fe, NM, on May 20, 2002 from esophageal cancer. Mr. Resnik was born February 12, 1938 and grew up in Stamford, CT. He was the son of Dr. William Resnik, a well-known cardiologist, and Lorraine Smith Resnik, a musicologist. He is survived by a siste
 TREVATHAN-Herman Albert. Of Bronx, NY, tragically departed this life, May 18, 2002 at the tender age of 21. He brought a sense of drama, comedy and passion to all he met. Loved by all and respected by many. Services, Friday, May 24, 11 AM at Pressley Memorial Church, 38 Warburton Ave., Yonk
 WESTON-Dr. M. Moran. The Trustees, Faculty and Staff of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine and The Mount Sinai Hospital mourn the passing of Dr. M. Moran Weston, an outstanding and compassionate business and civic leader, who served on the Mount Sinai Board of Trustees with dedication for m
 Alan P. Bell, a Kinsey Institute researcher who helped conduct a pioneering large-scale study that countered the notion that homosexuals were maladjusted, died on May 13 in Bloomington, Ind., where he lived. He was 70. The cause was a stroke, his wife, Shirley, said. In 1968
 BARTSCH-Thomas W., Sr. 100, of Williamsburg, VA and formerly of Pelham Manor, NY died on May 21, 2002. Mr. Bartsch was a member of the New York Stock Exchange with the firm of Travers & Bartsch. He was a member of the Pelham Country Club, the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick, the Knights of Mal
 DEUTCH-Barnet M. On May 21st, 2002. The Board of Trustees and the staff of the American Red Cross in Greater New York mourns the passing of Barnet Deutch, distinguished colleague, volunteer and friend. Barney's 59 year career with the American Red Cross included international positions in C
 LANDIS-Morris B. Of Highland Park, NJ and Aventura, FL. Beloved husband of Raye nee Rosenbaum. Devoted father of Mark, Alan, Diana, Ilene, Mitchell and Tefera. Father-in-law of Carolyn, Linda, Jeffrey and Linda Jean. Dear brother of Alex and Sam. Loving grandfather of 12 grandchildren and 2
 LORD-Walter. Walter was a founding trustee of the Ocean Liner Museum. Historian par excellence, wise colleague and beloved friend, Walter will be sorely missed by all who served with him. His long suffering from the Parkinson's disease that killed him was endured with extraordinary patience
 PALLEY-Jeremy. 26. Fly high my angel boy. You are safe and free now. I will love you forever. Mommy PALLEY-Jeremy. You lit up our lives. You combined intelligence with modesty and humor. We will always savor our shared confidences, the exciting news of your achievements and the joy 
 VESELY-Ernst L. 94. Died Wednesday, May 22, 2002 at his residence in Fearrington Village. Ernst came from Germany at the age of 17 and was a successful fur broker. A memorial service is planned for a later date. Mr Vesely is survived by his partner, Joan Glacken of the home, son, Paul David
 WITCHEL-Jess. On May 22, 2002. Died peacefully after a long battle with Alzheimer's. An active and dedicated teacher, coach and administrator in NYC high schools and at CCNY, Jess' contribution to his colleagues, students and public education was inestimable. He leaves his loving wife, Ruth
 Sam Snead, who used golf's smoothest swing to win a record 81 PGA Tour events and about 70 other tournaments, died yesterday at his home in Hot Springs, Va. He was 89. Snead had a series of small strokes during the past two months, his daughter-in-law Ann Snead said. In the 
 Dr. Richard D. Mudd, who waged a campaign for seven decades seeking to clear his grandfather of complicity in the assassination of Abraham Lincoln, died on Tuesday at his home in Saginaw, Mich. He was 101. ''I suppose I'm crazy, but the whole conscience of America must purge itself 
 BAKER-Irving M., on Thursday, May 23, 2002, of Hackensack, NJ, formerly of River Edge, NJ. Husband of Sylvia. Father of Amy and Jeff and his wife, Ann. Grandfather of Neil, Lynne and the late Scott Baker. Mr. Baker was a co-owner of Gallant & Wein Corp., a wire and cable supplier in NYC. Se
 BUSCH-Benjamin. 81. Died on Monday, May 20, 2002, in Lake Worth, FL, after a long illness. For many years, the owner of Symphony Music Shop in Yonkers and an employee of Walter Kane Music Publishing, he was also an accomplished singer of opera and musical comedy. He is survived by his wife 
 SPECTOR-Albert. On May 22nd, of Bayside. Beloved husband of Paula. Devoted father of Dr. Michael and wife Marcia. Loving brother of Paul and the late Jean. Cherished grandfather of David. Graveside services at Temple Beth Shalom Cemetery. Route 114, Danvers, MA., on Sunday May 26th at 11AM.
 SPEVACK-Edward. On May 23, 2002 of Huntington, L.I. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Sue Graze, and Neal Spevack. Dear brother of Ruth Kobren. Loving grandfather of Johanna and Alex Graze, Jesse, Mollie and Nathan Spevack. Services Sunday 9:30AM at Huntington Jewish Center, 510
 STAMPLEMAN-Henry. Of New Rochelle, NY on May 22, 2002 at the age of 86 after a short illness. Marketing consultant to Coca-Cola, Pepsi-Cola, General Foods and US Steel, among others. Founding member of Larchmont Temple. Beloved by his wife Doris, sons Jed, Paul and Steven, daughtersin-law L
 WOLLERSTEIN-Isidore. On May 23, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Irene. Loving father of Alan, Roni and Marc. Cherished grandfather of Jeffrey and Sondra, Lisa and Scott, Nicole, Neil, Alison, Andrew and Marissa. Great grandfather of Cosette. Dear father-inlaw of Felicia and Janice. Servic
 Sihung Lung, the Taiwanese actor best known to Western audiences for deft portrayals of conflicted fathers in the Ang Lee films ''Pushing Hands,'' ''The Wedding Banquet'' and ''Eat Drink Man Woman,'' died on May 2 in Taipei. He was 72. The cause was liver failure, The Taipei Times r
 ATTRIDE-Roy Ronald Buxton, Jr., 59, died peacefully but unexpectedly on May 16, 2002. He was born in New York City on November 24, 1942 to parents Roy Ronald Buxton Attride, Sr. and Anne Earle Attride of Cold Spring Harbor, NY. Mr. Attride is survived by his family and loved ones. A memoria
 COHEN-Herman J. On May 21, 2002 in Florida, age 79. Bronx native. Professor of Mathematics at City College, 1954-1998. He loved teaching and was dedicated to his students. Beloved brother of Sidney and Bea. Graveside service Baron Hirsch Cemetery, Staten Island, Tuesday, May 28th, 10:30AM. 
 DILLOFF-Morton. Died at age 81, on May 24, 2002, at his home in Boynton Beach, FL. He leaves his loving wife Roslyn James, daughter Linda Zahn, and son Robert and his wife Elaine, and grandson Marcus. Graveside funeral service on May 28, at 11 AM, at Old Montfiore Cemetery in Queens, NY.   
 GOLDING-Melville J. 82, of Tucson, died May 17, 2002. Beloved husband of Rita Golding. Devoted father of Lance Golding (Debbi) of Nevada, Gary Golding (Jani) of CT, Stacy Golding of CA, Matthew Golding of CA and the late Jeffrey Golding. Dear brother of Lawrence (Osa) Golding of FL. Loving 
 MANDEVILLE-Hubert Turner. The Board and staff mourn the loss of our friend and supporter, Hubert Turner Mandeville. Our sincerest condolences to his family. Angel Rodriguez, Exec. Dir. Andrew Glover Youth Program       
 MATHEWS-Sidney. Died on Tuesday, May 21st at his home on North Lake Way in Palm Beach where he lived with his wife, Phyllis, for the past 22 years. He was 90 years old. Mr. Mathews was born September 28, 1911 in Brooklyn, NY. He graduated from Salisbury School in Salisbury, Conn., and from 
 NICHOLS-Robert E. Jr. ''Chip.'' On Friday night, May 17th, 2002. He was an artist. His love of painting was second only to his love of those around him. Generous in giving of himself, he made a difference in many lives. Unique in his vision he challenged mediocrity. His vitality was contagi
 REEVES-Clifford Batchelder, Jr., of Pelham, NY, died on Thursday, May 16, 2002. He was 74. Mr. Reeves worked as Manager of Film and Tape Operations for WCBS-TV in NY. He was with the company for 43 years before retiring in 1996. Mr. Reeves was born March 7, 1928 in Yonkers, NY to Clifford a
 REEVES-Jeneil. The Board and Staff of the Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America, extend their deepest sympathy to Ed Reeves and his family on the loss of his mother, Jeneil Reeves. Mrs. Reeves and her family have been longtime benefactors of the Boy Scouts. The John E. Reeves Cub
 RODDY-Joseph James. A former senior editor of Look magazine and staff writer at Life magazine, died on Thursday at the age of 81. A resident of Croton, NY, Mr. Roddy was born in St. Paul, MN, December 25, 1920. He attended The College of St. Thomas Aquinas. During World War II he served in 
 SAUNDERS-Dero Ames. 88. On May 22, 2002. Veteran financial writer who also edited works by Edward Gibbon and Theodor Mommsen. Born in Starkville, MS; B.A. Dartmouth, 1935; M.A. Columbia, 1937. During WWII he served in the State Department and afterwards joined Fortune. He moved to Forbes in
 TAUBER-Herman J. 91, of West Palm Beach. Widower of Ruth Tauber. He is survived by sons Arthur (Sandra) Tauber and Richard (Barbara) Tauber, daughter Judith (Jim) Gordon; grandsons Daniel, Jeffrey, Michael, Charles, and Matthew; great - grandchildren Maddie, Becky, Mickey, Justin and Jeremy
 WEISSBERG-Seymour M., 77, on May 16, 2002 at home with his wife at his side. Beloved by his family, friends and fellow artists for his devotion, kindness, sage advice, humor and sweetness. Dearly beloved by his wife Dolores. Loving father to Susan, Eric and Andrew. Loving father-in-law to D
 WESTON-Rev. Dr. M. Moran. The Board of Directors, Staff, Friends and Families of the Greater Harlem Nursing Home are deeply saddened by the loss of one of its founders, Rev. Dr. M. Moran Weston and extend sincere condolences to his wife Miriam and family. Dr. Roscoe C. Brown, Jr., Chairman 
 WITCHEL-Jess. On May 22, 2002. Died peacefully after a long battle with Alzheimer's. An active and dedicated teacher, coach and administrator in NYC high schools and at CCNY, Jess' contribution to his colleagues, students and public education was inestimable. He leaves his loving wife, Ruth
 WOLLERSTEIN-Isidore. Sutton Place Synagogue records with profound sorrow the passing of our longtime member, devoted Trustee and noble Benefactor. He will be sorely missed. Our heartfelt condolences to the bereaved family. May their precious memories of this dynamic gentleman comfort and su
 LUBALIN-Herb F. Imagine the elegance, beauty and wit were he still putting pen to paper. Remembering, Rhoda S. Lubalin       
 Paul Giel, a football and baseball all-American at the University of Minnesota who could not replicate that success as a major league pitcher, died Wednesday in Minneapolis. He was 70. Giel collapsed in his car while returning from the Minnesota Twins-Texas Rangers baseball game in 
 Bob Grossman, an automobile enthusiast who drove racing cars, sold foreign cars and liked to draw cars, died last Monday in a hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 79 and had lived in Southampton, N.Y. The cause was multiple myeloma, said a member of the staff of the W. S. Clancy Memori
 John de Lancie, the longtime principal oboist of the Philadelphia Orchestra and then director of the Curtis Institute of Music, died on May 17 at his home in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 80. The cause was leukemia, The Associated Press reported. He was born in Berkeley, Calif
 Michael Camille, an influential and provocative scholar of medieval art at the University of Chicago, died on April 29. He was 44. The cause was a brain tumor, a spokesman for the university said. Mr. Camille was noted for bringing contemporary critical theory and social per
 ABBOTT-George. Died peacefully on Saturday, May 25, 2002. He is survived by his wife Janice, their two sons Gregory and Christopher and seven grandchildren. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Thursday, May 30th, 5 PM. In lieu of flowers, the family asks
 ANTONECCHIA-Gilbert. 79, of Yonkers, NY. Died on Friday, May 24, 2002. Beloved husband of Doris (nee Seabolt) Antonecchia. Loving father of Leslie Landy and her husband Michael, Lynn Antonecchia, Lydia Long, James Antonecchia and his wife Nancy, and Robert Antonecchia and his wife Laura. De
 LEONARD-James G. Retired investment banker, died May 21, 2002, at the age of 83. He graduated from Yale, class of 1939, and served four years in the Pacific in WWII. He was the recipient of the Silver Star while executive officer of the destroyer USS Benion in the vicinity of Okinawa on Apr
 MANDEVILLE-Hubert Turner. Known as ''T'', of New York City, previously of Fairfield, CT died peacefully in New York City on Monday, May 20th, with his family present. He was 79 years old. Mr. Mandeville was born in Utica, NY on September 11, 1922 to Ernest W. Mandeville and Ruth Turner Mand
 SAPERSTON-Lee R. Died suddenly while playing tennis. He is survived by his cherished wife and best friend Magda, his loving son Jose, loving sister Daney Klingenstein, caring brother-in-law Lee Klingenstein, nephews Al and Paul Klingenstein and niece Jo Ziesing. He was devoted to his wife's
 SPROW-Howard T. 82, died on May 25, 2002, at his home. Mr. Sprow graduated from Colgate University and Columbia Law School. He was General Counsel, Vice President and Secretary of Merrill Lynch from 1970 to 1977. From 1977 to 1980, he was a senior partner at Rogers and Wells. He was adjunct
 William A. Diaz, an authority on the Hispanic cultures of the United States who taught at the Hubert H. Humphrey Institute of Public Affairs at the University of Minnesota, died on May 18 at his home in St. Paul. He was 56. The cause was a brain tumor, the St. Paul Pioneer Press rep
 Genichi Kawakami, who insouciantly combined the delicate notes of the piano and the earsplitting roar of the motorcycle to create the Yamaha empire, died on Saturday at a hospital near Hamamatsu, the industrial city in central Japan where Yamaha is based. He was 90 years old. In 193
 Mamo Wolde, who became a hero in Ethiopia when he won the marathon at the 1968 Mexico City Olympics, but who spent most of the past nine years in prison, died Sunday at his home in Addis Ababa. Wolde was unsure of his age, but was believed to be 70 or 71. He had a variety of ailment
 ABBOTT-George. Died peacefully on Saturday, May 25, 2002. He is survived by his wife Janice, their two sons Gregory and Christopher and seven grandchildren. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Thursday, May 30th, 5 PM. In lieu of flowers, the family asks
 BARTNER-Seth. Beloved husband, father, brother, pop-pop, uncle and friend. Duke grad, naval officer, member American Stock Exchange, book collector and renaissance man. Services Wednesday, 12 noon, Temple Beth-El, 5 Old Mill Road, Great Neck, NY. BARTNER-Seth. Temple Beth-El of Grea
 BUCHBERG-Abraham S., M.D., age 82, beloved husband of Vera Lacob, resident of Waterside Retirement Estates of Sarasota, FL, formerly of Ardsley, NY, died after a long battle with renal disease on May 25, 2002. Dr. Buchberg was a Pulmonary Specialist at Montefiore Medical Center, New York Ci
 CAPELLUTO-Victor. On May 26, 2002. Beloved husband of Laura. Loving father of Betty Emden and Shirley Benowitz. Dearest fatherin-law of Richard Benowitz and James Emden. Devoted grandfather of Michael, Jason, Andrew, and Jennifer. Services Tuesday, 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street
 ENOCH-Lee A. Died May 25, 2002. Of Teaneck, N.J., formerly of Bronx, NY. Beloved husband of Minna (nee Gordon), devoted foster parent of Lynn Plumacher, dear brother of Robert, Betty Ann Little, and the late Richard. Loving uncle of Susan and Kevin Hayes, Lisa and John Renzulli, Robert Enoc
 FARRELL-James Francis Jr. Of Holmdel, NJ and N. Hutchinson Island, FL, previously of Cresskill and Deal, NJ, at age 84, on May 24, 2002. He is survived by his wife Stella (Rigas); his son James F. Farrell III of Old Brookville, NY, and his daughters Patricia Farrell Bueb of Holmdel, NJ, Mar
 HOROWITZ-Rabbi Philip. Beloved husband, father, brother, Saba (grandfather), rabbi, teacher, friend, died on Sunday, May 26th, at the age of 80. Brother of Marion Fahn. Father of Ilana Horowitz Ratner, Dr. Bethamie Horowitz, Daurielle Horowitz-Leopold. Father-in-law of Charles Ratner, Dr. B
 MANDEVILLE-Hubert Turner. Known as ''T'', of New York City, previously of Fairfield, CT died peacefully in New York City on Monday, May 20th, with his family present. He was 79 years old. Mr. Mandeville was born in Utica, NY on September 11, 1922 to Ernest W. Mandeville and Ruth Turner Mand
 REEVES-Jeneil. The Board and Staff of the Greater New York Councils, Boy Scouts of America, extend their deepest sympathy to Ed Reeves and his family on the loss of his mother, Jeneil Reeves. Mrs. Reeves and her family have been longtime benefactors of the Boy Scouts. The John E. Reeves Cub
 SAPERSTON-Lee R. Died suddenly while playing tennis. He is survived by his cherished wife and best friend Magda, his loving son Jose, loving sister Daney Klingenstein, caring brother-in-law Lee Klingenstein, nephews Al and Paul Klingenstein and niece Jo Ziesing. He was devoted to his wife's
 Creighton Miller, an all-American halfback who was a member of a prominent Notre Dame football family and later helped organize the National Football League Players Association as its lawyer, died last week in Shaker Heights, Ohio. He was 79. Miller's body was found Friday at his ap
 ABBOTT-George. Died peacefully on Saturday, May 25, 2002. He is survived by his wife Janice, their two sons Gregory and Christopher and seven grandchildren. Memorial service at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Thursday, May 30th, 5 PM. In lieu of flowers, the family asks
 ATWOOD-Rawson. Of Mountain Lake, Lake Wales, Florida, died on Monday, May 20, 2002. He was 89. Mr. Atwood was the President and Chairman of Decorated Metal Manufacturing Company of Milltown, New Jersey. Mr. Atwood was born September 5, 1912, in Brooklyn, New York, to Louise and George Atwoo
 BARTHOLOMEW-William S. Formerly of Essex Fells, New Jersey, May 15, 2002. Brother of Stephen and George. Memorial service in St. Peter's Church, Essex Fells, June 22, at 3 PM. In lieu of flowers, donations to the Offender Aid and Restoration (of which he was cofounder), 303 University Avenu
 BIEN-Robert L. Distinguished architect. Our loyal friend of 35 years & co-worker. Our sympathy to his wife of 58 years, Lynn; daughter, Deborah; grandchildren, Jocelyn and Robert; sister, Phyllis McGovern; brother-in-law, Pete; nephews, Michael and Scott. We will forever miss his profession
 BIRD-Robert W. Of Hilton Head, S.C. died on May 27th from idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. He served in the US Army from 1945 to 1947, returned to Dickinson College and graduated in 1950. He subsequently graduated from NYU Law School in 1953 and was admitted to practice in 1954. He worked on 
 BUCHBERG-Abraham S., MD. The President and Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center are profoundly saddened by the passing of Abraham S. Buchberg, MD, an esteemed colleague and friend. Dr. Buchberg was a devoted teacher and senior attending physician in the Division of Pulmonary Medicine when 
 DEVENEY-Kenneth. Of Manhattan, former senior art restorer at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on May 25 after a courageous and dignified battle with lung cancer, as reported by his Friend of 39 years, Dr. Prospero Sanidad.       
 ENOCH-Lee A. Died May 25, 2002. Of Teaneck, N.J., formerly of Bronx, NY. Beloved husband of Minna (nee Gordon), devoted foster parent of Lynn Plumacher, dear brother of Robert, Betty Ann Little, and the late Richard. Loving uncle of Susan and Kevin Hayes, Lisa and John Renzulli, Robert Enoc
 GOULD-Stephen J. On May 20, 2002 at age 60. The New York University community mourns the passing of Stephen J. Gould, world renowned scholar, cherished teacher and valued friend. His absence from our midst will be keenly felt. We extend our deepest sympathy to Dr. Gould's family & loved one
 KATZ-John Zadock. Passed on at home on May 26, 2002 after a valiant fifteen-year struggle with kidney cancer. Beloved husband of Dorothy Ann Kurilla of Jessup, PA and father of John Andrew and Walter, who left us August 4, 1996. Also survived by two sisters and their husbands, Deborah and H
 LIEBOFF-Harry. Cedar Park Cemetery graveside service held May 28, 2002. Died May 25, 2002 at age 94. Loving and devoted husband to Janet (pre-deceased). Loving brother, uncle, grand uncle, and companion to Natalie. Beloved friend to many. Veteran serving during WWII. He practiced law in New
 MITCHELL-Alex. Devoted widower, father and grandfather, died peacefully at home with his family on Tuesday, May 28, 2002. His loyalty, compassion and determination will be greatly missed. Mr. Mitchell was owner and CEO of Parkell Inc., a manufacturer of dental products. Services will be hel
 ROSS-Frank, Sr. The board and staff of the New York City Chapter of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society mourn the loss of a dedicated trustee and friend. His support and commitment to the fight against MS were invaluable to our work. We extend heartfelt sympathies to his family and many
 SAPERSTON-Lee R. Died suddenly while playing tennis. He is survived by his cherished wife and best friend Magda, his loving son Jose, loving sister Daney Klingenstein, caring brother-in-law Lee Klingenstein, nephews Al and Paul Klingenstein and niece Jo Ziesing. He was devoted to his wife's
 SHORE-Allan E. On May 27, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Carol Tilles. Devoted father of Allan E. Shore Jr. and his wife Jill, William T. Shore & Marylu Simon. Cherished grandfather of Jennifer, Christopher, Beth, Michael and Julie and great-grandfather of Benjamin Yaakov and Dovid. He w
 BIEN-Robert L. Distinguished architect. Our loyal friend of 35 years & co-worker. Our sympathy to his wife of 58 years, Lynn; daughter, Deborah; grandchildren, Jocelyn and Robert; sister, Phyllis McGovern; brother-in-law, Pete; nephews, Michael and Scott. We will forever miss his profession
 BUCHBERG-Abraham S., M.D. The faculty and staff of the Pulmonary Medicine Division at Montefiore Medical Center and Albert Einstein College of Medicine mourn the loss on May 25 of Abraham Buchberg, Professor, accomplished physician, and former Division Director. During his halfcentury of se
 CRARY-Calvert H. Of Kendal at Hanover, NH, died on May 29, 2002. Age 94. He is survived by his wife, Pamela and his children Susan C. Strubel, Caroline C. Nordmann and Calvert D. Crary and by eight grandchildren. His former wife Catherine Snell died in 1974. He was a graduate of Amherst Col
 GRAF-Eugene J. Of Yonkers and West Palm Beach, Florida. Died peacefully on May 26, 2002. Gene is survived by his bereaved family & loved ones. A memorial service will be private. Omega Funeral Service, 72 E. Main St., Elmsford, New York 10523, (914-946-7290).       
 HIGGINS-Edward J. 63, of New Canaan, Ct. died suddenly but peacefully watching the sunset on May 24, while vacationing in Hawaii with his wife Mary and eldest son Bartley. Widowed by Margot Brill in 1974, he was blessed to share his heart with beloved wife Mary Bailey for the last 24 years.
 HOLLENBACH-Frank J. On May 28, age 85, predeceased by his beloved wife, Eleanor. Survived by his loving children, Doris, Paul, John, Kenneth, and Catherine. Also survived by five cherished grandchildren and his dear sister, Mary, and brother, Bob. Frank was a decorated veteran of WW II. Vis
 KELLY-Francis Brandt. Of Beverly Hills, Florida. Born in New York City died on Saturday, May 18, 2002. Former employee of The New York Times until 1989. He served in the United States Army Air Force during the Korean War. Survivors are his wife Ann, three daughters, Judith Kelly, Barbara Br
 MINOT-Dr. Herbert S., Esq., 89 years of age, passed away on May 25, 2002. Dr. Minot was an attorney in private practice for many years in Manhattan. He resided in Ocean Ridge, FL, and formerly resided in Palm Beach, Florida, and Harrison, New York. Beloved husband of the late Rachel Levinsk
 MITCHELL-Alex. Devoted widower, father and grandfather, died peacefully at home with his family on Tuesday, May 28, 2002. His loyalty, compassion and determination will be greatly missed. Mr. Mitchell was owner and CEO of Parkell Inc., a manufacturer of dental products. Services will be hel
 OTTAVINO-Adam George. Age 84 died at home on May 29th, 2002. Devoted husband of Mary Pigott Ottavino. Loving father of Margaret Mary Ottavino, Katherine Agnes Ottavino Parker & Sallie Ann Ottavino Elkordy. Grandfather of Mary Elizabeth Elkordy, Arbas Octavius Elkordy, Hannah Marie Parker & 
 REED-Arthur Patterson Jr. Husband of the late Sylvia (Martinique) Reed died May 16. Mr. Reed had worked as an editor for the New York Times and other various news publications throughout his life. He is survived by a brother Dr. John J. Reed of NJ and his family. Services will be held Sunda
 ROSS-Frank, Sr. The faculty and staff of the Eleanor and Lou Gehrig MDA/ALS Center at Columbia University mourn the loss of our committed friend and partner. Mr. Ross served as Chairman of the ALS Center's Advisory Committee and was dedicated to advancing ALS research and treatment. We shal
 SAUNDERS-Dero A. We mourn the loss of our distinguished life member. Writer, scholar, journalist and gentleman, Dero was wonderful company and a great conversationalist. His courtliness elevated the atmosphere of every hall he walked into. Our deepest sympathies to his wife, Beatrice, their
 SHORE-Allan E. On May 27, 2002. Beloved husband of the late Carol Tilles. Devoted father of Allan E. Shore Jr. and his wife Jill, William T. Shore & Marylu Simon. Cherished grandfather of Jennifer, Christopher, Beth, Michael and Julie and great-grandfather of Benjamin Yaakov and Dovid. He w
 Wes Westrum, a superb defensive catcher for the New York Giants' pennant-winning teams of 1951 and '54 and later the manager of the Mets and the San Francisco Giants, died Tuesday in Clearbrook, Minn. He was 79. The cause was cancer, the Cease Funeral Home in Bagley, Minn., reported
 Howard Sternheim, longtime president of the Thriftway Drug Corporation, a chain of 13 New York City drugstores including the East Side landmark Zitomer's, died on April 22 at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived on the Upper East Side. The cause was leuke
 DICHTER-Jack, 84, died Wednesday at home in Manalapan, NJ. Surviving are his wife, Frances (nee Kleid); sons & daughter-inlaw, Marc & Carole of Penn Valley, PA, & Howard of Philadephia, PA, daughter & son-in-law, Phyllis & Richard Forbes of Randolph, VT; 6 grandchildren, & 3 great granddaug
 KATZ-John Zaduck. The Board of Directors and staff of the Mount Pleasant Cemetery of Hawthorne, NY, mourn the loss of our former longtime director. John Katz served with distinction for 28 years, significantly contributing to the Cemetery's preservation, financial strength, and beauty. We w
 LEVY-Bernard Howard, 69, formerly of New York City and Egremont, MA. Died on May 29, 2002. He was the brother of Alan Leonard Levy, the father of Wendy Levy, Debra Camal and Jessica Fauci and the grandfather of Tommy, Michael and Jenna Camal and Julianna Fauci. Services will be on Friday, M
 MATHEW-Raymond F. Renowned poet, playwright and author, passed peacefully in his sleep, May 28, 2002, at his home in New York on Fifth Avenue in New York. Born in Australia, Mr. Mathew spent the last 30 years between his homes in London and New York. He will be terribly missed by the art co
 ROSS-Frank, Sr. The Metropolitan Council on Jewish Poverty mourns the untimely loss of our dear friend and supporter Frank Ross, Sr., Co-chair of HRH Construction. Frank was a pioneer in construction and the development of housing for the elderly poor. Our condolences to his loving family. 
 Wallace Markfield, the author of ''To an Early Grave,'' ''Teitlebaum's Window'' and other satirical novels that earned him critical praise as a Brooklyn literary descendant of James Joyce, died last Friday at a hospital in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 75 and lived in Port Washington, N.Y. Th
