 Bernard H. Siegan, a conservative legal scholar whose unsuccessful nomination to a federal appellate judgeship was one of the most bitterly disputed judicial nominations of the Reagan era, died on Monday in Encinitas, Calif. He was 81 and lived in San Diego. The cause was complicati
 E. S. Anderson, a British microbiologist who was one of the first to warn that giving antibiotics to livestock could backfire, with dangerous consequences for humans, died on March 14 in London. He was 94. Dr. Anderson's death was reported by the British Health Protection Agency.   
 Norman Leonard, an eloquent courtroom voice for unpopular causes -- West Coast longshoremen in the 1930's, left-wing dissenters in the 1950's, free-speech rebels and antiwar protesters in the 1960's and 70's -- died on March 7 at a hospital in San Francisco. He was 92. His death was
 ALTER--Irving J. On March 29, 2006, at 73. Survived by wife Marion, brother Milton, sister Florence (Bob), sons Kevin (Rachel) and Torin (Elizabeth), daughter Ann and granddaughter Rebecca. Preceded in death by sister Shirley, and Janet, mother of his sons. Cherished father, husband, uncle,
 KAESS--Kenneth R. It was our great good fortune to know Ken Kaess as a friend and colleague over the past 16 years. Ken was so much more than a business partner and confidant, he was a remarkably caring human being who graciously put the needs and concerns of others before his own. In so ma
 PASTERNACK - David. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of our long time member, David Pasternack. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his bereaved family. Franklin S. Abrams, Pres. Jerome K. Davidson, Rabbi       
 RUBIN--Alvan. Temple Sinai of Roslyn records with profound sorrow the death of our founding Rabbi. We extend our condolences to his family. Rabbi Michael A. White, Rabbi Norman Kahan, Emeritus Charles Berman, President       
 Matt Kennedy, who was born in Coney Island more than a century ago and went on to become its biggest booster, gaining fame for gargantuan cigars, a George Burns sense of timing and a verve for extravagant exposition, died on March 22 in Brooklyn. He was 101, and his last act before 
 ALBERTS--William W. Age 81, died at his home in Lake Forest Park, Washington, the afternoon of March 28th after a long illness. He was born in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, where he graduated from public high school. He was an infantryman in the U.S. Army during World War II and a combat vetera
 ALTER--Irving J. On March 29, 2006, at 73. Survived by wife Marion, brother Milton, sister Florence (Bob), sons Kevin (Rachel) and Torin (Elizabeth), daughter Ann and granddaughter Rebecca. Preceded in death by sister Shirley, and Janet, mother of his sons. Cherished father, husband, uncle,
 BERLER - Alfred. Beloved husband, father, brother, father - in - law, grandfather, great-grandfather and uncle, born in Vienna, Austria, on May 7, 1911, died March 31, 2006, at age 94, in Queens, NY, where he lived for 54 years. He is survived by his sons, Herbert and Ronald, his daughter-i
 EDELHEIT--Amos. On April 1, 2006. Beloved husband of Helen (nee Morgenlender). Loving father of David and his wife Phyllis. Cherished grandfather of Samantha, Elizabeth and Arielle. Services today, 12 noon, at ''Gutterman's,'' 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, LI. Interment New Montefiore Ce
 EUBANK--Harold Porter. A pioneer in magnetic fusion engery research, died of cancer on March 23 in Kilmarnock, VA, at age 81. Dr. Eubank worked at the Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory in Princeton, NJ from 1959 -1985, where he headed neutral beam research. He was the chairman of the Divi
 FARRELL--Matthew J., Esq. Passed away on March 24, 2006, at age 35. He is survived by his wife Anastasia, mother Elizabeth, father Matthew, sisters Kelly and Kimberly, brothers-in-law, nieces, nephew and many dear friends. Matthew touched so many people's lives with his special charm, endle
 GRIGGS--Marc Michael. August 15, 1921-March 5, 2006. He was a Vice-President of Batten, Barton, Durstine and Osborn, advertising agency in New York. He graduated from the Hotchkiss School in 1940 and was Secretary of the Hotchkiss Alumni Association. He was a graduate of Williams College wh
 HIRSCH--Irving. The Officers and employees of Forest Electric extend their condolences to our President, Howard Hirsch and his family on the loss of his father, Irving. Forest Electric Corporation Philip Altheim, Chairman       
 IASON--Girard (Jerry). Born November 12, 1918, the son of Lawrence and Sadie Robinson Iason, died on March 29, 2006. Much loved father of Larry, John and Barbara. Devoted father-in-law of Cara, Valorie and Rob. Extraordinary Poppy of Scott, Sara, Lizzie, Jessica and Emily. Loving husband of
 JENSEN--Ejner, 94. Passed away on March 23, 2006 at Cabrini Medical Center in NYC. He was born on October 17, 1911 in Denmark and was one of eleven children born to Niels and Marie Koellgard Jensen. Ejner emigrated to the U.S. when he was 18, and served in the U.S. Army during WW II. He was
 MATZKA--John. Died peacefully at the age of 82, in La Jolla, California, on March 26, 2006. Born in 1924 in Vienna, Austria, he fled to New York in 1941 and lived 40 years in Hicksville, NY, before moving to La Jolla in 2005. At his retirement, he was Vice-President of Plenum Publishing, NY
 MILLER--Kenneth. For 58 years a foreign correspondent, oil analyst and competitive swimmer, died March 21 in Manhattan at 83. A recent retiree after 14 years as consulting editor at Bloomberg News, he spent most of his career with Petroleum Intelligence Weekly, starting in 1965. He built hi
 PASTERNACK--David H. Beloved husband of Marjorie. Devoted father of Lynn and Susan and father in-law of Mel. Cherished grandfather of Bryon and Diana, Brandon, Milo and Faith and Derek and great grandfather of Amanda and Tyler. He was an attorney and former judge in Great Neck, NY.       
 ROEDER--George A. Jr. Retired Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors of the Chase Manhattan Bank, March 28 at the age of 85. He joined the Chase Manhattan Bank in 1947, and was named Vice Chairman in 1969, a position in which he served until his retirement in 1982. He and his late wife, An
 SELLITTO--Patrick Thomas of Milford, PA died Saturday March 25, 2006 of injuries sustained in an automobile accident. Patrick was born July 29, 1957 in Rockville Centre, New York, attended high school in Carle Place, New York and received his BFA degree from The School of Visual Arts in New
 TAVS--Henry W. A man among men. Passed away in Miami Beach on March 30, 2006. Born in New York November 5, 1912. Served in both theatres as a Captain in the Army and was present in Japan for the VJ Day and was in Europe for VE Day. After serving in many executive positions, he served as Exe
 WILBUR--Brayton Jr. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Asia Foundation extend our condolences to the Wilbur family on the loss of Brayton Wilbur Jr. The Foundation is grateful for Mr. Wilbur's long-term friendship and support further exemplifying the legacy of his father Brayton Wilbur 
 WYCKOFF--William S. The Directors, Officers, Staff, Members and Advisory Board of The Wyckoff House & Association wish to express their deep sorrow on the death of William F. Wyckoff and their deepest condolences to his children, grandchildren and other close family members on their loss. I
 BARBAGELATA--Harold R. 80, formerly of Setauket, NY, passed away March 30, 2006. Born and raised in New York City, he was predeceased by his beloved wife of 54 years, Betty Barbagelata and his parents Celia and Nicholas Barbagelata. He will be sadly missed by his daughter, Vivian Barbagelat
 de SHERBININ--Robert Ingvar. Died on March 31, 2006 at the UNC Hosptial, in Chapel Hill, North Carolina, after a brief illness. He was 83. Bob de Sherbinin was born on January 5, 1923, in New York City to Michael Jacques de Sherbinin Sr. and Grace (Wellwood) de Sherbinin. He attended public
 FINKELSTEIN--Edward S. March 29, loving husband, father and grandfather. Leaves behind wife & partner Dolly, eight children and ten grandchildren. He loved the Knicks, Jazz and running. Now he runs amongst the flowers.       
 WEINBERGER--Caspar W. The Board of the American Friends of The Churchill Museum at the Cabinet War Rooms (London) mourns the loss of our fellow Trustee, Caspar W. Weinberger. We value the passion he devoted to raising awareness of the legacy of Sir Winston S. Churchill through the new museu
 Stephen Procuniar, a painter, photographer and master printmaker who became a familiar presence in SoHo after arriving there in 1970, died on March 16 in his Mercer Street apartment. He was 60. He died from complications of gallbladder surgery, said his son, David Procuniar. At his 
 Caleb Foote, whose moral sense influenced him to go to prison for refusing to do even noncombatant work in World War II, then led him to become a law professor known for advocacy of criminal rights, died on March 4 at a hospital in Santa Rosa, Calif. He was 88. The cause was a blood
 Jackie McLean, an acclaimed saxophonist who took a midcareer detour to become a prominent jazz educator, died on Friday at his home in Hartford. He was 74. His death was confirmed by a spokesman for the University of Hartford, where Mr. McLean had taught since 1970. No cause was giv
 BARLOW--Frederick R. Beloved husband of Anita, father of Douglas, Jennifer and Matthew, father-in-law of Thomas Amodio, grandfather of Jessica, Jonathan, Tyler and Madison. Born in the Bronx, September 9, 1929, Fred grew up with the ''gang'' (Bernie, Sol, Sonny and Sye). He attended Tulane 
 MICHAEL--Sidney, 85 years old, passed away on Saturday, April 1, 2006, from injuries sustained in a fall on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Sid, a lifelong resident of New York, was the owner of Capitol Distributors Corporation and a former board member of the City Athletic Club. A vetera
 MITCHELL--Craig K. A longtime resident of Southampton, died at his home on March 30, 2006. He was 89 years old. Mr. Mitchell attended St. Paul's School and Princeton Unviversity, during WWII, he served as a pilot in the U.S. Army Air Force. He is survived by his wife Nicoletta Gioia and thr
 Red Hickey, who introduced the spread offense known as the shotgun to the National Football League while coaching the San Francisco 49ers in the early 1960's, died Thursday at a hospice in Aptos, Calif. He was 89. His death was announced by his son Jeffrey. Coaching the 49er
 Barry Bingham Jr., former editor and publisher of The Louisville Courier-Journal and The Louisville Times, whose corrosive feud with two sisters led to the 1986 sale of the newspapers in a high drama that ended the family stewardship of an acclaimed journalistic enterprise, died yesterday i
 BERNSTEIN--Marvin. Passed away April 1 after a long illness and courageous battle. He is survived by his beloved wife Barbara (nee Glick), a daughter, Robin Cohen of Farmington, CT, son-in-law Jonathan, grandsons Matthew and Jay; a son Steven of Albany, NY and grandson Ricky. The funeral wi
 KARAKASH--John J., 1914-2006. Educator, humanitarian and athlete, died Wednesday, March 22. Distinguished Professor and Dean Emeritus of Engineering at Lehigh University, Bethlehem, PA, he was also internationally recognized for focusing attention on citizenship, foreign affairs and ethics 
 KUPFERBERG - Jack. We mourn the loss of Jack Kupferberg, a great friend and supporter of Safe Space (formerly Center for Children+Families). We are truly grateful for his commitment as Board Chair for many years, personal support, and dedication to our mission. Our thoughts and prayers are 
 NELSON--Howard. We have lost one of our dearest friends. His wise counsel has helped to guide us and our whole family throughout the years. We will miss him dearly. All our love to Renee and all the children, grandchildren and their spouses. Bonnie & Bernie Hodes and family Wendy & Stuart A
 VINK--Pieter Carel, 86. Former Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Philips North America Corporation, died on Friday, March 17, 2006 at his home in Jupiter, FL. He was 86. Mr. Vink died of natural causes. Mr. Vink was a long time resident of Greenwich, CT. Mr. Vink was born and raised i
 Don Alias, a percussionist who had a long career as a sought-after sideman, working with an illustrious array of artists in jazz and pop including Nina Simone, Miles Davis and Joni Mitchell, died on March 28 at his home in Manhattan. He was 66. His death was announced by Melanie Fut
 HADHAZY--Peter. Died April 3, 2006. Loving husband of Rita and devoted father of Andrea, Deana, James and son-in-law Doug. Dear brother of Paul, George and Bill. Respected and longtime NFL executive. Reposing Nolan & Taylor-Howe Funeral Home, 5 Laurel Avenue, Northport, L.I., Thursday, Apri
 HIRSCH--Irving. The Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University extends condolences to our good friend Howard Hirsch and his family on the loss of his beloved father Irving. The Hirsch family has generously supported biomedical research at the College for two decades. We exten
 KIERSTEAD--Wilson Hopper Died at home on April 2, at the age of 88. The cause of death was a thoracic aneurism. He is survived by his widow, Mary Devereux, his sons Cornelius Rudd and Nicholas Edward; his grandchildren Sophia, Willem, and Hopper; his sister Elisabeth Viken and his brother M
 NELSON--Howard. Bishop Rosen & Co., Inc. mourns the loss of Howard Nelson, longtime friend and client. Howard was a wise and compassionate man who gave freely of his time and advice. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Renee, his sons Michael and Steven, their wives & grandchildren. Bobby
 PATTERSON--Jere W., 88. Resident of NYC, died April 1, 2006. He is survived by his son, Jere, Jr. & his daughters Bettina Murray, Dean Bauer and Knight Meem, eight grandchildren, two great grandchildren and a sister, Julia Hansen. A Princetonian and Rhodes Scholar at Magdalen College, Oxfor
 Gene Pitney, the clean-cut crooner who became a teenage idol in the early 1960's with hits like ''Town Without Pity,'' ''(The Man Who Shot) Liberty Valance'' and ''Only Love Can Break a Heart'' -- songs that showcased his keening tenor -- was found dead yesterday in a hotel in Cardiff, Wale
 ANDRE--George C. was born in NYC on July 19, 1918. He was the principal bassist for thirty years with the Metropolitan Opera Orchestra in NYC. Mr. Andre is survived by his wife of 64 years, three children Evans Andre, Jeanette Andre, and Georgeann A. DelliVenneri, and two grandchildren, Jes
 BERMINGHAM--John H. On April 5, 2006 at his residence in Scarsdale. He was 84 years old, born on May 13, 1921 in New Rochelle, NY, to Thomas V. and Kathryn McDonald Bermingham. Mr. Bermingham was an attorney for RCA Corporation in New York City. He retired as general counsel for RCA in 1987
 GEEN--William J. A former longtime resident of Pelham Manor and member & Elder of The Huguenot Memorial Presbyterian Church, passed away on April 1, 2006 after a long illness. Born May 30, 1930, Bill was the son of the late William John and Annie (Jones) Geen. He is survived by his wife of 
 HADHAZY--Peter. Died April 3, 2006. Loving husband of Rita and devoted father of Andrea, Deana, James and son-in-law Doug. Dear brother of Paul, George and Bill. Respected and longtime NFL executive. Reposing Nolan & Taylor-Howe Funeral Home, 5 Laurel Avenue, Northport, L.I., Thursday, Apri
 KEDDIE -- Wells Hamilton. Labor and social justice educator and activist, died suddenly at his home in Piscataway, NJ, April 1. Professor Emeritus of Labor Studies at Rutgers University's School of Management and Labor Relations, Wells was a stalwart in the faculty union, American Associati
 KIERSTEAD--Wilson Hopper Died at home on April 2, at the age of 88. The cause of death was a thoracic aneurism. He is survived by his widow, Mary Devereux, his sons Cornelius Rudd and Nicholas Edward; his grandchildren Sophia, Willem, and Hopper; his sister Elisabeth Viken and his brother M
 NELSON--Howard. Howard was like a member of our family. Ever wise, sweet and fun. We will miss his invaluable counsel, uplifting spirit and warm companionship. And trust that he has found his seat next to Bingo at the card table in the Great Beyond. With love to Renee and the Nelson family.
 NUSIM - Joseph. Whose career as a leader in retailing spanned over 50 years, and a turnaround specialist for troubled companies died of complications from lymphoma at his home in Wayne, New Jersey on April 3 at the age of 72. Attending the Baruch School at night he took his first job with R
 PINTER--George, 92. Died Tuesday, April 4 after a long illness. Beloved husband of Judith for 58 years. He will be missed by his sister Kato; his sister-in-law, brother-in-law, numerous nieces, nephews, grandnieces and grandnephews. A memorial remembrance will be held Monday, April 10 at 3P
 ROSENTHAL--Albert. Humanitarian, educator, mentor, leader, influenced the lives of so many people. Loving and devoted husband of Mildred. Dear father of Ellen Rosenthal-Gelband and Barbara J. Brady. Proud grandfather of Lauren and Steven Brady. Caring father-in-law of Donald Brady & Stuart 
 WILLIAMS--Frederick Boyd. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Rockefeller Foundation mourn the passing of Rev. Canon Frederick Boyd Williams, our beloved trustee. Canon Williams was a source of wise counsel, inspiration and strong leadership for our Foundation as for so many others, both
 Marshall Goldberg, an All-American running back who led the University of Pittsburgh team to the consensus national championship in 1937 and who later became a six-time All-Pro defensive back for the Chicago Cardinals, helping them win the N.F.L. championship in 1947, died on Monday in Chic
 ASKINAS--Milton. On April 6, 2006, at age 91. He was first and foremost a family man who is survived by his devoted wife, Wilma; his daughter, Barbara Sheib; his son, Ira; his grandchildren, Debra and Robert Feldman; and, his friend and caretaker, Thomas Garcia. It is not easy to capture th
 DEUTSCH--Alex. On April 6, 2006. Beloved husband of Edith, married 44 years. Loving father of Adam, cherished grandfather of Eliana and Samuel. He will always be remembered with the greatest love from his family and friends. May he rest in peace. Services will be held at ''The Riverside'', 
 GEEN--William J. A former longtime resident of Pelham Manor and member & Elder of The Huguenot Memorial Presbyterian Church, passed away on April 1, 2006 after a long illness. Born May 30, 1930, Bill was the son of the late William John and Annie (Jones) Geen. He is survived by his wife of 
 HIRSCH--Irving. The officers and staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of Irving Hirsch. Our heartfelt condolences to his son, Howard, esteemed Israel Bonds national board member, and the entire family. May they be consoled among the mourners of Zion and may his memory be for a b
 IRIS--Herbert. We mourn the loss of Herbert M. Iris, beloved husband, father, friend and a compassionate visionary leader of the Jewish Community of MetroWest, NJ. Mr. Iris died April 4, 2006 in Palm Beach Gardens, FL. A successful real estate developer in his profession, Mr. Iris was a ''b
 KIERSTEAD -- Wilson. The residents and staff of 901 Lexington Avenue are thankful for his life that much enriched ours. As a neighbor and long-serving Board President, Wil shared with us his regard for the house and the men by judicious deployment of poise, wit, and common sense. Few commun
 LEVY--Harry. Former General Counsel to New York City Housing Authority and pioneer of the public housing movement, passed away at age 97 on April 5, 2006. He was instrumental in the original movement to create the concept of low income public housing in the City of New York and in the natio
 NELSON--Howard. Our family was very blessed to have known Howard. We'll never forget his kindness, wisdom, sincerity, support and humor. We will always be grateful. Our deepest sympathy and love to Renee and the family. Neda, Michael, Frances, Anthony Young       
 NUTT--Richard Sherman. Of Congdon St., Providence, RI died Saturday, April 1. He was the husband of the late Edith (Woolsey) Nutt. He was an English teacher and librarian at the Moses Brown School in Providence for 32 years. A memorial service will be held at S. Stephen's Church, George Str
 RYAN--William R. 94, of Vero Beach, FL died April 3rd in Holland, MI. A graduate of Stevens Institute and former resident of Riverside, CT. He retired in 1994 as Chairman and CEO of EDO Corporation. He is survived by his wife Joan, his children Susan Mimnaugh, Christine Walworth and Richard
 SELIGMAN--Henry J., DDS. 86 years old, died on April 6, 2006. Beloved husband of Elaine (nee Gruber). Devoted father of Bill & Gail Seligman and Ron and Angie Seligman. Cherished grandfather of Hannah and Joel and Abbigail and Rebekah; brother of Walter and Bridget Selby. Dr. Seligman gradu
 SHAVIRO--Sol. The Trustees and staff of The Metropolitan Museum of Art mourn the loss of Sol Shaviro who was a dedicated member and participant in this institution formore than 30 years. He was elected a Trustee representing the Borough of the Bronx in 1972, and a Trustee Emeritus in 1981, 
 SPERTUS--Herman. The Board and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and of the Israel Museum are deeply saddened by the death of our dear friend Herman Spertus a kind, gentle and remarkable man. He was a Founder of the Museum and a generous supporter for four decades. We exten
 TALMAS--Jacob, 92. Born in Kisheneff, Romania. A graduate of Brooklyn College. He was a combat veteran of WW II. Before retirement in Delray Beach, FL, he was V.P. of Velsco, Inc., where he worked for 57 years. He was Man of the Year at the Little Neck Jewish Center in 1980. He was an activ
 WEINRAUCH -- Joseph. 85, died on April 6, 2006. Beloved husband of Helena. Devoted brother of Meta and John. He will be also sorely missed by his nieces and nephews, their families, as well as by his sonin-law Knud. Services Sunday, at The Riverside, 76 St & Amsterdam Ave. 11:45.       
 Rudolf Vrba, who as a young man escaped from Auschwitz and provided the first eyewitness evidence not only of the magnitude of the tragedy unfolding at the death camp but also of the exact mechanics of Nazi mass extermination, died on March 27 at a hospital in Vancouver, British Columbia. H
 Dr. Charles L. Schepens, an eye researcher who developed sight-saving procedures and invented a device for viewing the retina that has, in turn, brought about new treatments to prevent blindness, died on March 28 at a hospital in Salem, Mass. He was 94. His death was announced by th
 Canon Frederick B. Williams, whose ministry of a historic Episcopal church extended to the pressing needs of its Harlem neighborhood, and who spoke eloquently to national and international issues, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 66. A statement from his church, the 
 BECKER--Glenn. In loving memory of Glenn Becker, beloved and devoted son of Russ and Gloria and the late Helen Becker, brother to Scott, Brad and Debra, adored uncle of Halle and Amanda and friend for life of Uzi Shademan and all family members, friends and his sweet dog Brandy. Services to
 KELLOGG--Hon. Francis L. Passed away peacefully at his residence on April 6. Born in NYC 1917, he is survived by his children Christopher Gage Kellogg and Fernanda Kellogg Henckels, three grandchildren and three greatgrandchildren. Among his many accomplishments he was Executive Vice-Presid
 MIRKIN--Julian, 77, April 5, 2006 from Myositis. Grew up in Brooklyn, Korean War vet, Master Mason of the Victoria Seagate Masonic Lodge in Brooklyn. Survived by his wife of 52 years, Florence; daughters, Cheryl (Alan) Fink, Marcy (Adam Schutz); 3 granddaughters, Jana, Deena and Leah; and s
 ROTHBART--Joseph, whose life spanned close to a century died peacefully on April 6, 2006 at the age of 98. He leaves behind a family who loved him deeply and a legacy of friendship. For 35 years he was a Physical Education Teacher at James Madison High School in Brooklyn, NY and for 25 year
 RUBIN--Irwin. Beloved husband, father, artist, collector, and professor, passed away in his Brooklyn home on Thursday, April 6. Irwin was a one of a kind combination of wisdom, humor, political punditry and fascination and concern about the large and small facts of life. Always the storytel
 STRUMWASSER--Calvin R. Died on April 7. Survived by sons Alan (Lesli) and Larry (Laura) and wife Joan. He is predeceased by his former wife Marilyn and brother Alfred. Beloved grandfather to Stacie, Cara, Danielle, Eric and Michael. Funeral April 9, 12 noon, Gutterman's, 8000 Jericho Tpke, 
 TALMAS--Jacob, 92. Born in Kisheneff, Romania. A graduate of Brooklyn College. He was a combat veteran of WW II. Before retirement in Delray Beach, FL, he was V.P. of Velsco, Inc., where he worked for 57 years. He was Man of the Year at the Little Neck Jewish Center in 1980. He was an activ
 WINTER--Martin. April 6, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Jessica Winter. Devoted brother of the late Dr. Eugene Winter. Loving uncle of Randy Winter, Dr. Lee Winter, Dr. Margarita CamachoWinter, Marvin and Diane Bernstein, Philip and Beverly Sklover, William and Sharon Friedheim, Jennifer
 WILLIAMS--The Rev. Canon Frederick B., Rector Emeritus of the Church of the Intercession in New York City, died suddenly at his home on April 4. At the time of his death, Canon Williams was a Trustee of the Rockefeller Foundation and Chairman of the Board of Harlem Churches for Community Im
 Doug Coombs, who was revered in the high-altitude world of extreme skiing for his perilous, pioneering runs and who was also a guide and teacher to many who pursue the sport, died Monday in an accident in the French Alps while skiing with three other Americans. He was 48. The police
 J. B. Fuqua, a self-made businessman who built a multibillion-dollar conglomerate and became one of Duke University's biggest benefactors, died Wednesday at a hospital in Atlanta. The cause of death was complications from bronchitis. Mr. Fuqua was 87. The company he built, F
 ASKINAS--Milton. On April 6, 2006, at age 91. He was first and foremost a family man who is survived by his devoted wife, Wilma; his daughter, Barbara Sheib; his son, Ira; his grandchildren, Debra and Robert Feldman; and, his friend and caretaker, Thomas Garcia. It is not easy to capture th
 BECKER--Glenn. In loving memory of Glenn Becker, beloved and devoted son of Russ and Gloria and the late Helen Becker, brother to Scott, Brad and Debra, adored uncle of Halle and Amanda and friend for life of Uzi Shademan and all family members, friends and his sweet dog Brandy. Services to
 BEGLEITER - Henri. The SUNY Downstate Medical Center community mourns the passing of Henri Begleiter, PhD, Distinguished Professor of Psychiatry and Director of the Neurodynamics Laboratory at SUNY Downstate. Highlights of Dr. Begleiter's extraordinary career include being the first to char
 BUSTO--Frank C. Left us on March 25, 2006. Memories and love in our hearts for him will be with us always.       
 COHEN--Martin, D.D.S,, 74. Passed on April 8, 2006, after a long and courageous battle with cancer. He died at home with his wife and children by his side. Martin is survived by his wife Grace Oshin, his two sons Matthew and Steven, and his eight grandchildren. Those who knew him will never
 De LONG--Charles A. Lifetime resident of Amityville, LI on April 4, 2006. Beloved son of the late Albert F. and Grace De Long. Survived by his dear cousin Grace Keller as well as many other loving cousins. Visitation will be Monday from 4:00-8:00 PM at the Powell Funeral Home Inc., 67 Broad
 DEUTSCH--Alex. The partners of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield, LLP extend our condolences to the family of Alex Deutsch. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Edith, his son Adam and grandchildren. We will always remember him as a great attorney and gentleman. May he rest in peace. 
 FORST--Miles. Artist and teacher, died April 5, 2006, at Cabrini Hospital in Manhattan following a brief illness. As a student of Hans Hoffman at the Art Students League in the 1950's, he was in the vanguard of young painters who achieved fame as the New York School of Abstract Expressionis
 FOYE--Harold J., CSP. Age 90, died Monday, April 4, at Marian Manor, South Boston. Father Foye was ordained in 1946 at St. Paul the Apostle Church in New York City. For sixty years he served Catholic communities from Boston to Johannesburg, from Toronto to San Francisco as a campus minister
 HOF--Frederic B. Of Staunton, VA, age 86, husband of the late Marjorie (Anderson) Hof, died Thursday, April 6, 2006. He was born June 5, 1919 in NYC, a son of the late Henry and Lillian Hof. A resident of Forest Hills Gardens for many years. The last of his generation, he is survived by his
 KELLOGG--Hon. Francis L. Passed away peacefully at his residence on April 6. Born in NYC 1917, he is survived by his children Christopher Gage Kellogg and Fernanda Kellogg Henckels, three grandchildren and three greatgrandchildren. Among his many accomplishments he was Executive Vice-Presid
 NAKAGAMA--Sam Isamu. 81, passed away on Wednesday, March 8, 2006, at Bayshore Community Hospital in Holmdel, NJ. Born in Delano, CA, he resided in Holmdel, and formerly, in Rumson, NJ. He is survived by his wife, Mary Frances Nakagama, two daughters, Anne Michi Magee and Eunice Kimi Nakagam
 PERRY--Daniel George. On April 7, 2006, at age 82. Devoted husband of Marlyn. Beloved father of Stuart, Cynthia, Karen, Ross, Roberta, Robert and Allison. Cherished grandfather of Jarrod, Craig, Jake, Eric, Brooke and Ryan. Brother, cousin, uncle, greatuncle and friend. A very special human
 RULE--Dr. Colter, a prominent New York psychiatrist and the author of ''Uncovering The Sources of Love and Hate: A Theory of Human Behavior'', died Tuesday afer a short illness at his home on Park Avenue according to his wife, Dr. Elizabeth Goessel. He was 94 and was stricken with polio bef
 SHEFTER--Harry. Born July 16, 1910, and passed on April 7th, of natural causes at age 95. Professor Harry Shefter had numerous accomplishments throughout his life. He was an English teacher and basketball coach at Gompers High School early in his career. He went on to become the Dean of Boy
 SHENDELL--Peter. Farewell to our dear friend who passed away April 3, after a five year battle with cancer. He was a warm, devoted and caring friend. We loved him and already miss him so very much. Karen and Elliott       
 SLUTSKY--Julius. Ellenville, NY. Retired owner and operator of the Nevele Country Club, passed away on Friday, April 7. He was 94. He is survived by his three sons, Jeffrey, Richard and David, and his daughters-in-law, Lynn, Robin and Natalie, his eight grandchildren, and one greatgrandchil
 STRUMWASSER--Calvin R. Died on April 7. Survived by sons Alan (Lesli) and Larry (Laura) and wife Joan. He is predeceased by his former wife Marilyn and brother Alfred. Beloved grandfather to Stacie, Cara, Danielle, Eric and Michael. Funeral April 9, 12 noon, Gutterman's, 8000 Jericho Tpke, 
 TYROLER--Charles M., 76. Of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Lawrence, NY, died on April 6, 2006. Beloved husband of Renee M. Tyroler, loving father of Eve, Ilene and Richard, father-in-law of Bob, Chuck & Amy and adored ''Papoo'' of Allison, Stephanie, Danielle and Matthew. To know Charles was 
 WACHNIN - Marvin. On March 28 at age 76, in Los Angeles. A longtime resident of NYC, Marvin established a business, Mickey Togs after army service in Korea. He retired with his wife Janet in 1988, first to their successive country homes in New England, and then to Marina del Rey, CA where h
 GIAMBELLI -- Francesco ''Frank''. Famed restauranteur, owner and founder of Giambelli 50th Ristaronte, died peacefully at his home on April 7th at the age of 90. Loving and devoted husband of more than 50 years to Mary Giambelli. Born in 1915 in Voghera, outside Milan, Italy. Francesco work
 WILLIAMS--The Rev. Canon Frederick B., Rector Emeritus of the Church of the Intercession in New York City, died suddenly at his home on April 4. At the time of his death, Canon Williams was a Trustee of the Rockefeller Foundation and Chairman of the Board of Harlem Churches for Community Im
 Allan Kaprow, an artist who coined the term ''happenings'' in the late 1950's and whose anti-art, audience-participation works contributed to radical changes in the course of late-20th-century art, died on Wednesday at his home in Encinitas, Calif., near San Diego. He was 78. He die
 HOFFMAN--Sam. On April 8 at age 98. Devoted father of Peter Hoffman and Betty Karam (of New Orleans), loving half-brother of Arnold, Hariette and Alfred (Freddy), adored grandfather of Amy, Edward, Gail and Giselle, cherished great-grandfather of Matthew, Alyssa, Julia and Danielle. He was 
 KELLOGG--Hon. Francis L. Passed away peacefully at his residence on April 6. Born in NYC 1917, he is survived by his children Christopher Gage Kellogg and Fernanda Kellogg Henckels, three grandchildren and three greatgrandchildren. Among his many accomplishments he was Executive Vice-Presid
 PLUMMER -- Samuel Craig IV. Of Croton, died early Friday morning, April 7. Never a complainer, he bore his illnesses with extraordinary dignity and patience. Born in Chicago on December 12, 1934, he was the son of Samuel Craig III and Anne Elizabeth Blanchard Plummer. A retired textbook edi
 SCHEAR--Stanley. 77. Died peacefully at home at the Schear farmhouse in Briarcliff Manor, NY, on Saturday, April 8, of esophageal cancer. Since 2001, Stanley dedicated himself to the low-income elderly residents of Westchester County as the Director of the LIFE Program (Living Independently
 SHEFTER--Harry. We mourn the passing of a great and loving gentleman who always saw the positive side of life in his 95 years. He will be missed by everyone he touched. The Briskman Family       
 GIAMBELLI -- Francesco ''Frank''. Famed restauranteur, owner and founder of Giambelli 50th Ristaronte, died peacefully at his home on April 7th at the age of 90. Loving and devoted husband of more than 50 years to Mary Giambelli. Born in 1915 in Voghera, outside Milan, Italy. Francesco work
 SCHOENTHALER -- Robert Woerner, a White Plains resident and former longtime Scarsdale, NY resident died April 8, 2006. He was 64. He was born October 13, 1941 to the late Woerner Frederick and Dorothy Lakin Schoenthaler. On November 3, 1978 he married Linda Karsh. Besides his wife Linda of 
 Dr. William A. Barnes, a New York surgeon and stomach specialist who developed an early device that improved the catheterized feeding of patients with a blockage of the esophagus, died on March 26 at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 94. His family confirmed his death.      
 Jim Clack, an offensive lineman who played 11 seasons in the National Football League and won two Super Bowl rings with the Pittsburgh Steelers, died Friday in Greensboro, N.C. He was 58 and lived in Greensboro. His wife, Susan, said the cause of death was atrial fibrillation. She s
 BECKER--Thomas W. Of Scarsdale passed away on April 9, 2006. Mr. Becker worked for many years as a trader on the Commodities Exchange. He is survived by his loving wife Patricia, his cherished son Michael Thomas, his sister and brother-inlaw Elizabeth and John McNulty, his sister-in-law and
 BISHOP--James K. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of James Bishop, former Trustee and friend of long standing. Outstanding Christian gentleman particularly eager to serve, he generously shared his wisdom and wise counsel. The College is so much stronger fo
 FOLEY--Gerald F., Jr. On April 10, 2006 in his 81st year. Graduate Regis High School Class of '42, served with US Navy in WW II, of Northport, LI. Formerly of New Hyde Park, LI. Loving husband of the late Patricia Ann (Scanlan) Foley. Dear father of Elizabeth (Peter Hobbs), Peter, John (Mic
 KELLOGG--The Hon. Francis L. The Board of Directors of the Thai SUPPORT Foundation U.S. acknowledges with profound sorrow the loss of our esteemed Chairman, The Hon. Francis L. Kellogg. For over 24 years Ambassador Kellogg devoted his diplomatic and executive talents to benefit the Foundati
 MILLER--John P. ''Hobby'', of Patchogue, LI, on April 7, 2006. Survived by his children Paula (Philip) Murphy, John P. (Kathryn), Thomas (Jody), Megan (Stephen) Goldsmith, Gervaise Miller-Baker, Peter, Quentin Helke, Andrew (Christine), and Luke Lownds (Winnie), his brother George Donald Mi
 NADEL--Joel S. The Union for Reform Judaism mourns with profound sorrow the death of Joel S. Nadel of Boca Raton, FL, a member of its Board of Trustees since 2003. In a variety of roles, Joel served the Union with devotion. We extend deepest condolences to his wife, Renee, and the entire fa
 SCHEAR--Stanley. It is with great sadness that Family Services of Westchester honors the passing of Stanley Schear. Stanley joined FSW in 2002 as Director of the agency's LIFE program (Living Independently for the Frail Elderly). As a member of FSW's executive team, Stanley initiated progra
 GRODBERG -- Adrienne Kafenbaum. The CHIP, Inc. extends condolences to its esteemed colleague and board member, Bruce Kafenbaum on the loss of his mother. CHIP, Inc. Board of Directors       
 RABINOWITZ--Herbert J., 81. Died peacefully in his home on April 7. He is survived by his wife, Norma, son Daniel and sister Beatrice Fox. He was a graduate of Dewitt Clinton HS and Ohio State University. He served with 75th Division during the Battle of the Bulge. Before his retirement he 
 SCHOENTHALER -- Robert Woerner, a White Plains resident and former longtime Scarsdale, NY resident died April 8, 2006. He was 64. He was born October 13, 1941 to the late Woerner Frederick and Dorothy Lakin Schoenthaler. On November 3, 1978 he married Linda Karsh. Besides his wife Linda of 
 Vilgot Sjoman, a Swedish filmmaker whose notoriously risqué ''I Am Curious (Yellow),'' made in 1967 for $160,000, sufficiently alarmed censors to generate millions at the box office and jump-start a new cinematic explicitness, died on Sunday at a Stockholm hospital. He was 81. The 
 BISHOP--James K. The College of New Rochelle community records with sorrow the death of James Bishop, former Trustee and friend of long standing. Outstanding Christian gentleman particularly eager to serve, he generously shared his wisdom and wise counsel. The College is so much stronger fo
 DiGENNARO--Philip R. We will greatly miss our ''larger than life'' friend, Phil, and are so grateful that our lives have crossed. As our colleague for many years, he brought intelligence, energy and most of all, humor, to all that he did. His many friends can't imagine life without him. Our
 GILBERT--Dr. Arthur C. of Boston formerly of Metropolitan Washington, DC entered into rest April 11, 2006. Devoted father of Pamela and Richard Remis of Weston and Randi and Joel Cutler of Boston. Cherished granddad of Jeffrey, Andrew and Kimberly Remis and Mallory and Samantha Cutler. From
 HOFFMAN--Sam. The Board of Governors and the members of The Seawane Club, record with sorrow the loss of our beloved member Sam Hoffman. We extend heartfelt sympathy to his family. Mark Kirschner, President       
 KELLOGG--Hon. Francis L. The Board of Trustees and Officers of the National Committee on American Foreign Policy offer their profound condolences to the family of their fellow Trustee, Fran Kellogg. We mourn the passing of our esteemed colleague and former President who was such an integral
 KINGSLAND--William M.V. Died suddenly at home, mid March, 2006. Mourned by his many friends. Graveside service and interment Thursday, April 13, 3PM at NYC Marble Cemetery, 2nd St. between 1st and 2nd Aves.       
 SATULA--Anthony E., Jr. The attorneys and staff of McGuire Woods LLP mourn the passing of New York partner Anthony E. Satula, Jr., a talented litigator and friend. We will miss him.       
 SCHEAR--Stanley, 77. Died peacefully at home at the Schear farmhouse in Briarcliff Manor, NY, on Saturday, April 8, of esophageal cancer. Since 2001, Stanley dedicated himself to the low-income elderly residents of Westchester County as the Director of the LIFE Program (Living Independently
 SCHNAPP--Sidney. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our devoted longtime member Sidney Schnapp. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his beloved wife, Joyce, and their sons, Steven and Douglas, and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, DD, Senior Rabbi Nancy Solomon, President  
 SEGRE--Dottore Alfredo. Died in Genoa, Italy on Monday, April 10, 2006. We all join his beloved and loving wife, Franca Fassio Segre; sister, Vittoria Segre Picciotto Menashe; niece, Emilia Segre Menashe Cohenca; nephew, Edward Segre Menashe and his wife, Margo; his late niece's sons, Phili
 STERN--Charles, 88, of Monroe Township, NJ died peacefully at the home of his son Gary and daughter in-law Amy on Tuesday, April 11. Beloved husband and best friend of Ethel. Also survived by loving daughter Leslie Stern and his adoring grand children, Amanda, Samuel, Elizabeth and Matthew.
 Fred Christensen, a leading American ace who shot down six German transport planes in a single day in 1944, died April 4 at a nursing home in Northborough, Mass., near Worcester. He was 84. The cause was complications of diabetes, his daughter Diane Haagensen said. Flying si
 CHIN--Tsung. Age 80, died April 8, 2006, following a brief illness, at Seabrook Village in Tinton Falls, NJ. A longtime resident of Poughkeepsie, NY, and Associate Professor at the University of Maryland, he was born in Taiyuan, China, on April 4, 1926, to Jiren Chin and Shu-lan Duan. He re
 FRADIN--Dr. Irving. Longtime resident of Great Neck, NY on April 11, 2006 in his 91st year. Loving husband of Margery for 60 years. Devoted father of Roger (Susan) Fradin and Russell (Judy) Fradin. Adored grandfather of Russell (Carin), Mikey, William, Cheryl and Randy. Dear brother of Audr
 GLANZROCK--Stanley. On Wednesday, April 12, 2006, Stanley Glanzrock of NY, NY, beloved husband of the late Florence Glanzrock; loving father of Michele Sutton; brother of the late Walter Glanzrock. Cherished grandfather to Brad & Jon Sutton. Services Sunday, April 16, 2PM at Plaza Jewish Co
 HANIN--Norman. Died in Boynton Beach, FL on March 6, 2006. Born in 1922 he served in the Coast Guard during WW II. Following the war he became a businessman, raised a family with his wife Blanche on Long Island and later lived in New Jersey and Florida. He is survived by his children: Genin
 PROUNIS--Nicholas. The Brothers of Sigma Nu of Columbia College mourn the passing of Nick Prounis, our lifelong friend. Our love and sympathy to his wife Rosemary and the entire Prounis family. Joe Kelly, Mike Patestides       
 Rajkumar, a child actor who became one of south India's most popular movie stars, with a legion of worshipful fans, died here on Wednesday. He was 77. The cause was cardiac arrest, Dr. Ramana Rao, Mr. Rajkumar's personal physician, told The Press Trust of India. Born Muthura
 The Rev. William Sloane Coffin Jr., a civil rights and antiwar campaigner who sought to inspire and encourage an idealistic and rebellious generation of college students in the 1960's from his position as chaplain of Yale University, then reveled in the role of lightning rod thrust upon him
 Richard Pearlman, a stage director and educator who led one of the country's leading programs for training young professional opera singers, the Chicago Lyric Opera Center for American Artists, died on Saturday in Chicago. He was 68. The cause was cancer, said Susan Mathieson Mayer,
 Shin Sang Ok, a pioneering film director who said that his life was too unbelievable to be a movie plot, what with his introducing the kiss to North and South Korean cinema, being kidnapped by a movie-loving dictator and turning up in Hollywood to create the ''3 Ninjas'' movies, died Tuesda
 Frank Gibney, a noted writer on Asian affairs who was an authority on the culture and business practices of postwar Japan, died on Sunday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 81. The cause was heart failure, his son James said. Until shortly before his death, Mr. Gibn
 Frederick H. Pough, a mineralogist and museum curator who wrote a guide to collecting gems and minerals that became an essential tool for budding geologists, died on April 7 in Rochester. He was 99. The cause was a heart attack, said a grandson, Thomas F. Moore. Dr. Pough (pronounce
 Gwin J. Kolb, a University of Chicago scholar who passed his singular passion for the works of Samuel Johnson on to several generations of literature buffs, died on April 3 in Chicago. He was 86. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, his son, Jack Kolb, said. C
 ADLER--Ralph M. Born January 5, 1925 died April 10, 2006. Resident of Roslyn, New York. Retired professional photographer, he leaves a legacy of his life in photographs. Beloved husband of the late Anna Adler, beloved partner of Doris Brill, devoted father of Michael R. Adler, and his wife 
 BOUCHARD--Morton S. Jr., (Retired President & CEO of Bouchard Transportation Co., Inc.) of Hobe Sound Florida passed away suddenly on Tuesday, April 11, 2006. Morton was a long-time resident of Long Island New York prior to becoming a resident of Florida in 1988. Morton graduated from LaSal
 HOLT--Nicholas, 78, architect, AIA, died April 10, in Bangor, Maine after a long and vigorous life and a final struggle with Pick's Disease. He grew up in Maine and Dongan Hills, Staten Island, graduated from the Putney School in 1945 and from Princeton in 1949 where he continued graduate s
 KATZENBERG--Robert. A loyal and loving husband of Jean for 60 years. Devoted father of Frederick, Barbara and Daniel. Former U.S. Army Lieutenant, WWII and Import Manager. A man with a lifetime passion for plants and flowers. $(6$)KATZENBERG--Robert. The Board of Governors and membe
 KLEBANOFF - Louis. Park Avenue Synagogue mourns the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to his wife, Lee, and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. May his memory remain for a blessing. David H. Lincoln Senior Rabbi Amy A.B. Bressman Chairman of the Board Menachem Z. Rosensaft Pr
 LIPSON--Joseph. On April 12, 2006. Beloved husband of Rose (nee Jackel). He is survived by his daughter Charlotte, son Enoch and daughter-in-law Amy, grandsons David and wife Ellen, Matthew and wife Beth and four great-grandchildren.       
 NEWMAN -- Howard A. (''Micky'') of Bedford, New York died April 12, 2006 at the age of 85. In the 1950's and 1960's he was President and Chairman of Philadelphia and Reading Corp. and in the 1970's and 1980's of Western Pacific Industries. After graduating Cornell University, he enlisted an
 SHELSKY--Dr. Irving. Peacefully on April 13, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Lenore Shelsky. Loving father of Dr. Richard Shelsky and Barbara Schorr. Dear father-in-law of Lisa and Paul. Incredible Zayde of Emily and Rachel. He loved life, he lived it kindly and was passionate about his f
 WYATT--George R. Died April 9, 2006, age 85. New York Director, Trustee, President (1978-1993) and Senior Consultant of the Johnson O'Connor Research Foundation, a national aptitude testing institution. He is survived by his wife, Shirley, and their son, Jeffrey. Erudite and gracious, Georg
 Francis L. Kellogg, a diplomat and prominent New York socialite who was a special assistant to two secretaries of state, William P. Rogers and Henry A. Kissinger, died on April 6 at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 89. The cause was pneumonia, his son-in-law, Kirk Henckels, said. 
 ANCHIN--Howard. Beloved husband of the late Frances. Devoted and loving father of Roberta and Philip Strasburg, and James and Joan Anchin. Grandfather of Donald Strasburg, Lauren & Scott Freifeld, Scott and Lauren Anchin, Lee and Dori Anchin. Great grandfather of Jared and Todd Freifeld. He
 BROIDA--Edward R. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the passing of Edward Broida. Ed was a Trustee, major donor and good friend to The Museum of Modern Art. He was widely admired for his passion and commitment to contemporary art and for the close relationships he dev
 LIPSON--Joseph. On April 12, 2006. Beloved husband of Rose (nee Jackel). He is survived by his daughter Charlotte, son Enoch and daughter-in-law Amy, grandsons David and wife Ellen, Matthew and wife Beth and four great-grandchildren.       
 TEMPLE--Arthur, Jr., 86. Of Diboll, TX, died Wednesday, April 12, 2006. Mr. Temple was group vice president and a member of the Board of Time Inc. where he served as Vice Chairman from 1973 to 1978. Carroway-Claybar Funeral Home, Luskin, TX, 936-634-2255       
 William F. Woo, the first Asian-American to be the editor of a major daily American newspaper, The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, and the first person outside the Joseph Pulitzer family to be at the editorial helm at that paper, died Wednesday at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 69. T
 ANCHIN--Howard. Beloved husband of the late Frances. Devoted and loving father of Roberta and Philip Strasburg, and James and Joan Anchin. Grandfather of Donald Strasburg, Lauren & Scott Freifeld, Scott and Lauren Anchin, Lee and Dori Anchin. Great grandfather of Jared and Todd Freifeld. He
 AVIGAD--Nathaniel (Natan). Of Yonkers, NY, on April 14, 2006. Beloved husband of Rosalyn (nee Press). Loving father of Jeremy and Joshua Avigad, and daughters-in-law Elinor Avigad and Laura Kaplan. Proud grandfather of Rebecca, Jordana, Ariella, Benjamin and Noah. Devoted brother of Tziona 
 BROIDA--Edward R. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the passing of Edward Broida. Ed was a Trustee, major donor and good friend to The Museum of Modern Art. He was widely admired for his passion and commitment to contemporary art and for the close relationships he dev
 BROPHY--B. Giles. B. Giles Brophy, an investment banker and owner of ''Strike the Gold'', Kentucky Derby winning horse of 1991, died on April 9, 2006 in Camden, SC. Mr. Brophy had leukemia. Mr. Brophy served in the U.S. Army and graduated from Hofstra University. He started four Wall Street
 COFFIN -- Rev. William Sloane, 81, former Yale University Chaplain, former Senior Minister of the Riverside Church in NYC, past president Sane/Freeze Nuclear Disarmament and Peace Organization, author and teacher, died April 12, 2006, at his home in Strafford, VT. Funeral services will be h
 JENNINGS--Evan D., II. The entire Avon Old Farms School community mourns the passing of our esteemed alumnus and Director, Evan Jennings. A member of the Class of 1939, Evan Jennings was intimately involved with the School throughout his life providing extraordinary vision, leadership, and 
 JOHNSON--Glenn M., formerly of Manhattan, NY and Tenafly, NJ, died March 17, three days after his 75th birthday, in Boston, MA. Beloved husband of Lois (Fisher) Johnson and the late Betty Jean (Gibson) Johnson. Father of Mark A. and Craig W. Johnson both of Bellevue, WA and Marta A. Judson 
 KARCHES--Peter Frederick of Locust Valley, NY died on April 13, 2006 at the age of 54. Mr. Karches waged a valiant battle with chronic lymphocytic leukemia for several years. He loved his wife Susan of 30 years and his four children, Amy, Pamela, Peter Jr. and Nancy who adored him. He is th
 LANGSTAFF--Elliot Kennedy, distinguished international businessman and executive recruiter, died March 11, 2006 in Adamstown, Maryland. He suffered from Parkinson's disease and lung cancer. He was 83. Kennedy Langstaff's career included work in both government service and the private sector
 LEVY--Charles. Wurzweiler School of Social Work of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of a professor emeritus and founding faculty member, who made a significant impact on the school and the profession. May his family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Wurzweiler Scho
 LIPSON--Joseph. On April 12, 2006. Beloved husband of Rose (nee Jackel). He is survived by his daughter Charlotte, son Enoch and daughter-in-law Amy, grandsons David and wife Ellen, Matthew and wife Beth and four great-grandchildren.       
 MERCIER--Edward G. Age 98 died January 2, 2006. Ed graduated from Stuyvesant High School in 1926. His engineering career led him through early Bell Labs in Manhattan, CineSimplex and General Precision Labs. He also worked on the norden bomb site during W.W. II. A service to celebrate Ed's l
 MOONEY--Alvin. Died on April 4, 2006, in Great Neck, New York. Born on June 25, 1919, he graduated from the Columbia University School of Dental Surgery in 1942 and practiced dentistry in New York City for over 50 years. A caring and generous professional, he donated his time to underserved
 NEWMAN--Howard A. The Directors, Officers and staff of The Jewish Guild for the Blind deeply mourn the death of Howard A. Newman, esteemed colleague and former Board Chairman, Board Member and a lifelong Guild supporter. He carried forward the tradition of the Newman family, notably his fat
 SCIBELLI--James. Age 56, of Merrick, LI on April 13, 2006. Beloved husband of Carol Scibelli. Devoted father of Jackie McQuade and Douglas Scibelli. Fond father-inlaw of Glenn McQuade. Proud and loving grandfather of Skylar McQuade. Cherished son of Fanny and the late Charles Scibelli. Dear
 STERLING--Charles Archer, Jr. Died peacefully 30 March 2006, at St. Andrews Village at the age of 91. He was born in Montclair, N.J. on 16 May 1914 to Charles A. Sterling & Susie Williams Sterling. He graduated from The Taft School class of 1934 and Williams College class of 1938. He spent 
 WHITTLESEY -- John Williams. Died April 1, 2006, peacefully of natural causes, in Chappaqua, NY, age 88. Former Chief Labor Counsel at Union Carbide Corp. and former federal administrative law judge. Survived by his wife of 64 years, Barbara Baur, and children J. Baur, Diana and Paul Whittl
 ROSENBERG--Alexander. Age 92, September 26, 1913 April 12, 2006. Alexander, a US Army Captain landed on Utah Beach, with his company, on the 6th of June 1944. Alexander served as a manager with New York State Unemployment until his retirement in 1971. Predeceased by his wife Fannie, Alexand
 STABLE--Leo. March 20, 1933--April 16, 2005 In memory of a remarkable man whose love for his many friends spanned oceans and lifetimes. Nancy Stevens       
 Thomas J. Abercrombie, a noted photographer and writer for National Geographic who in nearly 40 years with the magazine visited every corner of the globe, from the sands of the Sahara to the windswept plains of Antarctica, died on April 3 in Baltimore. He was 75 and lived in Shady Side, Md.
 ANCHIN--Howard. Beloved husband of the late Frances. Devoted and loving father of Roberta and Philip Strasburg, and James and Joan Anchin. Grandfather of Donald Strasburg, Lauren & Scott Freifeld, Scott and Lauren Anchin, Lee and Dori Anchin. Great grandfather of Jared and Todd Freifeld. He
 BROIDA--Edward R. The Trustees and staff of The Museum of Modern Art mourn the passing of Edward Broida. Ed was a Trustee, major donor and good friend to The Museum of Modern Art. He was widely admired for his passion and commitment to contemporary art and for the close relationships he dev
 FALK--Richard S. 49, of Fairhaven, MA, died April 14, 2006. Son of the late Arthur L. and Marilyn F. Falk. He leaves wife, Julie (Teglas) Falk, Sandwich, MA; children, Peter Arthur Falk, Christine Teglas Falk, Samantha Jane Falk; sister, Nancy Jane Falk Goldston and Mark R. Goldston, Beverl
 FRIEDMAN--Arthur Sheldon. Of Chappaqua, NY. On March 28, at age 79, after a brief illness. He was for over 50 years an outstanding civil trial lawyer in NYC, in time developing a nationwide practice and recognition. He never sought celebrity or public office, confining his energies to the c
 JOYCE--John. Of Bronxville, NY, born in Ballyconlought, Hedford, Co. Galway, Ireland, died on April 14, 2006. Former restaurateur of Joyce's Restaurant, New York City. Beloved husband of Julia Dymphna, and loving father of John and Anne. Cherished grandfather of Sean, Julia, Peter and Megha
 KARCHES--Peter Frederick of Locust Valley, NY died on April 13, 2006 at the age of 54. Mr. Karches waged a valiant battle with chronic lymphocytic leukemia for several years. He loved his wife Susan of 30 years and his four children, Amy, Pamela, Peter Jr. and Nancy who adored him. He is th
 MADOFF--Roger David. 32, of Manhattan, died on April 15, 2006, from complications of a stem cell transplant for leukemia. Beloved husband of Jennifer, courageous son of Peter and Marion, devoted brother of Shana and uncle of Rebecca, inspiring son-in-law of Lois and Marty Stevens, brother-i
 VRONDISSIS - John. John Vrondissis passed away on Thursday, April 13, 2006. He was 74 years old. John was the beloved husband of Katy, and the devoted father to Anthony and Leonidas. Mr. Vrondissis will be reposing at the Harrison Funeral Home on Wednesday, April 19, 2006, from 6:30 to 8:30
 WEISBERG--Simon. 84, of Pembroke Pines, FL, on April 11. He is survived by wife, Malca, daughter Marylene Friedman, son-in-law Alan Friedman, and grandsons Marc and David Aaron. Donations to the Elie Wiesel Foundation, 555 Madison Ave, NY, NY 10022.       
 Peter F. Karches, a former Wall Street executive who spent 25 years at Morgan Stanley, died Thursday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 54. The cause was chronic lymphocytic leukemia, said his wife, Susan. Mr. Karches, who earned a bachelor's degree in finance
 Walter W. Ristow, who was known never to have gotten lost and would have had no excuse if he had -- considering he was in charge of more maps than anybody else in the world -- died April 3 in Mitchellville, Md. He was 97. The cause was coronary artery disease, his family said.      
 ANCHIN--Howard. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Howard Anchin, beloved father of James Anchin, an esteemed friend who together with his family has set an example of philanthropic leadership that enriches Jewish life in New York 
 BROIDA--Edward R. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Edward R. Broida, and extends sincere sympathy to his family and friends. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary       
 FEIL--Edward. Beloved husband of Susan, devoted father of Alicia and Matthew. His devotion and strength will be missed forever. In lieu of flowers, please make a donation to either Albuquerque Community Foundation, 3301 Menaul Blvd NE, Albuquerque, NM 87107 or Santa Fe Community Foundation 
 FLYNN--Terrence R., Sr. The Society of the Friendly Sons of St. Patrick in the City of New York, records with profound sorrow the death of Terrence R. Flynn, Sr. a Member of the Society, and extends sincere sympathy to his family. Alfred E. Smith, IV, President Henry F. White, Jr., Historia
 FRIEDMAN--Arthur Sheldon. Of Chappaqua, NY. On March 28, at age 79, after a brief illness. He was for over 50 years an outstanding civil trial lawyer in NYC, in time developing a nationwide practice and recognition. He never sought celebrity or public office, confining his energies to the c
 HANIGSBERG--Oscar. The Partners and staff of Stern Keiser Panken & Wohl mourn the loss of Oscar Hanigsberg, CPA, and extend their deepest condolences to his family. Oscar was our mentor and best friend for three decades. His boundless humor, together with his depth of business and personal 
 INKER--Monroe. The Father of modern Family Law in Massachusetts passed away Saturday, April 15, 2006. His work in family law resulted in the passage of no fault divorce and the equitable division of marital assets statute in 1975. Equal to his passion for the law, was his devotion to friend
 IRVING--Alexander D. II died peacefullly in Southampton, NY on April 15, 2006 at age 89. Predeceased by his wife Colette, he is survived by his son, Michael Irving, his daughters, Evelyn Leonard and Alexandra Rush, and by six grandchildren. Services will be held at St. John's Episcopal Chur
 JOYCE--John. Of Bronxville, NY, born in Ballyconlought, Hedford, Co. Galway, Ireland, died on April 14, 2006. Former restaurateur of Joyce's Restaurant, New York City. Beloved husband of Julia Dymphna, and loving father of John and Anne. Cherished grandfather of Sean, Julia, Peter and Megha
 KARCHES--Peter F. On behalf of the North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, we express our deep sadness over the loss of our friend and benefactor Peter F. Karches to chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL). We greatly appreciate the Karches Foundation's generosity in a recent pledge of $10
 MADOFF--Roger. The members of the Board of Trustees of the Queens College Foundation express their deepest condolences to Peter and Marion Madoff and the Madoff family on the loss of their beloved son Roger. $(6$)MADOFF--Roger. Life is so unfair. We are heartbroken by the devastatin
 NEWMAN--Howard A. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn with sadness the passing of Howard A. ''Micky'' Newman, who together with his family built a legacy of unparalleled benevolence through their dedication to the arts, education, and the New York
 PERLMAN--Fred. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Fred Perlman. We extend our deepest sympathy to his beloved wife, Marilyn, and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary       
 PLATT--Harold of New Rochelle, NY, died on February 23, 2006, after suffering a stroke. He was the beloved husband of Ann Platt for sixty-three years. Their children, Leslie, Marc and Laura, and his six grandchildren, Bill, Josh, Alex, Emily, Rachel and Sydney survive him. Mr. Platt came to
 SABBAH--Maurice (Chico). Israel Elwyn extends its deepest condolences to Zmira, Ronnie and Leeor Sabbah on the passing of Maurice (Chico) Sabbah, longtime Israel Elwyn board member and major benefactor. Through his vision & generosity, Israel Elwyn has become a leader in providing support s
 SCIBELLI - James. The HCFP/Brenner Securities family are deeply saddened by the untimely loss of their good friend. He was a remarkable person and an inspiration to us and all those who had the good fortune to have known him. He will be missed by all those whose lives he touched. Our though
 SHEA--Frederick T. Died April 14, 2006. Beloved husband of Evelyn, loving father of Brian, Kevin (deceased) and Kathleen, and caring grandfather of Keegan, Colby, Mitch, Christopher, Jonathan, Freddie and Jessica. Fred graduated from Regis High School and Went on to The College of the Holy 
 Philip J. Hyde, whose evocative wilderness photographs, taken over five decades, became a potent weapon in the battle against environmental degradation, died on March 30 in Reno, Nev. He was 84. The cause was complications of a stroke, his son, David Hyde, said. The primary 
 Rabbi Arthur Hertzberg, a provocative scholar of Judaism whose contrarian religious and political views and dedication to civil rights found prolific expression in books, articles and essays, died yesterday. He was 84 and lived in Englewood, N.J. The cause was complications of heart
 CLAPPER--Hans George. Of New York City and Norfolk, Connecticut, died April 17, 2006, at his home. Beloved wife of Ruth. Loving father of Joe and Juliette Clapper and Greg and Joanne Clapper. Devoted grandfather of Hans and Robert Clapper, Liora and David Connor, stepfather of Sharon & Brad
 DAVIS--Darwin. We are extremely saddened by Darwin's passing and extend our deepest sympathies to his family and friends. Darwin was a distinguished colleague, a cherished friend to many and an important presence in the insurance industry who clearly led by example. Among his many significa
 FARLEY--Adrian Morgan Jr., 93. Died Thursday, April 6 at Edgehill in Stamford, CT. Born in New York City in 1912 he moved to Greenwich, CT in 1920. He was a 1932 graduate of Berkshire School in Sheffield, MA where he was trustee emeritus. A WWII Navy Veteran, he married Harriet Severance Mc
 GUIDI--Paolo L. Of Miami, Florida passed away Easter Sunday, April 16, 2006. He is survived by his loving wife, Ingrid Guidi, daughters, Oriana and Laura Guidi, granddaughter, Emma, brothers, Enrico and Claudio Guidi, and a host of family and friends. Viewing will be held at 7:00 P.M., Apri
 HERTZBERG--Rabbi Arthur, Ph.D. Of Englewood, NJ. Husband of Phyllis (nee Cannon). Father of Dr. Linda Hertzberg and husband Dr. David Merzel and Susan Hertzberg and husband Stephen Brody. Brother of Rabbi Isaiah Hertzberg, Rabbi Joshua Hertzberg and Eve Rosenfeld. Grandfather of Rachel Merz
 IRVING--Alexander D. II died peacefullly in Southampton, NY on April 15, 2006 at age 89. Predeceased by his wife Colette, he is survived by his son, Michael Irving, his daughters, Evelyn Leonard and Alexandra Rush, and by six grandchildren. Services will be held at St. John's Episcopal Chur
 LEE--Robert W. On April 15, 2006. He was a partner in KP&G. Survived by wife Claire, children, Deborah, Michael, Brian and Kevin. Services to be held at a later date.       
 MADOFF--Roger. Life is so unfair. We are heartbroken by the devastating loss of such an extraordinary young man. We are saddened to think of all the wonderful things he surely would have accomplished. He inspired us with his courage and valiant struggle against tremendous odds. We shall hol
 STEINER--Alvin. September 10, 1914--April 17, 2006 at his home in Great Neck, NY. Beloved father of Warren and Amy and loving husband of his late wife Edith; brother of the late DeWitt. Retired as a Lieutenant in the NYPD in 1974, he devoted his retirement years to painting, singing, golfin
 WEIN--Cory. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with profound sadness the untimely passing of Cory Wein, beloved son-inlaw of our dear friend and colleague, Jerome S. Breslaw, MD, a longtime member of the Department of Medicine staff and a former President of the hospi
 WEISS--Robert. Passed away peacefully on April 13, 2006 after a brief battle against an incapacitating stroke. He is remembered with love by wife Elaine, children Brian and Nina, and granddaughter Alexa.       
 Philip J. Hyde, whose evocative wilderness photographs, taken over five decades, became a potent weapon in the battle against environmental degradation, died on March 30 in Reno, Nev. He was 84. The cause was complications of a stroke, his son, David Hyde, said. The primary 
 Rabbi Arthur Hertzberg, a provocative scholar of Judaism whose contrarian religious and political views and dedication to civil rights found prolific expression in books, articles and essays, died on Monday. He was 84 and lived in Englewood, N.J. The cause was complications of heart
 Richard Eckersley, an award-winning graphic designer who introduced unconventional typography to staid-looking university-press books, died on Sunday at his home in Lincoln, Neb. He was 65. The cause is not yet known, although he had been in failing health for more than a year, said
 Dr. Lynn A. Smaha, an interventional cardiologist and former president of the American Heart Association who drew attention to behavioral factors in the prevention of heart disease, died on April 14 at his home in Penn Yan, N.Y. He was 63. The cause was a heart attack. Dr. Smaha was
 Henderson Forsythe, an accomplished character actor who demonstrated his versatility in plays by dramatists like O'Neill, Beckett and Pinter and in rollicking musicals, movies and television -- including 31 years on the soap opera ''As the World Turns,'' died on Monday at his home in Willia
 BARZILAY--Isaac Eisenstein. Age 91. Son of Rabbi Simon and Taube Eisenstein. He received a traditional Jewish education in Bialystok, Poland, completed studies in Jewish history, thought and philosophy at Hebrew University in Jerusalem in 1939, and served in the British Navy during WW II. I
 CLAPPER--Hans George. Of New York City and Norfolk, Connecticut, died April 17, 2006, at his home. Beloved wife of Ruth. Loving father of Joe and Juliette Clapper and Greg and Joanne Clapper. Devoted grandfather of Hans and Robert Clapper, Liora and David Connor, stepfather of Sharon & Brad
 DAVIS--Darwin. We are extremely saddened by Darwin's passing and extend our deepest sympathies to his family and friends. Darwin was a distinguished colleague, a cherished friend to many and an important presence in the insurance industry who clearly led by example. Among his many significa
 FEDER--Clifford. On April 17, 2006. Beloved husband of Barbara R. Services to be held in Des Moines, Iowa. $(6$)FEDER--Clifford. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our devoted, longtime member and Men's Club Director, Clifford Feder. 
 HERTZBERG--Rabbi Arthur. Former President of the American Jewish Congress, whose longtime leadership exemplified a unique and singular combination of activism and scholarship. Rabbi Hertzberg's profound commitment and unbounded energy challenged us, and still does, to creatively and fearles
 HUDSON--Richard. On April 16, 2006. Founder and Executive Director of the Center for War/Peace Studies. Originator of the Binding Triad system of global governance, which would make United Nations General Assembly decision-making acceptable to the world's diverse array of nations--large and
 KANOF--Morris, MD. Of Neponsit, NY, died on April 18 after a brief illness at the age of 99. Husband for 68 years of the late Eva Kanof, father of Philip Kanof, father-in-law of Barbara Giesser, and grandfather of David and Marisa Kanof. He was the last surviving member of the generation of
 PLATNER--Warren. Architect, of Guilford, CT died April 17, 2006 at Yale New Haven Hospital. Husband of Joan Payne Platner. Father of Bronson Platner of Ellsworth, Maine, Jody Platner of New Haven, Sharon Platner Lincoln of Ledyard, Madeleine Platner Howenstine of Killingworth. Father-in-law
 SCHULTZ--Kenneth, 67. Of Hoboken, NJ on April 13, 2006. Son of the late Arthur Schultz and Edna Hahn. Services Saturday 2PM at St. MatthewTrinity Lutheran Church, 8th & Hudson Streets, Hoboken, where he was very active. He was a world renowned antiques dealer and collector of memorabilia of
 ST. JOHN--Seymour. The Rev. Seymour St. John, 94, Headmaster of The Choate School (now Choate Rosemary Hall) from 1947 to 1973, died Monday (April 17, 2006) in Hobe Sound, FL. His father, George C. St. John, was Choate's Headmaster, and he grew up on campus. After graduating cum laude from 
 WATERMAN--Norman. Former associate publisher of Vogue Magazine, died April 14, 2006. Survived by his wife Florence, son Jack, daughter Joanne Bergstrom, four grandchildren, niece Marcie and nephew Philip. A private service was held April 17.       
 WEIN--Cory Jordan. Beloved husband of Sheryl Breslaw Wein. Devoted father of Matthew & Amanda. Loving son of Edna and the late Mones. Adored son-in-law of Dr. Jerome and Madeline Breslaw. Dear brother-in-law of Michelle and Scott Bellin, and loving uncle of Zachary and Jordan. Services Frid
 HERSHFIELD--George. Oscar Heyman & Brothers mourns the passing of our esteemed emeritus employee. George was a constant breath of fresh air with an ebullient attitude and a radiant perspective of life and people. George was a kind and caring close friend to many of us and we valued his insi
 The Rev. Seymour St. John, who as headmaster of the Choate School steered it through turbulent changes in the 1960's and early 70's, including its merger with Rosemary Hall in 1971, died on Monday at his home on Jupiter Island, Fla. He was 94. His wife, Marie, said he died in his sl
 Warren Platner, an architect and designer who created a furniture collection that has proved to be an enduring icon of 1960's Modernism and designed several prominent interiors in New York, including offices for the Ford Foundation building and the original Windows on the World restaurant, 
 Dennis Duggan, who chronicled life in New York City over six decades for five newspapers, started a column about the subways that inspired other papers to run features on commuting and was part of a team that won a Pulitzer Prize, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital Manhattan. He was 7
 Eberhardt Rechtin, an electrical engineer and telecommunications expert who helped design the network of earthbound antennas that NASA uses to track radio signals emanating from space, died on April 14 in Torrance, Calif. He was 80. His death was confirmed by his family, which did n
 BACON--Jeffrey. Friends and colleagues mourn his untimely passing. Jeff was a gifted architect, a truly natural talent who will be greatly missed. Our hearts go out to his wife Cheryl and his three young boys. J. Kalberer       
 BURGER--William H., 64. Of New York City, son of the late Alfred G. and Cecile, passed away April 18, 2006. Graduated with a B.A. in History from the University of Illinois. He is survived by his devoted brother Andrew, sister-in-law Barbara, nieces and nephews Alfred, Jessica, Michael, Ann
 CLAPPER--Hans George. Of New York City and Norfolk, Connecticut, died April 17, 2006, at his home. Beloved husband of Ruth. Loving father of Joe and Juliette Clapper and Greg & Joanne Clapper. Devoted grandfather of Hans and Robert Clapper, Liora and David Connor, stepfather of Sharon & Bra
 HADZI--Dimitri. The American Academy of Arts and Letters notes with sorrow the death of our esteemed colleague. His loss will be deeply felt by the world of art.       
 HUDSON--Richard. The Staff and Directors of the Center for War/Peace Studies mourn the loss of our founder. He worked tirelessly over many years to promote his vision of a democratic United Nations federation. He articulated the ''Binding Triad,'' a weighted voting system for the U.N. Gener
 JOHNS--William A. On April 15, 2006 in New York, New York at the age of 81. Bill grew up in Chatham, N.J., graduated from the Tuck School at Dartmouth College and was a Veteran of WWII. He had a distinguished business career in which he was frequently stationed overseas working as an Execut
 LEVITAN--Milton. Born in Brooklyn, NY, August 21, 1909. Died peacefully at his home at the age of 96 on April 19, 2006. Son of Daniel Levitan and Anna Gluck; brother to Sidney and Sylvia; loving father to Dan, Richard and Robert; grandfather to Matthew, Jessica, Elana and Olivia; and belove
 STONE--Robert Gregg, Jr. The entire community of Mystic Seaport -- the Museum of America and the Sea--notes with sorrow the death of Chairman Emeritus, Robert G. Stone, Jr., and extends its sincere sympathy to his family. Bob became a Trustee in 1975 and served as Board Chairman 1989-1995. 
 WEIN--Cory Jordan. Beloved husband of Sheryl Breslaw Wein. Devoted father of Matthew & Amanda. Loving son of Edna and the late Mones. Adored son-in-law of Dr. Jerome and Madeline Breslaw. Dear brother-in-law of Michelle and Scott Bellin, and loving uncle of Zachary and Jordan. Services Frid
 HERSHFIELD--George. Oscar Heyman & Brothers mourns the passing of our esteemed emeritus employee. George was a constant breath of fresh air with an ebullient attitude and a radiant perspective of life and people. George was a kind and caring close friend to many of us and we valued his insi
 SUTTER--Meyer. April 21, 1997. Rest in peace, noble spirit. His Family       
 Scott Crossfield, a legendary test pilot of the post-World War II era who was the first person to fly twice the speed of sound, was killed Wednesday morning when his plane crashed in northern Georgia. He was 84. Mr. Crossfield, who lived in Herndon, Va., just outside Washington, was
 FASTENBERG -- Norman ''Danny.'' Beloved husband of Barbara, adored father of Joel, wife Yuko and Michelle. Cherished son of Shirley Lamont and Abner Fastenberg. Much loved brother of David and the late Steven. Beloved brother-in-law and uncle. Widely respected and admired friend. Died sudde
 HANIGSBERG--Oscar. Died in Los Angeles on the 15th of April 2006 a few days short of his 93rd birthday. Beloved father of Nina Richmond, William Hanigsberg, and Eric Hanigsberg (deceased); father-in-law of JoAnn Barlow Hanigsberg; grandfather to Julia Hanigsberg and Erica Katzen; proud grea
 JOHNS--William A. On April 15, 2006 in New York, New York at the age of 81. Bill grew up in Chatham, N.J., graduated from the Tuck School at Dartmouth College and was a Veteran of WWII. He had a distinguished business career in which he was frequently stationed overseas working as an Execut
 LEVITAN--Milton. Born in Brooklyn, NY, August 21, 1909. Died peacefully at his home at the age of 96 on April 19, 2006. Son of Daniel Levitan and Anna Gluck; brother to Sidney and Sylvia; loving father to Dan, Richard and Robert; grandfather to Matthew, Jessica, Elana and Olivia; and belove
 SALLOVITZ--Myron Morris, April 21, 1927--April 4, 2006. Rancho Palos Verdes, CA, originally of New York. Beloved husband of Elinore (nee Kass). Survived by his sister Rhoda Rosenfeld, his daughters, Joy Firshein, Karen Sallovitz, Linda Sallovitz, granddaughters Jessica and Jenna Firshein. M
 SPINRAD--Phineas. Age 98, died on Wednesday, April 19, 2006 in Brighton, MA, surrounded by his loving family. Mr. Spinrad leaves his daughter, Paula Charry and Susan Ebert; their husbands Rabbi Marim Charry & Dr. Ronald Ebert; his grandchildren, Jonathan Charry, Judith Charry-Nelkin, Joshua
 STONE--Robert G. The Flag Officers and Trustees of the New York Yacht Club note with sorrow the passing of former Commodore Robert G. Stone, Jr. Commodore Stone played a central role in the club's leadership for over 40 years. He was Commodore from 1981-1983 and served as Chair of the Nomin
 WEIN--Cory. Our dearests Sheryl, Matthew & Amanda, we are so sorry for your loss of Cory. His strength and courage will always be remembered. He was an amazing dad and husband who truly loved you all deeply. Cory was a real ''gentle'' man. We are always here for you. We love you. The Murste
 George C. Minden, who for 37 years ran a secret American program that put 10 million Western books and magazines in the hands of intellectuals and professionals in Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union, died on April 9 at his home in Manhattan. He was 85. The cause was complications o
 BACON--Jeffrey. Friends and colleagues mourn his untimely passing. Jeff was a gifted architect, a truly natural talent who will be greatly missed. Our hearts go out to his wife Cheryl and his three young boys. J. Kalberer       
 BURGER--William H., 64. Of New York City, son of the late Alfred G. and Cecile, passed away April 18, 2006. Graduated with a B.A. in History from the University of Illinois. He is survived by his devoted brother Andrew, sister-in-law Barbara, nieces and nephews Alfred, Jessica, Michael, Ann
 D'ARCY--Richard A. (Dick). Of Babylon, New York on April 12. Formerly of NYC and Florida. Jerome Robbins dancer, choreographer. Broadway credits include On the Town, Brigadoon, Streets of Paris and Showgirl. Survived by his loving sister, brother, numerous nieces, nephews, grandnieces and n
 ELLEGARD--Roy Whitney. Of NYC and Kent, CT. Born in Hartford, September 16, 1957. Died April 21, 2006. Partner at Ernst and Young, Transaction Advisory Services and Valuation. Accredited member of the American Society of Appraisers. Initiated career at Arthur Young, a predecessor of E&Y, in
 GROBERG--James J. Born in Brooklyn in 1928, he was educated at Mercersburg Academy and the Wharton School, served in the army in Okinawa, and became a successful, dedicated financial executive. He was an avid sports fan, golfer, poker player, world traveler, lover of music, American history
 HANIGSBERG--Oscar. Died in Los Angeles on the 15th of April 2006 a few days short of his 93rd birthday. Beloved father of Nina Richmond, William Hanigsberg, and Eric Hanigsberg (deceased); father-in-law of JoAnn Barlow Hanigsberg; grandfather to Julia Hanigsberg and Erica Katzen; proud grea
 HERSHFIELD--George. On April 18. Beloved husband of the late Ella, loving father of Susan Mingelgreen and husband Mark. Cherished grandfather of Jason, Cory and Lindsey. Beloved brother-inlaw and uncle. He was a legend in the jewelry industry. Donations to Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Ce
 KARABAN--Bruce, 64. Of Freehold, NJ, passed away Sunday April 16, 2006. Survived by his wife, his daughter, his son, and three grandchildren.       
 KASSOW--Saul D. Gamma NYU Chapter of ZBT Fraternity, brothers of Saul D. Kassow mourn his death on April 9 at age 79. He served as President of the chapter alumni group for many years. Our condolences go to his devoted wife Angelia, their three daughters and his sister Judy. More than any o
 LAUTER--Victor. On Thursday, April 20, 2006 at age 87. He was the Dean of Continuing Education at New York City Technical Institute. Survived by loving wife Leah; beloved father of Robbie and Jonathan; loving grandfather of Nathan, Jenna and Mia. We will miss him greatly.       
 LEON--James L., 87. A resident of New York City for over 55 years, died on March 26, 2006. Born in Tulsa, Oklahoma in 1918, he moved with his family to Athens, Greece at the age of two. He fulfilled his childhood dream of becoming a Civil Engineer, and moved back to the USA in 1947 to advan
 LEVITAN--Milton. Born in Brooklyn, NY, August 21, 1909. Died peacefully at his home at the age of 96 on April 19, 2006. Son of Daniel Levitan and Anna Gluck; brother to Sidney and Sylvia; loving father to Dan, Richard and Robert; grandfather to Matthew, Jessica, Elana and Olivia; and belove
 MALONE--James C., 86. Of Boynton Beach, FL, passed on April 15, 2006. Mr. Malone graduated from West Virginia University with a B.S.Ch.E. degree. Hired by Union Carbide Corporation in 1941, Mr. Malone was a Vice President from 1966 until he retired in 1981. He was a remarkable gentleman, an
 McWHINEY--Dr. Grady, 77. One of the most important and influential historians in the Twentienth Century, passed away Tuesday, April 18, at his home in Abilene, Texas, after a lengthy illness. He is survived by legions of loyal friends, former students, and honored colleagues who were all pr
 MORIKAWA--George K. Our beloved brother, uncle and great uncle was born in Riverside, CA to Kennosuke and Ayano Morikawa from Wakayama, Japan on May 24, 1918 and died in Seattle, WA on April 3, 2006. George graduated from Point Loma High School on June 14, 1935 and matriculated at the Calif
 PEKALE--Elias D. On April 21, 2006. Beloved husband of Sheila. Devoted father of Jennifer (Scott) and Adam (Saara). Loving grandfather of Zachary, Brandon, Lee and Abigail. Cherished uncle of Judi (Jeff). Predeceased by his adoring sister Violet. He loved life. He was an NYC school administ
 PERLBERGER--Jack. Age 76. On April 21. Survived by wife Ashella, son Daniel, and his two brothers, Martin and Ralph, and their families.       
 RIEDEL--Frederick Philipp. Of Richmond Hill, New York City. Died April 14, 2006 at the age of 101 years. Pioneer in the field of geriatric care as President of the Isabella Geriatric Center for over 35 years; oversaw its transition from a German-American old age home (Isabella Heimat founde
 RYAN--Thomas Herbert. 78, of Spring Lake, NJ, died peacefully 21 April, 2006, in Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. Beloved husband of Shirley. Adored father of Sheila, Sharon, Mary and Patricia. Admired father-in-law of Michael, Andrew and Andrew, and cherished ''Bop'' of five grandchildren. 
 SALLOVITZ--Myron Morris, April 21, 1927--April 4, 2006. Rancho Palos Verdes, CA, originally of New York. Beloved husband of Elinore (nee Kass). Survived by his sister Rhoda Rosenfeld, his daughters, Joy Firshein, Karen Sallovitz, Linda Sallovitz, granddaughters Jessica and Jenna Firshein. M
 SPINRAD--Phineas. Age 98, died on Wednesday, April 19, 2006 in Brighton, MA, surrounded by his loving family. Mr. Spinrad leaves his daughter, Paula Charry and Susan Ebert; their husbands Rabbi Marim Charry & Dr. Ronald Ebert; his grandchildren, Jonathan Charry, Judith Charry-Nelkin, Joshua
 STONE--Robert. April 18 of Greenwich, CT and Marion, MA. Robert G. Stone Jr., 83. A memorial service will be held 2 PM, Thursday, May 4th, at Harvard University Memorial Church in Harvard Yard. A reception will follow at Loeb House, 17 Quincy St, Cambridge. In lieu of flowers donations may 
 TAUSSIG--Frederick Foote. Ted graduated from Yale University and served with the U. S. Marine Corps during WWII. He was a Vice President of INTERPACE. Ted was a well loved resident of both Point O' Woods where he was President of the Association and an active fireman with the Volunteer Fire
 WELLS--Diana. The Surrogates' Association of the State of New York regrets the passing of Diana Wells, wife of the Hon. Peter Wells, Surrogate of Onondaga County. Our condolences to the Judge and his family.       
 WHITELY--William L. of Coconut Grove, FL died on April 20 at the home of his daughter, Patricia, surrounded by his loving family. Whitely, a former resident of Port Washington and Rye, NY is a graduate of Xavier High School, University of Notre Dame and Cornell School of Law. He is survived
 FASTENBERG--Norman D. Beloved cousin, uncle, and true friend. The overwhelming sense of emptiness and sorrow that now fills our hearts is tempered by special memories of love, mutual respect, a shared sense of humor, and bonds of friendship and family ties that deepened profoundly over time
 Alexis Bespaloff, wine columnist for New York Magazine for more than two decades, the author of six books on wine and a frequent contributor to food, wine and travel magazines, died on Saturday at his home in Las Cruces, N.M. He was 71. The cause was cancer, according to his wife, C
 Tom Ferguson, who spent his life as a physician persuading people to take the reins of their own health care and to use the Internet as a powerful tool in that quest, died on April 14 in Little Rock, Ark. He was 62. He died at the University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences while be
 FEENEY--John T. Throughout his life, John's greatest source of pride was his two sons, John Alexander Feeney and Daniel Woods Feeney. He is also survived by his mother, Kathleen Beggans Feeney, and sisters, Eileen Palmer, of Oakland, CA; Virginia Kiley, of Palm City, FL; and Claire Deerin, 
 GROBERG--James J. The employees of Volt Information Sciences, Inc. Worldwide mourn the loss of their dear friend and colleague, Jim Groberg. ''Jim had been an integral part of the company's management team, working closely with my brother Bill, me, and all the Volt family for almost 40 year
 RYAN -- Thomas H. We mourn the death of Thomas H. Ryan, and express our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Shirley, to his daughters Patricia, Sharon, Mary and Sheila, to sons-in-law Andrew, Michael and Andrew, and to his five grandchildren. Marybeth Sollins and the Sollins Family       
 STEINER--Joel, 84, formerly of NYC and Ft. Lee, NJ, on April 22, in Phoenix, AZ. Beloved husband of Miriam (nee Silver). Devoted father of Ira, Andrew, Michael and his wife Vicki. Dear brother of Marty. Loving grandfather of Alex and Sophie.       
 ZIEGELBAUM--Benjamin D., age 17, died tragically on April 23rd. Adored son of Dr. Michael and Amy Ziegelbaum, brother of Matthew and Jonathan, Great Neck, NY. His loss is profound and unspeakable. Services Tuesday, 12 noon, at Temple Israel of Great Neck.       
 BETTAN--Bernard. Affectionately known as BB. Died peacefully on April 20, 2006. Devoted husband of Nancy, devoted father, grandfather, great grandfather, brother and uncle. He made us laugh and taught us all to ''Aim High''.       
 BROIDA--Edward R. American ORT mourns the passing of one of its most valued supporters, Edward R. Broida, whose generosity benefited ORT programs and students worldwide. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, children and grandchildren. Hope Kessler, Exec. Director Joe Cohen, Presi
 DUGGAN -- John Charles ''Jack'', 75. Of Boca Raton, Florida, died April 22, 2006. Son of the late Charles and Rose Duggan, Irish immigrants. Devoted husband of Carolyn Mitchell Duggan. Loving father of Charles and John. Father-in-law of Julia Bator. Grandfather of Owen Fox and John Fineas. 
 GOLDSTEIN - Charles, 85 years old died on Sunday morning April 23rd due to complications of Alzheimer's disease. He was the beloved husband of Yetta for almost 65 years, the cherished father of Alan, Paul and Mary, and the late Nancy; and the adored and adoring grandfather of Michael and Da
 GOTTLIEB -- William Paul. Photographer, writer, tennis player, beloved husband for 66 years of Delia, father of Barbara, Steven, Richard, Edward, father-in-law of Teri, Jacki, brother-in-law of Jacqueline, grandfather of Leah, Sara, Brian, Jason, Celia, Noah, great grandfather of Evan, Lily
 KAYLE--Leonard E. On April 22, 2006, in New York City. Beloved husband of Florence. Beloved father of Kathie Rizzuto (Paul) and Elissa Peckage (Dr. Bruce). Brother of Milton. Grandfather of Jordan Rizzuto, Andrew, Janna and Ian Peckage. His intellect, charm and loving kindness will be great
 MASS--Nathaniel J. Of Manhattan, died of cancer on April 23, 2006. He led his own investment banking and strategic growth advisory firm, Nathaniel J. Mass Associates, and was a Senior Fellow with Katzenbach Partners, LLC. Formerly he served as Senior Vice President of Strategic Growth for G
 NEUMANN--Julius Gershon, Rabbi Dr. On 10 April 12 Nissan. Survived by beloved wife of 62 years, Rebbetzin Esther and loving children FranE (Shalom), Rabbi Tully (Joan), Nina (Serge) and the late Joshua (Rochelle). Devoted son of the late Sarah and Benjamin, beloved brother of Mrs. Maria Rot
 ROTH--Mel. Temple Beth Sholom, Roslyn Heights, NY, mourns the passing of our beloved member, Mel Roth. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife and family. Rabbi Alan B. Lucas Lawrence B. Glass, President       
 THORPE--Harvey. The entire Monroe College Community joins me in mourning the passing of Harvey Thorpe, a professor in the Computer Information Systems department for the past 24 years. Harvey was a wonderful and enthusiastic instructor who was much loved by his students. He will be missed b
 WASSERMAN--Edward, M.D. New York Medical College mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague, alumnus and friend, Edward Wasserman, M.D., professor emeritus of pediatrics. During his tenure as chairman of the Department of Pediatrics from 1966 to 1991, he cared for thousands of children an
 ZIEGELBAUM - Benjamin. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Jerome Seiler, MD, President $(6$)ZIEGELBAUM--Ben. Age 17. Beloved nephew and cousin, we will love you and miss yo
 Moses Teitelbaum, the grand rabbi of the Satmar Hasidim, one of the world's largest and fastest-growing sects of Orthodox Jews, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 91 and lived in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. His family, through spokesmen, said he died at Mount Sinai Medical Center, wher
 William P. Gottlieb, who with a boxy, old-fashioned press camera indelibly defined what jazz looked like in a brief, magical time when both early legends like Armstrong and Ellington and the emerging beboppers ruled the bandstands and radio waves, died on Sunday at his home in Great Neck, N
 Edward M. Davis, the blunt-speaking Los Angeles police chief during the Symbionese Liberation Army shootout and the Charles Manson killings who later angered conservatives with his surprisingly moderate positions as a state senator, died Saturday in San Luis Obispo, Calif. He was 89.       
 JACOBS--Abner. Abner Jacobs, beloved husband to Peggy Jacobs, father to Joseph and Susan Jacobs, father-in-law to Michelle Jacobs, grandfather to David and Stephanie Jacobs, stepfather to Pamela Kelly, and step-grandfather to Jamie and John Kelly, passed peacefully at the age of 95 on April
 MASS--Nathaniel J. Katzenbach Partners LLC mourns deeply the passing of our colleague and Senior Fellow, Nathaniel J. Mass, a brilliant strategist, inspirational teacher, and close friend. We express our deepest sympathies to his wife Deborah, his son Alexander, his sister Deborah, and his 
 ROTH--Melvin Bernard. On April 24, 2006. Beloved husband of Georgette Roth and the late Jeanette Roth. Loving and devoted father of Sherry and Jay Gaines and Barbara and Richard Bloch. Adored grandfather of Evan, Jessica, Allison and Jaclyn. Services Wednesday, April 26 at 11 A.M., at the '
 SABBAH--Maurice ''Chico''. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, expresses its deepest sorrow at the passing of a devoted friend and visionary leader of the Jewish people. Cherished husband of Zmira, beloved father of Leeor and Ronee, brother of Joyce, and uncle of Glenn an
 Fausto Vitello, an entrepreneur and publisher who helped take the dying pastime of skateboarding out of the suburbs and into the streets, where it became a rude and riotous multibillion-dollar business, died Saturday while riding his bicycle in Woodside, Calif. He was 59 and lived in Hillsb
 BEARNOT--Harold. On April 26, 2006. Beloved husband and adored companion to Patricia. Resident of Riverdale, NY and Palm Beach, FL. Brother of the late Estelle Sheinman. Devoted and proud father of Carol Bastien and Dr. H. Robert Bearnot and their spouses Dominique and Dr. Sherry Katz Bearn
 CLEMENTS--Henry. Husband, father, grandfather and great grandfather. A man of sharp wit, great intelligence, knowledge and an immense zest for life. He will be greatly missed by all of those who had the privilege of knowing him. Love, the Clements family $(6$)CLEMENTS--Henry. Loving
 DAVIDSON--Robert L., Esq. Of Scarsdale, NY. Beloved husband of Deborah, adored and adoring father of Jamie and Jeffrey. Cherished son of Stella Davidson and the late Philip Davidson. Most loved brother of Scott Davidson and his wife, Lori. Dear son-in -law of Bess and Morris Gordon, brother
 ISEMAN--Joseph S. Brilliant, adventurous, and kind father of Peter, Fred and Ellen, proud and beloved grandfather of Eugenie, Henry and Alex, loving former husband of Marjorie Frankenthaler Iseman and Jay Iseman, stepfather to Anne, Bill and Susan, stepgrandfather to Igor, Adriana, Lily, Ju
 KALIKA--Irving ''Inky'', died April 24th in Providence, RI, age 92. Former resident of Woodmere, NY for 53 years. Graduate of the University of Wisconsin. Retired from a career in the dress business at age 75. His beloved wife, Marian, of 65 years, his loving children, Leslie Gordon and Phi
 KAPLAN--Sanford. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of our great friend, Sanford Kaplan of Los Angeles. A brilliant but modest man, Sandy was a noted philanthropist who supported numerous causes. His commitment to the Technion-Israel Institut
 KAUFMAN--Edward G. On April 26, 2006 in Delray Beach, FL, age 86, formerly of Great Neck, NY. Beloved husband of the late Ruth L. Kaufman. Devoted father of Edwina Friedman, Diane Weiss and Dr. Matthew P. Kaufman. Adoring grandfather of Edward, Megan and Scott and great grandfather of Noah.
 FASTENBERG--Norman. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Norman ''Danny'' Fastenberg, beloved brother of Dr. David Fastenberg and brother-in-law of Leslie Fastenberg, dedicated friends and leaders whose deep commitment to the New Yor
 Alexander B. Trowbridge, a commerce secretary in the Lyndon B. Johnson administration, a former president of the National Association of Manufacturers and a longtime member of the Washington establishment, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 76. The cause of death was d
 Howard A. Newman, who helped transform a struggling coal-mining company into a diversified conglomerate in the 1950's and 60's and later employed a similar strategy with the Western Pacific Railroad, died on April 12 at his home in Wellington, Fla., near West Palm Beach. Mr. Newman, who als
 DAVIS--O.C. ''Cliff'', 85, an innovator and leader in the natural gas industry, died on Sunday, April 23. As chairman of the American Gas Association, he guided the industry through price decontrol, earning him the Gas Man of the Year Award in 1983. Davis was also known for introducing natu
 HOURAN - James. Parade Magazine mourns the loss of our friend and colleague, James Houran. While he was with the company a very short time, his talent and enthusiasm were evident from the start. Our deepest sympathies go out to his wife, Lori Haskins Houran, and family. Walter Anderson, Cha
 ISEMAN--Joseph S. Brilliant, adventurous, and kind father of Peter, Fred and Ellen, proud and beloved grandfather of Eugenie, Henry and Alex, loving former husband of Marjorie Frankenthaler Iseman and Jay Iseman, stepfather to Anne, Bill and Susan, stepgrandfather to Igor, Adriana, Lily, Ju
 KAPLAN--Sanford. A treasured friend and wise counselor, who served on the Boards of GAF and International Specialty Products for almost 20 years, Sandy was a modest, unassuming man with a remarkable graciousness of manner, endlessly responsive to those close to him. A trusted advisor and bu
 KAYLE--Leonard. Temple Shaaray Tefila records with profound sorrow the death of our cherished member. Heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Florence, his daughter, Kathie Rizzuto and their family and loved ones. May his memory be for blessing. Rabbi Jonathan A. Stein and Michael H
 LOVE--Max. Beloved brother of Alex (Cynthia) and Jean Stein. We deeply mourn his death. He will always be in our hearts. Died April 22.       
 MATTHEWS--MichaelFlagler. Michael passed away on April 24, 2006, in Hawaii. He was born on May 7, 1984, in New York City and raised in Palm Beach, Florida. Michael was 21 years old at the time of his sudden death. He was the beloved son of William Morrison Matthews and Jean Rhodes Matthews 
 WHITNEY--Robert U. Jr. On April 24, 2006. Board Chairman, Squadron A Association. Outstanding friend and mentor, loyal and generous supporter of Squadron A. He will be deeply missed by all.       
 HERSHFIELD--George. In memory of George Hershfield who was a beloved friend and co-worker and was a mentor to us all at Louis Glick & Company. His was a life not only of unflagging dedication to his work, but of complete love and devotion to his family and one that embodied cheerful optimis
 Isaac Witkin, a sculptor whose bold, colorful abstractions helped to shake up the art scenes in London and New York in the 1960's, died on Sunday at his home in Pemberton, N.J. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter Nadine Witkin. In his 20's in London, M
 GIATTINO--Rosario P. Jr. Also known as Russ. Died on April 28, 2006, at age 65 after a year long valiant battle with pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his beloved wife of 42 years, Jill, and his adored daughter, Gabrielle, by his siters, Catherine (Louis), Millie (Angelo), Anna (Bill), M
 ISEMAN--Joseph S. Brilliant, adventurous, and kind father of Peter, Fred and Ellen, proud and beloved grandfather of Eugenie, Henry and Alex, loving former husband of Marjorie Frankenthaler Iseman and Jay Iseman, stepfather to Anne, Bill and Susan, stepgrandfather to Igor, Adriana, Lily, Ju
 LERNER--Jack Newton. Temple Beth EL of Cedar hurst, records with profound sorrow the passing of its long time member Jack Newton Lerner. We grieve with the fa mily on ther loss. Dr. Sholom Stern, Rabbi Richard Holland, President $(6$)LERNER--Jack Newton. The Congregation of the East 55th St
 MATTHEWS--MichaelFlagler. Michael passed away on April 24, 2006, in Hawaii. He was born on May 7, 1984, in New York City and raised in Palm Beach, Florida. Michael was 21 years old at the time of his sudden death. He was the beloved son of William Morrison Matthews and Jean Rhodes Matthews 
 PRYOR--Rt. Rev Msgr. Donald J., passed away on Thursday April 27, 2006. Msgr. Pryor was born December 1, 1925 to Bernard and Nora Pryor. He studied at Cathedral College and St. Joseph's Seminary in Yonkers, NY and was ordained on May 19, 1951 and holds a Master's of Arts in history from For
 RICHMAN--Leonard R. Died Thursday, April 27, 2006, in Boca Raton, FL. He was 80 years old. He served the nation with distinction as a Marine in the South Pacific and China during and after World War II. He lived for more than 48 years in Long Beach, NY. A Commanding Officer in the Auxiliary
 TROWBRIDGE -- Alexander B. On behalf of the Board of Trustees and members of The Conference Board, we are deeply saddened by the death of Alexander B. Trowbridge, who served as our President from 1970 to 1976. Sandy is remembered with great respect and affection as our leader and friend. We
 John Kenneth Galbraith, the iconoclastic economist, teacher and diplomat and an unapologetically liberal member of the political and academic establishment that he needled in prolific writings for more than half a century, died yesterday at a hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 97. 
 BETTAN--Bernard. Affectionately known as BB. Died peacefully on April 20, 2006 in Woodlands, Texas. Devoted husband of Nancy, devoted father, grandfather, great grandfather, brother and uncle. He made us laugh and taught us all to ''Aim High''.       
 DANA--William Hibbard Died April 20 at his home in Duxbury, Massachusetts after a long illness. He was 76. Born in Albany, New York and raised in Rochester, Mr. Dana received a Bachelor of Chemical Engineering and Juris Doctor from Cornell University and an LLM from George Washington Univer
 DAVIDSON--Robert L. A dear friend who will be terribly missed by all who had the good fortune to know him. Truly one of the Good Guys. Steven, Marty, Lenny, Arthur and Edie       
 GIATTINO--Rosario P. Jr. Also known as Russ. Died on April 28, 2006, at age 65 after a year long valiant battle with pancreatic cancer. He is survived by his beloved wife of 42 years, Jill, and his adored daughter, Gabrielle, by his siters, Catherine (Louis), Millie (Angelo), Anna (Bill), M
 HOURAN - James. Parade Magazine mourns the loss of our friend and colleague, James Houran. While he was with the company a very short time, his talent and enthusiasm were evident from the start. Our deepest sympathies go out to his wife, Lori Haskins Houran, and family. Walter Anderson, Cha
 ISEMAN--Joseph S. Brilliant, adventurous, and kind father of Peter, Fred and Ellen, proud and beloved grandfather of Eugenie, Henry and Alex, loving former husband of Marjorie Frankenthaler Iseman and Jay Iseman, stepfather to Anne, Bill and Susan, stepgrandfather to Igor, Adriana, Lily, Ju
 JAFFEE--Roy. April 25, in Glendale, CA, of AML Leukemia. His career in social medicine spanned 40 years. He leaves wife Judy, son Ivan, daughters Elly & Lucy, sister Vicki. He will be missed.       
 KAUFMAN--Edward G. On April 26, 2006 in Delray Beach, FL, age 86, formerly of Great Neck, NY. Beloved husband of the late Ruth L. Kaufman. Devoted father of Edwina Friedman, Diane Weiss and Dr. Matthew P. Kaufman. Adoring grandfather of Edward, Megan and Scott and great grandfather of Noah.
 LERNER--Jack Newton, Esq. Passed away on April 27, 2006 at age 90 from prostate cancer at his home with his beloved family at his side. Loving husband of 62 years of Evelyn; devoted father of Iris and Richard (Ana); proud grandfather of Jennifer and Adam. Born in Russia and emigrated to Ame
 MIAO--Tung. April 26 in Princeton, NJ, at age 90. Beloved husband of Mouchi and father of four and grandfather of nine. He was a diplomat for the Republic of China in South Africa, went to the US to study, and worked 28 years as a translator for the United Nations Secretariat. A memorial se
 MOSCHEL--Irving I., 93, formerly of Indianapolis, IN, and East Brunswick, NJ, died April 16, 2006. Mr. Moschel retired as Area Director of State of Israel Bonds for Indiana and Southern Illinois, as well as Birmingham, IN. He served as Legal Officer, Provost Marshall and Trial Judge Advocat
 NEWCOMB--William E. Former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Great American Insurance Company died April 15, 2006 at 99 years of age. His beloved wife of 68 years, Alice B. Newcomb and his eldest son, William K. Newcomb, preceded him in death. Mr. Newcomb is survived by h
 OLIVERIO--Rocco A. Of Quogue, NY. Our family is heartbroken over the devastating loss of our dear friend, Rocco, after a courageous and valiant battle against cancer. He was an inspiration and hero to those of us who were privileged to know him, and we will keep his spirit with us always. O
 RICHMAN--Leonard R. Died Thursday, April 27, 2006, in Boca Raton, FL. He was 80 years old. He served the nation with distinction as a Marine in the South Pacific and China during and after World War II. He lived for more than 48 years in Long Beach, NY. A Commanding Officer in the Auxiliary
 SEHAM--Martin Charles. A labor attorney who gracefully bridged the ideological chasm between unions and management, died on Saturday, April 1, of heart failure at Englewood Hospital, New Jersey. A Brooklyn boy of modest means, Mr. Seham graduated from Amherst College in 1954, summa cum laud
 STONE--Robert G., Jr. In Loving Memory of Robert G. Stone, Jr. Bob Stone was larger than life! He was a distinguished man of great wisdom, character, integrity, generosity, love and kindness. His friends, from every corner of the world, were blessed to know him. He was a true giver of life 
 TICK--Donald J. Thank you for our wonderful life. Thank you for our loving children, Jeffrey and Debbie, Pamela and Max, Jonny and Cathy. Thank you for the grandchildren that we adore, Ryan, Mikaela, Jenny, Jessy, Lexi, Kelly, Jake, Tyler and Tobey. Thank you for your beloved father, Benjam
 UTTAL--Robert, 100, died April 28, 2006 at home. He is survived by daughters Barbara Clark, Palm Coast, FL, Maxine Uttal, Hilton Head, SC, Elinor Uttal, Pembroke Pines, FL, Patricia Nelson, NYC, sister Toby Cedarbaum, Tucson, AZ, 9 grandchildren, 12 great-grandchildren, 1 great-great grandc
 WESTEN--Joseph. Husband of Ray. Father of Maureen and Richard, and Sondra and Gary. Grandfather and great grandfather. A man who lived with no needs other than the love of his family.       
 WRIGHT--Dr. Harold Samuel, 91, died Sunday, April 23, at the home of his son in Cape Porpoise, ME. A WWII veteran and graduate of Cornell Medical School, he was instrumental in expanding mental health care in New York City and Connecticut, serving both as Director of Psychiatry at Greenwich
 TROWBRIDGE -- Alexander B. On behalf of the Board of Trustees and members of The Conference Board, we are deeply saddened by the death of Alexander B. Trowbridge, who served as our President from 1970 to 1976. Sandy is remembered with great respect and affection as our leader and friend. We
 GUSSOW--Mel. Always remembered. Always missed. Always loved. His Family       
 SPINA--Philip. April 30, 1989. Forever remembered and loved by his family. J.S.S.       
