 BITTKER--David. Hillel: The Foundation for Jewish Campus Life extends its heartfelt condolences to the family of our beloved leader David Bittker. David was a mentor, a role model and a powerful force for Jewish renaissance. He will be profoundly missed.       
 ECKARDT--Richard Derrick. Died peacefully February 10th, 2005 after a brief illness. He was born on December 15th, 1907 in Troy, NY, the only child of Robert Edward Eckardt and Edith Derrick Eckardt. Upon graduation from St. Lawrence University, Class of 1929, he married Ruth Bass Goodnough
 FELD--Harold. Ben-Gurion University of the Negev and American Associates, deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend and long time supporter, Harold Feld. We extend our deepest sympathies to his beloved daughter Stephanie, his grandson Ben Harris, and to the entire family. A. Braverman, Pr
 FISH--Rabbi Judah. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, rabbi of Ahavath Israel in Kingston, NY until retirement. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate, especially, his son, our 
 FRIEDMAN--Rabbi Morris S., He will be remembered and sorely missed by the countless people he touched during his lifetime. His wisdom, dedication and commitment to Jewish causes and Israel is legend. We were honored to know Rabbi Morris Friedman who was a beloved member of our family and a 
 GENET--Leon M. We mourn the loss of our dearly loved, longtime friend. He was an uncle to our children, Mark, Meg & Irwin. His tremendous warmth and perpetual good humor will be sorely missed but remembered always. Our deepest condolences to his bereaved family. May beautiful memories comfo
 GRUNWALD--Henry A. Services Tuesday, March 1st, 10 am, at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Avenue at 65th Street. In lieu of flowers contributions in his memory may be made to the International Rescue Committee, 122 E. 42 St, NY, NY 10168; or the Lighthouse International, 111 E. 59 St, NY, NY 10022.   
 GUTTAG--Irwin ''Gus'', 89, of Delray Beach, FL, and NYC, passed away on Saturday, Februry 26, 2005. Formerly a member of the Board of Directors of the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange and the Chicago Board of Options, at the time of his death Mr. Guttag was a partner of 
 HOLMES--John C. (Jack), 72. On February 23, at his home in Manhattan. Musical Director/Conductor, Composer/ Lyricist, and Author. Jack's multifaceted forty - year career includes Off-Broadway's original Little Mary Sunshine, O Say Can You See! (Music) and Dames At Sea; NBC's The Reluctant D
 KISSIN--Benjamin, M.D. The SUNY Downstate Medical Center community mourns the passing of Benjamin Kissin, M.D., Professor Emeritus of Psychiatry. His many contributions to the study and treatment of alcohol and substance abuse will long be valued and remembered. We extend our condolences to
 KODSI--Elie. Deceased February 2. Dearest brother will be missed forever by his sisters, brothers and friends.       
 LITTLER--William, J. Dr. 89. Beloved mentor to three generations of American hand surgeons, died February 27th in Providence, RI. A pioneer in hand surgery, he established many of the basic principles of this regional specialty. At his request, there will be no funeral services, memorial se
 POLLITT--Basil R., 85, born December 26, 1919 in Huntington, WV, died February 25, 2005 in Brooklyn, NY, of a cerebral hemorrhage. Harvard 1940, Army Air Corps 1942-45, Columbia Law School 1948. Of his many legal and political activities, Basil was proudest of his service to the United Elec
 ROBERTS--Sidney I., died peacefully, February 26, 2005. Born in Brooklyn, NY in 1913, Sidney was an international tax lawyer and co-founder of the law firm Roberts and Holland. He is survived by his wife Arlene, his son Russell, a sister Florence SchulmanRoth, nephew Steven Schulman, wife R
 STRAUSS--Gideon, 89, on February 26, 2005 in NYC. An extraordinary, multi-faceted man -banker, diplomat, art collector, musician -his rich life spanned most of the 20th century in Europe, Palestine/ Israel, and New York. Arriving in Palestine from Europe in 1935, he spent 13 years with the 
 Sumner Gerard, a former Montana cattle rancher and legislator who served as ambassador to Jamaica in the 1970's, died on Feb. 24 in Vero Beach, Fla. Mr. Gerard, 88, was a former resident of Montana and New York. His death was announced by his son, also named Sumner. Mr. Gera
 Nicolas M. Salgo, a Hungarian immigrant who prospered as a financier and a builder of the Watergate complex in Washington and returned to his native Budapest as the United States ambassador in the 1980's, died on Saturday on a visit to Bal Harbour, Fla. He was 90 and lived in Key Largo, Fla
 BUELER--Hans G. of Somers, New York, died peacefully on March 1, 2005, after a long illness. He is survived by his devoted wife of 20 years, ''Pat'' Bueler and by his son, Roland G. Bueler of New York City. He was born in Amriswil, Switzerland, the youngest of four children of Martha and Gu
 GASS--Dr. J. Donald. The Macula Foundation, Inc. mourns the passing of an esteemed colleague and friend, Dr. J. Donald Gass. During his illustrious career, Don made numerous clinical and scientific contributions making him one of the most respected experts on diseases of the retina and macu
 GENET--Leon M., of Short Hills, NJ, a commercial real estate broker who dedicated the majority of his life to supporting the arts, cancer research and a variety of Jewish concerns died February 27 in New York City of heart failure. He was 74 years old. The son of Russian immigrants, Mr. Gen
 GRUNWALD--Henry A. The American Austrian Foundation deeply mourns the loss of Ambassador Henry A. Grunwald, an effective, creative leader of our work, having served with distinction as the United States Ambassador to Austria. As Ambassador and as a dedicated member of our board, he worked t
 HANDLEMAN--Joseph. The Officers, Board of Directors and Staff of American Red Magen David for Israel (ARMDI) deeply mourn the passing of our Honorary Chairman at the age of 99. Mr. Handleman served as President, Chairman and Chairman of the International Committee of Magen David Adom. Throu
 LITTLER--J. William, M.D. The entire family of St. Luke's and Roosevelt Hospitals, acknowledge with deep sadness the passing of our good friend, and long-time colleague, J. William Littler, M.D. Dr. Littler is often credited as one of the driving forces behind the establishment of the disti
 OLIVER--John Lee. Died peacefully at home in East Hampton on February 28, 2005 at the age of 67 after a long battle with Parkinson's disease. Survived by Anne, his loving wife of 39 years, daughter Vicky Oliver, son-inlaw Gordon Cohen, and mother Janice Sullivan. A 1959 graduate of Brown Un
 QUARRIER -- Fitzhugh, of New Canaan, CT, died Saturday, February 26, 2005 at the age 92. Born in Short Hills, NJ, he was educated at Andover and Yale ('35). He worked for the New York Telephone Company. Colonel Quarrier served in World War II in the N.Y. Air Defense Wing and assisted Eleano
 SALGO--Nicolas, Ambassador. The Board of Directors and shareholders of 6 East 72nd Street Corp. regret the passing of Ambassador Salgo and express their condolences to his wife Josseline and family. Ambassador Salgo was a long time resident of the building, former president of the Board and
 SILBERSTEIN--Arnold I. Beloved husband of Nina, adoring father of Stanley and Sharon, dear father-in-law to Wendy and Javier, devoted brother of Annette Hoffman & Sylvia Katzman and doting grandfather to Maren, Mateo, Mirei, Emily and Andrew. Services at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 A
 SPANBOCK--Jonathan. The Board of Directors and The Executive Staff of The ITA Foundation offer our heartfelt sympathy to the famiy of our friend, long-time Board Member and Legal Counselor, Maurice Spanbock, on the untimely death of his beloved son, Jonathan. With profound sorrow and sadnes
 Peter Foy, an innovator in the art of theatrical flight who sent aloft figures from Mary Martin and Sally Field to rotund opera singers in full Valkyrie regalia, died on Feb. 17 in Las Vegas. He was 79 and lived in Las Vegas. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Barbara, said.   
 Dr. George F. Crikelair, a pioneering plastic surgeon at Columbia University who in the 1960's became a leading advocate of fire-resistant coatings for children's sleepwear, died last Thursday at a hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 84. The cause was a stroke, his family said.
 BRAZEAU--Paul, Ph.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of our distinguished Professor Emeritus of Pharmacology, who joined our faculty in 1958 as a founding member of the Department of Pharmacology and was greatly esteemed as an outstanding teacher
 BUELER--Hans G. of Somers, New York, died peacefully on March 1, 2005, after a long illness. He is survived by his devoted wife of 20 years, ''Pat'' Bueler and by his son, Roland G. Bueler of New York City. He was born in Amriswil, Switzerland, the youngest of four children of Martha and Gu
 DAYAN--Raymond. PhillipsVan Heusen Corporation mourns the loss of Raymond Dayan, our business partner and friend of over 40 years. Through his leadership, his company, Dayan Hermanos, built the Van Heusen brand into a leading apparel brand in Panama, but we admired him most for his dedicati
 FITZGERALD--Joseph Patrick. On March 2, 2005. Brooklyn native and W.W. II naval veteran (USS Terror). Retired Trainmaster of 39 years with the NYC MTA. Loving and devoted husband of Eileen (nee Hassett) for 49 years. Beloved father of Beth, John, Regina, Denis, Eileen Hall, Mary, Thomas and
 GENET--Leon M. To Leon, my adoring and affectionate husband, you have been my devoted soulmate and my champion for eighteen years. Our time together has been wonderful. I cherished every single moment of it. I love you and will miss you dearly. You will remain in my hearts and thoughts fore
 GOLDMAN--Sam, 88, on March 1. A super-special husband, brother, father, grandfather and uncle. He leaves behind his beloved Shirley, his wife and best friend for 56 years, brother David, sister Goldie Miller (Stanley), children Ed (Judith Riven), Lisa Polito (Eddie) and Nina Kritter (Peter)
 GRUNWALD--Henry A. The Salzburg Easter Festival, through its American Friends, wishes to express deepest sympathy to the family of Henry Grunwald, a founding Board Member of AFSEF. His love of music and his love of life encouraged us all to look toward a future better than the past. We are 
 HANDELSMAN--Dr. Leonard. 59, of Durham, NC, the son of the late Pauline Weingott and Hyman Handelsman of NYC, died on February 27, 2005 at Duke University Medical Center. He was Clinical Professor at Duke University in the Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Medicine, Medical Director o
 KAPOR--Jesse. On February 28, 2005. He is survived by his beloved wife, Phoebe, his brothers, David and Leo, his daughter, and son-in-law, Gabrielle and Rabbi Steven Tucker, his son, Mitchell Kapor, and daughter-in-law Freada Kapor Klein, and his grandchildren, Samuel, Jonathan, and Ezra Tu
 NEARY--Gerard C., March 1, graduate of Yale and NYU Law School. Beloved companion of Toby Goodyear, father of Lisa Neary and Mary Louise Rubin, step-father of Jake Goodyear and Lauren Schramm, grandfather of six and brother of Susan Greene. We are grateful for sharing his life and will miss
 SALGO -- Nicolas M. The Board and Officers of the American Hungarian Foundation deeply mourn the death of Ambassador Nicolas M. Salgo, who served with distinction as a member of our Board and was a Laureate of the Foundation's George Washington Award. Our sincere condolences are extended to
 SAWYER--Charles H. Died February 25, 2005 at age 98. Born Andover, MA October 20, 1906. Graduated Phillips Academy with AB from Yale in 1929. Began Harvard prelaw, also took Paul Sachs' museum class and was hired in 1930 as first curator of Addison Gallery of American Art, Phillips Academy.
 SHUDOFSKY -- Noam. The Board of Directors, faculty, students and administration of Drisha mourn the untimely passing of Noam Shudofsky. Beloved husband of our dear Board member, Nechi Shudofsky, he was devoted to Jewish education and Israel, and above all, to his family. Our heartfelt condo
 SPANBOCK--Jonathan. The Board of Directors and The Executive Staff of The ITA Foundation offer our heartfelt sympathy to the famiy of our friend, long-time Board Member and Legal Counselor, Maurice Spanbock, on the untimely death of his beloved son, Jonathan. With profound sorrow and sadnes
 Peter Zvi Malkin, a former Israeli intelligence agent who in 1960 captured Adolf Eichmann in Argentina, and who afterward captured him again and again on paper in his second career as a painter and writer, died on Tuesday in a rehabilitation facility in Manhattan. He was believed to be 77, 
 Dr. J. Donald M. Gass, an ophthalmologist whose keen observations led to diagnoses of previously undiscovered diseases of the retina, died last Saturday at his home in Nashville. He was 76. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Working at the Bascom Palmer Eye In
 J. William Littler, a surgeon who developed many techniques for restoring function and sensation to the fingers and wrist, died on Sunday in Providence, R.I. He was 89 and lived in Manhattan. His death followed a head injury suffered in a fall, his family said. Dr. Littler's
 ABRAMOWITZ -- Julius, on March 2, 2005, age 81, of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of East Meadow, NY and Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Loving husband and best friend of Jean (Isacson) for 58 years. Dear father of Alton (Susan Gorelick), Jed (Sherri) and Gwen Leeds (Allan). Preceded too soon by daugh
 BROMBERG--Aron A. On March 1, 2005. At home at the age of 77. A former partner, his career spanned more than 50 years with Stern Metals. Aron was a member of the 24-KT Club and sat on the boards of American ORT and NCCJ. A well-respected and much-loved member of the jewelry industry, Aron w
 FISHER--Max M. The leadership, Board of Trustees and staff of United Jewish Communities notes with deep sorrow the loss of Max M. Fisher, the quintessential Jewish leader and visionary. He died Thursday, March 3rd at 96. For nearly half a century, Fisher was among North America's leading in
 FITZGERALD--Joseph Patrick. On March 2, 2005. Brooklyn native and W.W. II naval veteran (USS Terror). Retired Trainmaster of 39 years with the NYC MTA. Loving and devoted husband of Eileen (nee Hassett) for 49 years. Beloved father of Beth, John, Regina, Denis, Eileen Hall, Mary, Thomas and
 GENET--Leon M. To Leon, my adoring and affectionate husband, you have been my devoted soulmate and my champion for eighteen years. Our time together has been wonderful. I cherished every single moment of it. I love you and will miss you dearly. You will remain in my hearts and thoughts fore
 GOLDMAN--Sam, 88, on March 1. A super-special husband, brother, father, grandfather and uncle. He leaves behind his beloved Shirley, his wife and best friend for 56 years, brother David, sister Goldie Miller (Stanley), children Ed (Judith Riven), Lisa Polito (Eddie) and Nina Kritter (Peter)
 GUTTAG--Irwin. The Chancellor, Board of Trustees, staff and faculty of Syracuse University mourn the passing of Irwin Guttag, alumnus, generous benefactor, Trustee Emeritus, former member of the Corporate Advisory Council and former member of the College for Human Development Board of Visit
 SCHIMMERLING--Leo. Devoted husband of Renay. Beloved father of Gary and Jill Schimmerling and Lori & Richard Thal. Loving brother of Lottie Herman. Cherished grandfather of Joshua, Allie, Justin and Brandon. Services today 12 noon at ''Gutterman's'' 8000 Jericho Turnpike Woodbury, Long Isla
 SELTZER--Martin, 74, on March 3, 2005. Of Marco Island, FL, and Long Branch, NJ. Martin was a leading Public Adjuster for over 40 years and Past President of the Jewish Congregation of Marco Island. Beloved husband, father, brother and grandfather. Service Sunday, March 6, 11:30AM, Hellman 
 SHAW--Al. The Sholom Atlas Family Circle, Inc. records with sorrow the passing of our esteemed Charter Member and Past President. Deepest condolences to his daughter Adele Cohn and family, son Irwin Shaw and family. Larry Atlas, President Delle Margolies, V.P. Fran Atlas Bogdanoff, Secty   
 SHUDOFSKY--Noam. Manhattan Day School-Yeshiva Ohr Torah mourns the passing of Noam Shudofsky. Our heartfelt sympathies to his family. May they be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Elliot Gibber, Chairman Eli Salig, President Rabbi Mordechai Besser Principal       
 SILBERSTEIN--Arnold I. Beloved husband of Nina, adoring father of Stanley and Sharon, dear father-in-law to Wendy and Javier, devoted brother of Annette Hoffman & Sylvia Katzman and doting grandfather to Maren, Mateo, Mirei, Emily and Andrew. Services at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 A
 Sidney I. Roberts, a lawyer whose voluminous work in tax law is considered an authoritative source on how United States taxes apply to people and businesses from other countries, died on Saturday at home in Manhattan. He was 91. The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Arlene.       
 Christopher Wells Hobler, an aspiring musician who founded the fund-raising organization Hope Happens for Neurological Disorders in 2001 when he learned he had Lou's Gehrig's disease, died of the illness on Feb. 16 in St. Louis, his hometown. He was 39. His death was announced on th
 Martin Denny, the bandleader who mingled easygoing jazz with Polynesian instrumentation and jungle noises to exemplify the ''exotica'' sound that swept suburban America in the 1950's and 60's, died on Wednesday at his home in Hawaii Kai, near Honolulu. He was 93. His death was annou
 ABRAMOWITZ -- Julius, on March 2, 2005, age 81, of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of East Meadow, NY and Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Loving husband and best friend of Jean (Isacson) for 58 years. Dear father of Alton (Susan Gorelick), Jed (Sherri) and Gwen Leeds (Allan). Preceded too soon by daugh
 FISHER--Max M. The Washington Institute for Near East Policy mourns the passing of Max M. Fisher. One of the earliest, loyal and most stalwart Trustees, Max Fisher understood the vital role America needs to play in the pursuit of a secure Arab-Israeli Peace and the critical importance of th
 FRICK--Raymond Augustus, Sr. Age 86 years, of Pittstown, NJ, on March 2nd in Hunterdon Medical Center, Flemington, NJ. Born January 16, 1919, Bloomfield, NJ, son of William French Frick and Gertrude Small Frick, he was a graduate of Bloomfield High School where he was a star athlete receivi
 GUTTAG--Irwin. Greenhaven Associates, Inc. mourns the passing of our longtime friend Irwin Guttag and extends sincere condolences to his family. Edgar Wachenheim III, Chairman       
 LEVINE--Larry, age 68, died peacefully at his home on March 4, 2005. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and friend. Remembered by dearest relatives and cherished friends. His lifetime was filled with love, hope, faith and learning experiences. Donations in his memory may be made to the Je
 SCHNEIDER--Leon D. Died on March 2, 2005 at the age of 71. A passionate New Yorker, Mr. Schneider was a graduate of Tilden High School, Columbia University and N.Y.U. Law School. A practicing member of the New York bar for more than 47 years, Mr. Schneider began his legal career with the Wa
 WEINBERG -- Kenneth. On March 3, 2005 at age 60. Devoted husband of Donna, beloved father of Bradford (Marin Oram) and daughter Julie, son of the late Abraham and Sylvia Weinberg, brother to Laurence (Debra) and sister Gail, dear uncle to his nieces and nephews and friend to many. Services 
 Aubelin Jolicoeur, the diminutive, squeaky-voiced, cane-twirling gossip columnist, dandy and rumored political fixer who called himself Mr. Haiti and was best known as the model for the prying journalist and police informer Petit Pierre in Graham Greene's 1966 novel ''The Comedians,'' died 
 ANDREOTTA--John. The law firm of McAloon & Friedman mourns the passing of our friend John Andreotta and extends our deepest sympathy to his wife Marie, his daughters Nancy and Lisa and his entire family.       
 BEHAR -- Howard Michael. Died on Friday, March 4, 2005, at age 62. A lifetime New Yorker, Mr. Behar was a graduate of Brooklyn College. His love of children and education led him to a 34 year career as a teacher. First in Public School 253 in Brooklyn, and later in Intermediate School 72 on
 DOBSEVAGE--Alvin Philip, 82, on February 26th, 2005. A WWII 10th Mountain Division veteran, a linguist, Latin scholar and educator, he is mourned by Ruth, Michael and Sarah Dobsevage; Gertrude, Irving and Robert Diskin; Beth Dobsevage; Dr. Tina Dobsevage, Dr. Jonathan House, and Antonia and
 ENGEL--Morris. Age 86, on March 5, 2005. Filmmaker and photographer died peacefully in his sleep at home surrounded by friends and family. He is remembered as a kind and compassionate person. Beloved father to Andy (Magda), Mary (Darryl), grandfather to Zachary, brother to Pearl and Helen. 
 FISHER--Max M. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of Max M. Fisher of Detroit, a towering American Jewish leader, an internationally respected businessman, sought-after political advisor to American and Israeli statesmen and unstinting philan
 GASH--James Alan. North Chatham, NY, March 3, 2005, James Alan Gash, better known as Jim, died after living several years with cancer. Only child of the late Etta (Press) Gash and Arthur Gash, he was born in Brooklyn on July 15, 1930. A graduate of Poly Prep and Cornell University, he major
 GOOTNICK--Louis, 94 years old, died on February 26, 2005 in Boca Raton, FL, and is survived by his cherished son, Dr. David Gootnick, and beloved daughter-in-law, Margaret Mary Gootnick. Louis' wife, Esther, a beautiful, intelligent, and loving woman, passed away in 1999. His daughter, Luba
 GUTTAG--Irwin. The Bachrach family mourns the loss of our great friend, Irwin Guttag. We will sorely miss his kindness, generosity and wonderful conversation. Ruth, Deborah, Joan, Jeff and Sue       
 HERGET--John T. On February 25, 2005. President of Tegreh & Herget Realty Corp., Manhattan. He is survived by his long-time companion Richard G. Mason, his sister, Catherine Zimmerman, a niece, and two grand nieces. Visitation will be March 22nd 1-2PM at the Horn & Thomes, Inc. Funeral Home
 LAUB--John F. On March 3, 2005, age 57. World traveled and well-known landscape artist and cherished partner of Bruce C. Kingsley. Beloved son of mother and stepfather, Lorraine and Ben Alexander, and father, Richard Laub. Cherished brother of Trish and Bernie Tieger, Lauren and Michael Lau
 LITTLER--William, J. Dr. 89. Beloved mentor to three generations of American hand surgeons, died February 27th in Providence, RI. A pioneer in hand surgery, he established many of the basic principles of this regional specialty. At his request, there will be no funeral services, memorial se
 O'DONNELL--John Logan. On March 4, 2005 at age 90. Trial lawyer who practiced for 65 years and was a prominent member of the NYC bar. Resident of NYC and Palm Beach, FL. He is survived by his wife Michele Fischer O'Donnell. Mr. O'Donnell was a graduate of Williams College and Northwestern L
 OLIVER--John Lee. Died peacefully at home in East Hampton on February 28, 2005 at the age of 67 after a long battle with Parkinson's disease. Survived by Anne, his loving wife of 39 years, daughter Vicky Oliver, son-inlaw Gordon Cohen, and mother Janice Sullivan. A 1959 graduate of Brown Un
 PHILIPP--Howard J. 92, of Greenwich, CT, on March 1, 2005. Survived by his loving companion, Lily Knobler; two daughters, Lynne Alterman and Gail Schaeffer; three grandchildren, four stepgrandchildren and two great grandchildren. His wife of 55 years, Janice K. Philipp, passed away in 1996.
 QUARRIER -- Fitzhugh, of New Canaan, CT, died Saturday, February 26, 2005 at the age 92. Born in Short Hills, NJ, he was educated at Andover and Yale ('35). He worked for the New York Telephone Company. Colonel Quarrier served in World War II in the N.Y. Air Defense Wing and assisted Eleano
 RAIMONDO -- Charles ''Chick,'' builder, businessman, civic leader, of Fort Lee and recently of Closter, at Englewood Hospital after a short illness. He was 72. Mr. Raimondo is survived by his wife Janice of fifty years and four children: Jacey of Wyckoff, Charles Jr. of Manhattan, Shari of 
 SCHACTER--Ralph. March 5. Survived by adoring wife Helen Jankoski, devoted children John (Mary) Schacter and Alan (Durelle) Schacter, and loving grandchildren Philip, Michael, William and Paul, Emma and Jonah. Ralph lives on through his aesthetic vision, uncompromising integrity and boundle
 SCHEFFLER--Allan J. April 15, 1941--March 2, 2005. Former town of Bedford resident, deputy town attorney, prosecutor and judge. Loving son of the late Leo and Adele Scheffler, and brother to Mark. Husband to Frances, and Marilyn of blessed memory, father to Eric, Jill and Elizabeth, daughte
 SCHLEICHER--Rowell A.v.M. (''Tony''). He died peacefully at home on February 26, 2005 at 76. A very special human being. Thoughtful, kind, sweet natured, always ready with a quick smile or incisive comment. A US Air Force pilot, a sculptor, a man of letters, he devoted most of his life to b
 SCHNEIDER--Leon D. Died on March 2, 2005 at the age of 71. A passionate New Yorker, Mr. Schneider was a graduate of Tilden High School, Columbia University and N.Y.U. Law School. A practicing member of the New York bar for more than 47 years, Mr. Schneider began his legal career with the Wa
 SHUDOFSKY--Dr. Noam. It is with a heavy heart and enormous sadness that the Board of Directors, Staff and Students of the Columbia/Barnard Hillel announce the passing of Dr. Noam Shudofsky, beloved father of our dear colleague, friend and mentor, Leora Shudofsky. Dr. Shudofsky passed away p
 TRAFLET--Robert F., Sr., passed away on Monday, February 14, 2005 after a brief battle with cancer. Mr. Traflet founded Neumann Advisors, Inc, an equity management firm, where he worked until his recent illness. Mr. Traflet spent most of his career at Allied Signal Corporation. He joined th
 VEHLOW--Richard Otto. 62, of East Fishkill, formerly of Bayside, died on March 4, 2005. Born on July 29, 1942, in Brooklyn, he was the son of Otto and Myrtle Vehlow. He served in the US Marine Corps. On June 24, 1967, he married Linda Steinitz in Bayside. He was a science teacher for 34 yea
 WEINBERG -- Kenneth. On March 3, 2005 at age 60. Devoted husband of Donna, beloved father of Bradford (Marin Oram) and daughter Julie, son of the late Abraham and Sylvia Weinberg, brother to Laurence (Debra) and sister Gail, dear uncle to his nieces and nephews and friend to many. Services 
 Edward J. Czerwinski, a specialist in Slavic literature and culture who as a theater impresario in the 1970's and 80's introduced many important Eastern European artists to American audiences, died on Feb. 16 in Erie, Pa. He was 75. His friend Edgar Stroke announced his death.      
 Morris Engel, the New York photographer and filmmaker whose 1953 film, ''The Little Fugitive,'' established a model for independent moviemaking that influenced directors like John Cassavetes and François Truffaut, died Saturday at his home on Central Park West. He was 86. The cause
 ADLER--Paul. 83, died on March 6, 2005. Beloved husband of Lucille. Devoted father of David. Dear brother of Harry. He was the ''Honorable Gentleman'' and world traveler. Respected and loved by all. He will be sorely missed. Services Wednesday, 11:45 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Am
 BARBASCH--Mark L., M.D. Beloved husband, father, grandfather. Died March 5, 2005, in New York due to complications following a fall. He was born on June 17, 1912, in Lvov, Poland. After graduating medical school in 1939, he served as a physician in the Soviet Army. After the war, he married
 BROMBERG--Aron A. On March 1, 2005. At home at the age of 77. A former partner, his career spanned more than 50 years with Stern Metals. Aron was a member of the 24-KT Club and sat on the boards of American ORT and NCCJ. A well-respected and much-loved member of the jewelry industry, Aron w
 CUTLER--Jay. Former Director of Government Relations for the American Psychiatric Association, passed away on March 4, 2005. Mr. Cutler was a member of the Bar of the Supreme Court of the United States and the State of New York. Born in Brooklyn, NY, September 7, 1940, Mr. Cutler graduated 
 DOBSEVAGE--Alvin Philip, 82, on February 26th, 2005. A WWII 10th Mountain Division veteran, a linguist, Latin scholar and educator, he is mourned by Ruth, Michael and Sarah Dobsevage; Gertrude, Irving and Robert Diskin; Beth Dobsevage; Dr. Tina Dobsevage, Dr. Jonathan House, and Antonia and
 ENGEL--Morris. Age 86, on March 5, 2005. Filmmaker and photographer died peacefully in his sleep at home surrounded by friends and family. He is remembered as a kind and compassionate person. Beloved father to Andy (Magda), Mary (Darryl), grandfather to Zachary, brother to Pearl and Helen. 
 GOOTNICK--Louis, 94 years old, died on February 26, 2005 in Boca Raton, FL, and is survived by his cherished son, Dr. David Gootnick, and beloved daughter-in-law, Margaret Mary Gootnick. Louis' wife, Esther, a beautiful, intelligent, and loving woman, passed away in 1999. His daughter, Luba
 JONES--William. On February 25, 2005. He was born February 9, 1914 in Brooklyn, NY. He worked for the Department of Parks and was Park Director from 1965 to 1970. He moved to Northern Virginia after retirement.       
 MAISEL--Melvin L. Died March 6, 2005. Devoted husband of 59 years to Selma. Beloved father of Naomi Goldis (Stanley), Marc and David (Tamara) Chernow. Cherished grandfather of Eli Duker (Ruchy), Joshua Duker (Shayna), Jonathan Duker (Susan) and Ezra. A source of great joy to Melvin was that
 O'DONNELL--John Logan. On March 4, 2005 at age 90. Trial lawyer who practiced for 65 years and was a prominent member of the NYC bar. Resident of NYC and Palm Beach, FL. He is survived by his wife Michele Fischer O'Donnell. Mr. O'Donnell was a graduate of Williams College and Northwestern L
 SCHACTER -- Ralph. You were my business partner for over 45 years. You left the people of Greenwich a lasting legacy of good, environmentally-friendly building and site design. You set the standard for integrity in a profession not always known for that. In our first apartment endeavor, you
 SHUDOFSKY -- Noam. The Officers, Board of Directors, Staff and Students at the Columbia/Barnard Hillel mourns the loss of Dr. Noam Shudofsky, father of Leora Shudofsky, our extraordinary Associate Director. As a leader in Jewish Education, Dr. Shudofsky has been supportive of our efforts in
 Sergiu Comissiona, a well-traveled conductor best known in the United States for his work with the Baltimore and Houston Symphony Orchestras and in New York for brief stints as music director of the New York City Opera and the American Symphony Orchestra, died early Saturday in Oklahoma Cit
 Hans A. Bethe, who discovered the violent reactions behind sunlight, helped devise the atom bomb and eventually cried out against the military excesses of the cold war, died late Sunday. He was 98, among the last of the giants who inaugurated the nuclear age. His death was announced
 Harold Brooks-Baker, an American authority on British nobility who was a sought-after commentator on the doings -- serious, scandalous or merely ridiculous -- of the British royal family, died on Saturday in London. He was 71 and had lived in London for more than 30 years. The cause
 ADLER--Paul. 83, died on March 6, 2005. Beloved husband of Lucille. Devoted father of David. Dear brother of Harry. He was the ''Honorable Gentleman'' and world traveler. Respected and loved by all. He will be sorely missed. Visitation Tuesday, 7 to 9:30 PM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and
 BARBASCH--Mark L., M.D. Beloved father and grandfather. Died March 5, 2005. Will be greatly missed by his children Lynn and Avi and grandchildren Nadine and Emily.       
 COMISSIONA--Sergiu. Manhattan School of Music mourns the loss of our longtime friend, Sergiu Comissiona. Maestro Comissiona visited the school as guest conductor on numerous occasions. Our student musicians have been privileged to share the intellect, musicianship, passion and humanity that
 CRIFASI--Frank J. The Board of Trustees and Administration of Maimonides Medical Center mourn with profound sadness the loss of Dr. Frank Crifasi, a member of the Board of Trustees since 1992. Dr. Crifasi served as Chairman of Maimonides Community Board for Ambulatory Services for more that
 FISHER--Max. The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum mourns the loss of Max Fisher. A Museum Founder, his early generosity was instrumental in creating the institution. His philanthropy and leadership were marked by an extraordinary vision. We extend our sincere condolences to his wife,
 ROSENBAUM--Aaron. Yeshivat Sha'alvim extends heartfelt condolences to vice president, Rabbi Yitzchok Rosenbaum, and to his mother and siblings. Hamakom Yenachemchem.       
 STEWART--Jack, Ph.D., NA; died March 4, 2005. Husband of Regina, father of Brandon, son of Lil, brother of William and Travis. Jack was Past President of the National Society of Mural Painters, the Fine Arts Federation, the Artists Welfare Fund (AWF), and New York Artists Equity Association
 George Atkinson, who helped popularize home viewing of Hollywood films by opening the first video rental store in 1979, died on Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 69. The cause was emphysema, the Video Software Dealers Association said. ''He really gave birth to the
 ADDEO--Richard. The Officers, Members and Staff of New York Electrical Contractors Association, Inc. mourn the untimely passing of their friend and associate Richard Addeo. Richard distinguished himself in so many ways during his career in the Electrical Industry, his counsel will be missed
 BELLARD--Justice William T On March 7, 2005. Beloved husband of Eileen for the past 56 years. Father of William, Joseph, and James. Brother of Margaret Wilson. Grandfather of Joanne, Lorraine, Peter, Paul, Douglas, Timothy, and Mary. Great Grandfather of Ryan. Graduate of Brooklyn College a
 COMISSIONA--Sergiu. Devoted and beloved husband of Robinne, a musical genius who will be missed desperately by those near to him and the many whose lives he touched through his music and his humanity. Services Thursday March 10, 1PM at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam Av
 ENGEL--Morris. The cast and crew of the remake of ''Little Fugitive'' mourn the loss of the influential, gifted filmmaker and photographer, Morris Engel. With wisdom, kindness, humor, optimism, creative vision, energy and a true passion for life, he was an inspiration to us all. We extend o
 FISHER--Max. Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, mourns the loss of a towering figure in American Jewish life. A man of multiple interests and extraordinary generosity, Max Fisher's impact has been felt in this country and in Israel for nearly a century and will be felt f
 FRANKEL--Robert Sidney, MD, 82. Husband, father, grandfather, surgeon, mentor, community man, a quiet healer of integrity and honor. Former Chief of Surgery at Pascack Valley Hospital and former Director of Oncologic Surgery at Hackensack University Medical Center. You cared kindly and self
 HERSON--Morris. Of White Plains, NY, died peacefully at home on March 7, 2005 at age 76. Beloved husband of the late Pearl Herson. Dear father, grandfather and brother. Respected leader and philanthropist, Mr. Herson was founder and President of MH Concepts International Ltd., a promotional
 MAISEL--Melvin. The Jewish Community mourns the passing of Melvin Maisel. A visionary leader, philanthropist, and friend. Our thoughts and prayers are with his wife Selma and the entire family. UJA Federation of Greenwich       
 ROSENBAUM--Aaron. We offer our Kos Tanchumim to the entire Rosenbaum family. Aaron was a generous man whose open hand epitomized the highest standards of Jewish values. Condolences to our Diamond Founders Doctor Belle and Rabbi Jacob Rosenbaum on the loss of his brother and to Aaron's wife 
 TOKIEDA--George Z. The Brearley School community deeply mourns the passing on March 5, 2005 of George Z. Tokieda, a treasured member of our science faculty, who served as department head from 1977-1983 and was department co-head from 1983-1986; he was also the holder of a Chair for Excellen
 TUCKER--William D., Jr. Age 87, of Scituate, MA passed away on March 7, 2005. Son of the late Mr. and Mrs. William D. Tucker of Rye, NY. Mr. Tucker, formerly of Pelham, NY, was a retired senior partner in the New York Law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell, and former director of the Chubb Corpo
 Don Celender, an art professor and quirky Conceptual artist whose projects involved taking polls, died on March 3 in Pittsburgh. He was 73 and lived in St. Paul, Minn. The cause was cancer, said Ivan C. Karp of the OK Harris Gallery in SoHo, his longtime representative. Mr. 
 Glenn Davis, the 1946 Heisman Trophy winner who teamed with Doc Blanchard on the undefeated Army teams of the mid-1940's to form college football's most celebrated backfield pairing, died yesterday at his home in La Quinta, Calif. He was 80. The cause was complications of prostate c
 John Laub, a New York-based landscape painter, died on March 3 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 57. The cause was leukemia, said his partner, Bruce C. Kingsley. Mr. Laub painted scenic views in places like Fire Island, Woodstock, Martha's Vineyard and Mount Des
 ADDEO--Richard. The Officers, Members and Staff of New York Electrical Contractors Association, Inc. mourn the untimely passing of their friend and associate Richard Addeo. Richard distinguished himself in so many ways during his career in the Electrical Industry, his counsel will be missed
 BELLARD--Justice William T On March 7, 2005. Beloved husband of Eileen for the past 56 years. Father of William, Joseph, and James. Brother of Margaret Wilson. Grandfather of Joanne, Lorraine, Peter, Paul, Douglas, Timothy, and Mary. Great Grandfather of Ryan. Graduate of Brooklyn College a
 BETHE--Hans Albrecht. Cornell University mourns the loss of one of science's most universally admired figures and a giant of 20th-century physics, Nobel laureate Hans Bethe, emeritus professor at Cornell University. A devoted instructor, Bethe joined Cornell in 1935 after fleeing Nazi Germa
 BROMBERG--Aron A. The Jewelry Industry Chapter of American ORT mourns the passing of our dear friend and longtime supporter Aron Bromberg. We will miss him greatly. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family. Michael Kaplan, Chapter President Phyllis Bergman, Chapter Chairman Gary Perl,
 COMISSIONA--Maestro Sergiu. ICM Artists mourns the loss of Maestro Sergiu Comissiona who was a revered member of the ICM conducting roster for the better part of twenty years. He will be sorely missed not only as a world-class maestro but also as a dear friend to all he encountered. We will
 COOK--Raymond. The partners and entire staff of Sholom & Zuckerbrot Realty express their deepest sympathies to Carol Cook and the entire Cook family on the sudden passing of Ray Cook. Ray was a prominent leader in the business community-a longtime business associate and a dear friend. He wi
 GANIS--Jesse J., 90, of New Rochelle, NY. Survived by his loving wife, Florette; children Sheldon and Susan Ganis, Linda and Mark Fitzsimmons; grandchildren Danielle and Eric Ganis, and Sean and Michael Fitzsimmons. He is loved and will be deeply missed by all. Services were held at Temple 
 MATTHEWS--James S. on March 6, 2005. His wife, Elizabeth Reynolds Matthews; a son, James; a grandson, Jimmy; five stepchildren; six step-grandchildren; a sister, Ann Marie Trotter; and two brothers, William and Philip, survive him. Mary Elizabeth Gallagher Matthews, predeceased him.       
 ROSENBAUM--Aaron. The Yeshiva University and Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary Family is saddened by the passing of a distinguished leader of the Jewish community. Our sincerest condolences to his wife, Rosalind, children Anne Rosenbaum (and Rabbi Harvey) Senter, Esther Rosenbaum (a
 TUCKER--William D., Jr. Age 87, of Scituate, MA passed away on March 7, 2005. Son of the late Mr. and Mrs. William D. Tucker of Rye, NY. Mr. Tucker, formerly of Pelham, NY, was a retired senior partner in the New York Law firm of Davis Polk & Wardwell, and former director of the Chubb Corpo
 Richard Lupino, an actor and member of a distinguished theatrical family, died on Feb. 9 at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, his wife, Pandora Bronson Lupino, said. Mr. Lupino appeared on Broadway, in television series like ''
 James Biddle, a leader in preserving America's homes and landscapes of historic value, including Andalusia, his family's 19th-century estate near Philadelphia, died at home there yesterday. He was 75. He died in his sleep of natural causes, his family said. As president of t
 BELLARD -- William T., March 7. The members of the Supreme Court Board of Justices mourn the passing of our esteemed and cherished colleague, Justice William T. Bellard. Justice Bellard served the Supreme Court with distinction. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Eileen and fam
 FLYNN--Robert Hugh on March 8, 2005 of Southampton, NY formerly of Garden City, NY. Beloved husband of Karen. Loving father of Carris, Michael and Billy. Cherished son of William and Margaret Flynn. Dear brother of Maureen Walsh, William and James Flynn. Fond nephew of Hugh and Joan Flynn, 
 GREENBLATT -- Gedalje (Sam), 87, died in Chesterfield, MO, on December 26, 2004, following a brief battle with cancer. Mr. Greenblatt was born in Poland and was a Holocaust Survivor. He and his deceased wife Sara had lived for many years in Bayside, NY, where he was known to his neighbors a
 HOLLANDER--Leo L. Of Boca Raton, Florida, died peacefully on March 9, 2005 at the age of 68. Survived by his wife of 45 years, Cynthia Hollander. Dear father, grandfather and brother. Mr. Hollander was Chairman and CEO of Hollander Home Fashions in Boca Raton, FL. His vision, integrity and 
 HUI--Shui Tong. Passed away on February 20, 2005 of a heart attack. A memorial service to be held in his memory at 9:30AM on March 19 at Christ Church, Washington Parish, 620 G Street SE, Washington, DC, 20003. In lieu of flowers, donations to the American Heart Association.       
 JACOBS--Alvin David, DDS, of New York, NY, on January 31, 2005. Beloved brother of the late Alexander Jacobs, DDS, and Hannah Eisenstein, Dr. Alvin Jacobs is survived by his nieces and nephews, Lynda Feldman, Jerry Eisenstein, and Alice and David Jacobs. Burial services were conducted Febru
 KLINGER--Ben. The Kern family extends its heartfelt condolences to Neil Klinger and the entire Klinger family. Neil always spoke most highly of his father. He will be sorely missed.       
 MALITZ--Michael of Point Lookout, LI on March 7, 2005. Graduate of Princeton University of '56. Survived by his wife Muriel. Beloved father of Michelle, Jeanne, Jennifer, Michael, Christina and Allison. Loving ''Grandaddy'' of seven. Reposing after 7PM Sunday at Charles J. O'Shea Funeral Ho
 RODGERS -- James Beall, M.D. Died in Englewood, NJ on March 9, 2005. He was educated at the University of Virginia where he received his M.D.. He completed his surgical training in New York at Columbia University and Bellevue Hospitals. He was a senior attending surgeon at St. Luke's - Roos
 William G. Craig, who led college systems in California and Vermont and directed the Monterey Institute of International Studies, died on Monday at his home in San Diego. He was 90. The death was confirmed by his son Gregory B. Craig, the Washington lawyer. The elder Mr. Cra
 George Scott, who in 1939 with other blind youths formed the exuberant gospel group that earned raucous renown as the Blind Boys of Alabama, died on Wednesday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 75. The death was announced by Clarence Fountain, another original member of the group. T
 CARTER--J. Michael. The Salzhauer family expresses its deepest sympathies to the Carters. Mike was a good friend and a trusted advisor. We will always remember and miss him.       
 FLYNN--Robert Hugh. Mutual of America and its Board of Directors, together with all of its officers and employees, mourn with great sadness the loss of Robert Hugh Flynn-beloved son of our friend and Chairman William J. Flynn and his wife Peg, and brother of our colleague Jim. We extend our
 HUETTNER--Richard Alfred, 77, on March 9, 2005. Husband of Eunice B., father of Jennifer Huettner and Barbara Stead; stepfather of Elizabeth Turner and Marc Dowd and seven grandchildren. Graduate of Yale University 1949 and University of Penn Law 1952. He was a partner at Kenyon & Kenyon La
 KANEKO -- Mamoru. The staff of the Lillian and Henry Stratton-Hans Popper Department of Pathology of the Mount Sinai Medical Center deeply mourns the passing of Mamoru Kaneko. As Professor of Pathology and Director of Surgical Pathology, Dr. Kaneko was our beloved colleague, and the guiding
 LEWIS--Arthur. The Board of Governors and members of Beach Point Club note with deep sorrow the passing of our fellow member, Arthur Lewis, and extend sincere condolences to his family. Charles J. Block, President       
 RUFINO -- Joseph. Beloved partner of Martin Santomenno. Leaves behind best friend Douglas Wentz, sisters Trudy Maniscalco and Margaret Settiducati. He was predeceased by siblings Marie Scaramuzzo and Louis Rufino, Sr. He served in the Vietnam War and then as Senior Vice President of Human R
 SCOTT--Lisa (Lisa Babis) on March 11, 2005. Beloved mother of William A. Babis and his wife Doreen. Also survived by four grandchildren. The family will receive friends at the Chas. Peter Nagel Funeral Home, 352 E. 87th St., NYC on Sunday 2-5 and 79 PM. Cremation private.       
 UNGEMACH--Everett. Age 87, died on March 10, 2005, Albuquerque, NM. Rare such a valiant gentleman. Loving husband of the late Winifred Farrell Ungemach. He will be deeply missed.       
 WOHLMAN--Robert F., (84), on March 10, 2005. He is survived by his loving wife of 61 years, Vivian Wohlman, his son Gary and his daughter Leslie Wohlman Himmel and son-in-law Jeffrey Himmel, and his grandchildren Andrea and David. Services to be held at 12:00 Noon on Sunday, March 13th at F
 Richard P. Godwin, a former engineering executive who tried during the Reagan administration to reform the Defense Department's buying practices, died on March 3 in San Rafael, Calif. He was 82. The cause was complications of progressive supranuclear palsy, a degenerative disease of
 William Murray, a versatile and prolific writer who divided his talents between Italy, principally as a contributor to the ''Letter from Italy'' column for The New Yorker magazine, and a series of mysteries set at a California racetrack, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived i
 Bill Potts, a jazz arranger, pianist and educator, died on Feb. 16 in Plantation, Fla. He was 76 and lived in Fort Lauderdale. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his daughter, Christi Desky. Mr. Potts first attracted attention in the early 1950's as chief arranger for the Or
 Danny Gardella, a former outfielder for the New York Giants who challenged baseball's reserve clause in a 1947 federal lawsuit, an early chapter in the labor-management skirmishes that ultimately brought free agency and multimillion-dollar player contracts, died last Sunday at his home in Y
 Fred G. Burke, who oversaw sweeping changes in the financing and accountability of public schools as the commissioner of education for Rhode Island and then New Jersey in the 1970's and early 1980's, died Friday at Newton Memorial Hospital in Newton, N.J. He was 79 and lived in Milford, Pa.
 BLANK--Myron N. (Mike) of Des Moines, Iowa. Mike's family, friends and community celebrate the life and mourn the passing of this fine gentleman who made such a difference in so many lives. As president of Central States Theatre Corp. Mike operated an influential theater circuit in Iowa and
 CARTER--J. Michael. The Executive committee, Foundation Board of Directors and staff of the Metropolitan Golf Association mourn the passing of their Vice President, Michael Carter on March 10. His dedication to the game of golf, to his club, the Association and our charitable Foundation's j
 DAVIS--Glenn. The Heisman Trophy family mourns the loss of Glenn Davis. He was a valued friend to everyone associated with the Trophy, and his presence will be deeply missed. Ever since his Heisman winning season of 1946 the Trophy could count on Glenn's support for all of its endeavors, an
 FLYNN--Robert Hugh. Mutual of America and its Board of Directors, together with all of its officers and employees, mourn with great sadness the loss of Robert Hugh Flynn-beloved son of our friend and Chairman William J. Flynn and his wife Peg, and brother of our colleague Jim. We extend our
 GUSSMAN--Herbert. Of Tulsa, Oklahoma, on March 12, 2005, at the age of 93. Loving father of Ellen G. Adelson and Barbara G. Heyman. Loving grandfather of David Adelson, Robert Adelson, James Adelson, Thomas Adelson, Alexandra Nash and the late Claudia Heyman, and 17 great-grandchildren, and
 HUTTON--William L., 82, on March 4, 2005, at home in Whispering Pines, N.C. Formerly of New York City, East Hampton, NY, and Vero Beach, FL. Survived by his wife of 22 years, Marcia Breen Hutton; daughters, Consuelo, Linda, Cynthia and Mimi, nine grandchildren. The gentlest of gentlemen, de
 JACOBS--Alvin David, DDS, of New York, NY, on January 31, 2005. Beloved brother of the late Alexander Jacobs, DDS, and Hannah Eisenstein, Dr. Alvin Jacobs is survived by his nieces and nephews, Lynda Feldman, Jerry Eisenstein, and Alice and David Jacobs. Burial services were conducted Febru
 KUDLER -- Allen M. On March 10, 2005. Beloved son, brother and uncle to Miriam and Jonah. He is loved and will be sorely missed by all whose lives he touched.       
 SAVITT--Dr. Robert A. On March 10, 2005 in his 99th year. Beloved husband of the late Basia Savitt. Will be missed by his many friends.       
 TICK--Herbert. The Board of Governors and Members of High Ridge Country Club acknowledge with deep sorrow the passing of our esteemed member, Herbert Tick. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Phyllis and their family. Jack Sussman, President Joseph Lehman, Secretary       
 UNGEMACH--Everett. Age 87, died on March 10, 2005, Albuquerque, NM. Rare such a valiant gentleman. Loving husband of the late Winifred Farrell Ungemach. He will be deeply missed.       
 VIEBRANZ--Alfred C. The St. Lawrence University Board of Trustees, in official action, has honored late University benefactor and volunteer leader Alfred C. Viebranz '42. Mr. Viebranz was president of the Alumni Executive Council, chair of the Board of Trustees and at the time of his death 
 WEISS--Mandel (Manny). 96. Brilliant and loving died March 4, 2005 in Miami, FL. Formerly of Long Beach, NY. He was CEO of Rheingold Breweries. Preceded in death by wife Sari. Survived by daughter Diane and husband Maurice Mufson, M.D., grandchildren Michael (Dorie) Mufson, Karen (Greg) Kle
 WINBURY--Martin. Pioneer in research of cardiovascular drugs, died March 4, 2005 at 86. His surviving daughters are Gail Winbury, Nancy Winbury and grandchildren Julie, Emily and Dan. Services are March 27, 1-3, in Westfield, NJ, at home of Gail Winbury. Donations to the American Heart Asso
 WOHLMAN--Robert F., (84), on March 10, 2005. He is survived by his loving wife of 61 years, Vivian Wohlman, his son Gary and his daughter Leslie Wohlman Himmel and son-in-law Jeffrey Himmel, and his grandchildren Andrea and David. Services to be held at 12:00 Noon on Sunday, March 13th at F
 YANOWITCH -- Murray (Mike). The M.E. Sharpe publishing family mourns the loss of our longtime colleague and dear friend Mike Yanowitch, economist, editor, and author, who died on March 2, 2005, in New York. Born in Harbin, Manchuria, in 1923, he emigrated to the United States with his famil
 ZIMMERMAN -- Robert W., Jr., of Hampton Bays, NY, international accountant, 91, died on March 7, 2005. He is survived by wife, Jeanne Bowlan, and two sons, Robert W., III and John Zimmerman, and by three stepsons, Christopher, Morgan, and Mark Dodd. Brother of the late Belle Douglas and F.F
 DUNDES -- Lester. Never missed a day reading The New York Times. Should he happen to be reading it now, it's be a long, lonely year. Seena       
 Fred G. Burke, who oversaw sweeping changes in the financing and accountability of public schools as the commissioner of education for Rhode Island and then New Jersey in the 1970's and early 80's, died Friday at Newton Memorial Hospital in Newton, N.J. He was 79 and lived in Milford, Pa.  
 GUSSMAN--Herbert. Of Tulsa, Oklahoma, on March 12, 2005, at the age of 93. Loving father of Ellen G. Adelson and Barbara G. Heyman. Loving grandfather of David Adelson, Robert Adelson, James Adelson, Thomas Adelson, Alexandra Nash and the late Claudia Heyman, and 17 great-grandchildren, and
 HINCKLEY--George R. 78. On March 12, 2005, in Manhattan. Born in Yorkville, July 29, 1926, lifelong New Yorker, graduate of Fordham College and St. John's Law School, practiced law with the Legal Aid Society and the firms Javits & Javits, Javits Hinckley Rabin & Engler, and Hinckley & Silbe
 KANEKO -- Mamoru. We mourn the death of our teacher, a brilliant pathologist who devoted 40 years of his life to the cause of The Mount Sinai Medical Center, and extend to his wife, Mrs. Ranko Kaneko, our condolences. The dedication to craft of this most gifted diagnostician and educator re
 STRAUSS--Herbert A. The directors, officers and members of the American Federation of Jews from Central Europe deeply mourn the passing of Professor Herbert A. Strauss, longtime President of the Research Foundation for Jewish Immigration and a Board member of the Federation. A native of Wue
 WOHLMAN--Robert F., (84), on March 10, 2005. He is survived by his loving wife of 61 years, Vivian Wohlman, his son Gary and his daughter Leslie Wohlman Himmel and son-in-law Jeffrey Himmel, and his grandchildren Andrea and David. The family will receive friends at 125 E. 72nd Street on Mon
 Bartolo Mascarello, a Barolo winemaker whose enduring adherence to traditional practices in the face of changing fashions made him a symbol of staunch loyalty, died Saturday at his home in the town of Barolo, Italy. He was 78. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his daughter, Maria-T
 BRODY--Barry, on March 13th, 2005 at 72 years old in Boynton Beach, FL. Beloved husband of 50 years of Feige. Loving father of Steven (Cindy) of Edison, NJ; Mark (Pamela) of Delmar, NY and Linda (Gary) Bakst of Slingerlands, NY. Devoted grandfather to Joshua, Samuel, Nicolette, Scott, Leah 
 FIELDS--Harry W. Long-time resident of Chappaqua and Scarborough, N.Y., died March 13, 2005 at Westchester County Medical Center, nine days before his 90th birthday. He was born in Brooklyn, N.Y. on March 22, 1915. A veteran of WWII, he was a Sergeant in the U.S. Army Air Force. Mr. Fields 
 FOX--Arthur H. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved father Arthur Fox. The most devoted husband of Shirley Fox. Loving father of Clara and Walter Riccardi; Jordan, Dana and Richard and Ellen Fox. Grandfather of Benjamin, Nicholas, Harry, Jacob Riccardi; Amanda, Steven, Maris
 GUSSMAN--Herbert. Of Tulsa, Oklahoma, on March 12, 2005, at the age of 93. Loving father of Ellen G. Adelson and Barbara G. Heyman. Loving grandfather of David Adelson, Robert Adelson, James Adelson, Thomas Adelson, Alexandra Nash and the late Claudia Heyman, and 17 great-grandchildren, and
 HOWARD--Nathan Southard. On March 12, 2005, at age 63. Committed and respected Vice President of the Energy Divison of The Bank of New York. Beloved father of Ercil Howard-Wroth and Lyndsay Howard-Zita. Adored grandfather of Elisabeth, Nathan, Alexander and Theodore. Son of Catherine Southa
 KANEKO--Mamoru, M.D. It is with profound sorrow that the Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our dear friend and colleague, one of Mount Sinai's greatest resources for over 40 years. He produced an enviable record of seminal and classic tomes which have become required reading by patho
 LESTER--William M., 97, of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Livingston and West Orange, NJ died Saturday night of complications after a fall at his home. He was the beloved and loving husband of Gloria Genin Lester whom he married in 1994. Bill was a professional engineer whose adaptation of t
 LEWIS--Robert A. Age 90, of Great Neck, NY, died March 9, 2005, at Good Samaritan Hospital, West Palm Beach, FL. He was born in Brooklyn, NY, son of the late Oscar and Mabel Lewis. He was a successful attorney, decorated W.W. II veteran and active member of his community. He was the loving 
 RODGERS--James Beall. The entire St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center family joins with the physicians and staff of the Department of Surgery, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our dear friend and colleague, James Beall Rodgers, M.D., world-renowned surgeon and former senior atte
 SAVITT--Dr. Robert. We mourn the death of Dr. Robert Savitt on March 10, 2005 in his 99th year. Charter Member of the Psychoanalytic Association of New York, he was its President from 1973 to 1975. Clinical Professor of Psychiatry and Training and Supervising Analyst at the NYU Psychoanalyt
 SPRAFKIN--Samuel M. Age 93. On March 14, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Ida. Devoted father of David and father-in-law of Hildy. Adoring and proud grandfather of Mara and Jenna, friend to many. A WWII Army veteran, Sam was an avid sailor and an active member of the New York Bar for over 
 STEIN--Norton S., 79, of Glen Rock, NJ on March 13, 2005. Survived by his wife Diana, son David (Rebecca), daughter Perri (Mario) Procida, grandchildren Dylan, Peter, Michael and Parker. Services are today, 12:30PM at Robert Schoem's Menorah Chapel, W-150 Rt 4, Paramus, NJ.       
 WOLTER--James G. James G. Wolter, age 61, of Gulf Stream, FL, passed away on Sunday, March 13, 2005. Jim was born in Brooklyn, NY, the son of the late John and Loretta Wolter. He recently retired after 33 years of extraordinary service with Volkswagen of America. The focus of Jim's life was
 DUNDES -- Lester. Never missed a day reading The New York Times. Should he happen to be reading it now, its been a long, lonely year. Seena       
 Sy Wexler, an award-winning documentary filmmaker whose educational movies -- from ''Squeak the Squirrel'' to ''Teeth Are for Life'' -- flickered for decades in darkened classrooms around the world, died on Thursday in Los Angeles. He was 88 and lived in Hollywood. The cause was can
 ARENSON--Joseph T. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved father, Joseph T. Arenson. The most devoted husband of Lucille Arenson, loving father of Lois and Aron Kressel and Steven and Brenda Arenson, loving grandfather of Melanie, Daniel and Perri Kressel, brother of Mrs. Emma
 CARPENTER--Vernon John (Jack). General Tax Counsel of Viacom Inc., died suddenly on March 12 at his home in West Harrison, NY. He was 51. Mr. Carpenter was Vice President and General Tax Counsel of Viacom Inc. and responsible for the worldwide tax affairs of the company. He previously held 
 CHREIN--The Hon. Aaron Simon, age 71, on March 15th, 2005. Beloved husband of Toba, devoted father of Molly and father-in-law of Andrew Hyman. Adoring grandfather of Lily Ella and Nathaniel. He is survived by his brother, Dr. Samuel Loeb Chrein, and family members, Carol and Walter Wantman 
 EMMER -- Martin. Died March 13, 2005 in Seattle, Washington at the age of 86. He is survived by his loving wife, Ruth, son Fred, daughter, Hilary, grandson, Josh Gray-Emmer, granddaughters, Tamar Dunn & Natasha Dunn, and sisters, Ethel Jones & Florence Schachter. ''Marty'' was born, raised,
 GREENE--Henry George Architect and Developer for over 65 years. Died March 13, 2005 at the age of 93. Greene had a long and successful career. His many projects included industrial and office buildings, housing and apartment developments, shopping centers, hotels, and broadcasting, entertai
 HOWARD--Nathan Southard. On March 12, 2005, at age 63. Committed and respected Vice President of the Energy Divison of The Bank of New York. Beloved father of Ercil Howard-Wroth and Lyndsay Howard-Zita. Adored grandfather of Elisabeth, Nathan, Alexander and Theodore. Son of Catherine Southa
 LEHRMAN--Rabbi Irving F. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, rabbi emeritus of Temple Emanuel of Miami Beach. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate.       
 LESTER--William. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of William Lester of Westfield, N.J. and Delray Beach, FL. A founding member of the organization and a life trustee of the Board of Regents, Dr. Lester was a steadfast and inspiring friend f
 RIZACK--Martin A. MD. Ph.D. The Medical Letter mourns the loss of Martin Rizack on March 7, 2005. Martin, who was a distinguished researcher at Rockefeller University, was an integral part of our publication, beginning in 1966 as a member of our editorial board. One of the first people in m
 RIZZO--Joseph N., 86, died March 15, 2005. Born on December 6, 1918 in Astoria, NY son of Joseph N. and Caroline (Kamred) Rizzo. Graduated Tome School in Port Deposit, MD 1939, Amherst (MA) College 1943. He served in the United States Army from 1943 to 1947 finishing his duty as a Captain. 
 STERN--Jack, 93, on March 14, formerly of Roslyn Heights, New York. He is survived by children Marcy and Harvey Finkelstein, Shelly and Michael Propper and Alan and Nancy Stern, five grandchildren, four great grandchildren, a brother and two sisters. A founding member of Temple Beth Shalom 
 Redmond A. Simonsen, an early maker of strategic board games that scaled some of history's great battles down to table size and helped propel the amateur war games craze of the 1970's, died last Wednesday in Garland, Tex. He was 62 and lived in Richardson, Tex. The cause was heart f
 William M. Lester, who revolutionized the plastics industry 70 years ago with his design for an automatic molding machine, died on Saturday at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 97. The cause was injuries suffered as a result of a fall, said his wife, Gloria Genin Lester.        
 Herbert L. Seegal, whose analytical approach to courting shoppers at R.H. Macy & Company helped start the chain's move to a more upscale market in the 1970's and who trained several of its future leaders, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 89. The cause was 
 ARENSON--Joseph T. Upper East Side Hatzolah mourns the passing of a friend and truly extraordinary individual. We are grateful for his kindness to Hatzolah and extend heartfelt condolences to the entire bereaved family. David W. Shipper Andrew M. Shipper Coordinators ARENSON--Joseph
 CHREIN--The Hon. Aaron Simon, age 71, on March 15th, 2005. Beloved husband of Toba, devoted father of Molly and father-in-law of Andrew Hyman. Adoring grandfather of Lily Ella and Nathaniel. He is survived by his brother, Dr. Samuel Loeb Chrein, and family members, Carol and Walter Wantman 
 GAINES--Jack. (Born Jacob Ginsberg) on March 7, peacefully, in his sleep, in his home in Tiburon at the age of 86. Beloved father of Nora, and beloved husband of Eugenija, adored uncle of Judy, Howard, Elliot, Lynn, and Hedy. He leaves us a legacy of intense curiosity, passionate intellect,
 HOWARD--Nathan Southard. On March 12, 2005, at age 63. Committed and respected Vice President of the Energy Divison of The Bank of New York. Beloved father of Ercil Howard-Wroth and Lyndsay Howard-Zita. Adored grandfather of Elisabeth, Nathan, Alexander and Theodore. Son of Catherine Southa
 LOWELL--Stanley H., on March 16, beloved husband of Lee, cherished father of Jeff and wife Eleanor, Darcy and husband Jay, Lauri and husband Isaiah, adored stepfather of Barry and wife Jennifer Schaevitz, and Scott and wife Sue Schaevitz. He is also survived by eight grandsons. Stanley H. L
 SCHMERKEN--Morton L. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved Morton L. Schmerken. Devoted husband of Bernyce Roberts Schmerken. Loving father of Ivy and Larry Samuels, and Merritt and Bob Greene. Devoted grandfather of Jordan, Alexa, Olivia, Remy and Brandon. Brother of Stanley
 THEUNE--Adalbert, 83, of Yaphank, NY on March 15, 2005. Recipient of the Officers Cross of the Federal Republic of Germany in recognition of his work for the German American Community, and Past National Chairman of the Steuben Society of America. Beloved husband of Christel (nee Schmitz). L
 Dick Radatz, a dominant relief pitcher of the 1960's for the Boston Red Sox who was known as the Monster for his overpowering fastballs and fearsome physique, died Wednesday at his home in South Easton, Mass. He was 67. His death was announced by his son, Dick Jr., who said his fath
 George F. Kennan, the American diplomat who did more than any other envoy of his generation to shape United States policy during the cold war, died on Thursday night in Princeton, N.J. He was 101. Mr. Kennan was the man to whom the White House and the Pentagon turned when they sough
 BLECHNER -- Norbert, 94, peacefully in Manhattan, March 18, 2005. A giant of the metals industry, founder and CEO of Norore, after 40 years with Associated Metals and Minerals. Knighted in 1962 by King Baudouin of Belgium (Chevalier de l'Ordre de Leopold II). Co-founded the Blechner Center 
 DILLON--Tom. The Lambs, the oldest theater club in America, and The Lambs Foundation, mourns the loss of our beloved Shepherd, Tom Dillon, who served as our leader for 17 years. His dedication, friendship and extraordinary charm touched us all. Our deepest sympathy to his wife, Alice. Bruce
 EISDORFER -- Simon. On March 16, 2005, of Cedarhurst, NY. Devoted husband of Beatrice (Feld), beloved father of Barbara Waitman and James Eisdorfer and his wife Rae, loving brother of Al Eisdorfer, adoring grandfather of Jennifer, Adam, the late Joshua, and Jonathan Waitman and his wife Reb
 FISHMAN -- Rabbi Hertzel. The Rabbinical Assembly mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague, a stalwart Zionist who fought with the Haganah. We extend our deepest condolences to his family and to all who were touched through his rabbinate.       
 FREUND--Richard. Of Malverne, New York on March 16, 2005. Husband of the late Esta Freund. Father of Alice, Robert and Charles, and proud grandfather of Alex, Elizabeth, Harrison, Amy, Andrew, Clifford and Evelyn. A graduate of Columbia Law School and an expert in entertainment and labor la
 GENOVESE--Anthony. Robinson Brog Leinwand Greene Genovese & Gluck, P.C., expresses deep sorrow at the loss of its esteemed partner, Anthony S. Genovese, on Thursday, March 17, following a distinguished career as a trial attorney, earning a reputation as a lawyer's lawyer. Mr. Genovese was a
 HOLLANDER -- Charles S., M.D. The Department of Medicine and the Division of Endocrinology sadly announce the passing of Dr. Charles S. Hollander. He served as the chief of the Division of Endocrinology for 28 years. He was one of the leading investigators in clinical thyroid disease and wa
 KILGORE--John E. Jr. He is survived by his third wife Annie Rassman Kilgore, daughter Constance, sons John, Ralph, Robert and Alexander, and three grandchildren. Graduate of Amherst College and Harvard Law School, he served as a Naval Aviator during WWII. He enjoyed a distinguished career i
 LESTER--William M. BenGurion University of the Negev and American Associates, Ben-Gurion University deeply mourn the passing of our dear friend and long time supporter William M. Lester. A mechanical engineer, William Lester revolutionized the plastics industry 70 years ago with his design 
 LOWELL--Stanley. The Officers, Board and Staff of the Jewish Community Relations Council mourn the loss of Stanley Lowell. He served with distinction as our Vice President and Trustee and as one of the founding Chairs of the Greater New York Conference for Soviet Jewry. May our colleague, L
 MAGER -- Norman. With great sadness and a deep sense of loss, Perfect Building Maintenance mourns the loss of former President, Norman Mager, a respected business leader and friend to many. Norman began working for his father, the founder of PBM in 1950. Through his leadership, PBM became o
 SCHILDKROUT -- Herman, M.D. In his 95th year on March 17, 2005. Beloved husband of Mollie for 72 years, devoted father of Enid and Elliot, adoring grandfather of Alicia, Benjamin, Aaron, and Emily, father-in-law of Barbara Schildkrout and John Van Couvering. Caring and dedicated physician. 
 SIDMAN--Edwin N. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Edwin N. Sidman, and extends sincere sympathy to his wife Paula, children Hope & Matthew, daughter-in-law Lori & friends. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary SID
 Stanley H. Lowell, a former deputy mayor of New York City and the first chairman of the city's Civil Rights Commission, died on Wednesday at his home in Armonk, N.Y. He was 85. The death was announced by his family. Mr. Lowell, a lawyer by profession, spent more than 50 year
 Ted Rand, a largely self-taught graphic artist who illustrated nearly 80 children's books after reaching retirement age, died Saturday at his home on Mercer Island, Wash. He was 89. The cause was cancer, said Gloria Rand, his wife and collaborator on a dozen of those books. 
 Tom Dillon, a former president of the Actors' Fund, a social-service organization for members of the entertainment industry, died on Monday at the Lillian Booth Actors' Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 86 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was complications of the flu, his wife, Alice, 
 FISHMAN -- Rabbi Hertzel. Passed away in his sleep on March 17 at age 84 in Jerusalem and will be buried there on March 20. Beloved father and grandfather. Intense lover and critic of the Jewish people. Pugnacious, incisive and articulate, influenced many in his writing and conversations an
 GENOVESE--Anthony. Robinson Brog Leinwand Greene Genovese & Gluck, P.C., expresses deep sorrow at the loss of its esteemed partner, Anthony S. Genovese, on Thursday, March 17, following a distinguished career as a trial attorney, earning a reputation as a lawyer's lawyer. Mr. Genovese was a
 MAGER -- Norman. With great sadness and a deep sense of loss, Perfect Building Maintenance mourns the loss of former President, Norman Mager, a respected business leader and friend to many. Norman began working for his father, the founder of PBM in 1950. Through his leadership, PBM became o
 ROSENBERG--Alex, 92, of Franklin Square, NY, on March 17, 2005. Devoted husband of the late Belle Rosenberg. Loving father of Judith and Robert. Cherished grandfather of Sarah, Dan, Sabrina, Reuben, Eric & Max. Fatherin-law of Henry Steinglass & Rosalie Rosenberg. He will be deeply missed f
 SCHILDKROUT -- Herman, M.D. In his 95th year on March 17, 2005. Beloved husband of Mollie for 72 years, devoted father of Enid and Elliot, adoring grandfather of Alicia, Benjamin, Aaron, and Emily, father-in-law of Barbara Schildkrout and John Van Couvering. Caring and dedicated physician. 
 SHARP--Bruce. Born August 9, 1941, Bruce Sharp was a man who was known for his big heart and dedication to family and friends as well as his pioneering entrepreneurship in the underground storage tank industry. A former Eagle Scout and Naval Reservist, Bruce Sharp started his own tank linin
 UPPMAN--Theodor. The Metropolitan Opera profoundly mourns the death of a dear friend and cherished artist, baritone Theodor Uppman, whose Met career spanned a quarter century and nearly 400 performances. He made his debut as Pelleas, was the Met's first and only Paquillo in ''La Perichole''
 Sol M. Linowitz, a confidant of Democratic presidents who became renowned for his achievements in each of his three careers -- lawyer, businessman and diplomat -- died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 91. His death was reported by his family. A courtly and gracefu
 The American baritone Theodor Uppman, best known for creating the title role in Benjamin Britten's opera ''Billy Budd'' in 1951, died on Thursday night at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 85. His daughter, Margot Vincent, announced his death. Mr. Uppman's selection for the
 Humphrey Spender, a prominent English artist known for his photographs documenting the lives of ordinary Britons in the bleakest years of the Depression, died on March 11 at his home in Ulting, Essex. He was 94. The cause was heart failure, his wife, Rachel, said. Mr. Spende
 BLAZER--Walter, age 87, March 10, 2005. He was born January 8, 1918 to the late David and Anna Karper Blazer. He grew up in NYC, where his family settled after fleeing the persecution of Jews in Poland. He became a musician, studying classical voice at Juilliard, only to be interrupted by W
 BLECHNER--Norbert. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Hannah Blechner, Mark Blechner, Barbara Sevde, Jane Bressler and grandchildren on the passing of their beloved husband, father, and grandfather. He served as an exemplary role model to everyone around him in his humility, dignity and
 BORGESON--Roger D., 76, died March 9 of complications following a fall at his home in Yarmouthport, MA. He is survived by his sister, Ruth Elliott of Harwich, MA, his daughters, Pamela Montgomery of New York, NY, Dawn Beaver of Darien, CT, and Kim Brosche of Nashville, TN, and his grandchil
 COHEN--Abraham L. Of Woodmere, NY and Los Angeles, CA. Died March 16 in Fort Worth, TX. Survived by his wife of over 50 years, Patricia; sons Lewis Cohen of Los Angeles, David Cohen of Fort Worth and daughter Rachel Cohen of NYC. Graduated from Townsend Harris High School, class of 1941; gr
 FREUND -- Richard. Dick Freund, representing ABC, often sat across the table from the Writers Guild of America, East in bitter negotiations. In all the years he did so, he was never less than honest, candid and understanding. He did his best for ABC, but always with honor and civility. We d
 GAINES--Jack. (Born Jacob Ginsberg) on March 7, peacefully, in his sleep, in his home in Tiburon at the age of 86. Beloved father of Nora, and beloved husband of Eugenija, adored uncle of Judy, Howard, Elliot, Lynn, and Hedy. He leaves us a legacy of intense curiosity, passionate intellect,
 GENOVESE--Anthony. Robinson Brog Leinwand Greene Genovese & Gluck, P.C., expresses deep sorrow at the loss of its esteemed partner, Anthony S. Genovese, on Thursday, March 17, following a distinguished career as a trial attorney, earning a reputation as a lawyer's lawyer. Mr. Genovese was a
 GILBERT--John Nathan. On March 11, 2005, at the age of 87. Beloved husband of Wilma. Cherished uncle of nine. Formerly of Wabash, IN, he resided in New York for many years. An actuary by vocation, his real love was music, in which he was active as choir director, church organist, pianist an
 GOODSTEIN--Seymour, M.D. F.A.C.S. ''Sigh''. Was a practicing opthalmologist for 47 years. A graduate of Tulane Medical School, Class of '45, he served as a Captain in World War II. His hospital appointments included New York Eye and Ear Infirmary as an Attending Surgeon, 1952-1998, (Directo
 KAHN--Alex Bennett. 95, of Manhattan, died on March 8. The last survivor of six siblings, he leaves three generations of nieces and nephews. Alex served in the army in World War II as a speech writer and entertainment director. His productions led to a personal relationship with President a
 LAIGHOLD -- Barry. On March 19, 2005. Beloved husband of Lorraine. Loving father of Saaron. Dear brother of Martin. Devoted uncle. Dedicated teacher at PS 87 for 25 years. He will be deeply missed. Services Sunday, 9:45 am, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Donations to Roos
 LINN--Harold of Boca Raton, FL died March 17, 2005. He is survived by wife, Phyllis, children Sharon, Jeffrey, and Richard and six grandchildren. He practiced dentistry in NYC for over 50 years. He will be missed by colleagues, patients and friends. Gutterman Warheit Memorial Chapel 800-992
 LOWELL--Stanley H. The Board of Directors of the City College Fund expresses its deepest symapthy to his family. A loyal, devoted son of City College, and a champion of free public higher education, he will be missed by all of us. Herbert Robinson, Chairman Frank Sciame, President James L. 
 MAGER--Norman C. Born March 23, 1926. Died peacefully, with his children at his bedside on March 17, 2005. Devoted husband of Bernice, loving and adoring father of Stephanie, Scott and Bess, and father-in-law of Tammy and Bobby. Doting and proud grandfather of Justin, Nicole and David. He i
 MELLOR--Geoffrey B., 51, died on March 13, 2005. Man of many talents, a true Renaissance man; he will always be remembered for his intellectual curiosity and the passion he gave everything he did. He lived a rich life, full of many interests, ranging from wildlife and environmental conserva
 PEDZWATER -- Wayne. 48. Passed away at home surrounded by family and friends after a long battle with stomach cancer. He leaves his wife, Patty ForbesPedzwater, his mother, a sister and countless family and friends. A memorial service will be held at The Little Church Around the Corner (1 E
 RIZACK--Martin A. MD. Ph.D. The Medical Letter mourns the loss of Martin Rizack on March 7, 2005. Martin, who was a distinguished researcher at Rockefeller University, was an integral part of our publication, beginning in 1966 as a member of our editorial board. One of the first people in m
 SHARP--Bruce. Born August 9, 1941, Bruce Sharp was a man who was known for his big heart and dedication to family and friends as well as his pioneering entrepreneurship in the underground storage tank industry. A former Eagle Scout and Naval Reservist, Bruce Sharp started his own tank linin
 STERN--Harry. The Board of Directors, members and staff of JOFA, the Jewish Orthodox Feminist Alliance, extend their heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Board member Zelda Stern, upon the passing of her beloved father, Harry Stern. An industrialist, philanthropist, and Jewish communal lea
 WILCOX--Robert J. Pi Kappa Phi fraternity notes with sorrow the passing of its longtime member, Robert J. Wilcox. A bon vivant who was also deeply responsible and loyal, ''big Bob'' graced the world with his wit and wisdom. He will be sorely missed. His family asks that donations in his mem
 George H. O'Brien Jr., a Marine lieutenant in the Korean War who was awarded the Medal of Honor for spearheading the capture of an enemy-held hill while wounded by automatic-weapons fire, died on March 11 in Midland, Tex. Mr. O'Brien, who lived in Midland, was 78. The cause was comp
 John Z. DeLorean, the flamboyant automobile industrialist whose dream of running his own car company dissolved into bankruptcy, died Saturday evening at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 80 years old and lived in Bedminster, N.J. The cause was complications after a stroke, hi
 BROWN--Ted. On March 20, 2005. New York radio personality for over 50 years, whose illustrious career spanned from WNEW, NBC and as the voice of his beloved New York Giants. Loving husband of the late Rene. Doting father of Samantha and Jami. Services Tuesday, 11:15 am, at ''The Riverside,'
 KENNAN -- Ambassador George F. The Board of Trustees and members of the National Committee on American Foreign Policy mourn the passing of its legendary Honorary Chairman, who articulated the policy of containment, was a proponent of secret diplomacy, won two Pulitzer Prizes, was awarded th
 Philip Lamantia, the rapturous San Francisco poet who embraced Surrealism and later associated himself with the West Coast Beat community, died on March 7 at his apartment in San Francisco. He was 77. The cause was heart failure, a spokesman for his publisher, City Lights Books, sai
 Bobby Short, the cherubic singer and pianist whose high-spirited but probing renditions of popular standards evoked the glamour and sophistication of Manhattan nightlife, died yesterday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 80, and had homes in Manhattan and southern France. The
 John H. Pickering, a founding partner of Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering, one of Washington's most prominent international law firms, died in the capital on Saturday. He was 89 and a resident of Bethesda, Md. His death, after a stroke, was announced by the firm, where he had continued to
 CRONKITE--Betsy. Sadly we note the loss of Betsy Cronkite, and join with thousands of like-minded global citizens in expressing our sympathy to Walter and his family at this time of mourning. Citizens for Global Solutions       
 DUFFY--Rev. Stephen V., S.J. on March 20, 2005. Beloved brother of Florence Doherty, Jane Burt, Connie Corroon, Sr. Helen Marie and the late Miriam Scavullo. He was a teacher of classics at Regis High School from 1945-1991. He tutored at Regis High School from 1991-2001. He spent his final 
 DUVA--Christian J. At the age of 37, of New York, New York, and Bayville, New York, on March 18, 2005. Beloved son of Judy and the late Philip. Loving brother of Kimberly and Matthew. Cherished grandson of Helen and Peter Enczelewski. Survived by aunts, uncles and cousins. Reposing at the F
 GILMAN--Aaron, on March 20, 2005, at age 85. Beloved husband of Betty. Loving father of Lynda, Mark, Bill and his wife Mitzi. Adoring grandfather of Cory and Marla. Dear brother of Bob and his wife Eileen. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Wednesday 11:30AM. I
 GREENSTEIN--Louis, 93, of Suffern, New York, died March 17, 2005. Survived by wife Irene, daughter Bette, sister Rose, two grandchildren & two great-grandchildren. Predeceased by first wife Marion and son Ted. He will be greatly missed by all who were honored to know him.       
 HISCANO--Raphael A., 82, of Short Hills, NJ on Saturday March 19, 2005. Beloved husband of 51 years to Margaret ''Peggy'' Hiscano (nee: von Lengerke). Dear father of Margaret Hiscano McDermott of Riverside CT, Peter Hiscano of Madison, NJ, Douglas Hiscano of Basking Ridge, NJ, and Dwight Hi
 KOTICK -- Charles M. On March 21, 2005 after a courageous battle with prostate cancer. Chic, an attorney with Bryan Cave Robinson Silverman will be remembered as a proud father, a wonderful friend and an inspiration to live life to the fullest by all who knew him. He is survived by his wife
 LAGER--Fred, on March 20, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Marilyn (Laikin). Loving father of Susan Jaffe and Richard and Ivy Lager. Cherished ''Popper'' of Matthew and Ross. Devoted brother of Roslyn Taubin and brotherin-law of Adele Weinstock. Admired uncle and mentor and friend to many.
 LINOWITZ--Sol. The Jewish Theological Seminary community mourns the death of Sol Linowitz, 91, a dedicated friend of JTS and former Chairman of its Board of Trustees. A U.S. Ambassador to the Organization of American States, Mr. Linowitz was a world-renowned lawyer and businessman, committe
 LOWELL--Stanley H. The City University of New York mourns the death of Stanley Lowell, a distinguished alumnus, civic leader, and longtime supporter of higher education. A graduate of City College, Stanley was a former Trustee and past President of the City College Alumni Association. Over 
 MAGER -- Norman. We mourn the loss of Norman Mager, father of our close friend and business associate Scott Mager, CEO of Perfect Building Maintenance. Our heartfelt sympathy extends to Scott and his entire family. Mark Granata, President RFR Realty, LLC MAGER--Norman. On behalf of 
 SHORT--Bobby. The staff and Trustees of The Studio Museum in Harlem mourn the loss of its devoted and longtime Trustee Bobby Short. He will be remembered for his exemplary generosity to the Museum and for his exceptional talent and style that brightened all of our lives. Raymond J. McGuire,
 STERN--Harry. We extend our sincerest condolences to Deborah Stern on the passing of her beloved husband and to Sheva Mann Adler, Rebecca Herschkopf, Sareva Naor, Zelda Rosenzweig, Chayim Stern and Jerome Stern on the loss of their cherished father. His strength of character, personal devot
 UPPMAN -- Theodor. On March 17, 2005. Longtime baritone at the Metropolitan Opera. The family will receive friends informally on Thursday, March 24, 3PM to 6PM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. UPPMAN--Theodor. The Board of Directors of the William Matheus Sullivan
 Simon Eisdorfer, a retired New York City police chief who developed the department's widely emulated hostage negotiation team, died on Wednesday in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 87 and lived in Cedarhurst, N.Y. The cause was heart failure, his granddaughter Jennifer Waitman said. T
 Ted Brown, a disc jockey and radio talk-show host who broadcast for more than 40 years on the New York City radio stations WMGM, WNEW and WNBC, died on Sunday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged, in the Bronx. He was in his 80's. The cause was complications of a stroke he had in 1996, h
 Kenzo Tange, the Japanese architect who converted the core of a barren Hiroshima into a tranquil peace park in the 1940's and 50's, and designed Tokyo's starkly modernist St. Mary's Cathedral in 1964 -- where his funeral is to be held -- died yesterday at his home in Tokyo. He was 91.      
 Norman Mager, who helped propel an unheralded City College team to the N.I.T. and N.C.A.A. basketball championships in 1950, a feat that thrilled New York only to be tarnished by a point-shaving scandal, died last Thursday at a hospital in Boynton Beach, Fla. Mager, who lived in Boca Raton,
 GAINES--William Louis, of Chicago, IL, died Tuesday, February 8, 2005, at the age of 82. Dr. Gaines studied at the University of London on a Fulbright Scholarship before earning his Ph.D from Yale University in 1951. He was named head of the Fulbright Program for the United Kingdom in 1956.
 GILMAN--Aaron, on March 20, 2005, at age 85. Beloved husband of Betty. Loving father of Lynda, Mark, Bill and his wife Mitzi. Adoring grandfather of Cory and Marla. Dear brother of Bob and his wife Eileen. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Wednesday 11:30AM. I
 KENNAN--George F. The Council on Foreign Relations and Foreign Affairs magazine mourn the passing of George Kennan, author of the doctrine of containment and one of the most important articles in the hstory of American foreign policy, ''The Sources of Soviet Conduct.'' A member of the Counc
 KOTICK -- Charles M. On March 21, 2005 after a courageous battle with prostate cancer. Chic, an attorney with Bryan Cave Robinson Silverman will be remembered as a proud father, a wonderful friend and an inspiration to live life to the fullest by all who knew him. He is survived by his wife
 LEVY--Philip. Age 90, on March 20, 2005. Loving husband of the late Jane Molinaro Levy. Beloved father of Paul S. Levy and his wife Karen and Dr. Linda Fagenholz and her husband Dr. Allen Fagenholz. Adored grandfather of Rebecca and Charlotte Levy and Peter, Andrew and Elizabeth Fagenholz. 
 LINOWITZ--Sol M. Cornell University mourns the loss of devoted alumnus, trustee emeritus, and presidential councillor, Sol M. Linowitz. His ground-breaking business leadership, unwavering commitment to public service, and ardent dedication to Cornell will long be remembered. In 1938 Sol Lin
 LOWELL--Hon. Stanley H. The partners and staff of Goodkind, Labaton, Rudoff & Sucharow LLP, mourn the passing of former firm Counsel, The Hon. Stanley Lowell, a distinguished lawyer, civic leader, and human rights advocate, as well as a fine gentleman and true friend. We extend our deepest 
 LUTHY--William J. on March 13, 2005 of Kinnelon, NJ. Beloved husband of Margo, dear father of Madeleine Pukinskis, Peter Luthy and Susan Luthy. Loving grandfather of eight. Funeral services will be held Saturday March 26th at 2PM at the Smoke Rise Community Church, Kinnelon, NJ. Age 86, Mr.
 MITRANI--Aaron. The Board of Directors, staff, alumni and camp families mourn the passing of beloved mentor and friend Aaron Mitrani, retired Executive Director of Berkshire Hills-Emanuel Camps. Aaron's knowledge and innovation in camping were unparalleled. His relationship with the camp sp
 SHORT--Bobby. From the earliest days of Jazz at Lincoln Center in 1989-90, Bobby Short was a cherished part of our family. He was an abiding friend of so many of our artists and board members, an honored performer at our programs and benefits, and a generous early patron. But his greatest g
 STERN--Harry. The American Friends of The Hebrew University and The Hebrew University of Jerusalem mourn the passing of Harry Stern, an AFHU Guardian and enduring supporter of Israel. Mr. Stern devoted himself to insuring a brighter future for the Jewish State by providing vital resources f
 UPPMAN -- Theodor. On March 17, 2005. Longtime baritone at the Metropolitan Opera. The family will receive friends informally on Thursday, March 24, 3PM to 6PM at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Ave. UPPMAN--Theodor. Mannes College of Music, a division of New School Univ
 Stanley Sadie, a musicologist, writer and editor whose prodigious output included editing the last two editions of the titanic and authoritative New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, died on Monday at his home in Cossington, England. He was 74. The cause was amyotrophic later
 Walter Hopps, a leading curator of 20th-century art and founding director of the Menil Collection in Houston, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 72 and lived in Houston and Venice, Calif. The cause was pneumonia, a spokesman for the Menil Collection said. In the museum wo
 Czeslaw Slania, a master engraver who applied his art most extensively to the tiniest works, postage stamps, died in Stockholm on March 17, the Swedish post office announced Monday. He was 83. Mr. Slania emigrated from Poland to Sweden more than four decades ago and became the count
 CRACOLICI--Antonio. The St. Luke's - Roosevelt Hospital Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging the passing of Antonio Cracolici, beloved father of our dear friend and colleague, Frank J. Cracolici, Executive VicePresident a
 FODOR--Tibor. Died peacefully at age 94 on March 22, 2005. His sweetness, generosity, wit, and moral compass will be greatly missed by his wife, stepson, daughter-inlaw, and his many friends. Memorial to be held on Sunday 2 P.M. April 3rd at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Ave,
 IRALDI -- Stephen O., 1916-2005. Army veteran of World War II, passed away March 22, 2005, in his home, Queens, NY. Now resting at Morisco Funeral Home, L.I.C., NY. He was father of Denise (d.) and Stephen John; fatherin-law of Tom; grandfather of Justin and Kyle; brother to Sister Annette 
 LAIGHOLD--Barry. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of our beloved, longtime member, Barry Laighold. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his wife, Lorraine, their son Saaron, and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, D.D. Senior Rabbi Nancy Solomon, President       
 LEVY--Philip. Age 90, on March 20, 2005. Loving husband of the late Jane Molinaro Levy. Beloved father of Paul S. Levy and his wife Karen and Dr. Linda Fagenholz and her husband Dr. Allen Fagenholz. Adored grandfather of Rebecca and Charlotte Levy and Peter, Andrew and Elizabeth Fagenholz. 
 McARDLE--Michael F. of Millbrook, NY, formerly of Summit, NJ and Madrid, Spain, suddenly on March 19, 2005. Beloved son of Edward T. and Rosemarie (nee Giustino), loving brother of Jacqueline and Teresa McArdle and Christine McArdle Oquendo, cherished uncle to Marcelo and Alex Oquendo and b
 PLATNICK--Dr. Donald. Delaire Country Club announces with deep sorrow the passing of their esteemed member, Dr. Donald Platnick, and extends their sincerest sympathy to his wife, Cecelia, and his beloved family. Daniel Bernheim, Jr. President       
 PURPURA--Charles. New York University's Tisch School of the Arts and the Rita and Burton Goldberg Department of Dramatic Writing deeply mourn the death of Charles Purpura, a renowned screenwriter and a beloved teacher of screenwriting. An outstanding mentor to undergraduate and graduate stu
 REISCHER--Alfred B. Passed away peacefully on March 21st, 2005, at his home in Key Biscayne, FL, at the age of 82. Alfred was born to Sara and Ben Reischer, on July 7th, 1922. His parents, European immigrants of very modest means, entered the US just after World War I. They encouraged him t
 ROBINS--Percy (Buddy). Age 86. Beloved husband of Sylvia for 63 years. A graduate of NYU he served as Navigator in the US Air Corps during WWII attaining rank of Captain. He saw duty and ETO and CBI and received a Distinguished Flying Cross with Oak Leaf Cluster for extreme bravery while fl
 SCHWEITZER--Nathan, formerly of Manhattan. On March 22, 2005. Beloved husband of Ava J. Cherished father of Patricia Joy of Montclair, N.J., and the late Nancy Schweitzer. Loving grandfather of Julia Rubenfeld. Nathan attended The Horace Mann School, Cornell University, and was President of
 Maj. Gen. Winant Sidle, who after the United States invasion of Grenada in 1983 headed a commission charged with recommending ways to allow news coverage of military operations, died Saturday in Southern Pines, N.C. He was 88. The cause was complications of a stroke, his wife, Anne 
 Gary Bertini, a conductor and composer who played a significant role in shaping the musical life of Israel, died on March 17 in Tel Hashomer, Israel. He was 77. The cause was complications from lymphatic cancer, his Swiss managers, Konzertgesellschaft Basel, told European newspapers
 Naftali Halberstam, the grand rabbi of the Bobov Hasidic sect, who continued his father's efforts to rebuild a community nearly eradicated by the Holocaust, died on Wednesday at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 74. The cause was apparently a lung problem, a spokeswoman 
 BLUTH--Irwin M., M.D. The Board of Trustees, Administration and Medical Staff of of The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center record with deep sorrow the passing of Dr. Irwin Bluth, past Director of the Department of Radiology for 40 years. Our sincere condolences to his wife Har
 BROWN--Mark H., 83, of 451 Sand Hill Road, Country Meadows, Hershey, PA, died March 21, 2005. He was born in Lebanon, PA on June 28, 1921. A 50-year resident of Stamford, CT, he retired from Merrill Lynch where he worked as an assistant vice president and financial consultant with the Priva
 KOTICK -- Charles M. On March 21, 2005 after a courageous battle with prostate cancer. Chic, an attorney with Bryan Cave Robinson Silverman will be remembered as a proud father, a wonderful friend and an inspiration to live life to the fullest by all who knew him. He is survived by his wife
 PELAVIN--Joseph Y. On March 24, 2005 at his home in Lake Worth, FL.; a great philanthropist and founder of Lark Luggage, respected in his industry as the innovator of nylon soft-sided, airline luggage and many other modern luggage innovations. Beloved husband of the late Alice (nee Droutman
 PLATNICK--Donald. The Officers, Trustees and Members of the Hollywood Golf Club note with sorrow the passing of their longtime friend and member, Donald Platnick. We offer our heartfelt condolences to his family. Jeffrey J. Siegel, Pres Solomon S. Greenspan, Secy       
 ROBINS--Percy (Buddy). Age 86. Beloved husband of Sylvia for 63 years. A graduate of NYU he served as Navigator in the US Air Corps during WWII attaining rank of Captain. He saw duty and ETO and CBI and received a Distinguished Flying Cross with Oak Leaf Cluster for extreme bravery while fl
 TORSO -- Greg Allen. On March 19, 2005 after a fifteen year battle with HIV disease, Greg Allen Torso succumbed to recurrent gallbladder cancer. He was 42. Despite his illnesses, Greg, a talented writer, earned his BA (Summa Cum Laude) from Hunter College in 1999 and his MFA from New School
 USDAN--Jerome J., 94, of Palm Beach, FL, formerly of East Rockaway, NY, passed away Monday, March 21, 2005. Devoted husband of the late Joy Usdan; loving father of Maxine Usdan, Marcy Hyman (Chester) and Myron Usdan (Nancy); sisters Frances Nieman and Cecile Garson; brothers Melvin Usdan an
 WILMER--Rev. Richard H. Jr., 86, an Episcopal priest and scholar, died in Pittsburgh on March 3, 2005. He was Episcopal chaplain at Yale University and later Dean of Berkeley Divinity School. He is survived by his wife, Sarah King Wilmer of Pittsburgh; two sons, Richard IV of Arlington, VA 
 ZWERLING--Gustav. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed member Gustav Zwerling and we extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Florence and family. Old Westbury Golf & CC Herbert Selzer, President Steven Tolman, Secretary       
 Adrian Kragen, a leading expert on American income tax law, who left a lucrative Hollywood law practice to teach at the University of California, Berkeley, died on Friday in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 97. His death was announced by his son, Ken Kragen. In 1952, Mr. Kragen w
 Bruce McM. Wright, a retired black judge in Manhattan who denounced what he called racism in the criminal justice system and created a furor in the 1970's by setting low bail for many poor and minority suspects, died in his sleep on Thursday at his home in Old Saybrook, Conn. He was 86.    
 George Peck Caulkins Jr., a businessman, civic leader and philanthropist, and one of the handful of skiing enthusiasts who developed Vail, Colo., died on Thursday at his home in Denver. He was 83. His death followed a long illness, his family said. Mr. Caulkins, who made his
 DeVITO--Joseph D., 80, of Spring Hill, FL passed away March 23, 2005. He was born in Brooklyn, NY. He served in the Navy during WW II and the Korean War. He worked for 30 years and was co-owner of Danross Agency, NY, NY. He is survived by his wife Mary; three sons Robert, Joseph, Thomas res
 GENDLER--Paul H., Ed.D. Died March 24, at age 79, after a three-month struggle following influenza pneumonia. Lifelong educator, first as exemplary teacher and principal, then as respected superintendent of schools, and finally after retirement as founder of Language Institute For English, 
 GILMAN--Aaron, on March 20, 2005, age 85. Beloved husband of Betty. Loving father of Lynda, Mark, Bill and his wife, Mitzi. Adoring grandfather of Cory and Marla. Lifelong business partner and devoted brother of Bob and his wife, Eileen. President of Intersea Fisheries, former president of 
 GOLDSMITH -- David. On March 25, 2005. Died peacefully at Mary Manning Walsh Home at age 98. Beloved husband of Edith and devoted and loving father of Linda. He will be missed by family and all those touched by his warmth, sense of humor, kindness and outgoing personality. Service Sunday, 1
 HERGEN--James G. One of the greatest men of The Greatest Generation on March 24, 2005. Loving husband of the late Audrey. Devoted father of his daughters Ellen and Tracey, and his sons Jim, George, Bob and Jeff. Beloved grandfather of Adrienne, Drew, James, Connor, Audrey, Kathryn and Nicol
 HYMAN--George A., M.D. Passed away suddenly at his home in Palm Beach, FL., at the age of 82. Dr. Hyman was born to Samuel and Blanche Hyman on August 11, 1922 in New York City. He graduated from Columbia College in 1942 and received his MD degree in 1945 from the College of Physicians and 
 KOTICK -- Charles M. On March 21, 2005 after a courageous battle with prostate cancer. Chic, an attorney with Bryan Cave Robinson Silverman will be remembered as a proud father, a wonderful friend and an inspiration to live life to the fullest by all who knew him. He is survived by his wife
 Sheldon H. White, a Harvard developmental psychologist whose research endorsed early childhood education programs like Head Start, died on March 17 at Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital in Boston. A resident of Newtonville, Mass., he was 76. The cause was heart failure, his family sa
 Ernest Childers, who was awarded the Medal of Honor for knocking out two German machine-gun nests in Italy in World War II, died on March 17 in Muskogee, Okla. He was 87 and lived Coweta, Okla. The cause was complications of a stroke and a heart attack, said his wife, Yolanda Chadwe
 Henry George Greene, an architect and developer who designed more than 80 theaters for stage shows and movies in the 1960's and 70's, died on March 13 at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 93. His death was announced by his family. As consulting architect for the American Br
 James Callaghan, the elder statesman of the British Labor Party whose three years as prime minister were marked by the infamous ''Winter of Discontent'' and its tumultuous battles with the country's powerful labor unions, died at home in East Sussex, England, on Saturday, the eve of his 93r
 BLANK--H. Robert, M.D., on March 16th, 2005 at age 90. He is survived by his loving wife, Virginia; daughters, Emily (Jeff) Hawley, Melanie Blank; grandsons, Michael (Beth) Hawley, Steven Hawley; brother, Edward (Marion) Blank. Dr. Blank graduated from Temple University in 1935 and Temple U
 BURDICK--Richard. A great loss is felt by our family and his many friends at the passing of Richard Smith Burdick, 88, on March 17, 2005 in Austin, Texas. He was predeceased by his wife of 54 years, Betty. He leaves his beloved fiance, Sherry Browne. He was the loving Father of Dorene and B
 CARSWELL -- Donald. The Brooklyn Hospital Center is deeply saddened by the passing of its esteemed Trustee, Donald Carswell. In 1960, Mr. Carswell joined the Board of Caledonian Hospital in East Flatbush, Brooklyn where he served until 1982 when Caledonian Hospital merged with the Brooklyn 
 DeVITO--Joseph D., 80, of Spring Hill, FL passed away March 23, 2005. He was born in Brooklyn, NY. He served in the Navy during WW II and the Korean War. He worked for 30 years and was co-owner of Danross Agency, NY, NY. He is survived by his wife Mary; three sons Robert, Joseph, Thomas res
 EISINGER--John, age 79, of Palm Beach Gardens, FL on March 25th, 2005. Beloved husband of Fran (nee Selby). Dear brother of Frank. Devoted grandfather of four. For information call Wien & Wien, 800-322-0533 EISINGER -- John. Alpine Country Club, its Officers, Board of Governors and 
 FEUER--Frank. The Officers, Board of Governors, Members and Staff of Engineers Country Club mourn the passing of our beloved member, Frank Feuer, on Wednesday, March 23, 2005, and extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Gillie, daughter Perry and son Herbert. Services to be held Monday, Mar
 GENDLER--Paul H., Ed.D. Died March 24, at age 79, after a three-month struggle following influenza pneumonia. Lifelong educator, first as exemplary teacher and principal, then as respected superintendent of schools, and finally after retirement as founder of Language Institute For English, 
 GILMAN--Aaron, on March 20, 2005, age 85. Beloved husband of Betty. Loving father of Lynda, Mark, Bill and his wife, Mitzi. Adoring grandfather of Cory and Marla. Lifelong business partner and devoted brother of Bob and his wife, Eileen. President of Intersea Fisheries, former president of 
 HERGEN--James G. One of the greatest men of The Greatest Generation on March 24, 2005. Loving husband of the late Audrey. Devoted father of his daughters Ellen and Tracey, and his sons Jim, George, Bob and Jeff. Beloved grandfather of Adrienne, Drew, James, Connor, Audrey, Kathryn and Nicol
 JOLLS--Frederick Keith. Better known as ''Keith'' passed away Sunday, March 20, 2005, of heart failure at Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, FL. Keith graduated from Clarkson University and recieved his Master's degree from Columbia University. He was a former partner at Vollmer Associ
 TEELE--Thurston Ferdinand ''Tony''. 70, chairman and founder of Chemonics International, Inc., died March 21, 2005, after a long battle with lymphoma, at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, D.C., with his wife and children by his side. Mr. Teele was an active, compassionate humani
 WILMER--Rev. Richard H. Jr., 86, an Episcopal priest and scholar, died in Pittsburgh on March 3, 2005. He was Episcopal chaplain at Yale University and later Dean of Berkeley Divinity School. He is survived by his wife, Sarah King Wilmer of Pittsburgh; two sons, Richard IV of Arlington, VA 
 ZWERLING--Gustav. 85, of Upper Brookville, New York passed away on March 23. Devoted husband of Florence for 61 years. Beloved father of Jeffrey and Robin. Doting grandfather of Jayme, Errin and Callie. His love, spririt and guidance will be profoundly missed.       
 James Callaghan, the elder statesman of the British Labor Party whose three years as prime minister were marked by the infamous ''Winter of Discontent'' and tumultuous battles with the country's powerful labor unions, died at home in East Sussex, England, on Saturday, the eve of his 93rd bi
 AVEDON--Richard, 78, on March 27. He and his wife Ronnie lived in the Roslyn area with their son Jeffrey. He was a caring and deeply loved husband and father, and a devoted son and brother to his late parents, Jessie and Jack, and to his three sisters, now deceased. He will be remembered fo
 CARSWELL -- Donald. The Trustees of the Poly Prep Country Day School deeply mourn the passing of Donald Carswell, a loyal and invaluable servant and leader of the institution. For nearly four decades, Poly benefited from his expert financial guidance and deep commitment to the highest quali
 GOLDENSTEIN--Murray. 98, native of New York. Died peacefully March 25. A philanthropist and mensch, he will be sadly missed by family and friends.       
 MANDELBAUM -- Moshe. Died March 24 at 92. As a soldier in the Polish army he survived the Nazi blitzkrieg. After crossing the countryside he returned home to his pregnant wife Tanya. Within months he was taken from his home to the first of eight concentration camps that he would endure over
 PONEMON--Richard David. Formerly of Roslyn, NY, died on March 24 at his home in San Luis Obispo, CA. He was a Captain in the US Army during World War II and president of many years of Pyroferric International. He was a man of many talents and good works who gave generously of his time and m
 SIMS--Seymour. The Congregation of Westchester Reform Temple mourns the death of its devoted, longtime member and past president Seymour Sims. His leadership extended beyond WRT, including serving as the regional president of the Union for Reform Judaism in New York. We extend sympathy to h
 WHITE--James. Died unexpectedly on March 24 in Fishkill, NY. Born in Concord, NH on August 21, 1955, to Webster and Shirley White. As Captain with Glorious Food of NYC, James served many of their distinquished clients. He performed with Winged Victory Singers and Lori Shayne Company. Member
 HALPERN--Joel. 24 years since your tragic fatal accident. Dad is by your side as he chose to be. We all miss you and love you. Mother and family       
 Andrew Toti, a prolific inventor known for designing the Mae West inflatable vest, which kept many downed Allied pilots afloat in World War II, died on March 20 at home in Modesto, Calif. He was 89. His death was announced by his daughter, Andrea Pimental. Mr. Toti invented 
 ASHNER--Bernard. We are deeply saddened at the loss of Bernie Ashner, father of our dear friend Michael. We express our deepest sympathy to Michael and his entire family. The Lifton Family       
 BLOOM -- Jerry, MD, 74, passed away at his Woodmere, NY home on March 27, 2005. He is survived by his wife Sherry of 35 years and his sons David and Jonathan. Dr. Bloom received his under graduate degree and Masters degree from Brooklyn College, and his Medical Degree in Geneva and Downstat
 BRUSILOFF--Eugene M. Of Great Neck, NY on March 28, 2005. A dear, sweet, kind and incredibly generous man with a wonderful sense of humor. A trombonist who played with the US Air Force Band during the Korean War, as well as with Peter Duchin, Lester Lanin and Meyer Davis in orchestras backi
 CARSWELL--Donald. Donald passed away after a life well lived on March 25, at age 75, due to leukemia. He was a wonderful husband, father and grandfather who embodied the virtues of compassion and charity. His wit and humor were legendary, and will live on in the memories of all who knew him
 CHAN--Franklin P. K. The officers and members of the Kreisler Borg Florman General Construction Company staff report with profound sadness the sudden passing of their esteemed colleague and fellow Engineer, Franklin P.K. Chan, Senior Vice President of the Company. His depth of knowledge of 
 FORREST--Richard Stockton. A mystery writer whose novels were published in the U.S., U.K., Japan, Italy, Finland, France, Germany, and Sweden, died on Monday March 14, 2005. He was seventy-two, and lived in Charlottesville, VA. Mr. Forrest's first novel, ''Who Killed Mr. Garland's Mistress,
 GIDEZ--Lewis I., Ph.D. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of our esteemed colleague, who joined the faculty in 1958 as a member of the departments of Biochemistry and Medicine. Over the span of three decades, he was a beloved teacher to several gene
 GOLDENSTEIN--Murray. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) and its Women's Division mourn the loss of Murray Goldenstein of New York City. Following the lead of his beloved late wife Rose, he became a devoted supporter of the ATS Women's Division, reaching the
 GROSS--Walter J., 85, died peacefully at home in Kings Point, New York after a 10 year bout with Alzheimer's. Walter's insight, intellect and his creative vision set him apart. His love of his family and friends was paramount and he is survived by his wife of 65 years, Barbara Gross, his da
 SAPERSTEIN--Rabbi Sanford E. Temple Beth Am, The Reform Jewish Congregation of Merrick mourns the passing of Rabbi Sanford E. Saperstein. Rabbi Saperstein became Rabbi Emeritus in July 1984 after serving as Beth Am's spiritual leader since 1957. Under his creative leadership for over a quar
 TORRIANI--Albert J., 91, of Brooklyn, entered into eternal rest on March 26, 2005. He is survived by Ronnie, his loving wife of 61 years, dearest father and father-in-law of James & wife Sandra, Linda, Bob and wife Arlene, Ronald and wife Barbara. He is also survived by six grandchildren. H
 TREEGER--Clarence R. 101, on Sunday, March 20, 2005. Beloved husband of the late Helen Felstiner Treeger, dear father of Thomas Treeger (Madge) and Betsy Zander (Michael). Cherished grandfather of Jennifer Peters (Eric), Anne Treeger (Tom Huck), Nicola Zander, and Jonathan Zander; great gra
 WAGNER--Rodney B. on March 24, 2005 in FL surrounded by his loving wife and children. The Population Council mourns the passing of Mr. Wagner, member of the Board of Trustees since 1996 and Chairman since 2001. Mr. Wagner was exceptionally thoughtful and generous and was a forceful advocate
 WRIGHT--Bruce McMarion. Our deepest sympathy to his family Bill Green and Danica Gallagher       
 CORDON--Jim. ''He has lived--therefore he lives''. Yves Klein. Richard Giglio       
 Paul Hester, the drummer for the New Zealand pop band Crowded House, was found dead on Saturday near his home in Melbourne, Australia. He was 46. Mr. Hester had hanged himself from a tree in a nearby park, a representative of Melbourne's Metropolitan Ambulance Service told The Assoc
 Grant Johannesen, a pianist best known as an elegant interpreter of early-20th-century French music, died on Sunday at a friend's home near Munich. He was 83 and lived in New York and Palm Beach, Fla. His son, David Johannesen, announced the death. Mr. Johannesen was a sensi
 Grant Johannesen, a pianist best known as an elegant interpreter of early-20th-century French music, died on Sunday at a friend's home near Munich. He was 83 and lived in New York and Palm Beach, Fla. His son, David Johannesen, announced the death. Mr. Johannesen was a sensi
 Harold Cruse, an outspoken social and cultural critic who was best known for his angry collection of essays, ''The Crisis of the Negro Intellectual,'' died Saturday in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 89. The cause was congestive heart failure, his companion, Mara Julius, said. Largely self-
 Former Senator Howell Heflin of Alabama, a conservative Democrat who supported civil rights legislation and was sometimes described as the conscience of the Senate, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Sheffield, Ala., near his home in Tuscumbia. He was 83. His death was announced by hi
 Johnnie L. Cochran Jr., whose fierce, flamboyant and electrifyingly effective advocacy in the O.J. Simpson murder trial captivated the country and solidified his image as a master of high-profile criminal defense, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 67. The cause was a
 ASHNER--Bernard. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Bernard Ashner, beloved father of Michael Ashner and father-in-law of Susan Ashner, treasured leaders of the New York Jewish community. Michael and Susan's boundless generosity an
 BLUM--Henry ''Joe''. Died March 26, 2005. He is survived by his beloved wife of sixtyfour years, Mary, his children, Betty Kleinberg (Les) of NJ, and Linda Goldfinch (Brian) of FL, and his grandchildren, Bennett Kleinberg (Julie) of CT, and Sara Kleinberg of NYC. Joe was a proofreader for t
 BRUSILOFF--Eugene M. Of Great Neck, NY on March 28, 2005. A dear, sweet, kind and incredibly generous man with a wonderful sense of humor. A trombonist who played with the US Air Force Band during the Korean War, as well as with Peter Duchin, Lester Lanin and Meyer Davis in orchestras backi
 CARSWELL -- Donald. The Board of Trustees, Staff and Auxiliary of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden mourn the loss of our dear friend and former Trustee Donald Carswell. During his 10 year tenure on the board, Donald served as a trustee and as vice chairman with good humor and unfailing commitmen
 FREEDMAN--Thomas McPhillips. Born to Fannie and Joseph Freedman on March 31, 1912, died on March 29, 2005 from complications following an accident. Tom Freedman was predeceased by his parents; his brothers Morris Simpson Freedman and Harry Nathan Freedman; and his sister, Sadie Freedman Gre
 GALASSO--Ralph J. March 28, 2005. Beloved husband of Jane. Cherished father of Alexandra and Christopher. Brother of Patricia Agrisano. Memorial service Thursday, 1:30PM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St. Donations to the Brain Tumor Center at Duke, Box 3624, Durham, NC, 277
 GELBAUM--Bernard R. Age 83. On March 22, 2005 in Laguna Beach, CA. Beloved husband of Beatrice. Father of Daniel, David, Martin and Ethan, grandfather of eight and great grandfather of one. He was born in Bayside, Queens and served in WWII as a 2nd Lieutenant in the U.S. Signal Corp. He did
 GITTELL--Irwin. 78. Died on March 29. Beloved husband of Marilyn, devoted father of Drs. Amy Gittell Gallagher and Tom Gallagher and Drs. Ross Gittell and Jody Hoffer Gittell and cherished Papa to Brett, Molly, Rose and Grace. Always dedicated to family, social issues and the best ethics of
 GROSS--Walter J., 85, died peacefully at home in Kings Point, New York after a 10 year bout with Alzheimer's. Walter's insight, intellect and his creative vision set him apart. His love of his family and friends was paramount and he is survived by his wife of 65 years, Barbara Gross, his da
 HYMAN--George, M.D. The faculty and staff of Columbia University Medical Center extend their condolences to the family of George Hyman, M.D., who died recently at his home at the age of 82. Dr. Hyman graduated from Columbia College in 1942 and from the Columbia University College of Physici
 KASNER--Robert, 53, Circulation Director and a S.V.P. for Village Voice Media, died March 26 at NYU Hospital. The cause of death was complications from liver cancer. He lived in Brooklyn with his wife, Patricia, and is survived by his son, parents and siblings. He was an affable man who enj
 PILLSBURY--John Sargent, Jr., age 92, of Wayzata, MN, died on March 28, 2005. He was a graduate of St. Paul's School in Concord, NH, Yale College and the University of Minnesota Law School, where he was Editor-in-Chief of the Law Review. Following his military service as a Lieutenant Comman
 SAUERHAFT--Stan of Armonk, New York, a leading public relations expert on mergers and acquisitions and corporate communications counseling, died in his sleep on March 25 at age 78. His death followed a valiant struggle with Alzheimer's Disease as well as cancer. A graduate of the University
 SHORT--Bobby. His indelible impact on cafe entertainment raised the standards of the Carlyle Hotel and all of us who were associated with it. We will miss him. The Peter Jay Sharp Fdn       
 WAGNER -- Rodney. The Board of Trustees and Staff of Sesame Workshop deeply mourn the loss of Rodney Wagner on Thursday, March 24, 2005. His commitment to encourage education in developing countries throughout his career served as an independent source of inspiration for our international w
 David P. Bushnell, an importer who helped introduce middle-class Americans to binoculars after World War II, died last Thursday at his home in Laguna Beach, Calif. He was 92. The cause was complications of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, his family said. Binoculars were toys for the
 Dr. Wilfred G. Bigelow, a cardiac surgeon who created a pathbreaking technique of cooling the body to allow open-heart surgery and also helped develop an early pacemaker, died Sunday in an extended-care facility in Toronto. He was 91. The cause was heart failure, his family said. As
 James Lebron, a master art handler and installer who shepherded some of the most significant paintings of the late 20th century along the tortuous path from artist's studio to gallery wall, died on March 16 in West Islip, N.Y. He was 76 and lived in North Babylon, N.Y. The cause was
 COCHRAN--Johnnie L. Jr., Esq. The Board of Directors and staff of the Upper Manhattan Empowerment Zone Development Corp. are deeply saddened by the loss of the chairman of our board. Our prayers and condolences go out to his family. Mr. Cochran was elected chairman in October 2001 and guide
 GALASSO--Ralph J. The partners, associates and staff of Pavia & Harcourt LLP mourn the untimely loss of our dear friend and colleague, Ralph J. Galasso. Ralph was the head of our real estate practice group and a trusted advisor and counselor, in the fullest sense of those words, to innumera
 GITTELL--Irwin. 78. Died on March 29. Beloved husband of Marilyn, devoted father of Drs. Amy Gittell Gallagher and Tom Gallagher and Drs. Ross Gittell and Jody Hoffer Gittell and cherished Papa to Brett, Molly, Rose and Grace. Always dedicated to family, social issues and the best ethics of
 SAUERHAFT--Stan of Armonk, New York, a leading public relations expert on mergers and acquisitions and corporate communications counseling, died in his sleep on March 25 at age 78. His death followed a valiant struggle with Alzheimer's Disease as well as cancer. A graduate of the University
 STONE--Joseph. The Board of Governors and Membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Joseph Stone, an esteemed member, and extend to his beloved wife, Rosalind and family, its deepest sympathy. Brian J. Strum, President Andrew Muhlstock, Secy       
 STRUTH--Bert. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved longtime member Bert Struth. On behalf of all our members, we express our deepest sympathy to his wife, Barbara, and their entire family. Earle Yaffa, President Dal
 TUTUNJIAN--Jill A. (Dammann), age 52, of Boston, MA, formerly of Welleslley, MA, Wednesday, March 30, 2005. Cherished wife of Kenneth. Devoted daughter of Joseph Dammann & his wife Barbara of NY, and the late Barbara (Bloch). Dear sister of James of NH, Jonathan of GA & Peter of NY. Survive
 WAGNER--Rodney. The Board and staff of the Community Service Society of New York mourn the loss of a friend and generous supporter. His genuine concern for all those in need will be surely missed. Our deepest sympathy goes to his wife, our former Board member, Sukey Wagner and her entire fa
