 Merwin Bayer, a former president and chief executive of the Arnold Constable Corporation, the operator of what was long one of New York's finest luxury department stores, died Jan. 22 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 88. Mr. Bayer, who lived in Manhattan, spent almost all
 Rob Roy Kelly, a graphic design educator, historian and collector whose influential book on the history of 19th-century American wood type prompted a major typographic revival in the 1970's, died on Jan. 22 in Tempe, Ariz. He was 78. The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary disea
 Robert J. Harth, the artistic and executive director of Carnegie Hall, who in just two years managed the storied institution through the economic downturn that followed the attack on the World Trade Center, as well as the opening of a new underground stage and merger negotiations with the N
 Robert C. Zampano, a retired senior judge of the federal bench in Connecticut renowned for his skill in resolving complex disputes, in or out of court, died on Jan. 12 in New Haven. He was 74 and lived in East Haven. His death was announced in mid-January by the Connecticut Bar Asso
 Alan Bullock, one of Britain's foremost historians, whose early biography of Hitler became a scholarly yardstick on the subject, died on Monday in Oxfordshire, England. He was 89. His death was announced by Oxford University, where he wrote and taught as the founding master of St. C
 Warren Zimmermann, the last American ambassador to Yugoslavia, who held senior diplomatic posts in several other countries, died Tuesday at his home in Great Falls, Va. He was 69. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his son, Tim. Mr. Zimmermann served in a united Yugoslavi
 Adm. Thomas Hinman Moorer, a World War II hero who was appointed chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff by President Richard M. Nixon, died on Thursday in the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md., the Department of Defense said. He was 91. A 41-year veteran of the Navy, Adm
 James J. Jordan Jr., widely considered one of the premier sloganeers of Madison Avenue, who popularized brands like Schaefer beer and Wisk detergent, died Wednesday while snorkeling on a vacation in the Virgin Islands with his wife, Mary Helen. He was 73 and lived in White Plains. D
 Fuad Rouhani, who as the first secretary general of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries brought a cool, technocratic approach to oil price negotiations, died Jan. 30 in London. He was 96. He died in the nursing home where he had lived in recent years, a son-in-law,
 Adm. Thomas H. Moorer, a World War II hero who was appointed chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff by President Richard M. Nixon, died on Thursday in the National Naval Medical Center in Bethesda, Md., the Defense Department said. He was 91. A 41-year veteran of the Navy, Admiral Mo
 Jacques Francais, a dealer in classical string instruments who with a glance could authenticate a Stradivarius worth millions and then often match it with its next player, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 80. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his wife, Beatri
 Oswald Garrison Villard Jr., a pioneer in the development of radar able to see over the horizon, died on Jan. 7 in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 87. He died at a nursing home, said his daughter, Barbara Suzanne Villard of Tucson. Dr. Villard, an electronics engineer, parlayed his
 Ward Jackson, a New York abstract painter and a longtime archivist at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, died on Feb. 3 in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was congestive heart disease, his nephew Julian Jackson said. Inspired by painters like Piet Mondrian and Josef Albers, M
 Harold Shapinsky, an Abstract Expressionist whose paintings remained largely unappreciated until late in his career, died on Jan. 31 in Rockville, Md. He was 78. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, his son, David, said. Many of the giants of Abstract Expres
 Jerome F. Lederer, an aviation safety expert who introduced blinking anticollision lights and flight data recorders to aircraft, helped create many of the regulations promoting safe air travel and was NASA's first director of manned space flight safety, died Friday, at a hospital in Laguna 
 The jazz bassist Malachi Favors, for 35 years a member of the Art Ensemble of Chicago, died on Jan. 30 in Chicago. He was 76. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his daughter, Malba Favors Allen. A remarkable group that combined traditional elements of jazz and blues, West
 Nicholas Richard Doman, a New York lawyer who wrote about international law and politics, died on Jan. 25 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, his family said. He was 90 and also lived on Shelter Island. Mr. Doman specialized in wills and estates and in pursuing the rest
 Samuel M. Rubin, who was known as ''Sam the Popcorn Man'' for making popcorn almost as popular in New York City movie theaters as jokes and kisses, died on Thursday. He was 85. He died in Boynton Beach, Fla., his daughter, Karen Rubin, said. Movies had prospered without popc
 William Herrick, author of 10 novels and a memoir, died on Jan. 31 at his home in Old Chatham, N.Y. He was 89. The death was reported by Jonathan Goodman-Herrick, his son. Mr. Herrick, who was among the Abraham Lincoln Brigade of American volunteers who fought Francisco Fran
 Donald Barr, an educator, writer and former headmaster of the Dalton School in Manhattan and the Hackley School in Tarrytown, N.Y., died on Thursday at a hospital in Langhorne, Pa. He was 82 and lived in Colebrook, Conn. The cause was heart failure, his family said. 
 Jason Raize Rothenberg, an actor and singer who was one of the original stars of the Broadway musical ''The Lion King,'' died on Feb. 3 in Yass, Australia, southwest of Sydney. He was 28. The cause was suicide, said Chris Boneau, a spokesman for the Disney Company, producer of ''The
 William B. Tabler Sr., an architect who gave Hilton hotels the crisp and clean but sometimes stark face of corporate America, most notably in the 46-story slablike New York Hilton near Rockefeller Center, died on Feb. 3. He was 89. He died at his home in Upper Brookville, N.Y., said
 Claude Ryan, a former leader of the Quebec Liberal Party who led the successful opposition in a referendum in 1980 on the French-speaking province's secession from Canada, died Monday in Montreal. He was 79. The party, which announced Mr. Ryan's death on its Web site, said the cause
 Helmut Werner, the executive who gave renewed luster to the Mercedes automobile but whose influence fell victim to the combination process that resulted in the trans-Atlantic DaimlerChrysler, died on Friday in Berlin. He was 67 and lived in Stuttgart, where the company is based. His
 Jim Russo, who helped build a host of pennant-winning Baltimore Oriole teams in a scouting career that spanned more than three decades, died in Grover, Mo. He was 81. Family members found his body at his home last Sunday evening, said his daughter-in-law Lisa Russo. He had heart dis
 Julius Schwartz, a comic-book editor who rescued the superhero genre from near extinction in the mid-1950's and helped shape popular characters including Batman, the Flash and Green Lantern, died on Sunday in Mineola, N.Y. He was 88 and lived in Queens Village. The cause was pneumon
 Ryszard Kuklinski, a former Polish Army officer who secretly served as one of the C.I.A.'s most important spies behind the Iron Curtain during the cold war, died Tuesday in his adopted American homeland, United States government officials said Wednesday. He was 73. His death came at
 Edward Jablonski, who wrote notable biographies of George Gershwin, Harold Arlen, Alan Jay Lerner and, most recently, Irving Berlin, died on Tuesday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived on the Upper West Side. The cause was heart failure, his family said. M
 Richard Edward Diamond, publisher of The Staten Island Advance, part of the Newhouse publishing empire, died yesterday at his home in the Todt Hill section of Staten Island. A lifelong resident of Staten Island, he was 71. The cause was prostate cancer, a family spokesman said.     
 Philip Albert Straus, a retired New York investment banker, financier and patron of the arts and education, died on Feb. 4 in Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. He was 88 and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y. The cause was complications after surgery, his family said. Mr. Straus spe
 Dr. Robert A. Bruce, who advanced the ability to diagnose heart disease by devising the treadmill stress test, now almost universally used, died on Thursday at his home in Seattle. He was 87. The cause was leukemia and spinal stenosis, said Carole Brennan, a daughter of his third wi
 Stephen M. Kellen, an investment banker who supported the arts and education in his adopted city of New York and helped build cultural bridges to his native Berlin, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 89 and lived on the Upper East Side. He died in his sleep at Lenox Hill Hospita
 Adrian Lopez, who published magazines on a broad range of subjects, including car racing and quilting, for 60 years, died on Jan. 27 at a hospital in Brick, N.J. He was 97 and lived in Bay Head, N.J. The cause was complications from dialysis treatments, his son Barry said. M
 Brig. Gen. Amato Semenza, a retired Roman Catholic educator and former commander of the New York Guard, died on Feb. 1 at his home in Clifton Park, N.Y. He was 84. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. General Semenza was named to head the state guard, the all-volun
 Dr. Celso-Ramón García, whose research in the 1950's advanced the development of the birth control pill, died on Feb. 1 in Boston, where he was visiting a relative. He was 82 and lived in Merion Station, Pa., outside Philadelphia. The cause was cardiovascular disease, said his dau
 Cem Karaca, one of the founders of Turkish rock music, died on Feb. 8 in Istanbul. He was 58. The cause was heart failure, the Bakirkoy Acibadem Hospital announced. Mr. Karaca's concerts and 24 albums won fans in Turkey and Western Europe. With his signature felt hat, big br
 Lawrence S. Ritter, whose pioneering oral history ''The Glory of Their Times'' recounted the baseball world of the early 20th century, died Sunday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 81. He had a series of strokes in recent years, said Marty Appel, a friend and former public relat
 Paul Ilyinsky, who as mayor of Palm Beach, Fla., in the 1990's laid claim to being the only member of the Romanov family to hold an elected office, died on Feb. 10 at his home in Palm Beach. He was 76. The cause has not been determined, his son Michael said, but he had multiple heal
 Jervis Langdon Jr., a top railroad executive during an era in which the industry was reshaped, died on Monday at his home in Elmira, N.Y. He was 99. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Irene. During a four-decade career, Mr. Langdon was president of severa
 José López Portillo, who as president of Mexico from 1976 to 1982 brought his nation to the brink of economic collapse, died yesterday. He was 83 years old. Medical officials said Mr. López Portillo died at Angeles del Pedregal Hospital in Mexico City, where he was being treated 
 José López Portillo, who as president of Mexico from 1976 to 1982 brought his nation to the brink of economic collapse, died on Tuesday. He was 83. Medical officials said Mr. López Portillo died at Ángeles del Pedregal Hospital in Mexico City, where he was being treated for pneu
 Archbishop Denis Hurley, who retired as leader of the archdiocese of Durban, South Africa, and was an implacable foe of the country's apartheid policies, died last Friday, Roman Catholic Church officials said. He was 88. The archdiocese said he appeared to have had a stroke while be
 Charlie Fox, who was the 1971 manager of the year with the San Francisco Giants and spent a half-century in baseball as an executive, manager, coach and scout, died Monday at Stanford Hospital in Stanford, Calif. He was 82. The cause was complications from pneumonia, the Giants said
 Frank del Olmo, who as an editor, columnist and reporter for The Los Angeles Times became nationally known for his sharp insights into the concerns of Hispanic-Americans, died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 55. Mr. del Olmo collapsed in his office, apparently after a heart attack,
 Gene Hovis, a Southern-born chef who used his grandmother's recipes to become a caterer, then a friend and food adviser to New York society figures, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 59. The cause was cardiac arrest, said Hans-Joachim Teetz, his
 Jean Rouch, a French explorer, ethnologist and film director who played a significant role in forging the cinéma-vérité style, died on Wednesday night in a car crash in the west central African nation of Niger, the French Embassy there said. He was 86. Mr. Rouch (pronounced roosh
 Clark Byers, who for three decades painted ''See Rock City'' on more than 900 barns from Michigan to Florida, died Thursday. He was 89 and lived in Trenton, Ga. Mr. Byers was hospitalized last week after a heart attack and had been ill for the last three years, said his daughter Nan
 Gerald Walker, an author and editor who wrote the novel ''Cruising,'' died on Thursday at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was complications of a stroke, said his wife, Joanna Simon. Mr. Walker was an articles editor for The New York Times Ma
 Dr. Jordi Casals-Ariet, the epidemiologist who was nearly killed in 1969 by Lassa fever while his team at Yale was discovering the virus that causes it, died in Manhattan on Feb. 10, his wife, Ellen, said yesterday. He was 92. Lassa fever is one of the hemorrhagic fever viruses, and
 Humphry Osmond, the psychiatrist who coined the word ''psychedelic'' for the drugs to which he introduced the writer and essayist Aldous Huxley, died on Feb. 6 at his home in Appleton, Wis. He was 86. The cause was cardiac arrhythmia, said his daughter Euphemia Blackburn of Appleton
 Bart Howard, the composer of ''Fly Me to the Moon'' and of cabaret songs recorded by Mabel Mercer, Johnny Mathis and many others, died on Saturday in Carmel, N.Y. He was 88 and lived in North Salem, N.Y. The cause was complications from a stroke, said his companion of 58 years, Thom
 E. Phillips Hathaway, a retired Maryland investment banker and a foundation executive, died on Feb. 6 at his home in Owings Mills, Md. He was 83. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. At his death, Mr. Hathaway was president of the Middendorf Foundation of
 Frederick Morgan, a founder and for 55 years the editor of The Hudson Review, one of the nation's most prestigious literary journals, and the author of more than a dozen books of poetry, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan. 
 Andy Seminick, a major league catcher for 15 seasons who was the last surviving lineup regular for the Whiz Kids, the Philadelphia Phillies' 1950 pennant winners, died Sunday in Melbourne, Fla. He was 83. The cause was cancer, his son, Andy Jr., said. When the Phillies won t
 Charles B. Benenson, a commercial real estate executive who oversaw the development of some of New York's most prestigious properties, died Sunday, according to his brother Lawrence. He was 91. Mr. Benenson worked in partnership with some of New York's oldest real estate families, i
 Dan Kiley, a seminal landscape architect who combined modernist functionalism with classical design principles in more than 1,000 projects, died on Saturday at his home in Charlotte, Vt. He was 91. His son-in-law, David Holmes, said that death occurred after a period of declining he
 H. Daniel Carpenter, a longtime leader in the national settlement house movement and for 30 years the director of the Hudson Guild in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan, died on Feb. 7 in Tucson, Ariz. He was 95 and had moved to Tucson in 2002 after living in Chelsea for 71 years.       
 Jeremiah S. Gutman, a founding member of the New York Civil Liberties Union and a fixture of the civil rights bar in Manhattan for 50 years, died yesterday after suffering a heart attack at the Metro-North train station in Hastings-on-Hudson, his daughter Thea Gutman said. He was 80 and liv
 Alvino Rey, a bandleader of the swing era who made the steel guitar sing and led many talented young musicians in honing their signature sounds, died on Tuesday at his home in Salt Lake City. He was 95. His death was confirmed yesterday by his son Jon. Mr. Rey, who styled hi
 Frederick Booker Noe II, former master distiller of Jim Beam and the sixth generation of the Beam family to make bourbon, died on Feb. 24 at his home in Bardstown, Ky. He was 74. His death came after an extended illness, his son, Frederick Booker Noe III, said. A grandson of
 John Randolph, a Tony Award-winning actor who was a veteran on Broadway and in the movies, died on Tuesday at his home in Hollywood, his daughter, Martha Randolph, said. He was 88. Mr. Randolph, whose career stretched from Broadway in the 1930's to recent Hollywood films like ''You'
 Walter F. Riker Jr., former chairman of the pharmacology department at Cornell Medical College, who in 1973 became the first drug adviser to the National Football League, died on Feb. 20 in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Fort Lee, N.J. Dr. Riker died at New York Hospital,his son 
 Bernard Goldberg, a former chief executive of Schenley Industries and the American Distilling Company, died last Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in retirement in Williams Island, Fla. His death was announced by the Hebrew Home for the Aged in the Bron
 Daniel J. Boorstin, a Pulitzer Prize-winning author and social historian who was the librarian of Congress for 12 years, died yesterday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington, D.C. He was 89 and lived in Washington. The cause was pneumonia, said his son David. Dr. Boorsti
