 Dr. A. McGehee Harvey, who developed the first research-based school of medicine in the United States at the Johns Hopkins Hospital and trained an army of medical school leaders there, died on May 8 in the hospital where he had taught. He was 86 and lived in Baltimore. The cause was
 Kenneth Joseph Lenihan, a New York research sociologist who helped refine the scientific methods used in criminology, died May 25 at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Lenihan retired in 1995 as an asso
 Monroe K. Spears, a critic, teacher and poet, died on May 23 at the Southern Tennessee Medical Center in Winchester, Tenn. He was 82 and lived in Sewanee, Tenn. Mr. Spears, a prolific critic, wrote regularly for many periodicals, including The New York Review of Books. He was consid
 BODIG-Richard. The Viola da Gamba Society of America grieves the loss of mentor, patron, and friend, Richard Bodig. Well known for his eagerness to play and sing, he will be remembered equally for his generous support of others and his wise judgment in leading the Society.       
 CIZNER-Morris. On May 29, 1998. Beloved father of Allen and Arlene and grandfather of Jennifer and Aaron. Loving brother of Rosalind. A gentle, good and truly remarkable human being. He gave tirelessly of himself to care for his late ill wife and he was the very best father imaginable. A re
 FIALKOFF-Jacob. Devoted husband of the late Ethel. Loving father of David and Rosalie Fialkoff, Susan and William Webster. Beloved brother of Ivy. Adored grandfather of Adam, Laura, Stuart. Great-grandfather of Mitchell and Staci. He was a cofounder and past president of Congregation Beth S
 FRANKEL-Charles, 81. Beloved husband of 50 years to Constance. Devoted father of Sherry and Bobby Modlin and Van and Laurie Frankel. Cherished grandfather of Troy, Tara and Daniel. Loving brother of Margaret and David. Services Monday, 2 PM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapel, 55 North Statio
 JAFFE-Irving. On May 29, 1998 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, in his 91st year. Beloved husband of Bertha and loving father of Mark Jaffe and Beth Pressman; grandfather of Kimberly and Lauren Pressman; father-in-law of June Jaffe. Strong, kind, remarkable and hard working, he w
 PFEIFFER-William L. Age 57. Of Bedminster, NJ. On May 29, 1998. Husband of Deborah (nee Hughes). Father of Heather of Chicago and Tiffany of Bedminster. Brother of Carolyn Bradshaw of Jamaica, W.I. Also survived by his mother and stepfather, Frances (nee Cardwell) and Howard Kegeley of Madi
 RICHARDS-Robert H., Sr. Of Chappaqua, NY. Died peacefully at home on May 28, 1998, surrounded by his family. He was a cherished and devoted husband, father, brother, uncle and friend. His wife Helen (Field-McNally), his children, Robert, Jr., Margaret and Alexandra, brothers Benjamin and Da
 SHOROFSKY - Gerald. Beloved husband of Florence. Loving father of Alan, Melanie and Stephen. Caring brother of Miriam and adored grandfather of Matthew, Lauren, Michael and Benjamin. His memory will be a blessing because he was a blessing to us and so many others. Service at Menorah Chapels
 YOUNG-Robert F. Former president and publisher of Family Circle magazine, he was a longtime resident of Hastings-on-Hudson and Carmel, NY, recently moved to Greensboro, NC. Died May 27, 1998. Cherished husband of Judith, devoted father of Melinda Rosengarten, Julie O'Connor, Steven and Chri
 Dominick Corso, a New York Civil Court judge and former City Councilman, died May 23. He was 90 and lived in Brooklyn. Judge Corso won election to the City Council in 1960 and served on it for nine years, representing the Bushwick-East New York district. Among his responsibilities w
 Ernest Bloch, an authority on corporate finance who taught at New York University and wrote widely on economic and financial affairs, died on May 15 in Tisch Hospital at N.Y.U. Medical Center. Dr. Bloch, a former resident of lower Manhattan, was 77 and lived at Heritage Hills in Som
 Francis P. DeVerna, a theatrical union official who went on to become an expert in stage lighting, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 70 and lived in Rockville Center, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Mary. Mr. DeVerna began his career as
 Milton Hindus, a scholar of American and European literature and the last of Brandeis University's original faculty, died on Thursday when he collapsed outside the main entrance to the campus in Waltham, Mass. He was 81 and lived in Newton, Mass. Professor Hindus suffered a heart at
 ADLER-John. America-Israel Cultural Foundation has lost a great leader and friend. His presidency of our Los Angeles Chapter brought it to new heights. We extend our warmest condolences to Jill and their children. Vera Stern, President       
 ANDERSON-Gary, 49, on May 14 at his home in Duluth, MN. An artist and painter, Gary attended Cass Tech High School in Detroit and until recently lived in New York. He is survived by his relatives -Paul, Diana, Chris and Cheryl Anderson, all of Lowell, MI. He was a gifted and unique person a
 CIZNER-Morris. The Associates of Morris Cizner deeply mourn the sudden passing of their esteemed colleague, and extend deepest condolences to his loving family. Martin Lassoff, Esq.       
 EIDELMAN-Yosef Dr. The Faculty, Residents and Staff at the Institute of Reconstructive Plastic Surgery at the NYU Medical Center wish to express their sincere sorrow at the passing of their friend and colleague Yosef Eidelman, M.D. On his death at age 36 years on May 30th, he was near the c
 HALL-Edward J, Dr. of Bethel, CT died Sunday, May 31. He was professor emeritus of Obstetrics and Gynecology of Health Sciences Center, State University of New York, Brooklyn, NY. Dr. Hall was a past president of the Brooklyn Gynecological Society, New York Obstetrical Society, American Ass
 LIANIDES-Leon. On June 1, 1998. Former owner of the Coach House Restaurant. Beloved husband of Aphrodite and father of Ronald. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Tuesday and Wednesday, 5-8 PM. Funeral service Thursday at a time to be announced. In lieu 
 MASTERSON-Dr. Charles F. Of Brooklyn, NY died Saturday May 31, 1998 at Methodist Hospital. Dr. Masterson is survived by his beloved wife Vivian (nee Reppke), son Michael, daughter Susan Forrest, granddaughter Jennifer Masterson, and Helen Overbey of Mishawaka, IN. He was predeceased by his 
 NADISON-George. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. George Nadison, an esteemed member, and extend to his beloved wife, Bernice, and family its deepest sympathy. Saul Friedland, President Sidney Gottlieb, Secretary       
 PARKER-Martin L. On May 29, 1998 of Briarcliff Manor, NY. Beloved husband of Caroline (Goldstein) Parker. Loved father of Andrew, Frederick & Suzanne Parker. Cherished grandfather of Arielle, Clay & Elijah Parker. Funeral service Tuesday, 11 am, Temple Beth Abraham, So. Broadway & Leroy Ave
 PFEIFFER-William L. A truly good friend and exceptional human being we will alwayS remember him with love and admiration. We feel privileged to have known Bill. Ana Maria and Mal Salit Mason Lauren and Wayne       
 ROELLKE-Robert Louis. Beloved husband of 47 years to Betsy Anne (Quad) Roellke, loving father of Robert Jr, Elizabeth, Richard, Susan, John, David, Christopher, and devoted grandfather of sixteen grandchildren, died Saturday at the age of 73. His gifts of love and inspiration are everlastin
 SILVER-Maurice. On June 1, 1998 at home. A gentleman and a scholar. Loving and beloved husband of Dorothy; father of Arthur and the late Bettina Lorris; grandfather of Mara Lorris, Elizabeth Lorris Ritter, and Rebecca Buchanan; Pop-Pop of Tina and David Ritter and Sean Jenkins; uncle of Ger
 BOBRICK-David H. We recall with fondness and gratitude Uncle Dave's happy visits during our childhood days. The ever-present, fun-loving, twinkle in his eye showed three youngsters that giving joy to others is very much a part of one's life. Carol Barrish, Edgar and Michael Lampert       
 Robert F. Young, a longtime president and publisher of Family Circle magazine who guided the publication through growth here and abroad, died after a short illness last Wednesday in Greensboro, N.C, where he lived. He was 78. Mr. Young joined Family Circle in 1968 as vice president 
 Leon Lianides, the demanding owner of the Coach House restaurant in Greenwich Village, died Monday at his home in Riverdale, the Bronx. He was 81. He had been in declining health since suffering a head injury in a car accident in 1991, his wife, Aphrodite, said yesterday. In
 ASTROF-Esther. The West Group of Companies extend their sincere sympathy to our esteemed Chief Financial Officer, Martin Astrof and his family on the loss of Esther Astrof, beloved mother and grandmother. Anyone wishing to offer condolences to the family may forward them to Martin Astrof at
 AUCHINCLOSS-Gordon.On June 1, 1998. Writer, director and communications executive. Beloved husband of Anne, devoted father of Stuart, Gordon S. and Sibley Anne, step-father of Eric Davis and Julianne Davis. Loving brother of Douglas, cherished grandfather, great grandfather, step grandfathe
 CARRET-Philip. Member of the New York Rotary Club since 1955, on March 28 at 101. Best known to rotarians as a humanitarian, a community-minded man with high standards in his business and personal life, and by his generousity to the New York Rotary Foundation throughout his membership. Reci
 DAVIS-Danny L. Son of Mrs. Adell Davis and the late Mr. Hosea Davis. Beloved husband of Rhonda K. Montgomery. Loving father of Allison and Carla. Born August 6, 1954 in Tillery, NC. Passed away on May 24th while jogging near his home in Morristown, NJ. Mr. Davis graduated from North Carolin
 EIDELMAN-Yosef. On May 30, 1998 we lost a very close friend, Dr. Yosef Eidelman. We express our deepest sympathy to his family. He will be sorely missed. The Lippman Family       
 FINE - Arthur. The Officers, Trustees and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant and Honorary Vice President. We extend to his wife Sylvia and the family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S. Sch
 GOLDIN-Judah. The Jewish Theological Seminary Family records with sorrow the passing of Professor Judah Goldin, an esteemed graduate of JTS, where he earned his Rabbinic Ordination and doctorate, and for many years, a beloved member of its faculty and administration. As a pioneer in the fie
 HONIG-Gary D. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved brother of its devoted member, Lisa Buksbaum. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 KROEGER-Arthur. Died May 29, 1998 in Mystic, CT at the home of his daughter, Mary Katherine Porter. Survived by a daughter, Mary Katherine Porter, Mystic, CT; grandaughter, Sarah H. Porter, Menlo Park, CA; grandson, Philip K. Porter, Carrboro, NC; brother, William Kroeger, Borriego Springs,
 LEE-Francis (Francesco-Sardo-Fontana), age 85. Rare pioneer of independent and avant-garde film. As an official wartime cameraman, he survived the second wave of D-Day landings on Omaha Beach. He used the footage in one of his best known works, ''World War II and Me.'' His footage of the Li
 LIANIDES-Leon. On June 1, 1998. Former owner of the Coach House Restaurant. Beloved husband of Aphrodite and father of Ronald. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Tuesday and Wednesday, 5-8 PM. Funeral service Thursday, June 4, 11:30 AM at Frank E. Campb
 SILVER-Maurice. On June 1, 1998 at home. A gentleman and a scholar. Loving and beloved husband of Dorothy; father of Arthur and the late Bettina Lorris; grandfather of Mara Lorris, Elizabeth Lorris Ritter, and Rebecca Buchanan; Pop-Pop of Tina and David Ritter and Sean Jenkins; uncle of Ger
 YOUNG-Robert F. On May 27, 1998, former President and Publisher of Family Circle Magazine. In memory of a good friend and a great boss, from the Officers and Employees who worked with him. You will be missed by all those who knew you.       
 DAVIS-Danny L. New York University's Center for Graphic Communications notes with deep regrets the passing of an esteemed member of its Advisory Board, Danny Davis, and extends to his family and friends our sincerest sympathy. Melvin Ettinger, Chairman Arnold Spinner, Director       
 DOMENITZ-Steven, 43, on June 3, 1998. Adored and adoring husband of Nancy; beloved son of Irwin and Alyce, and grandson of Lucille Moskowitz; treasured brother of Janet and Louise; cherished stepfather of Oren and Eitan Atias. He also leaves his loving niece and nephews, brothers and sister
 GOULD-Eugene Emanual, MD. Passed away March 4, 1998. He was a Mensch, a book lover, a self-made man and a genius. At 19 orphaned and penniless, he put himself through college and medical school, working odd jobs. A loving father and husband, he leaves a wife Evelyn, son Claude and daughter,
 HARRIS-Bernard. ''Bucky'' Harris, 79, a resident of Stratton Mountain, Vermont for the last eight years who wintered in Holmes Beach, FL. died on May 25. He was born in New York City. A former textile marketing executive, he served in the Army during World War II. Survived by his wife, Jean
 KUEHL-Professor John. The Dean of the Faculty of Arts and Science and the Faculty of the English Department of New York University announce with sorrow the death of our colleague and friend, John Kuehl. A noted scholar of F. Scott Fitzgerald and contemporary writing, Professor Kuehl was als
 RENDIGS-Charles W. Jr. of New York City died after a long illness May 27, 1998 at home. He was a graduate of Trinity Pauling class of 1940, and of Dartmouth College class of 1944. During World War II, he enlisted and was 1st Lieutenant in the 104th Airborne. He was honorably discharged in 1
 SMART-Louis Edwin, of counsel and a former partner at the law firm Hughes Hubbard & Reed LLP, died on Monday, June 1, at St. Luke's Hospital in New York City. He was 74. Mr. Smart was born in Columbus, OH on November 17, 1923, and served as a lieutenant in the U.S. Naval Reserve from 1943 t
 Philip O'Connor, an incorrigible, flamboyant and decidedly self-absorbed British eccentric who turned a fulsomely frank account of his abject childhood and misspent youth into a rollicking literary sensation in 1958, died on Friday at his home near Uzes in southern France. He was 81 and the
 Roger B. Sammon, a former executive at chemical and plastics companies and a scholar of Napoleon's military strategies, died on Saturday in Huntsville, Ala. He was 75. He died of complications from heart disease, said his son, Richard. When he retired in 1983, Mr. Sammon was
 Willis Coburn Armstrong, a former Assistant Secretary of State for economic affairs, died on Sunday at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 86. The cause was cancer, the Arlington Funeral Home said. Mr. Armstrong, who was also an educator, was an Assistant Secretary in Washingt
 Joseph C. Harsch, a dashing newspaper, radio and television journalist and author who had a knack for being on hand when history was made, died on Wednesday at his home in Jamestown, R.I. He was 93. Mr. Harsch, an Ohio-born Christian Scientist, logged much mileage during his journal
 Mallalieu S. Woolfolk, a lawyer who gave legal and political assistance to prominent black elected officials, including David N. Dinkins, Percy E. Sutton and Charles B. Rangel, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Hospital in Passaic, N.J. He was 92 and lived in Teaneck, N.J. Dr. Woolfol
 Col. Oran K. Henderson, the highest-ranking officer to be tried as a consequence of the killings of Vietnamese civilians in My Lai in 1968, died on Tuesday at the Lebanon Veterans hospital in Lebanon, Pa. He was 77 and had pancreatic cancer. Colonel Henderson, a career officer, was 
 HALL-Edward J. The Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology at State University of New York-Health Sicence Center at Brooklyn was very saddened to hear about the death of Dr. J. Edward Hall. Dr. Hall was an active member of the faculty in the Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology for 19 ye
 LIEPONIS-William Vincent. 89, of Dunedin, FL, formerly of Jackson Heights, NY, passed away on May 26, 1998. He was a member of Saint Michael The Archangel Catholic Church, Clearwater, FL, where he was an usher and member of the Mens Club. He was also a member of the Moose 1030 Lodge Golf Le
 MARKON-Alain Henri. Born in Toulouse, France on June 13, 1941. Died in Paris on May 31, 1998, after a long, heroic battle with cancer. Beloved son of Raya of New York City and the late Alexander. Devoted brother of Genya of Washington, D.C. Loving uncle of Dov and Yaron Yarkoni of Israel. C
 MOYLER-Freeman W. on June 2, 1998 of Mt. Vernon, N.Y. Beloved husband of Aline (nee Glover) Moyler. Devoted father of Stephanie and Joy. Dear brother of John, Muriel, Champlin, Melvin, Elaine. ''Uncle Pancho'' to all youngsters who knew him; brother-in-law, and loyal friend to those of kind
 TSE-Stephen Yung Nien. On June 3, 1998 at home in New York City. Devoted son of K.K. and T.Y. Koo. Survived by his wife Margaret Miray Lock, four sisters, four sons Chida, Chiming, Chiyung and Chikai, their wives, and eleven grandchildren. Born in Shanghai, China on February 14, 1931, Steph
 CUFFE-Edward W. Born February 16, 1936, Fall River, MA. Died June 5, 1996, NYC. He has gone where savage indignation can no longer lacerate his heart. Go traveler, imitate him if you can. He served liberty. Rage on whereever you are. The Ding Ansich Dynasty       
 GOCS-E. Stephen. Born 6/5/25, died 11/11/97, survived by sister Blanche, wife Helen, children Diane, Elizabeth, grandsons Andrew, Colin, Jack, Shawn, niece Stef, ex-wife, Marie. Condolences to 4600 University Drive, Springfield 1602, Durham, NC 27707. ''Man's reach must always exceed his gr
 William Abrahams, a Harvard-bred poet who tried his hand at novels before finding a lasting literary niche as a distinguished book editor credited with almost single-handedly preserving the short story as a viable genre, died on Tuesday at his home in Hillsborough, Calif. He was 79 and had 
 Alfred Kazin, author, critic, teacher and New York intellectual, died yesterday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan on his 83d birthday. Over the last few years Mr. Kazin faced the slow progression of prostate cancer, and also suffered from bone cancer in his last months
 David G. Walsh, a journeyman stock promoter whose gold mining company, Bre-X Minerals, was at the center of a fraud that wiped out the holdings of investors in Canada and the United States, died on Thursday at Doctors' Hospital in Nassau, the Bahamas. He was 52 and had been in a com
 DOBO-Francis Ferenc (Frank). Passed away peacefully on Wednesday, June 3, succumbing in his 90th year to a protracted illness. With him at the time in his Manhattan apartment was his wife and loving companion of 56 years, Bita Dobo (nee Sulzberger). In addition, he is survived by his son Mi
 GILBARD-Harris T. Of Boca Raton, Florida and New York City, on June 3, 1998, after a courageous struggle with Lou Gehrig's disease. He is survived by his beloved and devoted wife Marion. Loving father of Dr. Robert and Bianca Gilbard, Dr. Jeffrey and Elisabeth Gilbard, Dr. Steven and Lauren
 KAZIN-Alfred. Writer and teacher, died Friday, June 5, at home, surrounded by his books and his family. He is survived by his wife, Judith Dunford, his children, Michael and Cathrael, his daughter-in-law, Beth and two grandchildren, Daniel and Maia Rebecca. He is also survived by three step
 TSE-Stephen Yung Nien. On June 3, 1998 at home in New York City. Devoted son of K.K. and T.Y. Koo. Survived by his wife Margaret Miray Lock, four sisters, four sons Chida, Chiming, Chiyung and Chikai, their wives, and eleven grandchildren. Born in Shanghai, China on February 14, 1931, Steph
 GUTENBERG-Larry. March 5, 1949-June 6, 1995. Larry will always be remembered and honored for his fight against racism, homophobia and AIDS. Jose Anselmi & Bernie Durham       
 Sam Yorty, the blunt-talking, self-promoting Mayor of Los Angeles who took credit for building up the city yet denied any responsibility for the Watts riots in 1965, died today. He was 88. Mr. Yorty had suffered a stroke on May 24, and two days ago asked to be released from a hospit
 Ted Dunbar, a jazz guitarist who performed with some of the leading musicians of his day, died on May 29  at a hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 61 and lived in Kendall Park, N.J. The cause was complications of a stroke, said Ethel Wells, a friend. In the early 1960's, 
 Lucien E. Conein, one of the last great cold war spies, whose swashbuckling tales of war and death and sex, almost all of them true, form an enduring legend at the Central Intelligence Agency, died Wednesday of heart failure in Bethesda, Md. He was 79. He ran agents behind the Iron 
 ABRAMS-Ted E. Died May 31, 1998, at 78 years old in Boca Raton. Formerly of Brookville, LI. Predeceased by daughter Amy. He is survived by his beloved wife of 54 years Adelaide and his loving children Dr. Steven Abrams, Brian Abrams and Susan Schmieder. Adored by his ten grandchildren. Trea
 ALPERT-Benjamin. Sutton Place Synagogue extends heartfelt condolences to our esteemed Honorary President Warren Alpert on the loss of his beloved brother. Rabbi Seth H. Frisch Robert W. Berend, President       
 FISCHER-Max C. Former CEO of Pierce Electric Engineering Corporation, and 50-year Mason. Avid swimmer, golfer, skier and excellent dancer. Accomplished banjo player. Max was an individual who enjoyed his individuality. He was active and involved with life until his death on May 1, 1998 at t
 GILBARD-Harris T. Of Boca Raton, Florida and New York City, on June 3, 1998, after a courageous struggle with Lou Gehrig's disease. He is survived by his beloved and devoted wife Marion. Loving father of Dr. Robert and Bianca Gilbard, Dr. Jeffrey and Elisabeth Gilbard, Dr. Steven and Lauren
 HERMA-Edward J. Of Lighthouse Point, FL. Passed away Friday, June 5, 1998, at The Congregational Home of Brookfield, WI, at the age of 88 years. Preceded in death by his wife Ruth and granddaughter Leigh. Dear father of Janice Herma of Boca Raton, FL, and John F. (Susan) Herma of Elm Grove,
 KAZIN-Alfred. With profound sadness, the faculty, students and staff of the Graduate School and University Center of The City University of New York mourn the passing of Alfred Kazin, our great teacher and man of letters, who was Distinguished Professor Emeritus of English, as well as one t
 KENESSEY-Zoltan. Died on June 4, 1998 at the age of 68 after a valiant struggle with brain cancer. A brilliant and highly cultivated intellectual, he was a leader in international statistics. His career spanned the globe, from the Hungarian Statistical Office in Budapest and the United Nati
 KRONENBERG - Bernard, M.D. Died June 4, 1998 after a long illness. Survived by his beloved wife Gloria, father of Lori, Stephen and Debra. Grandfather of Stephanie and Michael. Celebration of his life at Beach Point Club, Mamaroneck, NY on June 14, 1998 at 12 noon. In lieu of flowers, memor
 NAF-Dr. Ulrich. A noted biologist and botanist died on May 1, 1998 at Montefiore Medical Center, Bronx, New York at the age of 76 after an extended illness. A resident of Riverdale, New York for over 30 years, he was born and raised in Switzerland where he served in the Swiss Army at the bo
 POTTER-Harry R., MD. The entire family of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center mourns the passing of Harry R. Potter, MD. An attending physician at Roosevelt Hospital for nearly five decades, he was a beloved and revered colleague in our Psychiatry Department who upheld our finest tradition
 SHENHEIT-Irwin M. Of Maplewood, NJ in his 88th year. Died June 4, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Jeanette. Loving father of Barbara Sue. Grandfather of Laurel, Ilisa and Adam. The proud great-grandfather of Ariel. Donations in his memory to the heart fund.       
 TSE-Stephen Yung Nien. On June 3, 1998 at home in New York City. Devoted son of K.K. and T.Y. Koo. Survived by his wife Margaret Miray Lock, four sisters, four sons Chida, Chiming, Chiyung and Chikai, their wives, and eleven grandchildren. Born in Shanghai, China on February 14, 1931, Steph
 TURNER-Albert. Died June 1st, 1998. Beloved husband of Evelyn. Loving father of Lois, Jill and Gail. We will always remember him for his kindness, wisdom, sense of humor and his dreams. He will be missed by many.       
 YEZZO-Richard. The Board of Governors, members and staff of the Greater New York Hospital Association deeply regret the untimely and tragic passing of Richard Yezzo. His wonderful mix of humor and compassion will be sorely missed by everyone who had the pleasure of knowing him. He will be r
 Shirley Povich's sports column ran in The Washington Post on Friday, which was not unusual, since his columns have appeared in The Washington Post for 74 years, or since he began working there in 1924, at age 19. Mr. Povich's column Friday, headlined ''Recent Baseball Feats Require Footnote
 Stephen Yung Nien Tse, a retired senior executive of American International Group, an insurance company in New York, died on Wednesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was cancer of the head and neck, his family said. Mr. Tse retired in 1
 Georges E. Seligmann, a Manhattan dealer who sold works of art to major museums around the world, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 102. Dr. Seligmann, who was born and reared in Paris, was trained as a doctor. But just as he was about to set up his own practice, he c
 Lorne Welch, a crack British glider pilot and yachtsman who played parts in two of the most storied escapes by Allied prisoners during World War II, died on May 15 at his home in Farnham, England. He was 81. A prisoner of war with uncommon flair, Mr. Welch was being held at the Stal
 GILBARD-Harris T. Beloved brother-in-law of Helen and Shelly Rodbell and cherished uncle of Hank and Gerry Alpert, Alain and Ellen Roizen, and their children David, Brooke, Erica and Remy. His gentle spirit, profound goodness and devoted caring will be greatly missed by all who had the good
 HERMA-Edward J. Of Lighthouse Point, FL. Passed away Friday, June 5, 1998, at The Congregational Home of Brookfield, WI, at the age of 88 years. Preceded in death by his wife Ruth and granddaughter Leigh. Dear father of Janice Herma of Boca Raton, FL, and John F. (Susan) Herma of Elm Grove,
 JOHNSTON-William O. Of Henderson, KY. Died in New York City on June 4, 1998. A devout Episcopalian and founder and President of the Episcopal Churchpeople for a Free Southern Africa. He devoted his life to the struggle for freedom in Africa and to racial and social justice for all people. H
 KAZIN-Alfred. With profound sadness, the faculty, students and staff of the Graduate School and University Center of The City University of New York mourn the passing of Alfred Kazin, our great teacher and man of letters, who was Distinguished Professor Emeritus of English, as well as one t
 SMITH-Lawrence T., Esq. Of Mahopac, NY. On June 5, 1998. Brother of Mary Walsh. Also survived by three nieces and two nephews. Mass of Christian Burial today, 10 AM, St. John the Evangelist Church, Mahopac, NY. Interment St. Lawrence Cemetery, West Haven, CT. In lieu of flowers, contributio
 YEZZO-Richard. The Board of Governors, members and staff of the Greater New York Hospital Association deeply regret the untimely and tragic passing of Richard Yezzo. His wonderful mix of humor and compassion will be sorely missed by everyone who had the pleasure of knowing him. He will be r
 Samuel Jackson Lanahan, an authority on tax law, died on May 29, after suffering a pulmonary embolism at his vacation home in Dartmouth, England. He was 79 and lived in Trappe, Md. Mr. Lanahan was a founding partner, in 1954, of Clark & Lanahan, a law firm in Washington that merged 
 A. Arthur Gottlieb, a biologist and immunologist who formed his own biotechnology company, died on Sunday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 60 and lived in New Orleans. The cause of death was a blood clot that lodged in his lung after surgery, his family said.     
 Harold Segal, a Marine fighter pilot who shot down 12 Japanese planes in World War II, three of them in a single duel that ended with his being fished out of the Pacific Ocean by an American destroyer, died on Wednesday at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 77. In March 1944, more
 BITTER-Herbert J. Born August 4, 1919, passed away June 7, 1998 in Dallas, Texas. He was President of Georgetown Marketing. Herbert was a beloved husband, devoted father, grandfather, brother, good friend and all around great guy. He is survived by wife Frieda; children, Mitchell and Rena B
 GREEN-Marshall, Ambassador. Of Washington, D.C., on Saturday, June 6, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Lispenard Green, father of Mark W. Green of Arlington, VA, Ted C. Green of Washington, D.C., and the late Brampton S. Green, brother of Clarissa Hopf and Gertrude Hammond, grandfather of 
 HUMPHREYS-Ronald R. on Monday, June 8, 1998 of Manhattan, NY. Father of Olivia K. & Colin A. both of Bloomfield. Son of Richard and Ellen Shaddock Humphreys of Suffern, NY. Brother of Kathleen Adam of Clifton Park, NY, Nancy Zelen of Suffern, NY and Brian Humphreys of Manhattan, NY. Former 
 KAZIN-Alfred. The directors and staff of The Library of America note with sadness the death of Alfred Kazin, a long time friend and literary advisor. With admiration for his many contributions to American literature, and to our organization, we extend condolences to his family and friends. 
 KRONENBERG - Bernard, M.D. The officers, board and staff of the Jewish Braille Institute of America offer profound sympathy to his beloved family and also to all those whose lives were so enriched by the extraordinary medical skills and deeply sensitive personality throughout his decades of
 LELLA-Joseph A. Passed away on June 5th, 1998 at the age of 89. He is survived by his beloved wife, Elena Miserendino Lella, three loving children, Joseph, Linda, and Christopher Lella, as well as six grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. His loss will be deeply felt by numerous family
 LEVY-Harry. Dearly beloved husband of Annabelle, dearly beloved father of Lynne, Neil and Melody, dearly beloved grandfather of Bryan, Jennifer, Eliza, Isabel, inspiring President of Fabrite Laminating Corp., whose departure on June 1, 1998 is mourned by his immediate family and sons-in-law
 SNYDER-William. Of NYC died June 3. Husband for 55 years of Peggy. Loving father of Trinka Snyder and Bruce Katcher, Adam and Pat Snyder, Dana and Jim Snyder-Grant. Devoted Papa of Benjamin, Lili, Melanie, & Kasey. Private interment was held on June 5. Contributions in his memory can be mad
 SUDACK-William. On June 7, 1998 in Hallandale, Florida. Beloved and devoted husband of Lillian. Loving father of Robert. Cherished grandfather of Mark and father-in-law of Nikki. Dear uncle of Linda Sussman. Services Tuesday, 12 Noon at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Ave.       
 YEZZO-Richard. The Board of Directors and the entire Sound Shore Health System family celebrates the life and mourns the tragic passing of Richard Yezzo. A dynamic and devoted health care leader, Richard challenged all who knew him to live a purposeful and passionate life. His unyielding co
 Gen. Sani Abacha, who died yesterday at 54, was the seventh Nigerian officer to come to power by force since the country gained independence from Britain in 1960. But even against this background, General Abacha established a distinctive record of brutal rule. Nigerian human rights 
 Agostino Cardinal Casaroli, second-in-command to Pope John Paul II during the most active and turbulent times of his papacy and the architect of reconciliation with the Communist world, died today in Rome. He was 83. The cause of death was an infection after minor surgery, according
 Dieter Roth, a prolific, notoriously irascible, reclusive and eccentric German-born artist-provocateur who built a formidable reputation in Europe but remained something of a mystery in America, in part because he permitted his work to be exhibited here even more rarely than there, died on 
 ANNIS-Abner. We extend our sympathy to Rick Annis on the death of his father Abner. A loving father and grandfather, he will be remembered for his warmth and wit and unswerving loyalty to the Rangers. Sincere condolences from the Friends and Colleagues of Rick Annis.       
 ASTOR-Saul David. On June 8, 1998. Beloved husband of Patricia, loving father of Andrew and Lauren, adoring grandfather of Brett, Eric and Kate. Devoted brother of Martin and the late Edith. Services Wednesday, June 10, at 1 P.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St. Intermen
 BEIRNE-Michael E. On June 9, 1998. It is with deep sadness and heavy heart that the family announce Mike's death at his home in Rockville Centre, LI. Michael was a 30 year veteran on Wall Street, where he enjoyed a wonderful and respected reputation as a successful corporate bond broker. He
 MEYER-Joseph. Born April 3, 1916 in Port Chester, N.Y. Died June 8 in Los Angeles. Joseph was married for 55 years to Anita Meyer, who preceded him in death in April. Survived by his children, Donna Goodman and Robert (Gloria) Meyer, loving grandchildren, Suzanne, Emily & Molly, and many lo
 PREGEL-Alexander. Died June 6, 1998 at age 91 in Sarasota, Florida. Survived by his wife, Ellie; son, Robert; grandson, Richard and great grandson, Alexander. Contributions to: Hospice of Southwest Florida, 5955 Rand Boulevard, Sarasota, FL. 34238.       
 ROSENBACH-Simon. Of Rego Park, NY, Tuesday, June 9, 1998. Husband and best friend of Naomi Rosenbach. Father of Willa Rosenbach Morris and Dean Rosenbach, father-in-law of Eric and Ellen, grandfather of Jason and Eden Morris and Jillian and Marshall Rosenbach. He is also survived by four br
 ROSENBLATT - Emanuel G. Passed away June 8, 1998. He was the beloved husband of the late Claire Rosenblatt. Adored brother of Bashie Selevan. Cherished father of Francine Mushkin, Linda R. Kaminow, and Lois Rosenblatt. Beloved grandfather of Joanne (David) Shurgin, Nancy (Allen) Robinson, t
 SCHWANN-William. The Musicians, Trustees and Staff of the Marlboro Music School and Festival mourn the loss of their devoted friend and extend deepest sympathy to his family. A trustee for over thirty years, William Schwann shared his enthusiasm and love for Marlboro with friends throughout
 STONE-Martin. Of Pound Ridge, New York, on June 7, 1998 in Washington, D.C. Beloved father of Judith Ain (Ross) and Richard Stone (Shirley). Loving grandfather of Jeremy and Jennifer Ain, and Deirdre and Elizabeth Stone. A special person who touched so many lives with his warmth, intellect 
 WEINBERG-Benjamin T. Died on June 9, 1998. The lifelong Brooklyn resident was 94. For over 50 years he owned and operated Richard's Jewelers on Lexington Avenue in New York and was active in the New York Jewelers Benevolent Association. His wife of 64 years, Helen Younger Weinberg died in 1
 WEISBORD-Rabbi Ruwin Jona. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the beloved father of its Rebetzen Yocheved Schacter and father-in-law of Rabbi Jacob J. Schacter. May his entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Samuel Goldman, President Arthur G. Degen, C
 Marshall Green, who was the State Department's leading expert on East Asia and served as Ambassador to Indonesia during the violent uprising in the 1960's that brought President Suharto to power, died on Saturday. He was 82 and lived in Washington. His family said he suffered a hear
 APPELL-Daniel T. Of Lexington, MA, formerly of Scarsdale, NY. Died Sunday, June 7, at the age of 98, in Lexington, MA. Beloved father of Jane Appell of Lincoln, MA. Grandfather of two. Loving uncle, granduncle & great-granduncle, especially loved by grandniece and great-grandniece. Memorial
 CASAROLI - Cardinal Agostino. Appeal of Conscience Foundation mourns the death of Cardinal Casaroli, a past recipient of its World Statesman Award. His vision and wisdom made a lasting contribution to religious freedom and human rights. Rabbi Arthur Schneier, President Reverend Joseph A. O'
 EISENMAN-Henry (Hank). The Board of Governors, members and staff of Greater New York Hospital Association mourn the loss of Hank Eisenman, beloved father of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dana Eisenman Sherwin. Mr. Eisenman was a major contributor to New York's health care industry, hav
 HOPKINS-Daniel L., 50. Of New York on Saturday, June 6, 1998. He was the son of Orville L. Hopkins and the late Helen Hopkins Fontal. Brother of Janice (Phil) Dick Joyce of Pittsburgh, PA. Uncle of Elizabeth L. and Perry J. Dick III of Shadyside, PA. For information, Paul L. Henney Memorial
 LEVENSON-Emanuel. Today we mark the passing of a great musician, teacher and friend, Emanuel Levenson. What he gave to us could not have been bought for all the money in the world. He steadfastly served beauty and truth. He was a bright and brilliant link in a chain of illuminated souls wor
 PADOVER-Morris (Murray). It is with great sorrow and a heavy heart that we say goodbye to Murray. He was our mentor. A man with true honor and old world values. We will miss his wisdom and faith in us to always do the right thing. May you rest in peace. Your team at Morris Okun Inc. Ronni a
 RABY-Gourji M. Died on June 10, 1998. A physician of Iraqi-Jewish origin whose career spanned six decades and two cultures. He was a graduate of the first medical school class of The University of Baghdad in 1932 and, in time, became the personal physician of the Iraqi royal family and the 
 ROMMERDAHL-Jens M. A Memorial Service will be held at the Zion Lutheran Church, Saddle River, N.J. at 2PM, Saturday, June 13, 1998. Jens Rommerdahl was the General Manager of New York Marine Terminals, Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. He is survived by his wife Carla and the famil
 ROSENBLATT-E.G. Our hearts are greatly saddened by the loss of our dear uncle Manny, the patriarch of our family. He was a man of great generosity who cared for his family, Israel and the support of many worthwhile causes. He will be sorely missed. Linda & Ira Panzier Vicki & Michael Gross 
 SAMUELS-Milton. On behalf of the faculty and staff of New York University School of Medicine we extend heartfelt condolences to our esteemed colleague Herbert H. Samuels, M.D., Professor of Medicine and Pharmacology on the loss of his beloved father Milton Samuels. Born in New York City in 
 SOLOFSKY-Leo. Of Fort Lauderdale, FL., formerly of Kew Gardens Hills, Queens, passed away on Wednesday, June 10. Beloved husband of Martha. Cherished father of Michele, Fran, Steven, Alan & Joel. Beloved grandfather of Michael, Alyssa, Amy, Melanie, Robyn, Jamie, Shannon, Nicole & Natalie. 
 STONE-Martin. The remarkable Martin Stone died on Sunday, June 7, 1998. He led the most distinguished, diverse and dynamic life. His interests were broad and deep, and he brought his keen wit, intelligence and informed wisdom to all he considered and undertook. The gamut of his key involvem
 SHEPPARD-Dr. H.L. (Shep). June 11, 1992. An unforgetable man to be remembered forever, by all who knew and loved him.       
 Richard N. Yezzo, an administrator who rescued a bankrupt St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center in Manhattan by welcoming patients that few others wanted -- people with AIDS in the early years of the epidemic -- died on Friday at his home in New Rochelle. He was 46. The cause was a
 Tom Dent, a civil rights campaigner who went on to become a writer of prose and poetry, died on Saturday at a hospital in New Orleans. He was 66 and lived in New Orleans. He had had heart surgery recently, said Joan Rhodes, a family friend. Mr. Dent, a native of New Orleans,
 Michael L. Pollock, perhaps the nation's most respected expert on how much and how hard adults should exercise, died last Friday at age 61. He suffered a stroke that afternoon at the annual meeting of the American College of Sports Medicine in Orlando, Fla., and died that night, according t
 CRAVEN-William M., 70. Of Montague Center, MA. He was formerly associated with the New York Telephone Co in Watertown, NY. He was a retired Vice President of Institutional Sales for Paine Webber, in Springfield, MA. Survived by his wife, Barbara Sheehan Craven. Funeral Saturday, 10:00AM, St
 GIBB-James R., 52, a long-time activist and former president of Front Runners New York, the gay and lesbian running club, died June 7 at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. The immediate cause of death was septicemia. Jim was active from 1991 with Front Runners New York, among the largest
 HINERFELD-Joseph B. Longtime resident of Pound Ridge, NY. Died June 10, 1998. Born in Scranton, PA March 8, 1902. He was the last of seven siblings. He will be missed by his nieces and nephews and many friends throughout the U.S.       
 LAWLER-Joseph T., 67, on May 18, 1997. Georgetown graduate, Eucharistic Minister in NYC hospitals, Lector at St. Patrick's Cathedral, Knight of the Holy Sepulchre. Funeral in Jessup, PA, May 23rd. His brother William survives. A memorial Mass will be offered at St Vincent Ferrer, Lexington 
 MALICSI-Alberto C., Jr. Died in the grace of our Lord at age 62 on June 11, 1998 in Zamboanga City, Philippines. He is survived by his sons, John Robert, Jean Paul, Sean Basil, a brother, sisters, nieces, nephews, brother-in-laws and sister-in-law. Interment will be held on Saturday, June 1
 MOON-William Franklin. The Faculty and Staff of Columbia School of Public Health mourn the loss of William Franklin Moon, brother of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dr. Joyce Moon-Howard, Assistant Professor in the Division of Sociomedical Sciences. Mr. Moon, 46, died on June 8, 1998 at 
 ROMMERDAHL-Jens M. A Memorial Service will be held at the Zion Lutheran Church, Saddle River, N.J. at 2PM, Saturday, June 13, 1998. Jens Rommerdahl was the General Manager of New York Marine Terminals, Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. He is survived by his wife Carla and the famil
 YUDOFF-Leon. Age 95. Passed away peacefully in his home in North Miami Beach, Florida on Thursday, June 11, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Anna Yudoff. Cherished father of Zena Wiener and Paul Yudoff. Adored grandfather of Jenny and Gabe Wiener and David and Jason Yudoff. He emigrated to
 Sarkis Soultanian, who rose to become chairman and chief executive of a company he first joined as an office boy, died on June 5 at his home in Franklin Lakes, N.J., of complications from a heart attack. He was 57. The company, National Utility Service in Park Ridge, N.J., monitors 
 Sir David English, widely considered one of Britain's most astute journalists, who transformed the struggling Daily Mail into a highly influential tabloid and redefined Fleet Street standards for editing and reporting, died Wednesday at St. Thomas's Hospital in London. He was 67 and had suf
 Hammond Innes, the author of ''The Wreck of the Mary Deare'' and more than 30 other novels of adventure and suspense, died on Wednesday in Kersey, England. He was 84. A former artillery major and a yachtsman, Mr. Innes traveled the world in search of stories. Beginning in the late 1
 John N. Nassikas, who as the chairman of the Federal Power Commission from 1969 to 1975 began deregulation of the natural gas industry and the shift away from using natural gas to generate electricity, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was
 Leo Buscaglia, the bearded self-help author and cuddly television guru who preached love with such single-minded fervor that he seemed unable to stop until he had hugged everyone in sight, died yesterday at his home in Lake Tahoe, Nev. He was 74 and known variously as Dr. Love, the Love Mer
 BURGER-Van Vechten. Husband of the late Rosalie Evans Burger. Father of Beverly Alexandre, the late Evan Donaldson and Van Vechten Burger Jr. He also leaves nine grandchildren and ten greatgrandchildren. A memorial service will be held July 1 at Trinity St. John's Church, Hewlett, NY. Contr
 GIBBS-Dr. Stanley L. On June 11, 1998 of Glen Cove, Long Island. Beloved husband of Emily. Devoted father of Dr. Alan and Wendy, Dr. Eric and Sabrina, and Betsy. Dear brother of Herbert Gelbspan. Adoring and adored grandfather of Tyler and Jordan. Services on Sunday, 12:30 PM at ''Gutterman
 SACKS-Lester. Of Clifton, NJ, on Friday, June 12, 1998. He was 82. Beloved husband of Anita (nee Weinstein). Devoted father of Gary of New York City & Dr. Ronald of Norwitch, New York. Loving father-in-law of Fannie. Loving grandfather of Ellie. Services will be held at the Jewish Memorial 
 TRICARICO-James Antone, Sr. Called back to God on June 11, 1998. Devoted husband of Annette. Loving father of Marie A. Kennedy, Rolinda Antone and James A., Jr. Beloved and cherished grandfather of eight. Great grandfather of one. Mr. Tricarico was a veteran of WW II. He was a newspaper rep
 YUDOFF-Leon. Age 95. Passed away peacefully in his home in North Miami Beach, Florida on Thursday, June 11, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Anna Yudoff. Cherished father of Zena Wiener and Paul Yudoff. Adored grandfather of Jenny and Gabe Wiener and David and Jason Yudoff. He emigrated to
 Charles Disch, who dispensed strong bitter medicine and good-natured vitriol during more than 60 years as the Shelter Island druggist and resident curmudgeon, died on May 31 at a mainland nursing home in Greenport, N.Y. He was 96. As the longtime proprietor of Shelter Island's only 
 H. F. McCarty Jr., a Mississippi entrepreneur who transformed a feed and seed store into one of the nation's biggest poultry operations, died of heart failure on June 6 at his home in Magee, Miss., his son, John R. McCarty, said. He was 76. In addition to his business activities, Mr
 Joe Dixon, a clarinetist and saxophonist who played with many of the great jazz ensembles during a career that began in the 1930's and lasted about 50 years, died on May 28 at his home in Oceanside, N.Y. He was 81. Mr. Dixon, who was born in Lynn, Mass., began studying clarinet at a
 John H. Richardson, the Central Intelligence Agency station chief in Saigon in 1962 and 1963 who supported the Government of President Ngo Dinh Diem for a time and was recalled to Washington shortly before Diem was overthrown, died on June 1 in his home in Zapopan, a suburb of Guadalajara, 
 BARRY-Ralph. Died June 11, 1998 in Sarasota, Florida after a long illness. Beloved husband of Frances and adoring father of Nina. He is at last at peace.       
 BROOKS-James R. On June 13, 1998. Beloved husband of Frances Forsdick. Loving father of Lawrence, Jonathan, Carolyn and Penelope. Cherished grandfather of Timothy, Rebecca and Jeremy. A distinguished lawyer, diplomat and economist, he worked for the United Nations and governments around the
 BURGER-Van Vechten. Husband of the late Rosalie Evans Burger. Father of Beverly Alexandre, the late Evan Donaldson and Van Vechten Burger Jr. He also leaves nine grandchildren and ten greatgrandchildren. A memorial service will be held July 1 at Trinity St. John's Church, Hewlett, NY. Contr
 DELLA ROCCA - Dominick. Shocked at the sudden passing of ''Dom'' Della Rocca, a giant of a man. His energy, drive and committment to the unfortunate and underprivileged children of the State and City of New York is legendary. His charm, enthusiasm, unselfishness and dedication will be misse
 DOBO-Francis. His wife & loving companion of fifty-six years, Bita & his son, Michael note with great sadness the passing of Francis Ferenc (Frank) Dobo Wednesday, June 3rd in his 90th year, after a protracted illness. Born Christmas Day, 1908 in Nagykanizsa, Hungary, to Dezso Dobo, M.D., a
 DROZD-Jonathan. On June 11, 1998. Beloved son of the late Marion, Sr. and Helen. Dear brother of Marion, Jr., Lawrence, Delphine, Pauline Bruno, Audrey Sorrento, Andrea Lennert and Noreen Saccone. Dearest uncle of Matthew Rodriguez, Joshua and Rebecca, Aaron and Nathan Lennert, Julia, Emili
 EISENMAN-Henry. Of East Meadow, NY. On June 9, 1998. Devoted husband of Doris for 44 years, loving father of Dana and Stephen Sherwin, David & Margaret Mary Eisenman and Risa Eisenman. Extraordinary grandfather of Alexis, Brian, Matthew, & Kevin. Retired V.P. at Empire Blue Cross & Blue Shi
 FREED-Larry. On June 12, 1998. Cherished husband of Shelia. Devoted and beloved father of Diana and Alicia. Services today, 9:15 AM, at ''Gutterman's,'' 8000 Jericho Turnpike, Woodbury, LI. In lieu of flowers contributions should be made in his memory to the Freed Pancreatic Cancer Fund, 37
 HAHNENKRATT - Richard. Be loved husband of Eileen, proud and devoted father of Susan and Ruth. Cherished grandfather of Emma Konschak. Loving son of Pauline. Born February 11, 1935 and died May 29, 1998 after a 17 month battle with Cancer which he courageously fought and during which never 
 KARAGEORGIS-Phoebus C. On June 10, 1998 of Manhasset, NY. Beloved husband of Basilia (nee Chios). Father of Elaine and Constance. Grandfather of Theresa. Brother of Sophie Kiklis. In repose at The Fairchild Funeral Chapel, 1570 Northern Blvd, Manhasset on Sunday from 3 to 5PM and 7 to 9PM. 
 KELLY-Ruth. Devoted wife and loving mother and grandmother. The Beth Israel Medical Center, St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center and Long Island College Hospital communities join with the leadership of their parent company, Continuum Health Partners, Inc., in acknowledging with sadness the 
 LOOKOFSKY-Harry. Of York, PA., formerly of Englwood Cliffs, NJ, June 8, 1998. Beloved husband of Sherry Kruger Lookofsky; devoted father of Joseph, Michael and Peter, Jane, Mary and Susan. A professional violinist, Mr. Lookofsky performed with the St. Louis Symphony, the ABC Symphony, the N
 MAYNARD-Paul. The Aaron Copland School of Music at Queens College deeply mourns the death of its distinguished faculty member, professor emeritus Paul Maynard, extraordinary musician, harpsichordist, organist and conductor. Coming to the College from a long professional career as keyboard p
 MILLER-Michael G. Left us in his 91st year. Survived by his wife Sophie, devoted son-in-law Allan Turits, grandchildren Mark, his wife Kathy, and Andrew; great grandchildren Jack and Jesse, and brothers Rubin and Seymour. He will now join his recently deceased daughter Joan, his deceased wi
 SCHNEIDER-Julius. On June 12, 1998. It is with sadness and loss that his family mourns a great and much loved man. Veteran of WW II, Trustee of Long Island Jewish Hosptial and Village of Cedarhurst. Real estate owner and developer. Attorney. Adored husband of Ethel. Beloved father of Steven
 SPRAGUE-William Douglas. Age 84, beloved husband for 59 years of Helen (nee Mims), dear father of William Douglas Sprague, Jr. (Marilyn) of Devon, PA, Madelon Sprague of Twinsburg, OH., Marianne Paul of Aurora, OH., grandfather of Kathy Paul, Doug Sprague, Rob Paul, Andy Paul, Anne Sprague 
 STRAUB-Maurie A. Died June 12, 1998. Loving husband of Billie. Devoted father of Peter. Dear brother of Robert and Janet. He will be greatly missed by his extended family and close friends. Memorial service Monday 1 PM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck. 
 YUDOFF-Leon. Age 95. Passed away peacefully in his home in North Miami Beach, Florida on Thursday, June 11, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Anna Yudoff. Cherished father of Zena Wiener and Paul Yudoff. Adored grandfather of Jenny and Gabe Wiener and David and Jason Yudoff. He emigrated to
 Richard D. Bodig, an economist who was also a singer and student of early music, died on May 26 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Joyce. Mr. Bodig served as economic adviser to the general coun
 Harold L. Stewart, a pathologist for 32 years at the National Institutes of Health and a clinical professor at Georgetown University, died on May 30. He was 98 and lived in Rockville, Md. Dr. Stewart, a native of Houtzdale, Pa., retired in 1969 as chief of pathology at the National 
 Jim Hearn, a right-handed pitcher who helped propel the New York Giants to victory in a dramatic 1951 National League pennant race with the Brooklyn Dodgers a year after his career was seemingly ending, died Wednesday at his winter home in Boca Grande, Fla. He was 77. Hearn, whose m
 BECKER-Nathaniel. Of Hollywood, FL. Died in his 94th year, on June 13, 1998. Beloved husband for 69 years to his sweetheart and dancing partner Selma. Loving father to Harriet and Ira Teper, Joel and Dorothy Becker and Richard Becker. Cherished grandfather to Melissa Teper, Laurie Becker an
 BROOKS-James R. On June 13, 1998. Beloved husband of Frances Forsdick. Loving father of Lawrence, Jonathan, Carolyn and Penelope. Cherished grandfather of Timothy, Rebecca and Jeremy. A distinguished lawyer, diplomat and economist, he worked for the United Nations and governments around the
 DELLAROCCA-Dominic. Beloved father of Shelley Aprea and Peter. Cherished grandfather of Joanna and Jacqueline. Reposing at Colonial Funeral Home, 2819 Hylan Blvd., SI, NY, Monday 2-4 and 7-9 PM. Interment Tuesday, St. Gertrude's Cemetery, Colonnia, NJ. DELLAROCCA - Dominic. Shocked 
 FINGER-Kenneth. Age 40. Suddenly on June 10, 1998. Beloved husband of Susan. Adoring father of Adam. Devoted son of Chet (Hariett). Dear brother of Lauren. Predeceased by his loving mother Bernice. Services were held in Florida.       
 LAWLER-Joseph T., 67, on May 18, 1998. Georgetown graduate, Eucharistic Minister in NYC hospitals, Lector at St. Patrick's Cathedral, Knight of the Holy Sepulchre. Funeral in Jessup, PA, May 23rd. His brother William survives. A memorial Mass will be offered at St Vincent Ferrer, Lexington 
 McMANUS-James B. 76, of Mechanicsville, VA, died Saturday, June 13, 1998. He is survived by his wife Norma Poole McManus; two sons James D. McManus of Florida and Michael F. McManus of Virginia Beach, VA; one stepson William N. Allanson of Mechanicsville, VA, and two grandchildren Melissa a
 STONE-Martin. Communications visionary. He excelled at television, cable, the law and public service. But radio was his most enduring passion. He taught generations of broadcasters that a radio station could be more than a juke box and achieve a higher calling when it resembles a forum for 
 STRAUB-Maurie A. Died June 12, 1998. Loving husband of Billie. Devoted father of Peter. Dear brother of Robert and Janet. He will be greatly missed by his extended family and close friends. Memorial service Monday 1 PM, at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck. 
 ZOBEL-Isador. 89, passed away June 13, 1998. Survivors, children, Dr. Judith Zobel Feigin and husband Dr. Ralph D. Feigin, Joyce Zobel Opper and husband Edward Opper. Eight grandchildren; three great-grandchildren. He was an attorney and outstanding educator who for many years served as pri
 Reg Smythe, the British cartoonist who invented the internationally popular character Andy Capp and drew  comic strips about him for more than four decades, died on Saturday  at his home in Hartlepool in northeastern England. He was 81. The cause was cancer, Reuters reported.       
 Rear Adm. Russell Randolph Waesche Jr., a retired Coast Guard commander and transportation executive in the Midwest, died on May 28 at his home in Leawood, Kan. He was 84. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Admiral Waesche was born in Thurmont, Md., the son of a future
 Eric Tabarly, the robust Frenchman known as the ''iron man'' for his daring and clever efforts at sailing across oceans single-handedly, was lost at sea late last Friday after falling overboard from his century-old sailboat, Pen Duick, near the coast of Wales. A national hero from t
 Lewis H. Young, a former editor in chief of Business Week who expanded the horizons of business reporting, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Ossining, N.Y. Mr. Young died of a heart attack as he was leaving his office at the Cahners Publishing Company, where he was
 Lucio Costa, the architect and urban planner whose vision of man living in harmony with his tropical surroundings carried Brazilian architecture into the modern age, died on Saturday at his home here. He was 96. Internationally, Mr. Costa was best known as the planner of Brasilia, t
 BYRNE-John J. Reverend Monsignor, Roman Catholic Priest, Diocese of Rockville Centre on June 13, 1998. Born July 27, 1901 in Brooklyn, New York. Ordained June 6, 1925. Associate Pastor of Cure of ARS Church, Merrick, 1933-1944, U.S. Navy Chaplain 1944-1946, Founding Pastor of St. Martha R. 
 CLARKSON-Max B. E., died on June 11, 1998, while vacationing with his wife Madeleine in Italy. Six days earlier they had celebrated their fiftieth wedding anniversary in the church in London, England, where they were married. He was born on October 14, 1922, in Lenzie, Scotland, and educate
 FREED-Larry. Shelter Rock Jewish Center, Roslyn, New York mourns the death of our dear friend and member and extends heartfelt condolences to his wife Sheila and daughters Diana and Alicia. May God comfort and strenghten them. Rabbi Myron M. Fenster Stanley Shanies, Pres.       
 GLASSBERG-Harry. June 12, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Frances. Loving father and fatherin-law of Sandra & Arthur Drazan. Adored grandfather of Jeff, Trish, Caren and Ken. Cherished greatgrandfather of Parker, Jarett, Mackenzie and Shelby. We shall treasure his memory as we treasured h
 GRASSO-Dominic John, 64. Died June 14, 1998, at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital, New Brunswick, NJ, of complications following surgery for brain cancer. He was a resident of Princeton, NJ since 1979. Mr. Grasso was born in New York City and was the son of the late Mr. John D. Grasso
 HORSFALL-Norma Campagnari. Age 89 on Saturday, June 13, 1998 of Silver Spring, Maryland. Beloved wife of the late Frank L. Horsfall, Jr. Mother of Frank L. Horsfall, III, and his wife Sue of Geneva, Switzerland, Susan Ludden Horsfall, Tarrytown, N.Y., and Mary H. Sullivan, Leesburg, VA. Che
 LEVINE-Louis. Died on June 13, 1998 at age 95 in his home in Palm Beach, FL. Loving husband of the late Mae Bruckman Levine for 61 years. Cherished by his daughter, Susan Raanan, and beloved by his grandchildren Matthew and Victoria and his son-in-law Robert Fleischer. A gentle and sensitiv
 LISTFIELD-Leonard M. Died in London on June 11, 1998. Loving husband to Helen for forty-seven years. Devoted father to Andrew and Emily. Cherished father-in-law to George. Adoring and adored granddaddy to Sasha. He will be deeply missed for his wit, wisdom, humor and loyalty by friends and 
 LUBELL-Harry. June 12, 1998. Beloved husband for 59 years of Renee. Proud and devoted father of Bunny, Peter, Richard and the late Stanley. Cherished grandfather of Aaron, Jonathan, Matthew, Rebecca, Susan, Joey, Lauren, Roslyn, Ross and Bernard. He was a kind and generous man who loved and
 MAGAZINER-Louis. Temple Israel, Lawrence, NY mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends deepest sympathy to his family. Brooks R. Susman, Rabbi David M. Land, President       
 MERRIFIELD-Philip Ralph, Ph.D. Born in Abilene, KS on April 12, 1921. Died June 14, 1998 in New York City. Professor Emeritus at New York University, Department of Educational Psychology. Beloved husband of Ora. Also survived by Kathryn Merrifield and their beloved daughters Karla and Signe
 MINDLIN-Sally. The Riverdale Jewish Center extends profound condolences to Victor Mindlin on the loss of his mother. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi Tobias B. Schapiro, President       
 MORRIS-Larry. On June 14, 1998 at the age of 87. Beloved husband of the late Libby. Adored father of Stephen and Marjorie. Dear father-in-law of Marlene. Loving grandfather of David, Gary, Allison and Eric. A pioneer in motion picture theatre exhibition. He will be deeply missed. Service 1:
 NECHAMKIN-Ruth Leah Steinman. The Board of Trustees joined by the the entire Solomon Schechter of Westchester community offers our deepest condolences to our dear Trustee, Gabe Nechamkin on the death of his beloved mother Ruth. We extend our sympathy to Beth, Daniel, Jacob and Sarah. May yo
 O'ROURKE-Reverend Thomas J. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the Pastor of St. Mary Star of the Sea Church, 467 Court Street, Brooklyn, on June 11, 1998. Reposing in Scotto Funeral Home, 106 1st Place, Brooklyn, Monday, June 15, from 2 to 5 and 7 to 9:30 P.M. and Tuesday, June
 PERLMAN-Alvin. On June 14, 1998. Beloved husband of Anita. Devoted father of Randi, Lee, and Leslie and stepfather of Stephen and Christina. He will be irreplaceable in the lives of all who knew him.       
 ROSENTHAL-Richard L. Of Stamford, CT. Loving husband of Hinda Gould Rosenthal. Devoted father of Jamie Wolf and Rick Rosenthal. Father-in-law of David Wolf & Nancy Stephens Rosenthal. Adoring grandfather of Kate Wolf, Noah, Mick and Jane Rosenthal. Brother of Herbert C. Rosenthal of Santa B
 SCHNEIDER-Julius The Board of Governors and Members of Inwood Country Club record with sorrow the passing of Julius Schneider, beloved husband of Ethel and we extend deepest sympathy to the family. Robert Scharf, President Edwin Stein, Secretary SCHNEIDER-Julius. Temple Israel, Lawr
 WEINS-Leo M. Beloved husband of Margaret and loving brother of John. Leo M. Weins, who was born on September 2, 1912, in Racine, Wisconsin, died on June 12, 1998. President of The H.W. Wilson Company (1967-1995), Mr. Weins pursued his education at Loyola University in Chicago (1935-1936), t
 WHITMORE-Edward Knight. On June 12, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Virginia R. Whitmore. Devoted father of Joy W. Goldstein and Ned Whitmore. He also leaves six grandchildren and five greatgrandchildren. May his love of life live on forever in the hearts of those who cherished his memory
 John Gutmann, a painter who left Germany in 1933 and reinvented himself as an optimistic photographic chronicler of Depression-era America, died on Friday at his home in San Francisco. He was 93. In the America of the 1930's, Mr. Gutmann found an exuberant car  culture, a dizzying a
 BLANKENSHIP-Albert, age 83, died in Farmington, CT. on Saturday, June 13, 1998. Albert and his wife Janet moved from Florida in 1995 to be near family. Albert was the son of Dr. Walter D. and Winifred B. Blankenship. Born in Lancaster, PA, he graduated from Franklin and Marshall College in 
 HAILE-Christopher, artist; 50; son of Lucia Haile of Sag Harbor, Long Island, and his late father, Shirley Haile of Carmel, California, died peacefully on June 15 at his summer studio in North Adams, Massachusetts of complications from juvenile diabetes. He leaves his mother, brothers Dunca
 INGOGLIA-Frank, age 91. A gentleman with many friends. Died peacefully at home in Forest Hills Gardens, NY on Flag Day morning, June 14. A graduate of the Fawcett School of Design and the Art Students League, he began a 70 year career in art. As a commercial artist, his illustrations appear
 KORNBLATT-Oscar. A 17 year resident of Shelter Island, New York died June 15 at his home. A nonreligious gathering will be held Thursday, June 18 at 3PM, Shelter Island Funeral Home (phone 516749-3119). Born January 2, 1920 in Manhattan to Rose Gutterman Kornblatt and Harry (Herschel) Kornb
 LEVINE-Louis. Died on June 13, 1998 at age 95 in his home in Palm Beach, FL. Loving husband of the late Mae Bruckman Levine for 61 years. Cherished by his daughter, Susan Raanan, and beloved by his grandchildren Matthew and Victoria and his son-in-law Robert Fleischer. A gentle and sensitiv
 LUSTBERG-Eugene J. A man whose life was dominated by his love for his family and friends, and his devotion to his work at Dazian. His wife, Lila, his children, Kay and Michael Goldbeck, Regina and Stuart Lustberg and grandchildren Joseph, Ethan, Zachary, Sara and David will forever be grate
 MORRIS-Larry. On June 14, 1998 at the age of 86. Beloved husband of the late Libby. Adored father of Stephen and Marjorie. Dear father-in-law of Marlene. Loving grandfather of David, Gary, Allison and Eric. A pioneer in motion picture theatre exhibition. He will be deeply missed. Service 1:
 ROSENTHAL-Richard L. Of Stamford, CT. Loving husband of Hinda Gould Rosenthal. Devoted father of Jamie Wolf and Rick Rosenthal. Father-in-law of David Wolf & Nancy Stephens Rosenthal. Adoring grandfather of Kate Wolf, Noah, Mick and Jane Rosenthal. Brother of Herbert C. Rosenthal of Santa B
 SUSSKIND-Jesse. On June 14, 1998. Devoted husband of the late Frances Sokolski. Beloved father of Jane and Stephan, brother of Pearl Rice and the late Blanche Laurie. Adoring grandfather of Pamela Narins. Larger than life, a man of vigor, intelligence and humor, he never lost joy in simply 
 VOLCKER-Barbara. Of NYC on June 14th, 1998, after a prolonged illness. Beloved wife of Paul. Devoted mother of Janice Zima and James Volcker. Daughter of Edna Bahnson. Also survived by her brother William F. Bahnson and three grandchildren. Services private. Memorial contributions may be ma
 McSWEENEY-Edward F. III (Dooley). Seven years have rolled by and somehow you seem to continue to touch the lives of the legion of friends you left behind. Ryan has learned the ''business of the business'' while Goldstein has become a Joycean Scholar of his usual evangelical intensity. Berg 
 Rabbi Hillel A. Fine, an educator, expert in Semitic languages and, most recently, director of the New Orleans Hillel Foundation, died of a heart attack on May 25 in New York City. He was 77 and had lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan since his retirement in 1986. Rabbi Fine w
 Richard L. Rosenthal, who took control of a small troubled company called Citizens Utilities after World War II and built it into a powerhouse of profit that made millionaires of many investors who stuck with him until he retired in 1989, died on Saturday. He was 82 years old. His w
 Rear Adm. Vincent Patrick Healey, a retired antisubmarine specialist who as a young gunnery officer saw naval combat from the Philippines to Iwo Jima to Japan itself in World War II, died on May 30 at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 80 and lived in Arlington, Va.       
 Francis Lee, a combat cameraman who documented the D-Day invasion of Normandy in 1944 and was a member of an avant-garde film movement, died on May 29 at a  nursing home in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Lee was taken to New York from Sicily as a child and began to
 Jack Biblo, a bookish sort of man who spent a musty half century on Manhattan's Book Row as the founding proprietor of the Biblo & Tannen used, er antiquarian, bookstore on Fourth Avenue, then retired at 73 to open a smaller store around the corner from his home in Brooklyn Heights, died on
 Jan Gullberg, a Swedish surgeon and anesthesiologist whose fascination with mathematics and science in general led him to write two books whose explanations of rarefied subjects to the layman were widely praised, died on May 21 at the hospital where he worked, near his home in Nordfjordeid,
 Martin Stone, a longtime broadcasting executive and entertainment lawyer who was the producer of ''Howdy Doody'' and the founder of a suburban radio network, died on June 7 in Washington, where he was attending the graduation of a grandchild. He was 83 and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y.        
 BARNET-Melvin L. On June 17, 1998 after a long and good life. Survived by his wife Joan, son and daughter-in-law Michael & Caitlin and two grandchildren Emily and Joshua, brother Stuart and sister Beverly. We will miss him.       
 CAREY-Edwin J. Age 74 of Wyckoff died Wednesday, June 17, 1998 at New York University Hospital. Born in New York he was a resident of Wyckoff since 1960. He attended Manhattan College from 1941-1943 and received an LL.B in 1951 from St. John's University Law School. He was admitted to pract
 GREENE-Eugene S. Age 85. Died June 16, 1998. A long time resident of Stuyvesant Town, and more recently the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale. Devoted husband of the late Joan Blumenfeld Greene. Father of Marc Greene and Sue Ruskin-Mayher. Grandfather of Nicole Adele and Joanna Ilene Ru
 KEIFFER-Edwin Gene. Former Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of E-Systems (acquired by Raytheon in 1996). E. Gene Keiffer, 68, died on June 15, 1998 while hospitalized at the Little Rock, AK Cancer Institute. He valiantly fought multiple myeloma for more than five years. He 
 LEVENSON-Emanuel. 1916-1998. Ypsilanti, MI. Music was his life. Director or participant: After Dinner Opera, Amato Opera, Berkshire Pro Musica, EMS Recordings, New School Opera Workshop, Pennybridge Opera, Young Audiences.       
 LUSTBERG-Eugene. Dazian Fabrics mourns the loss of their longtime Secretary, Treasurer and CFO, Eugene Lustberg. He will be remembered for his devoted service and leadership. We wish to express our deepest sympathy to his wife, Lila, children, Kay and Stuart and family. LUSTBERG-Eug
 MAHER-Edward M. Of Scarsdale, NY on June 15, 1998. Husband of Margaret Maher. He was a graduate of Holy Cross College and Columbia Law School. He was a retired partner in the New York law firm of Townley & Updike. Friends may call at the Bennett Funeral Home, 824 Scarsdale Avenue, Scarsdale
 MAIMAN-Abbott. June 17, 1998. Beloved and devoted husband of Judith, adored father of William, Dana and husband Don Meyers, cherished grandfather, caring brother and brother-in-law. Loved by those he touched through his benevolence, caring and kindness. MAIMAN-Abbott. Member of SCOR
 MULVEY-John Francis. At age 91, died Tuesday, in Little Falls, NY. Born in New Haven, CT, he was a former thirty-five year resident of Pelham Manor, NY and retired to Bolton, CT. John was a graduate of Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania, Class of 1928 and Fordham Law School. He was 
 ROSENTHAL-Richard L. The faculty and staff of NYU School of Medicine and Medical Center mourn the passing of a loyal and visionary philanthropist, Richard L. Rosenthal. He was a longtime supporter of the University and the School of Medicine through the Richard and Hinda Rosenthal Foundatio
 SCHNEIDER-Julius, Esq. The Staff Society of Long Island Jewish Medical Center deeply mourns the passing of Mr. Julius Schneider. Mr. Schneider was a liaison trustee to the Staff Society and a senior trustee with LIJ. His close association and dedicated service has left a lasting impression 
 VOLCKER-Barbara. The Board of Directors, Members, and Staff of The Counsel On Foreign Relations are deeply saddened by the passing of Barbara Volcker, wife of Counsel Director and long time member, Paul Volcker. We extend our sympathy to him and his family. Peter G. Peterson, Chairman Mauri
 William Schwann, an organist, musicologist and publisher who started a record catalogue in 1949 that became an indispensable resource for browsers, collectors, musicians, critics and record company executives, died on June 7 at the Lahey Clinic in Burlington, Mass. He was 85. Since 
 Forrest Hunter Kirkpatrick, a retired educator, corporate executive and management consultant on personnel administration and industrial relations, died on May 31 at the Ohio Valley Medical Center in Wheeling, W. Va. He was 92 and lived in Wheeling. He had long associations with Bet
 John Joseph Cardinal Carberry, who was a canon lawyer active in the Roman Catholic Church's affairs and who led the Archdiocese of St. Louis for 11 years, died on Wednesday at St. Agnes Home in Kirkwood, Mo. He was 93. Cardinal Carberry was installed in 1968 by Pope Paul VI as Archb
 L. Edwin Smart, a former chairman and chief executive of Trans World Airlines, died June 1 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in New York. He was 74 and lived in New York. The cause of death was heart disease, said Jeanie M. Smart, his wife. Mr. Smart became chairman an
 Melvin L. Barnet, who was among several editors and reporters questioned by a Congressional committee investigating Communist affiliations in the news business in the 1950's and who was dismissed by The New York Times after invoking the Fifth Amendment, died on Wednesday at Long Island Coll
 MAHER-Edward M. Of Scarsdale, NY on June 15, 1998. Husband of Margaret Maher. He was a graduate of Holy Cross College and Columbia Law School. He was a retired partner in the New York law firm of Townley & Updike. Friends may call at the Bennett Funeral Home, 824 Scarsdale Avenue, Scarsdale
 MEIERFELD-Gilbert. On June 18, 1998. Beloved & devoted husband of Vivien, adored father of Steven and Dean, daughter-in-law Debby. Cherished grandfather to Adam and David. Dear brother to David. He was loved by all who knew him, we will miss him forever. Services Gutterman's, Rockville Cent
 MULVEY-John F. Esq. The Officers, Directors and members of the Bronx County Bar Association mourn the passing of our distinguished past president and extend our deepest sympathy to his bereaved family.       
 SEID-Charles K., Jr. (Bud), husband of Barbara (nee Klepper). Father of Bradford and Charles III. Brother of Florence Harff. Kind and caring, a true gentleman, graced with rare integrity, quiet dignity, and a wonderful dry, quick wit. We will love him forever. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside
 STONE-Martin. The administration, alummi/ae, and trustees of Bard College, mourn the passing of Martin Stone, an alumnus and former trustee of the college and a great admirer of former Bard College President Dr. Bernard Iddings Bell. We extend our deepest condolencese to his family. Leon Bo
 TAYLOR-Luke Joseph, June 17, 1998. This unique and sensitive spirit was taken suddenly from a bewilderingly large and loyal circle of family and friends. Given a second chance at life Luke showed by his tenacity, humor and comforting presence what it means to be human. His appetite for know
 Carlos Castaneda, whose best-selling explorations of mystical and pharmacological frontiers helped to define the psychological landscape of the 1960's, died two months ago just as privately and secretly as he had  lived, associates revealed this week. Befitting a man who made an esthetic ou
 Dick Gibson, a longtime jazz aficionado and the producer of what he called an annual jazz party in Colorado, died at the Red Rocks Health Center hospice in Denver on Wednesday. He was 72 and lived in Denver. The cause was complications from diabetes, said his son Robey. Mr. 
 FINKEL-Thelma. The Department of Dentistry of Peninsula Hospial Center notes with profound sorrow the passing of Thelma Finkel, beloved wife of Dr. Eugene Finkel, a member of our department. Our sincerest condolences to Dr. Finkel and his family.       
 GUNSBERG-Sheldon. The Board of Directors and Staff of the Film Society of Lincoln Center note with profound sorrow the death of our Vice Chairman and beloved friend. Sheldon Gunsberg was among the founders of the Film Society in 1968. As an officer of the Walter Reade Foundation, he impleme
 LINN-S. Stephen. On June 18, 1998 at the age of 77. Beloved husband of Lillian. Adored father of Susan, Bruce and Karen. Brother of Albert and adoring grandfather of Jeffrey, Jamie and Jennifer. With a remarkable mind and an indomitable spirit, he lived his life fully and brought joy to our
 MAYER-Henry E. United Jewish Appeal, Israel Education Fund mourns the death of Henry Mayer. A great lover of Israel, a donor that has built the Misgav Region, a devoted Jew and a friend of the United Jewish Appeal, Israel Education Fund. Condolences to his wife Lori and their family. Jane S
 ROMAGNA-Victor A. On June 12, at home in Annapolis, Md. Survived by his wife, Louise; children, Lenore Alexander, Lisa Frappaolo, and Marion Jones; brother, Leonard, and four grandchildren. Memorial service at St. Stephen's Episcopal Church, July 10, 10:30 AM, Port Washington, New York. Mem
 TAYLOR-Luke Joseph, June 17, 1998. This unique and sensitive spirit was taken suddenly from a bewilderingly large and loyal circle of family and friends. Given a second chance at life Luke showed by his tenacity, humor and comforting presence what it means to be human. His appetite for know
 WALLACH-James. Suddenly on June 19, 1998. Loving husband of Mary J. Wallach, devoted father of Andrew M. and Scott S. Son of Miriam & Ira D. Wallach. Brother of Sue W. Wachenheim, Kenneth L. Wallach, and Kate W. Cassidy. Chairman & Chief Executive Officer of Central National Gottesman Inc. 
 Dr. Daniel I. Axelrod, a paleoecologist at the University of California at Davis who reconstructed the ancient landscapes of the West by examining plant fossils, died on June 2 at his home in Davis. He was 87. Dr. Axelrod reported how wet forests slowly turned into Nevada's deserts 
 Dominick Della Rocca, a Brooklyn businessman and community volunteer who rebuilt a network of what he called ''neighborhood mayors'' in and around New York to provide trips to the circus or to Shea Stadium for baseball games for handicapped young people, died June 11 at Loyola University Me
 BENJAMIN-Irving. 85. June 16, 1998. Husband of the late Helen (nee Miller). Brother to Jack, the late Martin (George) and the late Claire Bergen. Born in NYC he was a graduate of Stuyvesant H.S. and City College. A civil engineer for NYC he helped design and build the Whitestone Bridge and 
 BLOND-Neil. Beloved husband of Ellen. Cherished father of Jeremy, Simone and Aliza. Devoted son of Harold and Ruth, Loving brother of Rhonda, Suzanne and Malki. All who knew him will remember him for his warmth, intellect, honesty, humor and courage. He will be sorely missed.       
 ELISCU-Edward. The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers records with sorrow the passing of our beloved member Edward Eliscu on June 18, 1998. Mr. Eliscu was a talented lyricist, playwright and author and a devoted friend to his fellow songwriters. Our condolences to his wif
 GOLD-Wally. The American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers records with sorrow the passing of our beloved member Wally Gold on June 7, 1998. He was an accomplished songwriter and record producer. Our condolences to his family. Marilyn Bergman, President & Chairman, ASCAP       
 GRUENEBAUM-Thomas. An international artist living in San Miguel and Santiago de Queretaro, Mexico, on May 28th at age 63 of a heart attack. In addition to his wife, Marilyn, he is survived by his mother, Corina, sister, Mary Weiss of Palm Beach, and five children, Alicia Hammang, Arturo Gru
 LICHT-Emanuel M. On June 18, 1998. Beloved husband of Freda and father of Lloyd and Eliot. Passed away with his loving family beside him. He will be greatly missed by those who knew and loved him, especially his immediate family-Freda, Lloyd, Eliot and daughter-in-law Reiko. To those he wor
 MAYNARD-Paul. Died on June 10, 1998, age 74. Much loved by family, by colleauges and by generations of students whom he inspired to the same high standards he demanded of himself. At Yale where he studied organ and theory, he was first introduced to early music in Paul Hindemith's legendary
 PALCA-Alfred. The tenants, friends and Board of Directors of 173-175 Riverside Drive acknowledge with gratitude his years of service & valued contributions to the building. We send our sincerest sympathy to his family. The Board of Directors 173-175 Tenants Corp. PALCA-Alfred. Age 7
 RINGLAND-Byron F., 63, of New York City, died Thursday, June 4, in his apartment of a sudden heart attack. He was born in Des Moines, IA, son the late John Ringland and Helen Forbes. He is survived by his brother, Jack F. Ringland of Hilton Head, SC, his nephews, John F. Ringland and Craig 
 WALLACH-James G. The Directors, Officers and Staff of Central National-Gottesman Inc. and its Lindenmeyr Divisions sadly mourn the untimely passing of James G. Wallach, its beloved Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. He will be greatly missed for his wisdom and his warm and enthusiastic l
 WHITE-Norman. The Board, Staff and Volunteers of the Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center mourn the passing of our dear friend Norman White. Norman had the foresight, determination, and commitment to be a guiding force during the Lesbian & Gay Community Services Center's formative year
 ZINDER-Samuel Bernard. On June 19, 1998 after a long and good fight. Beloved husband of Maxine. Devoted father of David, Karen, Susan, Josh and Advah. Doting grandfather of Alexa, Sari, Leah, Oraya and Talia. Loving son, brother, cousin, nephew and uncle. Trusted friend and advisor. Respect
 ZITT-Arthur. 88, of Hallandale, FL, on June 16, 1998. Beloved husband of Bertha for 66 years. Loving father of Dr. Myron (Jeanne) Zitt of Woodbury, NY and cherished grandfather of Jonathan. An exNew Yorker, he was President of Spirit Fluid Mfg Corp. with branches throughout the U.S. Bored w
 Robert Leslie, a high school baseball coach who counseled against the use of smokeless tobacco in a video widely shown in the nation's high schools, died on Monday in Santa Rosa Memorial Hospital. He was 31 and lived in Cotati. Mr. Leslie had been suffering from cancer of the mouth,
 Victor Romagna, an outspoken force in America's Cup yacht racing for a quarter of a century, died on June 12 at his home in Annapolis, Md. He was 80. Mr. Romagna sailed on the crew of three successful America's Cup defense teams: the 12-Meter Columbia in 1958, Weatherly in 1962 and 
 Al Campanis, the Los Angeles Dodgers executive who touched off a furor -- and shattered his career -- by suggesting that blacks were unqualified for high-level baseball jobs, died at home yesterday of coronary artery disease. He was 81. When the first pitch of the 1987 season was th
 Alfred Palca, a blacklisted writer  whose film ''Go, Man, Go!,'' about the Harlem Globetrotters, became a classic among basketball fans, died on Thursday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said his sister, Roz Leader.       
 Edward Eliscu, a lyricist who wrote the words for ''Without a Song,'' ''Orchids in the Moonlight'' and dozens of other popular songs, died on Thursday at his home in Newtown, Conn. He was 96. Mr. Eliscu was also a playwright, screenwriter and writer for television, but he was best k
 Frank Trippett, a writer, reporter and magazine editor, died on Thursday at the Sound Shore Medical Center in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 71 and a resident of Larchmont, N.Y. The cause was heart failure, his son, Robert, said. From 1961 to 1991, Mr. Trippett was an associate e
 AUSTIN-Richard. On June 20, 1998, following an extended illness. Cherished husband of Carolyn for 50 years. Beloved father of Leonard and Deborah Austin, Andrew Austin and Michael Sonberg. Devoted grandfather to Shaun and Beth. Brother of Sanford Ostrofsky. Retired Hicksville High School bu
 BICKART-Morton Francis. On Friday, June 19, 1998, at his residence in Chevy Chase; beloved husband of Harriet Bickart; devoted father of Paul (Marcia Reecer) and David (Toni) Bickart; grandfather of Noah and Sarah Bickart. Graveside services will be held 1:30 PM, Monday, June 22, 1998, at B
 DRINKHOUSE-Michael F. Died Tuesday, June 16, 1998, at Summit Rehabilitation Center in Monroe, LA, after a prolonged illness. He was born in NYC, the son of Eve and Julius. Michael was self employed from an early age, when he opend the Picadilly Spa restaurant. He then went on to open and op
 HENNESSY-Joseph R. Of Scarsdale, N.Y. On June 20, 1998. Husband of Helen Liston Hennessy. Father of Mary Ellen HennessyJones. Brother of Muriel Meehan and the late Estelle Kehoe, John and James Hennessy. Friends may call at the Bennett Funeral Home, 824 Scarsdale Ave., Scarsdale, Tuesday, 2
 ROMAGNA - Victor A. The Trustees of the South Street Seaport Museum mourn the passing of founding Board member, Victor A. Romagna of Annapolis, MD. As friend, yachtsman, and exemplar of values associated with the sea, Victor was without equal and will be sorely missed. Our deepest sympathie
 SPINGARN-Clifford L., M.D. On June 20, 1998. Beloved husband of Eleanor. Devoted father of John and Alexandra. Loving grandfather of Noah, Jason, Sierra, Katherine and Joseph. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., 7-9 PM, Monday, June 22, with service Tuesday, 
 WALLACH-James G. The Directors, Officers and Staff of Central National-Gottesman Inc. and its Lindenmeyr Divisions sadly mourn the untimely passing of James G. Wallach, its beloved Chairman and Chief Executive Officer. He will be greatly missed for his wisdom and his warm and enthusiastic l
 ZINDER-Samuel. The Commmunity Synagogue of Port Washington, NY, mourns the loss of its longtime esteemed member and past officer. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Maxine, his children and grandchildren. Jane M. Broido, President Jeffrey K. Salkin, Rabbi       
 Jafar Sharif-Emami, the last of Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi's Prime Ministers to make a political attempt to counter the Islamic fundamentalism sweeping Iran 20 years ago, died on June 16 at New York Hospital. He was 87 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Mr. Sharif-Emami,
 James G. Wallach, the chairman and chief executive of Central National-Gottesman Inc., a pulp, paper and newsprint marketing concern, died on Friday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 55. The cause was a cerebral aneurysm, his family said. Mr. Wallach became president and
 ALLON-Otto. It is with heartfelt sorrow that we note the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Dr. Otto Allon. Otto was of that rare breed of master surgeons who excelled brilliantly in his specialty while living life to the fullest. His friendship and sense of humor will be missed by a
 BENNETT-Joseph Harold, M.D. Age 61. Died of complications from ALS (Lou Gherigh's Disease) on Sunday, June 21, 1998. Beloved husband of Belle (nee Dorfman). Devoted father of Elizabeth Bennett Greene, Ethan, Alissa, Jacob and Michael Bennett. Dear brother of Richard Bennett. Loving grandfat
 BRAVER-Rabbi Joseph. We record with sorrow the passing of our beloved colleague. He was assistant director of the United Synagogue Department of Education and until his death, served the Center for Jewish Education in Baltimore. We extend our heartfelt condolences to his wife Helene, daught
 COLEMAN-Walter James. Of Onley, Virginia, formerly of New York City. Passed away on Saturday, June 20, 1998. He was a retired President of National Reinsurance Corp. and a graduate of New York University. A funeral mass will be held today in Virginia. For information Williams Funeral Home, 
 DOHENY-Thomas Edward Sr. at his home on June 21, 1998. Devoted Husband of Mada (nee Linskey). Beloved father of Thomas Jr. and his wife Roberta. Adored Grandfather of Thomas III, and his wife Lisa, Peter, Jeane, Andrew and Matthew. Cherished greatgrandfather of Jamie and Thomas Edward Dohen
 FITZPATRICK-Alan Rush, June 20, 1998 of Stamford, CT. Husband of Nancy Fitzpatrick and his first wife Edith Gleason Fitzpatrick. Father of Anne Gleason Fitzpatrick and Lisa Jennifer Fitzpatrick. Father in law of Christian Pittack. Also survived by two nieces. Memorial service at the Bedford
 GOTTLIEB-Eli, died on June 20, 1998. Beloved husband of Roslyn, devoted father of Larry (Mindy) and Marcee Knee (Ken) and adored grandfather of Matthew, Jared, Samara, David, Keith and Aaron. Services were held Monday, June 22, 1998. Shiva being observed at his home.       
 O'MARA-John M. of Norwood, NJ, formerly of Leonia, NJ, died Friday, June 19th. He was married to Elisabeth O. O'Mara for 54 years. John had four children, Kathleen of Modesto, CA, Patricia Adair of New Canaan, CT, Michael of Nantucket, MA, and Elisabeth Sutter of Milbrae, CA. He also had ei
 SPINGARN-Clifford L., M.D. It is with great sorrow that the Mount Sinai Alumni mourns the passing of our highly esteemed and beloved colleague. Dr. Spingarn joined the staff in 1937, and for over 60 years distinguished himself as teacher and clinician. Devoted to his patients as individuals
 Walter Gold, a songwriter and music producer, died on June 7 at Holy Name Hospital in Teaneck, N.J. He was 70. The cause was colitis, his wife, Fredda, said. Mr. Gold, who wrote songs as Wally Gold, was born in Brooklyn. After Navy service in World War II, he sang in a quart
 Charles Pierce Gabeler Jr., a former executive of a supposedly private airline that was really owned and operated by the Central Intelligence Agency, died on June 16 at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Perry Point, Md. He was 76 and lived in McLean, Va.. The cause was pneumoni
 ALLON-Dr. Otto, passed away June 21, 1998. beloved husband of Clara, loving father of Dr. Dan (Julie) Allon, cherished grandfather of Alex and Michael. Services at Gutterman - Warheit Memorial Chapel, Boca Raton, FL. ALLON-Otto, M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center re
 BROWN-Ralph S. The Dean and Faculty of Yale Law School mark with great sadness the passing of Ralph S. Brown, Simeon E. Baldwin Professor Emeritus of Law and Frank E. Taplin Professorial Lecturer, long time friend, and beloved colleague. He will be warmly remembered for over four decades of
 CONNOLLY-Joseph G. On June 22 at home in Manhasset, LI, after a lengthy illness. Beloved husband of Emma (nee Gentile), devoted father of Maureen C. McFeely of Garden City; Sharon C. Larkin of Manhasset; Cathleen M. of Easton, MA.; Joseph G., Jr. of McLean, VA.; Patricia C. Cocks of Northpo
 GINSBERG-Sidney. On June 18. Beloved husband of Nelly. Loving father of Robert & Richard. Devoted grandfather of Melissa, Lauren, Jillian, Erica and Harrison. Brother of the late Felix Ginsberg. Friend to all he met. He will be missed by all he has touched. Member of the Friars Club. Graves
 GOLDSTEIN-Herbert L. Beloved husband of Jane. Devoted father of Marilyn & Damon and Elisheva. Cherished grandfather of Adam, Corey, Glenn, Elon and Danielle. Loving great grandfather of Jessalyn, Theo Jane, Anna, & Justin. Dear brother of Bernard & Carol. Services at ''The Riverside'', 76 S
 IRUSHALMI-Irwin, on June 21, 1998 following an extended illness. Cherished husband of Ethel for 39 years. Beloved father of Jack and Russell. Devoted grandfather to Dylan. Dear brother of Bruce. His family will miss him always. Tradition observance will take place at family residence.      
 MOND-Saul. On June 23, 1998. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted brother of Gertrude Mass and the late Sophie Farfel, Morris Mond, Helen Goldstein and Anna Mond. Loving brother-in-law of Bernice and Wilfred Birnbaum. Proud uncle, grand uncle and greatgrand uncle and loyal friend. Graveside ser
 O'MARA-John M. The Trustees of the Heckscher Foundation for Children mourn the passing of our beloved Board Member and friend. A long-time champion of children, his wisdom and sensitivity contributed greatly to a generation of New York City children. We shall miss him. Our heartfelt condole
 WALLACH-James. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of James Wallach: loving husband and father. Our sympathies are extended to his wife, Mary, and sons, Andrew and Scott, as well as his sisters, Sue Wachenheim and Kate Cassidy, and brother, Kenne
 WATERS-Norman D. On June 23, 1998, of Rye, NY, beloved husband of Elaine L. Loving father of Elizabeth W. Haron, and L. Sanford Waters. Dear grandfather of five grandchildren and five great grandchildren. Funeral service will be held Thursday 10 A.M. at The WIlliam H. Graham Funeral Home, 1
 ZOCH-Frank Peter III. Died suddenly of a heart attack on June 22, 1998 in San Antonio, Texas. Peter was born in Corpus Christi, Texas, June 3, 1942. Peter was preceded in death by his parents. Peter's father, Frank Peter Zoch, Jr., of Corpus Christi, Texas, was cofounder of Sedco Oil Compan
 David Duval Thomas, a principal architect of the country's air-traffic control and safety system, died on June 17 at Inova Fairfax Hospital in Northern Virginia. He was 85 and lived in Annandale, Va. Mr. Thomas, a pilot for more than 30 years, retired in 1970 as deputy administrator
 Ivo John Lederer, a refugee in the only group of European Jews given special passage to the United States by President Roosevelt during World War II, and who went on to became a Russian and Eastern European scholar and teach generations of future American leaders, died last Thursday at Calv
 DORDEVIC-Bozidar. We mourn the loss of our dear friend ''Bojo''. He was a man of dignity, integrity, passion and compassion, and we will miss him greatly. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Leslie and Marjory Steinweiss and the Staff of Julius Cohen Jeweler       
 HULSE-John C. On June 22, after a lengthy illness, at his home in Palm Beach, Florida. Talented painter & interior designer, he will be remembered with admiration and affection by his many friends and his loving son, daughter-in-law and grand-daughter, John Jr., Christina and Margo.       
 LYON-William W., died June 23rd, in Delray Beach, Fla., formerly of Scarsdale, NY, and New York City. Retired senior vice president of the Irving Trust. Survived by his wife, Nina M. Lyon; son, William W. Lyon III of Rohnert Park, Calif., and brother, Peter Lyon of Center Tuftonboro, NH.   
 MOGILNER-Leonard, M.D. The Medical Staff of Maimonides Medical Center records with deep sorrow the death of Dr. Leonard Mogilner. Dr. Mogilner was affiliated with Maimonides Medical Center in the Pediatric Department for many years. He was loved and admired by all his patients, friends and 
 O'DWYER-Paul, 90. Passed away June 24, 1998. Visitation will be at the Donovan Funeral Home, 82 S. Church St, Goshen, NY today from 6-8PM & at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Home, 1076 Madison Ave, NYC, Friday 12 noon-9pm. Funeral Mass Sat. 10 AM, the Holy Trinity Church, 82 St, NYC. Interme
 PALSGROVE-James III. June 23, 1998. Beloved husband of Phyllis L. Palsgrove. Loving father of Lincoln Palsgrove IV. Devoted brother of Barbara C. Palsgrove. He was Music Director of St. Mary the Virgin Anglican Church and Director of Music at St. Thomas More Catholic Church. Mass of Christi
 PARSONS-Lorenzo L., Sr. Died June 20, 1998. Beloved husband of Isabelle. Devoted father of five children, Loretta Parsons Poole, Richard Parsons, Janet Parsons and Diane Parsons, and the late Lorenzo, Jr. Proud grandfather of Gregory Parsons, Leslie Parsons and Rebecca Parsons. Cherished un
 SIMPSON-William. The Trustees, Women's Board, staff, alumni, and the young members of The Boys' Club of New York express their deepest sympathy to the family of their dear friend. His long association with the Club began in 1940 and he gave generously of his time and ability through all of 
 THORMAN-Neil David. Suddenly June 22. Dearly loved and loving husband of Julie Schapiro Thorman and father of Jack. Beloved son of Edwin and Barbara Thorman. Brother of Joel and Karen. So very loved by all of the Schapiro's. We shall miss him more than we can say. Funeral service Friday, 12
 ZOCH-F. Peter, III. All of his close friends and associates at Geneve Corporation are deeply saddened by the sudden loss of Peter Zoch, whose insights and inspiration as its former president have been so critical in guiding the company for more than the past 25 years. Sincerest condolences 
 Paul O'Dwyer, a spirited liberal voice in New York politics from his immigrant days in the Democratic clubhouse to his glory years as a fiery anti-Vietnam War insurgent, died Tuesday night at his home in Goshen, N.Y. He was 90. Mr. O'Dwyer had been in failing health from the effects
 Sheldon Gunsberg, a film producer and distributor who later headed the Walter Reade chain of movie theaters in New York, died last Thursday of a heart attack at his home in Manhattan. He was 78. Born in Jersey City, Mr. Gunsberg served in the United States Merchant Marine during Wor
 Michael F. Drinkhouse, who opened a small diner in Jersey City and ended up owning some of Manhattan's best-known restaurants, notably the Blue Ribbon and the Old Homestead, as well as a string of race horses and a collection of Impressionist and Post-Impressionist paintings, died on June 1
 Norman D. Waters, who owned an advertising agency bearing his name and who in 1941 produced the first fashion show broadcast on television, died Tuesday at Osborn Retirement Community in Rye, N.Y., his daughter, Elizabeth Waters Haron, said. He was 92. Mr. Waters was an early champi
 FREEHILL-Paul. Suddenly on June 24th, 1998. Beloved son of Alice and James, dear brother of Laurene, Patrice, Allison, Bob, Janet, Joseph, Mary Lou, and the late Jimmy. Devoted grandson of Marion, loving uncle of Amanda, Neil, Jayne, Lynn, Jamie and Catherine. Survived by numerous aunts, un
 GIVEN-Robert McAllister. On June 23. Dearly loved by his survivors: companion Jamie; nieces Terry Parker & Kathleen Klumpp; & nephew Michael Reynolds.       
 HULSE-John C. On June 22, after a lengthy illness, at his home in Palm Beach, Florida. Talented painter & interior designer, he will be remembered with admiration and affection by his many friends and his loving son, daughter-in-law and grand-daughter, John Jr., Christina and Margo.       
 JOSEPH-Peter T. Beloved husband of Wendy Evans, and loving and adoring father of Danielle and Nicholas, died on June 25, 1998 from cancer at age 47 at home. He was Chairman and CEO of Rosecliff, Inc., a merchant banking firm, Chairman of the Board of Governing Trustees of American Ballet Th
 LIEBERMAN-Irving. Of Bayside, NY. On June 24th at his home in Delray Beach. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Judith, Frederic and the late Roy. Dear father-in-law of Marjorie and brother of the late Roslyn Blau. Loving grandfather of Jennifer Shane, Andrew William and Anna Bess Ma
 LYON-William W., died June 23rd, in Delray Beach, Fla., formerly of Scarsdale, NY, and New York City. Retired senior vice president of the Irving Trust. Survived by his wife, Nina M. Lyon; son, William W. Lyon III of Rohnert Park, Calif., and brother, Peter Lyon of Center Tuftonboro, NH.   
 MOGILNER-Leonard J., M.D. Beloved husband of Rochelle, devoted father of Aliza and Avi, Alon and Myra, Leora, and Avigayil and Yali. Adoring Saba of Shoshana, Alexander, Joshua and Rebecca. A dedicated pediatrician in Brooklyn for thirty-five years, his love of Judaism, Israel and his famil
 NATHANS-Meyer W. (Mike) On June 25, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Muriel, loving father of Stuart and his wife Marlene and devoted companion of Rubelle Schafler. A generous benfactor of education for young people. His philanthropies extended from Jewish to many other educational and com
 O'DWYER-Paul. The officers and members of The Irish Institute of New York are profoundly saddened by the passing of our Founder, former President and Chairman of the Board of Trustees. Your extraordinary pride in your Irish heritage, your vision, enterprise, goodwill, dignity and generosity
 WEISSMAN-Stuart V. On June 24, 1998 after a courageous battle with cancer. Beloved husband of Roberta, brother of Ruth Vollins, son-in-law of Florence Fielding. Dedicated father of Susan, Liz and Jack Priven. He leaves behind adored grandchildren Matthew and Ian, his messengers to the futur
 Peter T. Joseph, chairman and chief executive officer of Rosecliff Inc., a merchant banking concern, and chairman of the board of American Ballet Theater, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 47. The cause was cancer, said John Silberman, a family friend. Mr. Jose
 Charles Korvin, an actor who made a career playing gentleman thieves and philandering husbands, died on June 18 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 90 and had homes in Manhattan and Klosters, Switzerland. Mr. Korvin, whose original name was Geza Karpathi, was born in Piestan
 David Ayalon, a scholar of Muslim history who pioneered research on the Mameluke dynasties of Egypt and compiled what is considered the most authoritative Arabic-Hebrew dictionary, died in Jerusalem on Thursday. He was 84. The cause was cancer, acquaintances said. Born in Ha
 Lounes Matoub, a popular Algerian singer and Berber patriot who was kidnapped by Muslim militants in Algeria four years ago but was freed and had lived mostly in France since, was killed in an ambush near his hometown east of Algiers on Thursday. He was 42. News of his death, appare
 Mark H. Harrington, a television news executive who managed to get MSNBC, the 24-hour news cable station, up and operating in six months and who directed the CBS News coverage of major events like Presidential conventions and the Olympics, died at his home in Manhattan on Thursday. He was 5
 BERDOFF-Rubin. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins the physicians and staff of the Beth Israel Heart Institute in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Rubin Berdoff, father of our esteemed friend and colleague, Russell Berdoff, M.D., a member of the Beth Israel family fo
 FRIEDMAN-Chester Sydney. On June 26, 1998 in his 91st year. Loving husband of Rayminnie. Beloved sister of Gertrude Glaubman. Adored father of Joseph and Rita Aron. Beloved grandfather of Michael and David Friedman and Jonathan and Timothy Aron. Graveside service June 28th, 1998. Contributi
 JOSEPH-Peter T. Beloved husband of Wendy Evans, and loving and adoring father of Danielle and Nicholas, died on June 25, 1998 from cancer at age 47 at home. He was Chairman and CEO of Rosecliff, Inc., a merchant banking firm, Chairman of the Board of Governing Trustees of American Ballet Th
 LIEBERMAN-Irving. Of Bayside, NY. On June 24th at his home in Delray Beach. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father of Judith, Frederic and the late Roy. Dear father-in-law of Marjorie and brother of the late Roslyn Blau. Loving grandfather of Jennifer Shane, Andrew William and Anna Bess Ma
 NATHANS-Meyer W. (Mike). On June 25, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Muriel, loving father of Stuart and his wife Marlene and devoted companion of Rubelle Schafler. A generous benfactor of education for young people. His philanthropies extended from Jewish to many other educational and co
 O'DWYER-Paul. What a privilege to have been at your side. You showed us the righteousness and joy of a life spent in the passionate pursuit of freedom, justice, equality, peace and the dignity of man. You brought Thomas Paine's ''Common Sense'' to life in Mayo, the North, Jerusalem, Johanne
 PLOTKIN-Nathaniel, M.D. On June 26th, 1998, following a brief illness. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and compassionate, devoted physician. We will miss you deeply. Services to be held Sunday, June 28, 1998 at 1 P.M. at ''Parkside'' Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, N.Y. near Av
 SILBERSTEIN-Judy. The Board of Concerned Parents for AIDS Research mourns the untimely passing of our fellow Board member, Judy Silberstein. Our heartfelt condolences to Stanley, Maren and to all of the members of the Silberstein and Sklar families. Roberta Bogen, President Carol Gertz, Vic
 Alexander Pregel, a worldly Russian-born dealer in uranium and other radioactive elements, died on June 6 at Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 91 and lived in Sarasota. Mr. Pregel, working with his older brother, Boris, had a cosmopolitan  career in which roles were played 
 Emanuel Levenson, who shared his love of opera with schoolchildren across the country, died on June 9 at the University of Michigan Hospital in Ann Arbor. He was 81 and lived in Ypsilanti, Mich. Mr. Levenson, a graduate of Columbia University, studied piano with Joseph Adler and tau
 Harrel Gordon Tillman, a Methodist minister who also pursued careers in acting and broadcasting before he turned to the law and became the first black judge in Texas, died on June 19 at the hospice of Texas Medical Center in Houston. He was 73 and lived in Houston. The cause was mul
 Jacob Katz, an internationally known authority on the history of the Jewish people, died on May 20 in Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem. He was 93. Professor Katz, who was born in Hungary, joined the faculty of Hebrew University, in Jerusalem, in 1950 and went on to hold its Bella and 
 BERMINGHAM - Rutledge. On June 22, 1998, of Rye, New York. Survived by a daughter Cynthia of California & two brothers, Eldredge Langstaff Bermingham of South Londonderry, VT, & William Edward Bermingham of Cabot, VT, & many nieces and nephews. A memorial service will be held Thursday, July
 BRATES-Mihail. Of Forest Hills, NY. On Friday, June 26, 1998. Beloved husband of Toni Brates, devoted father of Rodica, dear father-in-law of Octavian, loving grandfather of Natalie, loyal brother of Berty and family, and lifelong friend of Valentine. He has been an inspiration to all of us
 FRIEDMAN-Chester Sydney. On June 26, 1998 in his 91st year. Loving husband of Rayminnie. Beloved brother of Gertrude Glaubman. Adored father of Joseph and Rita Aron. Beloved grandfather of Michael and David Friedman and Jonathan and Timothy Aron. Graveside service June 28th, 1998. Contribut
 HARRINGTON-Mark H., III. Died at home June 25, 1998. Beloved husband of Kyle Good and devoted father of David. Funeral 11:00 AM, Monday, June 29, All Souls Unitarian Church, 1157 Lexington Avenue at 80th Street. Interment at Saint Philip's Church, Garrison, NY for family and friends. In lie
 JOSEPH-Peter T. Beloved husband of Wendy Evans, and loving and adoring father of Danielle and Nicholas, died on June 25, 1998 from cancer at age 47 at home. He was Chairman and CEO of Rosecliff, Inc., a merchant banking firm, Chairman of the Board of Governing Trustees of American Ballet Th
 KLEIN-Robert S. Passed away on June 18, 1998, after many years of pain and suffering. He is now at peace. Survived by his loving sister Dorothy Mosheim.       
 LEVY-Max. Beloved husband of Leonore. Loving father of Barbara Carver, Arthur Levy and Dr. Donald Levy. Dear brother of Samuel, Sidney, Al Levy and Murray Leeds & Frances Korn. Cherished grandfather of eight and five great-grandchildren. Service today 11AM at the New Montefiore cemetery, Pi
 MARKS-David N., M.D. On June 27, 1998. Beloved husband of Adele for 62 years. Loving brother of the late Ruth Immerman and Nathan Marks. Dear brother-in-law of Jack Immerman, Albert Stewart, Betty Stewart and Suzanne Immerman. Devoted uncle of Susan and Elliott Solomon, Linda Schleicher, Te
 MARQUIT-Henry R. The Board of Directors of Herbert G. Birch Services is saddened by the death of Henry R. Marquit on Thursday, June 25, 1998. Henry was a former member and Vice Chairman of the Board, and passionately devoted to our mission. He will be respected and missed always. Henry was 
 NATHANS-Meyer W. The President, Chancellor, Boards of Governors and Overseers, faculty, administration and students of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion express profound sorrow upon the death of Meyer W. Nathans. Mike's extraordinary generosity enabled the College-Institute 
 PLOTKIN-Nathaniel, M.D. On June 26th, 1998, following a brief illness. Beloved husband, father, grandfather and compassionate, devoted physician. We will miss you deeply. Services to be held Sunday, June 28, 1998 at 1 P.M. at ''Parkside'' Chapel, 2576 Flatbush Avenue, Brooklyn, N.Y. near Av
 SHEPPARD-Abner L., D.D.S. On June 25, 1998. Beloved husband of Sophie Virginia. Loving father of Toni and Ed Piesman. Cherished grandfather to Mary Piesman. Dear brother of Sidney Sheppard. Services on Sunday 3 PM, at ''The Riverside'' 76th Street & Amsterdam Avenue. Visiting hours Saturday
 SNOW-Vernon F. The New York Law School community is sorrowed by the death of our friend, supporter and former faculty member, Vernon Snow. He was a trustee of the Snow Memorial Trust and President of the John Ben Snow Foundation, from which came the inspiration and support for the School's 
 SPRINGARN-Clifford L, M.D. Internal Medicine Associates, the primary care faculty of the Mount Sinai Medical Center, School of Medicine, mourn the loss of this clinician, scholar, benefactor and humanist, a legend in his own lifetime. Beloved by patients, respected by colleagues, supported 
 Alioune Blondin Beye, a United Nations envoy on a diplomatic mission aimed at averting renewed bloodshed in Angola, was apparently killed on Friday night in the crash of a light plane near Abidjan, the capital of the Ivory Coast. He was 59 and was based in Lusaka, Zambia. The author
 Clancy Carlile, a novelist and screenwriter, died on June 4 at South Austin Hospital in Austin, Tex. He was 68 and lived in Austin. He had cancer, said Leonard Gardner, a friend. Mr. Carlile, whose original name was Clarence Lawson Carlile, wrote  four novels. ''Children of 
 Oliver E. Treyz, who helped make ABC's television network a formidable competitor to CBS and NBC in the 1950's and 60's, died June 14 at a retirement home in Englewood, N.J., from kidney failure caused by prostate cancer, his son James O. Treyz said. He was 80. As head of the Americ
 BARTLETT-Robert A. Age 80. Died June 27, 1998, at his home in Mt. Gilead, Murrells Inlet, SC, after a long illness. Mr. Bartlett was predeceased by his wife, Lilla Rodda Bartlett, and one sister, Jane Heisinger. R.A. Bartlett, Board Chairman and CEO of the F.A. Bartlett Tree Expert Company 
 BERMINGHAM - Rutledge. On June 22, 1998, of Rye, New York. Survived by a daughter Cynthia of California & two brothers, Eldredge Langstaff Bermingham of South Londonderry, VT, & William Edward Bermingham of Cabot, VT, & many nieces and nephews. A memorial service will be held Thursday, July
 JOSEPH-Peter T. American Ballet Theatre mourns with profound sadness, the tragic and untimely loss of Peter T. Joseph. Since joining the Board of Governing Trustees of ABT in 1991, Peter has been an extraordinary inspiration to the dancers, staff and his fellow trustees alike. With limitles
 MAAS-Fred L. Of Pound Ridge, NY. Beloved husband of Marjorie. Father of Susan, Elizabeth and Deborah. Grandfather of Nico, Kate, Maggie, Jesse, Emily and Lily. Donations in his memory to Hospice of Northern Westchester and Putnam. For information, Omega Funeral Service Directors.       
 MARKS-David N., M.D. On June 27, 1998. Beloved husband of Adele for 62 years. Loving brother of the late Ruth Immerman and Nathan Marks. Dear brother-in-law of Jack Immerman, Albert Stewart, Betty Stewart and Suzanne Immerman. Devoted uncle of Susan and Elliott Solomon, Linda Schleicher, Te
 Peter Wyden, a journalist and author whose most recent book delved into his younger son's fight against schizophrenia, died Saturday evening at Danbury Hospital in Danbury, Conn. He was 74. The cause was a stroke and a subdural hematoma, or blood on the brain, according to a stateme
 Robert L. D. Davidson, president emeritus of Westminster College in Fulton, Mo., who built the Churchill Memorial and Library there in a historic church transplanted from London, died on June 20 in a car accident in Missouri. He was 89 and lived in Fulton. Winston Churchill delivere
 Roland E. Wolseley, a journalism teacher who wrote one of the first surveys of the black press, died at his home in Syracuse on May 31. He was 94. Mr. Wolseley began his career as a reporter and editor of newspapers in Reading, Pa. After receiving a master's degree at the Medill Sch
 True Delbert Morse, a former Agriculture Department Under Secretary and an architect of agricultural price support policy, died on June 3 at a retirement home in Sun City, Ariz. He was 102 years old. He served in the Agriculture Department during the Eisenhower Administration and wa
 Dr. Charles Rycroft, a British psychoanalyst who offered a generation of therapists new ways to interpret not just dreams but Freud's entire legacy, died May 24 in London, where he lived. He was 83. For three decades or more, Dr. Rycroft was the leading intellectual force in British
 John Malcolm Brinnin, a poet and literary biographer who witnessed and chronicled the alcoholic deterioration and death of Dylan Thomas,  died on Friday at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 81. He came to know many famous poets during the 1950's, when he was director of the Poetry S
 Maj. Gen. Marion E. Carl, one of the leading Marine air aces of World War II and a record-setting test pilot, was shot to death on Sunday night in a robbery at his home in Roseburg, Ore., the Douglas County Sheriff's Department said. He was 82. General Carl, who was credited with 18
 ASHWORTH-Richard G. Husband of Amy; father of Everard, the late Tucker, and the late Eric; father-in-law of Brooke, and grandfather of Henry and Emma died at home June 24, 1998, from cancer. He was a graduate of Princeton University and Yale Law School, and a former senior partner at Haight
 GOLDENBERG-Hyman. The Mesivta of Long Beach marks with sorrow the loss of Mr. Hyman Goldenberg, of Blessed memory, our long time supporter, dear friend and neighbor. His caring ways and desire to always do kindness for others, along with his love and respect for Torah and Jewish education w
 IVES-Kenneth Appleton, Jr. 64. Died June 21. He was the retired founder and chairman of Appleton Partners, Inc. of Boston. He is survived by his wife of 27 years, Cornelia Spencer Ives of Boca Grande, FL, his sons Kenneth, Michael, Christopher and George of NYC and Edward of Seattle, WA, a 
 KAPLAN-Irving. Of Boca Raton, Florida on June 26, 1998. Beloved husband of Juliette (nee Liberman), father of Brenda K. Eckstein (Joseph) and Lawrence J. Kaplan (Diane), grandfather of Sharon & Andrew Levine, Richard & Benjamin Eckstein, Michelle and Rachel Kaplan. He was a practicing CPA a
 NORTON-William S. The AllenStevenson School records with great sadness the death of Dr. William S. Norton, an alumnus from the Class of 1926 and father of Thomas Norton, Class of 1958. Dr. Norton served actively as School Physician and on the Board of Allen-Stevenson from 1947-1972, after w
 SCHWARTZ-Martha. Rofeh International extends sincere condolences to William Schwartz, Vice President Academic Affairs Yeshiva University and distinguished member of our board upon the loss of his mother.       
 SULZBERGER-Edward. June 30, 1988. Ten long years borne with special courage by Maye. Eddie's wisdom, his imagination, and especially his smile are ever alive in our hearts. The Family       
