 Sumner Gerard, a former Montana cattle rancher and legislator who served as ambassador to Jamaica in the 1970's, died on Feb. 24 in Vero Beach, Fla. Mr. Gerard, 88, was a former resident of Montana and New York. His death was announced by his son, also named Sumner. Mr. Gera
 Nicolas M. Salgo, a Hungarian immigrant who prospered as a financier and a builder of the Watergate complex in Washington and returned to his native Budapest as the United States ambassador in the 1980's, died on Saturday on a visit to Bal Harbour, Fla. He was 90 and lived in Key Largo, Fla
 Peter Foy, an innovator in the art of theatrical flight who sent aloft figures from Mary Martin and Sally Field to rotund opera singers in full Valkyrie regalia, died on Feb. 17 in Las Vegas. He was 79 and lived in Las Vegas. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Barbara, said.   
 Dr. George F. Crikelair, a pioneering plastic surgeon at Columbia University who in the 1960's became a leading advocate of fire-resistant coatings for children's sleepwear, died last Thursday at a hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 84. The cause was a stroke, his family said.
 Peter Zvi Malkin, a former Israeli intelligence agent who in 1960 captured Adolf Eichmann in Argentina, and who afterward captured him again and again on paper in his second career as a painter and writer, died on Tuesday in a rehabilitation facility in Manhattan. He was believed to be 77, 
 Dr. J. Donald M. Gass, an ophthalmologist whose keen observations led to diagnoses of previously undiscovered diseases of the retina, died last Saturday at his home in Nashville. He was 76. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Working at the Bascom Palmer Eye In
 J. William Littler, a surgeon who developed many techniques for restoring function and sensation to the fingers and wrist, died on Sunday in Providence, R.I. He was 89 and lived in Manhattan. His death followed a head injury suffered in a fall, his family said. Dr. Littler's
 Sidney I. Roberts, a lawyer whose voluminous work in tax law is considered an authoritative source on how United States taxes apply to people and businesses from other countries, died on Saturday at home in Manhattan. He was 91. The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Arlene.       
 Christopher Wells Hobler, an aspiring musician who founded the fund-raising organization Hope Happens for Neurological Disorders in 2001 when he learned he had Lou's Gehrig's disease, died of the illness on Feb. 16 in St. Louis, his hometown. He was 39. His death was announced on th
 Martin Denny, the bandleader who mingled easygoing jazz with Polynesian instrumentation and jungle noises to exemplify the ''exotica'' sound that swept suburban America in the 1950's and 60's, died on Wednesday at his home in Hawaii Kai, near Honolulu. He was 93. His death was annou
 Aubelin Jolicoeur, the diminutive, squeaky-voiced, cane-twirling gossip columnist, dandy and rumored political fixer who called himself Mr. Haiti and was best known as the model for the prying journalist and police informer Petit Pierre in Graham Greene's 1966 novel ''The Comedians,'' died 
 Edward J. Czerwinski, a specialist in Slavic literature and culture who as a theater impresario in the 1970's and 80's introduced many important Eastern European artists to American audiences, died on Feb. 16 in Erie, Pa. He was 75. His friend Edgar Stroke announced his death.      
 Morris Engel, the New York photographer and filmmaker whose 1953 film, ''The Little Fugitive,'' established a model for independent moviemaking that influenced directors like John Cassavetes and François Truffaut, died Saturday at his home on Central Park West. He was 86. The cause
 Sergiu Comissiona, a well-traveled conductor best known in the United States for his work with the Baltimore and Houston Symphony Orchestras and in New York for brief stints as music director of the New York City Opera and the American Symphony Orchestra, died early Saturday in Oklahoma Cit
 Hans A. Bethe, who discovered the violent reactions behind sunlight, helped devise the atom bomb and eventually cried out against the military excesses of the cold war, died late Sunday. He was 98, among the last of the giants who inaugurated the nuclear age. His death was announced
 Harold Brooks-Baker, an American authority on British nobility who was a sought-after commentator on the doings -- serious, scandalous or merely ridiculous -- of the British royal family, died on Saturday in London. He was 71 and had lived in London for more than 30 years. The cause
 George Atkinson, who helped popularize home viewing of Hollywood films by opening the first video rental store in 1979, died on Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 69. The cause was emphysema, the Video Software Dealers Association said. ''He really gave birth to the
 Don Celender, an art professor and quirky Conceptual artist whose projects involved taking polls, died on March 3 in Pittsburgh. He was 73 and lived in St. Paul, Minn. The cause was cancer, said Ivan C. Karp of the OK Harris Gallery in SoHo, his longtime representative. Mr. 
 Glenn Davis, the 1946 Heisman Trophy winner who teamed with Doc Blanchard on the undefeated Army teams of the mid-1940's to form college football's most celebrated backfield pairing, died yesterday at his home in La Quinta, Calif. He was 80. The cause was complications of prostate c
 John Laub, a New York-based landscape painter, died on March 3 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 57. The cause was leukemia, said his partner, Bruce C. Kingsley. Mr. Laub painted scenic views in places like Fire Island, Woodstock, Martha's Vineyard and Mount Des
 Richard Lupino, an actor and member of a distinguished theatrical family, died on Feb. 9 at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, his wife, Pandora Bronson Lupino, said. Mr. Lupino appeared on Broadway, in television series like ''
 James Biddle, a leader in preserving America's homes and landscapes of historic value, including Andalusia, his family's 19th-century estate near Philadelphia, died at home there yesterday. He was 75. He died in his sleep of natural causes, his family said. As president of t
 William G. Craig, who led college systems in California and Vermont and directed the Monterey Institute of International Studies, died on Monday at his home in San Diego. He was 90. The death was confirmed by his son Gregory B. Craig, the Washington lawyer. The elder Mr. Cra
 George Scott, who in 1939 with other blind youths formed the exuberant gospel group that earned raucous renown as the Blind Boys of Alabama, died on Wednesday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 75. The death was announced by Clarence Fountain, another original member of the group. T
 Richard P. Godwin, a former engineering executive who tried during the Reagan administration to reform the Defense Department's buying practices, died on March 3 in San Rafael, Calif. He was 82. The cause was complications of progressive supranuclear palsy, a degenerative disease of
 William Murray, a versatile and prolific writer who divided his talents between Italy, principally as a contributor to the ''Letter from Italy'' column for The New Yorker magazine, and a series of mysteries set at a California racetrack, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived i
 Bill Potts, a jazz arranger, pianist and educator, died on Feb. 16 in Plantation, Fla. He was 76 and lived in Fort Lauderdale. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his daughter, Christi Desky. Mr. Potts first attracted attention in the early 1950's as chief arranger for the Or
 Danny Gardella, a former outfielder for the New York Giants who challenged baseball's reserve clause in a 1947 federal lawsuit, an early chapter in the labor-management skirmishes that ultimately brought free agency and multimillion-dollar player contracts, died last Sunday at his home in Y
 Fred G. Burke, who oversaw sweeping changes in the financing and accountability of public schools as the commissioner of education for Rhode Island and then New Jersey in the 1970's and early 1980's, died Friday at Newton Memorial Hospital in Newton, N.J. He was 79 and lived in Milford, Pa.
 Fred G. Burke, who oversaw sweeping changes in the financing and accountability of public schools as the commissioner of education for Rhode Island and then New Jersey in the 1970's and early 80's, died Friday at Newton Memorial Hospital in Newton, N.J. He was 79 and lived in Milford, Pa.  
 Bartolo Mascarello, a Barolo winemaker whose enduring adherence to traditional practices in the face of changing fashions made him a symbol of staunch loyalty, died Saturday at his home in the town of Barolo, Italy. He was 78. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his daughter, Maria-T
 Sy Wexler, an award-winning documentary filmmaker whose educational movies -- from ''Squeak the Squirrel'' to ''Teeth Are for Life'' -- flickered for decades in darkened classrooms around the world, died on Thursday in Los Angeles. He was 88 and lived in Hollywood. The cause was can
 Redmond A. Simonsen, an early maker of strategic board games that scaled some of history's great battles down to table size and helped propel the amateur war games craze of the 1970's, died last Wednesday in Garland, Tex. He was 62 and lived in Richardson, Tex. The cause was heart f
 William M. Lester, who revolutionized the plastics industry 70 years ago with his design for an automatic molding machine, died on Saturday at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 97. The cause was injuries suffered as a result of a fall, said his wife, Gloria Genin Lester.        
 Herbert L. Seegal, whose analytical approach to courting shoppers at R.H. Macy & Company helped start the chain's move to a more upscale market in the 1970's and who trained several of its future leaders, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 89. The cause was 
 Dick Radatz, a dominant relief pitcher of the 1960's for the Boston Red Sox who was known as the Monster for his overpowering fastballs and fearsome physique, died Wednesday at his home in South Easton, Mass. He was 67. His death was announced by his son, Dick Jr., who said his fath
 George F. Kennan, the American diplomat who did more than any other envoy of his generation to shape United States policy during the cold war, died on Thursday night in Princeton, N.J. He was 101. Mr. Kennan was the man to whom the White House and the Pentagon turned when they sough
 Stanley H. Lowell, a former deputy mayor of New York City and the first chairman of the city's Civil Rights Commission, died on Wednesday at his home in Armonk, N.Y. He was 85. The death was announced by his family. Mr. Lowell, a lawyer by profession, spent more than 50 year
 Ted Rand, a largely self-taught graphic artist who illustrated nearly 80 children's books after reaching retirement age, died Saturday at his home on Mercer Island, Wash. He was 89. The cause was cancer, said Gloria Rand, his wife and collaborator on a dozen of those books. 
 Tom Dillon, a former president of the Actors' Fund, a social-service organization for members of the entertainment industry, died on Monday at the Lillian Booth Actors' Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 86 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was complications of the flu, his wife, Alice, 
 Sol M. Linowitz, a confidant of Democratic presidents who became renowned for his achievements in each of his three careers -- lawyer, businessman and diplomat -- died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 91. His death was reported by his family. A courtly and gracefu
 The American baritone Theodor Uppman, best known for creating the title role in Benjamin Britten's opera ''Billy Budd'' in 1951, died on Thursday night at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 85. His daughter, Margot Vincent, announced his death. Mr. Uppman's selection for the
 Humphrey Spender, a prominent English artist known for his photographs documenting the lives of ordinary Britons in the bleakest years of the Depression, died on March 11 at his home in Ulting, Essex. He was 94. The cause was heart failure, his wife, Rachel, said. Mr. Spende
 George H. O'Brien Jr., a Marine lieutenant in the Korean War who was awarded the Medal of Honor for spearheading the capture of an enemy-held hill while wounded by automatic-weapons fire, died on March 11 in Midland, Tex. Mr. O'Brien, who lived in Midland, was 78. The cause was comp
 John Z. DeLorean, the flamboyant automobile industrialist whose dream of running his own car company dissolved into bankruptcy, died Saturday evening at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 80 years old and lived in Bedminster, N.J. The cause was complications after a stroke, hi
 Philip Lamantia, the rapturous San Francisco poet who embraced Surrealism and later associated himself with the West Coast Beat community, died on March 7 at his apartment in San Francisco. He was 77. The cause was heart failure, a spokesman for his publisher, City Lights Books, sai
 Bobby Short, the cherubic singer and pianist whose high-spirited but probing renditions of popular standards evoked the glamour and sophistication of Manhattan nightlife, died yesterday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 80, and had homes in Manhattan and southern France. The
 John H. Pickering, a founding partner of Wilmer, Cutler & Pickering, one of Washington's most prominent international law firms, died in the capital on Saturday. He was 89 and a resident of Bethesda, Md. His death, after a stroke, was announced by the firm, where he had continued to
 Simon Eisdorfer, a retired New York City police chief who developed the department's widely emulated hostage negotiation team, died on Wednesday in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 87 and lived in Cedarhurst, N.Y. The cause was heart failure, his granddaughter Jennifer Waitman said. T
 Ted Brown, a disc jockey and radio talk-show host who broadcast for more than 40 years on the New York City radio stations WMGM, WNEW and WNBC, died on Sunday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged, in the Bronx. He was in his 80's. The cause was complications of a stroke he had in 1996, h
 Kenzo Tange, the Japanese architect who converted the core of a barren Hiroshima into a tranquil peace park in the 1940's and 50's, and designed Tokyo's starkly modernist St. Mary's Cathedral in 1964 -- where his funeral is to be held -- died yesterday at his home in Tokyo. He was 91.      
 Norman Mager, who helped propel an unheralded City College team to the N.I.T. and N.C.A.A. basketball championships in 1950, a feat that thrilled New York only to be tarnished by a point-shaving scandal, died last Thursday at a hospital in Boynton Beach, Fla. Mager, who lived in Boca Raton,
 Stanley Sadie, a musicologist, writer and editor whose prodigious output included editing the last two editions of the titanic and authoritative New Grove Dictionary of Music and Musicians, died on Monday at his home in Cossington, England. He was 74. The cause was amyotrophic later
 Walter Hopps, a leading curator of 20th-century art and founding director of the Menil Collection in Houston, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 72 and lived in Houston and Venice, Calif. The cause was pneumonia, a spokesman for the Menil Collection said. In the museum wo
 Czeslaw Slania, a master engraver who applied his art most extensively to the tiniest works, postage stamps, died in Stockholm on March 17, the Swedish post office announced Monday. He was 83. Mr. Slania emigrated from Poland to Sweden more than four decades ago and became the count
 Maj. Gen. Winant Sidle, who after the United States invasion of Grenada in 1983 headed a commission charged with recommending ways to allow news coverage of military operations, died Saturday in Southern Pines, N.C. He was 88. The cause was complications of a stroke, his wife, Anne 
 Gary Bertini, a conductor and composer who played a significant role in shaping the musical life of Israel, died on March 17 in Tel Hashomer, Israel. He was 77. The cause was complications from lymphatic cancer, his Swiss managers, Konzertgesellschaft Basel, told European newspapers
 Naftali Halberstam, the grand rabbi of the Bobov Hasidic sect, who continued his father's efforts to rebuild a community nearly eradicated by the Holocaust, died on Wednesday at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 74. The cause was apparently a lung problem, a spokeswoman 
 Adrian Kragen, a leading expert on American income tax law, who left a lucrative Hollywood law practice to teach at the University of California, Berkeley, died on Friday in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 97. His death was announced by his son, Ken Kragen. In 1952, Mr. Kragen w
 Bruce McM. Wright, a retired black judge in Manhattan who denounced what he called racism in the criminal justice system and created a furor in the 1970's by setting low bail for many poor and minority suspects, died in his sleep on Thursday at his home in Old Saybrook, Conn. He was 86.    
 George Peck Caulkins Jr., a businessman, civic leader and philanthropist, and one of the handful of skiing enthusiasts who developed Vail, Colo., died on Thursday at his home in Denver. He was 83. His death followed a long illness, his family said. Mr. Caulkins, who made his
 Sheldon H. White, a Harvard developmental psychologist whose research endorsed early childhood education programs like Head Start, died on March 17 at Spaulding Rehabilitation Hospital in Boston. A resident of Newtonville, Mass., he was 76. The cause was heart failure, his family sa
 Ernest Childers, who was awarded the Medal of Honor for knocking out two German machine-gun nests in Italy in World War II, died on March 17 in Muskogee, Okla. He was 87 and lived Coweta, Okla. The cause was complications of a stroke and a heart attack, said his wife, Yolanda Chadwe
 Henry George Greene, an architect and developer who designed more than 80 theaters for stage shows and movies in the 1960's and 70's, died on March 13 at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 93. His death was announced by his family. As consulting architect for the American Br
 James Callaghan, the elder statesman of the British Labor Party whose three years as prime minister were marked by the infamous ''Winter of Discontent'' and its tumultuous battles with the country's powerful labor unions, died at home in East Sussex, England, on Saturday, the eve of his 93r
 James Callaghan, the elder statesman of the British Labor Party whose three years as prime minister were marked by the infamous ''Winter of Discontent'' and tumultuous battles with the country's powerful labor unions, died at home in East Sussex, England, on Saturday, the eve of his 93rd bi
 Andrew Toti, a prolific inventor known for designing the Mae West inflatable vest, which kept many downed Allied pilots afloat in World War II, died on March 20 at home in Modesto, Calif. He was 89. His death was announced by his daughter, Andrea Pimental. Mr. Toti invented 
 Paul Hester, the drummer for the New Zealand pop band Crowded House, was found dead on Saturday near his home in Melbourne, Australia. He was 46. Mr. Hester had hanged himself from a tree in a nearby park, a representative of Melbourne's Metropolitan Ambulance Service told The Assoc
 Grant Johannesen, a pianist best known as an elegant interpreter of early-20th-century French music, died on Sunday at a friend's home near Munich. He was 83 and lived in New York and Palm Beach, Fla. His son, David Johannesen, announced the death. Mr. Johannesen was a sensi
 Grant Johannesen, a pianist best known as an elegant interpreter of early-20th-century French music, died on Sunday at a friend's home near Munich. He was 83 and lived in New York and Palm Beach, Fla. His son, David Johannesen, announced the death. Mr. Johannesen was a sensi
 Harold Cruse, an outspoken social and cultural critic who was best known for his angry collection of essays, ''The Crisis of the Negro Intellectual,'' died Saturday in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 89. The cause was congestive heart failure, his companion, Mara Julius, said. Largely self-
 Former Senator Howell Heflin of Alabama, a conservative Democrat who supported civil rights legislation and was sometimes described as the conscience of the Senate, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Sheffield, Ala., near his home in Tuscumbia. He was 83. His death was announced by hi
 Johnnie L. Cochran Jr., whose fierce, flamboyant and electrifyingly effective advocacy in the O.J. Simpson murder trial captivated the country and solidified his image as a master of high-profile criminal defense, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 67. The cause was a
 David P. Bushnell, an importer who helped introduce middle-class Americans to binoculars after World War II, died last Thursday at his home in Laguna Beach, Calif. He was 92. The cause was complications of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, his family said. Binoculars were toys for the
 Dr. Wilfred G. Bigelow, a cardiac surgeon who created a pathbreaking technique of cooling the body to allow open-heart surgery and also helped develop an early pacemaker, died Sunday in an extended-care facility in Toronto. He was 91. The cause was heart failure, his family said. As
 James Lebron, a master art handler and installer who shepherded some of the most significant paintings of the late 20th century along the tortuous path from artist's studio to gallery wall, died on March 16 in West Islip, N.Y. He was 76 and lived in North Babylon, N.Y. The cause was
