 Athelstan F. Spilhaus, a geophysicist and meteorologist who invented a device that measures temperatures at the depths of the sea and who became the first United States representative on the executive board of Unesco, died on Monday at his home in Middleburg, Va. He was 86. Dreamer,
 W. Benson Terry, a character actor who worked in theater and film, died on March 24 at St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Terry, who grew up in Cincinnati, had an earlier life as a
 David Hicks, whose relentlessly organized, color-clashing home interiors were the acme of jet-set chic in the 1960's, died on Sunday at The Grove, his country house in Brightwell Baldwin in Oxfordshire, England. He was 69. Mr. Hicks, who had recently suffered a stroke, died of lung 
 Luigi Nanni, a chef and restaurateur who was one of the first in the United States to offer Italian food as it is served in Italy, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74. He had been suffering from lung cancer for some time, said Victoria Morales, his longtime bookkeeper
 David Bourdon, a critic who was closely involved in the innovative Manhattan art world of the early 1960's and who was one of the early writers on the Minimalist movement, died on March 27 at Simi Valley Hospital in Simi Valley, Calif. He was 63. The cause was esophageal cancer, sai
 Richard Bellamy, a New York art dealer whose Green Gallery was one of the most important showcases of avant-garde art during the American art explosion of the early 1960's, died on Sunday at his home in Long Island City, Queens. He was 70. He died in his sleep, said his son, Miles. 
 Eberhard F. M. Rees, a German-born rocket engineer who in 1970 succeeded Wernher von Braun as the chief of American rocketry efforts, died on Thursday at the West Volusia Memorial Hospital in Florida. He was 89 and lived at the Good Shepards Home in DeLand, Fla. Mr. Rees had suffere
 George R. Geiger, a professor of philosophy and a founding editor of the Antioch Review, died on March 17 at the Friends Care Center in Yellow Springs, Ohio. He was 94. Mr. Geiger was John Dewey Professor of Philosophy Emeritus at Antioch College in Yellow Springs. He joined the fac
 Harold E. Wilson, a former Marine sergeant who won the Medal of Honor in the Korean War for ''heroic actions in the face of almost certain death'' in the Chinese Communists' massive human-wave offensive of April 1951, died on Sunday at Lexington Medical Center in West Columbia, S.C. He was 
 Michael W. McCarthy, a former chairman of Merrill Lynch & Company who helped expand that brokerage firm into a global enterprise, died on Wednesday at his home in Indian Wells, Calif. Mr. McCarthy, 94, also served for a time as a governor of both the New York and American Stock Exch
 Dr. David C. McClelland, a psychologist who studied human motivation, job competency and the entrepreneurial spirit, died on March 27 at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 80. For most of his 57-year teaching and research career, he enthralled Harvard University students with his u
 J. Blan van Urk, a high-spirited sportsman and sometimes public relations man, author and entrepreneur who spent the better part of a century riding happily to the hounds, died on Monday at a health care center near his home at Sugar Tree Farm in Unionville, Pa. He was 95 and a widely recog
 James R. Herman, a former president of the International Longshore and Warehouse Union, which represents stevedores on the West Coast and a variety of other workers, died on March 20 at California Pacific Medical Center. He was 73 and lived in San Francisco. The cause was heart fail
 John S. Alessio, a California entrepreneur who began his working life shining shoes in San Diego and went on to amass millions as a banker, businessman, restaurateur and race-track operator, died of cancer on March 24 at Scripps Green Hospital in La Jolla, Calif., his daughter Rose Marie Ro
 Sidney Stewart, a survivor of the Bataan death march and three years in Japanese captivity in World War II who wrote the highly praised memoir ''Give Us This Day,'' an account of how the prisoners endured their intense suffering, died on March 18 at a hospital in Paris. He was 78 and lived 
 Tim Flock, a colorful and highly successful driver in the early years of stock-car automobile racing, died on Tuesday in his home in Charlotte, N.C. He was 73. Jonathan Mauk, the historian for stock-car racing's governing body, Nascar, said Flock was found only weeks ago to be suffe
 Austin Patterson Kelley, an advertising executive who was known as ''the dean'' among his peers in Atlanta for his emphasis on ethics, died March 26 of prostate cancer, his brother, Blaine Kelley Jr. of Atlanta, said. He was 67 and was the chairman and chief executive of Austin Kelley Adver
 Dr. John Turkevich, a chemist at Princeton University whose work with catalysts helped pave the way for the commercial production of unleaded gasoline, died March 25 at the St. Lawrence Rehabilitation Center in Lawrenceville, N.J. He was 91 and a resident of Jamesburg, N.J. His work
 Philip Davis, who practiced law so unobtrusively for more than two-thirds of a century that he made his biggest legal splash as a disgruntled railroad passenger, died on March 26 at a retirement home in Basking Ridge, N.J. He was 90 and twice went to court to establish the revolutionary not
 Gen. Herbert Butler Powell, a former chief of the Continental Army Command and former Ambassador to New Zealand, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Williamsburg, Va. He was 94. General Powell joined the National Guard in his native Oregon and retired 43 years later, in 1963, as a
 In the past two winters, speed skating has been revolutionized by a clap skate that allows skaters to go so much faster that they have rewritten the entire record book. Gerrit Jan van Ingen Schenau, a Dutch scientist who developed the skate, died last Thursday in Weteringburg, 25 miles sout
 Jonas A. Barish, a historian of the theater and an authority on the English dramatist and poet Ben Jonson and his contemporary Shakespeare, died on Wednesday at Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Oakland, Calif. He was 76 and lived in Berkeley, Calif. The cause was respiratory comp
 Robert Pilatus, a member of Milli Vanilli, the German pop duo forced to give up its 1990 Grammy Award when it was disclosed that the pair  did not sing a word on its album, died on Saturday in a hotel room in Frankfurt. He was 32. The cause was a heart attack, according to the Frank
 Alain BosquetAlain Bosquet, a prolific French poet, novelist and literary critic, died on March 17 in Paris, where he made his home. He was 78. The cause was cancer, said William Jay Smith, a friend and a former Poet Laureate of the United States. Mr. Bosquet was much admire
 Frank Lloyd, the Vienna-born entrepreneur who built the Marlborough Gallery into the wealthiest, most important art gallery business in the world and then sullied his reputation with his criminal role in the Rothko art scandal of the 1970's, died Tuesday at his home in Nassau, the Bahamas. 
 Richard Ellner, a specialty T-shirt manufacturer who was behind the Broadway Dance Center, a busy commercial studio offering ballet, jazz, tap and other dance classes, died on March 31 at his home in Manhattan. He was 69. The cause of death had not been determined, said his daughter
 Roland (Rolly) Schwartz, a major figure in American amateur boxing for almost 60 years and a coach of the 1976 United States Olympic team, died yesterday in the Hospice of Dayton in Ohio. He was 85. He died of renal failure, said his daughter, Margo Bienenfeld. As a youth, S
 James J. Leff, who was an outspoken New York State Supreme Court justice for three decades and helped the Conservative Party in its early days while he was a Manhattan lawyer, died on Sunday at New York Hospital. He was 77 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He had a grav
 James T. Pyle, who got such a boyhood thrill from Charles A. Lindbergh's pioneering solo flight across the Atlantic that he devoted his life to aviation, died on April 1 at a hospital near his home in Oyster Bay, N.Y. He was 84 and had become something of a pioneer himself. As the first Dep
 Raymond O. Mithun, who helped found the Campbell-Mithun Inc. advertising agency with $1,500 and three clients, died March 31 in Scottsdale Memorial Hospital in Scottsdale, Ariz. Mr. Mithun, who was 89, lived in Indian Wells, Calif., and died from complications from pneumonia, an agency spok
 Seth R. Thomas, a sixth-generation descendant of a 19th-century clockmaker of the same name and himself a keeper of timepieces, died at the Cleveland Clinic on Monday.  He was 56 and lived in Brecksville, Ohio, near Cleveland. The cause was prostate cancer, the family said. 
 Ruby Levine, a Brooklyn-born violinist who spent his life making people smile even if he had to resort to his vast store of painfully bad jokes to do it, died Saturday night apparently after suffering a heart attack near the Pennsylvania Hotel on Seventh Avenue. He was 81 and had been the w
 Alfred U. McKenzie, who took part in a major protest against segregation in the military in World War II while serving as a bomber pilot with the all-black Tuskegee Airmen, and then won a lawsuit decades later ending the Government Printing Office's discrimination against black employees, d
 Bengt Tornqvist, a sea captain who came up with the concept of building cargo ships with ramps and openings so that motor vehicles could be driven into and out of their holds, died April 3 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in New York City and Stockholm. He died of intes
 John Tate, whose tormented life went uphill during a five-month reign as a world heavyweight boxing champion and then downhill again, was killed early Thursday morning in a one-truck accident in Knoxville, Tenn., where he lived. He was 43. The 1989 Ford pickup truck Tate was driving
 Robert Lasch, who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1966 for editorial writing in The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, died Monday of kidney failure at a hospice in Green Valley, Ariz. He was 91 and had lived in Green Valley since 1971, when he retired from The Post-Dispatch as editor of the editorial page. 
 Maj. Gen. Sylvester T. Del Corso, who headed the Ohio National Guard when some of its soldiers shot and killed four students and wounded eight others at Kent State University during a campus antiwar protest three decades ago, died on Tuesday at his home in Worthington, Ohio. He was 85.     
 Charles S. Mill, a longtime magazine publisher and former president of American Business Press, a trade group, died on Friday at Middlesex Hospital in Middletown, Conn. Mr. Mill, who lived in Madison, Conn., was 81. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Mr. Mill sp
 Denis Charles, who brought a Caribbean hand-drumming style into the contexts of straight-ahead and freely intuitive jazz, died on March 26 at his home in Manhattan. He was 64. The cause was heart failure brought on by influenza, said his former wife, Gabriella Sonam. Mr. Cha
 Glen Frazier Leet, who worked to provide financing to entrepreneurs here and abroad and who aided community development programs around the world for more than five decades, died on April 7 at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 89. Mr. Leet's credentials in self-he
 Former Foreign Minister Nguyen Co Thach of Vietnam, the urbane diplomat who struggled but failed to normalize relations with the United States in the 1980's, died on Friday at the age of 75, foreign diplomats in Hanoi said today. There was no immediate announcement of his death by t
 Allen Murray Myers, a justice of State Supreme Court from 1976 to 1988 who mounted a widely noted protest over an antiquated public school in the 1950's, died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was congestive heart failure, 
 Francis Bergan, a former New York State Court of Appeals judge and member of commissions formed to consider revisions to the State Constitution, died on March 23 at the Teresian House, a nursing home in Albany, his hometown. He was 95. At the 1938 Constitutional Convention he drafte
 Harry Torczyner, an international lawyer, art collector and writer who championed the causes of Israel and his native Belgium, died on March 26 at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87. Through museum and gallery exhibits Mr. Torczyner helped introduce a wider American public
 Perrin H. Long Jr., a pioneering analyst of brokerage firms whose independent and original views alternately infuriated and charmed Wall Street's titans, died on Wednesday at Stamford Hospital in Stamford, Conn. He was 70 years old. The cause was the effects of a stroke that Mr. Lon
 Alex Ritchie, a British balloonist who clambered atop an airborne balloon's gondola last year to jettison fuel tanks, halting a crash-dive, died on Saturday at Middlesex Hospital in London. He was 52 and had been undergoing treatment at the hospital since January. The cause of death
 Chandler (Buss) Hovey Jr., a yachtsman whose family ties brought a lifelong involvement with America's Cup racing, but whose personal kinship with sailboats helped him adjust to an enduring disability, died last Thursday at his home in Ocean Reef, Fla. He was 83. Mr. Hovey died of c
 Rozz Williams, a songwriter and musician who founded the 17-year-old Gothic rock group Christian Death, died on April 1 at his home in West Hollywood, Calif. He was 34. The cause was suicide by hanging, said a spokesman for his record label, Triple X. In the 1980's, as a spl
 Tom Cora, a cellist, composer and improviser who was a mainstay of the new-music scene in New York City, died on Thursday at a hospital in Draguignan, in the south of France, where he lived with his wife and son. He was 44. The cause was melanoma, said his brother, Henry Corra.     
 Bahi Ladgham, who as Prime Minister of Tunisia became the head of an Arab committee formed in 1970 to make peace between the Jordanian Government and Palestinian guerrillas, died on Monday. He was 85 and lived in Tunis. He had been under treatment at a hospital in Paris recently, th
 Cozy Powell, a rock drummer known for his work with leading classic rock and heavy-metal groups, died on April 7 in Bristol, England. He was 50. The cause was a car crash, said a spokesman for Mr. Powell. A highly respected drummer who could be both subtle and brash, technic
 Maurice H. Stans, a former Commerce Secretary and fund-raiser in the Nixon administration who pleaded guilty to accepting illegal campaign contributions in the Watergate scandal, died of heart failure yesterday in Pasadena, Claif. He was 90. Toni Miller, a spokeswoman for Huntington
 Sir Ian MacGregor, the unyielding industrialist who forced Britain's coal miners to capitulate after their long and bitter strike in the mid 1980's, died on Monday while visiting friends in Somerset, England. He was 85. The cause of death was a heart attack. Alternately hail
 Ivan Tcherepnin, a composer and for 25 years the director of Harvard University's Electronic Music Studio, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. He was 55. The cause was liver cancer, his family said. Mr. Tcherepnin was descended from musicians 
 Phil R. North, a journalist and former president, chairman and chief executive of the Tandy Corporation between 1978 and 1981, died Sunday in All Saints Episcopal Hospital in Fort Worth, after a long illness. He was 79. A journalist with The Fort Worth Star-Telegram from 1937 to 196
 German Emilio Ornes, the influential publisher of the newspaper El Caribe in the Dominican Republic and a longtime champion of freedom of the press in Latin America, died on Tuesday at his home in Santo Domingo, the Dominican capital. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, The Ass
 James B. Conkling, a music and broadcasting executive who helped create the Grammy Awards and the Columbia Record Club, died on Sunday at the Sutter Oaks Alzheimer's Hospital in Sacramento, Calif., where he had been living. He was 83. The cause was pneumonia and diabetes, said his w
 Marvin S. Gilman, a builder and developer for nearly 50 years in New York, Maryland and Delaware, died April 8 in the Christiana Hospital in Wilmington, Del., where he had undergone surgery for a staphylococcus infection. He was 76 years old and had been living in Wilmington. Mr. Gi
 Pol Pot, who created in Cambodia one of the 20th century's most brutal and radical regimes, died on Wednesday of heart failure, according to his Cambodian jailers. He was 73 years old. Already enfeebled from malaria, Pol Pot had become seriously ill in recent months while under hous
 The Rev. Louis A. Saunders, who spent half a century as such a quietly dedicated minister, missionary and religious official that he became known chiefly for a single, instinctive act of Christian duty, died on April 5 at his home in suburban Dallas. He was 88 and the man who gave Lee Harve
 Roger F. Murray 2d, an economist whose financial acumen made him a frequent adviser to members of Congress and business leaders during the 1950's and 60's, died on Monday at his home in Wolfeboro, N.H. He was 86. The cause was cardiac arrest, according to the Lord Funeral Home in Wo
 Marvin E. Wolfgang, who found new ways of looking at and thinking about crime and criminals, died on Sunday at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. He was 73 and a professor of criminology at Penn and the president of the American Academy of Political and Social S
 Jack Hyde, a fashion journalist who taught at the Fashion Institute of Technology in New York, died on March 20 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. He was 81 and lived in Greenwich Village. At his death, Mr. Hyde was an adjunct assistant professor in the advertising and ma
 L. Clure Morton, a retired Federal chief judge in Tennessee who furthered racial integration in Nashville's public schools and prompted reforms in the state's mental health, welfare and prison systems, died on April 11 at the University of Tennessee Hospital in his native Knoxville. He was 
 Rabbi Samuel Cook, who built the youth affiliate of American Reform Judaism into a national force with 20,000 members in about 500 branches around the country, died last Sunday at the Brookwood retirement community in suburban Cincinnati. He was 91. He led the teen-age movement of t
 Terry Sanford, who lowered racial barriers as Governor of North Carolina in the 1960's, setting the style for a new kind of Southern politician, and later became a United States Senator and Presidential candidate, died today at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 80. The cause was compl
 William Burwell Fitzgerald, a Washington community leader and an entrepreneur who over 30 years built a small thrift institution into one of the country's largest black-owned businesses, died on Monday at Inova Fairfax Hospital in Washington. He was 65 and lived in Washington. The c
 William G. Congdon, an American painter well known in the 1950's and 60's for his painterly fusion of abstraction and representation and his depiction of religious themes, died of a heart attack on Wednesday, his 86th birthday, in a hospital in Milan, Italy. He had a home in Milan and had l
 Alberto Calderon, one of the leading mathematicians of the last half-century, died on Thursday in Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 77 and was professor emeritus of mathematics at the University of Chicago and lived in Chicago. Mr. Calderon was known for his contribu
 Andrei Svetlichny, whose ability to coax gorgeous tones from concert grands made him indispensable as a personal tuner for distinguished pianists, died on April 12 at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 41 and the chief concert technician and manager of technical services for th
 George Howard, a soprano saxophonist who was a mainstay of the smooth-jazz radio format, died on March 22 at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta. He was 41. The cause was cancer, said Chris Wheat, a publicity agent at GRP records. Mr. Howard grew up in Philadelphia. After classical
 John Barkham, a prolific book reviewer who could deliver a stream of four, five or six reviews a week in his heyday, died on April 15 at a nursing home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 90. Mr. Barkham reviewed thousands of books over half a century. He concentrated on contemporary history a
 Terry Sanford, who lowered racial barriers as Governor of North Carolina in the 1960's, setting the style for a new kind of Southern politician, and later became a United States senator and Presidential candidate, died today at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 80. The cause was compl
 Archbishop Trevor Huddleston, a British Anglican who spent years fighting apartheid in South Africa and helped make its abuses widely known, died in northern England yesterday, the Church of England announced. He was 84. Reuters reported that he suffered from diabetes. Thoug
 Octavio Paz, Mexico's premier poet and essayist and one of the towering men of letters in the second half of this century, died on Sunday at a temporary residence in Mexico City. He was 84. President Ernesto Zedillo of Mexico announced the death early yesterday as he was returning f
 Robert H. Mulreaney, a retired senior law partner in Manhattan and a former chairman of the Community Service Society of New York, died on April 12 at the King James Care Center in Chatham Township, N.J. He was 82 and a former resident of Summit and Westfield, N.J. Mr. Mulreaney hea
 Gardner Dickinson, a founder of the Senior PGA Tour, a standout in Ryder Cup events and a seven-time winner on the PGA Tour with a knack for teaching other golfers, died on Sunday at his home in Tequesta, Fla. He was 70. Dickinson died after a long illness, said his wife, Judy, a fo
 Constantine Caramanlis, a principled statesman who returned with high drama from self-imposed exile in 1974 to restore democracy to Greece after a repressive seven-year military dictatorship, died early today at a hospital in Athens. He was 91. Mr. Caramanlis was hospitalized on Apr
 Fred Davis, a genial cue shark who smiled his way to eight world professional snooker championships and helped lay the groundwork for the game's raging popularity in Britain, died last Thursday at his hillside farm in Denbigh, North Wales. He was 84 and regarded as the last living link with
 Peter Lind Hayes, an affable, appealing entertainer whose career included work in everything from vaudeville to films, Broadway, nightclubs, radio and television, died on Tuesday in Las Vegas. He was 82. Mr. Hayes had been in failing health and died at the Nathan Adelson Hospice fro
 Calvin F. Craig, an Atlanta construction worker who spent most of the 1960's in fiery opposition to racial desegregation, then abruptly resigned as the head of the Georgia Ku Klux Klan to work for integration, died on April 13 at his home in Newnan, Ga. He was 64 and had later rejoined, the
 Harry Harding, who was executive vice president of the Young & Rubicam advertising agency in the early 1960's and then a senior executive for Time Inc., died April 17 at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md., following a stroke, his son, Harry Harding Jr., said. He was 94. Mr. Harding 
 James Earl Ray died yesterday at Columbia Nashville Memorial Hospital in Nashville while serving a 99-year sentence for the assassination of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. To the end of his life, he tantalized  America with suggestions that his confession to the 1968 murder, which he h
 David Blum, a symphonic conductor and a writer on classical music, died on April 17 at a hospice in Kirkland, Wash., near his home in Bellevue. He was 62. His family said the cause was cancer. Mr. Blum was born in Los Angeles and studied conducting and composition at the Jui
 James Tilton, a scenery and lighting designer whose work was a regular feature of the A.P.A.-Phoenix repertory company during its Off Broadway heyday in the 1960's and early 70's, died last Saturday in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 60 and lived in East Hampton. The cause was cancer, sai
 Jean-Francois Lyotard, an eclectic post-modern French philosopher and prolific author who most recently taught at Emory University in Atlanta, died on Tuesday at Necker Hospital in Paris. He was 73 and divided his time between Paris and Atlanta. The cause was leukemia, the universit
 John Luigi Magro, a Cincinnati businessman who was a patron of the arts and a leading benefactor of Boys Town of Italy, died on April 18 at his home in Camden, Me., where he had retired in 1991. He was 90. Mr. Magro was born in Rochester and graduated from Harvard College in 1932. H
 Owen Bradford Butler, who was chairman of the Procter & Gamble Company for much of the 1980's, died on Tuesday at his home in Denver. He was 74 and the cause of his death was cancer, the company said. Mr. Butler was born in Lynchburg, Va., and joined Procter & Gamble in 1945
 William M. Cafaro, an entrepreneur who turned a 1940's investment in a property in Youngstown, Ohio, into one of the nation's biggest real estate development companies, died at his office in Youngstown on Wednesday, a company spokesman said. He was 84 and lived in Youngstown. The Ca
 William Griffis, an actor in theater and television, died on April 13 at the University of North Carolina Memorial Hospital in Chapel Hill. He was 81 and lived in Hillsborough, N.C. Mr. Griffis appeared in Broadway productions including ''1776,'' ''Call Me Madame,'' ''Over Here!'' a
 Alexander Papamarkou, a philanthropist and international investment banker whose clients included royalty, industrialists and major institutions, died Thursday at St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital in New York. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was a heart attack, his 
 Eugene Walter, a poet and novelist, died on March 29 at the University of South Alabama Medical Center in Mobile, where he lived. He was 76. The cause was liver cancer, the hospital said. Mr. Walter, a native of Mobile, often celebrated his hometown in his fiction. His best-
 With more than a year to go before the end of the millennium, it's too early to tell who will top the inevitable honor rolls of 20th-century achievement, but when it comes time to choose the outstanding performance by a school guidance counselor, a leading contender must surely be the long-
 The Rev. William James Chase, an advocate of hospital chaplain services and a former assistant to the rector of St. James Episcopal Church, on Madison Avenue at 71st Street, died on April 11 at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 82. Born in Boston, he graduated from Hamilton Coll
 Mel Powell, a composer who won the Pulitzer Prize in 1990 and was the founding dean of the school of music at the California Institute of the Arts, died on Friday at his home in Sherman Oaks, Calif. He was 75. The Associated Press reported that the cause was liver cancer. Mr
 Robert Joseph Tramonte, a Brooklyn bookseller whose shops were popular gathering places for writers as well as readers, died on April 9 at his home in Amherst, Mass. He was 52. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Barbara. Mr. Tramonte owned Cousin Arthur's Books for 
 Gabe Paul, the baseball executive who arranged for George Steinbrenner to buy the Yankees, then built their championship teams of the late 1970's, died on Sunday at Memorial Hospital of Tampa (Fla.). Mr. Paul, who lived in Tampa, was 88. He started out as a minor league batboy in 19
 Lawrence R. Bailey Sr., a lawyer in upper Manhattan who was the first black member and officer of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority board, died on Thursday at Jamaica Hospital Medical Center in Queens. He was 80 and a longtime resident of Jamaica, Queens. The cause was compl
 Nguyen Van Linh, the former Vietcong guerrilla who directed the 1968 Tet offensive and then revitalized Vietnam's economy as the nation's Communist Party leader, died yesterday at a hospital in Ho Chi Minh City, the Foreign Ministry announced. He was 82. The ministry said Mr. Linh, 
 The Rev. Dr. Frederick Myers Morris, who led St. Thomas Episcopal Church on Fifth Avenue into a period of renewal during his 18-year tenure as its 10th rector, died on March 27 at the Duncaster retirement home in Bloomfield, Conn. He was 92. Dr. Morris, who retired in 1972, was cred
 Paul Kovi, a former owner and director of the Four Seasons restaurant and a major figure on the New York restaurant scene for almost four decades, died on Monday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 74. The cause was endocarditis, a staph infection of the blood and he
 Wright Morris, whose taut American Gothic novels, stories, essays and photographs plumbed the mysteries of the stark Nebraska landscape and who was often called one of the nation's most unrecognized recognized writers, died on Saturday in Mill Valley, Calif. He was 88. Drawing on a 
 Browning Ross, a two-time Olympian who started America's first magazine for runners and then founded the organization that promoted the development of distance running in the United States, died on Monday, a day after his 74th birthday. On Monday, after his usual three-mile morning 
 David Goheen Leach, a plant geneticist, authority on horticulture and internationally renowned breeder of ornamental plants like hybridized rhododendrons, magnolias and azaleas, died on April 22 at his home in Madison, Ohio. He was 85. The cause was cancer, his family said. 
 Gregor von Rezzori, whose novels and memoirs revealed the tragic sweep of European history through two world wars and beyond, died last Thursday at his home in Donnini, a village near Florence. He was 83 and also had homes in Manhattan and on the island of Rhodes. The cause was a he
 Michael N. Chetkovich, a prominent accounting expert and former managing partner at Haskins & Sells, a precursor of the Big Six accounting firm Deloitte & Touche, died on April 21 at Stanford Medical Center in Stanford, Calif. Mr. Chetkovich, a resident of Atherton, Calif., was 81. 
