 Jim Turner, the pitching coach for nine Yankee pennant-winning teams in the Casey Stengel era and a pitcher for the Braves, Reds and Yankees in a baseball career spanning 51 consecutive seasons, died Sunday in his hometown of Nashville. He was 95 and the oldest former Yankee. In the
 ASINOF-Stanley A. of Winchester, MA. formerly of Short Hills, New Jersey, and Longmeadow, MA., died on November 29, 1998 after a short illness. He is the husband of Estelle (Kadish) Asinof, his second wife. His first wife Gertrude (Davis) Asinof, died in a car accident in 1980. Born in New 
 BROWN-S. Richard. The New York Financial Writers Association regrets the passing of one of its Founding Members and former President, S. Richard Brown. The Association wishes to express its deepest sympathy to his family and friends. Susan Lisovicz, President       
 COOTES-Merritt N. Age 89. Princeton University class of 1931 and retired U.S. Foreign Service officer. On November 26, 1998 in Princeton, N.J. Survived by his wife of 51 years, Jean Phillips Cootes and his nephew Harry L. Belin of Washington, D.C. Funeral service at 10:30 A.M. Thursday, Dec
 FASCELL-Dante. The officers, members and staff of The American Jewish Committee mourn the passing of an extraordinary public servant. Tireless defender of human dignity and human rights, Congressman Fascell was especially active in defense of the USIsrael partnership, the yearning for freed
 GRANT-M. Donald. The Board of Directors and the employees of Fahnestock & Co. Inc. note with sorrow the passing of our former Managing Partner, friend and associate of over 50 years. Our sympathy is extended to the family. Albert G. Lowenthal, Chairman GRANT-M. Donald. Great friend 
 HANKIN-Leonard J. Age 81. On November 28, 1998. Retired Executive Vice President of Bergdorf Goodman. Beloved husband of Kathleen. Devoted father of Kim Hankin Barrett and Lyn Hankin. Adoring grandfather to Lindsey and Kendall Barrett. Interment private. Memorial service to be announced. Co
 HERLING-Erwin. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of our esteemed friend and honorary alumnus who, as a YU Benefactor, expressed his love and concern for the future of the Jewish people through the advancement of higher Jewish education at our institution. This commitment was 
 JOHNSON-Allan R. November 26, 1998. Beloved husband Maria, devoted father of Jane Fell, Kathy Jones, Susan Johnson & Barbara Hobin, cherished grandfather of seven and great-grandfather of four, loving brother of Patrick Johnson, cherished Godfather of Steven Toia. With Saks Fifth Avenue for
 KROEGER-John F. The Board of Directors of the AIM Funds and AIM Management are deeply saddended by the loss of John F. Kroeger who has served our Funds as a Director since their start over 22 years ago. John's wisdom, dedication and work ethic were of the highest standards, which were execu
 LEWIS-Merwin. It is with sorrow that the Directors of Greater New York Mutual Insurance Company record the death of their dear friend and colleague, Merwin Lewis, in his 99th year. The Lewis family has been prominently identified with our Company since its founding 85 years ago. Merwin Lewi
 LONG-Richard E. The Board of Governors of the New York Athletic Club records with profound sorrow the passing of their former beloved President. We have lost a true friend and a devoted member and to his family convey our heartfelt sympathy. James W. O'Brien, President Alfred H. Green, Vice
 MAYER-Leo. On November 29, 1998, in his 88th year. Beloved husband of the late Erna. Dear father of Vivian Mayer and Barbara and Steven Lambert. Adored grandfather of Corey Lambert. Services on Wednesday, December 2, at 9:45 AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 ROOSEVELT-P. James. The Partners and staff of The Roosevelt Investment Group, Inc. mourn the passing of their chairman and friend on November 27, 1998, in Oyster Bay, NY. May God bless and keep him for all eternity.       
 RUSSELL-Paris Scott, Jr. 89 years old. Died in Osprey, Florida on Nov. 14, 1998. Born May 27, 1909. He was an investment banker, partner of Glore Forgan, member of Squadron A, 101st Cavalry, Manhattan Unit. Survivors include his wife Elizabeth, three daughters Jill Benedict of Short Hills, 
 SUSSDORF-Dieter H., Ph.D. The Board of Overseers, Faculty, and Staff of the Weill Medical College and Graduate School of Medical Sciences of Cornell University are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dieter H. Sussdorf, Ph.D. A distinguished member of the de
 WIND-Marcus, 82. Formerly of New York City. Passed away on November 28th in Jacksonville, Florida. He is survived by his wife Marceline, daughter Robin Faillance and Winifred Keeble and four grandchildren. Graveside services today, at 11 A.M., Wellwood Cemetrey, Pinelawn, L.I.       
 Quentin Crewe, who fell down so much as a child and bounced back with such good cheer that he grew up to challenge prevailing stereotypes as an iconoclastic journalist, an innovative restaurant critic, a high-spirited social lion, a high-minded gossip columnist, a globe-trotting adventurer,
 Stanley Brandon Kearl, a sculptor, died on Nov. 21 at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 84. Mr. Kearl's small bronze figurative sculptures, which he described as ''metaphysical realism,'' drew on archaic and classical Greek art, European Surrealism and biblical references to create
 Johnny Roventini, the little Brooklyn-born bellhop with the big bell-clear voice whose ''Call for Phil-lip Mor-ris,'' delighted radio audiences in the 1930's and 40's and made the cigarette into a household name, died on Monday at a hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was 86 and had been under lif
 BELLAFIORE-Joseph. Died on Thanksgiving Day. He was the Founder and Director of Pete's House Production at Henry Street Settlement. Contributions can be made in his memory to its Development Office at 265 Henry St, New York City, New York 10002.       
 BOURCIER-Claude L. Died on November 24, 1998 in Perpignan, France, near his home in Thuir. He was 88 years young. Decorated three times by the French government, he was Dean of the French Summer School and Head of the French department at Middlebury College in Vermont during a career that s
 COOTES-Merritt N. Age 89. Princeton University class of 1931 and retired U.S. Foreign Service officer. On November 26, 1998 in Princeton, N.J. Survived by his wife of 51 years, Jean Phillips Cootes and his nephew Harry L. Belin of Washington, D.C. Funeral service at 10:30 A.M. Thursday, Dec
 FASCELL-Dante. The officers, members and staff of The American Jewish Committee mourn the passing of an extraordinary public servant. Tireless defender of human dignity and human rights, Congressman Fascell was especially active in defense of the USIsrael partnership, the yearning for freed
 FIEDLER-Harold Z. Beloved husband, father and grandfather, partner and friend. Passed away December 1, 1998, 9AM. ''Heshy'' was a man's man. He was a devoted husband and father to his children and grandchildren. His family and his devoted employees will miss him dearly. His wit and charm we
 GRANT-M. Donald. The Board of Directors and the employees of Fahnestock & Co. Inc., note with sorrow the passing of our former Managing Partner, friend and associate of over 50 years. Our sympathy is extended to the family. Albert G. Lowenthal, Chairman GRANT-M. Donald. Great friend
 GREEN-Arthur H., M.D. The Columbia University Center for Psychoanalytic Training and Research mourns the passing of Dr. Arthur H. Green. Dr. Green was a major advocate and innovator in the assessment and treatment of abused children. His work has enriched our understanding and ability to he
 HANKIN-Leonard J. Honorary Trustee. The Officers, Trustees and staff of the Educational Alliance note with profound sadness the passing of Leonard J. Hankin, our Honorary Trustee and friend. Leonard joined the Alliance's Board of Trustees in 1957 and served as an officer and Chair of the No
 HERLING-Erwin. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of our esteemed friend and honorary alumnus who, as a YU Benefactor, expressed his love and concern for the future of the Jewish people through the advancement of higher Jewish education at our institution. This commitment was 
 JOHNSON-Allan R. November 26, 1998. Beloved husband Maria, devoted father of Jane Fell, Kathy Jones, Susan Johnson & Barbara Hobin, cherished grandfather of seven and great-grandfather of four, loving brother of Patrick Johnson, cherished Godfather of Steven Toia. With Saks Fifth Avenue for
 KATZ-Lynn. The members and staff of the Falls Country Club wish to express their sincere condolences to our fellow member, Maurice N. Katz and family on the passing of his beloved wife Lynn. The Board of Governors, Bernard Howard, President       
 KROEGER-John F. The Board of Directors of the AIM Funds and AIM Management are deeply saddended by the loss of John F. Kroeger who has served our Funds as a Director since their start over 22 years ago. John's wisdom, dedication and work ethic were of the highest standards, which were execu
 LEWIS-Merwin. It is with sorrow that the Directors of Greater New York Mutual Insurance Company record the death of their dear friend and colleague, Merwin Lewis, in his 99th year. The Lewis family has been prominently identified with our Company since its founding 85 years ago. Merwin Lewi
 LONG-Richard E. The Board of Governors of the New York Athletic Club records with profound sorrow the passing of their former beloved President. We have lost a true friend and a devoted member and to his family convey our heartfelt sympathy. James W. O'Brien, President Alfred H. Green, Vice
 MARTINEZ-Enrique. The Board of Governing Trustees, dancers, and staff of American Ballet Theatre mourns the passing of our dear friend and colleague, Enrique Martinez. Enrique joined ABT as a dancer in 1947 and later enjoyed a 33 year career with the Company as Ballet Master, Regisseur, and
 MAYER-Leo. On November 29, 1998 in his 88th year. Beloved husband of the late Erna. Dear father of Vivian Mayer, Barbara and Steven Lambert. Adored grandfather of Corey Lambert. Services Wednesday, December 2, 9:45AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 PHILIPP-O. George. Of NY and Skytop, PA. Died in NYC on November 28, 1998 at the age of 83. Beloved husband of 61 years of Frances Clarkson. Father of John Clarkson Philipp of Sonoma, CA, and Laurie Coughlin of Washington, DC, father-of-law of Timothy Coughlin. He adored his seven grandchil
 ROOSEVELT-P. James. The Partners and staff of The Roosevelt Investment Group, Inc. mourn the passing of their chairman and friend on November 27, 1998, in Oyster Bay, NY. May God bless and keep him for all eternity.       
 ROVENTINI-John. ''Johnny Of Philip Morris''. Philip Morris Companies, Inc. notes with sorrow the death of John Roventini, who served for more than four decades as a Philip Morris spokesman and living trademark. Johnny's melodic ''Call for Phil-ip Morrees!''-first broadcast on the radio in 1
 RUSSELL-Paris Scott, Jr. 89 years old of Osprey, Florida on Nov. 14, 1998. Born May 27, 1909. He was an investment banker, partner of Glore Forgan, member of Squadron A, 101st Cavalry, Manhattan Unit. Survivors include his wife Elizabeth, three daughters Jill Benedict of Short Hills, N.J., 
 SALTZMAN-Julius. Of Fort Lauderdale, FL and N.Y.C. Much loved brother, brother-in-law, uncle, and great-uncle, passed away peacefully on November 20 at age 81 to join his beloved companion, the late Moe Fine, his cherished sister, the late Helen Pepose, and his dear brother, the late Murray
 STRAUCH-James S., 77. Of Tenafly, N.J., on November 30, 1998 in Seattle, WA. Survived by his wife Margaret, (nee Berenbaum). Devoted father of Jonathan, Lisa and Helen. Loving grandfather of six. He was a member of the US Olympic Fencing Team in 1952. Services ''Gutterman-Musicant'', corner
 SUSSDORF-Dieter H., Ph.D. The Board of Overseers, Faculty, and Staff of the Weill Medical College and Graduate School of Medical Sciences of Cornell University are deeply saddened by the passing of our esteemed colleague and friend, Dieter H. Sussdorf, Ph.D. A distinguished member of the de
 UNANUE-Joseph F. 41. Died November 28 of complications from a bone marrow transplant. Mr. Unanue was Executive Vice President of Goya Foods, the country's largest Hispanic-owned food company. He was the grandson of the company's founders, Prudencio and Carolina Unanue and the son of Carmen 
 WASHBURN - William Tucker, aged 77, died October 25, 1998 in Madrid, Spain. Survived by his wife Elvira Alfageme, his three sisters, Elizabeth W. Delano, Mary D.W. Gray, and Pauline W. Rogers and by ten nieces and nephews.       
 William F. Baxter, who as head of the antitrust division of the Justice Department under President Ronald Reagan brought the sharp edge of economic analysis to bear on enforcement decisions, died on Friday at his home in Los Altos, Calif. He was 69. The cause was complications from 
 Albert Frey, an early ambassador to America of the International Style of architecture who later brought its themes to buildings in harmony with the American desert, died on Nov. 14 at his home in Palm Springs, Calif., his executor, F. Gillar Boyd Jr., said. He was 95 years old.    
 BROWN-S. Richard. The New York Financial Writers Association regrets the passing of one of its Founding Members and former President, S. Richard Brown. The Association wishes to express its deepest sympathy to his family and friends. Susan Lisovicz, President       
 COSLOY-Irving. Of Del Ray Beach, FL., and formerly of Patterson, NJ. Beloved husband of Florence for 57 years, devoted father to Barry & his wife, Sherry and to Sharon and her husband, Edward Blank, cherished grandfather of Rebecca, Michael, Amy & David. Also survived by brother, Herman and
 EMERSON-David, in Elizabeth City, NC, formerly of Concord, MA., Nov. 24. Husband of Mary (Cochran). Father of Margaret Bancroft of Medfield, MA, Ellen Emerson Kohler of London, England, Lauran Dundee of Stockett, MT., Amelia Emerson of Norwich, VT, Alexander F. Emerson of Accord, NY, Daniel
 FIEDLER-Harold Z. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn the passing of a Vice Chairman of its Real Estate Campaign and a dedicated member of its Prime Minister's Club. We extend our deepest sympathy to his wife Caroline; son Jeffrey, a leader of the Real Estate Campaign; dau
 LANGEARD-Eric. The President, the Management, and staff of Groupe CPR express their regret at the sudden death, on November 26th, 1998, of Eric Langeard, Marketing and Communication Manager. They express their condolences to his family and children.       
 LOWE-William Hyslop. Tuesday, December 2, 1998 of Hackensack NJ. ''With grace and courage, he battled Alzheimers Disease'' for sixteen years. He is survived by his beloved wife, Barbara Conway Lowe, and his devoted children, Barbara Manternach of Brooklyn, NY, William of Ketchum, Idaho, & P
 MALL-Sidney (Moul). On November 30, 1998 after a full, fruitful and well traveled life. Husband of Lorna Samson. Father of Amy and Andrew Mall. Brother of Neil Moul and the late Morton Moul. Services 12 Noon Sunday, December 6th at home, 1458 Birch La, Perkasie, PA. Memorial contributions i
 MULLADY-John. The Board of Regents, Administration and staff of Long Island College Hospital (LICH) mourn the passing of John Mullady, beloved nephew of our friend and colleague Daniel D. Ricciardi, M.D., President, Medical Staff and member of the Board of Regents. To Dr. Ricciardi, the ent
 ROVENTINI-John. ''Johnny Of Philip Morris''. Philip Morris Companies, Inc. notes with sorrow the death of John Roventini, who served for more than four decades as a Philip Morris spokesman and living trademark. Johnny's melodic ''Call for Phil-ip Morrees!''-first broadcast on the radio in 1
 SANIAL-Arthur J. Died December 1st, 1998 in his 97th year after a lengthy illness. Devoted father of Mignon Kirchhoff & Thomas (both deceased). Loving grandfather of Kathleen Murphy and Mary Jane Houston. Also survived by Betty Sanial, daughter-in-law and esteemed grandson-in-law Vincent Ho
 SIMON-Pierre F. December 2, 1998. Beloved husband of Jacqueline Albert. Loving father of Lisette and her husband Paul Jacobs, Orville Simon and his wife Stephanie. Adoring grandfather of Alexia and Caroline Jacobs. Mr. Simon was an internationally known industrialist in the electronics and 
 UNANUE-Joseph F. The Board of Directors and staff of Casita Maria are deeply saddened by the passing of Joseph F. Unanue, son of Joseph A. Unanue, distinguished member of Casita Maria's Board of Directors. Our deepest sympathies are extended to his family. Board of Directors and Staff of Ca
 Theodore Strongin, a music critic for The New York Times in the 1960's, died on Nov. 24 at St. Joseph's Hospital in Asheville, N.C. He was 79 and lived in Englewood, Fla. The cause was leukemia, said his daughter, Debby Randolph. Mr. Strongin began writing about music for Th
 Bob Haggart, a bassist and arranger who performed with an extraordinary variety of jazz groups during his nearly 70-year career, died yesterday in a hospital in Venice, Fla., after collapsing on his way to the post office. He was 84 and lived in Venice. Mr. Haggart's long and varied
 Joseph F. Unanue, a senior executive in the Goya food business, died on Saturday at the Swedish Hospital and Medical Center in Seattle. He was 41 and lived in San Juan, P.R., and Manhattan. The cause was complications from a bone-marrow transplant, according to a hospital spokeswoma
 ABRAMS-Martin, 69. Died November 29, 1998. Beloved husband of Toni Grossi Abrams. Survived by Hillel Joseph Abrams, Robin Diana Cardinal and their mother Sheila E. Brown. Loving grandfather of Madeline, Gabrielle and Sabrina. A man whose integrity was only exceeded by his warmth. The world 
 BERNSTEIN-David. 74. Born in Brooklyn, N.Y. Died in Sarasota, FL. December 3, 1998. He was the owner of Joseph Halberstadt & Co. Ins. Agency, N.Y., N.Y. He was the past Chancellor of Knights of Pythias in New York. He served in the U.S. Army, during WWII. He was a member of Temple Emanuel, 
 DESARITZ-Robert. Beloved husband of Jane and father of Susan and Judith; grandfather of Aaron and brother of Milton, Larry and Harry. Passed away December 2, 1998. He was 85 years old. Robert Desaritz was a prominent national sales representative for 40 years in the health care industry. He
 DiGIORGI-Francis, Ph.D. Beloved husband of Francesca and father of Nicole, on December 2. The Board of Directors of the Carcinoid Cancer Foundation, Inc., mourns Frank's sudden death. He was research coordinator of the Serotonin Research Laboratory of the Mount Sinai Medical Center for 24 y
 DOKOUDOVSKY-Vladimir Alexevitch, December 2, 1998. He was an internationally renowned dancer, instructor and choreographer. Loving husband of Patricia Heyes Dokoudovsky. Survived by his sister, Tatiana Dokoudovska; also survived by six nieces and one nephew. Friends may call at Frank E. Cam
 EISNER-Robert. Economists Allied For Arms Reduction (ECAAR) deeply regrets the death of Robert Eisner. A Board member, close friend to many of us and distinguished economist, he believed in and strongly supported our organization. We extend our sorrow and sympathy to his wife, Edith, and fa
 GOLDBERG-William. Of San Jose, CA. Formerly of Brooklyn, New York. On November 29, 1998 at age 89. Devoted husband of Muriel. Beloved brother of Morris Goldberg of Florida and Lester Goldberg of New Jersey. Adored by his many nieces and nephews. A teacher for many years in the Brooklyn scho
 KIRSHNER-Stephen. The Officers and Associates of Pro Benefit Consultants, Inc. mourn the passing of Stephen Kirshner, their President and friend. We wish to extend our sincere sympathy to his wife, Sheila, and their family. Pro Benefit Consultants, Inc.       
 KLIGLER-Seymour H. The partners and staff of Brauner Baron Rosenzweig & Klein, LLP mourn the loss of our good friend, mentor, and retired partner, Seymour H. Kligler, who during an association with the firm of more than 50 years, provided strong and steady leadership to us and wise counsel 
 MARX-Frederick E. Of Hartsdale, NY. Husband of Anne Marx, father of Thomas and Stephen Marx. Funeral service Friday, 1 PM, at Congregation Kol Ami, Soundview Avenue, White Plains. Interment Mount Pleasant Cemetery. MARX-Frederick. Congregation Kol Ami records with sorrow the passing
 MULLADY-John. The members of the Department of Internal Medicine extend their deepest regrets to their esteemed colleague, Dr. Daniel Ricciardi, Chief of Rheumatology on the tragic death of his nephew, John Mullady. We extend our heartfelt sympathies to John's parents and extended family. D
 PRESTON-Robert B. Of New York City and Key Biscayne, Fla. Died on December 1, 1998, in New York City. Born on April 23, 1935, in Washington D.C. He graduated from Cornell University ('56) and The University of Virginia Law School ('59). He was an international corporate attorney for over 30
 ROVENTINI-John. ''Johnny Of Philip Morris''. Philip Morris Companies, Inc. notes with sorrow the death of John Roventini, who served for more than four decades as a Philip Morris spokesman and living trademark. Johnny's melodic ''Call for Phil-ip Morrees!''-first broadcast on the radio in 1
 SLAWSON-Ronald. Funeral service for Ronald Slawson of Ormond Beach, FL will be Saturday, December 5th. Mr. Slawson retired from Pepperidge Farm after 37 years. He is survived by his wife Joyce and his three children Gary, Newport Center, VT., and Brian and Deborah, both from Merritt Island,
 SPEAR-Frederick ''Harry''. Of Old Field on December 3, 1998 in his 86th year. Aviator, from Biplanes to retired 747 Captain for Pan American. Beloved father of Joan Bloom. Loved grandfather of Christopher Spear Bloom. 25 year member of Stony Brook Rotary Club. Reposing at the Casimir Funera
 STAPELFELDT-Karsten, 91. Of Middletown, NY, on 21 November, father of Rowena Rosenbaum of Norwalk, CT and London, UK; and of the late Roelif Stapelfeldt. He leaves five grandchildren and one great-grandchild, one brother, Wulf Stapelfeldt of Wilton, CT, and two sisters in Germany.       
 UNANUE-Joseph F. The partners and associates of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom LLP mourn the passing of Joseph F. Unanue, a valued client and the son of Joseph F. and Carmen Unanue. We extend our condolences to his parents, the entire Unanue family, and the personnel at Goya Foods. We
 FIELDS-Edward. Lovingly remembered on his birthday. The Family       
 Roy P. Benavidez, a former Green Beret sergeant who received the Medal of Honor from President Ronald Reagan for heroism while wounded in the Vietnam War, then fought to keep the Government from cutting off his disability payments, died on Sunday at Brooke Army Medical Center in San Antonio
 Arthur Henry Green, a psychiatrist noted for his expertise in working with abused children, died on Nov. 25 at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was melanoma, his family said. In two decades on the Columbia University faculty, Dr. Green estab
 Freddie Young, one of the world's most respected cinematographers, whose work included an elaborate series of dissolves for the montage that opens Alfred Hitchcock's ''Blackmail,'' Britain's first talkie, and the famous three-minute shot in David Lean's ''Lawrence of Arabia'' in which Omar 
 Gordon S. Ringer, a Los Angeles County Superior Court judge who tried to force President Richard M. Nixon to testify in his court in 1974 about a case linked to the Watergate affair, died on Nov. 20 at his home in Long Beach, Calif. He was 69. The cause was emphysema, The Associated
 COSTA-Robert J. at age 34 on December 2, in Manhasset, Long Island. Cherished life companion of Allen J. Pilikian, loving son of John Costa and Alice Tighe, devoted grandson of the late William and Delfina Costa, beloved brother of John Costa Jr., Thomas Costa and Joni DiMuro. A warm and wo
 DOKOUDOVSKY-Vladimir Alexevitch, December 2, 1998. He was an internationally renowned dancer, instructor and choreographer. Loving husband of Patricia Heyes Dokoudovsky. Survived by his sister, Tatiana Dokoudovska; also survived by six nieces and one nephew. Friends may call at Frank E. Cam
 GREEN-Arthur. Colleagues, students, fellows and families at Babies & Children's Hospital and the Department of Pediatrics of the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University mourn the loss of Dr. Arthur Green who recently died after eighteen years of devoted service to this hos
 KLIGLER-Seymour H. On December 1, 1998. Beloved husband of Judith. Loving father of Cheryl and husband Gary, Roger and wife Cathy and Jeffrey and wife Elizabeth. Adoring grandfather of Ben, David and Laura. Loving husband of the late Gloria Kligler. Service Sun., 12:30PM at Parkside Chapel,
 LUBASCH-Murray. On December 3, 1998 at the age of 95. Beloved and devoted husband of Betty for 63 years. Loving father of Arlene and her husband Harry, and of Richard & his wife Lois. Cherished grandfather of Eric, Lisa and Douglas. Also survived by his brother Leroy. Funeral service Sunday
 Former Senator Albert Gore Sr., the father of the Vice President and a longtime powerful figure in the Democratic Party, died yesterday at his home in Carthage, Tenn., three weeks before his 91st birthday, the White House said. Vice President Gore and his wife, Tipper, were with Mr.
 Cleopa, an Orthodox monk who once fled Communist pressure by becoming a solitary anchorite in Romania's forests, died this week in the remote monastery where his down-to-earth teachings came to attract large and steady streams of pilgrims. He was 87. Romanian Orthodox officials in B
 BERGER-Dorothy. The Trustees and staff of the Riverdale YMYWHA extend our heartfelt condolences to our Vice President, Bruce Berger and his family on the death of their mother and grandmother Dorothy. May the entire Berger family be spared further sorrow. Jeffrey A. Moerdler, President Harr
 CUSHMAN-John C., Jr. John Clydesdale Cushman, Jr., died November 30, 1998, in Escondido, CA. He lived in Lake San Marcos, CA, since 1981, and prior to that in Montclair, NJ, since age two. A 12th generation Mayflower descendant, Mr. Cushman was born in NYC on September 24, 1912. He graduate
 DAVIDSON-Dan. The friends and neighbors of Dan Davidson at Harbour House wish to express our sorrow at his passing. Our sympathy to Irma and the entire family. Harbour House       
 DOKOUDOVSKY-Vladimir Alexevitch, December 2, 1998. He was an internationally renowned dancer, instructor and choreographer. Loving husband of Patricia Heyes Dokoudovsky. Survived by his sister, Tatiana Dokoudovska; also survived by six nieces and one nephew. Friends may call at Frank E. Cam
 GEIGER-Richard L., 81, (Captain, USN Ret.), died peacefully on November 29, 1998. Burial will be at Arlington National Cemetery, December 10, 3PM. Devoted husband of the late Emmy Lou, father of James and Ellen, an exemplary husband and father. A native New Yorker and graduate of CUNY and N
 KLIGLER-Seymour H. On December 1, 1998. Beloved husband of Judith. Loving father of Cheryl and husband Gary, Roger and wife Cathy and Jeffrey and wife Elizabeth. Adoring grandfather of Ben, David and Laura. Loving husband of the late Gloria Kligler. Service Sun., 12:30PM at Parkside Chapel,
 KRAMAN-Eli H. Age 81, on December 4, 1998. He will be remembered for his talent as a painter. He bore his final illness with great dignity and courage. Beloved husband of Esther. Loving father of Nadine, Cynthia and father-in-law of Abbot Genser. Dear brother of Al. Services at Frank E. Cam
 LOSEE-Thomas Penny. On December 3, 1998 at age 86 of Delray Beach, Florida. and Cutchogue, N.Y. Beloved husband of the late Jeanne Grandeman Losee. Devoted father of Thomas P. Jr. of Cold Spring Harbor, NY and Gulfstream, Florida, Alan W. of Dallas, Tx and W. Keith of Houston, Tx. Loving gr
 LUBASCH-Murray. On December 3, 1998 at the age of 95. Beloved and devoted husband of Betty for 63 years. Loving father of Arlene and her husband Harry, and of Richard & his wife Lois. Cherished grandfather of Eric, Lisa and Douglas. Also survived by his brother Leroy. Funeral service Sunday
 MERLE-SMITH-Fowler. Age 72. Of Princeton, N.J. On December 2, 1998 after courageously combatting Parkinson's Disease for 22 years. He was a graduate of Brooks School, Princeton University Class of 1952 and the Teachers College, Columbia University. He served with the U.S. Marine Corps on Iw
 MOYER-Kerry. Age 41, of Manhattan. Beloved son of Grace Moyer of Reading, PA, and the late Leonard Lecce; brother of Lenora. Penn State and Parsons ('79). His talent for design -from a tycoon's Mexican Shangri-la to smart Park Avenue addresses and outlandish Pines parties -was matched by hi
 NUSSBAUM-Samuel. Of Monsey, New York, widowed, father of Jack Nussbaum and Meir Nussbaum. Beloved grandfather and great-grandfather. Mr. Nussbaum was involved in numerous philanthropic organizations. He was the founder and president of Kupat Ezra of Monsey. He was also the founder of the Mo
 Rolando Alphonso, the tenor saxophonist for the Skatalites and a major figure in Jamaican music, died on Nov. 20 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 67 and lived in New York City. The cause was a brain hemorrhage, said his daughter Michele Alphonso. He had burst a 
 Vladimir Dokoudovsky, a founding member of Ballet Theater, a principal dancer with the Ballets Russes troupes of the 1930's and 40's and an influential teacher in New York, died on Wednesday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart 
 Abraham Feinberg, a businessman, philanthropist and supporter of Israel, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 90 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan. Mr. Feinberg rose from modest beginnings to become chairman of a New York-based appare
 Former Senator Albert Gore Sr., the father of the Vice President and a longtime powerful figure in the Democratic Party, died on Saturday at his home in Carthage, Tenn., three weeks before his 91st birthday, the White House said. Vice President Gore and his wife, Tipper, were with M
 Dr. George D. Crothers, the producer of the long-running CBS television religious program ''Lamp Unto My Feet,'' died on Nov. 27 in Sarasota, Fla., where he lived. He was 89. Dr. Crothers was born in Fort Morgan, Colo., and lived in Sarasota for 22 years. He graduated from Wooster C
 George Van Eps, a guitarist who played with some of the biggest names in jazz and pioneered the seven-string guitar, died on Nov. 29 at Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 85 and lived in Huntington Beach, Calif. His family said the cause was pneumoni
 John Chadwick, a self-effacing linguist who played a critical role in deciphering the ancient Greek writings known as Linear B, then spent the rest of his life deflecting credit to his collaborator, died in England on Nov. 24. Mr. Chadwick was 78 and a longtime resident of Cambridge
 Julius Larkin Hoyt, a lawyer and official of the United States Tennis Association, died on Nov. 23 at his farm in Wallkill, N.Y. He was 77. The cause was lung cancer. Mr. Hoyt served as president of the Eastern Tennis Association during the 1960's, a time when ''Lawn'' was d
 Miguel Angel Garcia Mendez, a former legislator in Puerto Rico and lifelong champion of statehood for the island commonwealth, died in a hospital in Mayaguez, P.R., on Nov. 17, his 96th birthday. Mr. Garcia Mendez, a former Speaker of the Puerto Rican House of Representatives, helpe
 CORN-Sydney. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family notes with sadness the passing of Sydney Corn, beloved father-in-law of our dear friend and colleague Martin Feuer, M.D., Associate Chairman of the Department of Medicine and Chief of Medicine at our Singer Division. To Marty, his mo
 CUSHMAN-John C., Jr. John Clydesdale Cushman, Jr., died November 30, 1998, in Escondido, CA. He lived in Lake San Marcos, CA, since 1981, and prior to that in Montclair, NJ, since age two. A 12th generation Mayflower descendant, Mr. Cushman was born in NYC on September 24, 1912. He graduate
 EPSTEIN-Milton. 83. Died on December 5, 1998, to the deep sorrow of his wife Etta, children Barbara, Alan, Eugene and Ann; grandchildren Jules, Hannah, Nicholas, Clara & Lily; sister, brother, nieces, nephews and many friends. He was loved and cherished for his sense of humor and sound judg
 GORDON-Lou. The staff of Avrett, Free & Ginsberg mourns the loss of Lou Gordon, retired VicePresident of Trade DevelopmentSales General at Lorillard Tobacco Company. We extend our deepest sympathies to his family and will miss a close business partner and a very dear friend.       
 JEFFREYS-Jeffrey M. This is a big one, friends. Jeff has died at 59, on December 3, 1998, at his home in Greenwich Village. He had cancer, but the end was fairly quick as these things go. (Jeff did tend to disapprove of pain and suffering except at the opera.) Born in Iowa, he came to NYC i
 LOSEE-Thomas Penny. On December 3, 1998 at age 86 of Delray Beach, Florida. and Cutchogue, N.Y. Beloved husband of the late Jeanne Grandeman Losee. Devoted father of Thomas P. Jr. of Cold Spring Harbor, NY and Gulfstream, Florida, Alan W. of Dallas, Tx and W. Keith of Houston, Tx. Loving gr
 RAAB-Sheldon. Beloved husband of Loretta. Devoted father of Andrea and Philip Sherman, Steven, Benjamin and Tracy Vogt. Dear brother of Herbert and Roberta Raab, Sheldon and Marilyn Finberg and brother-in-law of Marshall and Marcia Smith. Uncle and great-uncle. Services ''BoulevardRiverside
 VAUGHAN-Virginius Nelson, Jr. Of Chatham Borough, NJ, on December 4, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Sally Craig Vaughan. Father of V. Nelson, III of Chatham, NJ, and James Brandon of Summit, NJ. Grandfather of Marshall Blanton and Spencer Elliott. Uncle of Federal Judge Martha Craig Daug
 Thomas W. Gomez, a teacher of the Katherine Dunham technique and a leading dancer with Ms. Dunham's company in the 1940's, died on Oct. 29 at the Warren Barr Pavilion, a home for the aged, in Chicago. He was 77 and lived in Chicago. The cause was bone cancer, his son, Thomas Gomez 3
 Cesar, a prominent French artist who created large sculptures formed by crushed cars and scrap iron, died on Sunday in Paris. He was 77. Friends said the cause was cancer. Cesar -- he was born Cesar Baldaccini but used only his first name -- was France's best-known sculptor 
 BATES-Clayton (Peg Leg). On December 6th, 1998, at Fountain Inn, SC. A resident of Kerhonkson, NY. World renowned tap dancer, entertainer and former owner of Peg Leg Bates Country Club. He was born October 11, 1907 in Fountain Inn and attained the age of 91 years. He was the beloved father 
 CUSHMAN-John C., Jr. John Clydesdale Cushman, Jr., died November 30, 1998, in Escondido, CA. He lived in Lake San Marcos, CA, since 1981, and prior to that in Montclair, NJ, since age two. A 12th generation Mayflower descendant, Mr. Cushman was born in NYC on September 24, 1912. He graduate
 DRIMAL-Charles E. CLU, ChFC, MSFS. Insurance Industry leader and General Agent emeritus of The Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company died Saturday, December 5, 1998 at Christ Hospital in Cincinnati, Ohio while visiting his daughter. At his side, as always, was his beloved wife Juanita and fami
 EPSTEIN-Milton. The partners and staff of Wagner, Francis, Richman & Ackerman mourn the loss of our founding partner, mentor and good friend, Milton Epstein. His high standards, wonderful sense of humor, and tireless service to his clients are an example and inspiration for all of us. We ex
 FEINBERG-Abraham. The Weizmann Institute of Science, its Feinberg Graduate School and its American Committee join in mourning the passing, at age 90, of a legendary figure in our history. With unique leadership gifts of vision, action and determination, Abe Feinberg was strongly committed t
 FOX-William T. On December 6, 1998. Beloved husband of Bonnie, loving father of Mona, dear brother of John Taussig. Memorial service Thursday, December 10, 11:30 AM at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Ave. at 65 St. Interment to follow at Salem Fields Cemetery. Contributions in his memory may be made t
 GROSZ-Melvin H. On Sun Dec. 6, 1998 of Short Hills. He is survived by his wife Agnes Smith Grosz, a daughter Kristin Ann Grosz of Boca Raton, FL.; two sons and their spouses M. Kyle Grosz and Ann Lindley Grosz of Bedford, NY; G. Kurt Grosz and Kathleen Maher Grosz of Laguna Beach, CA. Mr. G
 HULL-David Stewart. On December 5th of liver cancer. Noted literary agent for over 30 years. Survived by his long-time companion, Frank Peter Stetz. Requiem Mass to be celebrated at The Church of the Resurrection, 119 East 74th Street, Thursday, December 10th at 2PM. In lieu of flowers, don
 KACHAJIAN-George S. Of Franklin Lakes, NJ on December 5, 1998. Beloved father of George E. and Lisa C. Beloved brother of Marianne Altiparmakian, nieces, one great niece and nephew. Visiting at St. Leon's Armenian Church, 12-61 Saddle River Rd. in Fair Lawn, NJ Tuesday, December 8, 1998, 2-
 KALMAN-Allen. 51, of Armonk, NY, on December 6, 1998. Funeral services will be held Congregation B'nai Yisrael, 2 Banksville Rd., Armonk, NY, Tuesday, December 8, 1998, at 11 A.M. We shall miss our friend and member. We share our sadness and our love with his wife Linda, and his sons, Mark,
 KUSHEL-Ely. Community Synagogue of Rye, mourns the loss of Ely Kushel. A Past President from 1968 to 1970. He is survived by his three daughters, Ronny, Barbara, and Laurie.       
 McINTOSH-Andrew D., Jr. 90. Died Sunday, Dec. 6th at his home on Looking Glass Hill, Bantam, CT. Mr. McIntosh was born in Malden, MA, 27 August 1908, son of the late Andrew D. McIntosh, Sr. and Mary K. McIntosh. His father was formerly Dean of the Taft School. He was the husband of Jennie C
 POLLAK-Isaac. Great Neck Synagogue notes with sorrow the passing of its devoted member and extends its condolences to his dear wife and bereaved family. Dale Polakoff, Rabbi Dr. Ephraim Wolf, Rabbi Emeritus Mark Bunim, President       
 RAAB - Sheldon Congregation Beth Sholom records the passing of our esteemed member, Sheldon Raab. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion. Rabbi Kenneth N. Hain Danny Hiller, Pres. RAAB-Sheldon. A wonderful friend. We will cherish his memory always. Burton, Gloria and
 STARK-Howard B. Loving husband of Robin, adored father of Gavin, devoted son of Marjorie Shechter and Michael Stark. Dear stepson of Julian Schechter and Eileen Stark. Cherished brother of Susan Brust. Dedicated teacher and friend to all those whose lives he touched. Services today 11 AM at
 TIGHE-Robert J., Sr. In New York on Dec. 6, 1998, at age 81. Formerly of Sag Harbor, NY, and Palm City, FL. He is survived by his wife Margaret, son, Robert, and his wife Constance, son, Michael, and his wife Susan, and their four children. Brother of the late Marie Tighe-Betts. A native Ne
 ZASLOW-Michael. The Board and Staff of The Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Association, Greater New York Chapter, deeply mourn the passing of our courageous friend Michael Zaslow. Since the day of his diagnosis with ALS (Lou Gehrig's disease), Michael dedicated the strength of his celebrity t
 Clayton (Peg Leg) Bates, a one-legged tap dancer who became a star, died on Sunday in Fountain Inn, S.C., where he was born. He was 91. Mr. Bates was being honored by  Fountain Inn and had danced there on Saturday in an event to raise money for a life-size sculpture of himself to be
 Michael Zaslow, an Emmy Award-winning actor who played a victim of Lou Gehrig's disease on the soap opera ''One Life to Live'' and who struggled with the illness in real life, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 54. The cause was a heart attack,  Brynn Thayer, who played
 BONDY-Martin. Chief Actuary of the Home Insurance Company from 1987 to 1990. His former colleagues in the Actuarial Department mourn his passing. We were inspired by his humanity, humor and delight in non-obvious truth. He was a wise, compassionate, gentle man.       
 BRENNAN-James P. Beloved son of Owen & Catherine (nee Kelly). Loving brother of Owen, Mary, John, Cathy Rein, Eileen & Kevin. Also survived by three nephews. He was a Clerk at Depository Trust Company. Funeral Thursday 8:30AM, from the Arlington Funeral Home, Inc., 83-15 Parsons Boulevard (
 BROOKS-Paul. Of Lincoln, MA. December 6, 1998. Husband of the late Susan (Moller). Memorial service in the First Parish in Lincoln, Bedford Rd, Lincoln Ctr, Saturday, December 12, 3 PM. Contributions in his memory may be sent to the Lincoln Land Conservation Trust, POB 6022, Lincoln, MA. 01
 DRIMAL-Charles E. The Board and Staff of the National Hypertension Association are deeply saddened by the passing of our beloved and revered Trustee and friend, Mr. Charles E. Drimal. We express our heartfelt sympathy and love to all his family. William M. Manger, Chairman       
 FEINBERG-Abraham. The American Friends of Tel Aviv University Fund for Higher Education notes with profound sorrow the passing of a truly great humanitarian, Abraham Feinberg. Our condolences to his family. Amnon Barness, Chairman Emeritus Fund for Higher Education Jules Love, Executive V.P
 FOX-William T. On December 6, 1998. Beloved husband of Bonnie, loving father of Mona, dear brother of John Taussig. Memorial service Thursday, December 10, 11:30 AM at Temple Emanu-El, 5th Avenue at 65 St. Interment to follow at Salem Fields Cemetery. Contributions in his memory may be made
 FRANK-Richard L., Jr. (Rick). Age 56, died at home in New Jersey on December 7. Husband of Rochelle; brother of Linda Frank Sicher; father of Joel Frank and Vali Frank. Grandfather of Nicholas and son of Doris Ansbacher Frank and the late Richard Frank, M.D. Funeral arrangements are private
 HULL-David Stewart. On December 5th of liver cancer. Noted literary agent for over 30 years. Survived by his long-time companion, Frank Peter Stetz. Requiem Mass to be celebrated at The Church of the Resurrection, 119 East 74th Street, Thursday, December 10th at 2PM. In lieu of flowers, don
 KEADY-Maurice Bernard, Jr. March 11, 1924-December 6, 1998. Maurice, age 74, died on Sunday, December 6, 1998. Mr. Keady, who was born in New York City, was a retired Sales District Manager. He served in the Army during W.W. II. He is survived by two daughters, Mary Louise O'Connell of Ann 
 KOEHLER-Edwin H., 98, a New York City Retail Merchant and Investment Banker, died Monday, December 7, 1998 at Mount Sinai Hospital, NYC. A graduate of Massachussets Institute of Technology, he held numerous positions of managership and ownership in various retail operations and towards the 
 LENTOL-Harris. Of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved husband of Lillian. Died on December 7 at the age of 91. He was the devoted father of Robert, Joan and Carol and father-in-law of Ellen, Sam and Barry. Loving grandfather of Lisa and Jennifer. Funeral at Pinelawn on December 9th at 10am       
 NEUFELD-Harry. Beloved husband of Zelda. Loving father of Lauren Behn. Services ''Boulevard-Riverside'' 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, L.I. 10am Wednesday. NEUFELD-Harry. The HewlettEast Rockaway Jewish Centre mourns the loss of its esteemed member, Harry Neufeld, and extends heartfelt sym
 NORTON-Stanley J., 81, of Naples died December 7, 1998 at Naples Community Hospital, Naples, Florida, after a brief illness. Born in Brooklyn, N.Y., on December 18, 1916, Mr. Norton served as an Army officer in both World War II and the Korean War. He enjoyed a long and sucessful career as 
 O'CONNELL-John. The officers and members of the Transport Workers Union of America AFLCIO deeply mourn the death of one of the most capable and wellliked officers in our union's history. John O'Connell served our union for 30 years as International Representative, International Vice Preside
 ROSEN-Sidney. Celebrated joyous life for 81 years, 53 of them he shared with his wife Lillian Fisher Rosen. He was beloved and respected by all the people whose lives he touched. He will be deeply missed by his children Judith, Nomi, Beth and Seth, grandchildren Reuben, Amanda, Josh, Emily 
 SCHIFFMAN-Samuel. The Board of Directors, Administration, Medical Board, and staff of Peninsula Hospital Center are saddened by the passing of Samuel Schiffman. Sincere condolences are extended to his son, Leonard E. Schiffman, DMD, director of Dentistry & OralMaxillofacial Surgery and, dis
 ST. GEORGES-Philip. Remembered for his imagination and leadership, his pivotal role setting in motion the self-help and cooperative housing programs that have benefited tens of thousands of families in neighborhoods throughout NYC. His energy and accomplishments will continue to inspire us.
 Archie Moore, the fighter whose legendary career spanned almost three decades and who won the light-heavyweight championship when he was well into his 30's, died yesterday at a hospice in San Diego. His age, always the subject of speculation, which he helped fuel, was 84. Moore had 
 BROOKS-Paul. Of Lincoln, MA. December 6, 1998. Husband of the late Susan (Moller). Memorial service in the First Parish in Lincoln, Bedford Rd, Lincoln Ctr, Saturday, December 12, 3 PM. Contributions in his memory may be sent to the Lincoln Land Conservation Trust, POB 6022, Lincoln, MA. 01
 DeLORENZO-Francis C. M.D., 89, of Upper Montclair, NJ on December 8, 1998, beloved husband of Jean (nee Kelley) DeLorenzo, devoted father of Patricia DeLorenzo of Columbia, MD, Kelley DeLorenzo of West Stockbridge, MA, Toni Jean Siliski of Waban, MA, Michael DeLorenzo of Gainesville, FL, an
 GLANTZMAN - Abraham. Born January 30, 1920, Abraham Glantzman died on December 9, 1998 in New York City of prostate cancer. As an immigration consultant, he helped countless individuals achieve their dream of life in America. He expressed his vision through his art. He is survived by his si
 HERTZ-Lt. Col. Edward Arthur, Ret. Aged 72, born October 18, 1926 in Detroit, Michigan; passed away Dec. 2, at home in Canoga Park, California. Upon graduating St. Joseph High School in St. Joseph, Michigan in 1944, he entered the U.S. Army and became a paratrooper in the 11th Airborne Divi
 KOEHLER-Edwin H., 98, a New York City Retail Merchant and Investment Banker, died Monday, December 7, 1998 at Mount Sinai Hospital, NYC. A graduate of Massachussets Institute of Technology, he held numerous positions of managership and ownership in various retail operations and towards the 
 McQUISTON-Alan Edward (Ted) Jr, 36, of New York City on December 6, 1998. Survivors include his parents Betsy & Alan McQuiston of Southbury, CT (formerly of Briarcliff Manor, NY), sisters Susanne Brebbia of Sharon, Mass., & Sarah McPhee of Pleasantville, NY, brother John McQuiston of New Yo
 NOBILETTI-John B., MD. The Board of Trustees, the Medical Staff and Administration of Jamaica Hospital Medical Center mourn the passing of John B. Nobiletti, MD, our esteemed colleague, a member of the Department of Family Practice and Treasurer of the Medical Staff. Dr. Nobiletti practiced
 O'CONNELL-John. The officers and members of the Transport Workers Union of America AFLCIO deeply mourn the death of one of the most capable and wellliked officers in our union's history. John O'Connell served our union for 30 years as International Representative, International Vice Preside
 STANLEY-BROWN-Edward, MD. The entire family of St. Luke'sRoosevelt Hospital Center mourns the passing of Edward Garfield Stanley-Brown, M.D. A great grandson of the former President of the United States and a veteran of the U.S. Army in Korea, he was a beloved and revered Director of Pediat
 WILSON-George. The Officers and members of the Society of Illustrators deeply mourn the passing of beloved member George Wilson. He will be missed by all who knew him.       
 ZASLOW-Michael. The Creative Coalition mourns the passing of our friend and esteemed Board Member, Michael Zaslow. Michael will always be remembered for his grace and dignity, and as a shining leader in the arts and entertainment community. His dedication and longtime commitment to public a
 Lamond Godwin, the chairman and chief executive of Peachtree Asset Management, a division of Salomon Smith Barney, died on Nov. 15 at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. Mr. Godwin, a resident of Atlanta, was 56. The cause of death was a heart attack, said his son, Lamond Charles 
 Dr. Martin Rodbell, a biochemist who shared the 1994 Nobel Prize in Medicine and Physiology for shedding light on the mysteries of life's basic processes, died on Monday at the University of North Carolina Hospitals in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 73 and lived in Chapel Hill. The cause 
 Merle E. Gilliand, retired chairman and chief executive of the PNC Bank Corporation, who presided over several mergers of the bank holding company over 30 years, died on Tuesday at the UPMC St. Margaret Hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 76. Mr. Gilliand, a resident of Fox Chapel, Pa., 
 CRUDO-Ricardo, M.D. The Medical Staff of North Shore University Hospital at Plainview mourns the loss of its respected colleague and friend Ricardo Crudo, MD. The community has lost an outstanding physician and we have lost a friend. Our deepest sympathy is extended to his family. Ric will 
 EPSTEIN-Burton M. On December 10, 1998. Beloved husband of Marie. Dear brother of Brendelle and Fred Walden. He will be greatly missed by his family, colleagues and friends. Service Sunday, 12 Noon, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 FEINBERG-Abraham. The Max Maccoby Memorial Foundation of the Free Synagogue of Westchester notes with profound sadness the passing of our Charter and Incorporating Member. His dedication and foresight will enable us to educate our children far into the new millennium. Roger Challop, MD, Pre
 GOLDBERG-Leo Quincy. Died on December 8, in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 84 years old. He was predeceased in 1993 by his wife of 45 years, Esther. He is survived by his son Joseph Goldberg, daughter-in-law Rona and their children Marissa, Jaclyn and Michael and his daughter Mindy Goldberg-T
 GOLDSTEIN-Murray A. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University mourns the passing of our good friend and distinguished member of our Board of Overseers and a Guardian of our University. A kind, gentle and compassionate man, his counsel and wisdom will be sorely missed. Our he
 HOWZE-Hamilton, Hawkins, General, US Army (ret), 89, of Fort Worth, Texas, passed away Tuesday afternoon at his residence. Funeral services will be at 11 AM Saturday, December 12 at St. Andrew Episcopal Church in Ft. Worth with a graveside service to follow at 10 AM on Wednesday December 16
 JACOBY-Donald L. Born June 5, 1925; lifelong Brooklyn resident and longtime Judge in the Criminal Court, Brooklyn; died December 10, 1998 of cancer. Graduate of University of Wisconsin and Harvard Law School. Survived by his sister, Judith Stone; three nephews, Jonathan, Harlan, and Michael
 SIMPSON-William. Dec. 5, 1998. We remember a kind man with a zest for life. He was ''the tops'', a ''friend indeed''. Dorothy and Jean Cropper       
 WERNER-S. Henry, of New York City. December 10, 1998 at age 87, in Palm Beach, Fl. Beloved husband of 58 years to Elizabeth Grumbach Werner, loving father of Patricia Werner Hanson of Bonita Springs, Fl., Peter Henry Werner and Thomas Charles Werner, both of Los Angeles, Ca.; adoring grandf
 Robert Marasco, a playwright and novelist who wrote the long-running Broadway thriller ''Child's Play,'' died on Sunday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 62 and lived in High Falls, N.Y. He died of lung cancer, said his sister, Carole Melillo. ''Ch
 Tony Tanner, a versatile and prolific literary critic and professor whose love for American literature inspired the first courses on the subject at Cambridge University, died on Saturday. He was 63. The cause was cancer, the university said. In 1960, when the young Mr. Tanne
 William F. Noonan, who helped build Burson-Marsteller into a global leader in public relations, died Nov. 2 at his home in Franklin Township, N.J. He was 66 and suffered from leukemia. Mr. Noonan served 32 years at Burson-Marsteller, including eight as president and vice chairman. U
 A. Stephens Hutchcraft Jr., a senior executive of the Kaiser Aluminum Corporation, died on Nov. 25 at the Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 68 and lived in Danville, Calif. The company said he was being treated for cancer. Mr. Hutchcraft joined 
 D. Tennant Bryan, the former chairman and founder of Media General Inc., the Richmond-based newspaper, television and communications company, died Wednesday at his home in Richmond. He was 92. Mr. Bryan began his career in 1928 as a reporter for The Richmond News Leader, the family-
 John Addison, an English composer whose score for the 1963 film ''Tom Jones'' won an Oscar and whose theme music for ''Murder She Wrote'' won an Emmy, died on Monday at a hospital in Bennington, Vt. He was 78 and lived in Bennington. The cause of death was a stroke, said James Golds
 Kenneth C. Brugger, a self-effacing amateur naturalist who made an unforgettable discovery, died on Nov. 25 at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 80. If the Purepecha Indians of central Mexico had been a shade less sophisticated, they might have regarded him as a god, and not because t
 BLUMBERG-Alvin G. Husband of Enid Feist Blumberg and the late Anita Blumberg. Father of Richard (Jewel) Mendell, Alan (Patty) Mendell, Guy Blumberg, Brian (Yvette) Feist and Robert (Mariam) Feist. Grandfather of eleven. Son of the late Sadie and Joe Blumberg. Brother of Babe and Norma Blumb
 EPSTEIN-Burton M. On December 10, 1998. Beloved husband of Marie. Dear brother of Brendelle and Fred Walden. He will be greatly missed by his family, colleagues and friends. Service Sunday, 12 Noon, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 FABER-Salamon. On December 11, 1998 at the age of 87. Devoted husband of Gertrude for 56 years. Father of Eli, Fredda, and Michael and beloved grandfather of Naomi, Rakia, Elizabeth, David, and Debra. He served with distinction as a Rabbi in Philadelphia, Warren, Ohio, and Kew Gardens, N.Y.
 GOLDSTEIN-Murray A. On December 9, 1998 at home after a long illness. Beloved husband of Gladys of 57 years. Loving father of Sandy and Brianne, Robert and Barbara, Richard and Marianne. Adored grandfather of Aaron, Joshua, Jennie, Toby, Michael and Brian. Brother of Harold Goldstein and Ed
 KAMHI-Ralph. Beloved father of Marc, Sherry and Elaine. Beloved grandfather of Amy, Carolyn, Michele, Peter, Lauren, Joanna and Reid. Dear brother of Betty, Sarah, Stella, Joe, Julie, Renee and Leona. He never met a man he didn't like. Funeral I.J. Morris, Dix Hills, NY, Sunday, 1:00 PM.   
 MELTZER-Earl. On December 11, 1998. Beloved husband of Eileen. Loving father of Bruce, Steven, Michelle, Victoria and the late Charlie. Dear brother of Sandy and the late Arnold. Joyful grandfather of Sidney and Rebecca. His loving care will be missed by his family and friends. Visiting on 
 ROSENBLUM-Laurence (Larry) of Tucson, AZ. (formerly of New York), December 9, 1998. Beloved husband of fifty-six years, devoted father, grandfather and greatgrandfather, fun loving uncle, he taught us how to love and laugh and how to be brave and strong. Larry is survived by his wife, Marci
 WERNER-Henry S. The Board of Directors and members of the Ocean Beach Club mark with deep saddness the death of long time member and dear friend, Hank Werner. He was regarded by all to be the finest of gentlemen and will be greatly missed. Sandy Paskin, President Laurie Lowenstein, Secretar
 Sir Otto Frankel, a plant geneticist who was among the first to warn of the threat to whole species, died on Nov. 21 in Canberra, Australia. He was 98. In the 1960's Dr. Frankel and a small band of scientists sounded the alarm over the loss of species in agriculture, pointing to far
 Enrique Martinez, a ballet dancer and rehearsal director at American Ballet Theater who staged the classics for ballet troupes in North and South America and in Europe, died on Nov. 17 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 72 and had lived in Manhattan. The ca
 Gov. Lawton Chiles, a homespun centrist politician from the middle of Florida who served three terms as a Democratic Senator and was elected to two terms as governor, died yesterday at the Governor's Mansion in Tallahassee. He was 68. Mr. Chiles apparently suffered a heart attack du
 Louis A. Delgado Jr., a playwright who wove his experiences with drug addiction and his life on the street into his work, died on Dec. 1 at Wyckoff Heights Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 55 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was diabetes-related liver failure, said Ed Vega, presid
 BLUMBERG-Alvin G. Husband of Enid Feist Blumberg and the late Anita Blumberg. Father of Richard (Jewel) Mendell, Alan (Patty) Mendell, Guy Blumberg, Brian (Yvette) Feist and Robert (Mariam) Feist. Grandfather of eleven. Son of the late Sadie and Joe Blumberg. Brother of Babe and Norma Blumb
 BUSCH-Joseph. Survived by his loving wife Beate Busch, daughter Sandra and granddaughter Lauren. He will be greatly missed by all who knew him. I love you and miss you, Daddy. Services will be held at ''The Riverside'' 76 St. and Amsterdam Ave., 12:15PM today.       
 GOLDSTEIN-Murray A. On December 9, 1998 at home after a long illness. Beloved husband of Gladys of 57 years. Loving father of Sandy and Brianne, Robert and Barbara, Richard and Marianne. Adored grandfather of Aaron, Joshua, Jennie, Toby, Michael and Brian. Brother of Harold Goldstein and Ed
 HART-Brian Gerard. Age 42. Born March 28, 1956. Died December 12, 1998. Graduated from Brandeis University, 1979, BA in Russian Studies. Buffalo Law School, 1986. He wrote for the Law Journal. Brian was an attorney at the New York law firms of White & Case, Simpson & Thatcher and Chadbourne
 KAPLAN-Abraham R. Of Sands Point, NY, and Pomano Beach, FL, died Saturday, December 12, 1998, in Florida, in his 90th year. He was predeceased by his wife of 61 years Bertie Kaplan. He is survived by his wife Barbara Janoff Kaplan, two sons Morton and Don Kaplan, both of NY, and four grandc
 KLEIDER-Alfred L., 71, physicist died November 29, 1998. He was among the earliest developers of laser technology. He had, and was involved with numerous patents including CCD Tubes (Charge Coupled Devices, the heart of early video cameras) night vision scopes and a wire detection system fo
 KLEIN-Julian Roy. On December 8, 1998. Beloved son of Natalie and Louis Klein. Associate Director of Network Sales from 1962 to 1986, Alumni of Dartmouth College, and Lieutenant in the U.S. Navy. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday, December 16, 9:45
 LEVINE-Dr. Richard S. The Brookdale University Hospital and Medical Center records with deep sorrow the passing of Dr. Richard S. Levine, a distinguished longtime Emeritus Chief of Cardiology and past Physician-in-charge of the Cardiac Catherization Laboratory. Our sincere condolences to hi
 MELTZER-Earl. On December 11, 1998. Beloved husband of Eileen. Loving father of Bruce, Steven, Michelle, Victoria and the late Charlie. Dear brother of Sandy and the late Arnold. Joyful grandfather of Sidney and Rebecca. His loving care will be missed by his family and friends. Visiting on 
 THOMAS-Philip L. Died 12/11/98. Retired AP writer. Survived by his spouse Mary Ellen (Collins) Thomas and sister Julia Goodman. Memorial service on Tuesday, December 15, 11AM at Epiphany RC Church, 2nd Ave. at 22nd St.       
 VOGEL-Oscar M. On December 4th, 1998. Beloved husband of Eleanor, dear father of Gerald, Robert and Kathleen Mullins. Loving grandfather of six. Survived by two sisters, predeceased by three brothers and one sister. He was in the Navy for four years and served in World War II. He was an emp
 WAGNER-Marvin J. Of West Palm Beach, Florida passed away on December 11, 1998. He was the beloved husband of Elizabeth Wagner and the loving father of the late Caryl Grutman, Roger (Rona) Wagner, and Howard Wagner. He also leaves behind his cherished grandchildren, Teena, Gordon, and Benson
 WERNER-S. Henry, of New York City. December 10, 1998 at age 87, in Palm Beach, Fl. Beloved husband of 58 years to Elizabeth Grumbach Werner, loving father of Patricia Werner Hanson of Bonita Springs, Fl., Peter Henry Werner and Thomas Charles Werner, both of Los Angeles, Ca.; adoring grandf
 WHITE-A. Burton. Physician, lifelong resident of New York, longtime resident of Great Neck. Died on Dec 10, 1998. He is survived by his beloved and loving wife, Hannabelle, his children Jonathan, Randolph and Liane Wolff, his five grandchildren Aude, Clemence, Anne-Laure, Aaron and Ilan and
 Jack Farris, a novelist, playwright and retired professor of English, died on Nov. 26 at a hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 77 and had recently moved to Rockville, Md., from Lockesburg, Ark. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Anna. Throughout his teaching caree
 Yosef Y. Kazen, a Hasidic rabbi who pioneered the use of the Internet as a powerful recruiting and educational tool for the Lubavitch movement, died Dec. 1 at New York Hospital. He was 44 and lived in Crown Heights, Brooklyn. The cause was complications of non-Hodgkins lymphoma, sai
 Charles E. Rose, who prosecuted bank robbers, narcotics traffickers,  terrorists and organized-crime figures in 15 years with the United States Attorney's office for the Eastern District of New York, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 51. The ca
 Gov. Lawton Chiles, a homespun centrist politician from the middle of Florida who served three terms as a Democratic Senator and was elected to two terms as governor, died on Saturday at the Governor's Mansion in Tallahassee. He was 68. Mr. Chiles died from an abnormal heart rhythm,
 Lew Grade, an immigrant boy from the slums of London's East End who rose to become Britain's biggest impresario of popular entertainment, died here today at the age of 91. Founder of Britain's first commercially financed television company, Lord Grade, who was knighted in 1963 and g
 Morris K. Udall of Arizona, a liberal conscience of the House of Representatives for 30 years and a tireless advocate for environmental protection and political reform, died late Saturday in Washington. He was 76. According to Terrence L. Bracy, the chairman of the Morris K. Udall F
 BERGER-Martin J. Of East Meadow on December 12, 1998. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Loving father of Robert, David and Dorothy Berger, Alyssa and Jon Kaplan, Bruce, David and Lisa Kayton. Loving grandfather of Allison, Tracy, Jeffrey, Nicole and Kelsey. He will be greatly missed. Service 9:30
 BLUMBERG-Alvin G. Husband of Enid Feist Blumberg and the late Anita Blumberg. Father of Richard (Jewel) Mendell, Alan (Patty) Mendell, Guy Blumberg, Brian (Yvette) Feist and Robert (Mariam) Feist. Grandfather of eleven. Son of the late Sadie and Joe Blumberg. Brother of Babe and Norma Blumb
 CHALK-Howard Wolfe, of Cortlandt Manor, NY. Born January 15, 1922, died of lung cancer, December 12, 1998. Lover of Shirley for 51 years. Adored father of Russell Chalk of Austin, TX, Robin ChalkLevy and father-in-law of Richard Levy of Chappaqua, NY. Venerated grandfather of Morgan and Spe
 COYLE-Philip J. Retired N.Y.P.D. Of Patterson, NY, formerly of NYC, died December 12, 1998, in his 92nd year. For exceptional police duty, he was the third NYC police officer to be honored with the Police Combat Cross. Beloved husband of the late Catherine (nee McConnell). Loving father of 
 DEGENSTEIN-Lester E. Died at home on Saturday, December 12, at the age of 95. He is survived by his loving wife Lila, his son Lee, and daughter-in-law Dr. Joan Kent. He was the devoted grandfather of David Robert Degenstein and Michael Kent Degenstein. He was the brother of the late Charles
 FABER-Rabbi Salamon. We deeply mourn the loss of a dear friend, guide and neighbor. The depth of his Judaic and secular learning and his compassion and humanistic concern for others will be sorely missed. Our condolences to his wife, Gertrude Faber, and his family. Louis and Ester Moskowitz
 KLEIN-Julian Roy. On December 8, 1998. Beloved son of Natalie and Louis Klein. Associate Director of Network Sales from 1962 to 1986, Alumni of Dartmouth College, and Lieutenant in the U.S. Navy. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Wednesday, December 16, 9:45
 ROSE-Charles E., Jr. On December 12, 1998. Former Assistant U.S. Attorney and Partner in De Feis O'Connell & Rose. Beloved son of Marie and the late Charles, nephew of Sara L. Bucchi, brother of Marilyn Duer, fiance of Elaine Banner, uncle of three and greatuncle of four. Friends may call a
 SCHWARTZWALD - Morris. Of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Great Neck, NY, and South Egremont, MA, died December 12, 1998. Beloved husband of Rita. Devoted father of Mark, Robert (Terese) and Kenneth. Loving grandfather of Amy, Alan and Michael. Dear brother of Joseph (Frankie) and good frien
 A. Leon Higginbotham Jr., who called himself ''a survivor of segregation'' and became one of the country's most prominent African-American judges, died yesterday in Boston. He was 70 and died after a stroke for which he had been hospitalized on Saturday. Judge Higginbotham, a legal 
 CLEAVER-John P., 79, died on December 11, 1998 at home in Little Compton, R.I. following a brief illness. He leaves his wife of 52 years, Elizabeth (Ruth) Cleaver; three children, three grandchildren, a brother, William Cleaver and seven nieces and nephews. A Memorial service will be held a
 DEGENSTEIN-Lester E. Died at home on Saturday, December 12, at the age of 95. He is survived by his loving wife Lila, his son Lee, and daughter-in-law Dr. Joan Kent. He was the devoted grandfather of David Robert Degenstein and Michael Kent Degenstein. He was the brother of the late Charles
 DENSON-William Dowdell of Lawrence, Long Island on December 13, 1998. Survived by his wife, Constance and three children, Yvonne McQuilkin of Cambridge, MA, William D. Denson, Jr. of Lawrence, L.I. and Olivia Fischetti of Parsippany, NJ. Funeral service Wednesday, December 16 at 11 A.M. at 
 FRIEDMAN-Marvin, age 75, Boca Raton, Florida, formerly of North Bellmore, NY, passed away December 13, 1998. Beloved husband of Elaine, loving father of Richard and Paul, dear brother of Jean Rosenbaum and Jeanette Chazen, cherished grandfather of Jeffrey, Lisa, Gregory, Douglas and Spencer
 HAMMERMAN-Henry J., M.D. The Franklin Hospital Medical Center Family mourns the passing of Dr. Henry J. Hammerman, an esteemed hospital Trustee and long-time distinguished member of our Division of Otolaryngology. We convey our deepest sympathies to his entire family. Justice Howard E. Levi
 RIEMER-Dr. Robert W., 82. Of Westport Harbor, MA., a pioneer heart surgeon who performed the first coronary bypass operation at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence in the 1950's, died on December 3, 1998. He is survived by his wife, Gladys; two sons, Robert H. Riemer of Amenia, NY and J. Mi
 ROSE-Charles. The Eastern District Association marks with deep sadness the death of our respected colleague and dear friend Charles Rose. We will not forget his tireless pursuit of justice and love of life. ROSE-Charles, Jr. You will be dearly missed. All our love. Lesley, Steven, a
 SCHWARTZWALD - Morris. Of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Great Neck, NY, and South Egremont, MA, died December 12, 1998. Beloved husband of Rita. Devoted father of Mark, Robert (Terese) and Kenneth. Loving grandfather of Amy, Alan and Michael. Dear brother of Joseph (Frankie) and good frien
 SCHWERIN-Frederick Woodbury, 89, died at home on November 19, 1998, in Palm Beach, Florida. An avid swimmer, golfer and polo player, Freddy retired to his beloved stretch of ocean in Palm Beach after a 45 year career on Wall Street, most recently as senior partner of Schwerin Stone & Co., m
 STERNBERG-Harold, 89, died December 10th. He was the son of Ethel Sternberg & the great basso Cantor, Joseph Sternberg. He was born in Odessa, Russia, October 22, 1909 and came to America in 1927. He was first a Hebrew teacher, but soon worked on the Broadway stage performing in all of Geor
 THALER-Jerome ''Jerry.'' Of Boynton Beach on Dec. 14, 1998. Former long-time resident of Great Neck. Beloved husband of Phyllis. Devoted father of Robert Thaler and Ellen Saslow (Ron). Loving grandfather of Joey. Dear brother of Sidney. He was greatly loved and will be sorely missed. Privat
 THOM-Joseph M. Died December 14 in his home in Setauket, LI. Born in New York City October 22, 1919. Master's in Library Science from Columbia University and a Master's in Political Science from NYU, both on the G.I. Bill. Married his late wife Lillian R. Thom in 1945 after going AWOL at th
 TOMPKINS-Max (Mac) G., 97. Of Delray Beach, FL. formerly of White Plains, NY and Scottsdale, Ariz. Beloved husband of the late Elsie Cohen Tompkins for 68 years. Loving father of Judge Harold Tompkins, father-in-law of Frances Fish Tompkins and cherished grandfather of Laurence Alan Fish To
 Harold A. Shaub, a retired chief executive of the Campbell Soup Company who was active in community affairs, died Nov. 29 at Bryn Mawr Hospital in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 83 and had lived in Gladwyne, Pa. on the Philadelphia Main Line for 25 years. Mr. Shaub was president and chief ex
 BURTON-Carl Lee  On Saturday, December 12, 1998, of Plainview, NY. Born in San Antonio, TX. Was employed by Goodwill Industries in Astoria, NY as an accountant. Carl is survived by his mother, Lola Mae Burton, his friend Allen Jacobs, his brother and sister-inlaw Rae and Margaret Burton and
 COLLERAN-Walter M. , 86, of Palm City, FL, formerly of Bay Shore, L.I. Retired attorney of Colleran, O'Hara & Mills, died Dec. 12, 1998. He leaves his wife Anne, three daughters, Glynn Donlon of Germantown, TN, Maureen Doyle of Pennington, NJ, Patricia C. Strong of St. David's, PA, one son 
 DENSON-William Dowdell of Lawrence, Long Island on December 13, 1998. Survived by his wife, Constance and three children, Yvonne McQuilkin of Cambridge, MA, William D. Denson, Jr. of Lawrence, L.I. and Olivia Fischetti of Parsippany, NJ and five grandchildren. Funeral service Wednesday, Dec
 FABER-Rabbi Salamon . The New York Board Of Rabbis mourns the passing of its long-time member. May Heaven console his family and congregants. Rabbi Marc Schneier, President Rabbi Gilbert S. Rosenthal, Executive Vice-President       
 GUTRIDE-Philip S.  On December 14, 1998. Best friend and loving husband of Regina. Cherished by his nieces, nephews and friends. Services 12:15PM Thursday, Dec. 17 at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76 Street and Amsterdam Ave.       
 HIGGINBOTHAM-A. Leon, Jr.  The partners, associates and staff of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison express profound sorrow at the passing of our Senior Counsel, Judge A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., a great lawyer, wise jurist, dedicated public servant, admired colleague and beloved frien
 HOLZMAN-Lewis M. , 88. Beloved husband of Caryll. Devoted father of Sallie, Ralph and Sharon. Dear grandfather of Nathaniel and Benjamin. Services private. HOLZMAN-Lewis M. Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York records with deep sorrow the death of our cherished member Lewis
 KLAHR-Michael , 61 years of age on December 15, 1998. Beloved husband of Phyllis, cherished father of David, Robyn and Chandra, dear grandfather of Andrew, brother of Paul, Yolande & Steven. His courage, determination and love of life were an inspiration to all who knew him. He was loved by
 ROSENBERG-Joseph Chaim . On December 13. Dedicated husband to the late Sabena; loving father of Mona Abramson, father-in-law of David; beloved grandfather of Shimon and Miriam. He will never be forgotten. Shiva is being observed through Sunday at the home of Mona and David. Contributions in
 SPEKTOR-Eryk  On December 14th, 1998 of New York City. The beloved husband of Mira; loving father of Alexander Spektor and Charline and Jeremy Nussbaum; adoring grandfather of Gabriel and Lily Nussbaum; cherished brother of Eve Semmel and Edith Litterman. Loving uncle and generous friend. S
 THOM-Joseph M.  Died December 14 in his home in Setauket, LI. Born in New York City October 22, 1919. Master's in Library Science from Columbia University and a Master's in Political Science from NYU, both on the G.I. Bill. Married his late wife Lillian R. Thom in 1945 after going AWOL at t
 TOMPKINS-Max (Mac) G. , 97. Of Delray Beach, FL. formerly of White Plains, NY and Scottsdale, Ariz. Beloved husband of the late Elsie Cohen Tompkins for 68 years. Loving father of Judge Harold Tompkins, father-in-law of Frances Fish Tompkins and cherished grandfather of Laurence Alan Fish T
 WEBER-Mortimer W. , M.D., age 84 of Wayne, NJ, formerly of Franklin Lakes, NJ. Beloved husband of Barbara (nee Steuert) Parker Weber. Dear father of Jon Weber of Monterey, CA., and James Weber of Seattle, WA. Dear uncle of Tamara Leuchtenberg of NYC, NY. Loving grandfather of five granddaug
 BRUNET-William M. On December 13, 1998, of Washington, CT. Beloved husband of the late Jacqueline (nee Embree). Father of Nick Brunet, Alex Brunet and Kira B. Williams of New Canaan, CT; a sister, Sue Ottaway of Staten Island, NY, two grandsons. Funeral services Friday, 11 AM, at St. John's
 FRIEDMAN-Marvin. The Board of Governors and members of Cold Spring Country Club deeply mourn the recent passing of our past Board of Governor and long time member. Our heartfelt condolences are extended to his wife, Elaine and the entire family.       
 GITLIN-Paul. December 16, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Zelda. Devoted father of Jonathan. Loving brother of Claire Gnessin and the late Dr. Milton Gitlin. Service Friday, December 18, at 10 A.M. at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street. Contributions in his memory may b
 HIGGINBOTHAM-A. Leon, Jr. The partners, associates and staff of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison express profound sorrow at the passing of our Senior Counsel, Judge A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., a great lawyer, wise jurist, dedicated public servant, admired colleague and beloved friend
 HORNER-Mark Woolman. Died as a result of a homicide at his home in San Antonio, Texas, on Dec. 14, 1998. He was born in Bar Harbor, ME., Aug. 24, 1973. He was a graduate of the Juilliard School of Music and was Principal Trombonist of the San Antonio Symphony. A service under the care of th
 KURTYKA-Henry Joseph. Of Clifton, NJ on December 14, 1998. Born Newark, NJ July 8, 1909. Beloved husband for 62 years of Margaret Christie, who pre-deceased him on February 26, 1998, father of daughter Ruthanne and son-in-law Harvey Corn and grandfather of Christie, Margaret and Olivia. He 
 LUTZ-Edward O. Robert M. Carr, William Herman and the present partners and staff of Lutz and Carr CPA's extend heartfelt condolences to Alice, Terry, Richard and William. Eddy Lutz was a founding partner of Lutz and Carr CPA's and will be remembered for his inspirational leadership, devotio
 PARDES-Frances. The faculty, students, alumni, and staff of The Joseph L. Mailman School of Public Health of Columbia University extend their condolences to Dr. Herbert Pardes and his family on the sad loss of his mother, Frances Pardes. Allan Rosenfield, M.D., Dean The Joseph L. Mailman Sc
 ROSENBERG-Josef Chaim. On December 13. Dedicated husband to the late Sabena; loving father of Mona Abramson, father-in-law of David; beloved grandfather of Shimon and Miriam. He will never be forgotten. Shiva is being observed through Sunday at the home of Mona and David. Contributions in h
 SPEKTOR-Eryk. We mourn the passing of a good friend and fine human being who devoted himself to honoring citizens of the world as ''Defenders of Jerusalem'' because of their worthy deeds in defense of the rights of the Jewish people. He selflessly sought glory for them as his contribution t
 William Gaddis, author of ''The Recognitions'' and ''JR,'' and a novelist of immense range, complexity and satiric humor, died yesterday at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 75. The cause was prostate cancer, said his daughter, Sarah Meares Gaddis. Mr. Gaddis was one of 
 Carlos Abraham Foster, a real-life urban cowboy who toured the rodeo circuit around New York and started a program to teach city children about riding as a way to counter the dangers of drugs and AIDS, died on Saturday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 76 and had let it be known in Augu
 Gen. Hamilton H. Howze, who began his military career in the horse cavalry, served in tanks during World War II and then helped change how the Army fights by developing helicopter-warfare tactics used in the Vietnam War and beyond, died on Dec. 8 in Fort Worth. He was 89. General Ho
 BILGORAJ-Rubin. Surrounded by the love of his children Norberto and Nizza, her husband John and grandchildren, Dahlia, and Daniel, and his faithful Victoria and Ana. Rubin Bilgoraj has serenely passed on to join his beloved wife Irma. Services 9 AM Friday, at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street an
 DIMODICA-Salvatore J. The family of Salvatore J. Dimodica announces with much sorrow the death of a brave man after a long battle with cancer. Sal was a gentle, charitable man. Currently a resident of Ft. Lauderdale, he was predeceased by his wife of 45 years, Claire (Orlacchio), as well as
 EPSTEIN-Milton. On December 16. Beloved husband of the late Hadassah Spira; son of the late Hannah and Leibel Epstein. He is survived by many nieces, nephews, grandnieces and grandnephews. He was the former proprietor of Ideal Bookstore, manager of Hadassah and an avid painter. His painting
 EVANS-Melvin. The HewlettWoodmere Public Library mourns the loss of Melvin Evans, our former attorney. His invaluable counsel played a leading role in the beautiful new building that continues to enrich our community. Farewell, dear friend.       
 GINZLER-Robert M., 83, of Morris Plains, NJ, died on Tuesday, December 15, 1998. He was a CPA and WWII Veteran of the South Pacific campaign. Born in NYC in 1915, he graduated from Townsend Harris H.S. and City College, both of NY. His wife Alice died six years previously. He is survived by
 GOLDSTEIN-Philip. Passed away Dec. 17, 1998 in Florida. Beloved husband of Ann, devoted father to Steven and Matthew, beloved father-in-law to Jane and Maggi. Lovingly devoted grandfather to Brian, Seth, Eric & the late Jeffrey Goldstein, caring brother to May and Lorraine. He was adored an
 KERRIGONE-Richard A., 52. Died December 15th, 1998 at his home in Edwards, CO. Mr. Kerrigone was the President of the NASDAQ trading firm, William V. Frankel & Co. of Jersey City, NJ. Born in Brooklyn, he lived in Ridgewood, NJ before making his residence in Colorado 5 years ago. Son of the
 KOZOL-Robert David, December 15, of Brookline, MA. Cherished husband of Clara (Shapiro) Kozol. Devoted son of the late Frank L. & Mildred H. Kozol. Adored father of Eric John, Lauren Eve, Kenneth Arthur and father-in-law of Lisa (Hutcheson) Kozol. Dear brother of Joel A. and Lee H. Kozol. L
 MURPHY-John L. Jr. Formerly of Brooklyn, New York. Passed away on December 2, 1998, in Cleveland, Ohio. He was a professional engineer for the bureau of the Budget-Office of the Mayor of New York City. Loving husband of Joan L. (nee Piasecki). Dear brother of James A., of Great Barrington, 
 SPEKTOR-Eryk. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Eryk Spektor, a generous contributor and fervent supporter of Israel who served as a trustee of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, a predecessor of UJA-Federation. The Jewish c
 WEISS-Harold. Devoted husband of Leatrice, father of Richard and Robert & Marcy Katz. Grandfather of eight. Funeral 1 PM today at Sharon Gardens, Valhalla. Miller Advertising Agency Inc. mourns the passing of our former colleague, an advertising pioneer, a hero of World War II. We e
 Dave Williams, who coached the University of Houston golf team to 16 National Collegiate Athletic Association championships and sent a host of players to the Professional Golfers Association Tour, died Wednesday in Wharton, Tex. He was 80 and had been ill for several years, the university's
 Howard Wolfe Chalk, an advertising executive, died on Dec. 12 at Phelps Memorial Hospital Center in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. Mr. Chalk, a resident of Cortlandt Manor, N.Y., was 76. The cause was lung cancer, his daughter, Robin Chalk Levy, said. Mr. Chalk's clients were mostly fa
 Leonard Moos Rieser, a physicist who helped usher in the nuclear age with the Manhattan Project and crusaded to curb the arsenals it spawned, died on Tuesday at the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He was 76 and lived in Norwich, Vt. The cause was cancer, said off
 BOHAN-James. Firefighter 4th Grade. Ladder 170, formerly Engine 262, F.D.N.Y. Suddenly on December 17, 1998 in the line of duty. Devoted son of John and Margaret (nee Condon) Bohan. Loving brother of Maurice. Loving grandson of Maurice Condon of Loughill County Limerick, Ireland. Also survi
 CRANE-Louis Joseph, DDS. Age 89. Of Lauderhill, FL. Formerly of Larchmont, N.Y., and Bronxville, NY. On Thursday, December 17, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Margaret (nee Wagner). Loving father of Dr. Frederick (Betty), Dr. Edward (Carol), and Carol Gerber (Bernard). Adoring grandfather
 GADDIS-William. The faculty, Board of Trustees, and administration of Bard College mourn the passing of author and former faculty member William Gaddis. His novels made an inmeasurable contribution to american letters and his fine mind enriched the intellectual life of the college from 1976
 HOFFMAN-John E., 83. Of Roslyn Heights, on December 17, 1998. Devoted husband of Joan. Loving father of Philip, Hilde Agatstein and Julien. Beloved grandfather of Gregg, Justin and David. Dear father-in-law of Henry and Diane. Cherished uncle to his nieces and nephews, friend to many. The f
 McGILLYCUDDY-Eugene J. October 27, 1998 ''Reluctantly''. Retired NYPD-served in WW II and Korea. Beloved brother of Boatius & the late Michael. He will always be remembered with admiration and affection by his family and friends. Burial took place at the Bourne National Cemetery on Cape Cod
 PULLIS-James (known to friends as JP). On December 18, 1998. Beloved brother of Gerard, Roger, John, and George. Cherished uncle of Roger Jr., Christopher, John, Thomas, Theresa, Timothy, Matthew, Patricia, Antoninette, Genevieve and Meg. Loyal friend to many. Friends may call at Frank E. C
 SEREGI-Bill John. On December 16, 1998. Born in Budapest, Hungary in 1903. Came to America in 1951. Master jeweler for 77 years. Beloved husband of Lily for 70 years. Devoted father of Ann and Larry. Loving grandfather of Ellie & Lewis. Also survived by nieces and nephews Veronica and Lesli
 SHIMANSKY-Max, Hazzan. The Cantors Assembly records with sorrow the passing of a respected colleague of over three decades. Quietly and gently, he served the spiritual needs of his congregants with great dignity, warmth and care. We extend our sympathy to his wife Sharon, his children and h
 SPEKTOR-Eryk. Congregation Rodeph Sholom notes with sorrow the passing of our devoted member, Eryk Spektor. Oyr deepest sympathy is extended to his wife, Mira and their children, Alexander and Charline, and all their dear ones. Robert N. Levine, Senior Rabbi Mark Biderman, President       
 WOLF-Alfred P., Ph.D. The faculty and staff of New York University School of Medicine mourn the passing of Alfred P. Wolf, PhD. who served as research professor in the Department of Psychiatry. His pioneering research into radioactive molecules provided the framework for the development of 
 Robert C. Johnston, who spent almost half a century shaping Manhattan's skyline from below street level and its map from below the water line, died on Dec. 4 at his home in Milbrook, N.Y. He was 85 and had been the foundation engineer in charge of building the 92-acre landfill addition to M
 William Box Cook, associate director of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago, died on Tuesday at his home in Chicago. He was 48. He had a heart attack in the lobby of his apartment building, a spokeswoman at the museum said. Mr. Cook joined the museum in September after
 Clay Blair, an author who wrote extensively on World War II and the Korean War and was a former editor of The Saturday Evening Post, died on Wednesday at his home on Washington Island, Wis. He was 73. He suffered a heart attack, said his agent, Russell Galen. In World War II
 Harry W. Treleaven Jr., an advertising executive and early political consultant who is credited with creating the ''Nixon's the One!'' slogan for the 1968 Presidential campaign, died Dec. 9 at the Sarah Neuman Nursing Home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan and Amagansett,
 BOHAN-James. Firefighter 4th Grade. Ladder 170, formerly Engine 262, F.D.N.Y. Suddenly on December 18, 1998, in the line of duty. Devoted son of John and Margaret (nee Condon) Bohan. Loving brother of Maurice. Loving grandson of Maurice Condon of Loughill County Limerick, Ireland. Also surv
 BRAVMAN-Moses. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with sorrow the death of Moses Bravman. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his loving wife Cecelia, his devoted son Irving and daughter-in-law Rose, granddaughter Elizabeth (Jonah)
 CRANE-Louis Joseph, DDS. Age 89. Of Lauderhill, FL. Formerly of Larchmont, N.Y., and Bronxville, NY. On Thursday, December 17, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Margaret (nee Wagner). Loving father of Dr. Frederick (Betty), Dr. Edward (Carol), and Carol Gerber (Bernard). Adoring grandfather
 HARTEL-Michael D. Of NYC, and Easton, MD, formerly of Westport, CT. Founder and CEO of Omnimark, Inc., of Hartel Catalano & Gornick, Inc., and of BakerHartel Advertising, on Tuesday, December 15, 1998, in Tampa, FL, of a heart attack. He leaves his loved children Steven, Christopher, Michae
 HOFFMAN-John E., 83. Of Roslyn Heights, on December 17, 1998. Devoted husband of Joan. Loving father of Philip, Hilde Agatstein and Julien. Beloved grandfather of Gregg, Justin and David. Dear father-in-law of Henry and Diane. Cherished uncle to his nieces and nephews, friend to many. The f
 OBUS-E. Robert. The Board of Directors of the 360 East 72 Street Owners Corp express profound sorrow at the passing of their esteemed past president and Board member of many years. The leadership, counsel and friendship of our neighbor and colleague, will be greatly missed. To his devoted w
 PULLIS-James (known to friends as JP). On December 18, 1998. Beloved brother of Gerard, Roger, John, and George. Cherished uncle of Roger Jr., Christopher, John, Thomas, Theresa, Timothy, Matthew, Patricia, Antoninette, Genevieve and Meg. Loyal friend to many. Friends may call at Frank E. C
 RAPS-Eric, MD. The Department of Neurology at Mt. Sinai Medical Center extends its heartfelt condolences to our friend and colleague Dr. Mitchell Raps on the death of his brother, Dr. Eric Raps. Eric was an esteemed member of the neurology community. He will be deeply missed. Sincere condol
 SEREGI-Bill John. On December 16, 1998. Born in Budapest, Hungary in 1903. Came to America in 1951. Master jeweler for 77 years. Beloved husband of Lily for 70 years. Devoted father of Ann and Larry. Loving grandfather of Ellie & Lewis. Also survived by nieces and nephews Veronica and Lesli
 SIEGEL - Stanley. Huntington, Long Island on December 11, after a swift illness. Buried December 13. Much loved husband of Eve. Father of Reva, Fred and Laura. Uncle to Julia, Solange and Diane, in-law to Paul, Abe, Mimi. Veteran of the Air Force. Graduate of Penn State and MIT, Manager at 
 KAUFMAN-Philip. Passed away on 12/23/97. Mourned by his sister Jeanne K. Blum; uncle to Ellen Trokel, Rael & Martin Gleitsman; great uncle to Mary Young, Nina Hogan, Dr. Matthew Trokel, Leah Palmiter and Avram Gleitsman; great great uncle to Julia and Megan Hogan, Sarah and Rebecca Young, O
 Antonio Ordonez, a leading bullfighter in the 1950's and the last survivor of the dueling matadors chronicled by  Hemingway in ''The Dangerous Summer,'' died on Saturday in a Seville hospital. He was 66. The cause was cancer, the Spanish news media reported. Mr. Ordonez, who
 Enrique Martinez, a ballet dancer and rehearsal director at American Ballet Theater who staged the classics for ballet troupes in North and South America and Europe, died on Nov. 17 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was
 Louis K. Sher, a movie exhibitor who pioneered the showing of foreign films, died on Nov. 25 in Phoenix, Ariz. He was 84. Mr. Sher opened his first movie theater in 1954 in Columbus, Ohio, and made foreign films his specialty. He eventually built a national chain called the Art Thea
 Mel Fisher, a former chicken farmer who became a Horatio Alger figure among undersea treasure hunters, died on Saturday at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 76. The cause was complications from cancer, the Mel Fisher museum in Key West announced. Mr. Fisher found hundreds of
 BRAVMAN-Moses. Adored and adoring husband of Celia for 67 wonderful years. Devoted father of Irving and his wife Rose, doting ''Papa'' to his ''Goldschatz'' Elizabeth and her husband Jonah, and a truly ''great'' great-grandfather to Noah, Sarah, Rebecca, Daniel and Gideon Turk. He gave much
 BRINKMANN-Donald Gerhard. Son of the late Gerhard and Helen Brinkmann was born in Riverside, CA. He is survived by his brother, John Brinkmann and a niece and nephew of Riverside, CA. Beloved companion of Mark Weinrod. Don was an inspirational and talented partner of the firm of Gensler Arc
 DAVIS-Robert E. Of Cheshire, CT. Formerly of Southbury, CT, NYC, and Yonkers, NY. On December 18, 1998. Predeceased by first wife Margaret Mary Davis and son Frederick R. Davis. Survived by his wife Ruth Esing Davis, one stepdaughter, Nancy Kaufman, two grandchildren, three greatgrandchidre
 HIGGINBOTHAM-Judge A. Leon, Jr. Earl G. Graves and ''Black Enterprise'' Magazine deeply mourn the passing of Judge A. Leon Higginbotham, Jr., one of the great jurists of our time. He was a truly outstanding leader and role model for our entire nation. For African Americans, his loss is felt
 HILL-Alfred. Age 79, of Margate, FL. Much beloved husband of Blossom, adored father of Gari and Ira Dansky, cherished grandfather of Rachel Dansky and Lyssa and Stephen Weiss, dear brother of Rita and Selwyn Lande, loved uncle of David and Judy Lande, and a wonderful friend to all who knew 
 JACKSON-David S. Died on December 20, at age 96. Husband of Freda. Survived by his daughters Linda, wife of Andrew Segal, and Nancy, wife of Paul Godwin. He also leaves grandsons Edward Segal and William Segal.       
 LEVY-Samuel. The officers and members of Old Oaks Country Club mourn the passing of their dear friend and fellow member Samuel Levy. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to his wife, Marie, his children and other members of his family. Samuel Weinberg, President       
 REIN-Mark Alan. 2/12/44 to 12/21/88. Forever in the hearts of his family       
 Paul Gitlin, a lawyer and literary agent who brokered multimillion-dollar deals for authors in the early 1970's, died on Wednesday. He was 83. Mr. Gitlin came to prominence by negotiating innovative deals in the 1960's and early 1970's, when literary auctions were a relatively new p
 Andre de Wavrin, the ''Colonel Passy'' who forged a Resistance intelligence network for de Gaulle during World War II, died at his home in Paris on Sunday, friends said. He was 87. Born in Paris in 1911 and a graduate of the Ecole Polytechnique, the leading French engineering school
 BARTEL-David. Born April 21, 1912, died on December 21, 1998. Beloved husband of Rose (nee Nankin), adored father of Sandi Bartel (David Polsky) of Brooklyn, N.Y., and Elinor Miller (Charles Miller) of Portland, ME, revered grandfather of Marc (Ayelet Blonder Miller) Elizabeth and Amanda Mi
 BRINKMANN-Donald Gerhard. Son of the late Gerhard and Helen Brinkmann was born in Riverside, CA. He is survived by his brother, John Brinkmann and a niece and nephew of Riverside, CA. Beloved companion of Mark Weinrod. Don was an inspirational and talented partner of the firm of Gensler Arc
 CHEW-Sek Jin, M.D. The Officers and Trustees of Myopia International Research Foundation, Inc. mourn the loss of our Vice President and friend Sek Jin Chew, M.D., a brilliant and innovative eye researcher. His selfless devotion and cheerful encouragement will be sorely missed. We extend our
 COHEN-Yehudi Aryeh. On December 17, 1998. Died peacefully at home after a long illness. He was Professor Emeritus of Anthropology at Rutgers University. He is survived by his daughter, Lisa Peet, grandson, Gideon Peet, and sister, Hadassah Gordis. He was the son of the late Meyer and Nehama
 D'ARCANGELO-Allan. Died on December 17, 1998. Born in Buffalo NY in 1930. Painter, muralist, and seminal pop artist, formerly of Fichbach and Marlborough Galleries in NY. Professor of Art at Brooklyn College and The School of Visual Arts. Recipient of 1987-88 Guggenheim Fellowship. Survived
 DEGHERI-Christopher B. The Board of Trustees, Sisters of Charity, Hospital Auxiliary, Administration, Medical Staff and Hospital Staff of Saint Vincents Hospital and Medical Center of New York mourn the the passing of our esteemed friend & former member of the Board of Trustees. Mr. Degheri
 DELMAN-Harry. Tifereth Israel/ Town & Village Synagogue mourns the loss of its beloved member of long standing and extends heartfelt condolences to his son, Gerald, and the entire family. Rabbi Laurence A. Sebert Rabbi Abby Sosland President Carol J. Green       
 DRACOULIS-Gherassimos Andrea, died Thursday, December 17, 1998. Beloved husband of Helene T. Dracoulis and adored uncle of numerous nieces and nephews. Jerry will be sorely missed by his family and devoted friends. Funeral services will be private. A Memorial Service in New York will be ann
 GORDON - Kenneth. Cherished son of Vivien & Sherwin, devoted brother & best friend of Jonathan. Kenny's spontaneity, humor and love of life will always be treasured by us & missed by his loyal friends. Donations can be made to the Central Synagogue Restoration Fund. Services will be on Tues
 GRAVES-Eben M. age 95, of Southport, CT. A senior partner of Brumbaugh, Graves, Donohue and Raymond, died December 20, 1998. Survived by his wife Marion, a daughter Deborah Nolin, a son James, seven grandchildren and three great-grandchildren. Pre-deceased by son Eben Graves, Jr. Services o
 JACKSON-David S. Died on December 20, at age 96. Husband of Freda. Survived by his daughters Linda, wife of Andrew Segal, and Nancy, wife of Paul Godwin. He also leaves grandsons Edward Segal and William Segal.       
 KLEINMAN-Daniel. On December 20. Adored and adoring father of Rachel and Charlie. Loving son of Dora and Henry. Loving brother of Mitchell (Maggie) and Gary (Sherry). Wonderful uncle to Harold, Ben and Alex. Services Tuesday, 1:00 PM at Garlick Funeral Home, Yonkers, NY. Rachel and Charlie 
 LEVY - Sam. The Solomon Schechter School of Westchester community notes with deepest sorrow the passing of Sam Levy, devoted trustee. Sam's dedication and generosity played a pivotal roll in the creation and development of our school. Our deepest sympathy to Marie and his family. M. Mac Sch
 LUTZ-Edward O. The Brooklyn College community mourns the passing of Professor Emeritus of Economics Edward O. Lutz. His fifty years of service to the college is deeply appreciated and will be long remembered. Vernon E. Lattin, President Brooklyn College       
 PULLIS-James. J.P. created a warm family atmosphere for all his wayward friends. We are forever grateful that he came into our lives. Marrie Schmeelk       
 ROMOFF-William. The Board of Directors, Members, and Staff of The League for the Hard of Hearing note with sadness the passing of William Romoff, father of our Board Member, Ira, and father-inlaw of our cherished volunteer, Arlene. We extend our deepest condolences to Ira and his sister Gai
 SCARDAPANE - Felix Arthur, M.D., 101 years of age, died Saturday, December 19 at St. Francis Hospital, Poughkeepsie, NY. Dr. Felix Scardapane was born in Mafalda, Abruzzo, Italy, on December 10, 1897. His parents were Elinda and Nicholas Scardapane. Dr. Scardapane lived in Brooklyn, NY and 
 ZAPAKIN-Harmon. Amalgamated Housing Cooperative Joins in mourning the loss of Harmon Zapakin. As important to Amalgamated as to his own Park Reservoir, Harmon was a pillar of the entire community. We shall miss our dear friend, partner, neighbor and fellow cooperator. A man of rare human vi
 Sir Alan Lloyd Hodgkin, an English biophysicist who shared the Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine  in 1963 for helping to explain how nerve cells transmit impulses between the the skin to the brain, died Sunday at the age of 84. London newspaper reports, quoting his family, said 
 Allan D'Arcangelo, a painter known for pared-down images of highways and road signs that neatly split the difference between Pop Art and Minimalism, died on Dec. 17 at Beth Israel North in Manhattan. He was 68 and lived on an 80-acre farm in the Catskills, near Kenoza Lake, N.Y. The
 Bangalore Venkata Raman, one of India's most respected astrologers, died on Sunday, suffering a heart attack as he edited The Astrological Magazine, the monthly publication he founded 62 years ago. He was 86. In India, where a widespread belief in Vedic astrolology dictates the timi
 David S. Jackson, a member of the American Stock Exchange for 73 years and an exchange governor from 1965 to 1968, died Sunday, a son-in-law, Andrew Segal, said. Mr. Jackson was 96 years old. Mr. Jackson, who was born in Manhattan, joined the exchange in 1925, working as a specialis
 J. Harold Flannery Jr., an Associate Justice of the Massachusetts Appeals Court since 1995 who was a civil rights lawyer in the South and in Boston in the 1960's and 1970's, died on Friday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 65 and lived in Weston, Mass. The cause wa
 BIEBER-Herman. Herman left us on Monday, December 21, at the wonderful age of 97. His devotion and love for his son Dick, daughter-in-law Carole, and grandchildren Josh and Sarah was abounding. He was a source of pride and love for them. He was a Champion. Love Dinah.       
 EDELMAN-Harold. Age 75, on December 21, 1998. Architect and artist. Beloved husband of Judith; loving father of Marc and Joshua; grandfather of Gabriel, Daniel, Sarah, and Benjamin. Dear brother of Edna Friedman and Paul. In lieu of flowers donations to Jacob Perlow Hospice at Beth Israel M
 FEELEY-Brig. Gen. James Augustine, Jr. (U.S.M.C. Ret.), December 6, 1998 at Laguna Niguel, CA, of cancer, age 82. Husband of the late Inger Holm Culbertson Feeley; father of Sarah Feeley Johnson; stepfather of the late James Willis Culberston Feeley and of Constance Culberston Feeley Reed. 
 FURTH-Alfred. On December 21, 1998. Beloved husband of Beatrice and the late Margot. Loving stepfather of Jay & Bruce and fatherin-law of Marsha. Cherished grandfather to Heather & Adam. Dear brother-in-law of Lillian and Lewis Ballin, and uncle of Karyn, Andrew and Ronald. Services Thursda
 GEVERTZ-Bruce David, 37. Died suddenly on December 21, 1998. Loving husband of Jackie (Tobey) Gevertz. Devoted father of Willie, Justin and Andrew. Beloved son of Joan Mark and Allan Gevertz. Cherished brother of John. He was a graduate of Middlebury College and J.I. Kellogg School of Busin
 GORDON - Kenneth. Cherished son of Vivien & Sherwin, devoted brother & best friend of Jonathan. Kenny's spontaneity, humor and love of life will always be treasured by us & missed by his loyal friends. Donations can be made to the Central Synagogue Restoration Fund. Services were held on Tu
 JACKSON-David S. Died on December 20, at age 96. Husband of Freda. Survived by his daughters Linda, wife of Andrew Segal, and Nancy, wife of Paul Godwin. He also leaves grandsons Edward Segal and William Segal.       
 KAMINSTEIN-Hank, on Monday, December 21, of Boston, MA and Bonita Springs, FL. Beloved husband of Janet. Loving father of Greg and Pam, Steve, Susan and Mark, and Ann. Cherished grandfather of Ashley, Kylee, McKenzi, and Rainbow. Dear brother of Nancy Tulis. Services will be private. A cele
 LAURENDI-Natale (Nat), Brooklyn, NY. Noted NYC Polygraphist, retired NYC Detective. Beloved husband of Laura (nee Autelitano). Devoted father of Domenick, Adrienne, Loretta, Diana and Robert. Father-in-law of Dorothy, Nicholas, Richard and Camille. Loving grandfather of Maria, Nicholas Jr.,
 LEVY-Samuel J. The Board of Overseers of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with deep sorrow the passing of Samuel J. Levy, a past chairman of our Society of Founders and a Guardian of our University. To his wife, Marie, and to the entire family, we offer 
 O'MALLEY-Thomas, Jr. age 60 died December 19th, 1998 in Indianapolis. He was an attorney and a member of the New York Bar Association. He worked for the Federal Government until his death for The Dept. of Housing and Urban Development. He is survived by his wife, Rosemary O'Malley, & a daug
 VARTANY-Alexandre, M.D. The Medical Staff at Metropolitan Hospital Center/New York Medical College notes with deep regret the passing of their friend and colleague, Alexandre Vartany, M.D., on December 19, 1998. Dr. Vartany served on the staff of Metropolitan Hospital Center for thirty-two 
 ZAPAKIN-Harmon. Coordinating Council of Cooperatives, Coordinated Housing Services and 1st Rochdale Cooperative Group join the cooperative community in mourning the passing of our colleague, a true giant. For 40 years, Harmon quietly made a difference in the quality of life for countless Ne
 Paul H. Smucker, the former chairman of the jelly company in Orrville, Ohio, that bears his family's name, died last Thursday at his home in Orrville. He was 81. Mr. Smucker is credited with helping transform the J. M. Smucker Company from a small, regional jam and jelly manufacture
 Anatoly Rybakov, whose long-suppressed novel about the Stalinist era, ''Children of the Arbat,'' finally appeared in 1987 to affirm the reality of glasnost, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 and also had a home in Moscow. His wife, Tatyana Rybakova, said that he die
 The Rev. Lord Soper, a Methodist minister and Labor peer who was the most famous and longest-running soapbox orator at Speakers' Corner in Hyde Park, died on Tuesday in London. He was 95. A strikingly handsome silver-haired man dressed in a black cassock and white collar, he was alw
 CHEW-Sek Jin, M.D., Ph.D., F.R.C.S. The Glaucoma Foundation profoundly regrets announcing the death of Dr. Sek Jin Chew, 39, Professor of Ophthalmology at the Singapore National Eye Center and Deputy Director of the Singapore Eye Research Institute, Singapore. A brilliant ophthalmologist an
 DINSTEIN-Stanford. The partners, associates and staff of Goldberg Weprin & Ustin LLP are shocked and saddened by the sudden death of our dear friend and client, Stan Dinstein. It was a pleasure to know Stan. He will be sorely missed by his friends and family and by everyone who appreciated 
 FURTH-Alfred D. The Weizmann Institute of Science and its American Committee mourn the passing of a generous supporter and valued member of the ACWIS Board of Directors. We express sincere condolences to his wife Beatrice, and to the entire family. Gershon Kekst, Chairman Weizmann Institute
 GEVERTZ-Bruce David. 37. Died suddenly on December 21, 1998. Loving husband of Jackie (Tobey) Gevertz. Devoted father of Willie, Justin and Andrew. Beloved son of Joan Mark and Allan Gevertz. Cherished brother of John. He was a graduate of Middlebury College and J.L. Kellogg School of Busin
 HERSHEY-Philip. Age 85. Husband of the late Faye, father of Nancy Lord and Edward Hershey, grandfather of Rebecca Hershey and Jonathan and Alexander Lord. Longtime executive New York State Department of Labor; Adjunct Professor of Mathematics, City University of New York; Honored volunteer 
 SHACKMAN-Nathan H, MD, retired physician, passed away Dec. 19, 1998, in Santa Barbara, California, at age 89. A graduate of NYU School of Medicine, he practiced internal medicine and cardiology in Brooklyn, New York, and Los Angeles, CA. Devoted husband, father, and physician, he is survive
 TELLER-Sam Sidney, 99. Beloved husband of the late Eva Ruth Teller, adored father of Selma E. Mertz and Eleanore Rosen, dear father-in-law of Martin F. Mertz & Dr. Theodore Rosen, cherished grandfather of Wendy, Kathy, Amy, Gary, Leslie, Jamie, and Diane, loving great-grandfather of Carrie,
 VARTANY-Alexandre, M.D. The Missionary Sisters of the Sacred Heart and the Medical Staff of Cabrini Medical Center mourn the loss of their esteemed colleague, who served our institution for more than 35 years. Dr. Vartany was a dedicated physician who always showed a sincere concern for his
 Joseph Esherick, a self-effacing architect who won acclaim for his people-friendly designs and turned an old canning factory in San Francisco into a renowned shopping complex, died on Dec. 17 at a hospital in San Francisco. He was 83 and lived in San Francisco. His firm, Esherick, H
 DINSTEIN-Stanford. Stan, we adored you. We counted on you for your wisdom, your enthusiasm, your loyalty, and your total and absolute generosity. We looked to you for comfort and advice. We need it now. Our deepest sympathies to Shelly, Daniel, Russell, and the entire heart broken family. D
 LIND-Dr. John K., Columbia Univeristy, Professor of Dentistry. Died at home Wednesday, Dec. 23, after a long battle with heart disease & lung cancer. His beloved companion, Deena Wolfson survives Dr. Lind. Other survivors include a son and daughter from his marriage to Violet Lind, a reside
 McDONALD-John D. On December 23, 1998, age 92, of respiratory failure. Husband of artist Dorothy Eisner McDonald, who died in 1984; father of Joan McD. Miller and Christie McDonald; father-inlaw of Richard Miller and Michael Rosengarten; grandfather of Lucas Miller and Adam and Jacob Vance.
 Jan Meyerowitz, a prolific composer whose varied catalogue includes eight operas and many chamber, symphonic and choral works, died in Colmar, France, on Dec. 15. He was 85. Mr. Meyerowitz's music, which is lyrical and dramatic, often combines a Neo-Classical sense of structure with
 Mike McAlary, whose bulletproof swagger and unyielding reporting about the New York Police Department made him the city's dominant tabloid reporter of the last decade, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 41 and, earlier this year, was awarded the Pulitzer Prize fo
 CITRIN-Gary. Temple Israel of South Merrick records with profound sorrow the passing of its past president. We extend condolences to his bereaved family. Carol Turoff, President Maurice Simckes, Rabbi       
 DINSTEIN-Stanford. Stan, we adored you. We counted on you for your wisdom, your enthusiasm, your loyalty, and your total and absolute generosity. We looked to you for comfort and advice. We need it now. Our deepest sympathies to Shelly, Daniel, Russell, and the entire heart broken family. D
 DOHERTY-Randolph Jr. age 61 of Mountain Lakes, NJ and Santa Fe, New Mexico, formerly of Englewood, NJ. Died suddenly on December 18, 1998. President of the Benjamin Eastwood Company in Paterson, NJ, he attended Phillips Andover Academy and William College in Massachusetts and the Columbia U
 GOLDIN-Alan Stuart. Beloved son of Fred Goldin and the late Millie Goldin. Cherished brother of Leslie and Anne Dee Goldin. Loving uncle to Michaela Millie Goldin. Aadored stepson of Carol Spielman. Special friend of Diane Spiro. He was the kindest and most beautiful person and was loved by
 LIND-John K., Dr., Columbia University, Professor of Dentistry, died at home on Wednesday, December 23rd after a long battle with heart disease and lung cancer. Dr. Lind was born in New York on April 18, 1931, the son of Hazel Taylor and Thomas Lind. He was a graduate of St. John's College 
 MAHONEY-Waldron. On December 22nd, 1998 in Delray Beach, Florida, in his 97th year. Survived by his wife Evelyn, daughters Margot Haddock and Alicia Olney, 7 sister Margaret Mahoney, seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. Founded Waldron Mahoney Inc. in 1924, a New York City insur
 McDONALD-John D. On December 23, 1998, age 92, of respiratory failure. Husband of artist Dorothy Eisner McDonald, who died in 1984; father of Joan McD. Miller and Christie McDonald; father-inlaw of Richard Miller and Michael Rosengarten; grandfather of Lucas Miller and Adam and Jacob Vance.
 OLSEN-Joseph S. Died on December 23, 1998. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Keith, Drew and Gwen. Loving grandfather of Elizabeth. Predeceased by his brother F. Richard. He was portfolio manager and former director of research at Benefit Capital Management: Union Carbide Corpor
 RABAGO-Lawrence. Age 65. Restauranteur of Port Washington, Long Island. On December 24, 1998. Beloved husband of Deirdre. Adoring father of Kevin and Lawrence, Jr. Stepfather to John, Michael and Patti Napoli. Devoted grandfather of nine. Reposing at Austin F. Knowles, Inc. Funeral Home, 12
 Pierre Vallieres, a writer and political advocate whose raw, emotional manifesto on injustice and violence became the intellectual foundation of the early Quebec separatist movement, died on Tuesday in Montreal. He was 60. Mr. Vallieres never fully recovered from a heart attack last
 Maj. Gen. Charles D. Mize, a combat veteran of three wars who won the Navy Cross with the First Marine Division in the Korean War and who was its commander a quarter-century later, died on Dec. 10 at Inova Alexandria Hospital in Alexandria, Va. General Mize was 77 and lived in Falls Church,
 E. W. (Skip) Etchells, a boat builder and world champion yachtsman, died last Sunday in Memorial Hospital in Easton, Md. He was 87. Most yacht racing is done in one-design sailboats, all built to a specific design so that the outcome rests with the skill of the crew rather than the 
 Dr. Odo J. Struger, who invented the programmable logic controller, which makes possible modern factory automation, amusement park rides and lavish stage effects in Broadway productions, died on Dec. 8 in Cleveland. He was 67. He had thyroid cancer, family members said. The 
 ABRIN-Oscar. On December 23, 1998, at age 93. Beloved husband of the late Kate. Devoted father of Ruth and Jack Nodiff, Judi and Mark Levy, and Miriam Abrin. Adored grandfather of Debra, Eric and Karen, David and Amy, Dawn and Adam, Dina and Michael, Olan, Thauna, Radha, Sacha and Rachel. G
 APPLEBY-Lee. On December 25, 1998. Beloved husband of Anita. Devoted father of Tom and David. Adored grandfather of Lara, Ian, Keith, Nicole and Andrew. Loving brother of Bill. You will be missed. Receiving Sunday, December 27, at 1 PM at the family apartment. APPLEBY-Lee. The kinde
 BAER-Morris (Moe). September 3, 1914-December 18, 1998, of Del Ray Beach, FL., passed away peacefully in his sleep after many years of extended illnesses. The sweet, quiet, WWII veteran leaves behind a legacy of wonderful memories for his family and friends. He lived his life in a manner be
 BLUM-Jerome W. Age 94 on December 24, 1998. Beloved husband of Selma, devoted father to Anne Kelleher (deceased), loving grandfather of eight and greatgrandfather of nine. Previous marriages were to Edith Victorson & Dorothy Brill (both deceased). Retired as Executive V.P. of United Merchan
 COHEN-Yehudi A. On December 17, 1998. Died peacefully at home after long illness. He was Professor Emeritus of Anthropology at Rutgers University. He is survived by his daughter, Lisa Peet, grandson, Gideon Peet, and sister, Hadassah Gordis. He will be missed as well by his friends, colleag
 DOHERTY-Randolph Jr. age 61 of Mountain Lakes, NJ and Santa Fe, New Mexico, formerly of Englewood, NJ. Died suddenly on December 18, 1998. President of the Benjamin Eastwood Company in Paterson, NJ, he attended Phillips Andover Academy and William College in Massachusetts and the Columbia U
 EGGERT-Joseph R., Jr. Age 85, formerly of Cold Spring Harbor, NY, died at his home in Millbrook, NY, on Christmas Eve, 1998. Beloved husband of Hester Reed, deceased. He is survived by his five children, Hester Weeden, Amanda Stukenberg, Joseph Eggert, Elizabeth Eggert, Edward Eggert; his f
 ELBIRT-Jacob. On Dec. 25, 1998. Devoted husband of Laura. Beloved father of Morton and Paula. Cherished grandfather of Adam, Benjamin, David & Shira. Loving brother of Rachael and Helen. His lifelong devotion to the state of Israel and the Jewish people was served by his many charitable act
 FRANKLIN-Arthur. A decorated war veteran died December 26, 1998. A dear and wonderful husband, father and grandfather who will be missed by Hortense, Richard, Rafoel, Naomi and six treasured grandchildren. Beloved by who all who knew him.       
 GOLDBERGER-Earl M. Age 76, died December 26, 1998, at his home in Scarsdale, NY. He is suvived by his wife Marilyn, his children John and Lenore, Sara Lynn, Peter and Ro, Andrew and Shannon. Also survived by six grandchidlren. Funeral services are private.       
 GOLDIN-Alan Stuart. Beloved son of Fred Goldin and the late Millie Goldin. Cherished brother of Leslie and Anne Dee Goldin. Loving uncle to Michaela Millie Goldin. Aadored stepson of Carol Spielman. Special friend of Diane Spiro. He was the kindest and most beautiful person and was loved by
 GOULD-James Pearson, DSc. Geotechnical Engineer. Born October 9, 1922, Seattle, Washington. Died December 25, 1998, at his home in New York City, of lung cancer. Deeply mourned by his wife, Kristin White Gould; his son, James Edward Gould, of Greenwich, CT; his daughter, Diane Gould Peters,
 HERSHEY-Philip. The Members and our personnel express our heartfelt condolences to the entire family on the passing, December 22, 1998, in Florida, of the father of our esteemed Member, Nancy Hershey Lord and her brother Edward Hershey. He will be remembered as a brilliant, perceptive and c
 HOYDA-Louis Andrew, of Fairfield, CT and Chatham, MA passed away on December 22, 1998 at the age of 66. He was born February 7, 1932, a single child of Louis and Mary Hoyda and resided in New York City moving to Connecticut in the 1950's. He was a veteran of the United States Army. He gradu
 LANGER-Michael Adam, M.D., 45, of Los Angeles died Dec. 22, 1998. Dr. Langer was a dedicated physician, loyal friend and a loving son, brother and uncle. A kind and courageous man he will be missed by family and many friends. He is survived by his parents, Martin and Estelle Langer, brother
 LEVKOWITZ-Dr. Jack. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the father of its devoted member Helene Levkowitz. May his entire family be comforted among those who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Dr. Jacob J. Schacter, Rabbi Samuel Goldman, President Elza Weinman, Sisterhood       
 LIND-Dr. John K., Columbia Univeristy, Professor of Dentistry. Died at home Wednesday, Dec. 23, after a long battle with heart disease & lung cancer. His beloved companion, Deena Wolfson survives Dr. Lind. Other survivors include a son and daughter from his marriage to Violet Lind, a reside
 MEYEROWITZ-Jan. Composer dies, age 85, in Colmar, France, December 15th, 1998. Known as a humanist of impressive culture, he was a great pianist, conductor, musicologist and composer. A student of von Zemlinsky, Malipiero, Casella, Respighi both in Berlin and Rome, he was afterwards the ass
 MILLER-Donald H., Jr. Vice President and General Manager of the magazine Scientific American for 32 years until his retirement in 1979. Died on December 22, at home in Chappaqua, NY. He was 84. Survived by his wife of 50 years, Claire; children Linda Itkin, Geoff Kaufman, Sheila Miller Bern
 MONES-Arthur. Died December 24. Photographer. Beloved husband, father, lover. Survived by Helen, Stephanie, Wayne, Alex, Holly, Beth, Richie and Kenny. MONES-Arthur. Died December 24. His gentle presence will be profoundly missed by his loving companion Helen Mandelbaum and by Beth,
 MONNES-Seymour. Wonderful husband, father, grandfather, great grandfather, uncle and friend died on December 22, 1998 at his home in Sunny Isles, FL.       
 SCHULDENFREI-Richard, M.D. Age 66, on December 26, 1998. It is with great sadness we note the passing of a man who embraced life in all its glory. Leaving his beloved wife, Arlene; cherished son, Mark (Dante); granddaughter, Anna; loving brother, Harvey (Naomi) and adoring step-children, Lo
 SCHUR-Jerry A. Of Lake Worth, FL, formerly of Long Beach, NY, on December 24, at 92. Loving husband of Laura. Devoted father of Matthew and Henry. Adoring grandpa of Jennifer. Educator and mentor at Stuyvesant High School and Hofstra University for half of the 20th Century. His nurturing lo
 WILLIAMS-Craig. Also known as William Pfeiler. Passed away peacefully at his home in Ft. Lauderdale, FL. on December 20, 1998. He will be remembered by many in the New York antiques world where he worked for over 35 years and in particular by colleagues and friends of Hyde Park Antiques and
 Edwin Evariste Moise, Distinguished Professor of Mathematics emeritus at Queens College and an author of textbooks, who helped decipher German and Japanese military signals in World War II, died Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was compli
 Merwin F. Kaminstein, a former retail executive, died on Dec. 21 at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. Mr. Kaminstein, a resident of Boston and Bonita Springs, Fla., was 63. The cause was cancer, said his niece, Gail Cohen. Mr. Kaminstein headed several department sto
 BERLOWITZ - Alan Athlete, teacher, for 30 years in the Bronx and at St. Agatha's in Nanuet, camp counselor for 20 years at Deerkill in Pomona, photographer, collector, dreamer and hedonist. Died on December 26, 1998, after a nine year battle with AIDS. He is survived by his two sons, Gregor
 BLUM-Jerome W. Age 94, on December 24, 1998. Beloved husband of Selma, devoted father to Anne Kelleher (deceased), loving grandfather of eight and greatgrandfather of nine. Previous marriages were to Edith Victorson & Dorothy Brill (both deceased). Retired as Executive V.P. of United Mercha
 BRUNSON-Mark Anthony On December 23, in New York City. Beloved son of Ann Brunson of Mesquite, TX, and Phillip Brunson of Dryden, NY. Loving brother of Bruce Brunson and Allison Weaver. Cherished uncle of Erica Weaver. Also survived by a wide circle of loving and devoted friends. A celebrat
 ELBIRT-Jacob. The Federation of Wolynian Jews in USA mourns with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved, longtime President. His spirited determination to perpetuate the memory of the Eastern European Jews killed during WW II was instrumental in building the Heichal Yehadut Wolyn-Yad Va
 GOULD-James Pearson, DSc. Geotechnical Engineer. Born October 9, 1922, Seattle, Washington. Died December 25, 1998, at his home in New York City, of lung cancer. Deeply mourned by his wife, Kristin White Gould; his son, James Edward Gould, of Greenwich, CT; his daughter, Diane Gould Peters,
 GRANT-John L. Age 76, died on December 24 in NYC. A 35-year resident of NYC and Quogue, LI. He was Financial Vice President of Sinclair Oil Corp. and Executive Vice President and a Director of American Standard, Inc. He was also a Director of Air Products and Chemicals, Inc. In NYC, he was 
 MAHONEY-Waldron. On December 22nd, 1998 in Delray Beach, Florida, in his 97th year. Survived by his wife Evelyn, daughters Margot Haddock and Alicia Olney, sister Margaret Mahoney, seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. Founded Waldron Mahoney, Inc., in 1924, a New York City insur
 PASTORE-Dr. Nicholas. Age 82, died December 26, 1998. Noted psychologist, author, lecturer and professor. Beloved brother of Dolores, Mildred and Vincent. He was dearly loved and will be missed by his family, friends and colleagues. He devoted his life to the pursuit of truth. May he rest i
 PAVLIS-Anthony George. On December 24, 1998 at Jacksonville, FL. Husband of Blanche U. Pavlis. Survived by her, by sons Paul, George, Alfred; daughters Maria and Ruth and nine grandchildren. Funeral Services will be held 11 AM Wednesday, December 30, at St. John the Divine, 3860 Atlantic Av
 PICK-Aron M. 52, of Montvale, on Thursday, December 24, 1998, while vacationing in Nassau, Bahamas. Beloved husband of Alayne (nee Buchwalter). Devoted father of Rebecca and Naomi. Mr. Pick was a founder and Chief Executive Officer of Nydic Open MRI of America. He received a Juris Doctor fr
 SHANNON-Rev. Charles T., O.P. On December 26, 1998. Of St. Mary Priory, New Haven. Formerly of New York area parishes. Besides the Dominican community, he is survived by his sister Regina Shannon Bodnar of MD, his two nephews Patrick and Matthew Bodnar, and his aunt Mary Shannon McNulty of 
 SPILER-Seymour. Of Bayside, NY. December 27, 1998. Beloved husband of Susan. Adored father of David and Suzy and Andrew and Rosemarie. Devoted Poppy to Philip, Alexa and Kara. Loving brother of Brenda and David Schensul. Wonderful brother-inlaw to Jay and Sharon Shapiro. Dedicated uncle to 
 SYMONDS-George W.D. Died at home on December 25, 1998. He is survived by his wife Margaret P. Symonds and sons George D. and David P. Symonds; daughter Frances S. Riggs; granddaughters Adrienne and Margaret Symonds and grandsons Tristan and Cooper Riggs. He is a graduate of Kent School (193
 Syl Apps, the Hall of Fame center of the Toronto Maple Leafs when they dominated the National Hockey League in the 1940's and one of Canada's finest all-round athletes of his era, died Thursday at his home in Kingston, Ontario. He was 83. In his 10 years in the N.H.L., Apps had 201 
 Hurd Hatfield, the handsome actor forever identified with the title role in the 1945 movie version of Oscar Wilde's novel ''The Picture of Dorian Gray,'' died on Friday at a friend's home in Monktown, Ireland. Since the 1970's, he had been living in Rothcormack, Ireland. He was 80. 
 CASTELNUOVO-Dr. Lamberto. The Queens-Long Island Medical Group and the Nassau-Queens Region mourn the death of one of its founders, Dr. Lamberto Castelnuovo. Dr. Castelnuovo has been a major force in the success of the group, particularly the Flushing Center, where he had worked for the pas
 COVELLI-Patrick. The National Kidney Foundation of New York/ New Jersey mourns the untimely passing of Patrick Covelli, father, husband, son, brother. The longtime support and involvement of the Covelli family in the struggle against kidney disease has been a blessing to our foundation and 
 EHRLICH-Ira, on December 25, 1998. Age 93 years. Attorney-atlaw specializing in immigration for over 60 years. Survived by brother, Stanley, nephew, David, & his wife, Joanne, and great-grandnephew Alexander. Memorial service will be held at ''The Riverside,'' Sunday, January 3, at 1 P.M.  
 ELBIRT-Jack. State of Israel Bonds mourns the passing of a devoted leader, the longtime President of the Federation of Wolynian Jews of America. For over 32 years Jack ran successful State of Israel Bonds functions, raising millions of dollars in investment capital to help build Israel's ec
 FAWCETT-Jackson. On December 24, 1998, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Bessie, loving father of Susan Sosin and Cynthia Parham, adoring grandfather of Clifford, Tyler, and Clarissa. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Monday, January 4th, at 12 noon. In
 GOLDEN-David M. Born in Providence, Rhode Island December 18, 1946. Having only been diagnosed on November 6, 1998, died of colon cancer on December 28, 1998 in his home in Chappaqua, N.Y. He is deeply mourned by his beloved wife Lee Golden and his sons, Sam & Matt of Chappaqua. David is al
 HARMON-Stephen I., 60, died on December 26, 1998, in Brooklyn, NY. He is survived by his wife, Lynn; his children, David, Jeffrey, Rachel, Abigail, Lawrence, and Robert; his brothers Robert and Richard, & his mother Rhya. Shiva Tuesday and Wednesday, 7 PM at home. He was cherished.       
 O'LEARY-James F. Of Spring Lake, New Jersey, formerly of Chatham Twp., NJ on December 27, 1998. Beloved husband of Anne Murnane O'Leary. Father of Laura O'Leary of Summit, NJ; James F., Jr. and his wife Laura Ann of Madison, NJ; Lynne Buckalew and her husband John of Howell Twp., NJ. Grandf
 PIVKO-Tibor. Sutton Place Synagogue records with sorrow the loss of our esteemed member. Our condolences to his dear wife, Heddy and the entire bereaved family. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President       
 RICHARDSON-Willoughby F. Jr. December 28, 1998. Son of the late Willoughby F. and Alice (Shearer) Richardson, he was, until 1994, a lifelong resident of Scarsdale, New York, and was currently residing at the Madison House, Madison, CT. Father of Willoughby F. Richardson, III, Shearer Richar
 STEIN-Michael, 55, died peacefully at home on December 27. He is survived by his beloved children, Peter and Julie, his devoted friend Philip Schacter, his ex-wife Sharon and his brother Jamie. He made countless friends through his many walks of life and will be dearly missed by the greats 
 SUSSMAN-Leo. Beloved husband of Sylvia; devoted father of Bruce & Sharon, Jay and Linda. Loving grandfather of Brooke & Samantha. Attorney, real estate owner and manager for over 50 years. Services today, 12 noon, at ''Riverside Memorial Chapel'', 21 West Broad Street, Mt. Vernon, NY.      
 SYMONDS-George W.D. Died at home on December 25, 1998. He is survived by his wife Margaret P. Symonds and sons George D. and David P. Symonds; daughter Frances S. Riggs; granddaughters Adrienne and Margaret Symonds and grandsons Tristan and Cooper Riggs. He is a graduate of Kent School (193
 TORRISI-Angelo M. Of Scarsdale, N.Y. Died Dec. 28, 1998. Born to Rosario and Maria Morano Torrisi in New York City on February 26, 1917. Mr. Torrisi graduated Fordham Collge in 1937, Harvard Law School in 1940, Harvard Business School and Yale School of Metallurgy in 1942, served in the U.S
 ZUCKERMAN - Minnie. Sutton Place Synagogue extends heartfelt condolences to our devoted Trustee, Paul Zuckerman on the loss of his beloved mother. Our sympathies to the bereaved family. Allan Schranz, Rabbi Robert W. Berend, President       
 William R. Perl, who as a young  lawyer in Vienna organized a waterborne rescue operation that carried thousands of Jews from Nazi-occupied Europe to Palestine, died last Thursday at his home in Beltsville, Md., near Washington. He was 92. Years after his operation, which he called 
 Hans Oeschger, a Swiss geologist who sounded early warnings about the risk that emissions of industrial waste gases might bring on climate change, died on Friday, after a long illness, according to press reports from Bern. He was 71. He spent nearly 40 years in the Department of Phy
 BARON-George, on December 26 at the age of 97 in Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of the late Florence Baron and father of the late Miriam Zerman, he is survived by his daughter Judith Cherot, his grandchildren Andrew Zerman, Jared Zerman, Lenore Zerman, David Haber, Karen Haber and Eric Hab
 BARON-William J. Beloved husband of Rose Baron and devoted father of Morris Baron and Roberta Quinn. Services were held at Joseph E. Campbell Funeral Home on 12/29/98 at 10AM. Mr. William J. Baron was a financial advisor; disabled veteran of WWII and he will be greatly missed.       
 BELTRAN-Rafael. The Department of Ophthalmology of The New York Eye and Ear Infirmary expresses deep sympathy to the family of Rafael Beltran, M.D., whose longterm service to the Infirmary was recognized at his retirement by being named Honorary Attending Surgeon. Joseph P. Corcoran Preside
 BENSON-Bobby. On Dec. 21, 1998. The dance world mourns the passing of Bobby Benson, dancer/ teacher extraodinaire! His dance expertise will always be artistically embraced by those whose lives he touched. John Lucchese and friends       
 BERIZZI-Dario C. Born August 4, 1915 to Stefano and Paola Berizzi of NY, died on December 25, 1998 in Gettysburg, PA. He was a graduate of the Lawrenceville School and Harvard College. Mr. Berizzi worked for many years for J.P. Stevens and Co., Fame Fabrics, and Guilford Mills. Survived by 
 CASTELNUOVO-Dr. Lamberto G. Lamberto's loving family in Rome, Italy mourns his passing. He is survived by his nephew Paolo, nieces Rosella and Lori, sisterin-law Sally and great nieces and nephews Federico, Francesco, Gabrielle, Ricardo, Victoria and Olympia. Lamberto was the youngest of th
 DURAKIS-Manuel A (''Duke''). On Dec. 29, 1998, beloved husband of Catherine (nee Maridakis), loving father of Thomas and Lori, proud grandfather of Catherine, Christine, and Stephanie. Visiting on Wednesday 2-4 and 7-9 P.M. Clavin Funeral Home, 7722 Fourth Avenue, Brooklyn. Funeral service 
 EHRLICH-Ira, on December 25, 1998. Age 93 years. Attorney-atlaw specializing in immigration for over 60 years. Survived by brother, Stanley, nephew, David, and his wife, Joanne, and grand-nephew Alexander. Memorial service will be held at ''The Riverside,'' Sunday, January 3, at 1 P.M.     
 FAWCETT-Jackson. On December 24, 1998, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Bessie, loving father of Susan Sosin and Cynthia Parham, adoring grandfather of Clifford, Tyler, and Clarissa. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Monday, January 4th, at 12 noon. In
 FINKEL-Saul. The Young Israel of West Hempstead has suffered a great loss with the passing of Saul Finkel on Tuesday, December 29th, 1998. Mr. Finkel was a beloved member and an individual devoted to his Jewish heritage. He is survived by his wife Muriel and two sons, and is mourned by the 
 GETZLER - Herbert (Buzzy). Passed away quietly in his sleep on Dec. 1, 1998, after much suffering due to a long and painful illness. We would like to thank his family, his many friends in Jupiter, FL, his business associates, for all their kindness. He is survived by his father, Max Getzler
 GOLDBERG-Harvey. Of Harrison, NY. Graduate of Colgate University class of 1958; Columbia Law School; former Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of NY and recipient of many scholastic awards. Died Dec. 29, 1998. He is survived by devoted wife Gail, beloved son of Seymo
 LEONARD-Archie Willard. Died December 23, 1998 at his home in Beaufort, SC. A graduate of South Kent School and Princeton University (class of '39). He worked for Pan American World Airways for thirty years. He is survived by his wife of 52 years Ann Morrison Leonard, a brother, three child
 OLLENDORFF-Ulrich, M.D. Born in Breslau, Germany, May 10, 1906. Beloved husband of Anne Ollendorff and father of Stephen and David Ollendorff. Devoted grandfather of Linda, Arthur and Robert Ollendorff. Dr. Ollendorff left Germany in 1938 with a young family and established a sucessful opht
 ROSEN-Maurice M. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound sorrow at the loss of Maurice M. Rosen of Bryn Mawr, PA, a guiding force in our organization. During his more than 40years of exemplary devotion, Mr. Rosen helped found the Philadelphia Ch
 YONSON-Rev. Wenceslaus. The Diocese of Brooklyn announces the death of the retired parochial vicar of Holy Innocents Church, 279 East 17th St, Brooklyn, on December 28. Reposing at Holy Family Nursing Home, 1740 84th St, Brooklyn, Wednesday, Dec. 30, from 2 to 5 and 7 to 9 PM, Funeral Mass,
 ZLOCZOWER-Walter August 22, 1931 - December 27, 1998. Beloved husband of Charlotte, devoted father of Jeffrey and Anita, adored grandfather of Cherise, Daniel, and Alyse. To know him was to love him. Memorial Services, January 24, at 2:30PM, The Abode, New Lebanon, NY (snow date, Jan 31). I
 BLOOMFIELD - Sylvan, M.D. 1911-1993. Forever in the hearts of his wife, family, and friends.       
 HORNICK-Murray. Dec. 30, 1918Oct. 4, 1994. May the road rise up to meet you. May the wind be always at your back. And may God hold you in the hollow of his hand. Always remembered with love. Your Family       
 Prof. Harmer E. Davis, the founding director of the California Institute of Transportation Studies at the University of California at Berkeley,  died on Dec. 24 at his home in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 93. Professor Davis spent 45 years on the Berkeley campus. He was born in Roche
 ADLER-Edward, Dr., of Englewood, NJ. Died December 29, 1998 at age 82. He was a Consulting Scientist and Electrochemist. Inventor of numerous patents and founder of Copper Foil Corporation, a manufacturer of high perfermance copper foil for printed circuits. A graduate of CCNY and Columbia 
 BATTEN-Tony. His many friends & admirers mourn the passing of a distinguished filmmaker during Christmas week after a long illness, and extend deepest condolences to his wife Ghislaine Hermanuz, her son Dahoud, parents Olga and John Edmonds, sister Evelyn and brother John. Services will be 
 DEWEY-Robert F. Died in North Hollywood, CA, Friday, December 25, 1998 at age 67. Born January 29, 1931 to Charles and Marjorie Evans Dewey in Pleasantville, NY where he was raised & educated. He served in the army in the Korean War. Mr. Dewey is survived by a sister, Dorothy Goodding, of F
 FARDELMANN-Dr. Robert L. of Garden City, NY died peacefully at home December 27. A memorial service will be held Saturday, Jan. 2, 10:30 AM at the Garden City Community Church, corner Stuart Avenue and Whitehall Blvd. in Garden City, NY. In lieu of flowers, contributions in his memory may b
 FAWCETT-Jackson. On December 24, 1998, after a long illness. Beloved husband of Bessie, loving father of Susan Sosin and Cynthia Parham, adoring grandfather of Clifford, Tyler, and Clarissa. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Monday, January 4th, at 12 noon. In
 FINKEL-Saul. The Young Israel of West Hempstead has suffered a great loss with the passing of Saul Finkel, Monday, December 28th, 1998. Mr. Finkel was a longtime beloved member and a veteran of World War II. He is survived by his wife Muriel, two sons Mark and Herb, and sister Marilyn Lerne
 GOLDBERG-Harvey M. Of Harrison, NY. Graduate of Colgate University class of 1958; Columbia Law School; former Assistant United States Attorney for the Southern District of NY and recipient of many scholastic awards. Died Dec. 29, 1998. He is survived by devoted wife Gail, beloved son of Sey
 GOLDMAN-Lee. Our dear friend whose passing has left a void in all our lives. He will be remembered by all as a kind and caring person. Marsha and Nat; Carol and Irwin Marilyn and Barry; Sheila and Al Barbara and Morty; Lil and Bernie Maggie and Marty; Mimi and Joel       
 KAYNIS-Samuel A., died peacefully on December 27, 1998 at the age of 96. Husband for sixty-seven years of the late Daisy B. Kaynis, father of Katherine Goldsmith and Michael D. Kaynis, father-in-law of Sabine Kaynis and Clifford H. Goldsmith, grandfather of Alexandra Goldsmith Fallon. A fin
 O'MALLEY-Thomas J., Jr. Age 62, of Pelham Manor, NY, died Tuesday Dec. 29, 1998. He was the dear brother of Mary Theresa O'Malley. Mr. O'Malley was a graduated of All Hallows High School, Holy Cross College and Fordham Law School. He was formerly an Assistant District Attorney in Bronx Coun
 SATOW-Jed. On December 29, 1998. Beloved son of Phillip and Donna Satow. Loving brother of Michael and Julie, and sister-inlaw Barbara. Dear uncle of Max. Cherished grandson of Shirley Pechter & Sarah Satow. Services Thursday, 11:30 A.M., at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St
 SCHWARTZ-Dr. Charles, composer, on December 24, 1998. Founder and musical director of Composers' Showcase, he devoted a lifetime to the encouragement, support and presentation of new music through his series of Contrasts in Contemporary Music at the MOMA, the Whitney Museum and Lincoln Cent
 SHULMAN-Rabbi Nahum B. The Officers, Members of the Board and the Administration of OHEL, BAIS EZRA and The Lifetime Care Foundation for the Jewish Disabled mourn the passing of a dedicated member of our professional staff whose efforts during OHEL's early and formative years helped OHEL gr
 SLATKIN-Irving. On December 28. Devoted father, brother, uncle. Remembered with affection and respect by all who knew him.       
 STAR-Joseph of Roslyn Heights, New York. Died on December 16, 1998. Aerospace engineer, he held patents in many fields. A member of Tau Beta Pi, listed in ''American Men and Women of Science,'' known for his writings and expertise on the Rolls Royce automobile. He leaves his wife of 52 year
 SUSSMAN-Leo. The Officers and members of the Bronx Realty Advisory Board mourn the passing of a cherished Board member. The entire industry is indebted to Leo for his many contributions over the decades. Our heartfelt sympathy to his wife Sylvia, his sons Bruce and Jay and families. Ruben K
 VEREBAY-Max. Max Verebay, died on December 29, Boca Raton Florida. A friend, a mentor and our partner. He was a brilliant, dedicated and creative man. He enriched the lives of all those he touched. We extend our condolences to his wife Mollie, his children Hildi and Walter Black, Jodi and L
 BERRY-Stephen G. First anniversary. November 11, 1951-December 31, 1997. Remembered always by his wife, Mary, parents Pat and Gerry, family and friends       
 Dr. Raemer E. Schreiber, an experimental physicist who helped develop the atom bomb and the hydrogen bomb, died on Dec. 24 at his home in Los Alamos, N.M. He was 88. Dr. Schreiber, who was born in Oregon, received his doctorate from Purdue University in 1941, not long after the disc
