 Clifford Geertz, the eminent cultural anthropologist whose work focused on interpreting the symbols he believed give meaning and order to people's lives, died on Monday in Philadelphia. He was 80 and lived in Princeton, N.J. The cause was complications after heart surgery, according
 P. W. Botha, the South African leader who struggled vainly to preserve apartheid rule in a tide of domestic racial violence and global condemnation, died yesterday at his home in South Africa. He was 90. His death was reported by The South African Press Association in Cape Town, quo
 CHARTERS - Christopher, age 36. ''Coach Chris''. Beloved son of Patsy and Al Kahn. Soulmate of his twin, Michael; cherished brother of Tracy and Jason Franks and Cassidy Kahn. Loving uncle of Ava and Finn. Known to his friends and buddies as C Rubies. You left us too soon. Services Wednesda
 CLANCY--Reverend Monsignor Thomas C. Peacefully returned to the Lord on October 28, 2006. Born on March 14, 1920 to William Clancy and Elizabeth (nee Corrigan). Ordained to the Holy Priesthood on April 3, 1945. After many years of faithful service to the Diocese of Brooklyn, he was appointe
 GARDNER--Andrew. We join Kim, Jake, Kyle and Juliette in mourning the passing of our dear friend Andrew. Words cannot express the sorrow that we feel for ourselves and the family from this tragic loss. As a close friend and a roommate, we will honor and cherish the fond memories of Andrew, 
 GROLLMAN--Dr. William K. We mourn the passign of Bill Grollman, our co-founder and longtime leader. Bill was a friend, mentor, teacher and inspiration to an entire generation of accountants and educators. All those whose lives he touched will remember his limitless energy and unending optim
 KAYE--Stephen. The Officers, Directors and Executive Director of the New York State Trial Lawyers Association extend their sincere condolences to our Chief Judge on the passing of her beloved husband, Stephen Kaye. $(6$)KAYE--Stephen. Congregtion Shearith Israel mourns the loss of i
 LANDRUM--Donald W. 74, a native of Poquoson, Va. on October 29, 2006. Resident of New York City. Retired in 1997 from The New York Times where he was a member of the Pressman Union in New York. The family will receive friends Tuesday, October 31st at Claytor & Rollins Funeral Home, Poquoson
 LUCCI--Enzo Rangoni-Macchiavelli died October 31, 2006 at home. He was born December 27, 1903 in Rome, Italy, the grandson of the Marchese Aldobrandino Rangoni-Macchiavelli and Princess Luisa Publicola Santacroce. His parents were the Marchesa Alda RangoniMacchiavelli and the Honorable Arna
 LUCEK--Richard Charles, age 71, born on March 27, 1935 and passed away on October 28, 2006. An RPI '57 graduate, Richard was a professional engineer. After retirement he served his community by joining both the Scarsdale Volunteer Ambulance Corps. and Volunteer Fire Company 3. He was an act
 TAVITIAN--Henry O., Dr. On October 30, beloved son of the late Ohenes G. and Armenuhi M. Tavitian. Fond brother of Aso Tavitian. Born March 13, 1934 in Bulgaria came to the United States in 1961. After completing his residency at Northwestern University Dr. Tavitian served as a psychiatrist
 WHITE--Robert Nowell. After a courageous struggle with cancer, Bob White passed away peacefully at his New York home on October 25, 2006. Bob was born February 9, 1927 in Boston, Mass. He was educated at St. Marks School, Harvard, and SAIS, and served in the Army in Germany in 1945-46. Bob 
 ZEIDMAN--David S. The partners and staff of Zeidman, Lackowitz, Prisand & Co., LLP are deeply saddened by the loss of our beloved founding partner, David S. Zeidman, CPA. He was patient and kind and always smiled. His leadership, skill and subtle humor will be missed by all. We have establi
 HORNCASTLE--Raymond C., of Raleigh, NC, formerly of Scarsdale, NY, died peacefully at home on October 28th after a brief illness. He is survived by his wife of 43 years, Nancy; his sons, Court and Mark and his wife, Lorena; beloved grandchildren, Brian and Mallory; sisters, Mary Jane Fitzpa
 Silas Simmons, the former Negro leagues baseball player who was believed to be the longest-living professional ballplayer in history, died Sunday in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 111. His death was announced by a spokeswoman for the retirement home where he died. A Philadelphi
 Thomas R. Jones, a New York State assemblyman and judge who challenged Senator Robert F. Kennedy to address urban malaise and became the founding chairman of the Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Corporation, a leading organization in the 1960s' effort to revitalize urban ghettos, died on Frid
 BLOUSTEIN--Oscar, 90, of Scarborough, NY, died October 31. He is survived by his devoted wife Jeanne and son Laurence. Mr. Bloustein served for over 50 years as an attorney in public and private practice. He was a dedicated supporter of New York University Law School and the Edward J. Blous
 DUBNO--Peter. On October 30, 2006 at the age of 90. Beloved husband of I. Marguerite. Survived by his stepsons, Douglas & Kenneth; his children Karen, Lorna, Peter & Elyse; and six grandchildren. Formerly of NYC; psychologist, Professor Emeritus NYU Stern School of Business. A memorial serv
 GARDNER--Andrew. We mourn the untimely passing of our partner and friend, Andrew Gardner. Andrew brought energy and spirit to all that he did, whether in servicing clients' work, representing the indigent or mentoring our young lawyers. Andrew came to our firm as a summer associate in the s
 JONES--Thomas R. Heartfelt condolences from the Scherman Foundation to our Board member, David Jones, on the passing of his distinguished father. Karen R. Sollins, Chair Sandra Silverman, President       
 LUCCI--Enzo Rangoni-Macchiavelli died October 31, 2006 at home. He was born December 27, 1903 in Rome, Italy, the grandson of the Marchese Aldobrandino Rangoni-Macchiavelli and Princess Luisa Publicola Santacroce. His parents were the Marchesa Alda RangoniMacchiavelli and the Honorable Arna
 MELTZER -- Joel Simon. Passed away Tuesday, October 31, 2006. Born in New York City, Joel served in Naval Intelligence in post World War II Berlin. Upon returning stateside he moved to Miami Beach and began a successful career as a Publisher's Representative. Over five decades Joel represen
 SOMECH - Ellis. Congrega tion Shearith Israel mourns the loss of its devoted member and extends sympathy to his family. Peter Neustadter, Parnas       
 TAVITIAN--Henry O., Dr. On October 30, beloved son of the late Ohenes G. and Armenuhi M. Tavitian. Fond brother of Aso Tavitian. Born March 13, 1934 in Bulgaria came to the United States in 1961. After completing his residency at Northwestern University Dr. Tavitian served as a psychiatrist
 WHINSTON--Bertram Lee. Of Yarmouthport, MA formerly of Stamford, CT on October 31, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Leona Irene (Holman). Father of Alan & Alina Whinston of Jerusalam, Israel, Lyn Whinston-Perry & Itzhak Perry of Wayland, MA, Jonathan Lee & Darla Whinston of Silverthorne, C
 ZEIDMAN--David S. The partners and staff of Zeidman, Lackowitz, Prisand & Co., LLP are deeply saddened by the loss of our beloved founding partner, David S. Zeidman, CPA. He was patient and kind and always smiled. His leadership, skill and subtle humor will be missed by all. We have establi
 CHEVIGNARD--Jacques. The Grand Chambellan of the Confrerie des Chevaliers du Tastevin. Beloved friend, great patriot, builder and long time leader of the Confrerie, passed away on October 28, 2006 peacefully at his home in Nuits-Saint-Georges France. He was 89 and the first recipient of the
 Robert Anderson, who as president and chairman of the Rockwell International Corporation oversaw the construction of NASA space shuttles and the controversial B-1 long-range bomber, died Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 85. The cause was complications of cancer, said Pame
 William Styron, the novelist from the American South whose explorations of difficult historical and moral questions earned him a place among the leading literary figures of the post-World War II generation, died yesterday on Martha's Vineyard, Mass., where he had a home. He was 81. 
 BOGNER--P. Joseph. Passed away on Tuesday, October 31, 2006 at age 76. Beloved husband of the late Roseanne, and devoted father to Joe, John, Stephen, Chris, and Maura. Born in Chicago, IL, Joe graduated from Villanova before serving in the United States Navy during the Korean Conflict. He 
 FOUDY--Richard P., of Old Bridge, NJ, died November 1st, 2006 at his more recent residence in Coral Springs, FL. Husband of the late Marie Galvin Foudy. He is survived by his daughter, Joan Davis, and son, Richard Foudy. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., 
 GEERTZ--Clifford, 80, died October 30, 2006 of complications following heart surgery. Beloved husband of Karen I. Blu; father of Erika Reading and Benjamin; grandfather of Andrea and Elena. Also survived by his first wife Hildred Geertz. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be mad
 GURIN--George, November 1, 2006. Beloved husband of Ruth. Devoted father to Carole Moskowitz (Harold) and Neil (Mary). Cherished grandfather of Jill, Andrew, Amanda and Matthew. Loving great-grandfather of Daniel, Alex, Julia, Jessica and Talia. WW II veteran, lawyer and administrative judg
 LOWRY--David A. , Jr. David A. Lowry, Jr., age 73, of Prouts Neck, Me and Stuart, Fl. died October 30, at home after a long Illness. He is survived by his wife Ellen, three children, Linda, David and Michael Lowry, two stepchildren, Lanie Farias and Dylan Stark and nine grandchildren. Servi
 MacMILLAN--W. Duncan, age 76, of Wayzata, Minnesota, passed away on Tuesday, October 31, 2006, at his winter home in Jupiter, Florida. In his struggle with cancer and heart disease over the last three years, Duncan was astoundingly brave and positive, always hoping--and ultimately receiving
 MANOS--Emanuel (Mike), the employees and management of Carret Asset Management mourn the loss of our beloved friend and colleague, Mike Manos. Mike was a bright, talented, and dedicated investment professional who was highly regarded and greatly respected by his peers. He was a kind, though
 McGEADY--Paul J. The Board of Directors and staff of Morality in Media, Inc., mourn the passing of our General Counsel and the Director of our National Obscenity Law Center. Paul led MIM's legal efforts to enact, defend and enforce obscenity and indecency laws for 27 years. His strength and
 NOONAN--Thomas E. died Oct. 29, 2006 in Los Angeles, CA. He was a leading figure in the music industry in a career that spanned almost 60 years. Please sign our online guestbook www.callanan mortuaryservices.com Callanan Mortuary (800)901-0090       
 ROBBINS--Morris. Beloved husband of the late Elaine. Cherished father of Gale Narva (Ken) and Debra Slatow (Paul). Adored grandfather of Sylvie, Max, Carly, Jennifer, and Rachel. Loving greatgrandfather to Jillian, Zachary, and Grace. Favorite uncle of Gene and Annette. Devoted and caring f
 ROSENBERG--Harold. Be loved husband, friend and companion to his wife Betty. Generous and caring father and step-father to his sons. Loving grandpa to his grandchildren and great grandchildren. In addition to nurturing his family and his business, Harold was a lover of all the arts and espe
 SALTEN--David G. Join us for a memorial tribute to his life on Sunday, November 19, 2006 at 10:30am in Monroe Lecture Center at Hofstra University,California Avenue, So. Campus, Hempstead, NY. Guest Book at: legacy.com       
 SEADER--Saul, D.V.M., 82, died November 1, 2006, resided in Boca Raton, Fl., formally of Merrick, and East Hampton, NY. Retired Veterinarian and owner of Sunrise Animal Hospital of RVC, husband of the late Ruth Seader, he is survived by devoted children Richard, Bill, Robert and Joan, spous
 SMITH--Sheldon, died in Manhattan, on November 1st, of complications due to stroke. He was 78. Mr. Smith worked for many years in motion picture distribution. After retiring from Columbia Pictures, he became an avid movie memorabilia collector, and supporter of many charities. He is survive
 STYRON--William. The American Academy of Arts and Letters notes with sorrow the death of our esteemed colleague. His loss will be deeply felt. $(6$)STYRON -- William. Thank you for serenity and joy. Julia F. Willkie       
 UTEVSKY--Julian, 90, of Lawrence, New York. Died peacefully at home November 1st, 2006. Devoted and loving husband of Ruth, brother of Fred, father of Michael, Daniel and Naomi Lima, father-in-law of Tom Lima, grandfather of Stefan, Anna, Alexander and Amanda. During his life he was also an
 TAISHOFF -- Lawrence B. Sentinel on the Potomac against government intrusion into electronic journalism. Enlightened publisher of ''Broadcasting'' magazine. Son of the legendary Sol Taishoff. Generous benefactor of the Broadcasters Foundation of America. Every First Amendment advocate mourn
 Rogério Duprat, the producer and arranger behind the important albums of the late-1960s Tropicália movement in Brazilian music, died on Oct. 25 in São Paolo. He was 74. The death was announced by his family to the newspaper Folha de São Paolo. He had been suffering from Alzheime
 Samuel B. Casey Jr., who as president, chief executive and chairman of Pullman Inc. in the 1970s oversaw the company's transformation from a manufacturer of luxury railroad cars to a builder of vast construction projects, died Oct. 12 in Naples, Fla., his hometown. He was 78. The ca
 Silvio Varviso, a Swiss conductor who had a prominent international career without seeking stardom, died Wednesday in Antwerp, Belgium. He was 82 and lived in Basel, Switzerland. He died after a short illness, according to the Vlaamse Opera in Antwerp, where he was principal guest c
 Jens Christian Hauge, who led Norway's underground military resistance during World War II, then helped shape his nation's postwar future by using high political and business positions to carve out pro-Western but independent policies, died Monday in Oslo. He was 91. The Norwegian g
 Leonard P. Pepkowitz, a chemist involved in early nuclear research who advised the Atomic Energy Commission on the materials necessary for safely generating commercial power, died on Oct. 19 in Amherst, N.Y. He was 91. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said.        
 MacMILLAN--W. Duncan, age 76, of Wayzata, Minnesota, passed away on Tuesday, October 31, 2006, at his winter home in Jupiter, Florida. In his struggle with cancer and heart disease over the last three years, Duncan was astoundingly brave and positive, always hoping--and ultimately receiving
 BORAS--Stanley J. A Loving Son A Great Uncle A True and Valued Friend A Loss for all who knew him A Bonus for Heaven. Jon, Bonnie, Mike, Matt, Nancy, Stewart, Lindsay and Me. We Will Always Miss you.       
 SALTEN--David G. Join us for a memorial tribute to his life on Sunday, November 19, 2006 at 10:30am in Monroe Lecture Center at Hofstra University,California Avenue, So. Campus, Hempstead, NY. Guest Book at: legacy.com       
 BOOCKVAR--Herman L. Husband of the late Bess. Beloved father of Gail and David Jurrist, Bill and Ginger Boockvar and Alan & Debbie Boockvar. Cherished grandfather of 18 and great grandfather of 21. He will be greatly missed.       
 CANTOR--Eli. Award-winning author, editor, business leader, local and national arts activist, Eli Cantor died on October 17. He was 93. Born in the Bronx, on September 9, 1913 he lived in Croton-on-Hudson and moved to Sarasota, FL in 1981. His wife Beatrice ''Pat'' Cantor, died in 1995. Can
 CURRIN--Tony. Photographer. He lived life on his own terms with style and grace. All who knew and loved him honor his memory.       
 FOUDY--Richard P., of Old Bridge, NJ, died November 1st, 2006 at his more recent residence in Coral Springs, FL. Husband of the late Marie Galvin Foudy. He is survived by his daughter, Joan Davis, and son, Richard Foudy. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81st St., 
 GARJIAN--Nelson N., Esq. My best friend and dearest companion, died on October 22, 2006. He is so missed. Adele       
 GEERTZ--Clifford, 80, died October 30, 2006 of complications following heart surgery. Beloved husband of Karen I. Blu; father of Erika Reading and Benjamin; grandfather of Andrea and Elena. Also survived by his first wife Hildred Geertz. In lieu of flowers, memorial contributions may be mad
 GONZALEZ--H. Manuel, October 30. Survived by his wife Sandra and daughter Manne Rene. Memorial services November 11th at 10am, Holy Trinity Church, W. 82nd St.       
 KRAMER--Milton ''Bud'', 88, on October 28, 2006. Meat industry leader. Co-founder of General Meat Company, NYC and Treasurer of Beefsteak Charlie's Corp. A lifelong resident of NY and NJ. Attended Rutgers University and served as a navigator during WW II. He returned to operate the Kramer M
 LEE--Joseph A. Jr. of Carmel, CA, died on Wednesday, November 1, at the age of 84. Joe Lee was born in 1921, in Evanston, IL, and raised in Greenwich, CT, the only child of Joseph A. and Barbara (Senseney) Lee of Deer Park in Greenwich. He attended The Greenwich Country Day School, Hotchkis
 LIEBERMAN--James S., M.D. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and colleague on August 21, 2006, Dr. James S. Lieberman. Chairman and Physiatrist-In-Chief of the Department of Rehabilitation for NewYork - Presbyterian at both Columbia University Medical Center and Weill 
 LUCCI--Enzo Rangoni-Macchiavelli died October 31, 2006 at home. He was born December 27, 1903 in Rome, Italy, the grandson of the Marchese Aldobrandino Rangoni - Mac chiavelli and Princess Luisa Publicola Santacroce. His parents were the Marchesa Alda Rangoni-Macchiavelli and the Honorable 
 McKEE--G. Ross. Educator, columnist, philanthropist, died August 19, 2006 at age 93 at his Newfoundland summer home. A native New Yorker, he attended Collegiate and Lawrenceville Schools and graduated Princeton University in 1935. He served in the Air Force in WWII. He married Marion Founta
 MORSE--Gerald J. dies at 85 Gerald J. Morse, a volunteer who helped run the Lower Manhattan Marketing Association for 20 years, died Sept. 28. He was 85. Morse was born in Brooklyn on Nov. 1, 1920 to Leah and Benjamin Mofsovitz. He later shortened his name to Morse. He graduated from City C
 PALMER--Paul R. Died September 1, 2006. Longtime resident of New York City until 2002, when he moved to Cincinnati, OH to be closer to his family. Companion for many years of the late Kenneth A. Lohf. Brother-in-law of Mary Louise Palmer and uncle to David Y., Richard C. and William C. Palm
 PATENT--Samuel R. ''Pat'' We sadly say goodbye to our dear ''Poppa Pat''. He embraced us as his family and we were proud and honored to return his love. We came to know this wonderful man who put love of family and loyalty to friends above all else. Pat lived his life in the same manner in 
 PFAFF--Robert Frederick. Col., U.S. Army, Corps of Engineers, Reserve, (retd). Age 85. Born in Brooklyn, New York, 1920, died in Los Angeles, California, 2006. Beloved husband of Janet, cherished father of Virginia Rohay (Alan) and Robert F. Pfaff, Jr. (Julienne), grandfather of James and W
 PLISKA--Edward William. California jurist and former vice president of the American Judges Association, died October 31, 2006. He was 71. A graduate of Princeton and the University of Connecticut, Pliska had been prosecutor for San Mateo County, judge of its municipal court, and the a partn
 POTTER--Ted. Perhaps the strongest proponent in the Southeast for contemporary art for the last half of the 20th century died at his home in Richmond, VA on Thursday night after a yearlong battle with cancer. A Tribute to Ted Potter will be held November 11 at 2 pm at the Southeastern Cente
 REED--Henry Miller. 83, of Caldwell, NJ died on November 3, 2006. He was the husband of Mary Ann Reed; father of Robert G. Reed and Virginia Demoreuille; five grandchildren. Visiting in Farmer Funeral Home, 45 Roseland Avenue, Roseland, today, 2-5 pm. Service in The First Presbyterian Churc
 SALTEN--David G. Join us for a memorial tribute to his life on Sunday, November 19, 2006 at 10:30am in Monroe Lecture Center at Hofstra University,California Avenue, So. Campus, Hempstead, NY. Guest Book at: legacy.com       
 SEADER--Saul, D.V.M., 82, died November 1, 2006, resided in Boca Raton, Fl., formally of Merrick, and East Hampton, NY. Retired Veterinarian and owner of Sunrise Animal Hospital of RVC, husband of the late Ruth Seader, he is survived by devoted children Richard, Bill, Robert and Joan, spous
 STEINSCHNEIDER--E. Rowan ''Row'', passed away comfortably on October 31 at home, with his loving wife and family in attendance. A resident of Winnetka, Illinois with homes in Westhampton Beach, New York and Anna Maria Island. Florida. Row was born in Rockville Centre, New York on December 1
 YOUNG--Hugh Hampton II, MD, of Weston, MA, 75, died Sunday, October 29, 2006 at his home in Weston, MA. He is survived by his wife, Joyce (Lenz) Young, three children, Hugh H. Young III and Mark Edward Young, both of Weston, MA, and Martha Y. DoByns of Shapleigh, ME, six grandchildren, a si
 CHEVIGNARD--Jacques. The Grand Chambellan of the Confrerie des Chevaliers du Tastevin. Beloved friend, great patriot, builder and long time leader of the Confrerie, passed away on October 28, 2006 peacefully at his home in Nuits-Saint-Georges France. He was 89 and the first recipient of the
 ROTHENBERG--Stanley, age 76, died November 3. Inspired and inspiring copyright lawyer, mentor, and teacher. Beloved partner of Carol Schneebaum; loving father of David, Michael (Zerline Goodman), Seth (Avigail), and stepfather of Katherine Schneebaum (John Larish) and Jessica Hunsinger (Rus
 TAISHOFF -- Lawrence B. Sentinel on the Potomac against government intrusion into electronic journalism. Enlightened publisher of ''Broadcasting'' magazine. Son of the legendary Sol Taishoff. Generous benefactor of the Broadcasters Foundation of America. Every First Amendment advocate mourn
 Bulent Ecevit, a resilient leader who served four terms as Turkey's prime minister in a turbulent era, died yesterday in a hospital in Ankara, the Turkish capital. He was 81. Mr. Ecevit, who suffered a stroke in May from which he never completely recovered, died of circulatory and r
 EVANS--Charles. On Novemeber 4, 2006, in NYC. Beloved husband of Elaine, beloved father of Hilary, Seth and Gideon, devoted fatherin-law of Sal and Jill, adored grandfather of Sara and Anna. Professor of philosophy CCNY, and Chairman of the Department for two terms. He loved books and knowl
 GARDNER--Andrew T. October 30. What a wonderful son. What an extraordinary brother. What an amazing, rich and full half-life he lead. We shall always honor his memory with the same passion, humor and love that he showered on Kim, Jake, Kyle, Juliet, Jeff, Robbie, Annabel and Charlotte. Alla
 GURIN--George J. , PDGC/GT Members of Grand Lodge, Domain of NY, Knights of Pythias mourn the loss of this vital brother. We extend our condolences to his wife Ruth, children and grandchildren.       
 HIRSCH--George. Beloved brother, uncle, great-uncle and friend, passed away November 2nd in New York City at age 76. He was born in Vienna, Austria and came to the United States at age 8. He graduated from Queens College and Columbia Law School, and practiced tax law. He had a great sense o
 LEVINE--Morton, 81, died November 4th, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Diana, he will be greatly missed by sons Eric and Steven, grandsons Adam, Benjamin, Joshua, and Jacob, daughters-in-law Terri Simon, and Elise Hilf Levine, sister Selma Fleissig, and many others whose lives were touche
 PATENT--Samuel. We mourn the passing of our dear friend Sam ''Pat'' Patent. Our hearts are with Shirley, Bob, Patti, Susan and all their families. We will always cherish the memories. Allan and Mickey Greenblatt $(6$)PATENT--Samuel R. ''Pat'' We sadly say goodbye to our dear ''Poppa
 ROTHENBERG--Stanley. He loved the law, life, his family and friends. We will miss him always and remember him with love. Deborah, Carl, Benjamin, Payal, Rebecca and Andrea $(6$)ROTHENBERG--Stanley, age 76, died November 3. Inspired and inspiring copyright lawyer, mentor, and teacher
 Fereydoun Hoveyda, a former Iranian ambassador to the United Nations during the reign of Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi and an expert in Middle Eastern affairs, died Friday at his home in Clifton, Va. He was 82. The cause was cancer, said his daughter Roxana Hoveyda. Mr. Hoveyda
 BERMAN--Stephen J. 80, died November 6, 2006 in Branford, CT. Beloved husband for 60 years of Ellen Berman, devoted father to sons, Doug, Roger, and Todd, father-inlaw to Karen, Bridget, and friend to dear Scottie, and loving grandfather to Avi, Jennie, Andy, Coby, Emily, Nat and Reese. Als
 BODELL--Joseph James, Jr. Passed away at 88 on November 5, 2006 surrounded by his family. He was born on August 1, 1918 in Providence RI, where he was raised and spent most of his life. He resided in Osterville MA and Vero Beach FL. He is survived by his loving wife, Jane Bayne Bodell and h
 CEPERO--Enrique, PhD. The trustees, faculty and staff of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory are deeply saddened by the loss of Enrique Cepero, a friend and promising young researcher who passed away November 4, 2006 after a three-year battle with cancer. Henry was a beloved husband of Jennifer, 
 COHEN--Martin. The Board of Directors and Members of the New York Tennis Club record with sorrow the passing of Martin Cohen, a cherished member of our club for over 50 years. We extend our sincere condolences to Shirley, his family and friend who will miss him, as we will.       
 HEINEMAN--Bernard Jr. (Jack), 82, died at home November 5th. Resident of NYC and Clayton, NY, he was a Veteran of WWII and served in the 6th Armored Division of Patton's Third Army, was for many years a partner in the textile firm of Heineman & Co., and was active in the Reform Democrats of
 JONES--Thomas R. The Board and Staff of the Community Service Society wish to extend our deepest sympathies to David R. Jones, our President and CEO, and his family on the death of his extraordinary father. Janet Thompson, Chair Steven Krause, EVP       
 KURTZMAN--Seymour M. Of New Rochelle, NY. Dear husband of Renee. Beloved father of Scott and Jill. Loving grandfather of Jason, Ethan, Alyssa, Justin and Adam. Funeral services at 10 am on November 8, 2006, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, Mt. Vernon, NY. He will always be in our hearts.      
 PATENT--Samuel R. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University is deeply saddened by the loss of our dear friend and colleague, ''Pat'', member of the Einstein Board of Overseers for 20 years. Pat's commitment to Einstein's medical research and education spanned more than three
 PAUL--I. H. It is with a heavy heart that we say goodbye to our colleague, friend and mentor, I. H. Paul. He was one of a kind--warm and playful, a wonderful clinician, who taught us all to think seriously about technique, especially to cultivate and honor our patient's autonomy. I. H. was 
 WYKER--Kenneth. 45 died on November 4th, 2006 after a 2 year illness. He resided in San Antonio and was raised in Harrison, New York. Beloved husband of Suzanne, devoted father of Eden (7) and Olivia (5), former General Counsel for Clear Channel Communications for 12 years. He is also survi
 HOVEYDA--Fereydoun. The National Committee on American Foreign Policy (NCAFP) mourns the death of Fereydoun Hoveyda, former Iranian ambassador to the United Nations. There as a young international civil servant, he played a role in drafting the Universal Declaration on Human Rights in 1948.
 ROBINOWITZ--Seymour. A long time attorney and a former White Plains City Judge and Councilman, died on Sunday, November 5, 2006 at White Plains Hospital. He was 94. He was born on July 8, 1912 in White Plains, and graduated from White Plains High School and The Ohio State University. He rec
 ROTHENBERG--Stanley, it is with deep sorry that we mourn the loss of one of our Past Presidents and Honorary Trustees. Stanley Rothenberg was a leader in the field of copyright law and was a mentor to many intellectual property lawyers. His leadership, thoughfulness and humor will be missed
 Stanley Rothenberg, a lawyer who was an expert in copyright and entertainment law and a past president of the Copyright Society of the U.S.A., died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 76. The cause was complications after surgery for a popliteal aneurism, a weakened blood vessel in the l
 Ham Richardson, who surmounted juvenile diabetes to become a leading American tennis player in the 1950s and early '60s, died Sunday in Manhattan. He was 73. The cause was complications of diabetes, his family said. When he was 15 years old and one of the best junior players
 Jean-Jacques Servan-Schreiber, a self-described ''agitator in ideas'' who helped mold the intellectual and political life of France and whose 1967 book warning of American economic domination of Europe provoked a firestorm on both sides of the Atlantic, died yesterday in Fécamp, in northwe
 BARISH--Murray, 94. Died peacefully in his Manhattan home early Tuesday morning. Predeceased by his cherished wife of 71 years, Sylvia, he personified the American dream.A Polish immigrant, he arrived in this country at nine years of age and was orphaned at 13. On his own he had the confide
 BASS--Jonathan Scott. Born December 28, 1954, died November 6, 2006. He lived with courage, fought cancer ferociously and died surrounded by the people he loved. He is survived by his adored wife Inez Bon, son Thys and his mother Doris, sister Robin, brother Steven and four nieces and nephe
 EVANS--Lowell Carter. On October 31, 2006, age 69. Born Elwood, IN; 45 year resident NYC, Army veteran, organist, businessman, Member, Board of Directors, Voices of Ascension. Devoted member of Church of the Ascension where he was a choir member. He is survived by brother David, his wife Ma
 FARR--George Chuck L., chairman of Muirhead Holdings, LLC, a private equity firm in Greenwich , CT, former vice chairman of American Express from 1995-1998 and director and chairman of the share holders committee during his 27-year with McKinsey and Company, died Sunday evening November 5 a
 HEINEMAN--Bernard J. (Jack). The Board of Trustees, management and staff of the Jewish Home and Hospital Lifecare System extends its deepest sympathies to long-time trustee Andrew D. Heineman and his family on the passing of his beloved brother. For over 60 years, the Heineman family has pr
 HUNT--Rev. Michael J. of The Paulist Fathers, age 64, died on November 6, 2006, after a long and valiant struggle with multiple myeloma. Son of the late Sarah Jane and Michael J. Hunt Sr., he was born and reared in Manhattan and ordained to the priesthood May 1, 1967. Beloved brother of Ann
 MURRAY--Thomson C., of Mill Neck, L.I. suddenly on November 3, 2006 age 73. Beloved husband of Roberta. Loving father of Heather White (Bill), and Thomson C. Murray Jr. Dear brother of G. Donald of Napa, CA, and Robert N. Murray of Houston, TX. Proud grandfather of Turner and Cynnie White. 
 ROSENBERG--Arnold Lionel, died November 6th at 92. Received a law degree but his real love and aptitude was mathematics. He successfully managed production at standard motor products by mentally tracking the entire product line before computers became available. He also applied his exceptio
 SIEGEL--Leonard I. We are deeply saddened by the death of Leonard Siegel, on November 6, 2006. He leaves a lifetime of memories that will keep his spirit alive in the minds of his large, loving family. Leonard Siegel's 59year marriage to Lee Honig Siegel was a partnership of mutual love and
 STEINEGGER--Egon. Born April 9, 1916 In Innsbruck, Austria. Predeceased by his wife, Mary Fordrung, October 13, 1993. His career as Judge in Innsbruck was followed by a lengthy tenure. As a Professor with Long Island University, holding Doctorates in Political Science and International Law.
 RICHARDSON--Hamilton. The Board of Directors of the New York Chapter of the Juvenile Diabetes Research Foundation and volunteers of JDRF mourn the passing of Hamilton Richardson, longtime supporter and friend. Our deepest sympathy is extended to the Richardson Family. $(6$)RICHARDSON--Hamil
 Johnny Sain, who teamed with Warren Spahn to pitch the Boston Braves to the 1948 National League championship in a pennant race that inspired an enduring baseball rhyme, died Tuesday in Downers Grove, Ill. He was 89. The cause was complications from a stroke, said his wife, Maryann.
 BARISH--Murray, 94. Died peacefully in his Manhattan home early Tuesday morning. Predeceased by his cherished wife of 71 years, Sylvia, he personified the American dream. A Polish immigrant, he arrived in this country at nine years of age and was orphaned at 13. On his own he had the confid
 BERES--Paul, M.D., of Westport, CT, died peacefully at home on November 8, 2006. Born in 1928 in NYC. Graduated Williams College with honors, Phi Beta Kappa, in 1948. Graduated Columbia P & S Medical School in 1952. Internship, residency, at University of Chicago. Founded Internal Medicine 
 GAMBACORTA--Leo F., 53, died November 7, 2006. Leo was the Production Manager for Carnegie Hall. He is survived by his wife Susan Kaplan M.D., his parents Humbert and Esther (Giaimo) Gambacorta, two brothers, John (Bonnie) and Michael (Terri), nieces Sarah and Rachel. He was predeceased by 
 HEINEMAN--Bernard Jr. (Jack), 82, died at home November 5th. Resident of NYC and Clayton, NY, he was a Veteran of WWII and served in the 6th Armored Division of Patton's Third Army, was for many years a partner in the textile firm of Heineman & Co., and was active in the Reform Democrats of
 McCABE--Timothy John, Sr., at home on November 7th, 2006 after a courageous battle with cancer. He is survived by his loving children, Timothy John McCabe, Jr. and his wife Christina, Audrey, Sean and Patrick. Devoted Pop Pop of Timothy John McCabe, III. Loving son of the late Francis M. an
 MURRAY--Thomson C., of Mill Neck, L.I. suddenly on November 3, 2006 age 73. Beloved husband of Roberta. Loving father of Heather White (Bill), and Thomson C. Murray Jr. Dear brother of G. Donald of Napa, CA, and Robert N. Murray of Houston, TX. Proud grandfather of Turner and Cynnie White. 
 NEGLEY--William died November 7, 2006 in San Antonio, Texas. He was born in San Antonio on March 28, 1914 to Laura Burleson Negley and Richard Van Wyck Negley. He attended primary school in San Antonio and was graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy in 1932. He received a Bachelor of Arts de
 OUSTERHOUT--Glenn Alan. Born October 11, 1951 in Medford, Oregon. Died November 7, 2006 in Shelter Island, New York. Grew up in Eagle Point, Oregon; Davis, California; Tacoma Park and Silver Spring, Maryland; Barrington, Illinois; and Narragansett, Rhode Island. Graduated from South Kingsto
 SCHAEFLER--Sam, Ph.D. On November 8, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Katalin. Loving father of the late Adrian. Survived by his beloved daughter Margaret. Adored grandfather of William and Peter Hurley. He enjoyed a full life following his passion for science and art. Services Friday 11:3
 ZELTNER--Lorin P., loving husband and father and longtime employee as Vice President of Jerome Haims Realty, Inc., died on November 7th at his home after valiantly battling ALS. For information Westchester Funeral Home, Eastchester, 914-337-4585. In lieu of flowers donations to the ALS Asso
 RICHARDSON--Hamilton, Farrar. Age 73, died November 5th, 2006. Loving husband of Midge, devoted father of Kevin, Kenneth, and Kathryn, adored grandfather of five. A tennis star and Rhodes Scholar, he overcame juvenile diabetes to be twice ranked the number one tennis player in the United St
 SCICCHITANO--Anthony. On November 7, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Rae. Loving father of Josephine Taglianetti, Rita Sacchi and Phyllis Serino. Cherished grandfather of Terrence Anthony, Alexandra, Clio, Laura and Philip. A true American success story, coming to this country from his ho
 Sid Davis, a prolific educational filmmaker of the 1950s and '60s whose cautionary movies -- from ''The Dangerous Stranger'' to ''The Bottle and the Throttle'' -- sought to terrify an entire generation of young people into straitlaced middle-class obedience, died on Oct. 16 at his home in P
 Ed Bradley, a fixture in American living rooms on Sunday nights for a quarter century as a correspondent on ''60 Minutes'' and one of the first black journalists prominently featured on network television, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 65. Mr. Bradley died at Mount Sinai Medic
 Markus Wolf, the famously elusive spymaster of Communist East Germany whose feats of espionage were the stuff of cold war legend, died Thursday. He was 83. Known as ''the man without a face,'' because for years Western intelligence agencies did not even possess a photograph of him, 
 BERES--Paul, M.D., of Westport, CT, died peacefully at home on November 8, 2006. Born in 1928 in NYC. Graduated Williams College with honors, Phi Beta Kappa, in 1948. Graduated Columbia P & S Medical School in 1952. Internship, residency, at University of Chicago. Founded Internal Medicine 
 BRADLEY--Ed. For each of us, Ed was like that smile of his...warm, generous, funny, incomparable. He was also brilliant and courageous. He illuminated our times, our joys and our most terrible conflicts. He was deeply principled and unswervingly loyal to his friends and to countless causes 
 FRIEDMAN--Si, 77, died peacefully November 3, 2006 after a long illness. He was an award winning package designer with his own NYC firm for 28 years, and an artist his whole life. He is survived by his wife, Margaret Schuette, son, Mark Friedman, and his pride and joy, grandson James Friedm
 McCABE--Timothy John, Sr., at home on November 7th, 2006 after a courageous battle with cancer. He is survived by his loving children, Timothy John McCabe, Jr. and his wife Christina, Audrey, Sean and Patrick. Devoted Pop Pop of Timothy John McCabe, III. Loving son of the late Francis M. an
 McENNIS--Scott Wheeler, 57, of Mill Spring Farm, Elverson, Pennsylvania, died Saturday, November 4, 2006. Born in Nashua, NH, he was the son of Shirley McEnnis of Kennett Square, PA and the late Gordon McEnnis. He graduated from Albion College, Phi Beta Kappa, received his MBA from Duke and
 ROSENBERG--Arnold Lionel. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Arnold Lionel Rosenberg, beloved father of Janet Teich and father-in-law of Jack Teich, dedicated supporters whose philanthropic vision helps strengthen our Jewish commun
 ROSNER--Richard. The entire Tepper family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our friend and colleague Richard Rosner. His strength, knowledge, warmth and guidance will be greatly missed by all of us. To his daughters Karen & Melanie and his son Richard, we extend our heartfelt condole
 SCHAEFLER--Sam, Ph.D. On November 8, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Katalin. Loving father of the late Adrian. Survived by his beloved daughter Margaret. Adored grandfather of William and Peter Hurley. He enjoyed a full life following his passion for science and art. Services Friday 11:3
 SHOENFELD--Richard. Passed away on November 8, 2006 in Miami, FL. He is predeceased by his loving wife Francine. Richard was the beloved father of Dean and Vicki, and devoted grandfather of Celina, Gina, Aaron and Jennifer. He leaves behind his dear soulmate ''Sam'' Bacon. Richard's charm a
 Marshal Igor D. Sergeyev, a career soldier who rose to command Russia's nuclear missiles and then became defense minister, presiding over a deteriorated military until being fired in 2001 in the aftermath of the disastrous sinking of a submarine, died yesterday in Moscow. He was 68.        
 Jack Palance, a coal miner's son who spent most of a long Hollywood career playing memorable heavies in movies like ''Shane'' and ''Sudden Fear,'' only to win an Academy Award in his 70s for a self-parodying comic performance in ''City Slickers,'' died yesterday at his home in Montecito, Ca
 ANDREWS--Benny. The Board of Trustees and the Staff of The Studio Museum in Harlem are deeply saddened by the passing of artist Benny Andrews. An internationally recognized painter, printmaker, illustrator, passionate cultural leader and arts advocate, Benny was a revered member of The SMH 
 BARMASH--Isadore. Author and journalist for 26 years from 1965--1991, Senior Financial Writer with New York ''Times'' where he wrote over 3000 articles and won many publishers awards and was nominated for a Pulitzer. Reporter for New York Herald Tribune and ten years was Managing Editor for
 BERES--Paul, M.D., of Westport, CT, died peacefully at home on November 8, 2006. Born in 1928 in NYC. Graduated Williams College with honors, Phi Beta Kappa, in 1948. Graduated Columbia P & S Medical School in 1952. Internship, residency, at University of Chicago. Founded Internal Medicine 
 BIRCH--Thomas Edward, Jr. of East Hampton, NY passed away on November 9, 2006. Beloved son of Thomas E. Birch, Sr. and Anne Marie Jordan Birch (both deceased). Thom is survived by his wife, Beryl Bender Birch. His 3 sister's: Regina Walzer of Woodbury, Ct., Maria Estrella of Pen Argle, PA, 
 BRADLEY--Ed. For each of us, Ed was like that smile of his...warm, generous, funny, incomparable. He was also brilliant and courageous. He illuminated our times, our joys and our most terrible conflicts. He was deeply principled and unswervingly loyal to his friends and to countless causes 
 FRIEDMAN--Si, 77, died peacefully November 3, 2006 after a long illness. He was an award winning package designer with his own NYC firm for 28 years, and an artist his whole life. He is survived by his wife, Margaret Schuette, son, Mark Friedman, and his pride and joy, grandson James Friedm
 GOLD--Elliott. On November 9, 2006. Cherished by his family, respected by everyone.       
 TISCHLER--Edmund Isaac, Beloved husband, Sara Buchner Tischler, devoted father to Susan and David Tischler, father in law to Leslie Brill, grandfather to Katharine and Daniel Tischler, step grandfather to Sarra and Alison Brill, great grandfather to Owen Jolles. Born and raised in New York,
 McLAUGHLIN--Edward J., 81, on November 10th, 2006. Lifelong resident of Yorkville. Beloved husband of Kathleen (nee Sullivan). Cherished father of Maureen Villaverde and the late Edward. Dear father-in-law of William Villaverde. Devoted grandfather of Claire and Sara. Predeceased by his bro
 SALTEN--David G. Join us for a memorial tribute to his life on Sunday, November 19, 2006 at 10:30am in Monroe Lecture Center at Hofstra University,California Avenue, So. Campus, Hempstead, NY. Guest Book at: legacy.com       
 Benny Andrews, a figural expressionistic painter and teacher whose paintings, prints, drawings and collages drew on his African-American roots in Georgia, died on Friday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said Nene Humphrey, his wife. Mr. Andrews was a
 Isadore Barmash, a retired business news reporter for The New York Times who specialized in retailing and wrote a dozen books on trends, strategies and machinations in the ferociously competitive mercantile industry, died on Thursday at the Margaret Tietz hospice in Jamaica, Queens. He was 
 ANDREWS--Benny, of Brooklyn, NY, and Litchfield, CT. He was an artist, educator and activist who will be greatly missed. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to Studio in the School, 410 W 59 St, NY, NY 10019; and the MacDowell Colony, 100 High St, Peterborough, NH 03458.       
 BARMASH--Isadore. Author and journalist for 26 years from 1965--1991, Senior Financial Writer with New York ''Times'' where he wrote over 3000 articles and won many publishers awards and was nominated for a Pulitzer. Reporter for New York Herald Tribune and ten years was Managing Editor for
 BEMIS--John Richardsonage 90, in Concord, MA, on November 6th. Beloved husband for 63 years of Charlotte (nee Hutchins) Bemis. Father of Jeri Bemis of Cambridge, Idaho, John G. Bemis, Ellie Bemis and Gordon H. Bemis all of Concord, MA and Alice B. Bueti, of Ojai, CA; brother of the late F. 
 BIRCH--Thomas Edward, Jr.f East Hampton, NY passed away on November 9, 2006. Beloved son of Thomas E. Birch, Sr. and Anne Marie Jordan Birch (both deceased). Thom is survived by his wife, Beryl Bender Birch. His 3 sister's: Regina Walzer of Woodbury, Ct., Maria Estrella of Pen Argle, PA, Ma
 BRADLEY--Ed.he Trustees, Acquisition Committee and staff of The Studio Museum in Harlem are honored to have known Ed Bradley. We send our deepest condolences to his wife Patricia Blanchet. Raymond J. McGuire, Chairman Thelma Golden, Director $(6$)BRADLEY--Edward R. Wynton Marsalis, The Boar
 DE LEON--Jack (Christopher Weeks)ctober 16, age 81, of complications from heart and kidney disease. A brilliant comedian, impressionist, actor, most remembered as ''Marty'' in the Barney Miller television series. Survived and beloved by his son, Ricky, daughter - in - law Coleen, grandchild
 FRIEDMAN--Si77, died peacefully November 3, 2006 after a long illness. He was an award winning package designer with his own NYC firm for 28 years, and an artist his whole life. He is survived by his wife, Margaret Schuette, son, Mark Friedman, and his pride and joy, grandson James Friedman
 HOLCOMB--Irving W. 82, at home, Amherst MA, November 6, 2006. He was a 1948 graduate of Cornell University, where he played varsity golf and hockey (captain, 1947-48 season) and was a member of Red Key and Quill & Dagger honorary societies and Sigma Phi fraternity. Fought in Europe in World
 JACOBY--Tedd. The most generous of spirits, he lives in the hearts of everyone that knew him. Tedd is survived by wife Marilynn, children Corrine, Eric, and Scott, parents Arline and Harry, and sisters Annice and Isa.       
 KING--Ronald, 78, passed away on November 4, 2006. Born and raised in New York City, he graduated from LIU and earned his Masters Degree at Teachers College, Columbia University. He was the first Principal of Martin Luther King H.S. He retired as Executive Director of the PSAL for the Board
 KRAMER--Burton, 74 years young, died on November 11, 2006, in his home after a two year hard fought battle with lung cancer. He is finally at peace. My best friend, confidante, devoted husband for 47 years to Ellen (Marx)Kramer, loving father of Judith Kramer McEvoy, a daughter who has a tr
 NEGLEY--William died November 7, 2006 in San Antonio, Texas. He was born in San Antonio on March 28, 1914 to Laura Burleson Negley and Richard Van Wyck Negley. He attended primary school in San Antonio and was graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy in 1932. He received a Bachelor of Arts de
 OSSIAS--Charles Matthew, known to his friends as Matthew, was born on November 25, 1916 and lived a wonderful life in New York City, including childhood on Mosholu Pkwy in the Bronx and for over 50 years in Kew Gardens, Queens. Matthew was a graduate of Townsend Harris High School and held 
 RAUCH--Philip. Former Chairman of Parker Hannifin Corp in Cleveland, OH from 1975 to 1977 and Director from 1971 to 1987, and President of Ideal Corp in Brooklyn, N.Y. from 1932 to 1971. Died peacefully Wednesday, November 8th in East Setauket, L.I. He was 95 years old. Mr Rauch had been a 
 ROSNER--Richard. A man with a big heart for those he loved. Your professionalism and wit were enchanting. The antique world will miss you. Our condolences to the family. Bill and Robert Roland and Families.       
 SHELTON--Richard, D.D.S. Words can never express how deeply we will miss you, Richard. Your wonderful laughter and humor we will always cherish. You were a friend we will miss forever. Jaye and Joe Sweedler and Family $(6$)SHELTON--Dr. Richard/d, 84, died Wednesday, November 8, in Calvary H
 SIEGEL--Leonard I. We are deeply saddened by the death of Leonard Siegel, on November 6, 2006. He leaves a lifetime of memories that will keep his spirit alive in the minds of his large, loving family. Leonard Siegel's 59year marriage to Lee Honig Siegel was a partnership of mutual love and
 SLAY--Burton. Age 83, avid daily reader of The New York Times, died in the presence of his family in Delaware, OH, on October 11, 2006. Besides being a loving & caring husband and father, he was a true humanitarian, a lifetime advocate of social justice, and political honesty. In the 1960's
 STARNES--Ordway, of Camden, SC. A family celebration of Ordway Starnes' life will be held at a later date. Ordway Starnes, 87, died November 8th, 2006. Born in Lancaster County, SC October 22nd, 1919, the third child of Bob Lee and Lula Mae McManus Starnes. He attended Buford Grammar School
 TAXON--Saul, CPA, 87. Short Hills, NJ, died November 10, 2006. Husband to Sybil (nee Sylvia Schwartz) of Brooklyn; father of Marsha Gershberg of Scottsdale and Short Hills, and Carol Taxon of Manhattan; grandfather to Cheryl, Meredith and Samantha Gershberg. Funeral services were held on No
 YOUNG--Hugh Hampton II, MD, born and raised in Baltimore, MD, died peacefully at his home in Weston, MA, on Sunday, October 29, 2006. A memorial service will be held at St Peter's Episcopal Church in Weston, MA on November 16, at 11AM. In lieu of flowers, donations may be sent to the Hugh H
 CROWNINGSHIELD--Robert G.arly pioneer in gemology, the scientific study of gemstones, beloved colleague, teacher and mentor to thousands of jewelers and gemologists, and long-time resident of Manhattan, passed away on November 8, 2006 at age 87. For more than 55 years, he gave selflessly to
 MacKENZIE--William J., Jr., of Vero Beach, FL and New Canaan, CT died November 2, 2006. Born January 12, 1929 in Chicago, he grew up in Lake Forest, IL and was a graduate of: The Judson School, Phoenix, AZ, Culver Military Academy, South Bend, IN, Lake Forest College, '49. He served the U.S
 RICHARDSON--Hamilton, Farrar. Age 73, died November 5th, 2006. Loving husband of Midge, devoted father of Kevin, Kenneth, and Kathryn, adored grandfather of five. A tennis star and Rhodes Scholar, he overcame juvenile diabetes to be twice ranked the number one tennis player in the United St
 SALTEN--David G. Join us for a memorial tribute to his life on Sunday, November 19, 2006 at 10:30am in Monroe Lecture Center at Hofstra University,California Avenue, So. Campus, Hempstead, NY. Guest Book at: legacy.com       
 George B. Thomas Jr., a mathematician whose widely read calculus textbook has introduced legions of students to the challenges of functions, derivatives and integrals since the early 1950s, died on Oct. 31 in State College, Pa. He was 92. Dr. Thomas's death was confirmed by his fami
 Isadore Barmash, a retired business news reporter for The New York Times who specialized in retailing and wrote a dozen books on trends, strategies and machinations in the ferociously competitive mercantile industry, died on Thursday at the Margaret Tietz hospice in Jamaica, Queens. He was 
 Nate Gooden, who recently retired as a vice president of the United Automobile Workers union and who served on the board of the German automaker DaimlerChrysler AG, died on Tuesday, the union said. He was 68. The union did not announce a place or cause of death for Mr. Gooden, who l
 ANDREWS--Benny, of Brooklyn, NY, and Litchfield, CT. He was an artist, educator and activist who will be greatly missed. In lieu of flowers, contributions can be made to Studio in the School, 410 W 59 St, NY, NY 10019; and the MacDowell Colony, 100 High St, Peterborough, NH 03458.       
 BURNETT--William O., 75, a resident of Stamford, CT, quietly passed away from complications of Parkinson's Disease on the day of his 75th birthday, at the Jewish Home for the Elderly in Fairfield, CT, surrounded by his family. Funeral services will be held on November 14th at 10 AM at St. J
 FENNELL--Bob. A passionate and tireless champion of the theater and a wonderful friend to all who knew him. He will be missed. Deepest condolences to his family and life partner Stacy Shane. John Barlow, Michael Hartman, and everyone at Barlow-Hartman PR $(6$)FENNELL -- Robert Arthu
 HOFFSCHMIDT -- Brother John, O.S.F. On November 11, 2006. He served for more than 55 years as a Franciscan Brother of Brooklyn. Son of the late Jacob and Mary Hoffschmidt. Survived by cousin Vivian Beresford. Sister-in-law Mary Hoffschmidt. Niece Marge MacLennan and his loving, extended fam
 PATTERSON--Dr. Andrew H. (Drew). Of Bronxville, passed away on November 11, 2006 at Roosevelt Hospital in New York City. He was 74. Beloved husband of Pat, father of Jim (Rachel), Hugh and Andrew (Jennifer). Grandfather of five. Brother and uncle. Memorial service Saturday, November 18, at 
 RAUCH--Philip. Former Chairman of Parker Hannifin Corp in Cleveland, OH from 1975 to 1977 and Director from 1971 to 1987, and President of Ideal Corp in Brooklyn, N.Y. from 1932 to 1971. Died peacefully Wednesday, November 8th in East Setauket, L.I. He was 95 years old. Mr Rauch had been a 
 Philip Rauch, the former president of a clamp manufacturing company who helped start a family foundation that assists children in poor families on Long Island, died on Wednesday in East Setauket, N.Y. He was 95 and had homes in Old Westbury, N.Y., and Palm Beach, Fla. The death was 
 Robert Fennell, a Broadway press agent who represented more than 100 productions across the United States, including the hit musical ''Wicked,'' died on Sunday at his family's home in Yonkers. He was 48. The cause was liver cancer, his family said. Mr. Fennell's personality 
 Robert J. Strudler, the chairman of the Lennar Corporation, one of the nation's largest home building companies, died Tuesday in Houston. He was 64. The cause was complications of an infection, his wife, Ruth Honigman Strudler, said. Mr. Strudler was named chief operating of
 Jack Williamson, a distinguished writer of science fiction who was born in an adobe hut in the Arizona Territory and grew up to write of robots, genetic engineering and the colonization of distant planets, died on Friday at his home in Portales, N.M. He was 98. The death was announc
 EPHRAIM--Frank J. Sincerest condolences are extended to his wife Fran, granddaughter Jennifer and the Ephraim and Davis families on their loss. We deeply loved and cherished Bunny and feel fortunate and blessed to have had him as part of our family for all these years. He enriched and broug
 FEDERBUSH--Miriam. The Jewish Center mourns the passing of the mother of our member, Rabbi Emanuel Federbush. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Steve Graber, President       
 FENNELL--Bob. A passionate and tireless champion of the theater and a wonderful friend to all who knew him. He will be missed. Deepest condolences to his family and life partner Stacy Shane. John Barlow, Michael Hartman, and everyone at Barlow-Hartman PR $(6$)FENNELL--Bob. We join the entir
 GLASS--Daniel. The Officers, Governors and Members of The New York Friars Club mourn the loss of their beloved and esteemed member Friar Daniel Glass. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held on Wednesday November 15, 12 noon at Central Synagogue, 652 Lexington 
 GOLD--Elliott. SonnenblickGoldman mourns the passing of Elliott Gold, a member of the SG team for almost 25 years. Elliott was always willing to assist his colleagues and clients, worked hard to close complex real estate financings, demonstrated unquestioning loyalty to SG and to clients, w
 HOFFSCHMIDT -- Brother John, O.S.F. On November 11, 2006. He served for more than 55 years as a Franciscan Brother of Brooklyn. Son of the late Jacob and Mary Hoffschmidt. Survived by cousin Vivian Beresford. Sister-in-law Mary Hoffschmidt. Niece Marge MacLennan and his loving, extended fam
 HORWITZ--Charles, 71, indefatigable fighter for civil rights in the U.S. and Haiti, died November 13, 2006 of cancer. He leaves his wife Carol, daughters Rebecca and Allison, son-in-law Rick Vanden Heuval and grandsons, Caleb and Joshua. Shiva at family home from 4-8pm November 14, 2-8pm No
 JOSEPH--Richard E., Esq. On November 9, 2006, affiliated with the NYC General Counsel's Office, and successfully prosecuted many environmental pollution cases. Beloved husband of the late Pearl, devoted brother of Janet Yanuklis, loving uncle of Katherine Yanuklis-O'Brien and Thomas Yanukli
 KAUFMAN--Irving. Formerly of Westport, CT, on November 12th. Born September 4, 1914. He clerked under a judge in the NYC Law Circuit and later was associated with Gettinger & Gettinger in NYC. Lover of music, theatre, bridge, the Yankees and giving a good party. Devoted husband to Virginia.
 PATTERSON--Andrew, H., M.D. The entire St. Luke'sRoosevelt Hospital Center family acknowledges with sadness the passing of our dear friend and longtime colleague, Andrew H. Patterson, M.D. During his 36 years of dedicated and distinguished service to the patients of St. Luke's-Roosevelt, Dr
 TAYLOR--William J., formerly of Bayside, NY and a retired founding officer of Local 1199 and National Hospital Union of Health Care Workers died of natural causes on November 12 in Lake Worth, Fla. A veteran of WWII awarded two Bronze stars. A devoted husband for over 60 years, avid reader,
 WEISS--Bella. The Hebrew Free Burial Association mourns the passing of Bella Weiss, beloved mother of Jack Weiss, distinguished member of our Board of Directors. May he be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Andrew Feinman, President Amy Koplow, Executive Director       
 MIRA-Y-LOPEZ--Rafael. The Samuel Waxman Cancer Research Foundation mourns the untimely passing of Rafael Mira-y-Lopez, M.D., Ph.D., Associate Professor of Medicine at Mount Sinai School of Medicine and an esteemed member of the Foundation's Institute Without Walls. A renowned scientist at t
 ULLMAN--Susan Beth. November 14, 1956-December 21, 1962. Our precious Susan. You were taken from us as a loving and beautiful little child. If you had lived, we know you would have grown to be a loving and beautiful young woman. We miss you and love you forever. Mom, Dad, Bill, Jamie, Uncle
 Robert B. McCurry, who invented the concept of cash rebates while an executive at Chrysler and later became one of the most prominent Americans at a Japanese car company, died Monday at his home in Rehoboth Beach, Del. He was 83. The cause was complications of prostate cancer, said 
 S. Lane Faison Jr., an art historian who cut his teeth cataloging Hitler's collection of plundered paintings, then, as a Williams College professor, inspired students who went on to head many of America's leading art institutions, died on Saturday at his home in Williamstown, Mass. He was 9
 Anthony A. Lapham, who was the Central Intelligence Agency's top lawyer in the 1970s when the agency was reeling from Congressional investigations into questionable and illegal activities, died on Nov. 11 near Burnsville, N.C. He was 70. Mr. Lapham died of a heart attack while fishi
 ANDREWS--Benny. The Board of Directors, artists and staff of The MacDowell Colony mourn the loss of our dear friend and Colony Fellow Benny Andrews. Benny's exceptional talent, sage advice, generosity, optimism and leadership made him a valued member of our board for 20 years. He will be de
 BURWICK--Martin S. On November 13, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Lucille. Devoted brother of Elizabeth Amsterdam & the late Sam. Dear uncle of Gail, Joan and Doris. He will hold a cherished place in Gail's heart forever. Service Wednesday, 1:15PM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St and Amster
 DAVIDOFF--Howard. Carl Marks & Company Inc., its partners and employees, mourn the passing of Howard Davidoff. He was instrumental in the success of our affiliates CMNY I and CMNY II, and was uniformly well-liked and well-respected by and among all of his peers. He will be sorely missed. We
 FINKELSTEIN--Lewis M., 64, died recently in Queens, he is survived by two brothers, Mark and David. A memorial service will be held on November 19th, 2006 at 2pm at Fox Funeral Home, 98-07 Ascan Avenue (corner Metropolitan Avenue), Forest Hills, New York.       
 JACOBS--Jason. The Officers, Governors and Members of the Friars Club deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed member, Friar Jason Jacobs. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held at Temple Beth El of Great Neck, 5 Old Mill Rd., Great Neck, on Thursday, November 
 KOFFLER--Joseph H., died at age 85 on November 13, 2006. Born in Stamford, CT. Professor at New York Law School for over 50 years. Beloved by his family for his loyalty and wit. Survived by daughter Lynne Koffler, sisters Anne Roth, Edythe Jarvik, Frances Goldstein, wife Monica B. Koffler, 
 MATHIAS--Philip, age 98, died on November 13, 2006 in Harrison, New York. As a stage manager, producer and director, he worked with Lee J. Cobb and others in the Group Theatre in the 1930's and later for his father-in-law, Oscar Hammerstein. He also directed many plays for the Harrison Play
 MATOS--Irving, of West Hempstead, NY, on November 14, 2006. Adored husband of the late Sonja Gurewich Matos who was the love of his life. Beloved father of Jeffrey (Susan), Marshall (Judy) and Stewart (Mara). Dearly loved grandfather and hero of Amanda, Lindsey, Adam, Jason, Steven, Melanie
 REEVES--Robert J. IV of Garden City, NY on November 12. Family and friends mourn the loss of this great young man known for his winning personality, unforgettable character and incredible sense of humor. At 6 feet 6 inches, he was a gifted athlete with an equally large heart who was a great
 CHARTERS - Christopher. The Board of Trustees and staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital acknowledge with sorrow the sudden death of Christopher Charters, the son of long-time Morgan Stanley Children's Hospital supporters Al and Patsy Kahn. We extend our deepest sympathy to his parents, his
 MIRA-Y-LOPEZ--Rafael. The Samuel Bronfman Department of Medicine of The Mount Sinai Medical Center is saddened by the passing of Rafael Mira-Y-Lopez, M.D., Ph.D. An internationally known cell biologist, his work demonstrated the importance of vitamin A controlled genes in the development of
 Stanley Meltzoff, who dived to great depths to photograph sea life and then, in his studio, transformed those images into vibrant paintings for magazines like Sports Illustrated and Scientific American, died Thursday in Red Bank, N.J. He was 89 and lived in Fair Haven, N.J. The deat
 G. Robert Crowningshield, a gemologist who helped revolutionize methods for judging the quality of precious stones and for spotting fakes, died on Nov. 8 in Hightstown, N.J. He was 87. He lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. His death was confirmed by a spokesman from 
 Gen. Jacob E. Smart, a four-star general who conceived the strategy for the daring World War II bombing raid on the oil refineries at Ploesti, Romania, and went on to help shape the postwar Air Force, died Sunday in Ridgeland, S.C., in the house in which he was born. He was 97. The 
 DAVIDOFF--Howard M., 50, of Port Washington and Southold, NY, died Tuesday, November 14, 2006. Best friend, lifetime love, devoted husband to Lisa (Klein), adored and cherished by his three children: Melanie, Owen and Gabrie. Beloved son of Robert and Esther, son-in-law of Felice and Steve 
 FALK--Arthur, 79. Died suddenly and unexpectedly November 14 at home. Beloved husband of Sue (Chase). Devoted father of Janet Falk, Andrea Wertheimer and James Falk. Loving father-inlaw of Michael Rindler, Stan Wertheimer and Nina Falk. Cherished ''Pop Art'' of Rebecca and Sandra Rindler, J
 FINKELSTEIN--Lewis M., 64, died recently in Queens, he is survived by two brothers, Mark and David. A memorial service will be held on November 19th, 2006 at 2pm at Fox Funeral Home, 98-07 Ascan Avenue (corner Metropolitan Avenue), Forest Hills, New York.       
 GROSS--Feliks. Brooklyn College mourns the passing of Professor Emeritus Feliks Gross, an esteemed member of the sociology faculty at Brooklyn College from 1946 to 1977. We extend our deepest condolences to his family. Christoph M. Kimmich, President Brooklyn College       
 GROSSMAN--Israel, 97, died peacefully November 13, 2006 after a short illness. A private graveside service was held. He was a teacher of mathematics at Albert Leonard Junior High School. He is survived by his wife Blanche, after 72 years of marriage; children Fred (Lind) and Susan; grandchi
 JACOBS--Jason J. You always encouraged and supported us in all our endeavors. We were so proud to have you as our Poppy. Love always, Ryan, Arielle, Kyle, Jocelyn $(6$)JACOBS--Jason J. You were always there for us with a smile on your face. Rest peacefully. Love, Ellen and Susan    
 KOFFLER--Joseph H., Professor of Law, Emeritus at New York Law School. The trustees, dean, faculty, students, staff, and alumni of New York Law School mourn the death of Professor Joseph Koffler who passed away after a long battle with Parkinsons Disease on November 13. Professor Koffler, w
 MATHIAS--Philip, age 98, died on November 13, 2006 in Harrison, New York. As a stage manager, producer and director, he worked with Lee J. Cobb and others in the Group Theatre in the 1930's and later for his father-in-law, Oscar Hammerstein. He also directed many plays for the Harrison Play
 O'CONNOR--Robert E. 87, Mountain Lake, Lake Wales, Florida passed away peacefully at home on November 11, 2006. He was born in New York City on March 27, 1919. He graduated from Queens College, in New York City, in 1941. In October 1941, he entered the officer training program at the US Coa
 ROSS--John G. ''Jack'' died on November 14, 2006. He was 70. He was a partner in the specialist firm DeCordova Cooper & Co. in New York City, a position held until his retirement in 1990. Survivors include his wife of 48 years: Patricia (Edgar) Ross of Bernardsville his children: Jill Robin
 UZ--Professor Mehmet, died Saturday November 11, 2006 at the Hospice of the University of Pennsylvania. He was 53. He was a member of the Lafayette College faculty since 1986. Dr. Uz is survived by his wife Selin Sinan-Uz and two daughters Emel and Bilge Uz. Dr. Uz was the recipient of seve
 BRINCKERHOFF--William Hall, of Palm Beach, FL Manchester-by-the-Sea, MA, East Hampton, NY, formerly of Washington D.C., Edgartown, MA and Rye, NY. Son of the late Marguerite Hall Brinckerhoff and the late William Weeks Brinckerhoff. Bill was born on Christmas Day, 1929. He died peacefully o
 GOLDSTEIN--Kenneth. We mourn the loss of a member of our firm: a great lawyer, respected by his colleagues, beloved by his clients; a fine and decent human being. Raoul Felder and Associates       
 BERNSTEIN--Samuel. Today on his 100th Birthday, we honor his memory and remember him with love. Leslie & Jim       
 David K. Wyatt, a student of Southeast Asian history who marshaled his ability to do research in seven languages to become one of the pre-eminent historians of Thailand, died on Tuesday in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 69. The cause was emphysema and congestive heart failure, said Blaine Frie
 Milton Friedman, the grandmaster of free-market economic theory in the postwar era and a prime force in the movement of nations toward less government and greater reliance on individual responsibility, died yesterday. He was 94 and lived in San Francisco. His death was confirmed by 
 Nicholas Proffitt, a war correspondent for Newsweek in Vietnam and Beirut who also wrote a novel and a screenplay based on his service in the honor guard at Arlington National Cemetery, died on Nov. 10 at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 63. The cause was kidney cancer, his wife Mart
 DEAN--Andy C., MD, PhD on November 15, 2006. Beloved son of Lea King Dean. Loving brother of Mary, Alan, Arnold and Grace. Devoted uncle of Jennifer, Laura, Paul, Dean, Caroline and Katherine. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call Sunday November 19, 2-5 &
 DURKAN--Frank. The Law Firm of O'Dwyer & Bernstien, LLP, Regrets to announce the passing of Our Senior Partner, Mentor, Leader and Friend. Frank was a respected trial attorney and a passionate advocate working for a peaceful resolution in Northern Ireland. We will miss Frank's wise counsel,
 FINNEGAN--William Charles, 63, of Spring Lake, NJ and Marco Island, FL, died Wednesday, November 15. Loving husband, father, grandfather, brother and uncle. A securities trader for over 40 years, Mr. Finnegan worked for First Boston, Solomon Brothers, Smith Barney, Ryan Beck & Company, Dill
 LEIPUNER--Lawrence B. of Long Island, New York. On November 11, 2006. Loving father, grandfather and great-grandfather. A Physicist at Brookhaven National Laboratory for over 46 years and a pilot and flight instructor at Mid Island Air Service at Brookhaven Airport. He will be greatly misse
 MASTROIANNI--Jean Claude Passed away on November 1, 2006. Jean Claude attended Parsons School of Design and was a graduate of the Fashion Institute of Technology, where he taught and actively supported their internship programs. He founded Jean Claude Designs and the Studio, was renowned in
 MATHIAS--Philip, age 98, died on November 13, 2006 in Harrison, New York. As a stage manager, producer and director, he worked with Lee J. Cobb and others in the Group Theatre in the 1930's and later for his father-in-law, Oscar Hammerstein. He also directed many plays for the Harrison Play
 RAUCH--Theodore G. Lifelong resident of New York City, died November 9, at age 72 from complications of pneumonia and septic shock. A librarian for several decades at Columbia University, Ted was a proud secular Jew who fought all his life for the rights and dignity of all living things. Es
 SKOLNIK--Leo. With profound sadness, the Tranquillity family mourns the passing of Leo Skolnik, one of the truest exemplars of the spirit of ''Noblesse Oblige'' first taught by Tranquillity's founder, Elias A. Cohen, and carried on by his niece, our beloved Pearl C. Miller, of blessed memor
 WEISSMAN--Harold. The Hunter College School of Social Work deeply mourns the loss of our dear colleague, Dr. Harold Weissman--teacher, author, former doctoral chair and acting dean. His wisdom, creativity and humor enriched us all. He will be deeply missed. Jacqueline B. Mondros, Dean, Hunt
 BRINCKERHOFF--William Hall, of Palm Beach, FL Manchester-by-the-Sea, MA, East Hampton, NY, formerly of Washington D.C., Edgartown, MA and Rye, NY. Son of the late Marguerite Hall Brinckerhoff and the late William Weeks Brinckerhoff. Bill was born on Christmas Day, 1929. He died peacefully o
 RAMOS-LORENZI--Jorge R, PE, M.D. 66, of Port Kent, NY, died unexpectedly November 5, 2006 at his home. He was born in Fajardo, Puerto Rico, November 28, 1939, the son of Ramon Ramos Plunkett and Celina Lorenzi. At the request of Jorge's family, there will be no public calling hours or servi
 BELL--Steven, The Law Firm of Fragomen, Del Rey, Bernsen & Loewy, LLP mourns the death of its long time friend and colleague Steven C. Bell, November 14, 2006, at age 55. Steve was an attorney and prolific writer and speaker on US Immigration issues. He was co author, with Austin T. Fragome
 Bo Schembechler, who took the University of Michigan to 13 Big Ten championships and a host of bowl appearances in becoming one of college football's most renowned coaches, died yesterday after collapsing while preparing to tape a television show. He was 77. His death was announced 
 Ferenc Puskas, a prolific goal scorer for the national soccer team of Hungary and the Real Madrid club in Spain and, by wide agreement, the game's first international superstar, died yesterday in Budapest. He was 79. His death was announced by a family spokesman, Gyorgy Szollosy, Th
 BRAVER--Charles, 63, died November 15, 2006, at home, after a fierce battle against melanoma. For the past 10 years, Charles was a teacher in the CUNY Language Immersion Program at NYC College of Technology and had a deep commitment to the students whom he guided and empowered through langu
 DEAN--Andy C., MD, PhD on November 15, 2006. Beloved son of Lea King Dean. Loving brother of Mary, Alan, Arnold and Grace. Devoted uncle of Jennifer, Laura, Paul, Dean, Caroline and Katherine. He will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved him. Friends may call Sunday November 19, 2-5 &
 DURKAN--Frank, on November 16, 2006. Native of Bohola, Co. Mayo, Ireland. Beloved husband of Monica (nee Goggins); father of Mary L. Martin and Ashling J. Durkan; also survived by Lisa Durkan (mother of Mary and Ashling), two grandsons, Brian and Declan and son-in-law Steadroy Martin. Visit
 MASTROIANNI--Jean Claude Passed away on November 1, 2006. Jean Claude attended Parsons School of Design and was a graduate of the Fashion Institute of Technology, where he taught and actively supported their internship programs. He founded Jean Claude Designs and the Studio, was renowned in
 POETSCH--Chester E., passed away on Wednesday, October 25, at home in Los Gatos California in the company of Patricia, his beloved wife and companion of 65 years. Born September 25, 1921 in Waukesha Wisconsin, and a graduate of the University of Wisconsin with a PHD in Pharmacology, Chester
 BRINCKERHOFF--William Hall, of Palm Beach, FL Manchester-by-the-Sea, MA, East Hampton, NY, formerly of Washington D.C., Edgartown, MA and Rye, NY. Son of the late Marguerite Hall Brinckerhoff and the late William Weeks Brinckerhoff. Bill was born on Christmas Day, 1929. He died peacefully o
 Peter Wensberg, a driving force in raising the Polaroid company's profile in the 1970s by broadening its distribution of the ''instant camera'' into department and discount stores while promoting it in memorable commercials, died Nov. 8 in Peterborough, N.H. He was 77 and lived in Greenfiel
 Frank Durkan, who as a lawyer, writer and political spokesman carved out a reputation as a fierce and clever defender of Irish nationalists, died on Thursday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 76. The cause was complications of a lung infection, his cousin Brian O'Dwyer said. Mr. Du
 BILOTTI--Carlo F. On November 17, 2006 after a long battle with leukemia at Memorial Sloane Kettering Cancer Center. Native of Cosenza, Italy. He is survived by his wife Tina, his son Eric and his daughter Megan. He is also survived by his three brothers in Italy. Reposing at Frank E. Campb
 BRAVER--Charles, 63, died November 15, 2006, at home, after a fierce battle against melanoma. For the past 10 years, Charles was a teacher in the CUNY Language Immersion Program at NYC College of Technology and had a deep commitment to the students whom he guided and empowered through langu
 COBRIN--Benjamin on November 17, 2006 beloved husband of the late Eleanor. Loving Father of Jill. Dear Father-in-law of Edward. Cherished Grandfather of Erica and David. Also survived by his dear Sister Ann and devoted life partner Ruth. Service Monday 11:15 AM at The ''Riverside'' 76th St.
 DEAN--Andy Chen, M.D., Ph.D. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our dear friend and colleague Dr. Andy Chen Dean. Dr. Dean was director of the Epilepsy Monitoring Unit at NewYorkPresbyterian Hospital and assistant professor of neurology and neuroscience at Weill Cornell Medical Colleg
 DURKAN--Frank, on November 16, 2006. Native of Bohola, Co. Mayo, Ireland. Beloved husband of Monica (nee Goggins); father of Mary L. Martin and Ashling J. Durkan; also survived by Lisa Durkan (mother of Mary and Ashling), two grandsons, Brian and Declan and son-in-law Steadroy Martin. Visit
 GROSS--Feliks. Professor. Passed away peacefully at his home in Manhattan on November 9, 2006, at age 100. He was the devoted husband of the late Priva, beloved father of Eva Gross Friedman, and her husband Sheldon, and a loving uncle. He was cherished by his friends, colleagues, students, 
 HEUSSER--Calvin J., Professor Emeritus, age 82, died peacefully on November 11, 2006 after a long illness. He was a professor of biology at NYU (1974-1991), and a pioneering researcher in Paleoecology and Stratigraphic Palynology. His field work studying fossil pollen from the Pacific North
 LePORTE--James L., Jr. age 81. Died November 3, 2006 at University Hosptial, Geauga Regional. James was born August 24, 1925 in New York City. He attended Public Schools 68 and 74 in Brooklyn and Grover Cleveland and Jamaica High schools in Queens. Mr. LePorte served in the US Army from 194
 LEVINE--Jack, 64, of NY, on November 10th, 2006 after a long and valiant fight against cancer. A lawyer who devoted his Philadelphia career to social justice, he practiced most recently at Kasowitz, Benson, Torres and Friedman. Son of the late Cecile and Herman Levine. Survived by his wife 
 LISS--Henry R., M.D. 81, a Pioneer in Neurosurgery, who in 1965 performed New Jersey's first stereotactic neurosurgery with his partner, Dr. George Zazanis, and served as senior vice president of medical affairs at Overlook Hospital in Summit for 10 years, has died. Dr. Liss, 81, died Oct. 
 MATOS--Irving. The Board of Directors, Administration, Faculty, Parents and Students of the Hebrew Academy of Nassau County extend their deepest sympathy to the family of Irving Matos ''Yitzchak Pincos ben Moshe Leib.'' Mr. Matos was a former HANC parent, vice president of the Board of Dire
 PARKER--John W. Jr. M.D. Died November 11th, at age 85 at the Peconic Bay Medical Center. His career of more than 40 years as a General Surgeon started at Harlem Hospital where he became Chief Surgical Resident. After serving in the Air Force during the Korean War and years in private pract
 POETSCH--Chester E., passed away on Wednesday, October 25, at home in Los Gatos California in the company of Patricia, his beloved wife and companion of 65 years. Born September 25, 1921 in Waukesha Wisconsin, and a graduate of the University of Wisconsin with a PHD in Pharmacology, Chester
 SKOLNIK--Leo the entire Tranquillity Family mourns and celebrates the memory of Leo Skolnik, camper of the 1920's and Officer and Board member of the Alumni for the past fifty years. He was a true mensch and all around nice guy. Our condolences to Marilyn, Alan, Jerry and their families. Tr
 STRONG--G. Gordon.Retired newspaper executive and publisher, passed away Monday in La Canada, CA. He was 92. Over his 35 year career in the newspaper business, Mr. Strong was the Publisher, President or Chairman of the Board of many newspapers or newspaper chains, including the following: T
 TASH--David passed away November 17th, 2006 of Boca Raton formerly of Queens, NY. Loving husband of the late Esther to whom he was married almost 62 years. Adored father of Martin (Arlene) Tash, Harriet (Arnold) Rosenberg and Betty Tash. Cherished grandfather of ten. Most beloved great gran
 VILARDO--Louis, 62, died November 17th, 2006 in Calvary Hospital, the Bronx, following a courageous battle with renal cell carcinoma. Survived by his bereft family; sons, David and Thomas Vilardo; their mother, Janice Vilardo; sister and brother, Linda and John David Vilardo; niece, Carolin
 GREENFIELD--Seymour S., age 84, of Fort Lee, New Jersey, passed November 17th, 2006. He served his country honorably in World War II in the United States Navy and received a Purple Heart for wounds received in action. Among his numerous accomplishments, he is former Chairman of the Board fo
 HALLEY--Rudolph. In rememberance of Rudolph Halley, June 19, 1913 -November19, 1956 with love and respect from his wife Janice Brosh Halley, his daughter Marian Halley, his sons Peter Rudolph Halley and Michael Rudolph Halley and his grandchildren Isabel and Thomas Rudolph Halley.       
 Albert B. Friedman, a noted scholar of medieval literature who reveled in the tabloid journalism of the preliterate Middle Ages -- the popular ballads rife with sex, betrayal, incest and all manner of murder -- died on Nov. 11 in Los Angeles. He was 86 and had lived in Los Angeles for many 
 BILOTTI--Carlo F. On November 17, 2006 after a long battle with leukemia at Memorial Sloane Kettering Cancer Center. Native of Cosenza, Italy. He is survived by his wife Tina, his son Eric and his daughter Megan. He is also survived by his three brothers in Italy. Reposing at Frank E. Campb
 CAHN--Eugene, We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to his family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Senior Rabbi Honorable Richard Kestenbaum, President       
 COBRIN--Benjamin on November 17, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Eleanor. Loving father of Jill. Dear fatherin-law of Edward. Cherished grandfather of Erica and David. Also survived by his dear sister Ann and devoted life partner Ruth. Service Monday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St.
 DOWLING--Robert of Pelham Manor, died November 17th, 2006. Formerly a partner of Techcom Systems in Larchmont and a Vietnam Veteran. He is survived by his sons, Keith and Kevin, their wives and children. He was a loving father, grandfather, brother and uncle. Visiting at Pelham Funeral Home
 GREENBERG--Morris. The Officers, Governors and Members of The Friars Club, deeply mourn the loss of their esteemed member Friar Morris Greenberg. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to his family. Services will be held at the Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, Amsterdam Avenue and 91st Street on N
 HOECHSTER--Ludwig M.D. age 93, of Goshen, NY, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, on November 18, 2006. Husband of late Lisa May Hoechster. Father of John and Susan, Steve and Roberta. Grandfather of David and Rosalina, Robert, and Alix. Greatgrandfather of Jacob and Isabela Mia. Services Tuesday, No
 KARLSSEN--Captain K.H., 84, of Toms River, died Monday at his home. He is survived by his daughter Linda C. Karlssen and his former wife Annette Meltzer Krauss, both of New York. To send condolences and for service information, contact Linda at ckarlssen@yahoo.com       
 LIPIT--Morris, passed away peacefully on November 17, 2006, at the age of 96. He was a man of many accomplishments rising from a young accounting trainee to a top executive at Namm-Loesers Department Store in Brooklyn, NY. He changed careers in mid life becoming a successful financial advis
 LISS--Henry R., M.D. 81, a Pioneer in Neurosurgery, who in 1965 performed New Jersey's first stereotactic neurosurgery with his partner, Dr. George Zazanis, and served as senior vice president of medical affairs at Overlook Hospital in Summit for 10 years, has died. Dr. Liss, 81, died Oct. 
 WEISBEIN--Eugene. A dear friend. He will be forever missed. Joan and Chuck Baum Judy and Peter Baum Nancy and Scott Wachs $(6$)WEISBEIN--Eugene. The Board of Governors and members of Inwood Country Club record with sorrow the passing of Eugene Weisbein, beloved husband of Diane, and
 DOPPELT--Frederick. The Doppelt brothers bid farewell to their eldest sibling. No brother could have been more caring and devoted. He guided us through every stage of life. He taught by example that family loyalty came first and we knew we could always count on his wisdom and goodness. Than
 Yuri Levada, a sociologist and pollster whose surveys provided some of the most reliable information about public opinion in the Soviet Union and then Russia, died at his office in Moscow on Thursday. He was 76. A colleague at the Levada Analytical Center, Leonid Sedov, told The Ass
 G. Gordon Strong, a former president and chairman of two newspaper chains and then publisher of The Oakland Tribune, died on Nov. 13 in Pasadena, Calif. He was 92 and lived in La Cañada, Calif. The cause was pneumonia, his son, George G. Strong Jr., said. Mr. Strong was pre
 BOWMAN--Frank Paul 79, died November 14, 2006 at his home in Haverford, PA (Quadrangle). Dr. Bowman was a distinguished professor of French Literature at The University of Pennsylvania for over 30 years. He is survived by a cousin and many close friends. A memorial service will be held Dece
 DOPPELT--Fred on November 18th. Revered brother of Larry Doppelt, brother-in-law of Helen Doppelt, beloved uncle of Pamela and Larry Tarica, Margery Doppelt, and Larry Rothman, and Shelley and Jeffrey Holtzman. Our heartfelt condolences to his wife Phyllis, children Diane, Jeffrey, and Marc
 KENNEDY--Robert Chesebrough. Son of the late Elizabeth Chesebrough and William Kennedy Jr, brother of the late Elisabeth (Mrs Fremont J.) Knittle and the late William Kennedy III. Died at Lenox Hill Hospital on November 19th, 2006. Survived by five nieces and nephews. At his request there w
 WERBER--Jack. We mourn the passing of Jack Werber, supporter, leader, friend, and remarkable human being. He entered the Buchenwald concentration camp in 1939 and was one of only 11 inmates (and the only Jew) who survived for 51/2 years until their liberation in 1944. But Jack Werber did mo
 ZELINGER--Alan, Passed away in Monsey, NY, November 18th, 2006. Loving husband, father, grandfather, great-grandfather and brother. Survived by his wife, Lenore, daughters, Deborah Rosenberg (and Yosi), Dena Dancykier (and Leonardo), sons, Jonathon (and Gila), Judah (and Yael), and sister, 
 GREENFIELD--Seymour. It is with a sense of deep regret that the Board of Directors of Century Tower in Fort Lee mourn the lost of ''Steve'', our past president and board member. He was a true leader: Bright, understanding, compassionate, objective and decisive, he will be sorely missed. We 
 Robert Altman, one of the most adventurous and influential American directors of the late 20th century, a filmmaker whose iconoclastic career spanned more than five decades but whose stamp was felt most forcefully in one, the 1970s, died Monday in Los Angeles. He was 81. His death, 
 Curtis Cate, an American biographer who chronicled the lives of several well-known European writers, among them Nietzsche, George Sand and André Malraux, died in Paris on Thursday. He was 82 and had lived in Paris for most of his life. The cause was melanoma, his brother, Benjamin,
 FRAZER--Saul, 93 years, passed away on November 20th at home in Boca Raton, Florida. Loving husband of Gertrude (deceased), devoted and beloved father of Donald (deceased) and Richard (and Lynda), loved and beloved brother of Lily Rudy (deceased). He was known by all who knew him as ''the n
 GOMPERTZ--Albert, passed away on November 20, 2006 in Florida. He is survived by his wife, Margot, of sixty years. Beloved father to Mark and Daniele, Carole and Ron. Beloved grandfather to David and Jean, Michele and Jon, Julian and Zachary. A survivor of the Nazi Holocaust, then served in
 KENNEDY--Robert Chesebrough. Son of the late Elizabeth Chesebrough and William Kennedy Jr, brother of the late Elisabeth (Mrs Fremont J.) Knittle and the late William Kennedy III. Died at Lenox Hill Hospital on November 19th, 2006. Survived by five nieces and nephews. At his request there w
 LENOK--Paul, 55, of New Rochelle, New York. With great sadness we announce his sudden passing on November 17th, 2006. Beloved husband of Arlene, devoted father of David and Amanda, loving brother of Amy, and loyal friend and confidant to many. A man of unyielding strength, courage and convi
 RODRIGUEZ--Anthony J. (Tucho, Tony). Retired executive, passed away on Thursday, November 16, 2006 at Calvary Hospital after a valiant battle against pancreatic cancer. Over his 35 years in the clock industry, Tony--or as his family and closest friends called him, Tucho--served as Vice Pres
 TESSLER--Neil, The Board of Governors and Members of Inwood Country Club record with sorrow the passing of Neil Tessler, beloved husband of Sandy and we extend deepest sympathy to the family. David Horowitz, President Harvey Schneider, Secretary TESSLER--Neil passed away November 21
 TIFFEN--Nathan, Our beloved grandfather and friend, we will miss you, think of you everyday, and will forever carry you within our hearts. May you rest in peace with grandma. Barbara, Andrew, Lauren, and Emily. TIFFEN--Nathan, A gentle man and a gentleman who has been loved and resp
 Paul Rigby, an award-winning cartoonist for The New York Post and The Daily News who first made his name on the editorial pages of Australian dailies, died on Nov. 15 at his home in Busselton, Australia. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, New York Post Wire Services reported. 
 Robert Altman, one of the most adventurous and influential American directors of the late 20th century, a filmmaker whose iconoclastic career spanned more than five decades but whose stamp was felt most forcefully in one, the 1970s, died Monday in Los Angeles. He was 81. His death, 
 Jimmy Buffett, accompanied by Allen Toussaint on piano, had just finished singing ''Do You Know What It Means to Miss New Orleans?'' at the memorial service for his friend Ed Bradley yesterday when a tall, white-haired figure ascended the pulpit for a eulogy unbilled in the program. It was 
 Jack Werber, a Holocaust survivor who helped save more than 700 children at the Buchenwald slave labor camp in the last months of World War II, then prospered after arriving in the United States by manufacturing coonskin caps during the Davy Crockett craze of the mid-1950's, died on Saturda
 FRANKEL--Jesse, 93 years, passed away on November 21. He is survived by his loving wife of 65 years, Eugenia Eagle. Beloved father of Midge and Howard, and James and Jill. Adored grandfather to Brad and Peter, Craig and Jay, Katy, Sara, and Alex. Great-grandfather to Avery. He created an en
 GOLDMAN--Nathan. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member Nathan Goldman and extends sincere sympathy to his wife and other members of his family. Ira Eichner, President Arthur Loring, Secretary       
 GOMPERTZ--Albert, passed away on November 20, 2006 in Florida. He is survived by his wife, Margot, of sixty years. Beloved father to Mark and Daniele, Carole and Ron. Beloved grandfather to David and Jean, Michele and Jon, Julian and Zachary. A survivor of the Nazi Holocaust, then served in
 KENNEDY--Robert Chesebrough. Son of the late Elizabeth Chesebrough and William Kennedy Jr, brother of the late Elisabeth (Mrs Fremont J.) Knittle and the late William Kennedy III. Died at Lenox Hill Hospital on November 19th, 2006. Survived by five nieces and nephews. At his request there w
 MILLER--William A., peacefully passed away November 22, 2006. Son of the late Harry H. and Belle Halbren Miller. Beloved father of Peter L. Miller and the late Jeffrey H. Miller, loving father-in-law of Mary Cassesso, adored grandfather of Natalia, loving brother of Morgan Miller. Bill was 
 SILVERMAN--Norman The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, Norman Silverman, and extends sincere sympathy to his wife and other members of his family. Ira Eichner, President Arthur Loring, Secretary       
 TESSLER--Neil, friend, colleague, creator, a man for all seasons. We will miss him. Our hearts go out to Sandy and the family. Mort Gordon $(6$)TESSLER--Neil Our deepest condolences to the family, beloved wife Sandra, sons Evan, Cory and their families. He was one of a kind. He was 
 TIFFEN--Nat Steven Tiffen, president of The Tiffen Company, today announced the passing of his father, and company founder, Nat Tiffen. The senior Mr. Tiffen passed away peacefully on November 21st. The Tiffen Company was founded in 1938 by Nat Tiffen, with brothers, Leo and Sol. Bringing w
 WORKMAN--Arnold, after a lifetime dedicated to his family, his faith and his profession, of Monroe Township, New Jersey, died on November 19th, 2006 at University Medical Center at Princeton, after battling a long illness. He was 78 years old. Services were held at Anshe Emeth Memorial Temp
 Steam Train Maury, who started life as Maurice W. Graham until a train whistle's timeless lament compelled him to hop a freight to freedom and, much later, fame, as the first and only Grand Patriarch of the Hobos, died on Nov. 18 in Napoleon, Ohio, near Toledo. Mr. Graham was 89 and
 Gerald M. Boyd, who began work as a teenage grocery bagger in St. Louis and rose to become managing editor of The New York Times, then was forced to resign in a newsroom revolt after a young reporter was exposed as a fabricator, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 56 and lived in Manhattan.
 BARRON--James Pressley, 86, of Lynchburg, VA, died Tuesday, November 21st, 2006. Loving husband of Leirona Turman Barron; father of James Turman Barron and father-in-law of Jane-Iris Farhi of New York; and brother of Charles E. Barron, of Athens, GA. After serving in the United States Army 
 MILLER--William A., peacefully passed away November 22, 2006. Son of the late Harry H. and Belle Halbren Miller. Beloved father of Peter L. Miller and the late Jeffrey H. Miller, loving father-in-law of Mary Cassesso, adored grandfather of Natalia, loving brother of Morgan Miller. Bill was 
 WARD--Christian Scott, 59, native of Boise, Idaho, and resident of (and lover of) NYC since attending Columbia College in 1965. He died November 22, after a mercifully brief struggle with advanced lung cancer. (Yes, he'd smoked, but not for 25 years.) He was an extraordinary man, a loving f
 H. Donald Wilson, who prepared the original business plan for what became Mead Data Central and its pioneering Lexis-Nexis database, died on Nov. 12 at his home in Mitchellville, Md. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, said his daughter Edith R. Wilson. Mr. Wilson, a la
 Jesús Blancornelas, a fearless journalist who won several awards for his crusade against drug cartels and survived an assassination attempt in 1997, died Thursday in Tijuana, where he founded Zeta magazine. He was 70. News reports in Mexico announced his death, but the cause has no
 GERTZ--Kathryn, The Board of Directors and staff of F.E.G.S Health and Human Services System extend our condolences to Benjamin Gertz, valued board member, on the death of his beloved wife Kathryn. Our sympathies to their daughter Maggie and The Gertz family Joseph Stein Jr, The Chair Barry
 GREENES--Robert, The Board of Governors and members of the Fenway Golf Club record with profound sorrow the passing of Robert Greenes. A member of the Club for 56 years and an esteemed past President. We extended our sincere condolences to Ruth Brandt, Florence Herman and his entire family.
 KENNEDY--Robert Chesebrough. Son of the late Elizabeth Chesebrough and William Kennedy Jr, brother of the late Elisabeth (Mrs Fremont J.) Knittle and the late William Kennedy III. Died at Lenox Hill Hospital on November 19th, 2006. Survived by five nieces and nephews. At his request there w
 WARD--Christian Scott, 59, native of Boise, Idaho, and resident of (and lover of) NYC since attending Columbia College in 1965. He died November 22, after a mercifully brief struggle with advanced lung cancer. (Yes, he'd smoked, but not for 25 years.) He was an extraordinary man, a loving f
 CHRYSANTHEM--Alexander Peter passed away on November 21, 2006. A gentleman loved and respected by all who knew him. He is survived by his wife, Helen. Loving father of Nicholas and Alexandra. Beloved father-in-law to Tina and Tom. Devoted grandfather of Maria, Victoria, Alexander, Moscos, N
 Philippe Noiret, a much-loved French character actor who gained international renown through the movies ''Il Postino'' and ''Cinema Paradiso,'' died on Thursday at his home on the Left Bank in Paris. He was 76. The cause was cancer, said his agency, Artmedia. Although Mr. No
 Robert Lockwood Jr., the Mississippi Delta bluesman who was taught by Robert Johnson and became a mentor to generations of blues musicians, died on Tuesday in Cleveland, where he lived. He was 91. The cause was respiratory failure, said his wife, Mary Smith Lockwood. Mr. Lockwood ha
 Willie Pep, one of boxing's pre-eminent figures and a longtime featherweight champion remembered most for his four title bouts against Sandy Saddler, died Thursday. He was 84. He had been living in an Alzheimer's disease unit at the Haven Health Center in Rocky Hill, Conn., for the 
 FRIEDMAN--Sol 90, passed away peacefully at his home November 25, 2006. Devoted and loved husband of the late Hedda Friedman; loving father of Carole Wasser and Steven Friedman; adored fatherin-law of Barbara Friedman; brother-in-law of Ettie Berelson; loving grandfather of Marc (Heather) W
 GREY--Alfred, loving husband of Pearl, father of Karen (Paul), Jacqueline and Lawrence (Muriel), grandfather of Gregory (Avia), Kimberly (Ron), great-grandfather of Skyler and Preston. Decorated Veteran of World War II, accomplished business man, author, and championship golfer. His memory 
 HAYNES--Schuyler Sergeant First Class was killed in action while serving his country in Iraq on November 15th, 2006. He enlisted in the Army in 1989, after graduating from Trinity College. He was a Sergeant First Class in the 1st Cavalry, Third Brigade. He will be greatly missed by his moth
 KELLAR--Curtis Bradbury, 90. Born July 16, 1916, died November 18, 2006, of congestive heart failure, peacefully at his home in NYC. Son of the late Horatio Ellsworth and Laura Koontz Kellar. Predeceased by his brother Henry Ellsworth Kellar. Beloved father of Lucia, Bill (Peggy), Betsy (Br
 KENNEDY--Robert Chesebrough. Son of the late Elizabeth Chesebrough and William Kennedy Jr, brother of the late Elisabeth (Mrs Fremont J.) Knittle and the late William Kennedy III. Died at Lenox Hill Hospital on November 19th, 2006. Survived by five nieces and nephews. At his request there w
 LANDESMAN--Louis. Age 93, loving husband of Florence; father of Betsy Jacobs and Richard Landesman; grandfather of Lisa Jacobs, Rabbis Andrew and Cheryl Jacobs, Melissa and Joel Landesman; loving great-grandfather and uncle, passed away on November 23. Raised in the lower east side of Manha
 LONGHI--Vincent J. (Jim), attorney, playwright, author, died peacefully at his home in Manhattan after a short illness, at 90 years of age. He is survived by Gabrielle, his wife and companion of 63 years, by his son Jaime, his daughter Gaby, his granddaughters Allegra and Laura, and his dog
 MANDEL--Johnny, 90, of Miami Beach, FL, and formerly of Manhattan, died November 16, 2006 at Douglas Gardens. Mr. Mandel was a detective for the NYPD for 20 years and was President Emeritus of the Retired Detectives Association. He also coached the 1960 US Olympic Wrestling Team. Of all his
 O'MALLEY--Glyn William 55, playwright, director and educator, died unexpectedly at St. Vincent's Hospital, in New York City, after suffering a heart attack on November 14, 2006. Born in Providence, RI, to Meredith (Cooke) O'Malley, he is survived by his mother, his sister Gail, and three br
 PEARL--Harry, 92, November 20th. Naval Research Scientist, innovator, world traveler, dancer, punster. Last of the Pearl siblings: Phil, Bill, Sally, Nellie, and Ethel. Honored uncle of Nella, Sylvia, Sam, Felice, Arnold, and David. Loved and cherished by the late Kaye and Anna. He took gre
 PORTNOY--Murray W. (1923-2006) Died unexpectedly on November 23rd, 2006. Mourned by his wife of 64 years Harriette and his children Mark and Lynne. A ''Celebration of Life'' will be held at the Cold Spring Country Club, Huntington, New York, on Thursday, November 30th, 5:30 -7:30 pm.       
 YARDLEY--John H., 61 native of England but product of New York, passed from illness on November 22, 2006. A furniture maker by occupation but a collector by passion. He will be deeply missed by his loving friends and family, but most by Bernice ''the wife,'' the heart of his life's collecti
 ROVNER--Herbert A. November 26, 2004 remembered by his many friends for his warm spirit, amusing wit and scholastic achievements.       
 Robert H. Kupperman, who more than 30 years ago was among the first officials to tell the White House of the dangers of a terrorist attack on the United States, died Friday at his home in Washington. He was 71. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, first diagnosed in 1
 CATTERTON--David E., peacefully on November 24, 2006, age 84. A strong moral compass, loving heart and generous spirit guided him from childhood in Texarkana to life as a husband and father in New York, Greenwich, CT, and finally North Andover, MA; through Navy service in WWII, Columbia Bus
 GOFF--Ethan Stewart, age 77, of Fort Lee, on Wednesday November 22nd, 2006. Beloved husband of Eileen (nee Schwartz). Devoted father of Andrew Goff and his wife Linda and Danny Goff and his wife Marcy. Cherished grandfather of Sarah and Lauren. Dear brother of Barbara Plough and George Koss
 GRANDE--Frank, D., Ph. D. (Oxon) on November 25th. Dr. Grande received his degree from Oxford University in England. Former chairman of the History Department and Director of the Program in History and Philosophy of Sciences at The City College (CUNY). President of Griffon House Publication
 GREENES--Robert of Scarsdale NY, On November 24, 2006. A gentleman and consensus builder. Life partner of Ruth Brandt, father of Steven, Stacy and John, grandfather of Samantha, Max and Rebecca, brother of Florence Herman. Services Monday November 27 at 12:00pm at Kol Ami, 252 Soundview Ave
 KELLAR--Curtis Bradbury, 90. Born July 16, 1916, died November 18, 2006, of congestive heart failure, peacefully at his home in NYC. Son of the late Horatio Ellsworth and Laura Koontz Kellar. Predeceased by his brother Henry Ellsworth Kellar. Beloved father of Lucia, Bill (Peggy), Betsy (Br
 KING--Daniel G, LTC. The Officers and Members of the Veteran Corps of Artillery mourn the passing of our Plans & Operations Officer. He was a loyal and dedicated soldier, a member of the senior staff who will be greatly missed; ''a hard act to follow''. Our sympathy goes to his sister Maure
 KYRIAZES--George, on November 24, 2006, after a long, valiant battle, of complications from a brain tumor. Born in Samos, Greece 1948, son of Kalliope Kyriazes and the late Dr. Dimitrios Kyriazes. He graduated from high school in Samos, then attended Mount Herman Preparatory School of Massa
 SINCOFF--Benjamin, Rabbi, Dr. Died at the age of 88 on Thursday, November 23, second day of Kislev. Well known pulpit Rabbi on Long Island, Queens and Brooklyn for six decades, Mohel, Hebrew School Principal. Extraordinary zest for life and people. His love of Yiddishkeit, anything Jewish, 
 Rhodes W. Fairbridge, an early expert on climate change who edited an influential series of encyclopedias covering the earth sciences, died on Nov. 8 in Amagansett, N.Y. He was 92. The cause was a brain tumor, his family said. Beginning in 1966, Dr. Fairbridge, a geologist a
 Bernard Rimland, who overturned conventional theories about the origin of autism in the 1960s and later forced scientists and policymakers to consider alternative causes and treatments, died last Tuesday in El Cajon, Calif., near his home in San Diego. He was 78. The cause was compl
 APREA--John J., 53. Died Saturday, November 25, 2006 at St. Clare's Hospital in Denville following a short illness. He was 53. Born in Kingston, NY, on February 1, 1953 he was raised in Margaretville, NY where his family operated a local bed and breakfast. He later traveled across the Midwe
 FARLEY--Thomas P., Jr. on November 26, 2006 of Port Washington. Beloved fiance of Linda Levine. Loving brother of Patricia and Brian. Cherished uncle of Katelyn, Maggie and John. Graduate of St. Mary's High School, Manhasset, went onto Hofstra University for his Bachelors Degree and receive
 GUZY--Harold M., 79, died peacefully on November 27th of complications from Alzheimer's and Parkinson's in Boca Raton Florida. Born in NYC, resided in West Orange NJ, until moving to Boca Raton. Graduate of Cornell University and Harvard Law School. Harold is survived by his loving wife, Ri
 HANO--John R. Died on November 25th after a brave battle with kidney disease and congestive heart failure. He proudly served as a veteran during the Korea conflict and worked for years for RCA, NBC and Hertz. His unusual sense of humor helped along. He is survived by his devoted wife of 38 
 KELLAR--Curtis B. We mourn the loss of Curtis Kellar, loving friend and companion of the late Bonnie Cashin. Through his efforts the Bonnie Cashin Foundation was established to promote awareness of her contributions to and legacy within the design world and to encourage creative excellence,
 KYRIAZES--George With great sorrow The Epilepsy Institute mourns the loss of George Kyriazes. As Board Member for 15 years George helped to improve the quality of life for thousands of people with epilepsy. His efforts, advice and friendship will be missed. Don Jacob, President. Pamela Conf
 McFERRIN--Robert. The Metropolitan Opera mourns the death of baritone Robert McFerrin, Sr., the first AfricanAmerican man to sing principal roles with our company. His landmark debut on January 27th, 1955 as Amonasro in ''Aida'' followed Marian Anderson's historic debut by only three weeks,
 NEILSEN--Craig H. The faculty and staff of the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, mourns the untimely passing of Craig H. Neilsen, Chairman and CEO of Ameristar Casinos, owner of Neilsen and Company and founder of the Craig H. Neilsen Foundation. Living w
 NORWICK--Robert. Retired Advertising Executive passed away on November 22nd, 2006. He is survived by his children Jennifer and Marc, his mother Blanche, his sister Diana Becker, and former wife Alice. He began his career at E.T. Howard in New York City, and finally at his own company Norwic
 SINCOFF--Benjamin, Rabbi. The officers, Board of Directors and employees of Mount Lebanon Cemetery mourn the passing of our long time board member and dear friend. We will miss his wit and compassion, and extend our condolences to the family. Jay L. Ivler President       
 SISKIND--Philip, dearest beloved husband of Phyllis, died Friday, November 24, 2006 in Madison, Wisconsin after a long battle with lymphoma. He was born in NYC in 1923 to parents Edward and Minnie; grew up with sister Judith in New Rochelle; attended Union College and then Columbia Universi
 THALLER--Jack L. Dr., former professor, at New York University Dental School. Died November 26th in Florida. He leaves a wife of 59 years, two children and four grandchildren.       
 HIRSCHFELD--Zipora. The entire St. Luke's Roosevelt Hospital Center (SLR) family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of Zipora Hirschfeld, beloved mother of our dear friend and colleague, Elie Hirschfeld, a me
 Dave Cockrum, an illustrator who in the mid-1970s helped invent a dynamic new look and intriguing new characters for the moribund ''X-Men'' comics, paving the way for what became America's most popular comic books and a billion-dollar movie empire, died on Nov. 26 at his home in Belpon, S.C
 David Kritchevsky, a biochemist and expert in human nutrition who made groundbreaking studies of cholesterol and dietary fats and who pushed for balanced approaches to assessing health risks from foods, died on Nov. 20 in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 86. His death was confirmed by a spokes
 BESSO--Victor. The Baruch College community mourns the passing of Victor Besso '47, Trustee Emeritus of The Baruch College Fund and a devoted friend and supporter of his alma mater over several decades. An urbane and witty man who spoke several languages, Besso had a long career as a highly
 BORMAN--Walter Otto, It is with much sadness that the family of Walter Otto Borman announces Walter's death on October 29, 2006 after a year-long illness; he was 82. Walter is survived by his loving wife Erna, their four children: Susan of New York City, Carol and Linda of Boston, Walter Wi
 DENT--Marc T, too soon departed from this life, Marc Thomas Dent, 42, passed away peacefully on November 25th, 2006 after a sudden illness. A gentle man, devoted husband and loving father with a dry wit and a quiet charm, Marc is survived by his beloved wife, Michelle E. Dent and their five
 HARWOOD--Daniel J. of Boynton Beach, FL, formerly of Woodmere, NY, on November 22nd. Survived by his beloved wife Bernice, loving daughters Rene Gordon (Larry), Felice Spodick, and grandchildren Danna (Eric), Marc, and Chad. He was an Army Major during WWII, President of Leathercrafters Sup
 LUNZER--Julius Peter. The Jewish center mourns the passing of our distinguished member, J. Peter Lunzer. May his entire family be comforted among all who mourn for Zion and Jerusalem. Ari Berman, Rabbi Steve Graber, President       
 MOSCOW--Herbert. At 90 years he left us November 28th 2006, after a short illness. Beloved husband, friend, lover of Natalie for 63 years. Adoring father of Ellen, Ann, Barbara, Dennis Kirby, and Daniel. Proud grandfather of Alex Kirby, brother of Hilda Colish and best friend of Judy. Bert 
 MURPHY--John A., March 8, 1955-November 24, 2006, Devoted husband to Sue; Ideal father and best friend to Sean; Loving son to Jack and to his departed mother, Aggie; Dear brother to Virginia, Jane, Aggie and their families. Devoted colleague and dear friend to his Stroock family. He will be
 WEINBERG--Nathan. The Board of Trustees and staff of The Educational Alliance are saddened by the death of Nathan Weinberg, Retired Trustee of The Harry and Jeanette Weinberg Foundation. The Alliance is grateful for the Foundation's continuous and generous support. We extend our sincere con
 BARAGWANATH--Albert K. The Board of Trustees and staff of the Museum of the City of New York note with deep sadness the passing of Albert K. Baragwanath, Senior Curator Emeritus. On staff from 1952 to 1980, he provided a model for his successors. We extend our sympathies to his family and f
 DENT--Marc T, too soon departed from this life, Marc Thomas Dent, 42, passed away peacefully on November 25th, 2006 after a sudden illness. A gentle man, devoted husband and loving father with a dry wit and a quiet charm, Marc is survived by his beloved wife, Michelle E. Dent and their five
 DUGAN--Frank Allan, November 29, 2006. Beloved husband of Mary. He was a prominent attorney in the NYC, NY area for many years, frequently represented the finest restaurants and was counsel to Gucci. Friends may call Friday, December 1, 2-5pm and 7-9pm at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave
 KRAMER--Arthur, age 78, of Boynton Beach, FL, died Tuesday, November 28, 2006; after a long illness. A Korean War veteran, he retired as Deputy Director of the New York Housing Authority after 36 years of service. Survived by his wife Selma (nee Cohn); two children, Michael (Leslie Adams) K
 MOSCOW--Herbert. At 90 years he left us November 28th 2006, after a short illness. Beloved husband, friend, lover of Natalie for 63 years. Adoring father of Ellen, Ann, Barbara, Dennis Kirby, and Daniel. Proud grandfather of Alex Kirby, brother of Hilda Colish and best friend of Judy. Bert 
 MURPHY--Denis, November 28, 2006. Son of the late Denis and Hannah Barrow Murphy, brother of the late John, Richard, Mary Templeton, Hanora Comfort and Margaret Murphy. He is survived by his daughter Colleen DePaolo, son Denis, grandson William DePaolo and sister Hannah. Matthew Funeral Hom
 STERNBACH--Marvin died peacefully yesterday at age 78. He is survived by his wife of 40 years, Merry, their three daughters, two sons, six grandchildren and extended family. Service is Friday, December 1st, at 11 am at Lincoln Park Funeral Home in Yonkers. Phone: 914-963-1550.       
 WEINBERG--Nathan. The Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center family expresses heartfelt sympathy at the passing of Nathan Weinberg. His vision and leadership as a founding trustee of the Harry and Jeanette Weinberg Foundation served to enrich the lives of our elderly and those in need. We are proud
 Smith Hempstone, a journalist who became United States ambassador to Kenya and pushed so forcefully for democracy in that country that its one-party government denounced him as a racist and demanded his recall, died on Nov. 19 in Bethesda, Md. He was 77. The cause was complications 
