 BRODERICK-Marion R. (nee Kane). On November 29 at the age of 82. Devoted wife of the late Edwin D. (Kippy). Loving mother of Edwin D. Jr. and his wife Regina, Thomas J. and Marybeth. Cherished grandmother of Eric and Michael. Beloved sister of Thomas and the late William Kane. Former elemen
 GELLIS-Dr. Sydney S. Of Newton Centre, MA, on Friday, December 6, 2002. Beloved husband of Matilda (Lichter) Gellis. Devoted father of Beth Crocker and her husband Dr. Stephen Crocker of Bethesda, MD, and Dr. Stephen E. Gellis of Waban, MA, and his late wife Ellen E. Gellis. Loving grandfat
 LOWNDES-Susan J. Of Arlington. Priest of the Christian Community. Survived by father Robert O. Schwartz and Jeannette Schwartz of NC, daughter Alexandra Stockwell, son-in-law Rodd and grandchildren Josephine and Christopher of Topsfield, son William Edelglass and his partner Kirstin George 
 Nani Palkhivala, a leading Indian constitutional lawyer and civil rights advocate who vigorously opposed the state of emergency imposed by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi from 1975 to 1977 and was rewarded with the Washington ambassadorship when she fell from power, died on Wednesday in Bombay
 BORDEN-Elizabeth (McGinley). Of Cambridge formerly of Milton and Concord, November 19, 2002. Beloved mother of Jane Chermayeff of NM, Elizabeth ''Betsy'' Carlson and her husband Robert of CA, and Dr. Spencer Borden IV and his wife Elizabeth Clemens of Concord. Grandmother of Jack Batchelder
 DONOHUE - Margaret. On December 14, 2002. Beloved mother of Richard and his wife Helen. Adoring grandmother of Evan and Jordan. A longtime member of Jewish Women International and a generous contributor to the Residential Treatment Center for Boys and Girls in Jerusalem. A charitable and sp
 ASHE - Eleanor. Attorney, died December 15, of complications related to uterine cancer. The daughter of the late Dr. Benjamin and Rose Ashe, sister of the late Dr. Barbara Ashe, she is survived by her son Dr. Will Soll and his daughters Amy and Kathryn, and by her son Dr. Roger Soll, his wi
 KAPELUS-Evelyn, 92. Of Marlboro, N.J. on December 17, 2002. Wife of the late Leon. Mother of Ginette Shomer and her husband Dr. Irving and the late Michel Kapelus and his wife Hannie. Grandmother of four. Great-grandmother of seven. Graveside service 1:30PM, December 19 at New Montefiore Ce
 PINTEA-Maria. December 20. Beloved wife of the late Mihai. Devoted mother of Marcel and his wife Anna. Cherished grandmother of Michelle, Andrew and Matthew. Loving sister of Victoria and Puiu. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1
 OESTREICH - Norma (nee Edelman). 88. Beloved wife of the late Al Oestreich. Devoted mother of Sherry Bloom and her husband Jerry and James Oestreich and his wife Laurie. Cherished grandmother of David, Jonathan, Yael, Abby and Daniel. Loving sister of Roberta Goldberg and her husband Herb. 
 PINTEA-Maria. December 20. Beloved wife of the late Mihai. Devoted mother of Marcel and his wife Anna. Cherished grandmother of Michelle, Andrew and Matthew. Loving sister of Victoria and Puiu. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1
 SCHULMAN-Norman. In his 87th year in Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, on December 20th. Beloved husband of Florence. Devoted father of Nancy Bellovin and her husband Dennis, and Leslie Fishoff and her husband Scott. Cherished grandfather of Hal, Emily, Alex and Zach. A generous, vi
 OESTREICH - Norma (nee Edelman). 88. Beloved wife of the late Al Oestreich. Devoted mother of Sherry Bloom and her husband Jerry and James Oestreich and his wife Laurie. Cherished grandmother of David, Jonathan, Yael, Abby and Daniel. Loving sister of Roberta Goldberg and her husband Herb. 
 FLUG-Fortunee nee Husney. Mother, you brought me into this world and gave me the warmest welcome a son could have been given. You were by my side for the good times and the bad times. Nothing was ever too much for you. I watched you struggle for quite a few years. Finally it was just too di
 MALTZ-Ann. Norman F. Levy and family would like to express their deepest sympathy to Al Maltz and his children on the passing of Ann. She was a warm, giving and courageous lady whose kindness touched many.       
 WINTER-Emma (Rose). Of Needham, MA, formerly of New York City, on Friday, December 27, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Sidney C. Winter. Devoted mother of Irene J. Winter and her husband Robert Hunt, Pearl W. Bartelt and her husband David and Frederick A. Winter and his wife Joan Smith. Lovi
 WINTER-Emma (Rose). Of Needham, MA, formerly of New York City, on Friday, December 27, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Sidney C. Winter. Devoted mother of Irene J. Winter and her husband Robert Hunt, Pearl W. Bartelt and her husband David and Frederick A. Winter and his wife Joan Smith. Lovi
