 MILLER--Dr. Benjamin. Age 94. On August 30, 2003. Cherished husband of the late Alma Miller. Beloved father of Frances Merkler and her husband Dr. Richard Merkler. Loving father of Dr. Kenneth Miller and his wife Dr. Cheryl Barbanel. Adored grandfather of Alexander, Philip, Rachel and Maris
 SLOCUM--Margaret Wood, of North Merrick, New York, suddenly on August 28, 2003. Wife of the late Charles. Devoted mother of Elizabeth Clarke. Dear mother-in-law of Frank. Loving grandmother of Andrew and his wife Kristen, Paul and David. Also survived by her great-grandchildren, Matthew Tho
 SLOCUM--Margaret Wood, of North Merrick, New York, suddenly on August 28, 2003. Wife of the late Charles. Devoted mother of Elizabeth Clarke. Dear mother-in-law of Frank. Loving grandmother of Andrew and his wife Kristen, Paul and David. Also survived by her great-grandchildren, Matthew Tho
 MOREY--Susan, of Greensboro, VT, died August 30, 2003 in Lebanon, NH. Born in New York City, the daughter of the late Charles and Phyllis (Hedley) Bailey. She married Jonathan T. Morey in 1940. He died in 1995. Mother of Jonathan B. Morey of Mazomunie, WI, Sara Floody of Madison, WI, and Al
 GRATENSTEIN--Dorothy, 78, on September 1, 2003. Daughter of the late Abraham and the late Anna, sister of the late Ruth Locke, sister-in-law of the late Jerome Locke, loving aunt of Patricia Infantino and her husband Salvatore and Peter Locke and his wife Karen, great aunt to five nephews. 
 ARZT--Edya Rachel Signer. Passed away after a brief ill ness. Daughter of the late Rabbi Isador and Elca Signer. Mourned and missed by her brother Ethan Signer and his wife Laura Karp, and by her beloved children and their spouses: Aliza C.P. Arzt and her husband Meredith J.A. Porter, Joshu
 GRAUBARD--Blanche K. The Anti - Defamation League mourns the passing of Blanche Graubard, beloved wife of our Honorary National Chairman, Seymour Graubard. Blanche and Seymour were partners in life and in their deep commitment to the Jewish people and ADL. We extend our deepest condolences 
 MAHONY--Grace M. (nee Sullivan). Died peacefully on September 6, 2003, after a short illness at Lenox Hill Hospital. Age 95. Beloved wife of the late Paul A. Mahony. Devoted mother of Paul A. Mahony, Sheila A. Mahony, her husband Charles Riggs, Robert E. Mahony, his wife Christina, and the 
 DEE--John T. Our deepest sympathy to Susan and her three sons on their recent loss. John was our friend, client and mentor and we will always remember him with love. Impala Partners       
 APPLEBAUM--Rabbi Dr. David and Naava. ''She (Jerusalem) weeps bitterly in the night and her tear is on her cheek.'' Heartbroken and devastated, we mourn the tragic deaths of a treasured jewel of the Jewish people together with his beloved daughter Naava, both of whom died Al Kiddush Hashem,
 WEISS--Peter R. of Montclair, NJ, formerly of Brooklyn, NY, on September 6, 2003. Cherished husband of Margaret Schmidt; dear son of the late Louis and Charlotte (Friedman) Weiss; dear son-in-law of Thomas and Margaret (Di Cocco) Schmidt; dear nephew of Edwin and Edith Friedman, Antoinette 
 HARFIELD--Henry, on Saturday, September 13, 2003 in New York City at age 89. Beloved father of Susan Harfield Leness Peck. Survived also by grandchildren Amanda Leness Gubbin and her husband Keith of London, England, Susan Leness Gilbert and her husband David of New York City, Anthony Harfi
 HARFIELD--Henry, on Saturday, September 13, 2003 in New York City at age 89. Beloved father of Susan Harfield Leness Peck. Survived also by grandchildren Amanda Leness Gubbin and her husband Keith of London, England, Susan Leness Gilbert and her husband David of New York City, Anthony Harfi
 HARFIELD--Henry, on Saturday, September 13, 2003 in New York City at age 89. Beloved father of Susan Harfield Leness Peck. Survived also by grandchildren Amanda Leness Gubbin and her husband Keith of London, England, Susan Leness Gilbert and her husband David of New York City, Anthony Harfi
 KATZ--Rose. Beloved wife of the late Hyman. Loving mother of Saul and Iris Katz, and Michael and Dayle Katz. Adoring grandmother of David and Holly Katz, Natalie and Brenden O'Brian, Heather and Daniel Knopf, Gregory and Amy-Beth Katz, Howard Katz and Todd Katz. Cherished great-grandmother 
