 CARR-Dorothy Healey, born on July 17, 1917, loving wife of Peter, & mother of Kevin, Brian, Michael, Kelly Anne & Colin, passed away peacefully June 25, 2000 at the San Diego Hospice. Dorothy suffered with CHF, COPD, HTN, Dementia of Alzheimer's Type. Following a family service at the Churc
 MANISCALCO-Florence. The employees and staff of Palestrini Post Production Inc. and its affiliated companies wish to express our deepest sympathy to John Palestrini, the company's founder and CEO, on the passing of his mother, Florence Maniscalco, in her 91st year. We extend our condolences
 MANISCALCO-Florence. The employees and staff of Palestrini Post Production Inc. and its affiliated companies wish to express our deepest sympathy to John Palestrini, the company's founder and CEO, on the passing of his mother, Florence Maniscalco, in her 91st year. We extend our condolences
 KELLNER-Joan B. Suddenly and peacefully on July 8, 2000. Cherished mother of Rick and Jeffrey P. and his wife Traci. Adored grandmother of Allison and Annika. Loving companion of Howard Kessler. Former wife of Irving Kellner. Services Tuesday, 10 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amste
 SOKOLOW-Richard. Beloved son of Pauline and the late Sidney. Loving brother of Ellen and her husband, Richard Salsburg. Cherished uncle of Joshua and Greg and his wife, Yvonne. Graveside services Wednesday, 11:30 AM at Beth Moses Cemetery, Farmingdale, NY.       
 LITT-Mary S. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the lost of Mary S. Litt, a dear friend of the Jewish community. As president of the Litt Foundation, Mrs. Litt embraced the humanitarian concerns of her late husband, Solomon, a re
 KUMRO-Miriam Louise (nee Smith), age 73 on Saturday, July 15, 2000 of Arlington, VA. Beloved wife of 48 years of Arthur C. Kumro; loving mother of Kathy L. Bradish and her husband Stephen of Woodbridge, VA, and Richard A. Kumro and his wife Kaare Phillips of New York City; grandmother of Ri
 BERELSON-Thelma D. On July 22, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Loving mother of Ellen and her husband Lawrence Franks and the late Philip. Dear sister of Elca Branman and sister-in-law of Elliot Berelson and his wife Suzanne. Board member of the League for the Hard of Hearing and Pre
 STARR-Manya (Fifi). The partners of Podell, Schwartz, Schechter & Banfield mourn the loss of Fifi Starr, beloved wife of our dear friend and client, Amram Nowak. Herbert Podell, our senior partner and his wife Lorraine, who were blessed to know and love this grand lady will miss her very mu
 MELTZER-Manford. We offer heartfelt sympathy to our dear friend Taube Meltzer, Founding Member and longtime officer of our Manhattan League on the death of her beloved husband, who shared his generous support to our cause over many years. The Fight For Sight community extends our sympathy t
