 ENGEL-Jeanette. Formerly of Far Rockaway. Wife of the late Harry Engel; mother of Marilyn Zager and Elaine Rotenberg; grandmother of Laurie, Carole, Daniel, Miriam, Yael and Rivka; great-grandmother of twentythree. Passed away on March 30, 2002 in Miami Beach, FL. Interment at Old Montefior
 MATHEWS-Troup. The members of the MacDougal-Sullivan Garden Association wish to convey our deepest sympathies to Ann Mathews for the loss of her husband, Troup. He was a longtime neighbor and dear friend. A memorial service will be held in July.       
 HERSON-Gilda J. On April 6, 2002. Beloved wife of Ralph S. Herson for 61 years. Adored mother of Susan H. Silverman and Steven J. Herson and his wife Caryl Herson. Devoted grandmother of Deborah L. Silverman, Robin L. Silverman and her husband Harry Keates and Gregory and Christopher Herson
 HERSON-Gilda J. On April 6, 2002. Beloved wife of Ralph S. Herson for 61 years. Adored mother of Susan H. Silverman and Steven J. Herson and his wife Caryl Herson. Devoted grandmother of Deborah L. Silverman, Robin L. Silverman and her husband Harry Keates & Gregory and Christopher Herson. 
 ROMEROVSKI-Martin. We extend sincere condolences to Rose Romerovski, a devoted member of the National Women's Division Board of the American Committee for Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem, on the loss of her dear husband. Martin served as a quiet, modest but exemplary role model, as
 BORN-Mildred A. Of Tenafly, NJ on April 10, 2002. Beloved sister of Henry Wilbur Born of Tenafly, NJ. Friends may call at the Barrett Funeral Home, 148 Dean Drive Tenafly, NJ on Sunday 2-4 PM only. Funeral Service Monday 12:30 PM, Church of the Atonement Engle Street & Highwood Avenue, Tena
 BRUELL-Philip M. Loving son of Rady and the late Eric. Devoted brother of Dana, Gregory, and the late Gilbert. Cherished nephew of Suzette and Dan Gross. Dear cousin of Harry, Elyse, and Janet. CoFounder of Northern Lights Video Production. Avid amateur pilot with 1000 hours of flying time.
 GERDAU-Lillian Hall. Of New Providence, NJ, formerly of Summit and Chatham, NJ on April 15, 2002. Wife of the late Willard Gerdau. Mother of Richard, a Senior Producer at ABC News and his wife Patricia, who cared for Lillian in her later years, both of Chatham, NJ. Grandmother of Justine, a
 CANTLAY-Patricia King. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of Columbia University Health Sciences Division and NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital extend their deepest sympathy to Henry L. King, Chairman of the Columbia-Presbyterian Health Sciences Advisory Council, and his family for the loss of his 
 OBERMAN-Esther K. Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our member, Esther K. Oberman. May He who consoles the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem bring comfort to her family. Dr. Harlan J. Wechsler, Rabbi Alisa R. Doctoroff, President       
 WARNER-Lynn. Of Coronado, California, on Sunday, April 14, of cancer. Beloved wife of Lewis. Loving mother of Kathryn Kirby of Wallingford, Pennsylvania, William Warner & his wife Elissa, of Cambridge, MA, Ginny Walter & her husband David, of Potomac, MD. Cherished grandmother of four grand
 ASKIN-Alma. The officers, Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Alma Askin, a cherished friend of the organization who, with her family, expressed a deep commitment to Jewish and other humanitarian causes. The exceptional generosity of Mrs. Askin's 
 PHIPPS-Ogden. It is with deep sorrow that the Board of Trustees and Staff of the Animal Medical Center mark the passing of Mr. Ogden Phipps, loving father of our Chairman Cynthia Phipps. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family and all those who were touched by his life. Guy L. Pidgeo
 KLEIN-Kurt. 1920-2002 The United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and its governing Council deeply mourn the passing of Kurt Klein, a cherished friend of the Museum, and husband of Gerda Weissmann Klein, a member of the Museum's Council who, with her husband, has been a tireless advocate of
 FONER-Lorraine. On behalf of the 1199 National Benefit and Pension Funds and the Retired Members Division, we mourn the loss of longtime member Lorraine Foner, wife of Henry Foner, former President of the Fur Workers' union, and sister-in-law of the late Moe Foner, 1199 Executive Secretary 
