 ROOS-Julie Ann. We mourn the passing of Julie Ann Roos. We extend our sincerest sympathy to her beloved father, Edwin G. Roos, and her cherished brothers, Andrew H. Roos and Peter Roos. She will be dearly missed, but will live forever in our hearts. Memorial services will be held Thursday, 
 PERLMAN-Sidney. Our entire organization wishes to express our heartfelt condolences to Claire Perlman on the passing of her husband, Sidney. He was truly a man of great stature and consequence in our industry and a humanitarian of great note, whose life really made a difference. Williams Re
 LUKAS-J. Anthony. Pantheon Books expresses its profound condolences to our friend and colleague, Linda Healey, on the death of her husband. A gifted journalist, masterful author, and champion for social justice, he was a mentor and guiding spirit to many journalists, writers and editors. Ou
 EISEMAN-Harry A. Ed.D June 9, 1957. Lovingly remembered and revered by all her knew him. The Family       
 ROSEN-Marlene. Died on Wednesday, June 11 in Sun City, Arizona. Beloved mother of Leslie and her husband David Fastenberg, Joel Rosen and his wife Kathleen, and Norman Rosen. Dear sister to Beverly and her husband Stanley Weiner. Loving nanny to Judd, Lauren, Emma, Hannah and Amy. Devoted n
 ROSEN-Marlene. Died on Wednesday, June 11 in Sun City, Arizona. Beloved mother of Leslie and her husband David Fastenberg, Joel Rosen and his wife Kathleen, and Norman Rosen. Dear sister to Beverly and her husband Stanley Weiner. Loving nanny to Judd, Lauren, Emma, Hannah and Amy. Devoted n
 GAYLE-Kathleen S., passed on June 12, 1997. The loving wife of Hector H. Gayle and is survived by her loving son Robert, his wife Ann, their son Eric and her son Michael. Viewing June 14 at Carl Burnett Funeral Home, 516-489-4492.       
 LEELIKE-George E. of Maplewood, NJ on June 13, 1997, husband of Susan Lose Leelike, father of David E. and his wife Laraine Leelike of Belleport, NY, Christopher G. and John E. both at home, brother of Ellen and her husband Max Leelike Keller of Yorktown Heights, NY; also survived by two gr
 Betty Shabazz, who saw her husband, Malcolm X, assassinated 32 years ago and sought to preserve his memory and teachings in a life that became a symbol of perseverance to black America, died yesterday at a Bronx hospital, three weeks after suffering extensive burns in a fire apparently set 
 HOFFMANN-Malcolm Arthur. On June 24, 1997, beloved husband of the late Anna F. Hoffmann, dear friend of Miriam T. Miller, adored father of Gertrude Bolter and her husband William and Jessica Davis and her husband Will. Cherished grandfather of Daisy & Flora Bolter and Joshua Malcolm Davis &
 HOFFMANN-Malcolm Arthur. On June 24, 1997, beloved husband of the late Anna F. Hoffmann, dear friend of Miriam T. Miller, adored father of Gertrude Bolter and her husband William and Jessica Davis and her husband Will. Cherished grandfather of Daisy & Flora Bolter and Joshua Malcolm Davis &
 FRIEDMAN-Lena, 84. Died in San Diego. Treasured wife of Henry, adored mother of Eleanor and and her husband Lloyd, and Michael and his wife Lauren. Beloved grandmother of Paul and Jean, Alec and Mary, Stefan, Bradley and Jamie.       
