 ALTMAN-Edith (Miller). Devoted wife of David, loving mother of Mel, Louise Stern, Alan and Judi, caring grandmother of Ilene, Marc, Matthew and Joshua. We'll always remember your kindness and love to us all. Graveside services private. Shiva will be observed at the Altman residence. Contrib
 Robert Treuhaft, a crusading radical lawyer who inspired his wife, Jessica Mitford, to write her best seller ''The American Way of Death,'' died in New York on Nov. 11. He was 89. As a union lawyer representing longshoremen in the San Francisco area in the 1950's, Mr. Treuhaft was e
 d'AMBRA-Salvatore. 73, recently of Maplewood and South Orange, NJ, originally from Brooklyn, NY, died on December 4, 2001, after a heroic five year battle with cancer. Survived by his wife of fiftythree years, Sonia Nowinski, loving father of Diana d'Ambra, and her husband, Stuart Gold, and
 ROLIDER-Henry. On December 7, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Rissa. Adored father of Joanne Rhein and her husband Arthur, Andrea Rolider and the late Susan Reichman. Loving grandfather of Valerie Rhein, Audrey Reichman and David Reichman. Dear brother of Morry Rolider and the late Irene 
 O'GORMAN-Thomas. Died on December 9, 2001. Beloved husband of Maureen. Adored father of Lynn Latchford, Katherine Mjelde and her husband Torstin, Michael and his wife Andrea. Loving grandfather of Britt Bjorn, Lauren and Jack. Beloved brother of Kathleen Reynolds, Joan Malone, Louis O'Gorma
 LIVINGSTON-Helen. Died December 9, 2001. Cherished mother of Julie. Devoted wife of the late Raymond. Beloved sister of Joseph and his wife Rose. Adored aunt of Stephen. Loving, kind, brave, generous, beautiful, brilliant, humorous, vibrant and unique. Had enormous will to live despite her 
 O'GORMAN-Thomas. Died on December 9, 2001. Beloved husband of Maureen. Adored father of Lynn Latchford, Katherine Mjelde and her husband Torstin, Michael & his wife Andrea. Loving grandfather of Britt Bjorn, Lauren and Jack. Beloved brother of Kathleen Reynolds, Joan Malone, Louis O'Gorman 
 LEIMAN-Betty Ann. On December 13, 2001 at age 77. Beloved wife of Eugene A. Leiman. Dear sisterin-law of Janet Mitchell, Harmon Leiman & his wife Enid. Interment private. Memorial services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Thursday, January 17, 2002 at 4 PM. Contributions in 
 BERNSTEIN-Sadie. Bnai Zion mourns the passing of the sister of our devoted National President, Michael J. Lazar. We extend our condolences to her son, Bill, his wife Evelyn and to the entire bereaved family. The family has requested in lieu of flowers that contributions be sent to the Bnai 
 LEIMAN-Betty Ann. On December 13, 2001 at age 77. Beloved wife of Eugene A. Leiman. Dear sisterin-law of Janet Mitchell, Harmon Leiman & his wife Enid. Interment private. Memorial services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St. Thursday, January 17, 2002 at 4 PM. Contributions in 
 RYIZ-Beth Ann. Family and friends mourn the loss of Beth Ann Ryiz of New York City. Formerly of New Britain, CT. She is the daughter of the late Paul and Elizabeth Ryiz and is survived by two brothers, Dr. Peter Ryiz and Paul Ryiz and his wife Donna, five nieces, a nephew and grand-nephew. 
 LEVINE-Pauline. On December 25, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Jacob. Loving mother of Lorelei Kaplan and her husband Milt and Sharon Elghanayan and her husband Tom. Cherished grandmother of Michael and his wife Hannelore, Cheryl, Jessica and Jacob, and great-grandmother of Casey and Zachar
 LINDAUER-Joann. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed member. We extend deepest sympathy to her husband Howard, his children Lisa, Jason, and the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rabbi Sarah A. Zemel, Hazzan Norton D. Shargel, R
 SLOAN-Melvin. The Board of Governors and membership of Edgewood Country Club record with deep sorrow the death of Mr. Melvin Sloan, an esteemed member, and extend to his beloved wife, Susan, and family its deepest sympathy. Kenneth Apfel, President Sidney Gottlieb, Secretary SLOAN-M
