 GOETZ-Edith. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member, Lothar Weinberg, upon the loss of his sister, as well as to her children, grandchildren & sister. May the families be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, Presid
 COHEN-Babs. We are heartbroken by the loss of our dearest friend. We will remember you for your courage, love of life and dignity to the end. Deep sympathy to Joe, Jon, Jarrod and Audrey. Nancy and Harold Oelbaum COHEN-Barbara W. On September 2, 2001. Beloved wife of Joseph M. Cohen
 VOLCHOK-Saul. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds mourn with profound sorrow the passing of an outstanding leader and devoted friend and supporter of the State of Israel. Saul served with great distinction as a National Campaign Vice-Chairman of Israel Bonds and as General Chair
 BUTCHIN-Kenneth. The Rabbis, Officers, Trustees, and members of Congregation Emanu-El of the City of New York express to Fern Nevison, the wife of our Cantor, deepest sympathies on the occasion of the death of her beloved brother. We extend to the family our deepest condolences and express 
 COSLOY - BLANK - Sharon. The American Friends of the Rambam Medical Center mourn the untimely death of Sharon Cosloy Blank, supporter with her husband Edward Blank, our esteemed Board member. Together with our friends and colleagues in Israel, we remember Sharon's and Ed's visit to the hosp
 SCHACK-Leonard. Age 92, on September 8, 2001. Beloved husband of Lola. Devoted brother of Wilma. Loving father of Linda and Kenneth. Father-in-law of Marcia and Myron. Grandfather of Melissa, Justin, Neal, Pamela and her husband Andrew. Great-grandfather of Joshua and Aaron. Funeral service
 LAKE-Carrie K.G. Died at age 85 on September 10, 2001 after a lengthy and brave battle with cancer. Beloved wife of her late husbands Sidney Gimpelson (died April 1996) and Alvin A. Lake (died January 2000). Survived by loving sister Marilyn, devoted brother-in-law Norton, dear niece Nina, 
 TURELL-Evelyn Gilson. The Trustees, Faculty, and Staff of Mount Sinai School of Medicine deeply mourn the passing of Evelyn Gilson Turell, a generous benefactress, and the wife of the late Dr. Robert Turell, a prominent surgeon, who served Mount Sinai and his patients with dedication and di
 TALLEN-Anne. On September 18, 2001. Beloved wife of Nathaniel (Teddy). Devoted mother of Sheila and Irwin Cohen, Diane Spigel & Bette Tallen. Adored grandmother of Jeffrey and Karen Spigel, Robin Spigel, Allison and Kevin Stahl, and Meredith Cohen. Sweet great grandmother of Jacob Stahl. Se
 COLODNER-Patricia. The family of Gregory Colodner and Courtney Colodner Dallaire mourn the tragic loss of their stepmother, Patti. For their darling siblings, for Warren, whom we have known since he was 16, and for dear Grandma Sylvia, our hearts ache. We express our profound sorrow and ext
 SANTORO-Mario. The community of Little Red School House and Elisabeth Irwin High School is deeply saddened by the tragic loss of Mario Santoro, an EMS worker who was one of the first to arrive on the scene. He is the loving husband of Leo and adoring father of Sophia. Our thoughts and praye
 GOTTESMAN-Doris Helene (nee Tarnower). On September 21. Beloved wife of Nathaniel. Devoted mother to Daniel and his wife Jennifer, Robert and his wife Lina and Jonathan. Predeceased by her son Edward. Loving grandmother to Melissa and her husband Andrew, Adam and Michael. Great-grandmother 
 GOTTESMAN-Doris Helene (nee Tarnower). On September 21. Beloved wife of Nathaniel. Devoted mother to Daniel and his wife Jennifer, Robert and his wife Lina and Jonathan. Predeceased by her son Edward. Loving grandmother to Melissa and her husband Andrew, Adam and Michael. Great-grandmother 
 Sally F. Reston, a newspaper publisher, photographer and writer who was for 60 years as much a partner as a wife to the columnist James B. Reston of The New York Times, died Saturday at her home in Washington. She was 89. ''Sally not only married me but also educated me,'' Mr. Resto
 HANNAFORD-Kevin James on September 11, 2001. He was 32. Beloved husband of Eileen (nee McGinley) Hannaford. Dear father of Patrick James Hannaford. Loving son of James and Nancy Hannaford. Sister of Elizabeth and her husband Robert Saraceno. Uncle and Godfather of Evan Saraceno. Brother of 
 PEARL-David. For our Uncle David. To my sister Mona, her children and grandchildren. We both share your grief at this time of David's passing and only hope that memories of good times you've shared, from the first Lindy's cheesecake to your many construction projects, will bring you eventua
 KAUFMAN-Dr. Raymond. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Jeanne Kaufman upon the loss of her husband, a senior statesman of our community. We extend our sympathies to his children, grandchildren, sisters, brothers and to the entire family. May they be comforted among t
 Michael L. Katzev, an archaeologist who combined luck, scholarship and eight years of meticulous toil to raise, preserve and interpret one of the oldest and most intact seagoing cargo vessels ever discovered, died on Sept. 8 at his home in Southport, Me. He was 62. The cause was a s
