 MOSES--Golda (Losner) of Roslindale, MA, formerly of Brooklyn, on Friday, November 5, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Bernhard Moses. Beloved mother of Joel Moses & his wife Peggy of Weston, MA and Abraham Moses. Loving grandmother of David and Jesse Moses. Dear sister of the late Samuel Los
 Lennox Miller, who won Olympic sprint medals for Jamaica in 1968 and 1972 and watched his daughter Inger win one for the United States in 1996, died Monday in Pasadena, Calif. He was 58 and had been a dentist in Pasadena for 30 years. The cause of death was cancer, according to the 
 ETTMAN--Ruth. The Board of Directors of New York's Finest Foundation extends our condolences to Rodney Ettman, our founder and Chairman Emeritus, on the death of his wife Ruth. They walked hand-in-hand through the best and worst life had to offer. She was just as much a part of us as is Rod
 ETTMAN--Ruth. The Board of Directors of New York's Finest Foundation extends our condolences to Rodney Ettman, our founder and Chairman Emeritus, on the death of his wife Ruth. They walked hand-in-hand through the best and worst life had to offer. She was just as much a part of us as is Rod
 LEVINE--Lawrence S. On November 18, 2004. Beloved husband of Linda. Adored father of Lauren Levine and her husband Jim Spound, Audrey Levine and her husband Nels Johnson, Hilary Levine and her husband Tony Hacking, and grandfather of Daniel, Jesse, Silas, Harry, and Aliza, brother of Alan L
 CLARK--George John ''Jack'' and LaJean Avery--Died on Wednesday, November 17, in an automobile accident a mile away from their home of 40 years in New Canaan, Connecticut. LaJean Avery was born in Aberdeen, South Dakota, on July 23, 1923, and raised in Huron, South Dakota. After attending C
 VAGELOS -- Demetra (nee Chios). November 29th, 2004 on Singer Island, FL. Beloved wife of John Homer. Devoted mother of Lydia and John Callimanis and Theodore and Julie Vagelos. Dear sister of Basilia Karageorgis. Loving grandmother of Nicole, Philip and Stephanie. Visiting at St. Spyridon 
