 Julia Albrecht Apple, the granddaughter of the founder of an Ohio grocery store chain and the mother of R. W. Apple Jr., the associate editor of The New York Times, died on Sunday in Akron, Ohio. She was 92. Mrs. Apple's husband, R. W. Apple, was an executive with that family compan
 VASTESAEGER-Maria. The entire Long Island College Hospital family mourns the passing of Maria Vastesaeger, beloved wife of devoted physician Balendu Vasavada, MD. She will be deeply missed. We extend our deepest sympathies to Dr. Vasavada, his family, loved ones and friends. John Wren Chair
 WREN-Margaret. The Board of Trustees and administrative leadership of Continuum Health Partners acknowledges with sadness the passing of Margaret Wren, beloved mother of our dear friend and colleague John Wren, Vice Chairman of the Continuum Board and Chairman of the Board of Regents of our
 KRAMER-Charles L. The Board of Governors and members of Fairview Country Club note with profound sorrow the passing of our beloved member Charles L. Kramer. Dee and her late husband Charlie had been members since 1974. On behalf of all our members we express our deepest condolences to his f
 DOCTOROFF-Hon. Martin M. Beloved father of our founder Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff. The Board and staff of NYC2012 extend our heartfelt sympathies to Dan, Alisa, Jacob, Ariel and Jenna, and to Dan's brothers, Mark, Andrew and Thomas, and their families. ''And wisdom mounts her zenith w
 DOCTOROFF-Hon. Martin M. Beloved father of our founder Deputy Mayor Daniel L. Doctoroff. The Board and staff of NYC2012 extend our heartfelt sympathies to Dan, Alisa, Jacob, Ariel and Jenna, and to Dan's brothers, Mark, Andrew and Thomas, and their families. ''And wisdom mounts her zenith w
 LEIBMAN-Sidney. Age 92, on July 15, 2002, after a brief illness. Dearly beloved husband of Frances Moskin Leibman for 56 years and uncle of many. He was born in New York City, February 23, 1910, graduated from Syracuse University and the Harvard University Law School, and, as a captain in t
