 JOHNSON - Nancy Bullens, age 60, of Silvermine, CT. passed away unexpectedly April 29, 2003 in Richmond, VA. She was formerly of Darien, CT. Survivors include her husband Robert R. (Skip) Johnson; one daughter Wendy E. Johnson; two sons Eric S. Johnson and his wife Lisa, and Kurt A. Johnson
 HONERKAMP-Frederick W. Jr., 86, of Southold, died at Eastern Long Island Hospital on May 2, 2003. Husband of the late Mary (Worthington). Chief Executive Officer of F.W. Honerkamp Co., Inc., of the Bronx. Graduate of Notre Dame University, Class of 1939. Father of Anne Olsen and her husband
 COLLINS-Lora S. Economist and lawyer of Southold, L.I. on May 4, 2003 at the age of 67. Survived by David T. Devlin; his daughter and granddaughter, Clotilda Duerr and Samantha Lathrup and by her brother, John W. Collins; a niece, Kristin Kelley and a nephew, John M. Collins. Reposing at th
 LEDERMAN-Eugene. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Eugene Lederman, beloved husband of Muriel and father of Mark Lederman. Mark, his wife, Carol, their daughters, Amy Verschleiser and her husband, Jeffrey Verschleiser, and Judy Le
 COAKLEY-Elizabeth Kelly. Of Harrison, NY and former 50 year Larchmont, NY resident, died peacefully at home on May 7, 2003. She is survived by her loving daughter Elizabeth Coakley Dolce of Harrison, NY and her four devoted grandsons and their wives, Henry Coakley Dolce and his wife Lisa, J
 GOLDMAN-Etta Louise, 80, died Saturday, (May 10, 2003). A 50-year New York City resident, she was a retired designer of fine women's clothing, a supporter of animal shelters and the arts, and a Board member of the Hudson Guild. She leaves her nephews Robert Goldman, and his wife Amy, of Aur
 PARNES-Arlene. Died May 8, in Orlando. Born February 1, 1923, in Brooklyn, NY, to Paul and Fay Parnes. She was a gifted artist and photographer. She was also active in JGS of Orlando. She is survived by sons, Michael Groberg, his wife Sandi and their daughters, Tami Hinkley and Shira; and B
 FREEDGOOD -- Frederic Eliot, September 24, 1920 to May 20, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Frances Freedgood; devoted father of Elizabeth Breyer and her husband John, and of Charles Freedgood and his wife Susan; grandfather of Julia and Jackson Breyer and of Samuel and Jacob Freedgood. >>
