 SCHWARTZ--Elizabeth, 95, Holocaust Survivor, on February 2, 2007. Loving mother of Stephen and his wife Melanie Roher Schwartz, devoted grandmother of Jonah and Karoline. Predeceased by her husband Alex. Funeral Monday (today) at 12 noon, Edwards - Dowdle Funeral Home, 64 Ashford Ave. (exit
 ALISON--Sherry, February 6, 2007. Beloved sister of Saul Nirenberg and his wife Julie. Loving aunt of Sally, Tom and Peter. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. The family will receive friends at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81th Street, Friday, February 9th
 YEUNG--Wai Sing (Frank). The Headmaster, Board of Trustees of Collegiate School, and the entire Collegiate community extend heartfelt condolences to Esther Yip (Vice President, Board of Trustees) on the death of her father. We know the love, respect, and regard Esther, her husband Ken Yip, 
 ZAKIN--Albert. The National Women's Division of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of Albert Zakin, beloved father of our good friend Nancy Lane, Honorary President of our New York Chapter. To Nancy and her brother Kenneth,
 DENTON--David. The law clerks of United States Circuit Judge Reena Raggi express our profound sorrow on the passing of her husband, David Denton and extend heartfelt sympathy to Judge Raggi and their son, David. We will miss his wisdom and kindness.       
 DESSAU--Saul, beloved exhusband of Bella Dessau, who mourns his loss and the life that they shared. Bella arrived this morning, having flown from Uruguay, to reach New York in time for the funeral. We are all grateful and appreciative of her love and support and find great comfort in having
 YEUNG--Wai Sing (Frank). The Headmaster, Board of Trustees of Collegiate School, and the entire Collegiate community extend heartfelt condolences to Esther Yip (Vice President, Board of Trustees) on the death of her father. We know the love, respect, and regard Esther, her husband Ken Yip, 
 GREENBERG--Sylvia. Died peacefully at home on February 15 at the age of 95. Born December 4th, 1911 in NYC. Beloved wife of the late Carl for 64 years. Devoted mother of Herbert Greenberg and his wife, Barbara, and Judy Melzer and her husband, Shep. Loving grandmother of Gabrielle and Danny
 SCHIEFFELIN--Lois. The Blue Hill Troupe celebrates, with wistful joy and gratitude, the life of our beloved Honorary Chairman (contralto) who joined her husband, Jay (tenor), on February 11th at age 95. She is survived by her son, John Jay Jr., his wife Shelly, stepdaughter Eleanor, stepson
 ROSENBLOOM--Esther. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society mourn the loss of Esther Rosenbloom of Baltimore. Mrs. Rosenbloom was a beloved friend and a Technion Guardian whose support through the Ben and Esther Rosenbloom Foundation was vital. Her son Howard Rosenblo
 GILMAN--David. The Community of West End Synagogue, a reconstructionist congregation, extends its deepest condolences to Robin Gilman-Capon and her entire family on the loss of her father, David Gilman. He was loving and beloved. Yehi Zichron Baruch -May his memory be for a blessing.       
