 RIBAKOFF-Corinne A. ''Corky'' of Palm Beach, FL. Beloved wife of Eugene J. Ribakoff; devoted mother of Betsy, wife of Richard Sheerr of Bryn Mawr, PA; and Charles Ribakoff and his wife Patricia of Boston. Beloved sister of Marie Ruth Kearns of Cleveland and cherished grandmother of Deborah 
 SATIN-Clara. Passed away Sunday, September 27 at age 92. She is survived by son Sheldon and his wife, Joan Throckmorton; also by grandson David and granddaughter Elizabeth and her husband Geoffrey Rockhill and great grandson Jonathan. Donations to the American Cancer Society.       
 HILL-Jessie Leonard. Our deepest sympathy to her son Sam, brother Charlie Leonard, sister Laura Ault, and her extended family. ''May the road rise to meet you. May the wind be always at your back. May the sunshine warm your face, the rain fall softly upon your fields, And until we meet agai
 LIVERANT-Dina. We extend heartfelt condolences to Jacob Liverant on the loss of his beloved wife, Dina. To anyone who had the good fortune of knowing her, she was a source of happiness and joy. As Golden Founders of the ''Hospital with a Heart'' and supporters of the Jesselson Heart Center,
 WYMAN-Rachael. The members of the Postgraduate Psychoanalytic Society mourn the death of their long time fellow member and esteemed colleauge, Rachael Wyman, and extend condolences to her son and his family       
 DONOHUE-Sylvia. Interment October 8, 1998 Arlington National Cemetery. Rabbi Bosch officiated. Jewish War Veterans, Post 58 were represented. She is survived by her husband Thomas, grandchildren, Rochele and Thomas Brockelman of Syracuse, Mira Brockelman of Oregon and great granddaughter So
 JENSEN-Maud (nee Keister). Of Madison, NJ, on Monday, October 12, 1998. Wife of the late Anders Kristian Jensen. Mother of Philip Jensen and his wife Cathy. She is also survived by three grandsons, Kris, Scott and Randy Jensen. A Memorial Service will be held at a later date. Interment will
 SICULAR-Arthur. We mourn the great loss of our dear friend and Doctor who was always in Mel's corner, and always in our hearts. Deepest sympathy to Lilian, David, Eve, Michael, and Steven. The Sokolow Family SICULAR-Arthur, M.D. Our sincerest condolences to Lilian and the entire Sic
 GLYNN-Thomas P. Jr. Of Ridgewood, N.J. Formerly of Belmont, Mass. October 26. Beloved husband of Loretta A. (Mullin) Glynn. Devoted father of Thomas P. Glynn III and his wife Marylou Batt of Belmont, Mass. and Katharine H. Glynn and her husband Sam Clements of Englewood, N.J. Loving grandfa
 SCHWIMMER-Carol. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family acknowledges with sadness the sudden passing of Carol Schwimmer, beloved mother of our friend and colleague Dr. Alan M. Schwimmer, D.D.S., Chief of the Division of Dental Medicine. To Dr. Schwimmer, his sister, Marjorie Goldstein
