 ENSINGER--Alyce G., of Litchfield, CT, formerly of Eastchester, NY and Mill River, MA, died on April 29th at her home. Beloved wife of Lewis G. Ensinger; loving mother of Lynne, Carol and Lori; caring sister of Frederick Gurzeler and cherished sister of Ferd and Mary Ensinger. ''God could n
 ENSINGER--Alyce G., of Litchfield, CT, formerly of Eastchester, NY and Mill River, MA, died on April 29th at her home. Beloved wife of Lewis G. Ensinger; loving mother of Lynne, Carol and Lori; caring sister of Frederick Gurzeler and cherished sister-in-law of Ferd and Mary Ensinger. ''God 
 MILLER--Jeanette Doerfler, passed away Wednesday, May 4, 2005, at the age of 83, in West Palm Beach, FL. Wife of Jerry Miller, now deceased, for 61 years. A former educator in the New York City school system, she leaves her sons, Andrew and his wife, Gail; Richard and his wife, Debbie; gran
 MILLER--Jeanette Doerfler, passed away Wednesday, May 4, 2005, at the age of 83, in West Palm Beach, FL. Wife of Jerry Miller, now deceased, for 61 years. A former educator in the New York City school system, she leaves her sons, Andrew and his wife, Gail; Richard and his wife, Debbie; gran
 WOLINSKY--Shirley H. (nee Epstein). Lifelong resident of Bronx, NY, on Friday, May 6, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Morris Wolinsky. Devoted mother of Richard Wallin and his wife Efrat, and Ira Wallin and his wife Rosemary. Cherished grandmother of Dana, GennaRose and Tristan. Loving siste
 BIGEL--Ruth. On May 11, 2005. Accomplished sculptor, teacher, art and antique expert. Beloved wife of the late Jack for 67 years, until his death in 2002. Devoted mother of Elizabeth Meyers and Jonathan & mother-in-law of Barbara. Loving grandmother of Jordan and Katharine; Daniel; Michael 
 TACOUNI--Max, 83, on April 19, 2005. Father of Lorraine. Devoted companion of Robin Wright and mentor to her children and grandchildren. Beloved brother and uncle. He will be missed.       
 COOPER--Elaine Terner. All of us at Dune Capital extend our condolences to our friend and partner Steven Mnuchin, his wife Heather, his brother Alan, his wife Kim and their entire family on the passing of Steven and Alan's elegant and courageous mother, Elaine Terner Cooper. Daniel Neidich,
 LEE--Ann C., died peacefully on May 18, 2005. Daughter of the late Patrick & Isabel. Loving mother of Andrew and his wife Karolina. Dear sister of Mary Burnett (John), Terry Bilsky (Paul) and Judy Hartnett (Paul). Also survived by her nephew Lee Bilsky. Reposing Friday 2-4 & 7-9PM at Riverd
 DIETS--Helen. December 21, 1902-May 17, 2005. Born in London, Helen moved to the United States in 1959. Lovingly survived by Lorna Berger, her daughters Karen, Denise, Judie & their children, & Douglas Waller & his family. Visitation will be at George Davis Funeral Home, New Rochelle, Wedne
 ERENTAL--Richard T. Died May 21. Survived by sister Joan Herzfeld, her family and his daughter Alise. Funeral service Tuesday, May 24 10:30AM at Ferncliff Chapel, Secor Road, Hartsdale.       
 PROSE--Jessie Rubin, on May 23, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Philip. Loving mother of Francine and her husband Howie, and Neil and his wife Rhonda. Dear sister of the late Beatrice. Devoted grandmother of Bruno, Leon, Johanna and Sarah. Graveside service Wednesday May 25, 11am, at Mt. Heb
 RABSTENEK -- Tom. The Nightingale-Bamford School Class of 2002 mourns the passing of Tom Rabstenek, father of our classmate, Christine. Tom was a generous and loving man whose commitment to education and to our community was active and selfless. A man of warmth and courage, Tom will be miss
 STEINBERG--Raymonde, devoted mother to Evelyne & Gerald and his wife Kathleen, beloved grandmother of Nicole, Michelle and Jeremy, great-grandmother of Isabella & her mate Sidney Goldstein.       
 Batya Gur, a writer and critic almost single-handedly responsible for making the detective novel a flourishing genre in Israeli letters, died on May 19 in Jerusalem. She was 57 and lived in Jerusalem. The cause was cancer, her family told Agence France-Presse. Best sellers i
 REIS--Margot P. (nee Flatauer). On May 28, 2005. Born in Berlin, on July 10, 1911. Beloved wife of the late Gustav. Loving mother of Harry and his wife Ellen. Adoring Omi to Lianna. Funeral services 1 pm, Tuesday, at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 W. 76th St. Contributions in her memory may
 MARTIN--Regina ''Bobs'' Ulmann, age 91, of New York City. Died May 30, 2005. Married to the late Charles ''Charlie'' Martin. She is survived by daughter, Jennifer Ward, daughter and her partner, Jacqueline Martin and Isis Heslin, son and his wife, Tom and Shelly Martin of NYC. The graveside
