 LERNER-Al. The Officers, Trustess and members of The Forest Hills Jewish Center mourn the loss of Al Lerner who has, with his beloved wife Norma, been a most gracious and generous supporter of our synagogue. Our hearts go out to Norma and her family at this painful time. May they find comfo
 NESHAMKIN - Lucy King horne. Suddenly in Manhattan at age 86 on November 4, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Oliver M. Neshamkin, M.D. Devoted mother of Paul and his wife Ruth and Linda and her husband John W. French. Proud grandmother of Alexandra and Jennifer French. Loving sister of Jessie
 UPTON-Francis, 86. Of Red Bank, NJ, formerly of Livingston and Pt. Pleasant Beach, NJ, on November 7th, 2002. Beloved husband of 60 years to Ruth (Stewart). Loving father of Thomas and his wife Linda Upton and Jane and her husband Michael Sullivan. Caring grandfather of Jennifer, William, D
 NESHAMKIN - Lucy King horne. Suddenly in Manhattan at age 86 on November 4, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Oliver M. Neshamkin, M.D. Devoted mother of Paul and his wife Ruth and Linda and her husband John W. French. Proud grandmother of Alexandra and Jennifer French. Loving sister of Jessie
 GOULDER-Alice. On November 11, 2002 at the age of 80. Beloved wife of the late James H. Loving mother of James Jr. and his wife, Ingrid, Alison and the late John E. Devoted grandmother of Deborah and David Steingesser. Dear sister of Joseph S. Iseman; sister-in-law of Robert Sackheim and lo
 JOHNSON-Betty Doan. Was born November 18, 1918 in Denver, CO. to the late Maude and Albert Doan and died October 30, 2002 in Columbus, OH. After graduation from Pratt HS, Pratt, KS in 1936, she attended Colorado State University in Greeley, CO. from 1937-1938 and graduated from Kansas State
 FRAGIN-Sylvia. The Young Israel of Harrison extends its deepest sympathy to Gary Fragin, founder and past President, on the loss of his mother, Sylvia. May her soul be bound in the bonds of eternal life. Yaakov Bienenfeld, Rabbi Stephen J. Apple, President       
 GILMARTIN-Robert David Jr. Formerly of Port Washington. Former vice president at Kidder/Peabody & Co. of NYC. Husband of Agnes-Suzy (Slicklan), father of David and his wife Mayra, Adrienne and her husband John MacLean. Reposing Shook's Cedar Grove Funeral Home, on Monday (973-239-1489).    
 KEISER-Ruth. The Beth Israel Medical Center and Continuum Health Partners families extend our heartfelt sympathy to our dear friend and colleague, Trustee Richard Netter and his wife, Alice, over the death of Alice's mother, Ruth Keiser. Mrs. Keiser was a longtime contributor to Beth Israel
 PLUTZER-Susan. The employees and friends of Scarlett and Dalil Fashions extend our sincere condolences to Edward Plutzer and his entire family on the untimely passing of their beloved Susan. She will always be loved and sorely missed by all.       
 OESTREICH - Robert. No vember 21, 2002. Owner of Precision Work Inc of Port Washington, NY. Beloved husband of Annette, devoted father of Anita and Jeffrey, loving grandfather of Jeffrey and Robert. Also survived by his sister, Pat Roberts and her husband, Cy, as well as many nieces & nephe
 SCHLEIGH-Henry G. of Floral Park, NY and Longboat Key, FL. Beloved husband of Laura M. Schleigh. Loving father of Susan S. Foote and her husband, George, of Lexington, MA and Sandy Gelfand and her husband, Fred, of Merrick, NY. Proud grandfather of Amy, Benjamin, Douglas and Jeffrey. Cancer
 SCHLEIGH-Henry G. of Floral Park, NY and Longboat Key, FL. Beloved husband of Laura M. Schleigh. Loving father of Susan S. Foote and her husband, George, of Lexington, MA and Sandy Gelfand and her husband, Fred, of Merrick, NY. Proud grandfather of Amy, Benjamin, Douglas and Jeffrey. Cancer
