 COLLINS-Gloria D. (nee Kruger). On November 2, 1999, of Timonium, Md., formerly of Douglaston, N.Y. Beloved wife of Peter C. Collins. Devoted mother of Peter K. Collins and his wife-Caroline of W. Newbury, Ma., and Stacy Collins O'Coner and her husbandSean of Phoenix, Md. Loving grandmother
 POMERANTZ-Gerta. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns with profound sorrow the passing of Gerta Pomerantz, a Chai Founder and wife of our cherished friend and benefactor, the late Fred P. Pomerantz, a founding member of Boys Town's Board of Directors. Fred was a pioneering leader in his service to Is
 SABERSKI-Norma Lillian (nee Bernstein). Loving wife of Eugene for 60 years. Mother of Jean Rosen, Neda Birbrower, Lloyd Saberski, Jay Rosen, Barry Birbrower, Dale Saberski. Grandmother of nine. Great-grandmother of two. We will miss you. Services Monday, 10 AM, Temple Beth Abraham, Tarrytow
 STRULETZ-Rosalind. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with deep sadness the death of Rosalind O. Struletz of LaGrange, Georgia, beloved sister of Morton Olshan, a longtime leader in our Real Estate Division. She will always be remembered by her lo
 HOBBS-Ed. New York City and Haworth NJ. Leigh and Charles Merinoff and their children Leslie and Andrew are deeply saddened by the loss of their dear friend, Ed Hobbs. We remember him with affection. Our love & our prayers are with Diane & her son Andrew during this difficult time.       
 WEINSTEIN-Doris. The Board of Directors of North Shore Child & Family Guidance extends deepest condolences to fellow Board member Ira Weinstein on the loss of his beloved wife Doris. Through their philanthropy, we are able to make the Schnurmacher Family Bereavement & Trauma Center a realit
 PODUFALY-Virginia. The entire Long Island College Hospital acknowledges with sadness the passing of Virginia B. Podufaly, beloved mother-in-law of our esteemed friend and colleague, Joseph Broadwin, a member of our Board of Regents. To Joseph, his wife Susan, the entire Broadwin family and 
 SHEPARD-Sue. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) express profound sorrow at the loss of Sue Shephard of Saint Louis, the generous, loving and supportive partner of her husband, Irving, ATS Chairman of the Board. He was a founding father of the ATS Saint Loui
 HAMMERMAN-Bernard. To my dear friend Joanie and her loving family, I extend my heartfelt condolences on the profound loss of her husband, a devoted father, father-in-law, grandfather and brother. Bernie was a lifelong friend, and his passing leaves a tremendous void in the lives of all of u
 JACOBSON-Martha. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to our dear friend and partner, Barry Jacobson, his sister Pauline Lavitt and their families on the loss of their beloved mother, Martha. She was a sweet, warm and compassionate woman who will be missed by everyone who knew her. Larry and 
 ROBERTS-Ronna & Seth. Loving parents of Adam and Ethan. Seth is survived by his brother Ross, Ronna is survived by her mother Sylvia Glick Fidler and by her brothers Elliot and Lewis Fidler. Services Wednesday, November 24, at 10AM at I.J. Morris, 46 Greenwich St., Hempstead, N.Y.       
