 STEIN-Melvin. Beloved husband of Elaine. Devoted father of Stuart M. and Roger H. Adored father-inlaw of Roni. Loving brother of Toby Rozen. Cherished grandfather of Jason W. and Alissa A. Stein. Service 10 A.M. Friday, at Lincoln Park Jewish Center, South Central Avenue, Yonkers. Contribut
 DALE-Florence Johnston. May 2, 1997. Beloved wife of the late George N. Dale. Loving sister of Robert and his wife Mildred. She was active as a volunteer for the United Nations Service and other charities. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, 2-5 and 
 RACKMAN-Ruth. Congregation Shaaray Tefila in Lawrence, mourns the loss of its beloved former Rebbetzin, Ruth Rackman, who ably assisted her husband, Rabbi Emanuel Rackman, as a true ''Ezer'' during his long tenure as our Rabbi. We extend heartfelt condolences to the Rabbi and his family. Da
 DALE-Florence Johnston. May 2, 1997. Beloved wife of the late George N. Dale. Loving sister of Robert and his wife Mildred. She was active as a volunteer for the United Nations Service and other charities. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 St., Tuesday, 2-5 and 
 DORFMAN-Dr. David L., 90, of Cornwall, NY, joined his cherished late wife, Dolce, April 25. Community leader and co-founder (with her) of Cornwall's July 4th celebration. Columbia BA '28, MA '29, DDS '32, Tau Delta Phi. Devoted father of Babette (Owen) Fortune of Clifton, NJ and Dr. Sally F
 GOLDMAN-Muriel F. ''A woman of beauty and grace.'' Beloved wife of David. Devoted mother of William and Dr. Irene Goldman. Dear sister of Richard Friedman. Funeral services Sunday at noon at Gutterman-Musicant, Hackensack. Contributions to Wurzweiler School of Social Work of Yeshiva Univers
 MEREN-Jan. On Sunday, May 25. Of Irvington, NY and Becket, MA. Age 60. Cherished husband of 25 years to Roslyn Yasser. Devoted father to Peter and Andrew. Dear son-in-law of Esther and Mac Yasser. Loving brother-in-law to Sandra and Alan Friedman, Nan and Alan Yasser. Uncle to David, Jonath
 PERLMAN-Sidney. Our entire organization wishes to express our heartfelt condolences to Claire Perlman on the passing of her husband, Sidney. He was truly a man of great stature and consequence in our industry and a humanitarian of great note, whose life really made a difference. Ken Carmel 
