 BRAGG-Barbara. In Salem, Massachusetts, of New York City, on December 30, Barbara ''Barbie'' Bragg age 79 beloved mother and mother-in-law of B. Leslie and her husband Richard Poisson of Salem, MA. and Earl Geoffrey & his wife Janine Littlehale of Fredrics, MD, grandmother of Seth Poisson a
 KLEIN-Jane P. Died peacefully in her home Dec. 31, 2001. Beloved wife of J. Arvid. Loving mother of Nancy Allen & her husband Rick & Bill Froelich and his wife Sandi. Adored grandmother of Alex, Chelsea, Danielle and Nick. Cherished step-mother of Edward Klein, Katherine Masterson and her h
 GERBER-Evelyn Carter. March 8, 1924-January 2, 1997. Immortality is only guaranteed by being remembered. She is remembered. By husband Charles S. Gerber, Son and his wife, Charles Waas and Silvia, Granddaughter Ashley       
 NOVOGRODER-Sam. On January 2, 2002 at age 83. Beloved husband of Phoebe; devoted father of Marilyn Solomon (with her husband Neil) and George; adored grandfather of Lisa Chusid and Andrew Solomon; great-grandfather of Jaime and Lauren Chusid; dear brother of Ben. He will be deeply missed. S
 HEFFER-Zelda Rubinstein. Died peacefully at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn on January 6. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Ernest T. Heffer. A lifelong resident of Brooklyn, born on May 16, 1914. Graduate of the University of Chicago, Teachers College and Pratt Institute. Predeceased b
 WEINGARTEN-Dr. Charles. Of West Newton, MA and Chilmark, Martha's Vineyard on January 6, 2002. Beloved husband of Jane (Albertson) Weingarten. Devoted father of Steven Weingarten and his wife Elizabeth of New York, Robin Weingarten of Boston and James Weingarten of Chicago, IL. Loving broth
 JANOFF-Charles. On January 9, 2002. Beloved husband of Anita, devoted father of Jaine Janoff O'Neill and her husband Jack and Peter Janoff, loving grandfather of Sandra, dear brother of Isadore Janofsky and his wife Betty and Esther Metzger. Services Friday, 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76
 LAUTERBACH-Irving S. On January 13, 2002, at age 82. A 1940 graduate of City College. Served as a warrant officer in the South Pacific during WWII. Mr. Lauterbach worked as an Internal Revenue Agent both in Washington, DC, and NYC before becoming a certified public accountant and a partner 
 ASCH-Stuart S., M.D. Age 79, on January 21, 2002. Adored husband of Mary Trudel Asch; cherished brother of Sidney Asch; beloved father of Ellen Meyer and her husband Robert, Laurie Asch, and David Asch and his wife Lynn Cherry; loving stepfather of Won Gil and Joshua Woolley; and devoted gr
 BRUNO-Ida. The Lenox Hill Hospital Department of Medicine expresses its heartfelt sympathy to our Emeritus Director, Dr. Michael S. Bruno, and the Bruno family on the sudden loss of their loving wife and mother. Ida Bruno will be remembered for her devotion and interest in the Department of
 LEVIEN-Augusta. Born September 15, 1905, died January 25, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Eddie, loving mother of Joy and Jimmy and his wife, Arlene, proud grandmother of Jason and Stacey and her husband, Chris Ciauri, and great-grandmother of Sabrina, dear sister of Edward Ritz and his wife
 BARTH-Olga, nee Bergmann. Died on January 27, 2002, in Kew Gardens at age 93. She was married to the late Lazarus Barth. She is survived by her son Werner, his wife Judy, her son Peter and his wife Nancy; grandchildren Richard and wife Mary, Todd and wife Carin, Jackie and husband Jay Nydic
 KAHN-Marion. On January 26, 2002, at age 97. Devoted mother of Lois Wallace. Beloved grandmother of George and his wife Caroline. Lifelong resident of New York, New York. Graduate of Barnard, Class of 1925. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st St., Monday, Janu
