 GLUCKSON--Herbert J.R. On May 2, 2004 of White Plains, NY at age 78. Devoted husband of 53 years to Dorothy Irene Gluckson (nee Sosinsky). Loving father of Sally and her friend Neil, Jimmy and his friend Claire and Barbara and her husband Bruce Toland of Miami, FL. Cherished brother of Sime
 NIELSEN--Dr. Russell LeRoy, of Chatham Twp., NJ, on May 3, 2004. Beloved husband of Julia Nielsen, the late Caroline Nielsen and the late Colleen Nielsen. Loving father of Eric Nielsen of Madison, NJ; Lesley Meisoll and her husband Robert of Mechanicsville, VA; Kurt Nielsen of Phoenix, AZ a
 Nelson Mandela's first wife, Evelyn Mandela, who quit the couple's marriage after telling him to choose between her and the African National Congress liberation movement, died April 30 at the age of 82, South African newspapers and news agencies have reported. The Johannesburg Star 
 CHWATT--Edward A. Today the world is a much sadder place after your passing. We are all much poorer because of our loss of you. At the same time, our lives have been enriched by our memories of you, which will endure for the rest of our lives. Your unequalled kindness, loyalty and generosit
 SCHIOWITZ--Lillian. On behalf of the Board of Governors of the New York College of Osteopathic Medicine and the NYCOM community, we extend our heartfelt condolences to our friend, colleague and retired dean, Stanley Schiowitz, D.O., and to his family on the passing of his wife Lillian Schio
 KEENOY--Robert J. On May 9, 2004. Beloved husband of Eileen. Devoted father of Susan Giddens and her husband Jon. Dear brother of Thomas and his wife Diana and Patricia Pickett and her husband Tom. Missed by Oliver. Reposing at The Riverside, 76th Street at Amsterdam Ave, Tuesday, 7-9 P.M. 
 PAULSON--Silvia B. Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our member Silvia B. Paulson. May He who consoles the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem bring comfort to her family. Dr. Harlan J. Wechsler, Rabbi Daniel J. Beller, President       
 Dr. Richard L. Varco, a surgeon who helped perform the first successful open heart and obesity operations, died May 3 at a hospital near his home in Halfmoon Bay, British Columbia. He was 91. The cause was pneumonia, said his son John. On Sept. 2, 1952, Dr. Varco and colleag
 HIRSCHHORN -- Alexander. 86, Son of the late Rae and Bernard Hirschhorn, Justice of the Peace in Randolph Township, NJ, on May 18, 2004. He is survived by his brother Herbert Hirschhorn of Manhattan and three nieces, Nancy and her husband Craig Karlebach of Manhattan; Carol and her husband 
 CROLL--Violet. Loving mother of Mark and Jamie and his wife, Dana. Beloved wife of the late Louis. Adoring and adored grandmother of Leah and Ariana. Cherished friend for countless years to so many. Youthful in mind and spirit, an inspiration and guide who will be missed by all who dearly l
 SLATER -- Adelaide C. (Nielsen). Of Beverly, MA, formerly of New York, May 27, 2004. Wife of the late Frank J. Slater. Mother of Jonathan N. Slater and his wife Theresa of Beverly and Dr. Candace Slater Zingg and her husband Paul of Berkely, CA. Grandmother of Ryan N. Slater of Beverly. A M
