 CLANCY-Cleo Garis. Of Key Largo, FL, formerly of Short Hills and Spring Lake, New Jersey, on June 28, 1998. She was born in Newark, New Jersey, on June 30, 1905 the daughter of the late Lillian M. and Howard R. Garis who were authors of numerous children's books including early Tom Swift & 
 CLANCY-Cleo Garis. Of Key Largo, FL, formerly of Short Hills and Spring Lake, New Jersey, on June 28, 1998. She was born in Newark, New Jersey, on June 30, 1905 the daughter of the late Lillian M. and Howard R. Garis who were authors of numerous children's books including early Tom Swift & 
 MULHOLLAND-Lillian (nee Husted). Of Pinellas Park, FL on July 5, 1998 at 86 years, after a brief illness. Devoted wife of the late Daniel J. Loving mother of Daniel E. and his wife Patricia of Port Washington, NY, and Diane Hanlon and her husband Edward of E. Northport, NY. Grandmother of M
 FINEGOLD-Rochelle Levinson. Died July 10, 1998, age 73, after an illness sudden in onset and brief in duration. ''A lifetime is like a flash of lightning in the sky, rushing by, like a torrent down a steep mountain.'' A lifelong teacher and lover of learning, her generosity, intelligence, a
 MILETTA-Silvio A., of Great Neck, NY. Died July 13 of cancer at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset. Loving husband of Maureen, adoring father of Alexandra and Jennifer and her husband David Adams, and devoted brother of Paola and Helen, we wish to celebrate the joy and love that h
 HIRSCH-Lee. July 21, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Louis Hirsch; loving mother of Mary-Ann Hobel and her husband Philip; devoted grandmother of Joseph Hobel and his wife Marjorie Cohen, Michael Hobel and his wife Michal and Sara Hobel & her husband Andrew Gordon; cherished great-grandmothe
 GREENBERG-Herbert. Of Great Neck, New York on Saturday, July 25, 1998. Beloved husband of Rosalie ''Mickey'' Brown; loving father of Edward ''Woody'', Betsy Feinberg (Robert), Amy Poster (Robert), and Susan Piper (Gordon); adored grandfather of Cara Feinberg, Guy Greenberg, and Joanna, Trac
 LABATON-Jennie. On July 27, 1998, in her 97th year. Beloved wife of the late Max. Devoted mother of the late Abraham, the late Gladys, & of Edward, Arnold, and Sylvia Gindi. Also survived eight grandchildren, twenty-eight great grandchildren, and one great great grandchild. LABATON-
