 HAROUNIAN--Khorshid. We extend heartfelt condolences to our cherished and devoted friend Jack Harounian on the loss of his beloved mother. A matriarch of exceptional dignity, she carefully taught her entire family the importance of tzedekah and acts of chesed. Through Jack's tireless servic
 WINETSKY--Jeanette G. Winetsky, age 95 of Rockville Centre, NY. Beloved wife of the late Michael C. Winetsky, cherished mother of Susan Feinstein and her husband Leonard, and her son Henry Winetsky and his wife Carol. A devoted grandmother and great-grandmother. Services today at 2pm at Gut
 SACK--Gladys. Beloved wife of the late Harry, adoring mother of Janice and Steve, and Robin and Rich, devoted grandmother of Jason, Jonathan, Seth, Danny, and Nita. Loving sister especially to her late twin brother Sol Greenberg. Her memory is a comfort to us all. Jani, Steve, Jason, Jon   
 REDIKER--Charlotte, 87, on Saturday, December 9, 2006, of Verona, NJ. Beloved wife of the late William. Devoted mother of Edward and his wife Joan, Robert and his wife Pamela, and the late Jeffrey. Cherished Grandmother of Leah, and Arthur, dear mommom of Michael, Willi, and Jenna. We love 
 ERTEGUN--Ahmet, The New York Pops family mourns the loss of our friend, whom we gratefully honored this year at Carnegie Hall. A pioneer in the music industry, his profound influence on American music will be his proud legacy. The New York Pops John A. Griner III, Chairman Ruth Henderson, P
 ZDANOWITZ--Pearl. Heartfelt condolences to Henry and Joan Lieberman, Diamond Founders, on the loss of his beloved sister. True to the highest values of Jewish tradition and ethics, she will be missed. May Henry and the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. A
 KOLB--John N. II, August 2, 1941 - December 20, 2006. Proud and devoted father died suddenly at the age of 65. Born in Philadelphia, PA and raised in Bethlehem, PA, John was a graduate of Moravian Academy (Bethlehem) and earned a BA and an ABA from the Faculty of Arts and Sciences and the W
