 BURKO-Marvin H. Age 75, of Bronx and Wesley Hills, New York, died peacefully on October 31, 2001. Survived by wife Ruth, sons and daughters-in-law Elliot and Stephanie, Mitchell and Lynn, grandchildren Daniel, Nicholas, Max, and Hayley, sister Elinor, and nieces and nephew. Funeral on Thurs
 KORNREICH-JoAnne. Beloved wife of Morton, devoted mother of James and Meredith, Thomas and Barbara, and Nancy and Robert Rieger, adored and adoring grandmother of Todd, Jennifer, Maggie, Caroline, Adam, Zachary, Molly, and Alex, and dear friend of Larcenia. Services Friday 11:30 A.M. at Tem
 FRIMMET-Walter. Age 68, of Teaneck, NJ. Beloved husband to Sandra. Devoted father to Tobi Edwards and her husband Darryl, Douglas Frimmet, Marci, Scherl & her husband Jonathan. Loving grandfather to Jackie and Matt Klein, Cameron Edwards & Dani, Jared and Jesse Scherl. He lived his life wit
 WEXNER-Bella. Yeshiva University Women's Organization mourns the passing of Bella Wexner, a generous patron with her daughter Susan, of YUWO and its mission of assisting the students of Yeshiva. Mrs. Wexner was known far and wide for her lifelong dedication to the advancement of the Jewish 
 SZUMLAK-David. Beloved husband of Estera. Devoted father of Gail Weisbrod, Kenneth and Lana Chudkoski. Loving grandfather of Yehuda, Sabrina, Laura and Christopher. Services Tuesday, 11:15, ''The Riverside,'' 76th St. and Amsterdam Ave. Contributions may be made to The Hampton Synagogue, We
 RASKAS-Annette. The Yeshiva University family and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary (RIETS) are saddened by the passing of a highly respected leader of the St. Louis Jewish community, matriarch of the Raskas family, wife of the late Ralph Raskas, of blessed memory, be
 de ROTHSCHILD-Debra. The Staff and Friends of the Ghetto Fighters' Museum extend deepest sympathies to our dear friend Robert de Rothschild on the untimely passing of his beloved wife Debra. May Debra's loving legacy and little Jacob bring comfort to Robert and the family at this tragic tim
 Roberta Pryor, a literary agent who acquired the best-selling author Peter Benchley as a client when he was 16 and was still his agent two decades later, when he became famous as the author of ''Jaws,'' died on Monday in a hospital in Brooklyn. She was 77 and lived in Brooklyn. She 
 ROBERT-Samuel K. Of Concord and Nantucket, MA. Beloved husband of Rita (Kamins) Robert and the late Mildred (Nathan) Kniznick. Devoted father of Andrea K. Waldstein and her husband Arthur of Boston, MA, Stephen Robert and his wife Pilar of East Hampton and Manhattan, NY, Richard Milgrim and
 SCRIBNER-Howard A. Beloved husband of Patricia Scribner of Chatham, NJ. Loved father of Mark and his wife, Dawn Scribner of Essex, VT, Susan Mirza and her husband Muzzi of Greenwich, CT, Nancy Ruscheinski and her husband Edward of Chicago, IL. Six grandchildren, Shaylea and Kelsey Scribner,
 KRANE-Robert J., M.D. Of West Newton, MA, on November 17, 2001. Beloved husband of Diane (Graff). Devoted father of Jennifer Krane Tarleton and her husband Brett, and Jonathan Krane, both of NYC, Jessica Krane and Justin Krane, both of West Newton. Dear grandfather of Sarah Emma Tarleton. S
 O'KANE-Marty (Mortimer) on November 17, 2001, of Garden City, NY, and Vero Beach, FL. Beloved husband and best friend of Marion, his wife of 49 years. Devoted and proud father of Dennis and his wife Janis, John and his wife Lucy, Marian Cotter and her husband Jim, Doreen Candon and her husb
 KAPLAN-Nancy. The partners, associates and staff of the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison express profound sorrow at the death of Nancy Kaplan on Sunday, November 18th. We express our deepest sympathies to her husband, our friend and former partner, Judge Lewis A. Kaplan, and
 CAPA-Edith, 88. The beloved wife of Cornell Capa, died at home in New York City on November 21 after a long illness. She was born in Budapest, Hungary, on May 3, 1913, the daughter of Lawrence and Hani Schwartz. Edith married Cornell Capa in 1940; in January 2001 they celebrate their sixty-
 CAPA-Edith, 88. The beloved wife of Cornell Capa, died at home in New York City on November 21 after a long illness. She was born in Budapest, Hungary, on May 3, 1913, the daughter of Lawrence and Hani Schwartz. Edith married Cornell Capa in 1940; in January 2001 they celebrate their sixty-
 BRAUN-Lillian. On November 27, 2001. Beloved wife of 60 years of Joseph. Loving mother of Laurence and his wife Ariela, and Shelley and his wife Pamela. Devoted grandmother of Andrew and his wife Rabbi Laurie, Carolyn and her husband Daniel, Jeffrey and Randi. Dear sister of Samuel Noble. A
 GREEN-Dr. Leo A. On Tuesday, November 27, of Jackson Heights. Husband of Angela (O'Brien and the late Mary G. (Cohen). Father of Dr. Stuart A. Green & his wife Adrienne of CA and Joyce Green Moss & her husband Guy of MA. Grandfather of Andrew & Hillary Green and Jason & David Moss. Brother 
