 Anita Hoffman, who aided and abetted her Yippie husband, Abbie Hoffman, in his anti-establishment protests and pranks and then sustained him through her letters during his years as a fugitive, died on Sunday at the age of 56. She had been suffering from breast cancer. Mrs. H
 LEON-Joseph. At age 90. Of Brooklyn, N.Y. On January 3, 1999. Beloved husband of Mildred (neeCantor). Devoted father of Nancy Gershon, Maryanne and her husband Sander Lehrer and Dr. Robert and his wife Nancy Leon. Cherished brother of Florence Winston. Loving grandfather of Russ, Alessandra
 NIGHTINGALE-Bertram Maurice. On January 4, 1999. Husband of Phyllis, loving father of Carol, Stephen, Robert and Howard. Devoted grandfather to Amy, Jennifer, Ryan, Max, Kimberly and Cheryl. A wonderful, gentle man, his loss will leave a deep void in our lives. Contributions in his name may
 TURNHEIM-Palmer. It is with profound sorrow that the Officers, Board and members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City express our heartfelt condolences to Joy Turnheim on the untimely passing of her father, Palmer Turnheim. He was a devoted friend and staunch supporter for UCP over man
 PASMANTIER-Catherine Margaret. The physicians and staff of 407 Medical Associates send their deepest sympathy to Dr. Mark Pasmantier on the loss of his beloved wife Catherine Margaret Pasmantier. Dr. and Mrs. Pasmantier were major influences in the founding and success of our organization a
 TURNHEIM-Palmer. With great sadness, the Board of Directors, volunteers and staff of United Cerebral Palsy Associations and the United Cerebral Palsy Research and Educational Foundation extend our condolences to Joy Turnheim, her family and friends on the recent death of her father, Palmer 
 PASMANTIER-Catharine Margaret. The Board of Directors of The Fund For Blood and Cancer Research deeply mourns the passing of Catharine Margaret Pasmantier, our newsletter editor and the wife of our co-chairman, Dr. Mark W. Pasmantier. She was the paradigm of selfless devotion to serving the
 JAGER-Alida. The Board of Directors, staff and volunteers of the Alzheimer's Association - New York City chapter, extend our deepest sympathy to John Jager, Executive Director on the loss of his mother, Alida Jager. To Piete and Allen, her daughters-in-law, Myra and Barbara; and eight grand
 MALKIN-Shelley. The Solomon Schechter High School of New York family extends its heartfelt sympathy to our esteemed trustee, Rabbi Malcolm Thomson, and family on the loss of his dear sister. May her life inspire us to acts of giving and loving kindness. May her memory be for a blessing. Car
 BRAUNSTEIN-Jean. Our members and entire staff extend their deepest sympathy to our partner Harry, his brother and sister, and all the grandchildren, on the loss of their beloved mother and grandmother, and hope they will receive comfort in the memory of her many kindnesses to each of them. 
 Hanna F. Sulner, a handwriting expert who reluctantly helped Hungarian Communists frame Jozsef Cardinal Mindszenty on treason charges in 1949, then promptly fled to the West and exposed the sham, died on Jan. 5 at her home in Manhattan. She was 81 and since 1950 had worked quietly in New Yo
 FREUND - ROSENTHAL - Miriam K. On January 16, age 92. Wife of the late Milton B. Freund and of the late Harry Rosenthal. Mother of Matthew and Blanche Freund, and of Harry and Matta Freund. Grandmother of Michael and Sarah Freund, Rebecca Freund, John Freund, Carmel and Franco Kostolitz, Gi
 SCHULHOF-Rudolph B. The Board of Directors and Staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and of the Israel Museum, Jerusalem are deeply saddened by the death of Ruda Schulhof one of its founding directors. For three decades, Ruda and his wife Hannelore, have nurtured this fledgling
