 ENGEL-Lucia (Velez). On September 2, 2000 of Washington Twp, N.J. Wife of the late Herbert Engel, Sr. Mother of Richard Engel, his wife, Patricia, and children, Richard Arthur and Patricia Alba. William Engel and sons, William Jr and Hans Jr. Frank Engel and sons, Frank Jr and Alex, the lat
 ENGEL-Lucia (Velez). On September 2, 2000 of Washington Twp, N.J. Wife of the late Herbert Engel, Sr. Mother of Richard Engel, his wife, Patricia, and children, Richard Arthur and Patricia Alba. William Engel and sons, William Jr and Hans Jr. Frank Engel and sons, Frank Jr and Alex, the lat
 STONE-Marga. We extend sincerest condolences to our dear friend and Silver Founder, Bernard Stone, on the loss of his beloved wife. May the warm memories of this kind and special person provide solace to Mr. Stone, her son Ernst Weglein and the entire family, and may they be comforted among
 MINTKESKI-Jessie Cleverdon. Of Manhasset, NY, born 1914 in New York City, died on August 30, 2000. Beloved wife of Eugene Mintkeski. Loving mother of Walter Mintkeski and his wife Vicki. Devoted grandmother of Tyler and Charles. Mrs. Mintkeski graduated from Wellesley College in 1935 and is
 Elvera Sanchez Davis, a tap dancer and the mother of Sammy Davis Jr., died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 95. Known as Baby Sanchez, Ms. Davis began performing at 16 in the chorus line at the Lafayette Theater in Harlem and continued her career into the early 1940's, 
 DAVIES-Richard Lloyd. On Saturday, September 9, 2000, in Washington, DC, Richard Lloyd Davies, husband of the late Mary Margaret (Peggy) McKee Davies; father of two sons, The Rev. John David McKee Davies, his wife Susan Manypenny Davies, of Center Sandwich, NH, their three children, Martha 
 RICHMAN-Andrea. On September 14, 2000. Beloved wife of Murray, adoring mother of Stacey and Nicky, dear mother-in-law of Len Ellis, devoted sister of Arnold Shasun, beloved aunt and caring friend. An incredible person whose touch gave effervescence to life. She will be deeply missed by all 
 DAVIES-Richard Lloyd. On Saturday, September 9, 2000, in Washington, DC, Richard Lloyd Davies, husband of the late Mary Margaret (Peggy) McKee Davies; father of two sons, The Rev. John David McKee Davies, his wife Susan Manypenny Davies, of Center Sandwich, NH, their three children, Martha 
 RICHMAN-Andrea. On September 14, 2000. Beloved wife of Murray, adoring mother of Stacey and Nicky, dear mother-in-law of Len Ellis, devoted sister of Arnold Shasun, beloved aunt and caring friend. An incredible person whose touch gave effervescence to life. She will be deeply missed by all 
 VATTER-Harold Goodhue. Age 89. On September 8, 2000. At his home in Portland, Oregon. Professor of American Economic History at Portland State University for 35 years. B.A. University of Wisconcin, M.A. Columbia, Ph.d University of California at Berkeley. Survived by Rita Jett of Holbrook, 
 CHASE-Barbara B. (Buttimer). Age 83, of Marblehead, MA, died peacefully Sunday, September 17, 2000 in Salem, MA. Wife of the late Howard W. Burns, and the late John P. Chase. Survived by a son, Howard W. Burns, Jr., and his wife, Karen A. Murdock, of Cedar Grove, N.J., and a daughter, Nancy
 LUECKEL-Alice E., 94. On September 19, 2000 at Seabury Village in Bloomfield, CT. She was the wife of the late William J. Lueckel Sr. and beloved friend of stepson William J. Lueckel Jr. and his family of Glastonbury, CT. In lieu of flowers a contribution in her memory to St. James Episcopa
 Henry T. Weinstein, a veteran movie producer who may be best known for trying to help Marilyn Monroe complete her last film, died last Sunday in Boca Raton, Fla., where he lived. He was 76. He had been ill for some time, his family said. Mr. Weinstein retired in the mid-1990
 LANGSAN-Ira N. The board, staff and members of Jewish Association for Services for the Aged (JASA) notes with deep sorrow the passing of our devoted, generous supporter and the father of our esteemed trustee Susan Langsan Black. Our hearts go out to Susan, her mother Lillian and the Langsan
 MILLER-Frances L. On September 27, 2000. Loving mother of Susan Barocas and her husband Michael. Cherished grandmother of Alex and Evan. Dear sister of Stanley Linder and his partner Ray Baker. Contributions in her name to Cabrini Hospice.       
