 MOORE-Sally Ann. Formerly Mrs. Lawrence C. Puchta, on June 4, 1999. Survived by her children Alexandra P. Brown, Lawrence G. and Anthony L. Puchta, and Jennifer P. Berkeley, and her husband James I. Moore, Sr., and stepchildren, his sons, James I., Jr. and John H. Moore; five grandchildren 
 TAUB-Martin G. The members, Board of Directors and the officers of Metropolitan Package Store Association mourn the passing of Martin Taub. We extend to his family our deepest sympathies on their loss, and our sincere wishes that the many years of good memories will soon succeed their curre
 DIAMOND-Thelma V. On June 21, 1999 at age 76. Beloved wife of Israel. Loving mother of Charles and his wife, Keren, and Margo and her husband, Mark. Grandmother of Julie, Rebecca, Melissa and Aaron. Services Tuesday, 1:00 PM at Forest Park Chapel, 114-03 Queens Blvd at 76th Rd.       
 MERNS-Adrienne. The officers and directors of the Children's Blood Foundation extend their heartfelt condolences to our esteemed board member, Sy Syms on the passing of his beloved daughter Adrienne. We wish to extend our sincerest sympathy to Lynn Syms, our fellow board member, their child
 MERNS-Adrienne Iris. On June 21, 1999. Leaves her beloveds-Patrick and daughter Chloe. Sweet daughter of Sy Syms and Ruth Merns, stepdaughter of Lynn Syms. Adored sister of Marcy Syms Merns, Laura, Robert and Richard. Adrienne graduated from Marymount College and worked as a buyer at Syms C
 MERNS-Adrienne Iris. The Officers and Staff of State of Israel Bonds express their deep sorrow on the tragic and untimely passing of the beloved daughter of Sy Syms, our former Chairman of the Board and ardent supporter, and Ruth Merns, and stepdaughter of Lynn Syms and sister of Marcy, Lau
 SQUIRE-Helen Friedman. Beloved wife of the late Judge Sidney. Loving mother of Walter and Jason. Cherished mother-in-law of Dr. Sara Abramson. Devoted grandmother of Harrison, Russell, Zachary and Andrew. Service Friday, 12noon, at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st & Amsterdam Ave. In lieu of flo
 FONDARAS-Anastassios, died at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital on June 24, 1999. Survived by his beloved wife Elizabeth; two daughters Kristina Fondaras Lamont of London and Antonia Fondaras of Washington D.C.; two sisters Anna Safilios and Fofi Trezos both of Athens; a niece Dina Safilios Ro
 KOTKIN-Anne G. In her 95th year, on June 29. Beloved mother of Howard and Marcia, adored grandmother of Dr. Michael and Lori, Julie and Dr. Harold and Lori J., cherished great-grandmother of Richard, Mitchell, Lindsey and Rebecca. Services today, at 2 PM, at ''Gutterman's'', 8000 Jericho Tu
