 LEVINE-Dr. Sidney. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Dr. Sidney Levine. Sidney Levine was the beloved husband of Shirley, and father of Dr. Joseph Levine, a cherished friend of UJA-Federation who is active in our Long 
 LEEDS-Laurence C. III. The members of the CBI/AIEC Board extend their heartfelt condolences to former President Dalia Leeds and her husband Larry on the untimely death of their dear son, Laurence C. Leeds III (Cary). May the family take comfort in the memory of his strength and love. Alan S
 TAUB-Milton M., 88. Of Mount Vernon, NY. On February 2, 2003. Beloved husband of Edna. Devoted father of Laura and her husband David, Janet and her husband David, Victor and his wife Esty, Bernardo and his wife Lidia. Loving grandfather of eight grandchildren. Services will be 10AM Wednesda
 GERRY-Edward Harriman. The Boards, Faculty, and Staff of NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital extend their deepest sympathy to Martha B. Farish Gerry, Hospital Life Trustee, and her family for the loss of her beloved husband, Edward Harriman Gerry. We also extend our heartfelt condolences to his d
 MAYER-Lawrence A. 84, on February 13, 2003. Beloved husband of Mary. Loving father of David and Elizabeth and father-in-law of Michael Keohane. Devoted stepson of Liesel Mayer and stepbrother of Peter Drew. Adored grandfather of Maud. Graduate of City College '40 and recipient of an MA from
 SCARPELLI-Victor L. Of Hawley, PA and Naples, FL. Formerly of East Northport, LI on February 18, 2003. Beloved husband of Margaret (Peggy). Devoted father of Karen Wills and her husband Anthony, Dr. David Scarpelli and his wife Noreen and Susan Scarpelli. Loving grandfather of Jamie, Jackie
 LOHSE-Virginia Butler. Of Short Hills, NJ, on February 20, 2003. Wife of Austin Webb Lohse. Mother of Constance Butler Lohse and her husband Robert G. Brewer, Jr. and John Daniel Lohse and his wife Sarah Watts Lohse. Grandmother of Scott and Laura Brewer and Jonathan and Andrew Lohse. Siste
 Baroness Jeanne de Rothschild, an actress whose much-publicized romances with famous figures culminated in her marriage in 1952 to a scion of the Viennese branch of the Rothschilds, died on Feb. 12 in her home in Monte Carlo. She was 94. She was born Ivy Sweet, the daughter of a lab
 LOHSE-Virginia Butler. Of Short Hills, NJ, on February 20, 2003. Wife of Austin Webb Lohse. Mother of Constance Butler Lohse and her husband Robert G. Brewer, Jr. and John Daniel Lohse and his wife Sarah Watts Lohse. Grandmother of Scott and Laura Brewer and Jonathan and Andrew Lohse. Siste
 LEBOW-Ruth. The National Board of Directors and Membership of ARMDI-American Red Magen David for Israel record with profound sorrow the passing of Ruth Lebow, beloved wife of the late Sylvan Lebow and mother of Mark Lebow, ARMDI National President and Joy Cohen of Los Angeles. We extend our
 HOCHMAN-Ida. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family joins with the leadership of its parent company, Continuum Health Partners, in acknowledging with sadness the passing of our friend and benefactress, Ida Hochman, beloved mother of our devoted friend and colleague, Stephen Hochman, E
