 MURRAY-Agnes M. Age 93, died October 2, at her home. Widow of the late Roger F. Murray 2nd, former member of the Board of James Lennox House, and was active in West End Collegiate, First Congregational Church and in the Manhattan Church Women United. Loving mother of Roger F. Murray III, an
 PERLMAN-Eve. Passed away at her home at the age of 91. Beloved widow of Samuel, mother of Barry and his wife Lois, adoring grandmother of Carrie and Marc, cherished sister of Iris. Funeral Riverside Memorial Chapel, Amsterdam Ave. at 76 St., Thursday, October 11, at 11:30 AM.       
 SUSSKIND-Jakub (Janek, Jack). Suddenly, on October 1, 2001. Beloved husband of Leah. Dear father of Sara, her husband Tom, and Tania. Adoring grandfather of Zachary. Devoted brother of Anna Kanarek. Funeral services and interment were held on October 3 in Jerusalem. Shiva is being observed 
 STERN-Kurt. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member Margot Stern upon the loss of her husband. May the family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenblatt, Rabbi David Sable, President STERN-Kurt. SAR Academy mourns the loss of our 
 SUSSKIND-Jack. The American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science mourns the passing of Jack Susskind, husband of dedicated ACWIS Board of Directors member Leah Susskind, generous supporter of the Weizmann Institute, and benefactor of the Jack and Leah Susskind Postdoctoral Fellow
 CHALEFF-Mary. Beloved mother of Myrna and husband Irwin, and Steve and wife Jo. Adored grandmother of Stacey and her husband Rob, Allen and his wife Linda, Michael, Judy & Andy. Great grandmother of Brent, Cara and Spencer. Dear sister of Sophie and Rena. She will be deeply missed but will 
 GINN-Irene. Heartfelt condolences to my dear friend Seymour Finkelstein on the loss of his beloved Irene whose courage and spirit were an inspiration to all who knew her. Carolyn Minskoff       
 Eleanor Ann McDonald, who bred a fabulously and famously cute marshmallow of a dog -- a bichon frisé judged best in show at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show this year -- died Oct. 11 in Port Chester in Westchester County, N.Y. She was 66. The cause was a stroke, her nephew Bria
 DONAT-Leona. Survivor of the Warsaw Ghetto, Majdanek and Auschwitz. Beloved wife of the late Alexander, loving mother of William & his wife Ellen, devoted sister-in-law of Maria Liberman. Adored grandmother of Jocelyn, Ted and his wife Avril, Gregory and his wife Suzanne and greatgrandmothe
 CAWLEY-Joseph A. On October 19, 2001. Beloved husband of Sally (nee Cronin). Devoted father of Gregory, Clare Badke and her husband Mark, Michael and his wife Susan, Carolyn Gorelick and her husband Jeremy. Dear brother of Thomas and his wife Kathy. Dearest uncle of James, Christopher and W
 POLLACK-Karen. On October 20, 2001. Loving mother of Joshua and Marissa. Beloved daughter of Sherry Rosenberg. Dear sister of Michael Rosenberg and his wife Leslie. She will be profoundly missed. Service Sunday 11:15 AM at ''The Riverside,'' 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.       
 CAWLEY-Joseph A. On October 19, 2001. Beloved husband of Sally (nee Cronin). Devoted father of Gregory, Clare Badke and her husband Mark, Michael and his wife Susan, Carolyn Gorelick and her husband Jeremy. Dear brother of Thomas and his wife Kathy. Dearest uncle of James, Christopher and W
 CALVI-Gino. of East Rutherford, New Jersey was a victim of the World Trade Center Attack on September 11, 2001. Beloved husband of Christine (nee Wagner) Calvi. Cherished son of Mario and Emma (nee Mormone) Calvi. Loving brother of Gabriella Rooney and her husband Joseph and Alex Calvi and 
 HILLER-Arthur. The National Board and Membership of Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, mourns the loss of Arthur Hiller, 90, of Coconut Creek, FL, formerly of Chicago, father of our esteemed National President, Bonnie Lipton. Mr. Hiller is survived by his loving wife, Ne
 PEARL-Nat. Beloved husband, father and grandfather passed on October 28, 2001. Survived by his beloved wife of 54 years, Beatrice; son Howard and wife Suzette, grandsons, Austin and Cody; son Ronald and wife Ellen, granddaughters Alexis and Carra, daughter Adria & granddaughter Justine. Ser
 BEKER-Sonia. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of the cherished mother of YU philanthropist Harvey Beker. Together with his wife Jayne, YU Trustee and founding member and current chair of the Board of Governors of Ferkauf Graduate School of Psychology, he has always been devo
