 CASALE-Elizabeth M. (nee Lent). Age 72, of Midland Park, died Thursday, February 27, 2003. She was a Stock Correspondent for AT&T, New York City, before her retirement. Surviving are five sons, Francis L. and his wife, Deleah, Charles J., John J., Joseph P., and Paul A. and his wife, Sue An
 CORTON-Evelore, on March 3, 2003. Wife of the late Henry, survived by her nephew Andrew Cossen, his family, cousins and dear friends. Graveside service Friday, 1pm at Cedar Park Cemetery, Emerson, NJ. Contact ''The Riverside,'' 212-362-6600 for further information.       
 WENG-Virginia Dzung. The Trustees and Staff of China Institute wish to express their deepest condolences to Wango Weng on the passing of his beloved wife Virginia, and to their children Dr. Ssu Isabel Weng and I-Hsueh Hugo Weng. As an accomplished writer and author in her own right, Virgini
 CHINITZ-Dr. Irving. Temple Beth-El of Rockaway Park expresses its condolences to Hilda Chinitz and family on the passing of her beloved husband, our devoted member. May his memory be a blessing. Dr. Allan Blaine, Rabbi       
 KALISH-Gertrude. On March 13, 2003, two days before her 80th birthday. Wife of the late Phillip. Retired NYC public school music teacher. Survived by her devoted son Gary Goodfriend and his wife Hilary, and companion Al Graham, step-son Robert and his wife Susan, step-daughter Wendy Mifflin
 Sidney Lippman, the composer and songwriter who wrote the music for Nat King Cole's 1951 No. 1 hit ''Too Young,'' died on Tuesday at a nursing home in North Bergen, N.J. He was 89 and lived in Fort Lee, N.J. Cole's Capitol recording with Les Baxter's Orchestra was the top song on ''
 CARLIN-Carol Ruth. On March 19, 2003. Beloved wife of Gerald, loving mother of Michael and his wife Janine, Peter and his wife Lumi, stepmother of Norman and his companion David, & Helene and her husband Michael, caring sister of Alicia and her husband Leon, adoring grandmother of Sarah, Ro
 SNIDERMAN - Dr. Marvin. The Board of Directors, attorneys and staff of the New York Legal Assistance Group (NYLAG) mourn the passing of Dr. Marvin Sniderman. We extend our deepest sympathies to his daughter Abby Milstein, President of our Board, and all of her family and friends. Yisroel Sc
