 LAZARUS - J. Louis. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our very dear friend of so many years. Our heartfelt sympathy to Mickey and the rest of her dear family Norma and Jack Parker LAZARUS - Louis. Temple Beth-El of Great Neck records with profound sorrow the passing of i
 KAMEN - Lillian (Kovacs). In Concord, MA formerly of NYC, January 4. Wife of the late Abraham Kamen of Concord, mother of Susan Kamen-Marsicano of Woodstock, NY, and Robert Kamen and his wife Trudi Veldman of Sudbury, MA. Funeral service Monday, January 6, at 12:30 PM in the Joseph Dee and 
 HOFFMAN - Doris. The Columbia College Class of 1965 extends its deepest sympathy to our esteemed classmate, Stephen D. Hoffman, on the loss of his beloved wife, Doris. We remember Doris for her sweetness, loving support and wisdom, which she generously bestowed on Steve and her children, Ju
 KAPTZAN - Michael, age 85, died Saturday, Jan. 4, 1997, in Florida. Survived by wife Helen; daughter-in-law Patricia Kaptzan, daughter Kyra Robinov and her husband David, and son James Kaptzon and his wife Robin; six grandchildren and four grandchildren and four great-grandchildren. Service
 HOFFMAN - Doris. The Society of Columbia Graduates extends its profound sympathy to our past President, Stephen D. Hoffman, and his family, on the loss of his beloved wife, Doris. May they be comforted by the memories of the wonderful years they shared. HOFFMAN - Doris Stoll. The Bo
 MORRISON - Carl Barnes, Jan. 1, 1997, in Tucson, AZ. Born in Manhattan. Is survived by her brother William S. Barnes adn his wife Mary of Concord, MA; daughter, Jean Edwards of Encino, CA; sons William Albert Morrison of Dummerston, VT and James David Morrison of Santa Barbara, CA; stepdaug
 ZARCHIN - Mickie (Mollie). On January 7, 1997. Survived by her husband Melvin, children Thea, Peter,a nd daughter-in-law Nancy, Drs. Emilie Zarchin-Reimer and Gleen Reimer, sister Anne Fingerhut and the late Sidney Fingerhut, brother of the late Harry Robbins and his wife Anne, grandchildre
 LANDAU - Blanka, January 9, 1997, of New York City. Beloved wife of Fred Landau and his partner for 60 years. Survived by her brother David Erwin Reitmann of Brighton, England, a sister Kitty Diomant and husband Dr. Herman Diamont of Pompano Beach, FL. and sister-in-law Alica Reitmanr of Na
 MILLER - Martha (nee Clarke). January 10. Of Gladwyne, PA, and Oyster Bay, NY. Beloved wife of William H. Miller. Mother of Ludlow Miller, William H. Jr. Martha Miller Massey. Also survived by six grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. A memorial service will held Thursday, January 16, 
 HELLER-Marcia D. On January 14, 1997 at the age of 52. Survived by her loving brother Bobby, his wife Susan and their daughter Lisa. Beloved daughter of the late Justice and Mrs. Louis B. Heller. Cherished cousin of Glenda, Ellen, David, Beverly and Debby. She will remain in our hearts fore
 KLAPPER-Ida S. Passed away peacefully on Jan 16, 1997. She gave unconditional love to all who knew her and we her family are grateful that she was with us during her long life. We were blessed that she was ours and we were hers. Should friends desire contributions may be made to the Ellen S
 SILVERSTEIN-Etta. An outstanding person who came to our great country with courage, determination and a devotion to productivity, Etta Silverstein helped develop this country and city for the benefit of the generations to come. She devoted her life to her family and to worthy institutions. 
 SCHWARTZ-Harry. 12/2/1898-1/ 24/1997. Beloved husband of Mary and her partner for 71 years. Precious and adored father of Sylvia Rombom and Suzanne Knobel. Loving grandfather, devoted great grandfather and cherished brother-in-law, uncle, great uncle and father-in-law. Harry was a very down
 DYER-Jack, died in a tragic accident, Sunday, January 26, 1997. Adored and cherished by his wife Carolyn Abrams-Dyer. Father of Julia & Michael Dyer. Stepfather of Ali Frankel. Son of Cissy Brown and Adair Dyer. Stepson of Susan Dyer. Son-in-law of Bobbie Abrams. Brother of Gretchen, Julia 
