 GOODMAN-John. On March 2, 2001. Beloved son of the late Edward and Barbara Goodman. Loving brother of William Goodman and Kate Robinson and her husband Lloyd. Funeral private. Contributions in his memory may be made to a charity of your choice.       
 BOULTON-Marianne. On March 3, 2001. Died peacefully at home. Mother of Michael Fackler and his wife Trudi. Grandmother of Peter. Aunt of Alfred Alden and Helga Alden Hershey. Great aunt of Alexander, Nicole and Alfred Alden; and Susanne and Christina Gould. Longtime companion of Joseph Mela
 COOK-Theodore F., 83. Of Winchester, MA died February 22, 2001 at his winter home in Naples, FL. of Ohio Wesleyan University graduate. U.S. Army Captain, in the Pacific during WW II. Former executive vice-president of Harvard Trust Company, Cambridge. For 21 years, beloved husband of Consta
 BOULTON-Marianne. On March 3, 2001. Died peacefully at home. Mother of Michael Fackler and his wife Trudi. Grandmother of Peter. Aunt of Alfred Alden and Helga Alden Hershey. Great aunt of Alexander, Nicole and Alfred Alden; and Susanne and Christina Gould. Longtime companion of Joseph Mela
 GLASER-Eva H. On March 5, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Herbert P. Glaser. Loving mother of Tomas Erban and his wife Sandra and Vivian Bernstein and her husband Daniel. Proud grandmother of Elizabeth, Rebecca, Peter and Michelle. Services on Thursday, 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Stre
 GLASER-Eva H. On March 5, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Herbert P. Glaser. Loving mother of Tomas Erban and his wife Sandra and Vivian Bernstein and her husband Daniel. Proud grandmother of Elizabeth, Rebecca, Peter and Michelle. Services on Thursday, 11:45 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Stre
 SWIRE-Bette B. On March 4, 2001 of Palm Beach, FL and Somers, NY. Beloved wife of the late William E. Swire, loving mother of Lawrence J. Swire and his wife Margaret and Joan Swire Hyman and her husband Stephen J. Hyman, cherished grandmother of Adam Lowell Swire.       
 KAPLAN-Dorothy. 94, on March 8, 2001, in Mamaroneck, NY. Beloved wife of the late Samuel W. Kaplan. Loving mother of Jack and Sandra Kaplan. Devoted grandmother of Steven Kaplan and his wife Barbara and Cynthia Kaplan and her husband David Froelich and great-grandmother of Sarah and Lillian
 WEINER-WARREN-Valeria. We extend our sincerest condolences to George Warren on the passing of his beloved wife. A true ''Eishes Chayil'', Valeria embodied the qualities of elegance, charm and kindness. As a Patron of Medicine of the ''Hospital with a Heart'', Valeria, together with her husb
 ARSHAM-Arthur (Archie). Beloved husband of the late Gerry Kaye. Mourned by his daughter Alice Moskowitz and her husband Paul, grandchildren Amy Roschelle, Karen Mengden, and Jeremy Roschelle. Adoring great grandfather of Micah and Jacob Roschelle. Devoted brother of Herman Arsham and the la
 WILLNER-Margaret. The AntiDefamation league mourns the passing of Margaret Willner, beloved mother of our colleague, Associate National Director Peter Willner. A Holocaust survivor, she passed on her Jewish values and commitment to Peter. We extend our condolences to Peter, his wife, Jane, 
 GOLDFRANK-Emma Pearlin. 82, of lymphoma, at home in Mamaroneck, NY, March 17, 2001. Loving and beloved wife of Tom. Mother of the late Fred and his wife Tory Ettlinger. Grandmother of Nicholas. Mother of Edward and Janice. Sister of Leonard Pearlin and Gerrie. Aunt to several including Gina
 LOMASKY-Muriel. Beloved wife of Aaron. Loving mother of Debbie and her husband Al, Steven and his wife Joan. Cherished grandmother of Andrew, Brian, Jordan and Evan. Loving sister of David and his wife Marilyn, loving aunt of Larry, Bobby, Richard, Ennis and Sheryl. She will be deeply misse
 FRENCH-Donald Austin, 69. On March 18, 2001. Loving father of Christopher and his wife Elizabeth and Elizabeth MacDougald and her husband William. Cherished grandfather of Alexander Austin French, Maria MacDougald and Katerina MacDougald. Devoted companion of Celia Valiente.       
 GOLDFRANK-Emma Pearlin. 82, of lymphoma, at home in Mamaroneck, NY, March 17, 2001. Loving and beloved wife of Tom. Mother of the late Fred and his wife Tory Ettlinger. Grandmother of Nicholas. Mother of Edward and Janice. Sister of Leonard Pearlin and Gerrie. Aunt to several including Gina
 LIQUORNIK-Chaim. We mourn the loss of a true Ba'al Chesed in the world of Jewish philanthropy and we extend heartfelt condolences to Rivka Liquornik and Sisel Klurman on the passing of their beloved husband and brother. Chaim personified the highest values of Jewish tradition and ethics and
