 DERASKA--Donald J., of Rumson and Middlesex Beach, DE, on January 7, 2007. He was predeceased by his wife Norma Nasso Deraska. Surviving is her daughter, Diane Deraska Malinowski, and her husband, Richard, of Colts Neck, son, Donald J. Deraska, MD, and his wife, Tricia, and their children, 
 McHUGH--Ann Evelyn, on January 7th, 2007 of Palm City, FL and Remsenberg, NY (former member fo the New York Stock Exchange), devoted mother of Mary Ann De Sio and the late Barbara Joan Lennon, cherished grandmother of Patricia Blake, Jo Ann Keenan and her husband Edward, John A. De Sio, Car
 McHUGH--Ann Evelyn, on January 7th, 2007 of Palm City, FL and Remsenberg, NY. Member of the New York Stock Exchange. Beloved wife of the late Joseph M. McHugh, former Governor of The New York Stock Exchange. Devoted mother of Mary Ann De Sio and the late Barbara Joan Lennon. Cherished grand
 Steve Krantz, a producer and writer who pushed his wife, Judith, into starting her first novel at 48, then turned her signature ''sex and shopping'' best sellers into television mini-series, died on Jan. 4 in Los Angeles. He was 83. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said Joh
 Gloria Connors, who forged the competitive fire and honed the skills that made her son Jimmy Connors one of the greatest players in tennis history, died Monday in Belleville, Ill. She was 82. Her death was announced by the International Tennis Hall of Fame. Mrs. Connors comp
 CUNNIFFE--Edward, R. If there was a more wonderful person then Ed, i've yet to meet him or her. What a fine fellow! Paul K. Rooney       
 PESKIN--Marion Helen Horn, of Riverdale, NY, and formerly of Morristown, NJ, died peacefully at age 93. She was the beloved wife of the late Edward Peskin, and is survived by their son Charles and his wife Lucille, by their grandson Eric and his wife Samantha, and by their great-grandson Ja
 Antonina Tumkovsky, an influential teacher at the School of American Ballet who trained future stars of the New York City Ballet and other dancers for 54 years, died on Friday at the Tolstoy Foundation Nursing Home in Valley Cottage, N.Y., where she lived. She was 101. A spokesman f
 NEWMAN--Eva E. The staff of the Baron Edmond DeRothschild Chemical Dependency Institute of Beth Israel Medical Center is saddened by the passing of Eva E. Newman, beloved mother of our dear colleague and esteemed director Robert G. Newman, M.D. Bob's passion to expand treatment worldwide fo
 FEIL--Seymour. We are deeply saddened by the passing of our friend and business associate. Your inimitable presence will be missed forever. Our heartfelt condolences to his family. Broadwall Management Corp $(6$)FEIL--Seymour, beloved husband of Yvette, devoted father of Gloria and 
 JACOBS--Stanley N. Died on December 15, 2006, at the age of 70 after a short illness. He was predeceased by domestic partner of 37 years, Howard Bender. Survived by cousins Sydney and Rita Rose, and their daughter Barbara Weisman and her sons Max and Ross of Plymouth Meeting, PA; Cousin Nao
 GABEL--Jack. We extend deepest sympathy to Joyce Straus on the loss of her beloved father. He rose from the ashes of the Holocaust to become a devoted family man and exemplary role model. May the entire family be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. American Committee for S
 BARBARO--Barbaro. On behalf of the Belmont Child Care Association and the families of Anna House, we send our condolences to our board member Gretchen Jackson and her husband Roy on the passing of Barbaro. We are deeply grateful to Dr. Dean Richardson and all at the University of Pennsylvan
