 SUSSMAN-Roslyn. We extend our sincerest condolences to Marvin Sussman and Judy Sokolow on the passing of their beloved mother. Throughout her life, Roslyn exemplified the values of kindness, modesty and dignity, and was a true ''woman of valor.'' Silver Founders of the Medical Center, Marvi
 RACZ-Maria, age 89, died peacefully June 1, 2000 in Paris, France, after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Adelbert Bela Racz, she is survived by her loving son Bertrand Leary and his wife Sybil and her nephew, Michael Racz and his wife Gail. A burial will be held privately.       
 Mary Jenkins Langston, who cooked for Elvis Presley for 14 years, serving him meatloaf, banana icebox pie and his beloved fried peanut butter and banana sandwiches, died at a Memphis hospital on Tuesday. She was 78. Her caretaker said the cause was complications after two strokes.  
 RACZ-Maria, age 89, died peacefully June 1, 2000 in Paris, France, after a brief illness. Beloved wife of the late Adelbert Bela Racz, she is survived by her loving son Bertrand Leary and his wife Sybil and her nephew, Michael Racz and his wife Gail. A burial will be held privately.       
 NICASTRO-Ilva C. On February 6, 2000, Ilva Patrizi Corsalini Nicastro passed peacefully from this life in Philadelphia, PA. Now our beloved mother reposes with God and his angels in Paradise. Today, June 5, 2000 would have marked the 90th year of her life. To honor this occasion a private m
 Milton Victor Freeman, a senior partner in the Washington law firm of Arnold & Porter and an architect of 1940's regulations against securities fraud, died on Saturday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 88 and lived in Chevy Chase. Mr. Freeman joined a predecessor firm, Ar
 COHN-David W. June 6, 2000 at age 94. Beloved husband of Emmy-Lou for 64 years. Dearest and cherished father of Suzanne C. Simon and her husband David and the late Cecile Cohn. Loving grandfather of Deborah Wasser and her partner Susan Vaughan, David Wasser, Deirdre and Alex Silberman, and 
 KANE-Louis Isaac. On Friday, June 9, of Boston and Ogunquit, ME. Husband of Katharine D. Kane. Father of Dr. Holliday Kane Rayfield and her husband Rick Rayfield, Jenny Kane and Joseph Daniels Kane. Grandfather of Sophie Alexander Rayfield. Son of George E. Kane of Boston and the late Sally
 WORKMAN-Bernard. At the age of 96. Beloved husband of the late Jeanette. Devoted father of Peter and the late David. Loving fatherin-law of Carolan and Sue. Cherished grandfather of Betsy, Cindy, Elizabeth and her husband Mark, Katherine and her husband Gary, and great-grandfather of Jack. 
 Michaela Murphy Odone, whose struggle to keep her son alive was recounted in the 1992 motion picture ''Lorenzo's Oil,'' died on Saturday at her home in Fairfax, Va., where she had continued to care for him. She was 61. The cause was lung cancer, her family said. Ms. Odone's 
 CITRON-Florence nee Shapiro. On July 11, 2000 at the age of 92, of White Plains, (formerly of Scarsdale) NY. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Victor N. Citron. Devoted mother of Hannah and her husband Walter Shmerler of Armonk, NY, Neil Citron and his wife Ida Ruth of Hilton Head, SC, and Georg
 KREVANS-Toni, on June 12th, 2000 at age 94. Loving mother of Rudy Schott and his wife, Elaine. Adoring grandmother of Howard and Joshua Schott, Liza Natale and great-grandmother of Noah and Drew. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 Street, Wednesday, 1 PM. Contributions
 KUZMICK-Jerome F. Died peacefully at home on Saturday, June 10, 2000 in Clifton, New Jersey. Beloved husband of Barbara Kuzmick and the late Sophia S. Kuzmick, he leaves behind five children: Kathleen K. Hansell of Chicago, Illinois, Danielle K. Brown and her husband Warren of Albuquerque, 
 SCAROLA-John P. on June 11, 2000 of Brookville, N.Y. Manager of Barnes & Noble, Graduate of St. Mary's Manhasset 1984 & Hamilton College 1988. Loving son of Dr. John M. and Theadora. Beloved brother of Michael, Stephen, Robert & his wife Gina and Mary Drew & her husband Thomas. Fond uncle o
 Dowager Empress Nagako of Japan, the widow of Emperor Hirohito, died yesterday after a life that saw the transformation of her homeland several times over. She was 97. ''She passed away because of old age despite strenuous nursing,'' Sadame Kamakura, the grand steward of the imperia
 TROPPER-Yetta. We extend our sincerest condolences to David and Abraham Tropper on the passing of their beloved mother and wife. Throughout her life, Yetta exemplified the values of kindness, modesty and dignity, and was a true ''woman of valor.'' As Founders of the Medical Center, David an
 BOTWINICK-Benjamin . With head bowed, we express our deep sorrow over the loss of Benjamin Botwinick, the father of Elaine Wolfensohn, staunch supporter of Israel's Open University and member of the Founders Society of the American Friends. We convey our condolences to the Botwinick and Wol
 HORAK-Theodore J. On June 27 at home in Sta. Barbara de Nexe, Algarve, Portugal, at age 71, of pancreatic cancer. Survived by his partner Nora Ann Smyth, sister-inlaw Jeanne Horak and her seven children, nieces Rosalie Cook, Barbara Roessle and Lillian Perrone, nephew John Harms, and many c
