 KLEIN-Linda Ruth. On January 30, 2002, at age 64. Cherished daughter of the late David and Blanche Goodman. Loving mother of Tracy Klein and her husband Greg Jackson. Beloved sister of Paul Goodman and his wife Eva. Dear friend of Christine Duffey. Memorial visiting at Frank E. Campbell, 10
 KLEIN-Linda Ruth. On January 30, 2002, at age 64. Cherished daughter of the late David and Blanche Goodman. Loving mother of Tracy Klein and her husband Greg Jackson. Beloved sister of Paul Goodman and his wife Eva. Dear friend of Christine Duffey. Memorial visiting at Frank E. Campbell, 10
 MARKEVITCH-Dimitry. Gitta B. Markevitch; Elizabeth Markevitch, and her children, Saskia, Joris and Dylan; Sophie Poget Markevitch and her daughters, Marion and Claire; the children and grandchildren of the late Igor Markevitch, and of the late Nina Dudin Markevitch; his cousins, relatives a
 HAUG-Frederick J., 91. Formerly of Manhasset, N.Y. Died February 5, 2002 in New York City. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Devoted and adored father of Gretchen Stone, Hedi White and father-in-law of Lewis Stone and Thomas White. Cherished grandfather of Pamela Stone-Humphrey and her husband Ji
 IRWIN-Jane Darlington. February 2, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Major Charles J. Irwin. Loving and devoted mother of Charles D. Irwin and his wife Dona. Cherished grandmother of Carter, Robert and Roger. A graduate of Chapin School Class of 1938, Vassar College Class of 1942, and later a 
 LEDNER-May. Deceased January 31, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Charles Oppenheim and the late Milton Ledner. Cherished mother of Elaine Mazlish and son-in-law Robert Mazlish. Beloved stepmother of Dr. Robert Ledner and his wife Lucy. Beloved grandmother of Katherine, Liz, and John. Valued 
 LISS-Sally, 88. Of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., formerly of Long Beach, N.Y. Died February 6. Loving wife of the late Harry Liss, beloved mother of Arthur, Michael and his wife Karin. Adored grandmother of Meredith, Andrea and her husband Chris. Graveside service.       
 WASHNITZER-Jeanne. (nee Noble). Age 104. On January 31, 2002 in Toledo, OH. Wife of the late George Washnitzer. She is survived by sons Robert of Cleveland, OH and Gerard and his wife Lily of Princeton, New Jersey. Also surviving are grandsons and their spouses George and Connie of Lexingto
 WEINRIB-Norma. Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with deep sorrow the passing of our good friend and respected member of our Society of Founders, who with her husband, Jerome, generously supported medical research and education programs at our institution. To
 Traudl Junge, a private secretary to Hitler who was the last surviving witness to the Nazi leader's final moments in his Berlin bunker, died in Munich on Sunday night. She was 82. Her memoirs on the three years she worked for Hitler were published last week and a documentary film, '
 WOLLMERINGER - Friedel (Roos) age 101. Entered into rest February 14th. Beloved wife of the late Robert Wollmeringer. Devoted mother of Bernard and Marion Wollmeringer of Framingham, MA. Dear grandmother of Peter and his wife Lynda Wollmeringer of Winchester, MA., and Robert D. & his wife E
 Rosemary Woodruff, who was married to the psychedelic guru Timothy Leary, designed their flamboyant wardrobe and spent much of her life living underground after helping him escape from prison, died on Feb. 7 at her home in Aptos, Calif., near San Jose. She was 66. The cause was cong
 HUTNER-Margarita Silva. On February 6, 2002. Beloved wife of Seymour H. Hutner, devoted mother of Reed Hutner and his wife Kathleen, devoted cousin to Reynaldo Silva, Maria Silva Naveira, Blanca, Allen and Josephina Vega. A Memorial Mass will be celebrated on Friday, March 8th at 10AM at Ch
