 GREENWALD-Harold D., Jr., 80, of Fair Haven, NJ., on October 29, 2000. Husband of Patricia Tracy Greenwald; father of Susan E. and Joan M. Greenwald, Kate Hughes and her husband, Robert, and the late Harold D. Greenwald, III; brother of John H. Greenwald, and his wife, Lila; and grandfather
 FRASER-Lillian. On October 29, 2000 in Italy while on vacation. Beloved wife of the late Willard. Loving mother of Steven and his wife Jill and Jon Fraser. Devoted grandmother of Max and Emma. Dear sister of Arthur Oluwek. Services Monday, 12:45 PM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amster
 HESS-Barbara F. (Chiefy). On November 6 after a long and courageous battle at the age of 77. Beloved wife of ''Tommy'', loving mother of John Newburger, Susan Newburger Karchmer and her husband Michael Karchmer and Billy Straus and his wife Lynne Weinstein. Devoted step-mother of Peter Hess
 KORNBLATT - Shaynee Idy. March 29, 1950. Beloved daughter of Esther and the late Dave. Beloved sister of Michael his wife Trish, and their children Kerry, Tracy and Myles. Also survived by many loving relatives and friends. She was one in a million and we shall not see the likes of her in o
 HESS-Barbara F. (Chiefy). On November 6th after a long and courageous battle at the age of 77. Beloved wife of ''Tommy'', loving mother of John Newburger, Susan Newburger Karchmer and her husband Michael Karchmer and Billy Straus and his wife Lynne Weinstein. Devoted stepmother of Peter Hes
 TOBACK-Elaine. On November 7, 2000, after a courageous battle. Beloved wife and best friend of Myron. Loved mother of Michael and his fiancee Karen and Joy and her husband Eli. Devoted grandmother of Zachary, Sarah and Harrison. Dear sister of Leon Ganeless and his wife Claudette. Sister-in
 HESS-Barbara F. (Chiefy). On November 6 after a long and courageous battle at the age of 77. Beloved wife of ''Tommy'', loving mother of John Newburger, Susan Newburger Karchmer and her husband Michael Karchmer and Billy Straus and his wife Lynne Weinstein. Devoted step-mother of Peter Hess
 STEIN-Rose, nee Engel v. Janosi, Saturday, November 4. Survived by loving husband, Marcel Stein, daughter and son-in-law Anna Stein-Abdi and Nourredine Abdi, son and daughter-in-law, Gabor and Anna Szikla, grandson and his wife Stephane and Isabelle Szendy and great grandchildren, Olivia an
 TOBACK-Elaine. On November 7, 2000, after a courageous battle. Beloved wife and best friend of Myron. Loved mother of Michael and his fiancee Karen and Joy and her husband Eli. Devoted grandmother of Zachary, Sarah and Harrison. Dear sister of Leon Ganeless and his wife Claudette. Sister-in
 Dr. Gerard Chrzanowski, a psychoanalyst who colleagues say was the model for the caring psychiatrist in the best-selling 1946 novel ''The Snake Pit'' and the famous 1948 film based on it, died Nov. 1 at his home in Manhattan. He was 87. ''The Snake Pit,'' an autobiographical novel b
 Esther M. Stone, the widow of the journalist I. F. Stone, who helped him publish his well-read and iconoclastic weekly newsletter, died Thursday at a nursing home in Potomac, Md. She was 91. She was born in Philadelphia and married Mr. Stone in 1929, after meeting him on a blind dat
 MARRA-Eleanor. The officers, sales associates and employees of The William B. May Company offer our deepest sympathy to our president and friend Peter R.Marra on the loss of his mother. We extend our sincere and heartfelt condolences to the entire Marra family. May her precious memory bring
 WEINER-Phyllis. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Phyllis Weiner. Phyllis, a long-time contributor, was a beloved sister of Martin Lifton, a cherished friend, major supporter of our mission, and founder of the Long Island Real Es
 Esther M. Stone, the widow of the journalist I. F. Stone, who helped him publish his well-read and iconoclastic weekly newsletter, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Potomac, Md. She was 91. She was born in Philadelphia and married Mr. Stone in 1929, after meeting him on a blind 
 Leah Rabin, who emerged from the shadow of her husband, Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin, to become a forceful public advocate of his peace policies after he was assassinated, died today of cancer. She was 72. Mrs. Rabin died eight days after Israelis marked the fifth anniversary of her
 WEINER-Phyllis. On behalf of the attending medical staff and affiliate psychology staff of the Department of Psychiatry and the entire Lenox Hill Hospital community, we extend our deepest condolences to our esteemed and longtime colleague, Dr. Howard Weiner, and his family on the loss of th
 ZODI-Joseph (Zodikoff). Beloved husband of the late Pearl. Loving father of Susan Goldman and her husband, Stuart. Cherished grandfather of Jessica, Paley and Michael. Services Tuesday 1:00 PM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, New York. ZODI - Jo
 HOPKINS-Marylu. The principals and staff of Strategic Resources Corporation extend their heartfelt condolences to their partner, collegue & dear friend, Jim Hopkins, on the passing of his wife, Marylu. Strong until the end, Marylu was a beacon to all of us, and she will be remembered for he
 STEINLAUF-William T. Of N.Y.C. Loving husband of Edith. Devoted father of Arlene and Arthur Eis and Michelle and Dov Schwartz. Adoring grandfather of Yoni, Sharone, David, Dani and Rebecca. Shiva will be observed through Tuesday morning, November 21. STEINLAUF-William T. We extend o
 LEVENBACK-Hedi. Died Nov. 15, 2000. Wife of Robert. Mother of Elizabeth Shamir and her husband Abraham and Charles Levenback & his wife Virginia. Grandmother of Tamar, Matan, Kerin, Shamir, Samuel and Benjamin. Services today 11:30 AM at ''The Riverside'', 76 Street and Amsterdam Avenue. Co
 SHRON-Rita Saul. Died Friday, November 17. Beloved wife of William H. Shron. Devoted mother to her daughters, Alissa and Francine and their husbands Bill Rosengarten and Steven Gubb. Cherished grandmother of Jennifer and David Rosengarten and Jesse and Daniel Gubb. Loving daughter of the la
 BLOOM-Zita. Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our member, Zita Bloom. May He who consoles the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem bring comfort to her family. Dr. Harlan J. Wechsler, Rabbi Alisa R. Doctoroff, President       
 NAIMAN-Miriam S. (nee Sholna). ''A woman of courage''. Of Boca Raton, FL on Wednesday, Nov. 29, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Irving A. Naiman. Devoted mother of Jason Naiman and his wife Lisa of Portland, OR and Anita Yarossi & her husband Paul of Ringwood, NJ. Dear sister of the late Bar
