 DELIBERT-Anne Lash. Died on November 27, 1997, in her 87th year. She is survived by her husband of fifty-eight years, Joseph C. Delibert; by their son Steven, his wife Kris Reed, and their daughters Harsha and Himu; by their son Arthur, his wife Anne, and their daughter Adrienne; and by a S
 SILVEY-Harold. The staff of the League Treatment Center sends our deepest sympathies to Lucille Silvey and her family on the death of her husband, Harold. Harold was a friend of the handicapped children and the League Treatment Center. We hope his many kindnesses will sustain the family at 
 OSTROFF-Frieda. The Amalgamated Bank of New York notes with deep sorrow the passing of Frieda Ostroff, activist, leader and beloved wife of our friend, Harold Ostroff. We extend our sympathy to Harold and the Ostroff family. Jay Mazur, Chairman Gabriel P. Caprio, President John J. O'Connor,
 WILCHEK-Stella. On December 3, 1997. Beloved wife of the late William Wilchek. Loving sister of William Kullman. Compassionate and committed friend. Many had the benefit of her uncompromising love, wisdom and teaching. She was an active participant in the causes she held dear and the lives 
 DELIBERT-Anne Lash. The New York Society for Ethical Culture records with deepest sorrow the death of our devoted member on November 27 in her 87th year. Her husband Joseph C. Delibert was the former president of the New York Society for Ethical Culture. She is survived by her husband, Jose
 DALY-Margaret. The Board of Trustees of Our Lady of Mercy Healthcare System, Our Lady of Mercy Medical Center, and Saint Agnes Hospital, deeply mourn the death of Margaret Daly. We extend our deepest sympathy to her son, William and his sister Brigid as they mourn the loss of their beloved 
 SAX-Jules.We share with Helen Potaznik, our Executive Committee member, the loss of her beloved father. Our sincere sympathies to her family. America-Israel Cultural Foundation. Vera Stern, President Romie Shapiro and Jan Prokop Co-Chairs Executive Committee SAX-Julius. The Ramaz Sc
 GEVA-Tamara. How sorry I am to lose a friend, a person of joy, elegance and glamour. Her loyalty to George Balanchine never waned, and after his death she embraced his memory and gave inspiration and support. Barbara Horgan The George Balanchine Trust       
 GEVA-Tamara. How sorry I am to lose a friend, a person of joy, elegance and glamour. Her loyalty to George Balanchine never waned, and after his death she embraced his memory and gave inspiration and support. Barbara Horgan The George Balanchine Trust       
 BERGSTEIN-Reba. Migdal Ohr Institutions in Israel and the American Friends of Migdal Ohr deeply mourn the passing of Reba Bergstein, loving and devoted wife of Rabbi David Bergstein. Loving and devoted mother, grandmother and great grandmother to Rabbi Eliyahu Bergstein and his wife, Esther
 FOGELSON-David. The board & staff of The American Federation of Arts extend condolences to AFA trustee Ellen Liman on the death of her father, David Fogelson, whose philanthropic spirit lives on through the dedicated work of his family. Robert M. Meltzer, Chairman Jan Mayer, President Seren
 FOGELSON-David. The International Center of Photography's Trustees and Staff note with sorrow the death of David Fogelson and extend their deepest sympathy to his daughter, ICP Trustee Ellen Liman and to her family. The Center owes a debt of gratitude to the many years of support and encour
 OFFIT-Rhea W. On December 29th, 1997. Rhea Offit (nee Wolf), beloved wife of the late Michael Offit. Beloved mother of Sara O. Abeshouse and Morris W. Offit. Devoted mother-in-law of Nancy S. Offit and the late Dr. George A. Abeshouse. Devoted sister of the late Chauncey Wolf. Loving grandm
