 SIEGEL--Laura. Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our member Laura Siegel. May He who consoles the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem bring comfort to her family. Dr. Harlan J. Wechsler, Rabbi Michael W. Schwartz, President       
 Nina Wang, reported to be the richest woman in Asia, who won control of her husband's Hong Kong real-estate empire after a tumultuous legal melodrama that featured a vanishing tycoon, a presumed death, charges of forgery and adultery, opium and impossibly short skirts, died on Tuesday in Ho
 SCHAEFFER--Irene. Chai Lifeline mourns the recent death of Irene Schaeffer, beloved mother of Richard Schaeffer, generous benefactor, Awards Dinner Chairman, 2005 Man of the Year, and a good friend to our children. Mrs. Schaeffer's halfcentury of philanthropy was a lifelong lesson for her c
 STUART--Catherine, 57, of Chappaqua, NY, on April 5, 2007. Psychoanalyst in private practice; Training and Supervising Analyst for the William Alanson White Institute in Manhattan. Dedicated and talented therapist and teacher, loving wife, stepmother, and sister. She loved life and her many
 HERSHKOWITZ--Dorothy, 62, of Newton Centre, MA, formerly of Queens, NY, on April 6, 2007. Loving mother of Alexander and Jonathan Bohn and cherished wife of Dave Evans. Beloved friend and teacher of so many. Also survived by her brother, Noah Hershkowitz and his wife Rosalyn and her two nie
 EIZENSTAT--Sylvia. The American Gathering of Jewish Holocaust Survivors extends its deepest sympathy to our admired friend Stuart and family on the passing of his mother, a wonderful human being full of devotion and love for her family. Sam E. Bloch, President Roman R. Kent, Chairman of the
 RIEGER--Tina Susan (nee Grossman), 63, of New York and Pittsburgh, died Wednesday, April 11, 2007 of cancer at Beth Israel Hospital. Beloved wife of Howard Rieger, president of United Jewish Communities and past president of the United Jewish Federation of Pittsburgh. Devoted mother of Alec
 SILBER--Pauline R. The Yeshiva University and Sy Syms School of Business families extend our deepest condolences to William (and Lillian) Silber, SSSB Board Secretary, on the death of his beloved mother, Pauline R. Silber. Pauline and her late husband, Joseph, were YU Guardians and founders
 RIEGER--Tina. The Board of Trustees of the Mint Theater mourn the loss of their fellow Trustee Tina Rieger, whose time with them was, like her life, all too short, but filled with generosity and thoughtfulness. We extend our deepest condolences to Howard and the family. Geoffrey Chinn, Chai
 ZELTZER--Pearl. The National Foundation for Jewish Culture extends its sincere condolences to George Mike Zeltzer, founder of the NFJC, and to his family on the passing of his beloved wife Pearl. Pearl was a visionary patron of the arts and an avid supporter of dance. Her legacy lives on in
 ROBERTS--Joseph L., Jr., age 87, of Sewickley, PA, died on April 15, 2007, of pancreatic cancer. Survived by his wife, Helen Shaw Roberts: daughters Melinda R. O'Rourke and her husband Terrence, of Sewickley Heights, PA, and New York City, Jean S. Roberts of North Carolina, and the Rev. Kyo
 ROBERTS--Joseph L., Jr., age 87, of Sewickley, PA, died on April 15, 2007, of pancreatic cancer. Survived by his wife, Helen Shaw Roberts: daughters Melinda R. O'Rourke and her husband Terrence, of Sewickley Heights, PA, and New York City, Jean S. Roberts of North Carolina, and the Rev. Kyo
 STARR--Adele Louise Landau, 90, died peacefully on April 24, 2007. Survived by Lee, her loving husband of 64 years, brother Alfred, his wife Bobbie, and brother-in-law, Bill Teel. Beloved mother of Jonathan and Frederick, adored mother-in-law of Kelly Starr and Kitty Kiefer and loving grand
