 DESKIN-Claire. The Board of Directors and staff of the 92nd Street Y mourn the loss of Claire Deskin, mother of longtime Board member, Michael Steinhardt. Our hearts and prayers are with Mr. Steinhardt and his wife, Judy; their sons, David and Daniel; their daughter, Sara Berman, chair of t
 DESKIN-Claire. The Board of Trustees and the entire Abraham Joshua Heschel School community extend our sincere condolences to our true friend and supporter, Michael Steinhardt on the loss of his mother, Claire Deskin, and to our Trustee, Judy Steinhardt, on the loss of her mother-inlaw. Mic
 NEVAS-Libby Joseloff. Age 87, of Westport, CT., died on Monday, September 30 at Norwalk Hospital. Mrs. Nevas was born in Waterbury, CT., daughter of Louis and Anna Needle Joseloff. She actively served as a volunteer for many years for several organizations including the Norwalk Hospital and
 STRATAKIS-Sophie, at age 98. Christopher Stratakis and his family announce with deep sadness the death of their beloved mother, grandmother and great grandmother, of Woodside, NY. May her memory be eternal.       
 OSTROW-Deborah; Age 46. Died on August 25, 2002 in Galveston, TX. Born and raised in New Rochelle, NY. Courageous and bright. She will be missed by her many friends, her father Jack Ostrow and his wife Anita and brother Alex Ostrow and his family.       
 MILLER-Doris Hyman. On October 7. Hunter College High School Class of '29 and Barnard College Class of'33. Beloved wife of the late Myron. Devoted mother of Ralph Miller and his wife Avis and Cia Elkin and her husband Larry Gadd. Loving grandmother of Ethan, Jeremy, Gavi, Justin and Ezra Mi
 GARVIN-Margaret. NYC2012 extends deepest sympathies to our dear friend, Alexander Garvin, on the death of his beloved mother, Margaret, a woman truly ahead of her time. Daniel L. Doctoroff, Founder Jay L. Kriegel, Exec Dir       
 SAINER-Herman L. (Hy). Beloved husband of Janet Sainer for 61 years; devoted father of Alicia, Elliot, and Debbie and their spouses, Richard, Marcia and Dennis; proud grandfather of Todd, Diana and Rachel; dear brother of Viola Harris. Services at Riverside Chapel, 76th Street and Amsterdam
 SAINER-Herman L. The Board and staff of Citymealson-Wheels send their heartfelt sympathies to Janet Sainer on the passing of her beloved husband Hy. As the former Commissioner of the New York City Department for the Aging and a leading expert on aging issues, Janet has been a guide and insp
 Geraldine of Albania, who as the wife of King Zog was for one year her adopted country's first and only queen and the only member of European royalty with American blood, died on Tuesday in Tirana, Albania's capital. She was 87. Her story reads as if it were a Hollywood fantasy. Tho
 SCHNEID-Sara. Yeshiva University and its affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary express heartfelt condolences to our colleague and distinguished alumnus Rabbi Dr. Emanuel Rackman HS'27, RIETS '34, and chancellor of Bar Ilan University, on the passing of his beloved sister in I
