 John W. Sweeterman, who was publisher of The Washington Post in the 1960's and played a key role in improving its business operations, died on Friday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 91. A native of Ohio, he was The Post's publisher from 1961 to 1968, after joining the newspap
 WEISENBERG-Florence. On April 7, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Joseph M. Weisenberg. Loving mother of Susan Auerbach and her husband Kenneth, and William Weisenberg and his wife Kathleen. Adoring grandmother of Philip and Peter Auerbach and Lisa and Leslie Weisenberg. Devoted sister of Lee
 WALLACH-Edith. Beloved husband of Paul, adored mother of Susan and John, proud grandmother of Geoffrey, Samantha, David and Michael. Dear motherin-law of Billy and Janet. Sister-inlaw of Hans. Holocaust survivor. You were the most caring, kindest and most wonderful mother. We will miss you 
 GOLDBERG-Harriet D. On April 18, 1998. Beloved wife of Victor J. Goldberg. Loving mother of Susan Goldberg Gevertz and Alan Jay Goldberg. Loving mother-in-law of John Neil Gevertz and Karen Beth Lipson. Adoring grandmother of Rebecca Caitlin Gevertz, Annie Elizabeth Gevertz and Jonah Samuel
 GOLDBERG-Harriet D. The Physicians and Staff of the Department of Medicine of Beth Israel Medical Center wish to express their affection and sincere condolences to our dear friend and colleague, Susan Gevertz, on the passing of her beloved mother. To the entire Gevertz family, our deepest s
 ELLIOTT-Barbara B. The Board of Directors of the Indpendence Savings Bank extend their deepest sympathy to fellow director Donald H. Elliott and his family on the loss his wife Barbara Burton Elliott. This remarkable woman will be remembered for her love of her family, her commitment to the
 PERGAMENT-Mollie. To our grandmother and great grandmother, Mollie Pergament, to the end of an era. May the younger generation of the family learn from your wisdom, strength, moxie and love. Words cannot describe what you have meant to us. We will always remember you as someone who put the 
 Ruckins McKneely Jr., a mechanic who tended Amelia Earhart's plane  just before she took off from Miami in 1937 for the round-the-world trip on which she vanished, died on April 16 at a nursing home in Murfreesboro, Tenn. He was 89 and lived in  Murfreesboro. Mr. McKneely, known as 
 DAULTE-Francois. Mr. and Mrs. Joel Delafond, Mr. & Mrs. Olivier Daulte, Charlotte and Lucas Delafond, Mrs. Claude Vuilleumier, her children and grandchildren, Mr. & Mrs. Alain Daulte, their children and grandchildren, Mr. and Mrs. Raymond Chatelanat, Mr. and Mrs. Wes Sorenson, their childre
