 BERLINER-Andrew R. Son of Frances and her husband Hugh A. Harter of NYC, died August 30, 2002 in Great Barrington, MA. Survived by his wife Elizabeth, children Aaron, Carmen, Alex, Rebecca, Sabrina and Ryan, sisters Uma Berliner and Nancy Rudolph. Services will be September 5, 11 AM, at the
 WERNER-Eleanor Blatteis, formerly of Great Neck, NY and Palm Beach, FL, passed away on Tuesday, September 3, 2002 in Arlington VA at age 93. Wife of the late Edward A. Werner; mother of Alice W. Charwat, Frederic P. Werner and his wife Jacqueline; cherished grandmother of Robert W. Werner a
 MIRKEN-Barbara. It is with sad hearts and wonderful memories that we say goodbye to our darling friend, Bobby. She and her beloved Alan have filled our lives with joy, laughter and friendship. We extend our love and deepest sympathy to Alan, Leslie and Jane. Love, Nancy, Bob, Diane and Rob 
 Helen Giuliani, the mother of former Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, died yesterday morning at Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 92 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Mr. Giuliani was at his mother's bedside when she died at 1:30 a.m., along with his children, Andrew, 16, a
 DANZIG-Aaron L. On September 10th, 2002. Beloved husband of Gwen and the late Elinor. Loving father of Richard and his wife, Andrea, Jill & her husband, Eric Tarlow. Dear brother of Monroe Danzig, Frieda and her husband, Jerry Berkeley. Adoring grandfather of David, Lisa, Drew and Elinor. U
 KRAMER - Geraldine. On September 9, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Manny. Mother of Nathaniel and Robert, and their wives Georgia and Geri. Grandmother of Cheryl, Seth and Rori, David and his wife Jody, great grandmother of Justin and Caroline. Sister of Mitchell Eason and his wife Cynthia.
 GEROSA-Martha. NY College of Podiatric Medicine and Foot Clinics of NY Board of Trustees, administration, faculty, staff and students extend our deepest sympathy to our Chairman of the Board Alfred G. Gerosa on the loss of his beloved wife Martha, and to daughters Martha Ann and Nina, son-i
 REINHART-Stephanie. The Board of Trustees and staff of Theatre Development Fund send our condolences to our beloved trustee, Charles Reinhart, and his family, on the passing of his wife and partner, Stephanie. Her contribution to the world of dance was immeasurable. Our thoughts and prayers
 DESKIN-Claire. On September 27th, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Mark. Loving mother of Michael H. Steinhardt and precious mother-in-law of Judy. Loving grandmother of David, Daniel and Fara (David) Berman; great-grandmother of Jacob, Joshua and baby girl Berman. Service Monday, 9:30 AM, at
