 HAZAN--Mildred. We share the sorrow of our esteemed partner, Scott L. Hazan, on the passing of his mother. Mildred Hazan fought her extended illness with a strong will to live, with dignity and with the support of her entire family. Our thoughts and sympathies are with Scott and his wife, L
 VAGELOS -- Demetra (nee Chios). November 29th, 2004 on Singer Island, FL. Beloved wife of John Homer. Devoted mother of Lydia and John Callimanis and Theodore and Julie Vagelos. Dear sister of Basilia Karageorgis. Loving grandmother of Nicole, Philip and Stephanie. Visiting at St. Spyridon 
 GITTERMAN--Frania Hirsch Schlussel. A Holocaust survivor whose dignity, beauty, kindness and generosity will be deeply missed by her son Alex, daughter-in-law Naomi, sister Maria, grandchildren Sharon & Daniel and his wife Amy, great grandchild Max, niece & nephew Hanna & Avik & their famil
 BRIZELL -- Murray J. ''Breeze'' On December 3, 2004. Beloved husband of Harriet. Devoted father of Hillary Brizell-DeLise and her husband Joseph, and Vicki Dellon and her husband Scott. Cherished grandfather of Allison DeLise, David Dellon, Jonathan DeLise and Kate Dellon. A decorated veter
 BRIZELL -- Murray J. ''Breeze'' On December 3, 2004. Beloved husband of Harriet. Devoted father of Hillary Brizell-DeLise and her husband Joseph, and Vicki Dellon and her husband Scott. Cherished grandfather of Allison DeLise, David Dellon, Jonathan DeLise and Kate Dellon. A decorated veter
 MARSHAK--Madelyn Wattenberg. Age 81. Passed away with courage and dignity December 5, 2004 after a long illness. Daughter of the late Frank and Estelle Baum. Beloved wife of the late Sidney Wm. Wattenberg. Devoted mother of Francine Klingenstein and her husband William and Richard Wattenber
 SAXE--Eleanor (nee Ginsburg). On the occasion of Shloshim, the Officers, Board and staff of American Red Magen David for Israel express our profound condolences to Benjamin Saxe, our Executive Vice President Emeritus, on the loss of his wife, as well as to Emmett and his wife Sharon, on the
 MARSHAK--Madelyn Wattenberg. Age 81. Passed away with courage and dignity December 5, 2004 after a long illness. Daughter of the late Frank and Estelle Baum. Beloved wife of the late Sidney Wm. Wattenberg. Devoted mother of Francine Klingenstein and her husband William and Richard Wattenber
 PALMER--Arnold J., of Montville, NJ. Beloved husband of Barbara. Devoted father of Geoffrey and his wife Nina, Jane Newton and her husband Mark, and Nancy Kornbluh and her husband Lee. Adored grandfather of Max and Freddie, Scott and David, Adam and Sarah. Funeral services at Temple B'nai J
 EGRI--Borbola. The Chernobyl Children mourn the passing of a cherished woman and mother to a champion of their cause, Gabe. Mrs. Egri raised him to be thoughtful and sensitive, and to use his talents for the betterment of the world. His commitment to those in need, particularly children in 
 Lucille Rollins, who managed the career of her husband, Sonny, one of the most celebrated jazz saxophonists, and helped produce his recordings, died on Nov. 27 at her home in Germantown, N.Y. She was 76. Her death was announced by Fantasy Records, the parent company of Milestone, th
 BUSLIK--Rita Jayne (nee Doneger) of Boca Raton, FL. Beloved wife of the late Jerome. Loving mother of James and Debra Buslik, Audrey Schneiderman - Gold berg and Maynard Goldberg. Dear sister of the late Morton and Henry Doneger. Cherished grandmother of Jeffrey, Bradley and Daniel Bus lik 
 KARTMAN--Dr. Jules D., Colonel U.S. Air Force, retired, died December 7, 2004. He is survived by his wife, Natalie Shilkret, her daughter Lynn Penland, her husband and their children. A memorial service to honor his life will be shared by this family.       
 FATEMI--Shayesteh S. Wife of the late diplomat, author and Fairleigh Dickinson University distinguished professor, Dr. Nasrollah S. Fatemi, died Friday at Pascack Valley Hospital. She was 90 years old and lived in Saddle River, NJ, for the last 50 years. Mrs. Fatemi, whose maiden name was O
 MELMAN--Seymour. Professor Emeritus, Columbia University. On December 16, 2004. Beloved brother of Myron and his wife Shoshana. Dear uncle of Oded, Eytan and Noam; beloved companion of Anita and dear friend to her son Marc. Service Thursday, December 23rd, 2pm at ''The Riverside'', 76th St 
 MELMAN--Seymour. Professor Emeritus, Columbia University. On December 16, 2004. Beloved brother of Myron and his wife Shoshana. Dear uncle of Oded, Eytan and Noam; beloved companion of Anita and dear friend to her son Marc. Service Thursday, December 23rd, 2pm at ''The Riverside'', 76th St 
 SCHAMES--Sandra. Beloved wife of Marshall. Devoted mother of Brian and his wife Cynthia. Services Sunday 11:30AM at Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, Great Neck, NY. SCHAMES -- Sandra. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to
 MILLER--Rose. Loving wife of the late Samuel. Devoted mother of Joan and motherin-law of the late Dr. Eugene A. Winter. Cherished grandmother of Randy Winter and Dr. Lee Winter and his wife, Dr. Margarita Camacho-Winter. She exuded kindness, generosity towards others, and elegance, while at
