 DORMAN--Harriet. The Board and staff of the American Friends of the Israel Museum and of the Israel Museum are saddened by the death of Harriet Dorman, mother of our long time friend and Vice President, William S. Ehrlich. We offer heartfelt condolences to Bil, Ruth, and the entire family. 
 DORMAN--Harriet, of Palm Beach, FL, formerly of Great Neck and NYC, on February 28th at the age of 96. Beloved wife of the late Milton L. Ehrlich and the late Millard S. Dorman. Loving mother of William S. Ehrlich and his wife Ruth Lloyds and stepmother of Audrey Sosis (Arthur) and Robert D
 STICKNEY--Mori, 87, died on February 20, 2007, in Glen Ridge, NJ. Mori was a prolific poet, and she inspired all who knew her with he spirit of aliveness. A memorial service with jazz pianist Barry Harris will be held Sunday, April 1st, at 7:30 pm at St. Peter's Church, 54th and Lexington, 
 DORAN--John Joseph, of Edgewater, NJ on Thursday, March 15, 2007. Beloved Husband of Elizabeth (nee Derrig). Loving father of John and his wife Sally, Mary and her husband Richard Palumbo, Celine and her husband Bill Ennis, Eamon, Brendan and his wife Jennifer, Terrance and his wife Claire,
 Ann DeChiara Malamud, whose marriage to Bernard Malamud helped him determine his course as a writer, died on Tuesday in Cambridge, Mass. She was 89. The immediate cause was kidney failure, her daughter, Janna M. Smith, said. Bernard Malamud, who died in 1986, said the horror
 BUKIET--Belle. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of the beloved wife of Al Bukiet, who, with him and his late brother, Joseph (and Rose) Bukiet, are YU Guardians and together dedicated the Bukiet Family Holocaust Collection of Yeshiva College in remembrance of the Hol
 HORTON--Henie of Boca Raton, FL, and Hackensack, NJ, died Wednesday, March 21, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Roy Horton, devoted mother of Sherri and her husband Howie Lippman and Jane and her husband Larry Kielt. Cherished grammy of Jordan and his fiance' Heather Benjamin, Ariel, Blair, C
 STEINMAN--Joan, died peacefully on March 23, 2007. Adored wife of the late Lewis, beloved daughter of Gracie Weisbrot, devoted mother of Jeffrey and his wife Jody Falco, Peter and his partner Todd Geringswald, and Robert and his wife Hilary, and loving grandmother of Carlo, Lucy, and Paulin
 STEINMAN--Joan. Congregation Rodeph Sholom and its Board of Trustees mourn the passing of our beloved and longtime member, Joan Steinman, the widow of our esteemed past President and Chairman of the Board, Lewis Steinman. Joan was integral to every aspect of Temple life. The Steinman Religi
 FISHMAN--Sylvia (Shemel) age 90, of Aventura, FL. formerly of NYC, NY, passed away March 19, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Seymour Fishman. Loving mother of Steven and Judith. Dear sister of Helene Susman and the late Sidney Shemel. Cherished grandmother of Laura and Stephanie and great gr
 GOLDSTEIN--Ida, of Deerfield Beach, FL, died on March 24 at 92. Adored mother of Marcia Shubitz, and her husband, Gerald, and Richard Goldstein and his wife, Nancy Lubell. Cherished grandmother of Stacey Shubitz. Beloved wife of the late Morris Goldstein. Devoted sister of the late Joseph B
 FISHMAN--Sylvia (Shemel) age 90, of Aventura, FL. formerly of NYC, NY, passed away March 19, 2007. Beloved wife of the late Seymour Fishman. Loving mother of Steven and Judith. Dear sister of Helene Susman and the late Sidney Shemel. Cherished grandmother of Laura and Stephanie and great gr
 LYNCH--Eileen E. (nee Garry) 65, of Franklin Lakes, on March 26, 2007. Beloved wife of Michael C. Lynch Sr. Devoted mother of Mary Ann Belliveau and her husband Brian of New York City, Michael C. Lynch, Jr., and his wife Danielle of Montclair, and Francis G. Lynch of New York City. Loving g
 KENT--Miriam. Children of Arthur M. Sackler mourn the passing of Miriam Kent, whose loyalty, commitment, and never-ending energy served our father from 1952 until his death in 1987. For two decades she was Secretary of The Arthur M. Sackler Foundation and will be truly missed by its Staff a
 WEBER--Anna, 97, on March 28, 2007. Born October 13, 1909, in NYC to Peter and Gertrude (Auer) Young. She married John Weber on September 8, 1929. He died in 2000. They owned Weber's Bakery on Fordham Road, in the Bronx. Survived by many nieces and nephews and great-nieces and nephews. Fune
 KENT--Miriam. Children of Arthur M. Sackler mourn the passing of Miriam Kent, whose loyalty, commitment, and never-ending energy served our father from 1952 until his death in 1987. For two decades she was Secretary of The Arthur M. Sackler Foundation and will be truly missed by its Staff a
