 GUGGENHEIMER--Joan. On behalf of the Board and staff of Legal Momentum, we wish to express our deepest sympathies to Peter and his family on the loss of his wife, Joan Guggenheimer. She was a great role model and committed mentor, exemplifying the best to colleagues and friends. She will be
 CONWAY -- Eugene Robert on August 3, 2006. Age 78. Beloved husband of the late Joanne. Loving father of Kimberly Biehle and her husband Stephen. Cherished grandfather of Alexandra and Noelle. Devoted brother of Ruth McMonagle and the late Dorothy Wallace. A World War II veteran and lifetime
 CONWAY -- Eugene Robert on August 3, 2006. Age 78. Beloved husband of the late Joanne. Loving father of Kimberly Biehle and her husband Stephen. Cherished grandfather of Alexandra and Noelle. Devoted brother of Ruth McMonagle and the late Dorothy Wallace. A World War II veteran and lifetime
 WEINBERG--John L.Vassar College mourns the loss of John L. Weinberg, beloved husband of our alumna and longtime trustee Sue Gotshal Weinberg. John Weinberg was a true and generous friend of the college. We extend our deepest sympathies to Sue and to her family at his passing. Catharine Bond
 THOMAS--Abby. Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our member Abby Thomas. May He who consoles the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem bring comfort to her family. Dr. Harlan J. Wechsler, Rabbi Michael W. Schwartz, Pres.       
 GUNNELL--Albert Edward. Of Hasbrouck Heights died on July 15, 2006. Beloved husband of Grace nee Reddington. Devoted father of Janet of Woodridge, Grace of Hasbrouck Heights, Albert and his wife Nadine of Jersey City, Laura McDonald and husband Aedan of Pennsylvania, Timothy and his wife Sh
 Vashti McCollum, whose lawsuit to stop religious instruction on school property led to a landmark ruling by the United States Supreme Court in 1948 to protect the separation of church and state in education, died Sunday in Champaign, Ill. She was 93. Her death was confirmed by her s
 GREENBERG--Anna. On August 26th, 2006, at the age of 99. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Sidney Greenberg. Devoted mother of Edward and his wife Carole, Elaine J. and her husband John C. May. Cherished grandmother of Jan, Theodore, Caron and Leslie. Loving great-grandmother of six girls and ex
 KLEINKRAMER--Saul R., 77, of Boca Raton, FL. Died August 28th, 2006, at home, after a brief battle with lung cancer. He was the President and CEO of Miltex Instrument Company until his retirement in 1997. A generous philanthropist, strong-minded, and dynamic individual, he was guided by int
 ALBRIGHT--Veronique Joan. The Trustees and Staff of the Museum of Jewish HeritageA Living Memorial to the Holocaust mourn the passing of Veronique Joan Albright, beloved wife of Trustee Emeritus Harry Albright, Jr. A loving wife and devoted mother, her charm and grace will be remembered by 
