 GREENBLATT-Anita S. (nee Samuels), on Thursday, February 1, 2001. Of Delray Beach, FL, formerly of Fair Lawn, Wyckoff and Hackensack, NJ. Beloved wife of Nathan E. Greenblatt. Devoted mother of Jane Greenblatt-Di Fede and her husband, Michael, and Samuel D. Greenblatt and his wife, Barbara.
 RIMLER-Moe. Of Manhattan. On February 8, 2001. Peacefully at age 80, after a long and happy life. Proprietor of Moe & Phil Clothiers, on New York's vanishing Lower East Side. Loved and beloved husband of Ruth for 60 years. Extraordinary father to George, Marsha and Phyllis. Outstanding fath
 Elizabeth Bass Golding, a Nassau County Family Court judge and pioneer activist for children's rights who set up group homes to keep troubled youths out of mental hospitals, died on Jan. 6 in a nursing home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. She was 100. ''She went to many a graduation of a y
 BERMAN-Blanche. The Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York note with sadness the passing of Blanche Berman. Blanche was the beloved mother of Dr. Kenneth Berman, a cherished friend, leader, major suporter of our mission, and chair of our Long Island South Shore Campaign.
 BLATE-Howard E., 83, of Richmond, MA and Great Neck, NY. On February 8, 2001 in Sarasota, FL. Graduated Wharton School. President Brownlee Insurance Agency. Survived by his loving wife Mildred, daughter Barbara Levy and her husband Edward of Scottsdale, AZ; son Mark Blate and his wife Sharo
 LEVINE-Leonard. We offer our deepest sympathies to our cherished colleague and friend, Naomi, and her family over the passing of her husband, Leonard. We know how much she loved him, and through her we came to feel deep affection for him, too. We share her grief at the death of this longsta
 FRIEDHOFF-Arnold J., 77, died Wednesday. Son of the late Abraham and Stella Beerman Friedhoff. Beloved husband of Frances Wolfe Friedhoff. Devoted father of Lawrence T. Friedhoff and his wife Beth, Nancy Friedhoff Walsh and her husband Dan and Richard M. Friedhoff. Loving brother of Hulda F
 GORDON-Caroline. On Feb. 22, 2001 in her 94th year. Beloved wife of the late Roy Gordon. Loving mother of Dr. Wayne Gordon and his wife Margaret Brown. Cherished grandmother of Hannah Brown Gordon. Star teacher of the New York City schools. Services Sunday, February 25, 11:15 AM at ''The Ri
 TURKEL-Eric Karl, 49. Of Old Bridge, NJ, died February 23, 2001 at home after a brief illness. Musician, author, teacher and audio engineer. Survived by his grieving, much beloved wife Barbara, son Matthew, parents Dr. Herb and Dorothea, sister Judith and her partner Jennifer, father-in-law
 BARRY-Richard A. On February 24, 2001. Beloved husband of Josephine. Loving father of Richard Jr. and his wife Stacy, Joseph, Martin and his wife Patricia, John, Mary and her husband Pim VanWijngaarden, Nora and her husband Philip Byrne. Dear brother of Elizabeth Kiernan and Mary Wilson. Ch
 BLUM-Seymour. On February 23, 2001. Loving father of Rochelle Winiker and her fiance Jim Kisatsky and Jeff Blum and his wife Leslie. Cherished grandfather of Lauren, Carrie, Zachary, Ryan and Katie. Dear brother of Evelyn Rosen. Services today 9:45 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76 Street and Amst
