 OFFIT-Rhea W. On December 29th, 1997. Rhea Offit (nee Wolf), beloved wife of the late Michael Offit. Beloved mother of Sara O. Abeshouse and Morris W. Offit. Devoted mother-in-law of Nancy S. Offit and the late Dr. George A. Abeshouse. Devoted sister of the late Chauncey Wolf. Loving grandm
 BRUDNER-Bernice. On January 6, 1998. Devoted wife of the late Louis Brudner. Loving mother of Richard and his wife Roberta. Dear grandmother of Matthew and Jonathan. Sister of Vivian Strausbourger. Loving aunt and great aunt. Resident of New York City and Hollywood, Florida. Funeral Riversi
 GUTMAN-Leah. On behalf of our ''Kingsbrook Family'', Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center and its constituent institutes express with deep and profound sorrow the untimely loss of Leah Gutman, beloved wife of Milton M. Gutman, CPA, Chief Executive Officer. She was a lovely, loving and righteous
 FISHER-Betty. The world is sadder for the loss of a charming and beautiful woman. Betty Fisher died January 16, 1998, in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. Betty, lovingly known as ''Super Boss'' is survived by her husband of 63 years, the Hon. Harold L. Fisher, former chairman of the MTA and a promi
 GUILDEN-Louise. The Board of Directors, residents and staff of The Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale mourn with sorrow the death of Louise Guilden. We extend our sincere sympathy to her son Paul, a true and valued friend of the Home and the entire Guilden family. We hope that your lovin
 FISHER-Betty. The world is sadder for the loss of a charming and beautiful woman. Betty Fisher died January 16, 1998, in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. Betty, lovingly known as ''Super Boss'' is survived by her husband of 63 years, the Hon. Harold L. Fisher, former chairman of the MTA and a promi
 FISHER-Betty. The world is sadder for the loss of a charming and beautiful woman. Betty Fisher died January 16, 1998, in Ft. Lauderdale, Florida. Betty, lovingly known as ''Super Boss'' is survived by her husband of 63 years, the Hon. Harold L. Fisher, former chairman of the MTA and a promi
 PRATT-Theodore. On January 15, 1998, of San Diego, CA, formerly of Lindamoor Estate, Annapolis, MD. He is survived by his wife, Eleanor Wilcoxs Pratt of San Diego, CA; brother, Merrick Pratt and wife Lillian Veret Pratt of Highlands, NJ; sister, Mary Pratt Boyd and her husband Edwin Boyd of
 DEVINE-Rita K. Died December 29, 1997, at the age of 72, in San Diego, CA. She was a resident of Stamford, CT, for six years, and previously of Rye, NY. Predeceased by husband John F. Devine. Survivors include Patrick F. Devine II and his wife Debra, of Newport Ritchy, FL, Mary Ann Routson 
 ROSEN-Gussie. Age ninety-nine, January 24, 1998. Longtime resident of Brooklyn. Devoted mother of Bernard and Harold. Beloved grandmother of Nina and David Rosen, Robert and Ruth Ann Rosend. Wife of the late Joseph Rosen. Owner of Peer Electric Company whose success was enhanced by her skil
 SILVERMAN - Nathan. The Trustees, Officers and Staff of North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System express deepest sympathies to our esteemed CoPresident and CEO, Dr. David R. Dantzker, and his wife, Sherrye, on the loss of Sherrye's father, Nathan. We extend sincere condolences to Nathan
