 GEEN-Evelyn. Of 3301-2 Wickslow Road, Wilmington, N.C. 28412. Of Alzheimer's disease. January 28, 1998. Formerly of Queens, New York City. Was Secretary for Hoechst-Celanese for 28 years. Survived by her brother, Morton Geen, his wife Zelda and their two sons David and Jeffrey.       
 SILVERMAN-Blossom Blum. On February 5, 1998. Beloved wife of Dr. Samuel H. Silverman, and the late Norman W. Blum, loving mother of Michelle and her husband Joseph, Jeffrey and his wife Carol, Russell and his wife Betsy, dearest sister of Hermina Levenberg and Edgar Schneider, stepmother to
 LASKY-Diana. Beloved wife of Burton. Devoted mother of Andrew. Dear sister of Deanna Chaunet. Service on Friday, 11:30 A.M., Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st Street and Amsterdam Avenue. LASKY-Diana. It is with deep saddness that we mourn the loss of Diana the wife of our colleague and f
 WOLFSON-Judith Pearlman. Of West Hartford, CT died February 16, 1998. Daughter of the late Rabbi and Mrs. David W. Pearlman. Graduated Radcliffe College Class of 1957. Beloved wife of Professor Nicholas; loving mother of Adam and his wife Dorothea, Professor Amy R. Wolfson and her husband P
 BRODSKY-Bernard. MD. Psychoanalyst. 84. Died suddenly on February 12, 1998 while swimming in the Caribbean. Beloved husband of Marilyn. Loving father of Nina, Laura and Mary and fatherin-law of Kenneth Roth and Stuart Zura. Adoring grandfather of Lisa and Emma Roth. His passion for life and
 MILBANK-Posy D. The Board of Trustees, staff and consumers of ICD-International Center for the Disabled note with deep sadness the passing of Posy (Rose), beloved wife of our Honorary President, Jeremiah Milbank, Jr. Gracious, warm-hearted and generous, Posy Milbank shared in Jeremiah Milba
 MERRIFIELD-Anne W. Age 96, formerly of Maplewood, N.J. died peacefully on February 13, 1998 in Peterborough, New Hampshire. Survivors include three sons, Peter S., Eric S., David C., their four children and six great grandchildren. Also surviving is her brother John Wortendyke and his famil
 RAYNER-Chesbrough On February 26, 1998. Beloved daughter of Chesbrough Patcevitch. Devoted sister of Minot Amory and his wife Victoria. Service Tuesday, March 3, 11 AM, St. Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue at 53rd St, NYC. In lieu of flower,s contributions may be made in her name to Sloan Ketter
