 GORDON-Barbara. The Montefiore-Einstein Heart Center is sad to announce the untimely death of Mrs. Barbara Gordon, the wife of our friend Dr. Garet Gordon, longtime Montefiore physician and administrator. Barbara was a gifted artist, teacher, writer and awardwinning editor as well as a dedi
 KOEHLER-Margarete. On August 8, 2002 in Worcester, MA. Born December 15, 1910 in Berlin, Germany, daughter of Hans and Emma Endress Koehler. A longtime resident of Greenwich Village, she is survived by one cousin Hermann Endress and his daughter Barbara Nazzaro. Funeral service at 1:30 PM, 
 HEILMAN-Lucia. Beloved wife of the late Henry Heilman, mother of Samuel Heilman and his wife Ellin, grandmother of Adam, Uriel, Avram and Jonah. A righteous and valorous woman, she died at home peacefully having survived the horrors of Shoah and many years of a dignified life in Brookline, 
 PATTON-Theodore R., Jr. On August 16, 2002 of New Hyde Park and Hampton Bays, NY. Beloved husband of Diane for 39 years. Loving father of Claudia Dudek and her husband Stanley, Claire Patton and Heather Patton. Daer grandfather of Teddy and Edna Dudek. Mr. Patton was a graduate of the Admir
 PATTON-Theodore R., Jr. On August 16, 2002 of New Hyde Park and Hampton Bays, NY. Beloved husband of Diane for 39 years. Loving father of Claudia Dudek and her husband Stanley, Claire Patton and Heather Patton. Daer grandfather of Teddy and Edna Dudek. Mr. Patton was a graduate of the Admir
 EFORO-John F. 72, of Scarsdale, died on August 17, 2002. Beloved husband of Tina. Loving father of Joanne SanAntonio and her companion Donald Levy, Carla Liskin and her husband Steven, and John C. Eforo and his wife Judie. Cherished grandfather of Elliot, Robert and Andrew Liskin, and John 
 PAUKER - Norman, Rabbi. Cherished husband of Rita, father of Seth and Gabrielle, sister of Anita Rothman, Leah Miller of Miami, FL, grandfather of Simone and Alexandra. Died in his home in North Hollywood, California. Smicha from Yeshiva University. Former Rabbi of the Ocean Parkway Jewish 
 ROSEN-Julie B. 85, Lawrence, NY. Survived by his loving daughter Linda Schoenfeld, his son-in-law Lester and his grandchildren Dana and Jennifer and her fiance Ken Le-Gall. Adored by his loving and life partner of many years Fran Benjamin and her daughter Michele Ring, her son and daughter-
 XENIA-Rose. On August 22, 2002 at age 67 after a long bout with cancer. She was a psychotherapist and author of ''Widow's Journey, a Return to the Loving Self.'' Beloved wife of Warren Forma and the late concert cellist, Leonard Rose. Loving stepmother of Carol Forma, Thomas Forma and his w
 DYNER-Gaby A. On August 26, 2002. Beloved wife of the late George. Devoted mother of the late Elizabeth Pilzer and mother-in-law of Herbert R. Pilzer. Formidable grandmother of Lynn Sobel and her husband Eric and Neal Pilzer and his wife Anita. Wonderful great grandmother of Anna and Peter 
