 TATTA--John L. on February 3, 2005, age 84, resident of Fort Lauderdale, FL formerly of Oyster Bay, NY. Beloved husband of Anne (nee Frasca). Loving father of Debbie DeCabia and Lisa Crowley. Cherished grandfather of Mark, Kevin, John, Stephanie, Christopher, Jenna, Patrick and Amelia. Devo
 ROSS--Joseph J. Devoted companion of Rita Lee, and like a father to her daughters, Jessica Lee, and Madeleine Fishman, beloved father of Alice Ross Leon, Joe Ross, Jr., Mary Keenan, Judy Maher, and the late Betsy Mattu, grandfather and great grandfather. Loving brother of Clementine Miglior
 BERGSON--Rita Macht of Arlington, formerly of Cambridge and Belmont, MA on Saturday, February 12, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Professor Abram Bergson. Devoted mother of Judith Bergson of Somerville, MA, Mimi Bergson White and her husband Paul White of Wellesley, MA and Lucy Bergson LaFar
 Sister Lucia, the last survivor of the three Portuguese shepherd children who told of a series of apparitions of the Virgin Mary in the village of Fátima in 1917, died on Sunday in her convent in Coimbra, Portugal. She was 97. A spokeswoman for her order, the Carmelite Sisters, ann
 GUILFOYLE--Shirley Anne. Of NYC. Beloved wife of the late John W. Guilfoyle, International Telephone & Telegraph executive. Died at home on Thursday, February 17, 2005 at age 81. Born in Chicago, IL, she and her late husband traveled extensively throughout the world. Loving mother of Patric
 SELINGER--Rose. Age 79, died peacefully February 17, 2005 from complications from Alzheimer's disease in Pembroke Pines, FL; former resident of North Woodmere and Lawrence, L.I. Loving wife of the late Martin Selinger; beloved mother of Ann and her husband Robert Kirsch and Dennis Selinger 
 GUILFOYLE--Shirley Anne. Of NYC. Beloved wife of the late John W. Guilfoyle, International Telephone & Telegraph executive. Died at home on Thursday, February 17, 2005 at age 81. Born in Chicago, IL, she and her late husband traveled extensively throughout the world. Loving mother of Patric
 SELINGER--Rose. Age 79, died peacefully February 17, 2005 from complications from Alzheimer's disease in Pembroke Pines, FL; former resident of North Woodmere and Lawrence, L.I. Loving wife of the late Martin Selinger; beloved mother of Ann and her husband Robert Kirsch and Dennis Selinger 
 KAPLAN--Ethel. Of Lakewood, NJ, formerly of the Bronx, NY, and Fort Lauderdale, FL. Wife of the late Morris, mother of Ronald Kaplan and his wife Bette, Myrna Calderon and her husband Donald, Myra Rosenberg and Janet Brothers and her husband David. Also survived by 11 grandchildren and 13 g
 FOX--Leonard, M.D. On February 21, 2005. Beloved husband of Naomi Fox. Devoted father of Debra Howard and her husband, Dr. Ned Howard, and Ellen Spiro and her husband, Dr. Jeffrey Spiro. Adored and adoring Grandpa of Joshua Spiro and Jeffrey Howard. Loving brother of Cynthia (Bill) Dember, 
 LEWIN--Rita. Of New York, NY, in her 101st year, on February 22, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Jerry, devoted mother of Malcolm (Nick) and his wife, Trina Lewin, adored grandmother of Debbie Hurwitz, and Amy Lewin, great grandmother of Isabel Lewin-Knauer. Services at Bernheim - Apter - Kr
 SHEA--Robert M., of Wellesley, MA, formerly of Brookline, MA, February 22. Retired Sr. VP & Counsel of John Hancock Insurance Co. Brother of former District Court Judge Edward J. Shea and his wife Kay of Cocoa Beach, FL, and Marjorie Kennard and her husband George of Wellesley, MA. Funeral 
 LEVIN--Rona. The partners and staff of Goodkind Labaton Rudoff & Sucharow LLP express their deepest sympathy to their partner, Lawrence A. Sucharow on the passing of his sister, Rona Levin. We extend our condolences to her husband and children. Goodkind Labaton Rudoff & Sucharow LLP       
 MEIMAN--Julius. On February 24, 2005. Beloved husband of Belle, loving father of Kevie and her husband Marty, adoring grandfather of Evan and his wife Kim, dear brother of Florence, Mildred and Seymour. Service Friday, 11:15 A.M., at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.     
 PODZIBA--Benjamin. Passed away on February 26, 2005, at age 76. Beloved husband of Dora. Loving father of Helene and her huband Bob, Susan and her husband Scott, and Kenneth and his wife Julie. Adoring grandfather of Sarah. Dear brother of Shirley and Evelyn. Service today, at 11 am, at Gut
