 HALL-Michael. On April 29, 2000. Loving father of Jethryn, Petra and her partner Rhonda Feiman, and Kevin Hall. Cherished companion of Diane Gardner. Dear brother of David, Toby, Eli and Joe Holtzman, Debbie Tarlowe and Rita Okrent. Services Wednesday 10AM, ''The Riverside'', 76th St and Am
 HOROWITZ-Louis L. Died on April 28, 2000 in Aventura, FL. Beloved father of Marcia Hochberg & Barbara Greenblatt. Dear father-in-law of Dr. Fred Hochberg and Philip Greenblatt. Cherished grandfather of Jeffrey and David Greenblatt and Ian Hochberg, Elizabeth Hochberg and her husband Michael
 HOROWITZ-Louis L. Died on April 28, 2000 in Aventura, FL. Beloved husband of Claire. Beloved father of Marcia Hochberg & Barbara Greenblatt. Dear father-inlaw of Dr. Fred Hochberg and Philip Greenblatt. Cherished grandfather of Jeffrey and David Greenblatt and Ian Hochberg, Elizabeth Hochbe
 BARNICK-Adam. Taken prematurely at the age of 37 on May 7, 2000. Beloved husband of Pat, devoted father of Loryn and Nicole, adored son of Geraldine and Jack Barnick. Cherished brother of Robyn Ornstein and her husband, David, and Lisa Walsh and her husband, Edward. Also survived by adoring
 GORFINKLE-Lawrence David. 56, on May 10, 2000, after a courageous battle with a sudden illness. Beloved husband of Alaine. Loving father of Joshua, Gwen, Lynn and Marc. Devoted brother of Irene Lowengart, Anne Schneider, Emily Watt and the late James. Son of the late Herbert and Evelyn. Car
 Annalee Newman, who spent 34 years as the wife and another 30 as the widow of Barnett Newman, the Abstract Expressionist painter, died  on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91. ''Artist's wife'' is not a category widely used by art historians, but Mrs. Newman was among the
 FLEISCHMANN-Mildred on May 11, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Max J. Loving mother of Marjorie Posner, Jay Fleischmann and his wife Toby. Adoring grandmother of Keith Fleishmann and Lisa and Noah Barfield. Dear sister of the late Sylvia Levinson, Betty Epstein, Goldie Rockower and David Opo
 GLANTZ-Harriet. Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our member, Harriet Glantz. May He who consoles the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem bring comfort to her family. Dr. Harlan J. Wechsler, Rabbi Alisa Doctoroff, President       
 Margaret Harris, a theatrical designer whose name was synonymous for more than half a century with superlative yet economical stage sets and costumes in London, Stratford-Upon-Avon and on Broadway, died on Wednesday in London. She was 95. In 1931, with encouragement from John Gielgu
 SAVET-Paul H., Ph.D. May 14, 2000 and Savet, Gabrielle, Ph.D. February 13, 1999. They were the beloved parents, grandparents and great-grandparents of the family of Leslie A. Kory, M.D. and Odile A. Kory, Ph.D.. Paul and Gabrielle were both born and raised in Cluj, Transylvania. They left t
 LEIBOWITZ-Jerry. We extend heartfelt condolences to Henrietta Leibowitz on the passing of her beloved husband, Jerry. A dedicated leader in our Southeast Region, Jerry personified kindness and modesty. As a Founder of the Medical Center together with Henrietta, he made a vital difference to
 FINKEL-Lawrence, Ph.D. ASID NY Metro Chapter mourns the loss of a distinguished and loyal friend and sends its condolences to his wife and former chapter president, Terry Finkel, ASID, and her immediate family.       
 TRAUTMAN-Susanah (nee Bailie). Of Cambridge, MA, May 19, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Donald T. Mother of William B. and his wife Nancy of Lexington, MA, Ann Spindler and her husband J. Andrew of NY and Benjamin B. of Berkeley, CA. Grandmother of Sarah and Alexander Trautman and Drew Spin
 SPIEGEL-Leon. Passed away peacefully on Tuesday 23rd May 2000 in Scottsdale, Arizona. Aged 74 years. He is survived and greatly missed by his wife Amanda, her son Brad and family, his daughters Leslie and husband Bob, Cheryl and her son Justin and friend Lee John Glatz of Tuscon. Funeral wi
 GOLDSTEIN-Irving. On Friday, May 26, 2000. Irving Goldstein of Chevy Chase, Md., beloved husband of Susan Goldstein, loving father of Elizabeth (Betsy) Goldstein and her husband Gudmundur Audunsson and Jill Goldstein and her fiance, Todd Wernstrom. Loving brother of Arthur (Stephanie) Golds
