 RATNOFSKY--Barbara. Wife of the late Matthew Ratnofsky passed away on October 31, 2006 in Bethesda, MD. She was born in Brooklyn, NY in 1913. She was the loving mother of Amy (deceased) and Alexander Ratnofsky of Maryland. She is survived by her son and his wife Suzanne, three grandchildren
 FISCHMAN--Helen T., 85, died on November 3, 2006. Beloved mother of Meryl Ain and Arthur Fischman, mother-inlaw of Stewart Ain and Janet Margolies, loving grandmother of Jonathan, Daniel and Michael Ain, Anna and Molly Fischman, grandmother-inlaw to Beth Ain, great-grandmother of Grace Ain.
 GLICK--Doris. George Iacobescu and Peter Anderson on their own behalf and on behalf of Canary Wharf Group management and employees express their condolences and their deep sorrow to Mr. Louis Glick, Mr. Simon Glick and Mrs. Esti Pluchenick for the loss of their wife and mother Mrs. Grace Gl
 KELLER--Ernest of Mountainside, NJ. Husband of Sondra and the late Francis (nee Weinstein), loving father of Martin and his wife Ginny Keller, Robin Keller and her husband Mark Geliebter, cherished grandfather of Ryan, Andy, Talia and Sara. Dear brother of the late Robert Keller. Funeral se
 STANDEN--Lisl (nee Colmers), of South Kent, CT, peace activist and housing advocate. Died November 4, 2006 at age 90. Founding President of NW CT United Nations Association, former President of Older Women's League, NW CT, founding member of Kent Village Housing Association of CT and CT Hou
 LUSTGARTEN--Elizabeth. Of Quogue, on November 4, 2006. Wife of the late Baier Lustgarten and mother of the late Garry T. Lustgarten, she is survived by: her sons, J. Paul Hoffman, Howard C. Lustgarten and his wife, Barbara, and Kenneth C. Lustgarten and his wife, Beverly, 11 grandchildren, 
 SHELTON--Richard. Our heart goes out to Sue on the loss of her loving husband. He was a good friend who always kept us laughing. Gerry & Ed Friedman       
 LEVY--Belle. The Gurwin Jewish Geriatric Center community extends deepest sympathy to Stephen Levy, Vice President of our Gurwin Jewish -Fay J. Lindner Residences Board of Directors and our first Chief Development Officer, on the loss of his beloved mother, Belle. A resident of our Fay J. L
 TAYLOR--Robert Lawrence, 81, passed away November 22nd, 2006. He was born in Long Branch and was a lifelong resident of Eatontown, NJ. Mr. Taylor retired in 1990 as the celebrated music director and program manager for WNEW 1130 AM radio, NYC, NY after 40 years of service in the music and r
 GAM--Kenneth L., 79. Passed away after a valiant battle with cancer on Friday, November 17th. Loving father of Laurie Gam and her partner, Gail Amato, and of the late Robin Arcati. Previously married to Elayne Gam for 32 years. He is also survived by sister Harriet Leeman and granddaughter 
 SCHLOSSBERG--Alice (nee Dresner). Entered into rest November 26, 2006 of Beverly, MA. Beloved wife of Edward. Loving mother of Sara of New York and David and his wife Michelle of Wisconsin. Dear sister of Norman Dresner of Maryland. Daughter-in-law of Dorothy Schlossberg of Florida. Gravesi
 SHAPIRO--Dorothy, November 27, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Irving Shapiro, loving mother of Ellie (Schnell) and husband Lloyd, and Alan and his wife Marion. Devoted grandmother of Ron and Amy (Raisman) and adoring great-grandmother of Jeremy, Mallory and Naomi. We will miss her wit, wisd
