 BENENSON -- Charles. The Officers and Board of United Cerebral Palsy of NYC note with deep sorrow the passing of our longtime friend, Charles Benenson. We extend our sincere sympathy to his wife and her entire family. Leo Hausman, Chairman UCP of NYC, Inc.       
 CANNON--Mary Jane. On March 2. Survived by her brother, John Leckey and his wife Myra, her sons and their families; Donald and Linda Cannon and their son Sam, Terrence and Janice Cannon and their daughter Victoria and son Christopher, and Alex Cannon and his wife Marina Liem. Service 12:15 
 CANNON--Mary Jane. On March 2. Survived by her brother, John Leckey and his wife Myra, her sons and their families; Donald and Linda Cannon and their son Sam, Terrence and Janice Cannon and their daughter Victoria and son Christopher, and Alex Cannon and his wife Marina Liem. Service 12:15 
 ELLIEN--Isabel (Ruggiero), of Mendham, NJ, on February 28, 2004. Wife of Algernon Michael Ellien. Mother of June E. Ellien, Barbara Wyne, John D. Ellien, and Michael G. Ellien, grandmother of Jeb and Lindsey Rose Wyne. Mother-in-law of Michael J. Cuniff and his daughters Coleen and Emily, c
 BEHREND -- Bernard, M.D. The 92 St Y Board and staff mourn the passing of Bernard Behrend, M.D. Adored father of long standing Board member Catherine Behrend. Our hearts and prayers are with her and her family. As his life was a blessing so may his memory be as well. Michael Goldstein, Pres
 Ruth Ellington Boatwright, Duke Ellington's only sibling, who for many years took care of his business affairs, died on Saturday in Manhattan. She was 88. Her son Michael James said her death came after she had been sick for some time. Ruth Dorothea Ellington was born on Jul
 LEVINE--Arthur B., on March 11th, 2004. Beloved husband of Sybil. Loving father of Marcia and Michael Mimran, Carol Levine and her partner, Melissa Slaybaugh. Dear brother of Jack and Anita Levine. Adoring grandfather of Avital, Liana, Yehuda and Galit. Devoted uncle, cousin, friend and col
 GOLDMAN -- Patricia M. passed away peacefully on March 11, 2004. Loving wife of the late Albert S. Goldman. Wonderful mother of Andrew & Nancy Goldman, Lynn & Larry Schan, Susan & Gene Resnick, Jane Goldman, and John & Wendy Goldman. Adored grandmother, greatgrandmother and step-grandmother
 McEVOY--James J. 66, of Ridgefield, CT, NYC native. Former textile market research analyst. March 13, 2004. Survived by his wife Patti (nee Morgan) McEvoy, two daughters Mary McEvoy Hoag and her husband Jeffrey, and Colleen McEvoy, a brother Thomas McEvoy and two grandchildren, Jacqueline a
 EHRICH--Dr. F. Frederick, of Wilmington, DE, on March 14, 2004, at the age of 84. Beloved husband of Ceceil (nee Rinder); loving father of Anne Alden and her husband David of Bloomfield Hills, MI, Beth Ehrich Berkeley and her husband Dr. Alan of Scarsdale, NY, and Meg Goodman and her husban
 McEVOY--James J. 66, of Ridgefield, CT, NYC native. Former textile market research analyst. March 13, 2004. Survived by his wife Patti (nee Morgan) McEvoy, two daughters Mary McEvoy Hoag and her husband Jeffrey, and Colleen McEvoy, a brother Thomas McEvoy and two grandchildren, Jacqueline a
 Anna Carter Gordon Davis, a gospel music pioneer as a member of the Chuck Wagon Gang and the widow of Gov. Jimmie Davis of Louisiana, died on March 5 in Fort Worth. She was 87 and lived in Fort Worth. The cause was acute respiratory failure, her son William Gordon told The Fort Wort
 ADLER--Kenneth. Age 25, died March 24, 2004 following a nine year battle with a traumatic brain injury. Beloved son of Bruce and Janet (nee Saporta) Adler. Brother of Michael Adler, grandson of Evelyn and Norman Adler, Pauline Renard and the late Sam Saporta. May he rest in peace. Funeral s
 LEVIN--Fanny. Of Great Neck, NY at age 93. Loving wife of the late Milton. Devoted mother of Genie Heller and James Levin and his wife Emily. Adored grandmother of Michael (Rhonda) Heller, Kenneth (Lynda) Heller, Joanna (Billy) Karp, Stephanie (Jaime) Torres, and Alexander Levin. Cherished 
 MARCUS--Rose. 84, of Riverdale, NY. On March 27, 2004. Loving wife of the late Louis. Devoted mother of Adrienne and her husband Arthur, Carl and his wife Isobel. Cherished grandmother of Philip, Sheri, David, Seth, Marisa and Jeffrey. Great-grandmother of Hannah and Lauren Bernstein. Belov
