 BALMUTH-Fay on February 1, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Jerome, loving mother of Marc and his wife Stacy, Michael and his wife Janet, dear grandmother of Dustin and Jade. Also survived by her dear companion Lester. Funeral services Thursday, 12 noon, Schwartz Bros-Jeffer Memorial Chapels,
 ROSENBLATT-Renee Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our member Renee Rosenblatt. May He who consoles the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem bring comfort to her family. Dr. Harlan J. Wechsler, Rabbi Alisa Doctoroff, President       
 BLUM-Livia. All of ELEMouth in Distress in Israel send our sincere condolences to George Blumenthal and his family on the death of his beloved Aunt Lilly. We will all remember her warmth and caring and we will miss her. Ann Bialkin, President ELEM       
 BOULTON-Schroeder, on February 6th, aged 91. Survived by daughters, Janet Boulton and Nancy Boulton-LeGates. Memorial service Saturday, February 12, 2 PM, First Unitarian Church, 50 Monroe Place, Brooklyn Heights, NY. BOULTON-Schroeder. Died on February 6, 2000 at the age of 91. Our
 LITKEI-Ervin, February 8, 2000. Beloved husband of Andrea; loving father of Dr. Cathy Litkei and her husband Jeffry Greene. Cherished grandfather of Phillip, Amy, Alexandra and Jamie. A prominent composer whose works are recorded in the Congressional Record and the Songwriters Hall of Fame.
 LITKEI-Ervin, February 8, 2000. Beloved husband of Andrea; loving father of Dr. Cathy Litkei and her husband Jeffry Greene. Cherished grandfather of Phillip, Amy, Alexandra and Jamie. A prominent composer whose works are recorded in the Congressional Record and the Songwriters Hall of Fame.
 PULVER-Robert H. Died on Tuesday, February 8. He is survived by his wife Janith W. Pulver. Loving father of Thomas R. Pulver and Ann (Harry) Oppenheimer. Dear grandfather of Stephen J. Schutzman, Emily (Mike) Klein and Brian Oppenheimer. Graveside services will be held 11 A.M. Thursday, Feb
 Maria Paasche, who helped Jews escape from Nazi Germany on the back of her motorcycle and whose father and brothers conspired to kill Hitler, died Jan. 21 in a San Francisco nursing home. She was 90. Mrs. Paasche was the daughter of General Kurt von Hammerstein, who was commander in
 ELLMAN-Jeanette nee Goldberg, on February 11. Forever loved by husband Sidney, daughter Joyce, son Michael and his wife Sue Ann, grandchildren Jared, Courtney and Chelsea. Jeanette was a wonderful wife and inspiring mother who served her country in the U.S. Army as a sergeant in '42-'45 and
 MARSHALL-Alma (nee Cohen). February 12, 2000, aged 103, peacefully in her sleep after a brief illness. Juilliard graduate, with a lifelong passion for music, who taught piano and sang in the Metropolitan Opera chorus when she was young. Proud and devoted mother and mother-in-law of Jill and
 SALZMAN-Pola, on February 14, 2000. Owner and Chief Executive of Paramount Cosmetics. Beloved wife of the late Harold. Loving mother of Sherry and her husband Gabriel, Sandy and his wife Nina. Adoring grandmother of Saskia, David, Valerie, Lauren and Nicole. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1
 ZINDLER-Dinah. 89, died on February 16, 2000. She was married to Elias Zindler until his death and is survived by her loving family; sister, Estelle Minkowsky of White Plains, daughter, Rita Asch, and partner, Frank Magalhaes of Princeton, NJ, son, Jerrold Zindler, and wife, Linda Zindler o
 SMITH-Emma Lois. On February 17, 2000. Beloved wife of Edward (E.J.) Smith. Devoted mother of Linda and her husband Dr. Rois Bari, Edward III (Darby), Rodney (Skipper) and his wife Tina, and Stuart. Proud grandmother of Curtis, Xona and Ellington. Sister of Ruby Taylor. Visiting on Wednesda
 LOEB-Harriet. February 26, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Rene. Devoted mother of Peter and his wife Linda. Loving sister of Leo Bloch. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Funeral private.       
 OROBELLO-Nick. On February 24, at age 62. Beloved husband of Stella; loving father of Cristina and her husband Randy and Angela. Dear brother of Antonino. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Sunday 1-8 PM. Memorial Mass at St. Thomas More Church, 65 E.
 LOEB-Harriet. February 26, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Rene. Devoted mother of Peter and his wife Linda. Loving sister of Leo Bloch. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved her. Funeral private.       
 OROBELLO-Nick. On February 24, at age 62. Beloved husband of Stella; loving father of Cristina and her husband Randy and Angela. Dear brother of Antonino. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st Street, Sunday 1-8 PM. Memorial Mass at St. Thomas More Church, 65 E.
 Ioanna, the Bulgarian queen whose marriage was blessed by Mussolini and whose husband, King Boris III,  may have been poisoned by Hitler, died Saturday in her home in Estoril, Portugal. She was 92. Though her husband made a reluctant alliance with Hitler, she is remembered for effor
