 KLASS-Morton. Beloved brotherpassed away April 28. You will always be in a special place in my heart. Love, your sister Fran KLASS-Morton. The staff and Board of Directors of Reach Out and Read recognize with great sadness his passing and extend our deepest condolences to our Medica
 KAHN-Roseann Hoffman. April 30. Beloved mother of Roger Charles Kahn and his wife Therese Kiley Kahn. Cherished grandmother of Amanda Cantwell Kahn and Charlotte Paige Kahn. A noted television casting director and writer for over 30 years. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved
 KAHN-Roseann Hoffman. April 30. Beloved mother of Roger Charles Kahn and his wife Therese Kiley Kahn. Cherished grandmother of Amanda Cantwell Kahn and Charlotte Paige Kahn. A noted television casting director and writer for over 30 years. She will be deeply missed by all who knew and loved
 MIDDLEMAN-Min. Of Fort Lauderdale, Fla., on May 1, 2001. Adored wife of the late Joseph. Beloved mother of Robert Middleman and his wife, Pat, and Brenda Zomick and her husband, Shelly. Cherished grandmother of Gregory, Jenifer and Peter. Services Friday, 11:15 AM, at ''The Riverside,'' 76t
 FORD-Sister Barbara Ann. Beloved member of the Sisters of Charity, died on May 5, 2001. Dear daughter of Dorothy and the late John Ford. Beloved sister of Dorothy, John and his wife, Alice Casey. Loving aunt of Sean. Bobbie died in Guatemala after 20 years of service to the people she loved
 O'CONNOR-Roderic S. Of Denver, CO, formerly of Douglaston, NY. Died peacefully on April 13, 2001 surrounded by family. Devoted husband of the late Jane O'Connor. Beloved father of Christine O'Connor and her husband Dave Mitzner of Denver, CO, Barbara Gossel and her husband Jim of Corte Made
 ROSENBERG-Belle. Of Franklin Square, NY, on May 10, 2001. Cherished wife of Alex for 61 years. Loving mother of Judy Steinglass and husband Henry, Robert Rosenberg & wife Rosalie. Grandmother of Max, Eric, Sarah, Dan, Sabrina and Reuben. Sister of Rita Lipschutz & husband Irving, Stanley Le
 GOLDMEIER-Trudy K. On Monday, May 14, 2001. Of Verona, New Jersey, and Key Biscayne, FL. Formerly of Hopatcong, N.J. Beloved wife of the late Burton B. Goldmeier. Devoted mother of Barry Goldmeier and his wife Joanne and Lee Goldmeier and his wife Ilene. Cherished grandmother of Michelle & 
 FISHER-Suzanne. On may 12, 2001. Loving wife of Richard. Beloved daughter of Carol Ehlers. Cherished sister of Elizabeth and brothers Robert, Thomas, and David. Donations in her memory can be made to either the Animal Medical Center of NY or the ASPCA. Services private. FISHER-Suzan
 JOHNSON-Alton M. Born October 18, 1928 in Calumet, IL. Died peacefully May 16, 2001, Lenox Hill Hospital, New York City of Asbestos. Enlisted in U.S. Marine Corps 1944-1949, and U.S. Air Force 1949-1969. Served in Pacific Theater of WWII, The German Army of Occupation, The Korean War and Vi
 JOHNSON-Alton M. (''Al''). Born October 18, 1928 in Calumet, IL. Died peacefully May 16, 2001, Lenox Hill Hospital, New York City of Asbestosis. Enlisted in U.S. Marine Corps 1944-1949, and U.S. Air Force 1949-1969. Served in Pacific Theater of WWII, The German Army of Occupation, The Korea
 SAVAGE-Thomas. Died May 16, age 41. Parents Shirley and James; brother Ted; sister Catherine and her husband Henry Roberts, children Andrew, James, Sarah; companion Steve Weinstein; and many friends mourn a special man who cherished life's wonders, opera above all. Memorial May 29 at 6 PM, 
 SCHAFFER-Geraldine. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Gerry Schaffer, for 66 years the beloved wife of our cherished friend, Irving Schaffer, a former member of the UJA-Federation Board of Directors. A stalwart supporter of our mi
 TAMARY-Ernest J. Cong. Hope of Israel and its Sisterhood share the grief of our devoted member, Dora Kesten, in the unexpected loss of her son. May his soul find its true resting place amongst the elders of Zion and Israel.       
 VENIZELOS-Matina A. On May 27, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Michael. Loving mother of George, his wife, Michele, and Helene and her husband, John. Cherished grandmother of Michael and Gregory. Fond sister of Michael Dolas, Mary Govatos, and Nick Dolas. For further information, please call
 STEHL-Elaine T. We share the sorrow of our partner, Richard L. Stehl, on the passing of his mother, Elaine T. Stehl, who fought her illness with dignity and courage and with the support of her family. We extend our deepest condolences to Richard, his wife Erika, their children, and the enti
 VENIZELOS-Matina A. On May 27, 2001. Beloved wife of the late Michael. Loving mother of George, his wife, Michele, and Helene and her husband, John. Cherished grandmother of Michael, Gregory and Rebecca. Fond sister of Michael Dolas, Mary Govatos, and Nick Dolas. For further information, ca
