 ROBINSON--Milton, on August 31, 2004. Loving husband of Esther Billow Robinson. Devoted father of Billow Robinson and Rhonda Borow. Father-in-law of Mara Robinson and Jay Borow. Cherished grandfather of Jessica and Joshua Borow. Brother of Sharon Hyman. He will always be in our hearts. Serv
 BROCKMAN--Irene. Passed away two days before her 99th birthday. Devoted wife of the late Larry. Beloved mother of Alan and Robert (and Jeannette). Adoring grandmother of George and Joshua. Extraordinarily active in communal affairs as Trustee of Riverdale Temple, member of Women's American 
 HUBER--Mary Elizabeth Sedman. Died August 18, at 95. Born in Missoula, MT, she was married to Henry Silver Huber, MD, of New York City until his death in 1972. She is survived by Mary Tambiah of Cambridge, MA, Harriet Huber of Seattle, WA, Janet Schiff of Wayside, NJ, six grandchildren and 
 BROCKMAN--Irene. Our condolences to Alan Brockman, our friend and esteemed member of our Board of Trustees, on the death of his mother, Irene, who died peacefully in her 99th year. Congregation B'nai Olam Fire Island Pines       
 KOPLEWICZ -- Roma. The board and faculty of the NYU Child Study Center mourn the loss of Roma Koplewicz, devoted wife, partner and friend of Joseph (Joe) Koplewicz, beloved mother of Edith, Linda and Harold S. Koplewicz, Director, loving grandmother to Joshua, Adam, Sam and Alex. After surv
 O'NEILL--John J. On September 5, 2004 of Garden City. Loving husband of Margie. Devoted father of Timothy, Daniel and his fiancee Mitra, Jeanne and her husband Christopher and Jennifer and her husband Jonathan. Adored ''Poppy'' of Caroline, Amelia and Emmett. Visiting at Fairchild Chapel, F
 SUPLEE--Mary T. (Green) of Elizabeth and Spring Lake, NJ on Monday September 6, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Frank E. Suplee. Devoted mother of Katherine Suplee. Sister of Michael Green and his wife Stephanie. Funeral Friday, September 10, at 9:15AM from the Krowicki McCracken Funeral Hom
 GREENBERG--Bessie. The American Friends of Beth Hatefutsoth, the Museum of the Jewish Diaspora in Tel Aviv, expresses its heartfelt condolences to past President and Board Member Stephen M. Greenberg on the passing of his mother. May her memory be for a blessing for the entire family. Sam E
 STUCHINER--A. Martin. We join with Terry and her family in grieving for Martin--a distinguished lawyer, a friend, and one of the original founders of Greylock Association. We will miss his sage advise. Naomi Levine and Family and All of Martin's Friends at Greylock STUCHINER--A. Mar
 LEVY--S. David. 67. Passed away peacefully on September 15. Beloved husband of Seena Schnall Levy, father of Karena Levy and her husband, Richard Buczkowski, and Benjamin Levy, brother of Richard H. Levy and Philip G. Levy. Graduate of University of Wisconsin, Madison, 1959 and Harvard Law 
 LEVY--S. David. 67. Passed away peacefully on September 15. Beloved husband of Seena Schnall Levy, father of Karena Levy and her husband, Richard Buczkowski, and Benjamin Levy, brother of Richard H. Levy and Philip G. Levy. Graduate of University of Wisconsin, Madison, 1959 and Harvard Law 
 LUKS--Joseph, 92, of Long Beach, NY, and formerly of Rockville Centre, NY, died on September 19, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Evelyn. Loving father of Arlene Caplan and her husband Harvey, and Allan Luks and his wife Karen. Adored Poppa to Stacie, Jodi, Rachel, Ken and David. Great gra
 BECKWITH--Leo M. 90 of Palm Beach, FL and Locust, NJ, formerly of Swampscott, MA on Tuesday, September 21, 2004. Beloved husband of Marylyn (Monk) (Eisner) and the late Betty A. (Albert). Loving father of Carol Beckwith of London, Lois Beckwith Pike and her husband Stephen of New Zealand an
 FOSTER--Julia. Beloved wife of Edward, loving mother of David and his wife Allison, adoring grandmother of Reuben Wade. Passed away two days before her 70th birthday in Las Vegas. Services are on Friday, 12:30 PM, BoulevardRiverside Chapel, 1450 Broadway, Hewlett, New York. FOSTER--
