 ROSE--Howard. 81, on August 30, 2005. Loving father of Elizabeth Rose-Boitnott and Charles Alan Rose. Father-in law and dear friend to Gina Savoca Rose and Dennis Boitnott. Loving son of Etta and Isadore Rose. Loving brother to Joan Shepherd and her husband Robert. Grandfather of Jason (20)
 BERDELL -- Beatrice. Sep tember 3, 2005 in Lake Worth, FL. Dear beloved wife of Jack for 62 years, loving mother of Starr Michael, his fiancee Rose, and the late Jonathan. Born June 7, 1921, Bea was the devoted daughter of the late Benjamin and Mary Sosnoff and dear sister of the late Milto
 GOULD--Lucia. September 4, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Harry Edward Gould, Sr. Loving mother of Harry Edward, Jr. and his wife Barbara, Peter John and his wife Cynthia and Robert Jay and his wife Edie. Cherished grandmother of Alexandra, Trip, the late Katharine, Brandon, Loren, Evan and
 GOULD--Lucia. September 4, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Harry Edward Gould, Sr. Loving mother of Harry Edward, Jr. & his wife Barbara, Peter John and his wife Cynthia and Robert Jay and his wife Edie. Cherished grandmother of Alexandra and her husband Eldon Scott, Trip, the late Katharine
 KARSCH--Phyllis. The National Women's Division of Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University records with profound sorrow the passing of the beloved mother of our good friend Roxanne Palin, a Vice President of our New York Chapter. To Roxanne and her husband, Dean, to Mrs. Ka
 PARISER--Marilyn, September 6, 2005. Beloved wife of Dr. Sanford; loving mother of Howard and his wife Mary, Paul and his wife Erin, and Evan and his wife Nataly; proud grandmother of Andrew, Spencer, Sheldon, Ariel, Ali and Rachel. Beloved sister-in-law of Lenore and Marshall Lesser. She e
 KAHAN--Betty. The YU family is saddened by the passing of Betty (Esther Braina) Kahan, who devoted her life to teaching Jewish children. She was the beloved mother of our alumnus, Rabbi Nathan Kahan, and cherished sister of Zev Binyamin Glueck and Jacob Glueck, a YU Benefactor along with hi
 GROSZMANN--Franzi. Died at the age of 100. She was good to us and we loved her. Daughter Lore Segal; grandchildren Beatrice and Jacob Segal; great-grandsons Benjamin and Isaiah; and brother Paul Stern and his sons, Peter and John.       
 FLORSHEIM -- Harriette D. On September 21, 2005. Beloved wife of the late James; devoted mother of Henry and his wife Doe; cherished grandmother of Alexandra and Sydney; also survived by her sister Mathilde. Contributions in lieu of flowers to Farb Community Service Fund, Congregation Emanu
 ROSENTHAL -- Jacqueline. The 92nd Street Y Board and staff mourn with a heavy heart the passing of Jacqueline Rosenthal, beloved wife of the late John P. Rosenthal. Our hearts and prayers are with her children Lisa, John Paul, Jr., Laura Reise and her husband Jeff, Ronald Rothstein and his 
 Nan Kempner, the New York socialite known as much for her wit as for her celery-thin figure, had her last party yesterday, at Christie's. Peter Duchin played, Champagne was served, the fellow who designed Camilla Parker Bowles's wedding hat flew in from London. The consensus was it was an e
 HEISS--Robert, 67, on September 25th, 2005. Dearest husband of Nelly Szlachter. Cherished father of Carla, Andrea and Daniel and fatherin-law of Olen and Ben. Adoring and adored grandfather of Maxwell and Alexander. Loving brother of Jonny and true friend of Carmen. Esteemed physician who w
 Sister Jacques-Marie, the plainspoken Dominican nun whose unlikely friendship with Henri Matisse resulted in the Chapel of the Rosary that he regarded as his masterpiece, died on Monday at a convent in Bidart, a village on the Basque coast of France. Sister Marie Pierre, a member of
 SCHNEIDER--Lillian. Passed away on Thursday, September 29, 2005. She was the beloved wife of the late Harry, devoted mother to Peter and his wife Dena Schneider and Ellen Schneider. She is also survived by two loving grandchildren, Stephen Schneider and Risa Boyer and two great-grandchildre
