 KAUFMAN--Hilda. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a highly respected member of the Pittsburgh Jewish community. She is the beloved mother of Martin (and Shelley) Kaufman, who are YU Guardians, devoted supporters of the affiliated Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Se
 ZUCKERMAN--Pearl Jacobs, on May 29th, 2005. Beloved and devoted wife for over 60 years of Melvin. Loving mother of Stuart and his wife, Carol, and of Richard and his wife, Linda. Proud and loving grandmother of Kate, Julia, and Emily. Her love will always enrich our lives. Funeral services 
 FORSTER--May, nee Kasner. Beloved wife of Arnold Forster for 65 years. Mother of Janie Berman and the late Stuart Forster. Mother-in-law of Howard Berman & Carole Rothman. Grandmother of Charles, Molly, Jordan and Camryn. In lieu of flowers, contributions may be made to the ELEM, 211 Centra
 ELBAUM--Izak. The American Friends of the Ghetto Fighters Museum share in the sorrow of our devoted Board member, Trudy Elbaum Gottesman, and her entire family on the passing of her beloved father. The legacy of Izak's life as a Holocaust survivor who rebuilt his life and created a warm and
 ELBAUM--Bella. Congregation Rodeph Sholom mourns the death of Bella Elbaum, wife of the late Max Elbaum and devoted mother of Joseph Elbaum, our beloved Executive Director. May her memory be a blessing. We extend our deepest condolences to Joe, his wife Ann and the entire Elbaum family. Cle
 JACOBSON--Bernice and Sidney. Passed away on June 21, 2005. Beloved wife and husband. Devoted parents of Marjorie and Mark Gershwind, and Mitchell and Kathy Jacobson. Cherished grandparents of Erik and Jackie Gershwind and Stacey and Michael Bennett and Joshua Jacobson. Loving great grandpa
 LIEBERMAN--Marcia. The Yeshiva University family expresses sorrow on the passing of the beloved mother of Senator Joseph Lieberman, a YU honorary alumnus. An Aishet Chayil, she embodied the values for which he stands. May the entire family be comforted among the mourners of Zion and Jerusal
