 RICHMOND--Martin R. Age 87, of Cambridge, MA, on Wednesday, December 28, 2005. Beloved husband of Miriam (Wiedman) Richmond. Cherished father of Robert L. Richmond and his wife, Julie, and Winifred J. Richmond and her husband, Fred Raab. Adored grandfather of Max, Eli and Owen. Devoted brot
 ROSEN--Murray. Age 86, of Fair Lawn, NJ. Cherished husband of Gladys. Devoted father of David and Jonathan. Loving father-in-law of Eliza and Joy. Beloved grandfather of Alana, Jesse, Hana, Daniel, Ezra and Emily. Dear brother of Gloria Kimmel and her husband Murray. ''Loved and respected b
 MASTERSON--Vivian R. (nee Reppke). Passed away January 12, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Charles F. Masterson, devoted daughter of the late Ethel and William Reppke. Survived by loving family members; stepdaughter Susan J.M. Forrest and her husband Michael, her stepson Michael C. Masterson
 MASTERSON--Vivian R. (nee Reppke). Passed away January 12, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Charles F. Masterson, devoted daughter of the late Ethel and William Reppke. Survived by loving family members; stepdaughter Susan J.M. Forrest and her husband Michael, her stepson Michael C. Masterson
 DONOVAN--Michael Patrick, of East Rockaway on January 22, 2006. Beloved husband of Rita. Loving father of Mary Ellen Gilgan and her husband Kevin, and Michael and his wife Hanne. Cherished grandfather of Sean, Elizabeth, Regina, John, Christopher, and Alexander. Family will receive friends 
 ROTHBAUM--Rose. January 20, 2006. Devoted wife of 43 years to Saul, who passed on December 11, 2001. Loving mother of Brad and his wife Linda. Cherished grandmother to Andrew and Hayley. Services at ''Sinai Chapels,'' 162-05 Horace Harding Expressway, Fresh Meadows, NY. Donations in her mem
 ASHKENASE--Sylvia, 87. The President and Board of Trustees of Montefiore Medical Center and the entire Montefiore community are deeply saddened by the death of Sylvia Ashkenase, mother of our esteemed colleague, Executive Vice President Donald Ashkenase. A devoted mother, grandmother and gr
 CROFFOOT-SUEDE-Damaris Moore. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Damaris Moore Croffoot-Suede, beloved daughter of Lance Croffoot-Suede, a cherished leader whose passionate commitment to our Lawyer's Division profoundly impacts mil
 PRICE--Morton L. On January 25. Longtime companion of Martin Diehl. Beloved brother of Sylvia Miller, her husband Harry and Leslie Shapiro. Loving uncle of Eric Price and his wife Ailian. Proud great-uncle of Mark and Scott Strauss, Jill Kaufman and Ian Price. ''He was so much a part of our
