 BURKHOLDER-Edwin V. Of Westport Point, MA, and formerly of New York City. Died on December 28, 2002, age 70. Beloved husband of Anne Maslen Burkholder, loving father to son, Joshua M. Burkholder, and his companion, Dannielle Thomas, daughter, Sarah K. Mullican, and her husband, Mark, daught
 DRESSNER - Howard. The Board of Directors and staff of Theatreworks/USA mourn the passing of Howard Dressner, beloved husband of our board member Sonia Dressner. We extend our deepest sympathy to Sonia and her entire family. Our thoughts and prayers are with them during this difficult time.
 WISE-Ruth Leah. On December 31. Beloved wife of the late Leo. Devoted mother of David and daughter-in-law Rita. Cherished grandmother of Warren and Jeffrey. Brilliant teacher. Founder of the West End Synagogue. Energetic member of the New York Chapter of Hadassah. Respected member of her co
 McCREERY - Florence C. January 2, 2003. Beloved wife of the late William C. McCreery. Loving mother of William G. and his wife Gay, Cornelia, Charles C. and his wife Irene and Virginia Butler. Cherished grandmother of William and his wife Lisa, Sean and his wife Nancy, John H. and his wife 
 TERSHEL-Irving. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Irving Tershel, beloved father of Ruth Mirvis, and father-in-law of Theodore. Ruth and Ted are cherished friends of UJA-Federation who have expressed their devotion to Jewish and h
 McCREERY - Florence C. January 2, 2003. Beloved wife of the late William C. McCreery. Loving mother of William G. and his wife Gay, Cornelia, Charles C. and his wife Irene and Virginia Butler. Cherished grandmother of William and his wife Lisa, Sean and his wife Nancy, John H. and his wife 
 STOLZAR - Marjorie. Be loved mother of Peter and Joanna, Michael and Karen and Andrew and Joan. ''Adopted'' mother of Kenneth and Susan Aronson. Loving grandmother of Samuel, David, Matthew, Lauren and Scott and ''adopted'' grandmother of Heather and Rachel. Dear cousin of Fran Light. Servi
 WIROSTKO-Emil, M.D. Of Tewksbury Township on January 5, 2003. Beloved husband of Barbara (nee Sidor). Loving father of Dr. William J. Wirostko and his wife Jennifer and Dr. Barbara WirostkoMorelli and her husband Dr. Joseph Morelli. Loving grandfather of Joseph, Robert and Julia Morelli and
 PASTERNACK-Lillian Illions. Born 12 December, 1911. Second eldest of five siblings. Died Lenox Hill Hospital on 6 January, 2003. Teacher of many who will never forget her dedication to their development. Wife of Jack who never forgot her deep devotion to his potential during 58 years of mar
 SAVATTERI - Estelle. Of Boynton Beach, Florida, daughter of the late Edward and Regina Pierce, passed away on January 6, 2003 at the age of 75, in Long Island, NY after a lengthy bout with leukemia. She leaves behind two beautiful, loving daughters, Wendy married to Michael Petruzzi and Les
 HAWLEY - Josephine. The ''Pits'' are saddened by the death of our beloved member, Josephine Hawley, whose heart and hand were always outstretched to others. We hope our love will help comfort her husband, Douglas, in his loss. The Rare Pit & Plant Council       
 WEISFELD-Pearl. Daughter of the late Jacob and Anna, sister of the late Marcia Balsam and the late Shirley Gimple, aunt to Nina, Freda, Vivian, Alan and his wife Christina and great-aunt to Marcie, died at her home. She lived with grace, aged with grace and died with grace. Funeral Monday, 
 RIZK-Mary (nee Callea). On January 10, 2003, of Ft. Lee, age 79. Beloved wife of Thomas. Devoted mother of Barbara Rizk, Marie Gervasio and her husband John, Thomas Jr. and his wife Linda. Dear sister of Dominick Callea, the late Adele Tripodi, the late Joseph Callea, and the late Anthony C
 SPIAK-Joseph Michael, 46, of Acton, MA, by airplane accident in Charlotte, NC. January 8. Husband of Jill (Langston). Father of Michael and Kristin Spiak, both of Acton. Son of Anthony and Palavia (Kawola) Spiak of Latham, New York. Brother of Marybeth Panock and her husband Richard of Lexi
 SPIAK-Joseph Michael, 46, of Acton, MA, by airplane accident in Charlotte, NC. January 8. Husband of Jill (Langston). Father of Michael and Kristin Spiak, both of Acton. Son of Anthony and Palavia (Kawola) Spiak of Latham, New York. Brother of Marybeth Panock and her husband Richard of Lexi
 GRANAT-Ruth. We extend heartfelt condolences to Leslie Granat, Jill Handelsman and Bernard Belkin on the loss of their beloved mother and his sister. Ruthie's entire life, together with her late husband Stanley, was devoted to generously supporting acts of kindness. As a Benefactor of the M
 WINTER-Emma (Rose). Of Needham, MA, formerly of New York City, on Friday, December 27, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Sidney C. Winter. Devoted mother of Irene J. Winter and her husband Robert Hunt, Pearl W. Bartelt and her husband David and Frederick A. Winter and his wife Joan Smith. Lovi
 ARIEL - ANGERER - Inge gaerd. On January 25th, 2003. Beloved wife of the late Irving M. Ariel, M.D. Loving mother of Mark Hans Angerer and his wife Corina. Cherished grandmother of Maximilian and Stella. Devoted sister of Astrid and her husband Hans Joachim Krolik. A memorial service in her
 WINTER-Emma (Rose). Of Needham, MA, formerly of New York City, on Friday, December 27, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Sidney C. Winter. Devoted mother of Irene J. Winter and her husband Robert Hunt, Pearl W. Bartelt and her husband David and Frederick A. Winter and his wife Joan Smith. Lovi
 FRIEDMAN-Gertrude (nee Simkowitz). 96 years young, died on January 30, 2003. A resident of Great Neck. Most beloved wife of the late Louis Friedman. Loving mother of Herbert and Dorothy, and Harold and Linda. Dear grandmother of Lori and Seth Hauser, Gary and Donna, Lianne, Alyssa, Jeffrey 
 WINTER-Emma (Rose). Of Needham, MA, formerly of New York City, on Friday, December 27, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Sidney C. Winter. Devoted mother of Irene J. Winter and her husband Robert Hunt, Pearl W. Bartelt and her husband David and Frederick A. Winter and his wife Joan Smith. Lovi
