 MOSNER-David. Of Nanuet, NY died on July 31, 1998 at the age of 72. Beloved and loving husband of Shirley (nee Passick). Cherished & loving father of Miriam and her husband Dr. Lawrence Suchoff, Michael and his wife Michelle, Daniel and his wife Lynn, Judith and her husband Fred Saltzman, P
 EDINGER-Hanni. On July 30, 1998. Wife of Lewis, mother of Monica and Susan, grandmother of Anna and Benjamin, sister of Inge Blumenfeld. Memorial service to be arranged at a later date. Contributions in her memory to OPUS, c/o St. Andrews Church, 10 North Central Ave, Hartsdale, NY 10530   
 ENGEL-Malvina. The Board of Directors and staff of Israel Policy Forum expresses heartfelt condolences to our beloved Executive Vice President, Jonathan Jacoby and his family for the loss of his grandmother, Malvina Engel (Anyu). Jonathan's mother, Erika Jacoby once wrote, ''While others ca
 GRUSS-Regina. The American Friends of Bar-Ilan University extend sincerest condolences to her son Emanuel Gruss, whose most generous benefactions to Bar-Ilan University have made possible its phenomenal development in years gone by. We pray with his entire family that they derive solace fro
 WINTMAN-Abraham. Congregation Orach Chaim expresses profound sorrow to our dedicated member & trustee Sandra Welkes on the loss of her distinguished father, a true son of his people. We extend heartfelt condolences to her mother, brother and entire family. May they be consoled among the mou
 SCHWARTZ-Ruth. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Ruth Schwartz. She was the beloved mother of Henry Schwartz, a dedicated supporter who is a valued member of the Executive Committee of our Dairy Products & Allied Industries Divisi
 STRATTON-Mark J. The Greater New York Chapter of Professional Geriatric Care Managers extends condolences to our member, Joyce Stratton and her family on the loss of her son. May his memory be a source of comfort. Miriam Zucker, President       
 She wrote no symphonies, played on no concert stages, conducted no orchestras, but Wanda Toscanini Horowitz, who died yesterday at her Manhattan home at the age of 90, played a unique part in this century's music world. For almost all of her life she was at the center of a world tha
 KURZNER-Barbara. Died in her home on August 20. She is survived by her beloved husband Raymond, sons Keith and his wife Meri, Wayne, and Neal and his wife Tina, grandchildren Robert, Jill, Jonathan, Daniel, Michelle, Isabel and Quinn. Service will be held on Sunday, August 23, 10am at Frank
 HOROWITZ - Wanda Toscanini. The Philharmonic Symphony-Society of New York, Inc. notes with deeo sadness the death of Wanda Toscanini Horowitz, a special friend of the Philharmonic. The daughter of Arturo Toscanini, Music Director of the Philharmonic from 1928 to 1936, she later married the 
 GORDON-Yaffa. AMIT is deeply grieved at the passing of its beloved Honorary National Treasurer. A woman of noble character and spirit, Yaffa lived a life dedicated to Torah values and contributed much to the advancement of AMIT and the thousands of children at risk in Israel. She was a devo
 REIZES-Sonia (Schweid). On Friday, August 28. Of Lexington, MA. Wife of the late Kurt Reizes. Mother of Leslie Reizes and his wife Margaret of Ithaca, NY, and Jackie Reizes and her husband William Shute of Danbury, CT. Grandmother of Samantha Reizes and Toby Shute. Companion of Robert Bolle
