 HARRITON--Patricia A. (nee Daly). At home April 3, age 71. Born in Brooklyn, lived in Manhattan for 40 years, summered in East Hampton for 30 of those years. Worked on Wall Street in the Municipal Bond business. When husband Paul retired from his law practice, they became full time resident
 LEFEL--Rose on April 4, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Jacques. Devoted mother of Irene and her husband Assaf and his brother Pierre (Nichole). Cherished grandmother of Alexander & Amos (Beatrice). Adored greatgrandmother of Gabriel and Gian Lucca. Dearest M'Zia and Tamara. Loving aunt of J
 BERMAN--Gisela, M.D., (Engelberg), formerly of Forest Hills, NY on April 10, 2005. Wife of the late Hans Berman. Mother of Marian Lazar and her husband Gerald. Grandmother of Joshua, Daniel and his wife Nellie. Graveside services at the Mt. Hebron Cemetery, Flushing, NY on Thurs, April 14 a
 LEVINE--Jean. On April 10, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Harry. Mother of Alan and his wife Amy, and Carl and his wife Terri. Grandmother of Deborah and her husband Richard, Cary and his wife Alyse, and Janna. Great grandmother of Rachel, Ryan and Oliver. Aunt of Howard and Lonni Fried and
 BUCHNER -- Wolfgang. 55, died April 1, 2005. Survived by mother and stepfather, Inge and Werner Schneider, siblings Andreas Buchner, Eric Buchner and Sabine Wilms and her three children, and by his carefully tended and now forlorn garden of friends. A permanent memorial is being established
 FATZER--Jean-Pierre. On April 13, 2005 at age 80. Beloved husband of Ninon Fatzer; loving father of Elisabeth Brugger and her companion Philippe Hurzeler. Dear brother of Guy Fatzer, Anne-Marie Chessex and Georges Fatzer. Services are at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St, Satu
 FATZER--Jean-Pierre. On April 13, 2005 at age 80. Beloved husband of Ninon Fatzer; loving father of Elisabeth Brugger and her companion Philippe Hurzeler. Dear brother of Guy Fatzer, Anne-Marie Chessex and Georges Fatzer. Services are at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St, Satu
 BUCHNER -- Wolfgang. 55, died April 1, 2005. Survived by mother and stepfather, Inge and Werner Schneider, siblings Andreas Buchner, Eric Buchner and Sabine Wilms and her three children, and by his carefully tended and now forlorn garden of friends. A permanent memorial is being established
 GOLDMAN--Helen. The Jewish Theological Seminary community extends its deepest sympathy to Ralph Goldman and his family at this time of great sadness. The death of your beautiful Helen is a loss you don't bear alone. May you be comforted and find strength in the knowledge that her memory wil
 BRODY--Warren, Esq., on Monday April 25, 2005 of Roselle, NJ. Beloved husband of Elizabeth (nee Schoenberg). Devoted father of Diana Brody and her husband Justin Kaplan, Evelyn Brody and her husband Jack B. Siegel. Loving grandfather of Claire and Benjamin Kaplan. Funeral services conducted
 GLAUBERMAN--Rose, 93, of Sunny Isles Beach, Florida, formerly of Hewlett Harbor, NY, died April 26, 2005. Beloved wife of the late Sol. Devoted mother of Lloyd and his wife Nancy, Carol and her husband Kenneth Rock. Loving grandmother of Alli and Marissa. Burial service will be private. Mem
