 SELIGMAN-Helen. On November 30, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Israel, devoted mother of Harvey and his wife Lillian, cherished grandmother of George, Susan and her husband, Robert. Also survived by a greatgrandson Jonathan, dear sister of Saul and Aaron. Services on Thursday, December 3 at
 SELIGMAN-Helen. On November 30, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Israel, devoted mother of Harvey and his wife Lillian, cherished grandmother of George, Susan and her husband, Robert. Also survived by a greatgrandson Jonathan, dear sister of Saul and Aaron. Services on Thursday, December 3 at
 HOCH-Samuel M., M.D. On Monday, November 30, 1998 of Boca Raton, FL, formerly of Elizabeth, NJ. Beloved husband of Frances, devoted father of Helen L. HochAverick and her husband Jeffrey and Robin A. Hoch, M.D. Dear brother of Violet Lavenda and Saul Hoch. Proud grandfather of Lexie and Mar
 COSLOY-Irving. Our sympathies to our dedicated Board member, community leader and philanthropist, Edward Blank and his wife Sharon on the loss of Sharon's father Irving. Michael R. Stoler, Pres., AFRMC International Pres., Friends of Rambam Medical Center COSLOY-Irving. The faculty,
 SIMON-Pierre F. December 2, 1998. Beloved husband of Jacqueline Albert. Loving father of Lisette and her husband Paul Jacobs, Orville Simon and his wife Stephanie. Adoring grandfather of Alexia and Caroline Jacobs. Mr. Simon was an internationally known industrialist in the electronics and 
 STRAUSS-Sara. On December 4, 1998. Devoted wife of the late Ben, beloved mother of Norman and Leona; Victor and Fran; cherished sister of Ada and Phil Podhoretz; adored and adoring ''Nanny'' of Laurence and Jean, Kenny, Andrea and Jay Friedman, Paul and Kathy, Hillary and Bruce Klein; lovin
 SIMON-Pierre F. December 2, 1998. Beloved husband of Jacqueline Albert. Loving father of Lisette and her husband Paul Jacobs, Orville Simon and his wife Stephanie. Adoring grandfather of Alexia and Caroline Jacobs. Mr. Simon was an internationally known industrialist in the electronics and 
 STRAUSS-Sara. On December 4, 1998. Devoted wife of the late Ben, beloved mother of Norman and Leona; Victor and Fran; cherished sister of Ada and Phil Podhoretz; adored and adoring ''Nanny'' of Laurence and Jean, Kenny, Andrea and Jay Friedman, Paul and Kathy, Hillary and Bruce Klein; lovin
 MARGOLIS-Sophie. December 4, in Florida, at age 105. Beloved wife of the late Samuel. Devoted mother of Sylvia Leeds Kaufman and the late Ely Margolis. Cherished grandmother of Linda Elliott, Gary Leeds and his wife Kathy, Kim, John and Robert Margolis. Devoted great-grandmother of Michael,
 GINSBERG-Ruth. The Board of Directors, Administration, Medical Board, and staff of Peninsula Hospital Center are saddened by the passing of Ruth Ginsberg. Sincere condolences are extended to her son, Stanley A. Ginsberg, MD, Director of Urology and, distinguished member of the Board of Dire
 JASLOW-Elsie C. Beloved wife of the late Sol, survived by her children, Stanley (his wife Phyllis) Jaslow, and Barbara (Joel Hochberg), grandchildren, Howard (Robin) Jaslow, Gail (Peter) Berman, and Lauren Hochberg, great grandchildren David Jaslow, and Jarron Berman, two sisters, Evelyn ''
 Ron Alexander, who spent almost three decades as a reporter for The New York Times and made Metropolitan Diary one of the paper's most popular weekly features, died on Monday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. Mr. Alexander died of complications from Parkinson's disease, sai
 SANTIAGO-George. On December 8, 1998 after a valiant struggle against cancer. Survived by his longtime companion Carolyn Topak, mother Josephine, sister Elsie, brother Robert, beloved niece Linda and her husband Tony. Friends my visit at Edward D. Lynch & Son Funeral Home, 43-07 Queens Boul
 HARNISCH-Vivian D. Peacefully, at home, on December 11, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Francis. Survived by her son Ronald and his wife Mindy, and grandchildren Melissa and Matthew. Reposing at Denis S. O'Connor, Inc, 91-05 Beach Channel Drive, Rockaway Beach. Mass of Christian Burial at St
 KAHANA-Rebbitzin Bracha. HIDEC extends its heartfelt condolences to our Vice President, Rabbi Abraham M. Kahana upon the passing in Jerusalem of his beloved mother, Rebbitzin Bracha Kahana, a true Eishet Chayil, whose legacy of devotion to Torah and the Land of Israel lives on through the e
 SLIFKIN-Samuel. The Yeshiva University Museum family extends its sincerest condolences to Lois Brandt, Director of Development, on the passing of her beloved father, Samuel Slifkin. May his memory always be for a blessing. Erica Jesselson, Chairman of the Board Sylvia A. Herskowitz, Directo
