 ADLER-Benjamin, age 89, of Delray Beach, FL, passed away on Jan. 31, 1997. He is surived by sons Joseph and Robert, and grandchildren Michele, Felicia and Noah Adler, of Miami, FL; and wife, Rebecca, her daughter, Ann, and children, Stacy and Susan. Graveside services will be held next week
 CORTELYOU-Irwin Fearn, on January 29, of Rumson, NJ. Born Mobile, AL Sept. 23, 1896, daughter of George Fearn, Jr. and Aline Kennerly Irwin. Married April 18, 1922 to George Bruce Cortelyou, Jr. who died in 1973. He was a former Treasurer of New York Life. They had no children. She was a re
 SACHAR-Thelma H. (Horwitz) of Chestnut Hill, MA, on Tuesday, February 4. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Dr. Abram Leon Sachar. Cherished mother of Dr. David B. Sachar, Dr. Howard M. Sachar and the late Dr. Edward J. Sachar. Loving grandmother of Mark, Sharon, Michele and Daniel and th
 HELWIG-Florence M., on February 5, 1997 at her Brooklyn home, age 95 years, graduated from Wellesley College (1925) after attending Packer Collegiate Institute where she later taught. Survived by a brother, Edward T. Helwig, his wife, Christine and their 16 descendants. Services are private
 HELWIG-Florence M., on February 5, 1997 at her Brooklyn home, age 95 years, graduated from Wellesley College (1925) after attending Packer Collegiate Institute where she later taught. Survived by a brother, Edward T. Helwig, his wife, Christine and their 16 descendants. Services are private
 FRIEDMAN-Ruth. The entire Beth Israel Medical Center family is saddened over the death of Ruth Friedman, mother of our dear friend and colleague, Ira Friedman, M.D., senior attending surgeon, and grandmother of Richard Friedman, M.D., attending surgeon. Our deepest sympathies are extended t
 TABER-Barbara (Stein) of Dover, MA on February 10. Wife of Herbert Taber. Daughter of Sylvia (Wetstone) Stein of Quincy, MA. Devoted mother of Kenneth W. Taber and his wife Andrea P. Taber of New Rochelle, NY and Mark L. Taber of Cohasset, MA. Dear grandmother of Sarah, Rebecca and Matthew.
 TABER-Barbara (Stein) of Dover, MA., February 10. Wife of Herbert Taber. Daughter of Sylvia (Wetstone) Stein of Quincy, MA. Devoted mother of Kenneth W. Taber and his wife Andrea P. Taber of New Rochelle, NY, and Mark L. Taber of Cohasset, MA, sister of Ellen Spokane of Tucson, AZ. Dear gra
 BARON-Jay B. On February 12, 1997. Passed away peacefully at age 70. Survived by beloved sister, Ellen Ritt, dear companion Patricia Wild and her family, and by many friends and former business colleagues. Also survived by his friend, Owasco. Beloved son of the late Julia and Lawrence Baron
 ROSENFELD-Anita. February 13, 1997. Beloved wife of the late Murray. Devoted mother of Stephen and his wife Elise, Linda and her husband Tom. Cherished grandmother of Scott and David. Adoring great grandmother of Rhys, Evan and Sidney-Rose. Loving sister of Essie. Services on Sunday, at 11 
 CASHIN-Richard M. The Board of the Catholic Big Sisters extends deepest sympathy to our fellow board member, Mrs. Richard M. Cashin, on the death of her husband, who gave generously of his time and counsel.       
 ROSTEN-Leo. He endowed Jewish and non-Jewish people with the treasures of Yiddish, translating its Voice to the sentiments and experiences that all mankind can relate to in their everyday lives. Kenneth Lane, Wagnerian Heldentenor Valhalla Records, Lake Hiawatha, New Jersey ROSTEN-L
 GROSSMAN-Charlotte. The Yeshiva University family mourns the passing of the beloved wife of Morris Grossman; mother of Harriet (and Joshua L.) Muss and Rita (and Manny) Roth; and sister of Shmuel Friedman. Mr. and Mrs. Muss, YU Guardians, have played a major role in establishing the Rabbi H
 SCHWARTZ-Harry. 12/2/1898-1/ 24/1997. Beloved husband of Mary and her partner for 71 years. Precious and adored father of Sylvia Rombom and Suzanne Knobel. Loving grandfather, devoted great grandfather and cherished brother-in-law, uncle, great uncle and father-in-law. Harry was a very down
 DYER-Jack, died in a tragic accident, Sunday, January 26, 1997. Adored and cherished by his wife Carolyn Abrams-Dyer. Father of Julia & Michael Dyer. Stepfather of Ali Frankel. Son of Cissy Brown and Adair Dyer. Stepson of Susan Dyer. Son-in-law of Bobbie Abrams. Brother of Gretchen, Julia 
