 NUNEZ--Carmina on September 7, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Mr. Justice Emilio Nunez. Loving mother of Carmina and her husband Dr. Jorge de Murga, Robert Nunez and Richard Nunez and his wife Trudy. Grandmother and great - grandmother. Mass of Christian Burial Monday, September 11, 2006, 1
 KUPERBERG--Jeanne. The Officers and Directors of the Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York were saddened to learn of the death of Jeanne Kuperberg, beloved wife of ABO Governor, David Kuperberg. Our condolences and prayers are with David and his children, Russell (Rusty) and Da
 NUNEZ--Carmina on September 7, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Mr. Justice Emilio Nunez. Loving mother of Carmina and her husband Dr. Jorge de Murga, Robert Nunez and Richard Nunez and his wife Trudy. Grandmother and great - grandmother. Mass of Christian Burial Monday, September 11, 2006, 1
 GINSBERG--Arthur of New York City and South Egremont, MA. September 10 at the age of 82. Beloved husband of 50 years to Lois (nee Coleman). Loving father of Marsha, Peter, Cantor Nancy and her husband Scott Schechter. Cherished grandfather of David and Michael. Brother of Irwin and Robert. 
 RYAN--Patrick J. On September 11, 2006. Beloved husband of the late Mary A. (nee Ryan). Loving father of Patricia R. Agostino, Joanne Ryan and her husband Peter Hicks, Stephen Ryan and his wife Leslie and Geralyn Ryan. Dear brother of Thomas Ryan and Catherine Tully; cherished grandfather t
 DONER--Sylvia. We mourn the loss of our esteemed member and extend heartfelt condolences to her family. Temple Israel of Great Neck Howard A. Stecker, Sr. Rabbi Jerome S. Seiler, M.D., Pres. $(6$)DONER--Sylvia. The Officers, Board of Directors and staff of The Jewish Guild for the B
 CONSTANDAKY--Ana. On September 19, 2006, at her home in Columbia, MD, Ana ''Nica'' Constandaky, wife of the late George Constandaky, mother of Serban Constandaky and his wife Ioana, grandmother of Sabine Mehta and her husband Sudhir, sister of the late Dumitru Bragadir. Please see www.slack
 STERN--Pearl. The Yeshiva University family laments the demise of a wonderful Jewish communal leader who, with her late husband, Israel Stern, was a YU Guardian and his partner in developing the Upstate New York YU dinners and established scholarships for deserving and needy students. Heart
 LAZAR--Judith, ''Judy'' of Del Ray Beach, FL, formerly of Manhasset. September 22, after a long and courageous battle. Beloved wife of Joel. Devoted mother to David & his wife Dawn and the late Kenneth and his wife Andrea. Loving grandmother of Jenna, Sarah & Joshua. Judy was a leader in th
 FREID--Herman Louis, age 82, of Boca Raton, FL and Barrington, RI, passed away peacefully on September 26, 2006. Devoted former husband of Nina Freid. Beloved father of David, Laura & her husband David, Jocelyn and Alice & her husband Dan. Cherished Papa Heshy of Michael, Rachel and Galen. 
 FREID--Herman Louis, age 82, of Boca Raton, FL and Barrington, RI, passed away peacefully on September 26, 2006. Devoted former husband of Nina Freid. Beloved father of David, Laura & her husband David, Jocelyn and Alice & her husband Dan. Cherished Papa Heshy of Michael, Rachel and Galen. 
