 HESS-Jacques J. Beloved husband of the late Lee. Devoted father of Michael. Loving grandfather of Laurie and Geoffrey. Adored brother of Gertrude Parker and Frances Adlerblum. Funeral service 12:30 PM, Tuesday, at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91st and Amsterdam Avenue, NYC. HESS-Jacques J
 LITTLE-John Watson 11. The Boards of Overseers and Managers of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center express sincere condolences to Jean Remmel Little, our dear friend and colleague, upon the death of her husband, John Watson Little II. Mr. and Mrs. Little have made valuable contributions 
 PAPPENHEIM-Karl. Bar-Ilan University in Israel and its American Friends mourn the passing of a widely respected member of the Jewish community both in Israel and in Switzerland. Mr. Karl Pappenheim was the brother of Erica Jesselson and Lucy Lang. Mrs. Jesselson is an esteemed member of The
 Anne-Stine Ingstad, the Norwegian archeologist who sifted through the sandy soil above a Newfoundland beach and uncovered the remains of a 1,000-year-old Viking outpost, died on Thursday at her home in Oslo. She was 79. Friends said the cause was cancer. Mrs. Ingstad was the
 EPSTEIN-Herman, M.D. Of Wyncote, PA. On November 16, 1997, at age 93. Beloved husband of Ida (nee Fratkin) and the late Fay (nee Colton). Devoted father of Jane and Myron Blumenfeld and Diane and James Kauders. Grandfather of Jeffrey Gracer, Dr. Ann Gracer, Bonnie Gracer, Debbie Simon, Jill
 SEYMOUR-Abby Lewis. Actress, active in radio, television and theatre for sixty-five years, widow of John Davenport Seymour, also of the theatre, died November 27, 1997. She is survived by his son Peter Seymour and his daughter Katherine Hollingshead and seven grandchildren. Also surviving h
 SEYMOUR-Abby Lewis. Actress, active in radio, television and theatre for sixty-five years, widow of John Davenport Seymour, also of the theatre, died November 27, 1997. She is survived by his son Peter Seymour and his daughter Katherine Hollingshead and seven grandchildren. Also surviving h
 YORK-Beverly. Of Palm Beach, FL. On November 29, 1997. Beloved wife of the late George J. York. Devoted mother of Dr. Jonathan L. York and his wife Dorothy of Demarest, NJ, and Cassie J. York and her husband David Ackerman, of Chappaqua, NY. Cherished grandmother of Eric, Marc and Grant. Fo
