 KRAUS-Walter. The Board of Directors, participants, staff and members of the Association for the Help of Retarded Children/ New York City, are deeply saddened by the passing of Walter Kraus, a good friend of the Association and loving husband of Anne Kraus. We send our deepest condolences t
 KRAUS-Walter. The Board of Directors, participants, staff and members of the Association for the Help of Retarded Children/ New York City, are deeply saddened by the passing of Walter Kraus, a good friend of the Association and loving husband of Anne Kraus. We send our deepest condolences t
 BRUCATO-Yolanda. Beloved wife of the late Antoinio. Devoted mother of Richard Brucato, Msgr., Robert Brucato and Joan Bellitto. Reposing at Farenga Bros. Funeral Home, 920 Allerton Avenue, Bronx until Friday 9 AM. Mass of Christian Burial Holy Rosary Church, Friday 10 A.M. Donations to Jean
 GORDON-Helena F. (Freeman), Wednesday, March 5, of Newton, MA. Beloved wife of the late Jacob. Loving mother of Patricia C. Gordon of Boston, MA and Hiram Gordon and his wife Barbara of New York City. Adored grandmother of Jared and Elisabeth. Services at the Levine Chapel, 470 Harvard St.,
 SAMSON-Arthur C. Our family lost a bright light on March 13. A wonderful husband to Lucille, proud and adoring ''Daddy'' to Peggy and her husband Marty, loving ''Gwampa'' to Nicky and Jake, loyal and loving brother of Betty Beranbaum and the late David Samson, brother-in-law to Hazel, Marvi
 SCHULTZ-Rose Jane, 90, of Miami Beach, FL and Brant Lake, NY died Wednesday, March 12, 1997. A Memorial Luncheon is being planned in New York City. Mrs. Schultz was preceded in death by her husband, Henry E. Schultz, former National Chairman of the Anti-Defamation League of Bnai' Brith. Sur
 BERGHOLD-William F. on March 16, 1997. Devoted husband for 64 years of the late Julia. Loving father of Connie Murray, Billy Berghold and Julie Sykes and fatherin-law of Joanne Berghold and Jamie Sykes. Also survived by ten grandchildren and seven greatgrandchildren. Brother of the late Rut
 NEUMAN-Bertha. Boys Town Jerusalem mourns the passing of a cherished member of its extended family, and wife of our esteemed Board Member, Mr. Irving Neuman. Most of all we express our sorrow at the loss of a valued friend. Bea was a warm and caring soul whose love for her family was both l
 MEKSIN-Paul. Beloved husband of Lois. Adored father of Andrea , the late Dr. Michael and Robert. Cherished grandpa of Philip, Andrew, Elizabeth and Madeline. Loving in-law of Lawrence Oppenheimer, Dr. Ronald and Louise Ollstein. Services Sunday, March 23, 2PM, Sunset Chapels, 1285 Northern 
 HORNSTEIN-Gertrude. The Directors of The Long Island Hearing and Speech Society join our Vice President, Larry Hornstein, in mourning the death of his mother. We extend our condolences to the entire family in remembering a warm, intelligent, community minded leader. We know she will be dear
 GOLDBERG-Dr. Oscar, Boca Raton, FL. Beloved husband of Irma for 57 years. Dedicated obstetrician and gynecologist. Devoted father of Nancy Sweder and Dr. Leslie Goldberg. Loving father-inlaw of Dr. Gerald Sweder and Zehava Goldberg. Adored grandfather of Danielle, Shelley, Lauren, & Michael
