 NAIMAN-Miriam S. (nee Sholna). ''A woman of courage''. Of Boca Raton, FL on Wednesday, Nov. 29, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Irving A. Naiman. Devoted mother of Jason Naiman and his wife Lisa of Portland, OR and Anita Yarossi & her husband Paul of Ringwood, NJ. Dear sister of the late Bar
 MACALUSO-Rose. On December 8, 2000, at age 95. Beloved wife of the late Vincent Macaluso. Loving mother of Ann Macaluso, Vincent Macaluso, the late Joseph Macaluso and Marilyn Macaluso. Adoring grandmother of Elizabeth and her husband Tom Carty, Dr. Vincent and his wife Dr. Lauren Macaluso,
 RADLE-Elizabeth J. M.D.. On December 10, 2000 at St. Vincent's Hospital. Survived by her brother Joseph, his wife Anne, their children, Joseph, Daniel, Stephen and Anne Patricia and two dear friends, Joy McAleer and Marian McGarry. Mass of the Resurrection will be offered at Our Lady of Vil
 RADLE-Elizabeth J., M.D. On December 10, 2000 at St. Vincent's Hospital. Survived by her brother Joseph, his wife Anne, their children, Joseph, Daniel, Stephen and Anne Patricia and two dear friends, Joy McAleer and Marian McGarry. Mass of the Resurrection will be offered at Our Lady of Vil
 BERNS-Suzanne. The Culinary Institute of America mourns the death of Suzanne Berns, devoted friend and Member of the CIA Corporation for eight years and wife of CIA Trustee Emeritus, H. Jerome Berns. Our deepest sympathies are extended to Jerry and all of their friends, family, and colleagu
 WILLIAMS-Frances L. December 12, 2000. Beloved wife of the late James R. Williams. Devoted mother of James R. Williams, Jr. and his wife Eileen and the late Helen Williams and the late Barbara Williams. Loving sister of the late John J. McMahon. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 M
 HERRICK-Helen (Casey) Isaacs, 87, daughter of Stanley Myron Isaacs and Edith Somborn, and wife of Snowden Terhune Herrick. Descendant of Myron Samuel Isaacs, founding Rabbi of Temple Sha'aray Tefila. Stanley M. Isaacs was former Borough President of Manhattan. Edith Somborn was the author o
 SCHEMMER-Rose (Gallagher). Of Brookline, MA, on Friday, December 15, 2000. Devoted wife of the late John K. Schemmer. Devoted mother of John A. Schemmer, M.D., and his wife Dr. Ann Bajart Schemmer, of Brookline. Also survived by grandson Alexander K. Schemmer and granddaughter Katharine R. 
 SCHULTE-Lily. The Women's Campaign Board of the American Jewish Committee is deeply saddened by the death of Lily Schulte, a longtime and dedicated supporter and, along with her husband David, a member of AJC's National Leadership Council. Each year, David presents AJC's Harriet H. Jonas Aw
 LEVY-Alice. The Board of Governors and members of Brae Burn Country Club record with great sorrow the passing of Alice Levy. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to her husband Richard and his entire family. Len Shendell, President Judith Tarter, Secretary       
 FEINER-Harriet C. Passed away Dec. 21, 2000. She is survived by her husband, Judge Jerome J. Feiner; son, Dr. Clifford F. Feiner and his wife Shirl. Graveside services will be held at 11 AM, on Sunday, December 24 at The Old Montefiore Cemetery, Springfield Blvd., St. Albans, New York.     
 SAMELSON - Joseph. Beloved husband of Ellen, and the love of her life. Devoted father of Holly, Jeffrey, Marc & his late daughter Dale. Cherished grandfather of Willi, Ali, Lauren, Robyn, Danny and Lanna. Services are today, 11:30AM, Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, 55 North Station Plaza, G
 SHAPIRO-Ruth E. On December 29, 2000 in her 92nd year. Dear wife of the late Leon Shapiro. Loving mother of William and his wife Joan Shapiro. Adored aunt and step grandmother. We will cherish your memory as you cherished life. Services Monday, January 1, 2001, 11:30AM at ''The Riverside,''
 SHAPIRO-Ruth E. On December 29, 2000 in her 92nd year. Dear wife of the late Leon Shapiro. Loving mother of William and his wife Joan Shapiro. Adored aunt and step grandmother. We will cherish your memory as you cherished life. Services Monday, January 1, 2001, 11:30AM at ''The Riverside,''
 WEICHSEL-Reva A. Of Southington, CT. Died Saturday, December 23, 2000. She leaves her husband John, son Barry, his wife Patricia, daughter Amy, her husband, Dr. Alan Rosen, grandchildren Jacob & Joshua, sister Naomi Jacobson, her husband Franklin and brotherin-law Peter Weichsel and his wif
