 SEIDEL--Joan Claire. Of Verona, NJ, on October 29, 2003, of a massive heart attack. She was 74 and the beloved wife of Kenneth. Loving mother of Eric and his wife Debra. Dear sister of Rosamund Galston. Cherished grandmother of Eric Jr. and Alexis.       
 ENGELMAYER--Liba (Lily). 90, on November 8, in Teaneck, NJ. The widow of Abraham Engelmayer, she is survived by her son, Rabbi Shammai Engelmayer, and daughter-in-law Marilyn Henry of Teaneck; her grandchildren Malki Cohen and her husband Danny, Juda Engelmayer and his wife Debra, and Jay E
 FINGOLD--J. Paul. The Palm Beach Country Club expresses its sorrow at the passing of its esteemed member, J. Paul Fingold, and extends sincere sympathy to his wife Malka and other members of her family. Michael Stein, President Stephen Fiverson, Secretary       
 LEVIEN--Donna Joy. Love changes everything, how we live and how we die. You lived to the fullest. You battled courageously. Your love, smile and warmth will be missed by so many. Our hearts are with Phil, Jeffrey, Ivy, Grayson, Mark, Joanne, Ron and Ellen. Love, Roni, Greg, Kate, Auden, San
 Cyla Mueller Wiesenthal, the wife of the Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal, died Monday in Vienna, where the couple lived after surviving concentration camps and separation in World War II. She was 95. Her death was announced yesterday by Vienna's Chief Rabbi, Paul Eisenberg. The
 WIESENTHAL--Cyla. Vienna, Austria. Beloved wife of famous Nazi hunter Simon Wiesenthal. She was a grand lady who stood steadfast at her husband's side as he undertook his lifetime work of the pursuit of justice for the six million who perished in the Holocaust. Sincerest and loving condolen
 DEUTSCH--Sharry. Of West Orange, NJ. Suddenly on November 7, at age 55. Beloved wife of Howard. Mother of Michael and his spouse Meira, Daniel and Adam. Daughter of Florence and Abraham Cohn, sister of Adrienne. A respected and admired teaching assistant at the Solomon Schechter Day School 
 KLEIN--Donald S. The Officers and Directors of the Westchester Women's Bar Association Foundation are profoundly saddened by the untimely passing of our treasured friend & former Board member, Donald S. Klein. Donald was a wonderful mentor to our fledgling organization. We will sorely miss 
 CATANZARO--Rosario, 80, of Woodcliff Lake, NJ formerly of New Bern, NC on November 23, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Rose (nee Mistretta) (2003). Devoted father of Marisa McDonnell and her husband Gordon of Woodcliff Lake, NJ and Leonard Catanzaro and his wife Stephanie of Little River,
 SOLOMON--Doris. On November 26, 2003. At age 81 after a brief illness. Adored wife of Max, cherished mother of Steven, Susan and the late Cindy. Beloved mother-in-law of Bess Miller and devoted grandmother of David and Matthew. Services Friday at 9:45 AM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St and Ams
