 Elizabeth Gray Vining, a Quaker schoolteacher who was tutor to the shy, lonely boy who became Emperor Akihito of Japan, died on Saturday at Kendal-at-Longwood, a retirement community in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 97. The story of Elizabeth Vining's stay in the rigidly enclosed worl
 RUBINSTEIN-Luz (Lucy) D. of Farmingdale on November 26, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Edward B. Devoted mother of Allan and his wife Joanne, Gisela and her husband Edwin Hirschberg. Loving grandmother of Larry, Elizabeth, Victoria and great grandmother of five. Friends may visit Friday 7-9
 LUBELL-Alan D.. On December 3, 1999 at age 77. Beloved husband of Rosanne. Loving father of Michael and his wife Dena and Melissa and her husband Andrew Goldstein. Proud grandfather of Zachary. Devoted uncle of Richard, Jane and Andrew Dickerman. Dear son-in-law of Sylvia Fischman. Services
 ARONOWITZ-Evelyn G. Loving and beloved wife of Sam. Adored mother of Carole and Richard, Ellin and Ron, and cherished grandmother and great grandmother of eight. She will be remembered in all of our hearts forever. Services private. ARONOWITZ-Evelyn G. The employees and families of 
 SCHWARZ-K. Robert. On December 6, 1999. Beloved son of the late Boris & devoted mother Patricia. Brother of dear Joseph & siblingin-spirit of caring friends Sue Wolf and Karl Hereim. Services private. Contributions in his memory may be made to the Queens College Foundation, Queens College-C
 ARONOWITZ-Evelyn G. Loving and beloved wife of Sam. Adored mother of Carole and Richard, Ellin and Ron, and cherished grandmother and great grandmother of eight. She will be remembered in all of our hearts forever. Services private. ARONOWITZ-Evelyn G. The employees and families of 
 MUCHNICK-Jan. The Board of Directors and members of the Joel Finkelstein Cancer Foundation extend our sincere condolences to our friend and Board member, Natie on the untimely passing of his beloved wife. Jan was a loving mother, a friend and supporter of The Foundation. She will be sorely 
 Princess Kathleen Comerford McLoughlin Scherbatow, who had been active in the Russian Nobility Association in America, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 85 and lived on the Upper East Side. The cause was heart failure, said her husband of 58 years, Prince Alexis Scherba
 PARKES-James C. II, M.D. On December 13, 1999 at age 64. Beloved husband of Margaret, loving father of of Susan Parkes-Cirignano, and her husband, Edward, and Jacqueline Parkes Hendrix, and her husband, Brian. Devoted grandfather of James, Christopher, Grace, Creighton, and John Edward. Fri
 SILVERSTONE-Estelle. The Jewish Community Center of Harrison announces with profound sorrow the loss of its esteemed Founding Member and Past President. We extend deepest sympathy to her husband, Sidney, her children, Harris, Alan, David, and to the entire family. Alfredo F. Borodowski, Rab
 BERKAL-Lillian. 88, on December 17, at Freehold, NJ. Beloved mother of Edward and his wife Shelly, predeceased by her husband Milton (1958); loving sister of Edna Braverman and Larry Ames and the late Sidney Ames. Also survived by her grandchildren Matt and Jamian Berkal; two sisters inlaw 
 SCHOENFELD - Ester Bubba (Feldman). December 21, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Kalman Schoenfeld. Residence: Jamestown, RI. Dear mother of the late Judith Rosenberg and mother-inlaw of Dr. Robert D. Rosenberg. Loving sister of Bella Feldman, and several late brothers, sisters, brothers-in-
 CRUZ-Ernesto, M.D.. The leadership of Beth Israel Medical Center joins with its departments of accounting and special funds in acknowledging with great sadness the death of Dr. Ernesto Cruz, beloved husband of our dear colleague and friend, Nieva Cruz. Our heartfelt sympathy is extended to 
 LINKER-Jacques., of Scarsdale, NY on December 28, 1999. Retired president of Dellwood Foods, Inc. U.S. Army Veteran and longtime resident of Scarsdale, NY and Rehovot, Israel. He was 81 years of age. A memorial service will be held at noon on Thursday, Dec. 30th at Congregation Kol Ami, 252
 SCHRAGIS-Fannie (nee Hurwitz). Of Peekskill, N.Y. On December 28, 1999. Age 95. A loving, intelligent, unique woman of the 20th century. Beloved wife for 61 years of the late Jacob Schragis. Loving mother of Shirley and Seymour Gordon, Alvin and Carole Schragis & Rae & Bert Messenger. Devot
 KASMIR-Marvin. Died Dec. 30, 1999 after a long battle with cancer. Son of Sue Kasmir and the late Irving Kasmir. Devoted husband of Barbara (Strum) Kasmir and father to her children Alan and Scott Fertel. Devoted grandfather of Alexandra, Kevin and Kelly Fertel. Dear nephew, cousin & friend
