 MOSS-Evelyn. The Hillel family expresses its profound sympathy to Board of Directors Chairman Neil Moss on the loss of his beloved mother, Evelyn. Mrs. Moss was a devoted wife, mother and community volunteer. She is survived by sons Melvin and Neil; brother Morris Friedman; sister Jean Weis
 Ida Milgrom, a teacher, economist and musician who helped to lead an international campaign to free her son, the Soviet dissident Anatoly B. Shcharansky, from prison, died on Wednesday in Jerusalem. She was 94. Her son, now called Natan Sharansky and a deputy prime minister of Israe
 SILVERMAN-Beverly R. (nee Roth). At age 84, passed away peacefully at home on Mother's Day, May 12, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Buddy Silverman. Devoted mother of William M. Silverman and Lynn G. Silverman, and Bruce G. Silverman and Rita M. Silverman. Cherished grandmother of Kim Lindsa
 GARFUNKEL - Doris (nee Brooks). On May 14, 2002. Beloved wife of the late Milton. Devoted mother of Steven, his wife Marilyn & Bruce & his wife Jeannie. Cherished grandmother of Meredith, Allison, Adam and Hana. Adored sister of Juliet Warshauer. Loving aunt of Nancy Mendel and Robert Warsh
 FRYE-John Howard ''Junie'' Frye, Jr, 86. Beloved husband of Claire A. Frye, father to June F. Johnston and her husband J. Lawrence, brother to Rosamond F. Smith, grandfather to Mark Johnston & his wife Stella Hetelekidis, MD, Marley LeBeau and her husband Michael, great-grandfather to Alex,
 FREUND-Charmian Kaplan, of New York, died on Tuesday after a long illness. Loving wife of 56 years to Dr. Seelig Freund, a surgeon at Beth Israel Hospital, she is survived by her husband; children, Deborah and John; and three devoted grandsons, Alexander & Nicholas Freund of Atherton, CA, a
 PUZIO-Frank M., 80. Of Spring Lake, NJ formerly of Bronxville, NY on May 28, 2002 surrounded by his family. Beloved husband of 57 years to Emily (Cavaliere) Puzio. Devoted father of Frank C. Puzio and Emilie-Mary Puzio. Father-inlaw of Rosalie Puzio. Loving grandfather of Amy Margherita Puz
