 PAONE--Nicola. On December 25, 2003 at age 88. Entertainer and restauranteur. Beloved husband of Dalia. Loving father of the late Joseph P. Paone. Cherished grandfather of Nick J. Paone and Elizabeth D. Fuller and her husband Kevin and greatgrandfather of Emma. Dear brother of Antonia Anton
 PAONE--Nicola. On December 25, 2003 at age 88. Entertainer and restauranteur. Beloved husband of Dalia. Loving father of the late Joseph P. Paone. Cherished grandfather of Nick J. Paone and Elizabeth D. Fuller and her husband Kevin and greatgrandfather of Emma. Dear brother of Antonia Anton
 NIFOUSSI--Bernard. On Monday, January 5, 2004. Formerly of Bayside, NY. Husband of the late Jeanette Nifoussi. Father of Anita Neubauer and her husband, Jeffrey, and Stuart Nifoussi and his wife, Cheryl. Grandfather of Sarah and David Nifoussi and Alex and Matthew Neubauer. Services 12:30 P
 BAUER--Warren G., age 97, of Hackensack, NJ, formerly of Paterson, NJ, on January 7, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Bernice (nee Brown). Beloved father of Susan, Joel and his wife Janet. Loving grandfather of Lisa Klein (nee Bauer) and her husband Brian and Carolyn Bauer and her fiance B
 BETTRIDGE--William B. The Board of Trustees, staff, members and volunteers of the New York City Chapter of the National Multiple Sclerosis Society extend our heartfelt condolences to our friend and Trustee Susan Thomases on the loss of her beloved husband, William Bettridge. He left her and
 PARSONS--Isabelle J. Died January 11, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Lorenzo L. Parsons, Sr., devoted mother of five children, Loretta Parsons Poole, Richard Parsons, Janet Parsons, Diane Parsons and the late Lorenzo, Jr.; proud grandmother of Gregory Parsons, Leslie Parsons and Rebecca Par
 ROSALIE--Anthony on January 14, 2004 of Seaford. Longtime member of the Marion Male Choir, volunteer at the Henry Viscardi School. Beloved husband of Rose. Loving father of Steven and Nina. Dear uncle of Carol Simpson and her husband Ken, John Brightman and his wife Rosanne and their son, J
 HECHT--Lillian. On behalf of the Congregation Shaare Zion and the Executive Committee, we express our deepest condolences to Emeritus Rabbi Abraham Hecht and his family for the loss of Lillian Hecht A''H. On Thursday, January 15, 2004, Mrs. Hecht tragically lost her life in a fire which eru
 SHERR--Adeline (Addie), 85, on January 18, 2004. Devoted wife of Werner Buckold and beloved by his family. Cherished mother of James Sherr. Fond and attentive sister-inlaw of Minna Sweet, aunt of Jane, John and Susan Sweet, and stepmother of Dr. Charles Sherr, his wife Dr. Martine Roussel a
 JOHNSON -- Dorothy. The Partners and Staff of Goodkind Labaton Rudoff & Sucharow, LLP, express their deepest sympathy to their partner, James W. Johnson, on the passing of his mother Dorothy. We extend our condolences to her sons, Brian and Robert, and to her grandchildren. Goodkind, Labato
 CZEISLER--Ruth. The Members and Staff of the Law Firm of Herzfeld & Rubin, PC express their condolences to its Senior and Founding Member, Herbert Rubin and Justice Rose Rubin on the death of his sister. Our best wishes are extended to her husband, Gene Czeisler, daughter and son-in-law Dr.
 HERTZBERG -- Benjamin. The Citymeals - on - Wheels Board and staff express condolences to our dear friend, Lilian Hertzberg, on the loss of her husband, Benjamin, a man of many talents and a loving heart. We will miss his insights, wit and devotion to our city's frail elderly. Gael Greene, 
 COLLINS--Peter C. On January 21, 2004, beloved husband of the late Gloria Collins (nee Krueger). Devoted father of Peter K. Collins and his wife Caroline of W. Newbury, MA, and Stacy Collins O'Conor and her husband Sean of Phoenix, MD. Loving brother of Marilyn Ferris. Dear uncle of Phoebe,
 COLLINS--Peter C. On January 21, 2004, beloved husband of the late Gloria Collins (nee Krueger). Devoted father of Peter K. Collins and his wife Caroline of W. Newbury, MA, and Stacy Collins O'Conor and her husband Sean of Phoenix, MD. Loving brother of Marilyn Ferris. Dear uncle of Phoebe,
 LIEBMAN--Doris. Our deepest sympathies go out to Harvey Liebman, friend and partner, and his dear family, as they mourn the loss of their beloved mother and grandmother, Doris Liebman. Mrs. Liebman was wellknown for her commitment to family and community. May her family be comforted among t
 MEINHOFER -- Georgiana. On January 27, 2004 at age 81. Loving wife of the late Raymond, adored mother of Carol, William, Paul and his wife Betty. Cherished grandmother of John, Greg, Michael, Kara, Kristin and Laura, great grandmother of three, dear sister of Esther Gunther. A celebration o
 SHERWOOD--Dora M. of New York on January 26. Survived by her son Bob, his wife Karen, grandchildren Eddie and Samantha. A gracious and wonderful lady, your loving memory will be cherished by all who were fortunate enough to know you.       
 MEINHOFER -- Georgiana. On January 27, 2004 at age 81. Loving wife of the late Raymond, adored mother of Carol, William, Paul and his wife Betty. Cherished grandmother of John, Greg, Michael, Kara, Kristin and Laura, great grandmother of three, dear sister of Esther Gunther. A celebration o
