 SMITH-Thomas P. Retired Treasurer American Airlines. Member of Community Board 7. Executive Board of Greater Whitestone Taxpayers Civic Association. Retired Major U.S. 3rd Army. Loving husband of the late Kathleen (nee McCabe). Dear father of Anne Thompson & her husband James. Beloved grand
 COHEN-Miriam (nee Jick). On April 6, 2001. Our beloved Mimi is survived by her husband Harold, daughter Marsha, son-in-law Dick, son Paul, daughter-in-law Shirley, grandchildren Andrew, Kimberly, Benjamin and his wife Rachel. Services at Parkside Memorial Chapel, Queens Boulevard (corner 66
 HARRIS-Beatrice. On April 8, 2001 in Pembroke Pines, FL. Beloved wife of the late Irving. Loving mother of Steven Harris and his wife Nicole and Carole Gordon and her husband Neal. Cherished grandmother of Guy, Rachel and Ilyse. Great grandmother of Emily, Sophie and Matthew. Dear aunt of R
 HAMMERMAN-Fay. A true matriarch. Beloved mother of Robert, Elly and Steve. Beloved grandmother of Ira and Karen, Charles and Robin, Michael and Elissa, Caryn and Daniel. Beloved great grandmother of David, Stephanie, Jonathan, Sam, Morgan, Adam, Amanda, Harris, Adeena, Olivia, Douglas, Jaso
 WIDDER-Herman. Of New York City and Montauk, Long Island. On April 16 at age 83. President of Widder Bros., Inc. and the Widder Foundation. Survived by Ruth Laurette, Lynnette and Thilo Widder, & Kolbein Finsnes. Memorial service at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 76th St. and Amsterdam Avenue, 
 FRIEDE-J. George. 80, on Wednesday, April 18, 2001. Born Warsaw, Poland. Survived by his wife Dr. Adrienne Krausz, her daughter Mariette and granddaughter Melissa, as well as his former wife Fella Pressner Friede and their children Andrew, Stephanie and her husband Jobmaarse, Margaret and C
 LERMAN-Emily. Of Aventura, FL, on April 20, 2001. Beloved wife of Manny. Loving mother of Ella Felcher and her husband Dennis, Roy and his wife Shirley. Cherished grandmother of Ethan, Allison (John), Stacey (Terry), and Todd. Adored great grandmother of Alexa Emily and Austin. Service Mond
 LERMAN-Emily. Of Aventura, FL, on April 20, 2001. Beloved wife of Manny. Loving mother of Ella Felcher and her husband Dennis, Roy and his wife Shirley. Cherished grandmother of Ethan, Allison (John), Stacey (Terry), and Todd. Adored great grandmother of Alexa Emily and Austin. Service Mond
 ROTH-Adolph, 92. Of Riverdale, N.Y. On April 22. Beloved husband of Rose. Devoted father of Lita and Steven. Father-in-law of Irwin Scharf and Beth Roth. Cherished grandfather of Eric and Marcy, Michael, his wife Sandy, Abby and her husband Mark. Great-grandfather of Tamara, Max, Jacob, Ste
 BAR-DAVID-Lily. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences toHugo Bar-David upon the loss of his wife, to our boardmembers Jacob and Tzvi upon the loss of their mother, to Hedy Adler upon the loss of her sister, and to the entire family. May they be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion a
 MOGUL - Helene. Of Solana Beach, CA, formerly of New York City, and Long Boat Key, FL. Died peacefully on April 21st, 2001, surrounded by her family. For 64 years, devoted wife of the late Emil Mogul. Beloved mother of Malcolm and his wife Harriette of Chappaqua, New York & Suzanne Spector 
 MOGUL - Helene. Of Solana Beach, CA, formerly of New York City, and Long Boat Key, FL. Died peacefully on April 21st, 2001, surrounded by her family. For 64 years, devoted wife of the late Emil Mogul. Beloved mother of Malcolm and his wife Harriette of Chappaqua, New York & Suzanne Spector 
