 CRIMI--Patricia. The North Shore-Long Island Jewish (LIJ) Health System is saddened by the death of Patricia Crimi, a part of the health system's family for 40 years. Mrs. Crimi's father, Robert B. Wheelen, was one of the founders of North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, NY. Her hus
 BARRON--Jeanne R. On January 8, 2005. Born December 25, 1904, in Lancaster, PA, she was married to William N. Barron, until his death in 1963. Mrs. Barron was a 1926 graduate of Vassar College and a longtime resident of Great Neck and Manhattan. Surviving are her children, Barbara DiPierre 
 CHESTER--Herta (nee Dulken), beloved wife of Randolph, loving mother of Pamela (Jeffrey) Gurock, proud grandmother of Eli (Sheri), Rosie, and Michael, adoring great-grandmother of Audrey and Mira, died January 9. Memorial contributions to Hatzalah of the West Side, 131 West 86th Street.    
 ROSEN--Miriam Nimkoff. On January 8th, 2005 at age 89. Beloved wife of the late Abraham Rosen. Loving mother of Jonathan Rosen and his wife, Jeannette. Devoted grandmother of Sarah and Adam Rosen. Dear sister of Michael O. Nimkoff. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81 St
 BENIAWSKI--Shirley. We extend our condolences to our partner, Jacob Beniawski and his sisters Faige Wechsler and Chani Gewirtz on the loss of their beloved mother, grandmother and greatgrandmother. She always sought chesid and extended help to others in need. May the family be comforted amo
 FELDMAN--Jack. Beloved husband of Ray. Devoted father of Marilyn Sier and her husband Sidney, Lenore Stein and her husband Fred and Michael Feldman and his wife Gloria. Cherished grandfather of Alan, Lisa, Eric, David, Joshua and Deborah. Great-grandfather of Benjamin, Elizabeth, Ben, Abiga
 LEVENTRITT--Frances, (nee Brettholz, of Max and Rachel, April 12, 1916.) Scion of Brooklyn to singer on Broadway and siren of Manhattan; then long surviving love of M. Victor left us to rejoin him January 15th. She lives on in daughter Jennie Gadowski; granddaughter Victoria and great-grand
 KRISSEL--Janet. The entire Continuum Health Partners family acknowledges with sadness the passing of Janet Krissel, beloved wife of our dear friend and long-time colleague, Robert Krissel, a member of the Continuum Board of Trustees. The Krissel family's legacy of support to Beth Israel was
 KAYE--Selma on January 18, 2005. Beloved wife of Walter, devoted mother of Joan Cauthorn, Howard Kaye and Nancy Karagis and mother-in-law of Bob Cauthorn, Wilma Kaye and Sylvester Karagis. Cherished grandmother of Jennifer Marsden, Jill Beigel, Darren, Caralyn and Jacquelyn Bialo, Ross and 
 SMITH--Clara. At last free from that dreaded emphysema. She leaves behind a loving husband of 57 years, Robbie; three great kids, Ruth, Debra and Lee; two grandchildren Maaret and Cary; a sister, Shirley; daughter-inlaw, Wendy; and son-in-law, Ralph. Graduated with honors from CCNY and Work
 ABRAMSON--Doris Waters. Of Boise, Idaho, formerly of Somers and Pleasantville, NY, passed away peacefully on January 18. She was 90. She was predeceased in 1992 by Arnold, her husband of 57 years, and is survived by a daughter, Laurie Pulice and her husband, Vincent, of Boise, Idaho; a son,
 Rose Mary Woods, the devoted secretary to President Richard M. Nixon who was at the center of one of the great mysteries of Watergate after 18 1/2 minutes of a crucial White House tape were erased, died Saturday near her hometown in northeastern Ohio. She was 87. A spokesman for a l
 AMELAR -- Theresa Edel man. Peacefully at age 107. Cherished mother of Dr. Richard D. Amelar and his wife Alice. Beloved grandmother of Jessica, Sarah, Susanna (Timothy Lodge). Adored great grandmother of Joseph, Hannah and Samuel. Services Sunday, 9:30AM at Plaza Jewish Community Chapel, 9
 KREITMAN -- Phyllis. The Board of Directors and employees of Medallion Financial Corp. mourn the passing of Phyllis Kreitman, beloved wife of our esteemed Board member and colleague, Stanley Kreitman. Phyllis was a remarkable and unique woman who will be missed. Our heartfelt condolences to
 AMELAR -- Theresa Edel man, 107, born in Transylvania on May 14, 1887. Emigrated to America in 1905 and was the eldest of ten children. Married to Joseph in Chicago in 1917. They relocated to Manhattan and established Joseph Amelar Inc., Importers-Exporters of which she served as president 
