 RAYNER-Chesbrough On February 26, 1998. Beloved daughter of Chesbrough Patcevitch. Devoted sister of Minot Amory and his wife Victoria. Service Tuesday, March 3, 11 AM, St. Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue at 53rd St, NYC. In lieu of flower,s contributions may be made in her name to Sloan Ketter
 WIEN-Joyce A. Judge Bernard Newman and his staff at the US Court of International Trade are saddened by the passing of their faithful secretary, Joyce A. Wien, on February 26, 1998. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to her family members. Joyce was a lovely and gracious lady, and will be gre
 RAYNER-Chesbrough On February 26, 1998. Beloved daughter of Chesbrough Patcevitch. Devoted sister of Minot Amory and his wife Victoria. Service Tuesday, March 3, 11 AM, St. Thomas Church, Fifth Avenue at 53rd St, NYC. In lieu of flower,s contributions may be made in her name to Sloan Ketter
 Lucille H. Loeb, a board member of the National Crime Prevention Council and a leading supporter of the Visiting Nurse Service, died on Sunday at her home in La Quinta, Calif., her family said. She was 92. Mrs. Loeb was the widow of Carl M. Loeb Jr., who helped to found the National
 EDELSTEIN-Lois (Billig), unexpectedly, on Monday, March 2, 1998, of Andover, MA. Beloved wife of Joel J. Loving mother of Anne Edelstein and her husband Roy Moskowitz of Manhattan, Dr. Bernard M. Edelstein and his wife Ann Epstein of Brookline, MA, and the late Daniel A. Edelstein. Adored g
 HERTZ-Helen. Age 91, beloved mother of Leona Duffy and Martin J. Hertz; mother-in-law of Judith M. Hertz. Grandmother of Marian Sue Keltz, Ricki Martin Kline and Herbert Ray. Greatgrandmother of Daniel Keltz, David Keltz, Liana Ray, Melina Kline and Harry Kline. Funeral services are at Fran
 O'NEIL-Thomas F. The officers, Board of Directors and members of The American Ireland Fund have learned with profound regret of the death of Thomas F. O'Neil, a founding member of the American Irish Foundation (subsequently merged with the Ireland Fund to become The American Ireland Fund.) 
 SCHLAMOWITZ-Beatrice, R.N. Dearly beloved wife of the late Dr. Isadore, cherished mother of Margery Strauss, Kathryn Venet, Daniel Venet and his wife, Claudia. Loving stepmother of Frances (Steve) Grodzinsky, Merry Burke, (John), and Patty (Larry) Eckstein. Adoring Baba of Casey and Arleigh
 KONNER-Beatrice (nee Katz). Formerly of Hackensack, NJ, died March 17 in Portland, OR. Beloved wife of the late Abner Konner. Greatly mourned by her son and his wife, Michael and Claire; granddaughters, Nancy Truax, Judith and Margaret Konner; greatgrandsons, Jack and Alex Truax; brother, H
 HEIN-Michael L., 55. Investment banker for CAPMAC, died March 25 at Lenox Hill Hospital. Father of Ethan Hein, Molly Hein, step father of Daniel Righini, also leaves his former wife Karen Hein and her husband Ralph Dell. Funeral service Mar. 29 at the Community Church of Whitingham, VT, 2 P
 ROSENBERG-Harriet. Formerly of Valley Stream, LI. Passed away on March 22, 1998 in Raleigh, NC. Beloved wife of the late Sam. Mrs. Rosenberg is survived by her son Steven, his wife Kathleen and her daughter Pearl McKnight.       
