 BERGER-Graenum. It is with great sorrow that the Board of Directors and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Graenum Berger, a prominent figure in the social work arena. As a founder of the Henry Kaufmann Campgrounds, the Usdan Center for the Creative and Performing Arts
 GARTLAND-Alice (nee Callan). On April 5, 1999, of Hampton Bays, NY and Hallandale, FL. Beloved wife of Owen, loving mother of Pat, Daniel and his wife Palma, Alice and her husband Dr. William E. Hardy, Kevin and the late Rev. Owen Gartland. Devoted grandmother of Theresa, William G., Alisa,
 Helen Aberson Mayer, who wrote the children's story that inspired the 1941 Walt Disney cartoon, ''Dumbo,'' died last Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91. Helen Aberson, as she was known when she wrote the tale, was born in Syracuse and received a bachelor's degree in 1929 
 Morey Bernstein, the Colorado businessman who pursued an amateur interest in hypnotism all the way back to 19th-century Ireland as he coaxed a young mother into recounting a previous life as a woman named Bridey Murphy, died on April 2 at his apartment in Pueblo, Colo. He was 79. Hi
 Mary Clark Rockefeller, who was prominent in the education of nurses and was New York State's First Lady when she was married to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, died yesterday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 91. Political and social worlds were shocked in 1961 w
 BAXTER - Stephen B. The Trustees and Director of the Episcopal School are immensely saddended to learn of the untimely death of Stephen Baxter, beloved son of our former Director, Betty C. Baxter. We extend to her, her husband Cash, Stephen's wife Laura, and his sister Catherine Sidamon-Eri
 BERLEY-Isabel. We mourn the loss of Isabel Berley, our close friend and patron. She will be deeply missed. Our heartfelt sympathy and condolences go to Bill Berley and his family. Associates and Staff, Print Department, The Museum of Modern Art       
 BLAUSTEIN-Max. The League Treatment Center extends our heartfelt sympathy to Tommye Feit, our dear colleague, and her family on the loss of her beloved father Max Blaustein. Mr. Blaustein is survived by his wife Lillian and his three daughters Tommye Feit, Ellen Safeer, Vicki Ehren, eight g
