 HERSKOVITZ-Tessie B.. Age 99. Cherished mother of Seymour and his wife Marilyn, the late Willard Seymour and the late Eve Fried. Beloved gramother of Amy, Karen and Bill Ackman, Peter Mann and Leonard Fried. A proud greatgrandmother. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue, Sunda
 KOMAROFF-Fanny. Wonderful wife of the late William R. Komaroff, devoted mother of Stanley Komaroff and the late Arlene Halbreich and Martin Komaroff, dear mother-in-law of Rosalyn and Rhoda Komaroff, and Mortimer Halbreich, beloved grandmother of Michael, Audrey, Linda, William and Andrew K
 BLAU-Harold. Teacher and educator, on October 16, at age 85. Loving father of Stephen and his wife Patricia, Francine Blau and her husband Lawrence Kahn and Amy Marie Blau. Cherished grandfather of Daniel and Lisa Kahn. Devoted brother of Charles and Helen Blau, Seymour and Gerda Blau, Rosa
 HOPKINS-John J., Sr., the Honorable on Saturday October 16, 1999 of Upper Montclair, NJ. Husband of 49 years of Lois Ginley Hopkins. Father of Gail H. Shepard and her husband Thomas of Verona, Patrice H. Musicaro and her husband Michael of Reno, Nevada, Dr. Diane H. Williams & her husband A
 PECK-Jane Cochran Coleman, 89, a fourth generation Houstonian, passed away peacefully, surrounded by her family and loved ones on Friday, October 15, 1999. In 1930, Jane married Stewart P. Coleman of Corpus Christi, Texas and moved to New York City for the duration of his employment with th
 WEINSTEIN-Martha, Best friend and constant companion for 53 years of Seymour. Wonderful, loving mother of David, Amy Sills and Suzin Rubin. Devoted motherin-law of Stephen Sills and Michael Rubin. Adored ''Mama'' of Sara and Zach Weinstein; Adam, Jacob and Daniel Sills; Ali, Matthew and Sam
 BLAU-Harold. Teacher, Educator and Author of ''Dictionary of English Sounds, '' on October 16, at age 85. Loving father of Stephen and his wife Patricia, Francine Blau and her husband Lawrence Kahn and Amy Marie Blau. Devoted brother of Charles and Helen Blau, Seymour and Gerda Blau, Rosali
 GLUCK-Ruth Rubin. The Officers, Trustees, Clergy and Members of Park Avenue Synagogue mourn the passing of a devoted congregant. We extend to her husband, Marshall, and the entire family our heartfelt sympathy. David H. Lincoln, Senior Rabbi Geoffrey J. Colvin, Ch. of the Bd. Paul S. Schrei
 STERNBACH-Oscar, Jur.D. On October 25, 1999. Beloved husband of Ellen, loving father of Susanne Appel, and her husband, David Appel, adoring grandfather of Rebecca & Daniel. He will be profoundly missed. Services on Thursday, 1:15 PM, at ''The Riverside'', 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue. 
 ZUGER-Nancy Hornby. On October 25, 1999. A long-time resident of Gramercy Park, an advocate for the neighborhood and arts. Survived by her sister Barbara Spafford, nieces Alice Spafford and Barbara Savage, nephew William Savage and his wife Marge, one great-niece and two greatnephews. Funer
 ALAN-Richard. Passed away on October 23rd, 1999, due to complications of AIDS. A resident of Cos Cob, CT, Alan played piano for several State dinners at the White House during the Reagan Administration, performed on Broadway during productions of ''Aspects of Love,'' ''The Phantom of the Op
