 STICKNEY-Dorothy. The Board, Staff, Member Playwrights and Alumni of New Dramatists pay loving tribute to Dorothy Stickney, a leading light in the theater of this century. Her brilliant lifelong costar and beloved husband, Howard Lindsay, created and led New Dramatists almost 50 years ago w
 KAHN-Marilyn (Miller). Beloved wife of Stanley D. Kahn, mother of Linda Kahn Ganz and Richard Alan Kahn, grandmother of Michael Ian Ganz, sister of Elaine Epstein. Formerly of Lawrence L.I. Died suddenly on June 5 in California. She touched many lives and many hearts. Her spirit will be for
 TANZER-Estelle. The Board of Directors, Administration, Medical Board and staff of Peninsula Hospital Center are saddened by the loss of Estelle Tanzer. Sincere condolences are extended to her son, Leonard Tanzer, Member, Board of Directors and his family. Joel A. Miele, Sr., P.E. Chairman,
 MAXWELL-Rhoda. The Board of Trustees of Parker Jewish Institute extends heartfelt sympathies to Douglas Maxwell on the passing of his mother Rhoda. Our condolences to the family. David Taub, Chairman of the Board David Glaser, President MAXWELL-Rhoda. The Board of Governors and memb
 SYMONS-Emily. Died June 10. Devoted wife to the late Dr. Max Symons and wonderful mother to David, mother-in-law to Irene, grandmother to Stuart, his wife Caryn and to Matthew, greatgrandmother of Scott Austin. Sister of the late Mortimer Silvey. Sister-in-law to Diane Silvey. All of us and
 LEVINE-Daniel. It is with great sadness that we extend our condolences to Gail Cohen, wife of our esteemed colleague Burton Cohen, her mother Faye, and her brother and sister-in-law Howard and Susan, on the loss of their beloved husband and father. Daniel Levine was a special man. He was ki
 Maria Reiche, who spent half a century as the self-appointed guardian of an obscure pre-Incan culture's most mysterious legacy -- a vast, dazzling tableau of giant birds, animals, plants and intricate geometric patterns scratched into the stark desert floor -- died on June 8 in a hospital i
 ROSEN-Helen V. Of New York. Died June 12, at the age of 91. Mrs. Rosen assisted her husband, the renowned ear surgeon Dr. Samuel Rosen, during his travels around the world teaching his new surgical procedure to relieve a common form of deafness. Dr. and Mrs. Rosen were honored by many count
 STEIN-William S. June 15, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Eleanor; loving father of Nancy MacMillan and her husband Duncan; cherished grandfather of Alissa and Kevin. Devoted brother of the late James and the late Richard. Contributions in his memory may be made to Lenox Hill HospitalVolu
 STEIN-William S. June 15, 1998. Beloved husband of the late Eleanor; loving father of Nancy MacMillan and her husband Duncan; cherished grandfather of Alissa and Kevin. Devoted brother of the late James and the late Richard. Contributions in his memory may be made to Lenox Hill HospitalVolu
 VOLCKER-Barbara. The Board, Staff & members of United Cerebral Palsy of New York City note with profound sorrow the passing of Barbara, the beloved wife of Paul Volcker, recipient of UCP's 1986 Humanitarian Award and a longtime supporter of the needs of children & adults with cerebral palsy
 ESHAGHIAN-Touran Monassebian. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the demise in Los Angeles, California, of the former wife of the late Ebrahim Ben Davood Eliahu Eshaghian, a former Yeshiva University Trustee, who with his family, was a Benefactor of Yeshiva University; and the bel
