 TILT--Jean P., 95, of Bedford Hills, NY. Died on March 2nd at her home. Mother of Rodman K. Tilt, Jr. and his wife, Marilen, of Bedford Hills, NY, Jean Tilt Sammis and her husband, Jesse F. Sammis, III, of Greenwich, CT and Priscilla T. Pochna of NYC. Also survived by eight grandchildren an
 FEININGER--Wysse.Was born in Stockholm, Sweden on May 8, 1912 and died in her sleep in her Manhattan apartment on March 3, 2006. Mrs. Feininger, nee Gertrud Hagg, completed primary and secondary education at the French School in Stockholm before enrolling at The Bauhaus where she studied gr
 REEVE--Dana. The Miami Project to Cure Paralysis and The Buoniconti Fund deeply mourn the death of our beloved friend Dana Reeve, (wife of the late Christopher Reeve), a great inspiration to all of us in the fight against paralysis. Marc Buoniconti, the International Ambassador of The Miami
 NICHOLSON--William Bryce. 93. On February 27, of Short Hills, NJ. Retired Vice Chairman of Union Carbide Corp. Survived by his wife, Marion; daughter, Jan; and daughter, Barbara McFadyen, and her two children, Rachel and Ryan, and grandchild, Nicholas. A memorial service will be held at 11 
 NICHOLSON--William Bryce. 93. On February 27, of Short Hills, NJ. Retired Vice Chairman of Union Carbide Corp. Survived by his wife, Marion; daughter, Jan; and daughter, Barbara McFadyen, and her two children, Rachel and Ryan, and grandchild, Nicholas. A memorial service will be held at 11 
 SCHUBERT--Florette Roos, 87. Of Hartsdale, N.Y, passed away March 10, 2006. Beloved wife of Uriel Schubert. Florette is survived by her loving sons and their wives Richard and Geane Schubert of Bethesda, MD. and David and Nancy Schubert of Scarsdale, N.Y. and her five grandchildren Daniel a
 FELSENFELD--Murray. On March 16, 2006 at age 81. All who've met him left smiling. Loving husband of 58 years to Sue. Wonderful father to Arthur and Terry Felsenfeld, Linda and Michael Mellon, grandfather to Tara and Brian Zone, Lauren Felsenfeld and her fiance, Chad Altman, and Tracey Mello
 CARESS--Bernard. February 28,1920-March 19,2006. Born in Brooklyn, Bernie studied at Cooper Union and served in WWII before embarking on a career as an engineer with Mars Normel. Major projects included the Brooklyn Court House and Laguardia High School. Loving husband of Esther and Laura, 
 FALKOW--Michele G. The New York University School of Law community is deeply saddened by the loss of Michele G. Falkow, class of 1985 and the beloved wife of our trustee Lewis Steinberg. An accomplished and dynamic individual, Michele was an example of kindness and courage. She will be grea
 REGAN--Athena. March 29, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Peter G. Regan. Loving mother of George P.Regan and his wife Eve, Basil P. Regan and Marie P. Tutulis and her husband Peter J. Tutulis. Cherished grandmother of Pamela G. Regan and Anne G. Regan. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 
