 SCHURIN--Evelyn (Bunny). Age 92. Beloved wife of the late Herman, mother of Ronald and the late John, and mother-in-law of Emily and Marilyn. Devoted grandmother of Laura and her husband Rick Schluger, Richard Schurin & his wife Maureen, and Karla, Zachary and Matthew Schurin. Loving great-
 FELDMAN--Elaine Zeitsoff. On November 3, 2005. Adored wife of Arnold. Cherished aunt to Liz, John & Christina. Beloved friend and cousin. Distinguished graphic designer. She and her zest for life will be missed by all. Funeral services Sunday November 6, 11:30 A.M., at the Riverside Memoria
 BOZIAN--Betty on November 5th 2005. Loving wife of 57 years to George Bozian of Chatham Borough. Devoted mother of Alan G. Bozian and his wife Alison Overseth; adoring grandmother of Hannah, Peter, and Emily Bozian, all of New York City. Dear sister of Dorothe Parsons of Chatham Township. F
 HORNBLOW - Leonora, novelist, 85, wife of the late movie producer Arthur Hornblow, Jr. Died in Fearrington Village, N.C. November 5, 2005. Mrs. Hornblow is survived by her son Michael and his wife Caroline.       
 FREEDMAN--Ida. On November 10, 2005. Beloved wife of Milton. Loving mother of Helene and her husband Larry Stoller and Stuart and his wife Carla Craig. Dear sister of Frieda Levine. Adoring ''Bubby'' of Heather, David and Anna. Service Sunday 12:45 PM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amste
 FREEDMAN--Ida. On November 10, 2005. Beloved wife of Milton. Loving mother of Helene and her husband Larry Stoller and Stuart and his wife Carla Craig. Dear sister of Frieda Levine. Adoring ''Bubby'' of Heather, David and Anna. Service Sunday 12:45 PM at ''The Riverside'' 76th St. and Amste
 GUBERNICK - Isadore. Of Lynnfield, MA, formerly of New York City, November 12th. Beloved husband of Loys (Safier) Gubernick. Loving father of Peter Gubernick and his wife Ann Brownhill Gubernick of NYC, Ellen Howlett and her husband Frank of Lynnfield, MA. Cherished grandfather of David How
 AIKMAN--Robert E., 73, and Rachel S., 74. Of Amarillo, TX, died Friday, November 4, 2005 of injuries sustained in an automobile accident. Mr. and Mrs. Aikman met and married while students at the University of Oklahoma. A leader in the oil and gas industry for more than fifty years, Mr. Aik
 OSCARD--Fifi. The nationally-known, highly-respected Artists Representative, Fifi Oscard, a.k.a. Fifi Steinmetz, died suddenly on Nov. 12th at the age of 85. This vibrant, determined and thoughtful woman was esteemed by several generations of authors, playwrights, actors and directors whom 
 FUHRMAN--Ruth (Fox). Age 90, of Arlington, MA, formerly of Westbury, Long Island, on Wednesday, November 16, 2005. Beloved wife of the late William Fuhrman. Devoted mother of Juliet Fuhrman and her husband Stanley Wolf of Arlington, MA and Jonathan Fuhrman and his wife Susan Kane of Pasaden
 BEHAN--Joan T. (nee Butler), of Mineola and East Williston, L.I. on November 22, 2005. Her journey is complete. Graduate of Flushing High School Class of 46, Executive Secretary for Apple Bank, Nassau County Executive's Office and Standard Oil (Exxon). Beloved wife of the late Frank. Devote
