 MACHLIN-Dr. Irving, a dedicated physician. Loving father of Ellen and Dr. William Steier, adored grandfather of Alison, Melissa, Alix, Marc, Andrew and Lisa, great-grandfather of Taylor, Max and Brent. Dear brother of Pauline Brodsky and Miriam Greenberg. Services at the New Montefiore Ceme
 HARRIS-Irma R. (Feder). On July 14, 1997. Age 91. Widow of James L. Feder, died 1964 and Nelson M. Harris, died 1980. Survived by her daughter and son-in-law, Jane and James Gollin, her grandsons, Timothy J. Gollin, and his wife, Mary; and Douglas Gollin, and his wife Cheryl Doss; and her g
 LUBELL-Mary. The Yeshiva University family is deeply saddened by the passing of a highly respected member of the Jewish community, beloved wife of our devoted friend & coworker, Arthur Lubell. Mrs. Lubell received the Valiant Woman award at last year's Spring Luncheon of the YU Women's Orga
 Kay Farrell, a stylish society woman who made golf the focus of a glamorous life as wife, mother, hostess, committee woman and volunteer, died July 12 at her home in the Village of Golf, Fla. She was 86. She was the widow of Johnny Farrell, the debonair 1928 United States Open champ
 LUBELL-Mary. We extend our deepest sympathy to Arthur and his family on the loss of their magnificent Mary. She was loved and will be missed by all of us. The Weltz Family       
 Dora Maar, the photographer and painter who was Picasso's lover and the principal model for many of his so-called weeping women portraits in the late 1930's and early 40's, died this month in her Left Bank apartment. She was 89. Le Monde reported that she died on July 16. Mi
 NEUBERG-Ilse. Born on November 25, 1900 in Krefeld, Germany. Beloved wife of the late William Neuberg; sister of the late Kurt Levin. She is survived by her nephew Dr. Hans W. Neuberg and his wife Birgit; cousins: Donald, Peggy and Joan Miller. Services Thursday 12 PM at ''The Riverside'', 
 ROSENBERG-Barbara Schwab. Entered into rest July 24, 1997. Cherished wife of fifty years to Fred Rosenberg of Mamaroneck, NY. Beloved mother of Robert and his wife Diane of Princeton, NJ; Ann and her husband Eric Walsh of Portland, Oregon; Charles and his wife Jan of Port Chester, NY; Jean 
 KLARSFELD-Leah (Nee Dostis) on July 29, 1997 at age eighty-nine. A woman of great spirit, boundless energy and a deep love of life and people. Married for 59 years to the late Nathan Klarsfeld. Born May 29, 1908 in New York City to Greek Sephardic parents Isaak and Esther Dostis of Ioannina
