 KASMIR-Marvin. Died Dec. 30, 1999 after a long battle with cancer. Son of Sue Kasmir and the late Irving Kasmir. Devoted husband of Barbara (Strum) Kasmir and father to her children Alan and Scott Fertel. Devoted grandfather of Alexandra, Kevin and Kelly Fertel. Dear nephew, cousin & friend
 HIBBERD-Frederick H. The Officers, Trustees and members of American Yacht Club are deeply saddened by the loss of a distinguished leader and dear friend, Commodore Frederick H. Hibberd, who passed away on January 2, 2000. His leadership during the difficult years of WWII preserved the Club 
 SALTZMAN-Renny. The Board and staff of the Robin Hood Foundation ackowledge with great sadness the passing of our dear friend and avid supporter, Renny Saltzman. His style, humor, and generous spirit will be sadly missed. We wish Ellin, David, Elizabeth, and all the Saltzman family our comf
 GRADY-William J. of Chatham Twp, NJ on January 7, 2000. Husband of the late Shirley Jean Grady. Father of Kathy Grady and her husband Alan Godchaux of New Orleans, LA, Mike Grady and his wife Margaret of Chatham, NJ and Trisha Grady and her husband Richard Lieberman of Sunnyside, NY. Brothe
 McLAUGHLIN-Edward J. On January 9, 2000, at age 51. Beloved son of Edward and Kathleen. Devoted brother of Maureen Villaverde and her husband William. Proud uncle of Claire and Sara. Fordham Prep '65 and Fordham University '69. Attained the rank of Major in New York State Supreme Court. For
 SPERO-Mildred W. On January 8, in her 99th year. Beloved wife of the late Carl; devoted mother of Michael and his wife, Joan; dear grandmother of Jason and Ben; revered aunt and great-aunt. Wise and compassionate advisor to family, friends and the many she served through social work organiz
 McLAUGHLIN-Edward J. On January 9, 2000, at age 51. Beloved son of Edward and Kathleen. Devoted brother of Maureen Villaverde and her husband William. Proud uncle of Claire and Sara. Fordham Prep '65 and Fordham University '69. Attained the rank of Major in New York State Supreme Court. For
 SPERO-Mildred W. On January 8, in her 99th year. Beloved wife of the late Carl; devoted mother of Michael and his wife, Joan; dear grandmother of Jason and Ben; revered aunt and great-aunt. Wise and compassionate advisor to family, friends and the many she served through social work organiz
 Ella Goldberg Wolfe, who witnessed the rise and ebb of the historic tide of Communism with her husband, Bertram, one of the founders of the American party and later one of Moscow's severest critics, died on Saturday at her Spanish-style home in Palo Alto, Calif. She was 103. Mrs. Wo
 Doris Parker, widow of the jazz saxophonist Charlie (Bird) Parker, who used his memory to fight drug addiction, died on Monday in Manhattan. She was 77 and lived in Manhattan. She died of respiratory failure said a friend, Sarah Morgan. Mrs. Parker was the third wife of Char
 Ruhiyyih Rabbani, who became the pre-eminent member of the Bahai faith after the death of her husband, the last official leader of the faith, died Wednesday in her home in Haifa, Israel. She was 89. The Bahais, who number more than five million and believe in the unity of all religi
 Jack Gerson, 53, an antiwar activist in the 1960's, finds himself part of a very different subculture today: the world of genetic technology, where a booming market could turn his intellectual pursuits into wealth he never expected. The second time I was suspended from Stanford, it 
 NIFOUSSI-Jeanette. On Monday, January 24, 2000. Of Bayside, New York. Beloved wife of Bernard. Loving mother of Anita Neubauer and her husband Jeffrey, and Stuart Nifoussi and his wife Cheryl. Proud grandmother of Sarah and David Nifoussi and Matthew and Alex Neubauer. Services 10 AM Thursd
 SHUDOFSKY-Bella. The Ramaz School family mourns the passing of the beloved mother of its distinguished Administrator, Dr. Noam Shudofsky. He learned from her to devote his life brilliantly to Jewish children and their education. We extend our heartfelt sympathy to the entire bereaved family
