 SCHNEIDER--Lillian. Passed away on Thursday, September 29, 2005. She was the beloved wife of the late Harry, devoted mother to Peter and his wife Dena Schneider and Ellen Schneider. She is also survived by two loving grandchildren, Stephen Schneider and Risa Boyer and two great-grandchildre
 SHERMAN--Jeannine. On behalf of the Trustees, physicians and employees at North Shore University Hospital the administration offer our sincere condolences to Claude Sherman, President of the Hospital Auxiliary in the passing of his wife Jeannine Sherman. The Shermans have been dedicated vol
 GREENBERG--Esther. The American Jewish Committee is deeply saddened by the death of Esther Greenberg, beloved mother of Alan C. Greenberg. Alan is one of AJC's most dynamic, generous and dedicated leaders. His allegiance to the Jewish people is resolute, as is his commitment to achieving a 
 CALISHER -- Helen Farrell. Passed away peacefully on October 10, 2005 after a long illness. The devoted and loving mother of Douglass, she is survived by him, her loving niece Marilyn Smith Church of Boston, Ma., and nephews Douglas E. Golde of NYC and Michael E. Smith of Charlotte, N.C. A 
 MARCUS--Archie, of Melville, New York. Born December 7, 1921. Served as Captain in Air Force in WWII. Worked in IRS for 34 years, rising to chief in Appellate Division. Volunteered in hospitals, nursing homes and day care centers. Always placed family first. Devoted husband to Mimi for 55 y
 LEVINE--Harriet. Our deepest condolences to the Hon. Joseph S. Levine and his family on the passing of his beloved wife, Harriet. We know that she will be greatly missed. She was a caring, intelligent, warm and gracious person who touched everyone who knew her. Benedict P. Morelli, Arlene M
 DAVIS--Edna B. At age 97, on October 23, 2005. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Harry. Loving mother of Fern and Hersh Cohen and Bill Davis and his wife Adele Fuchsberg. Cherished grandmother of Susan and Herb Myers, Joe and Ami Cohen, Josh and Amanda Davis, and Jeremy Davis. Adoring gr
 KRULL--Sylvia. New York Metropolitan Region of the United Synagogue of Conservative Judaism expresses its condolences to our Financial Secretary Albert Krull and family on the untimely passing of his beloved mother. May her memory be for a blessing. Jerry I. Klibanoff, Pres. Bruce F. Greenf
 SHAPIRO--Andrew Edward. February 28, 1942--October 24, 2005. Beloved husband of Jo-Ann, caring brother of Edward, loving father of Debra and her husband Matthew Weiss, cherished grandfather of Jessica, Steven and Jamie Weiss, and devoted leader of his Metro Creative Graphics family. Funeral
 DAVIS--Edna B. At age 97, on October 23, 2005. Beloved and devoted wife of the late Harry. Loving mother of Fern and Hersh Cohen and Bill Davis and his wife Adele Fuchsberg. Cherished grandmother of Susan and Herb Myers, Joe and Ami Cohen, Josh and Amanda Davis, and Jeremy Davis. Adoring gr
