 HOLZMAN--Philip S. of Cambridge, Esther & Sidney R. Rabb Professor of Psychology Emeritus at Harvard University, on Tuesday, June 1, 2004. For 58 years, the beloved husband of Hannah (Abarbanel) Holzman. Devoted father of Natalie Bernardoni and her husband Gene of Chicago, IL, Carl Holzman 
 MINTZ--Ruth Klinghoffer. Of New York City, died of Alzheimer's on June 3, 2004. Loving mother of Rayna Ragonetti and Peter Mintz and his wife Karen, special grandmother of Philip Mintz and his wife Alexis Hilton Mintz, and many other grandchildren, great-grandchildren, nieces and nephews. A
 WALKER--George E. We acknowledge with sadness the death of George E. Walker, beloved father of WNYC President and Chief Executive Officer Laura Walker, who inherited his passion for radio, music and the written word. We send heartfelt sympathy to Laura and her family. The Board of Trustees 
 AIBEL--Fredric L, 90, longtime resident of Briarcliff Manor, NY, died June 10, 2004 in Wellington, FL. Beloved husband of Harriet. Loving father of Steven, and his wife Beth of El Cerrito, CA, and Robin, and her husband Andrew Harding of Devon, England. Adoring grandfather of Sonja, Jasmine
 DiMANNO--Gerald T., on June 13th, 2004. Beloved husband of Marie (nee Smith). Director of Fordham Law Alumni. Retired Colonel US Air Force. Senior Partner at O'Neill, DiManno & Kelly. Friends may call at the Andrett Funeral Home, 353 Second Ave. (at 20th St.), NYC, Tuesday, 2-5 and 7-9 PM. 
 LEHMKUHL--Lois A., of NYC and Madison, NJ, former Benefits Manager of the TriState area for Deloitte & Touche on Tuesday, June 15, 2004. Survivors include Edward J. McEneany and his son, Brian, her sister, Carol Fredericks and her husband, William, and their daughters, Allison Keenan and Su
 STRIZHAK--Helen (nee Kassimir). Of Long Beach, formerly of Laurelton, age 86, died June 18, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Louis P. She is survived by her daughter Adrian, son Elliott and his wife Barbara, grandchildren David and Robin Schertzer (Adam), her brother Seymour, his wife Blanche
 O'CONNOR -- John Joseph. Passed into eternity on June 21, 2004. Veteran of the United States Coast Guard. Longtime worker of the landmark P. J. Clarke's. Survived by his niece Maureen and her husband Eric and one great niece Colleen and one great nephew Daniel. Reposing at the Conway Funera
 SCHULMAN -- Joseph Her bert, 80, died peacefully on June 23, 2004. Beloved husband of the late Laura Schulman. Deeply mourned by his daughters Toby and Susan, sister Miriam Shulman, son-in-law Lawrence Eyink & granddaughter Adria Schulman-Eyink. Funeral is today June 25 at 9:45 AM at ''The 
