 DEGENSHEIN--Beverly (nee Oppenheimer) of South Nyack, NY, departed this life on June 29, 2004, at the age of 86. Beloved wife of Harry. Loving mother of Jan, and Braun and his wife Debbie. Adoring grandmother of Britta, Oleg, Anya, Sam and Rose. Dear sister of Reva Sklarin and Harold Rosenb
 CRAVEN--Florence F. (nee Fergess). On June 28. Beloved wife of the late Alex Craven. Devoted mother of Gary and his wife Francine Robbins. Cherished grandmother of Bradley, Douglas and Kimberly. She was enchanted to have enjoyed a great 96 years.       
 MOLDOVAN--Marshall. Son of the late Elaine and Sol Moldovan. Survived by his brother Stanley E. Moldovan, Karyn Cohn and her sons, Jesse and Jared.       
 DOBRINSKY--Lily. The entire Yeshiva University family is deeply saddened by the passing in Montreal of a highly admired and respected member of the community, at 94, the beloved mother of our Vice President for University Affairs, Rabbi Dr. Herbert C. (and Dina) Dobrinsky and Sharon (and Lo
 WERKSMAN--Harry. The officers, board and staff of the American Technion Society (ATS) mourn the loss of their dear and steadfast friend, Harry Werksman, of Rancho Mirage, Calif. A founder of the Women's Division/Desert Chapter along with his wife Mary-honorary vice chair of the Women's Divi
 GOLDBERG -- Elaine. N.C.J.W. Brooklyn section Board of Directors extends heartfelt sympathy upon the passing of Elaine our beloved member to her husband, Marcus, and his family. Janet Taft, President       
 GOTTLIEB--Justine. Outspoken advocate for peace, justice, working people and Holocaust remembrance. Proud union member in the NYC school system and avid supporter of the United Farm Workers movement, past president and active member of the Senior Adult Group at her cherished 92nd Street Y, 
 GOTTLIEB--Justine. Outspoken advocate for peace, justice, working people and Holocaust remembrance. Proud union member in the NYC school system and avid supporter of the United Farm Workers movement, past president and active member of the Senior Adult Group at her cherished 92nd Street Y, 
 NAGLER--Thelma R., wife of the late Simon H. Nagler, MD; mother of Harris and Lauren; grandmother of Arielle and Gabrielle; mother-in-law of Freema and friend of many others; died on July 13, 2004. She was a dynamic, knowledgeable woman who will be missed greatly by all those who knew and l
 BRANDVEIN--Alice S. July 17, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Herbert C. Brandvein. Loving mother of Michael and his wife Robin, Marsha and her husband David. Cherished grandmother of Joshua, Jessica, Jonathan, Carolyn and Joseph. Devoted sister of Renee and sister-in-law of Harold. Funeral s
 GROSS--Jane. Beloved wife of Herbert Gross for 53 years. Loving mother of Adrienne and her husband Steve, Curt and his wife Sharon, David and his wife Kathleen. Cherished grandmother of Victoria, Andrew, Connor, Brock and Parker. Devoted aunt of Beth and her husband Paul. Funeral services t
 LESNICK--Norma, on July 19, 2004, in her 89th year. Formerly of Riverdale, NY, recently Santa Barbara, CA. Widow of Gerson Lesnick, MD. Beloved sister of Leonard Vernon, mother of Dr. David Woodsfellow and his wife Deborah, Richard Lesnick and his wife Amey, and cherished grandmother of Sky
 BOORSTEIN -- Marilyn. Be loved wife of Martin, devoted mother, grandmother and sister. Services today, 10:15AM ''Sinai Chapels'', 16205 Horace Harding Expressway, Fresh Meadows, NY. BOORSTEIN--Marilyn. ''It is the tender heart that has the power to transform the world.'' We mourn th
