 FISHER--Andrew. Our hearts go out to our esteemed Board Member and Benefactor Emily Fisher Landau, on the tragic loss of her grandson. To Mrs. Landau, who established the Fisher Landau Center for the Treatment of Learning Disabilities at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva Un
 MARCUS--Alexander ''Lefty''. Devoted husband to Sara, loving father of Carole Smith and her husband Howard, Elayne Weiner and her husband Robert, brother of Seymour and beloved grandfather of Larry, Mark, Benjamin and Danielle, and adoring great grandfather of Julian. He will be in our hear
 STRAUSS -- Marji (nee Krone). Most loved and adored wife for 53 years of Fred S. Beloved mother of Michael and Iris. Cherished grandmother of Michelle, Ilene, Matthew, Molly, Danielle and Ian. Marji, you will be deeply missed by all who knew you and never, never forgotten in our hearts. Fun
 HARWIN--Miriam J. Age 82. Of Naples, FL. Died Tuesday, December 9, 2003. Born in Brooklyn, N.Y., Mrs. Harwin lived in Westbury, N.Y. most of her life. She graduated with honors from Wheaton College in Norton, MA. While living in Westbury, she was a member of the Hadassah and ORT. Miriam was
 de LEON--Raymond, 79, died December 16 in Gorham, ME. WW II veteran. Longtime social studies teacher in NYC high schools and Special Assistant to the Chancellor for Bilingual Education. Avid reader and conversationalist. Survived by daughter Andrea de Leon, her husband Todd Burrowes, and ch
 LOWENSTEIN -- Julius. We extend our sincerest condolences to Ruth Lowenstein and her daughters, Marilyn and Vivian, on the passing of her beloved husband and their father. As a Golden Founder and supporter of the Department of Cardiology, together with his wife, his outstretched hand of kin
 GLATZER--Louis. Of Port Washington, N.Y. On December 27, 2003. Loyal Treasurer of Estee Lauder Cosmetics for 53 years. Survived by his beloved wife Minnie, loving children Neil, Hillary Cohen and her husband Steven, cherished grandchildren Aron, Ross, Perri and Marcus.       
 PAONE--Nicola. On December 25, 2003 at age 88. Entertainer and restauranteur. Beloved husband of Dalia. Loving father of the late Joseph P. Paone. Cherished grandfather of Nick J. Paone and Elizabeth D. Fuller and her husband Kevin and greatgrandfather of Emma. Dear brother of Antonia Anton
 PAONE--Nicola. On December 25, 2003 at age 88. Entertainer and restauranteur. Beloved husband of Dalia. Loving father of the late Joseph P. Paone. Cherished grandfather of Nick J. Paone and Elizabeth D. Fuller and her husband Kevin and greatgrandfather of Emma. Dear brother of Antonia Anton
