 TANNER-Pauline Steinlauf, after a long illness, cherished wife of the late Irving; loved by children Ben and Ellen Tanner Farkas, and Nicki and Harold Tanner; and grandchildren Esta and Paul Farkas, Gary and Lynn Farkas Schwartz, Peggy and David Tanner; Catherine Allegra and James Tanner, K
 SIMS-Marian. Beloved wife of George. Devoted mother of Doris and Murray Eskenazi and Richard and Joyce Sims. Cherished grandmother and great-grandmother of Lynn and Steve, Nancy, Jonathan and Stephanie, and Elizabeth and Jake. Services Friday, 1:30 PM, at ''Boulevard - Riverside Chapel,'' 1
 SIMS-Marian. A wonderful woman, mother, grandmother and great-grandmother has unexpectedly died and left us deeply saddened. We will always remember her soft and genuine qualities. Our love and sympathy to her husband George, her daughter Doris Eskanesi, Murray Eskanesi, their children and 
 KOSH-Ruth, 87, of Key Biscayne, FL, passed away October 5, 1997. Ruth had made her home in South Florida for the past 21 years coming from NYC. Ruth was born in New York City and raised in the Seagate Section of Brooklyn. She attended Hunter College. She, with her late husband David of 64 y
 KASTNER-Margaret Nichols. On October 7, in NYC. Wife of Alton Kastner, mother of Susan K. Tree of Westtown, PA., and Timothy Kastner of Chicago, IL. Interment was private. A memorial contribution may be made, if you wish, to a charity of your choice. KASTNER-Margaret. The Board and 
 BAXTER-Lorraine S. On Friday, October 10, 1997, of Marlboro, NY, and a former resident of Forest Hills, NY. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Q. Baxter, Jr. Loved and loving mother of Barbara L. Baxter, S. Noel and Sandy F., Wayne C. and Sally W. Dear grandmother of Paul V., Sarah Q., Luke B.
 BAXTER-Lorraine S. On Friday, October 10, 1997, of Marlboro, NY, and a former resident of Forest Hills, NY. Beloved wife of the late Samuel Q. Baxter, Jr. Loved and loving mother of Barbara L. Baxter, S. Noel and Sandy F., Wayne C. and Sally W. Dear grandmother of Paul V., Sarah Q., Luke B.
 SLEWETT-Evelyn. The National Parkinson Foundation is deeply saddened by the recent passing of Evelyn Slewett, the beloved wife of our Chairman of the Board. Evelyn Slewett passed away on Tuesday, October 14, leaving behind her husband, Nathan and two beloved children, Alan and Robert, her d
 WHITEHEAD-Nancy Dickerson. October 18,1997. Beloved wife of John C. Whitehead, devoted mother of Elizabeth Earls, Ann Pillion, Jane Dickerson, Michael Dickerson, John Dickerson, Anne Whitehead, Gregory Whitehead, Robert Chartener and Sarah Whitehead. Loving sister of Mary Ellen Phillip. Che
 LIBERMAN-George, M.D. The Board of Regents, Medical Board and employees of The Long Island College Hospital join with family and friends in mourning the loss of our longtime colleague. Graduate of the LICH School of Medicine in 1930 and alumni association president, leader in establishing f
 Mary Jane Latsis, who helped make business the backdrop for murder as one half of the Emma Lathen writing team that produced two dozen John Putnam Thatcher mysteries, died on Monday at a hospital in Plymouth, N.H. She was 70 and maintained residences in Warren, N.H., and Brookline, Mass.   
