 ADAMSBAUM -- Helene. Passed away peacefully on Saturday, August 2. Devoted sweetheart of husband Warren. Loving mother of Mark, Paul and his wife Dale. Adoring grandmother to Andy. Cherished sister of May. Inspirational and loving aunt to many nieces and nephews, particularly Sharon who cou
 ROBIN--Lorry Breed. On August 3, 2003 at age 75. Mother of Michael and Craig and his wife Melissa. Grandmother of Shawn and Nathaniel. Aunt of Kathleen and James Breed. Interment private. Memorial Service at St. Jean Baptiste Church, Lexington Avenue at 76 Street, Saturday August 9th, 1 PM.
 ROBIN--Lorry Breed. On August 3, 2003 at age 75. Mother of Michael and Craig and his wife Melissa. Grandmother of Shawn and Nathaniel. Aunt of Kathleen and James Breed. Interment private. Memorial Service at St. Jean Baptiste Church, Lexington Avenue at 76 Street, Saturday August 9th, 1 PM.
 ABRAMS--Dorothy. 93. Devoted wife of the late Benjamin Abrams, loving mother of former New York Attorney General Bob and Diane Abrams, and Marlene and Sandy Kitrosser, devoted grandmother of Rachel and Rabbi Ian Pear, Becky Abrams, and Bari and Jeff Wolf, adoring great-grandmother of Gavrie
 STANLEY--Oscar M. On August 11, 2003. Beloved husband of the late Beatrice Stanley. Devoted uncle of Ellen Fabian and her husband Leo, and their children Joan, Beatrice, Cynthia and Victor. Interment private. Contributions in his memory to the Boy Scouts of America, 350 5th Ave, NYC, 10118 
 DUBIN--Maria E. de Bourbon. Princess Ana Margarita Maria Elvira de Bourbon Dubin, daughter of the late Prince and Princess Filiberto de Bourbon of Paterson, NY, died Thursday, August 14, at Norwalk Hospital in Norwalk, CT. She was 61 years old and had been ill with cancer for several months
 RAUSNITZ--Walter, Most beloved husband of Vera, caring brother of Egon and Paul, devoted father of Gerry and Sarita, and Susan and Peter Strauss. Loving grandfather of David, Daniela and Jonathan and patriarch of a loving extended family. Services Sunday, 10:30AM, Park East Synagogue, 68th 
 MERSON--Erwin. Riverdale Temple mourns the loss of Erwin Merson a beloved past president of both the congregations and its Mens' Club & its former temple administrator. We extend our condolences to his sister Barbara and her family. Funeral services will be held Wednesday at Riverdale Templ
 FLANAGAN -- Gloria. The Center for Discovery Family extends its heartfelt sympathy to Arthur Flanagan and his family on the death of his loving mother Gloria. She was an impassioned advocate for the disabled and her legacy will live on through her children. She will be missed. The Center fo
 GIOELI--Rose. On August 23, 2003. Loving aunt of Catherine F. Gioeli, A. Casey Gioeli, Daniel G. Gioeli and his wife, Debra. Great aunt of Cole and Grace. Graduate of Hunter College, Rose worked with Morris Abrams at Paul, Weiss, LLP, as a legal secretary for many years. She was an avid wor
 SLOCUM--Margaret Wood, of North Merrick, New York, suddenly on August 28, 2003. Wife of the late Charles. Devoted mother of Elizabeth Clarke. Dear mother-in-law of Frank. Loving grandmother of Andrew and his wife Kristen, Paul and David. Also survived by her great-grandchildren, Matthew Tho
