 PHILLIPS--Ellis L. Jr., 85, of Medfield, MA, died Thursday, September 28, 2006 at the Caritas Norwood Hospital after a brief illness. Beloved husband of Marion E. (Grumman) Phillips, he also leaves five children Valerie P. Parsegian and her husband Adrian of Washington, DC, Elise P. Watts a
 COHEN--Hilda, The Board of Directors, International Council and staff of the New Israel Fund express their heartfelt sympathy to our Co-Founder Jonathan Cohen on the loss of his mother, Hilda Cohen. May her memory serve as a blessing and inspiration to all dedicated to a democratic, toleran
 Winifred Bennett, an amateur historian whose casual suggestion at the dinner table 10 years ago that DNA testing might establish whether Thomas Jefferson fathered children by his slave Sally Hemings helped rewrite history, unsettle families and raise enduring questions about sex, race and t
 DOWNING--Catherine S. Suddenly on October 16, 2006. Beloved wife of John M. Downing Sr., adored mother of Michael B. Downing and his wife Tara and Patrick S. Downing. Cherished stepmother of Brenda and John M. Downing Jr., Marguerite and Ernest Peck and Alison and William Metzler and grandm
 DOWNING--Catherine S. Suddenly on October 16, 2006. Beloved wife of John M. Downing Sr., adored mother of Michael B. Downing and his wife Tara and Patrick S. Downing. Cherished stepmother of Brenda and John M. Downing Jr., Marguerite and Ernest Peck and Alison and William Metzler and grandm
 AMES--Sue H., 70, October 18th, in Boston, MA, formerly of Riverdale, NY. Born Sue Holtz in Buffalo, NY, attended Vassar College and Harvard Graduate School of Education. Resided in Riverdale until 1994, second grade teacher in the Scarsdale School for 25 years. Sue loved to travel, ski and
 BROTMAN--Richard, Ph.D. On October 22, 2006. Beloved husband of Alma. Devoted father of Andrew and his wife Laurie; Deborah and her husband, Jim. Loving grandfather of Ilyse, Rebecca, Eric and Henry. Dedicated founder and leader of the Center for Comprehensive Health Practice. Family will g
