 SHAPIRO-Alexander. We extend our Kos Tanchumim to Barbara Joseph, member of the National Women's Division Board, on the lose of her beloved father. Together with her husband Manfred, the Josephs are Silver Founders of the Medical Center. Through their longtime support they have shown an ext
 NARVESEN-Leif Paul. Sept. 4, 1997. Executive of M. Fabrikant and Sons, Inc. Beloved son of Leif and Pat Narvesen, dear brother of John, Ingrid and her husband Frank Rossetti, Carl and Eric. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81st St Friday, September 5, 2 to 5 and 7 
 RUZE-John. In Concord, MA, on September 6, 1997. Husband of Rose (Perry), father of Elizabeth M. Ruze of Honolulu, HI, Patricia Ruze Chapman, MD, and her husband John of Alexandria, VA., Katherine Ruze Walter and her husband Adam of Golden, CO., and John Ruze and his wife Molly of Beaverdam
 BANDLER-Gloria (Jinx). Beloved wife of Alan, devoted mother of Ken, Martha, Joel and Susan. Loving grandmother of Alejandra and Jana. Sister of Jerome Jaffe. Funeral service today, 11:30 AM at Plaza Memorial Chapel, 91 Street and Amsterdam Avenue, NYC. BANDLER-Jinx. Congregation Or 
 LOOKSTEIN-Gertrude S. We mourn the passing of Gertrude Lookstein, Aishat Chavil, whose devotion to her family, faith and community have been an inspiration to us all. Her legacy continues in the leadership of our dear friend, Rabbi Haskel Lookstein. May he and his family be comforted among 
 Margo Rose, a puppeteer who with her husband gave life to Howdy Doody, the redheaded, freckle-faced marionette baby boomers grew up with, died on Saturday at Lawrence and Memorial Hospital in New London, Conn. She was 94 and lived in Waterford, Conn. ''Howdy Doody'' was broadcast on
 LONG-Jay Nicholas. Passed away on September 18, 1997. Beloved husband of Maria, cherished father of Angelique and her fiance, Hampton Peterson, and of Christopher and his wife Christianna and adoring grandfather of Nicholas and Alexander Long. Loving uncle, brother-in-law, and devoted frien
 McGUIRE-Robert A., September 18, 1997. Beloved husband of Gertrude and the late Eileen. Devoted father of Maureen Lloyd and her husband Richard, Terry McGuire and his wife Kate and Robert G McGuire and his wife Isabelle. Loving grandfather of Eileen, Margaret, Karin and Jeanine Lloyd and Je
 LIPSON-Morris. Beloved and devoted husband of Dorothy. Cherished father of Michael, Pauline Tamari and Roberta Lipson-Plafker. Loving grandfather of Ari, Rachel, Raphael, Jeremy, Jennie, Dorothy, Judy-Ann, Jonathan, Daniel and Benjamin. An ardent supporter of the Jewish Federation of South 
 MCCLINTOCK-John Thomas. Of New York City. Sept 25, 1997 in Salisbury, CT. Born on April 3, 1909 in Huntington, W. VA., Yale ('31), Harvard Business School ('33). Longtime partner of Wood Walker & Co. Member Downtown Association and University Club. Elder and Trustee of the Madison Avenue Pr
 OPPENHEIM-Selma. The leadership and staff of UJA-Federation note with sorrow the passing of Selma Oppenheim. Her son, Steven, is an outstanding member of our Board of Directors and a leader in our Business and Finance Division. He served as vice president of the Educational Alliance, a UJA-
