 BERCOVICI-Lola on July 31, 2001, at age 79. She was a New York City public school teacher for 26 years, an artist and active in the Council Senior Center in Manhattan. Beloved wife of the late Alfred, loving mother of Jon and his wife Linda, dear sister of Charlotte Frank and Louis Kizner. 
 SHAVIN-Charles. Riverdale Jewish Center extends condolences to our member, Rita Shavin, upon the loss of her husband. Deepest sympathies to his daughter, grandchildren, great-grandchild and brother. May the families be comforted amongst the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem. Jonathan I. Rosenb
 GOLDSTEIN-Rose. The Solomon Schechter School of Westchester and members of the Board extend our heartfelt condolences to Eric Goldstein on the passing of his beloved mother, Rose. May her memory be for a blessing. M. Mac Schwebel, Chairman Board of Trustees James M. Dubin, Vice Chairman Dr.
 BENEZRA-Edith. The Members, and our entire personnel express our heartfelt condolences to Peter Kurshan on the loss of his motherin-law, Edith Benezra. We extend our condolences to his wife, Diane, her sister, Rita and husband Robert, and her grandchildren, and hope that her memory will giv
 IRVINE-Bonnell. On August 9, 2001. Beloved husband of Josephine. Adored father of Cella Irvine. Loving father-in-law to Hart and grandfather to Giovanna and Hudson. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave. at 81 Street, Tuesday, August 14th, 4:00 PM. Interment private. Contributions
 PRITCHETT-Jane Harrison. Beloved wife of Rees. Loving mother of Susan Pritchett Post & motherin-law of Edward Everett Post, Jr. Devoted grandmother of James (Jacko) and Rosalie Claudianna (Anna). Dear sister of Hadelyn Morrow. Mrs. Pritchett died on Tuesday, August 14, in Glens Falls, New Y
 RUBENSTEIN-Mildred L. On August 19, 2001, at age 93. Beloved wife of the late E. Ivan Rubenstein. Loving mother of Seth Rubenstein and his late wife Elaine, Judith Cramer and Ruth Koeppel and her late husband Alfred. Adoring grandmother of Joshua, Ephraim and Sarah, Micah and Carol, Deborah
 MENDELSON-Matilda. The entire Congregation Beth Sholom family mourns the passing of Matilda Mendelson, mother of our beloved Cantor Solomon Mendelson, his brother Cantor Jacob Mendelson, and his sisters Betty Busch and Shirley Wendroff. Her loving kindness and compassion were felt by all. W
 RUBENSTEIN-Mildred L. The Officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York are deeply saddened by the passing of Mildred L. Rubenstein, beloved mother of our friend, Ruth Koeppel. Ruth and her late husband, Alfred, were deeply committed to Jewish philanthropic causes. W
 BRATSKEIR-Clara. Our heartfelt condolences to the family of Clara Bratskeir. She was the epitome of grace and the source of love and warmth to all who knew her. Our thoughts are with her son Stan and his wife Anne, grandchildren Lauren, Amy, Nick, Katie, Rob and his wife Susan and great-gra
 BAYER-Irma Miriam. On August 24, 2001. At age 84. Beloved wife of the late Justin. Loving mother of Pamela Schoolman and her husband Richard and Michael Bayer and his wife Maria. Adoring grandmother and great-grandmother. Dear sister of the late Dr. Jerome Coles. Devoted sister-in-law of Ge
 BAYER-Irma Miriam. On August 24, 2001. At age 84. Beloved wife of the late Justin. Loving mother of Pamela Schoolman and her husband Richard and Michael Bayer and his wife Maria. Adoring grandmother and great-grandmother. Dear sister of the late Dr. Jerome Coles. Devoted sister-in-law of Ge
 ENGH-Keith. Writer, adventurous spirit and my husband whom I loved so deeply for half my life. He was my world. Gerty Engh ENGH-Keith. The entire community of YIFA extends heartfelt sympathy to its devoted administrator Gerty Engh on the death of her most beloved husband, Keith. Isr
 SHULSKY-Rubin. Hebron Yeshiva in Jerusalem, its Rabbis, students and alumni mourn the passing of Rubin Shulsky, a revered philantropist and ardent supporter of the Yeshiva. Rubin Shulsky was highly admired for his leadership, generosity and kindness. Our deepest condolences and sympathy to 
 STRAUS-Hilde. Passed away peacefully in her sleep on Sunday August 26, 2001. She was convalescing at th Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale following a serious illness which befell her earlier this year. Beloved wife of 50 years of Walter, mother-in-law of Orit and Joseph Straus and Debbi
 GOULD-Mildred. On August 27, 2001. Beloved wife of Dr. Harold. Devoted mother of Thomas and his wife, Barbara. Dear sister of Walter Feldesman and the late Sylvia Schaeffer. Cherished grandmother of Mitchell & Julie, & Juli and Gregory; great-grandmother of Jake. Services Wednesday, 11:30 A
