 REGAN--Athena. March 29, 2006. Beloved wife of the late Peter G. Regan. Loving mother of George P.Regan and his wife Eve, Basil P. Regan and Marie P. Tutulis and her husband Peter J. Tutulis. Cherished grandmother of Pamela G. Regan and Anne G. Regan. Friends may call at Frank E. Campbell, 
 Henry Farrell, whose gift for writing pulpy melodrama was most famously realized in the 1962 movie ''Whatever Happened to Baby Jane?,'' died on March 29 at his home in Pacific Palisades, Calif. He was 85. Mary Bishop, his executor, confirmed his death. The ''Baby Jane'' movi
 KRAUT--Miriam. Heartfelt condolences to Professor Benny Kraut, Director of the Queens College Center for Jewish Studies, and his family, on the passing of his cherished mother Miriam. A Holocaust survivor, she passes on her courageous legacy to her son, and his wife, Penina; their children,
 FRIEDMAN--Edward D. Died April 4, 2006, peacefully at his beloved home in Truro, MA, surrounded by his wife, Carol P. Green, and his loving family. Predeceased by his wife, Mary Louise, and survived by his devoted children, Michael (Judith), Daniel (Anne-Marie), Mary Eleanor Szabat (Ron), a
 QUICK--Regina. The trustees, faculty and staff of Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory are deeply saddened at the passing of Regina (Jean) Clarkson Quick. Mrs. Quick was a generous supporter of the Laboratory, together with her husband, Leslie C. Quick, Jr., during his tenure on our Board of Trust
 GORDON--Rose Mary Mechem, 85, in Seattle, April 2. An editor for ''Sports Illustrated,'' she and husband Douglas worked for rankand-file trade-union causes. He survives her.       
 MANNING--Kenneth D. Loving and devoted husband to Rosalie. Cherished father to Damian Manning and Tobie Earley and her husband Bryan. Ken owned and operated Card-O-Mat on Broadway. He died peacefully at home after a courageous and valiant battle with brain cancer. In lieu of flowers donatio
 Helen Cohn, whose suspicions that life could turn peculiar after she said yes to a man named Nudie were confirmed as she helped him in his life's mission, putting lots and lots of rhinestones on country singers' suits, died on April 7 in Valencia, Calif. She was 92. Her granddaughte
 Dr. Paulina F. Kernberg, a child psychiatrist at Cornell and an authority on personality disorders who helped evaluate Elián González, the 6-year-old Cuban boy at the epicenter of an international custody battle in 2000, died on Wednesday at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital in 
 KARCHER--Barbara Jane. Of East Northport, NY, on April 16, 2006. Born in Brooklyn, NY, February 8, 1936, to the late Charles Moran and Grace Pallaske. Beloved wife of the late George Sr., and loving mother of George Jr. and his wife Roseann, Gerard, Maureen and her husband Gene Williams, an
 KRULWICH--Marilyn L. Congregation Or Zarua mourns the death of our member Marilyn L. Krulwich. May He who consoles the mourners of Zion and Jerusalem bring comfort to her family. Dr. Harlan J. Wechsler, Rabbi Michael W. Schwartz, Pres.       
 BOZOYAN--Virginia. Of Manhattan died on April 11, 2006 after a long illness. Born in Turkey and lived in New York City since 1970. Before retiring in 1995 she worked for the designer Adolfo as his right hand for many years. Her cremation was private.       
 BLAUSTEIN--Roslyn. Wife of the late Lew S. Blaustein, mother of Barbara and her husband Warren Goodman and Bruce R. Blaustein and his wife Patrice. Grandmother of Samuel and Jason.       
