 DOMAR-Evsey D. In Concord, MA., on April 1. Husband of Carola R. Domar, father of Erica D. Banderob and her husband John of Milton, MA., and Alice D. Domar and her husband David Ostrow of Sudbury, MA., grandfather of Rachel Domar Banderob and Jessica Banderob both of Milton, and Sarah Domar
 PINSKY-Marcia Kerr Ostrow. On April 2, 1997. Beloved wife of Dr. Abraham Pinsky and the late Justice Theodore D. Ostrow. Loving mother of Marc C. Ostrow and his wife, Jeanne, and Steven H. Ostrow and his wife, Nancy. Adored grandmother of Alexandra, Katherine and Peregrine. Dear sister of B
 WESTHEIMER - Manfred. The Board of Directors, Staff and members of the YM & YWHA of Washington Hts. and Inwood express profound sorrow on the passing of Fred Westheimer, the husband of our esteemed president, Dr. Ruth Westheimer. Fred was an aficionado of classical music and an active suppo
 Joana Mendes, the daughter of a disgraced Portuguese diplomat who devoted her life to winning recognition of his role in rescuing Jews from the Holocaust, died on March 20 at a nursing home in Mangualde, Portugal. She was 77. Her son, Aristides Mendes, said the cause was a stroke.  
 DAVIS-Judge Harry W. The Spiegel family, Charlotte, Jill, Maura, Arthur, Little Sam and Kate, mourn the loss of dear friend, ''Uncle Henry,'' and classmate, law partner and colleague of the late Surrogate Samuel A. Spiegel. Our heartfelt condolences to Teresa, and to Michael, always a part 
 DOMAR-Evsey D. In Concord, MA., on April 1. Husband of Carola R. Domar. Father of Erica D. Banderob and her husband John of Milton, MA. and Alice D. Domar and her husband David Ostrow of Sudbury, MA. Grandfather of Rachel Domar Banderob and Jessica Banderob, both of Milton and Sarah Domar O
 GRUBER-Alan. The officers, Board of Trustees, and staff of the Jewish Board of Family and Children's Services note with deep sorrow the loss of Alan Gruber, beloved husband of Harriet Gruber, and esteemed and long-time member of our Board of Trustees and dedicated past chair person of our G
 Thomas R. Ricketts, the longtime chairman and chief executive of the Standard Federal Bancorporation Inc. of Troy, Mich., the nation's 10th-largest savings and loan association, died on Tuesday. He was 66. Mr. Ricketts, who lived in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., died of abdominal cancer,
 Rose Bigman, Walter Winchell's formidable ''girl Friday'' who worked seven days a week shielding the columnist from his enemies, fending off his friends and serving him with slavish devotion for more than three decades, died on Wednesday at the Village Nursing Home in Manhattan. She was 87 
 GRAHAM-Marian (nee Gelles). Born January 15, 1916 died suddenly at home on April 18, 1997. Devoted wife of the late Daniel. Survived by son Jeffrey Graham of New Rochelle and his wife Carol, daughter Linda Powell and her husband Donald of Princeton, NJ, brother Dan Gelles and his wife Joyce
