 BANK-Rheta. Passed away at age 67 on January 1 at home. Beloved mother of Matthew and his companion Peter Hemmel, a sister of Eugene Laska and his wife Estelle, daughter of David Laska and aunt of Lori Sumberg, Jeffery Laska and Mark Laska. Funeral services will be held at Larchmont Temple,
 BROWN-George H. January 3, 2001. Beloved husband of the late Bettina Brown. Loving father of Tina and her husband Harold Evans and Christopher and his wife Diana. Cherished grandfather of George, Isabel, Ben, Owen and Rose. Devoted brother of Mary Norman. Laughter, learnt of friends; and ge
 GLENN-Ruth (nee Rosenblum). On January 4, 2001, of Rocky Point, LI. Formerly of Brooklyn, NY. Beloved wife of Abraham. Loving mother of Paul and his wife Laura Eisen; Sara Glenn-Levin and her husband Jeff; Joseph and his wife Susan; Philip and his wife Karen; and Adam and his wife Mrinalini
 TRAGER-Milton. On January 10, 2001. Beloved husband of May of 61 years. Survived by a daughter Roberta and her hsuband Allan, a son Lewis and his wife Shelly and a sister Anita Mittleman. Devoted grandfather of Jodi and her husband Robert, Scott, Jennifer and Miles. Services today Thursday 
 BELGRADE-Natalie. On January 11, 2001. Beloved mother of Ira and his wife Ruth. Dear sister of Ruth Newman and her late husband Leonard and Marvin Rosen. Cherished sister-in-law of Bea Rosen. Adored aunt of Mark and Sharon, Joan, Douglas and Barbara, Alison and Lee, Steven and Phyllis, Eric
 ROSENFIELD-Audrey Priest, on January 9, 2001. Beloved, loving and cherished wife of 53 years to Herbert Rosenfield. Dedicated and beloved mother of Dr. Patricia L. Rosenfield of NYC, Thomas Priest Rosenfield of Switzerland, and dearest friend and mentor to Nelson An-Ping Chang of Taiwan, an
 GOLDMAN-Simon. The officers and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Simon Goldman, father of Joan Ginsburg, who is a member of our board of directors, a former chair of our Westchester Women's Campaign Executive Committee, and a longtime supporter of our organization. S
 SHAW-Belle Grantz. 87. Beloved wife of the late Sidney Shaw. Loved and loving mother of Neil and his wife Maria and Lenore Shaw Standish and her husband Peter. Cherished grandmother of Seth Shaw and his wife Michelle and Chris, Adam and Hilary Standish. Adoring great grandmother of Alyssa S
 Michael Williams, a versatile British actor who was just as comfortable in television comedies as he was in Shakespearean tragedies, and who with Judi Dench had one of the most enduring and sympathetic marriages in British theater, died on Jan. 11 at his home in Surrey. He was 65. H
 STARK-Gilbert B., (Gil). Beloved brother of Janet Stark & Barbara Stark Bernstein, and loving friend of Gail Meyers and her family. He filled our lives with joy.       
 BLOOMBERG - Marion. The American Friends of The Israel Philharmonic Orchestra, Board of Directors and staff extend our deepest condolences to Board member Charles Petschek and his wife Elaine on the passing of her mother Marion Bloomberg. We extend our heart felt sympathy to the Bloomberg a
 GARTLAND-Owen. On January 26, 2001, of Hampton Bays, NY, and Hallandale, FL. Beloved husband of the late Alice. Loving father of Patrick, Daniel and his wife Palma, Alice and her husband Dr. William E. Hardy, Kevin and the late Rev. Owen Gartland. Cherished grandfather and greatgrandfather.
