 The Rev. Frederic Gehring, the World War II Navy chaplain who plunged into jungle combat with the First Marine Division in 1942 and came out with a battle-scarred little  Chinese girl who became an inspiring symbol of hope at a time of national despair, died on April 26 at a hospital near h
 OSTROFF-Sandy. The Workmen's Circle extends its deepest condolences to our Past President and dear friend Harold Ostroff and his family. Sandy was a beautiful person who suffered much. She is at peace.       
 SHE'S relentless,'' the author James McBride said yesterday about Lisa Belzberg, the woman who installed him as principal for the day at Public School 118 in Queens, and who was eight months pregnant when she asked him to do it. ''We had lunch at some tony restaurant near her office, and a 
 THORNE-Vera Sokolova. Aged 97, widow of Samuel Thorne, died at her home in Old Lyme, CT on May 11, 1998. Born in Moscow, Russia, she left in 1918 with her first husband Ivan Dabrowski and ultimately landed in New York in 1920. She and Dabrowski subsequently were divorced and he changed his 
 HAIMES-Madelaine (Mady). Dearest beloved wife for 51 years of Alex. Ever loving mother of Ted and Barbara. Devoted daughter to the late Willy and Anna Reiner. Fond aunt to many nieces and nephews. Services 11AM Thursday May 14, Riverside Chapel, 76th and Amsterdam Avenue. HAIMES-Mad
 Karolj Seles, the playful and innovative editorial-cartoonist-turned-tennis-coach who masterminded the double-handed strokes that helped turn his daughter, Monica, into the world's No. 1 ranked player by the time she was 17, died Thursday afternoon at a hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 64 
 ANTO-Radalaine. The Board of Directors, Administration, Medical Board and Staff of Peninsula Hospital Center are saddened by the loss of Radalaine Anto. Sincere condolences are extended to her son, Heino Anto, MD, past-president, Medical Board and his family. Joel A. Miele, Sr., P.E. Chairm
 THORNE-Vera Sokolova. Aged 97, widow of Samuel Thorne, died at her home in Old Lyme, CT on May 11, 1998. Born in Moscow, Russia, she left in 1918 with her first husband Ivan Dabrowski and ultimately landed in New York in 1920. She and Dabrowski subsequently were divorced and he changed his 
 Blanche Revere Long, the Louisiana Governor's wife who played Margaret Dumont to Earl K. Long's Groucho Marx in one of the great comic turns of American political history, died on May 11 at a nursing home in Covington, La. She was 93 and best known for the zany day in 1959 when she drew the
 OVEIS-Nora E. (nee Lacey). On May 16, 1998. Of the Bronx and Holmes, NY. Wife of the late Frank. She is survived by her son Frank and his companion Thomas Struhs and by her son Dennis and his wife Ann and their son Alexander. Family will receive friends at John J. Fox and Sons, Inc., 201st 
 OVEIS-Nora E. (nee Lacey). On May 16, 1998. Of the Bronx and Holmes, New York. Wife of the late Frank. She is survived by her son Frank and his companion Thomas Struhs and by her son Dennis and his wife Ann and their son Alexander. Family will receive friends at John J. Fox and Sons, Inc., 
 SOLOMON-Constance Kaufman. The Directors and staff of the Tanenbaum Center for Interreligious Understanding join our esteemed Board member, Adam Solomon, in mourning the loss of his beloved mother. Our hearts go out to his father, Tony Solomon, and the rest of the family. Connie died peacef
 MILLER-William. We extend our sincerest sympathy to Dorothee and her children on the loss of her dear husband, Willie, on Sunday May 17, 1998. He was always a legend to us. His brother and sisterin-law, brother-in-law, nieces and nephews, and their families share in your grief. Ben & Rea Mi
 SILVERMAN-Doris Elise. Died at the Jewish Home and Hospital after a long battle with Juvenile Diabetes. Caring sister of J. Herbert and his wife Betty R. Silverman, aunt of Braden L. Silverman and his wife Dr. Amelia Case, Chicago, and Nora E. Kinne and her husband Aaron Kinne, Boston. Ms. 
 FEUER-Rochelle. Young Israel of Oceanside expresses heartfelt condolences to our member and past President, Willy Feuer on the loss of his beloved wife, and to the children, Ezra, Daniel, David and Esther on the loss of their devoted mother. May the families be comforted among the mourners 
 BODIG-Richard. Aston Magna notes with great sadness the passing of Richard Bodig, a long-time member of its Board. A music lover in the purest and most profound sense, and a consummate gentleman, his contributions to Aston Magna were many and important. His intellect, gentleness, decency an
 YOUNG-Robert F. Former president and publisher of Family Circle magazine, he was a longtime resident of Hastings-on-Hudson and Carmel, NY, recently moved to Greensboro, NC. Died May 27, 1998. Cherished husband of Judith, devoted father of Melinda Rosengarten, Julie O'Connor, Steven and Chri
