 PATTERSON--Pamela P., 75, died Saturday, January 24th in Southampton, NY after a long illness. She is survived by her son Jamie and his children, Lily, Emilia, Fredrika and John Logan Whitall and daughter Wendy's son Michele Marsina. A memorial service will be held on May 15th in Stonington
 Adella Wotherspoon, the last survivor of the deadliest disaster in New York City history until Sept. 11, 2001 -- the burning and sinking of the steamboat General Slocum in June 1904 -- died on Jan. 26. She was 100, the youngest Slocum survivor having at last become the oldest. She d
 KRYLE--Dr. Lawrence. It is with deep sorrow that we record the passing of our esteemed member, Dr. Lawrence Kryle, and we extend our deepest sympathy to his wife, Myra and family. Old Westbury Golf and Country Club Herbert Selzer, President Steven Tolman, Secretary KRYLE--Larry. A d
 CHURCHILL--Florence Quinlan. On Thursday, peacefully, in New Hampshire, at 88. Her loving charm mourned by devoted nephew Denis Quinlan and his wife Susan, niece Pamela Beresford, and all who knew her. Service Tuesday, February 10, at 10:30 AM, Church of Our Savior.       
 OGRIN--Leslie. On February 7, 2004, at age 75. Cherished husband of Rima. Loving father of David Ogrin and his wife Vicki, Mara Cohen and her husband Andrew. Adoring grandfather of Kyle, Alana and Lucas. Dear brother of Melvin Ogrin. Services at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Ave at 81 St,
 WASSERMAN -- Susan. She was a caring lady, just as Vicki Kops Wimpfheimer and my mother, Ida Bakalar Gluck were...Hitler forced Susan to come here and she conquered speaking English without a trace of an accent; it was a source of quiet pride. Vicki was born here; my mother came over in ste
 WINIK--Bette. Of Newton, MA, on February 13, 2004. Dear daughter of Norman Winik and his wife Elaine of Palm Beach, FL, and the late Carolyn (Augstein) Winik. Loving sister of Mary Jacobs of Newton, MA, and her husband Dr. Douglas Jacobs. Dear aunt of Carolyn and Deborah Jacobs. Survived by
 GORELICK -- Sylvia (nee Glassman). Of Paterson, NJ, on Saturday, February 14, 2004. Beloved wife of the late Irving Gorelick. Devoted mother of Arlene Taub and her husband Joseph, of Tenafly, NJ, and Kenneth P. Gorelick, M.D., and his wife Cheryl of Washington, DC. Dear sister of Harry Glas
 Esther Buhler Bradley, a screenwriter and the widow of General of the Army Omar N. Bradley, died on Feb. 3 in Rancho Mirage, Calif. She was 81. The cause was pneumonia, said Col. Charles Honeycutt, a former aide to the general. Mrs. Bradley, known as Kitty Buhler, wrote epis
 CONNORS--Hon. Richard F., Sr., Judge of Superior Court, State of NJ, of Jersey City, NJ, on Saturday, February 14, 2004. Beloved husband of Jacqueline (nee Healy) Connors. Devoted father of Maureen Connors, Patricia Lamb and her husband James, Richard F. Connors, Jr. and his wife Susan. Lov
 CONNORS--Hon. Richard F., Sr., Judge of Superior Court, State of NJ, of Jersey City, NJ, on Saturday, February 14, 2004. Beloved husband of Jacqueline (nee Healy) Connors. Devoted father of Maureen Connors, Patricia Lamb and her husband James, Richard F. Connors, Jr. and his wife Susan. Lov
 FELL--Charles. The Brotherhood Synagogue extends condolences to our Chairman of the Board, Alan (Millie) Fell on the passing of his dear father, to Freda on the loss of her beloved husband, and to the rest of the bereaved family. Charles leaves a precious legacy.       
 ROTHMAN--Harriet L. Of Monroe Township, NJ, Boynton Beach, FL, formerly North Woodmere, NY. On February 17, 2004. Our courageous optimist. Beloved wife of Jerry. Loving mother of Amy Schonfeld and her husband Steven, and Michael and his wife Sandy. Devoted grandmother of Scott, Sara, and Ev
 SENDERS--Pauline (Peppy). The Yeshiva University family is deeply grieved by the passing of the beloved wife of Yeshiva College Board member, Myer Senders (YC'46), who was a YU Guardian with him, and a devoted mother of a YU family, who was honored with her husband by Cleveland Friends of Y
 Lady Fiennes, who as the wife of the noted British explorer Sir Ranulph Fiennes accompanied her husband on some expeditions and endured his absences for up to three years or more while he was on others, died on Feb. 20 in Exeter, England. She was 56. The Associated Press said the de
