 HARMAN--Bettie M. (nee Ettinger). 87 years on June 29. Beloved Mother, Sister, Grandmother and GreatGrandmother. ''To spare family the sad chore,/I pick up my pen yet once more/With hope I have the strength and wit/To compose this, my own obit:/Parents Fran and Dave were the best:/With sist
 WILF--Judith. The Board and staff of the Israel Cancer Research Fund mourn the loss of the beloved mother of our dedicated friend, Leonard Wilf. Our deepest condolences to Mr. Wilf, his wife Beth, her sister Rose Blumenkranz, and the entire Wilf family. Service at 12 noon on Sunday, July 2n
 WILF--Judith. Beloved wife of the late Harry, founding benefactor of our society, devoted mother of Leonard, Chairman of the Board of Trustees and his wife, Beth, loving grandmother, great grandmother, sister-in-law to Elizabeth and Joe Wilf. On behalf of our officers and Board of Directors
 AZZOLLINI--Rosa of Molfetta, Italy and New York, died suddenly on June 30, 2006 in London. Her elegance, smile, and carefree joie de vivre will be lovingly remembered. We will deeply mourn the loss of a gregarious and spirited mother, sister, aunt, and friend. She is survived by daughter Je
 WILF--Judith. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Judith Wilf, beloved mother of Leonard Wilf, a renowned business leader, philanthropist, and treasured friend. The Wilf family's historic commitment to the Jewish people and other hu
 MITHERZ--Beatrice. On July 2, 2006 at age 92. Beloved wife of the late Leon Mitherz. Loving mother of Steve Mitherz and his wife Ellen Kirouac and Mara Lehmann. Grandmother of Joshua and Julie. Contributions in her memory may be made to a charity of your choice       
 GUTTAG--Marjorie. The officers, Board of Directors, and staff of UJA-Federation of New York mourn the passing of Marjorie Guttag, a former leader who together with her late husband Irwin, shared a historic commitment to our network of agencies and whose support enabled us to enrich millions
 SL0TSKY--Gordon J. On July 11, 2006 at age 72 of cardiac arrest. Husband of Alice Weisfeld Slotsky; father of Pamela J. Slotsky and her husband Richard L. Zinser, Jr. Distinguished mathematical statistician, avid punster and devout audiophile. Donations in his memory may be made to Parkinso
 HOLLANDER--Edith Orrin-ger, on June 26, 2006 in San Rafael, CA. Oldest of five children of the late Albert and Jennie Orringer. Beloved wife of the late Bertram Hol lander. Survived and loved by her son Michael and his wife Clare, and by her sister Mildred Orringer, and many nieces, nephews
 MANTON--Honorable. Thomas J. on July 22, 2006. U.S. Congressman (7th CD Ret.), Chairman, Queens County Democratic Organization, New York City Councilman (Ret.), District Leader , Anoroc Democratic Club, Inc., Veteran, U.S. Marine Corp (Sgt.), Retired NYPD, Partner in the Law Firm of Manton,
 RIVLIN--Theodore J. Age 79 of Croton-on-Hudson on July 22, 2006. Beloved husband of Jean. Devoted father of Madeline Rivlin and her husband John Bonacum, Elizabeth Rivlin and her husband Michael Le Mahieu. Cherished grandfather of Cynthia and Emily Bonacu and Alice Rivlin Le Mahieu. Dear br
 WARSHALL - COHN--Beulah93) died peacefully July 22. Committed throughout life to her large sense of family, peace and justice; lover of classical music, travel, and gardening; an expert lab technician and pediatric assistant. Happily married to Hyman; after his death, happily to Theodore. B
 Rupert Pole, one of the two simultaneous -- and simultaneously unwitting -- husbands of the novelist, erotic adventurer and copiously confessional diarist Anaïs Nin, was found dead on July 15 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 87. Mr. Pole apparently died in his sleep, said his hal
