 JONES-Iris K Of Heritage Village, Southbury, CT. Wife of Wolcott B. (Bud) Jones. She is survived by a son, Jeffrey M. Jones and his wife Susan, a daughter Amy M. Jones and a sister Margaret Ness. Funeral services will be held in Connecticut.       
 SHELLER-Ed. On November 13, 1998. Beloved husband of Naomi Sarna. Father of Chris & Alex Sheller, Sarah and Noa Schechter. Dear son of Robert and the late Helen Sheller. Adored nephew of Florence Shultz. Brother of Elly Rufer and her family, John, Daniel and Kate. Services Sunday, November 
 BORKOW-Althea Kleiger. On November 12, 1998. Beloved wife of the late Dr. Ben A. Borkow. Devoted mother of Joan Cleveland, Dr. Stephen and Susan Borkow and Susan and Dr. Richard Ulin. Loving grandmother of David and Rae, Allan and Renee, John and Mary, Michael and his fiancee Dana Klein, an
 KISSINGER-Paula. The Board of Directors of the Lauri Strauss Leukemia Foundation expresses profound sorrow to our Honorary Board Member and Founder of the Ambassador Felix Schnyder Memorial Fund,Mr. Walter B. Kissinger and his brother Henry and their families on the passing of their beloved
 PAKULA-Alan J. The New York Public Library expresses its deepest sympathies to Hannah C. Pakula on the tragic and untimely passing of her husband, Alan J. Pakula. As one of America's most celebrated filmmakers, Mr. Pakula's important work as director, screenwriter and producer has been an i
 MILLSTEIN - Raymond Phillip. Died peacefully at home in New York City on November 26th, 1998. Loved husband of Alissa. Devoted father of David Matthew. Dear son of Pearl and the late David Millstein. Loving brother of Janis Millstein-Rubin and her husband Gabriel. Adored uncle and brother-i
 PATTASHNICK-Rabbi Abba. Congregation Orach Chaim expresses its profound sorrow on the passing of the father of our dedicated member, Bonnie Pollak, and expresses heartfelt condolences to her, her husband Isaac, and their children, Zamir, Ovadya and Elianna. A Torah scholar, a man of great d
