 CHAPMAN-Edward Of Paterson, NJ on June 27, 1999. Beloved husband of Lillian (Slotkin). Father of Barbara Calderhead and her husband Richard, and Benson Chapman and his wife Marcia. Grandfather of Emily, Maxine DellaVecchia and her husband Robert, and Steven. Brother of Mildred and Anita. Al
 SCHLESINGER-Adele. The officers, board members, principals, faculty, parents and students of the Solomon Schechter Day School of Nassau County express their sincere condolences to James Schlesinger, our treasurer, and his family, on the loss of his dear mother. May her memory be a source of
 BELLAMY-Harry The Board and Staff of Brooklyn Public Library extend condolences to Trustee and past President, Bonnie Bellamy on the loss of her dear father. May he rest in peace. Hon. Marsha Steinhardt, President Martin Gomez, Executive Director Brooklyn Public Library       
 KENNEDY-John F., Jr. The Board of Directors, the Advisory Board and the Staff of The Breast Cancer Research Foundation extend their most heartfelt condolences to the families of Carolyn Bessette Kennedy, John F. Kennedy, Jr. and Lauren Bessette on their presumed deaths. We also send our sin
 GROSSMAN-Albert. The Yeshiva University family is saddened by the passing of a respected member of the Jewish community, beloved father of Harriet (& Joshua) Muss & Ruth (and Emanuel) Roth, and brother of Max Grossman. Harriet and Joshua Muss are YU Benefactors; she is a National Board memb
 MACKEY-Barbara A. (nee Healy), of New York, NY, on July 21st, 1999. Beloved wife of Edward. Loving daughter of William A. and the late Doris M. Healy. Devoted sister of William A. Healy, Jr. and his wife Carol, Carole Wittenberg and her husband Gary, Gail M. Burns and her husband William, a
 HAMBURG-Lillian. On July 27, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Martin Hamburg. Loving mother of Marcia Carpeni and Jeff Hamburg and his wife, Barbara. Cherished grandmother of Brian, Madison and Alexandra. Service Thursday, July 29, at 9:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st S
 HAMBURG-Lillian. On July 27, 1999. Beloved wife of the late Martin Hamburg. Loving mother of Marcia Carpeni and Jeff Hamburg and his wife, Barbara. Cherished grandmother of Brian, Madison and Alexandra. Service Thursday, July 29, at 9:30AM at Frank E. Campbell, 1076 Madison Avenue at 81st S
