 SHAW-Rosamond Grenfell. The Board of Directors of The Grenfell Association of America extend heartfelt condolences on the death of their beloved mother and grandmother. To Mrs. Shaw's surviving three children, Richard Shaw, Anne Benditt and Susan Phillips, and her four surviving grandchildr
 KUPIETZKY-Fanny. The Yeshiva University family marks with sadness the passing of a highly respected member of the Jewish community, wife of the late Rabbi Jacob H. Kupietzky, mother of Rabbi Jonah, a loyal YC and RIETS alumnus, who together with his wife Fran are YU Guardians and RIETS Fell
 SHELDON-Howard. Age 90, in Greenwich Hospital on August 3, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Fay, cherished father of Gay Goldman and her husband Carl, adored grandfather of Lewis, Leslie and Patricia. Dear great-grandfather of Leah and Jason Goldman, Noah Lack, and Quinn Perini. A compassi
 SHELDON-Howard. Age 90, in Greenwich Hospital on August 3, 2000. Beloved husband of the late Fay, cherished father of Gay Goldman and her husband Carl, adored grandfather of Lewis, Leslie and Patricia. Dear great-grandfather of Leah and Jason Goldman, Noah Lack, and Quinn Perini. A compassi
 BISTRITZKY-Alexander. We extend our heartfelt condolences to Eva Bistritzky, on the passing of her beloved husband, Alexander. His late mother, Schifra, a Silver Founder of the Medical Center, served as an exemplary role model to this special man. May the entire family be comforted amongst 
 KLEIN-Pauline (nee Leibner). On August 10, 2000. Beloved wife of the late Philip; loving mother of Estelle Yoss, Doris Silverman, Harold Klein and his wife Marcia; dear grandmother of Meryl, Eric, Rhonda, Ilena, Mara, Gillian, Stefan, Cheryl, Donna, and Stephanie. Great-grandmother of 16. W
 Mary T. Reynolds, an authority on  James Joyce, died on Friday at her home in Washington. She was 87. Dr. Reynolds won particular praise for her book ''Joyce and Dante: The Shaping Imagination'' (Princeton University Press, 1981), about the influence of Dante's poetry on Joyce's wri
 CASHEL-William S., Jr. On behalf of the entire Poly Prep Community, the Board of Trustees of Poly Prep Country Day School wishes to express our sadness at the passing of William S. Cashel, Jr., a loyal and dedicated member of the class of '37. We extend our condolences to his widow, Marie a
 KOREK-Roslyn. The Law Firm and staff of Gersowitz, Libo and Korek extend deepest condolences to Jeff Korek our (esteemed) partner, his father Seymour, and their entire family on the passing of Jeff's mother Roslyn. May her memory be a blessing to all those who knew and loved her.       
