 GREENBERG - Erwin. Beloved husband of the late Marjorie and Florence. Loving father of Jessica and Ellen and James Tilzer. Devoted grandfather of Katherine, Andrew, Brian & Lisa. Wonderful stepfather and step-grandfather. Memorial service to be held on Wednesday at 11 AM at Temple Beth El, 
 LEICHTMAN-Frances Simmons. Of Boynton Beach, FL on August 31, 1998. Former Senior Vice President of Alexander's department stores. Beloved wife of Paul Leichtman; loving mother of Gail Macht-Martin and Alvin Martin, and Jane Freeman and Stuart Freeman. Devoted and generous grandmother of Hi
 NELSON-Tara. Sutton Place Synagogue extends heartfelt condolences to our members Sheila & Robert Nelson on the devastating loss of their cherished daughter. She was a shining star. Our sympathies to the family and to Dr. Edward Firouztale on the loss of his beloved. May their inspiring memo
 HAYMAN-Seymour ''Sy,'' age 83. Beloved husband of Dorothy. Devoted father of Jonathan and Valerie. Son of the late Louie and Ettie Hayman. Dear uncle of Ellen, Robert, Nicholas, Laura and Karen, & Joanne Larzik. Services on Wednesday, September 9th, at 12 PM, at Westchester Reform Temple, S
 KOLKER-Rosa (nee Jacobson). The Officers, members of the Board of Directors and Staff of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee (JDC) deeply mourn the passing of Rosa Kolker (nee Jacobson), beloved mother of Jonathan W. Kolker, President of the JDC. She was an outstandiing woman a
 DUVAL-Marie Townsend, age 102 died of natural causes on September 18, 1998 at Lawrence Hospital, Bronxville, NY. Beloved wife of the late William Duval, devoted mother of Betty Ann, William and his wife Barbara. Born January 13, 1896 in Bolivar, Missouri. A memorial service will be held at 
 WEINSTOCK-Frances K., 103. On September 20, 1998. Beloved wife of the late George J., devoted mother of Blossom Landsman, Arthur Weinstock, his wife Betty, & the late Rita Weinstock. Loving grandmother of Peggy Kerner & Carol Landsman. Also survived by great granddaughters Erica and Julie. 
 WEINSTOCK-Frances K., 103. On September 20, 1998. Beloved wife of the late George J., devoted mother of Blossom Landsman, Arthur Weinstock, his wife Betty, & the late Rita Weinstock. Loving grandmother of Peggy Kerner & Carol Landsman. Also survived by great granddaughters Erica and Julie. 
 Daisy Anderson, an old man's darling who kept the flame of her own youthful love and her husband's searing slave memories burning for more three quarters of a century, died last Saturday at a nursing home in Denver. She was 97, and, as the oldest of the nation's three known surviving Civil 
 GREENBERG-Marilyn. 1935-1998. Author of ''The Rabbi's Life Contract'', Doubleday, 1989. Beloved wife of Rabbi David Greenberg and his partner in all things, including the building, in Scarsdale, of the Westchester Reform Temple and the Scarsdale Synagogue (1955-1980) and, in Easthampton, L.
