
        Katharine Homer Fryer, an artist, teacher and writer who devoted much of her later life to the mentally disturbed, died Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 89 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, her family said.
        At her death, she was president of the Schizophrenia Foundation of New York, which provides information on alternative treatments for the illness. She headed the foundation since 1969, shortly after its creation.
        She also was director emeritus of the Fryer Research Center, an outpatient clinic in the former Murray Hill Hospital on East 40th Street in Manhattan. It offers a biochemical-nutritional approach to emotional and mental conditions, like schizophrenia and depression, as well as physical disorders.
        She founded the nonprofit center in 1971 to help people who could not otherwise afford such treatment, and remained its director until a few months ago. Her daughter and successor, Dr. Kathy Fryer, estimated yesterday that the center had served more than 10,000 people and their families.
        Mrs. Fryer's dedication stemmed in large part from living with mental illness in her immediate family. One of her five daughters, Barbara, committed suicide in 1968 at age 31, after spending 10 years in a succession of treatments for schizophrenia.
        In a new book, ''The Story of Barbara,'' Mrs. Fryer wrote of her daughter's condition, which might have had a different outcome with the alternative treatments for schizophrenia emerging then. The book is to be published by Rivercross Publishing later this year.
        An earlier book was ''Kathy: A Mother's True Story of a Young Girl's Fight to Regain Health'' (Dutton, 1956). It told of her daughter Kathy's successful emergence from a mysterious ailment that befell her at 13 and a mother's years of searching for the right diagnosis and cure.
        Mrs. Fryer wrote of the ''unexpected, miraculous'' deliverance when Kathy's condition was recognized and swiftly overcome. It proved to be a complex case of severe thyroid deficiency aggravated by psychological problems.
        Mrs. Fryer published a second book in 1994, ''Till Death Do Us Part,'' on life with her husband, Dr. Douglas Fryer, a pioneer in industrial psychology and a prolific author, whom she married in 1934. A former head of the Department of Psychology at New York University, he died in 1960.
        Katharine Homer was born in New York City to two well-known parents, Sidney Homer, a composer of chamber music and songs, and Louise Homer, a Metropolitan Opera contralto. In the 1920's, she studied piano, singing and painting under distinguished teachers at the Curtis Institute of Music, Mannes College of Music and the Arts League in New York, and at l'Ecole Julienne in Paris.
        For several years, she traveled as her mother's accompanist before touring on her own as a solo pianist and with chamber music groups. She exhibited her paintings in New York and Paris.
        In 1932, she organized a 50-member girls' choir in Scarsdale, N.Y., and directed it until 1951. She also organized and directed an adult choir in Rye, N.Y., in the 1960's.
        All along, until her work at the foundation and center became a primary occupation, she privately taught piano, singing and painting. She also served stints as a piano teacher at the Manhattan School of Music in the 1930's, and more recently at the Brearley School.
        Besides Dr. Fryer, a Manhattan resident, she is survived by three other daughters, Dr. Judith Shedden, Anne Eddis and Dr. Sarah Leibowitz, all of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
      