
        Patricia Mason, a real-estate broker who handled the sales of some of New York's best-known properties in recent years and who was well-known as a horticulturist, died at St. Vincent's Hospital early yesterday. She was 71 and lived in Greenwich Village.
        Her husband, Francis S. Mason Jr., said the cause was cancer.
        Mrs. Mason joined the William B. May Company in 1968 and at the time of her death was a senior vice-president who specialized in sales of town houses in Greenwich Village.
        One closely watched sale she arranged was the house at 19 Gramercy Park, which sold for $1.5 million in 1979. Benjamin Sonnenberg, a public relations executive, had bought two adjoining houses in 1933 and converted them to a 37-room six-story mansion. The ballroom was said to be the scene of some of the most fashionable parties of the 1940's.
        Mrs. Mason also handled the sale of 128 East 19th Street; the property had belonged to the ballet promoter Lincoln Kirstein who died early last year. She donated her commission from that sale to the Lincoln Kirstein Fund at the School of American Ballet.
        In addition, it was at her suggestion that the Stuyvesant-Fish House on Stuyvesant Street was recently donated to Cooper Union. F. Phillip Geraci, who bought the landmark building in 1967 and spent 12 years restoring it, was a friend and client. The house was built in 1802 as a wedding present for Elizabeth Stuyvesant and Col. Nicholas Fish; she was the great-granddaughter of Peter Stuyvesant.
        The Masons were married in New York in 1952; in 1956 they went to Yugoslavia where they spent four years. Mrs. Mason represented the Lutheran World Relief and Church World Service. Mr. Mason was a cultural affairs officer with the United States Information Agency.
        Mrs. Mason's interest in horticulture began during those years. Her gardens in Belgrade, London, Washington and New York were frequently shown on horticultural tours. The garden of her home on Morton Street in Greenwich Village and of her family home -- established 50 years ago by her mother, Leslie Ten Eyck Michaels, at Manursing Island in Rye, N.Y. -- were among the first to be shown to the public under the auspices of the Garden Conservancy, a national organization that works to preserve exceptional gardens.
        Mrs. Mason was born in Miami Beach, graduated from Wellesley College in 1948 and received a master's degree from the London School of Economics the following year. In London she worked for the United Nations World magazine and later was on the staff of the International Labor Organization in Geneva. She returned to Manhattan in 1951.
        She worked with horticultural groups including the Garden Conservancy, the rock garden committee of the New York Botanical Garden, the North American Rock Garden Society, the International Dendrological Society and Wave Hill, in the Bronx.
        In addition to her husband she is survived by a son, Spencer Mason of Pforzheim, Germany; a daughter, Leslie Scarlett Mason of Manhattan, and one grandchild.
      