
        Dorothy Olding, longtime literary agent for J. D. Salinger and chief guardian of the reclusive author's privacy, who at the author's request once destroyed 500 letters they had written to each other, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 87.
        During a 52-year career with the Harold Ober Associates literary agency in New York, the last 17 as its president, Ms. Olding also represented Agatha Christie, Pearl S. Buck, Paul Gallico, Ngaio Marsh and numerous others.
        ''She came on like the Unsinkable Molly Brown, but with class,'' said Ira Levin, who was also one of Ms. Olding's clients and who dedicated the thriller ''Sliver'' to her. ''She was always just clear-spoken, forthright, the kind of person you could never imagine going back on her word.''
        Ms. Olding was born in New York to an English-born father and a Philadelphia-born mother and attended Barnard College before joining the staff of American magazine as assistant fiction editor in 1931, according to Phyllis Westberg, president of Harold Ober Associates. Ms. Olding joined the agency in 1938.
        She married Edward V. McKeown in 1946, but they had no children and he died in 1951.
        Ms. Olding's personal client list, like that of her agency, was drawn from ''both mass and class,'' said Roger W. Straus Jr., president of Farrar, Straus and Giroux. The list included both popular and scholarly authors.
        She became best known for representing Mr. Salinger, who joined her client list in the early 40's. As Mr. Salinger, author of ''Catcher in the Rye,'' became increasingly reclusive and ceased to publish, it fell to Ms. Olding to fend off requests for interviews, turn down publishing proposals and movie deals and handle the author's mail.
        In 1986, as Mr. Salinger successfully fought to prevent the publication of a biography by Ian Hamilton, Ms. Olding disclosed that she never even forwarded Mr. Salinger's fan mail and that she destroyed their personal correspondence in 1970, both at the author's request.
        Mr. Hamilton later published a substantially rewritten book called ''In Search of J. D. Salinger.''
        Mr. Salinger did not wish to be interviewed about Ms. Olding's death, or to issue a statement, Ms. Westberg said.
        Ms. Olding was president of the agency from 1973 until a stroke in 1990 forced her to retire, Ms. Westberg said.
        No immediate family members survive.
      