
        Esther Goldfrank, an accidental anthropologist who did pioneering research among the Pueblo Indians of the Southwest in the 1920's and churned out papers on the experience for the next half-century, died on April 23 at a nursing home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. She was 100.
        As a Barnard economics major whose sole exposure to anthropology had been an introductory course during her senior year, Miss Goldfrank, a Manhattan native whose maiden name was Schiff, would hardly seem to have had the credentials to go sashaying off to New Mexico at the age of 24 as a front-line scientific investigator.
        But she had received a B in the course, and apparently had made an impression on the professor. A year after her graduation in 1918, she was holding down a stifling job on Wall Street when she got a note asking if she would like to be his secretary.
        Within months, she was in the field with the man she and a generation of other young female protegees called Papa Franz and the world knew as Franz Boas, the German-born social scientist widely recognized as the father of American anthropology and the mentor of such giants as Margaret Mead and Ruth Benedict.
        For all his stature, Boas was a figure of some controversy within the anthropology community.
        Among other things, he played down the fledgling field's emphasis on biology and concentrated on studying the cultural variations of disparate societies, each of which, he maintained, was as valid and valuable as any other.
        Although he had laid the foundations for cultural anthropology through his work with Eskimos in the 1880's and later with the Kwakiutl and other Indians of the Pacific Northwest, Boas was persuaded to turn his attention to the Southwest in the early 1920's by his patron, the redoubtable Elsie Clews Parsons, the wealthy, Barnard-trained social worker who had become a force in anthropology after becoming enchanted with the Pueblo Indians of New Mexico.
        It was she who financed the Boas expeditions and paid Miss Goldfrank's salary, but Miss Goldfrank did not remain a secretary long. Almost immediately she expanded her duties to include interviewing Pueblo residents and painstakingly recording the meticulous observations of behavior that was the hallmark of the celebrated Boas methodology.
        Miss Goldfrank concentrated initially on kinship, the mundane study of things like what one calls one's mother and who is considered a brother, which was the anthropological rage of the day.
        She inadvertently broadened the scope of her scholarship and enriched the field of anthropology when she met a woman at a well and was invited to her home in the Cochiti Pueblo.
        The woman was Carolyn Quintana, the daughter of a legendary Conchiti storyteller, and Miss Goldfrank was so enthralled with her detailed and vivid descriptions of the minutiae of Conchiti culture that she moved into the Pueblo and began taking notes.
        Among the results were a stream of papers, including a 1927 monograph, ''The Social and Ceremonial Organization of Conchiti.''
        Miss Goldfrank did most of her field work from 1920 to 1922, the year she married Walter S. Goldfrank, a Manhattan businessman and widower with three young sons. Except for a brief return visit to New Mexico in 1924, partly to alleviate postpartum depression after the birth of a daughter, Miss Goldfrank spent most of the next two decades as a homemaker and mother in White Plains, although an unusually prolific one who kept the typewriter clacking.
        After the death of her husband in 1935, Miss Goldfrank moved back to Manhattan and made one more important field trip, this this time to Alberta, Canada, which led to other papers, including a 1945 monograph, ''Changing Configurations in the Social Organization of a Blackfoot Tribe During the Reserve Period.''
        By then her 1940 marriage to Karl A. Wittfogel, a social scientist and former Communist, had altered the focus of her scholarship. Mr. Wittfogel had worked in China in developing his celebrated theory that the construction and control of irrigation canals had concentrated the power of ruling elites and spawned despotism, and Miss Goldfrank joined the staff of his short-lived China project at Columbia and applied his theories in her own continuing writings on Indians.
        Miss Goldfrank published her memoirs privately in 1978. She titled the book ''Notes on an Undirected Life.''
        Miss Goldfrank, whose second husband died in 1988, is survived by a daughter, Susan Lenhoff of Israel; a stepson, Thomas Goldfrank of Mamaroneck; 6 step-grandchildren, and 12 step-great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  May 26, 1997, Monday
        An obituary yesterday about Esther Goldfrank, an anthropologist who studied the Pueblo Indians, included an incorrect reference to the publication of her memoirs, ''Notes on an Undirected Life,'' in 1978. They were published by the Queens College Press; they were not published privately.
      