
        Maria Weigl Piers, an authority on psychosocial development in childhood and founder of the Erikson Institute for Advanced Study in Child Development in Chicago, died on May 21 at her home in Chicago. She was 85.
        Dr. Piers was internationally recognized for applying psychoanalytic concepts to the care and education of young children. She was one of the last of the professionals from Vienna in the 1930's who focused on psychosocial development in association with the psychoanalysts Erik Erikson and Anna Freud.
        In the 1960's, Dr. Piers saw a need for educating teachers of small children to the complex and often upsetting turns in their development. Raising the money and assembling trustees, she founded the Chicago Institute for the Education of Young Children, to which Dr. Erikson later lent his name and support.
        The institute, begun in 1966 with Dr. Piers as its dean, is a private graduate school and research center for advanced study in child development, affiliated with Loyola University in Chicago. It is one of four such institutions in the United States focusing solely on educating leaders in early childhood development and education, with emphasis on urban children and families.
        Dr. Piers, whose father was the composer Karl Weigl, trained as a kindergarten teacher in Vienna and received a doctorate at the University of Vienna. She did postgraduate work at the University of Basel, in Switzerland, and at Northwestern University, in Chicago.
        She became a social worker after immigrating to the United States in 1939. She taught at Chicago Medical School, the Chicago Institute of Psychoanalysis and the University of Chicago.
        At the same time she developed educational programs for television and radio. In addition to contributing papers and articles to professional journals, she wrote books. They included ''Infanticide'' (Norton, 1978); ''Growing up With Children'' (Quadrangle, 1966); ''Wages of Neglect,'' with Robert Coles (Quadrangle, 1969) and, with G. M. Landau, ''The Gift of Play'' (Walker, 1980).
        She retired in 1986.
        Her husband, Gerhart Piers, a psychoanalyst, died in 1979. She is survived by a daughter, Peggy Piers, of Portland, Ore.; a son, Matthew, of Chicago, and four grandchildren.
      