
        Queen Mother Moore, a civil rights worker and black nationalist, died on Friday in a nursing home in Brooklyn. She was 98 and a longtime resident of Harlem.
        Miss Moore, whose real name was Audley Moore, was a hero to many residents of Harlem, where she worked with Marcus Garvey, the Jamaican-born black nationalist leader, and his Back-to-Africa movement. She was also an advocate of reparations for slavery, tenants' rights and education for the poor.
        Howard Dodson, the head of the Schomburg Center for Research in Black Culture, in Harlem, said in 1995 that her career constituted ''a link between the best elements of the nationalist and radical left political traditions in Harlem over the past five, six decades.''
        Miss Moore came to be called Queen Mother during a trip to Africa years ago, when a tribe in Ghana awarded her the honorary title. In Africa, as she once put it, ''I felt the lash on the backs of my people.''
        Her outrage over the suffering of blacks in America led to years of political action. ''They not only called us Negroes, they made us Negroes,'' she once said, ''things that don't know where they came from and don't even care that they don't know. Negro is a state of mind, and they massacred our minds.''
        Audley Eloise Moore was born in New Iberia, La., a town west of New Orleans. Her family's past reflected the racism she fought: one of her grandfathers was lynched, and one of her grandmothers, a slave, was raped by a white man.
        Miss Moore's parents died when she was young, and she dropped out of school, becoming a hairdresser. Largely self-educated, she was inspired by the writings of Frederick Douglass and by Garvey's oratory, which she first heard in New Orleans. She was also fond of Nelson Mandela's dictum, ''The struggle is my life.''
        Stirred by Garvey's pride in blacks' African heritage, Miss Moore and her two sisters went to Harlem during the Harlem Renaissance. There, she married Frank Warner.
        In Harlem, Miss Moore became prominent in the Universal Negro Improvement Association, the organization Garvey founded in 1914.
        Beginning in the 1960's, Miss Moore was among black leaders demanding reparations from the United States Government for the sufferings of blacks under slavery. In 1994, she addressed a conference in Detroit of the the National Coalition of Blacks for Reparations in America, where she declared, in a voice gone soft and husky with age: ''Reparations. Reparations. Keep on. Keep on. We've got to win.''
        In 1966, Miss Moore was among parents and civil rights workers who staged a sit-in in the Board of Education's meeting hall in Brooklyn, where the protesters accused board members of neglecting the needs of schools in poor neighborhoods.
        Miss Moore said of the district superintendents: ''Run them out. They're perpetuating idiot factories among us.''
        In 1989, Miss Moore and more than 40 other prominent black women were honored at the Corcoran Gallery of Art, in Washington, where ''I Dream a World,'' an exhibition of photographs of them by Brian Lanker, was on display.
        ''These women are bound by their grit and unquenchable spirit,'' Marion Wright Edelman, a civil rights lawyer and the executive director of the Children's Defense fund, said at the show. ''They lifted the veil of impossibility despite the barriers of race and sex.''
        Miss Moore's husband died in 1967. She is survived by a son, Thomas O. Warner of Philadelphia, five grandchildren and a great-grandson.
      