
        Ardis Krainik, who in 15 years as general director rescued the Lyric Opera of Chicago from financial peril and established it as a company renowned for its forward-looking programming, died on Saturday at her home in Chicago. She was 67.
        Ms. Krainik, who had been ill in recent years, announced last June  that she would retire in April. But when her health took a turn for the worse in November, her successor, William Mason, took over as director.
        Ms. Krainik was an imposing figure who knew what she wanted for her company and how to get it through inspiration rather than force, although she was not averse to making bold decisions. She made international headlines in 1989, for example, when she announced that Luciano Pavarotti was no longer welcome at the company after he dropped out of a ''Tosca'' production on three weeks' notice. Pointing out that Mr. Pavarotti had bowed out of 26 of his last 41 scheduled appearances at the Lyric, Ms. Krainik said  she was afraid Mr. Pavarotti's unreliability would offend subscribers.
        In a way, Ms. Krainik was the personification of the Lyric Opera. She joined the company as a secretary to its founder, Carol Fox, during its first season, and she spent her entire career there. There was little in the company's operation with which she did not have firsthand experience.
        A mezzo-soprano who had performing aspirations early on, she sang small roles during her first five years at the company but gave up the stage in 1960 when she was appointed assistant manager. In that job, and later as artistic administrator, she had a hand in everything from pitching in to solve production problems to negotiating artist fees and helping plan seasons. When Fox resigned in 1981, Ms. Krainik was her logical successor.
        When she took over the company, it was on the brink of financial collapse. Its endowment had shriveled to $6,000 from nearly $3 million, and cost overruns on an adventurous production of Krzysztof Penderecki's ''Paradise Lost'' in 1978 and on the  elaborate 25th-anniversary celebration in 1979, left the Lyric Opera with a $1.2 million deficit. Ms. Krainik's first task was to restructure the company's operations, cutting $500,000 from its budget in the process.
        ''One of the things I did was say no, which had not been done enough in the past,'' Ms. Krainik said in a 1982 interview. ''We gave up space in our building, allowed attrition to run its course, cut back on orchestra rehearsals and did away with all nonessentials. We began to recycle products and borrow stage sets instead of designing all our own.''
        She restored the company's fortunes quickly, and by 1993 she had raised much of the money required for a $100 million project to purchase and restore the company's home, the Civic Opera House.
        Artistically, too, Ms. Krainik undertook a crucial renovation project. Although the company had always presented contemporary work, she made its commitment to modern opera formal in 1989, when she announced ''Toward the 21st Century,'' a decadelong series that would include two 20th-century operas every season: 10 by American composers, 10 by Europeans, with newly commissioned works along the way.
        William Bolcom's ''McTeague,'' Bright Sheng's ''Song of Majnun'' and Bruce Saylor's ''Orpheus Descending'' had their premieres in the series; Shulamit Ran's ''Between Two Worlds'' and Anthony Davis's ''Amistad'' are scheduled for 1997. Other works presented as part of the project include Samuel Barber's ''Antony and Cleopatra,'' John Corigliano's ''Ghosts of Versailles'' and Carlisle Floyd's ''Susannah.''
        Ardis Joan Krainik was born in Manitowoc, Wis., in 1929. She began taking singing lessons when she was 14 and became interested in theater when she got a part in a school play. She continued her musical and theatrical studies at Northwestern University, but her degree was in speech pedagogy.
        She taught briefly after her graduation in 1951, but when the Lyric was founded, originally as the Lyric Theater, she joined it as a secretary, chorister and occasional soloist. Her first role was as Rossweisse, a minor Valkyrie in ''Die Walkure,'' in 1956.  She became assistant manager in 1960 and artistic administrator in 1975.
        By 1980 Ms. Krainik had grown restless at the Lyric Opera, where her further career prospects seemed limited, and where the dire financial situation had made the company itself unstable. She considered an offer to become general manager of the Australian Opera, in Sydney, and in December 1980 she informed the Lyric Opera board that she would be leaving. But at the same time, Fox resigned because of poor health, and the Lyric Opera board offered the general directorship to Ms. Krainik.
        Under her leadership, the company typically presented seven productions each season, but covered a great expanse of the repertory, from Handel operas through newly commissioned works, as well as a complete Wagner ''Ring'' cycle, staged between 1993 and 1996.
        She hired fashionable directors and designers, from David Hockney, who designed a production of Puccini's ''Turandot,'' to Robert Wilson, who directed Gluck's ''Alceste'' and Peter Sellars, who presented a controversial, high-tech staging of Wagner's ''Tannhauser'' in which different sets of supertitles conveyed both the actual libretto and Mr. Sellars's notions of the characters' inner motivations.
        And although the company always attracted great singers -- Maria Callas sang there during its first season -- Ms. Krainik raised the level of the company's casting. Marilyn Horne, Placido Domingo, Jessye Norman, Kiri Te Kanawa, Jon Vickers, Samuel Ramey, Renee Fleming and Dmitri Hvorostovsky frequented her productions. Many of the opera world's biggest stars turned up to sing at a gala concert in her honor in October.
        She is survived by her niece, Barbara Baule of Cedarburg, Wisc., a brother-in-law, J. Edward Mueller, of Dubuque, Iowa, and two nephews, Stephen Mueller of Dallas and Scott Mueller, of Dubuque.
        Ms. Krainik was particularly proud of her ''Toward the 21st Century'' series, a program that proved that opera audiences were not thwarted by new works. Every season since the series began, Ms. Krainik proudly reported, was entirely sold out.
        ''I want American opera to reach its zenith,'' she said in 1990. ''I think it can blossom in the next 10 years. We have to have our own unique American opera, not just a hashed-over European art form. I think now is the time, and I want to be behind making it flower.
        ''I want my audience to be happy with what I do; I want them to have a good time. That's the only hope for American music -- that audiences will love it.''
      