
        Florence M. Kelley, the first administrative judge of the modern Family Court in New York City and an advocate for the legal rights of the poor, died last Saturday at her home in Little Compton, R.I. She was 85.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said her husband, David S. Worgan, a retired executive assistant district attorney of New York County.
        Judge Kelley presided over the notoriously overworked court during an era of great reform. In 1960, she became the first woman to be chief judge of what was then the Domestic Relations Court of New York City.
        ''Florence and I went to Yale Law School together,'' said Mayor Robert F. Wagner when he appointed her. ''She's moved further than I -- and done much better.''
        In 1962, when the court was reconfigured as the new Family Court of the State of New York, within the City of New York, with jurisdiction over a range of social problems, she became administrative judge.
        A slim, gracious woman, Judge Kelley was ladylike in her manner but decisive and stubborn in her role as a visionary administrator. Then as now, the Family Court, regarded as the stepchild of the system, was criticized for its sprawling caseload. Judge Kelley pressed for more judges, psychiatric evaluations for clients and probation services for juveniles.
        Her dedication to legal and social services for the poor was a family heritage: her grandmother, for whom she was named, was one of the first women lawyers in the country and the founder of the National Consumers League, an advocates' group for which Judge Kelley worked.
        Born in Manhattan, Judge Kelley graduated from Smith College and Yale Law School.
        In the 1930's and 40's, women prosecutors were a a rare sight in the office of the Manhattan District Attorney, where Judge Kelley worked under Thomas E. Dewey and Frank S. Hogan. She next turned to the private sector, spending a few years in a Wall Street law firm. But in 1947, she returned to public life as the attorney in charge of the criminal branch of the Legal Aid Society, where she spent 13 years.
        She managed to maintain her sense of humor. Illustrating the heavy caseload of lawyers for the indigent, she told how she introduced herself to a new client in the city's detention pen by saying hesitantly, ''You're the man who robbed the delicatessen.''
        He demurred. ''No ma'am,'' he said helpfully, ''I'm the one who pushed the woman out of the 13th-story window.''
        In 1970, Judge Kelley became a trial judge of the Supreme Court of New York, serving until her retirement in 1980.
        But retirement was a relative term for a woman who was also president of the Women's City Club and a member of foundations dedicated to the poor and the mentally ill. She and her husband moved to Little Compton, where she served on the town planning board and helped raise money for the Sakonnet Light House, which was relighted in March.
        In addition to her husband of 44 years, her survivors include her brothers, Augustus M. Kelley and Nicholas Kelley Jr.
      