
        Marie Salant Neuberger, a New York foundation executive and philanthropist who was long active in civic affairs, died on Sunday at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. She was 88 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Peekskill, N.Y.
        She suffered a long illness, her family said.
        Mrs. Neuberger, who took a special interest in the public schools, served several terms as president of the Women's City Club, an organization concerned with urban problems. It studies the quality of government, and life in the city in general, and makes recommendations for improvements.
        She was chairwoman of the board of the Ethical Culture Schools for 13 years, having herself graduated from Fieldston, the Ethical Culture Society's preparatory school. She also served as a trustee of Bryn Mawr, her alma mater.
        Her husband, Roy R. Neuberger, is a recognized collector of contemporary American artists like Jackson Pollack and Willem de Kooning, and she was active with him in various art institutions. These included the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Whitney Museum of American Art.
        Another prominent beneficiary was the Neuberger Museum of Art, which they helped establish on the campus of the State University of New York at Purchase. Their art collection, deeded to that campus of the university, has been exhibited on loan at museums around this country and in Europe.
        Born in Manhattan, Mrs. Neuberger majored in economics at Bryn Mawr on the advice of her father, Aaron B. Salant. After graduation in 1930, she went to work on Wall Street, where she met and married her husband, who became a successful investor and founded the investment management firm of Neuberger & Berman in 1939.
        In addition to her husband of 65 years, Mrs. Neuberger is survived by their daughter, Ann N. Aceves of Santa Fe, N.M.; two sons, Roy S., of North Woodmere, N.Y., and James, of Manhattan; eight grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      