
        Marie Torre, a former television columnist for The New York Herald Tribune who was jailed for refusing to disclose a source in a libel action, died on Friday at Health South Rehabilitation Hospital of Greater Pittsburgh in Monroeville, Pa. She was 72 and lived in Salem, N.J.
        She died of lung cancer, said her son-in-law, Ed Lopez of Manhattan.
        Miss Torre served 10 days in the Hudson County Jail in New Jersey in 1959, the first reporter to gain national attention for going to jail for refusing to identify a news source.
        Miss Torre, who shortened her last name from Torregrossa, was born in Brooklyn. She joined the Herald Tribune staff in 1955. As a radio and television columnist in 1957, she quoted a CBS executive, whom she did not name, as saying that Judy Garland was balking about doing a CBS special ''because she thinks she is terribly fat.''
        Miss Garland sued the network for $1.39 million, and Miss Torre, as a witness in a pretrial hearing, was ordered by the court to disclose the name of her source. She refused, arguing that a reporter should not be compelled to reveal sources in court because such an order violated the First Amendment's guarantee of press freedom.
        ''She never revealed his name, even to members of our family,'' Mr. Lopez said yesterday.
        Judge Sylvester Ryan of Federal District Court in Manhattan warned her that she could be jailed for contempt of court. When she again refused, he sentenced her to 10 days in jail. The case drew attention and support from news organizations.
        Miss Torre, with The Herald Tribune's backing, appealed the sentence, but it was upheld by the Federal Court of Appeals in New York. In his opinion, Judge Potter Stewart, who later served on the United States Supreme Court, conceded that ''compulsory disclosure of a journalist's confidential sources of information may entail an abridgment of press freedom.'' But he added that ''the duty of a witness to testify in a court of law has roots as deep as the guarantee of a free press.'' He held that Miss Torre must yield ''to a paramount public interest in the fair administration of justice.''
        The Supreme Court refused to review the decision, but Miss Garland did not pursue the case once Miss Torre's jail term ended.
        Miss Torre did a radio talk show in Wilmington, Del., until August, when she was hospitalized.
        She is survived by a daughter, Roma Torre of Manhattan, a news anchorwoman; a son, Adam Jeffrey Friedman of Los Angeles; a brother, John Torregrossa of Panama City, Fla., and three grandchildren.
      