
        Dr. Katherine Esau, an international leader in studying plant structure who laid the foundation for much current research into plant function, died on June 4 at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 99.
        ''She absolutely dominated the field of plant anatomy and morphology for several decades,'' said Dr. Peter Raven, director of the Missouri Botanical Garden. ''She set the stage for all kinds of modern advances in plant physiology and molecular biology. You have to understand the structure of plants first before you can unravel the questions of molecular biology.''
        In 1989, President George Bush awarded Dr. Esau, professor emerita at the University of California at Santa Barbara, the National Medal of Science. Dr. Ray F. Evert, the Katherine Esau Professor of Botany and Plant Pathology at the University of Wisconsin at Madison, who accepted the medal on her behalf, said she was the first full-fledged botanist to win that award. Dr. Esau (pronounced EE-saw) was also the sixth woman elected to the National Academy of Sciences, in 1957, the academy said.
        Dr. Esau's long career, which began in czarist Russia and ended with the publication of her last research paper in 1990, reflected the methodological changes of this century. She started with techniques of agricultural research, plant selection and hybridization, then moved into light-microscope studies of plant anatomy and the damage caused by viruses.
        Dr. Esau had planned to retire after she became professor emerita in 1965, but a fascination with electron microscopy led her to spend her final decades working in that area.
        She studied plant development and the effects of viruses on plant tissues, and she did much work on phloem tissue, which transports food from a plant's leaves to its roots. And much of what she did pointed the way for  molecular studies by others.
        Dr. Esau noticed that virus particles appeared to move from cell to cell along structures called plasmodesmata, which were smaller in diameter than the viruses they transported, and she suggested that if molecular biologists looked at this transport, they would learn a lot about cell function. That is in fact being done, Dr. Evert said.
        ''She was the grande dame of American botany and probably worldwide botany as well,'' Dr. Evert said.
        For many decades, Dr. Esau's ''Plant Anatomy,'' published by John Wiley & Sons in 1953 and updated in 1965, was the leading text on plant structure in the nation and was widely adopted abroad. Now a classic, it is being updated by Dr. Evert, who was a graduate student of Dr. Esau. He is also preparing a new edition of Dr. Esau's ''The Anatomy of Seed Plants,'' published by John Wiley & Sons in 1960 and updated by Dr. Esau in 1977.
        Katherine Esau was born on April 3, 1898, in Yekaterinoslav, now Dnepropetrovsk, Ukraine. She studied agriculture for a year in Moscow, but her studies were interrupted by the Bolshevik Revolution in 1917.
        In 1918 she and her family, Mennonites of German descent, rode on a wagon for two weeks with other refugees to reach Germany, where she continued her agricultural training and worked on farms. In 1922 she graduated from the Berlin Landwirtschaftliche Hochschule, and she and her parents emigrated to the United States and settled in a largely Mennonite community in Reedley, Calif., near Fresno.
        She soon joined the Spreckels Company near Salinas, Calif., where she worked on a sugar beet that would be resistant to the curly top virus. When she was invited to the University of California at Davis in 1927, she arrived with a truckload of beets and beet seed. While her work soon branched out, she revisited curly top virus in beets and other plants many times.
        The Davis campus did not register graduate students at the time, so she registered at the Berkeley campus. While her thesis defense took place at Berkeley, which granted her a doctorate in 1931, her research was done on the Davis campus, and she joined the faculty there.
        In 1963 Dr. Esau moved to the Santa Barbara campus with the intention of retiring in two years. But her interest in electron microscopy led her to keep working and publishing. She worked on revisions to ''Plant Anatomy'' until 1992.
        There are no survivors.
      