
        Thalassa Cruso, an authority on plants who was known as ''the Julia Child of horticulture'' for her common-sense if often loopy gardening programs on television in the 1960's, died on June 11 at Newton and Wellesley Alzheimer Center in Wellesley, Mass. She was 88 and lived in Marion, Mass.
        Ms. Cruso, a witty, acerbic Englishwoman, wrote and starred in the weekly public-television program ''Making Things Grow'' from 1966 to 1969. In brisk, impeccable diction, she indoctrinated viewers into the mysterious world of cyclamen and spathiphyllum, enjoining them to tend their plants with loving kindness, and to throw them in the dustbin without a backward glance if the little ingrates failed to respond.
        ''If a plant is unbelievably tatty, dispose of it without the least feeling of guilt,'' she told McCall's in 1971.
        Trim and elegant, with dark bangs and a determined chin, Ms. Cruso possessed an uproarious wit, blunt candor and cultivated eccentricity.
        ''Ha! There's the little brute,'' she once exclaimed as she flicked an invading slug onto her worktable. Cautioning squeamish viewers to avert their eyes, she raised a flowerpot on high. The pot came crashing down, and the slug was history. WGBH in Boston, which produced the program, was inundated with mail from delighted viewers.
        ''Making Things Grow'' was aimed at the novice, and its appeal lay in Ms. Cruso's role as Everygardener, a true amateur who drew her advice from personal experience rather than formal horticultural training. ''I have never studied it, and there is so much I don't know,'' she once said. ''And I'm afraid I'll make some terrible mistake.''
        Ms. Cruso did not merely handle plants: she communed with them as if they were sentient creatures, pinching them, patting them, sometimes dumping them unceremoniously onto the counter as dirt flew around the set.
        In addition to her broadcasting career, which also included a household-advice program, ''Making Things Work,'' in the early 70's, Ms. Cruso wrote a gardening column for The Boston Globe for 22 years. She was the author of several books, including ''Making Things Grow'' (1969), ''Making Things Grow Outdoors'' (1971) and ''To Everything There Is a Season'' (1973).
        She was born Jan. 7, 1909, in London, the daughter of Henry and Mildred Cruso. The name Thalassa, the Greek word for ''sea,'' was a whim of her mother's. According to family legend, a paternal ancestor, John Cruso, was a schoolmate of Daniel Defoe, who would later add an ''e'' to the surname and bestow it on his best-known literary hero. ''My mother's maiden name was Robinson,'' Ms Cruso once said in an interview, ''and I am told that the announcement of that engagement was the last thing that made Queen Victoria smile.''
        The Crusos were passionate gardeners, and Thalassa fondly recalled childhood hours spent doing her homework in the greenhouse.
        ''When we were given a holiday at school to do a project about our neighborhood, I made a collection of wild plants,'' she said in an interview. ''I bicycled miles to find them. And I found some rare ones.'' She added: ''I didn't win the prize because I presented them sloppily. The girl who won had a collection from her father's garden, neatly pressed. Mine were tied with a boot lace.''
        Perhaps craving a way to muck about in the dirt and get paid for it, she went into archeology, receiving her diploma from the London School of Economics in 1931. She served as assistant keeper of the costume collection at the London Museum, and later directed an excavation at Bredon Hill, an Iron Age fort in Worcestershire. There she met the American archeologist Hugh O'Neill Hencken; they married in 1935, and she returned with him to Boston.
        Mr. Hencken, who was for many years the curator of European archeology at the Peabody Museum of Harvard University, died in 1981. Ms. Cruso is survived by her daughters, Ala Reid of York Harbor, Me., Sophia Stone of New Orleans and Thalassa Scholl of Boston; seven grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
        As a wife and mother in Boston, Ms. Cruso was hardly satisfied to confine her days to the garden-club circuit. The inspiration for ''Making Things Grow,'' she recalled, came on a visit to her brother in England: ''We would watch the BBC gardening programs and complain about how bad they were. And I had watched and admired Julia Child on TV, and suddenly I thought, 'I could do that with plants.' ''
        She began with brief snippets tacked onto the end of longer programs. ''I used to pop on after the baseball game, or the symphony, or a very serious lecture on birth control,'' she said.
        Ms. Cruso's work led to frequent appearances on the ''Tonight'' show, where she taught Johnny Carson how to compost eggshells in a closet. As a result of her celebrity, she became an unofficial custodian of the public horticultural trust. ''People stop me on the street,'' Ms. Cruso once said, ''and ask what to do with their African violets.''
      