
        Sue Sumii, a fiery human rights campaigner whose landmark novel sold 8.3 million copies and helped change attitudes toward Japan's ''untouchables,'' died last Monday. She was 95.
        Mrs. Sumii's greatest literary and social accomplishment was ''The River With No Bridge,'' a multivolume novel exploring the humiliations endured by outcasts known as burakumin. The first volume was published in 1958, and she was working on the eighth volume at the time of her death.
        Mrs. Sumii fought all her life for women's rights, for social equality, and in particular for equal opportunities for the burakumin, often called the ''untouchables'' of Japan.
        The protagonist in ''The River With No Bridge'' is a burakumin early in the century in a rural area in Japan. He lives in the burakumin slum, separated from the main town by a river, and becomes a community leader after encountering the abuse and discrimination that were routine for burakumin in those days.
        Mrs. Sumii described his traumas so vividly that she shamed many of her fellow Japanese into looking seriously at the discrimination suffered by burakumin in modern Japan, and her novel and the three films made of it helped create empathy for their plight.
        In one particularly poignant scene that was redolent of the contempt that burakumin used to be taught to feel for themselves, a young burakumin woman fears she is pregnant and then is relieved that she is not -- because her baby would be a filthy burakumin.
        The books and movies were particularly powerful because they were almost the only presentation of the burakumin's plight in Japan. Even the word ''burakumin'' is a taboo, almost never mentioned in the press or on television, and so some Japanese came to see the burakumin almost entirely through the lens of Mrs. Sumii.
        Mrs. Sumii was not herself a burakumin, but she grew up in a region of western Japan with many burakumin communities. The burakumin are descendants of outcasts who traditionally worked in occupations regarded as unclean, such as slaughtering animals and tanning leather.
        Although they are not a racial minority but an occupational one, and they look the same as any other Japanese, the burakumin have faced enormous difficulties getting married, getting jobs, and moving out of their own communities.
        Some discrimination remains, and burakumin families still earn only 60 percent on average as much as other Japanese households. But over all Japan has made enormous strides in the last two decades in improving the social status of the burakumin. One sign of the progress is that now 73 percent of burakumin marry non-burakumin.
        Because the issue of the burakumin is such a taboo, it was an extraordinary step to write a novel in which they are the heroes. The whole topic traditionally was regarded in Japan as unsavory and embarrassing.
        Mrs. Sumii was born Jan. 7, 1902, near the historic city of Nara. She once said that her rebelliousness against traditional values developed after the Meiji Emperor visited Nara when she was 6 years old, and she saw an old farmer recover some imperial excrement from a toilet that the Emperor had used.
        ''There is nothing more gracious than this,'' the old farmer said worshipfully, according to Mrs. Sumii's account, and she decided that this reverence was so ridiculous that her country had serious problems that she wanted to work to address.
        She worked briefly as a journalist, but then resigned to protest discrimination against women. After marrying a writer named Shigeru Inuta, Mrs. Sumii wrote novels and children's stories, campaigned for equal rights and social issues, raised four children, and worked on the family's farm.
        Mr. Inuta died in 1957. Mrs. Sumii is survived by her children, including a son who is a university professor and a daughter who is a journalist and author.
        Despite the grace of her writing -- which comes through in the one-volume English translation of ''The River With No Bridge,'' published in 1990 by Charles E. Tuttle Co. -- Mrs. Sumii always saw her books as more of a social effort than a literary project.
        ''I will keep writing as long as I live,'' she once said. ''This is my own war against human stupidity.''
      