
        Rita Dimitri, a multilingual singer who was the ebullient spirit of the Manhattan supper club La Chansonette for more than 20 years, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 67.
        Stanley Brilliant, her husband,  partner and frequent accompanist, said the cause was kidney cancer.
        Besides performing at the candle-lighted Chansonette, Miss Dimitri appeared on Broadway and on national tour in the mid-1950's in the Cole Porter musical ''Can-Can,'' playing the singer who owns a boite in Montmarte.
        In time, life imitated art, because Mr. Brilliant, who combined his family's interest in real estate with his own passion for music, built La Chansonette for her.
        ''It was like a wedding gift,'' he said yesterday.
        By January 1962, when they opened the intimate supper club at 890 Second Avenue, between 47th and 48th Streets, Miss Dimitri had long achieved popularity in Europe and had made her mark in the theater in United States and as an attraction at clubs like Le Ruban Bleu in Manhattan, Old New Orleans in Washington, the Black Orchid in Chicago, the Moulin Rouge in Boston and the Ritz Carlton in Montreal. For several years in the 1970's, Miss Dimitri also appeared annually at Alice Tully Hall.
        With her upswept red hair, dangling earrings, chunky necklaces and gowns cut to accentuate her figure, the half-French, half-Greek (''makes me Freek'') Miss Dimitri epitomized the Continental chanteuse.
        In a 1954 interview, Miss Dimitri recalled how the owner of the Old New Orleans approached her in Paris and asked if she could sing in English. Miss Dimitri raised an eyebrow.
        ''I sing,'' she said, ''in English, French, Greek, Italian, Spanish and Turkish.''
        In a typical appearance, she would perch beside red roses atop La Chansonette's white piano and cast a roguish eye over an audience that might include Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, Leona Helmsley (the club's landlord) or Laurence Rockefeller, who was partial to ''If I Were a Rich Man'' from ''Fiddler on the Roof.'' Miss Dimitri would banter with her husband at the piano and apply her smoky mezzo, her arsenal of languages and her ineradicable Mediterranean accent to songs associated with Edith Piaf, Charles Aznavour, Charles Trenet or Gilbert Becaud. There might be titles like ''L'Accordioniste'' and ''Never on Sunday'' and ''My Man.''
        Miss Dimitri, born in Nice, France, to a Greek father and French mother, moved to Greece at an early age and grew up bilingual.
        Once she recalled that she was 14 when an older sister took her to a theater-nightclub in Athens, where she was urged to sing in a talent show. ''Too young to be nervous,'' she said. She won the contest and said that soon thereafter she was cast in her first musical, began playing leading roles in Athens theaters and eventually became known as the Judy Garland of Greece.
        Miss Dimitri toured with her own troupe in Turkey and Egypt and appeared in London and Paris, which led to the offer to perform in the United States.
        Mr. Brilliant, her only survivor, said that in 1984, deciding that it was time for a change and responding to a good offer, they sold La Chansonette, which became a restaurant under another name. The couple took to the road, appearing in other clubs in New York, around the country and in Europe until a few years ago.
        ''It was a great era,'' said Mr. Brilliant. ''I'm glad we were part of it.''
      