
        Joan Daves, a leading literary agent whose client list included six Nobel Prize winners, died on Wednesday at her home in Bedford, N.Y. Ms. Davis, who also had a home in Manhattan, was 77.
        Her husband, Joe H. Kirchberger, said the cause was an acute asthmatic attack.
        For decades, Ms. Daves was regarded as one of the world's foremost agents for serious and intellectual fiction and nonfiction. Her Nobel Prize-winning clients included Heinrich Boll (1972), Elias Canetti (1981), Herman Hesse (1946), the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. (1964), Nelly Sachs (1966) and Gabriela Mistral (1945). All but Dr. King, who won the Nobel Peace Prize and took Ms. Daves with him to Stockholm when he received the award, were laureates in literature.
        Ms. Daves (pronounced DAY-vis) also represented such renowned authors as Frank O'Connor, Isaac Babel, Vaclav Havel and Rachel Carson, the trailblazing environmentalist who wrote ''Silent Spring'' and ''The Sea Around Us.''
        ''She loved these authors, which conjures up another world; it wasn't the fast buck,'' said Jennifer Lyons, who became her associate when Ms. Daves affiliated her one-woman agency in 1987 with a larger Manhattan agency, Writers House, to secure the interests of her authors as she grew older. ''There was a real passion for authors themselves, for artists and for literature that is rare today.''
        Robert Weil, a senior editor at St. Martin's Press, recalled that Ms. Daves became familiar with Dr. King in the early 1950's before he achieved national prominence while leading the 1955 boycott of the segregated transit system in Montgomery, Ala.
        Mr. Weil said Ms. Daves told a friend that there was an extremely articulate, charismatic and visionary minister from the South she had to meet. ''She could spot very early people's genius and people's talent,'' Mr. Weil said. ''She also sided with the underdog.''
        In addition, Mr. Weil said: ''She was literature. She was a brilliant critic, a brilliant reader. She was extremely nurturing. She had a social flair as well. She was a great person to put together people as if she ran a salon in New York which combined the writers of post-World War II European literature with the needs of American publishers.''
        In the sale of American rights, the Joan Daves Agency also represented a number of distinguished foreign publishers, like Kinderbuch Verlag of Switzerland, the German concerns Carl Hanser Verlag of Munich and Verlag Kipenheuer und Witsch of Cologne, and the Austrian concern Residenz Verlag of Salzburg.
        Ms. Daves, who was later to Americanize her name, was born in Berlin in 1919 and grew up as Liselotte Davidson. She was the middle child and younger daughter of a Jewish banker who was to die in Auschwitz.
        In the mid-1930's after the Nazis came to power, her father sent her to Paris, where she became fluent in French. She was forced to return to Berlin when the Nazis imposed currency restrictions on Jews, but she reached Britain in 1938 and followed her sister to the United States in 1940, settling in New York City.
        An avid reader who was always interested in books, she worked for a couple of years for Interscience Publishers, publishers of scientific books and books by refugees. In 1942, she went to work as an editor for Harper & Brothers, where she started the Harper's Art Library, which issued books about Durer and Flemish and French master drawings.
        In the early 1950's she established the Joan Daves Agency and used her European connections to attract the Continent's foremost writers.
        Besides her husband, Ms. Daves is survived by a brother, Peter Davidson of Las Vegas.
        In 1992, in ceremonies at the consulate in Manhattan, Ms. Daves was awarded the Commander's Cross of the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany in recognition of a lifetime of advancement of German culture and literature.
      