
        Helen Hull Jacobs, who played the sturdy foil to Helen Wills Moody's willowy star turn in the rivalry that captivated women's tennis in the 1930's, died Monday night in Easthampton, N.Y., where she had lived for the past four years. She was 88.
        Ralph Smith, her longtime lawyer, said the probable cause of death was heart failure.
        Helen Jacobs was a champion in her own right, winning nine major championships, including the United States national title four straight times from 1932-35 and the Wimbledon singles in 1936. She was a mainstay for the United States Wightman Cup team from 1927-39.
        But her achievements were always measured against the incomparable brilliance and celebrity of Helen Wills Moody. More gracious than graceful, more indomitable than invincible, always trying but seldom triumphant, Jacobs played Helen the Second to Moody's Helen the First.
        That the competitive history between the two northern Californians was called a rivalry, dubbed the Battle of the Helens by a sometimes frothy news media between the two world wars, was a tribute more to  Jacobs's tenacity and cheerful pluck than to her shot-making power or on-court success against Moody. Jacobs scored only 1 victory in 11 matches against Moody, and that victory was tainted by controversy when Moody decided to retire with a back injury while trailing by 8-6, 3-6, 3-0 in the 1933 United States final at Forest Hills, N.Y.
        The match mesmerized 8,000 fans at the Forest Hills Tennis Stadium in Queens on Aug. 26, 1933, pitting the forehand chop, aggressive net play and dogged determination of Jacobs against backcourt precision and waning power of Moody. When the seesaw affair came to its anticlimactic conclusion when Moody walked to the net, addressed the umpire, collected her blue sweater and retired from the fray, Jacobs rushed over and pleaded with her to continue. It was an upset of titanic proportions: Moody had not lost on any court since 1926; she had not even lost a set between 1926 and the 1933 Wimbledon semifinals.
        While some accounts the next day took Moody to task for depriving Jacobs of the satisfaction of outright victory, Moody was given the last word in a statement handed out following the match: ''The match was long and by defaulting I do not wish to detract from the excellence of Miss Jacobs's play. I feel I have spoiled the finish of the national championship. I still feel I did right in withdrawing because I felt that I was on the verge of a collapse on the court.''
        Jacobs was commended by Allison Danzig in The New York Times for receiving Moody's decision ''with sympathy and the finest sportsmanship.'' They were traits that earned Jacobs a dedicated following throughout her career. Even years later when she was asked to recall the incident, Jacobs maintained the high road. In a 1967 article in The Times, while she allowed that Moody ''did not look at me'' when she retired, Jacobs summed up the moment in typically generous fashion: ''So she defaulted. That was it. We never spoke a mean word to each other. We never nursed grudges.''
        The two produced another enthralling final in a major championship: the Wimbledon title match in 1935. Again Moody stole the thunder; once again the circumstances were riveting. Jacobs held a match point at 5-3 before 19,000 fans at Center Court. She seemed, at last, to be ready to claim her moment, and thwart Moody, who was returning to competition after a two-year absence. Instead, Jacobs plowed a short Moody lob into the net when a gust of wind misdirected the ball. Moody won the next four games and the match, 6-3, 3-6, 7-5, for her seventh Wimbledon title.
        Jacobs's contribution to tennis history is as the gracious runner-up, and it is probably fitting that her lasting footnote at Wimbledon is as the first woman to popularize man-tailored shorts as on-court attire. ''It seemed the sensible thing to do,'' she would say later.
        In the end, Jacobs's admirable courage and fighting qualities earned her nine Grand Slam titles, and a triple crown of singles, doubles and mixed doubles at the 1934 United States Nationals. She was ranked in the world Top 10 for 12 straight times from 1928, was No. 1 in 1936, and was elected to the International Tennis Hall of Fame in 1962.
        Jacobs was a commander in United States Navy intelligence in World War II, one of five women in the Navy to achieve the rank of commander. She retired from tennis in 1947 and enjoyed a career as a writer of 19 books, a farmer and a designer of sportswear.
        Jacobs is survived by her companion, Virginia Gurnee; a sister, Jean Jacobs Gross of Oakland, Calif.; a niece, Wendy Moore, and three great nieces.
      