
        Edythe Meserand, who was one of the first women to become a radio news executive, died on Monday at Ellis Hospital in Schenectady, N.Y.. She was 88.
        Ms. Meserand began her career in 1926 in the press department of the National Broadcasting Company, which had been newly formed from WJZ and WEAF. It was a period when women were in policy-making positions at NBC, and Ms. Meserand was a protegee of Margaret Cuthbert, director of talks, and Bertha Brainard, director of programming.
        In 1931 she went to work for the Hearst radio stations. She was the director of promotions for the 10 Hearst stations, and the ''Musical Clock Girl'' on WGBS, the station that was the forerunner of WINS in New York City. Her job was to announce the time of day, play music and deliver the news.
        She left Hearst in 1937 and became assistant news director of WOR, making her one of the first women in radio to assign reporters and shape the news broadcast. At that time, news was part of the station's publicity department. When World War II came, WOR lacked a news department and appropriate facilities for radio transmissions. Ms. Meserand helped design what was considered the first modern radio newsroom. While at WOR, she also produced some of radio's first news documentaries using realistic background sound.
        During World War II, when her boss, David Driscoll, became a war correspondent, Ms. Meserand took over the department.
        She was born in 1908 in Philadelphia and grew in up in the Bronx and on Long Island.
        She received a number of honors and awards for her work, and in 1951 became a founder of American Women in Radio and Television, serving as its first president.
        As WOR began to move into television, Ms. Meserand produced programs in that medium for the station. She retired from WOR in 1952 and moved to a tree farm in Charleston, N.Y. There, she started an advertising agency and managed radio and television campaigns for Mary Anne Krupsak, former Lieutenant Governor of New York.
        In 1976, Ms. Meserand was honored by the Northeast Area Conference of American Women in Radio and Television for her 50 years in the industry. During her years in Charleston, she also founded the Charleston Historical Society to save the town's First Baptist Church, built during the presidency of George Washington.
        She is survived by her companion, Jane Barton, and a sister, Mary Miserendino of Convent Station, N.J.
      