
        Bluma L. Trell, whose unbridled enthusiasm brought ancient Greece alive to a generation of New York University students even as her meticulous research into ancient coins had given scholars their first definitive view of the Temple of Artemis at Ephesus, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Englewood, N.J. She was 94 and had lived until last year on Bleecker Street in Manhattan.
        If the very sight of her, a small woman standing in front of her class with her endless gray hair piled in ropes on top of her head like an ancient diadem, had not been enough to get their full attention, few of her students were likely to be daydreaming once Dr. Trell opened her mouth, got her arms moving and began expounding on the intricacies of Greek culture, literature and language with a passion few encountered in a teacher before or since.
        Indeed, once she got wound up, it was easy to forget that it was, say, the Temple of Artemis, and not Dr. Trell herself, that was one of the Seven Wonders of the World.
        But for all the depth and range of her knowledge and the intensity of her enthusiasm for the Greek world, Dr. Trell came to the classics late.
        The daughter of Max Popkin, a successful portrait painter who helped establish the Grand Central Galleries, Dr. Trell grew up in a genteel Bohemian atmosphere in New York, surrounded by music and art, none of which explains why at the age of 21 she received a law degree from New York University and embarked on a decade of private practice.
        But Dr. Trell, an independent-minded woman, made no secret of why she abandoned the law: it bored her, as the classics most assuredly did not.
        (Another choice she made in 1924 proved more lasting: she entered a marriage with Max Trell, a screenwriter, that ended at his death last year.)
        Why Dr. Trell picked the classics is not clear, but after returning to N.Y.U. for a bachelor's degree in 1935, she continued her studies, teaching at U.C.L.A. during a Hollywood sojourn with her husband before returning to N.Y.U. to obtain a doctorate in 1942.
        Along the way she had been influenced by Karl Lehmann at N.Y.U.'s Institute of Fine Arts to specialize in the study of ancient coins, whose depictions of temples and other monuments and buildings were often the best, if often contradictory, scholarly evidence of what the ancient world actually looked like.
        Dr. Trell was immediately intrigued by the subtle differences in the depictions of the same building on hundreds of coins engraved centuries apart. Her dissertation, ''Architectura Numismatica: The Temples in Asia Minor,'' became the basis of an important 1945 monograph about the Temple of Artemis, which used her inspired reconciliation of the diverse representations of the ancient temple to produce a blueprint of what it had actually looked like when it was built, about 550 B.C. Moreover, her reconstruction of the temple is on permanent display at the British Museum.
        It was a testament to her continued standing in the field that in 1977, when she published ''Coins and Their Cities: Architecture on the Ancient Coins of Greece, Rome and Palestine,'' her collaborator was Martin Price, the renowned British Museum authority, who died in 1995.
        Hardly a retiring scholar, Dr. Trell, who had done much of her research at the American Numismatic Society at Broadway and 155th Street, one of the world's great repositories of ancient coins, became so incensed in 1973 when the Metropolitan Museum of Art tried to sell some 6,000 coins it had loaned the society that she organized a highly-publicized protest that led the museum to sell the coins to the society at a discount.
        If she ultimately found teaching undergraduates more rewarding than scholarship, it may have been partly because Dr. Trell, who joined N.Y.U. in 1959 and kept teaching long after her formal retirement as a full professor in 1972, was so uncommonly good at it and partly because she was as passionately interested in her students as in her subject.
        In addition to her hair, she became famous for her introductory Greek classes. By the end of the course, students would produce and perform an entire Greek play, making their own costumes and sets and delivering the lines of Aeschylus in flawlessly enunciated Greek.
        Not that her classroom passion for Greek was feigned. A group of half a dozen friends she organized more than half a century ago is still getting together once a week to read Greek. Declining health had kept Dr. Trell away in recent years, but she would be pleased to know that the three surviving members are currently finishing up Polybius, a Greek historian from the second century B.C., and plan to take up Hesiod or Homer next.
        She is survived by a son, Max Trell Jr. of Lehigh Acres, Fla.
      