
        Annie Fratellini, who wiggled, waddled and waltzed through big tops in Europe before she opened a college for aspiring circus performers who wanted to follow in her outsized, floppy footsteps, died on Tuesday in Paris. She was 64.
        The cause was cancer. The National Circus School, which she started in the 1970's and which is credited with training dozens of clowns and other circus workers, said that she had been hospitalized in a clinic outside Paris since June 10.
        ''She harkened back to the golden age of clowning in France,'' said Paul Binder, a founder of the Big Apple Circus, who worked with Miss Fratellini in the 1970's after she saw him juggling on television. ''If there had been no Annie Fratellini, there would be no Big Apple Circus. She brought us to her circus and showed us the beauty of the intimate theatrical circus, and that was the inspiration for our circus.''
        Miss Fratellini, born in a trunk, the fourth generation of one of Europe's most famous circus families, was neither as droopy as Emmett Kelly nor as boisterous as Bozo. But for years she avoided following her father, grandfather and 22 other relatives into the ring. Instead, she sang in music halls and nightclubs until 1960, when she met and married Pierre Etaix, the person she credited with making her take her talent for clowning seriously.
        ''I was born a clown,'' she said in 1977. ''I never felt comfortable as a woman. It took Pierre to recognize that.''
        In the ring, Mr. Etaix was the serious one who specialized in elegant sleight-of-hand. Miss Fratellini was dizzy and outlandish-looking, an overgrown child with a painted-on smile and half-moon eyebrows. When Mr. Etaix lifted off his top hat with a flourish, she was standing by with water to dump in it. When she had the spotlight to herself, she would play two concertinas at once, or try to. She would let the two instruments cascade toward the ground like a waterfall as she made the crowd laugh with her body-bending stage business.
        Or she would poke fun at French expressions like ''Il est encore jeune'' (it is still too young), which is normally used to describe wine that is not mature enough to drink. Mr. Etaix would go onstage playing a baritone saxophone. She would step into the spotlight with a miniature sax and interrupt him.
        ''Why is that saxophone so small?'' he would ask.
        ''Il est encore jeune,'' she would reply.
        But Miss Fratellini did not get many laughs at her debut. ''Circus people didn't believe that a woman could take pratfalls, get slapped and kicked and be ridiculous,'' she recalled in 1977, arguing passionately that women could be acclaimed clowns.
        ''A clown is sexless, so you must hide your breasts and face,'' she said. ''But women have more sensitivity, the essential quality. It's not a question of gaiety or humor. A clown isn't a comedian. To be a good clown you must have lived.''
        The National Circus School eventually offered courses in such circus essentials as magic, trapeze, gymnastics and tightrope walking. But at first all she had was a subsidy from the French Government, a trapeze and a tightrope. Six months later she bought a tent. One thing this taught her students was how to concentrate, for the would-be clowns had to practice their juggling while wobbly unicyclists zipped between them.
        ''To be a clown means more than just putting on a costume and making funny faces at the audience,'' Miss Fratellini said in 1993. ''The clown must take the audience on a unique adventure in a strange dimension.''
        But Miss Fratellini cautioned her students that a circus performer's life was not as glamorous as it probably appeared to the audience. ''It's terribly grueling -- too much travel and tough physically,'' she said.
        But it was not a lesson that her students absorbed. Her daughter, Valerie, is an accomplished trapeeze artist. Her brother Victor worked and taught at the school.
        Miss Fratellini, who is survived by Mr. Etaix as well as her daughter, also appeared in several movies, including ''Zazie Dans le Metro,'' a 1961 film by Louis Malle.
      