
        Madelon DeVoe Talley, an investment manager who was one of Wall Street's first female executives, died Friday in a car accident near Wyndam, N.Y., her husband, Truman M. Talley, said. She was 65.
        Despite a longtime interest in finance, Mrs. Talley did not begin her career until 1969, when she was in her late 30's and in the midst of raising three children.
        In his book ''The Go-Go Years,'' an account of Wall Street during the 1960's, the author John Brooks said Mrs. Talley was a ''New York housewife who had tired of full-time housewifery,'' when she took a job as an assistant analyst at the Dreyfus Corporation.
        A year later, she was named co-manager of the Dreyfus Leverage Fund, a promotion that made her the first female fund manager on Wall Street.
        During her tenure at Dreyfus, which lasted until 1977, Mrs. Talley managed several funds, was a member of the firm's executive committee and earned a reputation as one of the sharper financial minds around.
        During that period she also received a B.A. from Sarah Lawrence College.
        ''She had a lot of energy, talent and ability in the field, and did very well,'' said Howard Stein, the retired chairman of Dreyfus.
        Mrs. Talley left Dreyfus to develop programs for the American Women's Economic Development Corporation, a joint venture of the Small Business Administration and the Commerce Department that aids women entrepreneurs.
        Mrs. Talley said she took the job to hone her interest in small business rather than further an interest in business.
        ''Everybody in my family has started his own business,'' she said in a 1979 interview.
        ''My father-in-law started a paperback book company; my father started two businesses on Wall Street, and my grandfather started two businesses in Hoboken.''
        The call of the investment world was strong, however, and seven months after taking on her new position Mrs. Talley returned to it.
        In February 1979 she was appointed New York State's director of the division of investments and cash management, a job that included the management of the state's $16 billion common retirement fund.
        ''Madelon Talley set the procedures and processes for the retirement funds, so that when the markets started to rise in 1982, when the Dow Jones industrial average was at 800, we were set,'' said Edward V. Regan, the former New York State Controller who hired her. ''It was a very, very major contribution.''
        Mrs. Talley kept her Albany job until June 1982, when she left to join Rothschild Inc. as president of its asset management unit. She held the post for two years, leaving to set up a hedge investment fund for private investors.
        In the last decade, Mrs. Talley devoted much of her time to writing about investing and serving on various boards.
        From 1993 to 1995, she served as a governor of the National Association of Securities Dealers. In 1995, she was appointed a commissioner of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. She wrote two books and numerous articles for a variety of publications.
        At the time of her death, Mrs. Talley was vice chairman of W. P. Carey & Company, a real estate concern, a member of Alliance Capital Management's International Advisory Committee and a member of the board of the Joffrey Ballet.
        ''She knew our business as a customer and a vendor, and she did a great job for New York State by getting the state heavily into stocks in the early 1980's, which was the right thing to do,'' said Dave Williams, chairman of Alliance Capital.
        A lifelong resident of Manhattan, Mrs. Talley was a 10th-generation New Yorker, her forebears having emigrated from Alsace-Lorraine in the mid-17th century.
        In addition to her husband, Mrs. Talley is survived by a son, MacDonald W. Talley of Pacific Grove, Calif.; two daughters, Melanie Talley Whately and Marina Talley, both of Manhattan, and a brother, Raymond F. DeVoe Jr. of Sea Girt, N.J.
      