
        Joan Heming Frank, a television producer who worked on the original ''Hallmark Hall of Fame'' drama series in the 1950's and 60's when the performances were broadcast live from a studio in Brooklyn, died on Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 77.
        The cause was cancer, her brother, Charles E. Heming, said.
        Mrs. Frank worked for Compass Productions, which made ''Hallmark Hall of Fame,'' the series of distinguished dramas that in its early years came from the NBC studios in Brooklyn, with actors like Greer Garson and Christopher Plummer.
        In the days before pretaped shows, she was part of a six-member production team that brought a script from rehearsal through live production in about a month, said Mildred Schaefer, whose husband, George, headed Compass Productions.
        Presentations of the Hallmark television series, sponsored by the greeting card company, almost always had an uplifting ending and were shown about five times a year, usually two weeks before major holidays. The series, now taped and broadcast on CBS, had its 190th performance in December.
        Mrs. Frank was born in White Plains in 1920 and graduated from Vassar College in 1942. She worked as an economist during World War II in the Office of Price Administration in Washington and was married to John V. Frank, the president of a travel service. Mr. Frank died in 1991.
        After moving to New York City, she pursued her love of the arts. ''She was always the avid theatergoer, moviegoer,'' Mrs. Schaefer said. ''She was never in it for the money or the salary. She just loved the whole world of that, especially creating things.''
        In recent years, Mrs. Frank worked with the Central Park Conservancy and at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Earlier, she had worked in political campaigns for Herbert H. Lehman and Franklin D. Roosevelt.
        In addition to her brother, she is survived by a son, Daniel H. Frank of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.; a daughter, Katherine L. Frank of Manhattan; two sisters, Delia H. Cantor and Harriet H. Simpson, and five grandchildren.
      