
        Rosina Lawrence, whose brief but bright film career still flickers on the home screen in the ''Our Gang,''  ''Little Rascals'' and Laurel and Hardy classics, died on June 23 at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 84 and lived in Brooklyn and on Mackinac Island, Mich.
        Miss Lawrence, who was known off screen as Rosina Marchisio-McCabe, danced, sang and acted in the 1920's and 30's, appearing in vaudeville and films, from comedic shorts to musical extravaganzas like ''The Great Ziegfeld'' of 1936. She also played the heroine in ''Way Out West'' (1937), which was Laurel and Hardy's favorite of their films. In it Miss Lawrence played Mary Roberts, a scullery maid and unsuspecting heiress whom the duo tracked to a bar in Brushwood Gulch.
        Miss Lawrence was hired, at age 20, by Fox Studios to make several films with Alice Faye and Edward Everett Horton, among others. These included ''Ten Dollar Raise,'' ''Your Uncle Dudley,'' ''Music Is Magic'' and ''Charlie Chan's Secret.''
        But it was after the merger of Fox and 20th Century that she came into her own. She danced the Marilyn Miller part in ''The Great Ziegfeld'' and was cast as the new teacher, Miss Lawrence, in a series of ''Our Gang'' shorts, the best of which, ''Bored of Education,'' won an Oscar.
        She starred as the movie-struck Cecilia Moore, sweet young thing from Iowa, in ''Pick a Star.'' It was another feature with Laurel and Hardy, and in it she matched wits with Patsy Kelly and Jack Haley.
        Her last professional appearance was in an Italian film in which she played an American in Italy, ''In Campagna e Caduta una Stella'' (1939). Because of the war, it was not released in the United States until 1950, as ''In the Country Fell a Star.''
        Rosina Lawrence was born in Westboro, Ontario, and as a child  moved to Hollywood, where her father was a set builder. His presence assured her entree to the studios, but it took an accident to set her career path, when a bruised knee led to dance classes as therapy.
        She danced in Los Angeles theaters during school vacations, and took acting and singing lessons as well. After vaudeville, dance clubs and some stage musicals, she landed her first cinematic dancing role in ''Angel of Broadway'' (1927).
        She danced in ''Paramount on Parade'' (1930), featuring Maurice Chevalier, and appeared in ''Connecticut Yankee'' (1931) with Will Rogers, ''Disorderly Conduct'' (1932) with Spencer Tracy and the 1935 MGM hit ''Reckless'' with Jean Harlow.
        She ended her career in 1939 and married a Brooklyn lawyer, Juvenal P. Marchisio. He became a New York judge and a leader in the postwar relief efforts for Italy. He died in 1973.
        She is survived by her husband,  John C. McCabe, the movie biographer; two daughters, Rosina Mo of Bracciano, Italy, and Margaret Romairone of Manhattan; a son, Juvenal L., of Rockleigh, N.J., and five grandchildren.
      