
        Dorothy Buffum Chandler, whose vision and fund-raising fervor helped transform modern Los Angeles and who as the wife and mother of successive publishers helped turn The Los Angeles Times into one of the nation's great newspapers, died on Sunday at a rest home in Hollywood. She was 96.
        Mrs. Chandler's greatest single achievement was probably her nine-year drive in the late 1950's and early 60's to finance and build the Music Center of Los Angeles County, which revitalized the city's downtown district and fused old-line society with the newer wealth of Hollywood.
        The opening of the center in 1964 earned her a spot on the cover of Time magazine and an accompanying article that declared her effort to get it built as ''the most impressive display of virtuoso money-raising and civic citizenship in the history of U.S. womanhood.''
        The next year, the center's largest auditorium, which has become a frequent home to the Academy Awards ceremonies, was named the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion.
        Gov. Pete Wilson of California called Mrs. Chandler ''the heart and soul of Southern California's cultural life.'' Mayor Richard Riordan of Los Angeles told The Los Angeles Times that ''her imprint will be part of Los Angeles for many centuries to come,'' particularly its cultural life.
        Dorothy Buffum was born in Lafayette, Ill., and moved with her family to Long Beach, Calif., when she was a toddler. Her father and uncle opened a dry-goods store in Long Beach that eventually grew into the chain of Buffum's department stores, a fixture of Southern California until the 1980's.
        She met Norman Chandler, the son of Harry Chandler, publisher of The Los Angeles Times, at a dance at Stanford University, and they married in 1922.
        During the years that Norman Chandler trained to be publisher and worked his way through the newspaper's executive echelons, Mrs. Chandler raised their daughter, Camilla, and son, Otis, and did volunteer work for the Children's Hospital of Los Angeles and other institutions.
        When Harry Chandler died in 1944, Norman Chandler took over as publisher, and four years later his wife was named his administrative assistant. Her presence was quickly felt within the newspaper, particularly in the coverage of women and the arts. She was instrumental in inaugurating the paper's Women of the Year awards, which were given to more than 200 women between 1950 and 1976.
        ''She was just really a ball of fire with whatever she set her mind to, whatever she wanted to get done,'' said James Bellows, a former editor of The New York Herald-Tribune and The Washington Star who was associate editor of The Los Angeles Times in the late 1960's and early 70's. ''She really worked at the role of women in the city, and was very involved in setting up the Women of the Year. She was very concerned that it reflect the diversity of the city and that it be given to women for their achievements and not just for social activities.''
        Mr. Bellows said he found Mrs. Chandler to be ''tough, but not intractable,'' someone who knew her mind, was willing to debate and listen to argument and who eventually ''usually got her way.''
        Mrs. Chandler's role as a civic fund-raiser began in earnest in 1950, when she undertook a successful drive to save the Hollywood Bowl. A few years later she began her effort to build the Music Center, eventually raising $19 million and forming a committee to float an additional $13.7 million in bonds that were guaranteed by the county.
        ''She was a critical figure in the modernization of Los Angeles,'' said David Halberstam, whose book, ''The Powers That Be,'' chronicled the newspaper's rise under Mrs. Chandler's husband and son. ''If you're charting the coming of a big, sleepy, conservative community into the modern, affluent, increasingly sophisticated metropolis that exists today, she may be the single most important player.''
        At the time, Mr. Halberstam said, Los Angeles was split between an older establishment centered in the downtown area and a newer establishment in Hollywood and farther to the west.
        ''Culturally, she helped connect West Los Angeles with downtown Los Angeles, two communities that 40 years ago had almost nothing in common and barely spoke the same language,'' he said. ''It was her drive, energy, ambition and even hubris that connected them.''
        Otis Chandler succeeded his father as the paper's publisher in 1960 and held that post for 20 years, though Norman Chandler remained an executive with the company until his death in 1974. Mrs. Chandler strongly supported her son's efforts to improve the quality of the newspaper and to raise it to the ranks of the nation's finest. Otis Chandler is now a board member of the Times Mirror Corporation, which owns the newspaper.
        In later years, Mrs. Chandler served on numerous boards and Presidential commissions, devoting special attention to the University of California. She was among three women chosen by President Lyndon B. Johnson to visit South Vietnam in 1967 to assess the status of the American war effort. In 1985, President Ronald Reagan included her in the first group of winners of the National Medal of Arts.
        She is survived by her son; her daughter, Camilla Chandler Frost, eight grandchildren and 14 great-grandchildren.
        Anecdotes about Mrs. Chandler's fund-raising prowess are numerous.
        One friend recalled how she tore up a $20,000 check from a wealthy businessman and handed it back to him, telling him that it was unacceptably paltry. At a private dinner where she was a guest, just weeks before the Music Center was to open, Mrs. Chandler is said to have stood up after coffee was served and gone from person to person collecting money in a large, blue bag.
        ''I think of myself as a catalyst,'' she said in an interview shortly after the Music Center opened. ''There are so many people with good ideas and good intentions. They doubtless know more about the arts than I do. But I pull them together. That's my job.''
      