
        Mumeo Oku, a pioneer in Japan's consumer movement and an early campaigner for women's rights, died on Monday at her Tokyo home. She was 101.
        Mrs. Oku founded the Housewives' Association, one of Japan's first and best-known consumer groups, and remained its leader for decades. She also was one of the first women to serve in Parliament.
        ''She opened the way for consumers' movements and consumers' rights in Japan after the war,'' said Teiko Kihara, chairwoman of the Japan League of Women Voters.
        The Housewives' Association grew out of a protest over the shoddy quality of matches being rationed by the government in the impoverished days just after World War II. Only one match in 10 would light.
        The association went on to protest other poor-quality goods such as clothing that shrank too much and cans labeled beef that were really filled with horse meat or whale. In protest marches, members wore aprons over their kimonos and carried large rice ladles as placards.
        Consumer groups, however, never became very powerful in Japan, a nation that sacrificed its consumers' life style to build its industry. The Housewives' Association, which now has 391 local chapters, has sometimes taken positions that seem anti-consumer, such as opposing the import of inexpensive rice in order to protect Japan's farmers.
        Mrs. Oku was born in Fukui Prefecture in western Japan in 1895, the eldest daughter of a blacksmith.
        She graduated from Japan Women's University and became active in 1920 in the women's suffrage movement. She also worked at a spinning company to become involved in the labor movement and was appalled by the working conditions. And she ran a home to help poor women and children from 1923 until it was destroyed in an American air raid in 1944.
        Japanese women gained the right to vote and hold office in 1946, when the country was under United States occupation in the years after World War II. Mrs. Oku won a seat the next year in the upper house of Parliament and served for three six-year terms.
        Mrs. Oku always wore a traditional Japanese kimono, joking that she could not afford Western clothes.
        ''She always wore a kimono beautifully but her mind was tougher than men's,'' said Ms. Kihara. ''She was very clear in expressing her opinion even in front of men of high status. Very few women could do that in Japan at that time.''
        Mrs. Oku is survived by a daughter, Kii Nakamura, who also served as a chairman of the Housewives' Association, and a son, Kyoichi Oku, both of Tokyo.
        A funeral is to be held Thursday in Tokyo.
      