
        Alexandra Danilova, an internationally popular ballet star known for her vivacity and theatrical flair, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 93.
        Beloved by audiences in a performing career that extended from the Imperial Russian Ballet of St. Petersburg to Sergei Diaghilev's Ballets Russes of the 1920's and the various Ballets Russes companies that succeeded it, Miss Danilova was also a noted teacher and for many years a faculty member of the School of American Ballet, the New York City Ballet's school.
        She was known to friends by the nickname Choura, and admired for her Champagne-like sparkle and a stage presence so intense that she could command attention even when she was not moving. With her heart-shaped face and dark brown hair, she was striking to behold. She was also celebrated for possessing what were considered the most beautiful -- and photogenic -- legs in ballet. Lincoln Kirstein, the New York City Ballet's director, once called them ''legs like luminous wax.''
        Yet Miss Danilova did more than personify glamour. Extraordinarily versatile, she danced roles that ranged from the passionate Swan Queen in ''Swan Lake'' to the mischievous Swanilda in ''Coppelia'' and the worldly heroines of Leonide Massine's balletic comedies, ''Le Beau Danube'' and ''Gaite Parisienne.'' Although she particularly enjoyed dramatic roles, she also danced abstract ballets. George Balanchine, her schoolmate from St. Petersburg, created ''Danses Concertantes'' in 1944 for her and for Frederic Franklin, the English-born dancer who was her partner at the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo from the late 1930's through the 50's.
        She appeared in many experimental productions, including, in the Soviet Union, Fyodor Lopukhov's ''Dance Symphony'' of 1923, among the first abstract symphonic ballets. Artistically inquisitive, Miss Danilova once said: ''I have been so lucky. All my life I have worked with the avant-garde. That developed me enormously as an artist, much more than if I had danced just 'Swan Lake' and 'Giselle.' ''
        She was born in Peterhof, Russia, near St. Petersburg, on Nov. 20, 1903, and orphaned when she was a small child. She was brought up by relatives and foster parents. When they discovered that the little girl loved to dance, they wondered if there might be a career in ballet for her, and she was accepted by the Imperial Ballet School in 1911. In 1920, she entered the Maryinsky Ballet, the company now known as the Kirov Ballet.
        As a young dancer, she was caught up in the artistic ferment after the Bolshevik Revolution. Not only did she appear in the experiments of Lopukhov, but she also became a friend of Balanchine, at that time an experimental young choreographer. Along with several other dancers, she and Balanchine left the Soviet Union in 1924 on what was intended to be a tour of Western Europe. But that same year, she and Balanchine were accepted by Diaghilev: Miss Danilova as a dancer, Balanchine as a choreographer.
        Until 1931, she and Balanchine lived together as husband and wife, although they were never married. Balanchine was still officially married to another dancer, Tamara Geva, and he told Miss Danilova that because his marriage papers had been left behind in Russia, he feared it might be difficult to arrange a legal separation.
        When Diaghilev died in 1929, Miss Danilova said she felt as if the ground had collapsed beneath her feet. A few years later, however, she danced with the Ballets Russes, which Col. W. de Basil organized in 1933 as a successor to the Diaghilev company. In 1938, she became prima ballerina of a rival company, Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, in part because its resident choreographer was Massine, whom she admired only slightly less than Balanchine. The coming of World War II turned the Ballet Russe into an American company and, often partnered by Mr. Franklin, she toured across the country until the early 1950's, appearing in the classics, in ballets by Massine and in works by other choreographers, including Balanchine.
        Miss Danilova, who became an American citizen in 1946, was twice married, to Giuseppe Massera in 1934 and to Casimir Kokitch in 1941. Both marriages ended in divorce, and Miss Danilova said in ''Choura,'' her autobiography, which was published in 1986: ''I sacrificed marriage, children and country to be a ballerina, and there was never any misunderstanding on my part: I knew the price.''
        She also wrote, ''In a way I regard American audiences as my children, because I helped to educate them.''
        Many dancegoers who saw her with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo would agree to that. Miss Danilova gained the reputation of being an artist who was never slack and who gave one-night appearances in tiny villages the same loving care that she bestowed upon seasons at the Metropolitan Opera House.
        ''I never danced for an audience that I thought was unworthy of my performance,'' she once declared. She said she believed that a ballerina should always be glamorous, onstage or off. In her autobiography, she wrote: ''Every woman has an image -- mother, princess, ballerina -- that she must uphold. I was privileged to be a ballerina and I, therefore, had a duty to my audience. They must never be disappointed in me.''
        Miss Danilova was often in demand as a guest teacher around the country. She also coached works from the classical repertory, and in 1974, she and Balanchine staged ''Coppelia'' for the New York City Ballet. She appeared on Broadway in ''Song of Norway'' in 1944 and ''Oh, Captain'' in 1958 and in the movie ''The Turning Point'' in 1976. In 1958, she received the Capezio Award.
        No immediate family members survive. A funeral service for Miss Danilova will be held at 5 P.M. on Thursday at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street.
        Although she was long reluctant to return to Russia, Lewis Ufland, her former manager, said yesterday that Miss Danilova did go back several years ago. She visited St. Petersburg as part of the trip, and was able to attend graduation performances at the Kirov School, the former Imperial Ballet School she had attended as a child. The faculty enthusiastically welcomed her as one of that institution's greatest alumnae.
      