
        Harriett R. Taylor, a senior judge of the District of Columbia Superior Court whose actions helped to ease conditions for Washington's poor and homeless, died on Monday at her home in Washington. She was 65.
        The cause was cancer, her family said.
        Judge Taylor, in a special weekend session in 1989, mandated thorough changes for Washington's homeless shelters, including the addition of 50 beds and an overhaul of safety and sanitation.
        In 1982, she instructed Mayor Marion S. Barry Jr. and housing officials to provide heat and hot water for the tenants of four battered public housing projects.
        In a child custody case in 1994 involving a couple who were both lawyers, she ruled for the father.  Judge Taylor found that while both parents ''clearly love their children very much'' the father was doing the better job of balancing career and family obligations. Her ruling, which was upheld on appeal, also provided for the payment of child support by the mother.
        The decision was criticized by women's organizations and praised by fathers' rights groups.
        Harriett Rosen Taylor was born in the Bronx, was reared in Brooklyn and graduated from Brooklyn College and Columbia University Law School. She practiced family and labor law in New York and Washington before becoming the District's first administrative law judge in 1976, working in the newly formed Office of Consumer Protection.
        President Jimmy Carter named her to a 15-year term on the Superior Court bench in 1979. She began a second 15-year term in 1994. She assumed senior status last year to teach a course, ''Effective Lawyering: The View from the Bench,'' at Stanford University, and resumed her judicial role in Washington last month.
        With a strong interest in legal education, she took part in the Trial Advocacy Workshop at Harvard University and played the judge in many high school and college moot court competitions.
        Judge Taylor is survived by her husband, William L., a civil rights lawyer; two daughters, Lauren Taylor of Silver Spring, Md., and Debbie Taylor of San Francisco; a son, David Van Taylor of Brooklyn; her mother, Alice Rosen, also of Brooklyn; a sister, Carole Lachman of Staten Island, and a granddaughter.
      