
        Mary Louise Smith, a representative of the Republican Party's moderate wing and the only woman ever to serve as chairman of the Republican National Committee, died on Friday at Iowa Methodist Medical Center in Des Moines. She was 82 and a longtime resident of Des Moines.
        The cause was lung cancer, said her son James E. Smith.
        Mrs. Smith was chosen to be chairman of the Republican National Committee by Gerald Ford when he succeeded Richard M. Nixon as President in 1974.
        She headed the party during the difficult period after Watergate and announced in November 1976 -- three weeks after President Ford was defeated for re-election by Jimmy Carter -- that she would step down in January 1977, instead of serving two more years.
        When she made her decision known, she urged Republicans to avoid ''destructive division'' and ''a fatal lurch to either extreme of the political spectrum.''
        Mrs. Smith evidently decided to step down when she did because she thought that the question of whether a moderate or a conservative was to succeed her should be resolved as soon as possible so that the party could begin getting ready for the 1978 Congressional and 1980 Presidential elections.
        At the time, her party's conservative faction, associated with Ronald Reagan held the moderates responsible for President Ford's defeat. In January 1977, the Republican National Committee elected Bill Brock, a conservative former Senator from Tennessee, to succeed Mrs. Smith. After Mr. Reagan was elected President, he appointed Mrs. Smith to the United States Commission on Civil Rights. But in his second term, after she had been critical of Administration policies on civil rights, he refused to reappoint her.
        Mrs. Smith, whose maiden name was Epperson, was born in the small Iowa town of Eddyville and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Iowa. She became active and prominent in Republican politics and served on the Republican National Committee from 1964 to 1984. She also became a feminist and became known for supporting civil rights and abortion rights.
        Her husband, Dr. Elmer Milton Smith, whom she married in 1934, died in 1980.
        In addition to her son James, of Des Moines, she is survived by another son, Dr. Robert C., of East Lansing, Mich.; a daughter, Maggie of Jamestown, Calif.; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      