
        Janet Good, a longtime civil rights worker who cooperated with Dr. Jack Kevorkian to help terminally ill people die, ended her own life yesterday in her home in suburban Detroit. She was 73.
        Mrs. Good had suffered from pancreatic cancer and said she hoped not to die as her mother had, slowly and in great pain. As it was, Mrs. Good confounded her doctors, who had expected her illness to take her life by early 1996.
        ''My time, obviously, is not quite here,'' she said in an interview late last year. Yesterday, she decided it was, said a person familiar with her decision and who spoke on the condition of anonymity.
        At a news conference in Southfield, Mich., Dr. Kevorkian's lawyer, Geoffrey Fieger, asked the authorities not to pry into the circumstances of Mrs. Good's death.
        And while Mr. Fieger declined to confirm that Dr. Kevorkian was present when she died, he said, ''Janet Good is no more the victim of a homicide than anyone else who has died in association and in the presence of Dr. Kevorkian.''
        In recent years, Dr. Kevorkian has become well known for assisting in dozens of suicides. He has been tried but acquitted several times, and Mrs. Good became his top assistant, helping him screen those seeking help to die and consoling their survivors.
        She said she was proud to have been indicted in late 1996 on charges of assisting in a suicide. ''I was almost offended when I wasn't charged last time,'' she said. The indictment was later dropped because of her deteriorating health.
        Dr. Kevorkian's name was hardly known in 1989, when Mrs. Good started the right to die movement in Michigan by founding a chapter of the Hemlock Society in her living room. The chapter now has several hundred members.
        In June 1990, Dr. Kevorkian asked her if he could use her house for the very first assisted suicide.
        Although she agreed at first, she later declined after conferring with her husband, Ray, a retired Detroit police commander who thought the deed might be illegal.
        ''The doctor called me every name in the book,'' Mrs. Good recalled later.
        But they mended their differences, and in May 1996, after her husband had changed his mind, she allowed Dr. Kevorkian to use her home to help end a life.
        After her own illness was diagnosed, she said her belief in a right to die had come naturally, in part because of her mother's suffering. ''I have worked for civil rights and women's rights and human rights for many years, and this seemed to me just another right we should have,'' she said.
        A native of Detroit, Mrs. Good worked for the State of Michigan, processing unemployment claims.
        In the 1970's, she led a successful drive to make sexual harassment illegal in the state, a triumph that won her election to the Michigan Women's Hall of Fame.
        She was also honored by the Log Cabin Society, a gay Republican group, for consoling AIDS patients and their families.
        Survivors include her husband of 55 years; a son, Michael, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; a daughter, Marjorie Helmling, and a sister, Margaret Moran, both of Detroit; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. Her oldest daughter, Donna Ungar, died in 1995.
      