
        Maria Rosa Henson, the first of a growing number of Philippine women to break a long silence and announce that she had been systematically raped by Japanese soldiers during World War II, has died at age 69.
        Her family said she died of a heart attack last week in the small home she had built in Manila using part of a $19,000 settlement she received from a specially created Japanese fund a year ago.
        Mrs. Henson, who married after the war and supported a family as a worker at a cigarette factory, embarked in her 60's on a new life as a symbolic representative of as many as 200,000 women who had been forced to work in Japanese Army brothels.
        In recent years, since Mrs. Henson's announcement in 1992, the issue has drawn wide attention, and victims have banded together to protest in the Philippines and Korea.
        Last year Mrs. Henson published a stark account of her ordeal titled ''Comfort Woman: Slave of Destiny'' (Philippine Center for Investigative Journalism). A film about her life is being prepared in the Philippines.  She had planned to travel to Vienna next March to speak about her experiences and to open an exhibit of autobiographical drawings.
        Mrs. Henson was also the lead plaintiff in a class action suit against the Japanese Government seeking damages for forced prostitution, and shortly before she died she was interviewed by a team of lawyers visiting from Tokyo.
        In an interview last November, Mrs. Henson said she had fought against her trauma by clinging to the memory of every detail of her abuse, which began when she was 15 and lasted for nine months. ''I learned to remember everything, to remember always, so that I will not go mad,'' she said.
        ''I am telling my story so that they will feel humiliated,'' she said of her tormentors. ''It is true: I am an avenger of the dead.''
        Since Mrs. Henson stepped forward to reveal what she had felt was a shameful secret about her past, 168 other women in the Philippines have followed her lead.
        But her acceptance last year of compensation prompted controversy because it came from the Asian Women's Fund -- a private fund organized by the Japanese Government -- rather than from the Government itself.
        Some local women's groups opposed this form of compensation, calling it an attempt by the Japanese Government to shirk official responsibility and to avoid opening the door to lawsuits from other war victims.
        Along with her compensation from the private fund, Mrs. Henson received a letter of apology from the Japanese Government. She then became the lead plaintiff in the class-action suit.
        But her strongest indictment came in her book, a blunt and graphic account, which she wrote in longhand on sheets of lined paper and which has been published in the Philippines and Japan.
        ''As I was writing, I was crying,'' Mrs. Henson said in the interview.
        In her account of her daily routine, she said soldiers had lined up outside a small building to wait their turns with one of a half dozen imprisoned women or teen-age girls.
        ''My work began, and I lay down as one by one the soldiers raped me,'' Mrs. Henson wrote. ''Every day, anywhere from 12 to over 20 soldiers assaulted me. There were times when there were as many as 30. They came to the garrison in truckloads.
        ''I lay on the bed with my knees up and my feet on the mat, as if I were giving birth. Whenever the soldiers did not feel satisfied they vented their anger on me. When the soldiers raped me, I felt like a pig. I was angry all the time.''
        Mrs. Henson is survived by a son and a daughter as well as by several grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
      