
        Joyce Ebert, a versatile character actress for more than 30 years with the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven, died on Thursday at Southport Manor, a rest home in Southport, Conn. She was 64.
        The cause was cancer, said Kimberly Sewright, a spokeswoman for Long Wharf.
        Ms. Ebert was a dedicated company actress, playing cameo roles as well as starring ones, and and unlike many actresses she never stopped working. She performed in 81 plays at Long Wharf, many of them directed by her husband, Arvin Brown, the company's longtime artistic director. She is survived by her husband.
        In a highly productive career she appeared in diverse plays, from ''Arsenic and Old Lace'' to ''The Trojan Women.'' She was equally comfortable in the czarist Russia of Gorky and Chekhov and in the rustic American environment of ''Tobacco Road,'' although she seemed especially at home in the world of Lillian Hellman. Sometimes she would appear in several plays in one season. She also appeared on Broadway and Off Broadway and at other regional theaters.
        She acted in revivals of plays by Eugene O'Neill, Arthur Miller, Thornton Wilder and John Osborne, while also performing in new works (''The Shadow Box'') and, occasionally, musicals (for 10 years she studied opera). Ms. Ebert often played less than glamorous roles. But with her comic touch she could capture the flamboyance of such vivid characters as Carlotta Vance in ''Dinner at 8'' by George S. Kaufman and Edna Ferber, in a stylish revival directed by Mr. Brown.
        Among the other highlights of her career was her title role in D. H. Lawrence's ''Widowing of Mrs. Holroyd.'' Mr. Brown's production was later shown on ''Theater in America'' on WNET, on Channel 13 in New York.
        In 1996, the Connecticut Critics Circle gave her a special achievement award for 30 years of ''outstanding contribution to a theater in Connecticut.''
        She was born in Homestead, Pa., and graduated from Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh. Later she studied with Uta Hagen and Lee Strasberg. She began her New York theatrical career playing Julie in ''Liliom'' at the Equity Library Theater, and continued to work Off Broadway in the late 1950's and early 60's.
        For her performance in ''The Trojan Women'' at Circle in the Square in 1963, she won an Obie and the Clarence Derwent Award. In 1961, she was Ophelia to Donald Madden's Hamlet at the Phoenix Theater. A decade later she played Gertrude to Stacy Keach's Hamlet at Long Wharf.
        Her first Long Wharf performance was in ''Misalliance'' in 1966. In 1996, she played opposite Fritz Weaver in the full-length version of Noel Coward's ''Song at Twilight,'' and gave her last performance in ''The Show Off'' by George Kelly, a play she had done 21 years before, also at Long Wharf.
        Interviewed by the Times in 1982, she said: ''I really had a spectacular career and it's been in a quiet way. I'm not a star and never wanted to be one.'' She added, with evident pride, ''I work constantly.''
      