
        Ruth Adler, who kept the staff of The New York Times informed about its own milestones and behind-the-scenes adventures and shaped the legends and lore of The Times for other journalists and students for 33 years as editor of the newspaper's in-house journal Times Talk, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 87.
        Ms. Adler, who underwent open heart surgery in March, died of heart failure, her nephew, Peter Lewis, said.
        Behind every news story there is an untold -- or rarely told -- tale of the reporter's personal experience: the hazards of covering a war or a riot, the grind of the campaign trail, a correspondent's travails with foul weather, bad food, crazy hours, unworkable communications and implausible expense accounts.
        From 1947, when she became the first editor of Times Talk, to 1980, when she retired after 46 years with The Times, Ms. Adler chronicled these tales, and countless more routine doings, for the newspaper's 5,000 employees in a house organ that was one of the best and most widely read periodicals on the practice of journalism.
        More than a compendium of staff marriages, births, deaths and achievements, it captured the life of the newspaper from the inside, with sometimes dramatic, often hilarious accounts from reporters around the world, from editors in a raucous city room, from printers riding Linotype machines, and hard men in square paper hats down in a thundering pressroom on 43d Street in Manhattan.
        Reflecting its editor's fascination with the news and with the newspaper's daily production, her journal offered Tom Wicker's account of covering the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in Dallas; A. M. Rosenthal on his expulsion from Poland for reports that won a Pulitzer Prize; Claude Sitton on civil rights clashes in the South, and Robert Lipsyte on how to report a boxing match with a screaming fan standing on your typewriter. Such accounts were all the more intriguing in an era when most reporters were anonymous figures behind their news articles.
        In 1966, Ms. Adler compiled 53 Times Talk articles in ''The Working Press: Special to The New York Times,'' published by G. P. Putnam's Sons. Eliot Fremont-Smith, in a review for The Times, said the book conveyed ''a remarkably clear picture of how The Times, as an entity, works -- how the news comes in and what happens to it, in both routine and crisis situations.''
        Ms. Adler also wrote ''A Day in the Life of The New York Times'' (J. B. Lippincott, 1971), a 242-page account, hour by hour, of what the newspaper's staff did to put out the issue of Feb. 28, 1969, a date chosen arbitrarily, on which there was no earth-shaking news.
        Based on memos from hundreds of Times employees, her account detailed the activities of reporters around the world and across the nation, looked over the shoulders of rewritemen pounding out inserts and of editors writing headlines and laying out pages, eavesdropped on advertising salesmen and then watched the presses roll and the delivery trucks roar away.
        Ruth Adler was born in Rochester  on July 10, 1910, the daughter of Ida Lichtenstein and Mortimer Adler. She attended public schools in Rochester, graduated from Smith College and attended the Sorbonne in Paris for a year before joining The Times in 1934 as a secretary to Ivan Veit, then the promotion manager. She was not a member of the Adler family that is related to the Sulzbergers who own The Times.
        Ms. Adler, who never married, played golf and tennis and was an extensive traveler.
        She occasionally wrote articles for The Times's Sunday magazine or travel section. In 1947, she was asked to establish an internal news publication for the staff. Arthur Hays Sulzberger, the publisher, was one of her principal fans and consultants; he gave her a small staff and complete autonomy to design, edit and produce Times Talk.
        During her early tenure, Times Talk was 12 pages and appeared monthly. Later, the number of pages varied in a larger format, and it appeared 10 times a year. Its circulation went beyond The Times staff, to other journalists and to journalism schools, where many regarded it as a valuable teaching aid. Today, Times Talk has 28 pages, appears seven times a year and has a circulation of more than 8,500 current and retired employees of the newspaper.
        When Ms. Adler retired in 1980, a full issue of Times Talk was devoted to her. The art critic John Canaday called her ''a living encyclopedia'' of the newspaper's recent history, and Russell Baker, the columnist, offered a tongue-in-cheek tribute to one of his favorite editors.
        ''Some of the best people had worked for The Times for years before Times Talk revealed that they were actually first-rate reporters,'' he wrote. ''At a time when your material was usually reduced to chopped liver by The Times's famous editing process, the opportunity to tell the story right in Times Talk compensated for many a night when you stalked out of the office in a rage to tell it to the gin bottle.''
      