
        Joanne Tree Winship, a former actress who played an active role in many New York City charity benefits, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 73 and lived in midtown Manhattan.
        The cause was heart failure, her husband, Frederick Winship, said.
        Mrs. Winship served for some years in the 1970's as the American chairwoman of Girls Town of Italy, an international organization based in Rome that cared for children who had been abandoned.
        The organization's annual fund-raiser, which included a fashion show, featured several European designers who later became well known in this country, including Gianni Versace and Valentino.
        She also played a leading role in organizing dinner dance benefits for the New York City Opera and the School of American Ballet. Her fund-raising efforts for the Museum of the City of New York's theater collection included such events as ''A Celebration of Jule Styne on Broadway'' in 1987.
        She appeared in a number of movies as a child, including ''Mad About Music'' in 1938 and ''Cheers for Miss Bishop'' in 1941, as well as the Nancy Drew mystery series. While in her teens, she began a stage career under contract to J. J. Shubert.
        Her television credits included ''Robert Montgomery Presents,'' ''Studio One'' and ''Broadway TV Theater,'' as well as the serialization of ''Junior Miss.''
        A native of New York City, she was the daughter of John and Anna Tree of Lawrence, N.Y. In 1956, she married Alexis Thompson. Mr. Thompson died the next year. She married Mr. Winship in 1967.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a brother, George Tannenbaum of Montgomery, Ala., and a sister, Ruth Deroux of San Diego.
        Correction:  September 26, 1997, Friday
        An obituary on Aug. 11 about Joanne Winship, who was active in many charity benefits in New York City, misstated the year of her marriage to Alexis Thompson. It was 1953, not 1956. The error was pointed out in a letter to The Times last week.
      