
        Helen Merrill, a strong-willed and influential theatrical agent who advanced the careers of many of the most imaginative playwrights, directors and designers in the American theater, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital. She was 79 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Patrick Herold, who is a partner in her agency.
        Ms. Merrill's strength was in finding and encouraging venturesome young artists. As an agent, she played an important role in the lives of the playwrights Christopher Durang, Albert Innaurato, Richard Greenberg, Paul Rudnick and David Henry Hwang, among others. The designers she represented included Ming Cho Lee, George Tsypin, Tony Straiges, Paul Gallo and William Ivey Long, and among her directors were Anne Bogart, Jerry Zaks, Christopher Ashley, Michael Greif and Lisa Peterson.
        Not all these people remained her clients, but they generally continued to feel a great indebtedness. Mr. Greenberg, who subsequently moved on to another agency, said: ''Helen ushered in a generation of playwrights. She was tremendously important to the life of the New York theater.''
        Outspoken and demanding, she was known for her unassailable belief in her clients, whom she would support economically as well as artistically, often lending them money, while urging them to challenge themselves.
        Although she lived in New York City for almost 60 years, she never lost her heavy German accent, which became a distinguishing feature of her personality, along with her wry and often prankish sense of humor. Her clients affectionately imitated her accent and mannerisms.
        Mr. Rudnick used her as the model for the actor's agent played by Celeste Holm in his play ''I Hate Hamlet.'' He said: ''She was known for her independence, her passionate devotion to theater and her carefully honed mystique. She loved to discover and nurture talent with a trademark combination of toughness and glee.''
        While other agents might sit in offices waiting for scripts, Ms. Merrill was indefatigable in her search for new plays. Dressed in her characteristic uniform (Brooks Brothers striped button-down shirt, Gap khakis and tennis shoes, and, in winter, a full-length mink coat), she was a familiar figure on the outposts of Off Off Broadway, always on the alert for emerging artists.
        In the case of Mr. Durang, she first saw his work at the Yale Repertory Theater, where he and Mr. Innaurato collaborated on the satiric musical ''The Idiot's Karamazov.'' Soon she was trekking to see Mr. Durang's comedies in late-night performances at small Manhattan theaters. Later, as his agent, she was instrumental in enlisting three regional theaters to offer sequential productions of his play ''A History of the American Film'' and then shepherded it to Broadway.
        ''She was the opposite of the cliches about agents,'' Mr. Durang said. ''If you had an offer of a lot of money or a workshop at Playwrights Horizons, she would much prefer that you did the workshop.''
        About her taste, he said, ''She liked plays on the edge, and would get restless with old-fashioned playwrights.''
        Most of her writers were several generations younger than she was. Many became her friends, though even for them she retained an air of mystery. ''I thought she led many other lives and was opaque about telling us about them,'' Mr. Durang said. There had been a brief marriage, and there was her intense relationship with Anthony Perkins, with whom she shared a home for many years.
        Her representation of scenic, costume, lighting and sound designers added an entirely new dimension to her career.
        ''She was a major person in representing designers,'' said Ming Cho Lee. ''We all went to Helen.''
        After Mr. Lee joined her agency, many of his design students at the Yale Graduate School of Drama followed. Immersing herself in the world of design, she became an indispensable ally to Mr. Lee and others.
        ''Her ideas never aged,'' Mr. Lee said. ''She was opinionated, but her opinions mattered. She could discriminate between fashion and something with a real core. In terms of the art of theater, we don't have anyone else.''
        Ms. Merrill was born in Cologne, Germany, and came to the United States in 1939 with her parents and sister. She is survived by her sister, Anjelica Wender of Manhattan, and her brother, Hervey, of Rochester.
        Although Ms. Merrill was primarily known as an agent, it was actually her third career. Earlier she had been a theatrical photographer. Then, with the backing of Mr. Perkins, she ran the Osgood Gallery in Manhattan. When the art gallery failed, she reinvented herself as an agent. In 1973, she opened Helen Merrill Ltd., specializing in playwrights and designers while also continuing to represent literary clients.
        ''She was perhaps the first play agent to realize the importance of the new nonprofit theater movement,'' said Andre Bishop, co-director of Lincoln Center Theater, and before that the head of Playwrights Horizons. ''She saw the future before others did, and she saw no difference between a 12-performance showcase and Broadway.''
        Mr. Bishop said that for a single play at Playwrights Horizons, Ms. Merrill would sometimes represent the playwright, the director and all three designers. ''It could have been called Helen Merrill Horizons in those days,'' he said.
      