
        Lucy Somerville Howorth, a lawyer who said her advocacy of women's rights was inspired by the campaign that won women the vote under the 19th Amendment, died on Aug. 23 at her home in Cleveland, Miss. She was 102.
        Mrs. Howorth watched from a crowded Statehouse gallery in Nashville on Aug. 18, 1920, when Tennessee ratified nationwide women's suffrage, and as the 36th state to do so put the 19th Amendment into the Constitution.
        A native Mississippian, Mrs. Howorth spent much of her life in the political arena, including a turn as a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1932. She was known as Judge Lucy, a sobriquet that stuck after she was appointed a United States Commissioner -- or magistrate -- for the Southern Judicial District of Mississippi in 1927.
        A few years later, she moved to Washington and held legal positions in Federal agencies where few women had gone before. She retired in 1954 as general counsel of the War Claims Commission and returned home to the practice of law.
        She was a national officer in the American Association of University Women, played a pivotal role in ending the organization's practice of racial segregation in the 1940's and headed a task force on the status of women and their employment opportunities after World War II. As an association vice president in the 1950's, she traveled widely and gave speeches around the country.
        Born in Greenville, Miss., she came from a long line of lawyers rooted in colonial America. As a child, she said, her mother took her to suffragist meetings and nurtured her daughter's independent spirit and her wish to become a lawyer, an aspiration hardly befitting a fine Southern lady then.
        Her mother, Nellie Nugent Somerville, was the first woman to be elected to the Mississippi Legislature, and Lucy also served there for four years in the 1930's.
        Lucy Somerville graduated from Randolph-Macon Woman's College in 1916 as a member of Phi Beta Kappa and went on to study at Columbia University, where she attended political rallies and meetings and regularly visited settlement houses.
        ''It was in New York City at that time,'' she recalled when Radcliffe College honored her in 1983 for a lifetime of achievements, ''that I learned to be a whole human being.''
        Back home, she earned her law degree with highest honors at the University of Mississippi in 1922 and practiced law until her appointment as Judge Lucy five years later. She held positions on the legal staff in the Veterans Administration and was a director of the V.A. Employees Credit Union from 1937 to 1949, when she joined the War Claims Commission as associate general counsel.
        After leaving the Government, she joined her husband, Joseph Marion Howorth, in practicing law again in Cleveland, Miss., until about 1980. Mr. Howorth died in 1982 after 54 years of marriage. There are no immediate survivors.
        Mrs. Howorth was president of the Business and Professional Women's Club of Washington and often served as a mentor to women in government. President John F. Kennedy named Mrs. Howorth to a task force on Federal employment for his Commission on the Status of Women.
      