
        Helen Jepson, a soprano who sang at the Metropolitan Opera and with other American companies in the 1930's and 40's, died on Tuesday at the Blake Memorial Hospital in Bradenton, Fla. She was 92 and lived in Bradenton.
        Ms. Jepson's attractive lyric soprano, preserved on recordings of excerpts from Verdi's ''Otello,'' and her radiant good looks -- she had blond hair and dark eyes -- made her a favorite of opera fans who wanted to see an American soprano sing beside the more prominent European stars of the day.
        She was the first soprano to record the female lead in Gershwin's ''Porgy and Bess,'' and she sang popular songs with Paul Whiteman, the band leader, on his radio show.
        She had roles in several Hollywood films, including ''The Goldwyn Follies.''
        Miss Jepson was born in Titusville, Pa., in 1904 and grew up in Akron, Ohio, where she studied voice and sang leading roles in high school productions of ''I Pagliacci'' and ''H.M.S. Pinafore.'' Using the money she saved from jobs in a church choir and at a record store, where she also listened closely to recordings by Rosa Ponselle and other stars of the day, she moved to Philadelphia to continue her studies at the Curtis Institute. While still a student, she sang with the Philadelphia Civic Opera, and organized a student troupe that spent a summer performing in small towns across the country. She made her debut with the Philadelphia Grand Opera Company in 1930.
        After that company disbanded in 1932, Miss Jepson moved to New York, where she sang in choruses and as a soloist on several radio programs before auditioning for the Metropolitan Opera. She made her Met debut in 1935, in the premiere of John Laurence Seymour's ''In the Pasha's Garden.''
        In the nine seasons that followed, she sang 10 more roles, including Violetta in ''La Traviata,'' Nedda in ''I Pagliacci,'' Desdemona in ''Otello,'' Melisande in ''Pelleas et Melisande,'' and the title role in ''Thais.''
        After Miss Jepson retired from the stage in 1947, she became a speech therapist in New Jersey schools, and taught speech therapy at Fairleigh Dickinson University. She moved to Bradenton in 1976, and was on the board of the Sarasota Opera Association and the Bradenton Opera Association.
        She is survived by a daughter, Sallie Tennant, of Bradenton; a son, Ricardo Dellera, of Hawaii; a sister, Josephine Staral, of Barrington, Ill., two grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      