
        Dr. Barbara D. Munk, an expert in the psychiatry of adolescence who worked with mentally ill mothers and their vulnerable infant children, died on Sept. 12 at New York Hospital after a seven-year battle with cancer. She was 72 and lived in Manhattan.
        Confronting one of society's darkest secrets, infanticide, Dr. Munk created a program for the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation with a twofold objective: to help mentally ill mothers who were threatened with losing custody of their children, while protecting the infants and toddlers from neglect and abuse.
        ''The child is the one who needs to be protected,'' Dr. Munk would often remind her staff of clinical social workers in the Parent-Infant Therapeutic Program at Gouverneur Hospital, an affiliate of the New York University School of Medicine and member of the Health and Hospitals Corporation.
        Dr. Munk, who was director of child and adolescent psychiatry services at the hospital, would personally examine the children entrusted to her care, as well as their mothers, for signs of abuse, including marks on their bodies.
        ''Traditional fragmented care for the individual parent and infant will not do,'' she wrote in a 1993 article for the National Center for Clinical Infant Programs. ''We need programs designed to provide a safety net for the parent with mental illness, the offspring at risk and the family under stress.''
        Her program accepted referrals of pregnant women and parents with emotional and mental disturbances like postpartum depression, schizophrenia, severe anxiety and personality disorders and dual diagnosis with drug abuse. They would be welcomed together with their children, from birth through age 5, who were at risk of slow development, disturbances or disabilities.
        Initially financed as a pilot project in 1986 by the New York State Office of Mental Health, Dr. Munk's program drew referrals from private and public agencies in all five boroughs of New York City.
        She provided help for more than 1,000 poor and ethnically diverse mothers and their children. Nearly half the children were less than a year old.
        One child, Owen Green, came to Dr. Munk's attention through the city's Child Welfare Administration when he was 7 months old. His parents were paranoid schizophrenics who fought constantly, she wrote in one of her case studies.
        Placement in foster care was a real possibility for Owen, she said.  But her team of clinical social workers arranged for Owen and his mother to stay with Owen's grandmother, preserving Owen's caretaking environment and family connection, she said. While Mr. Green was separated from the family, Owen, his mother and grandmother received continuing treatment.
        As a result, she said, Owen had a normal physical development, indicated a high intellectual potential and an endearing capacity to relate to others.
        Dr. Munk, who was born in Berlin in 1925, studied at the Hamburg University School of Medicine and at the University of Neurology and Psychiatry in Hamburg. She completed her residency in Child Psychiatry at Bellevue Hospital in 1959.
        She was a psychiatric consultant to the Brooklyn Juvenile Court, the Max Planck Institute in Munich and the New York Foundling Hospital and was a clinical associate professor and supervisor in child psychiatry at New York University Hospital.
        She served on the board of the Puerto Rican Family Institute for more than 30 years and on the New York Council on Child and Adolescent Psychiatry for eight years.
        Dr. Munk is survived by two brothers, Dr. Peter Munk and Dr. Klaus Munk, and a sister, Dr. Rosemarie Hoffman, all of Berlin.
      