
        Jeane Dixon, the astrologer and self-described psychic who gained fame by apparently predicting President John F. Kennedy's death, died on Saturday in Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. She was 79 and a longtime resident of Washington.
        The cause was cardiopulmonary arrest, the Associated Press reported a hospital spokeswoman as saying. The spokeswoman, Jean Vincent, said the hospital had been asked not to elaborate.
        In 1956, Parade magazine quoted Mrs. Dixon as forecasting that a Democratic President, elected in 1960, would die in office. She said he would be tall and young and have thick brown hair and blue eyes.
        The journal Current Biography reported in 1973, ''She contends that she actually told her interviewers that he would be assassinated but they refused to print it.''
        Mrs. Dixon, who was a devout Roman Catholic, also said she had based her prophecy on a vision she had in 1952 while she was praying.
        So great did her fame become after Mr. Kennedy was assassinated, in 1963, that she became known as ''the Seeress of Washington,'' and two books about her were best sellers in the 1960's: ''A Gift of Prophecy'' (1965) by Ruth Montgomery and ''My Life and Prophecies'' (1969) by Mrs. Dixon as told to Rene Noorbergen.
        Mrs. Dixon, the writer of a syndicated astrology column (her zodiac sign was Capricorn), also wrote other books, including ''Yesterday, Today and Forever'' (1976, Andrews & McMeel).
        Skeptics pointed out that she had said, in the summer of 1992, that the stars pointed definitely toward the re-election of President George Bush. But that fall Bill Clinton beat him by a comfortable margin. One headline said, ''Stars Go Blank for Dixon.''
        She predicted that World War III would begin in 1958 over the offshore Chinese islands of Quemoy and Matsu. She also said that Walter Reuther, the president of the United Auto Workers, would run for President in 1964 and that the Soviets would get the first man to the moon.
        Stefan Kanfer, a writer on cultural topics, wrote in The New York Times Book Review in 1992: ''The real summa of tabloid sensitivity is not found on earth but in the supernovas. Horoscopes, signs of the zodiac, predictions by Jeane Dixon -- these are the vital signs of shlock.''
        Mrs. Dixon was born Jeane L. Pinckert in Medford, Wis., the daughter of a businessman who was in the lumber industry. She grew up in California. Admirers said she had a talent for foreseeing the future, which she ascribed to God. When she was 8 years old, the story goes, her mother took her to see a gypsy soothsayer who said Jeane had a gift for prophesying. The child's mother encouraged her in those efforts.
        In 1939, she married James L. Dixon, who went on to be president of James L. Dixon & Company Realtors in Washington. She helped him in the business and also predicted individual's futures and future events, acquiring a local reputation for accuracy.
        Information about survivors was not immediately available.
      