
        Myra Tanner Weiss, an unlikely Trotskyist whose radical vision of an egalitarian, collectivist society led her to organize migrant farm workers, rail against racism, make two quixotic mayoral races in Los Angeles and run for Vice President of the United States three times on the Socialist Workers Party ticket, died last Saturday at a nursing home in Indio, Calif. She was 80.
        At first glance, Mrs. Weiss would hardly seem the type to be attracted to Leon Trotsky's version of Marxism, and not simply because she cut a stylish figure in leftist circles -- a small, attractive woman who was always immaculately turned out, generally in a well-cut suit of lush material run up by her husband's tailoring family.
        Mrs. Weiss, who was on the Socialist Workers Party's national ticket in 1952, 1956 and 1960, was the daughter of an unabashed capitalist, Myron Tanner, who managed an investment syndicate before becoming a top insurance salesman in Los Angeles. And her roots were in Salt Lake City, a decidedly conservative city whose politics, customs and thinking tended to reflect the the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
        But by the time she joined the Socialist Workers Party while attending the University of Utah in 1935, her family had already distanced itself from the Mormon Church. Her grandfather, Joseph Marion Tanner, an educator who was president of Utah State University, became so distraught when the church discontinued its doctrine of polygamy in 1890, bowing to a Supreme Court ruling that polygamy was not a permissible exercise of religious freedom, that he abandoned his six wives and fled to Canada.
        Almost from the beginning, Mrs. Weiss was in the forefront of the socialist movement. Dropping out of college to follow her family to California, she took courses at the University of California at Los Angeles, but she soon left college, first to organize agriculture and cannery workers and later to help establish the Socialist Workers Party in Los Angeles, where she and another party organizer, Murry Weiss, began a romance that led to marriage.
        After running for mayor of Los Angeles in 1945 and again in 1949, Mrs. Weiss and her husband came to New York, where he served as editor and she as a staff writer for the party's newspaper, The Militant.
        A fiery speaker, Mrs. Weiss was chosen in 1952 as the running mate of the party's Presidential candidate, Farrell Dobbs, a onetime truck driver who had virtually created the teamsters' union as a national force before becoming a Socialist Workers official. But in three Presidential campaigns, party records show, the Dobbs-Weiss ticket polled a total of only 10,381 votes in 7 states in 1952, 7,799 votes in 4 states in 1956 and 40,328 votes in 12 states in 1960.
        Partly because they believed that the party's democratic ideals were being overriden by oppressive bureaucratic controls, the Weisses withdrew in the 1960's, but Mrs. Weiss never abandoned her radical vision -- and paid a price for it.
        In 1972, after receiving a degree in political science from New York University, she found she could not get a teaching job, and worked as a proofreader as a member of the International Typographical Union. In her later years, she championed feminism along with socialism.
        Mrs. Weiss, whose husband died in 1981, is survived by two sisters, Shirley Nagel of La Quinta, Calif., and Martha Stinehart of Los Angeles, and two brothers, Norman Tanner of Salt Lake City and Dee Tanner of Pasadena, Calif.
      