
        Harriet Browne, a tap dancer, choreographer and teacher who performed with the Copasetics, died on Sept. 1 at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. She was 65 and lived in the Bronx.
        Her manager, Susan Goldbetter, said Ms. Browne had been ill for a long time but did not specify the cause.
        Ms. Browne specialized in a form of tap dancing in shallow sand that both softened and enhanced the rhythmic sounds made by the feet. A performer who was both warm and glitteringly sophisticated on the stage, she appeared in the 1950's with musical artists who included Cab Calloway, Dinah Washington and Della Reese. She also danced with such master tap dancers as Bunny  Briggs, Charles Cook and Buster Brown, many of whom had been her teachers. Her career continued into the 1990's, when she danced with the Silverbelles, a group of female tap dancers who had performed at many of the great nightclubs in New York City. She appeared with Sister Sledge and the Pointer Sisters, as well as tap groups that included Jane Goldberg's Changing Times Tap company.
        Ms. Browne was also the artistic director of the Aristaccato Tap Company, a group of inner-city Bronx youths to whom she had taught tap and jazz technique, performing skills and history at the school she founded in the borough.
        Born in Chicago, Ms. Browne came east early in the 1950's. After study with Mary Bruce in Harlem, she was soon performing as a solo, duet and chorus dancer at clubs in New York. During that time, her tap choreography helped her find work in variety and nightclub shows and tours in Europe.
        Ms. Browne was honored last year for her choreography in a National Tap Dance Day program at Alice Tully Hall. She was honored this year by St. Peter's Church, where the funeral service will take place tomorrow, as one of three ''Great Dancing Ladies of Harlem.''
        She is survived by her husband, Edward; a son, Renell Gonsalves of Detroit; a daughter, April Browne of Queens, and a sister, Marquita Gove of Los Angeles.
        Correction:  September 15, 1997, Monday
        A picture caption on Sept. 6 with the obituary of the tap dancer and choreographer Harriet Browne misidentified the dance group for which she was costumed, and misspelled the name of the group cited erroneously. She was shown in the Silver Belles. The other group was the Copa Setics, not Copasetics.
      