
        Mary Sears, a researcher at Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution for more than 60 years and a guiding editorial force behind several top scientific publications devoted to marine studies, died on Sept. 2 at her home in Woods Hole, Mass. She was 92.
        Early in Dr. Sears's career, societal conventions prevented women from going to sea on research voyages, so Dr. Sears focused her energies on editing publications devoted to oceanography. She was the founding editor of Deep-Sea Research, a journal she directed from 1953 to 1974. She was also editor of the book ''Oceanography,'' a compendium of marine science published in 1961 by the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
        From 1943 to 1946, Dr. Sears was a lieutenant junior grade in the Navy, assigned to naval intelligence in Washington. While there, she organized and headed the Oceanographic Unit of the Navy Hydrographic Office, which until World War II had been mainly engaged in making and printing navigational charts. Under her guidance, the hydrographic agency evolved into the Naval Oceanographic Office.
        Her duties included coordinating naval oceanographic research at Woods Hole, where, as part of the war effort, scientists studied such matters as the behavior of smoke at sea and the use of the temperature and water-density characteristics of ocean layers to help submarines avoid detection.
        Mary Sears was born on July 18, 1905, in Wayland, Mass. She attended Radcliffe College in Cambridge, Mass., from which she received a bachelor's degree in 1927, a master's degree in 1929 and a doctorate in zoology in 1933. As a graduate student, she worked at Harvard University with Henry Bigelow, the founder and first director of Woods Hole.
        In 1932 she began working as a planktonologist at Woods Hole, and was one of the first 10 staff research assistants at the Cape Cod institution, which was then primarily a summer operation. She was a research assistant at Harvard from 1933 to 1949, and an instructor at Wellesley College from 1938 to 1943.
        Dr. Sears was the staff planktonologist at Woods Hole from 1940 to 1963, when she became a senior scientist in the biology department, a post she held until her retirement in 1970. She was named scientist emeritus in 1978.
        Dr. Sears was chairwoman of the First International Congress on Oceanography, which was held at the United Nations in 1959. She was a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, the Society of Women Geographers and the American Geophysical Union.
        She is survived by two sisters, Leila Sears of North Pomfret, Vt., and Elisabeth Laderoute of Princeton, N.J., and a brother, John, of Jamaica, West Indies.
      