
        Louise Roberts, who directed the Clark Center for the Performing Arts in Manhattan, died on Jan. 17 at Bellevue Hospital. She was 85 and lived in Manhattan.
        In her nearly three decades of presenting dance, Ms. Roberts helped shape the careers of many fledgling avant-garde and black choreographers who later became major modern dance artists, among them Kei Takei, Jawole Willa Jo Zollar and Bill T. Jones. A small, rotund woman with an earthy sense of humor, Ms. Roberts also served as a patient yet eminently practical ''great mother figure,'' as Alvin Ailey put it, to several generations of modern dancers.
        A central tenet of her career as a dance producer was that no one should be excluded from dance because of imperfect bodies or the color of their skin. She also believed that dance ought to be available to everyone, whether through the low-cost classes at Clark Center or affordable concerts. She wanted, she said in a 1986 interview, to ''offer people the opportunity to take chances.''
        Born in Boston, Ms. Roberts attended Hunter College in Manhattan, graduating in 1931 with a degree in political science. It was during her college years that Ms. Roberts began to study dance seriously, performing  with Blanche Evan. When her husband, Paul Ziporkis, died in 1953, Ms. Roberts was left with a daughter to bring up alone. She worked as a magazine caption writer, an administrator at the Downtown Community School and as the director of the June Taylor School before moving on to Clark Center in 1970.
        A friendship with Donald McKayle, a young choreographer, led to her first experience producing dance when Mr. McKayle asked her for help in putting on a concert at the 92d Street Y. Ms. Roberts continued to present dance regularly at Clark Center, where Alvin Ailey had started his company in the 1960's. The center is also where Wendy Wasserstein had the first staged reading of one of her plays.
        From 1975 to 1978, Ms. Roberts produced a summer dance festival in the mall at the City College Graduate Center on West 42d Street. Her dreams of moving Clark Center from small, dingy studios on Eighth Avenue to a new theater and studio complex on the West 42d Street Theater Row in the mid-80's were dashed after the city reneged on promised support. Ms. Roberts rebounded with an ambitious eight-week series at the Douglas Fairbanks Theater on Theater Row in 1986, the year she resigned from Clark Center. ''We're going to be dancing on 42d Street,'' she told a reporter. ''I may cry a lot, but that's what we're going to do.'' The Clark Center closed in 1988.
        Ms. Roberts was a Capezio Award honoree in 1991 and won a Bessie Award in 1986.
        She is survived by a daughter, Karen deFrancis of Brooklyn, and a stepsister, Grace Herman of Manhattan.
      