
        Eleanor Pepper, a former chairwoman of Pratt Institute's department of interior design who was a longtime design consultant and decorated an early version of the United Nations Security Council meeting room, died on Sunday at her apartment in the Carnegie Hill section of Manhattan. She was 93.
        Miss Pepper was a professor of interior design at Pratt Institute from 1950 to 1970 and headed the interior design department there from 1951 to 1959. She was concurrently a New York-based design consultant for more than two decades, beginning in 1950.
        From 1945 to 1950, she was with the New York-based architectural firm of Voorhees, Walker, Foley, Smith doing interior design. It was in that capacity that, in 1946, she decorated the Security Council's new main meeting room. The space had formerly been a Hunter College gymnasium.
        The Voorhees firm designed the new chamber, which was decorated in soothing shades of soft tan and buff, with off-color brown carpeting.
        Miss Pepper was a Manhattan native and graduated in 1924 from Barnard College and received a B.S. in architecture in 1928 from Massachusetts Institute of Architecture and a Diplome des Etudes Superieures in 1933 from the Sorbonne.
        Her work in the 1930's included collaborating on plans for new newsreel theaters in Paris and for remodeling brownstone houses on Manhattan's East Side.
        Early in her career she was also an associate editor of House and Garden magazine, and for several years she headed the department of interior design at Stephens College in Missouri.
        During World War II, Miss Pepper worked on the design of floating drydocks for Admiral Harris Engineers and then was on the architectural staff of the U.S.O.
        She was a longtime associate member of the New York Chapter of the American Institute of Architects. In 1948, while she was chairwoman of the chapter's subcommittee on exhibitions, she oversaw the installation of an exhibit titled ''Tomorrow's World,'' sponsored by the chapter, in the New York Museum of Science and Industry in Rockefeller Center.
        The exhibit's main feature was a 30-foot-wide, three-dimensional panorama depicting an ideal, two-square-mile community for 20,000 people with such then-modern features as pedestrian overpasses at main thoroughfares, and garden apartment houses and office buildings, both built low to give residents a feeling of country living.
        Miss Pepper also was a professor in the architecture department of the New York Institute of Technology, taught and lectured elsewhere and remained active as a teacher into her 80's.
        She is survived by two nieces, Carol Cooper of Lyonsville, N.Y., and Alice Cooper of Jerusalem, and by three nephews, D. Stephen Pepper of Lynchburg, Va., and Rome, Michael Pepper of New Windsor, Md., and Sam Hellinger of Pacific Palisades, Calif.
      