
        Lotte Goslar, a dancer and mime known for her eccentric and whimsical comedy, died on Thursday at the Willowood Nursing Home in Great Barrington, Mass. She was 90 and lived in West Cornwall, Conn.
        A short, roly-poly woman with a round, expressive face, Miss Goslar as a performer brought bugs, flowers and mushrooms vividly to life. She could portray a doting nanny and an obstreperous child with equal conviction.
        In one of her most famous solos, ''Grandma Always Danced,'' she was seen, first, as a baby, then as a bride, a mother and an old woman. At any age, this character revealed her indomitability through her dancing and the sketch ended with her kicking up her heels as an angel in heaven.
        As warm-hearted in person as she could be onstage, Miss Goslar was a popular teacher of mime and body movement for actors. She gave master classes at colleges and regional dance festivals across the country.  In the late 1940's, she taught in Los Angeles, where one of her pupils was Marilyn Monroe. They remained friends until the actress's death.
        For all her gentle humor, Miss Goslar could castigate cruelty and indifference. The German playwright Bertolt Brecht devised the scenario for her ''Circus Scene,'' a depiction of a power struggle between a clown and a lion that can be interpreted as an allegorical attack upon authoritarianism. And Miss Goslar made her New York debut in 1937 in ''The Peppermill,'' an anti-fascist revue devised by Erika Mann, daughter of the novelist Thomas Mann.
        Miss Goslar, who was born in Dresden, had first-hand knowledge of the choreographic and theatrical trends that made Germany artistically exciting during the 1920's. Influenced by many of them, she imitated none. Although she studied with Mary Wigman and Gret Palucca, the two most famous German modern dancers of the time, her primary interest became mime and she was inspired by Valeska Gert, a noted Berlin mime. But unlike Gert, who created scathing portraits of the dregs of society, Miss Goslar developed a gentle and more compassionate style.
        Miss Goslar, who was not Jewish, despised Hitler and left Germany when the Nazis seized power. She remained in the United States after appearing with ''The Peppermill.'' For 10 years, beginning in 1943, she appeared in revues at the Turnabout Theater in Hollywood, sharing programs with Elsa Lanchester. She came to know Brecht, at that time living in California, and served as choreographer for the premiere in 1947 of his ''Galileo,'' which starred Charles Laughton.
        Miss Goslar, who eventually settled on the East Coast, organized a company called Lotte Goslar's Pantomime Circus in 1954. It toured for decades, offering solo and group works for adults and children.
        No immediate family members survive.
      