
        Katherine B. Oettinger, an authority on the care and upbringing of children, who was head of the Federal agency for the care of handicapped and underprivileged children, died on Monday in Carmel, Calif. She was 94.
        Appointed by President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1957 as chief of the Children's Bureau in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, Dr. Oettinger served four administrations. When the bureau was abolished in 1967, President Lyndon B. Johnson named her deputy assistant secretary for family planning and population. She retired from Government service in 1970 when the post was abolished in the Nixon Administration.
        As an expert on retarded children, Dr. Oettinger expounded the view that such children could often be cared for in the home, and should be, though in an earlier time they were routinely sent to institutions. She was also intent on educating the nation about the difficult period of adjustment facing most parents of retarded children.
        ''Some parents still blame themselves when they discover their child is retarded,'' she said, and then go from doctor to doctor looking for a ''cure,'' rather than counseling that will help them teach their children to learn to function with some degree of success.
        Young parents, she said, particularly need help in evaluating whether the child can best be cared for at home, as 95 percent were by the 1960's, or in an institution. If the decision is the home, she said, careful parental training is needed in precise ways of giving consistent directions, for example, in using patterns of speech that the child can easily understand.
        Dr. Oettinger received many awards and was called one of the nation's ''true heroines'' by Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey. After she left the Government, she traveled the world as a consultant on population control and family planning and wrote articles for social science journals and a well-received book, with Elizabeth C. Mooney, ''Not My Daughter: Facing Up to Adolescent Pregnancy'' (Prentice-Hall, 1979).
        A native of Nyack, N.Y., she graduated from Smith College in 1925 with a degree in sociology and earned a master's degree in social work there.
        Starting her career as a social worker in St. Paul, she moved to the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood in Manhattan, and then on to train nurses in the care of the handicapped in Scranton, Pa.
        Her husband, Malcolm H. Oettinger, whom she married in 1930, died in 1963. She is survived by two sons, Malcolm Jr., of Chapel Hill, N.C., and John. B, of Los Angeles.
        After her work in Scranton, she became director of community services in the Pennsylvania welfare department, working to improve mental health clinics and the training of welfare workers and ministers. She became the dean of the School of Social Work at Boston University in 1954.
        ''You'll never get rich as a social worker,'' she told her students. ''But the satisfaction comes from helping humanity -- it's a wonderful field.''
      