
        Audra Lindley, who starred on Broadway, in films and in more than 100 live television dramas but who gained her greatest fame playing a sex-starved wife in the television series ''Three's Company'' and its spinoff, ''The Ropers,'' died on Oct. 16 at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 79 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Ms. Lindley, who was born in Los Angeles as well, began her theatrical career with Max Reinhardt's West Coast company, appearing in ''The Merchant of Yonkers'' and ''Six Characters in Search of an Author.''
        She made her Broadway debut in 1942 in ''Comes the Revelation,'' later appearing with Art Carney in ''Take Her, She's Mine,'' Julie Harris in ''The Young and the Fair,'' Melvyn Douglas in ''Spofford'' and Van Heflin in ''A Case of Libel.''
        During the 1950's, she was a regular performer on live television dramas, appearing frequently on ''Playhouse 90,'' the ''Kraft Theater'' and other programs.
        Ms. Lindley took a break from acting to raise five children with her first husband, Hardy Ulm, but by the 1960's she was appearing in recurring roles in such television soap operas as ''The Edge of Night,'' ''Search for Tomorrow'' and ''Another World.''
        In 1971, Ms. Lindley starred in ''Taking Off,'' the first film made in America by the Czech filmmaker Milos Forman, and she appeared the next year as Cybill Shepherd's mother in ''The Heartbreak Kid.'' In 1982, she played Burt Reynolds's mother in ''Best Friends'' and a motherly bordello operator in an adaptation of John Steinbeck's ''Cannery Row.''
        Her other film credits include ''Desert Hearts'' (1986), ''Troop Beverly Hills'' (1989) and, earlier this year, ''The Relic.''
        It was in 1977 that the hit series ''Three's Company'' had its debut on television. The premise of the series was that a character played by John Ritter had to pretend to be homosexual before a conservative landlord would agree to let him share an apartment with two young women. Norman Fell played the landlord, and Ms. Lindley was his wife, whose repeated attempts to seduce her husband were a running joke.
        In 1979, Mr. Fell and Ms. Lindley starred in a spinoff called ''The Ropers.'' She also appeared in the 1972 series ''Bridget Loves Bernie.''
        Ms. Lindley performed in numerous Off Broadway and regional theater productions through the 1980's and early 90's. Many of these performances were opposite her second husband, James Whitmore. The couple later divorced.
        In a 1983 review of an Off Broadway appearance in a play called ''Elba,'' Frank Rich wrote in The New York Times that Ms. Lindley, ''a dotty comedienne too long absent from the New York stage, brings convincing spine to Flo, a pioneer woman adrift in the 20th century.''
        She is survived by two daughters, Dr. Elizabeth Blalock of Laguna Beach, Calif., and Alice Ulm of New York, and a son, William Ulm of Santa Barbara, Calif.
      