
        Rosemary R. Gunning, who led fights against school busing in New York City in the 1960's and went on to become one of the first female Assembly members, died on Saturday night at the home of a niece in Roslyn, N.Y. She was 92.
        The cause was liver cancer, said a grandniece, Patricia Gunning.
        Ms. Gunning was known for her strong speaking style, clear arguments and intense community involvement as she became a founder of the state Conservative Party and the first woman to run for citywide office, in 1965, for City Council President on a ticket headed by William F. Buckley Jr. in the mayoral slot.
        Beginning in 1968, she served four terms in the Assembly, becoming the first Conservative to win state office.
        She was a leader in organizing Housing Court in New York and was an outspoken proponent of landlords' rights.
        But she often took unexpected positions, favoring the proposed equal rights amendment as she opposed abortion. But Ms. Gunning became known as a leader of the fight against forced busing, a battle that she never defined in terms of race, but always as an issue of neighborhood control.
        The effort thrust her to the forefront of one of the most tumultuous bitter battles in the city's history, with frequent picketing and racial epithets. Almost one-quarter of the students in the city stayed out of school one day in a protest that Ms. Gunning helped organize.
        ''Integration is a fine thing,'' she said at the time. ''From the beginning, one of the things we wanted was to have no racial disputes, no lining of whites up against Negroes.''
        However, she was not a parent. ''If I had children, I wouldn't have time for all this,'' she said.
        In those battles, Ms. Gunning, who was shorter than 5 feet and often needed platforms to reach the microphones in front of her, became known as Grandma Gunning, for her middle-class appearance and sometimes stern demeanor.
        It was her clarity of mind that most impressed Mr. Buckley, he said, adding, ''What was special about her was her facility in taking complicated matters and putting them in very clear negotiable form.''
        But others described her as a dangerous force in 1964, particularly her urgings to keep children out of school as a protest. The president of the Board of Education, James Donovan, called that reprehensible, saying the move was a ''conspiracy to destroy'' public education.
        Ms. Gunning's allies strenuously argue that time has vindicated her position. ''History has proven her right,'' Michael Long, chairman of the Conservative Party, said. ''Forced school busing ultimately ended up being a total failure in New York, ripping up neighborhood after neighborhood.''
        Indeed, school busing was replaced by neighborhood control of schools and local school boards, a change that recently gave way to greater central control by the Board of Education.
        Ms. Gunning was born in Brooklyn and moved to Queens at an early age. She entered the Brooklyn Law School directly from high school, one of the last students to do so. She was one of 10 women in a class of 600 and was admitted to the bar in 1930. After entering private practice, she later  worked 11 years as a private lawyer with the Army.
        From her early youth until she died, she lived in the house in which her grandparents had lived, a white clapboard at 1867 Grove Street in Ridgewood, Queens. Her husband, Lester Moffett, had various jobs, including working as a guard at the 1964-65 World's Fair.
        For all her accomplishments, people seem to remember her as the woman next door. Assemblyman Robert Werts, a Republican with whom she served, remembered an event at Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller's estate to entertain legislators, recalling, ''I looked over, and she was hitting her husband over the head with a pocketbook to straighten him out.''
        She worked as a private lawyer until she was 90, her grandniece said. She also continued to lobby on behalf of property owners, though she sometimes forgot to collect the $200-a-month rent that she charged a tenant for a room in her house. She also volunteered to help immigrants with  legal problems.
        Surviving are a nephew, John, of Islip, N.Y.; 2 nieces, Marie and Ann, of Roslyn; 13 grandnieces and nephews, and a cousin, Sylvia Boyland of Fresh Meadows, Queens.
      