
        Edith Thacher Hurd, whose books on subjects from the earth to whales to firemen reached several generations of readers learning their way around the printed page, died on Saturday in Walnut Creek, Calif. She was 86.
        Mrs. Hurd wrote some 75 books for elementary-school children covering the range of juvenile curiosity. Much of her work grew from a creative symbiosis with her husband, Clement Hurd, the artist and illustrator.
        In the early 1930's, the couple were just out of college, she from Radcliffe, he from Yale and art school in Paris. They met in New York City while continuing their education at Bank Street College, and married in 1939.
        She wrote and he drew the pictures for almost 50 books until their last collaboration on ''The Earth is Not Flat'' (1986). It was meant as a companion to a book Mr. Hurd had illustrated decades earlier, Gertrude Stein's ''The Earth Is Round,'' published in 1938. Clement Hurd died in 1988 at the age of 80.
        Mrs. Hurd was born in Kansas City, Mo. At Bank Street College she also met Margaret Wise Brown, with whom she wrote several children's books under the joint pseudonym of Juniper Sage.
        These included ''The Man in the Manhole and the Fix-It Men'' (1946), ''Five Little Firemen'' (1948), ''Two Little Miners'' (1949) and ''The Little Fat Policeman'' (1950). Clement Hurd also did illustrations for Mrs. Brown, who had persuaded him to enroll at Bank Street to try picture-book illustrations.
        Mrs. Hurd's first solo writing effort, ''Hurry Hurry,'' was published in 1938 by W.R. Scott, a pioneer modern children's book publisher. A follow-up, ''Hurry Hurry: A Story of What Happened to a Hurrier,'' appeared in 1947.
        The Hurds became regular contributors to the Harper ''I Can Read'' series. The titles there included ''Johnny Lion's Book,'' ''Come and Have Fun,'' ''Stop Stop'' and ''No Funny Business.''
        Other titles included ''Christmas Eve,'' ''The Day the Sun Danced'' and ''Wilson's World,'' a cautionary environmental tale about a boy who paints a world but must draw it over again to make it better.
        Mrs. Hurd also wrote science books for young readers, some of which were also illustrated by her husband. They included ''The Blue Heron Tree,'' ''Rain and the Valley,'' ''The Mother Whale'' and ''The Mother Deer.''
        She is survived by a son, John Thacher Hurd of Berkeley, Calif., himself a writer and illustrator of children's books; and a brother, Nicholas Thacher, of San Francisco.
      