
        Dr. Hadassah Rosensaft, who is credited with having saved hundreds of Jewish inmates while a prisoner at Auschwitz, died on Friday in Tisch Hospital of New York University Medical Center. She was 85 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        Her son, Menachem, said Monday that the cause was liver failure  resulting from malaria and hepatitis she had contracted at Auschwitz.
        Dr. Rosensaft was named by President Jimmy Carter in 1980 to the United States Holocaust Memorial Council. After she completed her second term in 1994, President Clinton appointed her son to the council. He is the founder of the International Network of Children of Jewish Holocaust Survivors and was its first chairman.
        In 1945, Dr. Rosensaft was an important witness for the prosecution at a war crimes trial before a British military court in Luneburg, Germany, of former commandants and staff members of the Nazis' Auschwitz and Bergen-Belsen concentration camps, where she had spent a total of 20 months. Her tattooed concentration camp number visible on her left forearm, she stood and identified 15 of the 45 defendants, who were charged with mass murder.
        Hadassah Bimko Rosensaft studied medicine at the University of Nancy in France, received her doctorate as a dental surgeon there in 1935 and practiced dentistry in her native city of Sosnowiec in southern Poland from then until August 1943, when she was sent to the Auschwitz concentration camp along with her parents; her first husband, Josef Preserowicz, and their 5 1/2-year-old son, Benjamin.
        All but she soon died in the gas chambers there, but, as her son recalled, ''because of her medical training, she was assigned to work in what was called the Jewish infirmary at Auschwitz, and in that capacity she saved hundreds of Jewish women'' from the gas chambers.
        He recalled that since sick inmates were sent to the gas chambers, she would do things like tell camp officials that the ill inmates were actually healthy, or get the sick women dressed and send them out of the infirmary.
        In testimony at a United States Senate subcommittee hearing in 1985, she described the death of one inmate under the foot of the notorious war criminal Dr. Josef Mengele. She said that late in 1943, while she was working in the Auschwitz infirmary, a young woman was late for roll-call outside her barracks. Dr. Rosensaft said Dr. Mengele ''ordered her to come forward'' and ''knocked her down with his booted foot,'' then put his foot on her chest. He hummed an ''aria from 'Madame Butterfly' and kept his foot there until the woman was dead'' from suffocation, Dr. Rosensaft testified. ''He showed the SS men a new way of killing.''
        In November 1944, she was sent from Auschwitz in Poland to the Bergen-Belsen concentration camp in Germany, to work in the infirmary. She cared for 150 Jewish orphans there, her son recalled, before the camp was liberated in April 1945 by the British. He said that before liberation, she managed to get extra food and additional care for the orphans, and that only one of them, an infant, failed to survive.
        Bergen-Belsen had been rife with infectious diseases, he said, and once she was freed, she told British officers about the conditions and became the civilian head of a hospital that took care of many former Bergen-Belsen inmates, almost all of them Jews.
        She was using her maiden surname, Bimko, when she testified in 1945 before the British military court in Luneburg. She sometimes wept as she recounted Nazi crimes. She said some of the total of 45 defendants had picked out Jewish prisoners in the Auschwitz and Bergen-Belsen camps to be put to death or used as prostitutes.
        The British prosecutor, Col. T. M. Backhouse, asked her whether she saw anyone in the courtroom who had taken part in the crimes she was recalling. ''Yes,'' she said.
        The presiding judge, Maj. Gen. H. P. M. Berney-Ficklin, asked her to go to the center of the courtroom to get a better view of the accused, who were restless under the glare of floodlights. The defendants she recognized included Josef Kramer, former commandant at Bergen-Belsen, who had become known as ''the Beast of Belsen,'' and a Nazi guard at Auschwitz whom she recalled as ''accompanied always by a great dog.''
        When she was asked, ''How many times were you beaten at Auschwitz?'' she answered: ''I, myself, only three times. I was beaten with the hand, and the blows were directed against my face. Twice I was beaten by Dr. Mengele and once by a supervisor named Kuch.''
        In 1946, she married Josef Rosensaft, who was chairman of the Jewish Committee of Bergen-Belsen, which oversaw the day-to-day administration of the displaced-persons camp for Bergen-Belsen survivors from 1945 to 1950. Concurrently, he was the chairman of the Central Committee of Jews in the British Zone of Germany. He went on to be president of the World Federation of Bergen-Belsen Survivors Associations. He died in 1975.
        Dr. Rosensaft also held high posts in the Bergen-Belsen displaced persons camp and the Central Jewish Committee in the British Zone. At her death, she had been the honorary president of the World Federation of Bergen-Belsen Survivors Associations for two decades.
        Beginning in the 1970's, she spent a decade cataloguing an extensive collection of documents and other materials she and her husband gathered about the liberation of the Bergen-Belsen camp, which she has donated to a museum in Jerusalem.
        Besides her son, Menachem, of Manhattan, Dr. Rosensaft is survived by a granddaughter, Jodi.
        At the end of a celebration of Dr. Rosensaft's 80th birthday, she said, speaking of her granddaughter, who was then 14, ''I pray Jodi will never be confronted by the bigotry that led to the Holocaust.''
      