
        Jane Warner Dick, an early social welfare advocate who later served on a United Nations panel, died on Sept. 29 at her home in Lake Forest, Ill. She was 91.
        Mrs. Dick's social work began in 1926 with Hull House, founded by Jane Addams in 1889. A friend of Ms. Addams, Mrs. Dick volunteered in the Immigrants Protection League, an arm of Hull House that provided legal services and helped immigrants adjust to life in the United States.
        She later served on the Illinois Social Welfare Foundation as well as the Illinois Board of Public Welfare, where she established volunteer services for the state's mentally ill.
        Mrs. Dick was active in Democratic politics in Illinois, where she was an early supporter of Adlai Stevenson. She urged Mr. Stevenson to run for governor in 1948 and served as the state chairwoman of his successful gubernatorial campaign. She also worked on his Democratic Presidential campaigns in 1952 and 1956.
        In 1961, Mrs. Dick was appointed as the United States representative to the Social Commission of the United Nations Economic and Social Council by President John F. Kennedy, on the recommendation of Mr. Stevenson, then Ambassador to the United Nations.
        In her time with the United Nations, Mrs. Dick played a pivotal role in a raucous debate over a proposed resolution condemning racial discrimination. The United States maintained that the resolution, which called on nations to outlaw any organization that promoted discrimination, was too sweeping.
        ''The United States' legal system does not permit censorship or punishment for the expression of ideas, even ideas we loathe,'' she said at the United Nations in 1963. ''We do not believe it is necessary to restrict freedom of thought in order to overcome discrimination.''
        A version of the resolution was eventually adopted, with the United States and several Western nations abstaining from the vote.
        Mrs. Dick was the author of a book about Mr. Stevenson, ''Volunteers and the Making of Presidents,'' published by Dodd, Mead Inc. She was a trustee of the Menninger Foundation, an advocacy group for the mentally ill; the Children's Home and Aid Society of Illinois, and the Newberry Library in Chicago. She was also a governing member of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra.
        Her husband, the Chicago industrialist Edison Dick, died in 1994. She is survived by a daughter, Titia Dick Ellis of Santa Fe, N.M.; a son, Edison W., of Washington; a sister, Marion Hodgkins of Lake Forest, Ill.; 9 grandchildren, and 10 great-grandchildren.
      