
        Lillian Rogers Parks, who surprised President William Howard Taft in his bedroom in 1909 and lived to tell that and many another juicy White House tale, died on Thursday at a hospital in Washington. She was 100 and the writer of ''My Thirty Years Backstairs at the White House.''
        The title of Mrs. Parks's 1961 memoirs, written with Frances Spatz Leighton, was somewhat misleading. For although Mrs. Parks worked as an observant White House seamstress and maid only from the beginning of the Hoover Administration in 1929 to the end of the Eisenhower years in 1961, she had been a familiar figure at the White House since she was a little girl.
        That is because her mother, Maggie Rogers, who joined the White House staff on the fourth day of the Taft Administration, would often take her daughter to work with her. And when she did not, she would come home to regale her family with stories of what she had seen or heard at the White House that day.
        Mrs. Rogers, a one-time society hairdresser who had used her client connections to get the White House job, eventually became the No. 1 White House maid and stayed on into the 1930's, dusting, cleaning -- and taking notes.
        It was her insistence that her daughter complete the book she had long planned that helped induce Mrs. Parks to combine her mother's recollections with her own in what became ''Backstairs,'' and two other books written with Miss Leighton: ''It was Fun Working in the White House,'' a children's book, and ''The Roosevelts: A Family in Turmoil,'' published in 1973.
        Mrs. Parks had also seen ''White House Chef,'' a book Miss Leighton had written with a former chef in the Eisenhower White House. Realizing she had far more White House anecdotes to tell, Mrs. Parks got in touch with Miss Leighton.
        ''Backstairs,'' which became the basis of a nine-part NBC miniseries in 1979, created an immediate sensation when it was published in 1961. The book, which was on The New York Times best-seller list for 26 weeks, so alarmed the incoming First Lady, Jacqueline Kennedy, that she ordered all White House domestic employees to sign a pledge not to write about their White House experiences. (The task of collecting the signatures was given to Mrs. Kennedy's secretary, Mary Gallagher, who neglected to sign one, herself, and eventually wrote her own tell-all with Miss Leighton, ''My Boss,'' in 1969.)
        For all the furor it created in the White House, the Parks book was comparatively tame, providing a wealth of charming and intimate gossip about the various First Families she served but no serious scandal.
        By her own account, Mrs. Parks, who contracted polio when she was 6 and used a crutch the rest of her life, had a generally privileged existence in the White House, so much so that when members of the domestic staff were barred from using the White House elevator in World War II, so the crippled President, Franklin D. Roosevelt, could be evacuated quickly in an emergency, the President, himself, ordered an exception for ''Little Lillian,'' the universal nickname for a woman who never grew above 4 foot 9.
        Mrs. Parks, who was divorced, leaves no immediate survivors.
        Although she generally found something nice to say about every President and First Lady she or her mother worked for, Mrs. Parks, who clearly considered Bess Truman her favorite First Lady, also greatly admired Eleanor Roosevelt.
        Indeed, her own White House career might have ended with the Hoover Administration had it not been for a ringing declaration of domestic independence by Mrs. Roosevelt. As recounted in ''Backstairs,'' Mrs. Roosevelt, who had long chafed at living under the thumb of her imperious mother-in-law at Hyde Park, was not cowed when the senior Mrs. Roosevelt arrived at the White House in 1933 to help get her son settled and to take charge of the household.
        But when the elder Mrs. Roosevelt criticized her daughter-in-law ''for using colored help instead of white help, as was the custom at Hyde Park,'' the First Lady put her foot down.
        ''Mother,'' she said, according to the maid who overheard the conversation, ''I have not told you this before, but I must tell you now. You run your house and I'll run mine.''
        Although it has been almost 40 years since Mrs. Parks retired, there is reason to suspect that she may still be haunting the White House, a residence replete with ghosts.
        As she described it in her book, on one of her first visits to the White House in 1909, her mother turned down the President's bed, then left her daughter in the bedroom, ordering her to stay put while she took care of some brief duties elsewhere.
        While she waited, a ''very stout,'' ''jolly,'' man came into the room, took one look at the girl wearing a prim white dress and said: ''Well, what have we here? Are you the little ghost of the White House I've been hearing about?''
      