
        Catharine Carver, who won trans-Atlantic esteem as the editor of a galaxy of mid-20th century authors, including Hannah Arendt, John Berryman, Saul Bellow and Flannery O'Connor, died on Tuesday at the Chelsea and Westminster Hospital in London. Ms. Carver, an American who lived in London, was 76.
        Friends said she died after a series of strokes.
        Ms. Carver was widely known for her work at Lippincott with Leon Edel on many of the volumes of his biography of Henry James, a work she abridged at the author's request into a single volume. He acknowledged her success with thanks in his preface.
        The last book to receive her professional attention, which was characterized by devotion to her authors, profound intelligence, sensitivity and scholarship and mastery of subject, as well as attention to detail and, above all, passion, was Richard Ellmann's biography ''Oscar Wilde,'' published by Knopf in 1987.
        Aileen Ward, whose biography of John Keats won a National Book Award, said she was impressed that Ms. Carver had reread all of Keats's work before beginning to edit the manuscript. It was Ms. Carver who pointed out to Mr. Ellmann, who was baffled by James Joyce's use of the word trombone in a nonmusical sense while he was collecting an edition of the author's letters, that Joyce had simply appropriated a French colloquialism for paper clip.
        Besides the praise she earned from individual authors, whose ranks also included E.E. Cummings, Lionel Trilling, Katherine Anne Porter, Bernard Malamud, Leslie Fiedler and Peter Matthiessen, Ms. Carver was given a citation some 20 years ago by New York P.E.N., the writers organization, for her ''creative contributions to authors and their works.''
        Ms. Carver, who was born in Cambridge, Ohio, graduated in 1943 with a Bachelor of Arts degree from Muskingum College in Ohio, where she was a classmate of the future astronaut and senator, John Glenn.
        She began her editing career in 1945 with Reynal & Hitchcock, became the first reader at Partisan Review and was hired in 1950 by Robert Giroux as an editor at Harcourt, Brace and Company.
        Subsequently she worked for Viking, Lippincott in Philadelphia and, briefly, for The New Yorker before leaving the United States in the 1960's to settle in England. There she worked at John Murray's and Chatto & Windus before joining Oxford University Press. But when that publisher shut down its offices in London, Ms. Carver declined to move to Oxford. Remaining in London, she worked with various publishers, including Victor Gollancz, and in the 1980's joined Trianon Press in Paris before returning to London.
        She is not survived by any immediate family members.
      