
        Joyce Wethered, an elegant Englishwoman described by ''The Encyclopedia of Golf'' as ''the supreme woman golfer of her age, perhaps of all time,'' died last Tuesday, the day after her 96th birthday.
        The Times of London agreed with that assessment. It said Wethered was ''the most stylish and successful woman golfer of her day, and is still widely regarded as the best the world has seen.''
        In an era when women's golf was strictly an amateur game, Wethered, later known formally as Lady Heathcoat Amory, had a short career. Yet she won the British Amateur championship four times (1922, 1924, 1925 and 1929) and the English Amateur five consecutive years (1920 through 1924).
        In 1930, Bobby Jones, the celebrated American golfer, played an exhibition with her at St. Andrews in Scotland. Afterward, he said he doubted if there had ever been a better golfer, man or woman.
        In The Associated Press's 50-year poll in 1950, Wethered ranked seventh among all golfers and first among female golfers. The men ahead of her were Jones, Ben Hogan, Walter Hagen, Byron Nelson, Sam Snead and Gene Sarazen.
        As a child, she was considered too frail for school and was tutored instead. On vacations, she was introduced to golf. She played with her brother, Roger, a future British Amateur champion. At age 10, she shot an 89.
        In 1920, she was the No. 6 player on the Surrey county team, but had had only one lesson from a professional. She entered the English women's championship only because a teammate insisted on it. She beat Cecil  Leitch in the final, Leitch's first loss in a nonhandicap match in seven years.
        At 5 feet 10 inches, Wethered was willowy, with a long and easy picture-book swing. She was a long hitter, outdriving the male amateurs who represented Britain in the Walker Cup matches by 20 yards.
        When Willie Wilson, a Scottish professional who settled at the Pinehurst Country Club in North Carolina, was asked about her driving, he said: ''Why, mon, she could hit a ball 240 yards on the fly while standing barefoot on a cake of ice.''
        At 23, after winning the 1925 British Amateur, she retired for the first time. She explained her decision this way: ''I have simply exercised a woman's prerogative of doing something without the slightest regard for what anybody thinks and because I want to please myself.''
        In 1929, she was persuaded to play again. In a classic British Amateur final, she was five shots down after 11 holes to the American champion Glenna Collett, but won the scheduled 36-hole match, 3 and 1.
        She retired again. In 1933, she was hired by Fortnum and Mason, the London department store, to advise customers about golf clubs and golf clothes. Uneasy British officials felt sure that made her a professional.
        In 1935, she removed all doubt. She wanted to visit friends in North America. To help defray expenses, she agreed to accept money to play more than 50 exhibitions with such golfers as Jones, Sarazen and Babe Didriksen. She netted $20,000.
        In one exhibition, her partner was Charlie Yates, an American who won the British Amateur three years later. ''I shot a 76 that day and I didn't help Joyce a single shot,'' he said. ''Not one. God, she could play.''
        In 1937, Wethered married a baronet, Sir John Heathcoat Amory. Golf took a back seat in her life.
        At home in Devon, she and her husband built a fine collection of paintings. Their garden won the Royal Horticultural Society's Victoria Medal of Honor. They had no children. When her husband died in 1972, their house was turned over to the National Trust.
        Perhaps the best-known story about her golf dealt with her concentration. Once, as she was about to hit a 9-foot putt on the 17th hole at the Sheringham course in Norfolk, a train rumbled by within 100 yards. She sank the putt anyway. When her playing partner said he was surprised the train had not interfered with her shot, she appeared baffled.
        ''What train?'' she said.
      