
        Rella MacDougall, a prominent decorator who was the longtime chairwoman of the Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club Decorator Show House, died on Wednesday in her apartment in Manhattan. She was 91.
        The cause was cancer, said Harry Hinson, the fabric designer, who was a longtime friend.
        Mrs. MacDougall led the show house, which used annual interior design shows to raise money for the Kips Bay Boys and Girls Club, as it changed from a fledgling organization 24 years ago into an institution in interior design and the largest show house in the country. In 1972, the first show house raised $53,000 for the club, which runs after-school recreation programs in the South Bronx. In recent years, the show house has raised more than $500,000 annually.
        Mrs. MacDougall was widely admired for her diplomacy and popularity, according to an April 1996 article about her in The New York Times. ''In a world of whining and complaining, she has wonderful, old-fashioned standards, which have not been deconstructed for modern times,'' the designer Mark Hampton was quoted as saying.
        Rella Gammon grew up on a high bluff in Keokuk, Iowa, overlooking the Des Moines and Mississippi Rivers. Her father was an engineer who worked on Route 66. In 1926, she graduated from Lindenwood College in St. Charles, Mo. ''I wanted to be an engineer, build bridges, but my father nixed that,'' she said.
        She spent more than a decade as a businesswoman in Detroit that included working as assistant to the president of a manufacturer of cotton batting for auto upholstery. In 1941, she married Allan MacDougall, the president of the National Distillers' import division. She gave up salaried work and became a full-time hostess, traveler and stepmother, occasionally decorating friends' apartments as wedding presents.
        In 1964, when a friend's husband died unexpectedly, Mr. MacDougall suggested that she and her friend form a decorating company. ''Allan, I'll sacrifice anything,'' she later recalled telling her husband, ''but I will not go into decorating.'' From 1965 until 1990, she ran MacDougall & Company and worked as a decorator in New York and abroad. Her husband died in 1971.
        When she heard about the first  Kips Bay show house in 1972, ''I remember thinking it was the craziest idea I ever heard,'' she said. ''The New York I knew was too sophisticated for that.''
        Mrs. MacDougall was best known for sitting by the show house's doorway, graciously greeting visitors with her needlepoint in hand. She summed up her philosophy thus: ''If you don't enjoy it more each year, you shouldn't be doing it.''
      