
        Marguerite Henry, the author of the children's book classic ''Misty of Chincoteague,'' one of some four dozen books that introduced young readers to animals in the great outdoors, died on Wednesday at her home in Rancho Santa Fe, near San Diego. She was 95.
        While much of her work as a professional writer remains highly popular, and in print, it was the tale of ''Misty,'' first published in 1947, that captured the imagination and took on a life of its own. It told of two orphaned siblings drawn to a wild horse on Chincoteague Island, off the Virginia shore. Ms. Henry's colorful story found its way onto film, still seen on television to this day, and made a popular tourist destination of the annual roundup and auction of wild horses on Virginia's barrier islands.
        The real Misty died in 1972 but a life-size statue of the horse was recently dedicated at the site of that midsummer roundup, called Pony Penning Day. Ms. Henry spun out further stories about the filly and its young friends, Paul and Mary Beebe, into the 1990's.
        She also wrote of wild mustangs, thoroughbreds, Arab stallions, Lippizaners and, notably, Gaudenza, the pride of the Palio, the annual horseback competition in Siena, Italy. She wrote of dogs and all manner of living things in a characteristic style, weaving the romance and history of mankind's association with the animal world into her illustrated texts.
        In fact, Ms. Henry was city-bred and came to her love of animals and nature as an adult. The former Marguerite Breithaupt of Milwaukee  caught a whiff of printer's ink in her father's shop, honed her sense of drama in college and discovered the outdoors when she and her husband, Sidney Crocker Henry, a sales manager, moved to a farm in Wayne, Ill.
        Her father owned a printing shop and piqued her interest one rainy Sunday by letting her read proofs. She was 10 and decided to become a writer, too. Delineator magazine  published one of her maiden efforts the next year, and paid for it.
        ''It was just one step away from heaven,'' she said later.
        At Milwaukee State Teachers' College she wrote prodigiously and acted in plays. She married after graduation and took up writing professionally soon after.
        Her articles appeared in trade and business periodicals, and then national publications like The Saturday Evening Post and Reader's Digest. After moving to the farm in 1939, she readily took to country ways and showed it in her first book for children, ''Auno and Tauno: A Story of Finland'' (1940). Next she tackled ''Pictured Geographies,'' a series about Latin American countries for schoolchildren. She also began to write storybooks for the very young, including ''Benjamin West and His Cat Grimalkin''(1947). Researching ''Misty,'' she went to Chincoteague to sit in the sand and sense the island come alive around her.
        The same sense of immediacy and adventure characterized her work for four decades. Among the many film and television adaptations that kept her writing alive for new audiences were ''Brighty of the Grand Canyon'' (1967), ''Justin Morgan Had a Horse'' (1972), ''Peter Lundy and the Medicine Hat Stallion'' (1977), ''Story of a Book'' (1980) and, most recently, her 1948 classic, the adventure tale about a white Arabian horse, ''King of the Wind'' (1990).
        ''Misty of Chincoteague'' came to the big screen in 1961 and starred David Ladd and Pam Smith. By then the book that inspired it had sold well over a million copies. Sequels included ''Stormy, Misty's Foal'' (1963) and ''Misty's Twilight'' (1992).
        Ms. Henry won many awards, including the John Newbery Honor Award for ''Misty of Chincoteague''  and the Newbery Medal for ''King of the Wind.'' She shared some of them with her illustrators, among them Wesley Dennis and Rich Rudish. Her books were translated into a dozen languages.
        No immediate family members survive.
      