
        Helen Stevenson Meyner, a liberal Democrat who was elected to two terms in Congress by a heavily Republican district in New Jersey, died yesterday after a long illness at the Heartland Health Care Center, a nursing home in Fort Myers, Fla. She was 69.
        Mrs. Meyner was born into a prominent Democratic family in New York City in 1928. Her parents, William E. and Eleanor B. Stevenson, set up American Red Cross units in England and North Africa during World War II. Her father, who founded the law firm that became Debevoise & Plimpton, was president of Oberlin College in Ohio after the war and Ambassador to the Philippines from 1961 to 1964.
        A graduate of Colorado College in Colorado Springs, Mrs. Meyner was a field worker for the Red Cross in Korea from 1950 to 1952, then a tour guide at the United Nations. There, she met an executive of Trans World Airlines, who hired her to travel the world promoting T.W.A. under the name Mary Gordon.
        In 1956, she volunteered for the Presidential campaign of Adlai E. Stevenson, a distant cousin of her mother's, and met Gov. Robert B. Meyner of New Jersey, who was visiting Oberlin College. They were married the following year.
        At Morven, the governor's mansion in Princeton, Mrs. Meyner welcomed visitors like Eleanor Roosevelt, Harry S. Truman and the Duke and Duchess of Windsor. She also served on the boards of the Newark Museum, the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra and Rider College. As a member of a panel of the Kennedy Administration, Mrs. Meyner studied the problems of the United States Foreign Service corps in Eastern Europe.
        Because of a two-term limit, the Meyners left Morven in 1962 and bought a home in Princeton. Mr. Meyner began a law practice, and Mrs. Meyner continued her community service.
        After four years of fertility treatment in the late 1960's, Mrs. Meyner became pregnant for the first time and gave an interview to The Ladies' Home Journal for an article titled ''My Miracle Baby.'' But in February 1970, the month the article was published, her baby, a full-term boy, was born dead. Mrs. Meyner is survived by a sister, Priscilla Hunt, of Cambridge, Mass.
        In 1972, Democratic Party leaders asked her to run for Congress from the Meyner family home in Phillipsburg, in the heavily Republican 13th Congressional District in Sussex and Morris Counties. She lost that election to Joseph J. Maraziti, a Republican, but defeated him in 1974, the same year that Representative Millicent Fenwick, a Republican, was elected. Only two other women had represented New Jersey on Capitol Hill before.
        Overshadowed somewhat by Representative Fenwick, Mrs. Meyner, who established a solidly liberal voting record, was sometimes referred to as New Jersey's ''other Congresswoman.''
        During her two terms in office, Mrs. Meyner served on the Committee on International Relations, but turned down an invitation to join the powerful Ways and Means Committee, saying she feared stretching herself too thin. As a member of International Relations, she fought to stop the nuclear arms race, but she  helped prevent the Army's Picatinny Arsenal in Morris County from closing in 1976 by having the Armament Research and Development Command transferred there.
        Mrs. Meyner also pressed for women's rights while in Congress. In 1978, she was defeated by the Republican candidate, Jim Courter.
        After leaving Washington, Mrs. Meyner served on the boards of directors of Allied Chemical, Girard Trust and Prudential Insurance, and through her work in these companies, she continued to advocate for women. In 1990, Governor Meyner died and Mrs. Meyner retired to Captiva Island, Fla. She and her family established the Robert B. Meyner and Helen S. Meyner Center for the Study of State and Local Government at her husband's alma mater, Lafayette College in Easton, Pa.
      