
        Toni Carabillo, a leader and historian of the modern feminist movement, died on Oct. 28 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 71.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Susie Gilligan of Feminist Majority, a national group that Ms. Carabillo helped found 10 years ago.
        Ms. Carabillo, who was co-author of ''Feminist Chronicles, 1953-1993,'' rallied to the feminist cause more than 30 years ago when she joined the National Organization for Women. Under her guidance, NOW branches took root throughout California, and she served over the years as president of the Los Angeles chapter, national vice president, a board member and co-editor of the organization's national newsletter.
        She founded Feminist Majority in 1987 together with Eleanor Smeal, Peg Yorkin, Katherine Spillar and Judith Meuli, her companion and partner in a Los Angeles graphic arts business since 1970. The group seeks to encourage women to attain positions of leadership in all walks of life.
        The group promotes women who are on their way up as professionals in the private and public sectors. It conducts campus campaigns, makes available internships, compiles statistics and maintains a speakers' bureau.
        At her death, Ms. Carabillo was national vice president. Ms. Smeal is president.
        ''Feminist Chronicles,'' written with Ms. Meuli and June Csida and published in 1993 by Graphics Press, became a textbook for women's studies in colleges and universities. With Ms. Meuli, Ms. Carabello also wrote ''The Feminization of Power'' (Fund for the Feminist Majority, 1988). Ms. Carabillo had recently been working on ''The Feminist Chronicles of the 20th Century,'' a volume that Ms. Smeal and Ms. Meuli plan to complete.
        Ms. Carabillo was born in Jackson Heights, Queens. Majoring in American literature, she graduated from Middlebury College in 1948 and earned a master's degree the next year at Columbia University. She went on to work as a writer and graphic designer.
        In 1969, she co-founded the Women's Heritage Corporation, a publishing company. It produced ''Women's Heritage Calendar and Almanac'' and paperbacks about women's rights advocates like Elizabeth Cady Stanton and Lucy Stone.
        Ms. Carabillo leaves no immediate family.
      