
        Claire Falkenstein, an American sculptor known for both abstract and functional works, died on Oct. 23 at her home in Venice, Calif. She was 89 and had lived in Venice since 1963, after spending more than a decade in Europe.
        Claire Falkenstein was born in 1908 in Coos Bay, Ore., and graduated in 1930 from the University of California at Berkeley, where she studied philosophy and anthropology. During the early 1930's she took a master class at Mills College with the Russian-born modernist sculptor Alexander Archipenko and also met such Bauhaus emigres as Laszlo Moholy-Nagy and Gyorgy Kepes.
        These contacts seem to have instilled in her a growing commitment to abstract principles, combined with a conviction that functionality did not reduce a work's esthetic impact and an interest in experimenting with a broad variety of new techniques and materials. Over her career, Ms. Falkenstein would make sculptures in wood and stone, but also in laminated plastic, Cor-Ten steel, glass and aluminum. She designed furniture, fountains, architectural elements, screens, wallpaper and jewelry.
        She favored open linear structures made of wire and metal tubing that could be deployed in either flat or fully dimensional works; a kind of circular, sunburst form was a frequent motif and perhaps the best illustration of a concept that she called ''expanding space.''
        Ms. Falkenstein had her first solo show at the East-West Gallery in San Francisco in 1930, and her first New York show at the Bonestall Gallery in 1944. From 1950 until the early 60's she lived in Europe and eventually had studios in Paris, Venice and Rome. In Europe she executed a number of commissions, including the bronze, steel and glass doors -- each a dense web of short, angled lines -- of the Peggy Guggenheim Museum in Venice, completed in 1962. Her most important commission in the United States, completed in 1969, was for the doors, rectory gates and grills and stained-glass windows for St. Basil's Church on Wilshire Boulevard in Los Angeles.
        Ms. Falkenstein is represented in the collections of the Museum of Modern Art and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in New York, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art and the Tate Gallery, in London.
      