
        Lillian B. Miller, a Boston butcher's daughter who made American cultural history her oyster and the Peale family of painters her particular pearls, died on Thursday at a hospital in Washington. She was 74 and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        Her family said the cause was a cerebral hemorrhage.
        As a man who painted George Washington seven times, Charles Willson Peale has hardly been an unknown figure. But until Dr. Miller came along in 1974 and began turning out volume after annotated volume covering four generations of Peale family papers, Peale had been largely dismissed as little more than a comic footnote to American history, a well-known practical joker whose grandiosely named sons -- Rembrandt, Raphael, Rubens and Titian -- drew scholarly snickers.
        Since then, largely because of Dr. Miller's efforts, Peale and the artistic dynasty he established have enjoyed something of a renaissance, one that was underscored in 1986 when a painting by Rembrandt Peale sold for $4 million.
        For all her contributions to the Peales' reputation, Dr. Miller was an accidental cultural historian, a woman who cut her own path through the pitfalls of 20th-century American culture.
        As the daughter of struggling immigrants from Lithuania, Lillian Beresnack grew up all but oblivious to Boston's cultural riches. Her girlhood passion was literature.
        At Radcliffe, as the first member of her family to earn a college degree, she became interested in American history and, while working her way through school as secretary to the head of the Harvard observatory, picked up the skills that would lay the groundwork for her scholarship.
        As a Columbia University graduate student, she worked as secretary to the historian Jacques Barzun and the literature professor Lionel Trilling, impressing both scholars so much that when Mary McCarthy abruptly quit her teaching post at Bard College in 1946, they recommended her as a replacement, which is how a 23-year-old secretary came to spend three years teaching literature to returning G.I.'s in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y., while making frequent trips back to Columbia to research her master's essay on the Socialist labor leader Eugene V. Debs.
        Barzun and Trilling were hardly the only scholars she impressed. At a seminar on American history she caught the eye of a fellow student, Nathan Miller, a budding economic historian who became her husband in 1948.
        Dr. Miller spent the 1950's having babies, keeping house in Manhattan and working on her doctoral dissertation. It wasn't easy for a woman to be a scholar in those days, as Dr. Miller discovered when the American Association of University Women rejected her application for a fellowship because she was pregnant.
        In 1960, in the pattern of the era, she followed her husband to the University of Wisconsin at Milwaukee, where he began a long career as a history professor and she helped make feminist history. With the prodding of a sympathetic state attorney general, the university quietly abandoned a nepotism rule, allowing her to teach in the same department with her husband.
        Dr. Miller had briefly considered researching the artists project of the Depression-era Works Progress Administration for her dissertation, but when she discovered how little attention had been paid to the role of art in American history, she decided to fill the gap.
        When her dissertation, ''Patrons and Patriotism: The Encouragement of Fine Arts in the United States: 1790-1860,'' was published in 1966, it created such a stir that in 1971 the Smithsonian Institution lured her to Washington to become historian of the National Portrait Gallery.
        With her husband accommodatingly commuting between Milwaukee and their new home in Bethesda, , Dr. Miller developed major historical exhibitions. Then in 1974, as the Smithsonian's historian of American culture, she published the voluminous Peale family papers on microfiche, providing scholars of diverse fields with a trove of source material and giving her a life's work.
        Dr. Miller, who organized an acclaimed traveling exhibition of Peale works last year, published four of a projected seven volumes of Peale family papers.
        In addition to her husband, Dr. Miller is survived by a son, Joel, of Los Angeles; two daughters, Hannah Lieberman of Phoenix and Rebecca Miller-Randall of Chester, Conn.; four sisters, Elsie Hurst and Edith Sahl of Newton, Mass., Ginger Lanahan of Raynham, Mass., and Dorothy Bearman of London, and six grandchildren.
      