
        Sally Ganz, an art collector and benefactor of educational and cultural organizations, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 85.
        With her husband, Victor W. Ganz, a vice president and longtime trustee of the Whitney Museum of American Art who died in 1987, Mrs. Ganz accumulated works by Picasso, Jasper Johns, Eva Hesse, Robert Rauschenberg, Frank Stella and other artists whom the couple championed and befriended.
        An independent, spirited woman with a husky tobacco voice, Ms. Ganz was recalled by Kirk Varnedoe, the chief curator of paintings and sculpture at the Museum of Modern Art, as ''tough-minded, seriously dedicated to what she believed in.'' It happened that several works she had loaned to the Modern's Johns retrospective, which closed last week, were returned to her just yesterday.
        As a founding volunteer of Public Education Association, an advocacy group, Mrs. Ganz helped students in New York City learn to read. Over the years she organized exhibitions to benefit the group, including a Picasso show in 1962 on which she asked John Richardson, who would become Picasso's biographer, to collaborate. She also sponsored minority scholarships at Barnard College and served for years on the board of the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center. Most recently, she gave money to Helen Keller International to combat river blindness in Africa.
        She was born Sally Wile in Louisville, Ky., on Jan. 16, 1912. She studied journalism at the University of Wisconsin, then moved to Manhattan, where she worked at Macy's. In 1935 she met Mr. Ganz, who ran a family costume jewelry business.  They married in 1942.
        For years they almost exclusively bought works by Picasso, including, in 1956, his series derived from Delacroix's ''Women of Algiers.'' In the 1960's they branched out to collect works by younger, American artists, becoming frequent lenders to exhibitions and occasional donors, especially to the Whitney. They gave works by Mr. Johns, Mr. Stella and Claes Oldenberg to the museum. Last year Mrs. Ganz also donated a drawing by Tom Levine, a young New York artist.
        Mrs. Ganz is survived by a son, Tony, of Los Angeles; three daughters, Victoria DeFelice of Newport Beach, Calif., Kate Ganz Dorment of London and Nancy Wright of La Canada, Calif., and six grandchildren.
      