
        Rosemarie Rogers, a scholar of international migrations and former academic dean at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, died on Nov. 28 at her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 61.
        The cause was multiple myeloma, a form of bone-marrow cancer, said her husband, Peter P. Rogers, a professor of environmental engineering at Harvard University.
        Dr. Rogers was a native of Austria, and her fluency in several languages led her to a career in international relations. She lectured in political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology before moving to the Fletcher School, where she advanced to a full professorship and served as academic dean from 1985 to 1987.
        Her more than 50 papers, monographs, book chapters and books reflected her research on international migrations, including forced migrations and refugee policies.
        At her death she was completing a comparative study of the migration policy of six Western European countries. In it she documented the difficulties host countries have, on the one hand, encouraging migrants to return home, and on the other, integrating them into their own societies.
        Her recent research was foreshadowed in an earlier book, ''Guests Come to Stay: The Effects of European Labor Migration on Sending and Receiving Countries'' (1985). Another volume, written with Emily Copeland, ''Forced Migration: Policy Issues in the Post-Cold War World'' (1993), was widely distributed by the United Nations High Commission on Refugees and various national governments.
        Dr. Rogers was born Rosemarie Straussnigg in Klagenfurt, Austria, and studied at the Universities of Vienna and Innsbruck, the University of Texas and the Sorbonne. She settled in the United States in 1958 and earned a doctorate in political science at M.I.T. in 1967.
        She served on the board of the World Peace Foundation.
        Besides her husband, Dr. Rogers is survived by two sons, Christopher, of Cambridge, and Justin, of Albuquerque, N.M.
      