
        Edna Flannery Kelly, the first woman to represent Brooklyn in Congress and an expert in foreign affairs and social policy, died on Sunday at the home of her daughter in Alexandria, Va. She was 91.
        A lifelong New Yorker, she had moved to Alexandria in 1982 following a stroke. Mrs. Kelly, who had cancer, experienced another stroke shortly before her death, her daughter, Maura Patricia Kelly, said.
        For many of her 19 years as a Democrat in the House of Representatives, from 1949 to 1968, Mrs. Kelly was the sole woman in the New York delegation. When she left office, a departure brought about by shifting demographics in the borough, she was the third-ranking member of the Committee on Foreign Affairs.
        Mrs. Kelly joined Congress after winning a special election in 1949 to fill an unexpired term in the 10th Congressional District and she was re-elected nine times in landslide victories, later representing the 12th District. But after district lines were redrawn in 1968, she decided to challenge a strong incumbent, Emanuel Celler, in a different district and lost that race. Her reconfigured district sent Shirley Chisholm to Congress as Brooklyn's first black Representative.
        Edna Flannery was born in East Hampton on Long Island. Following her graduation from Hunter College in 1928, she married Edward L. Kelly, a lawyer active in Democratic politics who was a justice in the city court system. Mrs. Kelly herself had no political agenda initially, but her husband was killed in a car accident in 1942 and she later said she became active to carry on in his tradition. Her first job was to breathe life into the moribund women's auxiliary of Brooklyn's Madison Democratic Club, a hub of party activity.
        She later joined the county executive committee and took on the chore of research director for the Democrats in the State Legislature. In that position, she built the network that later assured her nomination for the vacant seat in 1949.
        She quickly became an expert on the Soviet bloc, led fact-finding missions throughout the world and, as head of the Foreign Affairs subcommittee on Europe, championed NATO and a strong Europe as a bulwark against international Communism. She also helped to write foreign-policy legislation that, among other things, created the Peace Corps.
        Serving during the Truman, Eisenhower, Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, she sponsored measures to settle displaced people after World War II and refugees from Russia and Eastern Europe. She helped create the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
        She advocated women's and social issues, drawing attention to inequities in pay, credit and tax policy, including what she considered inadequate deductions for child care. She helped increase the deductions in the Internal Revenue Code of 1954.
        Mrs. Kelly was used to easy re-election in one of the city's most densely populated districts, encompassing all or part of Flatbush, Crown Heights, Kensington, Borough Park and Bedford-Stuyvesant. During her tenure, the district's ethnic composition changed markedly, leading state legislators to reapportion the borough to acknowledge Bedford-Stuyvesant's growing black constituency.
        Unwilling to run against Ms. Chisholm, who soon became a leading candidate for that Congressional seat, Mrs. Kelly took on Representative Celler, the dean of the state's Congressional delegation. The race in the reconfigured 10th district pitted two party regulars against each other, and Mrs. Kelly, her power base gone, lost to Mr. Celler in the primary.
        Besides her daughter, Mrs. Kelly is survived by a son, William E. 2d, of Spring Lake, N.J.; a sister, Katherine Duryea of Amityville, N.Y.; eight grandchildren and 17 great-grandchildren.
      