
        Kathy Acker, a child of Sutton Place who rose to prominence as a willfully abrasive novelist and performance artist in the post-punk East Village of the 1970's and 80's, died on Sunday at an alternative cancer treatment center in Tijuana, Mexico. She was 53 and lived in San Francisco.
        Ms. Acker, who left New York for London in 1984 before moving to California in recent years, had battled breast cancer for 18 months and had been at the Tijuana center for three weeks, friends said.
        The author of 10 novels, dozens of stories and essays, an opera libretto and a screenplay, she began as a writer by publishing her own books and peddling them from bookshop to bookshop, once working as a stripper on 42d Street to support herself.
        Scenes of disturbing violence and sexuality peppered her works, as did her penchant for characters who would change gender and identities without warning and her habit of taking scenes from classic novels and injecting them with erotic scenes and raw, raging language.
        One of her books, ''Blood and Guts in High School'' (1984), was banned in Germany and South Africa.
        Michiko Kakutani described Ms. Acker's style in a 1987 review in The New York Times: ''Characters exchange identities with the ease of snakes shedding their skins; and bits of myths, folk tales and older novels also turn up transformed -- juxtaposed, in a sort of post-modernist collage, with political screeds, dream-like hallucinations and strange, comic exchanges. The language is nervous and skewed; the authorial stance, adversarial and abrasive; the world view, cynical verging on the nihilistic.''
        In her performance pieces, done at clubs in Britain and America, Ms. Acker often read from her novels. She also collaborated on numerous musical and theatrical projects.
        Ms. Acker cut a well-known figure in the East Village scene of the early 80's, favoring leather clothes, spiky hair styles, red lipstick and stiletto heels. She told interviewers that she also considered her body a work of art, and was a devotee of piercing, tattooing and bodybuilding.
        Her other novels include ''Great Expectations'' (1983), ''Don Quixote'' (1986), ''Literal Madness'' (1987), ''My Mother: Demonology'' (1993) and ''Pussy, King of the Pirates'' (1995).
        Her opera libretto, ''Birth of a Poet,'' on which she collaborated with the composer Peter Gordon, was performed at the Brooklyn Academy of Music in 1985. A film based on her screenplay, ''Variety,'' was released the same year.
        Ms. Acker once said she drew her greatest inspiration from the novelist William Burroughs. ''He was my model,'' she said. ''For me, he was the first writer, the only one who was working politically in the field of language as power. He was questioning language. Everybody else was just thinking about it.''
        She is survived by a half-sister, Wendy Bowers of Belchertown, Mass.
      