
        Raya Garbousova, a cellist who gave the premieres of several contemporary works, including the Samuel Barber Cello Concerto, died on Tuesday at her home in De Kalb, Ill. She was 87.
        Miss Garbousova, a formidable musician whose technique was equal to the challenges of such difficult works as Gunther Schuller's unaccompanied ''Fantasy,'' could produce the bittersweet, soaring lyricism that the Barber Concerto requires. Early in her performing career, Pablo Casals, with whom she had studied, declared her ''the best cellist I have ever heard.''
        In her later years, Janos Starker, Mstislav Rostropovich and Yo-Yo Ma were among her admirers. Mr. Rostropovich is to give a concert in her honor at the International Cello Congress in St. Petersburg, Russia, in June.
        Miss Garbousova was born in Tiflis (now Tbilisi, capital of the former Soviet republic of Georgia) in 1909 and studied at the conservatory there. She continued her studies privately with Casals, Hugo Becker and Felix Salmond. She made her formal debut in Moscow in 1923 and left the Soviet Union two years later. By the late 1920's, she had performed in Berlin, Paris and London, and she gave her first performance in New York City in 1935.
        In 1939, she emigrated to the United States. She made many recordings for RCA in the 1940's and edited the published scores of several major cello works.
        Composers were quick to recognize her as a champion of new styles. Barber wrote his Concerto for her in 1946; her 1966 recording of the work for the American Decca label has been reissued several times. Karol Rathaus dedicated his ''Rapsodia Notturna'' to her in 1950, and Vittorio Rieti composed a Cello Concerto for her in 1960.
        Mr. Schuller wrote his ''Fantasy'' for Miss Garbousova in 1951 and a work in her honor, ''Hommage a Rayechka,'' for cello ensemble, in 1990. She gave the first American performances of works by Hindemith, Prokofiev and Martinu.
        Miss Garbousova taught at the Hartt School of Music in West Hartford, Conn., and at Northern Illinois University in De Kalb and gave master classes at many other schools. She is survived by her husband, Kurt Biss; two sons, Paul and Gregory Biss, and six grandchildren.
      