
        Esther Peterson, a dogged consumer advocate whose work has an impact on Americans every time they buy a can of soup or a box of laundry detergent, died on Saturday at her home in Washington. She was 91.
        Mrs. Peterson served in the Administrations of John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson and Jimmy Carter, and worked for businesses as well. Among her accomplishments was the labeling of foods with their nutritional value, so that shoppers can determine whether so many vitamins and proteins are worth their price in calories.
        Similarly, she successfully advocated that products be priced per unit, so that a calculator was not needed to figure out whether 14.5 ounces of breakfast cereal at $4.29 or 15.75 ounces at $4.59 is the better buy.
        And she accomplished those things with a gentle cajoling that masked an iron determination. At a party marking Mrs. Peterson's 90th birthday last year, Lynda Johnson Robb recalled the help that her father, President Johnson, got from Mrs. Peterson, and said, ''She had a velvet hammer and talked people into doing what was right, even if we didn't know it at the time.''
        In her long career, in which she was active until just recently, Mrs. Peterson was an educator, a labor organizer, a public official and an advocate of women's rights.
        She organized a strike in Boston in the 1930's among women who sewed aprons at home and were forced by their employer to switch from square pockets to heart-shaped ones, which were more difficult to cut and sew, without any increase in wages.
        ''She won the strike,'' her son Iver said over the weekend, ''after she told the women to picket the boss but to dress nicely, because the police in Boston used to back their horses into pickets, 'but if you are properly dressed, the police won't do it.' ''
        Mrs. Peterson was born in 1906 in Provo, Utah, to two immigrants from Denmark, Lars Eggertsen, the local superintendent of schools, and his wife, Annie, who, according to her son, ''kept boarders because they didn't pay superintendents much in those days.''
        She received a bachelor's degree from Brigham Young University in 1927 and a master's from Teachers' College, Columbia University, in 1930. She held several teaching positions in the 1930's, including one at the innovative Bryn Mawr Summer School for Women Workers in Industry, which brought milliners, telephone operators and garment workers onto the campus.
        A Bryn Mawr College official described the school as a place ''not only to teach but to learn from the women workers the problems that together they and we must solve,'' but her son said that Mrs. Peterson's description was more succinct: a place that combined Shakespeare, drama and socialism.
        She worked for the International Ladies Garment Workers Union, the American Federation of Teachers and the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America. In 1961, President Kennedy named her an Assistant Secretary of Labor and Director of the Women's Bureau, an agency that administered the labor laws concerning women.
        When Mr. Johnson became President, he brought Mrs. Peterson into the White House as his special adviser for consumer affairs, and she served in a similar capacity for President Carter.
        In 1971, at the age of 65, Mrs. Peterson started another career, this time in business as vice president for consumer affairs at Giant Food Inc., the largest supermarket chain in the Washington-Baltimore area.
        Odonna Mathews, who worked with Mrs. Peterson as a University of Maryland undergraduate intern and now holds Mrs. Peterson's old position at Giant, said: ''Her friends in consumer activism asked, 'How can you work for a business and represent the consumer?' She showed it could be done.''
        At Giant, Ms. Mathews said, she worked with Mrs. Peterson on the grade labeling of food. ''She found it confusing,'' Ms. Mathews said. ''She asked, 'What's the difference between U.S. Fancy No. 1 and Extra Fancy?' ''
        Ms. Mathews said Mrs. Peterson persuaded the supermarket to disclose what seafood had been previously frozen, a widespread practice now but one not in use before then.
        ''She got Giant to try nutritional labeling on its private products before it was required by Federal law, comparing calories and proteins,'' Ms. Mathews said. ''She got Giant to use open dating -- putting a date by which products like yogurt or milk must be sold.''
        Before then, the stores used letter and number combinations to express the dates, a code that was not clear to buyers.
        Ms. Mathews said Mrs. Peterson visited Giant stores often and was easily recognized by shoppers. She was tall, about 5 feet 10 inches, and she wore her long braided gray hair in a distinctive upsweep on the top of her head, a style described by her children as a ''Gretchen braid.''
        Her photograph appeared in many of Giant's advertisements, including one in April 1972 when a shortage of beef caused its price to rocket and Mrs. Peterson urged the supermarket chain's customers to avoid beef purchases until the price came down.
        ''You have a right to be informed about meat prices,'' a Giant advertisement said. ''We consumers can help bring prices down. Buy less meat. Use other forms of protein.''
        The advertisement listed alternatives to meat like beans and lentils and was signed by Mrs. Peterson.
        Mrs. Peterson later was hired by the National Association of Professional Insurance Agents as its consumer adviser, concerning herself particularly with the problems of older people, and she continued to keep a foot in both camps, serving on the board of Consumers Union.
        She ended her public service career under yet another Democratic President, serving in a largely honorary role for the Clinton Administration with the United States Delegation to the United Nations.
        Besides her son Iver, of Lawrenceville, N.J., who is a reporter for The New York Times, Mrs. Peterson is survived by two other sons, Eric N.,  of Alexandria, Va., and Lars E., of Washington; a daughter, Karen K. Wilken of Fort Collins, Colo., and 12 grandchildren.
      