
        Corinne Roosevelt Alsop Chubb, who helped guide the Victoria Foundation, a family trust that fosters social services, education and the arts in Newark, since its inception in 1934, died on Dec. 9 at her farm in Chester, N.J. She was 85.
        The Victoria Foundation was established by her father-in-law, Hendon Chubb, who named it in honor of his English-born mother. It has donated more than a billion dollars to individual charities and nonprofit organizations in Essex County.
        Mrs. Chubb married into the family in 1932, when she became the wife of Percy Chubb 2d, a former chairman of the Chubb insurance underwriters group. She became active in the foundation's work in 1934, the year of its incorporation.
        Mrs. Chubb was elected to the board in 1955 and was a trustee at her death. For more than six decades, she worked closely with the individuals, organizations and institutions whose programs the foundation helped finance.
        She visited beneficiaries to evaluate their work as she carried out the foundation's oversight responsibilities. When the foundation began to focus on Newark's urban troubles at the end of the 1950's, she became a principal architect of its evolving programs in education.
        Under her guidance, the foundation supported many classroom and scholarship programs in private and public schools, which offered opportunities to the children of the poor. In 1992, the foundation gave $2.5 million for the construction of the New Jersey Performing Arts Center in Newark, which opened in the fall.
        Other recent recipients include conservation projects as well as Emergency Services for Families, the Youth Development Clinic, the Kids Corporation, and the Chad School Foundation, all based in Newark.
        Percy Chubb 2d died in 1982. Mrs. Chubb is survived by five sons, Hendon, of Cornwall, Conn.; Percy 3d, of Bernardsville, N.J., the president of the Victoria Foundation; Joseph, of Lechlade, Gloustershire, England; James, of Ketchum, Idaho, and Caldecot, of Santa Monica, Calif.; a daughter, Corinne Zimmermann, of Great Falls, Va.; 12 grandchildren, and 5 great-grandchildren.
        Also surviving is a brother, John Alsop, of Old Lyme, Conn.
      