
        Marion Bell, who created the leading role of Fiona MacLaren in the original Broadway production of the Alan Jay Lerner-Frederick Loewe musical ''Brigadoon'' in 1947 and then married Mr. Lerner, died on Dec. 14 at the Brotman Medical Center in Culver City, Calif. She was 78 and lived in Culver City.
        As the innocent young woman in the mysterious Scottish town that comes back to life one day in every 100 years, Ms. Bell captivated critics as well as theatergoers. In his review in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson was so taken with the show as ''a singing pattern of enchantment'' that he hesitated to write about individual performers.
        He did say, however, that ''Almost Like Being in Love'' was ''sung rapturously'' by David Brooks and Ms. Bell. The musical historian Miles Kreuger, who saw the show in its premiere engagement and later became a friend of Ms. Bell's, said this week that as Fiona ''she had the most wondrous, doe-like, ethereal quality.''
        For her role in ''Brigadoon,'' she won many awards, including the Donaldson Award for best debut performance by an actress in a musical. Subsequently she made record albums for RCA Victor, including the original cast album of ''Brigadoon.''  It was to be her only New York musical.
        She was born in St. Louis. By the age of 8, she was singing on radio. After the family moved to California, the director Robert Z. Leonard heard her singing at a party and was instrumental in having her signed by Metro Goldwyn Mayer.
        She appeared with the Marx Brothers in ''A Night at the Opera.'' She studied voice both in Rome and in California and later sang a duet with the Metropolitan Opera tenor James Melton in the movie, ''Ziegfeld Follies.''
        Mr. Lerner and Mr. Loewe apparently wanted her to play a role in their musical, ''The Day Before Spring,'' but MGM held her to her contract. Several years later, she auditioned for ''Brigadoon,'' and acted in the show for a year.
        She married Mr. Lerner in 1947 and they were divorced two years later. Ms. Bell was the second of his eight wives.
        In 1948, she was in the world premiere of Kurt Weill and Arnold Sundgaard's folk opera, ''Down in the Valley,'' at Indiana University and repeated her role on television. Later she sang at the St. Louis Municipal Opera, the Los Angeles Civic Light Opera and the Sacramento Music Circus. In recent years she taught voice in Culver City.
        She is survived by a son, Tom Charlesworth of Portland, Ore., and two sisters, Evelyn Lewis of Hawaii and Veronica McKinley of New Castle, Pa.
      