
        Veronica Geng, an accomplished parodist who spun out biting pieces for The New Yorker based on chance remarks by hapless politicians and the banalities of wedding announcements, died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan, said a friend, Barbara Epstein, editor of The New York Review of Books. She was 56.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said  Philip Roth, the novelist, who was also a friend.
        As a writer of ''casuals,'' the short articles that appear in The New Yorker, she carried on in the tradition of S. J. Perelman. A typical Geng piece was a crazed amalgam of stock phrases, as in an imaginary wedding announcement reprinted in her 1984 collection, ''Partners'': ''The bride, married at the Presbyterian Church and Trust, is an alumna of the Royal Doulton School and Loot University.  Her father is retired from the family consortium. She is also a descendant of Bergdorf Goodman of the Massachusetts Bay Colony. Her previous marriage ended in pharmaceuticals.''
        Her 1988 collection, ''Love Trouble Is My Business,'' included a ''letter'' from the proprietor of a dog kennel to ''Secretary Weinberger'' about a defense contractor's $87.25 bill for dog boarding: ''I wear the key to the pantry around my neck on a platinum chain, and not only is the level of the kibble bin measured twice a day but the bin itself is equipped with a state-of-the art laser lock, which cannot be opened without a microcoded propylene wafer.''
        Ms. Geng was also an unofficial editor of Mr. Roth's novels. ''I always gave Veronica my books,'' he said shortly before she died.
        Ms. Geng was born in 1941 in Atlanta. Her father was a career Army officer. She once told The Christian Science Monitor that she traced her humor to ''Alice in Wonderland,'' read to her from the age of 2. In it, she said, she discovered ''a sense of illogic and how funny illogic is.''
        That book ''and the paperback collection of the Watergate transcripts are my two favorite books.'' Ms. Geng said. ''They're not unlike each other.''
        She attended the University of Pennsylvania. In the mid-1970's her short parody of the film critic Pauline Kael, published in The New York Review of Books, caught the eye of Roger Angell, a fiction editor at The New Yorker. Mr. Angell gave her a tryout and she went on to become his  assistant.
        Mr. Roth credits Ms. Geng with persuading William Shawn, then The New Yorker's editor, to publish his 1979 novella, ''The Ghost Writer,'' in two parts. From then on, he said, he  came to depend on her.
        Charles McGrath, a friend and colleague at The New Yorker who is now editor of The New York Times Book Review, said: ''Her thing was high, intellectual comedy.''
        In 1992, after Tina Brown took over as editor of The New Yorker, Ms. Geng and Ms. Brown had a falling out. Ms. Geng said she was dismissed; Ms. Brown said she resigned.
        Ms. Geng had no immediate survivors.
        Correction:  January 1, 1998, Thursday  An obituary of the parodist and editor Veronica Geng on Friday omitted a survivor. He is her brother, Steve Geng of Manhattan.
      