
        Dr. Elizabeth B. Keller, a biochemist who made it easier to understand a basic principle of life because she had the insight to see a cloverleaf where others saw only an infinitesimally small strand of the genetic material called RNA, died on Saturday at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester. She was 79 and lived in Ithaca, N.Y.
        The cause was complications from acute leukemia, said a sister, Sandy Socolar.
        Dr. Keller's cloverleaf model, still used in textbooks, describes transfer RNA, which helps control how the genetic information in DNA is translated into the building of proteins.
        Her model was sent to a colleague, Dr. Robert W. Holley, in a Christmas card, according to lore at Cornell University, where she worked in molecular biology from 1965 until close to her death. She retired as a professor emerita in 1988 but continued to do research. The model was later published by Dr. Holley as part of a larger set of work that won him a share of the Nobel Prize for unraveling the genetic code of RNA. Dr. Holley gave some of the prize money to Dr. Keller and others on his research team at Cornell.
        Using paper, pipe cleaners or pieces of Velcro, Dr. Keller would make models of the 77 subunits of a kind of transfer RNA. She found that the cloverleaf model best showed how transfer RNA did its work, finding and transporting the right amino acids to be linked together into proteins, said Dr. Joseph Calvo, a biochemist at Cornell.
        ''Anybody in the field would know that design today but would not know Betty,'' Dr. Calvo said. ''Her contributions were always behind the scene, looking until she found the shape that something wanted to take.''
        Dr. Keller is best known for her early explanations of how proteins are made within cells. ''Her work was like taking the engine out of a car to see how it works,'' Dr. Calvo said. ''If it works outside the car, you know something. She was one of those who figured out a way to make proteins outside the cell so they could be studied.''
        Elizabeth Waterbury Beach, the youngest daughter of Congregational missionaries, was born in Changle, in Fujian Province in China.
        She studied at Oberlin College and received her B.S. degree at the University of Chicago in 1940, and her Ph.D. at Cornell University Medical College in Manhattan in 1948. She worked at the Huntington Memorial Laboratory of Massachusetts General Hospital and at Harvard University, the United States Public Health Service and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology before Dr. Holley recruited her to join Cornell.
        Her marriage to Geoffrey Keller ended in divorce.
        Survivors include her husband, Dr. Leonard Spector, and two sisters, Frances B. Bingham of New Haven, and Mrs. Socolar, of Manhattan.
      