
        Adelma Grenier Simmons, the author of dozens of books on herbs, died on Wednesday at her home on the Caprilands Herb Farm in Coventry, Conn., which she founded in 1929 and developed into a teaching center and a business. She was 93.
        Mrs. Simmons, called ''the first lady of herbs'' by the International Herb Association, used her farm as a school of herbal lore and history. For decades, she delivered a one-hour lecture five days a week to visitors, who were then treated to an herbal lunch in the dining room of her colonial house.
        An imposing figure given to wearing a cape, Mrs. Simmons lectured authoritatively but with a touch of humor. ''Silver rosemary is good for mind and memory, in case you have need of that,'' she once told a visiting group. ''It's also good in tea. If you don't like that, you can wash your hair with it. If that doesn't work, you can wash your dog's hair with it.''
        Mrs. Simmons, whose maiden name was Grenier, was born in Shelton, Vt., where her father, a French-Canadian, was a cabinetmaker. She moved to Hartford after becoming an international buyer for the Albert Steiger department stores. Her parents soon joined her and also found work with the company, but remained homesick for the country.
        In 1929, the family bought an abandoned 50-acre farm near the village of North Coventry, which they named Caprilands, and set about raising goats. The family restored the 18th-century buildings on the site, and Mrs. Simmons grew herbs and vegetables, inviting neighbors over to share in the harvest.
        ''Caprilands as it now is started with 25 or 30 women cooking together,'' Mrs. Simmons told an interviewer. ''We all brought things from our gardens.''
        In the 1940's, after a disastrous season in which all her vegetables died, Mrs. Simmons concentrated on raising herbs, which she sold as live plants and in dried form.
        With the publication of ''Herb Gardening in Five Seasons'' in 1963, Caprilands and Mrs. Simmons herself assumed the dimensions of institutions. The farm drew tourists, gardeners and chefs. One distinguished visitor was David Bouley, a neighbor who frequented the gardens as a boy and, after achieving culinary stardom with his restaurant Bouley, returned annually to cook a five-course dinner for his staff and friends. The menu drew liberally on the 300 herbs grown on the farm's 33 thematic gardens, which include the Saints Garden, devoted to medicinal and food herbs; the Silver Garden, which has only silver plants, and the Shakespeare Garden, dedicated to plants mentioned in Shakespeare's plays.
        Mrs. Simmons wrote 35 books and many pamphlets on herbs, including ''Saints in My Garden,'' ''The Witches Brew,'' ''The Gold Wreath Book'' and ''A Merry Christmas Herbal.''
        She is survived by her third husband, Edward Cook; five grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren. A brief first marriage ended in divorce. Her second husband, George Simmons, died in 1965.
      