
        Tamara Geva, a Russian-born dancer and actress who was the first wife of the choreographer George Balanchine, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91.
        A sophisticated woman with a wide range of cultural interests, Miss Geva's career took her from ballet to musical comedy and serious drama. As a performer with Balieff's ''Chauve-Souris,'' a touring revue featuring Russian emigres, she introduced Balanchine's choreography to New York in 1927 by dancing two brief solos by him.
        In 1936, Miss Geva and Ray Bolger created a Broadway sensation in the Rodgers and Hart musical ''On Your Toes,'' for which Balanchine choreographed both the dramatic ''Slaughter on Tenth Avenue'' sequence and a balletic parody. Reviewing the show in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson wrote that Miss Geva ''is so magnificent as the mistress of the dance that she can burlesque it with the authority of an artist on a holiday.''
        Later she acted in plays by authors as diverse as Euripides, Shaw and Sartre. Her vivid autobiography ''Split Seconds'' (1972) describes her tumultuous family history and life in St. Petersburg at the time of the Russian Revolution.
        Born in St. Petersburg, Miss Geva, who shortened her surname when she came to the West, was the daughter of Levko Gevergeyev, a wealthy manufacturer of church vestments and a patron of avant-garde artists. As a child, she lived in an enormous 18th-century house that included a miniature theater and a theater museum. The latter still exists, now called the State Museum of Theater and Music.
        Although her father was a freethinker, his parents had been raised as Muslims, and they disapproved of the woman he loved. Miss Geva's parents were not officially married until she was 6. As a child, she studied ballet with a private teacher. After the revolution, when the illustrious Maryinsky Ballet School permitted children of non-Christian backgrounds to enroll, Miss Geva entered as a night student. There she met Balanchine, who was teaching ballroom dance classes. They were married in 1923.
        Miss Geva and Balanchine left the Soviet Union in 1924 with a troupe called the Soviet State Dancers. After a stint with Diaghilev's Ballets Russes, she joined Balieff's revue, which brought her to New York. By that time, she and Balanchine had separated.
        Miss Geva performed on Broadway in such musicals as ''Whoopee'' (1928), ''Three's a Crowd'' (1930) and ''Flying Colors'' (1932). In 1935, she appeared with the American Ballet, Balanchine's first New York company. After that she devoted herself to films and the theater.
        She appeared in such movies as ''Their Big Moment'' (1934), ''Manhattan Merry-Go-Round'' (1937) and ''Orchestra Wives'' (1942), and she choreographed the dances in ''Specter of the Rose'' (1946), Ben Hecht's film about a ballerina who falls in love with an insane dancer.
        On the stage, Miss Geva and Raymond Massey starred in the London premiere of Robert E. Sherwood's antiwar play, ''Idiot's Delight,'' in 1938. She acted in Euripides' ''Trojan Women'' in New York in 1941 and in a Los Angeles production of Sartre's ''No Exit'' in 1947. She portrayed a sarcastic Polish acrobat in a New York revival of Shaw's ''Misalliance'' in 1953; the cast also included Roddy McDowall and Richard Kiley. Miss Geva and Haila Stoddard created ''Come Play With Me,'' a musical comedy with a score by Dana Suesse that had a brief Off Broadway run in 1959.
        No immediate family members survive.
      