
        Mildred Mosler Weisenfeld, who helped build an organization for researching blindness, died last Saturday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 76.
        The cause was complications of lung cancer, said Dr. Kenneth R. Barasch, national president of the Fight for Sight, an organization through which she raised money.
        Ms. Weisenfeld, who lost her eyesight at 25 as a result of retinitis pigmentosa, began her effort as the National Council to Combat Blindness in 1946. Starting with $8 of her own but no office door on which to hang a sign, she soon transformed it into the Fight for Sight Inc. Her campaign became a national group that has awarded grants that total more than $13 million.
        Ms. Weisenfeld was chief organizer and executive director over 50 years, often working 12-hour days. The money enabled the Fight for Sight to provide 40 grants a year totaling $400,000. Additional aid goes to five children's eye clinics, in New York City, Newark, Philadelphia and Pittsburgh, including the Fight For Sight clinic in the Harkness Institute at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.
        The group sponsors grants and postdoctoral and student fellowships, as well as backing basic research proposed by vision specialists early in their careers. According to Dr. Barasch, the money let many recipients to become prominent in the field.
        The projects have contributed directly and indirectly to advances made in areas like lens implants, the preservation of donated corneas, laser techniques and treatments to slow glaucoma.
        Ms. Weisenfeld was born in Brooklyn. She attended Brooklyn College in the early 40's. In 1936, she was given a diagnosis of retinitis pigmentosa, when she was 15. The hereditary degenerative disease causes night blindness, retinal pigmentation changes, narrowing of the visual field and, eventually, blindness.
        As her condition worsened, Ms. Weisenfeld found that much remained unknown about the disease. Her initiative won the attention of Congress in 1949, when she coordinated testimony on eye research before the House.
        The hearings led Congress to recognize eye disease as a factor when it created the National Institute of Neurological Disease and Blindness. That move, again with her encouragement, led to the establishment of a separate National Eye Institute in the National Institutes of Health.
        In 1956, she married Albert G. Mosler, a businessman from Philadelphia who was blinded by retinitis pigmentosa. He died in 1967. There are no immediate survivors.
      