
        Herta Lande Seidman, who headed two philanthropic foundations and was a former senior trade official in the Carter Administration, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center of pancreatic cancer, her family said. She was 58.
        Ms. Seidman, who had lived in Manhattan since 1960, was chairwoman of two philanthropies financed by the investor George Soros: the East-West Management Institute and Soros Management Training Programs. Both organizations teach modern business practices to entrepreneurs and government officials in 21 countries in Eastern Europe and the former Soviet Union.
        Born in 1939 in Cermauti, Romania, Ms. Seidman was one of the very few Romanian Jews who survived the Nazi occupation, escaping confinement in the death camps after her mother bribed a Nazi official, a cousin, Rabbi Moshe Handelsman of Brooklyn, said yesterday.
        ''Her mother, Pepi Lande, was a very courageous lady who went up to the colonel of the Gestapo and asked him that he should give her a paper that she and her daughter and her parents should be able to stay and not go to the camps,'' Rabbi Handelsman said.
        The colonel approved the request in the summer of 1941 after being given a fur coat and the equivalent of $80,000 in cash.
        After the war, the family left Romania, going to Belgium, France and Canada before reaching the United States.
        Ms. Seidman got a bachelor's degree in economics from the University of Miami in 1959. The following year she earned a master's degree in economics at Cornell University.
        She worked on Wall Street in mergers and international trade from 1963 to 1976, when Gov. Hugh Carey appointed her deputy commissioner of the State Department of Commerce and assigned her to attract foreign investment.
        In early 1979, on a trip to Russia as a state trade official, family members and friends said, she visited Jewish refuseniks in Kiev and was detained for a day by the K.G.B. in an incident that received wide attention.
        In 1980, President Carter appointed Ms. Seidman Assistant Secretary for Trade in the United States Commerce Department, a post she held until 1981.
        She then returned to Wall Street, working on commodity and financial transactions, mostly in Eastern Europe and Russia, for Phibro and then Salomon Brothers, until 1986. That year, she became president of the Tradenet Corporation, developing computer finance and training systems.
        She became Tradenet's chairwoman in 1990, a post she held while also working as an executive with several Soros foundations.
        Ms. Seidman is survived by her husband, Samuel N. Seidman.
      