
        Ursula Niebuhr, the founder and longtime chairwoman of the department of religion at Barnard College, died on Friday at her home in Stockbridge, Mass. She was 89 and the widow of the theologian Reinhold Niebuhr.
        Although she was clearly upstaged by her renowned husband, who taught at the Union Theological Seminary, Mrs. Niebuhr's own scholarship was so well regarded that in the 1940's she was asked by the president of Barnard to create a department of religion there. She accepted and remained as associate professor and department chairwoman until her retirement two decades later.
        A native of Southampton, England, she was sent to Oxford to study at St. Hugh's College, then regarded as little more than a glorified finishing school. She enhanced its reputation considerably when she graduated with honors in history and theology and became the first woman to win a fellowship to the Union Theological Seminary in New York.
        When a friend proposed to introduce her to Mr. Niebuhr, a faculty member, she was skeptical, her daughter, Elizabeth Sifton, recalled yesterday. ''Oh, no,'' the friend said, ''you'll love him,'' and she did.
        They were married in 1931, embarking on an intellectual and emotional collaboration marked by animated debates that continued until her husband's death in 1971. By then, her daughter noted, their theological differences had dwindled to liturgical quibbles between Mrs. Niebuhr's Episcopalian ideas and her husband's Congregationalist notions.
        In the introduction to his last book, Mr. Niebuhr said he could no longer tell where his ideas left off and hers began. After his death, Mrs. Niebuhr returned the favor, editing two collections of his writings.
        In addition to her daughter, of Manhattan, Mrs. Niebuhr is survived by a son, Richard, of Stockbridge; a sister, Barbara Moravec of Sutton, England, and three grandsons.
        Correction:  January 13, 1997, Monday
        An obituary in some editions yesterday about Ursula Niebuhr, the founder of Barnard College's religion department, misstated the given name of her surviving son. He is Christoper, not Richard.
      