
        Evelyn Payne Davis, a founder of the New York Coalition of 100 Black Women and a former vice president at the Children's Television Workshop, died on Friday at Beth Israel Medical Center. She was 75 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mrs. Davis had suffered from lung cancer for a year, said her son, David Payne.
        As vice president of the Children's Television Workshop's Community Education Services, Mrs. Davis led efforts to make ''Sesame Street'' known to inner-city parents and children when the program began appearing in 1969.
        At that time, before cable, ''Sesame Street'' and other public television shows were typically on hard-to-find UHF channels, Joan Ganz Cooney, a Children's Television Workshop founder, said yesterday.
        Because these channels attracted few viewers in poor, urban and rural areas, Mrs. Davis oversaw employees who visited these communities and explained that ''Sesame Street'' was an innovative television experiment that would teach preschoolers about numbers and the alphabet, a sort of televised version of the Head Start program, Ms. Cooney said.
        Three years after the program started, surveys showed that the efforts to reach these children had succeeded, Ms. Cooney added.
        In the early 1970's, Mrs. Davis also helped found the New York Coalition of 100 Black Women, which urged black women to become involved in politics and community affairs. In 1972, she served as its first president.
        The coalition's projects included helping young black women establish personal networks and holding voter registration drives on 125th Street in Harlem, said Mary Burke Washington, a co-founder of the coalition and a former chairwoman of the city's Civilian Complaint Review Board.
        Born in New Orleans on Dec. 27, 1921, the former Evelyn Aramburo and her family moved to New York when she was a child. She grew up in Harlem, graduated from Hunter High School and attended Hunter College. In the 1960's, she worked in antipoverty programs and also became involved in the New York Urban League.
        She was married to Mynor Payne, an electrical engineer, for two decades. He died in 1968. Later, she married Charles Davis.
        Working with the Children's Television Workshop, where she served as a consultant after retiring in 1992, Mrs. Davis also helped open scores of children's centers in prisons. The centers offered programs to help prison inmates form better relationships with their visiting children, in part through ''Sesame Street'' and educational games.
        ''It's not fair to say to a child, 'Your mother can't hold you,' '' Mrs. Davis said in 1986. ''Kids deserve to see their parents in a setting that doesn't scare them.''
        Mrs. Washington, who lived down the hall from Mrs. Davis in a Gramercy Park building for 26 years, said Mrs. Davis was also known to friends for her talents as an entertainer. She played the piano and sang, imitating Billie Holiday. Mrs. Davis could also  play an improvised bass fiddle -- a broom tied to an overturned old-fashioned washtub, Mrs. Washington recalled.
        In addition to her son, who lives in New Town, Conn., she is survived by a stepdaughter, Liberty Davis Rashad of Cambridge, Mass., and two granddaughters.
      