
        Mollie Panter-Downes, whose quiet, compelling accounts of everyday British life brought England alive for two generations of readers of The New Yorker, died on Jan. 22 in a nursing home near her longtime home in Surrey. She was 90 and had written The New Yorker's ''Letter from London'' from 1939 to 1984.
        Although she wrote verses, stories, plays and several well-received novels, Miss Panter-Downes considered herself more journalist than novelist. In fact she was neither. She was, rather, just what her column's title proclaimed: a letter writer, albeit one with a remarkable eye for detail and a talent for the telling observation.
        Indeed, she could have been any American's English cousin writing chatty but shrewdly observant letters that illuminated passing political foibles and great events alike through their reflection in the lives of bus drivers, housewives, shop girls and farmers.
        From the time her first ''Letter from London,'' appeared in The New Yorker in the first week of World War II in September 1939, Miss Panter-Downes gave Americans a ground zero view of world events, sometimes with a folksy blend of  American reference points and British nomenclature.
        Describing the first jittery days of the war, for example, when sirens often sounded in shrill false alarm, all London, she wrote, ''felt like a little boy who stuffs his fingers in his ears on the Fourth of July only to discover that the cannon cracker has not gone off after all.''
        Her expertise in ordinary life was not feigned. Shunning the literary life of London, she lived with her husband and two daughters in a 15th century Tudor house on a pig farm 40 miles south of London. And for all her literary output she was something close to a typical country housewife, one who did her own shopping, cooking and canning.
        She made weekly visits to London, but believed that living at a certain distance from the city gave her letters a beneficial perspective.
        Her letters, which appeared weekly during the first years and at irregular but frequent intervals from then on, began almost by accident. As the war loomed, Miss Panter-Downes later recalled, The New Yorker's Paris correspondent, Janet Flanner, was ''trapped in New York.'' Desperate for an on-scene voice from Europe, Harold Ross, the magazine's editor, recalling that Miss Panter-Downes had submitted a piece the year before about English families taking in Jewish refugee children, asked her to fill the gap, and she obliged.
        Her letters were so well received that her first year's correspondence was published as a collection, ''Letter From England,'' in October 1940.
        With only about 5,000 of the New Yorker's half-million or so readers living in England, Miss Panter-Downes became more famous in the United States than in her own homeland, although in England she was far from unknown.
        The daughter of an Army officer who was killed in World War I when she was 8, Miss Panter-Downes was born in London and grew up in Essex. She burst on the literary scene at the age of 16, when her first novel, ''The Shoreless Sea,'' was published to generally admiring, if somewhat startled, reviews.
        She later wrote several other novels, including ''One Fine Day,'' typically, about an ordinary midlands family, which was published in 1947 and reissued by Virago in 1986.
        In addition to her letters, Miss Panter-Downes took on occasional other assignments for The New Yorker, including one, about an English settlement in India, that led to a book, ''Ooty Preserved: A Victorian Hill Station in India,'' published in 1967.
        Miss Panter-Downes, whose letters were discontinued as a regular New Yorker feature in 1984, continued writing for the magazine until 1986.
        She is survived by her husband of 70 years, Clare Robinson, 93; two daughters, Virginia and Diana Baer; five grandchildren, and four great grand-children.
      