
        Jean D. Hewitt, a former food writer and home economist for The New York Times and an early advocate of natural foods, died on Sunday in the Bon Secours-Venice Hospital in Venice, Fla. She was 71 and made her home in Venice.
        The cause was pneumonia, the family said.
        Mrs. Hewitt planned The Times's test kitchen and was in charge of it from its opening in 1969. At the time, a number of newspapers employed home economics graduates as food writers and set up kitchens on the premises to test food and recipes.
        In 1971, Mrs. Hewitt made headlines across the country when she tested the recipe for Tricia Nixon's wedding cake. She found the lemon-flavored cake inedible -- ''mush on the outside and soup on the inside'' -- and wrote that it left the oven in a mess. The problem, she decided, was too many egg whites and not enough yolks. She also suggested that the oven temperature be increased and the baking time lengthened.
        The White House chef countered by saying that he had forgotten to mention that a collar was required for the pan. Later, however, more corrections were made.
        In addition to developing and testing recipes, Mrs. Hewitt wrote a number of New York Times Cook Books, including ''Main Dish,'' ''Heritage'' and ''Weekend.'' Her ''Large Type Cook Book'' and ''New Natural Foods Cook Book'' were forerunners in their respective fields, as was her ''International Meatless Cook Book.'' Four of her books received James Beard Food and Beverage Book Awards.
        She joined The Times in 1961 as an assistant to Craig Claiborne, the food editor and restaurant reviewer. In addition to those duties, she researched and wrote about food and reviewed New Jersey restaurants.
        In 1975, she was named food editor of Family Circle, a Times Company publication, where she wrote more books, including the ''Family Circle Quick and Easy Menu Cook Book.'' She retired in 1993.
        Born in Ipswich, England, in 1925, she moved to New York during World War II, after studying at the Westminster School for Chefs in London. She was a charter member of Les Dames d'Escoffier and a lifetime fellow of the Culinary Institute of America.
        Mrs. Hewitt held degrees in food and nutrition from the University of London and Columbia University.
        Her first husband, Dr. Eric J. Hewitt, whom she married in 1949, died in 1976. In 1983, she married James Blair of Venice, who survives her. She is also survived by two sons, Gordon Hewitt of Annapolis, Md., and Geoffrey Hewitt of Westfield, N.J.
        Correction:  February 14, 1997, Friday
        An obituary on Tuesday about Jean D. Hewitt, a former food writer and home economist for The New York Times, referred incorrectly to the opening of The Times's test kitchen. It was opened in 1944; Mrs. Hewitt planned and supervised a major renovation in 1969.
      