
        Margaret Halsey, author of the 1938 best seller ''With Malice Toward Some,'' which poked fun at English customs and mores, died on Tuesday at the Nathan Miller Nursing Home in White Plains. She was 86.
        In her time, Ms. Halsey, a witty writer with an acute social concern, was compared to Dorothy Parker and H. L. Mencken. She came of age in an era when often the best job a well-educated graduate of a women's college could get was a secretarial position in publishing.
        She was born in Yonkers, the daughter of Reinhold Halsey, deputy superintendent of buildings for New York City public schools. She attended Skidmore College.
        In 1933, she became secretary to  the author and editor Max Eastman, who got her an entry-level job at Simon & Schuster in Manhattan.
        In 1935, she married Henry Simon, an assistant professor of education at Teachers College at Columbia University and the brother of the publisher Richard L. Simon.
        The newlyweds went to live in Devon, England, where Mr. Simon was on a teaching exchange. Ms. Halsey's letters home complaining of the eccentricities of English people, their food and the drudgery of their life, caught the attention of her brother-in-law, who commissioned her to write what became ''With Malice Toward Some.''
        It included digressions on such subjects as English pie crust: ''It is possible to eat English pie crust, whatever you may think at first. The English eat it, and when they stand up and walk away, they are hardly bent over at all.'' On the subject of English shoes, Ms. Halsey wrote: ''Englishwomen's shoes look as if they had been made by someone who had often heard shoes described but had never seen any.'' The book sold 600,000 copies.
        In 1944 Ms. Halsey was divorced from Mr. Simon. That year, she published ''Some of My Best Friends Are Soldiers,'' which she called ''a sort of novel'' about race relations in America. The book, an account of her work at the Stage Door Canteen in Times Square, was the beginning of a lifelong preoccupation with the subject of race.
        ''Color Blind: A White Woman Looks at the Negro,'' followed in 1946. In the book, Ms. Halsey wrote that a need for a cheap labor supply and a fear of blacks' sexuality were at the heart of racism. Margaret Mead called the book ''straightforward, courageous and delightful.'' It was banned from schools in Georgia.
        In ''The Pseudo-Ethic: A Speculation on American Politics and Morals'' in the late 60's, Ms. Halsey turned her attentions to a defense of Alger Hiss.
        During the 1950's and 60's, her life took a darker course, and she wrote about her problems in ''No Laughing Matter: The Autobiography of a WASP'' (1977). She struggled with alcoholism and agoraphobia. Her only child, Deborah, nearly died from a brain tumor, and she was estranged from her parents. In 1969, her second marriage, to Milton R. Stern, ended in divorce.
        She is survived by a daughter, Deborah Halsey Stern, of White Plains.
      