
        Dorothy Fosdick, the foreign policy expert who helped fashion the United Nations, the Marshall Plan and NATO in the 1940's, advised Adlai E. Stevenson in the 1952 Presidential campaign and then spent nearly three decades as Senator Henry M. Jackson's chief cold war strategist, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Washington. She was 83 and had continued to live in Washington after Senator Jackson's death in 1983.
        Her sister, Elinor Downs, said the cause was cardiac arrest.
        From the early months of World War II, when the United States began  planning for the postwar world, until President Reagan opened the final phase of the struggle against the Soviet Union with his ''evil empire'' speech in 1983, Dr. Fosdick was in the thick of national foreign policy planning and debate.
        Along the way, she consistently took such a hard line against the Soviet Union and was such a passionate and articulate advocate of military might that her colleagues sometimes had to remind themselves that she was, in fact, the daughter of the Rev. Dr. Harry Emerson Fosdick, the pacifist pastor of Riverside Church, the Rockefeller-backed bastion of New York liberalism.
        Whatever her father's influence,  Dr. Fosdick, who was born in Montclair, N.J., and grew up in the faculty housing at the Union Theological Seminary, took as her mentor the family's friend and neighbor, Reinhold Niebuhr, the theologian whose belief that evil is a palpable world force that must be resisted and overcome became the geopolitical creed of a generation of cold war theorists.
        Dr. Fosdick's career was also influenced by her beloved Uncle Raymond, her father's brother, Raymond B. Fosdick, an international lawyer whose appointment as Under Secretary of the League of Nations came to naught after the Senate failed to ratify the founding treaty.
        She took the rejection of the treaty as a personal affront and later wrote a prize-winning essay on the episode at the Horace Mann School, then went off to Smith College, where she was an acclaimed athlete. After obtaining a doctorate in public law from Columbia University, she taught sociology and political theory.
        Her academic career came to an end early in 1942, when she was recruited by the State Department's opaquely named Division of Special Research and was assigned to begin planning for a postwar international organization.
        Over the next few years, she helped shape the Dumbartron Oaks and San Francisco conferences, which laid the groundwork for the United Nations, served on the delegations to both conferences and attended the early sessions of the U.N.
        Her contributions were so impressive that in 1948 at the age of 34, she became the only woman on the State Department's newly formed Policy Planning Staff, a high-level, in-house think tank of nine strategic planners whose work under George Kennan and later Paul Nitze helped shape the Truman Doctrine, the Marshall Plan and the North Atlantic Treaty Organization.
        During the 1952 Presidential campaign, Dr. Fosdick became so enamored with the Democratic nominee, Adlai Stevenson, that she became his chief foreign policy adviser and had a romantic fling with him (at the same time, she later learned, that Stevenson was having a secret affair with Alicia Patterson.)
        Stevenson apparently disappointed her on both fronts. Dr. Fosdick, who never married, mainly, her sister suggested, because she never found a man her equal, later confided to friends that she did not think Stevenson had the gumption to be President.
        After a period as a freelance writer, Dr. Fosdick, whose books included, ''What is Liberty?'' and ''Common Sense and World Affairs,'' finally found her niche in 1954 as chief foreign policy adviser to Senator Jackson, the Washington State Democrat known for his expertise in military affairs.
        Sharing both his passion for liberal social causes and his commitment to a strong military, Dr. Fosdick became the Senator's alter ego. She wrote his speeches, helped develop his strategic positions and political initiatives and orchestrated his legendary informational hearings. Her 1961 report, for example, after a quiet, thorough investigation of cold war policy procedures became the blueprint for President John F. Kennedy's reorganization of the national security policy apparatus.
        At a time when Senator Jackson was a Senate legend for the quality of his staff, Dr. Fosdick was in command of the ''bunker,'' so called partly because of the cramped staff quarters and partly because Senator Jackson and his staff were so often at odds with the prevailing political winds of detente.
        Dr. Fosdick, known as Dickie and sometimes referred to as the bunker's bubbie, the Yiddish word for grandmother, was an exacting boss, one whose day could be ruined by a misplaced comma.
        A slim, peppery woman who had been a fierce competitor on the Horace Mann and Smith athletic fields, Dr. Fosdick was only 5-foot-1, but more than one bulky senator felt her sting. When Dr. Fosdick went toe-to-toe, eyeball-to-tie clasp on a cherished issue, she would punctuate her arguments with rapid finger gestures that often peppered a senatorial paunch.
        In time, Dr. Fosdick was eclipsed on the public stage by some of her  admiring young proteges, among them Ricard N. Perle, who became an Assistant Secretary of Defense, and Elliott Abrams, who became an Assistant Secretary of State, but only, perhaps, because she preferred to work behind the scenes.
        As Mrs. Downs put it, recalling that her sister had turned down repeated offers to become an ambassador or college president: ''She had no personal ambition. She only wanted to save the world.''
        In addition to Mrs. Downs, of Boston, Dr. Fosdick is survived by a niece, Patricia Berger of Brookline, Mass., a nephew, Stephen Downs of Albany; two grand-nephews, and three grand-nieces.
      