
        Janet Hayes Walker, the founder and producing director of the York Theater Company, an Off Broadway theater known for its revivals of American musicals from the recent past, died on Feb. 20 at Memorial Sloane-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 71 and lived in Manhattan.
        Ms. Walker began the York Theater in 1969 at the Church of Heavenly Rest, at 2 East 90th Street, and gradually built a reputation for presenting intimate and imaginative productions of musicals. In its 99-seat theater, the York often gave new life to shows that had been neglected.
        The company specializes in revivals of works by Stephen Sondheim. Among the Sondheim shows Ms. Walker produced were ''Pacific Overtures'' (which moved to the Promenade Theater), ''Sweeney Todd'' (which moved to Circle in the Square on Broadway), ''Merrily We Roll Along,'' ''A Little Night Music'' and ''A Funny Happened on the Way to the Forum.'' She also presented revivals of musicals by other writers, including ''Carnival,'' ''The Grass Harp'' and ''Lost in the Stars.'' The York Theater occasionally staged classic plays and new musicals, like Ed Dixon's ''Moby Dick'' and George Abbott's ''Frankie,'' based on ''Frankenstein.''
        Ms. Walker was born in Shanghai, where her parents were missionaries. She had two master's degrees, one in music from the New England Conservatory and another in theater from Hunter College.
        She started her theatrical career singing in Broadway musicals (including ''Damn Yankees'' and ''The Music Man''). Later she worked as a director and a producer, before opening the York Theater, paying for its first work with a $50 gift from the church rector.
        She is survived by her husband, Charles, of Manhattan; a son, Peter, of Telluride, Colo.; a daughter, Susan of Goleta, Calif.; three grandchildren; a brother, E. Morris Hayes, and a sister, Marian Hayes Miller of San Francisco.
        Correction:  March 6, 1997, Thursday
        An obituary on Saturday about Janet Hayes Walker, the founder of the York Theater Company, misidentified the creators of a musical produced by the troupe. The musical, ''Moby Dick,'' was created by Mark St. Germain and Doug Katsaros, not Ed Dixon.
      