
        Constance D. Gibson, an elegant dowager who spent half her life regally overseeing one of Manhattan's crown jewels as the acknowledged queen of Gramercy Park, died on Monday at her home overlooking the park she had nurtured and cherished for more than 50 years. She was 94.
        To those who stumble unawares upon the two acres of tree-shaded greenery surrounded by a tall iron fence at the foot of Lexington Avenue, Gramercy Park is an urban wonder, a surprising and soothing respite from the bustling worlds of Third Avenue between 20th and 21st Streets to the east and Park Avenue South to the west.
        Yet for all its natural appeal, Gramercy Park is not an accidental wonder. Created by a real estate developer in 1831, it is at once the city's only private park and one whose gardens and greenswards are maintained by unpaid trustees.
        An Army general's widow with a commanding presence, Mrs. Gibson, who was the head trustee from 1980 to 1992, took her job so seriously that she supervised the planting of hundreds of tulip bulbs every fall. She kept an eagle eye on the staff of professional gardeners and had such an obsessive interest in the good order of the park that she seemed to know where and when each leaf would fall. From her second-floor bedroom window, she once told a friend, she could see ''that the gardeners are doing exactly what I told them to do.''
        Herself an accomplished gardener who raised holly behind her house and tended flowers at her summer home in Massachusetts, Mrs. Gibson was a fixture at the New York Horticultural Society, or ''the Hort,'' as she called it, and was running flower exhibitions in the park long before she became a trustee in 1964.
        By the time she moved into a town house on Gramercy Park South in 1940, Mrs. Gibson had established herself as something of a purposeful free spirit.
        A native of Liverpool, England, whose father came to the United States when she was 2, Mrs. Gibson, grew up in New Dorp, S. I., in a house whose spacious, English-style garden appealed to her mother and gave Mrs. Gibson a lifelong love of flowers.
        After graduating from Bryn Mawr with a degree in fine arts in 1924, she was so disappointed that her father would not let her continue her studies abroad that when she saw an advertisement in The New York Times seeking a French-speaking woman with a size 4B foot, she answered it.
        Her father was scandalized, but with the approval of her mother, Mrs. Gibson, who took such pride in her shapely feet that she had her toenails painted even in her 90's, became a foot model in Paris, where she also studied at the Sorbonne and met a self-effacing American Army captain from Poultney, Vt., named Herbert Daskum Gibson.
        By the time they were married in 1931, Mrs. Gibson had obtained a master's degree from Columbia, but her husband was still a captain, a circumstance his wife set out to rectify in posts in the Philippines and the United States.
        Never mind that he was decorated for valor in World War I and that he performed such distinguished service in the Pacific in World War II that he was promoted to Brigadier General. As Mrs. Gibson later confided to a friend, her husband, who died at 88 in 1980, ''would never have made general without me.''
        With her husband at war, Mrs. Gibson moved in with her brother in the Gramercy Park house and became a leader of the New York society home front, throwing herself into a whirlwind of volunteer efforts for organizations like Bundles for Britain and the American Red Cross, serving as an Air Raid warden and even becoming a defense industry expediter.
        A petite woman whose elegant clothes were handmade, Mrs. Gibson became a beloved figure in the Gramercy Park neighborhood, where she was seen as a link to the genteel 19th-century era of Edith Wharton and Henry James.
        Beneath the surface of her impeccable manners, there was a playfulness that could sometimes startle those who mistook her refined manner and upper-class British accent as a sign of stodgy reserve.
        ''How are you today, Mrs. Gibson?'' someone would ask. ''Full of beans,'' she would reply.
        In recent years when the decorum of the park's affairs was marred by a sometimes rancorous squabble over the removal of some trees, Mrs. Gibson, who retained the admiration and respect of both factions, generally remained above the fray.
        But a chorus of chortles echoed through the park when a newspaper account of the dispute quoted Mrs. Gibson (who could not believe that the perfectly nice reporter she had chatted with would repeat her exact words) as describing one of the disputants as ''a son of a bitch.''
        Yet to those who knew her best, she remained such a model of gentle graciousness that the young women who took care of her marveled that even in her final days, when she barely had breath to speak after suffering a stroke, they never placed  her in her bed at night without hearing the labored, whispery words: ''Thank you, very much.''
        She leaves no survivors.
      