
        Lucy Kroll, a longtime New York talent agent whose clients ranged  from Carl Sandburg to James Earl Jones to Norman Mailer, died on Friday at her home in Glendale, Mass. She was 87 and had moved to the Berkshires eight years ago.
        She sold her Lucy Kroll Agency in late 1994 to Barbara Hogenson, an associate, but had kept a residence and office on the Upper West Side of Manhattan until last spring.
        In 1994 she also gave the Library of Congress 110 boxes brimming with thousands of letters, manuscripts, contracts and other memorabilia.
        The list of American greats and near-greats whose paths she crossed also included Lillian Gish, Ben Hecht, William Schuman, Martha Graham, Carl Sagan, Ossie Davis and Elisabeth Kubler-Ross. They ranged, she said, ''from dancers to jugglers,'' and many of them became her friends.
        She represented Sandburg for 10 years until his death in 1967 and then tended to the Sandburg Trust for television, film and the stage. She was co-producer of a two-hour special for the Public Broadcasting System on his 100th anniversary in 1978 and organized a tour of ''The World of Carl Sandburg,'' a theatrical presentation of his writings adapted by Norman Corwin and starring Bette Davis and Gary Merrill.
        She was also associated with the television version of the program, produced by her former husband, Nathan Kroll, and starring two of her clients, Fritz Weaver and Uta Hagen. In addition she was involved with a six-part mini-series of Sandburg's ''Lincoln,'' and with the award-winning PBS film ''Carl Sandburg -- Echoes and Silences,'' as well as the book ''Carl Sandburg: A Biography'' by Penelope Niven, another client.
        She represented James Earl Jones for more than 40 years and looked after the interests of Alex Haley for the television series ''Roots,'' in which Mr. Jones played the part of Mr. Haley.
        She also represented the playwright Horton Foote for half a century and helped establish a number of regional theaters.
        During an association with the choreographer Martha Graham, she discovered that Ms. Graham had squirreled away some 50 stenographer's books of notes without ever writing an autobiography. She persuaded Ms. Graham to cooperate in their publication in the form of ''The Notebooks of Martha Graham.''
        She was born Lucy Rosengardt in Brooklyn and graduated from Hunter College in 1933. She earned a master's degree in 1935 at the School for Stage while training for the classical ballet.
        After her marriage to Mr. Kroll in 1939, she worked as a story analyst at the Warner Brothers studio in Burbank, Calif. She was a founder of the Hollywood Theater Alliance and the Hollywood Music Alliance.
        In 1945 she returned East to open a New York office for the Sam Jaffe Agency of California. She found that the work as a literary and talent agent suited her so well that she took over the business in 1947 and turned it into the Lucy Kroll Agency.
        Her marriage to Mr. Kroll, a producer-director and a resident of Tarrytown, ended in divorce in 1974. She is survived by a son, Stephen R., of Adamant, Vt.
      