
        Harriet Pratt Morris, a leader in the movement against the death penalty in Georgia and nationwide, died on Sunday at her home in Atlanta. Mrs. Morris, who was known as Patsy, was 66.
        Her husband, the Rev. John B. Morris, said she died of lung cancer.
        For some 20 years, first with the American Civil Liberties Union of Georgia and after 1987 at the Georgia Appellate Practice and Educational Research Center in Atlanta, Mrs. Morris worked to find legal representation for death row inmates.
        She was among the first to document that the likelihood of receiving the death penalty for a murder conviction depended in large part on the race and social status of the victim and the county where the crime took place.
        Mrs. Morris's efforts not only earned the gratitude of prisoners spared capital punishment, but also inspired many lawyers to devote their practices to opposing the death penalty. Her work served as a model for those outside the courts as well.
        ''Both of us are enormously and extremely opposed to the state killing people,'' Mr. Morris said yesterday. ''We don't believe that the death penalty acts as a deterrent.
        Mrs. Morris honed her social conscience in the turbulent South of the 1950's and 60's, during the early days of school desegregation and of passive civil rights protests that were often met by violence.
        ''My views on capital punishment have been shaped by my life,'' she  once wrote.
        When the Supreme Court allowed the death penalty to be reinstated in 1976, Mrs. Morris began to monitor prisoners under sentence of death, trying to find counsel for them. Good-natured but firm, she pressed lawyers in Georgia and elsewhere to accept these cases without fee.
        Mrs. Morris was a great-granddaughter of Charles Pratt, a co-founder of Standard Oil and a founder of the Pratt Institute. A daughter of H. Irving Pratt and Ellen H. Pratt, she was born in Manhattan and reared in Glen Cove and Oyster Bay, L.I.
        Mrs. Morris graduated from Vassar College, where she studied childhood education, in 1952. Later that year, she married Mr. Morris.
        The couple moved to the Deep South in 1954, when Mr. Morris was appointed a vicar in Dillon, S.C.
        At the end of 1958, they moved to Atlanta, where Mr. Morris became the executive director of the newly formed Episcopal Society for Cultural and Racial Unity, a group that supported the civil rights movement and addressed segregation within the Episcopal Church.
        Later, the couple helped found the Georgia chapter of the A.C.L.U.
        In addition to her husband and her mother, who lives in Manhattan, Mrs. Pratt is survived by two daughters, Anne B. Morris of Southampton, Mass., and Ellen Morris McCann of Lincoln, Mass.; two sons, Christopher W. Morris of Haverford, Pa., and John B. Morris Jr. of Washington; two sisters, Margaret Cardoza of Brookline, Mass., and Ellen Stoia of Chestnut Hill, Mass., and five grandchildren.
      