
        Carole Cohan, a senior vice president at McCann-Erickson Worldwide, the advertising agency, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. Ms. Cohan, a resident of Manhattan and Wainscott, L.I., was 54.
        The cause of death was ovarian cancer, a spokeswoman for McCann-Erickson said.
        Ms. Cohan, who was the broadcast creative director at the agency, had ultimate responsibility for the production of its television and radio commercials, working with the creative director and creative team. Clients of McCann, which is a unit of the Interpublic Group of Companies, include the AT&T Corporation, the Coca-Cola Company, the General Motors Corporation, Johnson & Johnson, L'Oreal S.A., the RJR Nabisco Holdings Corporation and Smith Barney Inc., a unit of the Travelers Group.
        Ms. Cohan worked for McCann-Erickson for seven years starting in 1967. She rejoined the agency in 1986 as the director of broadcast production and was promoted to broadcast creative director in 1993.
        Among the campaigns she worked on during her two employment periods at the agency were the General Motors car commercials with the theme ''Wouldn't you really rather own a Buick?'' the ''Because I'm worth it'' campaign for L'Oreal hair products, with the actress Cybill Shepherd, and the ''square inch'' advertisements for Triscuits, the cracker made by Nabisco.
        Ms. Cohan also worked on the Taster's Choice brand coffee commercials involving a running romance between two neighbors that began in 1990. The campaign, which is still on the air, has won several industry awards, including the 1994 Best Global Campaign from the International Advertising Association.
        After graduating from Emerson College in Boston with a bachelor's degree in speech in 1965, Ms. Cohan went to work for Sammy Davis Jr. Enterprises, a television production company. She began her advertising career two years later at McCann-Erickson, where she was hired as vice president, executive producer. In 1974 she moved to Grey Advertising as vice president, production group head, and she joined Saatchi & Saatchi Compton nine years later as executive vice president, director of broadcast production, before returning to McCann-Erickson.
        Mr. Cohan is survived by her daughter, Leslie Cohan of New York; a sister, Felice Hurwitz; a brother-in-law, Brian Hurwitz, and a nephew, Jesse Hurwitz, all of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., and her former husband, Ronald Cohan of New York.
      