
        Lael Tucker Wertenbaker, a journalist and author best known for ''Death of a Man,'' her harrowing book about her husband's death, died  on Monday at her home in Keene, N.H. She was 87.
        The cause was lung cancer, said her son, Dr. Christian Wertenbaker.
        She began her career at Time magazine in 1938 and reported from Berlin on Hitler and the Nazi party in 1940 and 1941. She recounted with pride that an official of the German propaganda ministry called her ''a dangerous woman.'' After the United States entered the war, she left Germany on one of the last trains out of Berlin. In London, she reported on the activities of exiled European Governments. In 1942, she married Charles Wertenbaker, Time's foreign editor.
        The couple later reported from Paris, where they became friends with Ernest Hemingway and Irwin Shaw. Mrs. Wertenbaker left Time in the early 1950's, but the couple remained in France. It was there that Mr. Wertenbaker was told he had  colon cancer, the disease he died of in 1955.
        Mrs. Wertenbaker's ''Death of a Man,'' published by Random House in 1957, was described in a review in  The New York Times as a ''high-hearted and unsparing memoir.'' In it, she reported that her last words to her husband, as she pumped painkillers into his arm while he slashed his wrists, were, ''I love you: Please die.''
        She said shortly before her death that the book had had the effect she had hoped, easing some of the taboos about dying that existed in the 1950's. ''Death of a Man'' was dramatized for the stage by Garson Kanin. Retitled ''A Gift of Time,'' it opened on Broadway in 1962 with Henry Fonda and Olivia de Havilland playing the Wertenbakers.
        Mrs. Wertenbaker wrote 16 other books, both fiction and nonfiction, among them ''The Eye of the Lion,'' a novel based on the life of Mata Hari, published by Little, Brown in 1964, and ''To Mend the Heart,'' a book about cardiac surgery, published by Viking in 1980. She also edited books, wrote articles for Fortune, Life and U.S. News and World Report, and television scripts for the ''20th Century'' documentary series for Walter Cronkite and CBS.
        Mrs. Wertenbaker, who had lived in New York City after living in Europe, moved to New Hampshire in 1966. In 1970, she married Bramwell Fletcher, a stage, film and television actor, and they settled in Keene in 1985.
        Mrs. Wertenbaker was born in Bradford, Pa., in 1909. She entered the University of Louisville at 16, but never received a formal degree. She was awarded honorary degrees by Keene State College in 1975 and Franklin Pierce College in Rindge, N.H., in 1982.
        Mr. Fletcher died in 1988. In addition to her son, who lives in Manhattan, Mrs. Wertenbaker is survived by a daughter, Timberlake Wertenbaker, a playwright who lives in London, and three grandchildren.
      