
        Judi Bari, an environmentalist whose passionate defense of the California redwoods earned her national prominence and who was injured in a car bombing that might have been related to her protests, died on Sunday at her cabin home in Willits, Calif. She was 47.
        The cause was cancer, her family said.
        Ms. Bari emerged on the national scene in the summer of 1990. Working with the radical environmental group Earth First, she helped organize a seasonlong campaign of protests to stop the logging of Northern California's old-growth forests.
        She and other Earth First members, some outfitted in spotted-owl costumes and camouflage, spent weeks chaining themselves to redwoods and pleading with loggers to spare the groves. In the process, Ms. Bari, a confident orator, helped present a coherent message for a group with a reputation as an overzealous fringe organization.
        She called on college students statewide to join the protests, evoking the civil rights spirit that had been used in the summer of 1964 to draw student protesters to the South.
        As tensions rose between protesters and loggers, Ms. Bari emerged as a more moderate voice on the environmentalist side. She emphasized that protests opposed the actions of corporations, not their employees, and renounced the use of sabotage methods like ''spiking'' trees with ten-inch nails to destroy saws, which had seriously injured at least one millworker.
        Her outspokenness earned her the scorn of many lumber workers, and she received several anonymous death threats.
        In May 1990, an explosion ripped through Ms. Bari's car as she and Darryl Cherney, a fellow Earth First member, drove through Oakland, Calif., shortly before planned anti-logging protests. The blast, later determined to have been caused by a nail bomb under the driver's seat, shattered Ms. Bari's pelvis and lower back and left her permanently disabled. Mr. Cherney's injuries were minor.
        Shortly after the explosion, while Ms. Bari was still in the hospital, the F.B.I. and local law-enforcement officials put Ms. Bari and Mr. Cherney under arrest, saying they suspected the two had built the bomb. Supporters of the two contended that either the timber industry or Government officials were responsible.
        Two months later, the authorities announced that Mr. Cherney and Ms. Bari would not be charged with the bombing. They later filed suit against the Government claiming false arrest and civil rights violations. That suit is still in progress in Oakland, Calif.
        Ms. Bari was born in Baltimore in 1949. In the late 1960's, as a student at the University of Maryland, she became involved in protests against the Vietnam War and left school.
        In the next decade, Ms. Bari held a variety of jobs in the Washington area, where she was also a labor organizer. In the mid-1970's, she planned a successful wildcat strike of workers at a bulk mail office of the United States Postal Service in Washington, as well as failed effort to unionize grocery clerks.
        In 1979, she relocated to Northern California, where she worked as a carpenter.
        In interviews after the bombing, she recounted how she had a ''environmental epiphany'' one day while working. Admiring a piece of knot-free siding for a house, she said, she wondered aloud whether the wood was old-growth redwood. Her supervisor blithely said it was from a redwood about 1,000 years old.
        ''A light bulb went on: We are cutting down old-growth forests to make yuppie houses,'' she said. ''I became obsessed with the forests.''
        Ms. Bari is survived by her daughters, Lisa, 16, and Jessica, 11; her parents, Arthur and Ruth Bari, of Silver Spring, Md., and two sisters, Gina Kolata, of Princeton, N.J., a reporter at The New York Times, and Martha Bari of Silver Spring.
      