
        Ruth Clark, a pollster who left her mark on the newspaper industry with a landmark newspaper study that encouraged editors to offer more information that readers could use in their daily lives and who helped define changing American attitudes on issues from the political to the personal, died on Feb. 20 in her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 80.
        The cause was lung cancer, said her son, Andrew.
        The newspaper study ''Changing Needs of Changing Readers,'' published in 1979, had ''an electrifying effect on the news business,'' said Lee Stinnett, executive director of the American Society of Newspaper Editors, which commissioned it in an effort to assess why circulation was declining.
        The concept, which came to be called ''news you can use,'' appealed to editors nationwide as they experimented with reports on family issues and other articles of a type that they began to refer to as soft news.
        Mrs. Clark was also widely known for directing many of the surveys that defined American public opinion during a time of great social and political turmoil in the 1970's, and she was part of the team that introduced exit polls into American politics and journalism.
        She had no formal training in marketing or polling. She learned the business on her own, starting as a door-to-door questioner and gradually rising as a survey designer for marketing companies and eventually to prominent positions in the industry. She was a vice president at Louis Harris & Associates in the 1960's, and she was a senior vice president at Yankelovich, Skelly & White until 1983, when she left to start her own firm, Clark, Martire & Bartolomeo.
        Arthur H. White, vice chairman of Yankelovich Partners, said that in her surveys Mrs. Clark always made sure she included the opinions of all segments of American society, not just those of the economically comfortable or affluent, because of her  concerns for the downtrodden.
        Born Ruth Fine in New York City, Mrs. Clark graduated from Hunter College in 1936. The following year, she married Joseph Clark, who later became the foreign editor of The Daily Worker.
        The Clarks moved to the Soviet Union in 1950 but became disillusioned with what they saw there, returning to the United States in 1953, Andrew Clark said. Mr. Clark publicly renounced the Soviet system and left The Daily Worker in 1957.
        Mrs. Clark entered the field of market research as an interviewer, going door to door and asking opinions about commercial products, often accompanied by her infant son.
        But in 1960, she was ready to move up. She obtained a job with Lou Harris that kept her in the marketing survey segment of the business at first. In 1964, she was part of the Harris team that conducted an exit poll for CBS News in the tightly contested California Republican primary between Nelson A. Rockefeller and Barry Goldwater.
        On the basis of the poll's results, Mr. Harris called the race for Mr. Goldwater. He said the two next weeks until the official vote tallies were complete was ''the loneliest time of my entire political career.'' But the official results proved the Harris team right.
        Mrs. Clark got a chance to address political issues more broadly when she moved to Yankelovich, Skelly & White around 1970. She was in charge of the firm's public opinion research, and she proved to be adept at turning out high-quality surveys that newspapers and magazines could get into print quickly, Mr. White said.
        A survey for the American Cancer Society helped persuade the organization to focus on encouraging nonsmokers to stand up for their rights, said John H. Bartolomeo, a partner in her firm, who also worked with her in the 1970's.
        ''She told them that she had picked up an undercurrent of militancy among nonsmokers,'' Mr. Bartolomeo said, ''and she told them that the most important thing they could do would be to encourage that militancy.''
        He said that Mrs. Clark, who did not smoke, ''told me once that she considered that the most important thing she had ever done.''
        In 1983, Mrs. Clark's daughter Judith, who was in the radical Weather Underground, was convicted of helping to rob a Brink's armored car in Rockland County, N.Y. In that incident in 1981 two police officers and a guard were killed. Judith Clark was sentenced to three consecutive life terms in prison.
        At Yankelovich and at Clark, Martire & Bartolomeo, Mrs. Clark conducted market surveys for many media companies, including The New York Times, The New York Daily News and The Chicago Tribune.
        ''Changing Needs of Changing Readers,'' which Mrs. Clark updated in 1984, was a small study but it helped to change an industry, Mr. Stinnett said. Her influence on newspapers can be seen today in the creation of life style sections, consumer news and entertainment guides published by many newspapers as well as lists of resources for readers that often accompany feature articles.
        Besides her son, of Portland, Ore., and her daughter, Mrs. Clark is survived by four grandchildren. Her husband died in 1988.
      