
        Marie Marchowsky, a modern-dance choreographer and teacher who was a leading member of Martha Graham's company in the 1930's, died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. She was 90 and lived in Manhattan.
        Miss Marchowsky was born in New York and studied at the Graham school when Miss Graham was developing her own modern-dance idiom. She danced from 1934 to 1940 in the Graham company in this pioneering era and also with Anna Sokolow, a former Graham dancer.
        When Ms. Marchowsky presented her own choreography in the 1940's, John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, said her work was rooted in the Graham style of the 1930's but, as he wrote in 1948, there were ''many moments of individual creativeness.''
        A noted teacher of the Graham dance technique, Miss Marchowsky taught for many years in her own studio in New York and was also director of dance at Caltech in Pasadena, Calif.
        Ms. Marchowsky formed a small company in 1946 when she presented works with music by contemporary American composers. These pieces included ''Foreboding,'' with a score by John Cage, and ''Labyrinth,'' with music by David Diamond. In 1943 she was part of a series, sponsored by the magazine Dance Observer, that presented works by budding choreographers from the Graham company like herself and Merce Cunningham. Among her pieces then was ''There Will be Tomorrow,'' about the German massacre of civilians in the Czechoslovak town of Lidice in World War II.
        Describing Miss Marchowsky as a dancer, Mr. Martin wrote in 1946: ''She moves beautifully; her technique is excellent and perfectly controlled over a wide dynamic range.'' Over the years, she was praised especially as a solo performer. Her best-known solos included ''Ebb Tide'' (1948) to music by Isaac Nemiroff.
        Ms. Marchowsky was married twice, to Milton Robertson, from whom she was divorced, and to Dr. Harry Swartz.
        Correction:  March 13, 1997, Thursday
        An obituary of the choreographer Marie Marchowsky yesterday misstated her age. She was 80, not 90.
      