
        Helen Bernstein, a former president of the Los Angeles teachers union known for her forceful style and dogged support of higher standards for students and a decentralized administration, died here Thursday night. She was 52 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Ms. Bernstein was hit by a car as she crossed a street on the way to a speaking engagement, the police said.
        At the time of her death, she was education adviser to Mayor Richard J. Riordan, director of a national urban school reform organization, and a candidate in Tuesday's local election for a commission that will help rewrite the city charter.
        Ms. Bernstein's tenure as president of the United Teachers-Los Angeles from 1990 to 1996 was marked by a pay cut for teachers and the decentralization of administrative control in what is the nation's second-largest school district. The union has about 30,000 members.
        During Ms. Bernstein's presidency, Los Angeles schools were under scrutiny for low student test scores, scarce funding, and a teachers union that was considered prone to strike.
        In 1989, as union vice president, Ms. Bernstein helped negotiate a settlement ending a nine-day strike that  gave teachers a 24 percent raise over three years. The increase was cut a few years later as the district neared fiscal collapse.
        Jeff Horton, president of the Los Angeles Unified School District's Board of Education, said that he frequently clashed with Ms. Bernstein. He described her as a ''fighter,'' ''energetic'' and critical of the school establishment, but also a positive force in the district.
        In November, Ms. Bernstein became the Mayor's first education adviser. Day Higuchi, the current union president, credited her with persuading the Mayor to support a school bond issue to replace some deteriorating city school property.
        Ms. Bernstein is survived by her daughter, Jessica, a graduate student at University of California at Berkeley; her mother, Sara Sherman of Los Angeles, and three brothers, Alan and Victor, both of Los Angeles, and Sheldon, of San Diego.
      