
        Helene Hanff, whose wittily acerbic 20-year correspondence with a London bookseller she never met won her a passionate following after it was published as the epistolary memoir ''84, Charing Cross Road,'' died on Wednesday at the De Witt Nursing Home in Manhattan. She was 80.
        Up to the book's publication in 1970, Ms. Hanff was a relatively unheralded freelance writer whose work centered mainly on television screenplays and children's books. But the letters she addressed to the antiquarian bookshop Marks & Co. from 1949 to 1969, with their shared confidences and affectionate needling along with orders for Jane Austen and Izaak Walton, brought her a small if unanticipated literary celebrity.
        Reviewing the book in The New York Times, Thomas Lask wrote: ''Here is a charmer: a 19th-century book in a 20th-century world. It will beguile an hour of your time and put you in tune with mankind.''
        From the beginning of her correspondence, Ms. Hanff ignored the niceties of business letter writing. ''WHAT KIND OF A PEPYS' DIARY DO YOU CALL THIS?,'' she bellowed in an eccentrically capitalized letter of Oct. 15, 1951, after receiving a Marks & Co. shipment. ''this is not pepys' diary, this is some busybody editor's miserable collection of EXCERPTS from pepys' diary may he rot. i could just spit. where is jan. 12, 1668, where his wife chased him out of bed and round the bedroom with a red-hot poker?''
        In his replies, Frank Doel, the shop's chief buyer and Ms. Hanff's principal correspondent, strove at first to maintain what she called his ''proper British reserve.'' But little by little, Ms. Hanff wore him down, as she did the other members of the shop's staff. They sent her recipes for Yorkshire pudding. She sent them food parcels and nylon stockings in a one-woman crusade to ameliorate Britain's postwar shortages. And Ms. Hanff often tempered her trans-Atlantic crankiness with rhapsodic soliloquies over the orders that Marks & Co. managed to get right.
        ''The Newman arrived almost a week ago and I'm just beginning to recover,'' she wrote in 1950 after buying a first edition of John Henry Newman's ''Idea of a University'' (1852) for $6. ''I feel vaguely guilty about owning it. All that gleaming leather and gold stamping and beautiful type belongs in the pine-paneled library of an English country home; it wants to be read by the fire in a gentleman's leather easy chair -- not on a secondhand studio couch in a one-room hovel in a broken-down brownstone front.''
        Despite her origins south of the Battery -- she was a native of Philadelphia -- Ms. Hanff was the Platonic New Yorker to her enchanted London correspondents. Her letters are a window on days spent picnicking in Central Park, rooting ardently for the Dodgers (and later the Mets) and wading into the fray of local politics (she was the first woman to serve as president of the Lenox Hill Democratic Club).
        A constant undercurrent in Ms. Hanff's letters was the hand-to-mouth writing life she led, working at home in ''moth-eaten sweaters'' with an overflowing ashtray at her elbow and the gin bottle never far from reach. Despite repeated pleas from Marks & Company staff members to visit them in England (by the 1950's Frank Doel was offering her the use of his grown daughter's bedroom), Ms. Hanff's precarious finances never allowed her to make the trip until 1969, after Mr. Doel's sudden death from peritonitis.
        Helene (pronounced heh-LAYNE) Hanff was born on April 15, 1916, in Philadelphia, the daughter of Arthur and Miriam Levy Hanff. She grew up in a theater-mad household (during the Depression, her father, a shirt salesman, took the family to the theater every week by slipping shirts to the box-office men in exchange for tickets), and all she ever wanted to be was a playwright.
        Her career began auspiciously in 1938, when she won a fellowship from the Bureau of New Plays as a result of a nationwide competition. Soon afterward, she moved to Manhattan, where she became a protegee of Theresa Helburn, a co-producer of the Theater Guild. But although Ms. Hanff wrote 20 plays through the 1940's, none were ever produced. Her repeated attempts to succeed in New York theater are chronicled in her 1961 memoir, ''Underfoot in Show Business.''
        ''I wrote great dialogue, but I couldn't invent a story to save my neck,'' she told The New York Times in 1982. In the 1950's, Ms. Hanff supported herself by writing screenplays for television programs including ''Playhouse 90,'' ''The Adventures of Ellery Queen'' and ''Hallmark Hall of Fame.''
        A child of the Depression, Ms. Hanff could afford only a year of college, and throughout her life was an impassioned autodidact, educating herself by reading the great books, which she preferred to procure from London rather than dip into ''Barnes & Noble's grimy, marked-up schoolboy copies.'' One wall of her studio apartment on East 72d Street in Manhattan was filled from floor to ceiling with her Marks & Co. treasures, with their rich leather bindings and gleaming gold stamping. In front of the bookshelves hung the Marks & Co. sign, stolen for her by a devoted ''84'' reader from the shop after it closed, not long after Mr. Doel's death.
        When Ms. Hanff decided to publish her correspondence with the shop as a memorial to Mr. Doel, the result brought her undreamed-of attention. ''84, Charing Cross Road'' was hugely popular in Britain, where it was adapted for the London stage by James Roose-Evans. (The play was less well-received on Broadway, where it ran in 1982 with Ellen Burstyn as Ms. Hanff and Joseph Maher as Mr. Doel.) In 1987 the book was made into a feature film starring Anne Bancroft and Anthony Hopkins.
        The book's success finally gave Ms. Hanff the wherewithal to travel to England, where she visited the boarded-up bookshop and met Mr. Doel's widow, Nora, a journey documented in ''The Duchess of Bloomsbury Street'' (1973). Ms. Hanff's other books include ''Q's Legacy'' (1986), ''Apple of My Eye'' (1977) and the children's titles ''Movers and Shakers'' (1969) and ''Terrible Thomas'' (1964).
        ''It's unreal to me, what the last 10 years have been like,'' Ms. Hanff said in 1982. ''The fans -- people all over the world who regard me as a friend! And in London there is a brass plaque on the wall with my name on it, to mark the spot where the bookshop once stood, because I wrote letters to it. In your own mind you're still an uneducated writer who doesn't have much talent, and yet here you are with a plaque on the wall in London! You don't even dream about things like that.''
        But ''84, Charing Cross Road'' could not provide its author with the economic stability she sought throughout her life. ''The one drawback about being a writer is that you never know in any month where the rent is coming from six months from then,'' Ms. Hanff told Publishers Weekly in 1985.
        In her last years she was ''broke,'' by her own account, living on royalties and Social Security and accepting a $5,000 grant from the Authors League Fund to help pay her hospital bills.
        No immediate family members survive.
      