
        Dorothy Norman, a photographer, writer, editor, arts patron and advocate for social change, died yesterday at her home in East Hampton, L.I. She was 92 and also had a home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        Born Dorothy Stecker in Philadelphia in 1905, Mrs. Norman grew up in a well-to-do family. She spoke French and German, heard her first opera when she was 10, discovered art at the Barnes Collection and despite the comforts of her life, developed an early sense of social injustice.
        She attended Smith College and then the University of Pennsylvania from 1922 to 1925, the year she married Edward A. Norman, the son of a founder of Sears Roebuck. They settled in New York City, where Mrs. Norman was a researcher at the American Civil Liberties Union, became involved with the early Planned Parenthood Association and was one of the first supporters of the Group Theater. As she later put it, her life developed around both a desire ''to advance both art and action'' and an interest in people actively involved with either.
        In the art world, Mrs. Norman was best known for her close relationship with the photographer Alfred Stieglitz, whom she met in 1927 when she wandered into his art gallery, the Intimate Gallery on Park Avenue.
        Stieglitz became her lover and mentor, encouraging her longtime interest in taking photographs. Mrs. Norman became the subject of many of his photographs and a crucial force in his third and final gallery, An American Place, which he opened in 1932 with her encouragement and money she raised from family and friends.
        Arriving every day after lunch, Mrs. Norman oversaw most of the gallery's workings, while also recording many of her conversations with Stieglitz. These notes became the basis of her 1973 book, the first full-length biography of the photographer, ''Alfred Stieglitz: An American Seer''.
        While hardly free of Stieglitz's influence, Mrs. Norman's photographs have a voice of their own. Concise and beautifully composed and lighted, they include some of the last images of Stieglitz and his gallery, as well as portraits of other people she was close to, among them Lewis Mumford, Theodore Dreiser, John Cage, Jawaharlal Nehru and his daughter, Indira Gandhi. Failing eyesight forced Mrs. Norman to give up photography in the late 1950's.
        During the late 1930's and 40's, Mrs. Norman, along with her husband, became well known for supporting liberal causes at home and abroad, including independence for India and Israel, civil rights and education. She was a founding member of New York's Liberal Party, was a member of the Americans for Democratic Action and served on the boards of the New York Urban League and the National Urban League. In the 1950's, she was a founder and chairwoman of the American Emergency Food Committee for India and The American Citizens' Committee for Economic Aid Abroad.
        An intense yet restrained woman, Mrs. Norman was adept at mixing people and objects from different spheres. Her International Style town house on East 70th Street, designed by the Swiss architect William Lescaze in the early 1940's, was, in the decades after World War II, a place were one might meet Aaron Copland, Ralph Ellison, John Marin, Harold Clurman, Allen Ginsberg or the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. The objects in her spacious parlor-floor living room were equally eclectic: works by Stieglitz, pre-Columbian and Asian statues, and striking shells and fossils.
        A seemingly tireless worker, Mrs. Norman wrote a weekly column in The New York Post titled ''A World to Live In'' from 1942 to 1949. For 10 years starting in 1938, she edited and published ''Twice a Year,'' a journal of literature, the arts and civil liberties whose contributors included Richard Wright, Albert Camus, Jean-Paul Sartre and Bertolt Brecht. Among the other books she wrote or edited were ''The Selected Writings of John Marin'' (1949); ''Indira Gandhi: Letters to an American Friend'' (1985) and ''Encounters: a Memoir'' (1987). In 1965 she published ''Nehru: The First Sixty Years,'' a two-volume collection of the Indian leader's writings.
        In 1968, Mrs. Norman gave a large collection of photographs to the Philadelphia Museum of Art. Her photographs are in the Museum of Modern Art, the Boston Museum of Fine Arts, the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, and the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, Calif.
        Mrs. Norman's marriage ended in divorce in 1951. She is survived by a daughter, Nancy Lassalle of Manhattan, who is vice president of the School of American Ballet; a son, Andrew E. Norman of Palisades, N.Y.; seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      