
        Evelyn Sharp, a New York businesswoman, investor and philanthropist and the head of a hotelier family that owned and managed some of the country's best-known properties, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 94 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        A native of Manhattan, she was attending the Columbia University School of Journalism in 1923 when she married Jesse Sharp, an up-and-coming developer and expert in real estate finance.
        Besides keeping up with his ambitious undertakings, she made a name for herself as an interior designer. Among her clients in the 1920's were the Shubert theater chain and her husband's diverse building clients.
        By the time he died in 1941, Mr. Sharp had built and owned large apartment houses and a string of fashionable Manhattan hotels, notably the Stanhope, on Fifth Avenue  opposite the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Mrs. Sharp took charge of the business, selling and buying her own rich portfolio of properties by 1955.
        Early on, she sold 14 hotels left by her husband, keeping only the Stanhope, because, she said, ''We built it together, and we raised it like a pet.'' She added the Gotham, the Saranac Inn in Saranac Lake, N.Y., the Beverly Wilshire in Los Angeles and other properties, which she owned and managed.
        At one time or another, the Sharp family also had stakes in Delmonico's, the Ritz Tower, the Carlyle, the Beaux Arts and the Paramount Building in Manhattan, and the St. Francis in San Francisco.
        Mrs. Sharp took pride in offering gracious service in the European manner. She eventually divested most of her real estate holdings, including the Stanhope, and devoted herself to charities in New York and Los Angeles and to her art collection.
        A fancier of School of Paris paintings and sculpture, she exhibited her collection at the Guggenheim Museum in 1978. Later she and her son, Peter Jay Sharp, a developer and owner of the Carlyle, donated the Sharp Gallery in the Metropolitan's 20th-century wing. (He died five years ago.)
        In 1952, she endowed the Evelyn Sharp Foundation, which benefits the arts. In 1994, it listed almost $6.3 million in assets as well as grants totaling nearly $300,000, supporting music, dance, the fine and performing arts, museums and art and music education, primarily in New York.
        Mrs. Sharp was a 50-year supporter and former board member of Planned Parenthood of New York City, and she helped establish its adolescent services program and Central Harlem Center. She was a trustee of the Menninger Foundation in Topeka, Kan., for which she built the Sharp House for outpatients. She gave the Evelyn Sharp Laboratory for Nuclear Medicine to the Hospital for Special Surgery in New York.
        She served on the boards of the Lexington Center for the Deaf and of the Associates of the California Institute of Technology. She endowed a graduate fellowship in behavioral biology at the institute and was a founder of the Los Angeles Music Center.
        Mrs. Sharp was co-chairman of the Martha Graham Dance Company from 1979 to 1985. She also was a past chairman of La Maison Francaise at New York University.
        Mrs. Sharp is survived by a daughter, Mary Sharp Cronson of Manhattan, now the president of the foundation; four grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      