
        Dorothy Frooks, who stumped for women's suffrage as a child, recruited thousands of men to World War I service as a teen-ager, and then spent most of the century as a lawyer and political gadfly, died on Sunday at Veterans Hospital in Manhattan. She was about 100 and lived in Manhattan and Peekskill, N.Y.
        Among her many achievements were laying the groundwork for aid to dependent children and for small claims courts.
        She served as chief yeoman in the Navy in World War I and as a judge advocate in the Army in World War II, taught school in Puerto Rico, ran a flying school, turned out columns for The New York World, wrote half a dozen books, founded The Murray Hills News, represented celebrated murder defendants, ran repeatedly for Congress, corresponded with George Bernard Shaw, feuded with Eleanor Roosevelt, hobnobbed with the King of Greece, turned down marriage proposals from Harry K. Thaw and Fiorello H. La Guardia, and so clouded the issue of her age that even her own family is not sure if she was 99 or 103.
        But whether she was ''almost 17,'' in January 1918, as she put it in her her book ''Lady Lawyer,'' or 20, as a contemporaneous newspaper article reported, Miss Frooks, who received a gold medal from President Woodrow Wilson that month, was surely one of the last living Americans to have had a formal audience with Wilson in his White House office (and seen the evangelist Billy Sunday clap him on the back with such gusto that the President's top hat went flying.)
        Whatever her age, by then she had a national reputation as ''the infant prodigy,'' ''the baby orator,'' and the girl who had made speeches for women's suffrage from Union Square to Hyde Park before turning her attention to military recruitment and Liberty Bonds.
        The daughter of a prosperous businessman and an international society figure, Miss Frooks was born on a 400-acre Hudson Valley farm near Saugerties, N.Y., and grew up there and at the family's winter residence at the Waldorf Hotel.
        As the seventh of nine highly articulate children, five of whom became lawyers, Miss Frooks recalled that she was holding her own in animated dinner table conversations on international affairs by the time she was 8 -- two years after she had decided on a legal career.
        It was one of her mother's London society friends who spotted her talent for oratory and recruited her for the suffrage movement. Miss Frooks, who recalled making her first street-corner speech when she was 11, cut such a winsome figure in her little girl's bows and frills and spoke with such startling eloquence that she was always the first speaker at curbside rallies. The speakers who followed had learned they were less likely to be stoned or pelted with tomatoes when Miss Frooks led off.
        She was even more impressive as an unofficial military recruiter, and after she had talked an estimated 30,000 men into signing up, primarily for the Navy, President Wilson not only presented her with a medal but recruited her for the Navy. As the highest-ranking woman in the service, Miss Frooks continued and expanded her recruitment activities and later organized a women's veterans organization.
        Miss Frooks, who received a degree from the old Hamilton Law School in Chicago and then a master's from New York University, was a lawyer at 21, by her account.
        By the early 1920's, at least, she was well known in New York as the first full-time lawyer for the Salvation Army. After setting up free legal clinics and discovering that poor people were often frustrated by their inability to collect small debts, she conceived the idea of a small claims court and lobbied hard until the first was signed into law by her old friend and suitor, Mayor La Guardia.
        Thaw, the man who had killed the celebrated architect Stanford White 20 years earlier, hired Miss Frooks in 1926 to defend a 16-year-old girl who had killed the man who raped her when she was 12.
        Miss Frooks, who eventually won a suspended sentence for her client,  became so incensed that the girl's widowed mother had been forced to neglect her children while struggling to eke out a living that she helped prod the legislature into establishing aid to dependent children.
        The case also led to a ''My Day,'' column in The World, which lasted until 1932, when she was told that she was being replaced by Mrs. Roosevelt, a circumstance that may have contributed to her animosity toward the First Lady.
        For all her childhood support of women's suffrage and her own legal career, Miss Frooks was no ordinary feminist. She made fiery speeches against the proposed equal rights amendment in 1975. As she had put it in 1922, ''Women should be in the home, have adorable husbands, and be the only wife.''
        Miss Frooks, who was married in 1986, is survived by her husband, Jay P. Vanderbilt.
      