
        Nancy J. Woodhull, the first managing editor for news at USA Today and a champion of women and diversity in the newsroom and in news coverage, died yesterday at her home in Pittsford, N.Y., near Rochester. She was 52.
        The cause of death was cancer, said Gene Policinski, a special assistant at the Freedom Forum, where Ms. Woodhull was senior vice president for communications. The Freedom Forum, a nonprofit organization established by the Gannett Company in Arlington, Va., addresses issues involving the First Amendment, free press and free speech.
        Ms. Woodhull was also vice chairwoman of the International Women's Media Foundation and chairwoman of the Peabody Radio and Television Awards. She was a former president of the National Women's Hall of Fame in Seneca Falls, N.Y., and, with Betty Friedan, a founding chairwoman of Women, Men and Media, a national organization that monitors the coverage of women in the media.
        ''A free press in a democracy should reflect all its voices,'' Ms. Woodhull said last year after a survey by Women, Men and Media concluded that although women made up 52 percent of the nation's population, they were the subject of only 15 percent of front-page newspaper articles. ''None should be invisible. The press needs to focus on this trend toward the invisibility of women and their concerns.''
        Ms. Woodhull, who was born in Perth Amboy, N.J., attended Trenton State Teachers College before beginning her newspaper career as an editor with The News Tribune in Woodbridge, N.J., in 1964. Later, she was a reporter for The Detroit Free Press and then was managing editor of the Gannett papers in Rochester, The Times-Union and The Democrat and Chronicle.
        After serving as managing editor for news when USA Today was started by Gannett in 1982, she became the newspaper's senior editor and then was the president of Gannett New Media and the Gannett News Service. She resigned in 1990 and became executive vice president and editor in chief of the Southern Progress Corporation, an arm of Time Warner, with responsibility for overseeing the editorial direction of the magazines Southern Living, Progressive Farmer, Southern Accents, Travel South and Cooking Light.
        In 1992 Ms. Woodhull became a trustee of the Freedom Forum, and in 1996 she became a senior vice president and executive director of the Media Studies Center, a unit of the Freedom Forum that focuses on media issues and journalism research.
        Ms. Woodhull is survived by her husband, William Watson, and a daughter, Tennessee Jane Watson, both of Pittsford, and her mother, May Cromwell, of Matawan, N.J.
      