
        Mary French Rockefeller, the wife of Laurance S. Rockefeller and for more than four decades active in promoting leadership opportunities for women, died at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center on Thursday from injuries she suffered in a fall in her Manhattan apartment. She was 86, and a family spokesman said she had been in failing health for several years.
        Mrs. Rockefeller was a dedicated supporter of the Young Women's Christian Association, where she took a prominent role as an advocate for women throughout the world. She began in 1951 as a member of the national board and in 1988 was elected to the Board of Trustees. From 1955 to 1973, she was vice chairman and then chairman of the Y.W.C.A.'s International division, and from 1958 to 1964, she was chairman of the organization's World Service Council. In the early 1960's, both Mr. and Mrs. Rockefeller traveled more than 50,000 miles to study Y.W.C.A. activities around the world.
        In addition to her work with the Y.W.C.A., Mrs. Rockefeller was active in many educational, cultural and religious organizations. She was a trustee of Spelman College in Atlanta for nearly 25 years, a trustee of the Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary in South Hamilton, Mass., and the Whitney Museum of American Art and, in 1972, was chairman of the Y's National Convocation on Racial Justice.
        She was, too, a member of the Distribution Committee of the New York Community Trust and the Women's Administrative board of Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
        Mrs. Rockefeller was the daughter of John French and Mary Billing French and granddaughter of Frederick Billings, the 19th-century president of Northern Pacific Railroad. She attended Vassar College and, in 1934, married Mr. Rockefeller, the fourth of the six children of John D. Rockefeller Jr. and Abby Aldrich Rockefeller, and a grandson of John D. Rockefeller, the founder of the Standard Oil Company.
        In 1992, Mr. and Mrs. Rockefeller donated her family home and surrounding property in Woodstock, Vt., to the Federal Government for development as the state's first national park.
        She is survived by her husband and four children, Laura R. Chasin of Cambridge, Mass., Marion R. Weber of San Francisco, Lucy R. Waletzky of Pleasantville, N.Y., and Laurance (Larry) Rockefeller of Manhattan. There are nine grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      