
        Nancy Claster, who entertained and educated a generation of children as Miss Nancy, the prototypical teacher on television's ''Romper Room,'' died on Friday at her home in Baltimore. She was 82.
        Her daughter, Sally Bell, who succeeded her in managing the Romper Room production company, said the cause was cancer.
        For millions of children born, weaned, potty trained and sent off to school between the days of radio's ''Uncle Don'' and the advent of ''Sesame Street'' on television in 1969, ''Romper Room'' was the ultimate baby sitter in a box, created to fill a perceived need for better children's programming.
        And its presiding spirit was Mrs. Claster, who was pressed into service by her husband as a substitute for an ailing teacher, two months after the live show went on the air in  Baltimore in February 1953.
        Not only did she serve as Miss Nancy in the studio-classroom that was her on-air preserve, she also created and wrote many ''Romper Room'' segments and trained the Miss Nancys, Miss Marys, Miss Mollys and Miss Louises who were her counterparts on franchised versions of the show around the country.
        ''The core of her curriculum was really the belief that 'Romper Room' was for the children at home,'' Mrs. Bell said, ''and that everything that the children saw on television, whether it was just plain fun or educational -- and a lot of 'Romper Room' was educational -- should be set up so that children at home could participate.
        ''If children on television were walking on a balance beam for hand-eye coordination, the children at home were shown how to use a string on the floor, so they didn't have to be kids who had to buy equipment to participate. Everybody could be part of 'Romper Room,' and everybody could have fun and learn from it.''
        With its games and lessons, the show was an instant success. By the end of its first week -- a week when a toddler announced on camera: ''I have to go potty! And I'm doing it right now'' -- ''Romper Room'' received 1,100 applications to appear on the show. By the late 1950's, some 160 cities were broadcasting their own versions.
        The show, which ran in markets around the country until September 1994, when new production ceased, can still be seen on tape on KTVU in San Francisco.
        ''Romper Room'' was home-grown television in the days before videotape, a show that brought preschoolers into a studio furnished as a kindergarten and let the cameras roll.
        Songs, games and health lessons helped ready children for the first grade. Animals were brought in from the zoo. To allay children's fear of the doctor, Miss Nancy got genuine polio shots on the air. Preschoolers were taught by people in gold and black fake-fur bee costumes to Do-Bee a milk drinker and Don't-Bee a spoilsport.
        Each broadcast ended with the Magic Mirror, a piece of glittery plastic through which the teacher ''saw'' children at home.
        Hundreds of children submitted their names and hoped to hear them when the teacher said: ''Romper stomper bomper boo/Tell me, tell me, tell me do/Magic Mirror, tell me today/ Did all my friends have fun at play?/I see Donnie and Leslie and Peter and Rhonda.''
        It was perhaps inevitable that a little girl was watching at home, naked in a bathtub, when Miss Sally said she saw her in the Magic Mirror. The girl fled, hid beneath her bed, stayed there for hours and still remembered the episode 30 years later.
        Born in Baltimore, Mrs. Claster was the oldest of three children of L. Edwin Goldman, the managing partner of a law firm, and the former Rita Strauss, who passed on her sense of fun to the future Miss Nancy.
        Mrs. Claster was educated at the Park School, a private school in Baltimore, before attending Goucher College in Towson, Md., where she studied English and early-childhood education and graduated in 1937 with a bachelor of arts degree.
        In 1938, she married Bertram Claster, then managing a beauty supply sales company. By the 1940's, at the Hippodrome theater in Baltimore, he was producing variety shows with stars like Gene Autry, Milton Berle, Sid Caesar, Rosemary Clooney, Jerry Lewis, Frank Sinatra and Rudy Vallee.
        When television came along, he produced some local variety shows; being farsighted, he realized that the days of shows like those at the Hippodrome were numbered. He produced game and variety shows, from ''Bowling for Dollars'' to ''Teen Canteen.''
        But dissatisfied with what he could see of morning programs for children, he created ''Romper Room.''
        When cancer forced Mrs. Claster to step aside as Miss Nancy in 1964, she continued to oversee the training of ''Romper Room'' teachers, created different segments of the show and helped her husband sell the show to stations in markets around the country.
        Their production company, Romper Room Inc., was bought by Hasbro Inc., in 1969. The Clasters retired in 1975. Mr. Claster died in 1984. Today, their son, John, and Mrs. Bell, as president and executive vice president, respectively, continue to manage the company, now Claster Television Inc.
        Besides Mr. Claster of Los Angeles and Mrs. Bell, of Baltimore, Mrs. Claster is survived by another daughter, Candace Claster; a brother, Robert Goldman, and a sister, Sue Baker, all of Baltimore, and four grandchilden.
        After retirement, Mrs. Claster spent a good deal of her time reading to and playing with the children at the Maryland School for the Blind in Baltimore.
        ''They knew her as Miss Nancy,'' Mrs. Bell said.
      