
        Ann Petry, who took a single stretch of Harlem and brought it vividly and disturbingly to life in her acclaimed 1946 novel, ''The Street,'' died on Monday at a convalescent center near her home in Old Saybrook, Conn. She was 88.
        So much has been written about the hard life on the the mean streets of Harlem, it may seem surprising that the first major literary work to focus on that life would be a first novel by a woman who not only had not grown up there but whose exposure to Harlem street culture had been limited to nine months working with an experimental after-school program on West 116th Street.
        But then Ann Lane Petry was a surprising woman, one of such enormous empathy and imaginative flair that she did not need to encounter many bereft latchkey children, their desperate, beleaguered mothers or the assortment of opportunistic men who preyed on them to translate her observations into literature.
        Half a century after ''The Street,'' was first published by Houghton-Mifflin, Mrs. Petry's creations, Ludie Johnson and her 8-year-old son Bub, are still regarded as among the more indelible characters of black literature.
        One reason, perhaps, that Harlem street life had such a powerful impact on Mrs. Petry, was that it was so far removed from her own genteel upbringing. A native of Old Saybrook, where her father, Peter Lane, had opened a pharmacy in 1902, she grew up in one of the few black families in the white resort.
        Several members of her mother's family were pharmacists, too, and in time Mrs. Petry graduated from the College of Pharmacy at the University of Connecticut and went to work at her father's store.
        But ever since a high school teacher who did not like her had praised her work and said she could become a writer, she had been writing stories and, as she later put it, gathering rejection slips.
        Her life began to change in 1938 when she married George Petry, a Louisiana-born resident of Harlem she had met while both were visiting friends in Hartford.
        The couple settled in Harlem, and Mrs. Petry held a variety of jobs, including writing advertising copy for The Amsterdam News and working as a reporter and editor of the women's pages of The People's Voice, a weekly started by Adam Clayton Powell Jr.
        When The Crisis, a magazine of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, paid her $20 for one of her stories, ''On Saturday, the Sirens at Noon,'' it came to the attention of an editor at Houghton-Mifflin and led to both a $2,500 literary award and a contract for what became ''The Street.''
        Mrs. Petry, who had written the book while her husband was in the service in World War II, was not quite prepared for the stir it created when it was published to both critical and popular acclaim. But ''The Street,'' which sold 1.5 million copies, gave Mrs. Petry the wherewithal to retreat back to Old Saybrook, where she and her husband settled in a 200-year-old sea captain's house and got an unlisted telephone number.
        She followed ''The Street,'' with two other novels, ''Country Place,'' (1947) about about a serviceman who returns from the war to discover his wife is having an affair, and ''The Narrows,'' (1953) about an interracial affair.
        Neither enjoyed the critical or commercial success of her first novel, however, and from then on Mrs. Petry, by then a mother, turned out books for children and young adults, among them two biographies, ''Tituba of Salem Village,'' and ''Harriet Tubman: Conductor on the Underground Railroad.''
        She also brought out a collection of her short stories, ''Legends of the Saints,'' but after its publication in 1970, she limited her output to articles for college journals and the like.
        Mrs. Petry had to endure a fresh burst of fame in 1992 when ''The Street,'' was reissued in paperback to a new round of acclaim.
        She is survived by her husband and a daughter, Elisabeth, of Cromwell, Conn.
      