
        Dr. Ruth Sager, a geneticist who carried out influential research about the location of genetic material in cells, died on Saturday at her home in Brookline, Mass. She was 79.
        She had cancer of the bladder, said her husband, Dr. Arthur B. Pardee.
        At her death, Dr. Sager was chief of cancer genetics at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston, which is affiliated with Harvard Medical School. She joined the institute's staff in 1975. She was also a professor of cellular genetics at the medical school from 1975 until she retired from that post in 1988 as a professor emerita.
        Dr. Sager was widely known for research that altered the prevailing view about where genetic material was within the cell. That work began in the 1950's and came to fruition in the 1960's.
        Dr. Charles D. Stiles, a professor of microbiology and molecular genetics at Harvard Medical School and the Dana-Farber Institute, said Dr. Sager had made a ''revolutionary discovery'' while doing research at the Rockefeller Institute, now Rockefeller University, and later at Columbia University. Before her research, Professor Stiles said, the view was widespread ''that all genetic information was sequestered in the nucleus of the cell.''
        ''But what Ruth said,'' he added, ''was that important fragments of the genetic repertoire were located in the cell cytoplasm,'' outside the cell's nucleus in the cellular organelles where it does its respiration (and, in the case of plants, photosynthesis).
        Dr. Lawrence Bogorad, the Maria Moors Cabot Professor of Biology emeritus at Harvard University, said the alterations that Dr. Sager achieved ''in the way people thought about extranuclear genetic material, that is, genes in the cell outside the nucleus,'' had proved to be highly significant.
        ''These days, scientists know a lot about most of the genes in the organelles,'' Dr. Bogorad said. ''Increasing numbers of human diseases that result from mutations in genes in respiratory organelles are becoming recognized. These discoveries are direct results of the change of thinking about the problem that Ruth's work brought about.''
        ''In the latter half of her career, Ruth turned her attention to problems in cancer and in human genetics,'' Dr. Stiles said. When Dr. Sager moved to the Dana-Farber Institute in 1975, he said, ''she quickly saw the potential of recombinant DNA technology, a technology that was then in its infancy'' and involves the manipulation of genetic material to explore basic biological questions.
        ''Her main contribution at the institute was to recognize, quickly and early on, the potential and the power of cloning technology,'' he said.
        Dr. Sager established the institute's division of cancer genetics and recruited able young scientists for its staff. Many of them have become prominent in genetics.
        She was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. The honors she received included the  the Gilbert Morgan Smith Medal from the national academy, an Outstanding Investigator Award from the National Cancer Institute and a Guggenheim fellowship.
        Dr. Sager was born in Chicago and received a bachelor's degree in 1938 from the University of Chicago and a doctorate in 1948 from Columbia. After becoming a senior research associate at Columbia, she was a professor at Hunter College from 1966 to 1975.
        In addition to her husband, a professor emeritus of biological chemistry and molecular pharmacology at Harvard Medical School and chief of the division of cell growth and regulation at the Dana-Farber Institute,  Dr. Sager is survived by two sisters, Esther Altschul of Wilmette, Ill., and Dr. Naomi Sager of Manhattan.
      