
        Marie Collins McGuire Thompson, who worked to improve the design of public housing for the elderly and low-income people as the Public Housing Administrator in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died last Monday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. Mrs. Thompson was 92 and lived in Kensington, Md.
        Marie McGuire, as she was known, came to public housing with an aversion to ''bare, stark shelter'' that, she said, ''has brought no happiness to us.'' Instead, she espoused programs to create homes of which their occupants could be proud. Her advocacy drew criticism from legislators and defenders of traditional approaches, but architectural organizations backed her. Housing projects begun under her leadership won unaccustomed design awards.
        She came to national attention as executive director of the San Antonio Housing Authority, where she championed amenities like balconies for every apartment. Studying the special needs of the elderly with limited means, she insisted on features like weatherproof ramps, handrails in all rooms and corridors and emergency bells in the bathrooms.
        Her crowning achievement was the Golden Age Center, with 185 low-rent apartments designed for the elderly, that opened in 1960 in San Antonio. The next year, President John F. Kennedy recruited her as the first woman to become Public Housing Administrator. She held the post until 1966, when her office was merged into the new Department of Housing and Urban Development. There she became special assistant to the Secretary, working on housing and problems that affect the disabled and the elderly.
        She left the Government in 1972. Until 1982, she was the housing specialist at the International Center for Social Gerontology in Washington, now the Center for Social Gerontology in Ann Arbor, Mich.
        Mrs. Thompson was born in the Georgetown area of Washington. She studied journalism at George Washington University and, years later, studied architecture and real estate management at the University of Houston.
        She wrote four books, ''Housing for the Elderly'' (1957), ''Housing and the Disabled'' (1976), ''Housing for the Handicapped'' (1977) and ''Housing for Rural Elderly'' (1982).
        Her first marriage, to John McGuire, a Government geologist, ended in divorce. Her second husband, Thomas B. Thompson of San Antonio, an architect, died in 1983. She is survived by a sister, Margaret C. Schweinhaut, also of Kensington.
      