
        Rebecca Shulman, who devoted a lifetime to Jewish and Israeli causes, most of all through Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, died on Sunday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 100.
        She served three terms as national president of the large volunteer agency, from 1953 to 1956. She also held virtually every other major office in Hadassah, which was founded in 1912 and grew into the world's largest Zionist organization. She became active in it in 1929.
        A trained nurse, she took particular interest in the medical aspects of Hadassah's work. She was a past chairman of the building fund for the Hadassah-Hebrew University Medical Center and chairman of the Hadassah Medical Organization, one of the Mideast's largest medical care and research institutions.
        The Hadassah Medical Organization comprises, besides Hadassah-Hebrew University Center, the Hadassah Hospital on Mount Scopus in Jerusalem and 10 other medical school, institutes and health care centers.
        Mrs. Shulman became a nurturing presence in Israel from its birth.
        In 1945, as chairman of Hadassah's national convention, she called on its 150,000 members to take up the struggle for Jewish statehood. In the next year, she visited Palestine to assess Hadassah's services amid a flood refugees from Europe.
        In 1947, she helped David Ben-Gurion, chairman of the Jewish Agency for Palestine, break ground for a new Hadassah hospital building on Mount Scopus. She was there when the State of Israel was proclaimed, and her elder son, the late Paul Shulman, helped establish the Israeli Navy.
        As national board chairman, she stayed in Israel to mesh Hadassah's medical and child-care centers of Palestine with the public health and sanitation programs being charted by the new state. She also remained there to serve as liaison between Hadassah members in Israel and the United States.
        On a visit in Israel in 1967, she was about to leave when war broke out. She stayed on in Jerusalem to marshal Hadassah's resources and, the Six-Day War over, joined the first group to visit Mount Scopus after its capture by Israeli troops.
        Rebecca Beldner was born in Vienna and brought to New York as a little girl. She graduated from Hunter College and its nursing school and started a career as a nurse and social worker. In 1918, she aided New York victims in the influenza epidemic.
        In 1921, she married Herman Shulman, who became a prominent corporate lawyer and, like her, a strong supporter of Zionist causes.
        Her husband died in 1945. She is survived by a son, Mark, of San Miguel Allende, Mexico, and seven grandchildren.
      