
        Bessie Schonberg, one of America's most influential teachers of dance composition and a mentor to several generations of dancers, died yesterday at her home in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 90.
        Few dance educators were as respected as Miss Schonberg and because of the devoted attention she gave to students, few were as beloved. In recognition of her importance to dance, Dance Theater Workshop in 1984 named its annual New York Dance and Performance Awards the Bessies; it also dedicated its theater in Chelsea to her.
        Miss Schonberg had an abiding interest in all forms of dance and taught choreographic fundamentals with equal sensitivity to modern dancers and ballet dancers and to traditionalists and experimentalists. She often told students and interviewers that the only thing dance should never be is dull.
        She first attracted national attention for her dance composition classes at Sarah Lawrence College, where she began teaching in 1938. Her students there included such diverse dancers and choreographers as Lucinda Childs, Meredith Monk, Elizabeth Keen and Carolyn Adams. Although she retired from Sarah Lawrence in 1975, she never retired from teaching, and at the time of her death she was offering courses at the Juilliard School and New York University's Tisch School of the Arts.
        In recent years she had also taught at Dance Theater of Harlem and Dance Theater Workshop. This summer she had planned to be choreographic adviser for Dancing in the Streets at Wave Hill and to teach at the Yard on Martha's Vineyard and at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in Massachusetts. She was named this year's recipient of the American Dance Festival's Balasaraswati/Joy Ann Dewey Beinecke Award for Distinguished Teaching.
        Miss Schonberg was born in Hanover, Germany. Her mother, an American opera singer, worked in Europe before World War I and married in Germany. After the war, Miss Schonberg's parents separated and her mother returned with her children to the United States and taught music at the University of Oregon in Eugene. Miss Schonberg attended that university and met Martha Hill, a dance teacher there who later founded such major institutions as the Bennington School of the Dance and the American Dance Festival.
        With Miss Hill's encouragement, Miss Schonberg moved to New York in 1929, studied with Martha Graham and was briefly a member of the Graham company until an injury ended her performing career in 1931. She then studied at Bennington College, joining its faculty in 1934. Over the years she also taught at the American Dance Festival and many colleges and dance centers in the United States and Britain.
        Miss Schonberg was on advisory panels for the New York State Council on the Arts and the National Endowment for the Arts. In 1988 she received a Bessie Award of her own for lifetime service to dance.
        She is survived by a sister, Helga Hadsall, of Eugene.
      