
        Thelma Carpenter, whose long roller-coaster career as a singer took her to the heights with the big bands of the 1930's and 40's, out of show business into years as a file clerk and back to the big-time on Broadway in the 60's, was found dead on Thursday in her apartment in Manhattan. She was 77.
        Detective Thomas A. Frey of the 24th Squad said Ms. Carpenter's death appeared to be the result of natural causes.
        ''I'm a singer first, last and always,'' Ms. Carpenter once said.
        And indeed she was, from the time she was 7 and asked the manager of a radio ''Kiddies Hour'' for an audition until the end of her life, when she performed at places like Michael's Pub and on ''The Cosby Show.''
        At the height of her career, the Brooklyn-born Ms. Carpenter, who combined a bubbling, buoyant personality with a pliant voice and a polished sense of showmanship, sang with such jazz greats as Teddy Wilson, Coleman Hawkins and Count Basie.
        On the supper club circuit, she was a soloist at Julius Monk's Ruban Bleu, the Maisonette at the St. Regis and Bon Soir in Greenwich Village.
        She made her Broadway debut in 1944 in ''Memphis Bound'' with Bill Robinson, appeared in ''Ankles Away'' with Beatrice Lillie, created the role of Irene Page in ''Bubbling Brown Sugar'' and took on a starring role in ''Dolly!'' in 1968 and 1969, when she became Pearl Bailey's standby and portrayed Dolly Levi more than 100 times.
        She performed in such films as ''Hellzapoppin' '' (1941), singing with the Basie orchestra, ''The Wiz'' (1978) and ''The Cotton Club,'' Francis Ford Coppola's 1984 film about gangsters and Harlem nightlife.
        On radio and television, Ms. Carpenter appeared with Eddie Cantor and Ed Sullivan, was a co-star of the ABC television series ''Barefoot in the Park'' and made guest appearances in everything from ''The Love boat'' to ''The Cosby Show.''
        When ''Barefoot in the Park'' was canceled in 1970 after 13 weeks, as when she was out of show business for several years after her mother died in 1962, Ms. Carpenter, while disappointed, refused to turn bitter.
        ''My grandaddy taught me something I've never forgotten,'' she said in a 1970 interview. ''What you need is so much more important to you than what you want. Anyway, I've never aspired to be a superstar. You talk about stardom, well, your nose bleeds up there. I got close enough to know. Suddenly there were people I'd never seen, telling me I owed them something. Listen, I've given my money away, where I thought it would help, but I don't want 'yes' people around me. Basically I'm a loner.''
        Ms. Carpenter, who left no immediate family survivors, was an only child and never married. ''Yes, I've never married, though you might say,'' she said in 1970, ''that I've done lots of heavy rooming and light housekeeping in my time. Honey, I like life.''
        Ms. Carpenter was still a student at Girls' Commercial High School of Brooklyn in 1939 when she was heard by John Hammond, the jazz enthusiast and recording executive who had started Billie Holiday, Benny Goodman and Count Basie on the way to stardom. Mr. Hammond put her on with Teddy Wilson's band at the Famous Door on 52d Street.
        Later that year, Coleman Hawkins, the legendary jazz saxophonist, returned to the United States after five years in Europe, formed a band and looked for a singer. ''They make 'em like you in America?'' he asked when he saw Ms. Carpenter. ''You can have the job.''
        Ms. Carpenter's career prospered in the United States and abroad, but when her mother died, she said, ''I just lay down in my bed for a whole year.'' Finally, when she needed money, she went looking for a job, applying at a personnel agency that found work as a file clerk at Duffy-Mott, makers of Mott's Applesauce.
        When her friend Martha Raye told her there was going to be an all-black company of ''Hello, Dolly!'' Ms. Carpenter went to see the show when Ginger Rogers was playing the lead. ''Son of a gun, I could do that!'' Ms. Carpenter told herself. Pearl Bailey got the role, but when her original standby left, Ms. Carpenter took over the role.
        ''I had to go out there and face an audience that had just been told that Pearl Bailey won't be there,'' Ms. Carpenter said. ''I decided I was either going to be Dolly or I wasn't going to be Dolly. 'You don't have to pay me,' I felt, 'just applaud me.' And when they'd stand up and cheer, I'd won.''
        Correction:  May 30, 1997, Friday
        An obituary of the singer Thelma Carpenter on May 17 misidentified the Broadway show in which she appeared with Beatrice Lillie. It was ''Inside U.S.A.,'' not ''Ankles Aweigh.''
      