
        Joanie Weston, a strapping power hitter who passed up a promising and respectable future in softball to become the gum-chewing, power-skating, hip-bumping golden girl of Roller Derby, died on May 10 at her home in Hayward, Calif., near San Francisco. She was 62 and skated in an exhibition game only last year.
        Her husband, Nick Scopas, said the cause was Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a rare brain disorder.
        Miss Weston may not have been the most accomplished athlete of her generation, but there surely were not many others who hit eight home runs in a single college softball game.
        Miss Weston did just that at Mount St. Mary's College in Los Angeles, and in fact was perfectly prepared to keep on going. But, she liked to recall, the nuns, in a gesture of sublime sportsmanship and Christian compassion for the team's hapless junior college opponents, told her that if she hit a ninth one out of the park, they would excommunicate her on the spot.
        Miss Weston, who was born in the Los Angeles-area town of Huntington Beach and grew up in nearby Downey, was a natural athlete who excelled in every sport she tried.
        But she came of age at a time when professional athletic opportunities for women were few.
        Still, if there were no major leagues for women, there was Roller Derby, and from the time she attended a tryout in Los Angeles when she was still a teen-ager, she was hooked by the sport.
        After all, while Roller Derby's women did not skate with or against men, they were an integral part of the team, taking to the track for two of the four 12-minute quarters and skating under the same no-holds-barred rules that applied to their male teammates.
        For all the sneering it engendered, Roller Derby had a surprisingly legitimate lineage.
        Although the name and the vague underlying concept were dreamed up in Chicago in 1935 by Leo Seltzer, an impresario who needed an attraction to fill a hall he had leased, the classic game of Roller Derby was not invented until two years later, and the man who invented it was the writer Damon Runyon.
        It was Runyon, having run into Mr. Seltzer in Miami in 1937, who devised the rules that transformed what had been a languid roller-skating variation of a marathon endurance walk into a quick, exciting and brutal sport: two pairs of rival ''jammers'' break out of a pack of 10 skaters and sprint around a 100-foot banked track, trying to lap and pass as many opponents as possible while their three teammates try to make things easier by slowing or even upending three rival blockers.
        It was a prescription that made Roller Derby a national television rage in the 1950's and filled Madison Square Garden and other arenas as late as the mid-1970's.
        During her 19 seasons, Miss Weston, known variously as the Blond Bomber, the Blond Amazon and the Roller Derby Queen, was a premier attraction.
        As she was painfully aware, Roller Derby was a spectacle forever struggling to be a sport.
        But in an event whose whooping fans reserved their loudest whoops for the skaters with the prettiest faces, the blondest hair and the most buxom figures, at least Miss Weston was as pretty as they come, her hair was longer and bleached blonder than anybody else's, and, at 5 feet 10 inches and 165 pounds, she had the perfect Roller Derby build.
        It was a build that seemed designed to bounce an opponent on her bottom, and Miss Weston could easily hold her own in the hair-pulling, face-slapping, roll-around brawls that became one of Roller Derby's most crowd-pleasing attractions.
        For all that, Miss Weston, who skated pivot, a position that allowed her to be a sprinting jammer in one 60-second jam and a blocker the next, approached Roller Derby as a consummate professional.
        She spent untold hours practicing and perfecting the meticulous combinations of strides and body moves for each phase of the game.
        Sport or spectacle, Roller Derby was undeniably rough, and Miss Weston had the false teeth to prove it.
        In one memorable game, she once recalled, she got into such a vigorous quarrel with a referee that two of the teeth flew out of her mouth, barely missing the ref's ear.
        ''I don't mind you yelling,'' the startled official said, ''but don't send your teeth out to bite me.''
        Even after the league folded in the mid-1970's and Mr. Seltzer's son, Jerry, sold the name Roller Derby to other promoters, Miss Weston continued her devotion to her sport, training skaters and staging exhibition games at a Hayward track.
        And oh, yes, the woman who once hit eight home runs in a single game became a fixture in Bay Area softball leagues.
        In addition to her husband, Miss Weston, whose mother died several months ago, is survived by two stepchildren, Tracy Munoz of Hayward and Nick Scopas Jr. of Manteca, Calif., and four stepgrandchildren.
      