
       Maria Augusta von Trapp, the guiding force behind a family of singers who won world reknown when their story was portrayed in the play and film ''The Sound of Music,'' died of heart failure yesterday in Morrisville, Vt., three days after undergoing surgery. She was 82 years old, and had lived in Stowe,
        Maria Augusta von Trapp, the guiding force behind a family of singers who won world reknown when their story was portrayed in the play and film ''The Sound of Music,'' died of heart failure yesterday in Morrisville, Vt., three days after undergoing surgery. She was 82 years old, and had lived in Stowe, Vt., for more than 40 years.
        The story of the von Trapp family, which fled Austria to avoid complicity with Nazi rule and toured the United States as the Trapp Family Choir, was transformed into one of the movie industry's greatest financial successes, with the release of ''The Sound of Music'' starring Julie Andrews in 1965.
        Baroness von Trapp, who had studied to become a nun before marrying an Austrian war hero, Baron Georg von Trapp, in 1927, said she and the rest of the family received little of the $180 million in revenues from the film. However, she praised it for honestly depicting her life story and for bringing joy and hope to millions of people. In interviews, she repeatedly asserted her faith in God and devotion to the Roman Catholic Church. Praised Film's Influence
        ''The great good the film and the play are doing to individual lives is far beyond money,'' she said in an interview with The New York Times shortly after the film's release. ''There seems to be so much despair in the world. But so many people write about how much the film has helped them in restoring their confidence in God.''
        Born on a train speeding from her parent's Tyrol village to a hospital in Vienna in 1905, Maria Augusta Kutschera was an orphan by her seventh birthday. She was raised by a court-appointed guardian, whom she described as a passionate socialist and extremely anti-Catholic.
        After she graduated from the State Teachers College for Progressive Education in Vienna at age 18, she became a candidate for the novitiate at a Benedictine convent in Salzberg. Choice of Church or Family
        The abbess of the convent sent her to become a governess at the villa outside Salzberg of Baron Georg von Trapp, a highly decorated submarine commander during World War I, who had retired with his seven children after his first wife's death. The young woman quickly won the affection of the children and, when the Baron proposed marriage, she was torn between her devotion to the church and the family.
        She married the Baron in November 1927. The couple later had three children.
        The family often sang together, particularly during religious observances. In 1935, a Roman Catholic priest, the Rev. Franz Waner, came to live with the family and began to tutor the children in Renaissance and Baroque music.
        In August 1936, the family's informal singing became a professional enterprise when they won a choral competition at the Salzberg Festival. The Trapp Family Choir conducted a full tour of Europe the next year.
        When Austria fell under Nazi rule in March 1938, the family realized that its performances could only continue if it cooperated with the Government. They fled with only a few possessions to Italy, then sailed on to New York, arriving penniliess. Concert at Town Hall
        Their first major concert, which brought the Trapp Family Choir national attention, took place in New York in Town Hall on Dec. 10, 1938. In a review of their opening performance, The New York Times commented:
        ''There was something unusually lovable and appealing about the modest, serious singers of this little family aggregation as they formed a close semicircle about their self-effacing director for their initial offering, the handsome Mme. von Trapp in simple black, and the youthful sisters garbed in black and white Austrain folk costumes enlivened with red ribbons. It was only natural to expect work of exceeding refinement from them, and one was not disappointed in this.''
        The von Trapps toured Europe and the United States the next year, gaining an international reputation for the seven daughters and three sons who sang madrigals and old carols, played ancient instruments and re-enacted family customs on stage. For 15 years, their Christmas concerts at Town Hall were a tradition of the New York Yuletide season.
        The family bought a 660-acre farm in Stowe in 1942, which later became a lodge and summer music camp.
        The Baron died in 1947 at the age of 57. She Lectured Extensively
        The family continued to perform around the world until 1955, and the Baroness lectured and wrote extensively on the family's hardships, faith in God and unity. Her book, ''The Story of the Trapp Family Singers,'' was published in 1949. After her husband's death, she also became heavily involved in Catholic missionary work.
        The play, ''The Sound of Music,'' with music and lyrics by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein 2d, opened on Broadway in the fall of 1959, starring Mary Martin and Theodore Bikel. It was a tremendous success, running for more than three years. The film version set box office records around the world, but the Baroness von Trapp said she received only about $500,000 in royalties.
        The Baroness received the Honorary Cross First Class from the Austrian Government for improving cultural ties between her native country and the United States, and numerous awards from the Roman Catholic church.
        She is survived by a son, Johannes, of Stowe; two daughters, Eleonore Campbell of Waitsfield, Vt., and Rosmarie Trapp of Pittsburgh; two stepsons, Rupert, of Stowe, and Werner, of Waitsfield; three stepdaughters, Agathe von Trapp of Glyndon, Md., Maria F. Trapp of Papua, New Guinea, and Johanna von Trapp of San Diego, and by 29 grandchildren.
      