
       Joan Greenwood, the husky-voiced British actress who starred in many film comedies and stage plays in the 1940's and 50's, has died at her home in London. She was 65 years old.
        Joan Greenwood, the husky-voiced British actress who starred in many film comedies and stage plays in the 1940's and 50's, has died at her home in London. She was 65 years old.
        Miss Greenwood's son, Jason Morrell, said his mother was found dead Saturday by friends she had invited to dinner. Mr. Morrell did not give a cause of his mother's death, but a BBC news report said she had apparently suffered a heart attack.
        Miss Greenwood appeared on stage only two weeks ago in a sketch with Robert Morley at the Prince of Wales Theater in London. Mr. Morrell said his mother had not been ill recently.
        Known primarily as a comic actress, Miss Greenwood starred in a series of British films in the 1940's and 50's that are now considered classics.
        One of her frequent co-stars was Sir Alec Guinness, with whom she made ''Kind Hearts and Coronets,'' ''The Man in the White Suit'' and ''The Detective,'' a movie based on G. K. Chesterton's Father Brown books. In Film Version of 'Ernest'
        Miss Greenwood also appeared with Michael Redgrave in the film version of Oscar Wilde's ''Importance of Being Ernest'' and with Basil Rathbone in ''Tight Little Island,'' a screen adaptation of Compton Mackenzie's novel ''Whiskey Galore.''
        Miss Greenwood, born in the Chelsea section of London on March 4, 1921, was the daughter of Sydney Earnshaw Greenwood, an artist. She began taking dancing lessons when she was 8 years old, studied at St. Catherine's School in Surrey, and continued to take ballet lessons until she entered the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art at 17.
        Her first stage appearance came at age 18 when she appeared as Louisa in Moliere's ''Malade Imaginaire'' at the Apollo Theater in London. Performances in ''Little Ladyship'' and ''The Women'' followed.
        Leslie Howard saw her in ''The Women'' and made Miss Greenwood his leading lady in the film ''The Gentle Sex.'' From then on Miss Greenwood alternated film and stage work.
        She appeared in the role of Wendy in ''Peter Pan'' and as Elie Dunn in Shaw's ''Heartbreak House,'' then undertook more serious roles, playing Ophelia in ''Hamlet'' with the Donald Wolfit company, Nora in Ibsen's ''Doll House,'' Celia in ''Volpone'' and Sabina in ''The Young Wives' Tale.'' Developed a Following
        Her film career rocketed with the success of ''Kind Hearts and Coronets,'' and Miss Greenwood gained a following on both sides of the Atlantic. She appeared on Broadway with Claude Rains in 1953 in T. S. Eliot's ''Confidential Clerk.''
        Miss Greenwood's career had recently revived with appearances in several British television series. Her son said yesterday: ''She enjoyed doing all the recent TV work. She kept a trueness to herself. If she didn't want to do something, she wouldn't do it.''
        Miss Greenwood was married in 1960 to the actor Andre Morrell, who died in 1978. She is survived by her son.
        Correction:  March 19, 1987, Thursday, Late City Final Edition
      