
       Former United States Representative Edith Green, a leading advocate of aid to education and women's rights and an early opponent of the Vietnam War, died of cancer Tuesday night in Tualatin, Ore. She was 77 years old.
        Former United States Representative Edith Green, a leading advocate of aid to education and women's rights and an early opponent of the Vietnam War, died of cancer Tuesday night in Tualatin, Ore. She was 77 years old.
        Mrs. Green, a Democrat, started out as a schoolteacher and went on to serve 10 years in Congress.
        After defeating Tom McCall, who later became Governor of Oregon, Mrs. Green represented the state's Third Congressional District from 1954 to 1974. She rose to the second-highest position on the House Education and Labor Committee and served as chairwoman of its Subcommittee on Higher Education. In that capacity, she pushed for passage of legislation creating the first Federal scholarships for college undergraduates.
        Senator Mark O. Hatfield, a Republican who was a friend of Mrs. Green for 40 years, said yesterday: ''She was probably the most powerful woman ever to serve in the Congress. On any important legislation, such as women's rights or education or dealing with minorities or poor people, she could switch people's votes on the floor through the power of her intellect and her ability to persuade. People listened because when Edith Green spoke, she spoke from the heart as well as the mind.'' Role in Anti-Poverty Legislation
        In 1967, for example, Mrs. Green played a key, though behind-the-scenes, role in passage of major anti-poverty legislation proposed by President Johnson. In large part through her efforts, a coalition of Republicans and Southern Democrats against the bill was splintered when she drafted and lobbied for an amendment that met the demands of some of the Southerners. Despite those efforts, President Johnson and Mrs. Green did not like each other, largely because of her early opposition to the buildup of troops in Vietnam.
        Mrs. Green, a native of South Dakota, went to Willamette University in Salem, Ore., in the late 1920's and, after graduating, started teaching elementary school in Salem, according to a son, James S. Green of Gresham, Ore. She became involved in politics after working with the Oregon Education Association.
        She was a delegate to the 1956 Democratic National Convention and a member of the platform committee. At the urging of the candidate, she gave a seconding speech for the Presidential nomination of Adlai E. Stevenson. Four years later, she was asked to second the nomination of John F. Kennedy for President. At the time, she was serving as chairman of the Kennedy campaign committee in Oregon. President Kennedy later named her as a member of the Presidential Commission on the Status of Women. And he also offered her the ambassadorship to Canada, but she declined. Advocate for Women's Rights
        Mr. Green said his mother was a supporter of women's rights, but without stridence. ''She realized that she had to work with the men before she knocked them over,'' Mr. Green said. ''The key is to work with them, she said, and she was very good at it. I think her colleagues would testify to that.''
        Mr. Hatfield said Mrs. Green ''probably had more direct personal role in writing education-related legislation than any other person.'' He also described her as ''foremost in the effort to bring about equal pay for equal work.''
        And, the Senator continued: ''She also was remarkable in this business that I'm in, in that she could walk away from it, which she did at the height of her career. She did not run again when she could have been re-elected for life.'' Mrs. Green did not seek re-election in 1974.
        After retiring, she became a professor of government at Warner Pacific College and in 1976 she served as co-chairwoman of the National Democrats for Gerald Ford. In 1979, she was appointed to serve on the Oregon Board of Higher Education.
        Besides her son James, Mrs. Green's survivors include another son, Richard, of Annandale, Va.; two sisters, Ruth Costello of Berkeley Springs, W.Va., and Mildred Cleaveland of San Andreas, Calif.; and four grandchildren. week, but details were not complete yesterday.
        EX-REP. EDITH GREEN, 77, IS DEAD
      