
       Frances Lindley, a senior editor at the publishing house of Harper & Row, died in her sleep Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 75 years old.
        Frances Lindley, a senior editor at the publishing house of Harper & Row, died in her sleep Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 75 years old.
        Ms. Lindley was considered an unusually skilled and versatile editor; her authors ranged from Erich Segal to Aleksandr I. Solzhenitsyn. She edited all three volumes of Mr. Solzhenitsyn's ''Gulag Archipelago,'' as well as a distillation of the trilogy that was published in a single volume.
        She also edited works by John Ciardi, Svetlana Alliluyeva, Joseph Alsop, William Stafford, Ted Hughes and the photographer Walker Evans. Her outspokenness, her capacity for hard work and her knowledge of Harper & Row's catalogue and traditions helped make Ms. Lindley a house legend.
        She was born in Manhattan on May 19, 1911. After attending the Horace Mann School, she graduated from Vassar College. She joined the staff of the Museum of Modern Art, then newly established, as a director of publications, overseeing the museum's magazines and brochures. She joined the Harper & Row advertising department in 1953, eventually becoming its director, a post she held until 1970. At that time, she was made an editor. 'Times and Values Have Changed'
        Her tastes were wide-ranging. In 1981, she bemoaned the decline of romance novels. ''Everybody is so much more sophisticated, and so-called opinion makers are embarrassed by an old-fashioned love story, while young novelists want to write about their identity problems in an impersonal world,'' she said in an interview in The New York Times. ''Times and values have changed, but I still think many women would be happy with an old-fashioned love story.''
        Miss Lindley is survived by a brother, Robert Strunsky of Kingston, N.J.; a son, Dr. Charles Lindley of Boston; a stepson, Denver Lindley of Erwinna, Pa., and a grandson. There is to be a memorial service Wednesday at 4 P.M. at the All-Souls Unitarian Church, 1157 Lexington Avenue, at 80th Street.
      