
       Margaret Israel, an artist whose mixed-media constructions and collages were highly praised for combining the fancy and innocence of folk art with a modern sophistication, was killed Wednesday in Manhattan in an accident while riding her bicycle. She was 57 years old.
        Margaret Israel, an artist whose mixed-media constructions and collages were highly praised for combining the fancy and innocence of folk art with a modern sophistication, was killed Wednesday in Manhattan in an accident while riding her bicycle. She was 57 years old.
        The artist died instantly when her bicycle collided with a tractor-trailer on West 23d Street at the intersection of 11th Avenue.
        Mrs. Israel, working in a studio cluttered with bowls, boats, masks, and other curios and bits of city flotsam, produced drawings, paintings, terra-cotta figures, bamboo constructions and multimedia works of excellent craftmanship and poetic delicacy.
        She first showed in New York at the Egan Gallery in 1961, and had regular shows throughout the 70's and 80's at the Cordier & Ekstrom Gallery on Madison Avenue.
        ''She works on a bold scale, filling whole rooms with the objects of her imagination,'' Hilton Kramer wrote in The New York Times in 1978. Studied in Paris
        A native of Cuba, Mrs. Israel came to the United States as an infant. She attended Syracuse University in Syracuse, N.Y., and later studied art at several institutions in Paris, including the Ecole des Beaux Arts, the Academie de la Grande Chaumiere and Atelier 17.
        In an interview with The New York Times in 1979, Mrs. Israel said: ''My work is decorative, in the sense that I intend it to reach you very quickly, on a level of pure enjoyment. And I use familiar themes because it's an easy way to communicate with people. I think of it all as a journey where the adventure lies in seeing how one thing works with another.''
        To collectors, friends and associates in the art world, Mrs. Israel was known for an energy, an enthusiasm and an iconoclasm that matched her art.
        Mrs. Israel's husband, Marvin, died in 1984. She is survived by her mother, Margaret Ponce, and a sister.
      