
       Mary Elizabeth Mann, a property-tax lawyer and president of the Tax Commission of New York City since March 1978, died of cancer Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 63 years old and also had a home on Shelter Island, L.I.
        Mary Elizabeth Mann, a property-tax lawyer and president of the Tax Commission of New York City since March 1978, died of cancer Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 63 years old and also had a home on Shelter Island, L.I.
        Ms. Mann, the first woman to become president of the Tax Commission, was among Mayor Koch's first-term appointments.
        She was the only full-time commissioner on the seven-member panel, which resolves disputes between the city and its taxpayers. The commission reviews complaints about real-property assessments, adjusts those where warranted and grants or denies exemptions. Left Post Several Weeks Ago
        Ms. Mann, who was known as Bettie, remained at her post until several weeks ago, her associates say. On April 2, Mayor Koch went to her apartment to present her with a medal for outstanding service to the city.
        She came to her post after serving as director of legal services for the New York State Board of Equalization and Assessment in Albany, which solves property-tax problems statewide. She earned a reputation there as a superb lawyer and researcher, an evenhanded mediator and an authority in her field.
        Ms. Mann was born in Pine Bluff, Ark., and grew up in St. Petersburg, Fla. She graduated from Vassar College and, in 1948, from the Vanderbilt University Law School, where she was an editor of the Vanderbilt Law Review.
        She worked as a consultant for the State Board of Equalization, and joined the staff and became director of legal services in 1976. A member of the bar in New York State and Florida, she also lectured at the New York University School of Continuing Education.
        Ms. Mann is survived by her brother, Sam H. Mann Jr. of St. Petersburg.
        Services are to be held at 1 P.M. Tuesday at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, Madison Avenue at 81st Street.
        MARY E. MANN IS DEAD AT 63
      