
       Maxine Sullivan, whose cool, precise and rhythmic singing of the Scottish folk song ''Loch Lomond'' in the late 1930's gave her an identity that remained with her throughout her career, died of heart failure Tuesday at Westchester Square Hospital in the Bronx. She was 75 years old and lived in the
        Maxine Sullivan, whose cool, precise and rhythmic singing of the Scottish folk song ''Loch Lomond'' in the late 1930's gave her an identity that remained with her throughout her career, died of heart failure Tuesday at Westchester Square Hospital in the Bronx. She was 75 years old and lived in the Bronx.
        Miss Sullivan, who had a busy career both in this country and abroad, gave her last performance March 22 at the Westport Arts Center in Westport, Conn. She entered the hospital April 1, where she suffered a seizure and went into a coma.
        Miss Sullivan was born Marietta Williams in Homestead, Pa., on May 13, 1911. She shot to fame in 1937 when she recorded ''Loch Lomond'' in an arrangement by Claude Thornhill, the pianist, who led a small accompanying group on the recording. It was an immediate hit, and she followed it with a series of recordings of swinging folk songs, including ''Molly Malone,'' ''It Was a Lover and His Lass'' and ''If I Had a Ribbon Bow.''
        Although singing folk songs appeared to be a novelty at that time, Miss Sullivan was doing it in the very earliest stages of her career, when she was singing at an after-hours club in Pittsburgh called the Benjamin Harrison Literary Society.
        Two of her future husbands, the bassist John Kirby and the pianist Cliff Jackson both first heard her singing there.
        One of her songs was a musical setting of Joyce Kilmer's poem ''Trees.''
        ''I couldn't sing it straight,'' she explained. ''I had no choice but to swing it.'' Married in 1938
        The success of ''Loch Lomond'' led to an engagement for her at the Onyx Club on 52d Street. There she sang with a small band led by Mr. Kirby that played in a light and airy style, once described as ''orchestrated finesse'' that was an ideal complement to Miss Sullivan's singing and to her manner when she sang, standing motionless, her chin tilted confidently upward and a slightly mischievous smile lighting her face.
        She married Mr. Kirby in 1938 and later she and his band became the stars of a weekly NBC radio network series, ''Flow Gently Sweet Rhythm,'' a precedent-setting event for black performers.
        In 1938 Miss Sullivan went from the Onyx Club to Hollywood to appear in the film ''Going Places,'' in which she and Louis Armstrong introduced ''Jeepers Creepers.'' The following year she appeared in a second film, ''St. Louis Blues,'' and also performed on Broadway with Louis Armstrong and Benny Goodman in a jazz version of ''A Midsummer Night's Dream'' called ''Swingin' the Dream,'' in which she sang ''Darn That Dream.''
        During the 1940's she moved away from her early close association with folk songs, although until her death she could always respect - and respond to - requests for ''Loch Lomond.'' She developed a fresh repertory of standard pop songs such as ''I've Got the World on a String,'' ''Wrap Your Troubles in Dreams'' and ''I Got a Right to Sing the Blues.'' Won Tony Award in 1979
        In 1950, after her marriage to Mr. Kirby had ended in divorce, she married Mr. Jackson and temporarily retired from singing to raise her daughter, Paula. During these years she developed an interest in physical therapy and nursing and was active in local civic affairs in the Bronx. After Mr. Jackson's death in 1970, she founded the House That Jazz Built, a community center at 1312 Stebbins Avenue in the Bronx. Dedicated to Mr. Jackson, the center continues to serve young people through the efforts of senior citizens.
        In 1979 she received a Tony award for her performance in ''My Old Friends,'' a musical on aging that was described by a reviewer for The New York Times as ''jolly yet touching.''
        She is survived by her daughter, Paula Morris, and her son, Orville Williams.
        A service will be held at 7 P.M. tomorrow at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue at 54th Street.
        MAXINE SULLIVAN, 75, IS DEAD  Correction:  May 18, 1987, Monday, Late City Final Edition
      