
       Charlotte Curtis, a columnist for The New York Times and former editor of the newspaper's family/style news and later of its Op-Ed page, died of cancer yesterday at Ohio State University Hospital in Columbus, Ohio. She was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan and Columbus.
        Charlotte Curtis, a columnist for The New York Times and former editor of the newspaper's family/style news and later of its Op-Ed page, died of cancer yesterday at Ohio State University Hospital in Columbus, Ohio. She was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan and Columbus.
        In a 25-year career with The Times, Miss Curtis, as a reporter and as an editor, helped transform the coverage of fashion and society news, supervised the daily page of opinion opposite the editorial page and for the last four years wrote a weekly column of social commentary.
        Her column, a blend of reporting and observation that appeared each Tuesday, was discontinued last June, when Miss Curtis became ill and went to Columbus for medical treatment. Her husband, Dr. William E. Hunt, is professor and director of the division of neurologic surgery at the College of Medicine at Ohio State University.
        ''Charlotte Curtis, who graced this newspaper for over 25 years, was a warm and considerate friend who could write with a rapier and who, as an editor, was eternally curious and questioning,'' Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, publisher of The Times, said yesterday. ''As a person and as a superb journalist, she will be missed and mourned.'' Expanded Coverage
        As editor of women's and family/ style news from 1965 to 1974, Miss Curtis worked to expand coverage of fashion, society, decor and family matters to reflect her conviction that these topics should be treated with the same emphasis on news and lively writing that politics and sports received.
        Under her direction, reporting on the renascent feminist movement and on controversial issues such as abortion replaced the features on good grooming and shopping that had traditionally appeared on women's news pages.
        As an associate editor of The Times in charge of the Op-Ed page from 1974 to 1982, she brought an eclectic approach to a broad range of commentary and analysis on major social, economic and political issues of the day. In that post, she was the first woman to have her name listed on the masthead of The New York Times among its senior editors.
        But it was as a society news reporter in the 1960's, chronicling the life styles of the rich and powerful, that Miss Curtis became one of the nation's best-known journalists and set a pattern followed by other writers. Other publications heralded her iconoclastic style, the precision of her technique and the research behind it. ''The Times' girl on the beat studies her subjects with the detachment of a professional sociologist,'' Time magazine reported in February 1965. An Incisive Wit
        A strong-willed, indefatigable Vassar graduate with an incisive wit, Miss Curtis documented the mores and foibles of America's constantly evolving upper crust. She scrutinized both aristocrats and parvenus in sybaritic settings: Manhattan penthouses, mansions in Newport and Palm Beach, yachts in the Caribbean, tents in Persepolis and the clubhouses at Churchill and Epsom Downs.
        In Palm Beach, she reported on a dowager who installed a marble terrace so her dogs, suffering from the heat, could cool their bellies.
        ''Bostonians are an elegantly athletic lot,'' she wrote in a 1965 story about a society ball. ''They prove it periodically by swirling, twirling and swooping about in graceful dance patterns until beads of perspiration materialize on their aristocratic brows.'' The Telling Moment
        At a cocktail party held by Leonard Bernstein for the Black Panthers in 1970, when a Panther field marshal stridently outlined his tenets before a small group that included Mr. Bernstein, principal conductor of the New York Philharmonic, Miss Curtis caught the telling moment:
        '' 'If business won't give us full employment, then we must take the means of production and put them in the hands of the people.'
        '' 'I dig absolutely,' Mr. Bernstein said.''
        Tom Wolfe, who wrote about the same party in his book ''Radical Chic and Mau-Mauing the Flak Catchers,'' said of the ensuing flap: ''It wasn't anything she wrote that infuriated them. It was that she put down exactly what they said. That's always what seems cruelest of all, to hold up a mirror to people that way.''
        In addition to her society and family/ style reporting, Miss Curtis over the years pursued a variety of stories with datelines from around the world. Deep Interest in Politics
        Her deepest interest, dating from her college days, was in American politics and culture. She covered a number of national political conventions, including the violence-wracked Democratic National Convention in Chicago in 1968, as well as Presidential campaigns and inaugurations.
        In June 1968 she was in the press corps aboard the funeral train that carried the body of Senator Robert F. Kennedy from New York to Washington. Describing his eldest son, Joseph P. Kennedy 2d, she wrote about the heir to a political dynasty:
        ''Down the swaying train he went, putting out his hand in 19 of the other 20 cars saying, 'I'm Joe Kennedy,' while outside in the early afternoon sun, the old men of Linden, N.J., stood silently in their undershirts and the women held handkerchiefs to their faces.
        '' 'I'm Joe Kennedy,' he said to strangers, his pin-stripe black suit not yet a shambles from the failing air-conditioning, his PT boat tie clip neatly in place. 'Thanks for coming, thanks for coming.' ''
        She was the author of ''First Lady,'' a 1963 book about Jacqueline Kennedy's first year in the White House, and ''The Rich and Other Atrocities,'' a 1976 collection of many of her articles. She also contributed writings to several other books, wrote articles for magazines and was a radio commentator in New York and Ohio. Many Honors for Reporting
        Miss Curtis was the recipient of many honors for her reporting, including awards from the New York Newspaper Women's Club, the Ohio Newspaper Women's Club, the New York and Los Angeles branches of Women in Communications, the American Newspaper Women's Club, the American Civil Liberties Union and the University of Southern California. She also received five honorary degrees.
        A porcelain figurine of a woman with pale blue eyes and impeccably coiffed auburn hair, Miss Curtis stood 5 feet 1 inch tall in her high-heeled Chanel pumps. Her image of Junior League elegance - ladylike suits, discreet quantities of real jewelry and a faint aura of expensive French perfume -was one not usually visible in newsrooms.
        Charlotte Murray Curtis was born in Chicago on Dec. 19, 1928, the daughter of George Morris and Lucile Atcherson Curtis. Her father was a surgeon who later took the family to Columbus, and her mother was a diplomat who had been the first woman to be a field officer in the Foreign Service, holding posts with American legations in Switzerland, Panama and Haiti.
        Miss Curtis graduated from the Columbus School for Girls, then went to Vassar College in Poughkeepsie, N.Y., majoring in United States history. After graduating in 1950, she joined The Columbus Citizen, where she was a reporter and society editor for 11 years. Joined The Times in 1961
        In 1961, she was hired by The New York Times as a fashion reporter. Two years later, she was assigned to the society beat, with a mandate from Clifton Daniel, then an assistant managing editor, to ''write about society as news and to treat it as sociology.''
        In 1965, she was named editor of women's news, a title that was changed to family/style editor in 1971. In 1974, she became editor of the Op-Ed page, leavening serious pieces by academic, government and business leaders with unexpected essays on lighter subjects, such as an exchange of letters between Henry Miller and Erica Jong entitled ''In Praise of Rabelais and Each Other,'' and with bits of Americana, from lesser-known writers.
        Besides her husband, Miss Curtis is survived by a sister, Mary Curtis Davey of Los Altos, Calif., three stepchildren and three nieces and nephews.
        A memorial service will be held in New York City on a date to be set.
        The family has requested that in lieu of flowers, contributions be made to the William E. Hunt Fund, Ohio State University Development Fund No. 523340, in care of the Division of Neurologic Surgery, Ohio State University Hospital, 410 West 10th Avenue, N-935 D.H., Columbus, Ohio, 43210.
      