
       Helen M. Strauss, who created the literary department at the William Morris agency and became a major influence in the worlds of books, motion pictures and the theater, died of cancer yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. Miss Strauss, 83 years old and a resident of Manhattan, had been ill for almost a year.
        Helen M. Strauss, who created the literary department at the William Morris agency and became a major influence in the worlds of books, motion pictures and the theater, died of cancer yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. Miss Strauss, 83 years old and a resident of Manhattan, had been ill for almost a year.
        Miss Strauss was born in New York City, and began her career with the story department of Paramount Pictures before joining the Morris agency in 1944. Until then the agency had handled mostly show business figures, but Miss Strauss was asked to establish the literary department. She also served for more than 20 years as a member of the company's executive committee.
        Miss Strauss put together a formidable client list that eventually included James Michener, Robert Penn Warren, Leon Edel, Ralph Ellison, Dame Edith Sitwell, Archibald MacLeish, Gore Vidal, Gerold Frank, Betty Smith, Justice William O. Douglas and Frank Yerby.
        Mr. Michener, one of Miss Strauss's early clients and one of six who won the Pulitzer Prize, dedicated the Modern Library edition of his selected writings to her as a ''friend of writers.'' 'Gave Me Only Good Counsel'
        Yesterday, he described Miss Strauss as an ''admirable'' agent. ''She did not hold a writer's hand or get him tickets to a favorite show or buy him shirts at Macy's,'' he said. ''What she did was advise him on the problems of his profession. She helped enormously those she took under her wing, and I was one of her first clients, and had a long, very happy relationship with her. She gave me only good counsel.'' But Miss Strauss was not a friend of all writers. Her 1979 autobiography, ''A Talent for Luck,'' gave what one reviewer described as ''a brief twist of the knife'' to writers she did not like, either personally or professionally. In fact, she attributed part of her success to not hesitating to drop writers who displeased her.
        Mr. Frank said yesterday that Miss Strauss had run her department with an iron hand. ''She was autocratic, firm and decisive, but very loyal,'' he said. ''And she knew what made a book work.''
        Owen Laster, who succeeded Miss Strauss as head of the Morris literary department, described her as dynamic and controversial. ''But above all,'' he said, ''she had an eye for selecting and working with extraordinarily talented writers.'' 'The King and I' Her Idea
        Miss Strauss was credited with originating the idea of ''The King and I,'' the musical by Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein 2d starring Gertrude Lawrence.
        She moved to the Morris agency's London office in 1966, but resigned from the company a year later to become vice president of world story operations for Warner Brothers-Seven Arts. She later joined Universal Pictures as a vice president, and in the early 1970's she was in charge of motion picture production for Reader's Digest Films. She produced ''The Incredible Sarah,'' a 1976 film starring Glenda Jackson as Sarah Bernhardt.
        Miss Strauss spoke little about her personal life, and even her autobiography described an early marriage as ''a fiasco, though all my friends thought he was charming.''
        There are no survivors, and friends said funeral arrangements would be private.
        HELEN M. STRAUSS DIES AT 83
      