
       Elizabeth Gilmore Holt, an art historian who wrote widely on the social context of art, died Monday at her home in Washington. She was 81 years old.
        Elizabeth Gilmore Holt, an art historian who wrote widely on the social context of art, died Monday at her home in Washington. She was 81 years old.
        Mrs. Holt, who viewed the history of art as an expression of the intellectual spirit of periods in history, traveled worldwide to gather material for her books.
        On a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1980 she flew around the world to complete research on the art of all nations. When she was in her 60's, she hitchhiked on oil-tanker trucks from Iran to India to follow the route Alexander the Great took on his way to invade India.
        Mrs. Holt wrote ''Literary Sources of Art History'' and the two-volume ''Documentary History of Art.'' Wrote Series on European Art
        She also wrote a series of books on ''The Emerging Role of Exhibitions and Critics'' in 19th-century Europe. The first volume, ''The Triumph of Art for the Public,'' covered the years 1785 to 1848. She edited the second volume, ''The Art of All Nations: 1850-1873.'' The remaining two volumes, titled ''The Expanding World of Art,'' are being prepared for publication by the Yale University Press.
        Mrs. Holt was born in San Francisco. A graduate of the University of Wisconsin, she earned a master's degree at Radcliffe College and a doctorate in art history at the University of Munich. She received honorary degrees from Syracuse University and St. Andrew's University in Scotland.
        Mrs. Holt was long associated with women's causes. In 1951, the City of Berlin presented her with its Freedom Bell in recognition of her work with members of women's trade unions in postwar Germany.
        She is survived by her husband, John B. Holt, of Georgetown, Me.; a daughter, Elizabeth H. Muench, of Lexington, Mass.; two sons, John A., of Chicago, and Peter G., of Potomac, Md.; a brother, John A. Gilmore of Osterville, Mass., and six grandchildren.
        A memorial service is scheduled at 2 P.M. Saturday in the Bethlehem Chapel of the National Cathedral in Washington.
      