
       Hermione Gingold, the irrepressible English-born comedienne whose tart, quick-witted repartee became her trademark, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 89 years old and lived on the East Side.
        Hermione Gingold, the irrepressible English-born comedienne whose tart, quick-witted repartee became her trademark, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 89 years old and lived on the East Side.
        Miss Gingold conquered Broadway in 1953 as the star of the long-running revue ''John Murray Anderson's Almanac''; she last appeared on Broadway as the narrator in Stephen Sondheim's musical entertainment ''Side by Side by Sondheim'' in 1977-78.
        To a wider American public she was known as a rambunctious, ribald conversationalist on talk shows, a longtime ''irregular regular'' on ''The Jack Paar Show'' whose rejoinders more recently delighted audiences of the talk-show host Merv Griffin.
        Her throaty voice is remembered from Alan Jay Lerner's movie musical ''Gigi'' (1958), in which she and Maurice Chevalier joined in the duet ''I Remember It Well.'' Miss Gingold portrayed a retired courtesan, the scheming grandmother of Leslie Caron.
        She also appeared in ''The Music Man'' (1962), as the mayor's wife; ''Bell, Book and Candle'' (1958); again with Mr. Chevalier in ''I'd Rather Be Rich'' (1964), and as Mme. Armfeldt in both the stage and film versions of ''A Little Night Music,'' Mr. Sondheim's musical comedy based on Ingmar Bergman's ''Smiles of a Summer Night.'' In Wartime Revue
        Miss Gingold began her career in 1911 as a child actor with Noel Coward in ''Where the Rainbow Ends.'' She acted in Shakespearean plays at the Old Vic.
        But thousands of servicemen came to admire her as a comedienne in the long-running London revue ''Sweet and Low.'' Several attempts to extend her career to Broadway, one of them involving Cole Porter, failed in the best theater tradition.
        Miss Gingold had her first acting engagement in this country at the Brattle Theater in Cambridge, Mass., in March 1951. The vehicle was ''It's About Time,'' an intimate revue that incorporated some of her material from London.
        The title proved prophetic, for '' John Murray Anderson's Almanac'' made her an instant Broadway favorite when it opened in December 1953. Brooks Atkinson of The New York Times called it the ''funniest revue Broadway has played host to for a long time.'' Mr. Atkinson singled out one of her skits with Billy De Wolfe, in which ''Miss Gingold and Mr. De Wolfe act like a couple of geniuses.''
        ''It seems like a long time since anyone acted a revue sketch with as much craft and subtlety,'' he said. ''Almanac'' ran for 227 performances, and Miss Gingold won the Donaldson Award in 1954 for her performance.
        Miss Gingold acted on the straw-hat theater circuit in summer with, among others plays, Terence Rattigan's ''Sleeping Prince'' and one of her earlier London successes, Noel Coward's ''Fallen Angels.''
        Another one of her roles, both on Broadway and in summer stock, was that of the fastidious mother in Arthur Kopit's ''Oh, Dad, Poor Dad, Mamma's Hung You in the Closet and I'm Feelin' So Sad.'' 'I'm a Celebrity'
        She was a tall, vibrant woman with a mobile face, large, heavy-lidded blue eyes and tousled blond hair. She delighted in television, and one of her funniest moments came on a show when she was asked whether her most recent husband was dead. ''That's a matter of opinion,'' she replied.
        ''Fighting is essentially a masculine idea,'' she observed on another occasion. ''A woman's weapon is her tongue.''
        On the eve of her 80th birthday, while in the cast of ''Side by Side,'' she ruefully reflected that she had always wanted to be in ''Hedda Gabler'' and ''Hamlet.'' She said: ''The trouble with me is that I'm not considered an actress anymore. I'm a celebrity.''
        At 66, asked about retirement, Miss Gingold said, ''I suppose I shall drop dead in the theater, to a full house, I hope.''
        Miss Gingold participated in benefits and fund raisers for causes ranging from the theater to cancer research. She wrote articles and revue sketches, a play, ''Abracadabra,' as well as a tongue-in-cheek autobiography, ''The World Is Square: My Own Unaided Work.''
        Hermione Ferdinanda Gingold was born in London to an English mother and an Austrian father. She was privately educated in London and Paris.
        Among her survivors are a sister and two grandchildren, all of Britain.
      