
       Cathryn Damon, a stage and television actress who won an Emmy for her role on the popular television spoof ''Soap,'' died of cancer Monday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. She was 56 years old.
        Cathryn Damon, a stage and television actress who won an Emmy for her role on the popular television spoof ''Soap,'' died of cancer Monday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. She was 56 years old.
        Miss Damon was best known to millions of fans as Mary Campbell, the loyal wife of Burt Campbell, on the zany satire of daytime soap operas that ran on ABC from 1977-81.
        The series had a loosely structured plot line that sometimes startled viewers with references to incest, adultery and homosexuality.
        Miss Damon's character had to deal with a television husband who once was cloned by aliens from outer space. Both Miss Damon and Richard Mulligan, who played Burt, won Emmys in 1980 for their performances in the show. The problem-plagued television family also consisted of a son who became involved in organized crime and another son who was bisexual.
        The series was so controversial that it brought 32,000 letters of protest even before ABC put it on the air. But ''Soap'' attracted a large and loyal following and ABC contended the program represented a major revolution in television comedy.
        Miss Damon worked until shortly before her illness incapacitated her. Acted on Broadway
        On television she was seen in the ''Matlock,'' ''Mike Hammer'' and ''Murder, She Wrote'' series. Earlier she was a neighbor on ''Webster'' and was featured in a television movie ''Not in Front of the Children.''
        On Broadway and Off Broadway Miss Damon appeared in ''Flora, the Red Menace,'' ''Prisoner of Second Avenue,'' ''The Last of the Red Hot Lovers,'' ''Sweet Bird of Youth,'' ''The Boys From Syracuse'' and ''Passion.''
        Survivors include her mother, M. Cathryn Springer, and a sister, June Ferol Damon.
        CATHRYN DAMON DEAD AT 56
      