
       Vera Caspary, a novelist, playwright and screenwriter best known for her films ''Laura,'' ''Letter to Three Wives'' and ''Les Girls,'' died of a stroke Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital. She was 87 years old and lived in Greenwich Village.
        Vera Caspary, a novelist, playwright and screenwriter best known for her films ''Laura,'' ''Letter to Three Wives'' and ''Les Girls,'' died of a stroke Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital. She was 87 years old and lived in Greenwich Village.
        In her 18 published novels, 10 screen plays and 4 stage plays, Miss Caspary's main theme, whether in a murder mystery, drama or musical comedy, was the working woman and her right to lead her own life, to be independent.
        In her autobiography, ''The Secrets of Grown-Ups,'' published in 1979 by McGraw Hill, Miss Caspary wrote, ''This has been the century of the woman, and I know myself to have been a part of the revolution.''
        ''In another generation, perhaps the next, equality will be taken for granted,'' she said. ''Those who come after us may find it easier to assert independence, but will miss the grand adventure of having been born in this century of change.''
        Miss Caspary, the youngest of three children, was born and raised in Chicago, where her father was a buyer in a department store. After she left school at 18, she wrote advertising copy for a mail-order concern.
        ''I gave that up when I realized that one wrote the same thing over and over again whether it was for cold cream or plumbing fixtures,'' she once said.
        ''I've always enjoyed making up stories,'' she said. ''I like to get my hands onto all sorts of ideas.'' 'The White Girl'
        Her first novel, ''The White Girl,'' published in 1929, was about a black woman who leaves the South for Chicago and poses as a white. Her second and perhaps her favorite novel, ''Thicker Than Water,'' was a study of Portuguese-Jewish family life in Chicago.
        Her most famous work was ''Laura,'' her first mystery story, published in 1943 by Houghton Mifflin, followed by ''Bedelia'' and ''Murder at the Stork Club.''
        She rewrote ''Laura'' for the now-classic 1944 movie, which starred Gene Tierney as an enigmatic and ambitious career girl and Clifton Webb as Waldo Lydecker, her malicious mentor.
        In 1946, with the help of George Sklar, ''Laura'' was adapted to the stage.
        Another mystery story, ''The Weeping and the Laughter,'' published in 1950 by Little Brown, became a national best seller.
        In 1958, ''Les Girls'' was chosen as best-written American musical by the screen writers branch of the Writers Guild of America.
        Miss Caspary was married to I. G. Goldsmith, who produced such films as ''The Stars Look Down.'' He died in 1964.
      