
       Geraldine Page, dedicated to acting for more than four decades and long identified with the work of Tennessee Williams, died of a heart attack Saturday at her home in the Chelsea section of Manhattan. Both a Broadway star and an Academy Award winner, she was 62 years old.
        Geraldine Page, dedicated to acting for more than four decades and long identified with the work of Tennessee Williams, died of a heart attack Saturday at her home in the Chelsea section of Manhattan. Both a Broadway star and an Academy Award winner, she was 62 years old.
        Miss Page, who had been performing in ''Blithe Spirit'' on Broadway since spring, did not arrive for Saturday's two performances. At the end of the evening show, the play's producer, Karl Allison, announced that she had died. Her role in ''Blithe Spirit'' was assumed by her understudy, Patricia Conolly.
        Mr. Allison described the other members of the cast as devastated by the news. ''She was such a wonderfully sweet person, on top of being such an extraordinary actress,'' he said.
        Born in Kirksville, Mo., on Nov. 22, 1924, Miss Page grew up in Chicago and later traced her love of acting to plays that she had done with a church youth group. 'To Be Good at Something'
        ''I always wanted to be good at something, to be somebody,'' she once wrote in a sketch of herself for The New Yorker. ''The minute I got into my first play, which was called ''Excuse My Dust'' - I was 17 at the time - I knew that this was what I'd been looking for.''
        After graduating from high school in 1942, Miss Page spent three years studying at the Goodman Theater School in Chicago. With 11 other students - they each chipped in $35 - she formed a stock theater company that operated for four seasons from a playhouse outside the city.
        In the late 1940's, Miss Page moved to New York, where she worked as a hat-check girl, a spool winder in a thread factory and a negligee model while stalking the theater district for work.
        ''The first rule of survival was to stretch every penny,'' she once said. ''I'd eat in a restaurant that featured soup and free rolls for 15 cents and I'd stuff my pockets with rolls. Fortunately, food didn't mean much to me.'' First Big Break in '52
        Her first big acting break came in 1952, when the director Jose Quintero cast her as the lovelorn Alma Winemiller in his production of Williams's ''Summer and Smoke,'' which played Off Broadway at the Circle in the Square.
        In that role, she attracted such praise that the next year she made her Broadway debut, in ''Midsummer'' by Vina Delmar. Though the show received mediocre reviews, the critics once again raved about Miss Page, and the producers raised her to star billing.
        On Broadway, she went on to star in ''The Immoralist'' in 1954, an adaption of the Gide novel; in N. Richard Nash's ''Rainmaker,'' also in 1954, and in Williams's ''Sweet Bird of Youth'' in 1959.
        More recently, she appeared in John Pielmeier's ''Agnes of God'' in 1982, and Off Broadway in Sam Shepard's ''Lie of the Mind'' in 1985.
        Miss Page was perhaps best known for her interpretations of Williams's obsessive heroines. In 1980 she played Zelda Fitzgerald in the Williams drama ''Clothes for a Summer Hotel.'' 'Disciplined and Dedicated'
        The playwright once described her as ''the most disciplined and dedicated of actresses.''
        She rejected another characterization of her - as an actress best suited to the roles of neurotic women. ''It's a myth based on nothing,'' she said.
        ''A lot of people say I always play neurotic women,'' she said. ''Well, who doesn't play neurotic women?''
        The career of Miss Page, who shunned many of the trappings of stardom, was marked by periods of relative obscurity broken by sudden rediscovery. In 1962, with the release of the film versions of ''Summer and Smoke'' and ''Sweet Bird of Youth,'' she found herself, after 10 years on the stage, being hailed as an ''overnight success.''
        ''That's the longest night I've ever seen,'' she said at the time.
        Miss Page's film credits included ''Hondo,'' in which she played opposite John Wayne, in 1954; ''The Happiest Millionaire'' in 1967, and ''The Day of the Locust'' in 1975. In recent years, she appeared in ''The Pope of Greenwich Village'' in 1984 and ''The Trip to Bountiful'' in 1985. A Belated Oscar
        Nominated for an Oscar eight times without winning, Miss Page finally received the award for best actress for her performance in ''The Trip to Bountiful.'' In the movie, she played Carrie Watts, an old woman who finally fulfills her long desire to return to her childhood home of Bountiful, a Texas town that has by then disappeared. Of her performance, Vincent Canby wrote in The New York Times, ''As Mrs. Watts, Geraldine Page has never been in better form or in more control of that complex, delicate mechanism that makes her one of our finest actresses.''
        ''She was not a gal who worried about the fashion of the times,'' said the playwright, Horton Foote, a longtime friend of the actress and the author of the screenplay for ''The Trip to Bountiful.'' ''She had enormous individuality. She just wasn't a theater provincial and her work reflected that.''
        In the New Yorker sketch, Miss Page gave her own views on what makes a successful actor: ''The main thing is the ability to control your instrument, which in the actor, is yourself. Look the way you want the character to look. Sound the way you want the character to sound. Once you've trained the instrument to do what you want, you're in control and you're free.''
        Despite her successful Hollywood career, Miss Page remained a strong supporter of repertory theater throughout her life, often acting in them at a low salary and in supporting roles. Recently, as a member of the Mirror Repertory Company, she appeared in ''The Madwoman of Chaillot.''
        Miss Page won two Emmy awards for her television performances, both in the late 1960's for roles in adaptations of Truman Capote stories, ''A Christmas Memory'' and ''The Thanksgiving Visitor.''
        Miss Page is survived by her third husband, the actor Rip Torn; their three children, Jonathan, Anthony and Angelica Torn-Burkhardt; a grandchild, Elija Burkhardt, and a brother, Donald.
        A memorial service will be held at the Neil Simon Theater, 250 West 52d Street, at 11 A.M. on Wednesday.
        GERALDINE PAGE, 62, DIES  Correction:  June 23, 1987, Tuesday, Late City Final Edition
      