
       Atsuko Chiba, a Japanese journalist known for her candid pieces describing her battle with cancer, died of the disease July 9 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Atsuko Chiba, a Japanese journalist known for her candid pieces describing her battle with cancer, died of the disease July 9 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Miss Chiba wrote a column titled, ''Living With Cancer,'' which was published every Friday beginning in 1983 in The Yomiuri Shimbun, the largest daily newspaper in Japan. It also has a United States edition. Her final column appeared May 15, the newspaper said.
        Miss Chiba was born in Shanghai and received her bachelor's degree in economics from Gakushuin University.
        She worked as an economics reporter for three years for The Tokyo Shimbun before attending Harvard University as a Neiman journalism fellow in the class of 1968. Tokyo Correspondent
        She also worked as the Tokyo correspondent for the Asian Wall Street Journal when it was established in the 1970's and later worked as a freelance journalist for many American, British, Australian and Hong Kong publications.
        In 1981, Miss Chiba underwent surgery for breast cancer in Tokyo. She moved to New York in 1983. From New York, she wrote about the differences between Japanese and American views on cancer. She also wrote 13 books, including, ''A New Woman,'' and ''Living With Cancer in New York.'' She founded a monthly newsletter for Japanse career women.
        She was one of the first Japanese journalists to tackle the topic of cancer, and shocked some people with her forthright descriptions of how the disease had affected her life.
        In one book, ''Cancer Can't Defeat Me,'' Miss Chiba criticized the Japanese medical establishment and condemned the Japanese public's general insensitivity to cancer patients. Writing Until the End
        In a 1981 interview, Miss Chiba said, ''Now I know how I will die, writing something until the end.'' And friends said that she was worrying about deadlines until two days before her death.
        All proceeds from the sale of her property will go toward a fund for journalists from developing nations in Asia.
        Miss Chiba is survived by her mother and three sisters, Nobuko Matsuura, Fumiko Chiba and Haruko Chiba, all of Tokyo.
      