
       Tanya Zolotoroff Nash, who retired in 1968 after 35 years as the executive director of the New York Society for the Deaf, died last Friday at the Interfaith Hospital in Brooklyn. She was 89 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Tanya Zolotoroff Nash, who retired in 1968 after 35 years as the executive director of the New York Society for the Deaf, died last Friday at the Interfaith Hospital in Brooklyn. She was 89 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        The society in 1974 dedicated its new community residence on East 13th Street in honor of Mrs. Nash and her long service to the deaf. The residence was named Tanya Towers. The 132-unit high-rise building near Avenue B is a home for the elderly, about half of whom are deaf.
        Born in the Ukraine, Mrs. Nash immigrated to Brooklyn as a child. She became involved with the Society for the Welfare of the Jewish Deaf in 1929 when her husband, Rabbi A. Felix Nash, became its director.
        Mrs. Nash was a social worker and Rabbi Nash was equally involved in that field. They learned sign language from deaf people at the society. Humble Origins
        Mrs. Nash worked for many years as an interpreter for deaf people at religious services on Ellis Island as well as for deaf patients in state mental hospitals and psychiatrists' offices.
        In 1932, after Rabbi Nash's death, Mrs. Nash was asked to take over leadership of the society in a caretaker role, but she soon was appointed executive director. Under her stewardship, the society provided a social setting for deaf people and helped them in such practical matters as finding jobs.
        The society, founded in 1911, changed its name to the Jewish Society for the Deaf in 1951. It assumed its present, nonsectarian identity 15 years later.
        At the opening Tanya Towers, Mrs. Nash spoke of the poverty her relatives faced when they arrived in this country in 1904. She recalled that when she won a citywide spelling contest at the age of 13, she was unable to attend the award ceremony because her shoes were in tatters.
        Mrs. Nash is survived by her sister, Ruth Schreiber, and a niece, Julia Mallach, both of Manhattan.
        A memorial service will be held at a date to be announced.
      