
       Justine Wise Polier, a retired New York City Family Court judge and a leader and recognized authority in the field of juvenile justice and children's rights, died Friday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. She was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Justine Wise Polier, a retired New York City Family Court judge and a leader and recognized authority in the field of juvenile justice and children's rights, died Friday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. She was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Judge Polier retired from the bench in 1973 after 38 years in the Family Court, which was known as Domestic Relations Court when Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia appointed her to it in 1935.
        The daughter of a civil libertarian, Rabbi Stephen S. Wise, she was the first woman to hold a judicial office above magistrate in the state.
        As a judge, she fought strenuously for an improved Family Court and for better care for the children, especially from poor families, who came before it. She also helped establish a mental-health unit in the court. Children's Rights Advocate
        After retiring, she continued her battle for children's rights as a leader of several organizations. She was the director of the juvenile justice division of the Children's Defense Fund, the president of the Marion E. Kenworthy-Sarah H. Swift Foundation and a director of the Tappanz Foundation.
        Judge Polier's counsel was sought by other cities and states in developing court services for children and families and she provided similar help to other countries.
        She wrote numerous articles and books about the legal and psychiatric problems of dealing with children and families.
        During World War II, Judge Polier served as counsel to Eleanor Roosevelt in the Office of Civil Defense in Washington. With Mrs. Roosevelt and others, she helped found the nonsectarian Wiltwyck School for disturbed delinquent children in New York City. Fired for 'Agitating' Workers
        Judge Polier was born in Portland, Ore., and her desire to correct social ills showed up early in life. While a sophomore at Radcliffe College, she lived at a settlement house in Boston for underprivileged children. She had also attended Bryn Mawr College.
        After transferring to and graduating from Barnard College, she got a job with a woolens mill in Passaic, N.J., from which she was fired for what she later described as ''agitating'' workers who had been forbidden by management to organize.
        She studied labor relations in Geneva for a year, then decided to become a lawyer on the advice of her father. He persuaded her to study law, she said years later, ''because I had good intentions but no skills.''
        In 1928, she graduated from Yale Law School, where she had married Leon A. Tulin, a professor. He died in 1932. Active in Adoption Issues
        After Yale, she served on a state committee to study workers' compensation laws and was an assistant corporation counsel of New York City before she was named a judge.
        She was for many years the president of Louise Wise Services, an adoption and child-care agency founded by her mother in 1916.
        Judge Polier headed an unofficial citizens commission that in 1974 looked into the alleged paddling of students, at the Jordan L. Mott Junior High School in the Bronx, by two deans. The commission called for an ombudsman, among other measures, to protect pupils against corporal punishment.
        Judge Polier was a vice president of the American Jewish Congress and a member of the board, and former president, of the Field Foundation.
        Her second husband, Shad Polier, died in 1976. She is survived by two sons, Stephen Wise Tulin of Larchmont, N.Y., and Jonathon Wise Polier of Manhattan; a daughter, Dr. Trudy Festinger of Manhattan; five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      