
       Aileen Barlow Ryan, a former New York City Councilwoman who in 17 years on the Council played a key role in clashes over some of the most heated social issues of the 1970's, died Saturday of heart disease at Long Beach (L.I.) Memorial Hospital. She was 74 years old.
        Aileen Barlow Ryan, a former New York City Councilwoman who in 17 years on the Council played a key role in clashes over some of the most heated social issues of the 1970's, died Saturday of heart disease at Long Beach (L.I.) Memorial Hospital. She was 74 years old.
        Born in the Clasons Point section of the East Bronx, she held the borough's at-large seat on the Council for more than 17 years. A Democrat, she had been a teacher in the city's school system and had served three and a half terms in the State Legislature before her election to the Council in 1965.
        Her political career, which ended in 1983 when the at-large Council seats were abolished, was devoted largely to education and consumer causes. At budget time she often tangled with the Koch administration over what she considered to be meager funds for the public libraries. Author of Food Laws
        Her legislative triumphs included the sponsorship of a law to require dairies to place dates on their milk cartons. Another law she sponsored mandated that supermarkets must list unit prices as well as package prices.
        As chairwoman of the Council's General Welfare Committee, she was at the center of some of the most heated social issues of the 1970's. She was chairwoman of a series of long public hearings on proposals to require all-male private clubs to admit women.
        Her position on measures that sought to guarantee the civil rights of the city's homosexuals was equivocal at times, but her handling of the issue enhanced her reputation as a skilled parliamentarian. In 1978 she scheduled hearings on the rights bill the day after the November election, leading to accusations by proponents of the bill that she had chosen a day when the public and news media would be absorbed in other matters.
        On another crucial occasion the bill was stalled in the Welfare Committee when she failed to return from lunch for an important vote, even though supporters of the bill were counting on her vote. Elected to Assembly
        Mrs. Ryan went into politics after her husband, E. Gerard Ryan, a lawyer, died. Only a handful of women had served in the New York State Assembly when she was elected to the Legislature in 1958.
        She was active in Bronx politics in her 10 years as a teacher, and she was a former vice president of the Siwanoy Democratic Club, now defunct. She was a charter member of the Bronx Historical Society and a member of the League of Women Voters.
        Mrs. Ryan was also a member of the Ancient Order of Hibernians, the Business and Professional Women's Club of New York and the Order of Our Lady of the Holy Sepulchre.
        Born Aileen Barlow, she attended Public School 47 in the Bronx, Cathederal High School, Hunter College and the New York University Law School. Manhattan College awarded an honorary doctorate to her in 1974.
        She was a lifelong resident of the Bronx until she moved to Point Lookout, L.I., about two years ago.
        She is survived by two sons, Gerald Ryan of Rockville Centre, L.I., and Francis X. Ryan of Muttontown, L.I.; a daughter, Allana Chesney of Point Lookout, and three grandchildren.
        A wake will be held today and tomorrow from 2 to 5 P.M. and from 7 to 9 P.M. at O'Shea's Funeral Home in Wantagh, L.I. A funeral mass is scheduled for 10:30 A.M. Wednesday at St. Helena's Roman Catholic Church in the Bronx.
      