
       Clara Peller, the diminutive octogenarian who uttered the famous hamburger challenge, ''Where's the beef?'' in television commercials for a fast-food restaurant chain, died here today. She was 86 years old.
        Clara Peller, the diminutive octogenarian who uttered the famous hamburger challenge, ''Where's the beef?'' in television commercials for a fast-food restaurant chain, died here today. She was 86 years old.
        Mrs. Peller died at her home, said Barbara Zummo at Furth Funeral Direction, which was handling arrangements. The cause of death was not known.
        Mrs. Peller, who worked as a manicurist and beautician for 35 years, became a celebrity in 1984 when she appeared in two television commercials for Wendy's International Inc., of Dublin, Ohio. In the commercials Mrs. Peller, who was 4 feet 10 inches tall, played the part of a consumer outraged by the small size of hamburger patties served by other fast-food chains. ''Where's the beef?'' she demanded.
        The ''beef'' campaign helped increase Wendy's annual revenue by 31 percent, the chain reported. In 1984, Wendy's had 2,850 restaurants worldwide and annual sales of about $2 billion. The campaign also made Mrs. Peller a television star and led to licensing deals for ''Where's the beef?'' T-shirts, coffee mugs and beach towels. Phrase Picked Up by Mondale The phrase even made it into the 1984 campaign for the Democratic Presidential nomination when Walter F. Mondale used it to suggest a lack of substance in proposals advanced by his chief rival, Gary Hart.
        ''If Walter Mondale could have said the line like Clara, he would have been our President,'' said Joe Sedelmaier of Chicago, who directed and produced the commercials.
        Mrs. Peller lost her job with Wendy's in 1985 after she did a commercial for Campbell's Prego spaghetti sauce proclaiming: ''I found it. I really found it.'' The fast-food chain contended that the commercial ''infers that Clara found the beef at somewhere other than Wendy's restaurants.''
        Mrs. Peller worked for actor's scale, $317.40 a day, on the first Wendy's commercial in January 1984. Her fee for the second commercial, which appeared in September 1984, was not disclosed. Wendy's said she made $500,000 for the ''beef'' commercials, but she denied making that much.
        ''I made some money, which is nice for an older person,'' she said, ''but Wendy's made millions because of me.''
        Mrs. Peller, who came to the United States from Russia when she was a child, is survived by two daughters and two grandchildren.
      