
       Peggy Bacon, a poet, author, artist and illustrator of more than 60 books, whose whimsical pastels featured some of Manhattan's toughest alley cats, died Sunday in Kennebunk, Me. She was 91 years old. Her many-faceted career spanned several decades. She was most recently in the news in 1975, when the National Collection of Fine Arts in
        Peggy Bacon, a poet, author, artist and illustrator of more than 60 books, whose whimsical pastels featured some of Manhattan's toughest alley cats, died Sunday in Kennebunk, Me. She was 91 years old. Her many-faceted career spanned several decades. She was most recently in the news in 1975, when the National Collection of Fine Arts in Washington honored her with a yearlong retrospective.
        The heyday of her fame came in the 1920's and 30's, when as both graphic artist and writer, she was much admired for the wit, the charm and the plain-spoken honesty of her work, much of which consisted of satirical, though affectionate, glimpses of her day. 'Reservoir of Warm Feeling'
        In reviewing the 1975 retrospective, Hilton Kramer, then the art critic of The New York Times, wrote that Miss Bacon ''brings a large reservoir of warm feeling to the most ordinary subjects - the playfulness of a cat, the peculiar gait of a man or woman in the street, an outdoor picnic or a summer camp - and if she does not always avoid a certain sentimentality, she nonetheless impresses us with her sincerity.''
        In 1980, Miss Bacon received the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters' Gold Medal for graphic art in recognition of ''her long and impressive career as graphic artist and illustrator.''
        Margaret Frances Bacon was born in Ridgefield, Conn, on May 2, 1895. She graduated from the Kent Place School, in Summit, N.J., in 1913, and studied at the Art Students League of New York, where she was an instructor in painting, drawing and composition from 1935 to 1936 and 1948 to 1952, She also studied at the New York School of Fine and Applied Arts.
        She was the author and illustrator of such works as ''Lion-Hearted Kitten,'' ''Mercy and the Mouse,'' ''The Terrible Nuisance,'' ''Animosities,'' ''Off With Their Heads,'' ''Cat-Calls,'' ''Starting From Scratch'' and ''The Good American Witch.''
        She is survived by a daughter, Belinda Bacon of Cambridge, Mass.; a son, Alexander Bacon Brook, of Sag Harbor, L.I.; four grandchildren, and a great-grandchild.
      