
       Lucille Mason Rose, a former New York City Deputy Mayor, died after a heart attack Saturday in Brookdale Hospital. She was 67 years old and lived in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn.
        Lucille Mason Rose, a former New York City Deputy Mayor, died after a heart attack Saturday in Brookdale Hospital. She was 67 years old and lived in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn.
        ''A middle-aged energetic woman who thinks she knows where she's going'' is the way Mrs. Rose described herself 10 years ago, shortly before Mayor Abraham D. Beame appointed her a Deputy Mayor. She was the first woman to hold such a job.
        Mrs. Rose, whose style reflected her youth in Virginia and Brooklyn, moved through a variety of managerial jobs related to labor.
        ''I've gone step by step,'' Mrs. Rose said in 1977. ''They haven't let me skip a step.''
        The first step was a job as a fiscal clerk in the Department of Social Services, which in 1949 paid $1,860 a year.
        After earning a degree in economics from Brooklyn College in 1963, she was named director of the Bedford-Stuyvesant field office of the city's Department of Labor. Her responsibilities were gradually expanded, and in 1970 Mayor John V. Lindsay named her first deputy commissioner of the city Manpower and Career Development Agency.
        In 1972, she became Commissioner of the Department of Employment. While she was in charge of that agency, its budget grew from $55 million to $300 million.
        Mrs. Rose was born in Richmond on Sept. 27, 1920. Her family moved to Brooklyn when she was 7 years old, and her mother and father opened the Mason Dining Room at the corner of Fulton Street and Albany Avenue.
        After her father died, her mother operated the 12-table restaurant by herself. Mrs. Rose's mother also made dresses in the evening to support the family. ''My mother didn't believe in welfare,'' Mrs. Rose recalled in 1972.
        Mrs. Rose often left school to help serve the lunchtime crowd at the restaurant. She attended Public School 3 and was graduated from Girls High School in 1937.
        During World War II, she worked as a welder in the construction of the battleship Missouri.
        Mrs. Rose was the first woman president of the Catholic Interracial Council. She also held posts in other civic and political organizations, including the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People; the National Democratic Committee; the Salvation Army Advisory Committee, and St. Mary's Hospital. She was recently elected president of the Bedford-Stuyvesant Brooklyn chapter of the Lioness Club.
        She is survived by a son, Cornelius.
      