
       Emma DeLong Mills, a founder and former president of the Chinatown Planning Council and a leader of Chinese medical, educational and cultural institutions for more than 60 years, died of pneumonia Wednesday at the Southport Manor Convalescent Hospital in Southport, Conn. Miss Mills, who had lived most of her life in Manhattan, was 92 years old.
        Emma DeLong Mills, a founder and former president of the Chinatown Planning Council and a leader of Chinese medical, educational and cultural institutions for more than 60 years, died of pneumonia Wednesday at the Southport Manor Convalescent Hospital in Southport, Conn. Miss Mills, who had lived most of her life in Manhattan, was 92 years old.
        From 1965 to 1984, Miss Mills was a director and officer of the Chinatown Planning Council, a nonprofit multiservice agency serving New York's growing Chinese community. In 1968 she served as the Council's president.
        Her interest in China stemmed from her friendship with Mei-ling Soong, a classmate at Wellesley College, who was later known as Madame Chiang, the wife of Chiang Kai-shek, the late president of Nationalist China.
        Miss Mills traveled in China after her graduation from Wellesley in 1917, worked on the editorial staff of the Shanghai Gazette and also tutored in China.
        In the 1930's, after the Japanese invasion, she raised funds for the war-torn country. After World War II, she assisted in the education of young Chinese in the United States.
        Over the years, she served as an official of the American Bureau for Medical Aid to China, the Hong Kong True Light School Foundation and the American-China Policy Association.
        Miss Mills, who was born in Stamford, Conn., was an Army Nurse and a ''farmerette,'' a member of a corps of young women working on farms, in World War I. In World War II she was employed in the Manhattan Project, which developed the atomic bomb.
        She is survived by a cousin, Thomas A. DeLong of Southport.
      