
       Beatrice Joy Chute, a novelist and short-story writer who was also a past president of the PEN American Center and taught for many years at Barnard College, died of a heart attack Sept. 6 at Bellevue Hospital Center. She was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Beatrice Joy Chute, a novelist and short-story writer who was also a past president of the PEN American Center and taught for many years at Barnard College, died of a heart attack Sept. 6 at Bellevue Hospital Center. She was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Miss Chute, who was born in Minneapolis in 1913, published her first story in 1931. She wrote many stories for and about adolescent boys for Collier's, The Saturday Evening Post and other magazines during the 1930's, and her first book, ''Blocking Back,'' was published in 1938. Many of her early works, such as ''Shattuck Cadet'' (1940) and ''Camp Hero'' (1942), were realistic tales of sports and camp life that captured the relationships and slang of her primarily male teen-age heroes.
        Although she continued to write short stories for children and adolescents in the 1940's, Miss Chute began to concentrate on adult fiction with ''The Fields Are White,'' a 1950 book about marriage and manners.
        Her best-known novel, ''Greenwillow'' (1956), was described by a critic as ''a deeply moving, gently humorous and serenely wise'' story of young love and self-discovery. It was made into a Broadway musical in 1960. Subsequent works included a 1957 anthology called ''The Blue Cup and Other Stories,'' ''The Story of a Small Life'' (1971) and ''Katie: An Impertinent Fairy Tale'' (1978). Taught at Barnard
        Her most recent novel, ''The Good Woman'' (1986), was a parable about a lonely woman who abandons her home for a journey of spiritual awakening while living on the streets.
        Miss Chute - who preferred to be called Joy and signed her books B. J. Chute - moved to New York in the early 1940's with her mother and two sisters. Over the years, she did volunteer work with poor children and the Police Athletic League. She became an adjunct professor of English at Barnard College in 1964, and taught creative writing there until her death.
        She was also director of Books Across the Sea, a division of the English-Speaking Union that promoted American books overseas, and was an active member and one-time president of the American chapter of PEN, the writer's association.
        Miss Chute is survived by two sisters, Marchette Chute, an author, of Manhattan, and Mary Chute Smith, of Morristown, N.J.
        A memorial service will be held at St. Peter's Church, Lexington Avenue and 53d Street, on Oct. 8 at 5:15 P.M.
      