
       Lee Theodore, the Broadway musical choreographer and performer and the founder of the American Dance Machine, died on Thursday in a nursing home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, after a long illness. She was 54 years old.
        Lee Theodore, the Broadway musical choreographer and performer and the founder of the American Dance Machine, died on Thursday in a nursing home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx, after a long illness. She was 54 years old.
        Mrs. Theodore was the original Anybodys, the tomboy member of the Jets gang, in ''West Side Story'' in 1957. She also appeared in ''Gentlemen Prefer Blondes,'' ''The King and I,'' ''Damn Yankees,'' and ''Tenderloin.'' Her choreographic credits include the Broadway musicals ''Baker Street,'' ''Apple Tree'' and ''Flora, the Red Menace.'' She also choreographed for the television shows of Perry Como, Ed Sullivan, Sid Caesar and Steve Allen.
        In 1962, Mrs. Theodore founded the Jazz Ballet Theater, a company commissioned for the International Jazz Festival in Washington by President Kennedy's Music Committee. The major work of her last years was the direction of the American Dance Machine, a theater-dance company she founded in 1975, a company devoted to the preservation of Broadway choreography of the past. An Expression of Culture
        One reviewer suggested that theater dance did not belong on the concert stage. Several choreographers resisted the idea initially. ''Some choreographers say they created the dances for a commercial setting and they're not worth saving, because they can't stand up,'' Mrs. Theodore said last year, before a company season at City Center. ''Gower Champion felt that way, but when he saw the company he changed his mind.''
        Other choreographers expressing similar doubts at first were Agnes de Mille and Michael Kidd, but Miss de Mille later became an active supporter of the company. Among the dancers assisting with revivals were Gwen Verdon and Helen Gallagher. Mrs. Theodore also envisioned the company as a training facility for show dancers.
        ''Theater dance is the way the American dancer expresses his culture, his understanding of the time,'' Mrs. Theodore said in 1978, before the company's first Broadway appearance. ''I had the privilege of working as a dancer and assistant with what I call the masters, people like Jerome Robbins, Danny Daniels, Don Saddler, Jack Cole. But only Bob Fosse has really been active lately. I would be teaching at universities around the country and the kids wouldn't know who Jack Cole or Agnes de Mille were. Their work is a part of our history and I began to feel it would be lost to this generation.'' Prominent in 'West Side Story'
        Mrs. Theodore was born in Newark and trained at New York's High School of Performing Arts. Shortly afterward, she made her debut as a dancer in Broadway musicals. She also danced with the Slavenska-Franklin Ballet Company. She made her directorial debut with a 1968 revival of ''West Side Story,'' for which she was chosen by Mr. Robbins, and worked on several later productions of the show.
        Mrs. Theodore continued to work until July of this year. Her last ballet, ''Dance Timecapsule,'' will be performed by American Dance Machine next month in New York. ''It is sort of a compendium of everything she had learned,'' her husband, Paris Theodore, said yesterday.
        Mrs. Theodore is also survived by her sons, Said and Ali. The funeral will be private. Plans for a memorial service have not been set.
      