
       Eleanor M. Johnson, founder of The Weekly Reader, which has brought the news of the world to schoolchildren for nearly six decades, died of cancer Thursday at a nursing home in Gaithersburg, Md. She was 94 years old.
        Eleanor M. Johnson, founder of The Weekly Reader, which has brought the news of the world to schoolchildren for nearly six decades, died of cancer Thursday at a nursing home in Gaithersburg, Md. She was 94 years old.
        Miss Johnson, a dedicated and energetic educator for half a century, produced the first issue of the newspaper on Sept. 21, 1928, and remained active in planning its contents until 1978, when she was 85.
        Originally called My Weekly Reader, the slim periodical, typically four or eight pages an issue, was read by two-thirds of today's American adults when they were in elementary school, according to the publisher, Fields Publications of Middletown, Conn.
        With its clear, straightforward prose, The Weekly Reader has explained to generations of American children the compelling events of the day: the Depression, World War II, assassinations, the Vietnam War, civil rights struggles and the Iran hostage crisis. 'They Were Missing Knowledge'
        ''Part of Eleanor's genius was she knew how to connect kids to the world,'' said Terry Borton, The Weekly Reader's editor in chief for the last 10 years.
        Miss Johnson conceived the idea of a newspaper for elementary school pupils in 1927, when she was an administrator overseeing curriculum in the public schools of York, Pa.
        ''In her work with kids,'' Mr. Borton said, ''she noticed most of the reading they did was fairy tales and fantasy, which she felt was fine, but she felt they were missing a knowledge and understanding of the real world, which she thought they would like.''
        She proposed the idea to William Blakey, president of American Education Publications, which already published a newspaper for high school students. He agreed. Hoover vs. Smith
        The cover article of the first Weekly Reader profiled the two principal candidates in the 1928 Presidential election, Herbert Hoover and Alfred E. Smith, focusing on their childhood. Its headline said, ''Two Poor Boys Who Made Good Are Now Running for the Highest Office in the World.'' The leading articles in two of the most recent Weekly Readers discussed a controversy over cigarette advertisements and the growing concern about air travel.
        Circulation reached 100,000 the first year and grew to a high of 13 million in the late 1960's and early 1970's, when The Weekly Reader expanded to seven editions, one for each grade level from preschool to sixth grade. Nine million schoolchildren subscribe today, at a cost of about $2 for the 27 issues of the school year.
        All the while, according to the newspaper's publisher, The Weekly Reader has retained its original aim: ''to present selected, well-written news of interest and value to children with accuracy and fairness, colorful but uncolored.'' A Farmer's Daughter
        Eleanor Murdock Johnson was born Dec. 10, 1892, in Washington County, Md., a daughter of a farming couple.
        Miss Johnson, a fragile-looking woman who stood about 4 feet 10 inches, began her career in education as a first-grade teacher in Oklahoma. She worked as a consultant to The Weekly Reader during its early years while continuing to hold administrative jobs in York and then in the Lakewood, Ohio, school system.
        In 1935, she left public schools to preside over the magazine full time as editor in chief, a job she held until 1961. Then, after retirement, she continued to serve the paper as a consultant until 1978.
        Miss Johnson, who held master's degrees in education from the University of Chicago and Columbia University, was also a co-author of several children's books, including the Child Story Readers and the Treasury of Literature Readers, and wrote more than 50 elementary school workbooks that offered exercises in reading, arithmetic and geography. She also wrote numerous articles in education journals and was an active public speaker.
        Miss Johnson, whose cancer was diagnosed about a month ago, is survived by a sister, Maria Johnson, with whom she lived at the Herman M. Wilson Health Care Center of the Asbury Methodist Retirement Center in Gaithersburg.
        A memorial service will be held Monday afternoon at St. Marks Lutheran Church in Wolfsville, Md.
      