
       Lucy Monroe, who sang ''The Star-Spangled Banner'' at every New York Yankees opening day and every Yankees World Series between 1945 and 1960, died of cancer Tuesday at her Manhattan home. She was 80 years old.
        Lucy Monroe, who sang ''The Star-Spangled Banner'' at every New York Yankees opening day and every Yankees World Series between 1945 and 1960, died of cancer Tuesday at her Manhattan home. She was 80 years old.
        Miss Monroe, the official soloist for the American Legion and the Veterans of Foreign Wars, spent much of her career singing the national anthem. She once estimated that she had sung it more than 5,000 times. In 1940 she starred in ''The American Jubilee'' at the New York World's Fair, closing each of 650 performances with the anthem. She sang for Presidents Roosevelt, Johnson and Kennedy, at President Truman's inauguration and at hundreds of other civic and patriotic gatherings.
        In 1942, she conducted a community sing, sponsored by the Treasury Department, on the steps of the Lincoln Memorial. More than 40,000 people attended. During the next four years the Treasury and RCA Victor co-sponsored similar events nationwide to sell war bonds. Anthem Sometimes Barred
        On some occasions, however, Miss Monroe refused to sing the song with which she had become so closely identified. When she performed for American troops, she did not sing the national anthem because, she said, ''the men are living it.''
        Miss Monroe, who was born on Oct. 23, 1906, in New York, was the daughter of Anna Laughlin and Dwight Monroe, a diamond importer. She was a graduate of the Horace Mann School.
        During the 1930's she was featured on three commercial radio programs a week and was a co-star for four years with Frank Munn on NBC's ''American Album of Familiar Music.'' She also appeared as a soloist with the New York Philharmonic and Philadelphia orchestras and with the Chicago, St. Louis and Metropolitan Opera companies.
        Miss Monroe married Harold M. Weinberg, a New York lawyer, in 1961, and was widowed in 1977. She leaves no survivors.
        A memorial service will be held at 10:30 A.M. Tuesday at St. Bartholomew's Church, Park Avenue between 50th and 51st Streets.
      