
       Maria Ivogun, the leading coloratura soprano of German opera in the period between the World Wars, died yesterday. She was 95 years old and lived in Beatenberg, Switzerland.
        Maria Ivogun, the leading coloratura soprano of German opera in the period between the World Wars, died yesterday. She was 95 years old and lived in Beatenberg, Switzerland.
        The soprano was born Maria Kempner in Budapest on Nov. 18, 1891. Her stage name was a construction based on the name of her mother, Ida von Gunther, a well-known operetta singer.
        Ivogun made her debut as Mimi in ''La Boheme'' in 1913, under the direction of Bruno Walter in Munich. She quickly became one of the most popular singers on the German scene, a position she maintained for two decades. Guest appearances took her to the leading opera houses of New York, Chicago, London and Milan. Her artistic home base remained Munich until 1925, when she followed Walter to Berlin.
        Her principal roles were Susanna in ''The Marriage of Figaro,'' the Queen of the Night in ''The Magic Flute'' and the leading female parts in ''The Barber of Seville,'' ''Rigoletto,'' ''Don Pasquale'' and other operas. She was the first to sing Zerbinetta in the revised version of Richard Strauss' ''Ariadne auf Naxos.''
        In 1921 she married the noted tenor Karl Erb. They were divorced in 1932, and in the next year she married the pianist Michael Raucheisen, who died in 1984.
        At the time of her second marriage she retired from singing - still, as her recordings of 1932 demonstrate, at the height of her powers - and began a long and notable career as a teacher. Among her many successful pupils were the sopranos Rita Streich and Elisabeth Schwarzkopf. The latter maintained close contact with Ivogun and continued to consult her on pedagogical issues to the end of her life.
        Ivogun made about 60 recordings from 1916 to 1932. They show a fresh, silvery voice and a merry style that could be tinged with pathos in melancholy arias. Her version of Zerbinetta's long aria from ''Ariadne'' has long been considered a classic, and her Johann Strauss waltzes sparkled with life.
      