
       Elizabeth Kray, a friend and patron of poets for more than 30 years, died of cancer Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. She was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Elizabeth Kray, a friend and patron of poets for more than 30 years, died of cancer Saturday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. She was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        ''With her unique mixture of idealism and common sense,'' said the poet Stanley Kunitz, ''she was the moving spirit behind most of the programs and activities that have made New York the poetry capital of the United States and an international poetry center.''
        As executive director of the Academy of American Poets, a position she held from 1963 to 1981, Miss Kray originated in 1966 the Poets-in-the-Schools program, bringing many important poets to schools in New York City, Detroit and Pittsburgh.
        She also established literary-historical walking tours under the auspices of the academy in Greenwich Village, Central Park, Harlem, SoHo and elsewhere. In the early 1970's, New York City donated the services of a Staten Island ferry so that patrons of a Walt Whitman walking tour could travel from lower Manhattan to Brooklyn as New Yorkers had traveled in Whitman's day. A Founder of Poets House
        After retiring from the academy, Miss Kray, together with Mr. Kunitz, founded Poets House, a meeting place for poets. Many of the books in its library were donated by poets, and Miss Kray donated her entire library, including many rare and inscribed editions.
        Miss Kray, who was born Aug. 17, 1916, in Cleveland, graduated from the University of Washington in 1938. After working as a teacher and a resettlement worker for displaced persons, in 1954 she became director of the Poetry Center, YM-YWHA, now known as the 92d Street Y. There she developed tours for poets, obtained a grant from the Bollingen Foundation to commission poets to translate foreign language poetry and arranged the first reading tours of a number of foreign poets. While running the Y's program, Miss Kray also acted as a personal agent for W. H. Auden, E. E. Cummings, Marianne Moore, Edith Sitwell and Stephen Spender.
        Miss Kray is the author of ''Four Literary-Historical Walking Tours'' and ''Chelsea 1904-1913: John Sloan's Neighborhood and Neighbors.''
        She is survived by her husband, Vladimir Ussachevsky, also of Manhattan, who is now composer in residence at the University of Utah, and a brother, Richard Kray, of Grosse Pointe, Mich. Funeral services will be held at 11 A.M. tomorrow at the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, Amsterdam Avenue at 112th Street.
      