
       Helen G. Scott, an American writer and translator who was a close associate of Francois Truffaut and other French New Wave film directors, died of a heart attack Friday in Paris, where she had lived for many years. She was 72 years old.
        Helen G. Scott, an American writer and translator who was a close associate of Francois Truffaut and other French New Wave film directors, died of a heart attack Friday in Paris, where she had lived for many years. She was 72 years old.
        In addition to her longtime collaboration with Truffaut, Mrs. Scott worked with such American and European directors as Robert Benton, Robert Swaim, Jean-Luc Godard, Alain Resnais, Philippe De Broca, Jacques Tati, Claude Berri and Milos Forman.
        Mr. Benton, director of ''Kramer vs. Kramer'' and other films, said of her yesterday: ''Helen Scott was a great friend of all film makers. She read an early version of 'Bonnie and Clyde,' translated it, and first called it to the attention of Truffaut. She was instrumental in advocating the New Wave films in this country and encouraged many young directors.'' Wrote Book With Truffaut
        Mrs. Scott was co-author with Truffaut of ''Hitchcock,'' a book based on a series of 1962 interviews with the British director. She wrote the English-language subtitles for a number of French films, including Mr. Berri's ''Jean de Florette'' and ''Manon of the Spring.''
        She was born in New York and reared in Paris, where her father was a correspondent for The Associated Press. During World War II, Mrs. Scott broadcast for the Free French from Brazzaville, the Congo. After the war, she served as press attache for Chief Justice Robert Jackson at the Nuremberg Trials of German war criminals. Later, she became a senior editor at the United Nations.
        Between 1959 and 1965, Mrs. Scott was director of public relations for the French Film Office in the United States. For her wartime service as a radio brodcaster and her role in French film making, the French Government awarded her La France Libre Medal in 1965. Last year, she was named Chevalier des Arts et des Lettres.
        Mrs. Scott, who was divorced, is survived by two brothers, Dr. Murray Reswick of Pittsburgh and Joseph Reswick of Garden City, L.I.
      