
       Caroline Gruss, who with her husband donated millions of dollars to educational institutions in this country and in Israel, died Wednesday at her home in Manhattan after a long illness. She was 76.  Mrs. Gruss was born in Poland, where she received a law degree and studied classical languages at the University of Lvov.
        Caroline Gruss, who with her husband donated millions of dollars to educational institutions in this country and in Israel, died Wednesday at her home in Manhattan after a long illness. She was 76.  Mrs. Gruss was born in Poland, where she received a law degree and studied classical languages at the University of Lvov. She and her husband, Joseph S. Gruss, an investment banker, came to the United States as refugees in 1939. Other family members stayed behind and became victims of the Nazis.
        In later years, Mrs. Gruss frequently said she felt an obligation to perpetuate the Jewish faith by Jewish education, beginning with the very young. With her husband or alone, she made frequent visits to schools. Preferred to Give Quietly
        Although they preferred to make their philanthropic gifts quietly, the donations by the Grusses are said to have totaled many millions of dollars.
        In 1978, the couple persuaded the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and the United Jewish Appeal to join them in establishing the Fund for Jewish Education. The two Jewish groups and the Grusses each contributed $1.5 million yearly to the fund.
        The resources were used to improve Jewish education, to increase the capacity of Jewish religious schools to expand enrollment and to provide better benefits to attract highly qualified instructors.
        The couple also established the Caroline and Joseph S. Gruss Center in Jerusalem, which serves as Yeshiva University's campus in Jerusalem.
        Beside her husband, Mrs. Gruss is survived by a son, Martin D., a daughter, Dr. Evelyn Lipper, a pediatrician and the wife of former Deputy Mayor Kenneth Lipper, all of New York City, and six grandchildren.
        A funeral is to be held today at the Fifth Avenue Synagogue, at 5 East 62d Street, at 11 A.M. Mrs. Gruss will be buried in Jerusalem after a service Sunday at the Gruss Center.
      