
       Elayne Hanley Varian, an art curator and exhibition organizer, died of cardiopulmonary arrest on Nov. 4 at her home in Orlando, Fla. She was 74 years old.
        Elayne Hanley Varian, an art curator and exhibition organizer, died of cardiopulmonary arrest on Nov. 4 at her home in Orlando, Fla. She was 74 years old.
        With her eye for the new and the lively, Mrs. Varian was best known in New York for the provocative shows of avant-garde art that she organized in the 1960's and 1970's as director of the contemporary wing of the Finch College Museum of Art. Among the more notable were a series called ''Art in Process,'' staged over an 11-year period ending in 1973, which exposed in detail the working methods and techniques of a number of contemporary artists; two ''Projected Art'' exhibitions of experimental films, videotapes and documentaries of artists at work; two Art Deco shows noted for scholarship and selectivity, and a documentary film by the artist Les Levine that portrayed the civil strife in northern Ireland. Mrs. Varian also taught courses in museology and art history at Finch.
        Elayne Hanley was born in San Francisco on Oct. 10, 1913. She was graduated from the School of the Art Institute of Chicago, and later received a master's degree in fine art there. She came to New York in 1933 and worked for a while as a dress designer. She married John Varian, a lawyer, in 1936, and retired to raise their son.
        In the mid-1940's, she joined the Duveen Brothers gallery, where she became assistant to the president, Edward Fowles, and remained there for 15 years. She went to Finch College as director of its contemporary museum in 1964, a position she held until the college closed for lack of funds in 1975.
        In that year, Mrs. Varian moved to Orlando, where her husband had retired. For three years, she served as curator of contemporary art at the John and Mabel Ringling Museum in Sarasota. After leaving there in 1978, she did art appraisal work and mounted several shows as a freelance curator.
        She is survived by her husband and by a son, Alfred, of Stowe, Vt.
      