
       Diana Sheean, an author and the widow of Vincent Sheean, died of a stroke complicated by pneumonia at St. Stephen's Hospital in London last Wednesday. She was 72 years old.
        Diana Sheean, an author and the widow of Vincent Sheean, died of a stroke complicated by pneumonia at St. Stephen's Hospital in London last Wednesday. She was 72 years old.
        The daughter of Sir Johnston Forbes-Robertson and Lady Gertrude Forbes-Robertson, a well-known actor and actress, Mrs. Sheean was born in London and spent most of her childhood in Kent, near the cliffs of Dover. ''There the great events of the village,'' she recalled, ''were the arrivals of Channel swimmers and German mines, which still washed up on the beach from time to time.''
        Mrs. Sheean, whose nickname was Dinah, wrote several books, including ''The Battle of Waterloo Road'' (1941), illustrated by Robert Capa's photographs, about the people in Britain during the war; ''War Letters From Britain'' (1941), edited with Roger W. Straus Jr.; ''A Cat and a King'' (1949), a novel about the theater, and ''My Aunt Maxine'' (1964), a biography of her aunt, Maxine Elliott, the American actress. #3 Plays 'Fizzed Out'
        She was educated at boarding schools and at a French school in London, and she lived for several months with a family in Vienna. Her only connection with the theater, aside from the involvement of her parents, was writing three plays that, in her words, ''fizzed out.''
        In 1935 she married Vincent Sheean, the noted American foreign correspondent, whose book ''Personal History'' was published to great success that year. They traveled widely in Spain, Czechoslovakia and elsewhere in Europe before settling in the United States.
        During those travels Mrs. Sheean wrote dispatches to The New York Herald Tribune, and before and during World War II she was active in committees raising money and distributing food for Spanish refugee children and victims of Nazism.
        The Sheeans were divorced in 1946 and remarried in 1949.
        Mrs. Sheean is survived by two daughters, Linda, of New York City, and Ellen, of London.
      