
       Maria-Theresa Duncan, a dancer who was the last of Isadora Duncan's adopted daughters, died at Doctors Hospital in Manhattan Monday. She was 92 years old.
        Maria-Theresa Duncan, a dancer who was the last of Isadora Duncan's adopted daughters, died at Doctors Hospital in Manhattan Monday. She was 92 years old.
        Born Therese Kruger, in Dresden, Germany, Miss Duncan was one of six young dancers legally adopted by Isadora Duncan and known as ''les Isadorables.''
        She came to Isadora Duncan's attention as a child dancing in a Christmas pageant. Miss Duncan dropped by the pageant dressed in a Grecian tunic. ''I couldn't take my eyes off her and each time I came to the front of the stage I stopped and stared,'' Maria-Theresa Duncan recalled in a 1977 interview.
        She was dropped from the pageant by an irate teacher, but the next morning Isadora Duncan appeared at the child's house and invited her to study at the school she had founded in Grunewald, near Berlin. Appearance at the White House
        Maria-Theresa Duncan danced with Isadora Duncan for 16 years, first as a student, then as one of the Isadora Duncan Dancers, which toured the United States in 1914. She began her independant career as a soloist in New York in 1922, appearing at Carnegie Hall, and danced at the White House in 1934 at the invitation of Eleanor Roosevelt.
        Maria-Theresa Duncan also founded a school and created the Heliconiades, her first performing group, in the 1930's. She became active as a solo dancer again in the 1950's.
        In 1977, she founded the Isadora Duncan International Institute in Mount Kisco, N.Y., and the Maria-Theresa Heritage Group, the institute's performing company. Her last performance was in a program of solo dances presented in New York City in 1983. Photographed by Steichen
        Maria-Theresa Duncan was the subject of a number of noted photographs by Edward Steichen, who called her ''a living reincarnation of a Grecian nymph.'' One photograph, of the young dancer in a wind-blown tunic, was named ''Wind Fire'' by the poet Carl Sandburg.
        She was the widow of Stefan Bourgeois, an art dealer, and is survived by two sons, Rano, of New York City, and Feodor, of San Francisco.
      