
       Septima Poinsette Clark, a teacher who had been active in civil rights activities since World War I, died Tuesday at a nursing home on John's Island. She was 89 years old.  Born in Charleston, the daughter of a former slave, Mrs. Clark was widely recognized for her work in civil rights. In 1964 she accompanied the Rev.
        Septima Poinsette Clark, a teacher who had been active in civil rights activities since World War I, died Tuesday at a nursing home on John's Island. She was 89 years old.  Born in Charleston, the daughter of a former slave, Mrs. Clark was widely recognized for her work in civil rights. In 1964 she accompanied the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to Norway when he was presented the Nobel Peace Prize.
        ''The state has lost not only a leading civil rights activist but a legendary educator and humanitarian,'' Gov. Carroll A. Campbell Jr. said today.
        Mrs. Clark attended Avery Institute in Charleston, and received a bachelor's degree from Benedict College in Columbia and a master's degree from Hampton Institute in Virginia. Worked in Teacher Campaign
        She began her teaching career at a black public school on John's Island and, in 1918, accepted a teaching post at Avery. That year, she was instrumental in getting about 20,000 signatures on a petition to have black teachers hired by the Charleston County School District.
        Mrs. Clark moved to Columbia in 1927 to teach and helped in a campaign to equalize teacher salaries.
        She later was dismissed from a teaching job in Charleston for being a member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.
        In the late 1950's she worked at the Highlander Folk School in Tennessee, where she developed a program to teach blacks to read and write well enough to pass voter literacy tests. She lectured around the country and later became a director of the school and a supervisor of teacher training for the Southern Christian Leadership Conference.
        Her autobiography, ''Echo In My Soul,'' was published in 1962.
        In 1974, Mrs. Clark was elected to the Charleston County School Board.
        Mrs. Clark received a Living Legacy Award from President Carter in 1979 and the Order of the Palmetto, South Carolina's highest civilian award, in 1982.
        She is survived by a son, Nerie D. Clark Jr., of Hickory, N.C., a sister and two brothers.
      