
       Dr. Charlotte Friend, a medical microbiologist who made major contributions to the understanding of cancer during a career that spanned almost four decades, died Tuesday after a long illness. She was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Charlotte Friend, a medical microbiologist who made major contributions to the understanding of cancer during a career that spanned almost four decades, died Tuesday after a long illness. She was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        In 1956, Dr. Friend discovered a virus that causes leukemia in mice. The virus, named the Friend virus, has been an important tool for study of the relationships between animal cancers and viruses for many years.
        At the time of her death, Dr. Friend was professor and director of the Center for Experimental Cell Biology at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. Her most important scientific achievements were in immunology and the relationships between cancer and viruses. She also helped shape the educational and research philosophy of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, which was just getting started when she joined its faculty in 1966.
        ''Her presence was a major factor in establishing at the fledgling medical school a balance between emphasis on clinical care and on basic scientific research,'' said Dr. Nathan Kase, dean of the medical school. New Concept on Cancer
        Her recent contributions included evidence that cancer cells may be capable of progressing - differentiating - from the cancerous state to normalcy if subjected to appropriate chemical stimuli. In theory, that concept might lead to an entirely new type of cancer treatment in which the goal would be that of selectively favoring the growth of normal cells rather than simply killing cancer cells. Conventional anti-cancer drugs act mainly by killing cancer cells, but they kill many normal cells in the process.
        The new concept of inducing differentiation to normalcy in cancer tissues is undergoing early tests in patients at several research centers under the sponsorship of the National Cancer Institute and other agencies.
        When Dr. Friend began studies of animal cancer viruses, most scientists considered it heretical to suggest that viruses might also be involved in human cancers. Today several viruses are known to be crucial factors in causing human cancers. Many years of research with animal cancer viruses was indispensible to proving the links between other viruses and human cancers.
        The Friend virus has been so important in cancer research that it is the focus of an entire chapter in Oncogenic Viruses, a definitive text on cancer virus research by Dr. Ludwik Gross of the Veterans Administration Medical Center in the Bronx.
        She was born in New York, March 11, 1921, received a bachelor's degree from Hunter College in 1944 and a doctorate in bacteriology from Yale University in 1950. She worked at Sloan-Kettering Institute and Cornell Medical College until 1966 when she moved to the Mount Sinai School of Medicine.
        She is survived by a sister, Pricilla Simon of the Bronx, and a brother, Morris of Massapequa, L.I.
        CHARLOTTE FRIEND DIES AT 65
      