
       Minnie Evans, a folk artist whose vividly colored works were often inspired by dreams and religious visions, died Wednesday at the Grotgen Nursing Home in Wilmington, N.C. She was 95 years old.
        Minnie Evans, a folk artist whose vividly colored works were often inspired by dreams and religious visions, died Wednesday at the Grotgen Nursing Home in Wilmington, N.C. She was 95 years old.
        Mrs. Evans was a descendant of slaves brought to North Carolina in the early 19th century. She worked as a domestic for wealthy families in Wilmington and later as an admissions gatekeeper at the Airlie Gardens there.
        She sometimes sold her works to visitors of the gardens. In the mid-1960's, a graduate art student, Nina Howell Starr, saw some of her works that had been bought by a friend and eventually arranged small exhibits of Mrs. Evans's work in New York City.
        Mrs. Evans began to get wide recognition and by the 1970's, after more than 30 years of solitary work, she became one of the best known of black American folk artists. Her work was frequently shown in galleries and museums, most notably in a one-person show at the Whitney Museum of American Art in 1975, and she was frequently written about. Her 'Lost Art'
        From her childhood on, she often said, she had heard voices and seen visions, many of them influenced by the Bible. But it was not until she was in her early 40's that, in a torrent of creative expression that would last through the 1970's, she began to record the visions on paper.
        ''The only thing I can tell you to say,'' she once told her friend and representative, Mrs. Starr, ''is that it's Minnie Evans's lost art. This has come to me, this art that I have put out, from nations that I suppose might have been destroyed before the flood. No one knows anything about them, but God has given it to me to bring them back into the world.''
        With little money, she painted and drew on whatever was at hand - discarded windowshades, bookbindings, scrap paper. She favored vivid, almost psychedelic colors, which she achieved sometimes with oil paint but more often with inexpensive materials, especially ink and crayon. Angels, Devils and Beasts
        The paintings were typically dense, lush patterns created by interlocking floral, human, animal and mythical forms. The angels, devils, beasts and Christ-like figures were clearly derived from biblical stories, while the vibrant and bursting foliage was inspired more by the Airlie Gardens.
        ''I love people, to a certain extent,'' she told Newsweek in 1969. ''But sometimes I want to get off in the garden to talk with God. I have the blooms, and when the blooms are gone, I love to watch the green. God dressed the world in green.''
        Mrs. Evans is survived by two sons, Elisha Dyer, of the Bronx, and George Sheldon, of Wilmington.
      