
       Dr. Lauretta Bender, a child neuro-psychiatrist, researcher and educator, died Jan. 4 in a nursing home in Annapolis, Md. She was 88 years old and lived in Annapolis.
        Dr. Lauretta Bender, a child neuro-psychiatrist, researcher and educator, died Jan. 4 in a nursing home in Annapolis, Md. She was 88 years old and lived in Annapolis.
        Dr. Bender was known for developing, in 1923, the Bender-Gestault Visual Motor Test, a neuropsychological examination that has become a worldwide standard. She spent many years researching the cause of childhood schizophrenia and was responsible for studies on child suicides and violence.
        In 1955, Dr. Bender received the Adolf Meyer Memorial Award for her contributions to the understanding of schizophrenic children.
        She became a staff member of Bellevue Hospital in 1930 and later was senior psychiatrist in charge of the Children's Service at the hospital, a post she held for 21 years. Consulant to Children's Guild
        Also in 1955, Dr. Bender was appointed principal research scientist in child psychiatry, a new post in the State Mental Hygiene Department. She continued working with the state until 1973, when she moved to Annapolis. Dr. Bender taught at the University of Maryland and was a consultant to the Children's Guild Inc., a group that works with emotionally disturbed youngsters, and similar organizations.
        She was born in Butte, Mont. Dr. Bender graduated with a B.S. from the University of Chicago in 1922 and an M.A. in pathology in 1923. She received a medical degree from the State University of Iowa in 1926.
        After completing her internship and residency at Billings Hospital of the University of Chicago, she became a resident psychiatrist at Boston Psychopathic Hospital from 1928 to 1929. From 1929 to 1930, Dr. Bender was a research associate in psychiatry at the Phipps Clinic of Johns Hopkins Hospital.
        Dr. Bender was a member of such organizations as the American Psychiatric Association; the American Neurological Association, the American Academy of Child Psychiatry and the American Association for the Advancement of Science. She was also on the Citizen's Committee for Children of New York City Inc.
        Dr. Bender had been married to Dr. Paul Schilder, a Viennese psychiatrist who was an associate of Freud. Dr. Schilder died in 1940. In 1968, Dr. Bender married Dr. Henry Banford Parks, a historian and professor at New York University. He died in 1973.
        She is survived by a son, Dr. Peter Schilder of Annapolis; a daughter, Jane S. Knowles of Santa Fe, N.M.; three grandchildren, and a brother, Karl Bender of Milwaukee, Ore.
      