
       Hebe Dorsey, the fashion editor of The International Herald Tribune and a major figure in the fashion world, died of cancer yesterday morning at the American Hospital in Neuilly-sur-Seine, near Paris. She was 62 years old and had been working for the paper for about 40 years.
        Hebe Dorsey, the fashion editor of The International Herald Tribune and a major figure in the fashion world, died of cancer yesterday morning at the American Hospital in Neuilly-sur-Seine, near Paris. She was 62 years old and had been working for the paper for about 40 years.
        Known for her irreverence and for fascination with society, Mrs. Dorsey frequently combined fashion and social reporting, and was in fact a member of the international social set herself.
        A witty and somewhat acerbic commentator, Mrs. Dorsey was a force in fashion circles in New York and Tokyo as well as Paris.
        ''She had the courage to report fashion critically,'' said Bill Blass, the designer, who remembered meeting her soon after World War II in Paris with Art Buchwald and other Tribune contributors. She was somewhat blase in those days, and she never really changed her attitude, he said. ''She liked the social aspects of fashion and she drew the connection between the two worlds,'' he added.
        Hebe (pronounced ay-bay) Dorsey was born March 5, 1925, in Sousse, Tunisia, one of five children of Mary and Clement Halfon. After attending a French high school, she went on to study English and French at the Sorbonne. She became a contributor to The Herald Tribune when it was the European edition of The New York Herald Tribune. At about the same time, she married Frank Dorsey, a copy editor there, according to her brother, Leon Halfon. They were divorced some years ago. Award From Fashion Group
        Earlier this fall she was one of five nominees for the journalism award given by the French Federation of Couture Ready to Wear and Creators of Fashion, an organization of trade groups. On Jan. 11, she was to receive an award for international journalism from the Council of Fashion Designers of America in New York.
        ''She had an appointment next week to be fitted for the dress she was planning to wear,'' Mr. Blass said. ''It was a simple little short red satin strapless dress trimmed in fake leopard.''
        Christian Lacroix said he would miss ''her sharpness, her acute sense of analysis and her style.'' She had ''helped launch us,'' France's newest couturier said, and he was happy that she was in New York in October when the first showing of his fashions was held in this country. Mrs. Dorsey was one of the first women to be seen in a Lacroix design, turning up at parties in his strapless red pouf-skirt dress. 'The Girl From Tunis'
        ''I think of her as the girl from Tunis who was so involved with her family,'' Mr. Lacroix said, ''not of the dragon-like editor who was so intimidating at the fashion shows.''
        He had lunch with her 10 days ago at the Ritz in Paris. ''She was wearing a Valentino suit with a fox collar and all her diamonds - she was in great spirits.''
        Mrs. Dorsey generally wore clothes from such French couture houses as Chanel, Yves Saint Laurent and Lacroix, but would occasionally turn up in, say, a blue denim suit by an unknown tailor. She was also interested in jewelry and decorating.
        ''Hebe revolutionized fashion writing,'' said John Fairchild, chairman of Fairchild Publications. ''She invented the idea of reviewing fashion like a play and she always did it with a razor, not a knife.''
        John Vinocur, executive editor of The Herald Tribune, called her ''loyal, fierce, enormously generous and wildly funny.'' He said she could be ''enormously entertaining in two languages,'' switching from French to English ''without losing an ounce of wit.'' Streak of Irreverence
        Her irreverence is illustrated by the article she wrote a few years ago after being bannned from a Christian Dior fashion show for an unfavorable review of the house's previous collection. Instead of lamenting the ban, she described using the free time to have her hair done, go shopping and take care of other chores she would not otherwise have had time for.
        She entertained lavishly, both in her large apartment on the Boulevard Malesherbes in Paris and her pied-a-terre on the East Side of Manhattan.
        ''She helped put fashion in the public eye,'' said Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, publisher of The New York Times and co-chairman of The Herald Tribune. ''She had a good time with her life,'' added his wife, Carol Sulzberger, a friend of Mrs. Dorsey.
        Walter N. Thayer, chairman of Whitney Communications and president of The Herald Tribune, commented, ''She was a great lady and a wonderful person who had friends in all walks of life.'' An 'Excellent' Reporter
        ''I met her 30 years ago when she was a young fashion writer and I was a fashion writer on the 'Today' show,'' Barbara Walters said. ''She never took herself too seriously, though she knew fashion was a serious business.''
        Her book, ''La Belle Epoque,'' a compilation of pieces from The Herald Tribune recalling Paris in its heyday, was published there last year. She also wrote a monthly column for French Vogue and contributed articles on fashion and decorating to other publications such as The New York Times.
        She is survived by three sisters, Zilia Sfez of Tunisia, Yvonne Brami of Nice and Nelly Cohen of Versailles, in addition to her brother. Her son, Joseph, is a photographer in Paris, and her daughter, Monika, lives in New York City.
        The family requests that instead of flowers contributions be made to the Samuel Waxman Cancer Research Foundation, 1150 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10128.
        Burial will be tomorrow at 10:30 A.M. at the Pantin cemetery outside Paris.
        A memorial service in New York is being planned by Miss Walters, Marilyn Evins, the fashion publicist, and other friends.
      