
       Margaret Scolari Barr, an art historian and teacher who was the wife and assistant of Alfred H. Barr, the founding director of the Museum of Modern Art, died of cancer of the colon yesterday at New York Hospital. She was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Margaret Scolari Barr, an art historian and teacher who was the wife and assistant of Alfred H. Barr, the founding director of the Museum of Modern Art, died of cancer of the colon yesterday at New York Hospital. She was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        The diversity of Mrs. Barr's talents and the force of her personality made her a presence in the New York art world for half a century.
        She was the author of ''Medardo Rosso (1858-1928),'' a monograph on the Italian modernist sculptor that was published by the Museum of Modern Art in 1963.
        She taught art history for 37 years at the Spence School, where she inspired many future scholars, including Joan R. Mertens, curator of Greek and Roman art at the Metropolitan Museum.
        Mrs. Barr was fluent in French, Italian, Spanish and German and was crucially involved in her husband's curatorial activities and in the wartime effort to provide refuge in the United States for European artists. 'An Essential Partner'
        ''Marga was a remarkable person who was an essential partner in the achievements and legacy of Alfred Barr,'' said Richard E. Oldenburg, the director of the Modern. ''A gifted art historian with a fine sense of quality, she was also very intelligent, strong-willed and intensely honest about everything and everyone, including herself.''
        ''The book on Rosso is still the best work on him in English,'' said Hilton Kramer, the editor of The New Criterion, whose issue last summer, ''Our Campaigns,'' was devoted to Mrs. Barr's biographical chronicle of the years 1930 to 1944, the turbulent period when Mr. Barr helped shape the Museum of Modern Art. Mr. Barr died in 1981 at the age of 79.
        ''She was a very gifted linguist, and Alfred was not,'' Mr. Kramer said. ''So all of his dealings with Picasso, Matisse, Miro and virtually all non-English-speaking European artists were done with her as the interpreter. Neither of his two most important books, on Picasso and Matisse, could have been possible without her.''
        Mr. Barr's monograph ''Picasso: Fifty Years of His Art,'' published in 1946, was dedicated to her.
        ''I grew up in awe of Alfred and Margaret,'' said Anne d'Harnoncourt, the director of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, whose father, Rene d'Harnoncourt, was director of the Museum of Modern Art from 1949 to 1968. ''I think the remarkable thing about Margaret was her emphasis. She made everyone else, including me, feel fuzzy and vague. She had a real gift for drawing your attention and not letting it go.'' Born in Rome
        Margaret Scolari was born in Rome in 1901. Her mother, Mary Fitzmaurice, was Irish. Her father, Virgilio Scolari, was an Italian antiques dealer. At the University of Rome from 1919 to 1922, she specialized in humanistic and linguistic studies.
        She came to the United States in 1925 and taught Italian at Vassar, from which she also received a master's degree in art history.
        In September 1929 she moved to New York City, where she studied art history at New York University. Late in the year, at the inaugural exhibition of the Museum of Modern Art, she met Alfred Barr.
        They were married in Paris in 1930. In a profile on Alfred Barr in The New Yorker in 1953, Dwight Macdonald wrote: ''The day after the wedding, Barr started out to borrow pictures for a forthcoming Corot-Daumier show, with Mrs. Barr acting as his translator and secretary. They continued the arrangement through the thirties, going abroad almost every summer to beg and borrow pictures for the next year's exhibitions.''
        During World War II, Mrs. Barr was involved in the Emergency Rescue Committee (now the International Rescue Committee), which was responsible for helping artists like Jacques Lipchitz, Piet Mondrian, Max Ernst, Yves Tanguy and Andre Masson to leave Europe. Translations and Chronology
        Mrs. Barr translated Charles Rufus Morey's catalogue of the Vatican Library's Museo Christiano into Italian. She also made the first complete English translation of Matisse's ''Notes of a Painter.''
        At the time of her death she was working on the chronology of her life with her husband.
        In the introduction to her art history course at Spence, where she taught from 1943 to 1980, Mrs. Barr wrote:
        ''I spend no time defining what is art, you'll soon know. Not all of it is, at first sight, beautiful; little of it is pretty; all of it is interesting. And the more you know about a work of art - what preceded it, what followed it, the reasons why it is the way it is - the more it will come to life for you. The tourist who goes through museums exclaiming, 'Beautiful, Beautiful,' is something to be deplored. You jolly well must know why.
        ''Now plan to enjoy yourselves. As Poussin, the great French painter of the 17th century, remarked, 'Le fin de l'art est la delectation,' '' - ''The goal of art is delight.''
        Mrs. Barr is survived by a daughter, Victoria, a painter who lives in New York City.
        A memorial service will be held at 4 P.M. on Jan. 12 at the Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, 921 Madison Avenue, at 73d Street.
      