
       Molly O'Day, who never became a major national star but who was prized by aficionados as one of the finest country-and-western singers ever, died of cancer of the colon Saturday at Cabell Huntington Hospital in Huntington, W.Va. She was 64 years old.
        Molly O'Day, who never became a major national star but who was prized by aficionados as one of the finest country-and-western singers ever, died of cancer of the colon Saturday at Cabell Huntington Hospital in Huntington, W.Va. She was 64 years old.
        Miss O'Day retired in 1952, when she was only 29. Yet she was called ''one of the greatest, if not the greatest, women singers in country music'' by Robert Shelton, former popular-music critic of The New York Times. Dolly Parton said Miss O'Day's singing had profoundly influenced her. And Earl Scruggs, the bluegrass banjo player, said he had once been beaten by her in a Kentucky banjo-picking contest, and that he had been awed by both her singing and her banjo playing.
        Miss O'Day, whose original name was LaVerne Williamson, was born in McVeigh, Ky., in the same eastern Kentucky hills that also produced such country stars as Loretta Lynn and Ricky Scaggs. A Pure, Roughly Urban Sound
        Her career began in 1939, when she joined her fiddle-playing brother, Skeets, in a touring country band. At that time she assumed the first of many stage names, Mountain Fern. Her name became Dixie Lee in 1940, and the next year she married a fellow band member, Lynn Davis. It was only later that she chose the stage name Molly O'Day.
        Miss O'Day's recordings, 36 songs made for Columbia Records between 1946 and 1951, document a purer, more roughly rural country style than the urbanized, smoothed-over Nashville sound that has since come to dominate country music. Her most famous number was ''The Tramp on the Street''; others included ''Teardrops Falling in the Snow,'' ''Don't Sell Daddy Any More Whisky'' and Hank Williams's ''Singing Waterfall.''
        Her recordings included considerable sacred music, exclusively so after 1950. In 1952 she contracted tuberculosis, which greatly curtailed her singing. Her secular career ended when she and her husband decided to become ministers in the Church of God.
        Her later years were spent reclusively in Huntington. She refused honors, and insisted that her career had had no impact on modern country music.
        She is survived by her husband.
      