
       Representative Sala Galant Burton, a California Democrat who succeeded her husband, Phillip Burton, in Congress in 1983 and carried on his liberal policies, died Sunday of complications of cancer. She was 61 years old.
        Representative Sala Galant Burton, a California Democrat who succeeded her husband, Phillip Burton, in Congress in 1983 and carried on his liberal policies, died Sunday of complications of cancer. She was 61 years old.
        Tom Schulz, a nephew of Mrs. Burton's, said she died at 8:22 P.M. at the George Washington University Hospital here.
        ''Mrs. Burton, recently hospitalized for further treatment and recuperation from cancer surgery, experienced a sudden decline this weekend after an apparent stabilization,'' Mr. Schulz said.
        Mrs. Burton underwent surgery for colon cancer in August. Her last public appearance was on Dec. 9. Swearing-in Was Delayed
        Mrs. Burton arrived at her Congressional office for the opening day of Congress Jan. 6 after insisting that she would appear. However, later in the day she became ill and was forced to leave before the swearing in of the 100th Congress.
        The House adopted a resolution allowing her to be sworn in at home, and the oath was administered Jan. 7 by the chairman of the California delegation, Don Edwards, also a Democrat.
        ''She took the oath, signed all the papers and gave me a bottle of champagne,'' Mr. Edwards said. Mrs. Burton entered the George Washington University Hospital the next day. Re-elected in 1984 and 1986
        Mrs. Burton, who represented a large portion of San Francisco, was a member of the House Rules Committee. She was elected in 1983 to complete the term of her husband when he died and was re-elected in 1984 and 1986. Mrs. Burton is survived by their daughter, Joy Temes.
        Mrs. Burton, who was born in Bialystok, Poland, traced her interest in politics to her teen-age years, when she and her parents fled Poland ahead of the Nazi occupation forces.
        ''I saw and felt what happened in Western Europe when the Nazis were moving,'' she once said. ''You learn that politics is everybody's business.''
        Politics was her business most of the time after she met her husband in 1950 at a convention of the California Young Democrats. 'She Astounded Everybody'
        Phillip Burton spent nearly two decades in Congress and championed his liberal causes with a brash style. ''Phil was so overwhelming he would just take over when he walked into a room,'' Mr. Edwards recalled recently. ''It tended to put her in the role as a shy wife. But she was operating all the time.
        ''When Phil died, she astounded everybody,'' he said. ''First, she was on the Education and Labor Committee.'' When she got on Rules, she was among the very strongest members for national Democratic Party policies. She was an advocate for poor people, education, the environment and arms reduction. She was a pillar of strength. She didn't give an inch.'' When she returned to the House after her operation last year, Mrs. Burton was welcomed back with a speech by Representative Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., the Speaker. Democratic Party Activities
        In the 1950's Mrs. Burton helped organize the California Democratic Council and served as its vice president. She was a delegate to three national Democratic Party conventions.
        She also worked closely with the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People to end job and housing discrimination.
        From 1972 through 1974, she was president of the Democratic Wives of the House and Senate. She was legislative chairman of the Women's National Democratic Club and was its liaison to the House.
        Friends said she viewed her job of representing three-quarters of San Francisco's 678,000 residents as a family legacy. After winning the seat, she moved into offices at a Federal building in San Francisco that had been renamed for her husband.
        Tentative plans were to hold funeral services at noon on Thursday at Temple Emanu-el in San Francisco.
        SALA GALANT BURTON, 61
      