
       Inna Kitrosskaya Meiman, the wife of a Soviet dissident, died yesterday at the Lombardi Cancer Research Center of Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, three weeks after she was allowed to go abroad for treatment of an inoperable tumor on her neck. She was 53 years old and had been waiting years for permission to travel.
        Inna Kitrosskaya Meiman, the wife of a Soviet dissident, died yesterday at the Lombardi Cancer Research Center of Georgetown University Hospital in Washington, three weeks after she was allowed to go abroad for treatment of an inoperable tumor on her neck. She was 53 years old and had been waiting years for permission to travel.
        Gerald Strober, a spokesman for the National Conference on Soviet Jewry, which helped to plead her case, said Mrs. Meiman was admitted to the center on Jan. 20. In asking to go abroad, Mrs. Meiman said she wanted to undergo specialized radiation treatment, her only remaining hope for survival. Complications Reported
        According to Mr. Strober, she had various tests complicated by low blood pressure, drug-induced diabetes and infection.
        ''Basically she was still being evaluated for the start of chemotherapy,'' Mr. Strober said.  She was the wife of Prof. Naum Meiman, a mathematician who himself had long been denied an exit visa on the ground that he did secret work 30 years ago. Professor Meiman, 76 years of age, was a member of a now-disbanded group that monitored Soviet compliance with the Helsinki accords of 1975.
        Professor Meiman said last month that he did not think officials might relent and let him follow his wife now that her health had become precarious. He said that his wife had undergone chemotherapy and four operations and that her only chance lay in American experimental treatment.
        Mrs. Meiman, a teacher of English, was married to Professor Meiman in 1981.
        Word that she might be able to leave first came from Senator Gary Hart, the Colorado Democrat and possible Democratic Presidential candidate, while he was on a visit to Moscow in December. He said he had made a special plea for her to Mikhael S. Gorbachev, the Soviet leader.
        Later, in a meeting, with Foreign Minister Eduard A. Shevardnadze, Senator Hart was informed of that the case was being ''reconsidered.'' Another Soviet cancer patient, Rimma Bravve, left Moscow on Dec. 18 in Senator Hart's company to receive treatment in New York. Left With Mixed Feelings
        At the time of her own departure, Mrs. Meiman said she was leaving with ''mixed feelings'' since her husband had to stay behind. She said she had been feeling weak for some weeks and was eager to enter the Georgetown center.
        Donna Hartman, the wife of Ambassador Arthur A. Hartman, accompanied Mrs. Meiman through routine customs and passport controls.
        Mrs. Meiman is survived by a son from a previous marriage, Leo Kitrossky, a scientist in Moscow with three children. Also surviving is a daughter of Professor Meiman by a previous marriage, Olga Plam of Boulder, Colo.
        INNA MEIMAN, EMIGRE, DIES AT 53
      