
       Mura Dehn, a Russian-born dancer and choreographer who became known as a film maker and a specialist in American black dance, died Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 84 years old.
        Mura Dehn, a Russian-born dancer and choreographer who became known as a film maker and a specialist in American black dance, died Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 84 years old.
        Miss Dehn, who directed a company of black dancers until 1973, was considered a pioneer in documenting the various styles of black social dance. Last November, Joseph Papp's Film at the Public series presented ''The Spirit Moves,'' Miss Dehn's highly praised five-hour film about the evolution of black dance styles. Its images of the celebrated Lindy Hoppers, who danced at the Savoy Ballroom in Harlem in the 1940's, are considered among the most valuable archival footage in a field that covers both social and theatrical history. Among the Savoy dancers recorded in the film are jazz dance stars such as Al Minns, Sarah Washington, Leon James and James Berry, who also recreated his song and dance routines of the 1920's.
        ''I consider these films a portrait of our century because all the important events of our time were reflected in dance in one way or another,'' Miss Dehn told The New York Times in November. She said she turned to film because ''a film would be the first real book we had about these dances.'' Inspired by Josephine Baker
        Born in Odessa, Miss Dehn came to the United States in 1930 after performing in Europe with a modern-dance group directed by Ellen Tells. Josephine Baker, the American dancer who became a star in Paris in the 1920's, ignited what was to be Miss Dehn's long-lasting passion for jazz dance.
        In her New York dance debut in 1932, Miss Dehn choreographed a work, ''The Wise and Foolish Virgins,'' that used a chanting black chorus. Miss Dehn formed a jazz-dance company at that time. The troupe evolved into the Traditional Jazz Dance Company, which was made up of black entertainers and which toured internationally. The group also performed at the Olympic Games in Mexico.
        Miss Dehn's second husband, Herman Thomas, a retired captain in the Merchant Marine, died in 1982. She was previously married to the American painter Adolph Dehn.
      