
       Nora Kaye, a leading American ballerina whose exceptional power as a dramatic dancer made her an international star, died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles after a long illness. She was 67.
        Nora Kaye, a leading American ballerina whose exceptional power as a dramatic dancer made her an international star, died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles after a long illness. She was 67.
        Miss Kaye was one of the foremost ballerinas of her time. Although she danced many classical roles, she became known for creating a new contemporary look among dancers, especially in Antony Tudor's dance-dramas in the 1940's and 1950's.
        In an era when ballet was considered a Russian art, Miss Kaye remained steadfastly an American dancer. Her last name was originally Koreff, but she changed it to Kaye because ''an American dancer ought to have an American name,'' as she put it.
        Called the ''Duse of the dance,'' Miss Kaye excelled in dramatic roles. The world premiere by Ballet Theater, now American Ballet Theater, of Mr. Tudor's psychological ballet ''Pillar of Fire'' catapulted her to stardom in 1942. Symbol of Tenacity and Vigor
        Mikhail Baryshnikov, Ballet Theater's current artistic director, said of the ballerina: ''She was undoubtedly a great woman of the theater and a symbol to any dancer of tenacity, vigor and what it means to be a great star. Everyone in the dance world mourns her and is sad today.''
        Miss Kaye was a charter member of Ballet Theater from the company's first year, 1939. There she worked with Mr. Tudor, one of the company's choreographers and teachers, who revealed ballet to her as an expressive art.
        During Ballet Theater's first New York season early in 1940, she danced in the chorus of several Tudor ballets. The choreographer offered Miss Kaye her first important dramatic or character role, that of the Russian ballerina in his comic ballet ''Gala Performance,'' for its premiere in February 1941.
        But it was her portrayal of the sexually repressed Hagar in ''Pillar of Fire,'' that raised Miss Kaye to the status of prima ballerina and helped make her one of the best-known American ballerinas in the world.
        Reviewing the ballet at its premiere in April 1942, John Martin, then dance critic of The New York Times, rated Miss Kaye's characterization as among ''the great examples of tragic acting of its generation.'' 'I Wanted to Extend Myself'
        By 1943, Miss Kaye was dancing most of the lead female roles in the Ballet Theater repertory. She performed with the company through 1951, when she left to dance with the New York City Ballet.
        She was not well suited to the City Ballet style, however. though she had notable triumphs, among them her portrayal of the man-killing Novice in ''The Cage,'' which Jerome Robbins created for her. ''I wanted to extend myself,'' she said in 1977 of her years with City Ballet, ''but I was wrong for it.'' She returned to Ballet Theater in 1954 and danced with the company until 1959. She retired from the stage in 1961.
        Miss Kaye was known as a Tudor ballerina, but she danced ballets by many other contemporary choreographers, including Jerome Robbins, George Balanchine, Valerie Bettis, Kenneth MacMillan, John Taras and Herbert Ross, whom she married in 1959.
        Born in New York City, and named after the heroine of ''A Doll's House,'' Miss Kaye was exposed at an early age to Stanislavskian acting by her father, Gregory Koreff, a former actor with the Moscow Art Theater. She began studying dance at the age of 5, working with the celebrated choreographer Michel Fokine.
        At 8, Miss Kaye entered Margaret Curtis's ballet class at the Metropolitan Opera school. At 15, she graduated into the Metropolitan Opera's corps de ballet and danced with the American Ballet, a company founded by Balanchine and Lincoln Kirstein, when it became the Metropolitan's resident ballet troupe in 1935. She also studied at the School of American Ballet and with such noted teachers as Anatole Vilzak, Ludmila Shollar and Margaret Craske.
        She then abandoned ballet for several years, feeling, as she later said, that it was ''something dragged up from 300 years ago that didn't make any sense and wasn't going anyplace.'' She performed in musical comedies, among them ''Virginia,'' in 1937, ''Great Lady'' (1938), ''Stars in Your Eyes'' (1939) and, in 1952, ''Two's Company.'' She also danced in the Radio City Music Hall corps de ballet for nine months in the late 1930's. Assisted on Film Projects
        Miss Kaye was associate artistic director of Ballet Theater from 1977 to 1983. In later years, she also assisted Mr. Ross, by then a well-known film and stage producer and director, in his projects. Miss Kaye served as executive producer of ''The Turning Point,'' a 1977 film whose story was said to have been drawn from her own life, though she denied the rumor. Last summer, she assisted Mr. Ross in his filming of ''Giselle.''
        Other credits included work as executive producer or co-producer on the films ''The Last of Sheila,'' ''The Seven Percent Solution,'' ''Nijinsky,'' ''Pennies From Heaven'' and ''The Secret of My Success.''
        ''As an American ballerina,'' Miss Kaye wrote in 1950 in Theater Arts magazine, ''I never take anything for granted. I question each tradition, each interpretation, each movement. The answers I have found, sometimes right and sometimes wrong, constitute my contribution to the young American dancer of ballet: not to accept until you understand (at least to your own satisfaction), and not to dance any role, ancient or new, until you do understand. This urge to question and to discover is, I think, the trademark of American ballet.''
        Miss Kaye is survived by Mr. Ross. Earlier marriages to Michael Van Buren and Isaac Stern, the violinist, ended in divorce. The funeral is on Monday at 4 P.M. at the Westwood Village Mortuary in Los Angeles.
        NORA KAY IS DEAD
      