
        Mary Wesley, the popular British author whose sensual and often bitingly witty novels were not published until she reached her 70's, died on Monday in Totnes, Devon, her hometown in rural southwest England. She was 90.
        Born Mary Aline Mynors Farmar, an Army officer's daughter, she was a lifelong writer who made her debut in 1968 with two books of fiction for children, ''Speaking Terms'' and ''The Sixth Seal.'' But her first novel for adults, ''Jumping the Queue,'' did not appear until 1983.
        It was written in the years after the death of her second husband, Eric Siepmann, a journalist she married in 1952 and whose name she kept for the rest of her life. (Known as Mary Aline Siepmann, she adapted her pen name from her great-grandmother's name, Wellesley.)
        Her husband's death had left her nearly penniless, with a teenage son to raise. ''Jumping the Queue'' tells of a middle-aged widow contemplating suicide and reflecting on her life as she encounters a fugitive wrestling with the same decision.
        The novel offered original characterizations, playful allusions to sex and comic seriousness. It was critically acclaimed and despite its morbid theme, drew readers to her work.
        Books by Mary Wesley then appeared almost annually through the 1980's and into the 90's. They often dealt with growing up middle-class in England, but American readers sought them, too, and many are still in print in the United States. Her last, ''Part of the Scenery,'' was published last year in Britain.
        Ms. Wesley created ''an idiosyncratic fictional world, a middle-class English world,'' Michiko Kakutani wrote, reviewing the novel ''Second Fiddle'' in The New York Times in 1989. Her books' ''bright comic surface belies a dark subtext of sin, incest, murder and betrayal,'' Ms. Kakutani wrote, adding that ''cuckoldry and sexual gamesmanship thrive in her novels, and a chilly air of malice (or at the very least manipulation) that's reminiscent of Muriel Spark's work hovers over her characters.''
        Born in 1912, Mary Farmar attended Queens College in London and the London School of Economics and Political Science before marrying Charles Swinfen Eady, a baron, in 1937. The marriage ended in 1944. She worked in the War Office during World War II, and her later writings reflected her wartime experiences.
        She was the mother of three sons: William Siepmann, from her second marriage, and Roger and Toby Eady, from her first.
        Unfazed by her late-blooming popularity, she once said that her chief claim to fame was ''arrested development -- getting my first novel published at the age of 70.''
      