
        Gertrude Samuels, a writer and photographer whose 50-year career took her from the displaced-persons camps of postwar Europe to the blight of drug addiction in America's cities, died Wednesday at her home on the Upper West Side. She was 93.
        Beginning in the wartime 1940's, she worked as a writer, photographer and editor on the staff of The New York Times Magazine. In 1975, she turned to freelance writing.
        Before and after, her byline appeared in many publications, to which she contributed picture essays. She remained a United Nations correspondent for The New Leader magazine until a few years ago.
        As a writer, she was at home in genres beyond topical journalism. She produced books for young readers, stage plays and a biography of David Ben-Gurion, along with other writings on Israel.
        Miss Samuels was an early practitioner of photojournalism as documentary. She covered national and foreign affairs for The New York Post, Newsweek and Time magazine before she joined the staff of The Times in 1943.
        Her pictorial articles also appeared in magazines like National Geographic, Redbook and The Saturday Evening Post. Her reports were broadcast overseas by the United States Information Service.
        Gertrude Samuels was born in Manchester, England, and came with her family to Chicago when she was 14. She attended Busch Conservatory of Music there and George Washington University but dropped out to join the staff of The New York Post in 1937.
        She returned to the classroom years later, after leaving The Times. She received a B.A. in English literature at N.Y.U. in 1982; she earned a master's degree one year later.
        At The Times, in 1943, she wrote news summaries for the Week in Review before The Times Magazine assigned her to cover events nationally and abroad.
        She toured displaced-persons camps in Europe, traveled the Middle East reporting on the birth of Israel and the refugees in the region, and, in the early 1950's, contributed magazine articles from Southeast Asia, North Africa and Korea. On the home front, she told readers about the racial unrest attending school desegregation in the South, juvenile delinquency in the inner cities and drug addiction.
        Her work was recognized with photography awards and a 1955 George Polk Award, among others.
        ''B-G: Fighter of Goliaths; The Story of David Ben-Gurion'' (Crowell, 1961; rev. ed. 1974) included her own photographs from Israel, as did ''The Secret of Gonen: Portrait of a Kibbutz on the Border in a Time of War'' (Avon, 1969).
        Her other books included ''The People vs. Baby: A Documentary Novel'' (Doubleday, 1967); ''Run, Shelley, Run!'' (Crowell, 1974); ''Mottele: A Partisan Odyssey'' (Harper, 1976); ''Adam's Daughter'' (Crowell, 1977); ''Of David and Eva: A Love Story'' (New American Library, 1978); and ''Yours, Brett'' (Lodestar, 1988).
        Among her plays were ''The Plant That Talked Back'' and ''Judah the Maccabee and Me,'' both produced at the Lambs Club Theater in 1970.
        Miss Samuels is survived by her son, Paul Oppenheimer of Manhattan, and two grandchildren.
        Gertrude Samuels is among those featured at an exhibition in the Mugar Library of Boston University in Boston, ''On the Front Line: Women Journalists on War and Politics,'' which opened in January.
      