
        Joan Lowery Nixon, a prolific, award-winning author of mysteries for children and young adults, died on Saturday in Houston. She was 76 and lived in Houston.
        The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, The Houston Chronicle reported.
        Mrs. Nixon wrote more than 140 books, some published in more than a score of languages. She won four Edgar Allan Poe Awards, known as Edgars, from the Mystery Writers of America, of which she was a past president. She was also nominated for Edgars five other times.
        Her books that won Edgar Awards (all in the juvenile or young adult category) were ''The Kidnapping of Christina Lattimore'' (1979), ''The Seance'' (1980), ''The Other Side of Dark'' (1986) and ''The Name of the Game Was Murder (1993).
        By the early 1990's most of her books were mysteries for young adults, although she was writing books for children of all ages. A recent book, ''Gus and Gertie and the Missing Pearl'' (2001), for children 6 to 9, was praised in The New York Times Book Review as ''an easy-to-read comic adventure with a large cast of characters.'' Mrs. Nixon also wrote historical novels for young readers, including her ''Orphan Train'' and ''Ellis Island'' series.
        Mrs. Nixon was known for putting strong girls as characters in her books for young adults. ''My girls are all self-sufficient,'' she said in an interview in 1997. ''They may be scared to death,'' she added, but they ''make their own decisions and do them. Some may get good grades, some don't. But they're still smart.''
        A native of Los Angeles, Joan Lowery grew up in Hollywood and received a bachelor's degree in journalism from the University of Southern California.
        She is survived by her husband, Hershell H. Nixon; three daughters, Maureen Quinlan of Duluth, Minn., Kathleen Brush of Fort Collins, Colo., and Eileen McGowan of Houston; a son, Joseph, of Houston; two sisters, Patricia Collins of Gloucester, Mass., and Marilyn Lowery of Los Angeles; and 13 grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 8, 2003, Tuesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Joan Lowery Nixon, an author of mysteries for children and young adults, misstated the date of her death. It was June 28, not this past Saturday.
      