
        Dorothy Miller, one of the first curators hired by the Museum of Modern Art, in 1934, and the woman responsible for pioneering exhibitions of new American artists that helped propel generations of painters like Pollock, Rothko, Frank Stella and Jasper Johns onto the international scene, died yesterday at her apartment in Greenwich Village. She was 99.
        Ms. Miller was a clairvoyant curator with unusually wide-ranging tastes. Her career began when American modernists like Stuart Davis were still young and lasted into the early heyday of Mr. Stella, Ellsworth Kelly, James Rosenquist and Claes Oldenburg. She included Mr. Oldenburg and Mr. Rosenquist in the last of her ''Americans'' exhibitions, in 1963.
        The ''Americans'' shows began in 1942 with a selection of what were then mostly unknown artists of eclectic styles from across the country. The format was to have a select group of artists, abstract and figurative, each presented in some depth. The slender catalogs had statements by the artists. Typically, Ms. Miller wanted them to speak for themselves rather than presuming to speak for them.
        She was invariably a step ahead of public taste. The 1942 show was panned. The museum's trustees were appalled. Some threatened to quit. Even Alfred H. Barr Jr., the Modern's visionary director, who otherwise supported Ms. Miller, quietly tried to distance himself from it.
        Ms. Miller would organize her ''Americans'' shows at the last minute, to remain perfectly up to date and to keep secret the names of the artists until just before the opening. ''Congratulations, Dorothy,'' Barr told her after one opening. ''You've done it again. They all hate it.''
        But over time, many of the artists she discovered came to be admired. ''I was fortunate to have two brilliant guides,'' she said, modestly, ''Alfred H. Barr Jr. and my husband, Holger Cahill.''
        Dorothy Canning Miller was born on Feb. 6, 1904, in Hopedale, Mass., and was reared in Montclair, N.J. After graduating from Smith College in 1925, she enrolled in the Newark Museum apprentice program and was hired at the museum in 1926. There she met Mr. Cahill, a curator, with whom she worked on exhibitions of progressive American art that caught Mr. Barr's attention. He hired her. When Mr. Cahill was appointed director of the W.P.A. Federal Art Project in Washington in 1935, he asked Ms. Miller to join him. She declined, saying she had landed the ''best job in the museum world'' at the Modern.
        Her first show there was about W.P.A. art. After she organized ''Americans 1942,'' she put together ''American Realists and Magic Realists'' in 1943, ''Fourteen Americans'' in 1946, ''Fifteen Americans'' in 1952, ''Twelve Americans'' in 1956, ''Sixteen Americans'' in 1959 and her last ''Americans'' show in 1963. The 1946 show included Gorky, Isamu Noguchi and Robert Motherwell; the 1952 show had Pollock, Rothko and Clyfford Still; the 1956 show introduced Larry Rivers and Grace Hartigan to a wide public; the 1959 show had Mr. Stella, Louise Nevelson, Jay de Feo, Robert Rauschenberg and Mr. Johns. The 1963 show, besides Mr. Oldenburg and Mr. Kelly, featured Cryssa, Lee Bontecou, Richard Lindner and Robert Indiana. Reviewing it in The New York Times, John Canaday said it answered ''the 30-year-old question of what ever happened to vaudeville. It moved to the Museum of Modern Art.''
        The most influential exhibition that Ms. Miller organized was surely ''The New American Painting,'' which toured Europe in 1958 and 1959.
        It significantly changed European perceptions of American art, putting Abstract Expressionism on the map there once and for all.
        In 1969 Ms. Miller retired from the Modern and became an adviser to various corporate collections and, with Eleanor Price Mather, was co-author of ''Edward Hicks: His Peaceable Kingdom and Other Paintings,'' about the early 19th-century American folk artist. She is survived by a stepdaughter, Jane Cahill Blumenfeld of Albuquerque, N.M.; a niece, Edith White Danton of Osterville, Mass.; and a nephew, Reid White of Lenox, Mass.
        Russell Lynes, in his history of the Modern, said Ms. Miller was ''looked upon by artists either as a benign goddess or as a disdainful one, depending on whether or not she smiled on their work.''
        Mr. Stella said yesterday: ''She was a straight shooter, very respectful of the art and the artists and the museum, something you don't get that much of anymore. The 'Americans' shows set the tone for my time. You were either in or you were not. They were exhibitions of what was going on, pointing to the future, and they were definitive. Or if they weren't definitive, they were certainly exciting.''
      