
        Josephine Jacobsen, a poet, short-story writer and critic who held the post that later became that of national poet laureate, died on Wednesday in Cockeysville, Md. She was 94 and had lived in Maryland most of her life.
        She was consultant in poetry to the Library of Congress from 1971 to 1973; the title was changed to poet laureate consultant in poetry in 1986, the same year Robert Penn Warren was awarded the post. Mrs. Jacobsen's name is on the honor roll of national poets laureate, backdated to 1937, when the consultant's position was created.
        Over more than 80 years, her writing braided the physical and spiritual strains of the human experience. Collections of both her poems and prose were published as recently as three years ago.
        Mrs. Jacobsen's first poem was printed in a children's magazine when she was 10, but she did not achieve widespread recognition until her 60's and 70's. All the while, her work appeared in nearly every literary or college quarterly that published poetry, as well as in publications like The New Yorker and The New York Times.
        She was celebrated for elegant, concise phrasing on a wide range of topics and in varied forms, which she filled with nature and animal imagery. She plumbed questions of identity, interrelatedness and isolation.
        In 1993 Mrs. Jacobsen received the Shelley Memorial Award from the Poetry Society of America, and in 1997 its highest award, the Robert Frost Medal for Lifetime Achievement in Poetry. Among other things, the medal honored her legendary generosity in helping younger, struggling poets get their work published, a quality considered rare in her profession.
        That aspect of her character came to the fore in 1971, when L. Quincy Mumford, the librarian of Congress, named her consultant in poetry. She was only the fourth woman to receive the honor, and the first in 21 years. Her male predecessors included Robert Frost, Conrad Aiken and, most immediately, William Stafford.
        The job had fairly flexible duties, which entailed advising the library on its literary collections, inviting scholars and poets to Washington for readings, and lecturing and reading her own work.
        Mrs. Jacobsen, born Josephine Winder Boylan in Cobourg, Ontario, was taken to the United States when she was 3 months old. Privately educated, she graduated from Roland Park Country School in Baltimore in 1926, and in 1932 married Eric Jacobsen.
        The couple spent half of each year in New Hampshire, where Mr. Jacobsen, a businessman, liked to garden and play tennis, and Mrs. Jacobsen worked in a little cabin ''down under the trees.''
        She gained critical attention with her first publication, ''Let Each Man Remember'' (Kaleidograph, 1940), a collage of 15 love sonnets interspersed with metaphysical love poems. The book, which showed her knack for poetry in a disciplined form, was followed by the intensely personal verses of ''The Human Climate: New Poems'' (Contemporary Poetry, 1953), and ''The Animal Inside'' (Ohio University Press, 1966), which widened her range and touched on subjects of love and death.
        Mrs. Jacobsen is survived by a son, Erlend, of Plainfield, Vt.; five grandchildren; and a great-grandson.
        She was inducted into the American Academy of Arts and Letters in 1994.
        Her books currently in print include ''Distances'' (Press Alley, 1991); ''In the Crevice of Time: New and Collected Poems'' (Johns Hopkins University Press, 1995); ''Instant of Knowing: Lectures, Criticism and Occasional Prose,'' Elizabeth Spires, editor (University of Michigan Press, 2000); ''On the Island: New and Selected Stories'' (Ontario Review Press, 1989); and ''What Goes Without Saying: Collected Stories of Josephine Jacobsen'' (Johns Hopkins University Press, 2000).
        Correction:  August 2, 2003, Saturday  An obituary of the poet Josephine Jacobsen on July 12 misstated the name of the publisher of her book ''Distances.'' It is Press of Appletree Alley, not Press Alley.
      