
        Isabelle d'Orléans et Bragance, Countess of Paris, who was married to a pretender to the throne of France, died on July 5 in Paris. She was 93.
        The countess was the widow of Henri, Count of Paris, whom many royalists wanted to become King Henri VI of France. He died in 1999, and the couple's eldest son, also called Henri, claimed the title of Count of Paris and Duke of France, becoming the new pretender.
        Her full name was originally Isabel Marie Amélie Louise Victoire Thérèse Jeanne of Orléans and Bragana, or Bragance in French. A granddaughter of the last empress of Brazil, she was born in France at the home of her paternal grandparents, in the Seine-Maritime region.
        Her parents were Prince Pedro de Alcantara of Orléans and Bragana, Prince of Grão Pará, and Dona Isabel, Princess Imperial of Brazil. The family having been exiled from Brazil, the younger Isabel was educated in France.
        The countess first met her future husband while still a child. Their engagement was made public in 1930 in Belgium, to which his family had long been banished. For political reasons, the wedding took place in Palermo the next year, with other European royalty and throngs of French royalists in attendance.
        At the time, Henri's father headed what many French monarchists still considered the royal house of France. The royal family of Bourbon had been driven from France by law in 1886 and were forbidden even to visit until 1950.
        The couple began married life in Belgium, where the count ran two newspapers. From 1932 to 1948, the countess bore five sons and six daughters, most of whom married into their own social class. Two of the sons died, in 1960 and 1983.
        The couple lived at various times in Brazil, Morocco, Spain and Portugal before France revoked the 1886 Law of Exile in 1950. Then, living just outside Paris, the count ventured into politics, proclaiming his loyalty to democracy, and she took her place in Paris society.
        The countess wrote two books of memoirs as well as some biographical and historical writings about her family.
        Correction:  July 31, 2003, Thursday  An obituary of the Countess of Paris on July 14 misspelled the English-language version of her name. She was Isabel of Orléans and Braganza, not Bragana.
      