
        Patricia S. Goldman-Rakic, a professor of neuroscience at Yale University whose pioneering research on brain and memory functions helped pave the way for understanding schizophrenia and Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases, died last Thursday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. She was 66 and lived in New Haven.
        She died of complications from head and other injuries suffered last Tuesday when she was struck by a car as she crossed a street in Hamden, Conn., said her husband, Dr. Pasko Rakic, a fellow neuroscientist at Yale.
        ''Pat Goldman-Rakic was one of the most distinguished neuroscientists of her generation,'' said Richard C. Levin, Yale's president. ''We grieve her tragic loss in the knowledge that her important contributions will live on.''
        Dr. Goldman-Rakic was the first researcher to chart the frontal lobe of the brain, the executive center responsible for personality, reasoning, planning, insight and other high-order cognitive functions. Located behind the forehead, the frontal lobe was once regarded as inaccessible to rigorous scientific analysis. But Dr. Goldman-Rakic used various techniques -- drugs, electrical impulses, behavioral responses and other methods -- to explore and describe its structure.
        Among her discoveries, colleagues said, was the demonstration that certain cells in the prefrontal cortex are dedicated to specific memory tasks. One example is the short-term memory that operates when a person dials a phone number or solves a math problem. Like the random-access memory of a computer chip, the mind's ''working memory'' apparently retrieves the data from other regions of the brain, retaining it for as long as necessary and then storing it away as the attention shifts to a new task.
        In a 1995 interview with Daniel Goleman of The New York Times, Dr. Goldman-Rakic said that short-term memory appeared to hold vital clues to what goes wrong in the thinking of people with schizophrenia. ''The bizarre thought disorders in schizophrenia, especially the inability to keep a train of thought from being derailed, could be due to a defect in working memory,'' she noted.
        In the 1970's, Dr. Goldman-Rakic discovered that the loss of dopamine in the prefrontal cortex led to memory deficits. That study changed neuropsychiatry by providing doctors with insights into the symptoms of mental illness and the effectiveness of psychoactive medications.
        Her more recent research showed how amphetamine abuse in adolescence or early adulthood could diminish the mind's performance for years and perhaps permanently. Colleagues said that her work on memory, behavior and drugs had provided a foundation for understanding and treating schizophrenia, Alzheimer's and Parkinson's diseases and attention-deficit disorders.
        Patricia S. Goldman was born in Salem, Mass., on April 22, 1937. She earned a bachelor's degree at Vassar College in 1959 and a doctorate at the University of California at Los Angeles in 1963. After years of research at U.C.L.A., New York University, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the National Institutes of Health, she joined the Yale faculty in 1979.
        While she taught some classes, she concentrated on research at Yale, Dr. Rakic said. She wrote or collaborated on hundreds of scientific papers, and was the recipient of many awards for her work. She was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1990, and held honorary degrees from the University of Utrecht in the Netherlands and the University of St. Andrews in Scotland.
        Besides her husband, whom she married in 1979, she is survived by a sister, Dr. Ruth Rappaport, of Radnor, Pa.
      