
        Nina Fonaroff, an early Martha Graham dancer and a choreographer and teacher, died on Aug. 14 at a hospital in London, where she lived. She was 89.
        Born in New York, Ms. Fonaroff began her dance training at 11 with Michel Fokine and Vera Fokina, his wife, and studied the Isadora Duncan style, two experiences that she later told friends suggested to her what dance should not be. She later studied dance at the School of American Ballet and acting and dance at the Cornish School in Seattle, where she met Graham and her accompanist, the composer and dance theorist Louis Horst. He became a major influence in her life.
        Ms. Fonaroff joined the Graham company in 1936 and the next year she taught Graham technique at Sarah Lawrence College. She created roles in Graham dances, including ''American Document,'' ''Every Soul Is a Circus,'' ''Letter to the World,'' ''Punch and the Judy,'' ''Deaths and Entrances'' and ''Appalachian Spring.'' She left the Graham company in 1946 to teach and choreograph on her own.
        Ms. Fonaroff began attracting attention as a choreographer in 1942. She was one of six dancer-choreographers to present pieces on a program that had a tradition of presenting new work by new choreographers at the Young Men's Hebrew Association (now the 92nd Street Y), which became an important incubator of American modern dance.
        Ms. Fonaroff also presented choreography that year in a program shared with fellow Graham dancers Jean Erdman and Merce Cunningham, his first formal presentation of his own work in New York. Ms. Fonaroff was also among those participating in a short-lived American modern-dance repertory company, at City Center in 1949.
        Her first full program of her own work received a glowing review from John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, in November 1946. She had grown up in a musical household, learning as a child to play the violin and piano, and also began painting early, studying costume and set design in Europe and painting with George Grosz in New York. Martin wrote of her instinct for design as well as movement, adding, ''Here is a distinguished talent, highly individual in character, with something to say, and certainly with the means to get it said with taste, imagination and authority.''
        Ms. Fonaroff was also a respected teacher at her own studio and at colleges, including Bennington College and at Teachers College at Columbia University. She also taught movement for actors at the Neighborhood Playhouse. Richard Boone, one of her students, later danced with her troupe, Nina Fonaroff and Company, which she maintained from 1946 to 1953.
        Ms. Fonaroff began a new professional life in 1972, when she was invited to teach choreography at the London School of Contemporary Dance, where she remained through 1990. A glamorous and vibrant teacher, her students included the choreographer Kim Brandstrup and the filmmaker Sally Potter. In the late 1980's and into the 1990's Ms. Fonaroff also taught at schools in Oslo and Copenhagen. At her death she was working on a book about choreography.
        She has no immediate survivors.
      