
        Jinx Falkenburg, one of America's highest paid cover-girl models during World War II, and later, with her husband, Tex McCrary, a pioneer talk-show star on both radio and television, died on Wednesday in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 84 and lived in the nearby village of Mill Neck.
        She died at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, a Long Island hospital of which she and her husband were among the founders, said her son Kevin McCrary. She and Mr. McCrary had lived apart for many years but remained friends. He died on July 29.
        At one point in the 1950's, ''Tex and Jinx,'' as they were known in virtually every American household, had two radio programs, a five-day-a-week television show and a syndicated column in The New York Herald Tribune. They were among the first to refine the format that came to be called the talk show.
        In addition to having a successful broadcasting career, Miss Falkenburg was long active in raising money for the Republican Party and helped her husband when he worked to persuade Dwight D. Eisenhower to run for the presidency in 1952.
        She was born Eugenia Lincoln Falkenburg on Jan. 21, 1919, in Barcelona, Spain, one of three children of Eugene Falkenburg, an engineer, and Marguerite Crooks Falkenburg, an accomplished amateur tennis player. Mr. Falkenburg had a series of assignments in Spain, where he worked on electrifying railroads. The nickname Jinx was given by her mother. The name stuck.
        Soon after Miss Falkenburg was born, the family moved to Chile and then, in her teens, to Los Angeles, where she went to public schools. She left Hollywood High School in 1935 to pursue acting and modeling.
        She had already attracted the attention of a talent scout from Warner Brothers who had seen her play tennis. She was signed to a studio contract and, since she was fluent in Spanish, was given Spanish-language movies distributed only in Latin America.
        Two years later, she met Paul Hesse, a professional photographer whose work appeared regularly in The American Magazine. He called her ''the most charming, most vital personality I have ever had the pleasure to photograph.'' In August of 1937, her face appeared on the cover, and that quickly led to invitations from more than five dozen other magazines to showcase her hazel eyes and lithe body.
        At about this time she was sent to Honolulu to work on a film. In her hotel, she stepped on what she thought was a secure balcony, fell through the floor and landed in the dining room below. In a hospital for her injuries, she was assigned a room near one occupied by Al Jolson, who was convalescing. They were introduced and it led to Jolson's offering her a part as a cowgirl in his musical ''Hold On to Your Hat,'' which opened at the Shubert Theater in New York in 1940.
        She met Mr. McCrary, who was then a writer for The Daily Mirror, when he was sent to interview her.
        She was regarded as one of the most beautiful women in America. The New York World-Telegram observed that Miss Falkenburg's photogenic face had probably appeared in more different places in this country than that of any other woman around.
        In 1941, Liebmann Brewery, the maker of Rheingold beer, decided it might sell a lot more of the brand if each year it bestowed on some attractive young woman the title Miss Rheingold. Miss Falkenburg was the first. It was a plum for any model, since, for starters, it put her name and face in every store in New York that sold beer.
        Now she was asked to appear in Hollywood productions made for distribution in the United States. Her acting ability, however, did not attract the attention of the critics, who generally gave her films poor reviews. Among those 1940's movies for Columbia Pictures were ''Sing for Your Supper,'' ''Sweetheart of the Fleet,'' ''Lucky Legs,'' ''Laugh Your Blues Away,'' ''She Has What It Takes,'' ''Two Señoritas From Chicago'' and ''Cover Girl.''
        During the war, she spent considerable time entertaining Allied troops, and in 1945 received the Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal for her work. When Mr. McCrary returned from the war after service as a photographer and public relations officer for the Army Air Corps, he courted Miss Falkenburg and they were married in June 1945.
        In 1946, Miss Falkenburg and Mr. McCrary pooled their considerable powers of persuasion and talked radio station WEAF in New York into giving them their own show. It was broadcast on weekday mornings and quickly became popular with the public and the critics because it tackled issues that were then controversial, including venereal disease, the United Nations and the atom bomb. The program was called ''Hi Jinx,'' and Miss Falkenburg, who had no experience as an interviewer, was coached by Mr. McCrary, who also wrote most of the show himself.
        They made their television debut the next year in ''At Home,'' which was broadcast by NBC and showed them interviewing their guests at home. They also had another television program, called ''The Swift Home Service Club,'' in which they offered household hints and conducted chatty interviews.
        Meanwhile, a second radio program, ''Meet Tex and Jinx,'' achieved such a following that it became a summer replacement for the popular ''Duffy's Tavern'' in both 1947 and 1948.
        Tex and Jinx continued their work in television and also began to write a daily column for The New York Herald Tribune, called ''New York Close-Up.'' That led to yet another television show of the same name, on NBC. Miss Falkenburg's biography, ''Jinx,'' was published in 1951.
        By the middle 1950's, Tex McCrary and Jinx Falkenburg were conducting their talk show from Peacock Alley in the Waldorf-Astoria.
        Miss Falkenburg and Mr. McCrary were friends of John Hay Whitney, who was chairman of the finance committee of the Republican Party. At Mr. Whitney's request, Miss Falkenburg became head of the women's division in 1954.
        Miss Falkenburg and Mr. McCrary had two children, John Reagan McCrary 3d of Manhattan and Kevin Jock McCrary of Mill Neck. Both survive them.
        After the husband-and-wife talk show eventually ran its course, Mr. McCrary had his own radio shows for a time. He and Miss Falkenburg separated in the 1980's. In later years, she lived quietly on Long Island, serving on the board of the hospital the couple had helped found and working on a planned second autobiography.
        Correction:  August 29, 2003, Friday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Jinx Falkenburg, a model and early talk-show star, reversed the places of residence of her sons. John Reagan McCrary 3d lives in Mill Neck, N.Y., and Kevin Jock McCrary lives in Manhattan.
      