
        IN the eye of the festive hurricane that is the annual Caribbean parade on Labor Day, that soca-blaring, steel-drum-banging, sequins-and-feathers annual cavalcade down Eastern Parkway in Brooklyn, sits a not-a-bit ruffled Yolanda Lezama-Clark, R.N.
        No, she is not the medical officer, though as a nursing administrator at Elmhurst Hospital in Queens, surely she could step in and do that, too.
        Mrs. Lezama-Clark is the efficient, soft-spoken center of it all, the president of the West Indian American Day Carnival Association, which for 36 years has organized what has become New York City's largest parade.
        Think of it as organizing a party for a couple of million people, with 500 vendors selling everything from commemorative T-shirts to curried goat, and entertainment by two dozen bands and music groups riding flatbed trucks with speakers the size of refrigerators. Don't forget to plan for 65 fanciful floats. And the likes of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg -- he wants to be trailed by a band truck so he can march to music -- and Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton (the honorary grand marshal) have R.S.V.P.'d yes.
        ''People ask me, 'How do you do it? How do you just maintain calm?' '' Mrs. Lezama-Clark said the other afternoon, a soft Trinidadian lilt spicing her voice. ''It's my personality, you know. What can I tell you? I have always been very low key. Both of my parents were very hyper people. To me it was like, why do we all have to be that way? Somebody has to maintain the calm.''
        She spoke while sitting at her thoroughly uncluttered desk in the association's two-room storefront office at 325 Rogers Avenue, a few blocks off Eastern Parkway between a bodega and an evangelical church. Around her a dozen people bustled in and out, some sorting papers and packages of information for the various events preceding the parade, checking vendor lists and forms, and tending to the never-ending file of people calling for last-minute applications and instructions.
        A calypso tune played softly on a radio; highlights of past parades flickered from a television. As if still presiding over everything, a large print of Mrs. Lezama-Clark's father, Carlos Lezama, the founder of the parade, who stepped down from the association presidency two years ago, looked down from the wall.
        Mrs. Lezama-Clark kept one eye on her visitor and the other on the whirl around her.
        ''We have a theme for the parade -- wait,'' she interrupted herself. ''Is that Mary's voice? Mary?'' It was, and Mrs. Lezama-Clark dashed off for urgent business.
        THE theme, by the way, is ''Share the belief and strengthen the vision.'' It represents the direction in which she wants to take the association, to become more active in voter registration and community health.
        The parade isn't enough?
        ''If you want it to be a year-round organization, you can't just focus on Labor Day weekend,'' she said.
        She does like to think big. Consider that she also wants to bring order to a parade whose freewheeling fun has gotten out of hand in the past. Four years ago, two 11-year-old children died when they were struck by vehicles along the parade route, and a teenager died afterward after being hit by a parade sound truck.
        Mrs. Lezama-Clark has hired a private security force, a first for the parade, and has put in place route changes and other measures to help keep the procession moving and bring more sense to the order of march. The slow pace -- it runs from 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. -- and herky-jerky movement has led to reduced television coverage, she said.
        Mrs. Lezama-Clark is also pushing participants to keep it traditional, encouraging band members to lose the T-shirts and jeans in favor of the colorful costumes of Carnival.
        ''Carnival is about music, it's about color and pageantry. It's not about T-shirts.''
        Yes, Mrs. Lezama-Clark has a no-nonsense air, but she does not wish to rain on the parade, which happens a lot anyway. After all, she used to dance in it as a young girl, decked out in pink sequins, and has the snapshots to prove it. She favors calypso, which spills from her car radio on the drive home, often at 2 a.m., to Westbury, N.Y.
        She spent her early years in Trinidad, coming to New York when she was 8. She won't reveal her age but does allow that she graduated from Brooklyn College in 1978, going into computer programming afterward and raising two daughters -- now 27 and 16 -- with her husband, Michael. Bored with programming, she eventually switched careers to nursing and is now studying for a master's degree.
        The parade, though, has always been central in her life. She used to do the filing, run errands, answer the phone at 4 a.m. It was, and still is, she says, an almost spiritual fulfillment.
        ''There is a magnetism around Carnival where you feel that if you are not there you really feel you are missing out on something,'' she said. ''You go through basic withdrawal. I do, come Trinidad Carnival, and I'm here in the cold and I know there is a lot going on down there.''
        With all this running around, does she actually get to enjoy the parade?
        ''Who, me?
        ''No, I tend to enjoy it from the reviewing stand; you know, when the music pass and I see the people enjoying themselves,'' she said, looking a bit dejected. ''I tend to move as well but that's about the extent of it because I am tired by the end of the weekend.''
        PUBLIC LIVES
      