
        Mary Viscountess Eccles, a bibliophile who built up what is widely considered the world's finest collection of rare books and manuscripts relating to Samuel Johnson and his biographer and friend, James Boswell, died on Aug. 26 at her home, Four Oakes Farm, in Somerset County, N.J. She was 91.
        Lady Eccles, the American widow of Viscount Eccles, a British politician, businessman and bibliophile who once headed the British Library in London, was first drawn to the world of the Elizabethan theater but later switched her interest and the focus of her collecting to Johnson and Boswell and their circle.
        She and her first husband, Donald Frizell Hyde, a New York lawyer, acquired thousands of books and manuscripts relating to these two towering literary figures of the 18th century.
        Treasures stored in the huge fireproof library they built at Four Oakes Farm include about 800 letters from Johnson -- about 80 percent of all those known to have survived -- as well as works and papers from the important A. Edward Newton collection of Johnson material, which Lady Eccles, then Mary Hyde, acquired around 1940.
        The library also houses the Johnson material from the collection of James Boswell's papers found at Malahide Castle in Ireland, which she bought from the American collector Col. Ralph H. Isham at the end of World War II; Boswell's guestbook from his home at Auchinleck, Scotland; Johnson's diaries for the years 1765 to about 1784; the private journal of Hester Thrale, Johnson's great friend and benefactor; and a collection known as the R. B. Adam Library Relating to Dr. Samuel Johnson and His Era, which she bought from the Adam family of Buffalo in 1948, and which was then regarded as the best in existence.
        Under the name Mary Hyde, she also wrote a number of books about her interests. In 1949, Columbia University published her doctoral thesis, ''Playwriting for Elizabethans, 1600-1605.'' In 1958 she, her first husband and E. J. McAdam Jr. edited Volume I of the Yale edition of the works of Samuel Johnson, ''Diaries, Prayers and Annals.''
        In 1972 she published ''The Impossible Friendship: Boswell and Mrs. Thrale'' (Harvard), a study of Boswell's relationship with the woman who befriended Johnson. This was followed in 1975 by ''The Thrales of Streatham Park'' (Harvard), an account of Mrs. Thrale and her family.
        She was awarded honorary degrees by American and British universities, including Brown, the University of Birmingham (England), the University of Massachusetts and Union College.
        She was the first woman elected to the Roxburghe Club, an English association of bibliophiles, and one of the first to join the Grolier Club, another bibliophile's group, in New York City; she was vice president from 1982 to 1992.
        Lady Eccles financed her collecting largely from her own family fortune. She was born Mary Morley Crapo in Detroit on July 12 1912. Her family name was derived from crapaud, the French for toad, which had been the name bestowed by Cape Cod natives on a French ancestor of hers who washed up there in 1680. But the family prospered, becoming rich from interests in cement, barges and timber, and that allowed Lady Eccles to indulge her passion for book collecting.
        She earned a bachelor's degree at Vassar in 1934, a master's from Columbia in 1935 and a doctorate there in 1945. In 1939 she married Mr. Hyde, and in 1943 they bought Four Oakes Farm, which was her home for the rest of her life.
        Lady Eccles described in an essay first published in The Vassar Alumnae Magazine in 1960 how she and Mr. Hyde were drawn to book collecting when they visited a rare book exhibition in Detroit and realized for the first time that books of this kind were not all locked up in libraries but available for purchase.
        They also learned some of the risks. The three Shakespeare quartos they bought on that occasion turned out to be defective, Lady Eccles wrote, while a document with the purported signature of Queen Elizabeth I proved to be a fake.
        From time to time Lady Eccles encountered resistance to her large-scale purchases of remaining Johnson and Boswell memorabilia in Britain. She had trouble with a patriotic Scottish customs officer when she took five trunks of Boswell papers from Colonel Isham's collection aboard the Queen Mary at Southampton. In 1968, Hugh Mainwaring, who owned the journal Mrs. Thrale kept from 1766 to 1778, refused to sell her the manuscript privately, though she subsequently got it at a Sotheby's auction.
        Her first husband died in 1966. In 1984 she married Lord Eccles, who died in 1999. She is survived by two stepsons and a stepdaughter, all of whom live in England: Viscount Eccles of Mowlton, Yorkshire; Simon Eccles of London; and Polly Landsdown of Great Coxwell, Oxfordshire.
        Correction:  September 9, 2003, Tuesday  An obituary on Aug. 30 about Mary Viscountess Eccles, a leading bibliophile and collector of material on Samuel Johnson, misspelled part of the name of her home in Somerset County, N.J., where she died. It is Four Oaks Farm, not Oakes.
        Correction:  September 25, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Aug. 30 about Mary Viscountess Eccles, a leading bibliophile and collector of material on Samuel Johnson, misstated the name of the New York University professor who collaborated with her and her first husband in editing a volume of Johnson's works. He was E. L. McAdam Jr., not E. J.
      