
        Lady Diana Mosley, one of the famous Mitford sisters and a glamorous 1930's socialite who scandalously abandoned her husband, embraced fascism and married Sir Oswald Mosley, leader of the British Union of Fascists, died in Paris on Monday, her family said. She was 93.
        A spokeswoman for her sister, the Duchess of Devonshire, told the BBC, ''We can confirm that she died peacefully, but we cannot say any more than that.''
        Lady Mosley's stubborn fascism and her unrepentant admiration for Hitler -- he and Josef Goebbels were guests at her wedding to Sir Oswald, in Berlin in 1936 -- made her a figure of hate to the British during World War II, and to some extent for the rest of her life. Judged a danger to her country, she spent two and a half years in Holloway Prison in London while war raged on the Continent.
        After the war, she and Sir Oswald, who also served time in Holloway, moved to Orsay, Paris, where they lived happily, and only partly in disgrace, for the rest of their lives (he died in 1980). Although shunned by the British establishment -- British ambassadors to France were instructed not to invite her to the embassy, for instance -- Lady Mosley presided over a beautifully decorated house, Temple de la Gloire, where she gardened, wrote, read, gave interviews, kept up on London literary gossip and entertained an endless stream of glittery visitors who were, inevitably, thoroughly enchanted by her quick wit, sparkling appearance, and sly sense of humor.
        She was one of the few people ever to maintain simultaneous friendships with Hitler and Churchill.
        ''There were so many paradoxes about this most beautiful, most intelligent, and most beguiling of the celebrated Mitford sisters,'' the novelist and critic A. N. Wilson, a friend of Lady Mosley, wrote in The Daily Telegraph. Also in The Daily Telegraph, the historian Andrew Roberts described succumbing, however unwillingly, ''to the full force of her Mitfordesque charm,'' even as Lady Mosley calmly announced that although Hitler ''was to blame for the extermination of the Jews,'' he was also perhaps the most attractive man she had ever met.
        Lady Diana Mosley was born the Honorable Diana Mitford in 1910, the third of the six Mitford girls (a brother, Tom, was killed in World War II). They were fabled for their wit and luminous looks -- each one seemed to glitter more brightly than the next -- and their eccentric upbringing was immortalized in various books, including the novels ''The Pursuit of Love,'' ''Love in a Cold Climate,'' and others by Nancy Mitford; and ''Hons and Rebels,'' a memoir by Jessica Mitford. Their father was Lord Redesdale, a blustery country aristocrat with little money and old-fashioned views, fond of outdoor pursuits and famously bad-tempered about the outside society for which his daughters longed.
        They found it, in wildly different ways. Nancy, an intimate of Evelyn Waugh, became a hugely successful novelist and essayist and ardent anti-fascist. Jessica became a Communist, running away from home to join Esmond Romilly, a wastrel nephew of Churchill, who had gone to Spain to work as a journalist in the Spanish Civil War (she later settled in the United States and wrote ''The American Way of Death,'' a brilliantly acerbic analysis of the American funeral industry, among other things).
        Unity, another sister, became a fanatical fascist, befriended Hitler and was so distraught when Britain entered World War II that she shot herself in the head, botching the suicide attempt but suffering extensive brain damage. Deborah, another sister, married the Duke of Devonshire, one of the best catches in all of British bachelorhood.
        In a family of dazzling girls, Diana dazzled perhaps the brightest. ''She was the nearest thing to Botticelli's Venus that I have ever seen,'' wrote James Lees-Milne, a family friend; Evelyn Waugh, who dedicated ''Vile Bodies'' to her, said that her beauty ''ran through the room like a peal of bells.'' At 18, she became engaged after a few weeks' acquaintance to the brewing heir Bryan Guinness, a match that seemed objectionable only to her mother -- he was ''so frightfully rich,'' Lady Redesdale said.
        The two quickly had two sons. With her beauty and wit, and his money, the Guinnesses became the center of young London society, but Diana wanted more. In 1932, she left her husband for Oswald Mosley, the strikingly attractive leader of the fledgling British Union of Fascists, a bold step, not least because he was still married (his wife conveniently died, of peritonitis, the following year).
        Diana threw herself into her lover's cause, hoping to effect amity between fascist Germany and Britain. After the two were married, in 1936, Diana Mosley had two more sons, and devoted herself to raising them. She was arrested and jailed in 1940, when the second was just a baby. Though the prison years were miserable, she tried to make light of them after the fact, as she did about her exile in Paris.
        ''The story about us being pariahs and all that, it's all nonsense really,'' she told an interviewer last year. ''I've never had rudeness or disagreeableness ever. At meetings there were rows with Communists and so on. If you met the Communists at dinner, you wouldn't have a row.''
        Sir Oswald Mosley, a hereditary baronet, died in 1980, and Lady Mosley never remarried. She reconciled with her sister Nancy, nursing her through the cancer that led to Nancy's death in 1973, and made peace with some, but by no means all, of her other relatives. Through it all, she was always impeccably dressed, always a gracious hostess, and always intellectually vigorous, contributing book reviews to The Times of London, the Evening Standard, and the Spectator, among other publications, and answering frankly and unflinchingly when interviewers and historians made pilgrimages to Paris to ask her about the old days.
        She is survived by a far-flung extended family, including the Duchess of Devonshire, her last surviving sister; four sons, two by each of her husbands; and a large number of grandchildren and great-grandchildren.
        She remained passionate about Sir Oswald, the love of her life, to the end. ''He appeared to me then as he does still, the cleverest, most balanced, and most honest of all English politicians,'' she said in her memoir, ''A Life of Contrasts.'' Nor did she ever fully denounce Hitler -- she was too stubbornly loyal to her beliefs and her behavior for that, her friends believe -- although she deplored his excesses.
        ''We all know that he was a monster, that he was cruel and did terrible things,'' she said. ''But that doesn't alter the fact that he was obviously an interesting figure.''
        She added, in an interview in 2000: ''I was very fond of him. Very, very fond.''
        Correction:  September 9, 2003, Tuesday  An obituary on Aug. 14 about Diana Mosley, the British aristocrat who was a staunch supporter of Hitler and fascism, referred incompletely to Esmond Romilly, who had married one of her sisters, Jessica Mitford. Although Mr. Romilly was a rebellious young man of privilege, he also became a published writer and an ardent anti-fascist who fought against Franco in Spain and, while serving in the Royal Canadian Air Force, died in 1941, at 23, in a bombing raid against Nazi Germany.
      