
        IT'S a beautiful day in the neighborhood  actually, that 2003 meteorological rarity, the sun, is shining -- and the uninitiated might imagine that this would give Kathy Bronander an easy sale. ''People think that because it's a sunny day, a Realtor can drive people around and sell a house, just like that,'' she said. ''Well. What an idea.''
        For years now, the fantasy of an easy-money windfall in the real-estate game has collided with Darwinian reality in this town of 38,977. More than 600 licensed Realtors in the area have battled for some 200 salable houses thus far this year.
        The resulting algorithm was succinctly stated by Mrs. Bronander, who has been selling houses here for 17 years: ''Properties are going off the market faster than they are coming on.''
        Montclair may not be the most competitive environment on the face of the earth -- network reality-television scheduling comes to mind -- but the Kathy Bronander to-do list is hardly for the faint of heart.
        Though recently mortgage rates have been inching up, supplicants have not been deterred, and are still beating down the doors. This, despite the proliferating cut-rate online brokers who are badmouthing traditional real estate cadres. So far, the discounters haven't made much of a dent in the Montclair market, where clients expect so much personal service.
        According to several real estate brokers, homes in Montclair have appreciated 100 percent in the last five years. Desirable houses draw multiple bids, and Mrs. Bronander, who works for Schweppe & Company, has had clients competing against as many as eight other suitors.
        She wistfully recalled the quaintness of the 1980's when ''you'd take people out, show them houses, and there was a leisurely process of negotiation.'' Couples once had the audacity to offer less than the suggested asking price.
        Just to raise the stakes, her husband, Burt, is a Realtor for a rival company, Burgdorff ERA, and strict regulations forbid the couple from talking about deals, or bringing home office gossip, which could create unfair advantages. ''Since we can't talk about real estate, Burt watches TV and I read a book,'' she said.
        Their feisty partnership is totally Spencer Tracy and Katharine Hepburn, since they live separate real-estate lives. Although their employers are competitive, husband and wife have never duked it out for a single house -- ''so far,'' said Mr. Bronander, with a gleam in his eye.
        House-wrangling is very emotional. ''Through the weeks and months, you develop such a close relationship with people when you're selling a house,'' Mrs. Bronander said. After the deal is done, ''it's almost like coming to the end of a great book. There is an emptiness. But losing? It's hard on our clients. And hard on us.''
        Mr. Bronander has been there: ''When you get the call that says you're not going to get the house, you start to cry and pour yourself a Scotch.''
        Empathic, poised and ever ready to defuse discomfort with easy wit, Mrs. Bronander has seen it all. There are the couples who make an appointment and don't show up. The window-shoppers who want to spend a pleasant afternoon and have no intention of buying. The transactions that fall apart in attorney review.
        There was also the couple that insisted on a six-bedroom center-hall colonial that needed work. Mrs. Bronander showed them dozens of properties over a year, until the couple suddenly chose a two-bedroom ranch in perfect condition.
        These days most of their customers are repeaters, who also send along friends and family members. One of these will certainly be Rabbi Michael Monson of the Congregation Shomrei Emunath; Mrs. Bronander advised him when he was moving from Philadelphia to lead the congregation.
        ''Kathy inspires instant confidence, because you have a sense that she cares beyond the sale or the purchase of the property,'' he said, adding: ''And she's a strategist. She told us to add $200 to our offer so it wouldn't be an even bid -- and we got the house.''
        The Bronanders' client base has grown for many reasons, not the least of which is that, after putting their five children through the school system, they know practically everyone in town.
        AND they are involved. Mrs. Bronander is past president of the Montclair Lions Club and the Mercier Club, and a sustaining member of the Junior League. Mr. Bronander is past president of the Commonwealth Club and, until 1986, managed the Wedgwood, a storied but now-defunct cafeteria.
        These days, e-mail, cell phones and pagers make Mrs. Bronander available 24/7 to her clients' demands. Twelve-hour days are routine on Saturdays, Sundays and holidays.
        The effort has its reward. Recently Mrs. Bronander sold two $1 million houses, and most years she has had more than $3 million in sales; for three years she has won the silver award from the New Jersey Association of Realtors: 20 properties sold for a total of $7.5 million.
        Still, Mrs. Bronander's last vacation was three days -- in March, when she ran up a $150 phone bill from South Carolina. ''I've never calculated my hourly wage,'' she said. ''I'm afraid to.''
        PUBLIC LIVES  Correction:  August 16, 2003, Saturday  A quotation yesterday serving as the picture caption for the Public Lives profile of Kathy Bronander, a real estate agent in Montclair, N.J., carried an erroneous attribution. As the article reported, it was Burt Bronander, the agent's husband, not she herself, who said, ''When you get the call that says you're not going to get the house, you start to cry and pour yourself a Scotch.''
      