
        Dr. Josefina B. Magno, an oncologist who established some of the first hospice programs in the United States and helped bring the hospice concept into the medical mainstream, died on July 27 in Manila. She was 83.
        Born in the Philippines, Dr. Magno moved to the Washington area in 1969 to join the staff of the Georgetown University Hospital. Three years later, breast cancer was detected, and she underwent a radical mastectomy and intensive chemotherapy.
        The experience made her more aware of the physical and emotional pain suffered by the terminal patients around her. It also made her realize that the medical profession, which focused on curing illness and prolonging life, had relatively little to offer the dying.
        After recovering, Dr. Magno went to England, where the world's first research and teaching hospice was established in 1967. She studied the hospice approach there, which combined pain management with psychological and spiritual counseling.
        In 1976, she created a pilot hospice program at Georgetown, persuading Blue Cross-Blue Shield to cover expenses for its subscribers by pointing out that fees would be half what hospitals charged. The next year, she established the Hospice of Northern Virginia.
        Dr. Magno became the first executive director of the National Hospice Organization in 1980. In three years in office, she persuaded Congress to pass legislation to include hospice care under Medicare.
        In 1984, she established the International Hospice Institute to train doctors in the United States and developing countries. Moving to Michigan, she founded the first hospice there and created the hospice service at Henry Ford Hospital in Detroit. In 1998, she returned to the Philippines, where she helped establish programs for the poor.
        Josefina Bautista Magno was born on Dec. 28, 1919, in San Fernando, Pampanga, on Luzon. She received a medical degree from the University of Santo Tomas.
        She is survived by six children: Jose, Manny and Cesar, of Detroit; Vincent, of Richmond; and Nanette Magno-Velayo and Carlo, of Manila; three sisters; a brother; 15 grandchildren and two great-grandchildren. Her husband, Dr. Cesar P. Magno, died in 1955.
      