
        Dr. Eleanor J. Gibson, a psychology professor at Cornell who made advances in the study of perception and learning processes in children, died on Dec. 30 in Columbia, S.C. She was 92.
        Photographs of the ''visual cliff,'' a device she developed to study depth perception in infants and toddlers, are still included in some psychology textbooks.
        Dr. Gibson, then working as a research associate at Cornell, and Dr. Richard Walk used the simulated cliff in tests to show that babies could visually distinguish depth.
        The cliff was ''a wooden table from the edge of which strong plate glass extended,'' Life magazine reported in 1959.
        ''Children were put on the table top and coaxed to crawl out over the glass,'' the magazine said. ''But when they got to the edge of the cliff and looked down almost all of them quickly withdrew. Even their mothers' most persuasive urgings could not get them out.''
        Similar studies were done with animals, including rats and kittens.
        The findings indicated that perception is an essentially adaptive process, or as Dr. Gibson put it, ''We perceive to learn, as well as learn to perceive.''
        Dr. Gibson also did pioneering work in the relationship of perception and reading.
        Eleanor Jack was born in Peoria, Ill. She received her bachelor's degree from Smith in 1931 and her master's degree in 1933. She earned her doctorate in psychology at Yale in 1938.
        Her marriage in 1932 to Dr. James J. Gibson, a psychology professor who also conducted research on perception, was both a help and a hindrance to her career.
        They collaborated occasionally, but when he joined the faculty of Cornell in 1949, she was unable to secure a teaching post there because of anti-nepotism rules, which were common in universities. So she worked as a research associate at Cornell.
        In 1965, after the rules changed, she was appointed to an endowed chair as a professor of psychology, and the Gibsons became one of the first married couples in a single department at the university.
        She also held academic appointments at the Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences in Palo Alto, Calif.; the Massachusetts Institute of Technology; the Universities of Minnesota, South Carolina, Pennsylvania and Connecticut; Emory and the Salk Institute.
        In 1982, she was invited to Beijing to teach Chinese psychologists about recent theories and techniques of research.
        Dr. Gibson was the author of five books, including the memoir ''Perceiving the Affordances: A Portrait of Two Psychologists,'' published in 2001.
        Recently, Dr. Gibson lived in Columbia.
        Her husband died in 1979. She is survived by a son, James J., also of Columbia; a daughter, Jean Rosenberg of Middlebury, Vt.; a sister, Emily Jack of Washington; and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  January 8, 2003, Wednesday  An obituary on Saturday about Dr. Eleanor J. Gibson, a psychology professor at Cornell who was a pioneer in perception studies, misstated the number of her grandchildren and referred incompletely to her residence. She had four grandchildren, not three. In recent years, she spent time in Middlebury, Vt., in addition to Columbia, S.C.
      