
        Laura Rapaport Borsten, who was in the first group of 40 recruits accepted to be a Wave, a member of the women's Navy corps, died on Aug. 11 at a hospital in Los Angeles. She was 91.
        Her husband, Orin, said Mrs. Borsten, who lived in Los Angeles, kept up with other veterans and believed she was the last surviving member of the first group, made up of officer trainees.
        Lt. Billy Ray Davis, a Navy spokesman, confirmed that Mrs. Borsten, then Laura Rapaport, joined as one of the first 40 Waves on Aug. 28, 1942. She rose to the rank of lieutenant commander.
        President Franklin D. Roosevelt signed the law creating the Women's Reserve of the Navy on July 30, 1942. The corps was soon christened Waves, for Women Accepted for Volunteer Emergency Service. Capt. Mildred McAfee, first director of the corps, suggested that it really meant ''Women Are Very Essential Sometimes.''
        Organized to allow more men to be available for combat, women soon filled jobs like repairing aircraft, breaking enemy codes and serving as gunnery instructors. Many did clerical work.
        Before the Waves, neither the women who served in World War I nor Navy nurses were permitted to become officers. Mrs. Borsten and her fellow officer trainees were greeted by newsreel cameras and autograph hunters when they reported for training at Smith College in Northampton, Mass.
        By the end of the war, there were 8,000 Wave officers and 76,000 enlisted Waves. Though the name Wave was dropped in 1972, Navy women have gone on to command battleships and fighter squadrons, and rise to the rank of three-star admiral.
        But they presented challenges to military tradition. For example, Miss McAfee decreed that Waves would be allowed to wear enough makeup ''to look human.''
        Laura Golde Rapaport was born on a farm in McIntosh County, N.D., on Feb. 29, 1912.
        She graduated from the University of Minnesota with honors in library science. Just as she was starting a job in adult education, Leo W. Schwarz, an author and lecturer on Jewish concerns, met her in Minneapolis. He asked her if she wanted a job in New York City.
        She became director of international relations and social relations for the National Council of Jewish Women, and, among other things, helped bring Jews out of Hitler's Germany. In 1938, she testified a Senate committee against the equal-rights amendment, saying that it might jeopardize the gains women had made in areas like widows' pensions.
        In 1942, she received a call from Elizabeth Reynard, a Barnard professor who was to become assistant director of the Waves. Professor Reynard said that Miss McAfee, who was to become Waves director, wondered if she was interested in joining.
        Like most of the original 40 officer candidates, all of whom had distinguished themselves professionally, Miss Rapaport had no idea why she was asked.
        After training at Smith, Miss Rapaport was selected to teach the 750 women arriving for officers' training. She was then assigned to teach officers and enlisted Waves at U.S.S. Hunter, the name the Navy had given Hunter College in the Bronx. She succeeded in her quiet campaign to recruit black officers, and helped forestall a proposal for segregated platoons.
        Her last assignment was in Hawaii, the first posting of Waves outside the continental United States. As a transportation officer there, she learned to drive.
        After her discharge, she visited her sister in Los Angeles. On a street corner, she saw Mr. Borsten, whom she had dated before the war. They were married a few months later.
        In addition to him, Mrs. Borsten is survived by a son, Joseph Borsten of Los Angeles; a daughter, Joan Borsten Vidov of Los Angeles; a sister, Lillian Minkowski of Santa Cruz; and a grandson.
      