
        Roxie C. Laybourne, whose scientific investigations into bird collisions with airplanes helped start forensic ornithology and enabled engineers to develop aircraft capable of withstanding such accidents, died on Aug. 7 at her farm in Manassas, Va. She was 92.
        In 1960, when a plane crashed taking off from Logan Airport in Boston, killing all 62 people aboard, Ms. Laybourne, then a scientist at the Smithsonian's National Museum of Natural History, helped investigators conclude that the cause was a flock of starlings caught in one of its engines.
        Having only charred remains to work with, she developed a novel way to remove oil and gasoline from bits of feathers while keeping them suitable for microscopic examination. Using a microscope, she could then pinpoint minute structural characteristics and identify the bird species or family based on the feathers.
        Over the next decades, Ms. Laybourne helped identify thousands of birds involved in collisions with commercial and military aircraft. Her work gave plane manufacturers information for designing engines that could continue to fly after ingesting the birds, and it helped ornithologists create bird management programs to prevent flocks from gathering near airports.
        As a top expert in her field, Ms. Laybourne helped the Federal Bureau of Investigation use feathers as evidence. In one homicide, she matched the down in a pillow that was used to silence the murder weapon to traces of down that were found on the defendant's trouser cuff.
        In other cases, she helped catch poachers by being able to identify invisible remnants of feathers from endangered birds on the illegal hunters.
        ''We depended on her,'' said Doug Deedrick, a special agent with the F.B.I. research laboratory in Quantico, Va., who trained under Ms. Laybourne in the late 70's. ''She was regarded as probably the foremost feather identification expert in the world.
        ''She developed schemes, techniques and procedures for feather analysis and identification that are still in use today. Her legacy is the experts she trained who continue her work here and at the Smithsonian.''
        Born in Fayetteville, N.C., in 1910, Roxie Collie Laybourne earned her bachelor's degree from Meredith College in Raleigh and a master's degree at George Washington University. She worked for the National Fisheries Laboratory in Beaufort, N.C., and the North Carolina State Museum before joining the Smithsonian in 1944, where she worked for 44 years.
        After her official retirement, she became a consultant for the National Fish and Wildlife Forensic Laboratory, helping the authorities there investigate illegal bird hunting.
        Ms. Laybourne's first marriage, to Philip Simpson, ended in divorce. Her second husband, Edgar G. Laybourne, died in 1966.
        She is survived by two sons, Clarence Grimmer Simpson of Roswell, N.M., and Robert Laybourne of Manassas; a stepdaughter, Phyllis Hallman of Fairfax County, Va.; four brothers; four sisters; two grandchildren; and four great-  grandchildren.
      