
        Nadia Younes, an Egyptian who was chief of staff for the senior United Nations representative in Iraq, Sergio Vieira de Mello, died in the bomb attack in Baghdad on Monday, the United Nations said on Wednesday. She was 57.
        Mr. Vieira de Mello also died in the attack.
        Earlier, Ms. Younes served as chief of protocol at the biggest gathering of world leaders the United Nations has every held, the meeting of 150 kings, presidents, prime ministers and dictators at its headquarters in New York in September 2000.
        Ms. Younes was made chief protocol officer by Secretary General Kofi Annan in January 1998 and held the post until 2002. She had a major role in organizing the millennium summit meeting, as well as the responsibility for keeping feathers unruffled during the three-day gathering.
        That the meeting, mainly devoted to brainstorming about the coming century, went off smoothly was in large measure attributed to Ms. Younes's dextrous handling of the assembled potentates.
        Ms. Younes faced some tricky moments. The wife of a Saudi delegate, thrilled by a ride on a double-decker New York sightseeing bus, asked her how to buy one and take it home. And a mysterious figure identified as Count Carlo Marullo di Condojanni of the Sovereign Military Order of Malta somehow got himself into the official photo of world leaders.
        From 1999 until 2001, Ms. Younes took time off from her protocol duties to serve as spokeswoman for Bernard Kouchner, the French politician and founder of Doctors Without Borders, while he was United Nations administrator in Kosovo.
        From 1988 until 1993, she was deputy to the spokesman for the secretary general, serving Javier Pérez de Cuéllar and Boutros Boutros-Ghali.
        Nadia Younes was born in Cairo on June 13, 1946, and earned a bachelor's degree in English literature at Cairo University in 1966.
        She joined the United Nations in 1970, at the same time beginning studies at New York University, where she earned a master's degree in political science and international relations in 1973. She transferred to the department of public information in 1974 and held a large number of press and information positions. In 1993 she went to Rome to head the United Nations information office there.
        In 2002 she transferred to the World Health Organization in Geneva, where she took charge of external relations for Gro Harlem Brundtland, then the director general. Earlier this year she moved to Baghdad.
        She is survived by a brother, Fouad Younes, of Cairo, and a sister, Nahed Fouad, of London.
      