
        Susan Chilcott, a leading British soprano who had a winning Metropolitan Opera debut last year as Helena in Britten's ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' and received glowing reviews last June for her Royal Opera at Covent Garden debut as Lisa in Tchaikovsky's ''Queen of Spades,'' opposite Plácido Domingo, died on Thursday at her home in Timsbury, near Bath. She was 40.
        The cause was breast cancer, her family said.
        Ms. Chilcott, who began singing lessons at 6, attracted attention early in her career with her warm, dusky soprano and her stately and compelling stage presence. After appearing with the Scottish Opera, Opera North, the Welsh National Opera and the English National Opera, she made her first appearance outside Britain in 1994 at the Théâtre Royal de la Monnaie in Brussels, where she played Ellen Orford in a new production of Britten's ''Peter Grimes.''
        There she became a protégée of the conductor Antonio Pappano, now the music director at Covent Garden, who said he was devastated by the news of her death. ''It is rare to come across an opera star who is as good an actress as she is a singer,'' Mr. Pappano said in The Times of London on Thursday.
        Among the other roles she sang with the Brussels company were the Composer in Strauss's ''Ariadne auf Naxos,'' Hermione in the 1999 world premiere of Philippe Boesmans's ''Wintermärchen'' and Desdemona in Verdi's ''Otello,'' a part she also performed in a new production of that opera at the Glyndebourne Festival in July 2001. She made her United States debut in 1996 as Donna Elvira in Mozart's ''Don Giovanni'' at the Santa Fe Opera.
        Ms. Chilcott's cancer was diagnosed in 2000. After surgery and chemotherapy, she had to withdraw the next year from a production of Prokofiev's ''War and Peace'' at the English National Opera. But as her condition improved, she continued to perform and accept important appearances, including the Met debut.
        Last summer she made news during a performance in the ''Queen of Spades'' at Covent Garden when a candle set fire to the train of her dress. Absorbed in her singing, she did not hear the shouts from members of the audience and was startled when a member of the staff rushed onstage with a fire extinguisher.
        Ms. Chilcott is survived by her husband, David Sigall, who was also her manager, and her 4-year-old son from an earlier relationship, Hugh.
        She had been scheduled to sing Ellen Orford in the forthcoming season at Covent Garden and had also discussed future roles at the Met, though her illness prevented her from making any commitments.
      