
        Yayori Matsui, a journalist and campaigner for the rights of Asian women, died on Dec. 27 at a Tokyo hospital. She was 68 and a resident of Tokyo.
        The cause was liver cancer, said an associate, Norma Field, professor of Japanese studies at the University of Chicago. Dr. Field said Ms. Matsui had reported her illness in a message to her associates in which she also outlined her ideas for a projected Women's Museum of War and Peace.
        Ms. Matsui was the founder, in 1998, of the Violence Against Women in War-Network, Japan. It was a principal sponsor of the Women's International War Crimes Trial held in Tokyo in 2000.
        A symbolic trial, it found Emperor Hirohito ultimately responsible for the policy by which the Japanese military forced Asian women into sexual slavery during World War II. It convicted other wartime leaders individually of crimes against humanity for their part in what was euphemistically called the ''comfort women'' system.
        Ms. Matsui was in the forefront of efforts to make Japanese school textbooks deal more openly with the realities of World War II. She traveled widely, writing and speaking about women as the victims of armed conflicts and social injustices.
        She was born in Kyoto. Her parents, both Christian missionaries, moved to Tokyo after the war to build the Yamate Christian Church in the devastated capital. Ms. Matsui's funeral was held there Monday, according to Margaret Mitsutani, a member of her Violence Against Women group in Tokyo.
        She said Ms. Matsui was survived by her parents and five siblings.
        Ms. Matsui worked for Asahi Shimbun, one of Japan's leading newspapers, for 30 years, starting in the early 1960's. She reported from Singapore, worked as a senior staff writer and contributed articles on the environment, Asian affairs and women's issues.
        In 1976 she founded Asian Women in Solidarity, a grass-roots organization that grew out of opposition to ''sex tourism'' conducted for well-heeled visitors to Asia. This in turn led to the establishment in 1995 of the Asia-Japan Women's Resource Center in Tokyo, which researches women's issues, publishes a magazine, conducts seminars and sponsors lectures by Asian feminists.
        She was the author of ''Women in New Asia: From Pain to Power,'' published in Britain in 2000 and distributed here by St. Martin's Press. The Women's Museum, tentatively set to open in Tokyo in 2006, is to include a library and video archive documenting the fate of ''comfort women'' and violence against women in conflicts around the world.
        According to Ms. Mitsutani, Ms. Matsui was in Afghanistan meeting with Afghan feminists in October when her illness overtook her. She returned to Tokyo where she worked on plans for the women's museum.
      