
        Judith Arango Henderson, a design expert, curator and columnist whose Miami retail store, Arango Inc., was one of the first to specialize in midcentury modern design, died on July 12 in Piedmont, Calif. She was 75 and lived there and in Miami.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, her family said.
        The store, opened in 1959 and still in operation, brought an appreciation for simple, functional design to a city famous for fanciful ornamentation. It sells flatware, glassware, furniture and other household items, many by modernists like Alvar Aalto and Arne Jacobsen, all designed for aesthetic appeal as well as utility. The store also presented exhibitions devoted to designers, materials, manufacturers and design trends.
        Ms. Arango was acknowledged to have influenced generations of designers and architects in Miami. In 1981, she expanded her exhibition program by establishing the Arango Design Foundation.
        Its shows, which traveled to other cities, included ''Out of the Ordinary,'' a look at well-designed and commonly available objects like paintbrushes, padlocks and a scissors to remove the tops of soft-boiled eggs, and ''Re(f)use,'' devoted to products made from recycled materials.
        Ms. Arango was also a contributor to design publications like Abitare and Domus, and she wrote a ''Design of the Month'' column for The San Francisco Chronicle. The column, which reviewed everyday items like mops and coffee makers, appeared through this summer.
        Ms. Arango, whose maiden name was Wolpert, was born on July 1, 1928, in Miami, where her father owned a conventional furniture store. After graduating from Wellesley with a degree in philosophy, she worked for the United States Information Service in Bogotá, Colombia.
        Ms. Arango's first marriage ended in divorce. She is survived by her husband, John B. Henderson of Piedmont and Miami; her children from her first marriage, Richard Arango of Miami and Virginia Arango of Raleigh, N.C.; a sister, Carol Jane Gottfried of Miami; a brother, Jordan Dancer of Scottsdale, Ariz.; and two grandchildren.
      