
        Gisele MacKenzie, the Canadian singing star of the 1950's television show ''Your Hit Parade,'' died on Friday in Burbank, Calif. She was 76.
        The cause was colon cancer, said her daughter, Gigi Downs.
        Although she was known mainly for her contralto voice, Ms. MacKenzie also traded barbs and violin riffs with Jack Benny and played the piano on her own variety show. On ''Your Hit Parade,'' she sang the most popular tunes of the week with her fellow cast members Snooky Lanson, Dorothy Collins and Russell Arms.
        Gisele Marie Louise Marguerite La Fleche was born on Jan. 10, 1927, in Winnipeg, Manitoba. Her father, a doctor who played the violin, and her mother, who sang and played the organ, encouraged her musical talent. She studied violin in her teens at the Royal Conservatory of Music in Toronto, but she began singing and playing popular songs on the piano after school. At a party where she sang for wartime sailors, she met Robert Shuttleworth, a military bandleader, who later hired her to perform with his hotel orchestra.
        He became her business manager, and in 1958, her husband.
        Ms. MacKenzie wavered between a career as a singer or one as a concert violinist until her $3,000 violin was stolen from a parked car. Her vocation thus resolved, she began singing on a Canadian radio show called ''Meet Gisele'' in 1946, her popularity earning her the informal title of Canada's first lady of song.
        In 1951, when she began to sing in the United States, she took her father's middle name, MacKenzie, as her last name. In an interview with The New York Journal in 1956, she said she worried that the name Gisele La Fleche ''sounded like a strip tease artist's.''
        She sang for two years on Bob Crosby's radio show ''Club 15,'' and when it went off the air, she joined Jack Benny on tour. The attention she gained with Mr. Benny won her a spot on ''Your Hit Parade,'' replacing June Valli.
        She appeared on the show from 1953 to 1957, then left to star in her own variety series, ''The Gisele MacKenzie Show,'' which lasted only six months. In 1963 she was on weekly television again, becoming a regular on ''The Sid Caesar Show.'' Over the next four decades, she starred in regional theater and made guest appearances on television game shows and series like ''MacGyver'' and ''Murder, She Wrote.''
        Her two marriages, to Mr. Shuttleworth and to Robert Klein, a businessman, ended in divorce.
        In addition to Ms. Downs, of Newport Beach, Calif., she is survived by a son, Mac Shuttleworth; a brother, George La Fleche; a sister, Janine Helzer; and two grandchildren.
      