
        Anna Lindh, who died early yesterday at the age of 46 after a stabbing attack, was one of Sweden's most popular politicians. A lifelong member of the governing Social Democrats, she had been mentioned as a future party leader. In 1998, when she became foreign minister under Prime Minister Goran Persson, the Swedish press called her ''Persson's crown princess,'' seeing her as his likely successor.
        She was vehemently pro-European in a country where joining the European Union was a heated issue. She became the leading campaigner in the government's drive to persuade a somewhat skeptical electorate to replace the Swedish crown with the euro. At the time of her death, Stockholm and, indeed, much of the country, was plastered with posters picturing her under the word ''Ja'' -- signifying the Yes vote she favored in the referendum set for this weekend.
        Ms. Lindh supported the same causes embraced by Swedish Social Democrats, including environmental protection and human rights, but she was unusually outspoken.
        Earlier this year, during Sweden's six-month presidency of the European Union, she called President Bush ''a Lone Ranger'' for his decision to go to war in Iraq without United Nations approval, although she expressed support for his campaign against global terror.
        She clashed with the Bush administration over other issues as well, like its refusal to take part in the formation of the International Criminal Court. She roundly criticized Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy for comparing a German lawmaker to a Nazi concentration camp kapo. And in an October 2001 interview with The Times of India, she succinctly laid out her government's stance on the Middle East, insisting that Israel remove settlements on the West Bank, withdraw military forces from the West Bank and Gaza Strip.
        Anna Maria Lindh was born in Stockholm on June 19, 1957, and earned a law degree from the University of Uppsala. She was elected to Parliament in 1982 and quickly rose through her party's ranks, becoming chairman of its youth league in 1984 and a member of the policy-making executive committee in 1991.
        When the Social Democrats regained power in 1994, she was named environment minister. She is survived by her husband, Bo Holmberg, also a politician, and by their two sons, David and Filip.
      