
        Lady Donaldson, the first woman to be lord mayor of London in the 800-year history of the office, died on Saturday at a hospice near her family home in Lymington, England. She was 82.
        For one term in 1983, Lady Donaldson held the highest title of the City of London. In 1981 and 1982, she was also the first woman to be the City's sheriff, a position established 500 years before that of lord mayor.
        The ancient City is not London, although it is surrounded by London. Established by a royal charter in the 12th century, it is now famous as England's financial center.
        By tradition, when the queen makes a state visit there, the lord mayor, carrying a sword, meets her at the city limit. The monarch gently pushes aside the proffered sword to signify acceptance of the lord mayor's sovereignty.
        After being sheriff and lord mayor, Lady Donaldson went on to lead organizations concerned with cancer and the ethics of in-vitro fertilization, to serve on Britain's press complaints commission and to be chairwoman of a committee overseeing the ombudsman appointed to supervise the banking industry.
        No women have succeeded Lady Donaldson as lord mayor. Because she was married to a baron, she was called lady rather than her own title of dame, which goes with the lord mayor's job. She also insisted on being called lord mayor, rather than lady mayor, and fined anybody who feminized her title a pound.
        ''The fact that I'm a woman is purely biological,'' she said in an interview with The Associated Press in 1983. ''If it encourages other women to take more positions of responsibility, then it'll have achieved something, but I'm not a feminist.''
        Dorothy Mary Warwick was born in Wickham, Hampshire, on Aug. 29, 1921. Her father, Reginald George Gale Warwick, was an ironmonger. Her mother, Dorothy Alice Warwick, was a schoolteacher and the first woman to serve on her local governing council.
        Miss Warwick left high school to spend a year teaching English in Paris. On her return, she began training in Oxford to become a nurse. In London during World War II, she treated soldiers returning from Dunkirk and victims of the blitz.
        Toward the end of the war, she met John Donaldson, a lieutenant colonel in the army, through his mother, whom Miss Warwick cared for in the hospital. They were married in 1945.
        Her husband, an eminent lawyer and judge, was appointed master of the rolls, one of the highest-ranking posts in Britain's judiciary.
        ''We've always led two separate lives -- perhaps that's why our marriage works so well,'' Lady Donaldson said to The New York Times in 1983. ''We've always got something to talk about.''
        In addition to her husband, Lady Donaldson is survived by a son, two daughters and six grandchildren.
        Before becoming sheriff, Lady Donaldson was the first woman to be a City alderman. Another woman, Edwina Coven, was elected 17 months earlier, but was vetoed by her fellow aldermen. It was the Court of Aldermen that elected Lady Donaldson lord mayor after she had been nominated by the City's livery companies, a mixture of charitable trusts, gentlemen's clubs and guardians of craft standards and training.
        Lady Donaldson shunned the lord mayor's traditional garb, as her obituary in The Daily Telegraph yesterday pointed up.
        ''If I were 20 years younger and considerably slimmer I might have considered wearing knee breeches like the men,'' she said. ''I hope to do better than the men who wear a suit under the robes. I'll only need a bra and slip.''
      