
        Judy Hendren Mello, former president and chief executive of the First Women's Bank in Manhattan, died Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 60 and had homes in Manhattan; Millbrook, N.Y.; and Moose, Wyo.
        The cause was complications of ovarian cancer, said her husband, Jay Marc Schwamm.
        She ran the bank, which was on 57th Street between Park and Lexington Avenues, from 1980 to 1983, then resigned.
        The bank, a creation of the feminist movement, was established in April 1975. It was the first bank in the United States to be operated by women and for women, at a time when its founders said that women were given short shrift by other banks.
        While she led the bank, it earned small profits, but its heyday passed as other banks moved to address concerns of women. Some time after she stepped down, a group of New York City businessmen acquired a controlling interest in the bank. Its name was changed and it subsequently failed.
        Born on July 14, 1943, in Chickasha, Okla., she received a bachelor's degree from Muskingum College in Ohio and attended Johns Hopkins University's School of Advanced International Studies in Washington.
        She worked for Marine Midland Bank, Lehman Brothers, American Express and Cambridge International Partners.
        From 1991 to 1998 she was president and owner of the J. H. Mello Company, an investment banking and consulting business, which became known as the Mello Corporation in the mid-1990's. She then became president and chief executive of World Learning Inc., a nonprofit organization with programs in 110 countries. World Learning established a scholarship in her honor shortly before her death.
        In 1983, she was a founding member of the Committee of 200, a group of women who are senior corporate executives and entrepreneurs.
        Her marriage to Marcus Mello ended in divorce in 1985. Besides her husband, she is survived by three stepchildren; seven stepgrandchildren; and a brother, Ed Hendren of Chico, Calif.
        Correction:  October 30, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Friday about Judy Hendren Mello, former president and chief executive of the First Women's Bank in Manhattan, misstated the day of her death. It was last Tuesday, not Oct. 20.
      