
        Dr. Margaret A. Johns, who showed that pheromones can set off hormonal changes in mammals when they activate receptors in a tiny nasal cavity, a process that can attract animals of the opposite sex, died Saturday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. She was 75.
        The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter Sara Johns Griffen.
        Scientists had known of the nasal structure, called the vomeronasal organ, on each side of the nasal septum, for more than a century. But it was widely believed that the organ had gradually become functionless and that the odorless chemical messages known as pheromones were detected instead by the olfactory system.
        Dr. Johns's research, published in the journal Nature in 1978, led other scientists to question, and later debunk, the long-held notion that humans were incapable of sensing pheromones.
        In recent years, research has suggested that the vomeronasal organ acts on the human brain in its hypothalamus, which produces hormones and regulates appetite, anxiety, fear and other behaviors.
        In her experiment, Dr. Johns, a graduate student at the time, found that female rats would start to ovulate if exposed to an outside stimulus, like male urine. She then blocked off the vomeronasal organ in several female rats and repeated the procedure. This time, the urine had no effect, suggesting that the pheromones were acting not on the sense of smell, but on the organ many assumed had no real purpose.
        ''There was evidence of pheromone communication in insects and invertebrates, but she was the first one to find it in mammals,'' said Dr. Louis Monti-Bloch, who worked on studies in the early 1990's proving that pheromones can induce behavioral changes in humans. ''That inspired studies that explored whether these same pheromones were having an effect in humans.''
        Today, scientists are developing synthetic pheromones that could have a range of medical uses, like relieving anxiety and easing symptoms of premenstrual syndrome.
        Born in Boston, Margaret Anne Johns earned her bachelor's degree from Hunter College, but not until she was in her late 30's, after she had raised two children. She went on to receive her Ph.D. from the Institute of Animal Behavior at Rutgers University.
        In the early 1980's, she did research at Mount Sinai in New York showing that cells within the pituitary gland could absorb serotonin. Her paper, published in the journal Endocrinology in 1982, suggested that the hormone might have an effect on the anterior pituitary gland in mammals, which helps to regulate growth and ovulation, among other things.
        Whether serotonin influences the anterior pituitary is an issue that many scientists debate to this day, said Dr. Marc Freeman, a professor of biological science and neuroscience at Florida State University.
        Dr. Johns's first marriage, to Craig Johns, ended in divorce in the early 80's.
        In addition to her daughter Sara, who lives in Kinderhook, N.Y., she is survived by her husband, H. Peter Stern; another daughter, Kate Johns, of Old Chatham, N.Y.; a brother, Stephen Bush of San Pedro, Calif.; three stepchildren; and eight grandchildren.
      