
        Marie Marcus, a jazz pianist who was a protégée of Fats Waller and appeared on Manhattan's 52nd Street, the prewar epicenter of jazz, before becoming a summer fixture in nightclubs on Cape Cod, died on Oct. 10 in Hyannis, Mass. She was 89.
        In a book about jazz personalities, ''Barney, Bradley, and Max'' (Oxford, 1989), the jazz critic Whitney Balliett suggested that Mrs. Marcus's talent and experience elevated her into a higher league than the normal run of resort acts. ''At first, her style seems a simple mélange of chunky chords and brief connective runs, but on closer examination it is a repository of the jazz piano playing of the thirties and forties,'' he wrote.
        Marie Eleanor Doherty, an only child, was born in Roxbury, Mass., on May 25, 1914. Her father, a plumber, and her mother were elegant ballroom dancers and had a player piano in the house with rolls by the likes of Waller.
        She started playing the piano at 4 and studied at the New England Conservatory of Music while attending Roxbury Memorial High. She started in children's radio shows and ended up in Manhattan playing the piano on a national radio show for NBC as well as in clubs, under the name Marie Doherty.
        When Waller persuaded her to play in an after-hours club in Harlem, he pointed to his heart and said, ''For a white girl, you sure got it there.''
        She asked him whether he knew a good piano teacher. He answered, ''How about me?'' and gave her lessons when he was in town.
        With the licks she absorbed from him, she made it to 52nd Street, the epicenter of jazz, where she played at the Swing Club.
        At the end of her New York years, she led a 12-piece band and, after several musicians were drafted, a six-piece one. Her agent sent her to the Coonamessett Club in Falmouth on Cape Cod, in part to help her relax from the exhausting work. The respite became a happy 40-year residency, and she became popular with both locals and tourists.
        President Kennedy came to hear her and Alma Gates White play as the ''piano mamas'' at the Panama Club in Hyannis.
        For many years, she also spent winters performing in Miami Beach. In the 1950's, she appeared on television shows like Steve Allen's ''Tonight'' show and the ''Dave Garroway Show.''
        In 1937, she married Jack Brown, a singer. They later separated, and he died. She later married Bill Marcus, a trumpet player and later a lawyer. He died in 1965.
        She is survived by her sons, Jack Brown, of Quincy, Mass., and William Marcus, of Fort Lauderdale; her daughters, Mary Liles and Barbara Marcus, both of St. Petersburg, Fla.; eight grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.
      