
        Louise Day Hicks, the Boston public school official and City Council member whose opposition to busing to achieve school integration helped to polarize the city in the 1960's and made her a national symbol of racial division, died on Tuesday at her home in South Boston. She was 87.
        Mrs. Hicks was the city's most prominent opponent of busing, saying it was not what parents, especially those in her almost-all-white South Boston neighborhood, wanted. To her supporters, she was a champion of working-class residents and neighborhood schools. To her opponents, she epitomized an unwillingness to breach a deep-seated racial divide in deeply segregated Boston.
        ''She became the symbol, if you please, of someone who was against desegregating Boston schools,'' said Paul Parks, who was chairman of the education committee of the Boston N.A.A.C.P. in the 1960's, a former state secretary of education and a former president of the Boston School Committee. ''She would not admit segregation exists.''
        Mrs. Hicks, a lawyer and the daughter of a prominent South Boston judge, spent a decade fighting against forced integration in Boston before it was ordered in 1974 by Judge W. Arthur Garrity Jr. of Federal District Court.
        Mrs. Hicks was elected to the Boston School Committee in 1961. Two years later, the local N.A.A.C.P. chapter declared that ''de facto segregation'' existed in the schools, citing a report that 13 schools were more than 90 percent black and significantly lacking in money. Mrs. Hicks, then the chairwoman, cast aside the issue when it was brought before the committee, asking that the board ''kindly proceed to educational matters.'' She was overwhelmingly re-elected that fall and immediately became a lightning rod for the issue.
        In 1965, when Massachusetts enacted a law ordering districts to desegregate or lose state financing, Mrs. Hicks refused to back down. She said she felt that the Boston schools were being made a scapegoat by suburban legislators who wanted nothing more than to meddle in neighborhoods they knew nothing about. ''If the suburbs are so interested in solving the problems of the Negro,'' she said, ''why don't they build subsidized housing for them?''
        Mrs. Hicks, the subject of numerous death threats, insisted she was not racist.
        She refused to meet with Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama, an ardent segregationist, telling a reporter that she did not want to be connected with him. ''The important thing is that I'm not bigoted,'' she once said.
        Mrs. Hicks always insisted that she had the best interests of students in mind with her anti-busing crusade.
        ''I have guarded your children well,'' she said in announcing her mayoral candidacy in 1967. ''I will continue to defend the neighborhood school as long as I have a breath left in my body.''
        She did not focus on busing during the campaign, sidestepping the issue with the slogan ''You know where I stand.''
        Despite a victory in the September primary, she lost the election by 12,000 votes to Kevin H. White, another first-time mayoral candidate of Irish descent who snatched up last-minute votes in the black neighborhoods of Roxbury and Mattapan.
        Mrs. Hicks won election to the City Council by a landslide in 1969. In 1970 she won a race to fill a vacant seat in the House of Representatives, but was defeated in 1972. She was re-elected to the City Council in 1973 and 1975 and lost in 1977 and 1981, but filled a vacant seat for one year, 1979. Plagued by poor health, she then left local politics.
        ''I think she was exemplary in her willingness to come to her own conclusions and really very bravely act on her convictions,'' said William M. Bulger, a former president of the State Senate and the University of Massachusetts and a native of South Boston. ''It's not true of everyone. In fact, there's a great deal of poll-taking at all times these days, but Mrs. Hicks had to recognize that she was taking a position during that time at odds with what the opinion molders certainly felt.''
        Louise Day was born in South Boston on Oct. 16, 1916, although many who worked with her said she often lied about her age. She was the only daughter of William J. and Anna McCarron Day. Her mother died when Mrs. Hicks was 14, and she was especially close to her father, a lawyer, judge and businessman, whom she cited as her inspiration to become a lawyer. She graduated from Wheelock Teacher's College in Boston in 1938 and received an education degree from Boston University in 1952 and a law degree from there in 1955.
        She married John Hicks, an engineer, in 1942. He died of cancer in 1968. She is survived by a son, William. Another son, John, vanished in 1978.
      