
        Evan Ruderman, whose theatrical monologue about her own experience with AIDS was a major part of a documentary shown on public television in 1996, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. She was 44.
        The cause was complications of AIDS, her mother, Dr. Cydelle Berlin, said.
        Ms. Ruderman was active in feminist and political causes. She dropped out of high school to become an apprentice electrician, and became a leader of organizations promoting jobs for women in blue-collar trades, including Women in the Trades and NEW, whose name is an acronym for nontraditional employment for women.
        She later worked toward her high school diploma and received two years of college-level training to become a full member of the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, Local 3. She was the fifth woman in the group, her mother said.
        Ms. Ruderman, who was born in Brooklyn on March 28, 1959, learned she was H.I.V. positive in 1988 and developed full-blown AIDS in 1990.
        Her mother, Dr. Berlin, was involved in AIDS education, but Ms. Ruderman did not tell her that she was H.I.V. positive until 1989. The year before, Dr. Berlin had started a group to visit schools and other places to explain AIDS. Dr. Berlin was considering theatrical use of an anonymous monologue by someone suffering from AIDS when her daughter told her she had written it. Ms. Ruderman and her monologue then became part of the production.
        In 1996, PBS showed a documentary by the producer Roger Weisberg about her mother's group, called the Star Theater. The group was first affiliated with Mount Sinai Medical Center and is now sponsored by St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. Ms. Ruderman played a featured role in the production, titled ''Sex and Other Matters of Life and Death.''
        Ms. Ruderman retired as an electrician 11 years ago with a full pension from her union, her mother said. She remained active in AIDS causes. In 2002 at the Worlds AIDS Conference in Barcelona, Spain, she represented New York area women who were unable to attend the larger gathering.
        Ms. Ruderman is survived by her mother, who lives in Manhattan; her father, Robert, of Manhattan; her stepmother, Vicki Fian of Manhattan; her sister, Leigh Roumila of Ridgewood, N.J.; and her brothers, Jamie, of Maplewood, N.J., and Adam, of Manhattan.
        Correction:  November 27, 2003, Thursday  An obituary of the AIDS activist and educator Evan Ruderman on Friday gave an incorrect surname for her surviving stepmother. She is Vicki Sufian, not Fian.
      