
        Clare Le Corbeiller, a longtime curator of the decorative arts at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 71.
        She had battled cancer for five years, said her husband, Jean Le Corbeiller.
        Mrs. Corbeiller was widely knowledgeable in the decorative arts, specializing in Continental porcelain, metalwork and jewelry (with emphasis on 18th-century French) and Chinese export porcelain. She was also what might be called an old-school curator in that she was trained primarily through direct contact with objects, although she attended lectures in art history by Seymour Slive and Wolfgang Stechow during two years spent studying piano at Oberlin College.
        Mrs. Le Corbeiller was born of American parents in 1931 in Cambridge, England, where her father was studying history. She grew up in Cleveland and in New York, where her mother worked at the Museum of Modern Art and as an editor at Lincoln Kirstein's magazine Dance Index.
        Mrs. Le Corbeiller came to the Met as a summer volunteer in 1952 while studying advertising design at the Rhode Island School of Design. Except for a six-year absence in the early 1960's, when her two daughters were in the sandbox stage, she never left. She joined the museum's central cataloging department in 1953 and when that department was dissolved in 1959 -- an event that she saw as unfortunate -- she moved to the decorative arts department, known today as European Sculpture and Decorative Arts.
        Mrs. Le Corbeiller's career both paralleled and contributed to the rise in prominence of the Met's European decorative arts holdings during the last 35 years. She was involved at all levels, micro to macro.
        She systematized both the department's storage and its files, oversaw the installation of permanent galleries and period rooms, contributed to major exhibitions like ''The Arts Under Napoleon'' (1978) and guided acquisitions. With James Parker, she wrote the guide to the museum's Wrightsman Galleries (1979), the complex of spaces that display Jane Wrightsman's immense gift of French decorative arts; she also wrote the catalog for the gold boxes included in the gift (1977). She selected the porcelains for the museum's Jack and Belle Linsky Collection and also wrote its catalog (1984). With Alice Cooney Frelinghuysen she organized ''Chinese Export Porcelain'' at the Met in 2003 and wrote its catalog, published as the Winter 2003 issue of the museum's bulletin.
        In addition, Mrs. Le Corbeiller published regularly in magazines like Apollo and taught in the Parsons/Cooper-Hewitt master's program and the Bard Graduate Center.
        After her child-rearing hiatus, during which she wrote a book on American and European snuffboxes, Mrs. Le Corbeiller returned to the Met as an assistant curator in 1967, rising to full curator in 1991. She was named curator emerita upon her retirement in 2000. In her honor, the Met turned an issue of its annual Journal into a 319-page Festschrift; it contained essays by 28 colleagues from the museum and elsewhere, an in-house record in terms of contributors.
        In addition to her husband, a teacher of mathematics and the history of science whom she married in 1958, Mrs. Le Corbeiller is survived two daughters, Suzanne Le Corbeiller of Pocatello, Idaho, and Geneviéve White of Pelham, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 1, 2003, Monday  An obituary last Monday about Clare Le Corbeiller, a longtime curator of decorative arts at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, misspelled the given name of a donor of French decorative works. She is Jayne Wrightsman, not Jane.
      