
        Jane Evans, a former top executive of several large companies and most recently the managing partner of the Directors' Council, a company she helped form this year to help companies find women and members of minorities to serve as directors, died Nov. 16 in Buenos Aires, where she was attending a business conference.
        She was 59 and lived in Paradise Valley, Ariz.
        The cause apparently was bacterial pneumonia, said her husband, George Sheer.
        Ms. Evans, at one time regarded as a prodigy in the field of traditional women's apparel retailing, more recently was associated with relative newcomers like Hypercom, an international provider of electronic payment and card processing systems.
        At her death she was a director of Hypercom, Georgia-Pacific, the KB Home Corporation and the Altria Group, formerly Philip Morris.
        She had been a Philip Morris board member since 1981, when she was the executive vice president leading the sprawling fashion group of General Mills, later spun off as Crystal Brands.
        Jane Pierce Evans was born in Hannibal, Mo., and graduated from Vanderbilt University in 1965. A few days before her graduation, Genesco recruited Ms. Evans for executive training.
        She rose from assistant to buyer for stockings, handbags and shoes. She became fashion coordinator for all the shoes sold by Genesco's shoe-making subsidiary, I. Miller, to Sears, Miller's No. 1 outlet. By the time she was 25, in 1970, she was named president of I. Miller.
        Three and a half years later, Ms. Evans became president of Butterick Fashion Marketing, makers of zippers and sewing patterns sold under the Butterick and Vogue names; its corporate parent was American Can.
        She left American Can and Butterick in 1977, saying they had become incompatible with her long-term career in women's apparel.
        She went to lead the apparel group of General Mills where, as an executive vice president, she was responsible for fashion labels like Izod Lacoste, Ship 'n Shore and Monet Jewelers.
        A headline in The New York Times in 1982 described her as ''The Number One Woman on Seventh Avenue.'' That year she joined women who were top executives across the corporate spectrum in the Committee of 200, founded as a power base for women in business.
        In 1984, she became president and chief executive officer of Monet, a big maker of quality costume jewelry, and stayed on when General Mills spun off its fashion components. But in 1987, she suddenly resigned to look for other opportunities, she said.
        Ms. Evans shifted fields to investment banking, becoming a general partner in Montgomery Securities of San Francisco.
        But she returned to retailing in 1989 as president and chief executive of the Interpacific Group, an operator of hundreds of specialty stores under various names at resorts in Hawaii and the Far East.
        Later, she was also chief operating officer of Gamut Interactive, a new-media service company in Scottsdale, Ariz. She was a member of senior management at US West Communications and, most recently, was associated with Opnix, of Tempe, Ariz., an Internet technology start-up.
        Her last major project, the Directors' Council, was established this year in Phoenix and New York. Other founders included Christie Hefner of Playboy Enterprises, Marilyn R. Seymann of M One and Kay Koplovitz, former chief executive of USA Networks.
        Besides Mr. Sheer, her husband of 33 years, Ms. Evans is survived by a son, Jonathan, of Tokyo; her mother, Kay Pierce of Columbus, Ohio; a sister, Judy Thompson, also of Columbus; and a brother, James Evans of Richmond, Va.
      