
        C. Z. Guest, one of the monarchs of New York society who was a perennial selection on the best-dressed list, a noted horsewoman and an authority on gardening, died on Saturday at home in Old Westbury, N.Y. She was 83.
        Mrs. Guest's interest in horticulture began when she was a child following the family gardener around her parents' estate on the North Shore of Boston. Her name then was Lucy Douglas Cochrane, but she soon became C. Z. when her brother, Alexander, could not pronounce ''sister.'' Embarking on a writing career relatively late in life, she was the author of books on gardening and a children's book, ''Tiny Green Thumbs.'' She also wrote a syndicated weekly column that appeared in 350 newspapers across the nation.
        Mrs. Guest began her writing career while recovering from a horseback riding accident in 1976. While she was convalescing, frequent telephone calls from friends about their gardening problems prompted her first book, ''First Garden,'' which was illustrated by her ''very dear friend'' Cecil Beaton and which had an introduction by another ''dear, dear friend,'' Truman Capote.
        In his introduction, Capote described Mrs. Guest working in her garden: ''There, with her baskets and spades and clippers, and wearing her funny boyish shoes, and with her sunborne sweat soaking her eyes, she is a part of the sky and the earth, possibly a not too significant part, but a part.''
        Beaton and Capote were only two in a legion of celebrities and jet-setters who surrounded Mrs. Guest throughout her vivid life. When she was married in 1947 to Winston Frederick Churchill Guest, an international polo star, heir to the Phipps steel fortune and a second cousin of Winston Churchill, the ceremony was held at the home of Ernest Hemingway in Cuba, with Hemingway serving as best man.
        Until Mr. Guest's death in 1982, the couple was prominent in international social circles, hunting in India with the Maharaja of Jaipur and frequently entertaining the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, who subsequently became godparents of their children, Cornelia and Alexander.
        C. Z. Guest was considered one of America's classic beauties. The writer Jill Gerston once described her this way: ''With her pale skin, blue eyes, ash-blond hair and trim figure, she is cut from the same cool, silky cloth as Grace Kelly. It is a patrician beauty that is indigenous to socially registered enclaves like Palm Beach and Southampton, a sporty, outdoorsy look that eschews makeup, hair spray and anything trendy. She has an outspoken, coolly self-assured manner and a throaty, well-modulated voice with a trace of a British accent.''
        In 1962, Time magazine did a lengthy article on American society and apotheosized Mrs. Guest on its cover as the model of horsy high society. She posed in front of her Long Island estate wearing a button-down shirt and tie and jodhpurs, a sleek hound at her side, the personification of old-guard chic. Truman Capote once described Mrs. Guest as the incarnation of understated elegance and said she was ''a cool vanilla lady.''
        John Fairchild, then publisher of Women's Wear Daily, described her as ''Southampton, Long Island American, Ivy League blond.'' British Vogue said she had ''the face of a flower.''
        Often adorned by Mainbocher, Givenchy and Adolfo, she was chosen by the New York Dress Institute as one of the best-dressed women in the world early in the 1950's and remained on the list for years until her elevation to the Fashion Hall of Fame.
        Mrs. Guest was also the designer of a small fashion collection introduced in 1985 and at the time made up principally of cashmere sweaters. ''I will only sell what I like to wear,'' she said, after her sweaters had been displayed flung casually around the shoulders of models at a show by the designer Adolfo. A limited sportswear line was licensed in 1986 and in 1990 she came out with a fragrant insect repellent spray and other garden products.
        Lucy Douglas Cochrane was born in Boston on Feb. 19, 1920, the second of five children of Alexander Lynde Cochrane, an investment banker, and Vivian Cochrane, the former Vivian Wessell. Her father died when she was 6. She was educated by tutors and later graduated from the Fermata School in Aiken, S.C. She made her society debut in 1937, and was voted the glamour girl of the Massachusetts North Shore in a contest held in 1939, which prompted a brief career as a showgirl. She appeared in a 1943 revue on the roof of the Ritz-Carlton in Boston and in a revival of the Ziegfeld Follies on Broadway in 1944. She spent six months in Hollywood attending 20th Century Fox's studio school but never appeared in a film.
        ''My ambition was to be a successful enough actress to get myself thrown out of the Social Register,'' she once said. ''I had no talent at all but I enjoyed every minute of my experience.'' It was also during this period that she took off for Mexico, where Diego Rivera painted her as a nude odalisque. When she became engaged to Mr. Guest, her portrait, which had reportedly been displayed in a Mexico City bar, was bought by her fiancé's family.
        Mrs. Guest became interested in volunteer work as a debutante in Boston and was active in numerous charitable organizations over the years, including the Children's Research and Asthma Institute, the Police Athletic League and the March of Dimes.
        For years she was chairwoman of the April in Paris Ball and was a favorite of society columnists, who often mentioned her lunching with such friends as Elsa Maxwell, Mrs. William Paley, Mrs. Earl Smith, Doris Duke and Estée Lauder. They also mentioned her riding in the hunt country of Virginia, taking in the polo matches at the Piping Rock Club on Long Island, working hard on her orchids in her greenhouses or walking the grounds of Templeton, her estate on Long Island, trailed by a string of hunting dogs.
        Mrs. Guest was for decades one of society's leading hostesses. ''She was very comfortable with all kinds of people, which is not common for a woman who's born to the purple, so to speak,'' her friend Eppie Lederer (the advice columnist Ann Landers) once observed.
        The Guests jointly owned racing stables, with Mr. Guest supervising those in Chantilly, France, and Mrs. Guest supervising others in Middleburg, Va. She loved exercising her horses and did so most mornings. For years she competed in the leading horse shows.
        In 1984, Mrs. Guest was named to head the American garden exhibit of the International Garden Festival in Liverpool, England. The project, jointly sponsored by the United States Information Agency and the United States Forest Service, was a memorial to members of the Army Air Forces who were killed in World War II.
        Mrs. Guest was amused when her daughter, Cornelia, was hailed by Life magazine as ''the debutante of the year'' in 1982 and became the darling of columnists and photographers, as Mrs. Guest herself had long been.
        In addition to her son Alexander, of Hunterdon County, N.J., and her daughter, Cornelia, of Old Westbury, she is survived by two stepsons, Winston Guest, of Palm Beach, and Frederick, of New York, and three grandchildren.
        ''I've always felt that having a garden is like having a good and loyal friend,'' C.Z. Guest once said.
      