
        Ann Cornelisen, an American expatriate writer who brought spry and steely language to her evocative books about the poverty-stricken South of Italy, died on Wednesday at her home in Rome, Ga. She was 77.
        The cause was not disclosed by her funeral home, and she had no immediate survivors.
        In 1954 Ms. Cornelisen -- 27, divorced and with a degree from Vassar -- arrived in Italy eager to pursue archaeology. She stayed about 20 years in the villages of the Abruzzi region helping to establish 300 nurseries for Save the Children, a nonprofit organization. She lived as a native, observed acutely and wrote books that are sensitive, incisive and often humorous.
        Her first and best-known book, ''Torregreca: Life, Death, Miracles'' (1969, Little, Brown), was reprinted by Steerforth Press last year, eliciting a new round of favorable reviews.
        The strength of her work was partly her feeling of place. ''The South is not the gentle, terraced landscape of Renaissance painting,'' she wrote in ''Women of the Shadows: Wives and Mothers of Southern Italy'' (1976). ''It is a bare, sepia world, a cruel world of jagged, parched hills, dry riverbeds and distant villages where clumps of low houses cling together at the edges of riverbanks.''
        It is partly her recording of personal details that initially seem funny, then become thought-provoking. In ''Torregreca,'' local women asked her if shaving under her arms lessened her ''sexual powers.''
        Often she lets people speak for themselves, as she did with a woman left home while her husband traveled to Milan or Germany to find work.
        ''Call that power, if you want,'' the woman said. ''To us it's just killing work. That's what our lives are. We're born knowing it.''
        Her books include ''Vendetta of Silence'' (Little, Brown, 1971), ''Strangers and Pilgrims: The Last Italian Migration'' (Holt, 1980), ''Any Four Women Could Rob the Bank of Italy'' (Holt, 1983) and ''Where It All Began: Italy, 1954'' (Dutton, 1990). ''Women of the Shadows'' was republished by Steerforth in 2001.
        Many reviewers were struck by how little she revealed of herself in books that were essentially autobiographies. In reviewing ''Where It All Began,'' Barbara Grizzuti Harrison wrote in The Washington Post: ''I have the feeling that we are being cheated of some immense inner drama by a ladylike reserve, a feeling I'm quite sure Cornelisen would deem vulgar.''
        Ann Cornelisen was born in Cleveland on Nov. 12, 1926, and grew up in middle-class surroundings in Chicago before going to Vassar. Her brief marriage is mentioned only in passing in ''Where It All Began.''
        ''We hear only that it failed -- not why, nor how she felt about it,'' Richard Eder wrote in The Los Angeles Times when reviewing ''Where It All Began.'' When she left Paris for Italy, the scene she described could be about ''a nervous girl going to boarding school,'' Mr. Eder wrote. She went equipped with what her mother believed were the essentials: ''several evening dresses, the silk shoes that matched, silk dresses, a suit and my calling card.''
        Over eight years she lived in Rome and Florence. Her real adventure began when she met Gianna Thompson, the daughter of a Milanese aristocrat, who ran Save the Children's operation in the Abruzzi region. Ms. Cornelisen arrived in a jeep for a visit and stayed for about two decades, going from village to village to set up nurseries.
        Meanwhile, her books sold well and received good reviews. Peter Nichols, in The Times Literary Supplement, called Ms. Cornelisen ''a great recorder.'' He wrote, ''She avoids any resemblance to a sociological report, although she is handling a serious sociological problem.''
        She could also handle lighter fare. Her novel ''Any Four Women Could Rob the Bank of Italy'' involves six foreign women in a sleepy Tuscan village who decide to rob a mail train. They are motivated by feminist sentiments as much as by greed.
        ''I say women are as innately evil and grasping or selfish as men and fully as criminal,'' one character says. ''They have a right to equal suspicion.''
      