
        Linda C. Quinn, a specialist in securities law and an influential force at the Securities and Exchange Commission in the 1980's and 1990's, died on Tuesday in Dalton, Mass.
        Her brother, Michael, said the cause of death was breast cancer. Ms. Quinn was 55 and had residences in Manhattan and Sharon, Conn.
        During her 16 years at the S.E.C., Ms. Quinn oversaw regulatory changes that reduced barriers to foreign investment in the United States.
        ''She was my most trusted adviser,'' Arthur Levitt, the former chairman of the S.E.C., said in a telephone interview.
        Ms. Quinn joined the S.E.C. in 1980 and became executive assistant to the chairman, John Shad. She served as director of the division of corporation finance from 1986 to 1996.
        Her principal legacies at the commission were a rule that made it easier for domestic and foreign institutional investors to buy and sell debt securities in the United States, and a regulation that streamlined the securities-offering process and made important changes to, and interpretations of, the S.E.C.'s disclosure rules.
        In addition, Ms. Quinn's division set up Edgar, the S.E.C.'s electronic reporting system for public issuers of debt and equity securities.
        She left the S.E.C. to join Shearman & Sterling as a partner. There she was an adviser to corporations on securities and capital markets matters.
        ''I think she was the most important regulator and authority on securities regulation in the last 25 years,'' said David W. Heleniak, senior partner at Shearman & Sterling.
        Ms. Quinn, who was born and raised in Rockville Centre on Long Island, was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Mount Holyoke College. She earned her law degree at the Georgetown University Law Center.
        She is survived by her brother.
        Correction:  November 15, 2003, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about Linda C. Quinn, a former official at the Securities and Exchange Commission, omitted a survivor. In addition to her brother, Michael, Ms. Quinn is survived by her father, E. John Quinn, of Amenia, N.Y.
      