
        Dorothy Loudon, the actress and comedian who won a Tony Award in 1977 for her portrayal of Miss Hannigan, the mean-spirited orphanage headmistress in the hit musical ''Annie,'' died on Saturday. She was 70.
        Lionel Larner, her friend and manager, told The Associated Press that she died of cancer at a New York hospital.
        With a big, brassy voice, bulging blue eyes and a mesmerizing array of facial gymnastics, Ms. Loudon created the perfect villain in Miss Hannigan, a screaming, scheming, boozing harridan whose ''Little Girls'' number brought down the house eight times a week.
        Ms. Loudon's was the standout performance of the 1977-78 theater season, no small feat in a year that featured the likes of Al Pacino, Julie Harris and Colleen Dewhurst. She won the Tony Award for leading actress in a musical over her 13-year-old co-star, Andrea McArdle, who played the title role.
        Her success in ''Annie'' came after a life devoted to performing, a career that included television, film and roles in Broadway shows both acclaimed and better off forgotten. She was nominated for two other Tony Awards: in 1979 for ''Ballroom,'' which lasted only four months, and in 1969 for ''The Fig Leaves Are Falling,'' which ran only four days.
        Ms. Loudon was born in Boston on Sept. 17, 1933, the daughter of James and Dorothy Shaw Loudon, and showed an early interest in performing, learning some 1,500 songs from her mother, who played piano in a Boston department store. She attended Syracuse University and the American Academy of Dramatic Arts before landing a role, at age 21, in a comedy revue that poked fun at musical legends like Ella Fitzgerald.
        She quickly established herself in New York's vibrant cabaret scene, where she headlined at clubs like the Blue Angel with the comedians Elaine May and Mike Nichols. In 1962 she became known to millions of television viewers when she was signed as a replacement for Carol Burnett -- whom she somewhat resembled in looks and comic style -- on ''The Garry Moore Show.''
        Despite her success, however, she did not think her talents were particularly suited to television. ''I belong in the theater,'' she said in a 1977 interview. ''I have to work off the instant reactions of the audience.''
        So it was that also in 1962, Ms. Loudon made her Broadway debut in ''Nowhere to Go but Up,'' a musical revue whose title proved prophetic. The show closed in a week, but Ms. Loudon was cited by several critics for her big voice and the even bigger laughs she drew.
        Giving excellent performances in bad productions would become a specialty for Ms. Loudon, who had roles in shows like ''Noël Coward's Sweet Potato,'' which bombed on Broadway in November 1968, and a 1971 musical based on Nabokov's ''Lolita,'' which died out of town.
        Out of town was, in fact, where Ms. Loudon often ended up supporting herself, in national tours of shows and nightclub engagements. The exile ended when her old friend Mr. Nichols, a producer of ''Annie,'' persuaded her to try out for the role of Miss Hannigan. She had not worked as an actress in two years, but her audition was a great success.
        Ms. Loudon's triumph in ''Annie'' led to several more Broadway roles, including ''West Side Waltz'' (1981), opposite Katharine Hepburn, and ''Noises Off'' (1983), as a diva in a sinking production.
        Although she was passed over for the role of Miss Hannigan in the movie version of ''Annie'' -- Ms. Burnett was cast -- Ms. Loudon did a few films, including ''Garbo Talks'' (1984) and ''Midnight in the Garden of Good and Evil'' (1997).
        Her association with failed productions resumed in 1990, when she appeared in ''Annie 2,'' the much-maligned sequel, which closed on the road. Last year she was forced by deteriorating health to withdraw from the Broadway revival of ''Dinner at Eight.'' Marian Seldes took over the role.
        According to The Associated Press, Ms. Loudon is survived by two stepchildren from her marriage to Norman Paris, who died in 1977.
        Despite a life spent onstage, Ms. Loudon described herself in the 1977 interview as a shy person who survived on instincts during shows and ran out of the theater after them.
        ''I reach back and get it from somewhere,'' she said. ''Something's working up in my head.''
      