
        Gertrude Ederle, who was called ''America's best girl'' by President Calvin Coolidge in 1926 after she became the first woman to swim across the English Channel, died yesterday at a nursing home in Wyckoff, N.J. She was 98.
        Ederle was a symbol of the Roaring 20's, a decade given as much to heroics as to materialism. For a time, her accomplishment put her in the public's affection at the level of Babe Ruth, Jack Dempsey, Bill Tilden and Red Grange.
        Ederle did not sustain the lofty place in history of another hero of the 1920's, Charles A. Lindbergh, who crossed the Atlantic a year after her historic swim, or of the golden athletes who appeared regularly before the public and kept their fame alive. But her feat, which she did only once and under horrendous conditions, made a memorable contribution in an age when many found it difficult to take female athletes seriously.
        They had to take Ederle seriously, because she beat the records of the five men who had previously made the swim from 1875 to 1923.
        Years later, after other men and women had successfully swum the Channel, Grover A. Whalen, New York City's official greeter, said that of all the celebrities he had welcomed to town, he could not recall one that made the impact of Ederle at her homecoming.
        Ederele was born Oct. 23, 1905, in New York City, one of four daughters and two sons of Henry Ederle, a butcher and provisioner, and his wife, Anna. Her father owned a summer cottage in Highlands, N.J., and she learned to swim on the Jersey Shore.
        She called herself a ''water baby'' and said that over the years, she was ''happiest between the waves.'' But she developed a hearing problem when she was 5, after a bout with the measles. ''The doctors told me my hearing would get worse if I continued swimming, but I loved the water so much, I just couldn't stop,'' she said.
        In the early 1920's, as a competitive swimmer, she set women's world freestyle records and American freestyle records for various distances from 100 to 800 meters. In a single afternoon in 1922, she broke seven such records at Brighton Beach, Brooklyn. Between 1921 and 1925, she held 29 amateur national and world records.
        In what might have been an anticipation of her Channel swim, she swam more than 16 miles through tricky currents between the Battery and Sandy Hook, N.J.
        In 1924, she was a member of the United States team that competed in the Olympics in Paris. She won a gold medal as part of the 400-meter freestyle relay, and she won the bronze medal in the 100 and 400 individual freestyle events. It was no small accomplishment. She was swimming with an injured knee and, together with the other female athletes from the United States, she had an added handicap of fatigue. They were put up in hotels far away from the center of Paris because United States officials did not want them contaminated with what they saw as the city's bohemian morality. Ederle and her teammates had to travel five to six hours each day to practice in the Olympic pool.
        After Paris, she began to focus on the English Channel. The first person to swim it was Matthew Webb of England, who in 1875 made it in 21 hours 45 minutes. Of the four other men who succeeded before Ederle, none were faster than 16 hours 33 minutes. One swimmer, Henry Sullivan of the United States, required 26 hours 50 minutes.
        Ederle first tried to swim the Channel in 1925. The Women's Swimming Association provided the financial backing. But after she swam 23 miles in 8 hours 43 minutes, the people in a boat who were supposed to look after her thought she might be unconscious in the water. Somebody yelled, ''She's drowning!'' and they touched her, which immediately disqualified her.
        A perturbed Ederle insisted that she had not been drowning at all, only resting, and that she could have easily continued. ''All I could wonder was, 'What will they think of me back in the States?' '' she said. She vowed to try it again and told her father and everyone else involved that no matter how she looked in the water, she did not want to be touched.
        She decided not to ask the Women's Swimming Association to back her a second time and raised the needed $9,000 herself. With the help of her sister Margaret, she designed a two-piece bathing suit that would not drag in the water, yet would be ''decent in case I failed and they had to drag me out,'' she said.
        Shortly after 7 a.m. on Aug. 6, 1926, Ederle, smeared with sheep grease, waded into the English Channel at Cape Gris-Nez, France. She could see a red ball on the French shore, a warning to small craft to avoid a sea that promised to be very choppy. ''Please, God, help me,'' she said.
        For a while, she said she sang ''Let Me Call You Sweetheart'' to the rhythm of her stroke. In the boat that moved with her, the crew occasionally held up signs, which said things like ''one wheel,'' ''two wheels,'' enumerating parts of a car, because she had been promised a red roadster if she was successful.
        Fourteen hours 31 minutes later, a world record, Ederle reached Kingsdown on the English coast. If she had been able to swim in a straight line, it would have been a 21-mile trip. But the sea was so rough, she swam no less than 35 miles. Ederle always held that her record was never broken, even though in 1950, another American, Florence Chadwick, swam the Channel in 13 hours 20 minutes. That was in a relatively calm sea, Ederle said, so it was not a fair comparison.
        She was not prepared for the ticker-tape parade that New York gave her through its financial district on Aug. 27, 1926, in which an estimated two million people turned out and chanted, ''Trudy! Trudy!'' even though her family had always called her ''Gertie.'' She had to be rushed into Mayor Jimmy Walker's office in City Hall when exuberant crowds stormed the doors. She was also not prepared for the adulation she received in the weeks to come, when somebody wrote a song titled, ''Tell Me, Trudy, Who Is Going to Be the Lucky One?'' Men were proposing to her by mail almost every week.
        Coolidge invited her to the White House, called her ''America's best girl,'' and said to her, ''I am amazed that a woman of your small stature should be able to swim the English Channel.'' It was a curious observation; Ederle weighed 142 pounds and soon became an adviser to a manufacturer of dresses for large women.
        She was invited to join a touring vaudeville act, and there were reports that she earned $2,000 or $3,000 a week. She went to Hollywood and made a 10-minute movie about herself, for which she was paid $8,000. Various groups wanted her to speak, and the marriage proposals kept coming.
        ''I finally got the shakes,'' she told an interviewer years later. ''I was just a bundle of nerves. I had to quit the tour and I was stone deaf.'' The hearing problem she had since childhood was made much worse by the Channel swim. Ederle had what was later described as a nervous breakdown.
        Her encroaching deafness made her shy away from people. In 1929, she was ''practically engaged'' to one man, and suggested to him that it might be difficult being married to a woman who could not hear well. He agreed and vanished. After he left her, she said: ''There never was anyone else. I just didn't want to get hurt again.''
        As the years passed, the public made fewer demands on her. The proposals stopped.
        In 1933, she slipped on broken tiles in the stairwell of the apartment building in which she lived, injured her back and was in a cast for four years. Doctors told her she would neither walk nor swim again, but in 1939 she appeared in Billy Rose's Aquacade at the New York World's Fair.
        Over the years, it sometimes seemed that journalists alone remembered her, and they wrote articles commemorating the 5th, 10th, 15th, 20th and 25th anniversaries of her Channel swim. She always obliged with an interview but detested the articles that tried to make her pitiable. ''Don't weep for me, don't write any sob stories,'' she told The New York Times in 1956.
        When World War II began, Ederle took a job working for an airline at La Guardia Airport. She checked flight instruments used by airplanes and loved the work, she said. She quit after the war, when told she could keep the job if she moved to Tulsa, Okla.
        For many years, she taught swimming to children at the Lexington School for the Deaf in New York. She did not know sign language but was able to demonstrate to them in the water what they should know about swimming. Her own deafness continued to worsen.
        Although she claimed she had saved and invested well, she never made the huge amounts of money that came to celebrities in later generations. She earned some money in the 1950's lending her name to a bacteria-free swimming pool, but her income over the years was modest.
        Ederle lived for many years in Flushing, Queens, with two female companions.
        She is survived by 10 nephews and nieces.
        ''I have no complaints,'' Ederle told one interviewer. ''I am comfortable and satisfied. I am not a person who reaches for the moon as long as I have the stars.''
      