
        Sylvia Sebastiani, who married the boy next door and became the matriarch and later the chairwoman of one of America's most prominent wine families, died on Sunday in Sonoma. She was 87.
        Mrs. Sebastiani, who was also the author of a cookbook of family recipes, had given up day-to-day control of the Sebastiani winery several years ago because of failing health.
        For 45 years, she had been known as the first lady of Sonoma, a renowned cook and hostess. She and her husband, August Sebastiani, were philanthropists whose gifts included property for the Sonoma Valley Hospital.
        In 1980, she inherited Sebastiani Vineyards and Winery after the death of her husband.
        In 1986, she replaced her elder son, Sam Sebastiani, who had embarked on an ambitious and costly plan to focus on higher-quality wines, as head of the winery with her younger son, Don Sebastiani.
        Of the firing, which started a long family feud, Mrs. Sebastiani would say only that she loved her three children equally, but that she and Sam ''just don't make wine together.''
        Under Don Sebastiani, a former state legislator, the winery prospered, expanding its brands and holdings into the Central Valley.
        Sam Sebastiani established the Viansa Winery and Italian Marketplace south of Sonoma. The family eventually reconciled.
        Mrs. Sebastiani was born Sylvia Scarafoni on May 10, 1916, in Cordelia, Calif., the daughter of Italian immigrants. In 1927 the family moved to Sonoma, settling in a house across the street from August Sebastiani's parents, who owned much of the town. The two families quickly became friends. The Sebastianis grew grapes and made wine. The Scarafonis kept cows and produced milk on a ranch in Schellville.
        August and Sylvia were childhood sweethearts, going to school together, dating and spending Sundays at family dinners. In 1936 they married.
        Until her husband's death, Mrs. Sebastiani spent much of her time in the kitchen, preparing meals for family members and wine salesmen.
        Three years ago, the Sebastiani family sold its Central Valley winemaking operations and six wine brands for $295 million. The family kept the historic winery in Sonoma, with Mrs. Sebastiani's daughter, Mary Ann Cuneo, as president.
        In addition to her children, she is survived by her sister, Rose Scarafoni Millerick of Sonoma; 12 grandchildren; and 7 great-grandchildren.
        While Mrs. Sebastiani was chairwoman, she had an office, but she also kept a seat in the tasting room of the winery, greeting visitors and signing copies of her cookbook, ''Mangiamo: Let's Eat.''
      