
        Dr. Gisela Konopka, a pioneer in the study of troubled adolescents who provided groundbreaking insights on disruptive behavior among girls, died on Dec. 9 in Minneapolis. She was 93.
        The cause was pulmonary edema, said Dr. Robert Blum, a friend and colleague, who is a professor of pediatrics at the University of Minnesota. The Konopka Institute for Best Practices in Adolescent Health, named for Dr. Konopka, is at the university.
        A retired professor of social work, Dr. Konopka was the author of several works, including ''The Adolescent Girl in Conflict.'' The book, published in 1966, was one of the first in-depth examinations of the lives of troubled teenage girls.
        ''All my life, it seems, I have talked about how people can't be bad just because they're black, or Jewish or women,'' Dr. Konopka told The Minneapolis Star Tribune in an interview for an article published in 2000. ''Well, they can't be bad just because they're young.''
        Judith Kahn, director of the Konopka Institute, said ''The Adolescent Girl in Conflict'' broke new ground in offering girls a chance to present their own perspectives.
        ''No one before had really listened to troubled adolescents and to what they said they wanted and needed in their lives,'' Ms. Kahn said. ''It wasn't just a look at the data, it was a look at what was underneath the data.''
        Born Gisela Peiper in Berlin, she joined the resistance movement after Hitler came to power and eventually fled Germany, arriving in the United States in 1941. She met her future husband, Paul, in Germany before her departure, and they married after he arrived in New York a short time later.
        Dr. Konopka received a master's degree in social service administration from the University of Pittsburgh and joined the social work faculty at the University of Minnesota in 1947. She later received a doctorate in social welfare from Columbia.
        She remained a professor at the University of Minnesota until her retirement in 1978. Her husband, Paul, an engineer at General Mills, died in 1976.
        She is survived by a foster daughter, Patricia Dreyer, of Minnetonka, Minn.
      