
        Gladys Shelley, a prolific songwriter whose ballad ''How Did He Look?'' became a cabaret standard and whose jingle for Palisades Amusement Park once saturated the airwaves in the New York area, died on Dec. 9 at home in Manhattan. She was 92.
        Her death was reported by the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers, which licenses her songs.
        Ms. Shelley wrote the lyrics for more than 300 songs. ''How Did He Look?,'' which she wrote with Abner Silver, was her first hit and her most frequently recorded song. First recorded by Joan Merrill in 1941, it was later sung by Connie Francis, Eydie Gorme, Dakota Staton and others, including Mel Tormé and Vic Damone, who sang it as ''How Did She Look?''
        Early in her career she wrote a few songs with Fred Astaire and provided words for Morton Gould's ''Pavanne,'' from his ''American Symphonette No. 2.'' ''There Shall Be No Night,'' another of her collaborations with Silver, was recorded by the singer Herb Jeffries with the Duke Ellington Orchestra in 1940.
        But it is likely that none of Ms. Shelley's songs reached as wide an audience as ''Come On Over,'' one of the few for which she wrote both music and words. Sung by Steve Clayton, it was prominently featured in radio and television commercials for Palisades Amusement Park, in both Cliffside Park and Fort Lee, N.J., across the Hudson from Manhattan.
        First heard in 1965, ''Come On Over'' remained the amusement park's theme song until 1971, when it closed. Palisades Amusement Park, which Ms. Shelley celebrated as a place that ''swings all day and after dark,'' was owned by her husband, Irving Rosenthal, who died in 1973.
        She is survived by her brother, George Shaskan, of Chevy Chase, Md.
        Ms. Shelley began submitting short poems to Walter Winchell and other newspaper columnists while attending high school in Lawrence, N.Y. She briefly worked as an actress and dancer before trying her hand at song lyrics in the late 1930's.
        She occasionally wrote for the theater and the movies, though without much success. ''The Duchess Misbehaves,'' a musical comedy for which she wrote the book and lyrics, ran for three performances at the Adelphi Theater in Manhattan in 1946. That same year she wrote the story for ''Idea Girl,'' a low-budget movie set in the music publishing industry that quickly came and went.
        But her heart belonged to Tin Pan Alley and to the New York cabaret scene. ''How Did He Look?'' was a longtime fixture of that scene, and so was Ms. Shelley.
        The cabaret historian James Gavin recalled her as an eye-catching presence who as late as the 1990's was known for showing up with large groups of friends wherever her material was being performed, and who, with her ''long dyed-blond hair hanging almost to her waist'' and ''a skirt cut way above her knees,'' invariably got as much attention as the performer. She was an equally memorable presence in her East Side neighborhood, where the sight of Ms. Shelley walking her five chihuahuas was a familiar one for many years.
      