
        Hope Lange, a film, television and stage actress noted for a natural comedic style and intelligent portrayals of women in difficult circumstances, work that brought her two Emmy Awards and an Academy Award nomination, died at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif., on Friday. She was 70 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was an intestinal infection brought on by a bout of diverticulitis, according to Ms. Lange's husband, Charles Hollerith Jr.
        With her naturally blond hair, lithe dancer's figure and simple, straightforward style, Ms. Lange won praise for her first film role as a young woman who befriended a temptress played by Marilyn Monroe at a bus stop in the 1956 romantic comedy ''Bus Stop.'' It was her next role, in the controversial melodrama ''Peyton Place,'' based on the Grace Metalious book of the same name about the torrid lives led behind closed doors by the residents of a picturesque New England town, that made her a star in 1957.
        In the film Ms. Lange played Selena Cross, a teenage girl living in a shack on the wrong side of town, who is raped by her stepfather and is later accused of murdering him. Her earnest portrayal of the troubled high school student earned her an Academy Award nomination as best supporting actress. She went on to act alongside Montgomery Clift and Marlon Brando in ''The Young Lions'' and starred with Joan Crawford in ''The Best of Everything.''
        Ms. Lange was born in November 1933 in Connecticut to show business parents -- her father was a composer and arranger, and her mother was an actress. The family moved to Greenwich Village when Ms. Lange was a small child, and soon after Ms. Lange's father died, leaving her mother to support four children on her own. Her mother opened a restaurant, and Ms. Lange worked as a waitress. One day Eleanor Roosevelt, who had an apartment in the Village, walked by with Fala, her husband's beloved Scottish terrier, said Christopher Murray, Ms. Lange's son.
        Fala was so entranced by the smell of the food cooking in the restaurant that he stood stock still, Mr. Murray said, until his mistress took him inside. Ms. Lange began walking Fala for Mrs. Roosevelt, Mr. Murray said, and was discovered when her picture appeared in the newspaper. She began modeling, which led to advertising work. Her first husband, the actor Don Murray, encouraged her to try acting, her son said, and Ms. Lange eventually began acting in films and later won two Emmy Awards for her portrayal of a widow in the television series ''The Ghost and Mrs. Muir.''
        Ms. Lange's two previous marriages, to Mr. Murray and to Alan J. Pakula, the film director, ended in divorce. In addition to her husband, Ms. Lange is survived by her son, Christopher, of Malibu, Calif., and a daughter, Patricia Murray of Arroyo Grande, Calif.
      