
        Blanche Davis Blank, a social scientist and author who led Hunter College as interim president in the early 1990's, died on Friday at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y., her family said. She was 80.
        Dr. Blank, a former social science dean at Hunter and academic dean at Yeshiva University, was acting president of Hunter College from 1993 until her retirement as professor emeritus two years later.
        She was a founder and, from 1972 to 1980, chairwoman of the Hunter Institute for Trial Judges. She started it with Justice Hortense W. Gabel, a Hunter graduate like her, to provide a common forum for New York's judicial, legal, civic and academic communities.
        She wrote several books, most recently a report for the Fund for Peace in Washington, ''It Takes Two to Tango: International Perspectives on the United Nations'' (1998).
        One of her books still in print is ''The Not So Grand Jury: The Story of the Federal Grand Jury System'' (University Press of America, 1993). Stemming from her own two-year stint on a federal grand jury, it examines the system in theory and practice, its costs, problems and, in the author's view, excessive secrecy.
        She was born in Brooklyn and graduated magna cum laude from Hunter in 1944. She received an M.A. in public administration from Syracuse in 1945 and a Ph.D. in American political institutions from Columbia in 1951.
        She started as a lecturer at City College and the New School and returned to Hunter as an instructor in political science in 1956. Named a full professor in 1968, she was dean of the division of social sciences from 1972 until she joined the staff at Yeshiva University in 1977.
        She was the academic dean at Yeshiva until 1981 and a political science professor until 1993. That year, the trustees of the City University recalled her as Hunter's acting president, to replace Paul LeClerc, who became president of the New York Public Library. She remained at Hunter, also teaching a course, until the long-delayed arrival of David A. Caputo as the college's 12th president in 1995.
        Dr. Blank is survived by her husband of 58 years, Joseph S.; three daughters, Laura, Barbara and Alice, all of Manhattan; and three grandchildren.
      