
        Helen Gustafson, a tea buyer and author who championed fine tea, pushed it onto the menu at Chez Panisse and other restaurants and taught the art of the afternoon tea, died on Dec. 14 at her home here. She was 74.
        The cause was cancer, said her husband, Clair Gustafson.
        She was ''the Alice Waters of the tea movement,'' said a friend, Ruth Reichl, editor in chief of Gourmet magazine and former restaurant critic of The New York Times, in a reference to the founder of Chez Panisse.
        Ms. Gustafson was tea's ambassador at a time when diners sipped French roast and other strong coffees but thought tea was limited to Lipton.
        Two decades ago ''it was quite impossible to find a good cup of tea anywhere in America,'' James Norwood Pratt, the international tea authority and author, said last week. ''Now, it is only highly unlikely. The difference is Helen Gustafson.''
        So many restaurateurs made pilgrimages to Chez Panisse in Berkeley, where Ms. Gustafson managed the tea service, that ''it had a ripple effect,'' Mr. Pratt said.
        Ms. Gustafson, the author of ''The Agony of the Leaves: The Ecstasy of My Life with Tea'' and ''The Green Tea User's Manual,'' even organized tea parties in Berkeley, a center of political radicalism, at which she requested that women wear gloves and hats.
        ''People who a decade before were chanting 'Two-four-six-eight, organize and smash the state!' would get dressed up and go to Helen's,'' said Kate Coleman, a journalist who was a leader in the Free Speech Movement of 1964.
        Ms. Waters credited Ms. Gustafson with taking Chez Panisse's tea offerings ''to a different place,'' but described the relationship as ''rocky to the end.'' Sometimes Ms. Gustafson would awaken dishwashers on Sunday mornings to ask why the iron teapots had not been turned upside down to dry. She was fired several times but always refused to leave, her husband said.
        Born in Minneapolis on Nov. 25, 1929, Ms. Gustafson grew up enjoying afternoon tea in the sunroom of her red brick house with her mother and grandmother. She graduated from Syracuse University and received a master's degree in Scandinavian drama from the University of Minnesota.
        She swept onto the food scene in the early 1970's when she became a hostess at the Swallow, a restaurant at the University of California Art Museum in Berkeley. ''I had the impression she was running it,'' Ms. Waters said, adding, ''It was a collective.''
        When Ms. Gustafson, in vintage clothes and with a gardenia in her hair, began acting as hostess at Chez Panisse, she was so appalled by the Earl Grey on the menu that she confronted Ms. Waters, who gave her license to do something about it. Ms. Gustafson introduced teas like Yunnan, Assam and lemon verbena.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by her son, Paul, of Berkeley; a daughter, Jill, of Boston; and a brother, John, of Liverpool, N.Y.
        A month before she died, friends gave Ms. Gustafson a final tea party at Chez Panisse. ''I've never seen so many people with thermometers fussing over water and how long it had to be boiled,'' said the general manager, Gilbert Pilgram.
      