
        Katharine Sergava, the dancer and actress who portrayed the dream-ballet version of Laurey, the heroine, in the original production of ''Oklahoma!,'' died on Nov. 11 in Palm Springs, Calif., where she had settled in the mid-1960's.
        Various sources give the year of her birth as 1909 or 1918, and she was also occasionally billed as Kathryn Sergava and Katya Sergeiva.
        Although Hollywood studio officials once tried to promote Ms. Sergava as a second Greta Garbo, her greatest successes were on the New York stage where she performed Agnes de Mille's dances for Rodgers and Hammerstein's groundbreaking musical, from its premiere, in 1943, until 1947. From there she went into another musical, ''Look Ma, I'm Dancing,'' choreographed by Jerome Robbins. In 1956 she took over Lotte Lenya's role in ''The Threepenny Opera.''
        Some sources give Ms. Sergava's birthplace as Tiflis (now Tblisi), in Georgia; others say it was St. Petersburg. She studied drama and ballet in Paris and London. After appearing in British movies of the early 1930's, she was brought to Hollywood in 1934 by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, where she was envisioned as a replacement for Garbo, who had announced her retirement. But Garbo did not retire, and Ms. Sergava went on to New York.
        A glamorous personality, she favored wide sunglasses and earned a pilot's license. Performing in U.S.O. shows during the war, she acquired the nickname the Ballerina Pinup.
        In New York, she danced with the Mordkin Ballet (1938-39), Ballet Theater (1940-41; today known as American Ballet Theater) and the Original Ballet Russe (1941), as Col. W. de Basil's Ballets Russes called itself then.
        Ms. Sergava achieved acclaim as the ''dream'' Laurey, the dancing alter ego of the heroine of ''Oklahoma!,'' and performed the leading role in de Mille's long balletic fantasy. In an article about de Mille's ''Oklahoma!'' choreography in The New York Times, John Martin said that Ms. Sergava ''with her strangely remote quality of beauty becomes the ideal heroine of a rather terrifying dream.'' Later, she joined the Actor's Studio and acted in plays. She toured in 1953 in Shaw's ''Misalliance'' (in which she portrayed an airplane pilot), and appeared Off Broadway in 1955 in ''The Typewriter'' by Jean Cocteau.
        Correction:  December 5, 2003, Friday  An obituary on this page yesterday erroneously reported the death of Katharine Sergava, a dancer and an actress who portrayed the dream-ballet  version of Laurey, the heroine, in the original production of ''Oklahoma!'' Friends of hers reported the error yesterday.
        The obituary was based on one in The Daily Telegraph of London on Nov. 29. The Times was unable to confirm her death independently and, through reporting and editing errors, omitted attribution. The Telegraph says it has begun its own inquiry.
        Ms. Sergava, who is 94 and has lived in Manhattan for many years, was hospitalized in November and is now in a nursing home.
        Correction:  December 5, 2003, Friday  An obituary yesterday erroneously reported the death of Katharine Sergava, a dancer and actress who portrayed the dream-ballet version of Laurey, the heroine, in the original production of ''Oklahoma!'' Details appear today on Page C11.
      