
        Vestal Goodman, a matriarch of gospel music whose influence ranged far beyond its traditional audience, died on Saturday in Celebration, Fla. She was 74.
        The Associated Press reported her death based on information from funeral home officials and her own Web site. The cause was not given.
        Mrs. Goodman and her husband, Howard Goodman, known as Happy, who died last year at 81, were cofounders of the Happy Goodman Family act. Friends said Mrs. Goodman never really recovered from her husband's death.
        The Happy Goodman Family, whose enthusiastic and inspirational live performances recalled early camp-meeting evangelism, formed in 1949 and was on the road constantly for 50 years. They often appeared as part of Billy Graham Crusades.
        The Happy Goodman Family recorded 15 No. 1 gospel hits and played more than 3,500 concerts. The family was inducted into the Gospel Music Hall of Fame in 1998.
        Mrs. Goodman, who dreamed of being an opera star as a girl, brought operatic flourishes to gospel. She never forsook her signature beehive hairstyle, her floor-length beaded gowns or the white handkerchief she carried in her right hand. Fans often waved their own handkerchiefs back.
        The family's music revived in popularity in the 1990's, taking its place beside the younger contemporary Christian musicians and groups.
        In the 1980's, the Goodmans were featured on the ''PTL Club'' television show of Jim and Tammy Faye Bakker. They left the program in 1988, and were not linked to scandals involving the Bakkers.
        The Happy Goodman Family also often featured Happy's brothers Rusty and Sam.
        They were an inspiration to the current gospel great Bill Gaither, who included the Goodmans in more than 60 of his Gaither Homecoming videos, a popular series that was a precursor of music videos. Mrs. Goodman was featured on the current Gaither Homecoming tour and had been booked to continue with the tour into 2004. Her autobiography, ''Vestal!,'' was published in 1998.
        The troubled country star George Jones told The Tennessean newspaper in 2002 that after he was nearly killed a few years ago in a drunk-driving accident north of Nashville, he sent for Mrs. Goodman, who came to pray with him in the hospital and became a spiritual mentor.
        Mrs. Goodman is survived by a son, Rick; a daughter, Vicki; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      