
        Mary Pinkett, a labor advocate from Brooklyn who became the first African-American woman elected to the New York City Council, died yesterday. She was 72.
        The cause was heart failure brought on by cancer, said her nephew, Derek Glover.
        As a young woman in Brooklyn, Mrs. Pinkett worked for a local labor union. She was interested in politics and traveled to Miami in 1972 for the Democratic National Convention. Archie Spigner, a council member from Queens who would later serve alongside Mrs. Pinkett, recalled noticing the articulate young woman.
        ''She was a real presence,'' he said last night.
        A year after the convention, Mrs. Pinkett ran for City Council in New York and won. She took office in 1974, and remained on the Council until 2001. During her tenure, she applied her skill as a speaker and debater to fight for social equality for the working class, women, and African-Americans.
        Mrs. Pinkett ''served the people of Brooklyn with compassion, dedication and a fiery sense of purpose for nearly 30 years,'' Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg said yesterday in a statement.
        Mrs. Pinkett was a skilled, sometimes intimidating debater. In hearings, it was not uncommon for her to engage in spirited discussions with administration officials, often cutting them off in midsentence. Even among her colleagues in the Council, there were many who acknowledged that they would not wish to be challenged by her.
        Mrs. Pinkett, whose maiden name was Glover, lived her entire life in Brooklyn. She spent her childhood in Crown Heights, attended Brooklyn College and later moved to Clinton Hill.
        Her knowledge of Brooklyn was profound, and she was able to reveal little-known corners of the borough even to veteran New Yorkers.
        She remained a strong presence in New York City politics throughout her life, even after term limit laws forced her from office.
        The candidate she endorsed as her successor was James E. Davis, who was killed at City Hall in July. Mr. Davis often said that he considered the councilwoman's endorsement as having been critical in his election.
        Mrs. Pinkett is survived by her husband, William, whom she married in the late 1950's, and a sister, Loretta Glover.
      