
        Priscilla Comins Kidder, who rose to prominence as Priscilla of Boston, outfitting young brides as their numbers soared after World War II in embellished dresses that became synonymous with American matrimonial style, died on Sunday at her home in Winchester, Mass. She was 86.
        Anticipating a surge in marriages after the war, Mrs. Kidder opened a bridal boutique in 1948 on Newbury Street in Boston. The Bride's Shop, as she called it, was an immediate success, with sales of more than $10,000 in its first week.
        Mrs. Kidder's success put her increasingly in contact with the wealthy. Through a friend, Stanley Marcus of Neiman-Marcus, she obtained a storybook assignment in 1956, designing bridesmaids' gowns for Grace Kelly's wedding to Prince Rainier of Monaco.
        The stunning news coverage of the wedding added to Mrs. Kidder's celebrity. She dressed Rockefellers, Fords and Paleys and designed wedding dresses for Lyndon B. Johnson's daughter Luci Baines Johnson, as well as Richard M. Nixon's daughters, Tricia and Julie.
        When labor organizers found out that Mrs. Kidder's dresses were made in a nonunion factory in Charlestown, Mass., they threatened to protest at Luci Johnson's wedding in 1966. Mrs. Kidder's response, her son Robert recalled yesterday, was to have a union label stitched into the wedding dress at another factory, owned by a Harvard classmate of her husband, which did have some union workers.
        Mrs. Kidder's wedding gown for Tricia Nixon in 1971 also became controversial, though less bitterly so, because it was sleeveless, which many people considered unusually revealing for that decade.
        Priscilla Comins was born in 1916 in Quincy, Mass. After graduating from the New England School of Design in Boston, she was a buyer in the bridal section of R. H. White's department store there. She opened The Bride's Shop with her husband, James Kidder, a businessman whom she married in 1940. Eventually, the shop began wholesaling dresses to stores around the country under the Priscilla of Boston label.
        Besides helping make sleeveless gowns popular, she made other changes that became trends.
        ''When Priscilla began designing dresses,'' Mille Martini Bratten, editor of Bride's Magazine said, ''she applied lace to them and made them decorative. Previously, dresses had been relatively simple and unadorned.''
        Mrs. Kidder retired in 1993. Last year, her store was sold to the May Department Store Company.
        Mr. Kidder died in 2001. Survivors include two sons, Robert, of Ipswich, Mass., and Richard, of Boston; a daughter, Betsy, of Ipswich; two sisters, Natalie Cahill of Reading, Mass., and Marjorie Townsend of Lexington, Mass.; and five grandchildren.
      