
        Mary Jane Russell, a leading fashion model of the 1940's and '50's who was a favorite of the photographers Louise Dahl-Wolfe and Irving Penn, died on Nov. 20 in Charleston, S.C. She was 77.
        The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said her husband, Edward T. Russell.
        Mrs. Russell began modeling in New York in 1948, at the height of the New Look, and worked for the Ford Agency for next 13 years, appearing on dozens of covers of Vogue and Harper's Bazaar. Though not as tall as other photographic models -- she was just 5-foot-6 -- Mrs. Russell possessed a long neck and classical features that suited the era's elegant mood.
        ''She brought to her posing as a model concentration and tenderness, rare in the fashion medium today,'' said Mr. Penn, who used Mrs. Russell for his photograph ''Girl Drinking,'' which appeared in Vogue in 1949. Often photographed in profile, she also posed for Mr. Penn's well-known 1951 image ''Girl With Tobacco on Tongue,'' a sitting that required Mrs. Russell to flick a bit of cigarette tobacco off her tongue repeatedly, in a ladylike way, of course.
        Dahl-Wolfe often requested Mrs. Russell, according to Irving Solero, the photographer of the museum of the Fashion Institute of Technology, which houses Dahl-Wolfe's color archive. ''Louise had so much power and because she and Carmel Snow, the editor of Harper's Bazaar, were close, Louise was able to get whom she wanted, and she asked for Mary Jane a lot,'' said Mr. Solero, who estimates that Mrs. Russell modeled for about 30 percent of Dahl-Wolfe's photos. She also worked for the photographers Richard Avedon and William Klein.
        She was born Mary Jane Walton on July 10, 1926, in Teaneck, N.J., and graduated from Sarah Lawrence College. While she studied art, Mr. Russell, whom she had met at Teaneck High School, pursued her with a romantic diligence from the South Pacific, where he served in World War II as a radioman aboard seaplane tenders. He once addressed a letter to her ''The Most Beautiful Girl in the World, Bronxville, New York.'' Somehow, it reached her.
        Mr. Russell, who later became president of Doyle Dane Bernbach, the advertising agency, proposed on his return from the war, suggesting Dec. 21 for their wedding because, as he said, it was the longest night of the year.
        After Mrs. Russell retired from modeling, she became active in zoning and environmental issues in Pound Ridge, N.Y., where the couple lived for 37 years before moving to Bluffton, S.C.
        In addion to her husband, she is survived by their three sons: John, of Stamford, Conn., David, of Hilton Head, S.C., and Mark, of Bedford, N.Y.
      