
        Ethel Winant, who became one of the first female executives in network television when she was awarded a vice president's title at CBS in 1973, died on Nov. 29 at a hospital in Canoga Park, Calif. She was 81.
        The cause was complications of a heart attack and a stroke, said Pam Dixon, a friend and colleague.
        Ms. Winant was made vice president for talent and casting after having been director of casting for CBS in Hollywood since 1966. She was one of the network's strongest supporters of ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show,'' and helped to make Edward Asner, Valerie Harper and Cloris Leachman part of the ensemble.
        When Ms. Winant (pronounced WYE-nant) moved to New York from California after World War II to find work on Broadway, she was hired as a production assistant for ''A Streetcar Named Desire'' and ''Death of a Salesman.''
        When she visited the set of the CBS drama ''Studio One'' she talked her way into a job, and stayed until 1958, when she returned to California to work on ''Playhouse 90'' as casting director and associate producer.
        Later she was casting director of ''The Twilight Zone'' and an executive producer of ''Hogan's Heroes'' and ''The Wild Wild West.'' In the 1970's, she oversaw casting for the hits ''The Waltons,'' ''Rhoda,'' ''Lou Grant'' and ''The Bob Newhart Show.''
        In 1999 she was inducted into the Hall of Fame of the Academy of Television Arts and Sciences.
        Ethel Wald Winant was born on Aug. 5, 1922, in Worcester, Mass. Her marriage to H. M. Wynant, who chose to change the spelling of his name, ended in divorce. She is survived by three sons, William Winant, a musician, of Oakland, Calif.; Scott Winant, a television producer and director, of Santa Monica, Calif.; and Bruce Winant, an actor, of West Milford, N.J.; and four grandchildren.
        When Ms. Winant began her first vice president's job, she told of finding that the single restroom in CBS's executive dining room had a door without a lock. ''For a year and a half I would take the elevator down to the ladies' room,'' she said. ''One day, I decided to just leave my shoes outside the executive bathroom door. They got the message fairly quickly.''
        Correction:  December 21, 2003, Sunday  An obituary last Sunday about Ethel Winant, a television executive, misstated her date of birth in some copies. It was Aug. 5, 1922, not 1933.
      