
        Natalya Dudinskaya, who wielded major influence over the Kirov Ballet in Leningrad as its leading ballerina in the 1940's and 50's and as a revered teacher and the wife of its onetime artistic director, Konstantin Sergeyev, died on Wednesday in St. Petersburg. She was 90.
        With her exceptionally brilliant classical technique, Ms. Dudinskaya was one of the most virtuosic dancers in the first generation of Soviet ballerinas after the Russian Revolution.
        Although she starred in the 19th-century classics, from the time she joined the Kirov in 1931, she also created roles in many modern landmark Soviet ballets. In 1939, Vakhtang Chabukiani choreographed ''Laurencia'' and cast her opposite himself as his fiery Spanish heroine. The ballet became her signature piece and in 1958, as the Kirov's prima ballerina, she chose the unknown Rudolf Nureyev to partner her in ''Laurencia.''
        He was 20 and she was 46, and he always expressed gratitude to Ms. Dudinskaya for this performance, the springboard for his international career. When the Kirov was scheduled to make its debut in Paris, London and New York in 1961, the producers insisted that Sergeyev (who died in 1992) and Ms. Dudinskaya not dance and yield to younger dancers. Nureyev, cast in leading roles, became a sensation in Paris.
        After his defection there, Sergeyev and Ms. Dudinskaya were implicitly held responsible by Soviet authorities. In 1962 the government newspaper Izvestia printed a letter from Irina Kolpakova, Alla Shelest and other Kirov ballerinas, accusing the couple of hindering the careers of younger dancers.
        The pair weathered the storm. Sergeyev was removed as artistic director of the Kirov in 1970 but three years later became director of its school, the Vaganova Academy. Ms. Dudinskaya, a favorite pupil of the celebrated teacher Agrippina Vaganova, retired from dancing in 1962 and became internationally known as a teacher and authority on the 19th-century classics. She coached several such productions at the Boston Ballet, beginning with the acclaimed ''Swan Lake'' that she and Sergeyev staged in 1990.
        From 1951 to 1970 she taught the most advanced class at the Kirov and was a coach there from 1963 to 1978. From 1964 on, she taught at the Vaganova Academy.
        Born in Kharkov, Ukraine, on Aug. 21, 1912, she was quickly noticed in Leningrad for what the Soviet critic Yuri Slonimsky called ''her chiseled, dazzling technique.''
        Unlike her contemporary Galina Ulanova, she was not a lyrical ballerina but a pure classical dancer who was compelling in her outbursts of speed and temperament. Slonimsky called her ''a representative of the new style of Soviet ballet,'' for which she created roles in new works.
        Some were choreographed by Sergeyev, who became her husband and her dancing partner after she appeared in his ''Cinderella'' (1946), set to Prokofiev's commissioned score. She also performed in Sergeyev's ''Path of Thunder'' (1957), about an interracial romance during the apartheid era in South Africa.
        Nonetheless, she was at her best in classics like ''Swan Lake,'' ''Sleeping Beauty,'' ''Don Quixote,'' ''La Bayadère'' and, especially, ''Raymonda.''
      