
        Noriko Sawada Bridges Flynn, a writer and civil rights worker who managed to transcend the struggle between management and labor in her personal and professional life, died on Feb. 7 at her home in Pescadero, Calif. She was 79.
        Her first marriage, to Harry Bridges, the fiery Marxist leader of the West Coast longshoremen's union, required a change in legislation. After his death more than three decades later, she married Ed Flynn, president of a Pacific shippers association, who had long skirmished with Mr. Bridges across bargaining tables and picket lines.
        For half a century, Ms. Flynn worked for union rights, fair treatment of immigrants and racial and sexual equality but was best known for her contrasting marriages.
        Her first wedding, planned as an elopement, was initially thwarted by a Nevada law forbidding marriage between whites and Asians. She was the American-born daughter of Japanese immigrants, and Mr. Bridges was an immigrant from Australia. Friends said Ms. Flynn had a wicked sense of humor. She married Mr. Flynn, the shipping boss, on May Day, the international socialist holiday.
        Ms. Flynn grew up on rented land near Los Angeles, where her parents grew fruit and vegetables. Beginning in 1942, when the government ordered the internment of Japanese-Americans on the West Coast, the family spent three years in a desert camp in Arizona. After the war, she moved to the San Francisco area, where for 12 years she was a secretary for Charles Garry, a lawyer whose clients included leading political dissidents and radicals. Mr. Garry introduced her to Mr. Bridges.
        As Ms. Flynn described that first meeting to Robert Cherny, a history professor at San Francisco State University who is working on a biography of Mr. Bridges, her future husband was quite drunk. ''Where have you been?'' he mumbled. She replied, ''You mean, as in all your life?''
        A relationship ensued and in December 1958, the couple drove to Reno for what they hoped would be a quiet and private wedding.
        However, when Mr. Bridges, 58, and Ms. Sawada, 35, asked for a marriage license, the clerk explained that an 1846 law prohibited marriages between whites and Asians. Mr. Bridges protested, saying that his bride was an American, born in the United States, while he was the foreigner.
        News accounts quoted the clerk as saying, ''It's not a matter of where you were born. It's the blood. It's against the law here.''
        Mr. Bridges quickly took his case to the national press. Within four days lawyers for the couple succeeded in having the law struck down. The two obtained their license and were married in Reno.
        For the next 32 years, until Mr. Bridges died in 1990, they were one of San Francisco's most prominent couples. She resumed the studies interrupted by her internment and wrote articles about her childhood for several national magazines. She was also at her husband's side in the 1970's when he stepped up his union's battle with the shippers for guarantees of job security.
        In that bitter struggle, Mr. Bridges's major adversary was Ed Flynn, president of the Pacific Maritime Association. In 1971 a strike by Mr. Bridges's union shut down all 56 Pacific ports. But the two men liked and respected each other and understood each other's positions, Mr. Cherny said. He said they would battle in negotiations and then go out for dinner with their wives.
        After they both retired, they continued to see each other. And after Harry Bridges's death, his widow kept in touch with his old opponent, who had become a widower. They married in 1994.
        In addition to her husband, Ms. Flynn is survived by a daughter, Katherine Bridges Wiggins of Bandon, Ore., and two stepchildren, Robert Bridges of Fremont, Calif., and Marie Shell of San Francisco.
      