
        Baroness Liliane de Rothschild, the wife of Baron Elie de Rothschild, an art collector, philanthropist and meticulous caretaker of the history of the family she married into, died on Feb. 17 in her home in Royaumont, outside Paris. She was 86.
        Her husband, a member of the French branch of the Rothschilds, was a skilled polo player and is reputedly the family's foremost wine connoisseur and a widely knowledgeable collector of art. But as much as the baron exemplifies the family's grand style, he once said his wife was the family member most steeped in family history, tradition and élan.
        In Derek Wilson's book ''Rothschild: the Wealth and Power of a Dynasty,'' the baron said his wife was more Rothschild than the Rothschilds.
        Liliane Fould-Springer was born on May 11, 1916. She was part of a rival French financial family, a great-niece of Achille Fould, the rival of James Rothschild in the mid-19th century. Mr. Fould's financial house, Crédit Mobilier, had threatened to smash the Rothschild supremacy, but in the end lost out to the family.
        The Rothschilds were childhood sweethearts and became engaged before World War II. Baron Elie and his brother, Alain, were serving at the front when Germany overran France in 1940. Both were captured and ended up in Colditz Castle, the Germans' most secure prison, after separate escape attempts.
        Baron Elie wrote to Miss Fould-Springer and proposed that they marry by proxy. Her parents were opposed to the idea, pointing out that it was not helpful to bear the name Rothschild with the Gestapo swarming over France.
        But Liliane agreed. Wedding ceremonies took place many months apart, with Baron Elie giving his pledge at Colditz on Oct. 7, 1941, and Miss Fould-Springer giving hers at Cannes on April 7, 1942.
        After the war, her husband ran Chateau Lafite, one of the family vineyards. Chateau Mouton, long owned by Philippe de Rothschild, is equally famous. The vineyards have been rivals since 1855, ever since Lafite was classified as premier cru, or first category, and Mouton as only second. Mouton achieved the long-sought first category in 1973.
        The vineyard rivalry sometimes approached bitterness. But when Philippe's daughter, Philippine, was to be married in 1961, Liliane de Rothschild fulfilled her frequent role of unifying the family. In the face of Philippe's heated campaign to burnish Mouton's allure, Baroness de Rothschild staged the wedding in the vaulted cellars of Lafite.
        ''Here all lifted glasses to the bride, to groom, to both Rothschild vineyards, and to Liliane, the hostess,'' Frederic Morton wrote in ''The Rothschilds: A Family Portrait.''
        Baroness de Rothschild was a frequent presence in the world of haute couture. The designer Balenciaga made a doll for her, depicting one of her daughters at the age of 9.
        She was also important in the art world, particularly as a recognized expert on 18th-century art. Part of her role, according to the Morton book, was organizing the vast art purchases her husband made.
        But sometimes she made her own purchases. The New York Times in 1999 reported her vigorous bidding on several items, including a German clock case from around 1550, that another branch of the Rothschilds was auctioning off. She paid $148,105 for items expected to sell for $16,000 at most.
        Her social circle included the expected royalty and celebrities, like her friend Greta Garbo, whom she called ''the loveliest woman you or I ever saw or will see,'' but she preferred that they be interesting people.
        The baroness is survived by her husband; two daughters, Nellie Munthe of London and Elisabeth of Paris; a son, Nathaniel of New York City; five grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
        She was famed for both her worldly wit and her great composure. Christopher Ogden, in his book ''Life of the Party: The Biography of Pamela Digby Churchill Hayward Harriman,'' told of the evening in 1954, when the baroness was seated at a dinner next to the Duke of Windsor.
        He turned to her and asked, ''Which Rothschild is the lover of Pamela Churchill?''
        ''My husband, sir,'' the baroness replied.
      