
        Irene Diamond, who after a successful career scouting scripts and talent in Hollywood became a major benefactor of the arts and medical research in New York City, died Tuesday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 92.
        At her death, she was president of the Irene Diamond Fund, which she established in 1994 to support, in particular, the performing arts and the fight against AIDS. The fund succeeded the Aaron Diamond Foundation, which she and her husband, a New York real estate developer, set up in the 1950's.
        In the 1980's, the couple took an innovative step, deciding to pay out that foundation's considerable wealth over 10 years. They made the decision just before Aaron Diamond, developer of Roosevelt Island, died in 1984. (She liked to say that at the time they married, however, she made more money than her husband.)
        Mrs. Diamond remained in control of the foundation after his death. Over the next decade, as planned, she oversaw the distribution of $220 million in about 700 donations, with more than $50 million earmarked for the fight against AIDS.
        Among the foundation's top priorities was the Aaron Diamond AIDS Research Center for the City of New York, affiliated with Rockefeller University. There, in a laboratory building facing Bellevue Hospital Center, its director, Dr. David D. Ho, made crucial discoveries about the immune system's struggle with the AIDS virus.
        Through her own fund, Mrs. Diamond invested heavily in New York institutions like Lincoln Center. Recent gifts include $1.2 million for Jazz at Lincoln Center's new home, now being built at the former Coliseum site, and large grants for the Dance Theater of Harlem, New York City Ballet and the New York Public Library.
        She aided causes like gun control and AIDS programs in the public schools and gave $10 million to the Juilliard School for a program to attract gifted minority students and teachers.
        President Bill Clinton recognized her philanthropy in 1999 with the National Medal of Arts, and in 2001 she received the Andrew Carnegie Medal of Philanthropy. She also sat on the boards of Young Concert Artists, the Film Society of Lincoln Center and Human Rights Watch.
        Irene Levine was born to immigrant parents in Pittsburgh, where she attended public schools. Hoping to be an actor, she took the name Irene Lee and studied repertory theater in Manhattan.
        She did some modeling and freelance reading for Warner Brothers in New York before getting a job in Hollywood as an assistant editor in the studio's story division. At a meeting with the producer Hal B. Wallis, she began a 25-year collaboration in which she made recommendations on the work of as many as 32 writers. Some of the scripts that crossed her desk became classics, like ''The Maltese Falcon'' and ''Dark Victory.''
        In 1941, back in New York, she read an unproduced play, ''Everybody Comes to Rick's,'' by Murray Burnett and Joan Alison. It came with several rejection slips, but its theme of the tough but idealistic American and his bar in Morocco seemed to her a perfect fit for the world news of the day.
        She persuaded Mr. Wallis to let her buy the play for $20,000 -- he gave it the name ''Casablanca'' -- and the movie, starring Humphrey Bogart and Ingrid Bergman, came out in 1943. It was just in time for the Allied invasion of North Africa and the Casablanca Conference of Roosevelt and Churchill.
        After her marriage to Mr. Diamond in 1942, she continued to work in show business, back in New York. After a brief stint working for the producer Sam Goldwyn, she again worked with Mr. Wallis at Paramount Pictures as a story editor and was head of the talent division until 1970.
        She was involved with films like ''Sorry, Wrong Number,'' with Barbara Stanwyck, and ''Come Back, Little Sheba,'' with Shirley Booth. She met and furthered the careers of actors like Burt Lancaster, Kirk Douglas and Robert Redford.
        Mrs. Diamond is survived by a daughter, Jean, and two grandsons.
        Speaking about ''Casablanca'' and her charitable priorities, she liked to say that ''philanthropy is a lot like Hollywood: you find a good script; you support it.''
        Her own Irene Diamond Fund will continue her work, said Jane Silver, its executive director.
        Correction:  February 15, 2003, Saturday  An obituary on Jan. 23 about Irene Diamond, a philanthropist who had an earlier career scouting Hollywood film scripts, including one that became the classic ''Casablanca,'' misstated the year of that film's release. It was 1942, not 1943.
      