
        Nadine Conner, who sang on the radio with Bing Crosby and Gordon MacRae before a lengthy career as a lyric soprano at the Metropolitan Opera, died March 1 in Los Alamitos, Calif. She was 96.
        She made her New York debut on Dec. 22, 1941, as Pamina in an English version of Mozart's ''Magic Flute,'' conducted by Bruno Walter. She was hailed for both her vocal promise and her youthful beauty. It was not generally known that she was then about 35.
        After singing the role of the Forest Bird in ''Siegfried,'' she went on to demanding roles in 1943, singing the first of 25 Sophies in ''Der Rosenkavalier.''
        She also sang with the New York Philharmonic beginning in 1942, when she took a solo part in Mahler's Second Symphony, under Walter, who then chose her for annual performances of the Bach ''St. Matthew Passion.''
        Among her outstanding recordings was one of ''Hansel and Gretel'' in 1947, in which she and Risë Stevens sang the title roles. It was the first complete opera recording made in this country, according to the Met archivists.
        In 1951, also under Walter, she sang Marzelline in ''Fidelio,'' in which her voice had to stand up to the heroic sounds of Kirsten Flagstad.
        She progressed to a memorable Tyrone Guthrie production of ''Carmen'' in 1951 and 1952, and sang Mimi in a new production of ''La Bohème'' as well.
        Altogether she gave 249 performances of 15 roles before her last Met performance, in ''Faust,'' on March 12, 1960.
        The New York Times said her final performance made ''an appealing Marguerite'' that showed her vocally in admirable form. ''Her farewell performance,'' wrote John Briggs, ''was one of the best of her Metropolitan career.''
        She was born Evelyn Nadine Henderson into a large, artistic family in Compton, Calif., and studied piano and drama as a child. In high school she studied voice on the side, and she soon decided that her voice belonged in the lighter lyric repertory rather than in roles like Puccini's ''Tosca'' or ''Madame Butterfly.''
        She found a niche in radio, singing with orchestras in national broadcasts. She got the attention of talent scouts and, finally, the invitation to audition at the Metropolitan.
        While studying music at the University of California in Los Angeles, she was briefly married to a classmate, whose name she kept for the stage.
        She was married again, in 1939, to Laurance Heacock, a surgeon, with whom she returned to Southern California in 1970.
        They settled in Cypress, where she taught singing.
        Dr. Heacock died in 1987. She is survived by a daughter, Sue Lynn Hawkins of Irvine, Calif.; a son, Loren Heacock of Fountain Valley, Calif.; four grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      