
        Elaine Anderson Steinbeck, who was one of the first women to become a Broadway stage manager and who in later years kept bright the artistic torch of her late husband John Steinbeck, died on Sunday in Manhattan. She was 88 and lived in Manhattan and Sag Harbor, N.Y.
        Mrs. Steinbeck was active in the theater before her marriage to Mr. Steinbeck in 1950 and remained so after his death in 1968.
        Elaine Anderson was born in Austin, Tex., on Aug. 14, 1914. She studied drama at the University of Texas, where she met her first husband, Zachary Scott, the actor, when both were involved in theater there. They were married in 1934 and several years later came east. Alfred Lunt and Lynn Fontanne had recommended the couple to Lawrence Langer of the Theater Guild. The result was a summer job at the Westport Country Playhouse in Connecticut. Although the young Mrs. Scott had acting ambitions of her own, she began working for the Theater Guild so that her husband could pursue his acting career.
        In the 1940's she was the stage manager of ''Oklahoma!,'' becoming one of the first women to achieve that position on Broadway. Soon after, she became one of the first women to take a show on the road, organizing and supervising the national tour of ''Othello'' with Paul Robeson.
        The Scotts, who had a daughter, were divorced in 1949.
        Mrs. Steinbeck met John Steinbeck during a visit to California in 1950. Mr. Steinbeck had been asked to escort Ava Gardner to a dinner party in Carmel and when Miss Gardner was unable to attend, the hostess asked to pick up the actress Ann Sothern and ''a friend.'' The friend was Elaine Anderson Scott. They were married that same year, and until his death, Mr. Steinbeck would often raise a glass at parties and offer a toast to Ava Gardner.
        Mrs. Steinbeck, as the executor of the Steinbeck estate, worked to keep Steinbeck's work in print and promoted books about him. Steinbeck won the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1962.
        She was also active in the Steinbeck Research Center at San Jose State University in California and in 1996 donated an archive of more than 200 letters sent to Steinbeck by John F. Kennedy, Harry Truman, Carl Sandburg, Alice B. Toklas, Ingrid Bergman and others.
        Mrs. Steinbeck was a board member of the Bay Street Theater in Sag Harbor, where she had a summer home.
        She is survived by her daughter, Waverly Scott Kaffaga, of New York City; a stepson, Thomas Steinbeck; four grandchildren; and two sisters, Jean Boone of New York City and Frances Atkinson of Tuscaloosa, Ala.
        Correction:  May 26, 2003, Monday  An obituary on April 29 about Elaine Anderson Steinbeck, a former stage manager and the widow of John Steinbeck, misspelled the surname of a co-founder of the Theater Guild, where she found work after first coming to New York, and misstated her job with the original Broadway production of ''Oklahoma!'' The co-founder was Lawrence Langner, not Langer. Ms. Steinbeck was a replacement assistant stage manager, not stage manager.
      