
        Muriel Topaz, the former director of the Dance Notation Bureau and the dance division of the Juilliard School, and an authority on the choreography of Antony Tudor, died on Monday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford. She was 70 and lived in Milford, Conn.
        The cause was liver disease, said her son, Daniel Druckman.
        Though trained as a performer and choreographer, a passion for preserving dances through notation dominated much of Ms. Topaz's career.
        In a polemical statement to the 1982 conference of the Dance Critics Association in New York, she asked, ''Is choreography an evanescent form existing only in the bodies and personalities of the initial performers, or does it, like all other performing art forms, have a substance, a compositional integrity that transcends the initial performance?''
        ''For surely, if it does,'' she continued, ''there can be no question of our obligation to document and pass on that art form to future generations.''
        She championed the notation system known as Labanotation (invented by Rudolf von Laban in the 1920's), yet she urged choreographers to record dances in any way that might be comprehensible to others. In an interview with The New York Times in 1985, she said, ''Most of the revivals we see are possible only because someone at some time wrote something down.''
        Ms. Topaz's convictions led her to notate works by more than 25 choreographers, including such diverse figures as George Balanchine, Gower Champion, Isadora Duncan, Martha Graham, Doris Humphrey, José Limón, Jerome Robbins, Paul Taylor and Tudor.
        She felt a special affinity for Tudor, the British-born choreographer who created major productions for American Ballet Theater. Last year, she published a study of his achievements, ''Undimmed Luster: The Life of Antony Tudor'' (Scarecrow Press), and at the time of her death she was reconstructing as much as possible of ''The Planets,'' a legendary Tudor ballet that has not been performed since the 1940's.
        Ms. Topaz was born in Philadelphia. She studied ballet and modern dance there and at New York University and Juilliard. She retained close ties to Juilliard, serving as the rehearsal director of the Juilliard Dance Ensemble from 1966 to 1970 and directing its dance divison from 1985 to 1992, succeeding Martha Hill, the department's founder.
        Long associated with the Dance Notation Bureau in New York, Ms. Topaz was director of its Labanotation studies from 1970 to 1978 and its excutive director from 1978 to 1985. She also organized international notation conferences in Tel Aviv (1984) and Hong Kong (1990).
        Ms. Topaz received a John Simon Guggenheim Foundation Fellowship in 1998, served as a panelist for many cultural organizations, including the Massachusetts Cultural Council and the New York State State Council on the Arts, and was an auditor for the National Endowment for the Arts. She adjudicated dance festivals across America and frequently wrote for dance publications.
        Ms. Topaz's husband, the composer Jacob Druckman, died in 1996. In addition to her son, of Orangeburg, N.Y., she is survived by a daughter, Karen S. Jeanneret-Druckman, of Rolle, Switzerland, and three grand-daughters.
      