
        Nell Carter, the robustly sassy singer and actress who exploded onto the New York musical stage in the Fats Waller revue ''Ain't Misbehavin' '' and went on to become a popular television star in the series ''Gimme a Break!,'' died yesterday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 54.
        Ms. Carter collapsed and was found by one of her sons, said her spokesman, Roger Lane. She had been in rehearsals for ''Raisin,'' a musical adaptation of the play ''A Raisin in the Sun,'' at a theater in Long Beach, Calif. A diabetic, Ms. Carter survived two brain aneurysms in 1992.
        Although she stood only 4 feet 11 inches tall, she was a larger-than-life stage personality who never did things in half-measures. Along with Patti La Belle and Jennifer Holliday, she belonged to a select circle of theatrical pop-soul belters whose members reveled in high-powered vocal flamboyance. A typical performance by Ms. Carter reached into the fabric of a song and tore out its seams with feral flourishes.
        As a singer and stage personality, Ms. Carter was also a natural comedian. Her vocal style was descended from the humorous gutbucket blues of Bessie Smith by way of Dinah Washington, whose singing also conveyed a seam of earthy amusement. The warmth and feeling for comedy that inflected her interpretations of even the saddest songs reflected Ms. Carter's desire to be what she called ''Judy Garland without the tragedy.''
        For many, Ms. Carter's performances of songs like ''Honeysuckle Rose'' and ''Mean to Me'' were legendary. That show, a potpourri of mostly Fats Waller pieces, opened at the Manhattan Theater Club in February 1978, and moved to the Longacre Theater on Broadway three months later, running there for more than 1,600 performances. Ms. Carter won a Tony for best featured actress in that musical.
        Three years later she won an Emmy for the NBC television production of the same show. Ms. Carter made such an indelible impression as a shimmying, bawdy old-time vaudevillian in ''Ain't Misbehavin' '' that she often found herself typecast as a rollicking good-time mama.
        Her biggest success after ''Ain't Misbehavin' '' was the sitcom ''Gimme a Break!,'' in which she played Miss Nellie Ruth ''Nell'' Harper, the housekeeper and surrogate mother for a widowed California police chief and his three children. The show, which ran from 1981 to 1987, earned her two Emmy nominations and revived the archetype of the mammy, an African-American woman caring for a white family.
        Nell Carter was born Nell Hardy in Birmingham, Ala., on Sept. 13, 1948. While growing up, she absorbed her mother's recordings of Dinah Washington and B. B. King, along with her brother's Elvis Presley records. As a child, she sang on the gospel circuit and performed on a weekly radio show, ''The Y Teens.'' Later she sang in local coffeehouses.
        Moving to New York at 19, she studied acting and performed in nightclubs like Reno Sweeney, the Village Gate, Dangerfield's, the Apartment and the Rainbow Room. ''Ain't Misbehavin' '' was the springboard to a wide-ranging singing and acting career.
        Her television credits ranged from a role on the soap opera ''Ryan's Hope'' to an appearance on the acclaimed PBS special ''Baryshnikov on Broadway'' to game-show contestant on ''Match Game.'' Her theater credits include ''Hello Dolly!,'' ''Hair,'' ''Don't Bother Me, I Can't Cope,'' ''Jesus Christ Superstar'' and ''Bubbling Brown Sugar.''
        She had film roles in ''The Grass Harp'' (1995) and ''The Proprietor'' (1996).
        Married and divorced twice, Ms. Carter is survived by a daughter, Tracy, and by two sons, Joshua and Daniel.
      