
        Kathleen Winsor, whose 1944 novel ''Forever Amber,'' detailing the sexual adventures of a young woman in Restoration England, became a model for romantic best sellers to follow, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 83.
        ''Miss Winsor, if she felt so inclined, could justifiably claim to be the woman who invented the modern best seller,'' Rachel Cooke wrote in The Observer, a London newspaper, last year. Ms. Cooke pointed out that the ''preposterously long and sumptuously naughty book'' appeared 12 years before Grace Metalious's Peyton Place and 22 years before Jacqueline Susann's ''Valley of the Dolls.''
        Amber St. Clare, the heroine of Ms. Winsor's 972-page work, runs through lovers from a highwayman named Black Jack Mallard to King Charles II at a pace that led a reviewer to recommend using an adding machine to keep track. Amber's flair with words amplifies the effect: ''Adultery is not a crime, it's an amusement,'' she purrs.
        Though mild by today's standards, the book's raciness drew readers by the thousands, selling 100,000 copies the first week after it was published. Eventually as many as 3 million copies were sold, published reports said.
        MacMillan, the publisher, promoted the book with unusual vigor, hoping to emulate its 1936 success with ''Gone With the Wind.'' It was helped immeasurably when the Hays Office, the morality board for the movie industry, condemned the book even before a movie deal was signed; it became a hit in 1947 with Linda Darnell as Amber and Cornel Wilde as her truest love. Equally useful was its being banned in Boston, not to mention the rest of Massachusetts.
        For readers without an adding machine, the attorney general of Massachusetts helpfully reported that he had counted 70 references to sexual intercourse, 39 illegitimate pregnancies, seven abortions and 10 descriptions of women undressing in front of men. The decision by a Massachusetts appeals court judge to reverse the initial ban was less valuable in a commercial sense: he said the book put him to sleep. But many reviewers hailed the results of Ms. Winsor's five years of research, saying her descriptions of the Great Fire of London and the Great Plague seemed vivid and accurate.
        The novel, Ms. Winsor's first, made her rich, which she suggested in an interview might have been her motivation in the first place.
        ''That's what every writer really wants: to make money,'' she said in an interview with the newspaper PM in 1945.
        Ms. Winsor was born on Oct. 16, 1919, in Olivia, Minn., and claimed English ancestors who moved to America as early as 1630. She grew up in Berkeley, Calif., and graduated from the University of California there. While still a student she married Robert John Herwig, a football star. When her husband was working on a class paper on the death of Charles II, she browsed through one of his books and became fascinated by England's Restoration period. She read 356 books on the subject and wrote five drafts of her novel, meticulously counting the hours she worked: 4,967.
        ''I can't say I was surprised when it was accepted,'' she said in an interview quoted in Current Biography. ''It seemed only justice after five years of effort.''
        She wrote seven more novels, but none came close to the success of her first. After her divorce from Mr. Herwig, she married the bandleader Artie Shaw and then Arnold Krakower, the lawyer who handled her divorce from Mr. Shaw. Her fourth and last husband was Paul A. Porter, a lawyer, who died in 1975. She had no immediate survivors.
        Ms. Winsor always pooh-poohed those who considered ''Forever Amber'' too daring. ''I wrote only two sexy passages, and my publishers took both of them out,'' she was quoted as saying in Contemporary Authors Online. ''They put ellipses instead. In those days, you could solve everything with an ellipse.''
      