
        Erika Fromm, an emeritus professor of psychology at the University of Chicago and an expert on the use of hypnosis in therapy, died on Monday at her home in Chicago. She was 93.
        Dr. Fromm considered hypnosis a valuable analytical tool that, when used by a skilled practitioner, could provide access to a patient's unconscious conflicts and desires. She said hypnosis could induce an altered state of consciousness involving heightened awareness and focus in approximately 1 in 12 people.
        She used hypnosis to treat severely disturbed patients as well as victims of incest and those suffering from post-traumatic stress disorders. She also advocated self-hypnosis as a path to self-exploration.
        In the 1980's, Dr. Fromm joined the growing field of behavioral medicine, which uses hypnosis, meditation, biofeedback and other techniques to treat physical ailments. Her book ''Hypnosis and Behavioral Medicine,'' written with Dr. Daniel P. Brown and published in 1987, presented research supporting those methods in treating allergies, asthma, migraines and hypertension.
        She was the longtime editor of the journal Research Developments and Perspectives in Hypnosis. Her books include ''Dream Interpretation: A New Approach'' (1964), written with Dr. Thomas French; ''Hypnotherapy and Hypnoanalysis'' (1986), written with Dr. Brown; and ''Self-Hypnosis: The Chicago Paradigm'' (1990), written with Dr. Stephen Kahn. Her final book, ''Changes in the Therapist'' (2000), also written with Dr. Kahn, looked at the impact that patients can have on their therapists.
        Born Erika Oppenheimer in Frankfurt, Germany, on Dec. 23, 1909, she received her doctorate in psychology from the University of Frankfurt in 1933. Alarmed by Nazism, she moved to the Netherlands that year and to the United States in 1938. She was a research assistant in psychiatry at the University of Chicago from 1939 to 1940, then spent years in practice and joined the university's faculty in 1961.
        Her husband was Paul Fromm, a cousin of the psychoanalyst Erich Fromm and the founder of the Fromm Music Foundation at Harvard, which supports contemporary composers. He died in 1987. Her daughter, Joan Fromm Greenstone, died in 1996. She is survived by a sister, Clementina Kro of Israel; three brothers, Walter Oppenheimer of Germany, Asher Oppenheimer of Israel and John Ormond of Piedmont, Calif.; two grandsons; and two great-grandsons.
      