
        Sue Sally Hale, who broke American polo's sex barrier in 1972 when she gained membership in the sport's national governing body after playing matches disguised as a man for two decades, died last Tuesday at her ranch in Coachella, Calif. She was 65.
        The cause was a ruptured aorta, her former husband, Alex Hale, said.
        When Hale was growing up in Southern California, polo retained an image as a rich man's sport. But the United States Polo Association, the national governing agency, now lists some 600 women among its membership of 3,600. And the Hale family remains a major presence. Hale's daughter Sunny Hale is one of the leading women's players in the world, having competed with men at polo's premier event, the United States Open.
        Hale was reared amid the glitter of Hollywood's polo set. Her father, Grover Jones, a well-known screenwriter, and her mother, Susan Avery, a former ballerina, wasted no time introducing her to the sport.
        ''I had my first horse at 3,'' Hale told The Press-Enterprise of Riverside, Calif., earlier this year.
        Her father died at about that time, and her mother later married Richard Talmadge, a motion-picture stuntman and actor. The glamorous matches at the Riviera Country Club were close at hand, but Hale did more than watch. She was ready to compete with men by the time she reached her early teens.
        But women were not welcome except for minor club matches, so she applied mascara to her lip to simulate a mustache, wore oversized shirts and pulled her hair up under her helmet. She competed under the name A. Jones, her real identity known only to her teammates at first, although it eventually became clear in the polo world that A. Jones was really Hale.
        ''After a game it was a kick to clean up for the parties and mingle unrecognized with the guys I'd just played on the field with,'' she told The Los Angeles Times years later.
        Hale's repeated efforts to gain admission to the United States Polo Association were rebuffed. But her friends in the polo world applied pressure as well -- a lawsuit was threatened, as she recalled -- and in 1972 the association admitted her as its first woman.
        Hale became a leading player, and in December 1990 she and her daughters Sunny and Stormie, along with France's leading polo-playing woman, Caroline Anier, won the first United States Women's Open.
        Hale also coached polo teams at Cal Poly-San Luis Obispo and at the Marine Corps Air Station El Toro in Santa Ana, Calif., and provided polo lessons for handicapped people.
        Capt. Caryll G. Rice II, the secretary of the Marine team she coached in the mid-1990's, recalled her enthusiasm. ''She had us posting without stirrups in the middle of August out in the desert,'' he wrote in Marines magazine. '' 'Come on, it'll be fun,' she said.''
        Her marriage to Alex Hale, of Carmel, Calif., ended in divorce in 1976.
        In addition to Sunny, of Norman, Okla., and Coral Gables, Fla., and Stormie, of Pacific Grove, Calif., she is survived by another daughter, Dawn, of Pacific Grove; a son, Trails, of Simi Valley, Calif.; a brother, Harold Jones, of Palm Desert, Calif.; and three grandchildren.
        Hale worked to organize tournaments for women. Late in 1972, when her team played in Florida against a squad from the East Coast, the emotions were overwhelming.
        ''We all just sat and cried,'' she told The Press-Enterprise, ''because we didn't think we'd ever get to play. Those were great games at that tournament. And that's where women's polo really started.''
      