
        Doris Fisher, a songwriter whose lighthearted, sentimental tunes became hits for the Ink Spots, Ella Fitzgerald and the Mills Brothers in the 1930's and 40's, died on Wednesday in Los Angeles. She was 87.
        Among Ms. Fisher's songs, all written with a co-author, were ''Whispering Grass (Don't Tell the Trees),'' a hit for the Ink Spots in 1940; ''Angelina (the Waitress at the Pizzeria),'' sung by Louis Prima; and ''Tutti-Frutti,'' written with Slim Gaillard, a hit in 1938 that was eclipsed by Little Richard's wildly onomatopoeic song of the same title in 1956.
        Born in New York City in 1915, Ms. Fisher was the daughter of the songwriter and music publisher Fred Fisher, with whom she wrote many of her first songs. Her brothers Dan and Marvin were also noted songwriters. Early in her career she sang in radio programs under the name Penny Wise, often with the Eddie Duchin Orchestra.
        In 1944 she met Allan Roberts in an elevator in the Brill Building in New York, where Roberts and Ms. Fisher's father had offices. She and Roberts began a fruitful partnership. In 1944 they wrote ''You Always Hurt the One You Love,'' a million-selling hit for the Mills Brothers that was No. 1 for five weeks that year and later a hit for Spike Jones; ''Good Good Good (That's You -- That's You),'' for Bing Crosby and the Andrews Sisters; ''That Ole Devil Called Love,'' for Billie Holiday; and ''Into Each Life Some Rain Must Fall,'' which was a No. 1 hit for Ella Fitzgerald and the Ink Spots.
        Ms. Fisher and Roberts also wrote for more than 20 films, including ''Gilda'' (the songs ''Put the Blame on Mame,'' ''Amado Mio''), ''Down to Earth'' and ''The Lady From Shanghai,'' all with Rita Hayworth; and ''Dead Reckoning,'' with Humphrey Bogart.
        In 1947 she married Charles Gershenson of Detroit and retired from the music business. She became an antiques collector and, after divorcing Mr. Gershenson, moved to Los Angeles and founded a furniture store called Cookstores.
        She is survived by her daughter, Frederica Fisher Thea, of Manhattan; her son, Ned Gershenson, of Henderson, Nev.; and two grandsons.
      