
        Katharine Hepburn, the actress whose independent life and strong-willed movie characters made her a role model for generations of women and a beloved heroine to filmgoers for more than 60 years, died yesterday at her home in the Fenwick section of Old Saybrook, Conn. She was 96 and also had a home in Manhattan.
        Her physical presence was distinctive, her often-imitated voice filled with the vowels of a well-bred New Englander, and her sharp-planed face defined by remarkably high cheekbones. In her youth she did not have classical leading-lady looks, but a handsome beauty. In old age she was a familiar figure with her hair, gradually changing from auburn to gray, always in a topknot and her boyish figure always in the trousers that she helped to make fashionable.
        She played sharp-witted, sophisticated women with an ease that suggested that there was a thin line between the movie role and the off-screen personality. The romantic comedy ''The Philadelphia Story'' and the screwball classic ''Bringing Up Baby'' were among her best, most typical roles. But through 43 films and dozens of stage and television appearances, she played comic and dramatic parts as varied as Jo in ''Little Women,'' the reborn spinster Rosie in ''The African Queen'' and Eleanor of Aquitaine in ''The Lion in Winter.''
        Her life and career were dominated by her love affair with Spencer Tracy, which created one of the great romantic legends and brilliant movie pairings of their day. Tracy was unhappily married and the father of two when they met, and he remained married until the end of his life. He and Miss Hepburn lived together for 27 years, until his death in 1967, and made nine films together.
        ''Woman of the Year,'' ''Adam's Rib'' and ''Pat and Mike'' are typically bright and biting Tracy-Hepburn collaborations. She is wickedly smart, slightly aloof and emotionally vulnerable. He is commonsensical, down-to-earth and deeply decent. He manages to bring her down a peg; she never minds.
        Hepburn and Tracy, Vincent Canby wrote in The New York Times, ''so beautifully complemented each other'' that their relationship ''never seemed to be a matter of capitulation.'' Rather, he added, it was ''a matter of understanding and acknowledging each other's boundaries.''
        The frisson of their off-screen romance, always hinted at but never acknowledged during his lifetime, followed them on screen and became especially poignant when they played a married couple in their last movie together, ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner.'' Tracy died just 17 days after they had finished filming it.
        Through most of her career, Miss Hepburn had a reputation for being private and elusive with the press. In fact, she frequently granted interviews, although she was reticent about her personal life. But after the death of Tracy's wife, Louise, in 1983, Miss Hepburn felt free to discuss the love affair.
        In later years she spoke openly about her life and career, especially in her 1991 autobiography, ''Me: Stories of My Life'' (Alfred A. Knopf). Although admittedly sketchy rather than a comprehensive memoir, the book captured the qualities that endeared Miss Hepburn to audiences: a conversational tone, a no-nonsense attitude and disarming candor. The autobiography became a best seller, a tribute to her enduring appeal across generational lines.
        In 1993 she appeared in an autobiographical television documentary, ''Katharine Hepburn: All About Me,'' made for the TNT cable network. She began: ''So this is about Katharine Hepburn, public, private. Can you tell which is which?'' She added, laughing, ''Sometimes I wonder myself.''
        Longing to Be a Boy
        Katharine Houghton Hepburn was born into a close family whose comfortable social status and unconventional opinions fostered self-confidence and independence. Her father, Dr. Thomas Norval Hepburn, was a Hartford surgeon and a pioneer in fighting venereal disease. Her mother, Katharine Houghton, was a suffragist and a strong advocate of birth control.
        In ''Me,'' Miss Hepburn finally revealed her age. ''I was born May 12, 1907,'' she wrote, ''despite everything I may have said to the contrary.'' For years she had said she was two years younger and had given her birthday as Nov. 8. That was the birthday of her older brother, Tom, who died at 16. Miss Hepburn, then 14, found his body hanging from the rafters of a house the family was visiting in New York City. The Hepburns said they never knew whether he had committed suicide and left open the possibility that he had been practicing a magic trick.
        Although the family always called her Kathy or Kath, one summer Miss Hepburn so hated being a little girl that she cut her hair and called herself Jimmy. ''I thought being a girl was really the bunk,'' she said in an interview. ''But there's no bunk about Jimmy.''
        After graduating from Bryn Mawr College in 1928, she had small parts in stock theater companies. She was dismissed from more than one play when she was starting out, but she retained supreme self-confidence. Late in life, she laughingly said of her younger self, ''I am terribly afraid I just assumed I'd be famous.''
        She was first noticed professionally in her role as Antiope in the play ''The Warrior's Husband,'' a Greek fable in which she entered by descending a narrow staircase, carrying a stag over her shoulder.
        That role led to a Hollywood screen test and her first film role, as John Barrymore's daughter in ''A Bill of Divorcement'' (1932). It was directed by George Cukor, who become one of her dearest friends (she and Tracy lived for years in the guest house on Cukor's Hollywood estate) and the director of many of her films, including ''Little Women.'' He once recalled of her screen test: ''She was unlike anybody I'd ever seen or heard. I was rather moved by the test, although the performance wasn't that good. But I thought, 'That girl is rather interesting.' ''
        Fast Rise to Stardom
        Miss Hepburn became a movie star quickly. She won an Academy Award for her role as Eva Lovelace, the naïve aspiring actress who learns a tough lesson about survival, in the 1933 film ''Morning Glory,'' only her third movie. Over the years she was nominated for a dozen Oscars, a record unbeaten until Meryl Streep received her 13th nomination this year. Miss Hepburn won three more, for ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner,'' ''The Lion in Winter'' and ''On Golden Pond,'' but never showed up to collect any of them.
        When she was 84, she looked back at those early days and, with her trademark tough-mindedness, said: ''In the beginning I had money; I wasn't a poor little thing. I don't know what I would have done if I'd had to come to New York and get a job as a waiter or something like that. I think I'm a success, but I had every advantage; I should have been.''
        She also credited her husband with helping her get started in her career. For most of her life, the public thought she had never married. In fact, in 1928 she married Ludlow Ogden Smith, a member of a wealthy Pennsylvania family. She immediately made him change his name to S. Ogden Ludlow, partly because she didn't want to be known as Kate Smith.
        They led separate lives long before their divorce in 1934, but they remained friendly. The town house they bought together in the Turtle Bay section of Manhattan was Miss Hepburn's home until the end of her life (along with the family home on the Connecticut River, to which she returned often).
        In later years she expressed regret at the way she had treated her husband. In an interview that echoed what she wrote in ''Me,'' she assumed a self-chastising, no-nonsense tone and said she had been ''an absolute pig with Luddy, absolute pig.'' She continued: ''He was an angel. I thought of myself first, and that's a pig, isn't it?''
        ''I would have been terrified alone in New York City,'' she said. ''We bought this house in '31, and then the minute I won the Academy Award, I got rid of Luddy.'' Many years later, not long before he died, ''I tried to make up to him for the horror I had caused him,'' she added. ''He was so generous-spirited that I don't think he considered it horror. He just considered it a kid who was wildly ambitious or something.''
        Miss Hepburn is survived by a brother, Dr. Robert H. Hepburn, and a sister, Margaret H. Perry, both of Canton, Conn.; four nieces; and nine nephews.
        Trousers as a Trademark
        Despite her early success, reviewers in those days sometimes found her strident and mannered. In 1933 she returned to Broadway in a spectacular failure, ''The Lake,'' which inspired Dorothy Parker to write her famous aphorism, ''She ran the gamut of emotion from A to B.''
        Of those early years, she said: ''I strike people as peculiar in some way, although I don't quite understand why. Of course, I have an angular face, an angular body and, I suppose, an angular personality, which jabs into people.''
        Over time her screen presence softened and became more likable; meanwhile, society was catching up to her willful, independent style. She had been wearing pants, then considered quite unladylike, since the 1930's.
        In her 1993 television autobiography, she recalled: ''I realized long ago that skirts are hopeless. Anytime I hear a man say he prefers a woman in a skirt, I say: 'Try one. Try a skirt.' '' Although her choice was based on comfort, her trademark trousered look became so influential that the Council of Fashion Designers of America gave her a lifetime achievement award in 1986.
        Many of her early films are now regarded as classics. Playing a tough, determined actress in ''Stage Door'' (1937), she read a line from a play -- ''The calla lilies are in bloom again'' -- that became the all-time favorite of Hepburn impersonators. Life magazine said that ''Stage Door'' proved that she was ''potentially, the screen's greatest actress.''
        She played a free-spirited heiress in ''Bringing Up Baby'' (1938), opposite Cary Grant and a leopard. But the film, now treasured, was a box-office flop, and by then her career was in decline. In 1938 she appeared on a list of actors labeled ''box-office poison'' in a poll of movie exhibitors.
        Rather than appear in a film called ''Mother Carey's Chickens,'' she bought out her contract with R.K.O. She made ''Holiday,'' another classic romantic comedy with Grant, in which she was another high-spirited socialite.
        Then Miss Hepburn took charge of her career in a way few women dared in those days of the studio system. Philip Barry wrote the play ''The Philadelphia Story'' for her, modeling his heroine, Tracy Lord, on Miss Hepburn. Tracy Lord is a beautiful, high-spirited rich woman, about to marry her second husband, when her first husband and a reporter who is covering the wedding arrive to create an unexpected romantic tangle.
        The play was a hit, and Miss Hepburn owned the rights to it because Howard Hughes, a sometime beau, had bought them for her. She went to Louis B. Mayer, the head of the Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer studio, and sold him the property on the condition that she play the lead. She chose her friend George Cukor to direct. And she asked for Spencer Tracy and Clark Gable as her co-stars. She got Cary Grant as her former husband, James Stewart as the reporter, and a hit movie. She never lost control of her career again.
        Soon she went back to Mayer with another script, ''Woman of the Year,'' the story of the unlikely romance between a hotshot political columnist and a sportswriter. She asked for Tracy, whom she had never met, to play the sportswriter. This time she got him.
        A Loving Partnership
        The success of ''Woman of the Year'' (1942) and the stars' off-screen relationship led to other Tracy and Hepburn films that followed a similar pattern. In ''Adam's Rib'' (1949), they are married, opposing lawyers, both nicknamed Pinky. In ''Pat and Mike'' (1952), she is a champion athlete, and he is her rough-hewn manager, with whom she falls in love.
        The film was devised to show off Miss Hepburn's well-cultivated athletic ability. Almost to the end of her life she played tennis and swam, and in earlier years she golfed.
        It was in ''Pat and Mike'' that Tracy spoke the often-quoted line about Miss Hepburn's figure, ''Not much meat on her, but what's there is 'cherce.' ''
        Miss Hepburn often said Tracy was the best actor she had ever known and compared him in complimentary terms to a baked potato: solid, substantial stuff. ''He's meat and potatoes, meat and potatoes,'' she would say. ''I'm more like a fancy French dessert, I'm a little bit fancy, aren't I? But I wish I were meat and potatoes.'' Her other films with Tracy included the political dramas ''Keeper of the Flame'' (1942) and ''State of the Union'' (1948).
        One of her most enduring films without Tracy was ''The African Queen'' (1952), in which she played the straitlaced Rosie opposite Humphrey Bogart for the director John Huston.
        She wrote about it in her first book, published in 1987, whose title captures the direct, colloquial style of her writing: ''The Making of the African Queen: Or, How I Went to Africa With Bogart, Bacall and Huston and Almost Lost My Mind'' (Knopf).
        Later she achieved one of her great artistic triumphs in an unlikely role, as the 12th-century Eleanor of Aquitaine in ''The Lion in Winter'' (1968). There was still something of the typical Hepburn persona in the steely manipulation and breaking heart of the aging, dismissed queen, but none of the actress's contemporary mannerisms.
        Her versatility lasted well into her career. She played the distraught, drug-addicted Mary Tyrone in the 1962 film of Eugene O'Neill's ''Long Day's Journey Into Night.'' She was a fair match in toughness for John Wayne in the western ''Rooster Cogburn'' (1975). And in ''On Golden Pond'' (1981) she starred opposite Henry Fonda as a feisty older woman coping with her husband's failing memory and insisting that they should go on and live life to the fullest. In that role, the on-screen and off-screen Hepburn seemed to meld as easily as they had in her youth.
        Her final screen appearance, in 1994, was a minor but tremendously emotional role in ''Love Affair.'' Playing Warren Beatty's wise old aunt, she gave advice to the woman he loved, played by Annette Bening. Miss Hepburn's age gave the role the trappings of a farewell to movies, but if she moved more slowly than before, in demeanor she was as game and modern as she had ever been, even venturing an unprintable line about ducks.
        Throughout her career, she returned to the stage periodically. She appeared in ''The Millionairess,'' by George Bernard Shaw, on Broadway in 1952. In the late 1950's she also appeared in several Shakespeare plays in Stratford, Conn.
        And in 1969, when she was 62, she made her singing debut on Broadway in the Alan Jay Lerner musical ''Coco,'' based on the life of the fashion designer Coco Chanel. She also appeared on Broadway in 1976 in ''A Matter of Gravity,'' by Enid Bagnold, and in 1981 in ''The West Side Waltz,'' by Ernest Thompson, who had written ''On Golden Pond.''
        Her performances in all three of these plays were received with dazzling praise; the works themselves were treated more harshly. Walter Kerr of The New York Times wrote about her performance in ''The West Side Waltz'' in terms that reflected the general critical opinion: ''One mysterious thing she has learned to do is breathe unchallengeable life into lifeless lines.''
        A Beloved Aunt on TV
        In the 1970's she acted in television movies, including the Edwardian romantic drama ''Love Among the Ruins'' (1975), with Laurence Olivier, and ''The Corn Is Green'' (1979), both directed by Cukor. And in later years she kept busy with minor television movies.
        She played a fictional version of the typically feisty Kate Hepburn character in ''Mrs. Delafield Wants to Marry'' (1986), ''Laura Lansing Slept Here'' (1988) and ''The Man Upstairs'' (1992).
        In 1994 she appeared in a few scenes in the television movie ''One Christmas,'' as yet another wise old aunt. Her tailor-made Hepburn lines included these: ''I've always lived my life exactly as I wanted. I wouldn't change a single thing. No regrets.''
        As she aged, she had some physical problems from which she recovered well. She had hip-replacement surgery and operations on both her shoulders, but she remained spry. Although her head shook visibly in television interviews from the 1980's on, she vehemently denied the rumor that she had Parkinson's disease, saying she had inherited her shaking head from her grandfather Hepburn.
        Her most striking television appearance was not in a dramatic role, but in a 1986 tribute to Spencer Tracy. Speaking openly about their relationship at last, she read a letter she had written to him, which she later included in her autobiography. She recalled their last years together, when he was ill and had trouble sleeping, and she would sit on the floor by his side and talk. She wondered why he drank.
        ''What was it, Spense?'' she asked. It was an eloquent and sentimental performance that distilled the way her public and private lives blended.
        At the conclusion of ''All About Me,'' her own television biography, she said: ''In some ways I've lived my life as a man, made my own decisions. I've been as terrified as the next person, but you've got to keep a-going; you've got to dream.'' In typical Katharine Hepburn style, she faced the camera and, at the age of 85, tacitly acknowledged how close she had to be to the end.
        ''I have no fear of death,'' she said. ''Must be wonderful, like a long sleep. But let's face it: it's how you live that really counts.''
        With her angular beauty and unmistakable voice, Katharine Hepburn was a distinctive presence in films and on stage, whether sparring with a modern-day suitor or trading quips in Shakespearean dress. Here are some of the plays and films in which she appeared.
        Plays
        The Warrior's Husband -- 1932  The Lake -- 1933  Jane Eyre -- 1937  The Philadelphia Story -- 1939  Without Love -- 1942  As You Like It -- 1950  The Millionairess -- 1952  The Merchant of Venice -- 1957  Much Ado About Nothing -- 1957  Twelfth Night -- 1960  Antony and Cleopatra -- 1960  Coco -- 1969  A Matter of Gravity -- 1976  The West Side Waltz -- 1981
        Films
        A Bill of Divorcement -- 1932  Christopher Strong -- 1933  Morning Glory -- 1933  Little Women -- 1933  The Little Minister -- 1934  Alice Adams -- 1935  Sylvia Scarlett -- 1936  Quality Street -- 1937  Stage Door -- 1937  Bringing Up Baby -- 1938  Holiday -- 1938  The Philadelphia Story -- 1940  Woman of the Year -- 1942  Dragon Seed -- 1944  The Sea of Grass -- 1947  State of the Union -- 1948  Adam's Rib -- 1949  The African Queen -- 1951  Pat and Mike -- 1952  Summertime -- 1955  The Rainmaker -- 1956  Desk Set -- 1957  Long Day's Journey Into Night -- 1962  Guess Who's Coming to Dinner -- 1967  The Lion in Winter -- 1968  Rooster Cogburn -- 1975  Love Among the Ruins (television) -- 1975  The Corn Is Green (television) -- 1979  On Golden Pond -- 1981  Love Affair -- 1994
      