
        Elizabeth Fowler, who wrote a harrowing book about being the only woman among 35 passengers on a lifeboat in the Atlantic Ocean for 10 days during World War II, died on May 30 at a convalescent home in West Orange, N.J. She was 95.
        On an autumn evening in 1942 she was in her early thirties and had finagled passage on a cargo ship from Africa to escape a troubled marriage and join her young daughter in Connecticut. She was knitting when a German U-boat torpedoed the ship.
        Ms. Fowler endured pounding rain, hunger, excruciating thirst, frigid waves and circling sharks as she and her desperate companions bobbed through an intense human drama in a very small space. The episode, as described in news reports, columns and magazine articles, sounds very much like the inspiration for Alfred Hitchcock's 1944 movie ''Lifeboat.'' But there appears to be no direct link. Ms. Fowler's book, ''Standing Room Only'' (Dodd, Mead) was published the same year the movie was released.
        Lucy Greenbaum in The New York Times Book Review called Ms. Fowler's account ''a tight, terse tale of war drama where each swell of a wave is matched by the surge of a human emotion.''
        The Saturday Review of Literature called the book ''almost unbearable reading at times,'' but said that its directness and vividness made it impossible to put down.
        For 35 years, until recently, Ms. Fowler lived in Montclair, N.J., and her saga only gradually became known to friends she met at the local Y.M.C.A. She was a legend there for her daily exercise regimen: swimming 18 laps and doing 36 pull-ups on the diving board well into her 90's. In her 80's, she was still putt-putting around town on a motor scooter.
        As Ms. Fowler intermittently spun out the story of her life, friends in the Y's steam room at first thought it implausible.
        ''We all thought she was exaggerating,'' Elizabeth Crann she said. ''She was never exaggerating.''
        Elizabeth Japp was born in the United States on March 13, 1908, said Ms. Crann, who interviewed her about her life. Miss Japp's father was Sir Henry Japp, a British engineer who built the rail tunnels under the East River. A profile of Sir Henry by The New York Times in 1906 called him ''the wizard.''
        In her book, Ms. Fowler, who had both American and British citizenship, said the family moved back to England when she was 12. She attended English schools and then went to study music in Paris, where someone burst into one of her lessons and demanded that the master hear two children. One was the violinist Yehudi Menuhin, who immediately became a pupil.
        While in France, Miss Japp became engaged to an English businessman who died in a plane crash when she was 21. She returned to New York.
        At some point she met Frank Fowler, a physician who worked on the Gold Coast for the Colonial Medical Service. They left their only daughter, Niccie, in England. After German bombing began, they sent her to live in Connecticut. After strains in her marriage, Ms. Fowler talked her way onto the West Kebar, a ship carrying palm oil from what is now Ghana to New York.
        She was the only woman on board, and wrote that the men resented her because they believed she could not pull her weight. German submarines had been attacking many merchant ships, but Ms. Fowler on a pleasant evening was relaxing on deck, knitting. Suddenly, the captain screamed, ''This is it!''
        Thirty-five people ended up in a 26-foot lifeboat, a self-contained universe of fear, boredom and oddity. Ms. Fowler wrote of trying to evade a man intent on kissing her, and how she finally managed to urinate in a bucket. Repeatedly and inexplicably, she wrote, she mourned the Burberry coat she had lost.
        Mostly she told of her boat mates and their interaction. ''Human decency showed more brightly with some,'' she wrote. ''That was all -- but that was everything too.''
        The lifeboat was finally spotted from land, off the coast of Barbados. After they were rescued, she worked as a nanny in Connecticut but was also something of a celebrity. Lord & Taylor displayed her bedraggled dress from the lifeboat in its window, and women's magazines profiled her. The columnist Elsa Maxwell wrote that she ''has had more emotional experiences out of this war than any other human being I know.''
        Ms. Fowler, as a result, always thought she was the inspiration for Alfred Hitchcock's 1944 movie, although her book was a published a month after the release of ''Lifeboat.'' John Steinbeck, who wrote the novella and the screen treatment that became ''Lifeboat,'' does not seem to have mentioned her experience.
        But there is no question that her story was in the public eye, and when Ms. Fowler later met the movie's star, Tallulah Bankhead, Miss Bankhead said, ''So I was supposed to be you,'' a comment Ms. Fowler did not take as flattering.
        For many years, Ms. Fowler worked as an editor for book and magazine publishers. She is survived by her daughter, Niccie Sesson of England, and a grandson, Ms. Crann said.
        She treasured a piece of the lifeboat's sail her companions had given her. ''To a good shipmate,'' it said.
      