
        Selma Koch, a Manhattan store owner who earned a national reputation by helping women find the right bra size, mostly through a discerning glance and never with a tape measure, died Thursday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 95 and a 34B.
        In the final years of her life, Mrs. Koch appeared on national television and radio programs to discuss her specialty and her occupational longevity. She relished her celebrity, but not as much as she loved guiding the generations of women who visited her store: she worked seven 10-hour days last week instead of her usual six.
        Her grandson Danny said he guessed that her only regret would be not dying in the family's store, the Town Shop on Broadway at 82nd Street, something she had often said she hoped to do.
        But she certainly lived there almost as much as in her Manhattan apartment, in the end helping the great-grandchildren of her original customers buy apparel like swimsuits, pajamas and girdles, an old-fashioned product she insisted on keeping in stock.
        She kept the original customers, too.
        ''Sometimes a lady will come in with either a walker, or a wheelchair, or a nurse,'' Mrs. Koch said in an interview with The Associated Press last year. ''She can barely move and she'll say to me, 'You know, you sold me my trousseau.' ''
        Brassieres remained the foundation of the store's business, though most of the thousands available are kept discreetly out of sight. The prices are somewhat higher than in department stores, since immediate service is the selling point.
        ''We don't let people roam around the store,'' Mrs. Koch said in an interview last year on WNYC radio. ''The minute a customer comes in, she's approached. You can walk from end to end on the floor at Lord & Taylor and not see a person.''
        A quick look would tell her a customer's proper bra size, which she maintained that three-quarters of women did not know. Not a few middle-aged women cling to the size they wore at 16, said her grandson, who works in the store.
        ''I never had to try six brassieres on a customer,'' Mrs. Koch told WNYC. ''Two was plenty. I mean, I knew in a minute what was right, finished, buy it, out.''
        Selma Rose Lichtenstein was born in Manhattan on June 29, 1907. Her father moved from job to job, including jukebox and real estate sales. She graduated from Columbia University and attended its Graduate School of Journalism.
        Her first job was in advertising, and a client was the Town Shop. The owner's son Henry Koch flirted with her, but she thought he was married. Then a friend referred to him as ''the most eligible bachelor around.''
        ''So I went back,'' Mrs. Koch told The A.P. ''With more charm.''
        Their first date was the opening night of ''Showboat'' in 1927, and they were married the next year, her son Peter said.
        He and David, another son, survive her, as do six grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
        Mrs. Koch went to work in the family store and learned to fit bras from her husband's sister. At one time the business had expanded to four stores, but is now down to one. It moved two blocks to its present location last year.
        Mrs. Koch, meticulously manicured and coiffed, habitually perched behind a roll-top desk with a bird's-eye view of the fitting rooms. Pictures in which she posed with customers from many states surrounded her: her appearance on Rosie O'Donnell's television show last year prompted many visits. She took phone orders, ordered merchandise and helped with challenging fittings.
        In interviews, she consistently pointed out a trend: bra sizes are growing. (JJ is now the biggest size, up from DD as recently as the early 1980's.)
        Mrs. Koch never stopped wondering why people kept asking her questions. ''What's the big deal?'' the small woman asked in her raspy, staccato voice. ''I'm just selling bras.''
        Correction:  July 5, 2003, Saturday  An obituary on June 14 about Selma Koch, the owner of a Manhattan lingerie shop, misstated her educational background. She took advertising courses from Columbia University's extension service, now called the School of General Studies. The university says it has no record of her having graduated from Columbia College or having attended the Columbia journalism school.
      