
        Anne Belle, a documentary filmmaker who specialized in portraits of New York City Ballet dancers, died last Wednesday at her daughter's home in Los Angeles. She was 68 and lived in Manhattan and Remsenberg, N.Y.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Catherine Tambini, a friend and colleague.
        Ms. Belle's two earliest films, ''Baymen -- Our Waters Are Dying,'' about the clam diggers of eastern Long Island, and ''Henry,'' about an independent old man living on a barge on the Hudson River, were shown on PBS. She later produced a trilogy of dance films about Suzanne Farrell, Alexandra Danilova and six ballerinas who worked with George Balanchine. The 1996 film ''Suzanne Farrell: Elusive Muse,'' an Academy Award nominee that she directed with Deborah Dickson, was a revealing portrait of a reticent young ballerina, Balanchine's last great inspiration, whom the choreographer loved deeply but failed to win off stage.
        Ms. Belle captured all of the gaiety and pragmatism of Danilova, prima ballerina of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo from 1938 to 1952, in her 1987 documentary ''Reflections of a Dancer: Alexandra Danilova.''
        ''Dancing for Mr. B: Six Balanchine Ballerinas,'' a 1989 documentary that Ms. Belle directed with Ms. Dickson, had affectionate portrayals of the choreographer and the ballerinas Maria Tallchief, Mary Ellen Moylan, Melissa Hayden, Allegra Kent, Merrill Ashley and Darci Kistler.
        At her death, Ms. Belle was working on a documentary on Stanley Williams, a teacher at the New York City Ballet-affiliated School of American Ballet, and had an option to film the book ''Passionate Nomad'' by Jane Fletcher Geniesse, a biography of the explorer Freya Stark.
        Born in Chile, she grew up in Canada, Morocco and England and studied ballet in London before moving to New York City. She worked for a time in New York as a freelance writer and an editor at House & Garden magazine. She received a master of fine arts degree from the New York University Graduate Institute of Film and Television in 1968.
        Ms. Belle also produced, directed and edited several short films for the Children's Television Workshop. Her films have been shown at the Sundance and New York Dance Films Festival and at festivals in Berlin, Montreal, Chicago, Leningrad, Melbourne and Sydney.
        In addition to her daughter, Antonia, of Los Angeles, Ms. Belle is survived by her husband, John Belle, partner in the architectural firm of Beyer, Blinder, Belle; her brother Michael Stagg of Oakland, Calif.; her son, David, of New York City; her stepchildren, Sebastian, of Augusta, Me., Fenella of Charlottesville, Va., and Amelia, of Sonoma, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
      