
        Diane Geppi-Aikens, who coached the Loyola of Maryland women's lacrosse team to a No. 1 ranking and the semifinals of the N.C.A.A. Division I tournament this season while in a motorized wheelchair with brain cancer, died Sunday at her home in Baltimore. She was 40.
        For the past eight years, Geppi-Aikens had been battling a brain tumor. But she continued with her coaching duties, keeping Loyola College among the elite in women's lacrosse.
        This year, she coached all except one of Loyola's games, even though her left side was partially paralyzed, and she had been in a wheelchair since February. Her squad won its first 14 games and finished 17-2, reaching the semifinals for the seventh time in her 15 years as head coach and the third time in the past four seasons. Opposing players honored her by wearing green shoelaces or headbands, for Loyola's colors of green and gray.
        In January, Geppi-Aikens was among three recipients of the National Collegiate Athletic Association's annual Inspiration Award. The Intercollegiate Women's Lacrosse Coaches Association renamed its lifetime achievement award in her honor. Today, College Sports Television will present the premiere of ''Season of Hope: The Diane Geppi-Aikens Story,'' a chronicle of her final year as coach.
        ''I still am lucky every day,'' Geppi-Aikens told NBC News in May. ''I don't know how many people can say that.
        ''I'm not going to say it hasn't been difficult. I feel like I could have been out of here quite a while ago, based on the prognosis, but I chose to fight it.''
        A native of Baltimore, Geppi-Aikens was an all-American lacrosse goalie and also played volleyball at Loyola, graduating in 1984. She was the national women's lacrosse coach of the year in 1996, 1997 and this season, had a career record of 197-71 and led Loyola to the N.C.A.A. tournament 10 times. She also served as Loyola's volleyball coach from 1984 to 1990 and as an assistant athletic director from 1993 to 1998.
        She had surgery to remove a brain tumor, first found to be benign, six games into the 1995 season. In 1997 and 1998, her symptoms recurred, resulting in surgery again. In 2001, she had surgery for the third time.
        Last December, she called her players together and told them she now had brain cancer and that her tumor was inoperable.
        ''We were all sobbing,'' Jen Albright, a senior midfielder, recalled in an interview with The Philadelphia Inquirer in May. ''She comes right back and tells us a funny story to pick our spirits up.''
        Geppi-Aikens persevered in the hopes of seeing her son, Michael, graduate from high school and having her team make it to the N.C.A.A. semifinals again. On May 31, two weeks after her team went to the tournament semifinals, she attended Michael's graduation in Towson, Md.
        In addition to Michael, 18, she is survived by three daughters, Jessica, 16, Melissa, 12, and Shannon, 9; her sisters, Patricia Gorsuch, of Baltimore, and Carolyn Geppi, of Greenland, N.H.; her parents, John and Katherine Geppi, and her grandmother Marie Meyers, all of Baltimore. Her marriage to Robert Aikens ended in divorce.
        Geppi-Aikens's 2003 squad lost to Princeton, the eventual national champions, 5-3, in the N.C.A.A. tournament semifinals.
        ''Having Diane in our lives, she taught us that winning and losing a lacrosse game isn't anything,'' Suzanne Eyler, a senior and the team's top scorer, told The Baltimore Sun afterward. ''Being with the people that you love and enjoying life, that's really how you win at life.''
      