
        Carol Shields, the Pulitzer Prize-winning Canadian novelist who captured and illuminated the ordinariness of life -- ''domesticity, the shaggy beast that eats up 50 percent of our lives,'' as she put it -- died on Wednesday in Victoria, British Columbia. She was 68.
        The cause was complications from breast cancer, which was diagnosed late in 1998.
        In her 10 novels, 3 collections of stories and 3 volumes of poetry, Ms. Shields's subject was almost invariably the profundity of the mundane, the kind of subject matter that, she said, usually gets ''shoved aside by fiction writers.''
        In her hands the commonplace turned into extraordinary, a skill that became evident to an audience beyond Canada with her seventh novel, ''The Stone Diaries,'' published by Random House Canada in 1993 and by Viking in the United States a year later. Narrated with humor and irony, ''The Stone Diaries'' traced the nearly nine-decade 20th-century life of Daisy Goodwill Flett, an ordinary woman but a pilgrim in search of herself. As well as a Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1995, the novel won the National Book Critics Circle Award and the Governor General's Award for fiction, and was shortlisted for a Booker Prize. (Dual citizenship in Canada and the United States made her eligible for numerous prizes.)
        Earlier Ms. Shields had built a following with her novels and stories about ordinary people in everyday situations. ''Because she's a comic writer and genuinely funny, early on she was put in the 'sweet' box, where she does not belong,'' the novelist Margaret Atwood, a friend, told an interviewer. ''The fact is, there's a dark thread in everything she writes.''
        Ms. Shields once explained her writing this way: ''My novels have centered on half a dozen concerns -- the lives of women, notions of gender, the force of time, the genesis of art, synchronicity, the relationship of fiction and biography.''
        Carol Ann Warner was born on June 2, 1935, in Oak Park, Ill., the third child (after fraternal twins) of Robert Elmer, a candy factory manager, and Inez (Selgren) Warner, a schoolteacher. She attended Hanover College in Indiana, and after earning a bachelor's degree in 1957 she married Donald Hugh Shields, a Canadian civil engineer. They met while she was on a study-abroad program in Britain. The couple settled in Winnipeg and had five children -- John, Anne, Catherine, Meg and Sara. Her husband, children and 11 grandchildren survive her, as well as her brother, Robert Warner, and her sister, Barbara Hipple.
        Despite the demands of domesticity, Ms. Shields kept writing poems and stories in what little personal time she had. She once described herself as ''the mother who typed.'' She earned a master's degree in literature at the University of Ottawa in 1975, writing a thesis on the Canadian writer Susanna Moodie. Material that she could not work into her thesis became part of her first novel, ''Small Ceremonies'' (1976), about a woman writing a biography of Moodie. She would play such literary games throughout her career, often borrowing from other writers -- like Margaret Laurence and John Updike -- and making her derivativeness a playful theme of her fiction.
        ''Small Ceremonies'' was accepted for publication just as Ms. Shields turned 40, and it began her career. At first she followed conventional naturalistic forms, in ''The Box Garden'' (1977), about the unmarried sister of the protagonist in ''Small Ceremonies''; in ''Happenstance'' (1980), a pair of complementary novellas, one narrated by a wife, the other by her husband; and in ''A Fairly Conventional Woman'' (1982), about a woman who chooses her marriage over an extramarital affair.
        But she grew impatient with the classic plot of the hero or heroine facing a crisis that worsens before it can be resolved. ''I wanted wallpaper in my novels, cereal bowls, cupboards, cousins, buses, local elections, head colds, cramps, newspapers,'' she wrote in 1998, ''and I abandoned Chekhov's dictum that if there is a rifle hanging over the fireplace, it must go off before the story ends.'' She continued: ''A rifle could hang over a fireplace for countless other reasons. For atmosphere, to give texture, to comment on the owner of the house, to ignite a scene with its presence, not its ammunition.''
        She began to experiment in ''Various Miracles'' (1985), a short-story collection, and continued in ''Swann'' (1987), in which the relationship of art to its audience is amusingly explored in four narrative voices and a concluding film script. ''The Republic of Love'' (1992) played with the romance-novel form -- tracing a courtship with chapters that alternate between male and female viewpoints -- and won Ms. Shields a wider international audience. Then came ''The Stone Diaries,'' followed by ''Larry's Party'' (1997), which set out to explore, as the author put it, ''what it's like to be an ordinary, middle-aged guy at the end of the century.''
        The year her first novel was published she began to teach literature, first at the University of Ottawa, then, in 1978 and '79 at the University of British Columbia, and, from 1980 to 2000, at the University of Manitoba. In 1996 she became chancellor of the University of Winnipeg, and in 2000 she became its chancellor emerita.
        Her cancer was diagnosed just before Christmas in 1998. After beginning chemotherapy and recovering from the shock of learning she was sick (she spent a month ''just crying on the sofa,'' she told an interviewer for The New York Times Magazine), she finished compiling another collection of short fiction, ''Dressing Up for the Carnival'' (2000), completed a brief biography of Jane Austen for the Penguin Lives Series, and set to work on a 10th novel.
        In an unexpected burst of energy, she completed ''Unless,'' a feminist story about a writer whose oldest daughter, Norah, drops out of college and takes up silent begging on a sidewalk with a cardboard sign reading ''Goodness'' hanging from her neck. The novel was published in May 2002 to favorable reviews. Ms. Shields was working on another novel at the time of her death, and research for it brought her back to Chicago, her hometown.
        ''I believe in goodness,'' she has said. ''I'm amazed by the amount of goodness in the world.''
        She appended this view later: ''I think that evil is the occasional breakdown of goodness, a very occasional rupture,'' she told an interviewer for Maclean's magazine. ''To me, it seems astonishing that people are as good as they are. That's the surprising thing.''
        She added, ''I do feel this sense of goodness is part of our human condition -- the biggest part of it.''
      