
        Elisabeth Welch, an expatriate cabaret singer who mixed elegant phrasing and emotive power to craft extraordinary interpretations of the songs of America's Jazz Age and Britain's musical stage, died on Tuesday at a nursing home outside London. She was 99.
        Like Josephine Baker and Mabel Mercer, Miss Welch was a black woman born at the beginning of the 20th century who made an exceptional singing career outside of the United States. In Paris and London she was the darling of cafe society and, of greater importance to her, of such composers as Cole Porter and Noël Coward.
        Only when Miss Welch returned to perform in New York in 1980 after a half-century absence did Americans grasp the quality of her work and discover a living link with some of the great names of American musical theater. Her influence was enhanced by performing abilities that were substantially intact at an advanced age.
        In 1980 she received excellent reviews for her role in ''Black Broadway.'' In 1986 she was nominated for a Tony for her role in ''Jerome Kern Goes to Hollywood'' and won an Obie for her one-woman show, ''Time to Start Living.'' In 1989 she charmed audiences at Weill Recital Hall.
        Writing in The New York Post about her one-woman show, Clive Barnes called her an original.
        ''With her sweetness, her gentility, arsenic-laced with a sense of roguish innuendo and pagan sensuality, she is like no one else,'' he wrote. ''She has class, and class, and class. A saloon singer who would make any saloon into a salon.''
        In his review of the Kern show, Frank Rich of The New York Times urged readers to write their representatives in Congress demanding that she be detained in the United States ''as a national resource too rare and precious for export.''
        Or perhaps too precious not to export. She sang in a Paris cabaret frequented by Gertrude Stein and in the surreal nightclubs of pre-Hitler Berlin. She introduced ''Stormy Weather'' to British audiences, stopping shows at the London Palladium, where 50 years later she would receive five standing ovations.
        Elisabeth Welch was born in Manhattan on Feb. 27, 1904, though some accounts say 1908 and her age varied in interviews over the years. In an interview with The Times on Feb. 1, 1986, she was said to be almost 77, which would mean she was born in 1909.
        She was named after her mother, who was Scottish and spelled her name in the Scottish fashion. Her father, who descended from Africans and American Indians, was a coachman and later a gardener on an estate in Englewood, N.J.
        She grew up in the area where Lincoln Center is now, which was then predominantly Irish. Her poor family went to Irish wakes hoping for sandwiches. She was the middle of three children, the others being brothers.
        Her father, a strict Baptist, frowned upon girls who whistled, telling her, according to a 1987 interview in The Times of London, that ''whistling girls and crowing hens never come to good ends.''
        Even before graduating from high school, she sang in the choruses of shows. Her father drew the line when he learned that she was appearing in a Broadway show called ''Runnin' Wild'' in 1923. She sang ''Singing Charleston'' to accompany the new dance, and in later years was often credited with having introduced the dance to the United States.
        A brief marriage, when she was 18, ended in divorce, and she left no immediate survivors.
        Using her nickname, Mr. Welch told his wife, ''Girlie's on the boards, she's doomed.'' In anger, he left the family forever.
        After high school she did social work for a settlement house while also appearing in popular all-black revues. She considered her real debut to be ''Blackbirds of 1928,'' starring Bill (Bojangles) Robinson.
        She was popular and accompanied the show to Paris, where it played the Moulin Rouge in 1929. She received her first favorable mentions in the press and appeared as a singer in chic nightclubs. Jean Patou, the designer, began giving her two dresses a year, in spring and fall.
        In the summer of 1930 she was asked to come to New York to open a new room, the Salon Royal. An advertisement in The Times, titled ''Society's Latest Fad,'' called her ''an overnight sensation.''
        Miss Welch performed Porter's song ''Love for Sale'' at the club. She had fallen in love with the new song when shown its score, but had waited to sing it until Porter's revue, ''The New Yorkers,'' opened. She considered that plaintive serenade to streetwalkers a work of poetry.
        ''I thought of it as a street cry,'' she told The Times in 1980. ''I always had a sympathy for prostitutes. I knew some in Paris. They make me cry.''
        Kathryn Crawford, a white actress, sang the song in Porter's revue. Critics were aghast that the wholesome-seeming young lady, dressed like a schoolgirl, sang such salacious stuff.
        Porter, in a fury, left for Paris three days after the opening. The show's producers had meanwhile heard Miss Welch's more worldly rendition and hired her to replace Miss Crawford. Miss Welch insisted on apparel that an upmarket prostitute might fancy.
        ''I walked on in black satin and wore high patent-leather shoes with red heels,'' she said in an interview with The Associated Press in 1980. ''I had a red maribou and a hat with an egret in it. The woman was very grand.''
        Porter was impressed when he met Miss Welch in Paris and asked her to appear in a show he was staging in London. She said yes.
        The show was ''Nymph Errant,'' which starred Gertrude Lawrence. Porter wrote the song ''Solomon'' for Miss Welch, and the novelty tune became her signature.
        While she waited for Porter's show to open in 1933, she sang in a London show called ''Dark Doings,'' in which she introduced the song ''Stormy Weather'' to Britain.
        She realized she had set a pattern, repeatedly singing what turned out to be a show's hit song and often nothing else. She jokingly called herself ''one-song Welch'' and in 1935 again overwhelmed audiences with the song ''Shantytown,'' which Ivor Novello, the star of prewar London musicals, wrote for her in his ''Glamorous Night.''
        During World War II she entertained British troops with John Gielgud. In 1947 she brought ''La Vie en Rose'' to London, having heard Édith Piaf sing it in Paris.
        Ms. Welch's decision to remain in Europe and make London her home may have resulted from a combination of her success there, her mother's Scottish and Irish ancestry and a visceral sense of belonging. Although American by birth, The Independent of London reported, she was British in thought and interest.
        ''I never had any feeling about being different from anybody else,'' The Independent quoted her as saying. ''It equipped me to be an international person all my life.''
        Miss Welch said many times that she never had any particular plan for her life. She claimed to be as surprised as anybody when she turned up in New York as a new discovery in 1980.
        ''Things that have happened in my life just happened,'' she told The Times. ''I never had any star that I strove toward.''
      