
        Anne Rogovin, a teacher of mentally handicapped children who wrote manuals on child rearing with admonitions like ''Turn off the TV!'' died on July 7 at her home in Buffalo. She was 84.
        The cause was brain cancer, her family said.
        Mrs. Rogovin's years as a teacher made her a believer in letting a child learn by doing, whether it led to things made or knowledge acquired. As a classroom teaching aide she devised what she called learning boards to stimulate the senses.
        She came up with more than 100 of them, evoking tastes and smells with foods and spices, or putting common utensils to their proper uses, or conjuring up weather with cardboard clouds. Her work led to two exhibitions -- ''Learning By Doing'' (1971) and ''Please Do Touch'' (1977) -- at a Buffalo gallery.
        It also prompted her first book, ''Learning by Doing: An Illustrated Handbook for Parents and Teachers of Children Who Learn Slowly'' (Mafex, 1971; Ideal Publications, 1977). She organized workshops for parent groups, and her articles began to appear in newspapers and periodicals.
        Her writings found a national response and went through various editions into the 1990's. They included ''Let Me Do It!'' with an introduction by Benjamin Spock (1990); ''Dear Parents: Letters to Parents of Young Children'' (Highsmith, 1995); ''1001 Activities for Children,'' with a foreword by Edward Asner (Random House, 1999); and ''Turn Off the TV And . . .'' with a foreword by Charles Kuralt.
        Anne Snetsky was born in Buffalo and graduated in 1940 from the State College for Teachers, now part of SUNY Buffalo, where she also received a master's degree, magna cum laude, in special education in 1963.
        She and her husband, Milton Rogovin, suffered professionally in the 1950's as activists of the political left who protested the trial and sentencing of Julius and Ethel Rosenberg. Mr. Rogovin, an optometrist, lost his practice and became a nationally known documentary photographer; Mrs. Rogovin, refusing to sign the mandatory loyalty declaration, was unemployable in the Buffalo school system.
        Instead, she taught mentally retarded children in the Buffalo region for the state's Board of Cooperative Educational Services for about 30 years, even as her writing career flourished.
        In addition to her husband, whose work is currently on special exhibition at the New-York Historical Society, she is survived by two daughters, Ellen R. Hart of Melrose Park, Pa., and Paula Rogovin of Teaneck, N.J.; a son, Mark, of Forest Park, Ill.; five grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 24, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Sunday about Anne Rogovin, a teacher of mentally handicapped children and an author of manuals on child rearing, misstated the current name of her alma mater, which was once the State College for Teachers at Buffalo. It is Buffalo State College of SUNY, not SUNY Buffalo.
      