
        Carol Matthau, whose outspoken memoir of her life and three marriages to two famous men brought her notoriety far beyond her own wide circle of Hollywood and literary celebrities, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 78.
        The cause was a brain aneurysm, said her son Charles Matthau, a film director.
        Mrs. Matthau was the widow of the actor Walter Matthau, to whom she was married from 1959 until his death three years ago at 79. She was previously wed twice to the author and playwright William Saroyan.
        With the publication of ''Among the Porcupines: A Memoir'' (Random/Turtle Bay) in 1992, the mercurial wit that was both loved and feared by friends like Maureen Stapleton, Oona O'Neill, Gloria Vanderbilt and Truman Capote became public property.
        For example, when a Swedish starlet flirted with Mr. Matthau and he asked her age, Mrs. Matthau said she interjected, ''For God's sake, Walter, why don't you chop off her legs and read the rings?''
        In an interview with The New York Times shortly after the book's publication, she said: ''I married Saroyan the second time because I couldn't believe how terrible it was the first time. I married Walter because I love to sleep with him.''
        She was a friend of Capote for decades and laid claim in her memoir to having been his muse for Holly Golightly, the blithe spirit of his ''Breakfast at Tiffany's.'' She also figured in the ''Côte Basque'' section of his ''Answered Prayers'' and defended Capote long after other unwitting celebrity subjects turned against him.
        Rejecting the Holly Golightly part later in life, however, she said there were only two roles she coveted: Mary Tyrone in Eugene O'Neill's ''Long Day's Journey Into Night,'' and Amanda Wingfield, or, as she put it: ''The lady who sells magazine subscriptions on the telephone. You know, 'The Glass Menagerie.' ''
        Ms. Matthau had begun an acting career before her marriages and also published a novella about her own childhood under the pen name Carol Grace, ''The Secret in the Daisy,'' in 1955.
        Carol Grace Marcus Matthau was born in Manhattan and never knew her father; she grew up in foster homes until she was 8, when her mother married Charles Marcus, an executive with the Bendix Aircraft Corporation, who adopted her.
        Moving to Fifth Avenue, she went to the Dalton School, became friends with Oona O'Neill, the daughter of the Eugene O'Neill who later married Charlie Chaplin, and started meeting other people in the theater.
        As told in ''Among the Porcupines,'' Saroyan, the Pulitzer Prize laureate, dated her when she was still in her teens, and they were married in 1943.
        They had a son, Aram, and a daughter, Lucy, who died earlier this year. The union with Saroyan, who was well known for his difficulty, was far from happy. After the second divorce, they parted company for good. By then she had met Walter Matthau and studied Method acting with Sanford Meisner at the Neighborhood Playhouse.
        She understudied Jayne Mansfield in ''Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter?'' and married Matthau in August 1959. After that, she listed herself as a homemaker and freelance writer.
        Mrs. Matthau is survived by her two sons, Charles, known professionally also as Charlie Matthau, of Manhattan, and Aram Saroyan of Los Angeles; a sister, Elinor Pruder of Brooklyn; and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 26, 2003, Saturday  An obituary on Thursday about Carol Matthau, who wrote of her life among Hollywood and literary celebrities, misstated the residence of her surviving sister, Elinor Dee Pruder. It is Southampton, N.Y., not Brooklyn.
      