
        Elizabeth Mildred Riley, a prominent children's book editor, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 94 and lived on the Upper East Side.
        Her publishing career was spent at the Thomas Y. Crowell Company, now merged into HarperCollins. She joined the company in 1938, rose to senior vice president in 1959 and retired about 30 years ago.
        Ms. Riley built the children's division of Crowell and was especially noted for creating the ''Let's Read and Find Out'' series of science primers, started more than 40 years ago. She founded it with Dr. Franklyn Mansfield Branley, a science writer and teacher, as an introduction to a wide range of scientific subjects, attractively put together with pictures and plainly written texts. The books, designed for children from preschool through the early grades, counted well-known science writers among their authors. They have remained a pre-eminent series for decades, used in schools and libraries across the country.
        Now the series is known as the Let's-Read-and-Find-Out Science Books. More than 100 have been published, with about 80 still in print and 6 new ones released each year by HarperCollins.
        Elizabeth Riley, born on the West Side of Manhattan, graduated from New York University in 1928 and received a master's degree from Columbia University two years later. Her first job was selling books at department stores, including Macy's.
        Munro Leaf -- a friend who was the creator of ''The Story of Ferdinand,'' the classic children's book about the bull who preferred smelling flowers to fighting other bulls -- recommended her to Crowell, where she started as a general editor. At the time, the publisher offered college textbooks but had nothing in print for young readers.
        Ms. Riley was entrusted with creating the publishing house's children's book department, and she built it into one of the best. Many of the books she published won prizes, among them several Newbery medals as well as a Caldecott.
        She retired when Crowell was bought by Dun & Bradstreet. From the time she joined Crowell, she had accepted stock options as bonuses; the takeover made her a well-to-do woman. But its terms also barred her from working any longer in children's books; she became a volunteer for the Metropolitan Museum of Art, working in textile conservation and helping to organize files and photographs.
        For many years Ms. Riley also did volunteer work for the Grolier Club, Unicef, the Hroswitha Society of book collectors, and the Pierpont Morgan Library, where she served on the board for 24 years.
        She left no immediate survivors.
      