
        Flora Lewis, a correspondent and columnist who explained international politics to readers of The New York Times and other publications for nearly 60 years, died early yesterday morning at her home in Paris. She was 79.
        The cause was cancer, said her son, Lindsey Gruson.
        Heads of government and ordinary readers in the United States and Europe, where she lived for much of her career, looked to Flora Lewis's columns not only for her access to people in high places, but also for her dogged reporting and the sophisticated analysis that resulted.
        Much of her work, done when foreign policy was made by men who thought women had no place in the world of diplomacy, revealed deep knowledge of history inflected by the experience of living through some of the most turbulent events of an epochal century.
        She was in Eastern Europe in 1946 after the Communists took over, and she was there again for the Polish and Hungarian uprisings against Communism in 1956.
        ''They had been called the 'captive nations' by the West,'' she wrote in one of her four books, ''Europe: Road to Unity,'' published in 1992 by Simon & Schuster. ''It was time to pull down the jail.''
        Polish Communists reacted to the uprising in their country by reinstating Wladyslaw Gomulka as party chief, defying threats of military intervention from Moscow. Gomulka had been jailed while Stalin was the Soviet leader. ''It was the first time there had ever been a direct threat of confrontation between two Communist armies,'' Miss Lewis wrote. ''And it turned out to be the first time that Moscow backed down.''
        Then, turning to another armed confrontation that devolved into tragedy, in Hungary, she wrote: ''Urgent appeals were broadcast to the Western countries for help. None came, only encouraging commentaries telling the overwhelmed Hungarians to keep up their struggle.''
        Soviet troops crushed Hungary's fight for freedom in 1956, but more than three decades later, in 1989, Miss Lewis witnessed the collapse of Communism all over Europe.
        ''The new era starts now,'' she wrote in the Foreign Affairs column of The New York Times in 1990, after German unification emerged from the wreckage of the Communist empire. ''The decisions being taken will hold for a long time, perhaps as long as the cold war lasted. This sense of novelty, of the fateful moment with all kinds of uncertain implications, accounts more for the unease, I think, than the behavior of Germany from Bismarck to 1945.''
        In 1980 Miss Lewis became the third in a line of foreign affairs columnists of The New York Times, following Anne O'Hare McCormick and C. L. Sulzberger, and held that position until the end of 1990. She remained a senior columnist of The Times until 1994, and after the newspaper ended that arrangement, she continued writing columns regularly for The New York Times Syndicate and The International Herald Tribune in Paris, right up to this spring.
        On the reporting trail or behind a typewriter -- she never learned to use a word processor, or wouldn't -- Miss Lewis was a formidable presence. Fiercely competitive, she would try to outthink and outwrite the competition on the job, and she could outdrink it off the job. No matter what the hour, her news antennae were always on.
        Miss Lewis began her newspaper career in 1942 with The Associated Press in New York and Washington. Over the decades, she worked in Europe and Latin America for European and American newspapers, including The Washington Post. Her first column was published by Newsday in 1966. She joined The Times in 1972 as bureau chief in Paris and also became the paper's European diplomatic correspondent.
        ''This has always been a problem of mine, this tendency to spread myself too thin,'' Miss Lewis self-deprecatingly told Esquire magazine in 1980, after she had left reporting to be a columnist again. ''I dabble. I'll write about a gastronomic binge, I'll write about NATO, I'll do an interview with Nureyev, I'll do a political piece. I don't know a hell of a lot about anything.''
        Her journalism won her many awards, including one for distinguished diplomatic reporting from the Georgetown University School of Foreign Affairs.
        Flora Lewis was born in Los Angeles on July 29, 1922, the daughter of Benjamin Lewis, a lawyer, and the former Pauline Kallin, a pianist. A precocious child, Flora graduated from high school at 15 and entered the University of California at Los Angeles, where she earned a bachelor of arts summa cum laude and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
        After receiving a graduate degree at the Columbia University School of Journalism the following year, she became a reporter for The Associated Press. She worked in New York City for an Associated Press service aimed at British subscribers, later covering the Navy and State Departments in Washington until 1945, when the agency sent her to London.
        There, in 1945, she married Sydney Gruson, a correspondent in The Times's London bureau. Over the next two decades, the couple worked -- for separate newspapers -- in London, Jerusalem, Prague, Warsaw, Geneva, Bonn, Paris and Mexico City. Her articles also appeared in many European publications, among them The Observer, The Economist and The Financial Times in London and France-Soir in Paris.
        ''I worked for everybody,'' she said, including The New York Times Magazine, but not for the newspaper itself. The Times's rules then barred her from being hired as long as her husband also worked there.
        So in 1956, when Mr. Gruson was The Times's correspondent in Warsaw, Miss Lewis was hired by The Washington Post. Her extensive reporting of the Polish Communists' attempt to liberalize their government that year won her an Overseas Press Club award for best interpretation of foreign affairs.
        Later she reported from Bonn, Eastern Europe and London for The Post and in 1965 was chosen to open the paper's bureau in New York City. A year after that, Mr. Gruson was transferred to Paris to run the International Edition that The Times was publishing there. Miss Lewis went with him and began writing her syndicated column for Newsday, calling it ''Today Abroad.''
        Newspapers were mostly a man's world, as shown by the way The New York Post announced that it was acquiring her column in 1967. ''She can arrive home after a hectic day of reporting at the United Nations, and within minutes she's an excellent hostess and a marvelous companion to her husband,'' The Post reassured its readers. By that time, Miss Lewis and Mr. Gruson were the parents of three children. When asked how she managed both family and career, Miss Lewis would sometimes joke, ''By neglecting both.''
        For her column, Miss Lewis roamed the globe, reporting on the 1967 Arab-Israeli war and making five trips to Vietnam during the fighting there. ''By the time I got to Vietnam,'' she said, ''I found the battlefield stories no longer very interesting. I was tired of reading about bullets that whoosh and marines screaming in anguish, and I didn't want to write it yet again.''
        It was not until 1972, after she and Mr. Gruson separated, that she joined The Times. (They were later divorced.) The Times's executive editor, A. M. Rosenthal, who had said, ''Flora is the world's greatest correspondent,'' named her to head the Paris bureau.
        Mr. Gruson, who later became a senior executive of The Times and a member of its board, died in 1998. Their daughter Sheila Gruson died in 1999. Miss Lewis is survived by her son, Lindsey Gruson, a former reporter for The Times who operates a marketing company, Stet Inc., in South Kent, Conn., and a daughter, Kerry Gruson, a member of The Times's bureau in Miami.
        In a spacious apartment near the French Parliament, Miss Lewis, a stylish but conservative dresser with memorably blue eyes, entertained the political and journalistic elite of Paris for more than a quarter of a century.
        Her first major assignment for The Times was the secret peace talks in Paris between Henry A. Kissinger and the North Vietnamese negotiator Le Duc Tho, which produced a short-lived cease-fire in Vietnam in 1973.
        Mr. Rosenthal asked her in 1976 if she would become chief of the Washington Bureau in the event that another correspondent he had already asked, Hedrick Smith, turned down the job. If he had, Miss Lewis would have been the first woman in the post, but Mr. Smith accepted.
        Miss Lewis was amused but also insulted by the overture. ''It was as though he had said, 'If my fiancée jilts me at the altar, will you stand in?' '' she later told Nan Robertson, a former Times reporter, who described the incident in a book, ''The Girls in the Balcony: Women, Men, and The New York Times'' (Random House, 1992).
        Mr. Rosenthal, Miss Lewis learned later, was infuriated to find her quoted in the book. But the point she wanted to make was that, as she put it, ''No man would ever have offered another man a job in that way.''
        Instead Mr. Rosenthal made Miss Lewis European diplomatic correspondent, assigning her to pull together ''a whole range of subjects -- party and ideological trends, the Common Market, diplomatic initiatives.'' In that role she covered the emerging European Economic Community, now the European Union.
        ''The salient fact about Europe remains the nation-state,'' she wrote in her book ''Europe'' in 1992. ''There is a sense of shared Europeanness which has waxed and waned in the last two generations, but it is still secondary to the sense of unique nationality which began to arise after the Renaissance and the decline of feudalism.''
        As she put it, 'It is the same old Europe, and it changes every day.''
        Not long ago, recalling the years when she traveled the world as a correspondent and a columnist, she said: ''There are stories you work on where you know this is really big, important history, and they are almost always bad news, disasters or tragedies. But covering President Anwar Sadat's trip to Jerusalem in 1977 was different -- there was an atmosphere of such joy and delight, both in Israel and in Egypt, that it was an inspiring experience.''
        ''I've gone as far as Tokyo, Havana, Cape Town,'' she told Esquire in 1980. ''I've spent almost my entire adult life abroad, and I find that in some ways I've become something of a foreigner myself. I keep telling myself that at some point I'd like to get over that.''
        Yet her columns had a distinctively American voice.
        ''The old idea was that history was about kings and popes and wars; people, yes, but only the few who held dazzling power,'' she wrote in her last regular column for The Times at the end of 1990. ''More and more people are coming to realize that they can choose their history. What a wonderful time to have been able to watch up close!''
      