
        Dolores Gray, a singer and actress whose success on Broadway and London's West End led to starring roles in several 1950's Hollywood musical extravaganzas, died on Wednesday in her Manhattan apartment. She was 78.
        The cause was a heart attack, her lawyer, Martin D. Newman, said.
        Tall and sultry, with generous lips, Ms. Gray had a rich contralto voice that one London critic described as ''warm brandy.'' She started her career on radio, singing with Rudy Vallee, and moved on to several stage and movie roles. Her first major success was playing the lead in ''Annie Get Your Gun'' in London in 1947.
        The show, with Ms. Gray as Annie, ran for 2 years and 11 months. ''She is exceedingly pretty,'' wrote the critic for The Daily Telegraph, ''has a devastating sense of comedy, and her points are made with the clean smack of one of Annie's bullets hitting the center of the target.''
        Her London success led to major Broadway roles. She starred in the musical ''Carnival in Flanders,'' for which she won a Tony in 1954 for best musical actress. The show lasted only six performances; Ms. Gray's Tony came for what still ranks as one of the shortest-lived winning performances. Although the show was far from a hit, the song she introduced in it, ''Here's That Rainy Day,'' by Jimmy Van Heusen, with lyrics by Johnny Burke, later became a standard.
        In 1955 she signed a contract with MGM, and in the next three years she made four films. Her first was ''Kismet,'' in which she starred alongside Sebastian Cabot, Vic Damone and Ann Blyth. That same year she appeared in ''It's Always Fair Weather,'' with Gene Kelly, Cyd Charisse and Dan Dailey. Her next MGM film was ''The Opposite Sex,'' with June Allyson, Joan Collins and Ann Sheridan. Her last was ''Designing Woman,'' which also starred Gregory Peck, Lauren Bacall and Sam Levene.
        Dolores Gray was born in Chicago on June 7, 1924. Her parents divorced when she was 2, and her father died five years later. Her mother took her to Hollywood, where, at 14, Dolores began performing in clubs. At 15, she was discovered by Vallee, who gave her a guest spot on his radio show, which was broadcast nationwide.
        While her singing was often compared to that of full-voiced Broadway legends like Ethel Merman, Ms. Gray didn't think of herself that way. ''Actually, my voice is fragile, but I know how to amplify it,'' she told an interviewer.
        She made her Broadway debut in 1944 with Beatrice Lillie in ''Seven Lively Arts.'' That same year she made her screen debut in a small part in ''Mr. Skeffington,'' starring Bette Davis. In 1945, she was one of four leading ladies in ''Are You With It?'' In 1951, she starred with Bert Lahr in ''Two on the Aisle.''
        After Hollywood, Ms. Gray returned to Broadway for several productions.
        Ms. Gray recorded for Capitol Records, sang in clubs and played many roles on television. She also appeared on television variety shows with hosts like Ed Sullivan, Steve Allen and Perry Como and on the Bell Telephone Hour.
        She returned to London in 1973 and again in 1987 to star in revivals of ''Gypsy'' and ''Follies.''
        Ms. Gray's marriage to Andrew Crevolin, a California real estate developer and horse race owner whose horse ''Determine'' won the Kentucky Derby in 1954, ended in divorce.
        She is survived by a stepdaughter, Joanne Kildare, of Alamo, Calif.
        After her return to Broadway, she made some of the biggest headlines of her career. On May 28, 1959, during a matinee of ''Destry Rides Again,'' opposite Andy Griffith at the Imperial Theater, the stage curtain caught fire as Ms. Gray sang a love song, ''Anyone Would Love You.'' As the theater's fireman and stagehands noisily started fighting the fire from backstage, Ms. Gray kept singing.
        ''When I spotted the flames, I nudged Andy,'' she said later. ''Neither of us moved. I just kept on singing louder and louder to try to drown out the noise backstage.''
        Ms. Gray was credited with keeping the full house of 1,504 people calm as the fire was extinguished. The audience applauded wildly and then quietly filed out as the show took an unusual 40-minute intermission. After the damage was assessed and the water cleaned up, Ms. Gray and Mr. Griffith went on with the show.
        Correction:  July 17, 2002, Wednesday  An obituary of the actress Dolores Gray on June 29 included an erroneous reference, from her lawyer, to her marriage to Andrew Crevolin, a California real estate developer who died in 1992. At his death they were married, not divorced.
      