
        Elaine Gelman, a leader in the effort to make it legal in New York for specially trained nurses to prescribe drugs and perform other medical functions previously reserved for doctors, died on Tuesday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 75 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was breast cancer, said her son Eric Gelman.
        Ms. Gelman, a pediatric nurse practitioner, was president of the New York State Coalition of Nurse Practitioners in 1985 and 1988. It was in 1988 that the State Legislature adopted a measure to allow practitioners -- registered nurses who have an additional two years of training -- to make some medical diagnoses and prescribe treatment in collaboration with a physician.
        The measure ended a legislative battle that had gone on for almost a decade and had pitted nurse practitioners' organizations against doctors' and nurses' groups. The New York State Nurses Association, which represents registered and practical nurses, objected at the time because, it contended, the bill limited the practice of other nurses by suggesting that without a nurse practitioner's certificate, nurses are not competent to diagnose and treat illnesses.
        The New York State Medical Society, representing doctors, had argued that the bill did not ensure adequate supervision by physicians.
        Before the bill's passage, Ms. Gelman and other advocates said that expanding the nurse practitioners' role would improve health care in underserved rural and urban areas.
        Ms. Gelman was on the New York State Board for Nursing from 1990 to 1996 and was active in the National Association of Pediatric Nurse Associates/Practitioners. She was executive director of the Coalition of Nurse Practitioners from 1996 to 1998.
        Ms. Gelman was born in Brooklyn and graduated from Queens College. She became a registered nurse in 1948 after attending the New York University-Bellevue Hospital School of Nursing. She became a pediatric nurse practitioner in 1975 after attending the Columbia University-Presbyterian Hospital School of Nursing.
        Besides her son Eric, of Larchmont, N.Y., she is survived by her husband of 50 years, David Gelman; another son, Andrew, of Manhattan; a daughter, Amy Haugesag of Kansas City, Mo.; two grandchildren; a sister, Florence Roher of White Plains; and her mother, Shirley Rodkinson, also of White Plains.
      