
        Phyllis Wattis, a philanthropist and art collector who contributed more than $150 million to cultural institutions in California, and who was instrumental in financing a stellar collection for the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art in the 1990's, died on Wednesday in San Francisco, where she lived. She was 97.
        Although the museum's new building was much praised when it opened in 1995, many in the art world said the collection was not up to so splendid a setting. Mrs. Wattis helped correct the imbalance by facilitating the purchase of a wide range of top-quality work by, among others, Magritte, Mondrian, Warhol and Eva Hesse, as well as by contemporary artists like Ellsworth Kelly, Robert Rauschenberg and Wayne Thiebaud .
        She was also generous to performance groups, contributing toward a new hall for the San Francisco Symphony. With her help, the San Francisco Opera commissioned new works like ''Dead Man Walking'' and ''A Streetcar Named Desire'' and staged productions of operas like Berg's ''Lulu'' and Janacek's ''Katya Kabanova,'' which remain hard-to-sell items in the standard repertory.
        ''I've had the same seats at the opera for 30 years,'' she said four years ago in an interview in The New York Times. ''I felt it was my duty to get them out of 'La Bohème.' ''
        Mrs. Wattis, whom one museum director called ''California's Brooke Astor,'' came to the arts relatively late. Born Phyllis Cannon in 1905 in Salt Lake City, she was a great-granddaughter of the Mormon founder Brigham Young and the daughter of a prosperous sugar company executive. She studied economics in college and married Paul L. Wattis, who was the head of the construction company that built the Hoover Dam. They settled in San Francisco in 1936.
        Although her husband loved opera, he considered visual artists to be little more than ''decorators,'' Mrs. Wattis said. It wasn't until the 1950's that she visited the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art for the first time. Her own interest in modern art developed fully only after she visited the international art exhibition called Documenta, in Kassel, Germany, in 1964.
        Mrs. Wattis and her husband established a foundation for cultural and scientific causes in 1958. After his death in 1971, she oversaw the foundation herself, but liquidated its assets in 1988, distributing the money to various institutions, among them the Asian Art Museum of San Francisco and the California Academy of Sciences. Although she made many large contributions to institutions, including $20 million to the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco, she was also known for giving personal gifts, as when she bought an English horn for a teenager in the San Francisco Youth Orchestra.
        She is survived by a son, Paul Wattis, of Paicines, Calif.;, a daughter, Carol Casey, of San Francisco; five grandsons; three granddaughters; and eight great-grandchildren.
        Mrs. Wattis was widely admired for her unpretentious character, her astute eye and her adventurous embrace of contemporary work. A year ago, she bought at auction a major 1963 painting by the California-based artist Ed Ruscha, and last November she helped the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art acquire ''Splitting: Four Corners'' (1974), by Gordon Matta-Clark, which consists of parts of a house that the artist had sawn vertically in half.
      