
        Faye Dancer, whose home runs and spontaneous cartwheels in the women's professional baseball league of the 1940's helped to earn her the nickname All the Way Faye, died May 22 in Los Angeles. She was 77 and lived in Westchester, Calif.
        She died of complications of surgery to remove organs because of cancer, said her brother, Richard Dancer, her only survivor.
        Dancer was the inspiration for All the Way Mae, the character portrayed by Madonna in the 1992 film ''A League of Their Own.'' It told the story of the women's baseball league established in 1943 as a substitute for the men's professional game if major leaguers were drafted.
        Dancer was the first in the league to hit two homers in one game, stole 108 bases in 1948 and was described as a fly-catching genius by the sportswriters of the day. Her spikes and gloves are on display at the National Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y., where a picture shows her sliding flamboyantly into third base.
        Lavonne Davis, her friend since childhood and a professional teammate then known as Pepper Paire, remembered Dancer's superb fielding: at the crack of the bat, she would turn and dart to the exact spot the ball would come down, catch it over her shoulder and throw a strike to home plate.
        ''I never saw any woman or man do it any better,'' she said.
        In a league in which teams went by names like Chicks and Peaches, her appeal was not hurt by her appearance in the demure skirts -- in colors like bubblegum pink and never more than six inches above the knee, as mandated by the league. Lois Browne, in the book ''Girls of Summer: In Their Own League'' (HarperCollins, 1992), said she was ''a pretty freckle-faced blond gypsy'' for whom nothing was too outrageous, including swan dives into mud puddles.
        ''I was forever having fun, raising my skirt up for the fans, doing the splits and handstands when the games got quiet,'' she said in 1992 in an interview with The Independent, the London newspaper.
        Faye Katherine Dancer was born in Santa Monica on April 24, 1925. Her father read water meters for the city of Los Angeles. She grew up in West Los Angeles, where she loved playing sports. Davis said she first noticed her in elementary school when an errant soccer ball went whizzing by her head and hit another girl in the stomach.
        The teacher who escorted Faye to the principal's office declared, ''From now on, you're going to have to play kickball with the boys.''
        In high school, she played softball for a girls' team called the Dr Peppers, sponsored by the soft-drink company. In 1944 she and Davis came to the attention of a scout for the All-American Girls Ball League, a hybrid of softball and baseball.
        The league had been founded the year before by Philip W. Wrigley, the chewing-gum magnate and owner of the Chicago Cubs. He feared that major leaguers would be drafted; minor leaguers were already being called up. Teams of girls (never called women) seemed like a way to fill ballparks, according to an article in Smithsonian magazine in 1989.
        The league began with four teams of 15, playing in medium-size cities in the industrial Midwest. It was successful enough that by the next year players were being recruited nationally. California, where die-hards like Dancer practiced slides on the beaches, was a natural source of talent, Davis said.
        The women, who had an average age of 20, found themselves rattling around the Midwest playing a game that more and more resembled baseball. By 1945 the league was called the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League. By 1948 pitching was overhand, and the space between bases had increased from 70 to 85 feet, just 5 feet short of the men's distance.
        The game clearly outgrew its original role as insurance against an interruption of the men's game. In the late 1940's a million customers paid $1.50 to watch 10 teams play.
        Players had games every day and doubleheaders on Sundays and holidays, and rattled from town to town in clunky buses. They were still expected to display a femininity that combined something of the girl next door with a dash of class. Representatives of the Helena Rubinstein Company ran a charm school that taught how to put on makeup and how to charm a date.
        There were also chaperones, who were resented for their lack of baseball knowledge. A player going to bat at a tense moment was once restrained by the chaperone, who made her put on lipstick first.
        Dancer, who played center field and sometimes pitched for the Minneapolis Millerettes, the Fort Wayne Daisies and the Peoria Redwings, found room to display a remarkably free spirit. She bedeviled the chaperones with stunts like smearing Limburger cheese on light bulbs in their rooms, according to the Browne book. To dodge league rules against drinking, she would invite teammates to cemeteries to drink beer, the Smithsonian said.
        She handled the male groupies of the league, known as Locker Room Leonards, like easy pop flies. For a time, she dated a gangster who drove a bulletproof Packard to her road games and offered to buy her a palomino horse, before suddenly disappearing, the book said. She accepted a diamond ring from another would-be suitor, mounted the stone in a nicer band and ditched him.
        She left baseball in 1950 because of a back injury, caused by a collision with a shortstop, Davis said. The league was disbanded in 1954, in part because baseball was televised.
        Dancer worked as an electronics technician and lived in Santa Monica until moving in with her brother two years ago. Before the 1992 movie about the women's league, United Press International reported that she met with Madonna at the home of Penny Marshall, the director, to discuss the part.
        Dancer had a fiancé named Johnny, but he died in World War II. Davis said she never really considered marrying anybody else, despite other admirers.
        One was a man who saw her picture in Life magazine, according to the Smithsonian. ''I am not proposing,'' he wrote, ''but I have about $1,000 and an old jalopy in New Jersey, I am footloose and fancy free, and I can settle any place.''
      