
        Jane Bancroft Cook, an heir to her family company, Dow Jones & Company, and a member of its board for 36 years, died yesterday morning at her home in Cohasset, Mass., the company announced yesterday.
        Mrs. Cook was 90 and had been in failing health for a decade, said a daughter, Martha Robes. She was the largest family shareholder at Dow Jones.
        She served on the board of Dow Jones from 1949 to 1985 when its flagship newspaper, The Wall Street Journal, grew to wield international influence and the company evolved from a small private enterprise to become a publicly traded, $4 billion media empire.
        Mrs. Cook was an active philanthropist, though she preferred to give anonymously, her daughter said.
        Roy A. Hammer, a senior partner at the Boston law firm of Hemenway & Barnes and the trustee of many of the family trusts, said yesterday that Mrs. Cook had been intensely interested in the company, particularly its flagship newspaper. She held more shares than any other individual family member, Mr. Hammer said.
        ''She was vitally interested in the company and its success and its maintaining its journalistic independence and standard of accuracy in its news reporting,'' he said. ''She was a very dedicated director for a great many years and instilled, particularly in her three daughters, a sense of responsibility for the stewardship of The Wall Street Journal.''
        Mrs. Cook was the last of three children of Jane W. W. Bancroft, the stepdaughter of Clarence W. Barron, who bought Dow Jones from its founders in 1902. At his death, Mr. Barron left the company to his stepdaughter. One descendant of each of Jane W. W. Bancroft's children -- Hugh Bancroft Jr. and Jessie Bancroft Cox, who both died years ago, and Mrs. Cook -- now serve on the board.
        In a statement released yesterday, Peter R. Kann, the chairman and chief executive of Dow Jones, said that Mrs. Cook ''was firm on principles, kind to people and ever modest about herself.''
        ''Her abiding commitment to editorial integrity and corporate independence,'' Mr. Kann added, ''will continue to guide the company, its management and its owners.''
        The company announcement was made minutes after the stock market closed. It stressed that her death ''will not result in any change in voting control of Dow Jones.''
        Mr. Hammer said yesterday that the Bancroft heirs controlled about 70 percent of Dow Jones, with most of the shares held in a series of interlocking trusts.
        Mrs. Cook gave large sums to institutions throughout New England, from Massachusetts General Hospital and Harvard University to animal shelters, her daughter said. She also helped create New College in Sarasota, Fla., where she had a second home, a residence that she bequeathed to the college, Mr. Hammer said.
        In addition to Mrs. Robes, of Round Pond, Me., Mrs. Cook is survived by two other daughters, Jean Stevenson, of Lyme, N.H., and Boca Grande, Fla., and Elizabeth Steele, of Burlington, Vt.; six stepchildren; eight grandchildren; 11 stepgrandchildren and 13 great-grandchildren.
      