
        Millie Deegan, who pitched and played second base for the Rockford Peaches in the women's professional baseball league of the 1940's, died on July 21 at her home in New Port Richey, Fla. She was 82.
        The cause was metastatic breast cancer, her niece Joan Barker said.
        In the 1992 movie, ''A League of Their Own,'' a character based on Deegan is the relief pitcher in the film's climactic game. Her team was beaten in the real game, the final of the 1946 championship series of the All-American Girls Professional Baseball League, despite getting 13 hits. The Racine Belles' single run in the 16th inning was enough to beat the Peaches.
        The women's league was started in 1943 by Philip K. Wrigley, the chewing gum magnate and owner of the Chicago Cubs, as a substitute for major league baseball if major leaguers were drafted. The league was disbanded in 1954.
        Deegan played for 10 years, first for Rockford and then for the Kenosha Comets, for the Fort Wayne Daisies and finally for Rockford again. As a batter, her lifetime average was .280. As a pitcher, she had an earned run average of 2.36.
        Lavonne Davis, who played catcher in the league as Pepper Paire, remembered Deegan best as a pitcher.
        ''She had no speed but had stuff and good location,'' she said. ''She was a good hardnosed ballplayer.''
        Mildred Eleanor Deegan was born on Dec. 11, 1919, in the Brooklyn neighborhood of Bensonhurst. Her father's job was polishing the silver at the Biltmore Hotel in Manhattan. She excelled in track and field at Lincoln High School, and after graduation played amateur softball with a team called the Americanettes.
        In an exhibition softball game at Madison Square Garden, she hit a home run that went 260 feet. Babe Ruth, who was at the arena, posed with her and squeezed her biceps; she was called ''the Babe Ruth of women's softball.''
        She moved to Chicago, where she tried out for the Rockford Peaches, treating it as kind of a joke, according to her niece. When she was told she had been accepted, Deegan decided not to tell management that she had a sprained finger. She played with the injury.
        She was one of the original players in the league in 1943 and played until 1952. She then moved to Florida and became a portrait photographer.
        Ms. Deegan moved to Winston-Salem, N.C., and began working as a secretary for the Western Electric Company. From there she went back to Brooklyn for a short time before moving to Rahway, N.J., and working in Newark for Western Electric.
        She coached the Linden, N.J., Arians, a team in the Eastern Major Girls Softball League. The manager was Margaret Nusse, Ms. Deegan's companion and her only survivor.
      