
        Lorna J. Marshall, a college English instructor turned homemaker who in her 50's began a new life as an anthropologist studying the Bushmen of Africa, died on July 8 at her home in Peterborough, N.H. She was 103.
        She had lived with her daughter, Elizabeth Marshall Thomas, since 1996, Ms. Thomas said. She previously lived in the same house in Cambridge, Mass., since the late 1920's.
        Mrs. Marshall's anthropological career began when her husband, Laurence K. Marshall, a founder and president of the Raytheon Corporation, retired in 1950 with the thought that it was time to get reacquainted with his family.
        ''Where is the remotest place we can go and be a family again?'' Mr. Marshall asked, said Irven DeVore, the More research professor of anthropology at Harvard.
        The Kalahari Desert was the answer he found. He decided he would take his family to live among the legendary Bushmen.
        ''They became a sort of Swiss Family Robinson of the Kalahari,'' Dr. DeVore said.
        The family's accomplishments made it more than that. Mr. Marshall helped the Bushmen start a fine-wool industry. The Marshalls' son, John, began his career as a leading maker of ethnographic documentary films. Ms. Thomas, who would go on to write best sellers like ''The Hidden Life of Dogs,'' wrote a well-received book on the Bushmen, ''The Harmless People'' (Knopf, 1958).
        Meanwhile, Mrs. Marshall began the painstaking process of documenting the culture and behavior of the Bushmen, sometimes called !Kung. (The ''!'' represents a clicking sound in their language). She was the first of dozens of scholars who have made the Bushmen one of the world's most studied populations of traditional hunter-gatherers.
        ''To say she started it is not a mistake,'' Dr. DeVore said. ''By standards of ethnography, she did as well or better than any monograph I know, and she was there early.''
        Over the next two decades, the Marshall family made eight trips to the Kalahari, a desert the size of Spain in what is now Namibia, Botswana and the Republic of South Africa, staying for as long as a year and a half at a time. Then the family would return to Cambridge, where Mrs. Marshall would employ the best graduate students to organize her voluminous notes, which resulted in two books and many articles.
        An honor she particularly valued was having a !Kung baby girl named after her. The child was called Norna, because the Bushmen, for all their ability to make unusual vocal sounds, cannot pronounce the letter L.
        Lorna Jean McLean was born in Morenci, a mining town in the Arizona Territory, on Sept. 14, 1898. Her father, Gordon McLean, a mining engineer, died when she was 7. Her mother, the former Bessie Holmes, remarried and moved with her daughter to Riverside, Calif., and then Los Angeles.
        Miss McLean graduated from the University of California at Berkeley with a bachelor's degree in English. She then gave up the beginning of a career in ballet to travel around the world with her mother, who had been widowed again. They traveled throughout the Middle East and Asia. In China, they met an instructor at Mount Holyoke College who offered Miss McLean a job teaching English.
        She accepted, but soon met Mr. Marshall in Nova Scotia, where both had relatives. They married and moved to Cambridge.
        At the Cambridge Community Center, she organized women to salvage tungsten wire from radio tubes that Raytheon could re-use in making electronic devices. The salvage operation employed black and white women, unusual at the time, and permitted women to work flexible hours, which was also unusual.
        Mr. Marshall said he wanted to do something with his family when he retired, and its members were interested in anthropology. So he asked his wife to take some courses at Harvard, which she did from time to time among trips to Africa.
        The family was at first apprehensive about tales of poison darts and trance dances, but found the Bushmen polite and kind. The Marshall family lived in tents, even as temperatures ranged from freezing to 125 degrees.
        Mrs. Marshall published her first book, ''!Kung of Nyae Nyae,'' in 1975 (Harvard University Press), and her second, ''Nyae Nyae !Kung Belief and Rites,'' three years ago (Peabody Museum Press).
        She is survived by her daughter, her son, who lives in Belmont, Mass., three grandchildren and three great-granddaughters.
        She is remembered by others. A year or so after her 100th birthday party, the child of a Bushman she had known as a child came to visit her.
      