
        Dr. Alice M. Stewart, an epidemiologist who first demonstrated the link between X-rays of pregnant women and disease in their children, a finding that changed medical practice, died on June 23 in Oxford, England. A resident of the countryside outside Oxford, she was 95.
        Dr. Stewart, who became one of the most authoritative critics of the safety of the American nuclear weapons program and a leading proponent of the idea that no level of exposure to radiation is safe, came to prominence in 1956 for her report on prenatal X-rays.
        It was an increasingly common practice in the 1950's to X-ray the abdomens of pregnant women to determine the position of their babies, said Dr. Gayle Greene of Scripps College in Claremont, Calif., who wrote ''The Woman Who Knew Too Much: Alice Stewart and the Secrets of Radiation.''
        Dr. Stewart, then a member of the social medicine department at Oxford, was surprised to discover when she conducted a survey that children of mothers who had had this X-ray were almost twice as likely to have cancer as other children.
        Her finding that there was danger in receiving even such a low dose of radiation was met with outrage by doctors and the nuclear industry, and Dr. Stewart had difficulties obtaining financing for other studies. But by the mid-1970's, other scientists had duplicated her findings on prenatal X-rays, and the practice ended.
        In a 1995 interview with The Times Higher Education Supplement, a weekly publication in Britain, she described her problems with financing of studies. ''If I had been a man I would never have stood it; I would have gone,'' she said. ''The prospects were too bad, the pay too low. But being a woman I didn't have all that number of choices.''
        Dr. Stewart was also at the center of a 14-year battle with the Department of Energy, which cut off her access to its records on the health of nuclear-weapons workers after she and her colleagues found that low doses of radiation had increased the number of cancers among workers at the Hanford nuclear weapons plant in Washington State.
        Congressional pressure, fueled by Dr. Stewart's appearances before a House subcommittee, forced the department to open the records to independent researchers in 1990 and to surrender its monopoly on government financing of radiation research.
        More recently, Dr. Stewart devoted her time to arguing that data on Hiroshima survivors, the main source for standards on the safe levels of radiation exposure, was deeply flawed and underestimated radiation's harmful effects.
        She was born Alice Mary Naish in Sheffield, England. Her mother, Lucy Wellburn Naish, was one of the first British women to become a doctor, and four of the Naish children became doctors as well.
        After earning a medical degree at Cambridge, Dr. Stewart joined Oxford in 1941 and studied workers who filled shells with TNT at munition plants. Her conclusions that exposure to TNT impaired the body's ability to form blood led Britain to change its manufacturing techniques.
        Dr. Stewart left Oxford in 1974, and became a research fellow at the University of Birmingham in England, where she worked until about two years ago.
        Her marriage to Ludovick Stewart ended in divorce. She is survived by her daughter, Anne Marshall of London, who is a doctor, and four grandchildren.
      