
        Margaret E. Lynn, who directed the Army's extensive worldwide theatrical program, which encouraged participation by soldiers, officers and their dependents, died on June 11 at a hospital in Fairfax, Va. She was 81 and lived in Reston, Va.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Donn B. Murphy, president of the National Theater in Washington. Miss Lynn was treasurer of the theater.
        In 1962, she helped found the Army Music and Theater Program, and then for two decades she directed the program, which The Washington Post in 1976 called ''the largest producing organization of music and theater in the world.'' At that time, it staged more than 25,000 performances annually with a global audience of more than 2.5 million people.
        The program is distinct from that of the United Service Organization, a combination of six civilian welfare groups, which took Bob Hope and thousands of other performers to entertain troops. The organization that Miss Lynn led, now called the Army Entertainment Program, is also separate from the service clubs where military personnel go to relax and play checkers or Ping-Pong.
        The role of Miss Lynn, a former Broadway performer nicknamed Skippy, was to muster talent from privates to colonels, pay royalties to writers and production companies, and provide guidance to aspiring dramatic troupes, from Germany to Korea.
        Miss Lynn was named Margaret Eleanor Linskie at her birth in Dallas on April 24, 1921, and she originally intended to be a concert pianist. She studied at Northwestern University and graduated from Southern Methodist University in 1942. She earned a master's degree in speech and drama from Catholic University.
        She became a dancer and dance captain with the Rockettes at Radio City Music Hall in Manhattan, and then a member of the Martha Graham Company. She appeared in seven Broadway shows, including ''Carousel,'' ''Something for the Boys,'' ''Oklahoma!'' and Mike Todd's ''Mexican Hayride.''
        In 1945, she was one of the first civilian ''actress technicians'' employed by the United States government to work with troops overseas after World War II. Under the commanding officer, the stage director Joshua Logan, she worked on dozens of productions.
        She conceived and directed shows during the Korean War, bringing entertainment to United Nations units, sometimes under artillery fire. When she returned to Washington in 1955, she continued working for the Department of the Army, creating and directing a show called ''Rolling Along,'' which toured the world from 1955 to 1961.
        In 1962, she helped push for a new organization to promote and support theatrical and musical productions at Army bases. The result, the Army Music and Theater Program, was a continuation of more informal efforts dating to the Revolutionary War. In World War I, the Army set up Liberty Theaters, where soldiers could entertain themselves and develop their talent.
        Miss Lynn became director of the new organization, a post she held until 1982. She supervised a far-flung network of 200 full-time civilian directors in performing arts centers at military bases. Besides having soldiers entertaining soldiers, she encouraged the participation of their family members and civilians from nearby towns.
        She set up scholarships and competitions to discover and encourage talented soldiers and officers. She pushed successfully to convert unused Army movie houses into spaces for live theater.
        In 1982, she formed her own production company, Creative Consultants, which worked with Disney and other entertainment companies. She was executive director of the American Theater Association from 1982 to 1986.
        She is survived by her brother, George Linskie.
        Miss Lynn liked to recall one of her successes, a production of Shakespeare's ''Love's Labour's Lost,'' during the Korean War.
        The producer of the play, the Rev. Gilbert V. Hartke, one of her professors at Catholic University, called her in Japan to ask how the production was doing.
        ''Oh, Father, they are playing to very large audiences,'' Miss Lynn said. ''Someone in Special Services misread the announcement and they distributed hundreds of posters advertising, 'Love, Labor and Lust.' ''
      