
        Dorle Jarmel Soria, who was a co-founder of Angel Records in the course of her long and varied career in the classical music business, died on July 7 at her home in Manhattan. She was 101.
        In 1953, Mrs. Soria and her husband, Dario, founded Angel Records as an American distribution outlet for some of the labels of the British company EMI.
        In the four years that they operated Angel, before EMI sold it, they created a significant catalog of about 500 releases from some of the greatest musicians of the day, including the singers Elisabeth Schwarzkopf, Tito Gobbi, Boris Christoff and the young Maria Callas; the pianists Walter Gieseking and Arturo Benedetti Michelangeli; and the conductors Carlo Maria Giulini and Herbert von Karajan. Many recordings from this era remain available.
        Born in 1900, Mrs. Soria graduated from Columbia University and had a career in journalism until Arthur Judson, the powerful concert manager, hired her. In addition to his own company, which later merged with Columbia Concerts, Judson was manager of the New York Philharmonic. In charge of publicity for all of his various endeavors, Mrs. Soria was involved with the Philharmonic at a significant time in its history, through Arturo Toscanini's European tour and Leonard Bernstein's debut.
        In 1942, she married Mr. Soria, an Italian who had fled the Nazis. In 1953, she left Judson and the Philharmonic to join her husband in starting Angel Records. After their stint at Angel, the Sorias worked with Gian Carlo Menotti in establishing his Festival of Two Worlds in Spoleto, Italy, in 1958. They then began a new recording project, Soria Series, at RCA; Mr. Soria went on to become vice president of that label's international department. He later served as managing director of the Metropolitan Opera Guild.
        In the 1960's, Mrs. Soria wrote a weekly column for the Carnegie Hall program. She went on to write regularly for the magazines High Fidelity, Musical America (where she wrote a monthly column called Artist Life) and Opera News. She also wrote a book about the history of the Metropolitan Opera. Mr. Soria died in 1980.
        Mrs. Soria is survived by a nephew, Anthony Winner, of Charlottesville, Va.
      