
        Dolores Olmedo Patiño, the combative Mexican art collector who turned her hacienda into a museum devoted to paintings by Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo, died in Mexico City on Saturday. Her age was a matter of debate, but she used a birth date that would make her 88.
        Mrs. Olmedo amassed 137 works by Rivera and 25 by his wife, Kahlo, and for decades controlled the estates of these Mexican artists. Although Mrs. Olmedo eventually opened her collection to the public, she was denounced by her critics for delays in inaugurating the museum and for her reluctance for many years to give art experts and biographers ready access to the works and archives of Rivera and Kahlo.
        But the diminutive Mrs. Olmedo, who once modeled for Diego Rivera, welcomed controversy as an opportunity to move from the margins of Mexican cultural history to center stage. Her stubbornness was vindicated when her Museo Dolores Olmedo Patiño, on the southern outskirts of Mexico City, was judged an artistic success.
        Mrs. Olmedo loved flaunting her independence. Once asked how she would like to be remembered, she replied: ''Just as I am -- a woman who did whatever she felt like doing, and luckily succeeded at it.''
        Born in Mexico City on Dec. 14, 1913, Dolores Olmedo was 17 when an encounter cast her destiny. She accompanied her mother, a schoolteacher, to the Ministry of Education, where they had a chance exchange in an elevator with Rivera, then a renowned artist in his 40's working on murals in the building.
        ''He asked my mother if he could make some drawings of me,'' Mrs. Olmedo recalled. ''She agreed without knowing that I would pose nude.''
        Rivera made 27 drawings of the young woman and gave them to her. Years later, her husband, Howard S. Phillips, an American publisher in Mexico, discovered them and ordered her to return them to Rivera. When Rivera was dying in the mid-1950's, Mrs. Olmedo, by then divorced and wealthy, put him up in her home and helped care for him. A grateful Rivera, whose reputation and earnings had tumbled, again gave her the nude drawings. He also sold her scores of his paintings and many works by Kahlo, who had died in 1954. Before his own death in 1957, Rivera designated Mrs. Olmedo to administer his and Kahlo's estates.
        As the artists' reputations -- and the prices for their work -- rebounded, art critics and intellectuals began to resent Mrs. Olmedo's huge hoard of Riveras and Kahlos and her power over the artists' legacies. She was accused of having grossly underpaid for her collection. Stories swirled that a jealous Mrs. Olmedo was intent on sabotaging Kahlo's legacy.
        ''I was never a friend of Frida Kahlo,'' Mrs. Olmedo conceded in an interview with The New York Times, in which she referred to the artist's bisexuality. ''Frida Kahlo liked women. I liked men.''
        She said that she bought her 25 Kahlo paintings -- for which she paid only $1,600 -- because Rivera begged her to do so to make sure that an important part of his wife's work remained in Mexico under one roof. ''Otherwise I would not have done it,'' Mrs. Olmedo said.
        Fewer than 200 Kahlo paintings survive, and Mrs. Olmedo's collection is the most significant private holding of her works.
        Critics agreed that she owned some of the most highly regarded Kahlo paintings. Mrs. Olmedo ''has Kahlo's gritty, ferocious paintings -- the kind no one else could have painted,'' said Hayden Herrera, the author of ''Frida,'' a 1983 biography.
        Mrs. Olmedo had little regard for Kahlo as an artist, and in several interviews referred to her works as ''trashy.'' Her estimation of Rivera, on the other hand, was uncritical. ''I will always defend his work energetically, while I'm alive and even after I die,'' she wrote in her museum's catalog.
        Mrs. Olmedo's collection included dozens of little-known early works by Rivera done in post-Impressionist and Cubist styles. She also owned highly acclaimed paintings from Rivera's later period, including ''La Tehuana'' (1955), a portrait of Mrs. Olmedo wearing the colorful dress of a native of the Isthmus of Tehuantepec; Kahlo often wore such a costume. But she also had many of his least memorable works, like saccharine portraits of Russian children that look like Soviet propaganda.
        Mrs. Olmedo became the major collector of Riveras as well as Rivera's benefactor late in his life, thanks to her entrepreneurial acumen. After divorcing in the 1940's, she became one of the first Mexican women to succeed in real estate development. The business brought her into contact with leading industrialists and politicians, and fueled rumors, vigorously denied by Mrs. Olmedo, linking her romantically to several Mexican presidents.
        Mrs. Olmedo was married and divorced three times. She is survived by four children from her first marriage, to Mr. Phillips. She also had 14 grandchildren.
        In the early 1990's Mrs. Olmedo was accused of deliberately shutting down the Frida Kahlo Museum, also in Mexico City, for two years, under the guise of doing renovations in the building, once Kahlo's home. Mrs. Olmedo declined to explain the long museum closing. Friends suggested that the government was at fault for failing to cover the rather modest renovation costs as it was supposed to, but that Mrs. Olmedo refused to make any public statements that might hurt her political relationships or cast her as too stingy to foot the bill.
        Similar reasons seem to have postponed the opening of Mrs. Olmedo's own museum for more than five years. In the mid-1980's she announced that with Mexican government backing she would convert her 16th-century Spanish colonial hacienda in Xochimilco, at the southern end of Mexico City, into a museum and then donate her collection for permanent display there.
        During the renovations, the architects discovered that half the building was slowly sinking into its watery foundations and that the roof and walls were leaking.
        Eventually, the government paid the renovation costs, and in late 1994 the museum opened. Even then many critics lambasted Mrs. Olmedo for displaying her collection according to her quirky tastes.
        ''I lived with this art for most of my life,'' Mrs. Olmedo said. ''Who knows better than me how it should be displayed?''
      