
        Edith Lutyens Bel Geddes, a costume designer for theater, ballet and film and a theatrical producer, died on Aug. 16 at her home in Hudson, N.Y. She was 95.
        Known as Edith Lutyens for much of her professional career, she made and designed costumes for theater productions of ''The Crucible,'' ''A Streetcar Named Desire,'' ''The Shrike,'' ''Dear Me, the Sky Is Falling'' and ''The Deputy.''
        She created costumes for stars like Katharine Cornell, in a 1947 production of ''Antony and Cleopatra,'' and for Orson Welles and his lavish 1946 stage production of ''Around the World in 80 Days.''
        Ms. Lutyens had a costume shop in New York, where she helped create costumes for several Ballet Theater productions, among them Antony Tudor's ''Dim Luster'' and Jerome Robbins's ''Fancy Free,'' working with Motley, the British design team, and designers who included Kermit Love and Miles White. Her designs for ''The Clowns,'' choreographed in 1968 by Gerald Arpino, played an important role in establishing that ballet's fantastical atmosphere.
        In a review in The New York Times, Clive Barnes described the costumes as having ''the white floppiness of Beardsley and the bedraggled poetry of Picasso saltimbanques.''
        Ms. Lutyens was also a producer of the 1947 Broadway presentation of Gian Carlo Menotti's ''Medium'' and ''Telephone,'' working in partnership with the industrial designer Norman Bel Geddes, her husband, and the producer Blevins Davis. She was also associated with the producer Cheryl Crawford and Eva Le Gallienne and her American Repertory Theater. Ms. Lutyens was also a costume consultant to the Encyclopaedia Britannica.
        Her life offstage was at least as colorful as anything she designed or produced. Born in Brussels, Ms. Lutyens grew up in London, but then returned to Belgium and became a fencing champion.
        During World War II she opened a dress shop in London, where she came to Motley's attention. In the United States she became a real estate broker while continuing her design business.
        She was divorced from her first husband, Archibald Lutyens. Her marriages to Moseley Taylor and Bel Geddes ended with their deaths. There are no immediate survivors.
      