
        Emily Genauer, an art critic who championed 20th-century painting and sculpture over the course of a four-decade newspaper career and won a Pulitzer Prize for criticism, died on Friday after a long illness. She was 91.
        Starting out as the critic for The New York World in the 1930's, Ms. Genauer made it her mission to introduce modern artists like Marc Chagall and Diego Rivera to a newspaper audience. She also staunchly defended art's independence from politics. In 1949, she left The New York World-Telegram after an argument with its owner, Roy W. Howard, who thought she was paying too much attention to artists he considered ''Communists and left-wingers,'' like Pablo Picasso.
        Ms. Genauer's columns for The New York Herald Tribune, where she was chief art critic from 1949 to 1966, were also watched closely by artists. In 1992 she recalled how the painter Clyfford Still, about whom she had written unfavorably, sent her a pair of rubber baby pants with a card. The card read: ''Hoping this will aid in concealing your Sunday affliction. With the compliments of Clyfford Still.''
        She tried to promote lesser-known artists. While visiting the East Side town house of John Hay Whitney, the owner of The Herald Tribune, she urged him to purchase more 20th-century art. She took him to a communal studio-gallery of avant-garde artists on the Bowery, directly opposite that neighborhood's leading flophouse. After getting out of his limousine and hesitantly stepping around some drunks, he bought a number of paintings.
        The author of numerous books, Ms. Genauer was also a member of the National Council on the Humanities from 1966 to 1970.
        Emily Genauer was born July 19, 1911, in Staten Island, where her father owned several delicatessens and was an amateur sculptor. She attended Hunter College and the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, and began writing for The New York World in 1929. She always retained her maiden name as a byline, though after marrying Frederick Gash she took his last name in her private life.
        The World paid her by the word, allowing her to make as much as $92 per week, she recalled in 1992. Then she got a call from an editor who told her she was to be paid a salary. ''Aren't you happy?'' the editor asked. ''You're now on staff. Your fee will be $35 a week.''
        After The World went out of business and was merged with The New York Telegram, she continued to write for the paper until 1949. That year, United States Representative George A. Dondero issued a warning about Communist sympathies seeping into American life, and mentioned art criticism as a danger zone, citing Ms. Genauer by name, she recalled in a 1992 speech.
        ''My brother telephoned me afterwards and said, 'When did you go Communist?' '' she said.
        Mr. Howard, her editor, told her she could no longer write about Picasso. She promptly announced her resignation, and then used Mr. Howard's phone to call the editor of The Herald Tribune, who promptly offered her the job as art critic.
        In 1966, The Herald Tribune merged with two other newspapers to become The New York World Journal Tribune, and she became its art critic until its demise in 1967. She then wrote a weekly column for the Newsday Syndicate until the mid-1970's. In 1974 she won the Pulitzer Prize for distinguished art criticism.
        Ms. Genauer is survived by a sister, Blanche Wahl of Baltimore; a daughter, Constance Gash Roche, of New York City; and two grandchildren.
        ''I could do it for 60 years because I'd rather look at art than anything else,'' Ms. Genauer said of art criticism in 1992, ''because I love the art world and because every day was different than every other.''
      