
        Aniela Mlynarski Rubinstein, the widow of the pianist Arthur Rubinstein and a patron of charities and the arts in New York, died on Monday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 93.
        She was a co-founder of the Polonaise Ball and, as its frequent chairwoman, helped make it a successful fund-raiser. Starting in the mid-1950's, the annual gala contributed to relief programs for Polish refugees.
        She was a prominent supporter of other Polish charitable organizations and aided the Four Stars recital series in Paris and the Rubinstein piano competition held every three years in Israel.
        Nela, as she was known, was born in Vilnius, Lithuania, the daughter of Emil Mlynarski, the founding conductor of the Warsaw Philharmonic and later director of the Warsaw Opera. He was conducting when a 13-year-old prodigy, then Artur Rubinstein, made his Polish debut.
        Nela studied dance in Dresden with Mary Wigman, the German expressionist pioneer. One day in Warsaw, her father took her backstage to meet Rubinstein after a concert.
        Though he was 22 years her senior, it was love at first sight, according to family lore. But she first wed, and divorced, another renowned pianist, Mieczyslaw Munz.
        She and Rubinstein were married in London in 1932; the marriage lasted until his death in 1982. The couple lived in Paris until the outbreak of World War II, after which they joined the artistic émigré community in Hollywood and became United States citizens in 1946.
        By the 1950's, the couple kept homes in New York, Paris and Spain. Artistically gifted and conversant in seven languages, Mrs. Rubinstein became one of New York's legendary hostesses, with a formidable kitchen.
        Her repertoire -- Polish and continental, with a dash of New World -- inspired the likes of Craig Claiborne, the food writer and critic, who favored her bigos, or hunter's stew, and nalesniki, or pancakes. A selection of her recipes came together in a book, ''Nela's Cookbook,'' published by Knopf in 1983.
        Mrs. Rubinstein is survived by two daughters, Eva and Dr. Alina Rubinstein of Manhattan; two sons, Paul, also of Manhattan, and John, of Los Angeles; seven grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      