
        Quail Hawkins, the author of gentle children's books like ''A Puppy for Keeps,'' and ''Mark, Mark, Shut the Door,'' both popular in the 1940's, died on Aug. 16 at the retirement home where she lived in Pacific Grove, Calif. She was 97.
        Miss Hawkins wrote nine books and edited or was co-author of numerous others. Her work ranged from ''beginning to read'' picture books to chapter books for young adults and included several collections of prayers, animal tales and verse.
        All her books were illustrated, usually with boys and girls in motion, often with pets, mothers in aprons and fathers in jackets, ties and hats. Among the illustrators she worked with were Kurt Wiese, Marguerite de Angeli and Phyllis Coté.
        She was also a specialist in children's literature. She worked at bookstores and publishing houses and encouraged the work of authors like Beverly Cleary and Ursula K. Le Guin. In Ms. Cleary's memoir, ''My Own Two Feet,'' she wrote how in 1941 Ms. Hawkins hired her to work during the Christmas rush at Sather Gate Book Shop in Berkeley, Calif. She described Ms. Hawkins, then the manager of children's books at the store, as ''a rapid, omnivorous reader with a retentive memory, a love of books and a passion for persuading others to read them.'' That first job -- and Ms. Hawkins's encouragement -- led to Ms. Cleary's first book contract, she wrote.
        Miss Hawkins spent more than 30 years at the Sather Gate shop, which was a major supplier of books for schools and libraries. Miss Hawkins traveled extensively through Northern California for the store. She also served for seven years as a children's book specialist at the University of California Press.
        Quail Hawkins, the oldest of seven children, was born Helena Ann Hawkins on March 29, 1905, in Spokane, Wash. No one in the family today is sure how she came to be called Quail, said a nephew, Mark Hawkins, but the name stuck. Her father was a fruit wholesaler and her mother a columnist for a local newspaper, The Spokane Register.
        According to family lore, Quail became a storyteller because she spent so much time caring for her younger brothers, especially after her father's death at an early age. Ms. Hawkins never married and is survived only by nieces and nephews.
        Among her books are ''Prayers and Graces for Small Children'' (Grosset & Dunlap, 1941), and several books for Holiday House, including, ''A Puppy For Keeps'' (1943), ''Don't Run, Apple'' (1944), ''Mark, Mark, Shut the Door'' (1947) and ''The Aunt-Sitter'' (1958). None of the books are still in print. Only one of them, ''A Puppy For Keeps,'' was listed for sale yesterday on amazon.com.
      