
        Helen Matthew Robinson, the matriarch of the family that in 1864 bought the Hawaiian island of Niihau and then so zealously guarded its privacy that it is the only one of the islands where Hawaiian is still spoken as an everyday language, died on July 31 at her home in Makaweli, on the island of Kauai. She was 91.
        Though Mrs. Robinson herded cattle at 65, climbed trees at 75 and drove until she was 85, her health had gradually deteriorated in recent years, her son Keith said. She finally had to relinquish decision making concerning the island, which she had assumed in 1969 with the death of her husband, Lester.
        Keith Robinson said his mother's influence lived on in the indigenous people who still speak Hawaiian and in the population of rare monk seals on the coastline. Both are results of so severely restricting access to Niihau that it is known as ''the forbidden isle.''
        Niihau (pronounced nee-ee-HOW), the seventh-largest Hawaiian island, is 69.5 square miles and is 17 miles southwest of Kauai. Geologically the oldest of the Hawaiian islands, it is considered the home of the volcano goddess Pele, according to legend. Niihau was the only Hawaiian island to vote against statehood in 1959.
        The 200 or so residents collect delicate shells to make leis that sell for thousands of dollars. The islanders also work on the Robinsons' sheep and cattle ranch in return for salaries, free housing, food and education for their children. Their daily life seems a throwback to the misty Hawaiian past. There is no electricity or indoor plumbing -- rain is collected in buckets. There are no paved roads, and conversations are conducted in the lilting native language, though Mr. Robinson said that more English words were creeping in.
        Guns and alcohol are forbidden, and the Robinsons will not bring tobacco on the weekly supply barge. The residents can be evicted at any time and have no contractual rights.
        Mrs. Robinson herself tended to minimize the uniqueness of Niihau, even as she fought to preserve it.
        ''It's just a little cattle ranch we operate in our own way,'' she said in a New York Times interview in 1970. ''There's nothing sensational about it. I don't see why everyone is so interested in it.''
        The story of the Robinsons and the island begins in Edinburgh with Eliza Hutchinson, the widow of a Scottish sea captain, Francis Sinclair. With some of her children and their spouses, Mrs. Sinclair eventually went to the Sandwich Islands, as Hawaii was then known.
        There she met the ruler of Hawaii, King Kamehameha IV, who offered her several parcels of land, including one that stretched from what became downtown Honolulu to Diamond Head in Waikiki. She turned it down in order to buy an entire island, paying $10,000 in gold in 1864.
        As he signed the contract, the king said: ''Niihau is yours. But the day may come when Hawaiians are not as strong in Hawaii as they are now. When that day comes, please do what you can to help them.''
        The family, who were strict Calvinists, required all residents of the island to attend Congregational church services on Sunday. (It was an easy sell: missionaries had converted them to Christianity 40 years before.) At first, visitors were permitted, though scarce water supplies began to limit invitations.
        From the beginning, Mrs. Sinclair and her heirs sought to protect the indigenous culture. They also remained close to the royal family and opposed the American overthrow in 1893, after which the provisional government forbade use of the Hawaiian language.
        Keith Robinson said the family totally cut off visits to Niihau in the 1930's because of the vulnerability of people to diseases to which they had never been exposed like measles, which had killed 11 children on the island.
        Lester Robinson, Mrs. Robinson's husband, was the great-grandson of Eliza Hutchinson. He grew up in the family compound in the Makaweli District of Kauai, where Mrs. Sinclair had bought more property.
        Helen Marion Matthew was born on Aug. 2, 1910, in Washington, D.C., which her family was visiting. She grew up in Berkeley, Calif., and graduated from the University of California.
        Her aunt, a tutor to Lester Robinson when he was a boy, arranged a visit to the Robinsons in 1935, and a reluctant Lester was asked in advance to look after Helen. Rather than the dreaded child in pigtails he expected to meet, she turned out to be an attractive, friendly woman in her mid-20's. Keith Robinson said he had always heard it was love at first sight, though the two were not married until 1937.
        After her husband's death, Mrs. Robinson rejected numerous offers for the island, including a large one from Japanese interests. The only intrusions she permitted were tourist helicopter flights overhead and secret military activities, which were kept away from both endangered wildlife and residents.
        Keith Robinson said he and his brother, Bruce, had no intention of changing anything on the island, much less selling it. Mrs. Robinson is also survived by seven grandchildren.
        In 1983, she wrote a letter to a researcher in which she chose one word to describe her vision of Niihau: ''seclusivity.'' It is not in the dictionary, but her meaning was apparent.
      