
        Diane J. Lipton, who fought for the rights of her disabled daughter and went on to become a lawyer and prominent advocate for children with disabilities, died on Aug. 8 at her home in Richmond, Calif. She was 57.
        The cause was a rare form of lung cancer, her husband, James Armstrong, said.
        Her daughter Chloe had cerebral palsy and developmental delays. In 1979, when Chloe was 7, the Richmond Unified School District reduced her occupational training sessions to one a week from three. Ms. Lipton and other parents demanded that the school district restore the sessions and change its complaint procedures.
        By the time the battle ended in 1987, Ms. Lipton had won what she and other advocates considered a major civil rights battle. The district had closed its four schools for pupils with disabilities and integrated them into regular schools.
        Her winning tactic had been persuading federal officials in Washington to temporarily cut off money for the education of disabled children in all California schools until the Richmond situation was remedied.
        The result was a new state policy to end the segregation of disabled children. Ms. Lipton took the issue a step further in 1990 when she and other advocates for the disabled took the Sacramento school district to court to demand the mixing of disabled children into regular classrooms.
        In 1994, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in San Francisco decided the case in Ms. Lipton's favor and defined standards for judging whether school districts were complying with the 1975 federal law requiring that disabled students be educated to the maximum extent possible and with other children as much as possible.
        Diane Julie Zelman was born on June 13, 1945, in Forest Hills, Queens, where she grew up. She graduated from the University of California with an English major and experience in many campus demonstrations. She married Lennie Lipton, a campus activist and co-writer of the song ''Puff the Magic Dragon.''
        In 1972, Chloe was born, the only one of triplets to survive. Ms. Lipton became friendly with parents of other disabled children, and Chloe at 3 began to attend a school for orthopedically handicapped children. In 1974, Ms. Lipton began a master's-degree course in rehabilitation counseling at San Francisco State University, graduating in 1976.
        She divorced around 1979. Within two years, she had become a parent advocate with the Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund and was organizing a statewide campaign to integrate the Richmond schools, traveling to Washington to press for the cutoff in money. At night, she earned a law degree at Golden Gate University.
        In 1980, she married Mr. Armstrong, whom she had met at a union meeting for rehabilitation workers.
        Her passion in the initial battle was fueled by a chain-link fence that separated Chloe's special education school from what was considered a conventional school. The only time the students were allowed to mingle was on Halloween, when they were in costume. Ms. Lipton thought this indicated that school officials regarded disabled students as freaks, Arlene Mayerson, a lawyer for the Disability Rights Education and Defense Fund, said.
        Ms. Lipton is survived by her husband; Chloe, who, with some help, lives on her own in Emeryville, Calif.; and a daughter from her second marriage, Daria Armstrong.
      