
        Nancy Chaffee Whitaker, a leading tennis player in the 1950's who won three consecutive national indoor championships, died Sunday in Coronado, Calif. She was 73 and lived in Indian Wells, Calif.
        The cause was complications of cancer, said her husband, the sportscaster Jack Whitaker.
        In the early 50's, Nancy Chaffee vied for tennis supremacy with figures like Maureen Connolly, Althea Gibson, Margaret Osborne duPont, Doris Hart, Louise Brough and Shirley Fry.
        She was the national indoor titleholder from 1950 to 1952, defeating Gibson, Beverly Baker and Patricia Todd in the finals, long before the open era and the advent of huge prize money. The indoor tournaments were played on the boards at the Seventh Regiment Armory on Park Avenue in Manhattan before perhaps 2,000 fans at the final rounds.
        ''What did I win?'' Chaffee Whitaker said in a 1993 interview. ''A little silver ball and a silver ashtray with a glass base, and I don't even smoke. No money.''
        Comparing the modern game with her era, she said: ''There are more better players. When I was playing I was an automatic almost into the semifinals of any tournament. That's just the way it was, a gap between the few top players and the rest. And there was no qualifying for tournaments.''
        The daughter of a tennis instructor and a native of Ventura, Calif., she played on the men's tennis team at the University of Southern California because there was no women's squad. While a sophomore, she captured the 1947 United States girls' lawn tennis singles championship and teamed with Baker to win the doubles title.
        She emerged in the national spotlight in 1950, reaching the singles quarterfinals at Wimbledon and the singles semifinals of the United States nationals -- the forerunner of the United States Open -- in addition to winning the first of her indoor championships.
        In 1951, she teamed with Todd in doubles at the nationals, losing in the final to Fry and Hart, and she played doubles on the 1951 Wightman Cup team that defeated Britain, 6-1.
        She was married in October 1951 to Ralph Kiner, the Pittsburgh Pirates' slugger and future Hall of Famer, and retired from most tournament play after winning the 1952 indoor title, devoting herself to rearing a family.
        She was later a sports commentator for ABC, developed tennis programs at resorts and helped found the Cartier tennis tournament in Long Island's Hamptons to benefit the American Cancer Society.
        In addition to Whitaker, whom she married in 1991, she is survived by three children from her marriage to Kiner, the longtime Mets broadcaster; sons Michael and Scott Kiner, and a daughter, Kathryn Freeman, all of Palm Desert, Calif.; and five grandchildren.
      