
        Joan Littlewood, the producer, director and author who was one of the most important and original figures responsible for the regeneration of the British theater in the 1950's and 60's, died Friday in London at the home of her assistant. She was 87.
        Ms. Littlewood's Theater Workshop, based in a shabby old playhouse in a poor section of East London, won an international reputation with seasons of offbeat work that she staged by herself. These included ''Oh What a Lovely War,'' a vaudeville-style re-creation of key events in the First World War; ''The Quare Fellow'' and ''The Hostage,'' two plays by her protégé, the Irish dramatist Brendan Behan; and ''A Taste of Honey,'' a bleak portrait of life in Northern England by the 18-year-old Shelagh Delaney.
        As early as 1956 the critic Harold Hobson could declare that Theater Workshop was known throughout Europe as ''England's premier company.''
        As much as the kitchen-sink drama of John Osborne and others, which started to appear the same year, Joan Littlewood was responsible for what she called ''the destruction of complacent, well-behaved middle-class theater.''
        She demonstrated to the British that lively work could be produced on a shoestring, that tight-knit ensembles were likely to produce better work than ad hoc casts, and that performers and dramatists did not need to suppress their working-class identities in order to succeed.
        ''Theater should be grand, vulgar, simple, pathetic,'' Ms. Littlewood said, but ''not genteel, not poetical.''
        It was her exuberant energy and feisty informality that once provoked Laurence Olivier to remark ruefully: ''I wish I could work that way. But I'm a trained parrot.''
        Joan Maud Littlewood was born in London in 1914, the daughter of a 16-year-old unmarried housemaid. School trips to the Old Vic, and in particular to John Gielgud's performance as Hamlet, bred in her a love of the theater and she won a coveted scholarship to the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. But she was very much the Cockney outsider in a school she later described as being full of ''debs and rich Americans acquiring English accents.'' She dropped out and made her way, mostly on foot, to the northern city of Manchester, where she got a job in a local repertory theater.
        She quickly decided, however, that ''curtain theater'' was not for her. An instinctive radicalism, combined with habitual restlessness, impelled her toward theater work in which, as she later wrote, everything was created by the actors on a bare platform: ''tempest, sun and rain, rivers, storm-tossed seas.''
        With Jimmy Miller, who wrote plays under the name of Ewan McColl and was to become her husband, she formed an agitprop group in Manchester called Theater of Action and then created a company called Theater Union, which introduced the British to the American concept called the Living Newspaper, improvisations based on the day's news. After the war this evolved into Theater Workshop, which toured with plays of social or political significance both in Britain and on the Continent.
        The company's reputation grew, but its finances remained shaky, provoking George Bernard Shaw to tell Ms. Littlewood that her company ''should all go and be stockbrokers -- the English don't want art.'' The actors paid for one tour by picking tomatoes in the country and selling them at a profit in Manchester.
        Tiring of squalid surroundings, Ms. Littlewood decided in 1953 to settle her players in the Theater Royal, a dilapidated Victorian playhouse in the area of London described in Chaucer's ''Canterbury Tales'' as Stratford-atte-Bowe, but now simply known as Stratford East. This caused a permanent breach with Mr. Miller, who feared the move to London would compromise the company's radicalism, and was itself financially risky.
        For many months the actors slept in hammocks in the auditorium, shared what little box-office income there was and seldom earned more than $3 a week each. For this they were also expected to paint, decorate and clean the theater as well as perform.
        Even in the 1960's, when the theater was internationally renowned, Ms. Littlewood herself was to be found washing the steps before opening nights, reportedly snapping at one passing actor, ''I'm expecting company -- what about you?'' That hospitality and lack of pretension found its way into productions that combined simple staging and dramatic gusto with a determination to break down the conventional barriers between actors and audiences.
        Spectators might find themselves directly addressed by characters. There was so much good-natured improvisation that the company was prosecuted for breaching censorship laws, which remained in force in Britain until 1968. Evenings would often end with cheerful gatherings in the theater bar, maybe with Behan or another maverick orchestrating the fun.
        Ms. Littlewood met Behan after his incongruously exuberant attack on capital punishment, ''The Quare Fellow'' landed in an inky, tattered bundle on her desk in 1956. She helped him radically revise it, transferred it from Stratford to the West End and so thoroughly took control of his career that he once described himself as ''a creature of Joan's imagination.''
        She said she was on the floor, holding Behan's legs to his chair, while he gave a notoriously incoherent, drunken interview in the BBC studios. She also calmed the police when they brought him to the Theater Royal after finding him at the wheel of a ferry on the Thames, saying he was crossing the Missouri. Later she took Behan's Irish Republican Army play, ''The Hostage,'' to the West End and on to New York. But she was unable to stem the drinking that was to kill him in 1964 while he was working on his final piece for the Theater Royal, ''Richard's Cork Leg.''
        Among the other plays Ms. Littlewood edited into dramatic shape was ''A Taste of Honey,'' about a white Lancashire girl who becomes pregnant after an affair with a black sailor. The manuscript was sent to her by the teenage Shelagh Delaney with this note: ''I am sending this play to you for your opinion. Would you please return it to me, as whatever sort of theatrical atrocity it is to you it means something to me.''
        Ms. Littlewood put the play into rehearsal within two weeks, and it had its first performance at the Theater Royal in May 1958. It went on to the West End and Broadway, providing personal triumphs for Joan Plowright, who played the girl onstage, and Rita Tushingham, who played her in Tony Richardson's 1961 film.
        The improvised ''Oh What A Lovely War,'' which brought Theater Workshop its greatest success, was a satire of World War I done in 1963 as a music hall revue with the actors in black-and-white commedia dell'arte costumes. It was later staged on Broadway and made into an all-star film in 1969 by Richard Attenborough. ''Oh What a Lovely War'' used war records, memoirs, speeches and the beloved songs of the Great War -- among them ''Pack Up Your Troubles,'' ''It's a Long Way to Tipperary,'' and ''Keep the Home Fires Burning'' -- to, as Ms. Littlewood put it, ''mock the absurdity, the vulgarity of war.''
        She also gave William Saroyan's ''Sam, the Highest Jumper of Them All'' its world premiere, enjoyed success with Wolf Mankowitz's ''Make Me an Offer'' and the ex-convict Frank Norman's ''Fings Ain't What They Used to Be,'' and discovered talent that ranged from John Bury, later the National Theater's head of design, to Richard Harris, who played Macbeth for her.
        Though she was best known for staging new work, she directed many classic plays, usually in a rough style that emphasized their immediacy and topicality.
        ''If I have to choose between the gods and the clowns, I'll take the clowns,'' Ms. Littlewood once said. ''They're close to the commedia dell'arte and that's what I'm trying to get close to. There's so much nonsense about theater being this or that. Who needs a National Theater? We've already got enough museums.'' She continued: ''My idea is to open doors, to create a community, a meeting place. My doors are open to anyone, to any prostitute or gangster.''
        In ''Joan's Book,'' her autobiography, published in 1994, she described herself as ''plain, moody, often amusing sometimes.'' She was known for being tough, combative, ribald and generous. In the words of Philip Hedley, the current director of the Theater Royal, she ''loved conflict, enjoyed provoking, and could demolish people -- and then make them a meal in the green room.''
        Though she never married Gerry Raffles, Theater Workshop's general manager, he became her partner and the most significant person in her life. After his death in 1975 she left London for France, where she lived as a recluse. That ended her much-publicized plan to build a ''fun palace'' in East London where people from backgrounds like her own might join in cultural activities of every kind.
        She left no immediate survivors. As experimental theater groups sprung up all over London and all around the world, she once said, as The Guardian reported in its obituary: ''I didn't need to have children. All over the world I have children.''
      