
        Pearlee Toliver, a northeastern Louisiana radio announcer known as the ''jewel of the dial,'' who attracted a cult following because of the idiosyncratic way in which she wrote and read advertisements, died Sept. 9 at her home in Monroe, La.
        No one seemed to know how old she was, but she was presumed to be in her 70's. The cause was a heart attack, said Mike Luster, a Louisiana folklorist who helped her with her radio show.
        For nearly 30 years on various stations in Monroe, Ms. Toliver presided over a show that mostly consisted of her reading advertisements back to back for businesses like Bubba's Fish Market, Amco Bail Bonds and Mother Helen, a spiritual adviser.
        Because of her quirky sing-song banter -- that of a churchgoing, community-minded woman infused with the spirit of an auctioneer with a speech impediment -- she attracted a fan base that extended far beyond her broadcast radius. Cassette copies of her show found their way to musicians like Loretta Lynn, Marcia Ball and Billy Gibbons of ZZ Top.
        Ben Sandmel, a Louisiana writer and drummer, named his record label Hot Biscuits for a recurring phrase from one of Ms. Toliver's best-remembered advertisements, in which she says of the restaurant Riverside Coney Island, ''Hot biscuits, hot biscuits, all over that place.''
        Ms. Toliver was born in Drew, Miss., where her parents were sharecroppers. As a teenager, she dreamed of being on the radio. In 1945 she served in the Woman's Army Corps for three years. Afterward, she managed the gospel group the Jordan Singers, which recorded for Checkers (part of the legendary Chicago blues label Chess). Acting on the advice of a minister, the group started a radio program on KLIC-AM in Monroe.
        When the group broke up, Ms. Toliver asked the station manager if she could continue the show. Besides enjoying the work, she needed the income because her husband had been killed in a hunting accident.
        The station manager allowed her to keep the show so long as she could find enough sponsors to make it worth his while. So Ms. Toliver visited businesses, collecting money for advertisements and inspecting the wares, so that she could write an informed commercial. For the next three decades, she said, she prayed to God for her sponsors and then made the rounds collecting advertisements and money. Some sponsors, like the Twin City Record Shop, owned by a former member of the Jordan Singers, remained with Ms. Toliver from her first shows to the last ones.
        Her program was carried by several Monroe stations, but even though it expanded to two hours, there was not enough time for all the potential sponsors. The price of an advertisement was never more than $15.
        For additional income, she worked at a university and helped raise the children of a large local family.
        Last year, Ms. Toliver appeared in the Robert Mugge documentary ''Rhythm 'n Bayous.'' She recorded her last show -- on station KZRZ-AM -- on Sept. 5. She is survived by four children, Shirley Sapp and Mattie McGee, both of Monroe; Willie Lee Toliver of Ahoskie, N.C.; and Tony Toliver of Columbus, Ga.
        A typical homespun advertisement, this one for a bail bondsman, went like this: ''Friend, was you up all night long getting in trouble? Did you happen to rob the grocery store? Did you kill somebody last night? Diddy Bop said no bond gets too large or too small for him to handle. Why not call Diddy Bop and sit down and tell him your trouble.'' Most advertisements ended with the rushed, elided catchphrase, ''Why not check it out and lock it in?''
        After a while, admirers stopped trying to figure out how she developed her style. When asked, she responded that she was divinely inspired by ''the spirit.''
      