
        Lolita Torres, a leading actress and singer from Argentina who became an international symbol of that nation's golden age of moviemaking in the 1950's, died on Saturday in Buenos Aires. She was 72.
        The cause was a lung infection related to a chronic rheumatoid condition, the Spanish news agency EFE reported.
        Born Beatriz Mariana Torres in 1930 in Avellana, a city near the Argentine capital of Buenos Aires, she began her career at age 11 singing folk songs from Spain at the popular Avenida Theater in Buenos Aires.
        A granddaughter of immigrants to Argentina from the Spanish regions of Navarre and Galicia, Ms. Torres easily mastered singing with an accent from Spain. That ability caught the attention of Manolo Paredes, a prominent Spanish actor, and Ramón Zarzoso, the flamenco maestro, both of whom helped her early in her show business career.
        She began acting in 1944 with a small role in ''The Dance of Fortune,'' a movie directed by Luis Bayón Herrera about the marital ambitions of the nouveau riche. By the early 1950's, she had gained renown, particularly for her roles in musical comedies, several of them conceived by the screenwriter Abel Santa Cruz.
        In these roles Ms. Torres, who rarely allowed herself to be kissed onscreen, conveyed a traditional yet independent image that was new to moviemaking in Argentina and elsewhere.
        ''Smooth, sweet, and at the same time energetic, aspiring to emancipation,'' was how the newspaper La Nación described her appeal to young female viewers.
        Ms. Torres was popular outside Argentina, especially in the countries of the former Soviet Union, where she was lauded during the 1950's as a symbol of enterprising youth. ''The Age of Love,'' about the frustrated loves of a famous singer and a millionaire, directed by Julio Saraceni in 1954, was perhaps her biggest movie hit abroad.
        Ms. Torres acted in 17 films before retiring as an actress in 1972. After recording hits like ''Gitano Jesus,'' or ''Gypsy Jesus,'' she continued her singing career, touring several other nations in Latin America, Spain and the former Soviet Union.
        Her first husband, Santiago Rodolfo Burastero, died in 1959 after a car accident near Mar del Plata, Argentina.
        Her second husband, Julio Caccia, suffered a heart attack at her burial ceremony Sunday at the Argentine Actors' Association mausoleum in Buenos Aires and was admitted to the hospital, news reports said. She is also survived by five children, Santiago, Angélica, Marcelo, Mariana and Diego, an internationally known pop star.
      