
        Elizabeth Coblentz, an Amish homemaker who wrote a syndicated cooking column by hand beneath a kerosene lantern, a kitchen chronicle that touched on everything from the merits of Belgian horses to coping with grief, died on Tuesday in Blue Springs, Mo. She was 66.
        The cause was an aneurysm, said Kevin Williams, her editor at Oasis Newsfeatures, which distributed her column to 105 newspapers, with more than two million readers.
        A member of the strict Old Order Amish, who avoid most modern conveniences, she lived on a farm near Geneva, Ind., without running water, electricity, plumbing or a telephone. She traveled primarily by horse-drawn buggy, sewed her family's clothes and canned fruits and vegetables. She answered questions many readers had never thought to ask, including how to cook a meal for 76 children.
        She mailed in her weekly columns, but Mr. Williams sometimes did not have time to mail his editing questions, so he would wire daisies with a card enclosed. One asked: ''How much sugar in that cream pie recipe?'' Mr. Williams had prepaid Express Mail envelopes at her home in which she could reply.
        Mrs. Coblentz's columns seemed to be ripped from the pages of a 19th-century church bulletin, with their descriptions of quilting bees, children's funerals, sleigh rides and walking barefoot in warm spring soil. She told of baking 70 pies and 14 plates of ''nothings,'' a traditional Amish pastry, for her daughter's wedding.
        In one column -- she called them letters -- she described a day that began at 4 a.m. with cooking breakfast of fried potatoes, eggs and bacon. The 11 a.m. entry: ''Went in to get dinner, as I've got menfolk working hard, hauling loads and loads of manure with the manure spreader that is driven by a team of horses.''
        Her religious faith was a constant theme. But food, of the most comfortable kind, was her main topic, from Aunt Hilty's cinnamon rolls to putting up pumpkin pickles to churning a double batch of hot pepper butter. Among her recipes were those for sauerkraut bread, watermelon preserves and dandelion jelly.
        The overall effect of her columns was an insight into the way of life and fundamental values of the Amish.
        ''You would not notice much difference in our life now from when I was a girl or my mother was a girl,'' Mrs. Coblentz said in an Associated Press interview in 2000.
        Elizabeth Coblentz was born in Berne, Ind., on July 18, 1936. She had six sisters and one brother and grew up on a farm. She left school after ninth grade, in accordance with Amish custom. She worked in a sugar factory, cleaned houses and married young. Starting in 1952, she wrote community news for a nationally distributed Amish newspaper.
        Mr. Williams discovered her in 1991, after having done a research paper on the Amish as a college freshman. After having the idea of an Amish cooking column, he ran into Mrs. Coblentz by chance.
        The first newspaper to take the column was The Quincy Herald-Whig of Quincy, Ill. It now appears in papers from Newton, N.J., to Indianapolis to Tacoma. But Mrs. Coblentz's picture does not appear with it. Following Amish tradition rooted in biblical passages that decry ''graven images,'' she refused to be photographed, appear on television or allow her voice to be taped.
        But she had nothing against personal appearances and was on a publicity tour to promote her new book when she died. The book, ''The Amish Cook: Recipes and Recollections From an Old Order Amish Family,'' is to be published in November by Ten Speed Press of Berkeley, Calif. Her earlier work, ''The Best of the Amish Cook,'' a collection of her newspaper columns, was published by Oasis in two volumes.
        On her tour, she traveled with Mr. Williams by car, as the Amish faith permits people to use technology as long as it does not intrude on their lives, he said. Owning an auto was out of the question for Mrs. Coblentz, Mr. Williams said, because it would have brought the whole world within her reach. Riding with someone is a compromise most Amish are willing to make, he said.
        Her husband, Benjamin, a carpenter, died in 2000, throwing her into a depression that Mr. Williams said he believes led to her death. More than 3,000 readers sent cards and 5,000 sent e-mail messages to the syndicate that distributed her column.
        She is survived by her daughters, Leah Shetler, Verena and Susan Coblentz, Elizabeth Wengerd, Lovina Eicher and Emma Schwartz, all of Geneva; her sons, Amos of Berne and Albert of Geneva; her sisters, Leah Girod of Berne, Lovina Swartzentruber of LaGrange, Ind., Emma Schwartz of Berne and Salome Hilty and Barbara Schwartz, both of Geneva; her brother, Chris A. Graber of Bryant, Ind.; and 35 grandchildren.
        Many of her readers seemed to feel close to her. In a letter before Mrs. Coblentz's death, Betty Watters of Independence, Mo., wrote, ''Your letters remind me of my mother -- her chickens, gardens, canning, cleaning, working every day in fields by Dad's side and clean-smelling laundry whipping and snapping in the fresh air and sunshine.''
        NOTHINGS
        Traditional wedding pastry, adapted from The Amish Cook: Recipes and Recollections from an Old Order Amish Family.
        1 egg  3 cooks spoons (large kitchen spoons) cream pinch salt enough all-purpose flour to make a stiff dough shortening for frying sugar for sprinkling.
        1. Beat the egg and then stir in cream and salt.  2. Add enough flour to the mixture to make a stiff dough. Work it with your hands well.  3. Divide dough into 6 or 7 balls, and roll it out until very thin. Cut three slits into each flat piece of dough.  4. Have a kettle of hot lard or Crisco ready, and drop the dough in, one piece at a time.  5. Remove when golden, sprinkle with sugar and stack on a plate.  Yield: 6 or 7 servings.
      