
        Zara Nelsova, a prominent cellist who recorded Ernest Bloch's ''Schelomo'' for cello and orchestra with the composer conducting, and appeared with major orchestras in North America and Europe, died on Oct. 10 at her Manhattan home. She was 84.
        She studied Bloch's cello works with him in 1949, and he dedicated two of his three suites for unaccompanied cello to her.
        Ms. Nelsova also played the Walton and Barber cello concertos with those composers conducting.
        She performed as a soloist with conductors who included Leonard Bernstein, Pierre Boulez, Daniel Barenboim, Zubin Mehta, William Steinberg and Seiji Ozawa, and she played at many international festivals.
        Zara Nelsova was born on Dec. 24, 1917, in Winnipeg, Canada. Her parents emigrated from Russia in 1910. Her father, Harry, was a professional flutist.
        Ms. Nelsova began lessons at 5, studying with her father and playing a converted viola. Her two older sisters played piano and violin, and the three formed the Canadian Trio, which performed in Canada, England and Australia.
        A grant from the Manitoba Ministry of Education helped the family moved to England in 1929. There Ms. Nelsova studied at the London Violoncello School and made her solo debut at 12 with the London Symphony Orchestra under Sir Malcolm Sargent.
        The trio toured from 1930 until 1939, when Ms. Nelsova returned to Canada. She became principal cellist of the Toronto Symphony Orchestra and soon had solo engagements in Boston. She studied with Gregor Piatigorsky, Emanuel Feuermann and Pablo Casals, and made her United States debut in 1942.
        In 1955 she became an American citizen. From 1963 to 1973 she was married to Grant Johannesen, an American concert pianist, with whom she toured. She also played at the White House for President Richard M. Nixon.
        She was a professor at the Juilliard School from 1985 until earlier this year. She played a Stradivarius cello named the Marquis de Corberon and dated 1726, and continued performing until 1997.
      