
        Dr. Sheila Sherlock, one of the world's leading authorities on liver disease and a pioneer in the science of hepatology, died on Dec. 30 at her home in London. She was 83.
        Her classic reference work, ''Diseases of the Liver and Biliary System'' (Blackwell Science, 1955), now in its 11th edition and used throughout the world, was the first standard textbook on clinical liver disease.
        When Dr. Sherlock began her medical career in the early 1940's, very little was known about liver disease, and hepatology was not even a recognized branch of medicine.
        Throughout her career, she conducted clinical research that led to improved diagnosis and treatment of liver disease and that helped establish and later enhance the field of hepatology.
        ''When she started, it was unimaginably difficult for a woman to advance in medicine,'' said Dr. Eugene Schiff, former president of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases. ''But she became a renowned doctor and wrote heavily on liver disease. Her books were very popular because, in the beginning, she was the only author on the subject and loaded them with concise and easy to read information.''
        In 1959, she became the first woman to be promoted to a professorship of medicine at the Royal Free Hospital in London, where she helped set up and direct a world famous clinical, research and training center on liver disease.
        One of the first of its kind, it gained an international reputation, and doctors from all over the world traveled there to study the disorders of the liver, the body's largest organ, Dr. Schiff said.
        Dr. Jay H. Lefkowitch of the department of pathology at Columbia University added, ''Most of the liver world spent some time in her liver unit at the Royal Free Hospital in London, or wished they had.''
        In World War II, many doctors were puzzled by jaundice, a liver disorder afflicting many Allied troops. Dr. Sherlock helped improve understanding of the condition when she began using liver biopsies -- previously just a research tool -- to diagnose the condition. The method helped shed light on the causes of the disorder and is used today for investigating liver disease.
        When word of her work on jaundice reached other medical experts, she began receiving patients from many countries, Dr. James Dooley of the Royal Free Hospital said.
        ''She would travel the world to lecture; there was a time in England where every hepatologist had been through her unit,'' said Dr. Dooley, who was Dr. Sherlock's co-author on the last three editions of her book.
        In 1966, she helped create what is now a standard test in diagnosing primary biliary cirrhosis, a rare disease that can lead to liver failure. In 1971, she showed that steroid treatment could be effective in treating autoimmune hepatitis.
        In the 70's, Dr. Sherlock helped demonstrate the importance of vaccinating against hepatitis B by showing that the disease often leads to cirrhosis, which then puts patients at a high risk of developing liver cancer.
        ''She worked on all aspects of liver disease and led the most prominent university and hospital department on hepatology in Europe,'' said Dr. Peter Scheuer, former chairman of histopathology at the University of London. ''She made everything seem simple and clear, which made her a great teacher and an unrivaled lecturer.''
        Sheila Sherlock was born on March 31, 1918, in Folkestone, England. Unable to gain acceptance to medical schools in England because of her sex, she went to Scotland to attend the University of Edinburgh. After earning her degree in 1941, she studied at the Postgraduate Medical School of London until 1947, and then at Yale in 1948. In 1959, Dr. Sherlock became chairwoman of the Royal Free Hospital's department of medicine.
        Throughout her career Dr. Sherlock published more than 600 papers on the liver. In 1986, she received the Distinguished Service Award of the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases, which is awarded only on a special basis. She became a dame in 1978 and last summer, she became a fellow of the Royal Society.
        She is survived by her husband of 50 years, Dr. Geraint James of London; two daughters, Auriole Sherlock Davis of Canterbury and Amanda Sherlock James of London; and two grandchildren.
      