
        Mary Maxine Reed, who in 1971 won a landmark Supreme Court case that struck down dozens of state laws discriminating against women, died on Sept. 26 near Boise, Idaho.
        She was believed to be about 93, though she would not tell her age, her lawyer Allen Derr said.
        On Nov. 22, 1971, the Supreme Court unanimously ruled that an Idaho law that automatically gave Mrs. Reed's former husband preference over her as administrator of their dead son's estate violated the 14th Amendment's guarantee of equal protection under the law.
        The Supreme Court called the Idaho law ''the very kind of arbitrary legislative choice forbidden by the Equal Protection Clause.''
        It was the first time the Supreme Court had declared a state law unconstitutional because it discriminated against one sex.
        The ruling overturned many similar laws around the country, including another Idaho law declaring the husband the head of the family, with the right to determine where it lives, as well as a 1948 Michigan law prohibiting women from serving alcoholic drinks in bars. Previous challenges to such laws before the Supreme Court had failed.
        The case came about in 1967 after the Reeds' 16-year-old son, Richard Lynn Reed, shot himself. Mrs. Reed and her former husband, Cecil, from whom she was divorced in 1958, applied to a court to administer their son's small estate, which consisted chiefly of a clarinet, phonograph records, clothes and $495 in a savings account.
        Mrs. Reed lost the first court battle because Idaho law said that when two people were equally qualified to be administrators, preference must be given to a man.
        Saying she was angry that ''women could be stepped on like that,'' Mrs. Reed then appealed to the District Court and won.
        But the Idaho Supreme Court reversed that decision on appeal. Mrs. Reed took her case to the Supreme Court.
        Mary Maxine Reed, known as Sally, was probably born in Nebraska around 1909. Orphaned early, she was adopted by George and Nettie Kelso, who moved to Cambridge, Idaho, where they farmed. She graduated from Cambridge High School in 1929 under the name Mary Kelso.
        In 1931 she married Cecil R. Reed in Ontario, Ore. They eventually moved to Boise, where her husband worked for the Idaho Highways Department. They adopted Richard Lynn, their only child.
        After their divorce, Mrs. Reed earned her living by ironing, baking, baby-sitting and looking after disabled people in her Boise home. She retired in 1998.
        In a widely reported legal battle that contrasted with the rest of her quiet life, Mrs. Reed was assisted by Mr. Derr, her Boise lawyer, and two lawyers from the American Civil Liberties Union, Mel Wulf and Ruth Bader Ginsburg, who is now a Supreme Court Justice.
        In a letter to Mr. Derr read at Mrs. Reed's funeral on Oct. 5, Justice Ginsburg said, ''Sally Reed lived to see the good that came from her brave decision to challenge an unjust law.''
      