
        Phyllis Calvert, a ladylike actress who packed British movie theaters in the darkest days of World War II with her performances in wildly melodramatic, escapist costume dramas, died on Tuesday in London. She was 87.
        Along with Margaret Lockwood, Stewart Granger and James Mason, the redheaded Miss Calvert was one of the cornerstones of Gainsborough Pictures, a subsidiary of the J. Arthur Rank film empire. In the 1940's Gainsborough churned out swashbuckling films that were hissed by critics but highly popular with a war-weary public yearning for fantasy.
        She first achieved fame as one of the so-called Gainsborough Girls in ''The Man in Gray'' (1943), a Regency drama in which she played the virtuous Clarissa, trapped in a loveless marriage to the sadistic Marquis of Rohan (Mason) and eventually saved by an actor (Granger).
        In ''Fanny by Gaslight,'' the next year, Miss Calvert fell prey once again to the treacherous and seductive Mason, only to have her virtue saved by Granger.
        Two other hits followed. As Maddalena in ''Madonna of the Seven Moons'' (1944), Miss Calvert played the schizophrenic wife of an Italian wine merchant who periodically flees to Florence, where as Roseanna, she becomes the mistress of a brigand, not surprisingly played by Granger.
        Then in ''2000 Women'' (1944) she led the inmates of a women's prison camp in Nazi-occupied France in a spirited rendition of ''There'll Always Be an England'' as the crew of a shot-down British bomber escaped.
        Phyllis Bickle, who later changed her named to Phyllis Calvert, was born in London on Feb. 18, 1915. She went to the Margaret Morris School of Dancing and the Institut Français and made her first stage appearance at 10 in 1925. She made her film debut at 12.
        After working in repertory theater in various British cities, she first appeared in the West End in 1939 in ''Punch Without Judy.'' During that production she met her future husband, the actor and publisher Peter Murray Hill, who died in 1957.
        Her first big stage success came in 1942 in Terence Rattigan's ''Flare Path,'' a wartime drama about a bomber base that Winston Churchill called his favorite play. When not acting she spent the evenings as an air raid warden.
        After the war Miss Calvert went to Hollywood, where she appeared in Universal's ''Time Out of Mind'' and several other pictures. But unlike other British actresses of the time, like Vivien Leigh and Deborah Kerr, she did not repeat her British success with American audiences.
        Other notable London theater appearances were in Graham Greene's ''Complaisant Lover'' in 1959, Oscar Wilde's ''Woman of No Importance'' in 1967 and Noël Coward's ''Blithe Spirit'' in 1970.
        Although Miss Calvert tended to be typecast in drawing-room comedies and minor thrillers, she tackled several weightier roles, touring with the Oxford Playhouse Company as Madame Ranevskaya in ''The Cherry Orchard'' in 1973 and playing the Countess in Anouilh's ''Rehearsal'' in 1961.
        She is survived by a son, Piers, and a daughter, Auriol.
      