
        Mari Kajiwara, an American modern dancer of stunning quality who mesmerized audiences as a leading member of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, the Ohad Naharin Dance Company and the Batsheva Dance Company of Israel, died on Dec. 25 in Tel Aviv. She was 50 and had lived in Tel Aviv since Mr. Naharin, her husband and an internationally known choreographer, became artistic director of Batsheva 12 years ago.
        The cause was cancer, said a company spokesman.
        In the Ailey company, which she joined in 1970, Ms. Kajiwara made an immediate striking impression with technique that was both pure and powerful, enhanced by a luminous presence. Trained in both ballet and modern dance, especially Martha Graham's idiom, she combined an extended classical line with an extreme suppleness.
        Ailey created ''Landscape'' (1981) as a vehicle for her. It was a theatricalized ritual in which Ms. Kajiwara was rightly the adored figure. In other Ailey works, she carved distinct shape out of space, describing the form of every movement as few others could. Her extended line made the most of Ailey's ''Streams'' and the ''Fix Me, Jesus'' duet in ''Revelations.''
        Other choreographers for the company cast her eagerly in their works. She triumphed in Joyce Trisler's ''Journey,'' where she remained rooted to the spot, all the while spellbinding in her yearning gestures. She brought a similar poetry to the very different role of the idealized woman conjured up by a chain gang in Donald McKayle's ''Rainbow 'Round My Shoulder.''
        Despite a natural reticence, she imbued other roles in the Ailey troupe with an emotional depth that seemed to grow out of the very depth of her consummate technique.
        Ms. Kajiwara was born in New York City, where she attended the High School of Performing Arts and City College. She performed with the Glen Tetley Dance Company and the Norman Walker Dance Company before dancing with the Ailey troupe from 1970 to 1984. During that time, she became an assistant to Ailey, who sent her to stage his works for the Royal Danish Ballet, La Scala Ballet and other companies.
        After Ms. Kajiwara and Mr. Naharin married in 1978, she appeared with him in a series of concerts. In  ''Haru No Umi,'' a duet choreographed by Mr. Naharin in 1982, Ms. Kajiwara embodied love lost, poignantly eluding her husband onstage. Together they formed the Ohad Naharin Dance Company in New York in 1984, performing with it until 1990.
        When Mr. Naharin, who was born in Israel, became Batsheva's artistic director in 1990, Ms. Kajiwara joined the company as both dancer and rehearsal director. She staged her husband's works for the Netherlands Dance Theater, the Paris Opera Ballet, the Frankfurt Ballet, the Cullberg Ballet, the Lyons Opera Ballet and Les Grands Ballets Canadiens.
        In Mr. Naharin's works, the eloquence of Ms. Kajiwara's humanity was seen within a more experimental style. In ''Sixty a Minute,'' she and Mr. Naharin acted out a battle of the sexes by falling against a piano keyboard. In ''Mabul,'' Mr. Naharin's turbulent signature piece at Batsheva, she dropped her reserve and danced up a storm.
        In addition to her husband, Ms. Kajiwara is survived by a brother, John, of New York City.
      