
        Harriet Doerr, who at 73 published her first novel, unveiling an exquisite gift to marshal clear, sparse prose to evoke, in her phrase, memories ''like a gentle knife stuck into your heart,'' died on Sunday at her home in Pasadena, Calif. She was 92.
        She had been in declining health since she suffered a broken hip in a fall last month, said her daughter, Martha Doerr Toppin. In recent years, glaucoma and frailty kept her from writing, even at her methodical pace of a sentence or so an hour.
        Ms. Doerr's gleaming literary reputation rested on three slender books, perhaps 600 pages in all.
        Her first book, ''Stones for Ibarra'' (Viking, 1984), which won the American Book Award for first fiction, was called ''a perfect book'' by the writer Alice Adams, and her next novel and a book of short stories elicited similar praise.
        Her style roamed the geography of Mexico, memory and mood in a manner that the critic Anatole Broyard in The New York Times said carried ''echoes of Gabriel García Márquez, Katherine Anne Porter and even Graham Greene.'' Her gift for phrasing was suggested by her description of the Mexican village as ''no more than a shard chipped from the rock face of eternity.'' Elsewhere she called it ''a town of a hundred burros.''
        Her critics generally agreed that she improved with age, and emphasized that her works would have been remarkable for a writer of any age.
        In reviewing her second novel, ''Consider This, Señora'' (Harcourt, 1993), published in 1993, when she was 83, the critic Margo Jefferson wrote in The Times, ''Everything is richer, as when an actress takes a role you saw her play a decade ago, and lets you read that decade in her face, her voice and her body.''
        Harriet Green Huntington was born in Pasadena on April 8, 1910, the third of six children and two step-children. Her grandfather was Henry Edwards Huntington, and she played with her siblings at his San Marino estate, which is now the Huntington Library, Art Collections and Botanical Gardens. She grew up with nannies and servants, as well as more intangible blessings: her family loved reading and lively discussions, her daughter said.
        Ms. Doerr was asked to read several of her poems at high school graduation, but would not allow the school to reproduce them because she thought they were awful. When she was 16, she met Albert Doerr, an engineering student at Stanford University who took her to a prize fight on their first date. She was horrified, not least because of the droplets of blood that had spattered on her dress.
        She went east to Smith College in 1927 with her train compartment filled with roses from Mr. Doerr. She did not like the cold of Massachusetts and felt homesick and ''half in love.'' By the summer of 1928, she left Smith and transferred to Stanford. where Mr. Doerr was finishing his degree. They married in 1930, and she left college.
        They had two children; the first, a son, Michael, died of cancer in 1995. Ms. Toppin, the second child and Ms. Doerr's only survivor, lives in Oakland.
        In World War II, while her husband served in the Navy, she and he signed petitions protesting the relocation of Japanese-Americans to internment camps.
        The family went to Mexico in the late 1950's. There Mr. Doerr oversaw the revival of his family's mining business. Much of the emotional quality of that experience is contained in Ms. Doerr's first novel, including the male protagonist's struggle with leukemia. Mr. Doerr died of leukemia in 1972.
        Her son teased Ms. Doerr into returning to college in 1975. She first took some classes at Scripps College in Claremont, Calif., and then enrolled full time at Stanford, majoring in history. She was accepted into the university's prestigious creative-writing program. Other students resented her presence, until she read her first piece aloud.
        Ms. Doerr won the $2,500 Transatlantic Review-Henfield Foundation Award in 1982, based on three stories she had published in small literary magazines. Senior editors at Viking Penguin suggested her stories could be combined into a novel. She and a professor shuffled them on her living room floor until a larger narrative fell into place.
        Her next novel, ''Consider This, Señora,'' was also set in Mexico and was seen by some critics as imitative. But Laura Cumming, writing in The Guardian of London, said it was ''full of enchanted fables.''
        ''The Tiger in the Grass'' (Viking, 1995) was a collection of essays, many about Mexico. But words of searing pain reflected a more immediate concern: her son was then dying of cancer, and Ms. Doerr used italicized passages to tell his story. In one, she remembered that his first word was ''car'' and that the doctor had just forbidden him to drive.
        ''Now his car is parked outside his house and is visible from several windows,'' she wrote. ''I have forgotten the details of Chinese water torture we used to hear of, but it must be something like this.''
        Ms. Doerr believed in no religion, but often took solace in each person's ability to create memories that live on. In ''Consider This, Señora,'' the character Ursula Bowles, a widow who enters the story at age 79 and exits at 83, witnesses life's evanescence.
        ''She could see that an individual life is, in the end, nothing more than a stirring of air, a shifting of light,'' Ms. Doerr wrote. ''No one of us, finally, can be more than that. Even Einstein. Even Brahms.
        ''Then the widow slept.''
      