
        Tamara Kern Hareven, a social historian of the family and its place in contemporary society, died on Oct. 18 at a hospital in Newark, Del. She was 65 and lived in Newark, where she was on the faculty of the University of Delaware.
        The cause was kidney disease, said her lawyer, Perry F. Goldlust of Wilmington, Del.
        A seminal writer in her field, Dr. Hareven focused on the family's adaptation to the ups and downs of an industrial society, like that of New England. To that end she interviewed generations of families about their work and home lives.
        Her interest lay in events like the closing of factories in New England or the social impact of World War II. She gauged how personal responsibilities, like caring for aging parents, affected people's lives.
        Dr. Hareven began her field work with the families who had worked and lived in the shadows of the old Amoskeag textile mills of Manchester, N.H. Her findings were documented in ''Amoskeag: Life and Work in an American Factory-City.''. The book, written with Randolph Langenbach and published in 1978, was reissued in 1995.
        In 1982, she complemented it with ''Family Time and Industrial Time: The Relationship Between the Family and Work in a New England Industrial Community.'' It, too, was reissued in 1995.
        She wrote ''Families, History and Social Change: Life Course and Cross-Cultural Perspectives'' (Westview Press, 2000), edited ''Aging and Generational Relations'' (de Gruyter, 1996) and co-edited ''Family History Revisited: Comparative Perspectives'' (University of Delaware Press, 2001).
        For her comparative studies she observed the cultures of weavers in Kyoto, Japan; Lyon, France; and the textile centers of Austria, where skills, centuries old, were passed from generation to generation.
        She was born in Chernivtsi, western Ukraine, in 1937, when it was part of Romania. She graduated from Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1960 and received an M.A. from the University of Cincinnati in 1962 and a Ph.D. from Ohio State University in 1965.
        That year she started her academic career as an assistant professor of history at Dalhousie University in Halifax, Nova Scotia. She taught at Harvard University and at Clark University in Worcester, Mass., before joining the Center for Populations Studies at the University of Delaware as a research associate in 1976.
        She founded The Journal of Family History in 1975, editing it for 20 years. In 1995, she founded The History of the Family: An International Quarterly, of which she was co-editor.
        At her death Dr. Hareven was the Unidel professor of family studies and history, with a joint appointment in urban affairs and public policy. She was a senior Fulbright scholar in India and Japan and lectured internationally.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      