
        Ellen Straus, a passionate environmentalist and co-owner of the first organic dairy farm west of the Mississippi River, died on Saturday at her home in Marshall, Calif., north of San Francisco. She was 75.
        The cause was brain cancer, her family said.
        A pioneer in the purchase of development rights from farmers to save the land from being turned into tract housing and shopping malls, Ms. Straus was a founder of the Marin Agricultural Land Trust in 1980. But she is probably best known outside the Bay Area for the rich, thick milk produced on the family farm, which her son Albert turned into high-quality cheese, yogurt and butter at the Straus Family Creamery.
        Ellen Tirza Lotte Prins was born on Feb. 21, 1927, in Amsterdam. Her family fled the country just ahead of the Nazi invasion in 1940. She graduated from Bard College in New York in 1948, but instead of fulfilling her dream of studying medicine, she married William Straus, a German Jewish immigrant 12 years her senior, who had come to study agriculture at the University of California.
        It took him only 16 days to persuade her to abandon further studies and move to what was then a small farm on the shores of Tomales Bay in Marin County, Calif. There they brought up four children, Albert, Vivien, Miriam and Michael, who survive her, along with her husband, four grandsons and a sister, Anneke Prins Simons of Jersey City.
        Inspired by Rachel Carson's book ''Silent Spring,'' Ms. Straus turned her attention to the environmental movement when she learned of plans to build hundreds of homes along the Marin County coast as well as a resort at Tomales Bay. She was instrumental in the creation of the Point Reyes National Seashore in Marin County, preserving 17 ranches. Along with other environmentalists, she persuaded the county supervisors to pass strict zoning laws.
        But just to make certain the restrictions could not be changed she helped found the Marin Agricultural Land Trust, or MALT, which now has 47 ranches and dairies covering 32,000 acres. It represents 30 percent of the private farmland in Marin County, and the owners have granted easements saying it must remain agricultural land. Ms. Straus served on its board until 1990 and was its chairwoman from 1999 to 2001.
        Today there are 1,000 land trusts throughout the country, and the trust was the model for scores of them.
        The Straus family used the money it received for its own conservation easement to convert its farm into an organic operation, a move that saved it from the unprofitable co-op milk market and made it possible for the Strauses to stay in business by selling more profitable products.
        Those products, unhomogenized milk with a thick layer of cream on the top, bottled in glass; cream that almost whips itself; and Monterey Jack and white cheddar, are sold throughout California. The farm's Holstein cows also produce all the milk used by the acclaimed Cow Girl Creamery of Point Reyes, for crème fraîche, fromage blanc and Mount Tam triple cream cheese.
        Ms. Straus was a hands-on farmer. On the first night of the farm's organic operation, she individually stamped the expiration dates on glass milk bottles as they rolled off the conveyor. Three or four times a year, she led educational tours of the dairy for the agricultural land trust, preparing the lunch for the 50 or so people who attended.
        In 1998, the American Farmland Trust in Washington, D.C., presented Ms. Straus with the annual Steward of the Land Award in recognition of her lifelong struggle for family farms. The White House made her a Points of Light winner in 2001 for her lifetime of volunteer work.
        When she was honored by the American Farmland Trust, Ms. Straus said World War II had taught her a lifelong lesson about standing for one's beliefs: ''That we, as individuals, are responsible for what is happening in our communities, and that we must become activists.''
      