
        Hildegard Knef, the actress whose career emerged from the dark realism of German filmmaking that followed Hitler's defeat and then grew to encompass Broadway, recordings and a best-selling memoir, died yesterday in Berlin. She was 76.
        Ms. Knef, whose name was often anglicized as Neff in cast lists for films and plays, died of a lung infection, The Associated Press reported. A heavy smoker for most of her life, she had suffered from emphysema and, earlier, from breast cancer.
        In her heyday, Ms. Knef was often described by entertainment columnists as the ''willowy blonde'' with the ''dusky voice'' and the ''generous mouth.'' She made at least 30 films in the United States and Europe, but had a singular triumph in New York in 1954 as Don Ameche's co-star in the Cole Porter hit ''Silk Stockings.'' She portrayed the stolid Soviet commissar Ninotchka (one of Greta Garbo's major film roles), who yields to romance on a spree in Paris. She won raves. Brooks Atkinson, the drama critic for The New York Times, called the show one of Porter's best and described Ms. Knef's stage transformation as the corrupted commissar ''an immensely skillful performance.''
        Her success also made her more acceptable to an initially chilly Hollywood film community, which had held her suspect for wartime adventures, later described in her searing memoir, ''The Gift Horse'' (McGraw-Hill, 1971).
        Hildegard Frieda Albertina Knef was born on Dec. 28, 1925, in Ulm, Germany, the daughter of Hans Theodor and Friede Auguste Knef. He was a decorated World War I veteran who died six months after her birth. Her mother moved to Berlin to take up factory work. ''As a child I was extraordinarily shy, not at all talkative,'' she recalled in her memoir.
        At 17 she left school to become an apprentice animator with U.F.A. (Universum Film Company). After a successful screen test, she transferred to the State Film School at Babelsberg, a Berlin suburb, to study acting, ballet and elocution. Her first stage part was one line in the Deutsches Theater. Josef Goebbels, Hitler's propaganda minister, sent word that he wanted to meet her, but her friends kept her away from him.
        Ms. Knef was bombed out of the family's apartment on New Year's Eve 1943. She was later wounded in an incendiary attack. In the last days of the war, Ewald von Demandowsky, a Nazi film director with whom she was in love, led her out of Berlin. On April 18, 1945, she wrote in her memoir, she donned a Wehrmacht uniform and the couple, armed with a submachine gun, pistol and hand grenades, tried to pass through Red Army lines to reach Allied territory. Captured and beaten, she was not discovered to be a woman until she was a prisoner of war in a camp in southeastern Germany among 40,000 German men.  Fellow prisoners helped her escape and make her way back to Berlin.
        Before he was killed by his captors, Von Demandowsky directed Ms. Knef to go for protection to Viktor de Kowa, a well-known character actor, in Berlin. With permission from Soviet occupation authorities, de Kowa opened a theater with her as mistress of ceremonies. Soon she got a part in Marcel Pagnol's ''Marius,'' directed by Boleslaw Barlog, one of Germany's theater greats. He also directed her in plays by Shakespeare, Pagnol and George Abbott.
        In 1946 Ms. Knef starred in Germany's first postwar movie, ''Murderers Are Among Us,'' in which she played a former concentration camp inmate returning home.
        After a few years in Hollywood, she returned to Germany in 1950 to film ''Sinner,'' the story of a prostitute who falls in love with a painter who is going blind. The film caused a scandal when, in a scene of just a few seconds, Ms. Knef appeared nude. In a postwar Germany convulsed by guilt and shame, church leaders called for boycotts and thousands demonstrated against it.
        ''A country that had Auschwitz and caused so much horror and then, a few years later, behaves in this manner because I was visible naked on the screen is utterly absurd,'' she wrote later. ''I had the scandal, the producers got the money.''
        Among her other films were Anatole Litvak's ''Decision Before Dawn,'' a highly praised 1951 Hollywood film with Richard Basehart and Oskar Werner, about the last days of the war in Germany.
        In ''The Snows of Kilimanjaro,'' (1952) she sang three Cole Porter songs. The composer saw the film and engaged her for ''Silk Stockings.'' She had had a bit of voice-  coaching as a teenager, but never considered herself a singer. Her delivery was described variously as ''mellow'' and ''rough and smoky.''
        She began writing lyrics in the 1960's during a pause in her acting work and soon developed a successful concert and recording career.
        Ms. Knef was married three times and divorced twice. Her first husband, Kurt Hirsch, was an American Army officer who took her to Hollywood in 1947. She later married David Anthony Palastranga, an actor and director, with whom she had a daughter, Christina. She is survived by her daughter and her third husband, Paul von Schell, according to The Associated Press.
        Ms. Knef's later years were devoted to singing and writing. Returning to Europe after years in America she remarked, ''Everything when I arrived was under occupation by memories.''
      