
        Mary Marvin Breckinridge Patterson, a New York debutante, photojournalist and broadcaster from war-torn Europe, peripatetic diplomatic spouse and philanthropist, died on Dec. 11 at her home in Washington. She was 97.
        Mrs. Patterson was born in New York to John Cabell and Isabella Goodrich Breckinridge. Her grandfathers were Benjamin F. Goodrich, the inventor and industrialist, and John Cabell Breckinridge, a vice president, a presidential candidate in 1860 and secretary of war for the Confederacy.
        She was schooled in Cannes, N.Y., in Milton, Mass., and at Vassar College, from which she graduated in 1927. As a young woman, she mastered the latest in camera techniques, learned to herd cattle and play polo, and, in 1929, earned her license to fly planes.
        A year later she made a film, ''The Forgotten Frontier.'' It documented the work of the Frontier Nursing Service, which delivered care on horseback in the backwoods of Kentucky.
        She was a Congressional assistant in Washington in the early 1930's, then she took a paid assignment to shoot pictures of a tour of Palestine, Turkey and France. Much of her work then found its way into newspapers and national magazines like Life, Harper's Bazaar and Vogue.
        Known as Marvin then and thereafter, she next became one of ''Murrow's boys,'' broadcasters recruited by Edward R. Murrow, an old friend from the National Student Federation of America. She joined him in the CBS overseas service and broadcast dozens of times from European cities on the CBS World News Roundup.
        Marvin Breckinridge's exploits were documented in a touring exhibit the Library of Congress put together a few years ago, ''Women Come to the Front: Journalists, Photographers and Broadcasters During World War II.''
        During the war, she met Jefferson Patterson, a young diplomat whose family founded the National Cash Register Company. They were married in 1940 in Berlin, where he was first secretary at the embassy. She helped her husband on a Red Cross mission watching over a flood of Belgian, British, Dutch and French war prisoners, although the Germans forbade her to report on what she saw.
        The couple moved on to Peru, Egypt and the United Nations Balkans mission in Athens. Mr. Patterson, who was ambassador to Uruguay in the late 1950's, died in 1977.
        In 1973, the couple donated a 23-acre family estate in York, Me., to nearby Bowdoin College. The Pattersons' summer villa, River House, and its grounds became the college's Breckinridge Public Affairs Center, named for her family.
        She also donated a 550-acre farm on the Patuxent River in Calvert County to the State of Maryland in 1983. It became the Jefferson Patterson Park and Museum, a trove of environmental and American historical discoveries.
        Mrs. Patterson formed the Marpat Foundation in 1985 to direct her charitable gifts to the arts, education, museums, conservation and the like, principally in the Washington area. Among her beneficiaries were the Folger Shakespeare Library, International Student House, the National Symphony Orchestra, the Smithsonian Institution and the Corcoran Gallery.
        Mrs. Patterson is survived by a daughter, Patricia Marvin Patterson of Kingston, N.H.; and a grandson.
      