
        CAROL ENSEKI, president of the Brooklyn Children's Museum, is an island of tranquillity in the sunny bedlam of a little building that echoes with the din of ecstatic children. She chooses words precisely. She utters them with preternatural calm. Her gentle delivery is so deadpan that it takes a visitor a moment to realize that she has made a sly joke.
        She will need every shred of that equanimity and every ounce of that wit to persevere in the coming seasons of uproar in her 103-year-old museum. A $39 million expansion will double the museum's interior space to 102,000 square feet when it is completed in 2006.
        The museum, in Crown Heights, will get two new classrooms, a new library, a new exhibition gallery and a cafeteria. The 25-year-old subsurface building will be transformed into a daffodil-yellow two-story showcase, designed by the architect Raphael Viñoly, and featuring two L-shaped wings spreading along Brooklyn and St. Marks Avenues.
        Fitted with funky portholes that will glow at night, the museum will have the appearance of a clowny yellow submarine that has rambunctiously surfaced in a neighborhood of brownstones and Victorian houses.
        Pretty phat for an institution that the Association of Children's Museums in Washington recognizes as the nation's oldest children's museum.
        The existing building was below ground for maximum energy efficiency and to merge it seamlessly with the adjacent Brower Park. But years ago, when crime and vandalism became a problem in Crown Heights, Ms. Enseki's predecessors put up fences. Residents complained that the museum seemed too inward-looking.
        Now crime in the neighborhood has dropped significantly, and the museum's relationship with its neighborhood is certainly the opposite of the bunker mentality.
        ''The new building will be outward-looking,'' Ms. Enseki said. ''In this community, we are more than just a museum.''
        Ms. Enseki's style ''may seem very low-key, but she is passionate about working to get visibility for her museum,'' said Martin Gomez, who came to know her in the seven years he was director of the Brooklyn Public Library. He left the library earlier this year.
        Ms. Enseki, 48, attributes her peaceful presence to her Japanese-American heritage. Ms. Enseki's mother, Emi, and her mother's parents were in an internment camp during World War II. Her family lived in New York for a time after their release, which was arranged by Quakers.
        ''I have to believe that her calm personality is traceable in part to that,'' said Mr. Gomez, now director of the Friends and Foundation of the San Francisco Public Library.
        Ms. Enseki arrived at the museum in 1989 as a developer of exhibits and became its president in 1997. Actually, she is a second-generation exhibit designer: her father, Richard, created industrial exhibits for trade shows, building them in his garage in Glen Rock, N.J., where the family had moved.
        ''I think I was destined for the museum field,'' Ms. Enseki said, recalling that her father built ''this eyeball in the garage, for some drug company.''
        NOW, Ms. Enseki's family is an unofficial sounding board for her museum's endeavors. Her husband, Bill Fulbrecht, is an artist and kindergarten teacher at Public School 321 in Park Slope. And their son, Daniel, 10, is not shy about critiquing new exhibits.
        The museum appeals to children, from toddlers to 15-year-olds. It draws about 250,000 visitors a year, including 30,000 in groups from schools and summer camps.
        Mr. Gomez said the museum, which employs 60 people full time, is an anchor of the neighborhood. When community leaders opened it in 1899, the visitors were immigrant children, largely from Eastern Europe. Now 60 percent are African-American or Caribbean-American, and about 25 percent are Jewish.
        The museum has raised all but $7 million of the reconstruction cost, which will include $25.2 million from New York City. The money for the expansion is already in the capital budget and, despite the city's financial crisis, ''we are optimistic and confident that construction will move forward,'' Ms. Enseki said.
        Many children's museums are in high-traffic tourist areas, but, Ms. Enseki said, ''we are firmly planted in a residential neighborhood, and it has shaped who we are.'' As a member of the board of the American Association of Museums, she has championed the idea that urban museums serve more sophisticated audiences and must be prepared to address questions about issues like AIDS and racial unrest.
        After three days of strife in the neighborhood in 1991, the museum ''dealt with the issue directly'' in exhibits, she said.
        ''Then, as now, we hope that people will come to the museum so that it can help dispel stereotypes and fears,'' she said. ''You know, a lot of good things happen around here that don't get a lot of notice.''
        Ms. Enseki's immediate goal is to keep the museum open during the construction. ''But the real challenge for us is the same it has always been,'' she said. ''To make sure that people know about us.''
        PUBLIC LIVES
      