
        Anne Fremantle, a British-born author, art critic, essayist and editor whose conversion to Roman Catholicism drew her to themes of faith and the saints, died on Thursday in London. She was 93 and had returned to Britain after nearly 50 years in Manhattan.
        Mrs. Fremantle was known in this country and in Britain as a writer and teacher as well as a scholar and Catholic convert. Her faith was reflected in both her writings and in the many books that she edited.
        Her own books included ''George Eliot'' (1933), ''The Medieval Philosophers'' (1955), ''The Protestant Mystics'' (1964) and ''The Age of Faith'' (1965). Among the books she edited were ''The Commonweal Reader'' (1949), ''Mothers: A Catholic Treasury of Great Stories'' (1951), ''The Papal Encyclicals in Their Historical Context'' (1956) and ''The Social Teachings of the Church'' (1963).
        Born Anne-Marie Huth Jackson to titled English parents in Savoie, France, she graduated from Oxford University in 1930 and received a master's degree from the London School of Economics and Political Science in 1932.
        In World War II she became a volunteer ambulance driver and broadcast in French and German on the BBC. Married by then, Mrs. Fremantle settled in the United States in 1942, working in the British Embassy before she moved to New York and became a United States citizen in 1947. She worked in the communications department of Fordham University, was an editor at the United Nations, a writer-editor at Commonweal and a book reviewer for a number of publications, including The New York Times, Vogue, Town & Country and Harper's Bazaar.
        She published her first poems in 1931 and followed them with nearly two dozen books, both fiction and nonfiction. She wrote ''Three-Cornered Heart'' (Viking, 1970), a chronicle of English family life.
        Mrs. Fremantle is survived by three sons, Adam of Water Mill, N.Y.; Richard of Florence; and Hugh of Manhattan; three grandsons; and three great-grandchildren. Her husband, Christopher Fremantle, died in 1978.
      