
        Margaret Taylor Hancock, whose many-hued family tree sprang to life in a book by her daughter that became a meditation on the meaning of race in America, died on Tuesday in Branford, Conn. She was 90 and lived in North Haven.
        Mrs. Hancock was the product of a multiracial, multi-ethnic family and grew up black. Her siblings, from whom she was separated at age 4, grew up white. In 1994, Simon & Schuster published ''The Sweeter the Juice: A Family Memoir in Black and White,'' a portrait of life in the black bourgeoisie drawn by her daughter, Shirlee Taylor Haizlip.
        Mrs. Hancock, born Margaret Morris in Washington and trained as a teacher, married a black minister and became a dedicated ''voluntary Negro.'' Her siblings went through life in white society, and it was not until 76 years later, in 1992, that she was reunited with a sister.
        Her daughter, Mrs. Haizlip, used all means, from private eyes to public records, to trace their many strands of ancestry and relate their stories. There was, for instance, the great-grandmother who voyaged from Ireland to escape the potato famine and married a half-black slave.
        He had learned to play the piccolo from his Scottish father, and, having fled from Virginia, played it in a Union Army band during the Civil War. There were African, American Indian, English and possibly Italian forebears, all with stories to tell.
        In the 1900 census, Margaret Morris's family was classified as mulatto; it split only later into white and black branches. Young Margaret attended Miner's Teachers' College in Washington and, in 1933, married the Rev. Julian A. Taylor, son of a prominent Washington clergyman.
        She was a co-founder of the N.A.A.C.P. branch in Ansonia, Conn., where her husband was a Baptist minister, and became active in the state's foster care system. She personally fostered six girls and found places for many others.
        Mr. Taylor died in 1981. In 1987 she married Graham Hancock of New Haven, who died in 1993. She is survived by three daughters, Mrs. Haizlip of Los Angeles; Dr. Jewelle Taylor Gibbs of Palo Alto, Calif.; and Patricia Taylor Brown of North Haven; 12 grandchildren; and 3 great-grandchildren.
        When she reunited with her older sister, Grace Morris Cramer of Anaheim, Calif., after 76 years, they had ''six good years together,'' commuting coast to coast, Mrs. Haizlip said yesterday. Mrs. Cramer died in 1998.
      