
        Fay Gillis Wells, a pioneer aviator, a White House correspondent and a writer who covered Hollywood accompanied by her pet leopard, Snooks, died on Dec. 2 in Fairfax, Va. She was 94.
        She had last lived in Alexandria, Va., her son, Linton Wells II, said, but her life had many takeoffs and landings -- and a famous bailout.
        When she was a foreign correspondent, her mysterious movements during the Italian invasion of Ethiopia caused London tabloids to speculate that she was an Italian spy. Mrs. Wells and her second husband were sent by President Franklin D. Roosevelt on a top secret mission to Africa to look for possible postwar homelands for Jews. She married for the first time on a lark to experience the Palace of Weddings in Moscow, only to discover that the immediate divorce she and her husband had planned was a bit trickier.
        Beginning with the sunny afternoon in 1929 when the biplane her instructor was piloting spun out of control over Long Island, Mrs. Wells, a slender, brown-haired woman, loomed large in the public eye. Her parachute jump to safety was reported in all the New York newspapers, resulting in her becoming among the first saleswomen of airplanes. She always said she fell into her first job, part of which was convincing women that aviation was safe.
        By saving her life with a parachute, she became a member of the Caterpillar Club, so named because the silk in parachutes came from caterpillars. She was not the first woman to win that dubious distinction, as was widely reported; Irene McFarland had parachuted to safety in Cincinnati in 1925.
        Four days after earning her federal pilot's license -- No. 9497 -- on Oct. 5, 1929, Mrs. Wells wrote letters to the 117 other American women who were licensed to fly, asking them to meet on Long Island. In part because of enthusiasm about Amelia Earhart's flight across the Atlantic the year before, 26 showed up.
        Earhart, the first president, proposed calling the group the Ninety-Nines, in honor of the 99 charter members. Mrs. Wells, who was one of the last four of the 99, devoted much of the latter part of her life to maintaining the group's International Forest of Friendship in Earhart's hometown, Atchison, Kan.
        Helen Fay Gillis was born on Oct. 15, 1908, in Minneapolis, and her family moved often. When her father, a mining engineer, went to Moscow in 1930, she was an aviation correspondent. She became the first American woman to fly a Soviet airplane and the first foreigner to own a Soviet glider.
        When Wiley Post made a solo flight around the world in 1933, she arranged logistics and interpreted in Siberia. He invited her to fly with him for a 2,250-mile leg, but then decided against it because it might endanger the record as a solo flight.
        Post tried to make it up to her by taking her on a flight in 1935 to Siberia by way of Alaska. She regretfully turned down the trip, which turned out to be the one on which Post and Will Rogers, her replacement, died in a crash near Point Barrow, Alaska.
        Instead, she went on a honeymoon to Ethiopia with Linton Wells, a swashbuckling foreign correspondent. Their marriage grew out of a movie date in Manhattan. Instead of seeing ''The Wedding Night,'' starring Gary Cooper, they eloped and saw the movie the next night. Her brief first marriage was to Ellery Walter, a writer.
        She reported feeling safer meeting the bearded warriors of Emperor Haile Selassie of Ethiopia alone at night than many of the men who hung around Broadway. She and her husband had bylines on Page 1 of The Herald Tribune on the same day. During lulls in the action, she taught other foreign correspondents to knit.
        In 1936, the couple went to Hollywood, where Mrs. Wells reported for The Herald Tribune. They had taken a leopard, a lioness and a cheetah home, and she took the leopard along on interviews. In 1938, the two did radio shows from South America.
        In 1941, they were asked by President Roosevelt to investigate possible African locations for a Jewish homeland, and they recommended Angola. After Linton II was born in 1946, they returned to the United States, and Mrs. Wells was a stay-at-home mother for 18 years. For four of those years, the family lived on a houseboat in Florida and Mrs. Wells designed nautical furniture.
        In 1963, Mr. Wells took over the Washington bureau of the Storer Broadcasting Company, and Mrs. Wells was assigned to report on the White House. She was one of three women who traveled as reporters with President Richard M. Nixon on his trip to China in 1972.
        Mr. Wells died in 1977. In addition to her son, who lives in Springfield, Va., Mrs. Wells is survived by her brother, Kenneth Gillis of Franklin, Mich., and two grandsons.
        For years, Mrs. Wells went to Gettysburg, Pa., every week to play bridge with President Dwight D. Eisenhower's widow, Mamie. When she was 88, she oversaw a contest for fifth graders to design and fly paper airplanes. She deeply regretted missing out on being an astronaut.
      