
        Florence Stephenson Mahoney, an unwavering advocate for national health research and programs, died on Nov. 29 at her home in Washington. She was 103.
        Working with the philanthropist Mary Woodard Lasker, Mrs. Mahoney was instrumental in the growth of the National Institutes of Health, an agency of the Department of Health and Human Services through which the federal government finances medical research.
        Starting as the one-room Laboratory of Hygiene on Staten Island in 1887, the agency, now comprising 27 institutes and centers for specific topics, is housed on a 300-acre campus in Bethesda, Md. Its budget for 2002 is $23.4 billion.
        After World War II, Mrs. Mahoney and Mrs. Lasker lobbied to enlarge the agency, then a single institute. ''It is hard to realize today that government-subsidized research in the 1940's, when Florence Mahoney started her efforts, actually was controversial,'' said Judith Robinson, author of ''Noble Conspirator: Florence S. Mahoney and the Rise of the National Institutes of Health'' (The Francis Press, 2001).
        With charm and persistence, Mrs. Mahoney and Mrs. Lasker pressed powerful politicians to support research on health issues.
        ''When I wanted to get things done, I started at the top,'' Mrs. Mahoney told Ms. Robinson.
        And the top often meant the president, whether it was Harry S. Truman, John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson or Jimmy Carter.
        Jack Valenti, a friend of Mrs. Mahoney, was a special assistant to the president in the Johnson administration.
        ''When I would tell him that Mary Lasker and Florence Mahoney wanted to see him, the president would groan,'' Mr. Valenti said. ''He'd say, 'Oh, my God, these two women are going to bankrupt this country.' And they usually got what they wanted out of him.''
        Eventually, the women focused on specific areas, with Mrs. Mahoney taking a special interest in aging and mental health.
        In the 1960's Mrs. Mahoney began urging lawmakers to create an Institute on Aging at the N.I.H. She said the institute should concentrate on improving the quality of the lives of older Americans, not just their longevity.
        In 1972, Mrs. Mahoney persuaded Senator Thomas F. Eagleton and Representative Paul G. Rogers to sponsor a bill creating such an institute. It passed, but President Richard M. Nixon would not sign it.
        The next year, the bill was reintroduced, and Mr. Nixon, embroiled in the Watergate scandal, again would not sign the measure. But Mrs. Mahoney kept up her efforts.
        In the spring of 1974, the bill was passed a third time, and on May 31, 1974, Mr. Nixon signed it, just months before he resigned under the threat of impeachment.
        ''There would not be an Institute on Aging without Florence Mahoney,'' Mr. Eagleton said. ''She was the creator and instigator of it. I was simply her messenger.''
        Florence Amelia Sheets was born on a farm near Muncie, Ind., on April 20, 1899, the eldest of three daughters born to Abraham L. and Julia T. Stephenson Sheets. She later adopted her mother's maiden name as part of hers.
        Ms. Robinson wrote that Mrs. Mahoney remembered feeling a sense of social responsibility for the first time at age 10 when she was riding in a friend's pony cart.
        ''There was an orphans' home nearby, which we passed once,'' Ms. Robinson quoted Mrs. Mahoney as saying. ''We didn't know what it was, so one time we thought we'd stop and find out. We went in, and I'll never forget it; I can still see it. Everything was gray. Even the children were all gray. It was all so depressing. That was my first feeling of social conscience.''
        After graduating from Muncie High School in 1917, she enrolled in the Battle Creek Normal School of Physical Education in Michigan, where she studied anatomy and kinesiology. She taught physical education in Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan, and studied dance in New York with an Italian ballet master whose students included Fred Astaire. She also took medical courses.
        On Oct. 13, 1926, she married Daniel J. Mahoney, a Cox newspaper executive who became publisher of The Miami Daily News. They had two sons and divorced in 1950.
        Mrs. Mahoney moved to Washington, turning her Georgetown house into a sort of salon, where politicians and scientists discussed issues over dinner.
        Dr. Robert N. Butler, the first director of the National Institute on Aging, said that the dining room table was on the small side and that he believed it was by design, to encourage robust discussion.
        Mrs. Mahoney's house had another claim to fame. Mr. Valenti, now the president of the Motion Picture Association of America, said ''The Exorcist'' was filmed there.
        Mrs. Mahoney is survived by a son, J. Michael Mahoney of Larkspur, Calif., and grandchildren.
      