
        Lucy Grealy, the poet and essayist who wrote a noted 1994 memoir, ''Autobiography of a Face,'' about her experience growing up with extreme facial disfigurement and repeated surgery to repair it, died at a friend's house in Manhattan on Wednesday night. She was 39.
        No cause of death was announced. Friends said she had been despondent over operations she underwent two years ago.
        Reviews of her memoir stressed that it was not simply a medical history or a cry of anguish but a distinguished contribution to the literature of the self.
        In The New York Times, Margo Jefferson wrote: ''So many memoirs make you feel that you've been sealed up inside a wall with a monomaniac. A really good one, like 'Autobiography of a Face,' makes you feel there is more to ask and learn. You are not just seeing the writer; you are not trying to see yourself. You are seeing the world in a different way.''
        In the book, Ms. Grealy described how she underwent surgery at 9 for what seemed to be a dental cyst, but which led to a diagnosis of Ewing's sarcoma, a rare and virulent cancer. After several more operations, half her jaw was gone, and only flesh remained on the lower right side of her face. But with radiation and chemotherapy, she survived.
        Over the next 18 years she underwent about 30 more operations to rebuild her face. Older boys at her school would yell, ''That is the ugliest girl I have ever seen.'' She herself concluded, ''I was too ugly to go to school.''
        But she was also proud and determined, Ms. Grealy wrote.
        Lucinda Margaret Grealy, whose last name is pronounced GRAY-lee, was born in Dublin to Desmond and Trena Anne Grealy. She and her twin sister, Sarah Louise, were the youngest of five children, who included her older brothers, Sean and Nicholas, and another sister, Suellen. Her family immigrated to the United States in 1967 when she was 4.
        In addition to her twin, Sarah Louise Barasch, she is survived by her mother and two siblings who live in London, her brother Nicholas and her sister Suellen Grealy Vlaveanos.
        After settling the family in Spring Valley, N.Y., her parents saw themselves as fallen aristocrats. They had been well-known journalists in Ireland -- her father had helped found RTE, Ireland's national broadcasting organization -- and then they felt stuck in the suburbs. Mr. Grealy commuted to work as a producer for ABC and CBS in New York, while Mrs. Grealy stayed home, rearing the children.
        Ms. Grealy felt at first that by suffering heroically, ''I could save the entire family.'' But as her endless and crushingly expensive ordeal continued, she realized that her face, more than her own and her family's fortune, was her very self-image and life.
        ''When my face gets fixed, then I'll start living,'' she said she told herself.
        She graduated in 1981 from Spring Valley High School, earned a B.A. in 1985 at Sarah Lawrence College, where her interest in reading and writing poetry deepened, and in 1987 went to the Writers Workshop at the University of Iowa. She spent 1991-92 on a Bunting Fellowship at the Radcliffe Institute for Independent Study, where she completed her memoir.
        As a result of publishing her book, Ms. Grealy saw her life in a different way. She felt she had gotten her message out, that she had found herself, that her face had become acceptable, Ms. Barasch, her twin, said. The book, which sold well, was published internationally and widely adopted in high school and college curriculums. In 1995 it won Ms. Grealy a Whiting Award, given to provide financial support to young writers of exceptional talent.
        Ms. Grealy taught at Bennington College and New School University and published poetry in various magazines. In 2000 she published a second book, ''As Seen on TV,'' a collection of essays about her family and her experiences.
      