
        Virginia Hamilton, an internationally recognized writer for children whose work celebrated the African-American experience as an essential component of American life, died yesterday in Dayton, Ohio. She was 65 and lived in Yellow Springs, Ohio.
        The cause was breast cancer, said Kris Moran, director of publicity for Scholastic, Ms. Hamilton's publisher.
        Ms. Hamilton, known privately by her married name, Virginia Hamilton Adoff, wrote more than 35 books in many genres that spanned picture books and folk stories, mysteries and science fiction, realistic novels and biography. Among her best-known works are ''The People Could Fly'' (1985), ''The Planet of Junior Brown'' (1971) and ''Many Thousand Gone: African Americans From Slavery to Freedom'' (1993).
        She won a National Book Award in 1975 for her novel ''M. C. Higgins, the Great''; the book also received a Newbery award, the first to a black writer. In 1995 she became the first children's author to receive a MacArthur Foundation ''genius'' grant.
        Woven into her books is a deep concern with memory, tradition and generational legacy, especially as they helped define the lives of American blacks from the days of slavery onward. Ms. Hamilton described her work as ''liberation literature.''
        Virginia Esther Hamilton was born March 12, 1936. She grew up on the small farm in Yellow Springs that had been her family's since the 1850's;  she later returned there with her husband and children.
        She came from a family of storytellers. Ms. Hamilton's grandfather Levi Perry was born a slave in Virginia and crossed the Ohio River to freedom. Once a year, she wrote, he gathered his children around him. ''Set down,'' he would say, ''and I will tell you about slavery and why I ran, so that it will never happen to you.'' Ms. Hamilton was named Virginia in remembrance of his flight.
        After attending Antioch College and Ohio State University -- she lacked the money to complete her studies -- Ms. Hamilton moved to New York. There, while studying writing at the New School for Social Research, she met the poet Arnold Adoff, whom she married in 1960. Mr. Adoff survives her, as do two sisters, Nina Anthony, of Columbus, Ohio, and Barbara Davis, of Los Angeles; two brothers, William Hamilton, of Englewood, N.J., and Kenneth James Hamilton Jr., of Chula Vista, Calif.; a daughter, Leigh Hamilton Adoff, of Berlin, and a son, Jaime Levi Adoff, of Manhattan.
        Ms. Hamilton's first book, ''Zeely,'' appeared in 1967. At the time the few children's books about black people were mainly ''problem'' novels, which threw into sharp relief issues like segregation and poverty.
        ''Zeely'' was a radical departure. It was not that race was absent, but that it was so completely, unremarkably present. Ms. Hamilton forsook gritty urban drama for a pastoral tale of enchantment whose characters happened to be black. The novel told the story of a girl who, during a summer on her uncle's farm, is captivated by an enigmatic local woman she believes is a Watusi queen.
        Among Ms. Hamilton's many honors were an Edgar Allan Poe Award, a Coretta Scott King Award, a Hans Christian Andersen Medal and an honorary doctorate from Ohio State.
        Many of her recent books were devoted to the black oral tradition; she combed dusty archives for early manuscripts with long-forgotten songs, riddles and stories.
        The fruits of her travels included ''The People Could Fly,'' which retells slaves' traditional tales in an accessible vernacular, without the ugly misspellings historically used to render black dialect. The title story recounts: ''The one called Driver cracked his whip over the slow ones to make them move faster. That whip was a slice-open cut of pain. So they did move faster. Had to.''
        The book's carefully worded subtitle, ''American Black Folktales,'' was itself a political statement, Ms. Hamilton later recalled. Her editor had urged on her the more conventional  ''Black American Folktales.''
        ''No,'' Ms. Hamilton replied. ''They're American first and black second.''
      