
        Peggy Durdin, a foreign correspondent and writer who in the course of four decades covered almost every country in Asia, died on Feb. 12 in Encinitas, Calif. She was 92.
        Ms. Durdin, who began writing in 1938 after marrying Tillman Durdin, a longtime foreign correspondent for The New York Times, almost immediately delved into areas that at the time were rarely covered by women.
        Her articles in the early 1950's included profiles of Ramon Magsaysay, the president of the Philippines who was emerging as a new Asian leader, and Ho Chi Minh, who even then was a household word to millions of Vietnamese. She also wrote a detailed survey of Singapore, described as a ''bizarre, booming anachronism.''
        In the 60's and early 70's, her dispatches had datelines that included Afghanistan, Burma, Cambodia, Hong Kong, Japan, Laos, Pakistan, Thailand and Tonga.
        Early in her career, she was based in New Delhi as the India-Burma correspondent for Time magazine. She later contributed freelance articles to The New York Times Magazine, Life, Look, Reader's Digest, The Saturday Evening Post and The Saturday Review. She also wrote many book reviews, primarily on books about Asia, for The Times.
        Margaret Armstrong, known all her life as Peggy, was born in China, where her parents, Oscar V. and Lena Stutzman Armstrong, were Presbyterian missionaries. Her parents and their missionary friends took over her early education, and she went on to the Shanghai American School. She went to Agnes Scott College in Atlanta, where she was elected to Phi Beta Kappa.
        After graduation, she returned to the American School in Shanghai as head of the English department and remained there until her wedding, which was in Shanghai, then occupied by the Japanese. The couple moved to the Chinese wartime capital, Chungking, where their first house was bombed. When Mr. Durdin was covering Guadalcanal and New Guinea, Ms. Durdin was removed to Australia and worked in American Red Cross hostels there and in New Zealand. From 1943 to 1945, she was a political adviser to Gen. Joseph W. Stilwell.
        She returned to China for three years, from 1945 to 1948. Moving to Hong Kong, she became active in China watching, as reporting on the closed Communist country from afar was known. In 1958, she was co-editor of The Atlantic magazine's special edition on Communist China and wrote a booklet on China for the Foreign Policy Association.
        The Durdins spent time in Honolulu before returning to the mainland United States in the 70's. They were longtime residents of San Diego. Mr. Durdin died in 1998.
        Ms. Durdin is survived by her brother, Oscar V. Armstrong of Mitchellville, Md., and Edward Chen of Hong Kong, whom the Durdins informally adopted.
        Seymour Topping, a former Southeast Asia correspondent of The Times, said Ms. Durdin, with her language skills and experience, was a mentor to younger journalists like him and Theodore White.
        Mr. Topping, later the foreign editor and the managing editor of The Times and now the administrator of the Pulitzer Prizes and a professor of international journalism at Columbia University, noted in his 1972 book ''Journey Between Two Chinas'' that Ms. Durdin spoke colloquial Chinese and that she was especially unhappy when she later returned to China that the ordinary Chinese had grown afraid to talk to her.
      