
        Annalee Whitmore Fadiman, a screenwriter, World War II correspondent and the author, with Theodore H. White, of the best seller ''Thunder Out of China,'' died yesterday in Captiva, Fla. She was 85.
        Mrs. Fadiman, who as a member of the Hemlock Society supported a right to suicide, took her own life, said her daughter, Anne. Mrs. Fadiman had been suffering from breast cancer and Parkinson's disease.
        A woman successful in several careers, Mrs. Fadiman spent much of her life defying the conventions of professions dominated by men. Nancy Sorel, in her book ''The Women Who Wrote the War,'' called Mrs. Fadiman's career ''a real-life movie.'' Sidney Skolsky, the 1940's Hollywood columnist, called her ''the girl reporter of this war.''
        Annalee Whitmore was born on May 27, 1916, on the kitchen table of her family's home in Price, Utah, the eldest of four children born to Leland Whitmore, a bank president who built and flew airplanes as a hobby, and Anne Sharp Whitmore, who later became a librarian at the main branch of the New York Public Library.
        When Mr. Whitmore lost his job during the Depression, the family  moved to California and struggled to make ends meet. Ms. Whitmore attended Piedmont High School and was admitted to Stanford University in 1933 after scoring highest in the state on a college entrance exam.  She graduated in 1937, having served as the first woman to be managing editor of the Stanford Daily newspaper.
        She took a $75-a-month secretarial job at the Agricultural Adjustment Administration in San Francisco, but quit after a year when her boss asked her to type part of the manuscript of a memoir he had written.
        In 1938, she moved to Los Angeles and joined the secretarial pool at Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. When she heard that MGM needed a film to occupy Judy Garland between ''The Wizard of Oz'' and ''Babes in Arms,'' she wrote a treatment in a single weekend and became the co-writer of ''Andy Hardy Meets Debutante''(1940), with Garland and Mickey Rooney.
        With several more screenplay credits, she was offered a seven-year contract by MGM, but she dreamed of reporting in China, where war was already raging. The War Department allowed no female correspondents in China at that time, so in 1941 she landed a job as the Far East representative of a relief agency. Once in Chungking, writing speeches for Madame Chiang Kai-shek, she won a reporting job with Liberty magazine.
        She married Melville Jacoby, a Time magazine correspondent she had first met when they were both Stanford undergraduates. Keeping barely a step ahead of the advancing Japanese forces after Pearl Harbor, they eventually withdrew to Brisbane, Australia. Mr. Jacoby was killed at 25 in an airfield accident near Darwin.
        In 1944, Theodore H. White, the Time correspondent (he had been a close friend of Mr. Jacoby), finally persuaded his boss, Henry Luce, to seek War Department accreditation for Ms. Whitmore, so that she could join Mr. White in Chungking. She collaborated with him on ''Thunder Out of China,'' about China's role in the war, the strengths and weaknesses of the Kuomintang and the Communists, and the country's future. The book is still in print.
        After the war, Ms. Whitmore wrote articles, lectured widely and appeared on the radio quiz show ''Information Please,'' where she met her second husband, Clifton Fadiman, the program's M.C. and the book reviewer for The New Yorker.
        They were married in 1950, and had two children. She is survived by her daughter, of Massachusetts; a son, Kim, of Wyoming; a sister, Carol Whitmore of California; and two grandchildren. Mr. Fadiman died in 1999.
      