
        Suzanne Bloch, a musician and teacher who spurred interest in early music through her performances on the lute and other instruments, and who promoted the music of her father, Ernest Bloch, died on Jan. 29 in Manhattan, where she lived. She was 94.
        In frequent concerts beginning in the late 1930's, Ms. Bloch spread news of the lute, the delicate ancestor of the guitar that was common in Europe into the 18th century but by the 20th had become obscure. She also played the recorder and the virginal, a tiny cousin of the harpsichord, and lectured on Renaissance music at her concerts and in her classes at the Juilliard School, where she taught from 1942 to 1985.
        Her concerts were intimate affairs, attempting to recreate the music in its original, private environments. She often dressed in Renaissance costumes, which she made, and never let microphones alter the quiet, ghostly sound of the old instruments, even when she played in a place as large as Town Hall in Manhattan.
        The music she played and sang included many works that she unearthed during her frequent research missions through European libraries and conservatories.
        Ms. Bloch was born in Geneva in 1907 and moved with her family to New York in 1916, when her father began a series of conducting and teaching posts in American cities. She moved to Paris in 1925 to study music with Nadia Boulanger, and it was at an early-music concert there that she first heard the lute. ''I saw lutes being played,'' she recalled in 1987, ''but they were so soft I couldn't hear them.'' She was entranced.
        During the next decade she studied music in Paris and Berlin, and in England in 1933 she met a lute expert, Arnold Dolmetsch, who sold her an instrument from 1600 that he had restored. In 1935 she performed at the Hazelmere Festival in England, and soon moved to New York and began her concert career.
        She was largely self-taught in ancient instruments, and she pursued the field with a determination that was partly due to a rivalry with her father, said her son Anthony Smith. ''She wanted to be a composer, but her father put her down,'' he said. ''She wanted a career where her father couldn't criticize her.''
        In 1935 she married Paul Smith, a mathematics student at Harvard who had an interest in recorders and early music. He became the chairman of the mathematics department at Columbia, and in New York and Princeton, N.J., Ms. Bloch often played chamber music with prominent scientists. One participant was Albert Einstein, who sometimes irritated the other musicians by not coming in on the beat. ''He couldn't count,'' Ms. Bloch once said.
        She was the leading authority on  her father's music, and promoted it  worldwide. She would often write the program notes to concerts of his music, collected voluminous clippings about him and began, but never finished, a biography. She also founded the Ernest Bloch Society in 1967, which has held the Bay Music Festival devoted to his music every summer since 1990, in Newport, Ore. (Ernest Bloch lived on the Oregon shore from 1941 until his death in 1959.)
        In addition to Anthony, of Oakland, Calif., Ms. Bloch is survived by another son, Matthew, of Manhattan,  and a grandson, Strider, of San Francisco.
      