
        Princess Margaret, the younger sister of Queen Elizabeth II, whose troubled private life aroused both worldwide sympathy and widespread reprobation, died yesterday morning in London. She was 71.
        She suffered a stroke on Friday afternoon, the latest in a series that had left her partly paralyzed in recent months, and developed heart problems overnight, Buckingham Palace said.
        The queen announced the death ''with great sadness,'' according to a statement from the palace.
        Prime Minister Tony Blair, who is touring West Africa, said he was ''deeply saddened.''
        Attractive and fun-loving, Princess Margaret earned a reputation in her youth as a free spirit. But her 20's were clouded by an unlucky romance with Group Capt. Peter Townsend of the Royal Air Force, a Battle of Britain hero with whom she fell in love when he served as an equerry to her father, King George VI.
        A Daunting Hurdle: Divorce
        In many ways, the group captain  might have made an ideal husband. But the fact that he was divorced raised strong objections from the very establishment the royal family represented. As queen, Margaret's sister, Elizabeth, was the supreme governor of the Church of England, which forbade divorce. Moreover, in the early 1950's, the political storm surrounding Edward VIII's abdication in December 1936 to marry a twice-divorced American, Wallis Warfield Simpson, was a not-so-distant memory.
        News media scrutiny was relentless and the pressure intense on Princess Margaret, then third in line to the throne, to break off the relationship. Bowing to the demands of a moral code that a decade later would seem quaint to many people, she chose not to marry him.
        In May 1960 she married Anthony Armstrong-Jones, a photographer who was himself the child of divorced parents. Their tempestuous marriage produced two children, but ended in divorce in 1978. The princess did not remarry, but her friendships with men, from prominent people like the actor Peter Sellers to less exalted ones like Roderic Llewellyn, an upper-class drifter 17 years her junior whose main accomplishment appeared to be a talent for gardening, hurt her reputation.
        So did the fact that she was often less than gracious when faced with the drudgery of public appearances -- the ribbon-cuttings, diplomatic functions and endless other official occasions by which Britain's royals justify their position and the public money that finances it. Easily bored and often petulant, the princess was known for indulging her moods, which could swing, as Charles Hussey, a British journalist wrote in The New York Times Magazine in 1965, from ''a gaiety that was sometimes febrile'' to ''Hanoverian gloom.''
        Her extravagant style also prompted outrage. Her wedding cost the British government £25,000 -- then the equivalent of $65,000 -- and her six-week honeymoon on the royal yacht Britannia cost £40,000, or about $115,000. In later years she was criticized for demanding motorcycle escorts and government helicopters to travel around Britain.
        Yet admirers spoke warmly of her personal generosity, loyalty to the queen and to her friends, and her irreverent sense of of fun. Louis Armstrong, whose music she loved, once referred to her as ''one hip chick,'' and John Lennon playfully nicknamed her ''Priceless Margarine.''
        To many people, Princess Margaret was the black sheep of her generation of royals. But that reputation did not necessarily trouble her. According to a biographer, Theo Aronson, she once told the French poet and filmmaker Jean Cocteau, ''Disobedience is my joy.''
        Princess Margaret Rose was born on Aug. 21, 1930, at Glamis, Scotland, the second daughter of the Duke and Duchess of York, six years before her father became King George VI with the abdication of his brother, Edward VIII.
        The Family Braved the Blitz
        She was educated at home with her sister, the future Queen Elizabeth II.  During World War II, when the king and queen tried to present an image of both stoicism and good cheer to a battered nation, they rejected the suggestion that their two daughters be sent to Canada to be safe from the danger of the blitz. Instead, the two girls remained with their parents, very much in the public eye.
        But with Elizabeth clearly being groomed as the next queen, Princess Margaret was often relegated to the background. According to some courtiers, her parents tried to make up for it by indulging her. ''When my sister and I were growing up, she was made out to be the goody-goody one,'' Princess Margaret told Andrew Duncan, author of ''The Reality of Monarchy'' (1970). ''That was boring so the press tried to make out that I was wicked as hell.''
        But in threadbare postwar Britain, the press often portrayed her as a glamorous, high-spirited young woman who delighted in trips to Paris and dancing through the night in fashionable London clubs.
        After Elizabeth married Prince Philip of Greece in November 1947, Princess Margaret became one of the most eligible single women in the world, and her name was coupled with various fashionable young men.
        She first met Group Captain Townsend during the war, when he joined King George's entourage. The group captain's heroism -- he shot down 11 German planes -- was coupled with a low-key style that appealed to the king. Indeed, King George was godfather to one of his two sons by his wife, Rosemary Pawle, whom he married in 1941 and divorced in 1952 on the ground of adultery.
        His relationship with the princess grew closer after the king's death in February 1952, but it did not become public until the coronation of Elizabeth II on June 2, 1953, when Margaret, in a gesture of affection that was captured by news photographers, brushed some lint from his uniform.
        Princess Margaret was then 22 and Group Captain Townsend 38. He later wrote that their love ''took no heed of wealth and rank and all the other worldly, conventional barriers which separated us.''
        But under the Royal Marriages Act, passed in the reign of George III, Princess Margaret could not marry without the sovereign's permission. Under intense media scrutiny, the affair became as politicized as the one involving King Edward and Mrs. Simpson 16 years before. Both Winston Churchill and the queen's private secretary, Sir Alan Lascelles, advised against allowing the marriage. Pressing Group Captain Townsend to end the romance, the British government posted him to the British Embassy in Brussels as air attaché in June 1953. Princess Margaret learned of his posting while she was on a tour of Rhodesia.  After her return, the lovers kept in touch by telephone and managed to see each other secretly.
        But the government continued to oppose a marriage, and though Princess Margaret turned 25 in 1955 and was thus free to marry without the queen's consent, it was made plain to her that if she chose to marry Group Captain Townsend she would lose her royal rights and income. In October of that year, the couple met in Britain, discussed their situation, and came to a decision.
        ''I would like it to be known that I have decided not to marry Group Capt. Peter Townsend,'' Princess Margaret announced in a statement. ''Mindful of the church's teaching that Christian marriage is indissoluble, and conscious of my duty to the Commonwealth, I have resolved to put these considerations before any others.''
        Sympathetic observers later said that if the couple had been permitted to marry, the princess would have settled down to a more conventional life, like her sister. But in his 1978 autobiography, ''Time and Chance,''  Group Captain Townsend wrote, ''I simply hadn't the weight, I knew it, to counterbalance all she would have lost.''
        In 1959 the group captain married Marie Luce Jamagne, a 20-year-old Belgian. The next year, on May 6, 1960, Princess Margaret married Mr. Armstrong-Jones, also a commoner, who was given the title Earl of Snowdon.
        A photographer who made a successful career out of photographing the rich and famous, Mr. Armstrong-Jones also enjoyed the the Bohemian side of London life. He and the princess helped liven the staid image of the royal family with a touch of the Swinging Sixties.
        Garland Was Not Amused
        But Princess Margaret's love of fun and informality coexisted with a  sterner side. She insisted that she be addressed as ''Ma'am,'' except for her closest friends, who were permitted to call her ''Ma'am darling.'' As a houseguest she was notoriously demanding. At parties she often objected if other guests ignored royal protocol and left before her. Even her children were expected to refer to her as ''Princess Margaret'' in front of visitors. So did her husband,  though he was said to have called her Ducky in private.
        The haughty manner alienated many friends. Mr. Aronson relates in ''Princess Margaret'' (1977) how at a party in Beverly Hills she once told Judy Garland through an intermediary that she would like to hear her sing. Angered by the form of the request, Miss Garland replied, ''Tell her I'll sing if she christens a ship first.''
        Although the princess and her husband appeared to have a happy family life, by the late 1960's there were nasty public quarrels. This, coupled with an often ill-concealed irritability at official functions and a love of reveling, brought growing public ridicule.
        Increasingly resentful of life in the public eye, Lord Snowdon began to spend more time away from the princess, working abroad on photographic projects, sometimes in the company of attractive young women. Princess Margaret also went her own way. She was linked romantically with Anthony Barton, a friend of her husband, and then had a relationship with Robin Douglas-Home, an aristocrat and former army officer who was the nephew of a former prime minister and played the piano in nightclubs.
        In February 1967, when the British press began reporting that the royal couple were about to break up, Lord Snowdon, who was working overseas, and Princess Margaret arranged to meet in New York and fly on to the Bahamas, trying to give the impression that nothing was amiss. Shortly afterward, Princess Margaret wrote to Mr. Douglas-Home breaking off the affair. Eighteen months later he committed suicide.
        Although the royal couple had made a show of togetherness and were often photographed with their children -- David Albert Charles Armstrong-Jones (Viscount Linley) and Sarah Frances Elizabeth Armstrong-Jones (Lady Sarah Chatto) -- their relations continued to deteriorate.
        At Home on a Caribbean Isle
        Princess Margaret was often seen in the company of famous men, including Mr. Sellers. She also began to spend more time on the Caribbean island of Mustique, where a friend, Colin Tenant, had given her land as a wedding present and where she built a vacation home known as Les Jolies-Eaux.
        In September 1973, at a luncheon in Edinburgh, she met the 25-year-old  Roderic Llewellyn, who soon became a favorite companion. The son of minor nobility, Mr. Llewellyn had worked briefly at a mine in southern Africa and as an apprentice brewer in England. Five months after meeting Princess Margaret he spent three weeks as her guest in Mustique. Although their relationship was soon an open secret in royal circles. the queen, according to Mr. Aronson, was said to have disapproved of Mr. Llewellyn and what she called ''my sister's guttersnipe life.'' But the liaison remained unknown to the public.
        Then in February 1976 a news photographer's picture of the couple together on the island caused a scandal. In March the royal family announced that Lord Snowdon and Princess Margaret were separating.
        Meanwhile, the relationship between the princess and Mr. Llewellyn set off a storm in Parliament. When Mr. Llewellyn was hospitalized with stomach problems during a trip to the Caribbean in March 1978, reports that the princess went to his bedside prompted critics to demand that her royal allowance -- then more than $100,000 a year -- be cut. The battle was played out in the newspapers, with some calling for her to end her relationship with Mr. Llewellyn and take her work more seriously, and others writing in her defense.
        Although she was patron of more than 80 charities and organizations, colonel in chief of the Highland Fusiliers of Canada and president of the Royal Ballet, there was increasing resentment of her approach to her duties. Critics complained that the number of her public appearances, which had once averaged 150 a year, had dwindled to well below 100. Some Labor members of Parliament called her an embarrassment to the monarchy.
        Then in May, while she was hospitalized with hepatitis, Kensington Palace, where she lived, issued a statement announcing her divorce, an action that ended a 400-year-old taboo on divorce in the royal family.
        In the fall, Princess Margaret, on an official visit to Tuvalu in the South Pacific, became ill and had to be flown to Sydney, Australia, for treatment. That December, a month after her return to Britain, Lord Snowdon married Lucy Lindsay-Hogg, who had been married to a film director.
        Princess Margaret's traumatic private life had long taken a toll on her health. She smoked heavily and her enthusiasm for Scotch sometimes shocked her companions. In 1974, according to Mr. Aronson, she suffered a nervous breakdown.
        The princess herself remained reticent about her private life. ''I have no intention of telling people what I have for breakfast,'' she once said.
        Sometimes, however, she had a penchant for saying the wrong thing. In October 1979, six weeks after Earl Mountbatten was killed by Irish Republican Army terrorists, she angered many Irish-Americans while on a visit to Chicago, reportedly declaring in the presence of Mayor Jane Byrne that the Irish were ''pigs.''
        But she could also be quite gracious. In 1980, when Mr. Llewellyn told her that he was breaking off their relationship to marry Tatiania Soskin, a fashion designer, she assured the younger couple she would be happy to attend their wedding, and she remained friends with both.
        Lunch With an Old Lover
        As the 1980's progressed, public interest turned to the romantic travails of the next generation of royals. Two of the queen's three sons -- Charles, the Prince of Wales, and Andrew, the Duke of York -- married and divorced under the glare of relentless publicity. Anne, the princess royal and the queen's only daughter, was permitted to divorce her husband, Capt. Mark Philips, and in 1992 married a royal equerry.
        Through the years the princess  had corresponded with Peter Townsend and in 1992, while he was on a rare visit to Britain, she invited him to lunch at Kensington Palace attended by several other people. The 77-year-old group captain and the 61-year-old princess sat and ''chatted like the old friends they were.'' Group Captain Townsend died in Paris in 1995.
        It was often speculated how different her life might have been had the two been allowed to marry.
        ''In my opinion, this was the turning point to disaster for the royal family,'' said Harold Brooks-Baker, publishing director of Burke's Peerage, at the time of Group Captain  Townsend's death. ''After Princess Margaret was denied marriage, it backfired and more or less ruined Margaret's life. The queen decided that from then on, anyone someone in her family wanted to marry would be more or less acceptable. The royal family and the public now feel that they've gone too far in the other direction.''
        Princess Margaret is survived by her son, Lord Linley, her daughter, Lady Sarah, and three grandchildren.
        As she grew older, the princess  lived less in the public eye. ''They leave me alone these days,'' Mr. Aronson quoted her as saying. ''Today they have other fish to fry.''
        Correction:  February 15, 2002, Friday  Because of an editing error, a television review on Feb. 4 about ''Bertie and Elizabeth,'' a ''Masterpiece Theater'' presentation on the life of Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, misstated the policy of the Church of England on divorce, a factor in the abdication of her brother-in-law King Edward VIII, who became the Duke of Windsor. An obituary of her daughter Princess Margaret on Sunday also included the error. The church does not forbid divorce. It revokes the right to marry in a parish church while a former spouse is living. But even then, depending on circumstances, a priest can allow a church wedding.
      