
        Elisabeth Mann Borgese, a multifaceted writer, defender of marine resources and founder of the International Oceans Institute based in Malta, died on Feb. 8 while on vacation in St. Moritz, Switzerland. She was 83 and lived in Halifax, Nova Scotia.
        Professor Borgese was the last surviving child of Thomas Mann. She was a pianist by training, a multilingual political scientist and a writer of fiction and of oceanic yearbooks.
        She helped organize the international Peace in the Oceans Conference of 1970, the first of 30 such meetings worldwide. She was an enduring presence at those gatherings, which brought about the United Nations Law of the Seas treaty in 1982.
        Elisabeth Mann was born in Munich, the second youngest of three girls and three boys of Thomas and Katia Pringsheim Mann. (W. H. Auden became her brother-in-law when the poet married her sister Erika to provide her with a British passport.)
        Hoping to become a musician, Elisabeth studied the piano and cello, receiving a diploma from the Conservatory of Music in Zurich in 1938.
        The Mann family had left Germany after Hitler came to power, moving first to Switzerland and, in 1938, to the United States. In 1939, Elisabeth married Giuseppe A. Borgese, a professor 36 years her senior who had fled Fascist Italy; he died in 1952.
        She became a United States citizen in 1941 but took Canadian citizenship in 1983. She worked as an editor and researcher in Chicago, including two years as executive secretary of the board of the Encyclopedia Britannica in the mid-1960's.
        She served as a senior fellow at the Center for the Study of Democratic Institutions in Santa Barbara, Calif., before joining the faculty at Dalhousie University in Halifax in 1979, first as a political science professor and later as an adjunct law professor.
        In the 1970's, Professor Borgese formed the International Oceans Institute, which has since grown to 20 centers.
        She is survived by two daughters, Angelica Borgese of Manhattan and Turkey, and Dr. Domenica Borgese of Milan; a son, Marcel Deschamps of Halifax; three grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      