
        Mary Stuart, a veteran actress and pioneer of soap operas who spent 35 years as the star of one daytime series built around her, died on Thursday at her home in New York. She was 76.
        She died after a stroke, but had been ill with gastric cancer and bone cancer, her family said.
        Legions of fans lived with and felt they knew her two most famous characters, Joanne Gardner Barron Tate Vincente Tourneur on ''Search for Tomorrow,'' and Meta Bauer on ''The Guiding Light.''
        Ms. Stuart, whose original name was Mary Houchins, was born in Miami and grew up in Tulsa, Okla. She started performing in early childhood. When she was 9, Count Basie's orchestra came through town, and held a contest to find a young female singer to perform with them. They chose Ms. Stuart, and she sang ''Little Girl Blue'' at two of their shows, said her husband, Wolfgang Neumann, an architect. The shows were late, so the band provided a cot backstage so she could sleep between sets.
        The story of her rise to stardom resembles a Hollywood fantasy. At 17 she hitchhiked to New York, working at various jobs to support herself. For a little while she was a booking agent for an airline. ''Her sense of geography was absolutely abysmal,'' Mr. Neumann said. ''She didn't last long there.''
        She became a hat-check and cigarette girl at the Roosevelt Hotel, where she met the film producer Joe Pasternak, who offered her a screen test. Her nerves got the better of her at the audition, her husband said, and Mr. Pasternak reportedly told her: ''You can't sing, you can't walk, but there is something that you have. Let's find out what it is.''
        She spent the next few years working in movies in Hollywood, mostly in small parts, but sometimes with an icon of 1940's cinema. She appeared in more than 20 films, including ''The Girl From Jones Beach'' with Ronald Reagan, ''The Adventures of Don Juan'' with Errol Flynn and ''This Time for Keeps'' with Esther Williams.
        After a few years, she returned to New York. ''She realized she wasn't cut out for Hollywood,'' her husband said. ''It was too ruthless.''
        In 1951, she won the role of Jo in a new CBS soap opera, ''Search for Tomorrow,'' and played the long-suffering Joanne until 1986, when the show, which had moved to NBC, went off the air.
        When not acting, Ms. Stuart read to children in the public schools of New York as part of a program called Book PALS (Performing Artists for Literacy in Schools), a program of the Screen Actors Guild Foundation to encourage children to read for pleasure. She started the New York chapter of the program in 1992. She also started a a Reading Club in 1996 for 4th and 5th graders in six schools. Today, more than 3,300 children in 10 schools are members. Nationally, the program is in 18 cities.
        Her character on ''Search for Tomorrow'' endured many hardships and husbands, but remained noble and dignified throughout them, and broke new ground along the way. She was the first daytime actress to have her pregnancy written into the plot. The producers even filmed Ms. Stuart at the hospital after she gave birth to her son in 1956.
        ''They filmed her in her hospital bed, to satisfy the fans and let them share in her happiness,'' said Mary Alice Dwyer-Dobbin, executive in charge of Procter & Gamble Productions.
        Her son's career on the show was short-lived, however. Within a few days his character was killed off in an accident, much to the horror of his mother and the viewers. ''She really played the death of her son,'' said her daughter, Cynthia, ''and it was too painful for viewers to watch.''
        Ms. Stuart was married twice before. In addition to her husband, daughter and son, Jeffrey Krolik of California, she is survived by two grandchildren.
        For some of her fans her character was real. ''It was just like famìly,'' said Theresa Cristalli, who watched ''Search for Tomorrow''  from the very beginning. ''You keep watching day after day. I got hooked on them.''
        Ms. Stuart was as loyal to her fans as they were to her. She responded to as much of her fan mail as she could, her daughter said. She even befriended some; she invited Ms. Cristalli and a friend to view the last taping of the show in 1986, and they kept in touch through cards and letters over the years.
        Correction:  March 6, 2002, Wednesday  An obituary of the soap opera star Mary Stuart on Sunday misstated her age. She was 75, not 76.
      