
        Shirley Scott, a jazz organist who recorded dozens of albums from the 1950's to the 90's, earning her the nickname ''Queen of the Organ,'' died on Sunday at a hospital in Philadelphia. She was 67 and lived in West Chester, Pa.
        The cause was heart disease brought on by the diet drug known as fen-phen, said Everett Yancey, her son.
        Ms. Scott had sued both American Home Products, now known as Wyeth, the manufacturer of one of the drug's components, and the doctor who prescribed it to her. In February 2000 a Philadelphia jury awarded her $8 million.
        She had begun using fen-phen in 1995 and within two years developed extensive heart and lung problems, Mr. Yancey said..
        Ms. Scott emerged in the mid-1950's, the golden age of Hammond B3 organ jazz, with a quick, punchy sound that merged bebop, gospel and the blues. She had a lighter touch than Jimmy Smith, the leading organist in jazz, and relied on the blues less heavily than he did. In her groups with the saxophonists Eddie  Davis, known as Lockjaw, and Stanley Turrentine, to whom she was married for a number of years, Ms. Scott produced some of the most influential recordings in the smoother, more pop-oriented soul-jazz style.
        Her recorded output was great, with more than 50 albums as a leader to her credit, most on the Prestige and Impulse labels. Her first recordings were with Davis, and she played with him on a number of classics, including his ''Cookbook'' albums and the 1958 hit song ''In the Kitchen.''
        In 1960 she married Turrentine and made a number of albums with him over the next decade, including ''Soul Shoutin','' ''Blue Flames'' and ''Hip Soul.'' Their music together was often intense, but Ms. Scott also recorded plenty of easygoing tracks, often including show tunes and pop covers like the Beatles' ''Can't Buy Me Love.''
        A lifelong Philadelphian, Ms. Scott continued to play clubs in the city into the 90's, though she eventually switched to piano.
        In the 90's she also began teaching jazz history and piano at Cheyney University in Cheyney, Pa., and worked as the musical director for Bill Cosby's short-lived television quiz show, ''You Bet Your Life.''
        In addition to Mr. Yancey, of Philadelphia, she is survived by her son Thomas, also of Philadelphia; three daughters, Lisa Turrentine, of West Chester, Pa., and Pamela and Nicole Turrentine, of Philadelphia; nine grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      