
        Rosetta LeNoire, a theatrical producer and a pioneer of nontraditional casting who also played the sweet, all-knowing Mother Winslow on the television show ''Family Matters,'' died on Sunday in Teaneck, N.J. She was 90.
        She lived at the Actors' Fund Nursing and Retirement Home in Englewood, N.J., after spending most of her life in the Bronx, said Donna Trinkoff, producing director of the Amas Musical Theater. Miss LeNoire founded Amas, a nonprofit theater group, in 1968, partly to promote interracial casting. The company produced hits including ''Bubbling Brown Sugar.''
        Miss LeNoire's life coincided with glittering moments in show business. Her godfather was Bill Robinson, the tap dancer known as Bojangles, and her music teacher was the jazz pianist and composer Eubie Blake. She was directed by Orson Welles in his all-black version of ''Macbeth'' in the 1930's.
        She acted in some of the earliest television shows, and once joked that she seemed to play every maid's role on Broadway.
        Perhaps as a result, she was an early and effective advocate of expanding opportunities for minority performers to act in plays and musicals. In 1989, her friend Colleen Dewhurst, who was then president of Actors' Equity, chose Miss LeNoire as the first recipient of what became the union's annual award for broadening participation in theater. The award was named for her.
        ''Rosetta created nontraditional casting before the phrase itself was created,'' The New York Beacon, a newspaper with a largely black readership, said in 1997.
        In 1999, President Clinton lauded her long fight against discrimination as he presented her with the National Medal of the Arts, one of her many honors.
        ''Rosetta did more than dream of a theater with no color bar -- she actually built one,'' he said.
        Miss LeNoire, whose name was originally Rosetta Burton, was born in 1911 in the Hell's Kitchen neighborhood in Manhattan. Her paternal grandfather played the organ for five churches in the West Indies, and her father was one of the first black plumbers and electricians licensed by New York State.
        When she was a child, her mother died of pneumonia at the age of 27 after giving birth to her brother in a Harlem hospital corridor because segregated policies barred her from a room. Rosetta was crippled with rickets, a result of vitamin deprivation, and when she was 7 doctors broke her legs so the bones could grow properly.
        Mr. Robinson, a member of the Elks Club with her father, volunteered to become godfather of the girl he called Brown Sugar. At 13, when her leg braces came off, she began music lessons with Mr. Blake, who told her to ''look up and be proud of yourself.'' When she was 15, she became a chorus girl with the Time Steppers, Mr. Robinson's troupe.
        A marriage to an elevator operator ended in divorce. She then married Egbert Brown, who owned a fleet of cabs; he died after 26 years of marriage.
        She is survived by her son, William, of Manahawkin, N.J.; her sister, Mary A. Francis of Palm Coast, Fla.; her brothers, Wilmote Burton of the Bronx, and Warren Burton of Palm Coast; two grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        Study at a government-sponsored Works Progress Administration program at a theater on the Lower East Side led to a role in the all-black version of ''Macbeth,'' which Orson Welles was producing in Harlem. She toured with the production.
        ''Good lord! He was a delegate from heaven,'' she said of Mr. Welles. ''He was the only one who had faith that blacks could bring the right dignity and sophistication to Shakespeare.''
        Later she joined the Robert Earl Jones Theater Group. In addition to acting, she cared for Mr. Jones's infant son, James Earl Jones.
        She made her Broadway debut in 1939 in ''The Hot Mikado,'' an all-black version of the operetta.
        ''It was something,'' she said. ''There were 125 of us, all black Japanese.''
        Her other theater credits include ''A Streetcar Named Desire,'' ''The Sunshine Boys,'' ''Lost in the Stars,'' ''Cabin in the Sky'' and ''Sophie.'' She played the role of Stella in ''Anna Lucasta'' in 1944, toured with the show and starred in the 1958 film version, with Sammy Davis Jr. and Eartha Kitt. Her other movie credits include ''Moscow on the Hudson,'' Playing for Keeps'' and ''Brewster's Millions.''
        She worked in television during its experimental days, and later appeared in ''Search for Tomorrow,'' ''The Guiding Light,'' ''Amen'' and ''A World Apart. She played Nell Carter's mother, Mama, on NBC's ''Gimme a Break'' and was Mother Winslow on ABC's ''Family Matters'' for eight years.
        Eight years after founding Amas, she added a children's theatrical course to its program. (Amas is a form of the verb ''to love'' in Latin.) The company's hits included ''Bojangles'' and ''Bubbling Brown Sugar,'' a Tony nominee in 1976.
        ''I produce musicals,'' she said. ''Music is one avenue where no one seems to have any discriminatory attitudes.''
      