
        Robin Anderson, an Australian filmmaker whose award-winning documentaries ranged from examinations of tribal life in Papua New Guinea to social and political controversies in Australia, died here on March 8. She was 51.
        The cause was cancer, her family said.
        With her husband, Bob Connolly, Ms. Anderson made five full-length films on difficult, seemingly unpromising issues, each of which took several years to film.
        The latest, ''Facing the Music'' (2001), about student and employee campaigns at Sydney University to defend the music faculty against being dismantled by financial cutbacks, received its premiere at the Sydney Film Festival in June on the day after Ms. Anderson's illness had been diagnosed as fatal. She lived long enough to know that a private benefactor who saw the film offered money to save the music school.
        Ms. Anderson, born in Perth, Western Australia, earned a degree in economics in Australia before receiving a master's in sociology from Columbia University. After two years in New York, she returned to Australia as a television researcher and married Mr. Connolly, a director of documentaries and profiles of rural life for public television.
        In addition to her husband, Ms. Anderson is survived by her brother, Michael, and her daughters Katherine, 14, and Joanna, 10.
        The first Anderson-Connolly film, ''First Contact,'' made from 1980 to '82, was nominated for an Academy Award. It introduced the couple and their audiences to remote regions of Papua New Guinea.
        The film's success led the team to make ''Joe Leahy's Neighbors'' (1989), about the political and cultural struggles of a mixed-race coffee planter, and ''Black Harvest'' (1992), about land and money disputes and their escalation into tribal warfare.
        The films established the team's international reputation, with each one winning a major prize at the Cinéma du Réel festival, which honors documentaries.
        Their best-known work, assembled from hundreds of hours of candid film, was ''Rats in the Ranks'' (1996), an often hilarious close-up look at small-town political infighting. Reviewing the film for The New York Times, Janet Maslin said that ''Rats in the Ranks'' appreciates ''the dauntless energy and sheer Shakespearean conniving it takes to stay afloat'' in the ''shark-infested waters'' of local politics.
      