
        Luise Rinser, a schoolteacher who faced execution by the Nazis and lived to write about it, becoming one of the most celebrated and politically engaged authors in Germany, died last Sunday at a retirement home in Upper Bavaria. She was 90 and had lived for many years in Rome.
        A best-selling novelist, diarist, short-story writer and political essayist, Ms. Rinser published about 30 books. Her works sold more than five million copies in 24 languages.
        Her ''Gefängnistagebuch'' proved to be a particularly enduring success. First published in 1946, it appeared in the United States in 1987, under the title ''A Woman's Prison Journal: Germany 1944'' (Schocken).
        When originally published, the book presented a rare -- and harrowing -- account of prison life in Nazi Germany from a woman's point of view. In a foreword, Ms. Rinser insisted that she was merely stating facts, but reviewers judged her vivid portraits of fellow inmates to be literature of a high order as well.
        The other prisoners ranged from Jehovah's Witnesses to petty thieves, from discarded wives and mistresses to political prisoners. A political prisoner herself, she suffered separation from her two fatherless children and endured near starvation and constant abuse.
        Another early work, ''Jan Lobel From Warsaw'' (1948), published in Britain in 1991, was among the earliest literary treatments of the Holocaust. Shunning pathos and psychological interpretations, the book sketches the lives of two women hiding a Polish Jew from the Nazis.
        Luise Rinser was born in Pitzling, Bavaria. She studied psychology and pedagogy at the University of Munich and received a teacher's certificate in 1934.
        She started writing while teaching grade school; her first book, ''Rings of Glass,'' a coming-of-age novel, was published in Berlin in 1941. It was a success, but her refusal to join the Nazi Party or any of its affiliates led to her ouster from the writers' guild in 1942.
        A second edition of her book was blocked; she was under Schreibverbot, an edict forbidding her to write. She also had to resign her teaching position and was barred from public employment.
        In 1934 Ms. Rinser married Horst Günther Schnell, an orchestra conductor, and they had two sons, Christoph and Stephan. Her husband died on the Russian front in 1942 while serving in a penitentiary unit.
        A friend denounced Ms. Rinser as a traitor in 1944, and a Nazi tribunal found her guilty of high treason for interfering with the ability of the armed forces to fight. She was sent to a women's prison under a death sentence. The arrival of American soldiers at the war's end saved her life.
        Among her most successful books were ''Daniela'' (1953), ''The Scapegoat'' (1954), ''The Middle of Life'' (1950), published as ''Nina'' by Regnery in 1956, ''Mirjam'' (1983) and ''Abelard's Love'' (1991), which was reissued by the University of Nebraska Press in 1996 and remains in print.
        Often her public stands courted controversy, like her sympathy for the North Korean leader Kim Il Sung, who died in 1994.
        She campaigned against militarism and the arms race as well as for abortion rights and Chancellor Willy Brandt's Ostpolitik. In 1984 she was the Green Party candidate for president of West Germany, a hopeless campaign against the highly popular winner, Richard von Weizsäcker.
        In 1953, her love of music led her into a second marriage, to the composer Carl Orff. They were divorced a few years later because, she said, the marriage stifled her creativity.
        In her prison journal, Ms. Rinser wrote that she used the experience to rid herself of bourgeois perceptions. ''I have never seen life as I'm getting to see it here: naked, ugly, tough, but unfaked and real,'' she wrote. ''If ever I return to normal life I shall be transformed.''
      