
        Eileen Farrell, the American dramatic soprano who built a devoted following among the public through her frequent television appearances and was credited with the first successful crossover album, ''I've Got a Right to Sing the Blues,'' in 1960, died on Saturday in Park Ridge, N.J. She was 82.
        She lived in Cliffside Park, N.J., but was taken to a nursing home in Park Ridge last week as circulatory ailments worsened.
        From the start, Ms. Farrell was determined to have a singing career on her own terms. Her attitude exasperated many opera buffs, particularly Wagner fans, who heard in her enormous voice the Isolde and Brünnhilde of the future. She sang those roles tantalizingly in excerpted concert performances of ''Tristan und Isolde'' and ''Götterdämmerung'' with the New York Philharmonic conducted by Leonard Bernstein, but never sang them in the opera house.
        Ms. Farrell's belated debut in opera came in 1956, when she appeared as Santuzza in ''Cavalleria Rusticana'' in Tampa, Fla. For her long-awaited Metropolitan Opera debut in 1960 she sang the title role of Gluck's ''Alceste'' in a new production. The ovation she received, with 22 curtain calls, created an ''ear-splitting din,'' said an account in The Saturday Review. But her association with the Met lasted only five years, and she was underutilized.
        The problems stemmed partly from her chilly relationship with Rudolf Bing, the Met's autocratic general manager. Bing, who was never comfortable with easygoing American personalities, found Ms. Farrell's irreverence hard to deal with. Down-to-earth and plain-spoken, she liked hanging out with the stagehands and was fond of trading off-color jokes. She did not help herself by publicly dismissing the genre of opera in several interviews, once describing Leonora in ''Il Trovatore'' as ''a real nothing.''
        Tough and stout of frame, Ms. Farrell was comfortable with herself and confident onstage. But she was impatient with the pretentiousness of the opera world and never embraced it fully. Her work in popular music, radio and television also tainted her in the eyes of many impresarios, though today a singer with such media appeal would be prized by any opera company.
        If Ms. Farrell never fulfilled her potential in opera, she had an important career as a recitalist and vocal soloist with orchestras. One of her lasting contributions to opera is the recording of a now-historic 1951 Carnegie Hall concert performance of Berg's ''Wozzeck'' with the New York Philharmonic conducted by Dimitri Mitropoulos, with Ms. Farrell as a searing Marie and Mack Harrell in the title role.
        Ms. Farrell was renowned for the sheer size of her voice. Harold C. Schonberg of The New York Times once remarked that Ms. Farrell, singing in Carnegie Hall, could probably be heard in downtown Newark. In his book ''The American Opera Singer,'' the critic Peter G. Davis recounts a story of Ms. Farrell's first performances with the powerhouse tenor Franco Corelli in ''La Forza del Destino'' in Philadelphia. After one duet, Mr. Corelli raced offstage shouting in Italian: ''Who is this woman? She has made me deaf!''
        Though at full volume Ms. Farrell's voice could fill any opera house, her sound was never strident or forced. She could modulate her voice beautifully to float lovely pianissimos that still had a penetrating warmth and vibrancy. Her vocal technique was solid, complete with quite passable coloratura agility for bel canto roles like Queen Elizabeth in Donizetti's ''Maria Stuarda,'' which she sings memorably opposite Beverly Sills in the title role on a recently reissued 1971 recording. When Ms. Farrell sang pop and jazz standards, she deftly adapted her voice, dipping into a contraltolike low register and bending phrases with smoky lyricism and clear, natural diction.
        Ms. Farrell was born on Feb. 13, 1920, in Willimantic, Conn. Her parents were vaudeville performers, Catherine and Michael, the Singing O'Farrells, as they often called themselves. From them Ms. Farrell received her early musical training. Later she studied in New York with Merle Alcock, a Met contralto, and Eleanor McLellan, a vocal and opera coach. Her career began in 1940 when, just 20, she had her own weekly CBS radio program, ''Eileen Farrell Presents,'' in which she offered listeners a populist repertory of arias and light classical works with Irish ballads and Broadway standards mixed in.
        The program lasted seven years, by which time Ms. Farrell's voice was one of the most recognized in the United States. All her life she prized a tape recording she had of herself and Frank Sinatra, in a guest appearance on her show, singing ''People Will Say We're in Love.''
        In 1946 she married a New York police officer, Robert Reagan. He died in 1986. She is survived by their children, Robert Jr., of Boynton Beach, Fla., and Kathleen Reagan of Washington Township, N.J.; and her brother, John, of Newburyport, Mass.
        The conductor Leopold Stokowski gave a boost to Ms. Farrell's classical career when, having heard her sing on radio, he invited her to record Wagner's ''Wesendonk'' lieder with him. Stokowski was on the podium when Ms. Farrell made her New York Philharmonic debut in 1949. In 1950 Mitropoulos, eager to reach audiences beyond Carnegie Hall, asked Ms. Farrell to join him for some concerts at the Roxy Theater, an old vaudeville house that had become a movie palace, singing programs of light classics and arias.
        In the 1950's, when Ms. Farrell had all the concert engagements she could possibly want and was enjoying her regular work with the Bach Aria Group, a respected New York ensemble, she stumbled into one of her greatest popular successes: providing the singing voice for the actress Eleanor Parker in the 1955 film ''Interrupted Melody,'' the story of Marjorie Lawrence, the opera star, and her battle with cancer. The soundtrack covered repertory from Isolde's ''Liebestod'' to Butterfly's ''Un bel dì'' to ''Waltzing Matilda.'' A subsequent recording was a top seller.
        The same year as her 1956 opera debut in Tampa, Ms. Farrell made her San Francisco Opera debut in ''Il Trovatore'' with Jussi Bjorling, returning in 1958 as Cherubini's ''Medea,'' a landmark performance of a work then little-known. After her Met debut she returned in ''La Gioconda,'' ''La Forza del Destino,'' ''Cavalleria'' and ''Andrea Chénier,'' the last with Mr. Corelli and Robert Merrill, one of Ms. Farrell's best pals at the Met, she used to say.
        During these years, though, she continued to appear frequently on the television variety shows of Garry Moore, Jonathan Winters and Carol Burnett, among others. She would sing, chat and take part in sketches.
        In the mid-1970's Ms. Farrell cut back on performing and began teaching classical and popular voice at Indiana State University.
        Reflecting on her work in her 1999 autobiography, ''Can't Help Singing,'' written with Brian Kellow, a critic and the features editor of Opera News, Ms. Farrell wrote: ''In some ways I'm not sure I was suited to the career I had -- nothing in my background had really prepared me for how to handle it. I'm so grateful that most of the time I was able to keep it at arm's length.''
        Correction:  March 26, 2002, Tuesday  An obituary of the dramatic soprano Eileen Farrell yesterday misidentified the university where she taught voice in the 1970's. It was Indiana University at Bloomington, not Indiana State.
        The obituary also misstated the illness central to the plot of the film ''Interrupted Melody,'' in which Ms. Farrell provided the singing voice for the actress Eleanor Parker, as the soprano Marjorie Lawrence. The film depicted Ms. Lawrence's battle with polio, not cancer.
        Correction:  April 1, 2002, Monday  An obituary of the dramatic soprano Eileen Farrell on Monday misstated the origin of the old Roxy Theater in New York, where she gave some concerts in 1950. It was built as a movie palace; it had not been a vaudeville house.
      