
        Dorothy DeLay, one of the world's most famous teachers of the violin and a mentor to two generations of players ranging from Itzhak Perlman to Midori and Sarah Chang, died on Sunday. She was 84 and lived in Upper Nyack, N.Y.
        Miss DeLay, as her students continued to call her even after they became star performers, began her teaching career almost as an afterthought in 1947, when she was a student of Ivan Galamian at the Juilliard School. Accepting a handful of invitations for part-time teaching and assistantships at the Henry Street Settlement, the Juilliard School and Sarah Lawrence College led her to realize that she enjoyed teaching more than she enjoyed performing.
        For more than 20 years she worked largely in Galamian's shadow, but in the 1970's she became a sought-after teacher in her own right, and became the first woman -- and the first American-born violnist -- to be regarded as a master violin teacher in the tradition of Galamian and Leopold Auer.
        The list of students who became famous soon after leaving her studio quickly blossomed starting in the 1970's. In addition to Mr. Perlman, Midori and Ms. Chang, they include Nadja Salerno-Sonnenberg, Nigel Kennedy, Gil Shaham, Shlomo Mintz and Cho-Liang Lin. Also among her pupils are members and often founders of some of the world's great chamber groups, among them the Juilliard, the Tokyo, the Cleveland, the Vermeer, the Takacs and the Ying Quartets. Others like Joseph Swenson and Peter Oundjian became conductors and many became concertmasters and section players in orchestras around the world as well as members of conservatory faculties. At the Juilliard School, the faculty includes 14 of her former students.
        Miss DeLay was as well known for her easygoing, direct manner and her homey advice as she was for the demanding five-hour practice regimen she recommended in which full hours were devoted to technical basics, etudes, repertory pieces, concertos and works by Bach but also in which 10-minute breaks between hours were allowed. Instead of imposing her views about the great violin repertory on her pupils, she encouraged them to discuss their own interpretive ideas. If they appeared to be on the wrong path, she would gently steer them right. Some of her former students described her work in Zen-like terms.
        ''I think the greatest things about Dorothy DeLay,'' Ms. Salerno-Sonnenberg said in a 1992 interview, ''is that she has the ability to look at a young student or an old student and pretty much size up their character and the way that they think -- their personality, basically -- and how in a short period of time what's the best door to use to get them into here. And that's her method -- that fact that there is really no method.''
        Yet Miss DeLay's easygoing manner was not to be taken entirely at face value. Having molded dozens of top-flight soloists, she also became an important power broker in the music business. Conductors and managers trusted her advice.
        Dorothy DeLay was born on March 31, 1917, in Medicine Lodge, Kan. Her parents were both musicians and teachers. She later described the household as strict and religious and said that her mother briefly toured the country with Carry Nation, campaigning against alcohol. Miss DeLay began playing the violin when she was 4 and gave a recital at her church when she was 5. When she was 16, she enrolled at the Oberlin Conservatory in Ohio, where she studied the violin with Raymond Cerf, a student of the Belgian virtuoso and composer Eugène Ysaye.
        After a year Miss DeLay transferred to Michigan State University, after her parents decided that they did not want her to study solely music. But the violin remained her focus, and after her graduation in 1937, when she was 20, she moved to New York and enrolled at the Juilliard School to continue her studies with Louis Persinger, Hans Letz and Felix Salmond. As a student, Miss DeLay supported herself by working as a baby sitter and playing the violin in restaurants, at weddings and in Broadway theater orchestras. But she also began performing as a recitalist and in a chamber ensemble, the Stuyvesant Trio, which included her sister Nellis, a cellist, and Helen Brainard, a pianist; and she toured Latin America as a member of Leopold Stokowski's All-American Youth Orchestra.
        During a cross-country train journey at the end of the All-American Youth Orchestra tour in 1940, Miss DeLay met Edward Newhouse, a novelist and short story writer for The New Yorker. They were married early in 1941 after a courtship of four months. Mr. Newhouse survives Miss DeLay, as do their son, Jeffrey Newhouse, of Bronxville, and their daughter, Alison Dinsmore, of Boston, as well as four grandchildren.
        Miss DeLay continued touring as a soloist and with the Stuyvesant Trio after her marriage, but by the mid-1940's she decided that she did not like performing. She briefly considered studying medicine but decided instead to return to the Juilliard School in 1946 for more violin studies. Her teacher was Galamian; two years later she became his assistant, both at Juilliard and at the summer camp he had established in 1944, Meadowmount.
        It was Galamian's devotion to teaching that inspired Miss DeLay to give it a try. She maintained her association with the Juilliard School for the rest of her life and taught at Sarah Lawrence College from 1947 to 1987. Her other teaching associations included Meadowmount, Aspen, the University of Cincinnati, the Philadelphia College of the Performing Arts, the New England Conservatory, and the Royal College of Music in London.
        By the late 1960's Miss DeLay's relationship with Galamian became strained, partly because of growing differences in their teaching methods and philosophies. But there were personal tensions as well, and their relationship ruptured entirely in 1970 when Miss DeLay telephoned Galamian to say that she would teach the following summer at Aspen instead of at his Meadowmount school. Galamian never spoke with Miss DeLay again, and when his demand that the Juilliard School fire her was not met, he told students who were working with both of them that they had to make a choice. Among those who chose Miss DeLay was Mr. Perlman.
        ''With Galamian there was almost no room for give and take because he had a particular system that he applied to everybody,'' Mr. Perlman told Barbara Lourie Sand, the author of ''Teaching Genius: Dorothy DeLay and the Making of a Musician,'' a book about Miss DeLay, published in 2000. ''Miss DeLay was much more flexible, was much more into the person, and into their background, into what makes them tick. I would come and play for her, and if something was not quite right, it wasn't like she was going to kill me.
        ''That's where we come to the differences between the two. She would ask questions about what you thought of particular phrases -- where the top of the phrase was, and so on. We would have a very friendly, interesting discussion about 'Why do you think it should sound like this?' and 'What do you think of that?' I was not quite used to this way of approaching things.''
        With Miss DeLay's growing fame in the 1980's and 90's came detractors, including former students who complained that she was frequently late to lessons or that her essentially anti-authoritarian mode of teaching was actually lax and uninvolved. Still, by the late 1980's, her studio had become a soloist factory of sorts: a concertgoer reading her name in the program biography of a young performer could be assured of a high level of playing and often a particular kind of sound -- lush and beautifully burnished with a big but not overwhelming vibrato.
        In addition to many honorary degrees, Miss DeLay received the National Medal of Arts in 1994, the National Music Council's American Eagle Award in 1995, the Sanford Medal from Yale University in 1997 and the Order of the Sacred Treasure from the Japanese Government in 1998.
      