
        Lakshmi Knight, a dancer and teacher of Indian classical dance who performed widely in the United States in the style specifically associated with her mother, the great dancer Balasaraswati, died in Chennai, India, on Dec. 23. She was 58 and lived in Chennai and Hunterdon, N.J.
        The cause was cancer, said her husband, Douglas Knight Jr., who survives her along with their son, Aniruddha, a dancer who is the last direct inheritor of the music and dance traditions preserved in his family for 10 generations. News of her death was delayed until the family returned from India.
        Lakshmi used only her given name as a dancer, but those who knew her as Balasaraswati's daughter knew that she was descended from a continuous line of distinguished musicians and dancers at the court of Tanjore in South India.
        Although Bharata Natyam, the Indian classical dance form that is best known today, has many exponents, the style of Bharata Natyam that Lakshmi inherited was part of the repertory and forms codified by her ancestors as court performers in the early 1800's.
        The expressive side of this tradition was well documented in ''Bala,'' a 1976 film about Balasaraswati by the Indian director Satyajit Ray. Lakshmi, a vibrant performer who was schooled in her mother's nuanced approach to gesture, was noted for her improvisation within Bharata Natyam's set forms. The use of improvisation to interpret poetic texts sung during a Bharata Natyam performance was the hallmark of Balasaraswati's style.
        Mr. Knight, an American who is an Indian classical musician, noted that after Balasaraswati's death in 1984, this interpretative aspect was unique to Lakshmi and was integrated with the musical sensitivity of her family tradition. Lakshmi was trained in music by her uncle, T. Viswanathan, who teaches at Wesleyan University in Connecticut.
        Born in Madras on Oct. 30, 1943, Lakshmi grew up in a home filled with music and dance but studied political science at college before she asked her mother to give her formal lessons. Although she started dance late, she began performing in the 1970's and then also lectured in both India and the United States.
        During the 1980's and 1990's, Lakshmi performed often in the New York area and appeared at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in Becket, Mass., and the American Dance Festival in Durham, N.C.
        In a review of a 1987 performance in The New York Times, Jennifer Dunning wrote, ''Lakshmi proceeded from poignant dismay to the delight of memory and back to loss through smooth-changing facial expressions and most movingly, through the tilt of her head and upper body.''
        And in describing a 1992 Lakshmi performance, Jack Anderson wrote in The New York Times that ''even dancegoers unfamiliar with Indian mythology could be swept away by the emotions her solos depicted.''
      