
        Theresa Castro, who with her husband, Bernard, made Castro virtually a synonym for convertible sofa and who was an energetic charitable benefactor in New York and Florida, died on Sunday in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 85.
        Her daughter, Bernadette Castro, the New York State parks commissioner, said she died at North Shore University Hospital. She lived in Lloyd Harbor, N.Y.
        Mrs. Castro used tips from her job as a waitress to provide some of the initial capital for what became the Castro Convertible Corporation. At first, she did everything from answering the phone to stuffing mattresses. When Bernadette was a baby, she took her to the store and put her behind a screen in a carriage.
        As the corporation grew, she became executive vice president and treasurer of the four companies it comprised. She worked 12 to 14 hours a day and kept four secretaries busy in New York and Florida, the family's second home, where the company had moved its manufacturing operations.
        Success was measured by the innumerable Castro convertibles in apartments and houses. It was also evident in the couple's 25-room, 13-bath mansion in Lloyd Harbor, on Long Island; their 5,000-acre cattle ranch in Ocala, Fla.; a house in Fort Lauderdale; an apartment in Manhattan; and a 93-foot yacht.
        But Mrs. Castro retained a homey style. After founding a country club in Marion County, Florida, she started a  golf tournament there, and pitched in to cook at the annual awards banquets. Her lasagna was legendary.
        Her biggest success was surely her idea of using Bernadette, starting at the age of 4, wearing a white nightgown and sausage curls, in television commercials for the sofas. The commercial -- shown 40,000 times in various forms -- was one of the first local advertisements to run on New York television and was said to be the first to feature a child.
        Mrs. Castro was born Theresa Barabas on a dairy farm outside McKeesport, Pa., on Feb. 15, 1917. Her father was Hungarian and her mother Austrian. At the age of 13, Theresa entered a convent to fulfill a promise her mother had made to an order of nuns. She eventually left, promising her mother that she would ''do more good from outside the cloistered walls.''
        As a child, the second of 14 children, she lived in poverty, sharing a bedroom with six siblings; she never spoke of ''the good old days,'' her daughter said. When she moved to New York at 17, she saw her first movie and met Mr. Castro, her ''dream man.'' They were married on Valentine's Day 1942.
        Mr. Castro died in 1991. Their son, Bernard Jr., died after he was shot in his home in Fort Lauderdale in 1974. In addition to Bernadette, who lives in Lloyd Harbor, Mrs. Castro is survived by three brothers, Andrew Barabas, of Danbury, Conn., John Barabas, of Ocala, and Steve Barabas, of northern Florida. She is also survived by four sisters, Betty Bassett of Danbury, Barbara Castro of northern Florida, Julie Miller of Danbury and Mary Vitale of Connecticut and Florida; four grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren.
        Her many charitable interests included the Golden Hills Academy, which she started in part so that her son, who had dyslexia, could get a proper education. She helped found an interfaith chapel at the Florida School for the Deaf in St. Augustine; it was renamed in her honor in 1986.
        Her contributions to the convertible business, which was sold to Krause's Furniture in 1993, were usually anonymous. One idea was the Ready Lady, a piece of furniture that concealed not only a hair dryer but also an iron and ironing board. Another had a hi-fi built into one end, a bar in the other. It was called the Scotch and Sofa.
      