
        Charity Adams Earley, the commander of the only all-black Women's Army Corps unit to serve overseas during World War II, died on Jan. 13 in Dayton, Ohio, long her hometown. She was 83.
        At a time when a segregated military provided few opportunities for blacks, Charity Adams was one of only two to hold a wartime rank in the Wacs as high as major. A subsequent promotion made her a lieutenant colonel briefly before she left military service in 1946.
        The Army first permitted black members of the Wacs to serve overseas in the winter of 1945, when it created the 6888th Central Postal Directory Battalion, an all-black unit,  and assigned some 850 African-American women to it. The unit, based in Birmingham, England, and later in Rouen, France, and Paris,  routed mail -- much of it backed up at English warehouses in the chaos that followed the Battle of the Bulge -- to millions of members of the armed forces in Europe.
        The assignment of Major Adams as the battalion commander seemed a natural choice. Having grown up in Columbia, S.C. -- her father a minister in the A.M.E. Church, her mother  a teacher -- she had graduated from Wilberforce University in Ohio and was studying for a master's degree at Ohio State when she joined the  Women's Army Auxiliary Corps, the forerunner of the Wacs, in 1942. She was among 39 black women in the corps's first training class, at Fort Des Moines, Iowa, and became one of its first black officers. She then held administrative and command positions at Fort Des Moines for two and a half years.
        From her first day in the corps, though, she had to bear the humiliations of a segregated military. Though she had forged a quick camaraderie with white officer candidates who had ridden with her by train to Fort Des Moines, the bond did not survive once they reached their destination.
        ''The Army soon shattered whatever closeness we had felt,'' she recalled in her memoir, ''One Woman's Army'' (Texas A&M Press, 1989). ''When we left the mess hall we were marched two-by-two's to the reception center. A young, red-haired second lieutenant said, 'Will all the colored girls move over on this side.' He pointed to an isolated group of seats.
        ''There was a moment of stunned silence, for even in the United States of the 40's it did not occur to us that this could happen. The integration of our trip did not prepare us for this. What made things worse was that even after the 'colored girls' had been pushed to the side, all the rest of the women were called by name to join a group to be led to their quarters. Why could not the 'colored girls' be called by name to go to their quarters rather than be isolated by race?''
        The members of the 6888th postal unit were the first black women many Britons in Birmingham had ever seen, and they shattered stereotypes.
        ''These Wacs are very different from the colored women portrayed on the films, where they are usually either domestics or the outspoken old-retainer type or sloe-eyed sirens given to gaudiness of costume and eccentricity in dress,'' The Birmingham Sunday Mercury said. ''The  Wacs have dignity and proper reserve.''
        That dignity was tested by both the Army and the Red Cross.
        Major Adams recalled in her memoir that when a general inspecting her battalion was told that not all the women would be present, since some were working and others sleeping after a night shift, he responded, ''I'm going to send a white first lieutenant down here to show you how to run this unit.''
        Major Adams replied, ''Over my dead body, sir.''
        The general threatened to court-martial Major Adams for that remark, and she, in turn, prepared to file charges against him for disobeying a directive from Allied headquarters to refrain from language stressing racial segregation. The matter was dropped by both sides, and the general later told Major Adams he had come to respect her.
        While in England, Major Adams refused equipment from the Red Cross for a segregated recreational center -- the battalion had been permitted use of the same recreational area used by whites -- and persuaded members of the unit not to stay at a segregated Red Cross hotel in London while on leave.
        After her military service, she received a master's degree in vocational psychology from Ohio State, then became a dean at Tennessee A&I  College and Georgia State College. The Smithsonian Institution has included her in its listing of the historically most important black women.
        She is survived by her husband, Dr. Stanley Earley Jr., a physician whom she wed after the war; a son,  Stanley III; a daughter, Judith Earley; two brothers, Senior Bishop John Adams of the African Methodist Episcopal Church, and E. Avery Adams; and a sister, Dr. Lucy Rose Adams.
        In 1996, Mrs. Earley was honored at the Smithsonian's National Postal Museum for her wartime service.  Before leaving Dayton for the ceremony in Washington, she said: ''When I talk to students, they say, 'How did it feel to know you were making history?' But you don't know you're making history when it's happening. I just wanted to do my job.''
      