
        Irene Worth, a consummate actress of the English stage celebrated for her performances in the widest diversity of classical and contemporary roles from Shakespeare to Samuel Beckett and including Chekhov, Ibsen, Shaw and Edward Albee, died on Sunday in New York.
        She was 85, according to ''Who's Who in the Theater,'' but her sister, Carol Johnson of Santa Monica, Calif., said she was 86.
        Ms. Worth suffered a stroke at a post office near her apartment on the West Side of Manhattan and was rushed to a hospital, said Ms. Johnson, who was called by the hospital and flew to New York.
        Ms. Worth (whose first name was pronounced eye-REENY) won three Tony awards for her roles on Broadway, as best actress as Miss Alice in Mr. Albee's ''Tiny Alice'' in 1965 and as Alexandra del Lago in a revival of Tennessee Williams's ''Sweet Bird of Youth'' in 1976 and as best featured actress as Grandma Kurnitz in Neil Simon's ''Lost in Yonkers'' in 1991.
        Fiercely independent and articulate, Ms. Worth created a career that was daring as well as highly individual, and it was filled with memorable moments. She earned the highest praise as Celia in the premiere of ''The Cocktail Party'' by T. S. Eliot, as Arkadina in ''The Seagull,'' as Hedda Gabler and as Goneril to Paul Scofield's King Lear in Peter Brook's production, repeating her role in the Brook film. At other points in her career, she played Rosalind, Portia, Desdemona, Lady Macbeth, Volumnia and many others.
        With equal agility, she played heroines and villainesses -- and women with various shadings in between. In her virtuosity she became a complete actress, an artist in tune with her time -- and with other times as well. She was as much at home in gowns (and crowns) as she was in contemporary clothes.
        Was there any great role that she missed? At one time, she and Joseph Papp spoke about the possibility of her playing King Lear. She was, he said, one of the few American actors with the depth and power for that role. In the end, however, she restricted herself to playing female roles, seeking out the most complex characters in dramatic literature.
        With a boldness unmatched by many of her acting contemporaries, she continually challenged herself in plays by modern writers like Beckett, Mr. Albee, Williams and David Hare. She had a long artistic relationship with Mr. Brook, starring opposite John Gielgud in Mr. Brook's production of Seneca's ''Oedipus'' and traveling with the director and his ensemble to Iran with ''Orghast.'' As Mr. Brook said, ''Having mastered with dazzling authority all the facets of her art, she joined us with the total commitment she always brought to her work.''
        Also active in the commercial theater, she starred in Lillian Hellman's ''Toys in the Attic,'' Mr. Simon's ''Lost in Yonkers'' and Noel Coward's ''Suite in Three Keys.''
        She combined an eloquent voice, which could rise from a purr to a cry of passion, with a striking physical presence. On stage and off, she had an elegance that made her a natural for playing queens, which she frequently did. Her beauty was untarnished (and unvarnished), even late in her life, and she also retained her sense of style and on occasion was featured in fashion articles.
        Highly literate, she was a self-educated theatrical scholar. She often appeared in literary evenings, drawn from the work of writers like Turgenev, Edith Wharton, Virginia Woolf, Edith Sitwell and George Sand, and she frequently created and performed evenings of poetry.
        In fact, she did so many solo performances that it was suggested that she preferred to act alone on stage, but that was not so, as Gielgud, Guinness and so many other actors could testify. Last year she and Mr. Scofield appeared in London in Carol Rocamora's play ''I Take Your Hand in Mine,'' based on the love letters of Chekhov and his wife, Olga Knipper.
        Her career, which spanned almost 60 years, was filled with honors (Tonys, Obies, Evening Standard awards as well as an honorary commander of the British Empire) and love letters from admiring critics and fellow actors. As Gielgud wrote forthrightly in one of his books, ''She is a great artist as well as one of my most devoted friends.''
        In the great artistic tradition, Ms. Worth invented herself. Born Harriet Abrams in Lincoln, Neb., she moved to California at an early age. Her sister said her name was changed at the suggestion of a Hollywood producer.
        After graduating from the University of California at Los Angeles, she was briefly a schoolteacher and then came to New York. In 1942 she auditioned for Elisabeth Bergner and toured with her in ''Escape Me Never.'' The next year she made her Broadway debut with Ms. Bergner in the thriller ''The Two Mrs. Carrolls.''
        At Ms. Bergner's suggestion she then went to London where she studied with Elsie Fogerty, who taught her to speak ''stage English,'' as if to-the-manner -- and manor -- born. She was soon acting on the London stage in ''The Play's the Thing'' by Ferenc Molnar and then acted so frequently with the Old Vic and the Royal Shakespeare Company (and later the National Theater) that theatergoers assumed she was English rather than American.
        In 1950 she returned to Broadway with Alec Guinness in ''The Cocktail Party.'' In his review in The New York Times, Brooks Atkinson said that as ''the other woman,'' she gave ''a remarkably skillful, passionate and perceptive performance.'' This was her breakthrough performance. Looking back on it, she said, ''The role of Celia was just right for me at the time -- vulnerable, idealistic, dedicated, easily disillusioned.''
        In 1953 she was a founding member of the Shakespeare Festival Theater in Stratford, Ontario, appearing opposite Guinness as Helena in ''All's Well That Ends Well.'' In his review, Mr. Atkinson said that Ms. Worth ''gives another superb performance that overflows with loveliness, devotion, ceremony and modest guile.''
        From then on, she split her career between London and New York, while also performing in Canada and, later, making her adventurous journeys with Mr. Brook. In 1957 she joined the Phoenix Theater in New York, playing the title role in Schiller's ''Mary Stuart'' opposite Eva Le Gallienne as Queen Elizabeth.
        Throughout her career she and Gielgud remained colleagues and close friends. In 1964 they starred in ''Tiny Alice,'' Ms. Worth as the mysterious benefactor Miss Alice, Gielgud as the innocent lay brother Julian. In a highly dramatic seduction scene, Ms. Worth was supposed to open her beautiful Mainbocher gown and, seemingly naked, embrace Gielgud. By his own admission, he was embarrassed. In a moment of panic, she said to him, ''Oh, John, just imagine you and I suddenly got married.'' Once when he was asked about the scene, Gielgud said, ''I say to myself, thank God, it's just dear old Irene.''
        It was with Mr. Brook as director that she and Gielgud triumphed in Seneca's ''Oedipus'' in London in 1968. Gielgud was Oedipus and Ms. Worth was Jocasta, who ends the play impaled on a golden spike. This was, in Ms. Worth's words, ''one of the most profound productions of our generation,'' an observation that was echoed by critics.
        She starred as Madame Ranevskaya in Andrei Serban's innovative production of ''The Cherry Orchard'' for Mr. Papp at Lincoln Center. Speaking about that production in an interview in the Times, she said that the ''finest climate for a play,'' that play and others, was in rehearsal. ''That's when your imagination is at its highest,'' she said. ''You have to imagine everything. You can then create endless worlds.''
        The actress had a continuing kinship with Chekhov. Often she performed in his plays, and in 2001 when Mike Nichols directed ''The Seagull'' in Central Park, she wrote an essay about Chekhov in the theater's program. ''A play by Chekhov is like a summer's day,'' she said, ''but hearts also break in the sunshine.''
        In 1979, again with Mr. Serban and Mr. Papp, she explored the world of Beckett, played Winnie in ''Happy Days.'' She said that Winnie, who begins the play buried up to her waist in a mound of earth, was like no other character she had ever played. She is, she said, ''the closest to Charlie's tramp that you can get.'' In ''Happy Days'' she revealed another dimension to her seemingly limitless talent. As she said: ''I have to do what Beckett wants. Just throw caution to the wind.''
        In 1990 in a tribute to Beckett at the Almeida Theater in London, she gave a luminous reading of the television play, ''Eh Joe,'' to a throbbing background score by Earl Kim. Ms. Worth seemed to be singing Beckett.
        While other actors and actresses of her generation retired or reduced the number of their performances, she always maintained her zest for work and for experiencing diverse cultural activities. During her last days, Ms. Worth kept up her usual peripatetic pace. She went to the Brooklyn Academy of Music to see Mark Morris, saw ''War and Peace'' at the Metropolitan Opera House and had tickets for the opening of Mr. Albee's new play ''The Goat, or Who Is Sylvia?'' on Sunday.
        When Ms. Worth did not show up, her guests for the evening telephoned her apartment, and Ms. Worth's sister told them of her death. In addition to her sister, she is survived by her brother Luke Evans of Los Angeles.
        She worked in films, including ''The Scapegoat,'' ''Eyewitness,'' ''Orders to Kill,'' ''Nicholas and Alexandra'' and the movie versions of ''King Lear'' and ''Lost in Yonkers,'' and she played Clytemnestra on television. But theater remained the center of her life.
        Throughout, she was devoted to the art of acting, and that meant performing on stage. Once she said, ''Nobody could stop a dancer dancing, a singer singing or an actor acting. It is a primeval force.''
      