
        Marion Countess Dönhoff, an architect of German postwar journalism, over which she still towered as joint publisher of the liberal weekly Die Zeit, died yesterday. She was 92 and lived in Hamburg, where the highly influential intellectual newspaper is published.
        She was born into Prussian nobility and was one of the last prominent survivors of the German resistance to Hitler, whose executioners decimated the circle of her friends.
        Dr. Dönhoff -- the countess, as she was known in and out of the office -- was a best-selling author whose essays and commentary were respected well beyond Germany, where she made her mark after Nazism collapsed in defeat in 1945.
        In 1946, she joined the political staff of the fledgling Die Zeit, newly licensed by the British occupation authority. Its editors had noted her reports on the Nuremberg trials of Hitler's helpmates and her attempts to show the Allies that there had, in fact, been a German resistance to the Nazi dictator.
        In 1955, she was promoted to head the political department of the weekly, which is noted as much for its coverage of culture and the economy as for its scrutiny of government. She also became an assistant editor in chief.
        She was named editor in chief in 1968, then a rare distinction for a woman in journalism, particularly in West Germany. Four years later, she rose to publisher, a position she shared with Helmut Schmidt, the former chancellor, among others.
        Dr. Dönhoff was a liberal in the European tradition, a conservative who believed that capitalism needed to be ''civilized'' by a social conscience. She was a force for German reunification and, as someone with roots in the German lands to the east lost after 1945, a strong supporter of Chancellor Willy Brandt's Ostpolitik of rapprochement with the country's neighbors to the east.
        Yet she raised an early voice for Germany's acceptance of its truncated eastern borders when most Germans had yet to reconcile themselves to them. Her stand was especially remarkable in light of her personal history.
        Marion Hedda Ilse Gräfin Dönhoff was born on a large estate, an heiress to Schloss Friedrichstein, one of the finest castles in East Prussia. Her forebears had settled there in 1633 as noblemen owing fealty to the German emperor, and her ancestors included diplomats and soldiers.
        The young Marion Dönhoff studied economics in Frankfurt-on-Main, where Nazi sympathizers called her the red countess because of her defiance once they gained power in 1933. She left for Switzerland to earn her doctorate in Basel in 1935 and traveled abroad until called home in 1937 to help administer the family estates.
        She led a double life with other titled members of the resistance. She herself was interrogated by the Gestapo and released.
        As East Prussia was overrun by the Soviet Army, Schloss Friedrichstein was destroyed, and the countess undertook a grueling flight on horseback to Hamburg.
        Most of East Prussia was incorporated into the Soviet Union and made a prohibited military zone. It was only in 1989, with the Soviet empire crumbling, that the countess was able to return to her birthplace.
        She was the author of many books, some of which appeared in foreign translations. They included ''Before the Storm: Memories of my Youth in Old Prussia,'' published by Knopf in New York in 1990.
        The countess, who never married, left no immediate survivors.
        ''It's a lost world,'' she said of her journey home. ''I had the intention of never going back there, because it was a terribly beautiful place, a very beautiful manor, from a wonderful period, and I didn't want to see all that destroyed and gone.''
      