
        Elaine Crispen Sawyer, a trusted aide to the former first lady Nancy Reagan who parried with the news media over things like Mrs. Reagan's borrowed gowns and her consultations with an astrologer, died Tuesday.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, relatives said. She was 62 and lived in Alexandria, Va.
        Mrs. Sawyer, a public relations specialist, was at Mrs. Reagan's side throughout the Reagan presidency, serving four years as the first lady's special assistant and four years as her press secretary. She played an important role in the small team that  shaped Mrs. Reagan's trademark ''just say no'' to drugs campaign.
        An employee who became a loyal friend and confidante of Mrs. Reagan, Mrs. Sawyer complained that the news media were quick to find fault with the first lady.
        As press secretary, she was called upon to explain Mrs. Reagan's consultations with a California astrologer, Joan Quigley. When Mrs. Reagan did not report the loans of expensive dresses by top designers, Mrs. Sawyer was out front to concede that the first lady ''broke her own rule.''
        Mrs. Reagan called Mrs. Sawyer ''a dear friend'' who shared many joyful and sad moments, including the times when Mrs. Reagan learned she had breast cancer and when her mother died.
        ''It's hard to believe that she won't be here tomorrow when I want to pick up the phone and just catch up on the news,'' Mrs. Reagan said.
        Born near Detroit, Mrs. Sawyer moved to California at 25 to work in public relations under Michael K. Deaver, who later became President Reagan's deputy chief of staff. She was deeply impressed by Mr. Reagan's presence and joined his campaign for governor, then moved to Washington with the Reagans in 1980, said her daughter, Cheryl Crispen of Alexandria.
        In addition to Ms. Crispen, survivors include Mrs. Sawyer's husband of 10 years, George A. Sawyer of Alexandria; three stepchildren, Nancy Sawyer, Jeffrey Sawyer and Debra Moulton; and six grandchildren.
      