
        Linda Boreman, the woman once known as Linda Lovelace, who starred in one of the first feature-length pornography movies, ''Deep Throat,'' and who later denounced it as depicting her ''rape,'' died on Monday in Denver. She was 53.
        The cause was injuries from a car accident on April 3, her family said.
        The 62-minute film, released in 1972, made money so fast that its producers joked they had to weigh their receipts each day; by many estimates it earned more than $600 million. It cost just $30,000 to make, according to Variety. Ms. Boreman said she was paid nothing.
        ''Deep Throat'' and Linda Lovelace became household words and figured in three dozen books and 18 published songs. During Watergate, Washington Post reporters called their secret source Deep Throat.
        But Ms. Boreman testified about the dangers of pornography before Congress, courts and city councils in the 1980's, and became a poster child for feminists like Gloria Steinem, who wrote an introduction to her 1986 book with Mike McGrady, ''Out of Bondage.''
        Ms. Boreman insisted that she had made the movie only because her husband at the time, Chuck Traynor, threatened her with violence. ''I knew the feeling of a gun to my back and hearing the click, never knowing when there was going to be a real bullet,'' she said in her 1980 autobiography, ''Ordeal,'' written with Mr. McGrady.
        Linda Boreman was born in the Bronx on Jan. 10, 1949, and moved to Yonkers when she was 3. Her father was a police officer, and her mother held Tupperware parties.
        ''How does she do it?'' Vincent Canby asked in an article in The New York Times. ''The film has less to do with the manifold pleasures of sex than with physical engineering.''
        She told of literally escaping from Mr. Traynor, who was already seeing his second wife, Marilyn Chambers, another pornography star. She hid out in different hotels for weeks, then began appearing in Las Vegas and London in skimpy costumes, drawing a smattering of publicity. The movie career for which she had hoped never materialized.
        She later married Larry Marchiano. They divorced in 1996. She is survived by their children, a daughter, Lindsay, and a son, Dominic; a sister, Barbara Boreman; and three grandchildren.
        The family lived on welfare when Mr. Marchiano was unemployed, and Ms. Boreman had a liver transplant in 1987. After they moved to Denver in 1990, she worked at low-paying jobs.
        In recent years, she enjoyed the reception she received at memorabilia shows, said Eric Danville, author of ''The Complete Linda Lovelace'' (Power Process Publishing, 2001). ''People would tell her how much they loved her 100 times a day,'' he said.
        Mr. Danville also recalled watching ''Deep Throat'' with her nine months ago. It was the first time she had seen it from start to finish.
        ''I don't see what the big deal was,'' she said.
      