
        Dr. Ruth Whittemore, a Yale professor who conducted groundbreaking research in pediatric cardiology based on data from clinics she founded in 1940's, died on Dec. 27 in North Branford, Conn. She was 84.
        In 1947, at the request of the federal Children's Bureau, Dr. Whittemore set up the first rheumatic fever and cardiac clinic in New England, at the Yale Medical School. Rheumatic fever, which can lead to heart failure if untreated, was common in young children then. But with the advent of penicillin, its incidence began to decline, and Dr. Whittemore shifted her focus to congenital heart disease, a relatively new field then.
        Many doctors she trained at her clinic went on to become leading pediatric cardiologists, said Dr. Paul Lurie, a retired specialist in the field.
        ''Congenital heart disease was a totally unexplored area at the time she was running her clinic,'' Dr. Lurie said. ''Her clinic was one of the first to specialize in it.''
        Dr. Whittemore set up two similar clinics in Connecticut and followed her young patients closely, tracking many into adulthood. The information she collected on her patients in the years she tracked them proved extremely important. In the early 50's, she began a research study in which she examined the health histories of 837 children born to 427 of her former patients and discovered that 10 percent of the children had congenital heart abnormalities.
        At a time when genetic predisposition to heart disease was not completely understood, Dr. Whittemore's data showed that children whose parents had heart disease were at a higher risk of developing the disease than the general population. Her study challenged previous smaller studies that concluded there was a much lower risk of inheriting heart disease from a parent.
        Born in Newton, Mass., Ruth Whittemore completed her undergraduate studies at Mount Holyoke and earned her medical degree at Johns Hopkins as one of six women in a class of 72.
        Two years later, she was part of a team of physicians at Hopkins that performed the first ''blue baby'' operation, a surgical procedure that corrected a congenital heart abnormality that robs the blood of oxygen.
        Dr. Whittemore joined the Yale Medical School faculty in 1943. In 45 years there, she held several positions, including director of pediatric cardiology.
        She was the author or co-author of more than 50 scholarly papers.
        She is survived by her sister-in-law, Margaret Keagy Whittemore of Cape Cod, Mass.; one nephew; and three nieces.
      