
        Helen Levitov Sobell, a voice in the struggle to spare Julius and Ethel Rosenberg and free their co-defendant, Morton Sobell, her husband, died on April 15 in Redwood City, Calif. She was 84.
        She had long been in declining health, suffering from Alzheimer's disease, said her daughter, Sydney Gurewitz Clemens.
        The espionage trial of the Rosenbergs prompted an international furor that their execution in 1953 did not still. Mr. Sobell, who did not testify, was sentenced to 30 years in prison. He was released in 1969 and lives in San Francisco.
        Morton and Helen Sobell had fled to Mexico in 1950 with their infant son, Mark, and her daughter, trying to find passage to Europe but lacking passports. They were abducted by armed men, taken to the United States border and turned over to agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
        From then on, Mrs. Sobell pursued worldwide pleas, first for the Rosenbergs' lives and then for Mr. Sobell, who always denied any knowledge of a spy ring. He maintained that he had taken his family to Mexico because he had lied about belonging to the Communist Party.
        Mrs. Sobell spoke at rallies in the United States and abroad. She lobbied the powerful, directed picket lines and coordinated a large network of volunteers and supporters, including Pablo Picasso and Bertrand Russell.
        Documents since obtained under the Freedom of Information Act show that she was singled out for harassment in the McCarthy era because Director J. Edgar Hoover of the F.B.I. was worried about the Sobell clamor. The authorities also suspected Mrs. Sobell of being the real cause of their inability to exact information about espionage from her husband.
        After Mr. Sobell was released from prison, Mrs. Sobell studied system theory and received a doctorate in computer education from Teachers College at Columbia University in 1972. The marriage ended in 1980.
        Helen Levitov Sobell was born in Washington and trained as a teacher at Wilson Teachers College in Washington. In World War II she worked at the Bureau of Standards as a spectrometer technician. In 1945 she divorced her first husband, Clarence D. Gurewitz, and married Mr. Sobell.
        Both then worked at the General Electric Company in Schenectady, N.Y., while she studied physics at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. After moving to New York City in 1947, she was awarded a master's degree at Columbia in 1950.
        Besides her daughter, a resident of San Francisco, and her son, who lives in Menlo Park, N.J., Mrs. Sobell is survived by a sister, Dr. Edith Garduk of Bethesda, Md.; two brothers, David Levitov of Silver Spring, Md., and Joseph Levitov of Boca Raton, Fla.; five grandchildren, and two great-grandsons.
      