
        Ruth Handler, creator of the Barbie doll, one of the world's best-selling toys and one that became an icon of American popular culture, an artistic muse and a lightning rod of feminist politics, died on Saturday at a hospital in Los Angeles, where she lived. She was 85.
        Mrs. Handler experienced complications after having colon surgery several months ago, said her husband, Elliot.
        In 1959 when she invented Barbie, a busty figure with platinum-blond hair and piercing blue eyes, Mrs. Handler created the country's first mass-marketed adult-looking doll for girls -- and an image that would later be attacked by feminists as a symbol of objectification and repression. Critics said the doll gave girls misguided goals, whether for their careers or for their own physical development.
        Mrs. Handler, though, seemed unmoved, her husband said. ''It really didn't bother her,'' he said. ''She thought they were wrong.''
        Mrs. Handler named the doll after her daughter. Barbie's male counterpart, Ken, named after Mrs. Handler's son, soon followed. More than one billion Barbies have been sold in 150 countries.
        Barbie was a particularly pioneering creation because in 1959 innocent, cherubic baby dolls dominated the toy market. And Barbie's fly-off-the-shelf popularity transformed the sleepy company that sold the doll, Mattel Inc., into a postwar success story.
        Mrs. Handler was a founder of Mattel and helped run the company for 30 years, until she and her husband, then co-chairmen, resigned in 1975 amid a scandal.
        ''Every little girl needed a doll through which to project herself into her dream of her future,'' Mrs. Handler said in a 1977 interview with The New York Times. ''If she was going to do role playing of what she would be like when she was 16 or 17, it was a little stupid to play with a doll that had a flat chest. So I gave it beautiful breasts.''
        Barbie was conceived as a teenage fashion model, and her first outfits were named for her various activities, according to M. G. Lord, author of ''Forever Barbie: The Unauthorized Biography of a Real Doll.'' Early outfits included ''Friday Night Date'' and ''Sorority Meeting.''
        And Barbie kept pace with the times. During Camelot, she sported a Jacqueline Kennedy hairdo. During the civil rights movement, Mattel created Barbie's first black friend, ''Colored Francie.''
        But not until the 1970's, as the criticism from feminists materialized, did her career choices -- and her outfits -- begin to change to include a doctor, astronaut and veterinarian, among others.
        A chief objection of feminists, including the National Organization for Women, was that Barbie's figure created unrealistic expectations for young girls that could lead to low self-esteem. People often joked that Barbie's measurements were not humanly possible. But in fact it was determined that if the 11 1/2-inch doll were 5-foot-6, her measurements would be 39-21-33. One academic expert calculated that a woman's chances of having Barbie's figure were less than 1 in 100,000.
        In her 1994 autobiography, ''Dream Doll: The Ruth Handler Story,'' Mrs. Handler wrote: ''My whole philosophy of Barbie was that through the doll, the little girl could be anything she wanted to be. Barbie always represented the fact that a woman has choices.''
        In 1978 Mrs. Handler and several other former officers of Mattel were indicted on charges of fraud and false reporting to the Securities and Exchange Commission. She pleaded no contest to the charges, which investigators said resulted from attempts to influence stock prices, and was fined and sentenced to community service.
        Mrs. Handler, though, had already embarked on a second career, starting a company that made prosthetic breasts for cancer survivors. In talking about her two careers, Mrs. Handler was known to say, ''I've lived my life from breast to breast.''
        She was found to have breast cancer in 1970 and had her left breast removed. She said it was impossible to find an acceptable replacement breast. ''Until now,'' she said in 1977, ''every breast that was sold was used interchangeably for the right or the left side. There has never been a shoemaker who made one shoe and forced you to put both your right and your left foot in it.''
        After developing a line of artificial breasts made of foam and silicon that she called ''Nearly Me,'' she became a well-traveled advocate for early detection of breast cancer, at a time when there was little public discussion of the disease. Mrs. Handler, who once described herself as a ''marketing genius,'' was often known during those years to open her blouse at interviews and ask a reporter or photographer to feel her breasts to determine which was real.
        She ran the breast prosthesis company, Ruthton Corporation, for 15 years, fitting women, including Betty Ford, for the artificial breasts herself, before selling it to a division of Kimberly-Clark, her husband said. But she never made much of a profit.
        ''She was working on that from the heart,'' Mr. Handler said.
        The youngest of 10 children of Polish immigrants, Ruth Mosko was the daughter of a blacksmith who had settled in Denver. She left Denver for Hollywood at 19 and stayed, marrying her high school boyfriend, Mr. Handler, who became a specialist in designing plastic products.
        The two, along with a short-term partner, founded Mattel in 1945. Inspired by her daughter's fascination with paper dolls that looked like teenagers or adults and came with multiple outfits and accessories, Mrs. Handler decided to produce a doll that she described as looking more or less like a real teenager.
        The doll she created resembled a sex toy called Lilli, which Mrs. Handler had seen on a trip to Germany. After she battled years of prudish resistance to the Barbie concept among the male executives at Mattel, the doll was finally cleared for production. And in 1959, wearing a zebra-striped maillot and tall stiletto heels, Barbie made her debut at the American Toy Fair in New York.
        Long After Mrs. Handler left Mattel and turned away from toys, Barbie remained wildly popular, not only as a toy, but as a touchstone of American culture. Barbie, sometimes wearing outfits and hairdos that might send shudders up Mrs. Handler's spine, has been the subject of art exhibitions, an Andy Warhol painting, a television documentary, books and Web sites, including Barbie.com and AdiosBarbie.com, a site dedicated to improving women's body images.
        Mrs. Handler's son, Ken, died of a brain tumor in 1994. She is survived by her husband of 63 years; a daughter, Barbara Segal of Los Angeles; a brother, Aaron Mosko of Denver; five grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
      