
        María Félix, the Mexican film star whose extraordinary beauty and force of personality made her a living myth to Mexicans and a symbol of glamour and sophistication to fans throughout the world, died yesterday at her home in Mexico City. She was 87.
        Ms. Félix made 47 films during a tumultuous film career that began with overnight stardom in the early 1940's and raged on for three decades. During the entire period, she reigned as the supreme goddess of Spanish-language cinema.
        Ms. Félix made films in Mexico, Spain, Italy, France and Argentina, portraying figures like a belly dancer, a brothel keeper, a teacher, a soldier, a cabaret singer and a man-eating Roman empress. She was cast so often as a notorious or strong-minded woman that those characteristics became indistinguishable from her own tempestuous personality in the minds of many fans, especially after the success of early films with titles like ''Woman Without a Soul.''
        She did not speak English and never accepted work in Hollywood, where directors offered her only stereotyped parts as a Latin spitfire.
        She married four times, divorcing her first husband, a cosmetics salesman, and her second, Agustín Lara, who was Mexico's greatest songwriter. She was widowed by her third husband, Jorge Negrete, the country's leading male star, and by her last, Alex Berger, a French financier.
        ''Many feminine images have ignited the fantasy of the Mexicans,'' wrote Octavio Paz, Mexico's Nobel Prize-winning poet, in a 1992 essay on cinema and myth-making. Some, he said, like the Virgen de Guadalupe, are sweet, maternal figures, and others, like the Malinche, Cortés's indigenous concubine, are inscrutable.
        ''But the myth of María Félix is different,'' Mr. Paz declared. ''María Félix is a woman -- such a woman -- with the audacity to defy the ideas machos have constructed of what a woman should be. She's free like the wind, she disperses the clouds, or illuminates them with the lightning flash of her gaze.''
        Ms. Félix's best movies were filmed in the 1940's, when she was a dominant figure in the golden age of Mexican cinema. She became so powerful that she exerted great influence over lighting, camera angles, scenario, wardrobe and other aspects of films usually reserved for producers and directors. In Europe and in Mexico during the 1950's, she worked with eminent European directors like Jean Renoir and Luis Buñuel and leading men like Gérard Philipe and Yves Montand.
        Ms. Félix was born María de los Ángeles Félix Guereña, on May 4, 1914, in Álamos, Sonora, according to the birth certificate discovered by Paco Ignacio Taibo, the author of ''La Doña,'' a 1985 biography of Ms. Félix (Mexico City: Planeta).
        Her father, Bernardo Félix, was a merchant turned civil servant and an imperious dictator over his middle-class household. Ms. Félix described him in 1993 interviews with Enrique Krauze, the Mexican historian, as a classic macho who hid his emotions, beat his sons and ignored his daughters. Her mother, Josefina Guereña, bore 16 children, of which 12 survived. María was the ninth.
        When Ms. Félix was about 10, her family moved to Guadalajara, where she was expelled from several schools. But she made it to the university, where she was elected Queen of the Carnival. Enrique Álvarez, a traveling salesman proposed to her after demonstrating his Max Factor cosmetics to her, and she agreed to marry him. Her only son, Enrique Álvarez Félix, was born in 1934 when she was not quite 20. He died in 1996.
        Her husband was jealous and rough. Ms. Félix became unhappy, and after a brief affair with a college student, obtained a divorce.
        After she moved to Mexico City, a minor film director, Fernando Palacios, saw her on the street, persuaded her to consider acting, and helped her obtain her first part, in the 1942 film ''El Peñón de las Ánimas,'' or ''The Rock of the Spirits,'' a rural melodrama modeled loosely on ''Romeo and Juliet.'' Critics have lampooned the movie over the years for its histrionics; in its climactic scene, Ms. Félix is shot and hurled from the top of a tall pine. But the part immediately thrust Ms. Félix to the summit of Mexican cinema.
        ''This was the appearance of a personality who had nothing to do with the rest of Mexican cinema,'' Mr. Taibo wrote in his biography. ''María was not only a singular beauty. She had a lofty bearing that stood in complete contrast to the traditionally submissive Mexican actress.''
        In the years that remained in the decade, Ms. Félix filmed 19 movies that include her classic portrayals.
        ''Enamorada,'' filmed in 1946, was the first of several in which she was teamed with the director Emilio Fernández and the cameraman Gabriel Figueroa, and which critics have judged her best work. In the film, a romantic comedy, Ms. Félix played the daughter of a wealthy patriarch in a Mexican town seized by revolutionary troops. The occupying general, who falls in love with her, was played by Pedro Armendáriz, a dashing Mexican star.
        Ms. Félix never studied acting in any formal sense, but improvised her own approach to movie parts and to the cameraman's lens. ''She was never interested in a realistic style of acting,'' said Manuel Puig, the Argentine author, in 1990. ''Instead, she worked out a highly personal way of moving and talking.''
        Adding to Ms. Félix's mythic stature was a romantic life that brought marriage or liaison with many leading men of her era and courtship by numerous powerful but eventually disappointed pretenders.
        In 1943 she married Mr. Lara, Mexico's national musician-poet, a sensational union that drove newspapers wild, especially after Mr. Lara wrote Ms. Félix a song, ''María Bonita,'' or ''Pretty Maria,'' which became fabulously popular. The marriage was to Mexicans what Marilyn Monroe's marriage to Joe DiMaggio was to Americans.
        But the marriage began to chafe under Mr. Lara's jealous eye. They divorced in 1947, and she traveled to Spain to film her first European movie, ''Mare Nostrum,'' in which she played a Latin Mata Hari.
        Mr. Lara was only one of dozens of eminent men who fell in love with Ms. Félix, some ridiculously.
        The artist Diego Rivera became so obsessed that he dedicated an entire period to painting her portraits. One, in which he dressed her in a sheer white gown revealing her silky figure, he titled ''Very Bad.'' A photo of the two at the time shows him, fat and froglike, embracing her as she, looking cool and gorgeous, stares away in bemused boredom.
        ''He threw himself on me like misery throws itself on the poor,'' Ms. Félix recalled later.
        Ms. Félix first met Mr. Negrete, who would be her third husband, filming ''The Rock of the Spirits.'' Their 1952 wedding was a national event, but the marriage was shortlived. Mr. Negrete's health was failing, and Ms. Félix, called again to film in Europe, left him behind. When word came that Mr. Negrete was stricken in Hollywood, she flew 36 hours west to his bedside, and accompanied his coffin back to Mexico City, where a line of mourners 10 miles long were waiting.
        Starting in 1948 Ms. Félix began a love affair with Europe, filming six straight films in Spain, France and Italy, and a seventh in Argentina.
        Blocked from a Hollywood career by her inability to speak English, Ms. Félix was determined to make movies in France. She devoted eight hours a day to studying French, putting a pencil under her tongue to practice her pronunciation.
        Her French movies included ''La Belle Otero,'' directed by Richard Pottier in 1954, in which she played a turn-of-the-century courtesan, and ''French Cancan,'' directed by Jean Renoir later that same year.
        Her last movie, ''La Generala,'' in which she played the sister of a rebel general who takes up arms when she sees the revolution betrayed, was released in 1970.
        One of Ms. Félix's longest and most disagreeable conflicts involved Carlos Fuentes, the Mexican writer, who modeled the main character of a 1967 novel, ''Zona Sagrada'', on Ms. Félix, portraying her as a pathetic egomaniac. Fifteen years later, Mr. Fuentes again publicly dissected Ms. Félix's personality, along with that of another major Mexican actress, Dolores del Rio, in a play, ''Orchids in the Moonlight.''
        Ms. Félix was bitter. ''Not only did he steal my soul in his novel, but he also attacked me and Dolores del Rio in his play,'' she told an interviewer from Vanity Fair magazine in 1990.
        ''María has a mythic quality, and she's a great national symbol,'' Mr. Fuentes responded. ''That's why I could dare to have a character impersonate her: only a myth can inspire imitation.''
        Yesterday, in learning of her death, Mr. Fuentes said: ''She was a goddess. There were no eyes in the world more beautiful than María Félix's. She was a magnificent character, and, along with Dolores del Rio, the greatest beauty of the golden age of the Mexican cinema.''
      