
        Christa M. Gaehde, a pioneer in the United States of effective techniques for conserving prints and drawings, died on April 3 in Arlington, Mass. She was 79 and lived in Arlington.
        She died after being hit by a car in the street, said her husband, Joachim Gaehde, a retired professor of art history at Brandeis.
        When Ms. Gaehde (the name is pronounced GAY-duh) arrived in the United States from Germany with her husband in 1949, only a handful of Americans knew anything about her specialty, the repair and preservation of artistic works on paper.
        The whole field of restoring and repairing damaged artworks then had a bad name, with some of the techniques causing as many problems over time as they corrected in the short term. It was for this reason that Ms. Gaehde, who used to say that preservation was the essence of repair, always called herself a conservator rather than a restorer or repairer.
        As a freelance specialist, she became the leading American expert on conserving artworks on paper, inspiring a generation of American conservators and encouraging the teaching of art conservation as an academic discipline.
        Partly as a result of her work, all serious museums and libraries now employ trained conservationists, including specialists in books and works on paper. Several institutions began formal programs in art conservation, including New York University, in 1960. The University of Delaware's program at Winterthur followed in the mid-1960's, and State University of New York at Buffalo started its program in 1970.
        Jonathan Rendell, an old print expert at Christie's in New York, called her a ''miracle-worker who inspired a whole movement,'' adding, ''She could bring things back from beyond the grave.''
        Ms. Gaehde worked for many American museums, including the Guggenheim and the Museum of Modern Art in New York; the Baltimore Museum of Art; the Library of Congress, the Dumbarton Oaks Garden Library and the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington; and the Minneapolis Institute of Arts. She also did work for many collectors, dealers and auction houses, including Christie's and Sotheby's.
        In 1965, she published ''A Guide to the Collecting and Care of Original Prints'' (Crown), written with Carl Zigrosser.
        Christa Maria Schelcher was born on June 21, 1922, in Dresden, Germany. After studying chemistry at Innsbruck University in Austria, she returned to Dresden to study the chemistry of paper, inks and colors at the Technische Hochschule while also working in the print room at the State Gallery.
        In 1946, she married Joachim Gaehde, and the couple settled in Munich, where she worked as a conservationist and became a friend of Max Schweidler, a legendary German paper conservator.
        In 1949 the couple moved to New York, where she began her American career.
        Ms. Gaehde acquired an encyclopedic knowledge of old papers and inks and devised many new ways of removing marks and stains without damaging the stability of the basic materials. She also made cunning use of pieces of old paper to patch and repair torn and damaged artworks.
        She is survived by her husband and by two sons, Stephan, of Brookline, Mass., and Nicholas, of Concord, Mass.
      