
        Dorothy Love Coates, a gospel singer whose gruff delivery and blazing theatrics made her one of the giants of the genre, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Birmingham, Ala., where she lived most of her life. She was 74.
        The cause was heart disease, said Anthony Heilbut, a friend and gospel music scholar.
        Ms. Coates's voice was rough and gravelly, and did not have the range or sweetness of Mahalia Jackson, Marion Williams and other leading gospel singers of her day.
        But what Ms. Coates lacked in vocal purity she more than made up for in her impassioned delivery. She was one of gospel's great performers, regularly stirring crowds into a frenzy with her intense vocalizations and animated physical style.
        She also had a subtle but substantial role in the civil rights movement. She sang at many benefit concerts and in her music alluded to current events. In her 1964 song ''The Hymn,'' she preached: ''When the president was assassinated, the nation said, 'Where is God?' When the little children lost their lives in the church bombing, the nation cried, 'Where is God?' I got the answer for you today: God is still on the throne.''
        Born Dorothy McGriff in Birmingham, she was one of seven children of a minister who divorced when Ms. Coates was young. She sang in local churches and started a family group, the Royal Gospel Singers, as a teenager. She quit school after the 10th grade to support her family as a maid.
        ''On weekdays I worked for the white man. On weekends I sang for the people,'' she told Mr. Heilbut in his 1971 book, ''The Gospel Sound: Good News and Bad Times.''
        Ms. Coates joined the Gospel Harmonettes, a well-known Birmingham group, and in 1951 the group cut its first hit, ''I'm Sealed,'' and quickly rose to fame on the gospel circuit. She continued with the Harmonettes throughout the 50's and 60's on a variety of record labels, writing much of the group's material. Among its hits were ''You Must Be Born Again'' and ''That's Enough'' on the Specialty label, ''I Won't Let Go of My Faith'' on the Nashboro label and ''You've Been Good to Me'' on VeeJay. She also sang ''No Hiding Place'' and ''(You Can't Hurry God) He's Right On Time.''
        The Harmonettes broke up in 1970, though Ms. Coates continued to perform with the Dorothy Love Coates Singers, featuring her sister Lillian and other singers from Birmingham. She sang at the Newport Jazz Festival several times, including in a 1975 tribute to Mahalia Jackson at Carnegie Hall.
        She stopped recording in 1980, but appeared in two films, in ''The Long Walk Home'' (1990) and in ''Beloved'' (1998), in which she can be seen leading a chorus of ex-slaves in an inspirational song.
        Ms. Coates married twice. Her first marriage, to Willie Love of the Fairfield Four, ended in divorce. Her second husband, Carl Coates of the Sensational Nightingales, died in 1999.
        She is survived by her daughters, Cassandra Madison of Birmingham and Carletta Criss of Arlington, Tex.; a brother, Fred McGriff of Newark; a sister, Naomi Chambers of Plainfield, N.J.; and two granddaughters.
        Ms. Coates's music influenced many pop and rhythm-and-blues singers, such as Mavis Staples of the Staple Singers, and Cissy Houston, and she was well aware of that. But she steadfastly refused to betray her calling by singing blues, jazz or any other secular idiom.
        ''I can't sell out,'' she told Mr. Heilbut.
      