
        Ruth Fertel, who found a New Orleans restaurant called Chris Steak House in the classified ads and from it built one of the largest steakhouse chains in the world, died Tuesday in New Orleans. She was 75.
        The cause was lung cancer, her company said.
        Ms. Fertel came to the food business with no restaurant experience and even less culinary training. She prided herself on following her instincts with her Ruth's Chris Steak House chain.
        She ignored advice from her lawyer and banker when she bought her first restaurant, and she kept the cumbersome name even as the business grew far beyond New Orleans. Today there are 82 Ruth's Chris Steak Houses in the United States and abroad, with annual sales of $328 million.
        Each restaurant varies slightly in décor, depending on the location, but all cook prime steaks at extremely high heat, in a broiler Ms. Fertel designed that reaches 1,800 degrees. And all serve the steaks topped with a swath of butter for maximum flavor, as she insisted.
        Ms. Fertel (pronounced fer TELL), who was divorced, was working as a lab technician at Tulane School of Medicine and looking for a way to finance her two sons' college education when she spotted a restaurant advertised for sale in 1965. In what she described as ''a case of blind ambition,'' she mortgaged her house for $22,000 to buy the place from Chris Matulich.
        She was so naïve, she said, that she asked for a loan only large enough to pay for the space; the bank insisted that she take out a few thousand dollars more to buy food. She had to teach herself how to butcher.
        Six months after opening, she had taken in more than twice as much as her annual salary at Tulane.
        According to an interview in Fortune magazine in 1998, Mr. Matulich had granted Ms. Fertel the rights to the restaurant's long-established name as long as she kept the original location. When a fire forced her to move in 1976, she wound up appending her name to his and creating a tongue-tangler that one restaurant critic said would make a good sobriety test if repeated three times fast.
        ''I've always hated the name,'' Ms. Fertel told Fortune's reporter. ''But we've always managed to work around it.''
        Ms. Fertel came out of a long and unusual New Orleans tradition: an acceptance of strong women as restaurateurs, like Ella Brennan of Commander's Palace, Leah Chase of Dooky Chase and Susan Spicer of Bayona. But Ms. Fertel also catered to the good-old-boy network that flourishes in Louisiana, and from the beginning her restaurant attracted local politicians as well as athletes, businessmen and reporters.
        Edwin W. Edwards, a former governor of Louisiana, described Ms. Fertel to The Associated Press as ''someone that every politician in this state knew and respected.''
        She also apparently had the characteristic New Orleans attitude toward the rituals of death. According to The A.P., in 1999 she gave a lavish party to unveil the mausoleum she and a friend had bought for $500,000 in Lake Lawn Metairie Cemetery.
        Ruth Udstad was born in 1927 to an insurance salesman and a kindergarten teacher. At 19, she earned a degree in chemistry from Louisiana State University, and she taught briefly at John McNeese Junior College in Lake Charles, La., before her marriage, which ended after 14 years. She is survived by her sons, Randy and Jerry, both of New Orleans, and seven grandchildren.
        Ruth's Chris began expanding when she granted her first franchise in 1977, in Baton Rouge, the state capital. The first Ruth's in Manhattan opened in the Theater District in 1993. In 1999, Madison Dearborn Partners of Chicago acquired a majority interest in the chain.
        Ms. Fertel was told she had lung cancer in 2000 but remained involved in the company until she was hospitalized last Friday.
        After starting in a three-martini world, Ms. Fertel's business thrived through both the carbo-loading and fat-fearing eras and now benefits from the new appetite for protein, particularly in the form of hulking steaks dripping butter. In an interview with New Orleans magazine in 1997, she insisted that the beef business was virtually impervious to health trends.
        ''People always go on a diet 'Monday,' '' she said. ''On Friday: 'I'm going on a diet Monday because I'm going to two restaurants this weekend.' On Sunday they renegotiate.''
      