
        A. J. Levinson, who pressed a national campaign to improve what she called ''the quality of death'' by promoting living wills, and who educated both professionals and the public on ways to bring dignity to dying, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 73.
        The cause was widespread cancer, her daughter Martha Levinson said.
        Ann-Jane Levinson (she preferred A. J.) was executive director of Concern for Dying for 11 years beginning in 1976, a period in which thorny cases like that of Karen Ann Quinlan, who spent years on life support equipment, provoked deep questioning about how people die. Ms. Levinson's message was that family doctors, nurses and others should strive to honor the dying person's wishes.
        The group, which is defunct, grew out of the Euthanasia Educational Council. Perhaps its most important accomplishment was helping develop and promote the concept of the living will. Such a will is a formal document that permits a person to record desires for how the end of life should be handled. Living wills often express the determination to die a ''natural death'' and not to have life extended artificially by life support equipment.
        These documents, which millions of people in many states have prepared, can call for ending medical procedures that have been instituted in the patient's behalf. Most deputize a relative or an acquaintance to act if the patient is incapacitated, and health care proxies, their formal name, are recognized as binding in many states.
        The organization sent out more than seven million forms for living wills to groups and individuals all over the country. After a single mention in an Ann Landers column, hundreds of thousands of requests poured in.
        The group also advocated allowing people to have ample pain medication at the end of their lives, if they wished.
        ''Doctors are afraid of things like addiction and overdosing when that isn't the primary concern to a terminal patient in severe pain,'' Ms. Levinson said in an interview in 1985 with The Record, a newspaper in northern New Jersey.
        But she denounced mercy killing.
        ''I don't think society should be in the business of killing people,'' she said in an interview with The Los Angeles Times in 1986. ''I don't think killing is a person's right.''
        She was born in Boston on Jan. 7, 1929. Her mother drove an ambulance in France during World War I. Her father, Dr. John Rock, was a professor at Harvard Medical School who helped develop the first birth control pill. Earlier, he had angered the Roman Catholic Church by performing abortions.
        She graduated from the Milton Academy in Milton, Mass., and Bryn Mawr, where she majored in history. She then briefly worked for the Central Intelligence Agency, but never told her family what she did.
        She had two daughters, Martha Levinson and Kate Ewing, both of Manhattan, and a son, Paul T. Levinson of Milton, Mass., with her husband, Henry W. Levinson, who also survives, as does a sister, Rachel Achenbach of Boxford, Mass.
        In 1957, she did graduate work in psychology and sociology at Columbia, then taught at several private schools in Manhattan. She introduced courses on sex education, drug abuse and skills for urban living.
        Katherine Strauss Mali, president of Concern for Dying, hired her as executive director in 1976. Martha Levinson said her mother was motivated by the vastly different experiences of two dying relatives: her brother died alone and miserable with hospital officials barring visits; while her mother died at home surrounded by loved ones.
        Much of her work involved bringing people from different disciplines together in seminars about death and dying. She appeared on national television programs like ''The Tonight Show.'' She had her children stuff living wills into envelopes for mailing.
        She formally retired in 1988, after suffering a debilitating stroke the previous year. She had a living will.
        Her husband said she did not like death. She was interested in the conduct of living people.
        Correction:  May 4, 2002, Saturday  An obituary on Wednesday about A. J. Levinson, an advocate for living wills, included a family member's erroneous reference to the work of her father, Dr. John Rock, in the field of birth control. The family says Dr. Rock, a professor at Harvard Medical School who helped develop the birth control pill, did not perform abortions.
      