
        Kimberly Miles, recipient of a lung transplant in November 2000 in an unusual operation in which her sister and a friend donated parts of their lungs, died on Monday in Minneapolis. She was 33.
        The cause was cystic fibrosis.
        Ms. Miles was born with the disease, a genetic disorder that affects the lungs, digestive system and other organs. The average age at death is about 30.
        Ms. Miles still managed a full life in her hometown, Black River Falls, Wis., where she lived with her son, Cole, 9, and his father, Larry Schultz. By 2000, she was spending much time in the hospital with lung infections. Doctors said they did not believe that she would live long enough to receive a transplant from a cadaver.
        Ms. Miles's sister Tammy Hoff and a friend, DorMae Gebhardt, both in their early 30's with families of their own, offered to be donors.
        Ms. Miles's surgeon, Dr. Soon Park, had performed lung transplants from living donors, but had never encountered a case in which a donor was not a blood relative, he said. Of 956 lung transplants performed in 2000, just 15 came from living donors.
        Dr. Park predicted that after the surgery Ms. Miles would walk and probably even run.
        The operations were described in a front-page article about donors of living organs in The New York Times on June 24, 2001, and they were the subject of ''A Gift of Life,'' a Science Times television program that was first shown on June 26, 2001, on the National Geographic Channel.
        Technically, Ms. Miles's transplant was successful, and her new lungs, consisting of a lobe of one lung from each donor, worked well.
        But she soon developed digestive problems, probably from the cystic fibrosis. She also began to retain fluid and became so swollen that she had difficulty getting around.
        Ms. Hoff said her sister fought hard to overcome the problems, but finally asked not to be put on a respirator again or subjected to more invasive procedures.
        She died at Fairview University Hospital surrounded by family members and Dr. Park.
        ''We had no cure for her,'' Dr. Park said.
        He said that ultimately he did not think that the transplant improved Ms. Miles's quality of life and that if he had foreseen the course of her disease, he would probably not have performed the operations.
        But there was no way to predict her outcome, he added. The University of Minnesota, which has performed five lung transplants using living donors, will continue its plan of performing a total of 10 such operations and then evaluating the results, Dr. Park said, ''to see whether this is a responsible thing to do or not.''
        Three of the five recipients are doing well. One is a young woman with cystic fibrosis, he said.
        Ms. Gebhardt and Ms. Hoff said they had no regrets about the operations.
        ''I guess it works on some and not on others,'' Ms. Gebhardt said. ''We knew that from the start. It was a chance everybody took. We tried, and it's all we could do.''
        Ms. Hoff said, ''The only thing I regret is her not getting quality of life out of it.''
        In addition to her son, his father and Ms. Hoff, Ms. Miles is survived by her parents, Wayne and Liz Miles, and another sister, Debra Bloczynski.
      