
        Maida Stocker Abrams, a prominent collector of Dutch art and an advocate for the disabled, died last Thursday in Boston. She was 63 and lived in Newton, Mass.
        The cause was cancer, her family said.
        Mrs. Abrams and her husband, George Abrams, a lawyer, built one of the country's major private collections of 17th-century Dutch drawings, including works by Rembrandt and Bruegel.
        ''Theirs is probably the most remarkable collection of Dutch old master drawings put together ever in America,'' Martin Royalton-Kisch, curator of Dutch and Flemish drawings at the British Museum, said when the couple donated a portion of their collection to the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard University in 1999.
        The Abramses began collecting shortly after they married, in 1960. As a young lawyer, Mr. Abrams had worked for the Dutch government and developed an interest in Dutch and Flemish art. The couple started buying drawings, Mr. Abrams said, because they were less expensive than paintings; at the time a drawing could cost as little as $1,000.
        The 110 drawings they gave to the Fogg were estimated at $20 million, and they still had hundreds of drawings and paintings left.
        Mrs. Abrams was also a passionate activist for art education for the disabled. In 1980 she founded the nonprofit group Very Special Arts Massachusetts, which develops arts programs in schools throughout the state. She also worked with cultural institutions to improve access for those with disabilities.
        Born in New York City, Mrs. Abrams graduated from Sarah Lawrence College in Bronxville and Lesley College in Cambridge, Mass. She trained as a registered occupational therapist at the Tufts Boston School of Occupational Therapy, and in 1987 she was awarded an honorary doctorate in education by Wheelock College in Boston. Ms. Abrams worked as an art therapist at the League School of Boston from 1964 to 1972 and was an arts specialist in special education in the Newton public schools from 1969 to 1984.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by her two daughters, Sarah Abrams and Rebecca Abrams Benn, both of New York City; a brother, Michael Stocker, of Syracuse and New York City; and a grandson.
      