
        Sharon L. Monsky, a scleroderma sufferer who founded an organization that raised millions of dollars to look for a cure for the disease, died on Saturday in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 48 and lived in Santa Barbara.
        The cause was systemic scleroderma, said Charles Spaulding, a vice president of the organization, the Scleroderma Research Foundation, which Ms. Monsky founded in 1987.
        Ms. Monsky had systemic scleroderma, a chronic and painful disease afflicting the connective tissues, for two decades. She was the foundation's chairman and chief executive until she died.
        ''She was a leader in raising awareness and funding in search of a cure for scleroderma,'' said Dr. M. Kari Connolly, a professor of dermatology and medicine at the University of California at San Francisco, who has been doing research about scleroderma for 10 years.
        The struggle for awareness and money encountered problems. Ms. Monsky said in a 1990 interview with The New York Times: ''It's a hard one to sell. It's a mysterious disease. It's an ugly disease. And there are no scleroderma poster children to help.''
        In the early 1980's, when she found out that she had scleroderma, which hardens the skin and internal organs, Ms. Monsky was given only two years to live. But as she lived on, she decided to create the foundation.
        She had a master's degree in business administration and had become a highly regarded management consultant with McKinsey & Company, which she had to leave in 1985 after her health deteriorated. She applied her business expertise to the foundation.
        Besides corporate donors, celebrities in the performing arts were persuaded to donate time and money to the cause.
        Ms. Monsky's activities generated more than $14 million for research and helped expand understanding of the disease. Money she disbursed for basic medical research on scleroderma led to the publication of scientific articles exploring potential cures. Her work also helped make scleroderma better known.
        The foundation's activities include operating two sites for research on the disease, at Johns Hopkins University in Baltimore and the University of California at San Francisco. The foundation also has adjunct laboratories at Ohio State, Stanford and Duke Universities.
        Born in Omaha, Ms. Monsky was a top amateur figure skater as a teenager. She received a bachelor's degree in economics from Pitzer College in Claremont, Calif., and a master's degree in business administration from Stanford.
        She was separated from her husband, Mark Scher.
        She is survived by her mother, Ramelle Monsky of Palm Desert, Calif.; a son, Max, and two daughters, Samantha and Montana, all of Santa Barbara; a sister, Robin Monsky of Chicago; and a brother, Henry Monsky of Omaha.
      