
        Laura Johnson, a flamboyant New York social figure who reveled in personal publicity but refused to have her many philanthropies made public, died May 12 at her home in Manhattan. She was believed to be in her late 80's, but although she celebrated her birth date, July 17, her birth year remained a mystery even to those closest to her.
        Mrs. Johnson and her husband, Raymond Johnson, a Saks Fifth Avenue executive who died in 1965, were prominent members of cafe society, constantly seen and photographed at El Morocco, the Stork Club and other fashionable nightclubs of the era, and at numerous charity benefits.
        She was never lost in a crowd. She delighted in being the center of attention and worked at it. On occasion, though, she was not above shooing away people who might share a photograph with her.
        She subscribed to the more-is-better school of fashion and was well aware of the swiveling heads and incredulous stares as she strolled the Upper East Side, or anywhere else. Just when it seemed she could go no further with her extraordinary hats, she appeared in a confection fashioned like a rooster sitting in a nest of feathers, the whole thing perched rakishly on her explosion of red hair.
        A friend who encountered her on Madison Avenue swathed from head to knees in blue fox, complete with tails, made a mild remark about the generous amount of fur.
        ''No one outfoxes Laura Johnson,'' she said.
        Bill Cunningham, who over four decades photographed her on numerous occasions, said: ''She liked clothes and people with spirit. She could give you a snow job, and when you called her on it, she'd back down and laugh at herself.''
        At benefits she paraded in bejeweled exuberance, her designer gowns notable for a décolletage that verged on the reckless.
        Other than her age, the only thing she refused to discuss or make public was her philanthropy. In one typical gesture several years before the World Trade Center terrorist attack, she gave the Police Department $1 million.
        ''She came into my office with Howard Safir, then the police commissioner,'' the former mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, said Thursday at her memorial service. ''She wouldn't let us have a press conference or publicize her contribution other than within the department.''
        After Sept. 11, she gave another $1 million to the families of police officers and firefighters, he said.
        She was also a generous contributor to Literacy Partners, the Costume Institute of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Museum of the City of New York. She also raised funds for what was then the American Symphony Orchestra and the charities that benefited from the April in Paris Ball.
        Mrs. Johnson, then Laura Safir, met her future husband in 1956, three years after arriving in Manhattan from Europe. They were married two years later, and shortly after Igor Cassini, who wrote the Cholly Knickerbocker gossip column, described her as the city's ''bird of paradise.''
        She was born near Bucharest, Romania, one of 11 children, and received her primary education there. She spent the years after 1948, as pieced together from family and friends, at the Sorbonne in Paris, where, she said, she received doctorates in law and philosophy, but apparently never practiced or taught in either discipline.
        After her arrival in New York in 1953, she took courses in English at Hunter College, but her speech always retained a decided European inflection.
        Her survivors include a brother, Adorel Safir, who lives in Israel, and a stepson, Patrick Johnson of Manchester-by-the-Sea, Mass.
        Before her death she had a farewell message that was illustrated with her favorite flower, a rose, printed for the friends who attended her memorial. ''I love you and I will watch over all of you with love,'' it read in part, and she signed each one individually.
        ''She was a caricature but a lovable one,'' Mr. Cunningham said. ''Her life was a banquet, and she wanted her friends to share it.''
      