
        Nancy White, the white-gloved editor of Harper's Bazaar during the 1960's, when it captured the spirit of the decade with evocative photographs of models in bikinis, boots and big watches, not to mention spacesuits, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 85.
        Miss White edited Harper's from 1958 to 1971, at a time when there were only two major women's fashion magazines in America. The other, Vogue, was headed by Diana Vreeland, a far more visible personality.
        Her magazine reflected the cultural upheavals of the 1960's, as did she, up to a point: through her three marriages, she insisted on being called Miss White, reflecting the stylishly independent image she strove to project.
        ''There were not a lot of female businesspeople then,'' said Katharine Delahaye Paine, her daughter. ''She felt it was important to create the right image.''
        When she assumed the top editorial job at Harper's Bazaar in 1958, Miss White jotted down the words she hoped would describe her magazine. As given in the book ''Harper's Bazaar: 100 Years of the American Female'' (Random House, 1967), they were: ''authority, awareness, wit, spirit, surprise, curiosity, intelligence, timing, food for thought, vitality, balance and youth.''
        She emphasized photographs -- many by Richard Avedon and Hiro -- that told the story of a new era. They varied from a model posed in front of a missile at Cape Canaveral, to an ethereal picture of a woman in a gown floating in a glass ball, to a model in a shimmering body stocking. Suzy Parker posed in one of the first fashion layouts featuring the bikini.
        ''She was one of the grandes dames of her era,'' the designer John Weitz said yesterday. ''She brought taste, charm and a sense of proportion to the game.''
        Nancy White was born in Brooklyn on July 25, 1916. Her father was in publishing and became general manager of Hearst magazines.
        She attended the Madeira School in Greenway, Va., where she and Katharine Graham, who was to become publisher of The Washington Post, became lifelong friends.
        She left Madeira to work during the Depression, her daughter said. At 15, she worked as an errand girl with a magazine, according to an interview with her in The New York Mirror in 1957. (She did not name the magazine.)
        She returned to the boarding school, and after graduation became an editorial assistant, or ''glorified errand girl,'' in her words, with the magazine Pictorial Review. Her next job, which lasted 16 years, was with Good Housekeeping magazine, where she started as an assistant in the fashion department and left as fashion editor.
        She joined Harper's as an assistant editor in 1957 and was appointed editor at the beginning of 1958. She was chosen by the previous editor, Carmel Snow, who happened to be her aunt. Diana Vreeland had been another candidate for the top job; she promptly quit. In 1962, Mrs. Vreeland joined Vogue, becoming a legend in the fashion world, and not incidentally Miss White's principal competitor.
        Under Miss White, Harper's was aimed at stylish women in Des Moines and Omaha as well as in New York and San Francisco. In one issue, 14 pages by Hiro showed models' bodies seeming to disintegrate beneath colorful prints. Yet in the same issue, there was page after black-and-white page of elegantly understated suits and coats.
        Her comments on pantsuits in a 1964 interview in The New York Times reflected the balance she sought between modernity and moderation. Although she would not wear one to the office herself, she said, pantsuits would be all right for her staff members if they wore ''perfect accessories.''
        Miss White resigned in 1971 after James W. Brady, formerly publisher of Women's Wear Daily, was appointed publisher and editorial director of Harper's. Mr. Brady said it was Hearst's decision for him to modernize the magazine.
        ''In all candor, I don't think Nancy White was as significant as Vreeland,'' said Mr. Brady, the author and columnist, who succeeded Miss White as editor of Harper's. ''She always seemed to be wearing white gloves with her hat firmly in place.''
        After her resignation, Miss White advised Bergdorf Goodman on fashion for two years and devoted much of the rest of her life to charities, including Lighthouse for the Blind and the public television station WNET.
        She was first married to Clarence Dauphinot, founder of Deltec International, then to Ralph D. Paine Jr., publisher of Fortune magazine, and then George K. Thompson, her high school sweetheart. The first two marriages ended in divorce, and Mr. Thompson died in 1996.
        She is survived by two daughters, Ms. Paine of Durham, N.H., and Gillette Piper of Coral Gables, Fla.; a stepdaughter, Mimi Thompson of Manhattan; a sister, Carmel Eitt of King George, Va.; a brother, John Michael White of Delray Beach, Fla.; three grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
        In an interview with The New York Times Magazine in 1972, Miss White said she did not own a little black dress. But she had a color scheme for each of her four homes.
        ''In Manhattan, I'm sort of white and beige,'' she said. ''In Connecticut, I'm yellow and orange and bright green. In New Hampshire, I'm red and white and navy. In Vermont, I'm beige and red.''
      