
        Mildred Wirt Benson, who wrote 23 of the first 30 Nancy Drew novels -- those spine-chilling tales of the fearless teenage sleuth who motored about in a blue roadster solving crimes -- died on Tuesday in Toledo, Ohio. She was 96.
        Nancy Drew, seldom just Nancy, inspired readers, many of them envious girls, to scoop up more than 80 million copies of the books in the series. Here was a heroine who could survive being beaten, choked and tossed into car trunks; escape spiders and snakes -- and then retire at night in her four-poster bed in a golden bedroom. She dated the athletic Ned and basked in the attentions of her doting, widowed father, the distinguished lawyer Carson Drew. And she had no mother to interfere with her adventures.
        Mrs. Benson, her anonymous ghostwriter, took a title and few sentences of outline and turned them into 200-page novels, once churning out 13 in one year, when she was also working full time as a newspaper reporter. She generally got $125 a book, plus Christmas bonuses, and signed away all rights to royalties and personal recognition.
        To her readers, she was Carolyn Keene, one of at least two and perhaps as many as six writers who used that pseudonym for the original 56 Nancy Drew Mystery Stories; some of the originals are still in print, republished by Applewood Books. But as the author of the very first one, ''The Secret of the Old Clock'' (Grosset & Dunlap, 1930), it was she who defined the character.
        In an interview with Salon, an online magazine, in 1999, she described Nancy as a person who believed in her own freedom. ''The girls were ripe for a change in literature,'' she said. ''They were way overdue for a good, entertaining story that broke away from the old style of writing. I think Nancy was the character the girls were waiting for.''
        In 1993, the University of Iowa, where Mrs. Benson in 1927 was the first person to earn a master's in journalism, held a symposium to discuss the importance of Nancy Drew. Catharine R. Stimpson, a professor at Rutgers, said then in an interview with The New York Times that what matters in the books ''is not her sex appeal but how tough and smart and adventurous she is.'' She continued: ''It means something that mothers and aunts give books to their nieces and daughters. She's a legacy, a spiritual treasure passed on.''
        Mildred Augustine was born on July 10, 1905, in Ladora, Iowa. The daughter of a doctor, she detested dolls, and her earliest ambition was to be a writer.
        After graduating from the University of Iowa in 1925, she worked for a year for a newspaper in Clinton, Iowa. She then went to New York City, where she met Edward Stratemeyer, a book packager who employed a stable of anonymous writers called the Stratemeyer Syndicate to produce series of fiction books, which he would sell to publishers. Among the series his book factory produced were the ''Bobbsey Twins,'' ''Tom Swift'' and the ''Hardy Boys.'' She left a writing sample and returned to the University of Iowa for graduate work. Stratemeyer wrote to offer her a chance to write for his faltering ''Ruth Fielding'' series.
        She was then offered a chance to write the first Nancy Drew book. In a biographical essay, she said it was harder than it seemed, even if she did not have to come up with the plot.
        ''The plots provided me were brief, yet certain hackneyed names and situations could not be bypassed,'' she wrote. ''Therefore I concentrated upon Nancy, trying to make her a departure from the stereotyped heroine commonly encountered in the series books of the day.''
        She wrote that Mr. Stratemeyer was bitterly disappointed with the first one, saying the heroine was ''too flip.'' But it and the next two books were huge financial successes; she wrote two more by the end of the year.
        Mrs. Benson worked on several other projects for the syndicate. She published several other books under her own pseudonyms, as well as many books under her real name. Sometimes she imagined things that became part of her own life later on. Except for one bumpy ride with a barnstormer, she had never flown when she wrote the ''Ruth Darrow Flying Stories.'' She later took flying lessons and became a commercial pilot and aviation columnist.
        She was introduced to journalism through her first husband, Asa Wirt, who worked for The Associated Press. In 1944, she began working at The Toledo Times and later moved to The Toledo Blade. Mr. Wirt died in 1947, and three years later she married George Benson, editor of The Toledo Times, who died in 1959. Her only survivor is her daughter, Margaret Wirt of Logansport, Ind.
        She covered city hall and the courts, among other beats. She worked until the day she died, being taken to the hospital from her desk, where she had been working on her monthly column about older people.
        Her fiction writing slowed to a halt in the mid-1960's. She rejected a request to bring her Nancy Drew style to bear on drug abuse and other social problems.
        But Mrs. Benson could not escape Nancy Drew, even when others took the credit. Harriet Stratemeyer Adams, the daughter of the syndicate's founder, for years said that she alone was the author of Nancy Drew. Her plausible argument was that she had outlined the plot ideas, and then edited Mrs. Benson's manuscripts with a thoroughness that sometimes angered the author. There are experts on both sides of this question.
        Literary scholars have also delved into Nancy Drew, finding racism, class snobbery and, most surprising to the author, lesbianism. ''This is the silliest, most out-of-the-picture thing I've ever heard,'' Mrs. Benson said of that idea. ''I'd like to blow a cork!''
        As the author confided to a reporter from The New York Times on the way to the Iowa conference, it can all sometimes add up to being a bit much. ''I'm so sick of Nancy Drew I could vomit,'' Mrs. Benson said.
      