
        Lois Gould, a best-selling novelist, essayist and memoirist known for her acutely observed portrayals of the emotional complexities of women's lives, died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 70 and lived in Manhattan.
        She had fought cancer for some time, said her son, Anthony C. Gould.
        Ms. Gould was perhaps best known for her debut novel, ''Such Good Friends'' (1970, Random House). Partly autobiographical, the book is about a woman who learns of her husband's wide-ranging infidelities only as he is dying in a hospital. It spent seven weeks on the New York Times best-seller list and was released as a film the next year.
        Most recently, Ms. Gould published a critically praised memoir, ''Mommy Dressing: A Love Story, After a Fashion'' (Anchor/Doubleday, 1998), a cleareyed recollection of life with her glamorous, remote mother, the fashion designer Jo Copeland. Reviewing the memoir in The New York Times Book Review, Margo Jefferson wrote that ''dispassionate compassion is a very moving quality, and it marks 'Mommy Dressing' from beginning to end.''
        As an essayist and critic, Ms. Gould was a frequent contributor to The Times, writing the inaugural Hers column in 1977 and many thereafter. Her subjects included sexual politics, family and the seemingly unbridgeable gulf between men's and women's attitudes toward emotionally laden topics like adultery, eroticism and divorce.
        Ms. Gould was born Lois Regensburg to parents ensconced in the Stork Club set of Manhattan. Her father, Edward J. Regensburg Jr., a debonair cigar manufacturer, left the family, ''whistling,'' she would write, when Lois was 3. Her mother, whose designs were prized by the social lights of New York, Hollywood and Europe, was consumed by her passion for her work and her distaste for her children.
        As parties rustled silkenly in Jo Copeland's Park Avenue living room -- guests might include Joan Crawford or Tyrone Power -- Lois and her brother were expected to remain in their rooms with their supper trays, blissfully unseen and unheard.
        After graduating from Wellesley, Ms. Gould reported on the criminal courts for The Long Island Star-Journal, a newspaper in Long Island City, Queens, that has since folded. She became an editor on several national magazines and served as executive editor of Ladies' Home Journal. She married Philip Benjamin, a novelist and a reporter for The Times, in 1955.
        In 1966 her husband died suddenly after surgery, leaving her with two boys. Among her husband's papers, Ms. Gould found a diary written in code. She cracked the code and discovered a catalog of his extramarital liaisons, many with her friends. The experience provided a foundation for her first novel.
        In ''Such Good Friends,'' Julie Messinger, a young mother, uncovers a similar diary as her husband lies dying. Ms. Gould's novel offered a raw, darkly comic portrait of Julie's emotional life -- her grief, rage, amphetamine popping and suicidal depression -- along with frank depictions of her sexual life, which ran the gamut from quiet marital frustration to ardent masturbation.
        The book caused a sensation in 1970, when Americans were still struggling to comprehend the social upheavals set in motion by the women's movement.
        Likening Julie to a female Alex Portnoy, Saturday Review said: ''What some men find offensive in 'Such Good Friends' is just this kind of intimate disclosure'': the passage under critical scrutiny involved reading Krafft-Ebing in bed while eating Sara Lee fudge cake. The review continued, ''Women aren't supposed to have equal sexual and human rights -- and talk about them as openly as men.''
        In 1967 Ms. Gould married the psychiatrist Robert E. Gould. (Her sons, whom Dr. Gould adopted, took his surname.) Dr. Gould died n 1998; Ms. Gould's son Roger V. Gould, a sociologist at Yale University, died of leukemia at 39 on April 29. Ms. Gould is survived by her son Anthony, of Manhattan, and her brother, Anthony Regensburg, of Camden, Me., and Boca Raton, Fla.
        Among Ms. Gould's other books are the novels ''Necessary Objects'' (1972), ''Final Analysis'' (1974), ''A Sea Change'' (1976) and ''La Presidenta'' (1981) and the essay collection ''Not Responsible for Personal Articles'' (1978).
        If Ms. Gould was known primarily for her knife-edged fictional depictions of marriage and its discontents, she was an equally incisive observer of human connection -- and disconnection -- in her nonfiction.
        In an evocative passage about her mother, she recalled a bittersweet childhood ritual: watching Jo Copeland at her vanity table as she prepared for an evening out.
        ''It seemed to me an ark of some covenant, with hidden doors that swung open to reveal fragrant jars and beautiful bottles, each of which held other secrets,'' she wrote.
        ''Everything I knew about my mother, Jo Copeland, happened right there,'' Ms. Gould continued. ''For what I knew about her was only the dressing. Nothing of the rest of her life was visible to me. Unless the dressing was, in fact, the life.''
      