
        Barbara Anne Castle, a onetime Labor cabinet minister and determined socialist whose radical, ill-timed attempt to tame Britain's mighty trade unions doomed her political career, died yesterday. She was 91.
        She died peacefully in her sleep at her home in Buckinghamshire, her family said in a statement. In a tribute, Prime Minister Tony Blair described her as a ''radical independent spirit.''
        Baroness Castle of Blackburn, as she became in 1990, served in Harold Wilson's first two Labor cabinets, from 1964 to 1970, and in his third, from 1974 to 1976. After Mr. Wilson's surprise resignation in 1976, she might well have become party leader and the first woman to serve as prime minister. But the unions, aroused by her efforts to curb their power, cut short her rise.
        In 1969, as secretary of state for employment and productivity and with the prime minister's enthusiastic support, Ms. Castle had published a plan called ''In Place of Strife,'' which sought to inject some discipline into Britain's chaotic industrial relations by making trade unions subject to legal sanctions.
        The proposal proved popular with the public at large but split the Labor cabinet and provoked so furious a backlash from the unions, on whom the party relied for votes and money, that it had to be withdrawn.
        The home secretary, James Callaghan, had led the opposition to her plan within the cabinet, and when he succeeded Mr. Wilson as prime minister in 1976 his first act was to dismiss her. He told her she was too old for ministerial office.
        Three years later, despite a lifetime's opposition to British membership of the European Common Market, as it was then called, Ms. Castle left the House of Commons and embarked on a second political career as a member of the European Parliament, where she spent the next 10 years fighting European federalism but supporting efforts to establish Europe-wide social standards.
        Considered one of the most left-wing members of Mr. Wilson's three cabinets, Ms. Castle was an intensely ideological politician, a stranger to compromise and pragmatism whose misfortune was to serve at a time when Britain's perilous economic condition required both skills.
        As Britain's first minister of overseas development, she pulled together a disparate array of aid programs run by different departments and subjected them all to a single test: the promotion of development in backward countries.
        In 1965 she took over the transport ministry, where she confronted the railway unions with a recommendation to close 2,000 stations and 3,000 miles of track -- a task proposed by the preceding Conservative government.
        She also introduced breathalyzer testing in a crackdown on drunken driving that cut road deaths by 1,200 in the first year and ordered safety belts fitted to new cars.
        As secretary for employment and productivity, she legislated equal pay for men and women. And after a spell in opposition, she overhauled Britain's social security system as secretary for social services, linking state pensions to average earnings and introducing new child allowances paid directly to the mother rather than through a husband's pay check.
        But she always served in governments buffeted by industrial unrest and unending currency crises, which forced them into deflationary policies she could never accept. She also served under party leaders anxious to maintain good relations with Washington during the Vietnam War, which she strongly opposed. She differed with the leaders also over their resolve to retain Britain's nuclear deterrent, which she wanted to abandon, and their determination to keep Britain in the European Common Market, which she had never wished to join.
        Barbara Anne Betts was born on Oct. 10, 1910, in Chesterfield, Derbyshire, the daughter of a socialist tax inspector who taught himself ancient Greek and a strongly socialist mother, both of Quaker background.
        From Bradford Girls Grammar School she won a scholarship to St. Hugh's College, Oxford, where, excluded from the student debating society, known as the Union, because it did not admit women, she threw herself into Labor Party politics to the neglect of everything else, graduating with a disappointing third-class degree.
        After Oxford she entered local politics in London and helped found a left-wing weekly, Tribune, which was edited by her lover, William Mellor, who died before they could marry. Soon afterward she met Ted Castle, a political journalist, and married him in 1944. He died in 1979. They had no children.
        She was sent to Parliament for Blackburn in Lancashire in 1945 as part of the postwar Labor landslide. The election brought Clement Attlee to power and led to the creation of the National Health Service and the nationalization of large swaths of British industry.
        Ms. Castle's personal popularity with the party's rank and file was confirmed in 1950 when she was elected to its national executive committee, a post she held until 1979. But in her autobiography she acknowledged that the split between the party's extreme left wing (led by the Welsh firebrand Aneurin Bevan) and Labor's leadership ''helped keep the party out of office for 13 years.''
        In 1952, Mr. Bevan published a personal political testament called ''In Place of Fear'' that greatly influenced Ms. Castle's thinking and largely explains how a self-proclaimed leftist like herself could set out to discipline Britain's powerful unions.
        She borrowed shamelessly from its title when she called her reform blueprint ''In Place of Strife,'' thus seeking to place it in the middle of radical Labor Party thinking. What inspired those reforms, she wrote in her autobiography, was Bevan's plea for politicians to be more flexible and his belief that their ''Holy Grail'' should be ''the living truth, knowing that the truth being alive must change.''
        This lead Ms. Castle to conclude, as she put it, that ''the trade unions, being an expression of the living truth, must learn to change their role'' and become more responsive to the needs of society as a whole.
        Although ''In Place of Strife'' was stillborn, the task she had set herself would be accomplished a decade later by Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, a Conservative, in every way her antithesis and a woman she disliked.
      