
        Sharon Anne Hogan, a Chicago university librarian who helped usher the country's libraries into the electronic age, died on April 27 while convalescing with friends in Paradise Valley, Ariz. She was 57 and lived in suburban Oak Brook.
        The cause was cancer, said the University of Illinois, where she had been a librarian since 1990. Ms. Hogan left Chicago on Feb. 14 to attend a conference and was stopping over in Arizona on her way back when she fell ill, the university reported.
        Ms. Hogan was a national leader in getting libraries to function as information retrieval systems. To that end she devised a system to teach library users the basics of the Internet so they could perform some of their own research.
        ''Sharon Hogan was a pivotal figure in the rebirth of the modern library in the digital age,'' said the university chancellor, Sylvia Manning.
        In legislative hearings and other forums she championed copyright, free speech and privacy rights. She testified before Congress on technology and access issues.
        The Illinois Library Association gave her its Intellectual Freedom Award for opposing Internet filters and state legislation that would have left obscenity standards to individual counties. Such laws, she argued, would hamper libraries in lending materials across county lines.
        The national Association of College and Research Libraries named her its Academic/Research Librarian of the Year in 2000. She was co-author of a textbook, ''Learning the Library'' (Bowker, 1982), and the founding editor of the journal Research Strategies.
        Sharon Hogan grew up in Cherokee, Iowa, and graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the College of William and Mary in 1967. She then received an advanced degree in library science at the University of Michigan.
        She held positions there, at Temple University and at Louisiana State University, where she became director of libraries. The University of Illinois recruited her in 1990 with the additional title of vice provost for information management, dealing with computing, telecommunications and information systems.
        Ms. Hogan is survived by her mother, Elta Hogan of Cherokee. Her husband, Theodore J. Martineau, died in 2000.
        ''Libraries,'' she said when she received her Intellectual Freedom Award, ''play a very important role in safeguarding every citizen's right to read or hear diverse viewpoints and to make up his or her own mind about issues.''
      