
        Astrid Lindgren, the Swedish writer whose rollicking, anarchic books about Pippi Longstocking rattled some tradition-bound Swedes when they first appeared almost 60 years ago but came to captivate millions of children around the world, died yesterday at her home in Stockholm. She was 94.
        Mrs. Lindgren, who began publishing in the 1940's, became one of the world's most widely translated authors. In addition to being a beloved cultural figure in Sweden, she was also a powerful political force, successfully lobbying on issues like tax reform and improved conditions for farm animals.
        Although Mrs. Lindgren produced more than 70 books for young people, she was best known as the author of the classic ''Pippi Longstocking,'' first published in Sweden in 1945 and in the United States five years later. The title character is a 9-year-old carrot-haired enfant terrible who lives cheerfully by herself in the ramshackle Villa Villekulla and befriends her better behaved, better groomed neighbors, Tommy and Annika.
        ''She had no mother and no father, and that was of course very nice because there was no one to tell her to go to bed just when she was having the most fun, and no one who could make her take cod liver oil when she much preferred caramel candy,'' the book begins.
        ''Pippi'' and its sequels have together sold millions of copies and been translated into more than 50 languages. The sheer subversive quality of the books, whose brazen young heroine does exactly as she pleases, made them unusual for juvenile literature.
        ''Bertrand Russell has written that a child dreams about power as grown-ups dream sexual wish dreams,'' Mrs. Lindgren said in a 1985 interview. ''This is a child who has power. That is wonderful, for children to think, 'Oh, if I were like Pippi! I could say to Father, '' 'You don't do that!' ''
        ''She has power, but she never misuses that power,'' Ms. Lindgren said, ''which I think is the most splendid thing, and the most difficult.''
        Mrs. Lindgren was born Astrid Anna Emilia Ericsson on Nov. 14, 1907, the second of four children of Samuel August and Hanna Jonsson Ericsson, in Vimmerby, in southern Sweden. Her father was a tenant farmer, and Mrs. Lindgren grew up outside Vimmerby at Nas, a 500-year-old farm, in an old red house surrounded by apple orchards.
        ''Rocks and trees were as close to us as living beings, and nature protected and nurtured our playing and our dreaming,'' she wrote in a 1973 memoir. ''Whatever our imagination could call forth was enacted in the land around us -- all fairy tales, all adventures we invented or read about or heard about, all of it happened there, and only there. Even our songs and prayers had their places in surrounding nature.''
        The pastoral idyll of Mrs. Lindgren's youth came to an end in 1926, when, 19 and unmarried, she became pregnant. She fled to Copenhagen, where she gave birth to a son, Lars, and later settled in Stockholm.
        To support herself, she took a secretarial job at the Royal Automobile Club in Stockholm. (Among Mrs. Lindgren's lesser known writing is the 1939 work ''Twenty-Five Automobile Tours in Sweden.'') In 1931 she married a co-worker, Sture Lindgren. Mrs. Lindgren, who was widowed in 1952, is survived by a sister, Stina Hergin; her daughter, Karin Nyman; seven grandchildren and 11 great-grandchildren.
        It was Karin who first conjured up Pippi. In 1941 when she was 7 she was sick in bed with pneumonia. Night after night she nagged her mother to tell her a story.
        ''What should I tell?'' the exhausted Mrs. Lindgren asked one evening.
        ''Tell about Pippi Langstrump'' -- Pippi Longstocking -- Karin replied, coining the name on the spot.
        Her mother gamely complied.
        ''I didn't ask her who Pippi Longstocking was,'' Mrs. Lindgren told The New Yorker in 1983. ''I just began the story, and since it was a strange name it turned out to be a strange girl as well.''
        Pippilotta Delicatessa Windowshade Mackrelmint Efraim's daughter Longstocking was indeed a strange girl. Her fiery hair stuck straight out from either side of her head in two tight braids. She wore one black stocking and one brown, with black shoes twice as long as her feet. Her mother was long dead; her sailor father had been lost at sea, though Pippi was confident he had come ashore on a South Sea island where ''he had become king of all the cannibals.'' She had a horse and a monkey named Mr. Nilsson for company and a trunkful of gold pieces to provide for her wants.
        Like many heroes of traditional Scandinavian lore, Pippi was fearless, ageless and endowed with superhuman strength.
        But above all, Pippi was rude:  deeply, outrageously, satisfyingly rude. Invited to a fancy coffee party, she devoured an entire cream cake before the assembled guests.
        The sequel ''Pippi Goes on Board'' was published in Sweden in 1946, followed by ''Pippi in the South Seas'' in 1948, ''Pippi on the Run'' in 1971 and several other Pippi stories not translated into English.
        In the 1970's she stepped into public life to protest Sweden's income tax laws, which sent self-employed artists like Mrs. Lindgren and the director Ingmar Bergman reeling under a staggering tax burden. A lifelong supporter of the ruling Social Democratic Party, Mrs. Lindgren published a caustic newspaper satire before the 1976 election in which she calculated that, because of competing local and federal taxes, her income was taxed at an annual rate of 102 percent. The Social Democrats, in power for more than 40 years, were defeated, and tax cuts followed, events Mrs. Lindgren was sometimes credited with bringing about.
        Although Mrs. Lindgren's career made her wealthy, she continued to live modestly in the same Stockholm apartment where ''Pippi Longstocking'' was first written, rising early to write in bed before going off to her editing job. She regarded her status as one of Sweden's best loved celebrities with characteristic quiet humor.
        ''Perhaps this is because in Stockholm drunks come up and hug me all the time,'' she said in 1994. ''And I cannot be that impressed with anyone, except for God.''
      