
        Shirley Hayes, who waged a long battle -- called quixotic by some, psychotic by others -- that eventually succeeded in banning cars from Washington Square Park in Manhattan, died on Monday at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 89.
        She marshaled children in strollers, including her own four sons, to press the case that Greenwich Village's only significant park had no business being a bus turnaround, much less being cut in half by a four-lane road.
        She collected 16,000 signatures and the endorsements of politicians, newspapers, 12 parent-teacher associations and the Lions Club. When others sought some middle ground, say a smaller road, Mrs. Hayes spurned deal making.
        ''When Shirley refused to compromise, I told her she was turning into a crackpot,'' said Edward I. Koch, the former mayor of New York, in an interview with McCall's magazine in 1967. At the time he was a lawyer living in the Village.
        ''I thought it was unreasonable to expect the city to cut a major artery and detour traffic through narrow streets,'' Mr. Koch said, ''but she proved her goal was not unrealistic.''
        The long-running drama included some legendary New Yorkers: Robert Moses, the powerful official who demanded the biggest road possible, was her arch enemy. Eleanor Roosevelt, the former first lady who had once lived on Washington Square, was her illustrious supporter. Carmine DeSapio, the leader of Tammany Hall, was the éminence grise who at the final moment gave the quiet nod to her position.
        ''This was where the tide turned against the indiscriminate taking of parkland for automotive purposes,'' said Henry J. Stern, the former city parks commissioner, who last year put up a sign in Washington Square honoring the event.
        Mrs. Hayes was born Shirley Zak on June 15, 1912, in Chicago. She attended the University of Wisconsin and studied painting at the School of the Art Institute of Chicago and acting at the Goodman Theater in Chicago. She moved to New York in 1932 to pursue a career in acting. In 1936, she appeared in Leslie Howard's ''Hamlet,'' which was making Broadway history by competing with Sir John Gielgud's ''Hamlet.'' She played a lady in waiting and met her husband, James, during the production; he played a pallbearer.
        They had four sons: Christopher, who lives in Manhattan and Los Angeles, and his twin, Kerry, who lives in Toronto, Timothy, of Manhattan and East Hampton, and Dennis, of Rio de Janeiro and Manhattan. In addition to her sons, she is survived by four grandchildren.
        Mrs. Hayes, who was often busy entertaining clients for her husband, who had gone into advertising, also became involved in other neighborhood causes, like fighting the large apartment houses that Robert Moses eventually built south of Washington Square. Because she frequently took her sons to Washington Square Park, she leapt into the fight in 1952, when Mr. Moses proposed building a 48-foot roadway through it. The road -- which would have linked Fifth Avenue on the north side of the park to West Broadway on the south -- would have wiped out some playgrounds. ''A few women got together to say no, no, no,'' Mrs. Hayes said in an interview with The Villager, a neighborhood paper, last fall.
        The debate took many turns; one big struggle was over what to do with the buses that already used the park as a turnaround. Eventually politicians came up with the idea of using a smaller road as a compromise. The original proposal for a below-the-ground road was changed to ground level. But Mrs. Hayes had decided she would accept nothing less than no road through the park, and no vehicles of any kind in it, including the buses.
        ''She took the extreme position,'' said Anthony Dapolito, owner of Vesuvio Bakery and long a leader in Greenwich Village politics. ''She and the mothers kept insisting and wouldn't give up.''
        On April 9, 1959, the city's Board of Estimate, the body that then governed the city's spending and land use, voted to oust cars entirely, shortly after Mr. DeSapio, always attuned to opinion in the Village, had passed the word that he wanted them out.
        In her 1961 book, ''The Life and Death of Great American Cities,'' Jane Jacobs noted the courage of the position taken by Mrs. Hayes and her allies: ''They advocated eliminating the existing road, that is, closing the park to all automobile traffic -- but at the same time, not widening the perimeter roads either. In short, they proposed closing off a roadbed without compensating for it.''
        Ms. Jacobs wrote that traffic did not become unmanageable, and that more of the low-scale profile of Greenwich Village was preserved. Others suggested that the defeat of the road represented the first nail in the coffin of Mr. Moses's plan for a Lower Manhattan expressway. The park road would have fed into the Moses freeway, which he planned to link the bridges and tunnels to Brooklyn and New Jersey.
        Mrs. Hayes was divorced in 1965 and went to work as a classical radio disc jockey on WNYC's ''While the City Sleeps'' and other programs. She also worked with Mayor John V. Lindsay, for whom she campaigned, on making the city friendlier to movie companies. She was a charter member of the National Organization for Women.
        Correction:  May 15, 2002, Wednesday  An obituary on Saturday about Shirley Hayes, who successfully fought a road through Washington Square Park in Greenwich Village, reversed two words in the title of a book by the urban planning critic Jane Jacobs, which praised her. It is ''The Death and Life of Great American Cities,'' not ''Life and Death.''
      