
        Prof. Florence G. Roswell, who spent more than half a century teaching and writing, particularly about ways to diagnose and overcome reading disabilities, died May 4 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 97.
        A former director of the reading clinic at the City College of New York, she remained active into her 90's, with several of her books and manuals published or reissued within the last few years.
        She worked with Dr. Jeanne S. Chall, another leading expert on teaching children to read, to devise instructional materials to guide teachers. First published in the 1950's, these materials had a revival in the 1990's and remain in print. Dr. Chall died in 1999.
        In 1997, Educators Publishing Company reissued the ''Roswell-Chall Auditory Blending Test,'' and the ''Roswell-Chall Diagnostic Reading Test of Word Analysis Skills.''
        Florence Garfunkel Roswell was born in Manhattan in June 1904. She entered New York University at 16, majoring in English literature; she graduated in 1924.
        She taught second grade for several years while taking graduate education courses at Teachers College. When children in her classroom were having trouble learning to read, she asked them to come to school earlier and stay later to help them catch up.
        City College offered her a teaching fellowship in 1942, asking her to test children with various reading problems and to supervise student teachers. At the time, conventional wisdom regarding reading disabilities was that a child's difficulties were rooted in emotional problems, and that not much could be done by the teacher until the problems were addressed.
        Based on her experience in testing and teaching poor readers, Professor Roswell took a more positive tack. She concluded that a child's reading deficiencies required special attention regardless of emotional problems. Her views and those of like-minded teachers eventually prevailed. Their stand brought about recognition of distinct disabilities like various kinds of dyslexia.
        For teaching reading, she advocated using phonics along with the whole language method, or a system that chiefly exposes students to the sight of words. The dual approach meant that readers could be able to decode sounds and words.
        Her first text, ''Reading Disability: A Human Approach,'' was published in the 1960's and had four printings. Most recently she was a co-author of ''Teaching Children to Read, a Step-by-Step Guide for Volunteer Tutors'' (Continental Press, 1998); and ''Creating Successful Readers'' (Riverside, 1994).
        Professor Roswell is survived by a son, Dr. Arthur, of Bridgewater, N.J.; a daughter, Elaine Roswell of New Haven; three grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren. Her husband, David S. Roswell, an economist, died in the 1960's.
      