
        Elka Spoerri, an art historian and curator who unlocked the riches of the art of Adolf Wölfli, died May 17 at her home in Bern, Switzerland. She was 77 and lived in Bern and New York.
        She died of cancer, said her son, Anselm.
        Mrs. Spoerri, who sometimes jokingly referred to herself as ''Mrs. Wölfli,'' was a legend in the world of outsider art. She spent more than 20 years deciphering, transcribing, translating and indexing the often densely interwoven writing, iconography and musical scores of Wölfli, a prolific schizophrenic Swiss laborer. Consigned to Waldau, a psychiatric hospital in Bern, from the age of 30 to his death at 66 in 1930, Wölfli created thousands of drawings and 45 large illustrated books containing a total of nearly 25,000 pages. He was known in Switzerland during his lifetime but subsequently slipped into near oblivion.
        Mrs. Spoerri came to Wölfli's work through her husband, Theodor, a psychiatrist at Waldau who, at the invitation of the Swiss curator Harald Szeemann, helped reintroduce Wölfli's work to the art world at Documenta 5 in 1972. But Theodor, a cousin of the artist Daniel Spoerri, died in 1973, and Mrs. Spoerri became the chief guardian and interpreter of Wölfli's art.
        In 1975 she became the founding curator of the Adolf Wölfli Foundation at the Kunstmuseum Bern. During the next 20 years her pioneering research broke the code of Wölfli's art and confirmed him as arguably one of the greatest artists of the 20th century. Her work contributed to a moment of stunning harmonic convergence in the early 1970's, when the heretofore small outsider-art field was rocked by such discoveries as the work of Martin Ramirez and Henry Darger -- like Wölfli, a universe-forming writer-artist.
        Mrs. Spoerri was born Elka Zagaroff in Sofia, Bulgaria, in 1924, the daughter of a prominent economist. Her family became refugees in 1939, living in Berlin, southern Germany and Bern. She received most of her education at the University of Bern. Interested in contemporary art, she was co-writer of a lexicon of 20th-century Swiss artists, and over the years she maintained close friendships with artists like Meret Oppenheim, Markus Raetz, Joel Fisher and Joan Jonas.
        Once diverted into Wölfli territory, Mrs. Spoerri discovered a vast continent. At the time of her husband's death, almost nothing was known about the contents of Wölfli's books, the bulk of his creation. Mrs. Spoerri parsed the constituent parts of their magnificent illustrations: the self-portraits, madonnas and animal forms and the powerful decorative patterns in which they were enmeshed. More important (and laborious), she also deciphered many of Wölfli's words, converting his partly invented Swiss-German into German and English.
        Unraveling Wölfli's complex autobiographical narratives and rhythmic celebratory chants, she separated his real life's story from his imagined one, excavating an artist of extraordinary imagination but also sharp observations, as evidenced by his accounts of his impoverished childhood. It helped, she said, that she had been taught in Old German in elementary school in Bulgaria.
        Mrs. Spoerri organized or worked on more than 30 exhibitions of Wölfli's work and edited or contributed to numerous Wölfli publications, including (with Dieter Schwarz) a two-volume version of his 2,970-page autobiography, ''From the Cradle to the Grave,'' and (with Max Wechsler) ''Geographical Book No. 11: Writings, 1912-1913.'' She retired from the Wölfli foundation in 1996 but was a curator, with her successor, Daniel Baumann, of the Wölfli retrospective that will open at the American Museum of Folk Art next January.
        In addition to her son, a professor at Rutgers University who lives in Manhattan, she is survived by her sister, Radka Donnell, a poet and artist, of Cambridge, Mass., and her brother, Mitko Zagaroff, also of Cambridge, who is a chief engineer for the artists Christo and Jean-Claude.
      