
        Phyllis Pray Bober, a scholar of Renaissance art and its relationship to classical antiquity, and a pioneering scholar in culinary history, died on May 30 at her home in Ardmore, Pa. She was 81.
        Ms. Bober, a professor emerita of the humanities at Bryn Mawr, was known for her unusually wide range of interests, among them Roman provincial sculpture, Renaissance architectural theory, the history of collecting and antiquarianism, and the story of culture and cuisine.
        Trained in archaeology at the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University, she was chosen as a young scholar to organize a monumental project, ''The Census of Classical Works Known to the Renaissance,'' which remained her focus for more than 40 years. The census grew into the standard resource for the subject, and Ms. Bober considered it her most significant work.
        She often lectured, however, on historical cooking, which she said offered lessons for the modern world regarding ''conservation of energy, nurture of our environment and elimination of food wastage.''
        Ms. Bober was known for her lavish banquets that recreated past cuisines. For a class at Bryn Mawr, she prepared a Roman feast that included an entire wild boar roasted in a college oven. At Oxford University in 1992, she lectured on the culinary uses of marijuana during the Italian Renaissance.
        Her 1999 book, ''Art, Culture and Cuisine: Ancient and Medieval Gastronomy'' (University of Chicago), explored connections between food and art from prehistory through the late Gothic period. She was working on a second volume, covering the Renaissance through the early 20th century, when she died. She also published ''Renaissance Artists and Antique Sculpture: A Handbook of Sources'' in 1986.
        Ms. Bober founded the department of fine arts at the old Heights campus of New York University in the Bronx and served as its chairwoman from 1967 to 1973. In 1973 she became the dean of the Bryn Mawr College Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, where she held appointments in two departments, art history and classical and Near Eastern archaeology.
        She served as president of the College Art Association from 1988 to 1990; was elected to the Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei in Rome in 1995 and to the American Philosophical Society in 1999 and, because of her work in culinary history, to the Dames d'Escoffier in 1995.
        She was married to the art historian Harry Bober; they divorced in 1973, and he died in 1988.
        She is survived by her companion, Ted Barnett, of Philadelphia, and by two sons, Jonathan Bober, a curator at the Blanton Museum of Art at the University of Texas in Austin, and David Bober of New York.
      