
        Zena Sutherland, the most prominent reviewer of American children's books for nearly three decades and the author of five editions of ''Children and Books,'' the classic textbook on the subject, died on June 12 in Chicago. She was 86.
        As the editor and reviewer of The Bulletin of the Center for Children's Books, essentially a one-woman operation, she concisely assessed about 30,000 titles, more than 100 a month, from 1958 to 1985. The Bulletin is directed to librarians, but her words were also taken seriously by editors, publishers, writers and illustrators.
        ''No other individual's views had such an impact on children's books then or now,'' said Roger Sutton, the editor of The Horn Book magazine and one of her many protégés.
        Mrs. Sutherland led the way in the critical rather than sugary descriptive reviewing that accompanied the flourishing of American children's books. She explained the great change in the field of children's books that paralleled her career as the lifting of taboos, most of which reflected a sincere wish to protect children. She accepted children as real and aware individuals and their books as real literature, and she was a stalwart supporter of books that addressed a range of problems and issues that some still find shocking.
        In 1963 the psychologically incisive picture book ''Where the Wild Things Are,'' by Maurice Sendak, was controversial in the way it depicted a child's temper tantrum. Mrs. Sutherland found it ''most imaginative and unusual.'' Her 1970 review of Mr. Sendak's ''In the Night Kitchen'' serenely sailed past little Mickey's brief nudity, which so disturbed other reviewers, and described the book as an ''engaging fantasy.''
        Mr. Sendak remembered both her criticism and her friendship as ''a magnifying glass.'' He added, ''You couldn't lie or be sappy or ridiculous.''
        Of John Donovan's ''I'll Get There. It Better Be Worth the Trip,'' a 1969 novel for young adults that introduced homosexuality as a theme, she said, ''It is not the crux of the story, and it is handled with dignity.'' Similarly, in 1974 she identified Robert Cormier's first novel, ''The Chocolate War,'' now considered a classic, as ''a sobering, dramatic and timeless story.''
        Zena Karras was born in Winthrop, Mass., in 1915 and moved with her mother to Chicago after her parents divorced. She graduated from the University of Chicago in 1937, married Roland Bailey the same year and had three children. In 1956 she began course work at the Graduate Library School with the vague intention of becoming a medical librarian, took a children's literature course on a whim and was soon asked to take over The Bulletin temporarily.
        Mrs. Sutherland also reviewed children's books for The Saturday Review from 1966 to 1972 and for The Chicago Tribune from 1972 to 1984. She taught at the Library School from 1972 to 1986 and served on all the important library and children's book committees, including those for the Newbery and Caldecott Awards.
        She succeeded May Hill Arbuthnot as the author of ''Children and Books,'' the basic college text on children's literature, in 1972, and revised it regularly, most recently in 1996.
        Her friendship with Scott O'Dell, the author of ''Island of the Blue Dolphins'' and other historical novels for children, led to the establishment in 1981 of the $5,000 Scott O'Dell Award for Historical Fiction, of which she was the permanent chairwoman.
        In 1983 a collection of articles in her honor, ''Celebrating Children's Books,'' generated royalties that were used to establish the Zena Sutherland lecture series, now run by the Chicago Public Library and the University of Chicago Lab School.
        Her first marriage ended in divorce in 1961. In 1964 she married Alec Sutherland, a Scot who was then director of broadcasting at the University of Chicago. He died in 1990.
        Her survivors include a daughter, Katherine Linehan, a professor of English at Oberlin College; two sons, Stephen Bailey, associate dean and professor of history at Knox College, and Thomas Bailey, a teacher in Hellenbaek, Denmark; seven grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
        ''I love reading and I love reviewing,'' Mrs. Sutherland once said in an interview. ''Opening every single package was like Christmas. I have been known to stop in the middle of unpacking a load of books and sit down with one.''
      