 Joan L. Hafey, a retired vice president for the New York advertising agency Young & Rubicam who was active in public-service advertising campaigns, died July 24 at Tisch Hospital of New York University Medical Center. She was 67 and lived in Manhattan and Southbury, Conn. The cause 
 Sylvia Weinberger, who used a sprinkling of matzoh meal, a pinch of salt and a dollop of schmaltzmanship to turn chopped liver into a commercial success, died on July 23 at a hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. She was 89 and had lived in Boca Raton, Fla. Mrs. Weinberger started makin
 Gloria Chadwick, an international ski racing administrator who was especially dedicated to furthering women's cross-country competition, died on Sunday at her home in Lake Placid, N.Y. She was 63. Her brother, Norman Chadwick of Mount Vernon, Wash., said she died of cancer. 
 Phyllis Brooks, a popular film and stage actress in the 1930's and 40's, died on Tuesday at her home in Cape Neddick, Me. She was 80. Miss Brooks, a native of Boise, Idaho, started her career as an artist's model in New York, posing for the magazine illustrator James Montgomery Flag
 Genevieve Tobin, an actress who worked in theater and films, died on Monday at Las Encinas Hospital in Pasadena, Calif. She was 93. Ms. Tobin's first major theatrical role was in the 1920 show "Little Old New York." Her last film appearance was in "Queen of Crime" in 1941. All told,
 Janet Ward, an actress who appeared on the stage in "The Impossible Years," "Middle of the Night" and "The Egg," died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 70 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from a heart attack, said Thayer Burch, a fri
 Ida Lupino, an earthy, intelligent movie actress who created a luminous gallery of worldly wise villainesses, gangster's molls and hand-wringing neurotics, died on Thursday night at her home in Burbank, Calif. She was 77 years old. Miss Lupino had cancer and had recently suffered a 
 Gloria Wills Landes, a former Broadway showgirl who capped a brief, effervescent career by founding and directing an acclaimed school for aspiring teen-age actors and playwrights, died on Friday at her home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. She was 69. Mrs. Landes was the director of the SUNY You
 Brigid Brophy, a novelist, critic, essayist and crusader for myriad causes ranging from better royalty payments for writers to better treatment for animals, died on Monday at a nursing home in Lincolnshire, England. She was 66 and had been suffering from multiple sclerosis for many years.  
 Esther Muir, a character actress who began her career on Broadway in the 1920's and went on to appear in some 70 films, died on Aug. 1 at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 92 and lived in Somers, N.Y. Ms. Muir started modeling while still in high school in N
 Clarice Blackburn, an actress and television writer, died at her home in Manhattan on Saturday. She was 74 and also had a home in Cutchogue, L.I. The cause was cancer, said Marge Berson, her friend and executor. Ms. Blackburn was born in San Francisco and earned a bachelor's
 Gail Beckenstein Sovern, a former investment analyst for Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and legal librarian for the law firm of Paul Weiss Rifkind Wharton & Garrison, died on Tuesday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. She was 39 and lived in Kew Gardens, Queens. The cause
 Jolie Hammer Kinsolving, a government affairs adviser and a former deputy borough president of Manhattan, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital. A resident of the Upper East Side, she was 62. The cause was cancer, her family said. She went to work for City Council President
 Marcia Cayne, president of the Association of Reform Zionists of America and a member of the Conference of Major American Jewish Organizations, died on Saturday at Tarzana Medical Center in Los Angeles. She was 57 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was cancer, the association said.
 Carol Fox Sulzberger, the wife of Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, the chairman of The New York Times Company, and an active volunteer with foundations and social-service organizations, died yesterday at her home in Southampton, L.I. She was 68. The cause of her death was cancer. Mrs
 Mary Polak Oenslager, a philanthropist who supported the city's cultural institutions and helped causes from women's health to the visually impaired, died last Sunday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 98. She endowed programs at several institutions that provi
 Fay Honey Knopp, an advocate of peace and civil rights who founded a Quaker ministry for men and women in prisons around the country, died on Thursday at her home in Shoreham, Vt. A former resident of Westport, Conn., she was 76. The cause was complications from ovarian cancer, her 
 Joyce Steins, a supporter of the arts and social causes who owned and operated several trendy Manhattan restaurants before retiring three years ago, died on Sunday in Riverhead Hospital on Long Island. A West Side resident, she was 52. The cause was breast cancer, O. Aldon James Jr.
 Oveta Culp Hobby, the creator of the Women's Auxiliary Army Corps in World War II, the first Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare and a longtime executive at the recently closed Houston Post, died yesterday at her home in Houston. She was 90. Mrs. Hobby, whose media holdings m
 Helen Singer Kaplan, a pioneer in the field of sex therapy and founder of the country's first clinic for sexual disorders established at a medical school, died on Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 66. The cause was cancer, her family said. Dr.
 Honeychile Wilder is dead, and if the "21" Club is not in actual mourning, the venerable former speak-easy on West 52d Street was closed for vacation last week when word got around that one of its most memorable former patrons had died on Aug. 11 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.  
 Adele Simpson, an important player in the postwar fashion movement, died yesterday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 91. Mrs. Simpson took French couture and gave it an American ready-to-wear interpretation. Her color-coordinated dresses and jackets and well-cut coats in fine 
 Alice Greenough Orr, who broke horses as a youngster on a Montana ranch, delivered mail through snowdrifts on horseback as a teen-ager and later reigned for two decades as the rodeo queen of the bronc riders, died on Sunday at her home in Tucson, Ariz. She was 93 and a member of both the Co
 Niuta Titus, whose philanthropy fostered culture and medical research, died on Tuesday in Gstaad, Switzerland, while on vacation. Mrs. Titus, who lived in Manhattan, was 82. With her husband, Roy V. Titus, the former chairman of the Helena Rubinstein cosmetics empire, who died in 19
 Florene May Schoenborn, a benefactor and life trustee of the Museum of Modern Art, to which she gave dozens of paintings collected over the years by her and her second husband, Samuel A. Marx, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 92. The couple came to own what was among
 Lee Hadley, an Iowa State English professor who helped turn a collaborative pedagogical sendup into an acclaimed literary career as half of a writing team known to young readers as Hadley Irwin, died on Tuesday at her home in Madrid, Iowa. She was 60. The cause was cancer, said her 
 Evelyn Wood, whose search for a way to improve the lives of troubled girls led to the development of speed reading techniques prescribed by Presidents and endorsed by multitudes, died on Saturday in Hospice Family Care in Tucson, Ariz. Mrs. Wood, who lived in Tucson, was 86. The tin
