 Joan Mareskas Kormendi, the longtime artistic director of the Children's Repertory Group, whose child actors performed at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on May 18 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 81. The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Kath
 Mary Elizabeth Grenander, a longtime professor of English who was an authority on the American writer Ambrose Bierce, known for his satirical wit and his horror stories, died in her sleep on Thursday at her home in East Berne, N.Y. She was 79. Professor Grenander, known as M. E. Gre
 Dorothy Stickney, who created the role of the mother in ''Life with Father'' and also appeared in many other Broadway hits during a career that spanned more than 50 years, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 101. ''Life with Father,'' by Howard Lindsay (Miss Stickney's 
 Harryetta Peterka, director of instruction of the American Academy of Dramatic Arts, died on Tuesday at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan. She was 64 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was injuries sustained when she was struck by a bicycle messenger while crossing Madison Aven
 Anne Kraus, who was inspired by the plight of her firstborn to devote herself to those with mental retardation and other developmental disabilities, died on Monday at Long Island Jewish Medical Center in Queens. She was 73 and lived in Rego Park, Queens. The cause was leukemia, her 
 Erika Cheetham, an English medieval scholar who made a fortune translating the predictions of the 16th-century physician and astrologer Nostradamus, who gazed not only at the stars but also, legend had it, into a brass bowl of water to see visions of the future, died on May 3 in London. She
 Helen Carter, a singer and musician who was part of the Carter family dynasty of country-music entertainers, died on Tuesday at Vanderbilt University Medical Center in Nashville, Tenn. She was 70 and lived in Dickson, Tenn. She had been hospitalized for gastrointestinal problems tha
 Jean Tower Rennie, the founder of the Collateral Dames, one of the first women's investment clubs in the United States, died on May 31 at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 84. The cause was heart failure, her family said. Mrs. Rennie was born in Milwaukee on Feb. 3, 1914, the dau
 Shirley Polykoff, the pioneering advertising woman who came up with a single double-entendre that changed the face, or rather turned the heads, of American society, died on Thursday at her home on Park Avenue. She was 90 and the author of the ''Does she . . . or doesn't she?'' slogan, which
 Josephine Hutchinson, a stage and film actress who gained prominence in the 1930's and early 40's, died on June 4 at the Florence Nightingale Nursing Home in Manhattan. She was 94. After studying as a child at the Cornish School in her hometown of Seattle, Ms. Hutchinson left for se
 Mary Arnold Cahan, a New York socialite who helped organize annual benefits for the Costume Institute at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Tuesday in her home on the East Side of Manhattan. She was 71. The cause was ovarian cancer, her family said. Mrs. Cahan, who was 
 Dame Catherine Cookson, a determined dockside waif who spun the dross of a squalid childhood into gold as one of Britain's most prolific and best-read novelists, died yesterday at her home in a Newcastle suburb. She was 91 and the author of more than 90 novels with a combined distribution o
 Lois Mailou Jones, an American painter and an art teacher for almost a half century at Howard University in Washington, died at her home in Washington on Tuesday. She was 92. Ms. Jones was an iconic figure, and an important historic link in a path-breaking generation of black Americ
 Jeanette Nolan, who began her film career 50 years ago as Lady Macbeth opposite Orson Welles and is now being seen as the mother of the character played by Robert Redford in ''The Horse Whisperer,'' died on June 5 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. Miss Nolan, who lived in Holly
 Mary Bancroft Boulton, a psychotherapist who helped introduce to New York City the practice of transactional analysis, which tries to help a patient correct self-destructive behavior patterns in relationships with other people, died at her home in Greenwich Village on May 30. She was 86.   
 Emily Whaley, a South Carolina woman with a green thumb and such an eye for color that she helped show flowering Charleston there was bloom beyond azaleas and camellias and turned her backyard into one of the nation's most acclaimed private gardens, died on Monday at her summer home in Flat
 Theresa Merritt, whose half-century career on television, in movies, on Broadway and in concert halls stretched from the original production of ''Carmen Jones'' to a recent episode of ''N.Y.P.D. Blue,'' died on June 12 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 75 and lived in the Hollis sec
 Ginette Mathiot, who taught French cooking to the French with such succinct authority that her basic book of recipes sold more than five  million copies, died on June 14 at a retirement home in Paris. She was 91 and best known for her 1932 classic, ''I Know How to Cook.'' In a count
 Gloria F. Ross, a widely known tapestry maker who brought painters and weavers together to create contemporary wall hangings, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, her son Clifford A. Ross said. Tra
 Jean Herzberg Lipman, an arts patron, collector, author of 26 art books and longtime editor of Art in America magazine, died on Saturday at her home in Carefree, Ariz. She was 88. Mrs. Lipman was a pioneering collector and proponent of American folk art who conceived and organized t
 Maureen O'Sullivan, a leading Hollywood actress in the 1930's and early 40's best known for playing Jane to Johnny Weissmuller's Tarzan in the series of popular jungle adventure movies, died yesterday at the Scottsdale Memorial Hospital in Scottsdale, Ariz. She was 87. Ms. O'Sullivan, who w
 Louise M. Davies, the San Francisco benefactor who gave the city she loved a $5 million concert hall in 1980, died on Monday at a retirement home in Portola Valley, Calif. She was 98. Mrs. Davies, whose husband, Ralph K. Davies, an oil millionaire, died in 1971, bestowed millions of
 Maxine S. Pfeffer, an assistant United States attorney in Manhattan whose prosecutions ranged from drug dealing to international art theft, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center after a long battle with cancer. She was 37. Ms. Pfeffer's achievements included her 
 Mary Brecht, who designed costumes for Joseph Chaikin, Charles Ludlam, Robert Wilson, Richard Foreman and other prominent directors and writers in the experimental theater, died on June 3 at her summer home in Greenport, N.Y. She was 65 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, 
 Catherine Kennedy, who after a  long struggle established one of the nation's first nursing centers for AIDS patients, died on Tuesday at her home in New Haven. She was 51. The cause of death was pancreatic cancer, family members said. Not long after moving to New Haven with
 Beatrice Snyder, a co-founder and former executive of Biocraft Laboratories, a maker of generic pharmaceuticals, died June 21 at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 74 and lived in Cliffside Park, N.J. The cause of death was complications from emphysema, said Harold Snyder, her husband.   
