 Mary Shea Giordano, for many years a leader of Roman Catholic philanthropic groups in New York, died on Tuesday at St. Patrick's Home for the Aged in the Bronx. She was 90. Mrs. Giordano served as president of the Ladies of Charity of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York for 2
 Aimee Mott Butler, a philanthropist who was a daughter of a founder of the General Motors Corporation, died on Thursday at her home in St. Paul. She was 91. The cause was complications after a stroke, said a son, Peter Butler of St. Paul. Mrs. Butler was the daughter of Char
 June Mellies Reno, a nationally known magazine writer about family and health issues, died on Thursday at the Linda Manor Nursing Home in Northampton, Mass. Mrs. Reno, who lived in Amherst, Mass., was 72. The cause was liver failure, said a daughter, Penny Robbins. Mrs. Reno
 Adelaide Hall, a singer whose Broadway career began in the 1921 revue "Shuffle Along" and who went on to become an international cabaret star, performing into her 90's, died on Sunday at Charing Cross Hospital in London. She was 92. The cause was an infection after a fall, said Barr
 Cecilia Brinton Bogner, a retired Boston psychologist, died on Oct. 31 at Sherrill House, a Boston nursing home. She was 93 and lived in Lincoln, Mass. She had suffered a brief illness, according to the Bell-O'Dea Funeral Home in Brookline. A native of Lowell, Mass., Mrs. Bo
 Mary Agnes Kiernan Callahan, who devoted more than four decades to volunteer work, died yesterday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 68 and also had homes in Hobe Sound, Fla., and Oyster Harbors, Mass. The cause was cancer, her family said. A native of 
 Alice Basto Tondel, coordinator of the Harvard University Band for 37 years, died on Thursday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. She was 80 and a lifelong resident of Cambridge. She died of respiratory failure, said Thomas Everett, the band's director. Mrs. Tondel 
 Manya Davidson Novik, who was active in political campaigns in New York for more than 50 years, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 87. The cause was cancer, her family said. In 1936 she solicited petitions to get Franklin D. Roosevelt on the ballot of the Ame
 Anna Sten, a melting-eyed but star-crossed Russian actress whom Samuel Goldwyn hoped to ballyhoo into another Garbo or Dietrich in the 1930's, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. Friends said she was in her late 80's. The cause was cardiac arrest, said her lawyer, Hiram G. Shie
 Lucia Popp, a lyric soprano who sang with a silken clarity that made her a favorite in Mozart and Strauss roles, died yesterday in Munich, Germany. She was 54 and lived in Zurich. The cause was a brain tumor, said Mariedi Anders, her manager. An elegant, flexible interpreter
 Heather Farr, the professional golfer whose four-and-a-half-year battle with cancer won her scores of admirers from inside and outside the golf world, died Saturday night in Scottsdale, Ariz. She was 28. Since being diagnosed with breast cancer in July 1989, Farr underwent more than
 Patricia Drylie, a dancer and an actress best known for her performance as a dancing waitress in the 1979 Michael Bennett musical "Ballroom," died on Nov. 11 at a nursing home in Brooklyn. She was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, said Celia Tackaberry, a friend.
 Tatyana Nikolayeva, a Russian pianist widely respected for her interpretations of the music of Bach and Shostakovich, died on Monday in San Francisco. She was 69 and lived in Moscow. The cause was a cerebral aneurism, said Jacques Leiser, her American manager. Miss Nikolayeva suffer
 Mary Luke, a biographer who wrote about Tudor and Elizabethan figures, died yesterday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. She was 74 and lived in Ridgefield, Conn. She died after a brief illness, her family said. Mrs. Luke wrote "Catherine, the Queen" (1967), a portrait of Henry VII
 Jane G. Judge, who spent five decades as a social worker, educator and child advocate, died on Wednesday at her home in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 91. She suffered a brief illness, her family said. For many years Mrs. Judge was associated with Sarah Lawrence College, where she
 Jacqueline Shearer, a producer and director of documentary films about black Americans, died yesterday at her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 46. The cause was colon cancer, said her brother Clement. Ms. Shearer's works included "A Minor Altercation" (1978), about the Bosto
 Marian Bruce Logan, a civil rights advocate, former New York City Commissioner of Human Rights and a cabaret singer in her youth, died on Thursday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center. She was 73. The cause was emphysema, her son, Warren Arthur Logan, said. Mrs. Logan was 
 Claudia McNeil, an actress known for her performances in stage and screen productions of "A Raisin in the Sun," died on Thursday in the Actors Fund Nursing Home in Englewood, N.J. She was 77 and had lived in the home for nine years. The cause was complications of diabetes, said Rita
 Evelyn Venable, an actress whose films include "Death Takes a Holiday" with Fredric March, died on Nov. 16 in Post Falls, Idaho. She was 80. Miss Venable was born in Cincinnati. After attending Vassar College and the University of Cincinnati, she played Shakespearean roles in a thea
 Joan Weidemann Harris, a retired Brooklyn community worker and former board member and executive director of the Y.W.C.A. of Brooklyn, died on Thursday at her home in Warren, Conn. She was 63 and also lived in Brooklyn Heights. The cause was a brain tumor, her family said. M
