 Kay Teer Crawford, whose sympathy for high school girls who did not make the cheerleading squad in her Texas hometown led her to start one of the first of the drill teams, died on Aug. 29 at her home in Redondo Beach, Calif. She was 88. Her son Kim said the reason earlier reports of
 Gloria Foster, the distinguished stage actress who portrayed generations of African-American characters in plays like ''In White America'' and ''Having Our Say,'' died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 64. The cause was diabetes, said Clarence Williams 3rd, her former hu
 The statuesque performer who won fame as Dagmar, a dumb-as-a-fox blonde on one of television's first late-night shows, died on Tuesday at her home in Ceredo, W.Va. She was 79. She was born Virginia Ruth Egnor in nearby Huntington and was renamed Jenny Lewis when she came to New York
 Jacqueline T. Babbin, a television producer who won an Emmy Award for ''Sybil,'' a 1976 TV drama, died on Oct. 6 at her home in Kent, Conn. She was 80. The cause was cancer, said Shirley E. Herz, her longtime friend and former publicist. Ms. Babbin produced dozens of shows, 
 Barbara L. Kaiser, a former judge of Westchester County Family Court, died on Sept. 26 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 84. A former resident of Westchester, she lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Born in Brooklyn, she earned a law degree at Columbia University 
 Ruth Goetz, a playwright who collaborated with her husband, Augustus Goetz, on ''The Heiress'' and other plays, died Friday at Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. She was 93 and had been living in the Actors' Fund Home in Englewood. ''The Heiress,'' an adaptation of the Henry James no
 Etta Jones, a great and permanently underrated jazz singer who for three decades toured constantly with her musical partner, the saxophonist Houston Person, died on Tuesday at her home in Mount Vernon, N.Y. She was 72. The cause was cancer, said Joe Fields, the manager of her record
 Polly Rowles, an experienced character actress in theater and film whose most famous role was as Inspector No. 12 in a series of television commercials for Hanes underwear, died on Oct. 7 at a nursing home in Concord, N.H. She was 87. Mary Elizabeth Rowles, as she was named at her b
 Lady Jean Rankin, who held an archaic job as a Woman of the Bedchamber to Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother, for more than 40 years, died in Edinburgh on Oct. 3. She was 96. A kind of lady-in-waiting, a Woman of the Bedchamber attends to a queen's personal tasks, answers the majorit
 Diana van der Vlis, the blond-haired, blue-eyed actress who caused a stir on Broadway in the 1950's hit ''The Happiest Millionaire,'' died on Monday in a hospital in Missoula, Mont., where she had a home. She was 66. The cause of death was uncertain pending an autopsy, said her husb
 Joan L. Ellenbogen, the main founder and first president of the Women's Bar Association of the State of New York, died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 59 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Myrna Felder, a colleague an
 Elaine Dannheisser, a longtime collector of contemporary art who gave most of her collection to the Museum of Modern Art, died on Sunday night at her home in Manhattan. She was 77 and had homes in Manhattan and East Hampton. Her death was announced by a spokeswoman for the Modern, w
 Jacqueline Hudson, a landscape painter, graphic artist and benefactor of the arts, died Wednesday at her home in Damariscotta, Me. She was 91. Ms. Hudson was born in Cambridge, Mass., a daughter of the artist Eric Hudson. She grew up in Manhattan and Monhegan Island, Me., surrounded
