 Coretta Scott King, known first as the wife of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., then as his widow, then as an avid proselytizer for his vision of racial peace and nonviolent social change, died Monday at a hospital in Mexico. She was 78. The primary cause of death was ''insuffic
 Endesha Ida Mae Holland, a noted scholar and dramatist whose best-known play, ''From the Mississippi Delta,'' chronicled her journey from poverty and prostitution in the Jim Crow South to civil rights activism, a Ph.D. and an academic career, died on Jan. 25 at nursing home in Santa Monica,
 Moira Shearer, a luminous star in the galaxy of British ballerinas who brought the Royal Ballet to international attention and whose dramatic portrayal as the doomed heroine of the 1948 film ''The Red Shoes'' was searingly impressed on generations of moviegoers, died in Oxford, England, on 
 Jill Chaifetz, a lawyer who as the executive director of the nonprofit legal group Advocates for Children of New York turned it into a force for reform in the nation's largest school system, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 41. The cause was ovarian cance
 Rebecca Wright, a Joffrey Ballet star in the 1960's and 70's and a ballet educator, died on Sunday at her home in Chevy Chase, Md. She was 58. The cause was cancer, said Keri Mesropov, the spokeswoman for the Washington Ballet, whose school Ms. Wright directed until her death.      
 Tana Hoban, an accomplished photographer of children who turned her photography into an innovative kind of illustration for books for the youngest audiences, died on Jan. 27 at a hospice in suburban Paris. She was 88 and had been living in Paris for the last 23 years. Her death was 
 Betty Friedan, the feminist crusader and author whose searing first book, ''The Feminine Mystique,'' ignited the contemporary women's movement in 1963 and as a result permanently transformed the social fabric of the United States and countries around the world, died yesterday, her 85th birt
 Betty Friedan, the feminist crusader and author whose searing first book, ''The Feminine Mystique,'' ignited the contemporary women's movement in 1963 and as a result permanently transformed the social fabric of the United States and countries around the world, died Saturday, her 85th birth
 Jo Foxworth, a doyenne of New York advertising, who wrote the words and commissioned the tune for the siren song intended to lure shoppers to D'Agostino supermarkets, died on Thursday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. She was 87 and lived in Greenwich Village. The death was annou
 Herta Glaz, a mezzo-soprano who performed regularly at the Metropolitan Opera during the 1940's and 50's and later taught at the Manhattan School of Music, died on Jan. 28 in Hamden, Conn. She was 95. Her death was announced by Susan Davenny Wyner, a former student and a conductor. 
 Edna Lewis, the granddaughter of a former slave whose cookbooks revived the nearly forgotten genre of refined Southern cooking while offering a glimpse into African-American farm life in the early 20th century, died yesterday. She was 89. Miss Lewis, as she was always called, died i
 Shoshana Damari, one of Israel's most popular singers, with a career dating back to the founding of the state, died on Tuesday in Tel Aviv. She was 83. The cause was complications of pneumonia, her family said. Her signature song, ''Anemones,'' was played at her hospital bedside in 
 Peggy Appiah, who as a daughter of a British chancellor of the exchequer defied the conventions of her time by marrying an Ashanti political leader and who went on to become an author and a revered figure in her adopted homeland, Ghana, died Saturday in Kumasi, Ghana. She was 84. Th
 Dai Ailian, the doyenne of dance in China, who as founder of the Beijing Dance Academy and director of its affiliated National Ballet combined her ballet and modern-dance training in the West with pioneering research into China's folk traditions, died on Feb. 9 in Beijing. She was 89 and ha
 Jill Fraser, owner and artistic director of the Watermill Theater in Newbury, England, whose renown and influence far exceeds its size, died on Feb. 10. She was 59. Although she had been battling cancer for four years, Ms. Fraser died of pneumonia at the Royal Berkshire Hospital in 
 Emilie Neumann Muse, who as a young woman exemplified the crazy, flamboyant competitiveness of the 20's and 30's by swimming in treacherous waters, wrestling alligators, jumping out of airplanes and being buried alive, died on Jan. 23 in East Patchogue, N.Y. She was 98. The cause wa
 Sybille Bedford, whose first novel won high praise among England's literary elite and earned her a place in its most celebrated and exclusive literary circles, died Feb. 17 at a hospital near her home in London. She was 94. Her death was announced by English PEN, part of the interna
