 Sidney Robertson Cowell, an ethnomusicologist, writer and the widow of the composer Henry Cowell, died on Thursday at her home in Shady, N.Y., said Sean Hartnett, her executor. She was 92. In her extensive travels from 1937 to 1957, Mrs. Cowell recorded American, Finnish, Irish, Por
 Doris Carson, who sang and danced in a number of Broadway musicals, died on Feb. 20 at her home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. She was 83. Doris Carson Weisbard began her stage career at 17 when, as understudy for Ruby Keeler in the George and Ira Gershwin musical "Show Girl," she substit
 Dr. Lorella Margaret Jones, a science educator and physicist known for her work in theoretical high-energy physics, died on Feb. 9 in a nursing home in Champaign, Ill. She was 51 and lived in Urbana, Ill. The cause was cancer, said colleagues at the physics department at the Univers
 Isabel Wilder, a novelist and a sister of the author and playwright Thornton Wilder, died last Monday at her home in Hamden, Conn. She was 95. Miss Wilder published three novels in the 1930's: "Mother and Four" (1933), "Heart Be Still" (1934) and "Let Winter Go" (1937). In later yea
 Jean Davis, a philanthropist and the mother of Marvin Davis, the billionaire financier and former owner of 20th Century Fox, died on Feb. 21 at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 94 and had lived most of her life in Manhattan. The cause was respiratory failure, said a spokesman fo
 Margery Mastbaum Solomon, one of America's leading bridge players, died on Saturday at her home in Elkins Park, Pa. She was 86. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said her daughter Norma Brunswick of Rydal, Pa. Mrs. Solomon, who was always known as Peggy, represented the Unit
 Blanche Rangel, a retired garment worker and mother of United States Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of Manhattan, died on Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. A Harlem resident, she was 90. She had a long illness, according to Mr. Rangel's office in Washington.      
 Muriel Resnik, a novelist and playwright best known for her comedy "Any Wednesday," died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 78 and had recently lived in Beaufort, N.C. The cause was heart failure after a long illness, said her husband, Victor Jackson. "Any Wednesday
 Barbara Mercati, who was active in cultural, charitable and volunteer work, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. Mrs. Mercati, who also lived in Vineyard Haven, Mass., on Martha's Vineyard, was 87. The cause of death was cancer, said her son George. Mrs. Mercati served
 Norma Fields Furst, the president of Baltimore Hebrew University for the last three years, died on March 7 at her home in Wynnewood, Pa. She was 64. The cause was lung cancer, her family said. She was associated with Temple University from 1963 to 1983 in various positions, 
 Bella Fishko, an art dealer and founder of the Forum Gallery, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 81. The cause was heart failure, said her son, Robert, of Manhattan. Mrs. Fishko, whose original name was Bella Gold, was born in Odessa, Russia, in 1913 and moved 
 Elizabeth Dorothy Futas, the director of the University of Rhode Island's Graduate School of Library and Information Studies, died on Feb. 6 in Philadelphia. She was 50 and lived in Wakefield, R.I. The cause has not been reported, according to the American Library Association in Chi
 Loyce Houlton, a leader in American regional dance and a choreographer whose works were performed by companies in the United States and Europe, died on Tuesday at United Hospital in St. Paul. She was 70 and lived in Minneapolis. The cause was a stroke, said her daughter, Lise Houlto
 Beverly Reitz, an interior designer known for her innovative use of light, died on Sunday in Hightstown, N.J., where she had lived since 1990. She was 94 and had been a resident of Manhattan for much of her life. She also had a home in Ridgefield, Conn. The cause was complic
 Marjorie Kahn Unterberg, a philanthropist and volunteer in the health care field, died yesterday at Lennox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 84 and lived in Manhattan and Tinton Falls, N.J. The cause was complications after surgery, said her daughter, Mary A. DeBare of Manhattan. 
 Myra Pollack Sadker, a Washington educator and writer who charted sexual bias in the nation's classrooms, died on Saturday at Georgetown Medical Center. She was 52 and lived in Bethesda, Md. The cause was complications from a bone marrow transplant for breast cancer, said a spokesma
 Vivian Verdell Gordon, who wrote about feminism, black families and affirmative action and who was a professor of black studies at the State University at Albany, died on Wednesday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. She was 60 and lived in Albany. The cause was amyotrophic lateral s
 Ruth Melville Berlin, a Connecticut philanthropist, died on March 15 at her home in Southport, Conn. She was 74. She died after a brief illness, her family said. Her interests extended to the environment, education, history, the arts and the homeless. She was a past or curre
 Berenice Bramson, a soprano who received critical acclaim throughout her career, died on Thursday at her home in Katonah, N.Y. She was 65. The cause was breast cancer, her family said. Ms. Bramson was a native of Omaha. She studied at the Juilliard School of Music and Columb
 Constance Morrow Morgan, a longtime Smith College trustee, died on Saturday in Portland, Ore., at the home of her son, Rhidian. She was 81 and lived in Ridgefield, Wash., and North Haven, Me. The cause was a stroke, her family said. Mrs. Morgan was born in Englewood, N.J. He
 Maude B. Feld, a retired Manhattan antiques dealer and expert on early American glassware, died on March 13 at her home in Manhattan. She was 94. She suffered a lengthy illness, her family said. She advised collectors, dealers and museums, and researched the history of the r
 Mildred Henry Gross, who wrote for several radio drama serials popular during the 1940's and 50's, died on Tuesday in Stuart, Fla. She was 93. Mrs. Gross, who wrote under the name Mildred Henry Merrill, spent the early part of her career in Detroit, where she was a staff writer at t
