 Flora Lewis, a correspondent and columnist who explained international politics to readers of The New York Times and other publications for nearly 60 years, died early Sunday morning at her home in Paris. She was 79. The cause was cancer, said her son, Lindsey Gruson. Heads 
 Elka Spoerri, an art historian and curator who unlocked the riches of the art of Adolf Wölfli, died May 17 at her home in Bern, Switzerland. She was 77 and lived in Bern and New York. She died of cancer, said her son, Anselm. Mrs. Spoerri, who sometimes jokingly referred to
 Flora Lewis, a correspondent and columnist who explained international politics to readers of The New York Times and other publications for nearly 60 years, died early yesterday morning at her home in Paris. She was 79. The cause was cancer, said her son, Lindsey Gruson. Hea
 Caroline Knapp, a writer and columnist whose memoir ''Drinking: A Love Story'' vividly chronicled her struggle to overcome alcoholism, died yesterday at a hospital in Cambridge, Mass. She was 42 and lived in Cambridge. The cause was lung cancer, her family said. In ''Drinkin
 Elaine Gelman, a leader in the effort to make it legal in New York for specially trained nurses to prescribe drugs and perform other medical functions previously reserved for doctors, died on Tuesday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 75 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
 Barbara Scott Preiskel, a lawyer whose career helped break down racial barriers in entertainment law as well as on the numerous corporate boards on which she served, died Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 77 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was leukemia, h
 Phyllis Wattis, a philanthropist and art collector who contributed more than $150 million to cultural institutions in California, and who was instrumental in financing a stellar collection for the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art in the 1990's, died on Wednesday in San Francisco, where sh
 Shirley Aronoff Greitzer, a pianist who was the director of placement at the Juilliard School for nearly a decade and executive director of the Waterloo Music Festival School before that, died on May 29. She was 76 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was kidney and heart failure, said
 Faye Dancer, whose home runs and spontaneous cartwheels in the women's professional baseball league of the 1940's helped to earn her the nickname All the Way Faye, died May 22 in Los Angeles. She was 77 and lived in Westchester, Calif. She died of complications of surgery to remove 
 Holly Solomon, an art dealer known for her championship of the new and untried, for her spirited, high-stepping lifestyle and for being the subject of a glamorous portrait by Andy Warhol that made her a Pop icon like Elizabeth Taylor and Marilyn Monroe, died on Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Ke
 Elizabeth Mongan, an expert in fine-art prints and drawings who helped to create a major collection at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, died on June 7 at her home in Rockport, Mass. She was 92. From 1937 to 1963, Ms. Mongan was curator of the private print collection of Le
 Phyllis Pray Bober, a scholar of Renaissance art and its relationship to classical antiquity, and a pioneering scholar in culinary history, died on May 30 at her home in Ardmore, Pa. She was 81. Ms. Bober, a professor emerita of the humanities at Bryn Mawr, was known for her unusual
 Zena Sutherland, the most prominent reviewer of American children's books for nearly three decades and the author of five editions of ''Children and Books,'' the classic textbook on the subject, died on June 12 in Chicago. She was 86. As the editor and reviewer of The Bulletin of th
 June Jordan, who came of age as a poet when the voices of black female writers were just beginning to be heard, died on June 14 at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 65. The cause was breast cancer, which she fought for a decade, said Adrienne Torff, a friend. Like the car
 Irène Lidova, a dance critic and producer who played a major role in founding creative ballet companies in postwar France, died on May 23 in Paris. She was 95 and lived in Paris. Roland Petit, one of the world's major choreographers, was an unknown dancer chafing under the strictur
 Maia Wojciechowska, an award-winning author of children's books, died on June 13 in Long Branch, N.J. She was 74. The cause was a stroke, said her daughter Oriana Rodman. Ms. Wojciechowska wrote 19 books, the best-known of which is ''Shadow of a Bull'' (1964), about a young 
 Sophie G. Untermeyer, a longtime supporter and key staff member of the New York Philharmonic and a noted sportswoman, died on Saturday at the Jewish Home and Hospital in Manhattan. She was 92 and had lived on the Upper East Side. She was on the Philharmonic's board of directors from
 Eppie Lederer, who as the syndicated columnist Ann Landers was widely considered responsible for bringing the advice column into the modern era, died yesterday at her home in Chicago. She was 83. The cause was multiple myeloma, a cancer of the bone marrow, her family said. M
 Eppie Lederer, who as the syndicated columnist Ann Landers was widely considered responsible for bringing the advice column into the modern era, died on Saturday at her home in Chicago. She was 83. The cause was multiple myeloma, a cancer of the bone marrow, her family said.        
 Nellie Monk, who as the wife of the jazz pianist and composer Thelonious Monk was the prime supporter and muse of a troubled genius, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 80. She had had a cerebral hemorrhage, said Gale Monk, her daughter-in-law. Of al
 Dolores Gray, a singer and actress whose success on Broadway and London's West End led to starring roles in several 1950's Hollywood musical extravaganzas, died on Wednesday in her Manhattan apartment. She was 78. The cause was a heart attack, her lawyer, Martin D. Newman, said.    
 Rosemary Clooney, whose warm, radiant voice placed her in the first rank of American popular singers for more than half a century, died last night at her home in Beverly Hills. She was 74. The cause was complications from lung cancer, according to her spokeswoman, Linda Dozoretz.   
