 Arlene Francis, the actress and jaunty, good-natured television personality who was a fixture on ''What's My Line?'' for 25 years, died yesterday at a hospital in San Francisco. She was 93. Ms. Francis dispensed upbeat charm and humor on the show, which made her a national star. She
 Helen Oakley Dance, a journalist and historian of jazz and blues, as well as a record producer, music publisher and personal assistant to musicians like Duke Ellington, Red Norvo, Chick Webb, Johnny Hodges, Bob Crosby and Earl Hines, died on Sunday in Escondido, Calif. She was 88. M
 Arlene Francis, the actress and jaunty, good-natured television personality who was a fixture on ''What's My Line?'' for 25 years, died on Thursday at a hospital in San Francisco. She was 93. Ms. Francis dispensed upbeat charm and humor on the show, which made her a national star. S
 Barbara Banning Tweed Estill, a New York civic leader, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 93. She served as the president of Big Sisters and for 25 years was on the board of the Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, where she focused on programs for the elderly
 Imogene Coca, the saucer-eyed, rubber-faced comedian who teamed with Sid Caesar on NBC's ''Your Show of Shows'' and kept America's Saturday night television audiences in stitches for five years in the early 1950's, died yesterday at her home in Westport, Conn. She was 92. Her leer w
 Rosemary Verey, the tough, artistic English gardener who brought the art of clipped boxwoods, laburnum walks and ornamental vegetable gardening to America, died in Chelsea Memorial Hospital in London on May 31. She was 82. ''She was a marvelous lecturer and she knew so much,'' said 
 Dorothy Brockway Osborne, a former headmistress of the Spence School, a Manhattan private school for girls, died on Tuesday at her home in Concord, N.H. She was 103. She headed Spence from 1936 until 1952. Founded in 1892, the school has been at 22 East 91st Street since 1929.      
 Dr. Pamela Hilliard Robertson, a rookie astronaut, died on May 24 from injuries sustained two days earlier in a small-plane crash. She was 38. The accident took place just outside Houston, where Dr. Robertson was based at the Johnson Space Center of the National Aeronautics and Spac
 Louise Sulzberger, who was active in New York City social service work for many years and was a member of the New York State Commission on Aging and the community planning board for the Upper East Side, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 103. Mrs. Sulzberger was the wi
 Louise B. Sulzberger, who was active in New York City social service work for many years and was a member of the New York State Commission on Aging and the community planning board for the Upper East Side, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 103. Mrs. Sulzberger was t
 Yaltah Menuhin, a pianist and the younger sister of the violinist Yehudi Menuhin, died on Saturday, The Times of London reported. The Times did not report where she died. She was 79. Ms. Menuhin, the youngest of the three Menuhin siblings, who all became prominent musicians, was bor
 Carol Bernstein Ferry, who with her first and second husbands gave millions of dollars of inherited wealth to support causes like the Black Panthers, prisoners' rights and opposition to the Vietnam War, took her own life early Saturday morning at a retirement home in Rye, N.Y. She was 76.  
 Judith Moses, a television news producer and teacher who also worked to expose the abuses confronted by journalists working on dangerous assignments abroad, died at home in Manhattan on Saturday. She was 61 and lived in Manhattan and Kent, Conn. The cause was liver cancer, her husba
 PATTI SMITH appears quietly inside Caffe Dante in Greenwich Village, her gray-streaked hair dripping wet and stringy around her long, angular face from the Sunday morning downpour. She isn't carrying an umbrella. And her soaked appearance isn't on her mind at this early hour. The go
 Jennifer Moyer, president of Moyer Bell Ltd., book publishers, died on June 10 at her home in Wakefield, R.I. She was 52. The cause was breast cancer, Moyer Bell announced. Based in Wickford, R.I., the publisher specializes in art books and literature. Ms. Moyer and her husb
 Amalia Mendoza, a diva of mariachi music whose dramatic performances brought fans to tears on both sides of the United States-Mexico border, died here on June 11. She was 78. The cause was a disease that slowly paralyzed her lungs, news reports said. Famous for songs like ''
 Adele Dellenbaugh Hofmann, a pediatrician who helped tailor medical science to the needs of teenagers, died on Friday at a hospital in Newport Beach, Calif. She was 74 and lived in nearby Laguna Beach. The cause was congestive heart failure, her family said. A practitioner o
 Evalyn A. Clark, a retired Vassar College history professor who was an early member and former president of the Berkshire Conference of Women Historians, died on Sunday in Beacon, N.Y. She was 98 and lived in Poughkeepsie. Dr. Clark was on Vassar's faculty from 1939 to 1968, when sh
 Nananne Porcher, a theater lighting designer and theater design consultant, died on Sunday. She was 78 and lived in West Tisbury, Mass. The cause was cancer, said Marion  Kinsella, her companion. Ms. Porcher was best known for her work in dance. She was the stage manager and
 Erin O'Reilly, a New York City police sergeant who helped orchestrate the downfall of two entrenched Harlem drug gangs by using a new legal approach, died last Sunday at a Long Island hospital. She was 41 and lived in North Babylon, N.Y. The Suffolk County medical examiner's office 
 Yvonne Dionne, a member of the first recorded set of quintuplets to survive more than a few days, died on Saturday morning in a Montreal hospital. She was 67. She died of cancer, said Carlo Tarini, a family spokesman. When they were born in 1934 to an already large, poor far
 Modjadji V, the last of a line of rain queens and the only woman who was a tribal ruler in modern-day southern Africa, died on Thursday in a clinic in Petersburg, South Africa. She was 64. Although modern meteorology and politics have robbed the mysterious Modjadjis of the awe that 
