 Rosemary Clooney, whose warm, radiant voice placed her in the first rank of American popular singers for more than half a century, died Saturday night at her home in Beverly Hills. She was 74. The cause was complications from lung cancer, according to her spokeswoman, Linda Dozoretz
 Jane Bancroft Cook, an heir to her family company, Dow Jones & Company, and a member of its board for 36 years, died yesterday morning at her home in Cohasset, Mass., the company announced yesterday. Mrs. Cook was 90 and had been in failing health for a decade, said a daughter, Mart
 Dr. Alice M. Stewart, an epidemiologist who first demonstrated the link between X-rays of pregnant women and disease in their children, a finding that changed medical practice, died on June 23 in Oxford, England. A resident of the countryside outside Oxford, she was 95. Dr. Stewart,
 Margaret E. Lynn, who directed the Army's extensive worldwide theatrical program, which encouraged participation by soldiers, officers and their dependents, died on June 11 at a hospital in Fairfax, Va. She was 81 and lived in Reston, Va. The cause was lung cancer, said Donn B. Murp
 Dorle Jarmel Soria, who was a co-founder of Angel Records in the course of her long and varied career in the classical music business, died on July 7 at her home in Manhattan. She was 101. In 1953, Mrs. Soria and her husband, Dario, founded Angel Records as an American distribution 
 Maritta M. Wolff, a novelist who burst onto the literary scene in 1941 with what Sinclair Lewis called ''the most important novel of the year'' and proceeded to write a string of vibrantly raw best sellers, died on July 1 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 83. The novel, ''Whistle 
 Mary Knowles Fritchey, whose fund-raising and support for the Kennedy Center, the Phillips Collection and other cultural institutions helped make Washington a center for the arts, died on July 9 at her home in Washington. She was 90. In 1965, Ms. Fritchey became one of the first fun
 Ghity Lindenbaum Stern, whose philanthropy benefited educational institutions in the United States and Israel, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 94. Mrs. Stern had been honorary chairman of the board of directors of Yeshiva University's Stern College for Women. It was
 Edith Merrill Bancroft, a patron of the arts and the widow of Harding F. Bancroft, a vice chairman of The New York Times Company, died last Monday at her home in Washington. She was 90. Edith Hall was born in Atlanta on April 17, 1912. She was the daughter of William Claiborne Hall,
 ANNE PASTERNAK, the executive director of Creative Time, is stepping gingerly in beaded flip-flops inside the roofless shell of a 19th-century tobacco warehouse on the Brooklyn waterfront. The vast structure of brick walls, with its open-air arches, looks like a Roman aqueduct, except this 
 Esphyr Slobodkina, a prominent abstract artist better known for her down-to-earth children's book ''Caps for Sale,'' a tale about a peddler and a band of mischievous monkeys, died on Sunday at her home in Glen Head, N.Y. She was 93. ''Caps for Sale'' was first published in 1938 and 
 Millie Deegan, who pitched and played second base for the Rockford Peaches in the women's professional baseball league of the 1940's, died on July 21 at her home in New Port Richey, Fla. She was 82. The cause was metastatic breast cancer, her niece Joan Barker said. In the 1
 Annie Snyder, a leader of efforts to prevent the development of land near the site of the Civil War battles of Bull Run in northern Virginia, died on July 19 in Manassas, Va. She was 80. She and her husband had a farm near the battlefield. The cause was pneumonia, The Associated Pre
 Phyllis Weisbart Litoff, co-artistic director of the Belleayre Music Festival in Highmount, N.Y., for the last nine years, died on July 7 at her home in Highmount. She was 63. The cause was brain cancer, the festival announced. She and her husband, Mel, had been part-time re
 Lorna J. Marshall, a college English instructor turned homemaker who in her 50's began a new life as an anthropologist studying the Bushmen of Africa, died on July 8 at her home in Peterborough, N.H. She was 103. She had lived with her daughter, Elizabeth Marshall Thomas, since 1996
