 Mai Ghoussoub, who weaved together elements of her Arab heritage and an avant-garde sensibility to make bold, provocative statements as a publisher, author, sculptor, journalist and playwright, died on Feb. 17 in London. She was 54. Her death was announced by Saqi Books, her publish
 Rufina Amaya, who in 1981 saw Salvadoran troops slaughter her family and many others in her village, then, as the only witness, dedicated her life to telling about it, died Tuesday in San Miguel, El Salvador. She was 64. The cause was a stroke, said her daughter Marta. Mrs. 
 Natalie Bodanya, an American soprano who sang at the Metropolitan Opera in the 1930s and early '40s and who later became a voice teacher, died on Sunday in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 98. Her death was announced by her son, Paul Gorman. Natalie Bodanskaya -- she later shor
 Marjabelle Young Stewart, who was widely known as the Queen of Couth for her vast, genteel empire of books and classes about etiquette, died March 3 in Kewanee, Ill. She was 82 and had lived in Kewanee for many years. The apparent cause was pneumonia, her husband, William E. Stewart
 Dr. Tsai-Fan Yu, a physician and researcher at Mount Sinai Medical Center who helped explain a principal cause of gout and evaluated early drugs to treat the disease that are still in use, died on March 2 in Manhattan. She was 95. The cause was respiratory complications after a stro
 Edith d'Addario, for 43 years the director of the Joffrey Ballet School in Greenwich Village, died on March 4 in Brooklyn. She was 84. The cause was complications of emphysema, said her daughter Diane Green of San Francisco. Mrs. d'Addario, known to generations of dancers, s
 Betty Hutton, a singer and actress celebrated as a blond bombshell of Hollywood musicals and comedies in the 1940s and 50s, died Sunday night at her home in Palm Springs, Calif., her executor announced yesterday. She was 86. The cause was complications of colon cancer, the executor,
 Barbara Gittings, a prominent gay rights activist who a decade before the Stonewall rebellion of 1969 was agitating for the rights of lesbians and gay men, died on Feb. 18 at her home in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 74. The cause was breast cancer, said her partner, Kay Tobin Lahusen
 Lucie Aubrac, a French schoolteacher whose melding of romance and resistance to Nazi occupation not only made her resemble Ingrid Bergman's character in ''Casablanca'' but also inspired popular films based on her own life, died Wednesday in a Paris suburb. She was 94. Her death was 
 Janet Brown, an influential fashion retailer who brought important designers to the wealthy clientele of her small store on Long Island, often before the designs were famous or even sold in Manhattan, died in a car accident on Friday near her home in Oyster Bay, N.Y. She was 59. Ms.
 Dr. Stella Chess, a child psychiatrist who helped develop and popularize the influential theory that children are born with distinct temperaments that can powerfully affect their outlook and relationship with their parents, died March 14 in Manhattan. She was 93. The cause was pneum
 Tanya Reinhart, an Israeli linguist best known to the public as an ardent critic of her country's policies toward the Palestinians, died on Saturday while vacationing in Montauk, N.Y. She was 63. Her death was confirmed by colleagues at New York University, where Professor Reinhart 
 Cathy Seipp, a columnist and blogger who became widely known for poking fun at the liberal leanings popularly associated with her hometown, Los Angeles, died there on Wednesday. She was 49 and lived in the Silver Lake area of Los Angeles. The cause was lung cancer, said her daughter
 Amelia S. Haygood, a former clinical psychologist who more than three decades ago parlayed her love of classical music into the independent record label Delos, died on March 19 at her home in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 87. The cause was cancer, said Carol Rosenberger, the company'
 Charlotte Winters, the last surviving woman to have served in the American armed forces in World War I and one of the first to enlist in the Navy, died Tuesday at her home in Boonsboro, Md. She was 109. The death was confirmed by Philip Molter, a spokesman for the Naval District Was
