 Former Representative Tillie Fowler, who despite being the most powerful woman in Congress did not run for re-election in 2000 to keep a promise to serve only four terms, died yesterday in Jacksonville, Fla. She was 62. She had suffered a brain hemorrhage two days earlier, a family 
 Elsa H. Zion, a city official and former publishing executive who campaigned successfully to regulate the workload of interns and residents in New York State's hospitals after the highly publicized death of her daughter, Libby, in 1984, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. 
 Isabelle Goldenson, who worked for people with disabilities, including her oldest daughter, as a founder of United Cerebral Palsy, died on Feb. 21 at her home in Sarasota, Fla. She was 84. Her death was announced by her family. People with disabilities were often separated f
 Barbara D. Finberg, whose management of the Carnegie Corporation of New York helped introduce educational programs for early childhood, including television shows like ''Sesame Street,'' died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 76. Ms. Finberg, who had breast cancer, died 
 Teresa Wright, the high-minded ingénue who marshaled intelligence and spunk to avoid being typecast as another 1940's ''sweater girl'' and became the only actor to be nominated for Academy Awards for her first three films, died on Sunday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. She was 86. The 
 Col. Mary A. Hallaren, who led the Women's Army Corps into the ranks of the regular military in 1948, died on Feb. 13 in McLean, Va. She was 97. Her death was announced by the Women's Hall of Fame in Seneca Falls, N.Y., which made her a member in 1996. Colonel Hallaren comma
 Sara Stein, an influential advocate for gardening with native plants, died Feb. 25 at her home in Vinalhaven, Me. She was 69. The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, Martin Stein. In ''Noah's Garden: Restoring the Ecology of Our Own Backyards'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1993),
 Trude Rittmann, a choral and dance-music arranger for Broadway favorites from ''Carousel'' in 1945 to a ''Sound of Music'' revival half a century later, died on Feb. 22 in Lexington, Mass. She was 96 and had been living in Waltham, Mass., in retirement. The death was announced by th
 Alice Thomas Ellis, a British novelist celebrated for her witty, unflinching dissections of middle-class domestic life, died on Tuesday in London. She was 72 and lived in Wales. A spokeswoman for Ms. Ellis's literary agent, Robert Kirby, confirmed the death. No cause was given, but 
 Nellie McCaslin, a theater historian and educator considered the country's leading authority on children's theater, died on Feb. 28 at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. She was 90 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications after a heart attack, her niece and survivor, Alexa
 Shirley Fleming, a writer, editor and critic in the world of classical music for almost 50 years, died on Thursday in Augusta, Ga. She was 75. Her cousin Martha Fleming said she died at the University Hospital of the Medical College of Georgia after a stroke that she had on Feb. 17.
 Opal Petty, whose lawsuit over her 51-year involuntary commitment in Texas mental institutions led to changes in state policy, died on March 10 in San Angelo, Tex. She was 86 and lived in Christoval, Tex. The cause was pneumonia, said Linda Kauffman, the wife of Ms. Petty's nephew, 
 Andre Norton, a prolific and popular science-fiction and fantasy writer whose central theme was the rite of passage to self-realization undertaken by misfits or displaced outsiders, died yesterday at her home in Murfreesboro, Tenn. She was 93. The cause was congestive heart failure,
 Midori Shimanouchi Lederer, who as founder and president emeritus of Japanese American Social Services Inc. helped provide social services to Asians and Asian-Americans in New York, died on March 9 at her home in Manhattan. She was 81. The cause was respiratory failure, her husband,
 Lisa Fittko, who achieved fame, particularly in Germany, by leading Jews and members of the anti-Hitler resistance from Nazi-occupied France to Spain, died on March 12 in Chicago. She was 95. The cause was pneumonia, said Evelyn Marsh, her niece. Ms. Fittko emerged from a le
 Cushing N. Dolbeare, a leading expert on federal housing policy and a longtime campaigner for affordable housing for low-income people, died on March 17 at her home in Mitchellville, Md. She was 78. The cause was cancer, according to the National Low Income Housing Coalition, the re
 Leona Rostenberg, a rare-book scholar and dealer who with her partner of 50 years, Madeleine B. Stern, discovered a series of racy novels written by Louisa May Alcott under a pseudonym, died on March 17 at her apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 96. Ms. Rostenberg
 Katherine A. Lathrop, a pioneering researcher in nuclear medicine and a member of a University of Chicago team that developed an isotope widely used to locate and diagnose cancers, died on March 10 at a nursing home in Las Cruces, N.M. She was 89. The cause was advanced dementia, he
 Dr. Georgeanna S. Jones, who was half of a husband-and-wife team that created the first program for in vitro fertilization in the United States and its first ''test tube'' baby, died on Saturday at a hospital in Norfolk, Va. She was 92 and lived in Portsmouth, Va. The cause was card
