 Marjorie Courtenay-Latimer, a self-trained South African naturalist who in 1938 discovered the coelacanth, a species of bony, four-finned fish often described as a living fossil, died on May 17 in East London, South Africa. She was 97. A cause of death was not determined, although s
 Irene Manning, a lyric soprano and actress who charmed audiences with her performances in 1940's musical films like ''Yankee Doodle Dandy,'' ''Shine On, Harvest Moon'' and ''The Desert Song,'' died on May 28 at her home in San Carlos, Calif. She was 91. The cause was congestive hear
 Joan Stitt McMenamin, who retired in 1992 after 21 years as head of the Nightingale-Bamford School, a college preparatory school for girls, died on Saturday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 79. Her death was announced by the school, where she became the fifth
 Rosemary Breslin, a journalist and screenwriter who wrote a piquant memoir about her own stubbornly undiagnosable illness, died yesterday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. She was 47. The cause was cardiac and renal failure associated with a blood disorder, family memb
 Emma Buck, who ran a pre-Civil War family farm in Illinois that remained virtually unchanged into the 21st century, died on June 5 on the sleigh bed with handmade ticking she had slept in for 98 years, in the log cabin built by her great-uncle, a German immigrant, in 1849. She was 1
 Elizabeth Shub, a distinguished editor and translator of children's books from German and Yiddish, especially those of Isaac Bashevis Singer, whom she knew from her childhood and encouraged to write for children, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89. Her death was ann
 Sonya Haddad, who did opera translations for the Metropolitan's seat-back subtitling system, died on June 15 in the Bronx. She was 67 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of cancer, said her sister, Barbara Haddad Ryan. Fluent in German, Italian and French, Ms
 Lillian Seril, who as landlord of a grand Upper West Side apartment building, the Belnord, became the central figure in one of New York City's longest rent strikes, died on Monday at New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan. She was 95 and had been living as a tenant at the building she o
 Doris Dowling, who made an impression as a husky-voiced character actress in the film classics ''The Lost Weekend,'' ''The Blue Dahlia'' and ''Bitter Rice,'' died on June 18 in Los Angeles. She was 81. Her death was announced by Lee Redmond, a family friend. Ms. Dowling was 
 Naomi Shemer, an Israeli poet and a prolific composer whose popular songs include ''Jerusalem of Gold,'' which became interwoven with the culture of the Jewish state, died on Saturday at a Tel Aviv hospital after a long illness. She was 74. Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and President 
 Agnes Cunningham, a founder of the influential folk-song journal Broadside, died on Sunday at a nursing home in New Paltz, N.Y., her daughter Jane Friesen said. She was 95. Broadside, begun by Ms. Cunningham and her husband, Gordon Friesen, in 1962, published more than 1,000 topical
