 Sybil Trent, a veteran of the golden age of radio and a star of the Saturday-morning children's radio show ''Let's Pretend,'' died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 73. The cause was lymphoma, said her son Drew Nieporent, the restaurateur. Ms. Trent's voice was fir
 Anna Sosenko, the songwriter who wrote ''Darling, Je Vous Aime Beaucoup,'' the manager of Hildegarde -- the legendary cabaret personality who made the song famous -- and the impresario of stage specials that featured such performers as Mary Martin and Ethel Merman, died Friday at her home i
 Nora Kahn Piore, a New York economist and health policy expert, died Saturday at New York Hospital. She was 87 and lived in Greenwich Village. She suffered a brief illness, her family said. She was born in the Bronx, the daughter of Alexander Kahn, a founder of the New York 
 Ruth R. Goddard, a leader of the American Jewish Committee for more than 50 years who was also active in many other philanthropies in New York, died Tuesday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 98. In 1968, she was the first woman to be elected a national vice pr
 Ruth Rubin, a scholar, collector and performer of Yiddish folk songs who lugged a tape recorder into hundreds of immigrants' living rooms in an effort to preserve a vanishing cultural tradition, died on Sunday in Mamaroneck, N.Y. She was 93. A resident of the Sarah R. Neumann Nursin
 Natalie Davis Spingarn, a medical writer who endured multiple bouts of cancer and became a prominent spokeswoman for cancer survivors, died on June 6 in Washington. She was 78. The cause was pancreatic cancer, her son Jonathan said. Mrs. Spingarn's latest book, ''The New Can
 Jane Prizant Gilman, a lawyer who was long active in civic, civil  rights and political organizations, died June 7 in Middletown, N.Y. She was 73 and lived in Hudson, N.Y., and Middletown. The cause was lung cancer, her family said. Born in Manhattan, Mrs. Gilman studied at 
 Nancy Marchand, the distinguished character actress who excelled at playing wise and imperious authority figures -- newspaper publishers, queens, grande dames and a madam -- and who achieved perhaps her greatest fame as the domineering mother of a mob boss in the television series ''The Sop
 Elizabeth Dooley, who watched more than 4,000 consecutive Boston Red Sox home games over 55 seasons from her front-row box seat, died Monday in Boston, hours before her beloved Red Sox suffered a 22-1 beating from the Yankees. She was 87, a year younger than Fenway Park, the home of the Red
 Mary Benson, an author, journalist and political campaigner who wrote passionately about the struggle for racial equality in her native South Africa,  died at home in London on Monday, her literary agent, Felicity Bryan, said. She was 80. Miss Benson's books included a novel, ''At t
 Elsie Widdowson, a nutritionist who used the discipline of wartime rationing to prescribe the healthiest diet in British history, died in Cambridge on June 14. She was 93. The diet was an experimental plan for the goverment to promote for the citizens of Britain once its imports wer
 Joan Stoliar, a freelance book designer otherwise known as the den mother of New York fly-fishers, who took her love of pristine trout streams into city classrooms, died on June 18 at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 71 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was c
 Phyllis Propp Fowle, a New York lawyer who was the first woman to be an officer of the Army judge advocate general's corps, died Thursday in Manhattan. She was 92 and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. She was also the only woman in the corps to serve overseas during World
 Rose Wyler, who wrote more than 50 books for children on science and other topics, died on June 12 at her home in Manhattan. She was 90. Ms. Wyler was the sole author of over two dozen books and a co-author of others. One of her best-known works is ''Spooky Tricks'' (1968), which sh
 Vera Atkins, who recruited, trained and watched over the legendary British secret agents who parachuted into France to sabotage the Nazis in World War II, died on Saturday in Hastings, Sussex. She was 92. Although Ian Fleming never identified her, Ms. Atkins was widely believed to h
 Diane Divers Blair, who taught and practiced politics in Arkansas for 30 years, becoming fast friends with Bill and Hillary Rodham Clinton, died on Monday at her home in Fayetteville, Ark. She was 61. The cause was lung cancer, her family said. At her death she was professor
 Judy Angelo Cowen, a photographer who specialized in portraits of children, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 83 and had homes in Manhattan and Elberon, N.J. Born Judy Bach in Manhattan, Ms. Cowen was educated at the Dana Hall School and Pine Manor College in Massachusetts. Afte
