Dr. Dorothy L. Keur, a retired professor of anthropology at Hunter College, died March 22 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Billings, Mont. She was 85 years old and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. Dr. Dorothy L. Keur, a retired professor of anthropology at Hunter Colle
Nedda Harrigan Logan, an actress who was the president of the Actors' Fund of America for the last 10 years, died of lung cancer Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89 years old. Nedda Harrigan Logan, an actress who was the president of the Actors' Fund of America for t
Ruth Zagat Casselman, an advocate of immigration for more than 50 years, died of cancer Saturday at Cedars Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 91 years old and lived in Los Angeles. Ruth Zagat Casselman, an advocate of immigration for more than 50 years, died of cancer Satu
Dr. Dorothy Schullian Adelmann, the first curator of the Cornell University Library, died Saturday at her home in Ithaca, N.Y., after a long illness. She was 82 years old. Dr. Dorothy Schullian Adelmann, the first curator of the Cornell University Library, died Saturday at her
Lottie Stillerman Gold, a retired lawyer and former government official, died of a heart attack Monday at Long Beach (L.I.) Hospital. She was 82 years old and lived in Long Beach. Lottie Stillerman Gold, a retired lawyer and former government official, died of a heart attack M
Maria Balducci, a founder of Balducci's, the well-known family grocery store in Greenwich Village, died of complications from a stroke Monday at her home in Queens. She was 89 years old. Maria Balducci, a founder of Balducci's, the well-known family grocery store in Greenwich 
Natasha Galitzine Romanov, whose husband was a nephew of Russia's last czar, Nicholas II, died March 28 in Woodside, Calif. She was 82 years old. Natasha Galitzine Romanov, whose husband was a nephew of Russia's last czar, Nicholas II, died March 28 in Woodside, Calif. She was
Betty Becker Pinkston Campbell, winner of two gold medals in springboard and platform diving at the Olympic Games in 1924 and 1928, died of congestive heart failure Thursday in a Detroit hospital. She was 86 years old. Betty Becker Pinkston Campbell, winner of two gold medals 
Dr. Jane V. Williams, a former director of education for the New York City Department of Health, died Sunday at Brooklyn Hospital after a long illness. She was 64 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Dr. Jane V. Williams, a former director of education for the New York City Depart
Margery A. Ryerson, a painter and lithographer, died March 30 at the King Street Nursing Home in Rye Brook, N.Y. She was 102 years old. Margery A. Ryerson, a painter and lithographer, died March 30 at the King Street Nursing Home in Rye Brook, N.Y. She was 102 years old.      
Zeva E. Spiegler, director of college guidance and head of the science program at the Lenox School, a private school on East 70th Street, died of cancer Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 54 years old. Zeva E. Spiegler, director of college guidance and head of the scie
Bernice Segal, a former chairwoman of the chemistry department at Barnard College, died of breast cancer Sunday at her home in Tenafly, N.J. She was 59 years old. Professor Segal, who was born in Brooklyn, was a summa cum laude graduate of Radcliffe College and received her master's a
Bessie Griffin, a gospel singer, died of cancer yesterday at Brockton Memorial Center in Culver City, Calif. She was 67 years old and lived in Los Angeles. Bessie Griffin, a gospel singer, died of cancer yesterday at Brockton Memorial Center in Culver City, Calif. She was 67 y
Betty Farrally, a co-founder of Canada's oldest dance company, died of brain cancer Sunday in Kelowna, B.C. She was 73 years old. Betty Farrally, a co-founder of Canada's oldest dance company, died of brain cancer Sunday in Kelowna, B.C. She was 73 years old. Miss Farr
Elinor G. Black, a teacher and volunteer in community organizations, died of heart failure yesterday in New Rochelle (N.Y.) Hospital. She was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan. Elinor G. Black, a teacher and volunteer in community organizations, died of heart failure yesterd
Mathilda Knecht, a retired professor of linguistics at Montclair State College, died of cancer Monday at her home in Rahway, N.J. She was 76 years old. Mathilda Knecht, a retired professor of linguistics at Montclair State College, died of cancer Monday at her home in Rahway, 
Sister Mary Assisium Byrne, a former president of the Staten Island Mental Health Council who was long associated with the St. Vincent's Medical Center of Richmond, died of colon cancer Wednesday at the Sisters of Charity Home in Yonkers. She was 79 years old. Sister Mary Assi
Annette Arons, a retired public-relations executive, died of cancer Friday at her home in East Stroudsburg, Pa. She was 77 years old. Mrs. Arons was born in London. She worked for Lem Jones Associates, a Manhattan public-relations firm, from 1958 to 1977, when she retired as vice pres
Frances (Fanny) Steloff, one of the country's most distinguished independent booksellers, died of pneumonia yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 101 years old and lived in Manhattan. Frances (Fanny) Steloff, one of the country's most distinguished independent books
Charlotte C. Handy, retired head of Thedlow Decorators, a New York decorating concern, died of pneumonia yesterday at her home in Old Lyme, Conn. She was 97 years old. In 1919, she opened the business, which has since closed, at 146 East 55th Street in Manhattan. After serving clients
Dame Daphne du Maurier, the author of ''Rebecca'' and other highly popular Gothic and romantic novels that were turned into films, plays and documentaries, died yesterday in her sleep at home in the village of Par in Cornwall, on the rugged southwestern coast of England, a setting she
Elizabeth Cornelia Hall, the retired head librarian of the New York Botanical Garden, died of heart failure Wednesday at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. She was 91 years old and lived in the Bronx. Elizabeth Cornelia Hall, the retired head librarian of the New York Botanical
Marion Irene Guilfoyle, a lawyer who was a leader in Irish-American and Roman Catholic affairs in New York City, died of complications from a lung disease Wednesday at Union Hospital in the Bronx. She was 68 years old and lived in the Bronx. Marion Irene Guilfoyle, a lawyer wh
Gladys Collins, a photographer who organized exhibitions of artworks by the elderly, died from a stroke yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. She was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan. Gladys Collins, a photographer who organized exhibitions of artworks by 
Princess Dok Hye, the last princess of the Yi Dynasty, which ruled Korea for 500 years, until the Japanese annexation in 1910, died today, the state radio reported. She was 76 years old, and the cause of death was not announced. Princess Dok Hye, the last princess of the Yi Dy
Emily Davie Kornfeld, an author and actress, died of emphysema Friday at her home in Tuxedo Park, N.Y. She was 73 years old. Emily Davie Kornfeld, an author and actress, died of emphysema Friday at her home in Tuxedo Park, N.Y. She was 73 years old. Mrs. Kornfeld was t
Princess Dok Hye, the last princess of the Yi dynasty which ruled Korea for 500 years until the Japanese annexation in 1910, died today, the state radio reported. She was 76 years old, and the cause of death was not announced. Princess Dok Hye, the last princess of the Yi dyna
Christine Y. Conaway, dean of women at Ohio State University from 1944 to 1967, died Sunday at her home. She was 87 years old. Christine Y. Conaway, dean of women at Ohio State University from 1944 to 1967, died Sunday at her home. She was 87 years old. She was a forme
Frances Epstein, a fashion designer and survivor of German concentration camps, died of a stroke yesterday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. She was 69 years old and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. Frances Epstein, a fashion designer and survivor of Germa
Dr. Hedwig Koenig, associate professor emeritus of clinical pediatrics at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, died April 14 at her home in Pennswood Village, Newtown, Pa. She was 93 years old. Dr. Hedwig Koenig, associate professor emeritus of clinical pediatrics at 
Alfred G. and Elma Milotte, nature-film photographers who won six Academy Awards while working for Walt Disney, died less than a week apart. Mrs. Milotte died April 19 at the couple's home near Tacoma. She was 81 years old. Her husband, who was ill and lived in a nursing home in Gig H
Lucille Ball, the irrepressible queen of television comedy for nearly a quarter-century, died yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles a week after undergoing heart surgery there. She was 77 years old. Lucille Ball, the irrepressible queen of television comedy f
Margery Madden Porter, one of the first women appointed as a corporate officer of a worldwide company, died of cancer Tuesday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan. Margery Madden Porter, one of the first women appoin
Norma Klein, an author of more than 30 novels for teen-agers and adults, died Tuesday after a brief illness at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 50 years old. Norma Klein, an author of more than 30 novels for teen-agers and adults, died Tuesday after a brief illness at
Sheila D. Feick, a former president of the Women's Committee of the New York Zoological Society, died of kidney and bone cancer yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 55 years old and lived in Manhattan. Sheila D. Feick, a former president of the Women's 
Ann Thomas, a radio, stage and television actress, died of lung cancer yesterday at New Rochelle (N.Y.) Hospital. She was 75 years old. Ann Thomas, a radio, stage and television actress, died of lung cancer yesterday at New Rochelle (N.Y.) Hospital. She was 75 years old.      
