 Michi N. Weglyn, author of an acclaimed book about the internment of Japanese-Americans in the United States during World War II, died last Sunday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 72. She had cancer, said Si Spiegel, the executor of her estate. Ms. We
 Adele Woodhouse Erb Sullivan, who was president general of the National Society Daughters of the American Revolution in the 1960's, died on April 22 in Wilton, Conn., at the home of her daughter, Nancy E. Thorne. She was 91 and a longtime resident of Scarsdale, N.Y. Mrs. Sullivan wa
 Maria Stader, a soprano who was best known for the elegance of her Mozart performances, died on Tuesday in Zurich, The Associated Press reported. She was 87 and lived in Zurich. Ms. Stader made several operatic appearances, most notably as the Queen of the Night in a Covent Garden s
 Mae Bertha Carter, who defied gunfire and the loss of employment to send her children to previously all-white public schools in Mississippi, eventually winning a legal battle that confirmed their right to be there, died on April 28 at her home in Drew, Miss. She was 76. The cause wa
 Marjorie Lederer Lee, a novelist and poet, died Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, her son John said. Ms. Lee drew on her experiences as a young mother of five in Bryn Mawr, Pa.
 Dr. Ellen Sparry Brush, an anthropologist and expert in the archeology of western coastal Guerrero state in Mexico, died May 1 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 65 and also lived on Shelter Island, N.Y. The cause was a lung disorder, her family said. D
 State Senator Wynona M. Lipman, who in 1971 became the first African-American woman to be elected to the New Jersey Senate, died Sunday at her home in Newark. She was 67. The cause was cancer, her office said. Senator Lipman, a Democrat who represented Newark, was the longes
 Catherine Brandel, one of the quiet forces behind the culinary tide called California cuisine, died on Tuesday night at her home in Berkeley, Calif.  She was 56. She had waged a long battle with a rare muscle cancer, said her brother, Michael Terry of Richland, Wash., who is her onl
 Meg Greenfield, the editor of The Washington Post's editorial page, who brought a combination of sharp-eyed analysis and wry wit to bear on a generation of the nation's policy makers and politicians, died yesterday morning at her home in Washington. She was 68. She died of cancer, s
 Shirley Potash Clurman, a retired magazine editor and television producer, died yesterday at St. Rose's Home in Manhattan. She was 74 and lived on the Upper East Side. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Clurman, a native of Los Angeles, began her career in the publi
 Bobbe Brox, the last surviving member of the vocal trio who called themselves the Brox Sisters and who appeared on stage and in films, died  on May 2 in Glens Falls, N.Y. She was 98. Miss Brox, whose original name was Josephine Brock, and her sisters were American-born but were  bro
 Rosemary Valaire, a ballet teacher and a director of the Westside Ballet of Santa Monica, Calif., and a former dancer with the Royal Ballet of England, died on May 7 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 68. The cause was a brain tumor, said Jim Brunet, director of public relations at
 Ruth Moulton Gilbert, a practicing psychoanalyst in Manhattan for over 40 years, died on April 30 at her home in Clinton Corners, N.Y. She was 83. The cause was complications from cancer, her family said. Dr. Moulton, who was known professionally by her maiden name, was a su
 Madelaine Chambers, a lyric soprano who sang at the Metropolitan Opera and the New York City Opera in the 1950's and 60's, died on April 30 at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. She was 72 and lived in Allentown, N.J. The cause was leukemia, said Leyna Gabriele
 Sheila Gruson, an artist who worked as an assistant director  with many opera companies around the world, died yesterday in Tiverton, in Devon, England. She was 48. The cause was breast cancer, according to her brother, Lindsey. Ms. Gruson, who lived in Tiverton, was an assi
 Ida Klaus, a labor law pioneer who became a high-ranking New York City official in the 1950's and who wrote the law that gave city employees the right to bargain collectively, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 94. Ms. Klaus was a lifelong labor advocate whose sympathy
 Betty Robinson Schwartz, who in 1928 as a 16-year-old high school junior became the first woman to win an Olympic gold medal in track and field, died Tuesday in Colorado. She was 87. Her son, Richard Schwartz Jr. of Denver, told The Chicago Tribune she had suffered from cancer and A
 Vanessa Brown, who originated the role of the girl upstairs in the Broadway production of ''The Seven Year Itch,'' a role played in the film version by Marilyn Monroe, died on Friday at the Motion Picture Country Home in Los Angeles, Calif. She was 71. The cause was cancer, her son,
 Beverly Lewis, a vice president and senior editor at Bantam Books,  died on Monday in Manhattan. She was 51 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Lewis died on the way to a hospital after collapsing on a Manhattan street, her husband, Sandy Eames, said. The family is awaiting results of an au
 Ruth Gilbert, a retired editor at New York magazine and The New York Herald Tribune, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88 years old. Ms. Gilbert was best known as the editor of her own page in New York magazine listing what she felt was stylish in the city at the mo
 Alice Adams, widely admired for her deft, elegantly observed novels and short stories, died yesterday at her home in San Francisco. She was 72. She had been treated for heart problems earlier in the week and seemed to have died in her sleep, said her editor, Victoria Wilson.        
 Edith Lewin, who with her husband, Bernard, amassed the largest privately owned collection of Mexican modernist art and then gave it away, died on Sunday at her home in Palm Springs, Calif. She was 88. The Lewins, who settled in California after fleeing Berlin in 1933, started out a
 Shirley Katzander, a public relations consultant who specialized in promoting cultural and political figures, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 78. She had congestive heart failure, a friend, James A. Moore, said. For nearly 20 years, Mrs. Katzander ran her
 Sara Holmes Boutelle, an architectural historian who rediscovered Julia Morgan, one of the first female architects to achieve major success, died on Wednesday at the Dominican Hospital in Santa Cruz, Calif. She was 90. Until Ms. Boutelle published ''Julia Morgan, Architect'' (1988),
 Kathleen Kellogg Meserve, an amateur horticulturist from Long Island who produced a series of hardy holly hybrids that have become standard in nurseries and gardens in the United States and Europe, died last Sunday at her home in Vero Beach, Fla. She was 93. Mrs. Meserve's interest 
 Virginia Wise Marx, an educator and psychologist who dedicated herself to the care of children and their families, died last Sunday at White Plains Hospital. She was 93 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. Since the early 1930's, Mrs. Marx had been involved in community affairs and a wide a
