 Tillie Olsen, whose short stories, books and essays lent a heartfelt voice to the struggles of women and working-class people, died on Monday in Oakland, Calif. She was 94. Ms. Olsen died after being in declining health for years, her daughter Laurie Olsen said. A daughter o
 Chandralekha, an Indian dancer and choreographer known for her philosophical fusing of the classical Bharata Natyam dance form with martial arts and therapeutic varieties of dance, died on Dec. 30 at her seaside home in the Indian city of Chennai. She was 78. The cause was cervical 
 Elizabeth Fox-Genovese, a noted historian and women's studies scholar who roiled both disciplines with her transition from Marxist-inclined feminist to conservative public intellectual, died on Tuesday in Atlanta. She was 65 and had lived in Atlanta for many years. Ms. Fox-Genovese'
 Ruthanna Boris, a versatile dancer and choreographer who was the first American ballerina to be a star of one of the prestigious Ballets Russes troupes of the 40's, died Friday at her home in El Cerrito, Calif. She was 88. The cause was cancer, said Amanda Vaill, a dance writer and 
 Jane Bolin, whose appointment as a family court judge by Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia in 1939 made her the first black woman in the United States to become a judge, died on Monday in Queens. She was 98 and lived in Long Island City, Queens. Her death was announced by her son, Yorke 
 Judith P. Vladeck, a prominent labor lawyer and ardent advocate of women's rights in the workplace, particularly on college campuses, died on Monday in Manhattan. She was 83 and lived in Manhattan. Her death was confirmed by her son Bruce. Proud of her courtroom contentiousn
 Maureen Orcutt, one of the nation's outstanding golfers for almost a half-century and one of the first women to become a sportswriter, died Tuesday in Durham, N.C. She was 99. Her death was confirmed by her lawyer, Richard Hatch. Starting in 1922, Orcutt won more than 65 maj
 Roberta Wohlstetter, a military and foreign policy analyst whose work on the intelligence failures before the attack on Pearl Harbor was cited by the 9/11 commission, died on Saturday in Manhattan. She was 94. The cause was pneumonia, said her daughter, Joan Wohlstetter-Hall.       
 Yvonne De Carlo, a dark-haired Hollywood beauty who advanced from the chorus line to play Moses' wife in a movie epic but who achieved her greatest popularity as Lily in the CBS television sitcom ''The Munsters,'' died on Monday in Los Angeles. She was 84. The cause was heart failur
 Maureen Orcutt, one of the nation's outstanding golfers for almost a half-century and one of the first women to become a sportswriter, died Tuesday in Durham, N.C. She was 99. Her death was confirmed by her lawyer, Richard Hatch. Starting in 1922, Orcutt won more than 65 maj
 Alice Coltrane, widow of the jazz saxophonist John Coltrane and the pianist in his later bands, who extended her musical searches into a vocation as a spiritual leader, died on Friday in Los Angeles. She was 69. The cause was respiratory failure, said Marilyn McLeod, her sister and 
 Dora E. McDonald, who served as secretary and confidante to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in the most turbulent years of the civil rights movement, died on Saturday. She was 81. The cause was complications from cancer, said the Rev. Betsy Lunz, the minister of pastoral care at
 Anne Ophelia Todd Dowden, a renowned and popular botanical artist whose subjects ranged from the flowers found in Shakespeare to the weeds found in New York City, died Thursday in Boulder, Colo. She was 99. Her death was announced by Martha Hutchinson, a cousin. Ms. Dowden w
 Betty Trezza, who at 17 escaped her job as a Garment District embroiderer to play women's professional baseball and went on to smack a memorable championship-winning hit, died Tuesday in the Brooklyn house where she was born. She was 82. The cause was a heart attack, her nephew Jan 
 Maj-Britt Nilsson, a Swedish movie actress of the 1940s and '50s who starred in three of Ingmar Bergman's early films, died on Dec. 19 in Cannes, France. She was 82. Ms. Nilsson's death, which was not widely reported outside Sweden, was confirmed by Jon Asp, executive editor of the 
 Mary Stolz, a noted author for children and adolescents whose novels earned critical praise for the seriousness with which they took the problems of young people, died on Dec. 15 at her home in Longboat Key, Fla. She was 86. Ms. Stolz died of natural causes, her son, William B. Stol
 Lisa E. Goldberg, president of the Charles H. Revson Foundation, died on Monday in Manhattan. She was 54. The cause was a brain aneurysm, said a spokesman for New York University, of which her husband, John Sexton, is president. In 1982, Ms. Goldberg started as a program off
 Liz Renay, a boisterous, buxom cult film actress who worked as a stripper, wrote several books and got a little too close to some mobsters in the late 1950s, leading to a three-year prison term, died last Monday near her home in Las Vegas. She was 80. The cause was internal bleeding
 Deborah Orin-Eilbeck, the Washington bureau chief and a columnist for The New York Post, died on Sunday at a hospital near her home in Manhattan. She was 59. The cause was gastric cancer, said her husband, Neville Eilbeck. Better known by her byline Deborah Orin, Ms. Orin-Ei
 Maureen Cannon, a heavy hitter in the world of light verse who in the last four decades published more than 1,000 poems, most written in under a minute, died on Thursday at her home in Wyckoff, N.J. She was 84 and had lived in Ridgewood, N.J., for many years. Ms. Cannon died in her 
