 Mollie Panter-Downes, whose quiet, compelling accounts of everyday British life brought England alive for two generations of readers of The New Yorker, died on Jan. 22 in a nursing home near her longtime home in Surrey. She was 90 and had written The New Yorker's ''Letter from London'' from
 Lea M. Kisselgoff, a Sinologist who specialized in classical Chinese texts, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88. Mrs. Kisselgoff studied classical Chinese at the School of Oriental Languages in Paris and received a degree in Chinese civilization from the Sorbonne. Sh
 Kiki Kogelnik, an artist known for rakish depictions of figures and heads, died on Saturday at the Vienna Private Clinic. She was 62 and had homes and studios in Vienna, New York and Bleiburg in southern Austria. She died of ovarian cancer, her family said. Ms. Kogelnik, who
 Pamela Harriman, the United States Ambassador to France, a leading figure in the Democratic Party and for decades one of the most vivacious women on the international scene, died yesterday at the American Hospital in Paris of complications of a cerebral hemorrhage. She was 76. Mrs. 
 Margaret Halsey, author of the 1938 best seller ''With Malice Toward Some,'' which poked fun at English customs and mores, died on Tuesday at the Nathan Miller Nursing Home in White Plains. She was 86. In her time, Ms. Halsey, a witty writer with an acute social concern, was compare
 Elizabeth Rudel Gatov, a wealthy California businesswoman who was long active in Democratic politics and served briefly as Treasurer of the United States, died on Jan. 25 at her home in Kentfield, Calif., near San Francisco. She was 85. Mrs. Gatov was Elizabeth Rudel Smith -- she ha
 Ruth Brinkmann, an actress and director who was a founder of the English Theater in Vienna, died there on Jan. 18. She was 62. The cause was ovarian cancer, said her sister, Karin Brown. Ms. Brinkmann was born in Berlin. Her family moved to the United States when she was 3 a
 Dorothy Fosdick, the foreign policy expert who helped fashion the United Nations, the Marshall Plan and NATO in the 1940's, advised Adlai E. Stevenson in the 1952 Presidential campaign and then spent nearly three decades as Senator Henry M. Jackson's chief cold war strategist, died on Wedne
 Alice Huei-Zu Yang, an art historian and curator, died early Saturday morning after a hit-and-run accident at Canal and Varick Streets in Manhattan. She was 35 and lived in TriBeCa. Ms. Yang's husband, Gerald Szeto, an architect with the firm of Calvin Tsai, was injured in the accid
 Cassandra Ides Jones, a former  executive of the Chase Manhattan Bank and the owner of an interior design company, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. Mrs. Jones, who was 48, died of breast cancer, her husband, Robert Childress Jones Jr., said. Mrs. Jones was among the first 
 Jean D. Hewitt, a former food writer and home economist for The New York Times and an early advocate of natural foods, died on Sunday in the Bon Secours-Venice Hospital in Venice, Fla. She was 71 and made her home in Venice. The cause was pneumonia, the family said. Mrs. Hew
 Eleanor Prescott, a producer for ABC News, died on Sunday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. She was 50 and lived in Bayside, Queens. She had been taken to the hospital after complaining of chest pains, said her husband, Nicholas G. Garaufis. Ms. Prescott 
 Dr. Chien-Shiung Wu, a physicist who performed a historic experiment overturning what had been considered a fundamental law of nature, died on Sunday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. She was 84 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a stroke, said her husband, Dr
 Emily Hahn, an early feminist and a prolific author who wrote 54 books and more than 200 articles for The New Yorker, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 92, said her daughter, Carola Boxer Vecchio. Ms. Hahn was known for her writings ab
 Katharine Winthrop McKean, an outstanding amateur tennis player of the 1930's and 1940's, died on Feb. 12 at her home in Hamilton, Mass. She was 82. Mrs. McKean won four national junior girls' tennis titles, playing out of Boston, and five national women's titles, in indoors singles
 Nora Beloff, a gifted political writer and foreign correspondent who was a trailblazer among women in British journalism, died on Feb. 12. She was 78 and a longtime resident of London. She had a short illness, said The Associated Press, which reported her death on Feb. 15. The place
