 Tanaquil Le Clercq, one of the greatest of American ballerinas, who was George Balanchine's ideal muse and Jerome Robbins's happiest inspiration at the New York City Ballet in the 1940's and 1950's, died yesterday at New York Hospital. She was 71 and had homes in Manhattan; Weston, Conn.; a
 Millicent Carey McIntosh, whose stewardship of the Brearley School and then Barnard College made her a national role model for generations of young women who wanted to combine career and family, died on Wednesday at her home in Tyringham, Mass. She was 102. An outspoken feminist in 
 Felice Stampfle, curator of drawings and prints at the Morgan Library for nearly 40 years and editor of the scholarly journal Master Drawings, died on Sunday at her home in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 88. Miss Stampfle was born in Kansas City, Mo., in 1912 and received a B.A. and an
 Barbara DeWitt, a former rock star promoter who later helped create provocative advertising campaigns for Calvin Klein, died on Dec. 31 in Golden Beach, Fla. She was 58 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. DeWitt had cancer for the last year and a half, said her brother, the photographer Bru
 Frieda Pushnik, who used being born without limbs to achieve a remunerative career, not to mention a quirky celebrity, by appearing in Ripley's and Barnum's sideshows as the ''Armless and Legless Wonder,'' died of bladder cancer on Dec. 24 at her home in Costa Mesa, Calif. She was 77.      
 Kate Born Schaeffer, a longtime partner with her husband at Schaeffer Galleries in Manhattan, which became known for selling art by old masters to museums and collectors, died on Dec. 20 at her home in Manhattan. She was 102. For three decades Mrs. Schaeffer and her husband, Dr. Han
 Helen Coley Nauts, who devoted her life to championing the once-neglected cancer-treatment discoveries of her father and founded a cancer institute, died at home last Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 93. Mrs. Nauts was the daughter of Dr. William B. Coley, a surgeon and cancer speciali
 Beatrice S. Burstein, who was one of the first women to serve as a justice of the State Supreme Court and who used her position to promote social activism, died on Saturday at her home in Lawrence, on Long Island. She was 85. In a judicial career that spanned 30 years, Justice Burst
 Dr. Alexandra Adler, a New York neurologist and psychiatrist who carried on the tradition of her father, Alfred Adler, one of the pioneers of psychoanalytic theory, died Jan. 4 at New York University Hospital. She was 99 and lived in Manhattan. A native of Vienna, she was among the 
 G. E. M. Anscombe, a British moral and analytic philosopher as well as one of Wittgenstein's literary executors, died on Jan. 5 in Cambridge, England. She was 81 and had chronic heart disease, said her husband, Peter Geach. Gertrude Elizabeth Margaret Anscombe -- known by her initia
 Linda Eder Jamieson Storrow, a former actress, magazine executive and official New York City greeter for the State of New York who was  host for 13 years of a radio program  celebrating those she called ''splendid seniors,'' died at her Manhattan apartment on Jan. 6. She was 90. The
 Vera Constantinova, a princess of Russia long active in Russian-American emigre circles and charitable organizations, died on Jan. 11 at the Tolstoy Foundation Center in Valley Cottage, N.Y. She was 94. Princess Vera was born near St. Petersburg, a daughter of Grand Duke Constantine
 Dr. Dorothy M. Horstmann, an epidemiologist, virologist, polio pioneer and the first woman appointed as a professor at the Yale School of Medicine, died on Jan. 11 in New Haven. She was 89. She had Alzheimer's disease, said Dr. I. George Miller, a colleague and professor of virology
 Beverley Peck Johnson, a noted voice teacher and a member of the faculty at the Juilliard School of Music since 1964, died on Saturday in Manhattan. She was 96. Ms. Johnson was a highly trusted and notably successful voice teacher, as the long list of eminent singers who studied wit
 Chrissie Collins, who with her husband devised and promoted what became the MedicAlert bracelet as a way to provide emergency medical information, died on Jan. 8 in Turlock, Calif. She was 94. The concept of jewelry that could alert emergency personnel to allergies and other critica
 Elizabeth Sewell, a poet, critic and novelist, died on Jan. 12 in Greensboro, N.C. She was 81. Ms. Sewell was the author of five books of criticism, including ''The Orphic Voice,'' about the role of the imagination in literature and science. She wrote four novels, including 
 Candida Donadio, the celebrated literary agent who sold Joseph Heller's first novel, ''Catch-22,'' and Philip Roth's ''Goodbye, Columbus,'' died on Saturday at her home in Stonington, Conn. She was 71. According to Neil Olson, her partner in Donadio & Olson, the cause was cancer. Ms
 Virginia O'Brien, a familiar face and voice in film musicals and comedies of the 1940's, died on Jan. 16 in Woodland Hills, a Los Angeles suburb. She was 81. Ms. O'Brien owed her film career to stage fright. When she made her stage debut in Los Angeles in 1940, she was too nervous t
 Anne Ball, a retailing executive who helped impart a stylish image to some of the country's most elite clothing stores, died on Jan. 19 in Manhattan. She was 52 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was liver cancer, said her husband, Frank Ball. With taste described as
 Elizabeth Meyer Lorentz, a movie scriptwriter and author of a book on networking, died on Saturday at a hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 87 and lived in Rye, N.Y. The cause was pneumonia, said her sister Katharine Graham, the former publisher of The Washington Post who is chair
 The last queen of Italy, Maria José of Savoy, who served after World War II for only 27 days before Italians voted to abolish the monarchy, died on Saturday in a Geneva hospital. She was 94. The daughter of Albert I, king of Belgium, Maria José in 1930 married Prince Umberto II, w
 Florence Tyson, an early practitioner of creative arts therapy who for many years led a clinic for emotionally troubled people in Manhattan, died on Jan. 18 at her home on the Upper East Side. She was 82. Ms. Tyson founded the community-oriented Creative Arts Rehabilitation Center i
