Belle Linsky, an art collector and philanthropist, died Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 83 years old. Belle Linsky, an art collector and philanthropist, died Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 83 years old. Mrs. Linsky, whose husband, Jack, accumulated a
Margot L. Marek, an author and specialist in learning disabilities, died of a brain tumor Tuesday at New York Hospital. She was 53 years old and lived in Manhattan and Hillsdale, N.Y. Margot L. Marek, an author and specialist in learning disabilities, died of a brain tumor Tue
Fay Koshelle, a founder with her husband of a children's camp in the Catskills, died Wednesday at the Hebrew Home of Greater Washington in Rockville, Md., where she was a resident. She was 102 years old. Mrs. Koshelle, a onetime Bronx resident, and her husband, the late William Koshel
Madeleine Carroll, the cosmopolitan actress of the 1930's and 1940's who starred in the Alfred Hitchcock classics ''The 39 Steps'' and ''Secret Agent'' and more than three dozen other movies, died yesterday afternoon at her home outside the resort town of Marbella, Spain, a spokesman 
Maria Ivogun, the leading coloratura soprano of German opera in the period between the World Wars, died yesterday. She was 95 years old and lived in Beatenberg, Switzerland. Maria Ivogun, the leading coloratura soprano of German opera in the period between the World Wars, died
Dorothy Read Thomas, the widow of James A. Thomas, the tobacco company executive, died Friday of cardiac arrest. She was 96 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dorothy Read Thomas, the widow of James A. Thomas, the tobacco company executive, died Friday of cardiac arrest. She wa
Jane K. Butcher, the first woman ever appointed to the board of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, died after a long illness last Thursday. She was 64 years old and lived in White Plains. Jane K. Butcher, the first woman ever appointed to the board of the Metropolitan 
Constance Maroselli, who worked for the National Basketball Association for 36 years, died Saturday night of a heart attack while on a flight from New York to Phoenix, where she was to retire. Miss Maroselli was 63 years old. Miss Maroselli began working for the N.B.A. in 1951, when t
Sister Eleanor O'Byrne, a leading Roman Catholic educator, died after a short illness Sunday at Kenwood Convent of the Sacred Heart in Albany. She was 91 years old. Sister Eleanor O'Byrne, a leading Roman Catholic educator, died after a short illness Sunday at Kenwood Convent 
Jane C. Murray, director of communications and development for the Alan Guttmacher Institute, died of cancer of the pancreas and liver Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 48 years old. Jane C. Murray, director of communications and development for the Alan Guttmacher Inst
Margie Lynn Inman, who performed on the wings of airplanes in her youth and later battled local officials for the right to live in a lean-to with a menagerie of pets, has died at the age of 76. Margie Lynn Inman, who performed on the wings of airplanes in her youth and later b
Clare Booth Luce, whose richly varied career encompassed the editorship of Vanity Fair magazine, the writing of hit Broadway plays and service in Congress and as Ambassador to Rome, died yesterday morning at her home in Washington. Mrs. Luce, who was 84 years old, had been gravely ill
Eleanor M. Johnson, founder of The Weekly Reader, which has brought the news of the world to schoolchildren for nearly six decades, died of cancer Thursday at a nursing home in Gaithersburg, Md. She was 94 years old. Eleanor M. Johnson, founder of The Weekly Reader, which has 
Ione Gaul Walker, a painter, arts patron and former art dealer, died of cancer of the throat on Monday at her home in Provincetown, Mass. She was 72 years old. Ione Gaul Walker, a painter, arts patron and former art dealer, died of cancer of the throat on Monday at her home in
Elizabeth Remsen, the daughter of the founder of Remsenburg, L.I., died Saturday at her home in Remsenburg. She was 90 years old.  Miss Remsen's father, Dr. Charles Remsen, founded the town near Speonk in Suffolk County in the 1890's, when he decided to build a red brick Presbyterian 
Flora Scalamandre, a co-founder of Scalamandre Silks Inc., one of the largest manufacturers of silk fabrics on the East Coast, died Friday after a heart attack at her home in Plandome Manor, L.I. She was 80 years old. Flora Scalamandre, a co-founder of Scalamandre Silks Inc., 
Dr. Emily Mumford, a sociologist known for her work on the effect of psychotherapy in lowering later medical care costs, died of complications of a brain tumor Oct. 3 at her home in Manhattan. She was 66 years old. Dr. Emily Mumford, a sociologist known for her work on the eff
Elizabeth Mary Gordon, a former supervisor of children's work at the Boston Public Library, died of cancer Monday at Massachusetts General Hospital. She was 85 years old. Elizabeth Mary Gordon, a former supervisor of children's work at the Boston Public Library, died of cancer
Lucy Monroe, who sang ''The Star-Spangled Banner'' at every New York Yankees opening day and every Yankees World Series between 1945 and 1960, died of cancer Tuesday at her Manhattan home. She was 80 years old. Lucy Monroe, who sang ''The Star-Spangled Banner'' at every New Yo
Dr. Corinne J. Weithorn, a developmental psychologist and university lecturer, died of cancer Friday at Long Island Jewish Hospital in New Hyde Park, L.I. She was 58 years old and lived in Manhasset, L.I. Dr. Corinne J. Weithorn, a developmental psychologist and university lec
Diana Loeb, until recently vice president of the board of trustees of the Public Education Association, a nonpartisan advocacy group that monitors the performance of New York City's schools, died of lung cancer Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 61 years old. Diana Lo
Jacqueline du Pre, a brilliant and charismatic English cellist whose career was cut short by multiple sclerosis, died last night in London, her concert managers said. She was 42 years old. Jacqueline du Pre, a brilliant and charismatic English cellist whose career was cut shor
Dana Suesse, a composer and songwriter whose hits included ''You Ought to Be in Pictures,'' died of a stroke last Friday in New York City. She was 76 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dana Suesse, a composer and songwriter whose hits included ''You Ought to Be in Pictures,'' d
Ruth Moss, a founder and executive director of the White Plains Symphony Orchestra, died at New York Hospital on Monday after a long illness. She was 60 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. Ruth Moss, a founder and executive director of the White Plains Symphony Orchestra, d
Maxeda vonHesse, a speech teacher whose clients included Nelson A. Rockefeller and Christian A. Herter, died of lymphoma Sept. 22 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. She was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan and Daytona Beach, Fla. Maxeda vonHesse, a speech teacher
Kate L. Turabian, author of one of the most widely read stylebooks on dissertations, died yesterday morning in her sleep at a retirement home in Los Angeles. She was 94 years old. Kate L. Turabian, author of one of the most widely read stylebooks on dissertations, died yesterd
Edith Luckett Davis, Nancy Reagan's mother, died of a stroke today at her home in Phoenix, Ariz. She was 91 years old. Edith Luckett Davis, Nancy Reagan's mother, died of a stroke today at her home in Phoenix, Ariz. She was 91 years old. President and Mrs. Reagan will 
Marie Kryl, a concert pianist who appeared with the Chicago, Cincinnati and St. Louis Symphony Orchestras, died Sunday in Orlando, Fla. She was 90 years old. Marie Kryl, a concert pianist who appeared with the Chicago, Cincinnati and St. Louis Symphony Orchestras, died Sunday 
Revella Hughes, a singer and instrumentalist who performed with such jazz greats as Fats Waller and Duke Ellington, died Saturday in New York City. She was 92 years old. Revella Hughes, a singer and instrumentalist who performed with such jazz greats as Fats Waller and Duke El
Lois Hussey Heilbrun, an ornithologist and past president of the Linnaean Society of New York, died of lymphoma last Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 65 years old and lived in Flushing, Queens. Lois Hussey Heilbrun, an ornithologist and past president of the Linnaean
Virginia Hendrick Saladino, an interior designer, died of cancer yesterday in Manhattan. She was 50 years old and lived in Manhattan and Norfolk, Conn. Virginia Hendrick Saladino, an interior designer, died of cancer yesterday in Manhattan. She was 50 years old and lived in Ma
Naomi Henry Sebner, a former concert pianist who helped develop day-care programs, died of breast cancer Tuesday at White Plains Hospital. She was 76 years old and lived in White Plains. Naomi Henry Sebner, a former concert pianist who helped develop day-care programs, died of
Dr. Florence Clothier Wislocki, a psychiatrist and former assistant to the president of Vassar College, died of a stroke Wednesday in the Charlton Memorial Hospital in Fall River, Mass. She was 83 years old and lived in Little Compton, R.I. Dr. Florence Clothier Wislocki, a ps
