 Eileen Shanahan, a reporter for The New York Times who broke ground in the male-dominated world of economic news and later a news executive at other papers, died here today. She was 77. She had been suffering from heart problems and rheumatoid arthritis, her daughter Mary Beth Waits
 Barbara Tropp, an innovative San Francisco chef, restaurateur and author of books about cooking, died on Oct. 26 at her apartment in San Francisco. She was 53 and had a second home in the Napa Valley. The cause was ovarian cancer, The San Francisco Chronicle reported. Ms. Tr
 Mildred Rubenstein Newman, a New York psychologist whose vastly popular books helped meet an American yearning for emotional self-help and self-betterment in the 1970's, died Tuesday at her home on the Upper East Side. She was 81. The cause was a pulmonary embolism, her family said.
 Patricia A. Locke, who worked for decades to preserve American Indian languages and became a pioneer in an effort to grant the tribes greater authority in the education of their children, died on Oct. 20 at a hospital in Phoenix. She was 73 and lived in Wakpala, S.D., on the Standing Rock I
 Rose Shapiro, the president of the New York City Board of Education during one of its stormiest times, died last Saturday at a retirement home in Lauderville, Fla. She was 97 and a former resident of Manhattan and Westport, Conn. Mrs. Shapiro, a campaigner for a strong parental voic
 Bella Cabakoff Wexner, a philanthropist and the matriarch of the Limited Inc., a multibillion-dollar retail chain that specializes in women's clothing, died last Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 93 and lived on the Upper East Side, where she moved from Columbus, Ohio, in
 Marian Fischman, a scientist who explored narcotics addiction by paying addicts to take heroin, cocaine and other drugs, died on Oct. 23 at New York Presbyterian Hospital. She was 62 and lived in Manhattan. Her husband, Dr. Herbert Kleber, said she died of complications of colon can
 Ruth Limmer, an authority on the poet Louise Bogan, died on Oct. 31 at her home in Manhattan. She was 73. The cause was a brain inflammation, said David Bauer, a friend. Ms. Limmer edited three volumes of Bogan's writing, including her autobiographical ''Journey Around My Ro
 Carrie Donovan, a fashion editor who could easily have rested on her laurels and leopard skins but came out of semiretirement to find a new and even more enthusiastic audience as ''the lady from Old Navy,'' died yesterday in Manhattan. She was 73. She had been ailing for several mon
 Dorothy Dunnett, a Scottish historical novelist whose weighty works about Renaissance life attracted swarms of devoted fans in the United States, died on Friday in Edinburgh. She was 78. Her best-known works, ''The Lymond Chronicles'' in six books and ''The House of Niccolò'' in ei
 Peggy Mount, for many years the fearsome battle-ax of British stage and screen with a voice to make henpecked husbands tremble, died on Tuesday at a London nursing home for actors. She was 85. Although best known for her bullying, harridan roles, Ms. Mount was also successful in cla
 Mitzi Myers, an internationally recognized authority on children's literature and a longtime lecturer at the University of California at Los Angeles, died on Nov. 5 at her temporary residence in Anaheim Hills, Calif. She was 62. The cause was complications from pneumonia she contrac
 Charlotte Coleman, a British film actress best remembered in the United States as Scarlett, the cheerily punkish roommate of Hugh Grant's Charles in the 1994 comedy ''Four Weddings and a Funeral,'' died on Nov. 14 at her home in London. She was 33. The cause was an asthma attack, ne
 Mary Kay Ash, who built a billion-dollar beauty empire from a $5,000 investment in 1963, and who motivated hundreds of thousands of consultants around the world with a combination of rewards, recognition and religion, died yesterday at her home in Dallas. She was 83. She died of nat
 Edith Schwartz Capa, who helped found the International Center of Photography in Manhattan in 1974, died Wednesday at her Midtown home. She was 88. She laid the foundations of the center's collections as the wife of Cornell Capa, an international photographer and its founding direct
 Mary Kay Ash, who built a billion-dollar beauty empire from a $5,000 investment in 1963 and who motivated hundreds of thousands of consultants around the world with a combination of rewards, recognition and religion, died Thursday at her home in Dallas. She was 83. She died of natur
 Rachel Gurney, the British actress best known to American audiences as the elegant Lady Marjorie Bellamy on the popular 1970's serialized drama ''Upstairs, Downstairs,'' has died, according The Daily Telegraph of London. She was 81. With fine features and a delicate stiff upper lip,
