 Karol Kennedy Kucher, who teamed up with her brother, Peter Kennedy, to win the gold medal in pairs at the 1950 world figure-skating championships and a silver medal at the 1952 Winter Olympics, died on Friday at a hospital in Seattle. She was 72. The cause was pneumonia, her brothe
 Paula Danziger, who established herself as a writer of popular fiction for young readers with her first book, ''The Cat Ate My Gymsuit,'' died on Thursday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 59. The cause was complications of a heart attack she suffered on June 9, said Doug
 Corrine Grad Coleman, a founding member of the Redstockings, a women's liberation group in New York, died on July 4 at her home in Manhattan. She was 77. The cause was heart disease, said her daughter, Patricia Coleman. Redstockings, a play on bluestockings but with the colo
 Phoebe Brand Carnovsky, an actress and distinguished acting teacher who was a founding member of the influential Group Theater, died on July 3 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan, her son, Stephen Carnovsky, said. She was 96. Phoebe Brand, as she was known professio
 Isabel Sanford, the Emmy Award-winning actress who portrayed Louise Jefferson, the stoically beleaguered better half to Sherman Hemsley's reactionary in ''All in the Family'' and ''The Jeffersons,'' died on Friday at a Los Angeles hospital. She was 86 and lived in Los Angeles. Ms. S
 Betty Oliphant, a British-born teacher who as director of the National Ballet School in Toronto became a leading figure in ballet, died on Monday in St. Catharines, Ontario, near Toronto. She was 85. Her death was announced by a school spokeswoman, Pamela Rice. She was a bal
 Frances Hansen, a self-described housewife who marshaled imagination -- surely not malice -- to make crossword puzzles she constructed more puzzling by using her own poems as clues, died on Friday at a hospital in Perth Amboy, N.J. She was 85. The cause was complications of a stroke
 Bella Lewitzky, a modern-dance pioneer and an outspoken champion of artistic freedom, died on Friday in an assisted-care center in Pasadena, Calif. She was 88. She had a heart attack after a stroke, said Marjorie Perces, a friend. A fearless and tireless dancer, choreographe
 Anne Gorsuch Burford, a Colorado conservative who was chosen by President Ronald Reagan as his top environmental regulator only to resign under Congressional fire 22 months later, died Sunday in Aurora, Colo. She was 62. The cause was cancer, her daughter, Stephanie Gorsuch of Denve
 Yoko Watanabe, a Japanese soprano who was renowned for the gracefulness and intensity of her portrayal of Cio-Cio-San, the tragic title character of Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly,'' died on July 15 at her home in Milan. She was 51. A Japan Opera Foundation official announced her deat
 Sandra Helen Payson, a socially prominent patron of the arts, died on July 15 in Manhattan, where she was visiting. A former New Yorker, she was 78 and lived in Washington and Delaplane, Va. The cause was cancer, her family said. Ms. Payson was the founder and president of t
 Myra Waldo, a writer who filled bookshelves with advice on places to see and their cuisines, died Sunday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 88 and formerly lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was congestive heart failure, her family said. Starting 
 Viola Frey, an artist known for large, colorfully glazed clay sculptures of men and women that expanded the traditional limitations of ceramic sculpture, died on Monday at her home in Oakland, Calif. She was 70. The cause was colon cancer, said Nancy Hoffman, her New York dealer.   
 Jane Hoffman, a versatile actress on and off Broadway, died on Monday at a hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif., her son, Sam McMurray, said. She was 93 and had lived in Manhattan until moving to Los Angeles recently. Ms. Hoffman was in more than 20 shows on Broadway from 1940 into th
