Dr. Inge Bogner, a New York psychiatrist for 40 years, died last Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital after a brief illness. She was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Inge Bogner, a New York psychiatrist for 40 years, died last Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital after a brief
Lillias Dulles Hinshaw, a Presbyterian minister and the daughter of the late Secretary of State John Foster Dulles, died after a long illness Monday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan. Lillias Dulles Hinshaw, a Presbyteri
Mary Harmon Nason, a former advertising executive and real-estate developer, died of cardiac arrest Nov. 14 at her home in Longboat Key, Fla. She was 85 years old. Mrs. Nason was active for many years with her husband, James R. P. Nason, in developing properties in Connecticut, Nantuc
Toni Taylor, a writer and teacher, died of a stroke Nov. 22 at her home in Rutland, Vt. She was 87 years old. Toni Taylor, a writer and teacher, died of a stroke Nov. 22 at her home in Rutland, Vt. She was 87 years old. She was a graduate of Connecticut College and was
S. Irene Johns, who worked in New York's garment industry for almost 40 years as a buyer for out-of-town stores, died Nov. 25 at New York University Hospital after a long illness. She was in her 80's and lived in Manhattan. S. Irene Johns, who worked in New York's garment indu
Charlotte Thorndike North, a writer and artist, died of cancer Friday at her home in Montclair, N.J. She was 74 years old. Charlotte Thorndike North, a writer and artist, died of cancer Friday at her home in Montclair, N.J. She was 74 years old. Miss North researched a
Anna T. Schweinler, founder of the Roman Catholic Carmelite Monastery in Morristown, N.J., died last Tuesday at the Inglemoor Nursing Home in Livingston, N.J. She was 88 years old and lived in West Orange, N.J. Anna T. Schweinler, founder of the Roman Catholic Carmelite Monast
Molly O'Day, who never became a major national star but who was prized by aficionados as one of the finest country-and-western singers ever, died of cancer of the colon Saturday at Cabell Huntington Hospital in Huntington, W.Va. She was 64 years old. Molly O'Day, who never bec
Dr. Sarah Kestenbaum, a professor of social work at Hebrew University in Jerusalem and a legislative assistant to Representative Henry A. Waxman, a California Democrat, died of cancer Saturday at the Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem. She was 57 years old and lived in Jerusalem and Washi
Lois Yellin Abramson, who helped obtain many items in the permanent collection of the art gallery at Queensborough Community College, died of brain cancer last Wednesday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 54 years old and lived in Queens. Lois Yellin Abramson, who helpe
Mary E. T. Zabriskie, a retired president of the board of St. Agnes School in Alexandria, Va., died Sunday at her home in Washington. She was 90 years old. Mary E. T. Zabriskie, a retired president of the board of St. Agnes School in Alexandria, Va., died Sunday at her home in
Elizabeth Harper Landon Gurlitz, a magazine editor for four decades, died last Friday at the Mediplex Home in Westport, Conn., where she had lived several years. She was 96 years old. Elizabeth Harper Landon Gurlitz, a magazine editor for four decades, died last Friday at the 
Sheila Mandel, the director of public affairs for Manpower Demonstration Research Corporation in Manhattan, and a former editor at Life magazine, died of lung cancer Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 57. Sheila Mandel, the director of public affairs for Manpower Demon
Constance D. Sherman, a French instructor, died Nov. 29 at her home in Great Neck, L.I., after suffering a stroke. She was 78 years old. Constance D. Sherman, a French instructor, died Nov. 29 at her home in Great Neck, L.I., after suffering a stroke. She was 78 years old.    
Diana Sheean, an author and the widow of Vincent Sheean, died of a stroke complicated by pneumonia at St. Stephen's Hospital in London last Wednesday. She was 72 years old. Diana Sheean, an author and the widow of Vincent Sheean, died of a stroke complicated by pneumonia at St
Maria-Theresa Duncan, a dancer who was the last of Isadora Duncan's adopted daughters, died at Doctors Hospital in Manhattan Monday. She was 92 years old. Maria-Theresa Duncan, a dancer who was the last of Isadora Duncan's adopted daughters, died at Doctors Hospital in Manhatt
Mildred S. Simon, a founder of a chain of self-service discount stores, died of lung cancer Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88 years old. Mildred S. Simon, a founder of a chain of self-service discount stores, died of lung cancer Monday at her home in Manhattan. She w
Elizabeth Moffat Drouilhet, dean of residence at Vassar College for 36 years, died of cancer Sunday at a retirement home in Concord, Mass. She was 78 years old. Elizabeth Moffat Drouilhet, dean of residence at Vassar College for 36 years, died of cancer Sunday at a retirement 
Septima Poinsette Clark, a teacher who had been active in civil rights activities since World War I, died Tuesday at a nursing home on John's Island. She was 89 years old.  Born in Charleston, the daughter of a former slave, Mrs. Clark was widely recognized for her work in civil right
Josephine Scacciaferro, who taught Italian in New York City high schools for 22 years, died Tuesday at her home in Nutley, N.J. She was 88 years old. Josephine Scacciaferro, who taught Italian in New York City high schools for 22 years, died Tuesday at her home in Nutley, N.J.
Lynn Caine, a former publicity agent for a publishing house who became a best-selling author, died of cancer Wednesday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. She was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan. Lynn Caine, a former publicity agent for a publishing house who became a
Marguerite Yourcenar, a writer and classical scholar and the first woman to be named to the Academie Francaise, died Thursday night at her home in Northeast Harbor, Me. She was 84 years old. Marguerite Yourcenar, a writer and classical scholar and the first woman to be named t
Mary Ruby Orkin, who in her 60's became known for her primitive paintings of Central Park, died on Sunday at Kateri Residence, a nursing home in Manhattan. She was 93 years old. Mary Ruby Orkin, who in her 60's became known for her primitive paintings of Central Park, died on 
Minnie Evans, a folk artist whose vividly colored works were often inspired by dreams and religious visions, died Wednesday at the Grotgen Nursing Home in Wilmington, N.C. She was 95 years old. Minnie Evans, a folk artist whose vividly colored works were often inspired by drea
Sylvia Lewis, former director of the 92d Street Y Nursery School, died Friday after a long illness at her home in Manhattan. She was 81 years old. Sylvia Lewis, former director of the 92d Street Y Nursery School, died Friday after a long illness at her home in Manhattan. She w
Gretchen Uppercu Hill died of a stroke Monday in Sharon (Conn.) Hospital. She was 76 years old and lived in Stamford, Conn. Gretchen Uppercu Hill died of a stroke Monday in Sharon (Conn.) Hospital. She was 76 years old and lived in Stamford, Conn. She was born in Rumso
Ruth G. Bonner, mother-in-law of the Soviet physicist Andrei D. Sakharov and a victim of Stalin's purges in the late 1930's, died Friday at the age of 87, her daughter Yelena G. Bonner said today. Ruth G. Bonner, mother-in-law of the Soviet physicist Andrei D. Sakharov and a v
Elizabeth Martin Sanford, mother of Senator Terry Sanford of North Carolina, died Saturday after a heart attack she suffered in a holiday visit to her son's home. She was 99. Elizabeth Martin Sanford, mother of Senator Terry Sanford of North Carolina, died Saturday after a hea
Hebe Dorsey, the fashion editor of The International Herald Tribune and a major figure in the fashion world, died of cancer yesterday morning at the American Hospital in Neuilly-sur-Seine, near Paris. She was 62 years old and had been working for the paper for about 40 years. 
Bland Symington Montenecourt, a professor of microbiology and a researcher in biotechnology, died of cancer Dec. 19 at St. Luke's Hospital in Bethlehem, Pa. She was 45 years old and lived in Bloomsbury, N.J. Bland Symington Montenecourt, a professor of microbiology and a resea
Margaret Scolari Barr, an art historian and teacher who was the wife and assistant of Alfred H. Barr, the founding director of the Museum of Modern Art, died of cancer of the colon yesterday at New York Hospital. She was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan. Margaret Scolari Ba
