 Dr. Jeanne L. Noble, a professor of education who in 1962 became one of the first African-American women to receive tenure at New York University, died on Oct. 17 at New York University Medical Center. She was 76. She had congestive heart failure, a friend, Paula Giddings, said.    
 Annelisa M. Kilbourn, a British veterinarian and wildlife expert, who established that gorillas can die of the deadly Ebola virus, was killed Saturday when the light plane she was flying in crashed in the Lope Nature Preserve in the Central African nation of Gabon. She was 35. Worki
 Tamara Kern Hareven, a social historian of the family and its place in contemporary society, died on Oct. 18 at a hospital in Newark, Del. She was 65 and lived in Newark, where she was on the faculty of the University of Delaware. The cause was kidney disease, said her lawyer, Perry
 Vinnette Carroll, the trailblazing actress, director and playwright who was the first African-American woman to direct a production on Broadway, died Tuesday at her home in Fort Lauderhill, Fla. She was 80. The cause was complications from diabetes and heart disease, said Anita MacS
 Anne Chotzinoff Grossman, a translator of grand opera and author of a culinary guide to Patrick O'Brian's popular seafaring tales, died on Tuesday at her home in West Gilgo Beach, on the barrier islands off Suffolk County, New York. She was 72. The cause was lung cancer, said Lisa G
 Beatrice Renfield, a philanthropist who had been a longtime member of the board of directors of the Visiting Nurse Service of New York, died on Wednesday at a medical center in Manhattan. She was 88 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Mrs. Renfield, whose family had owned
 Mary T. Kinnear, a former member of the Smithsonian National Board and a trustee of the Ethel Walker School in Simsbury, Conn., died on Saturday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 73. The cause was lung cancer, her family said. Mrs. Kinnear was the wife of James W. Kinn
 Hilary Bader, an award-winning television scriptwriter, died on Thursday in Duarte, Calif. She was 50 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was metastasized breast cancer, said her husband, Jay Broad. She wrote for both animated and live-action programs and was nominated seven
 Percy Maxim Lee, a former president of the League of Women Voters of the United States, died on Saturday in New London, Conn. She was 96 and lived in Mystic, Conn. Born July 4, 1906, in Hartford, Mrs. Lee was elected to the national board of the league in 1944, and served four terms
 Florence Segal Lowe, a retired public relations executive and journalist who managed communications for the National Endowment for the Arts from 1970 to 1986, died on Thursday in Washington. She was 93 and lived in the Georgetown section of Washington. She and her husband, Herman Lo
 Carole Kismaric, an innovative editor and book packager who helped start the Time-Life Photography Series and for 10 years was editorial director of the Aperture Foundation, a nonprofit publisher of fine-art photography books, died yesterday at her home in New York. She was 60. The 
 Kim Gallagher, a slim but strong runner who overcame endless illnesses to win a silver medal in the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics and a bronze in the 1988 Seoul Olympics, died Monday in a Philadelphia hospital. She was 38 and lived in Oreland, Pa. The cause of death was a stroke, her hu
 Helen Levi Travis, a peace and social activist and the subject of a 1967 Supreme Court ruling that upheld her right to travel abroad, died on Nov. 14 in San Pedro, Calif. She was 86. Born in Manhattan, Mrs. Travis graduated from Barnard College in 1937. A student trip to the Soviet 
 Lynda Van Devanter, whose pained account of her life as an Army nurse in Vietnam focused attention on the burdens of American servicewomen in the war, died on Nov. 15 at her home in Herndon, Va. She was 55. At the Vietnam Veterans of America, where Ms. Van Devanter founded and admin
 Madeline Greenleaf Jaynes, a researcher, librarian and editor, died yesterday at her home in Brooklyn. She was 59. The cause was cancer, her family said. Ms. Jaynes was a news researcher for The New York Times from 1971 to 1978 and later for CNN in Atlanta. For the last five
 Hadda Brooks, the smoky-voiced torch singer and pianist who was known in the 1940's as the Queen of the Boogie and came out of retirement in the late 1980's to gain new popularity with younger audiences, died on Thursday at 86. She died at White Memorial Hospital in Los Angeles, a f
 Josephine S. Billings, a longtime volunteer advocate of improving health care in New York City, died on Nov. 14 in Bloomfield, Conn., where she had been living recently. She was 95 and formerly lived in Brooklyn. For six decades she was a prominent volunteer in New York City in the 
 Antonia Stone, a prep-school mathematics teacher who left the classroom after 20 years of teaching and devoted herself to instructing the poor and the imprisoned about the importance of personal computers, died on Thursday at her home in Watertown, Mass. She was 72. Ms. Stone was an
 Harriet Doerr, who at 73 published her first novel, unveiling an exquisite gift to marshal clear, sparse prose to evoke, in her phrase, memories ''like a gentle knife stuck into your heart,'' died on Sunday at her home in Pasadena, Calif. She was 92. She had been in declining health
 Leah Harrison, an expert on child abuse, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 55 and lived in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. The cause was complications of acute myelogenous leukemia, said her husband, Fred Harrison. In 1988, Mrs. Harrison w
 Mary Bright, an innovative curtain maker whose work for the Museum of Modern Art, Calvin Klein, Wendi and Rupert Murdoch, Jean-Georges Vongerichten, Lauren Bacall and other clients moved the traditional craft of cutting, sewing and pleating curtains to the realm of modern art, died yesterda
