 Elizabeth Yates, a writer whose books, many of them for children, were more than enough to fill a library shelf, died on Sunday at a hospice in Concord, N.H. A resident of Peterborough, N.H., she was 95. Ms. Yates published her first book in 1938 and wrote more than 50 others into t
 Deborah Ann Cohen, a New York marketing executive and writer whose battle with breast cancer inspired her to assist other victims of the disease, died Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 39 and lived on the Upper West Side and in Rowayton, Conn. Ms. Cohen, a n
 Lillian Kiesler, an artist, art patron and the widow of the sculptor and avant-garde architect Frederick Kiesler, died on July 25 in Manhattan. She was 91. Ms. Kiesler studied painting with Hans Hofmann in New York in the 1930's and was introduced to her future husband by the artist
 THERE is no saying no to Caroline H. Newhouse. But you wouldn't know it upon meeting the matriarch of the Newhouse  family in the formal sitting room of her Park Avenue apartment. She sits on a plush sofa, a well-coiffed little woman of 91, ever so sweet, so demure. But don't let he
 Dame Dorothy Tutin, one of the most versatile and admired of British actresses, died on Monday in London, where she lived. She was 71. She had been suffering from leukemia, said her agent, Michael Whitehall. During her long and rich career, Ms. Tutin played almost all of Sha
 Maureen Reagan, the outspoken daughter of former President Ronald Reagan who was often at odds with her father's policies, died yesterday at her home in Sacramento. She was 60, and had suffered a recurrence of melanoma, a skin cancer with which she was first diagnosed in 1996 and that, afte
 Nora Sayre, a film critic and essayist best known for her commentary on the cultural effects of the cold war -- died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 68 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was emphysema, said Mary Sayre Haverstock, her cousin. As
 Joanne Minnich, whose heart was cut out to remove a cancer and then restored to her body in an extraordinary operation that drew widespread attention last November, died on Thursday at her home in Mahopac, N.Y. She was 58. The cause was cancer, her husband, William, said. Mr
 Isadora Wexler Quinlan, the executive director of the Books for Kids Foundation, a nonprofit literacy organization, died on Saturday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 63 and lived in Manhattan and Guilford, Conn. The cause was lung cancer, said her husband,
 Gale Cincotta, a plainspoken mother of six who became a neighborhood activist and went on to help ignite the national debate over bank lending policies that discriminated against minority home buyers, died Wednesday at a hospital in Maywood, Ill. She was 72. The cause was gall bladd
 Sally Gracie, an actress whose career embraced television, theater and films, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 80. Ms. Gracie studied at the Neighborhood Playhouse and with Martin Ritt before appearing in Broadway revivals of ''Major Barbara'' and ''Goodbye Again.'' 
 Henrietta Milstein, who bought a clothing factory in Burlington, N.J., with her husband, Monroe, and helped to build it into a chain of retail stores, died yesterday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. She was 72. The cause was ovarian cancer, said Mr. Milstein, who is president and 
 Jeanne Loriod, whose artistry playing the ondes martenot, a rare electronic instrument known for its haunting wail, made her the instrument's most celebrated performer, died on Aug. 3 at Juan-les-Pins, France. She was 72. The cause was a stroke, British newspapers reported. 
 Kim Stanley, whose infrequent but luminous stage portraits brought her to the edge of greatness, but who ultimately shrank from the pressures of performance and stardom, died yesterday at a hospital in Santa Fe, N.M. She was 76 and lived in Santa Fe. She died after a prolonged illne
 Kathleen Freeman, the veteran character actress whose salty comic talents were most recently on display in the current Broadway musical ''The Full Monty,'' died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 78. The cause was lung cancer, said Michael Hartman, a publicist for the show.  
 Aaliyah, a multimillion-selling, precociously sultry rhythm-and-blues singer and actress, died on Saturday in the crash of a small airplane, The Associated Press reported. She was returning from Abaco Island in the Bahamas, where she had been making a video clip, to Miami in a private plane
 Vicki Hearne, a writer who trained animals and used her poetry and prose to express her belief that pets possess courage, wisdom and intellect, died on Tuesday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. She was 55 and lived in Westbrook, Conn. The cause was lung cancer, family me
 Diana Golden Brosnihan, who lost a leg to cancer at 12, won a gold medal in disabled skiing at the 1988 Calgary Olympics and played a key role in public appreciation of disabled athletes, died Saturday at a hospital in Providence, R.I. She was 38. Her cancer returned in 1992 and aga
 Jane Greer, whose dolorous but luminous dark eyes and world-weary beauty made her the ideal femme fatale opposite Robert Mitchum in ''Out of the Past'' and ''The Big Steal,'' film noir classics of the 1940's, died Friday in Los Angeles.  She was 76. The cause was complications of ca
 Elizabeth Bliss Parkinson Cobb, a vital and effective presence at the Museum of Modern Art in New York for nearly 70 years, died on Aug. 24 in Hightstown, N.J. She was 93 and lived in Hightstown. Best known as Eliza Parkinson, Ms. Cobb was a niece of Lillie Bliss, one of the museum'
 Alix Williamson, a classical music publicist who helped promote and shape the careers of legendary musicians from Lotte Lehmann to the Trapp Family Singers, died on Sunday at her home in New York. She was 85. Ms. Williamson built brand names for many artists and organizations, from 
