 Molly Ivins, the liberal newspaper columnist who delighted in skewering politicians and interpreting, and mocking, her Texas culture, died yesterday in Austin. She was 62. Ms. Ivins waged a public battle against breast cancer after her diagnosis in 1999. Betsy Moon, her personal ass
 Elizabeth Tashjian, who debated whether she was a nut culturist or a nut artist, but was indisputably, well, nuts enough about nuts to win fame (but not fortune) as matriarch of the Nut Museum in Old Lyme, Conn., died last Sunday in Old Saybrook, Conn. She was 94. Ms. Tashjian hated
 Barbara McNair, a cabaret singer, actress and television personality of the 1960s who was noted as much for her stunning appearance as for her versatile voice, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. She was 72. The cause was throat cancer, Ms. McNair's sister, Jacqueline Gaither, told The A
 Willye B. White, who willed her way out of the Mississippi Delta cotton fields and became the first American track and field athlete to compete in five Olympics, died yesterday in Chicago. She was 67. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Sarah Armantrout, a longtime friend.        
 Harriett Woods, who started in politics by protesting a rattling manhole cover and went on to become the first woman to win statewide office in Missouri before leading a national effort to promote women as candidates, died on Thursday at her home in University City, Mo. She was 79. 
 Jeannette Ordman, a South African-born dancer and teacher who headed the Bat-Dor Dance Company, one of Israel's most important contemporary-dance organizations, died on Wednesday in Tel Aviv. The cause was a heart attack, said Kenneth Mason, Bat-Dor's former company manager. The Con
 Florence Zacks Melton, who took a material invented as a helmet liner for World War II tank crewmen and turned it into cushy foam-rubber slippers that have soothed billions of tired feet and have been a familiar gift for four decades, died Jan. 8 near her home in Boca Raton, Fla. She was 95
 Hortense Kooluris, a longtime performer, teacher and lecturer on Isadora Duncan and her dances and the last surviving early exponent of Duncan's art, died on Feb. 8 at her home in Stuart, Fla. She was 92. Her death was confirmed by Michael Gotkin, a cousin. Ms. Kooluris was 
 Ann Barzel, a dance writer and historian whose tenacity and passion for the art form were legendary, died on Feb. 12 in Chicago. She was 101. Her death was confirmed by George Dorris, a dance historian and friend. Ms. Barzel liked to say she started her career at 9 when she 
 Rosetta Miller, a benefactor of the World Monuments Fund and the Newark Museum, died Saturday night or Sunday morning at her home in Sarasota, Fla., where she was spending the winter. She was thought to be 73, and also had homes in Manhattan and on Pawleys Island in South Carolina, her home
 Celia Franca, the London-born founder of the National Ballet of Canada and a pioneering figure in Canadian dance, died on Monday in Ottawa. She was 85. Her death followed a series of falls that had left her bedridden, said Sally Szuster, the publicity manager for the Toronto-based N
 Peggy Gilbert, a noted jazz saxophonist and bandleader who for decades led all-female ensembles in hot jazz, a daring venture when she began her career more than 80 years ago, died on Feb. 12 in Los Angeles. She was 102 and had lived there for many years. The cause was complications
 Gnapa Béatrice Kombé, the powerful dancer and choreographer from the Ivory Coast whose all-women troupe, TchéTché, introduced her to the international festival circuit as a leader of Africa's new experimental dance, died on Thursday in Abidjan, Ivory Coast. She was 35. The cause
