 Elsa Voelcker, a retired interior designer who worked on several well-known buildings in New York City, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91 and also kept homes in Oakland, N.J., and on Bequia, St. Vincent. Miss Voelcker, a native of Manhattan, was an editor of Common
 Adele Marcus, teacher to two generations of outstanding pianists, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89. A representative list of Ms. Marcus's prominent students might include Horacio Gutierrez, Byron Janis, Stephen Hough, Cy Coleman, Panayis Lyras, Jon Kimura Parke
 Beatrice Lees, an innovative teacher of improvisational dance movement, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 84 and lived in Manhattan. Mrs. Lees, whose original name was Beatrice Mills, was born in 1910 in Chicago into a theatrical family that included her sister, Viola S
 Dr. Janine Andre-Schwartz, an immunologist and specialist in electron microscopy, died on April 26 at New England Medical Center in Boston. She was 62 and lived in Brookline, Mass. The cause was cancer, said a spokeswoman at the center, where she was a medical researcher in the divi
 Dr. Dorothy V. Whipple, who helped to secure the rights of women in the medical profession and advanced the cause of children through her widely influential work in pediatrics, died Friday at her home in Washington. She was 94. Dr. Whipple was the first married woman admitted to Joh
 Teresa Teng, a singer from Taiwan whose love songs won her spectacular fame across East Asia, died suddenly on a holiday in Thailand on Monday. She was 40. Miss Teng had been having respiratory difficulties since earlier this year, according to the Kyodo News Agency in Tokyo. She re
 Ann M. Lingg, who wrote articles and books about music and musicians, died on Tuesday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 87 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Lingg, who was born in Austria and earned a doctoral degree in musicology in Vienna, moved to New York C
 Ermina Stimson, an illustrator, art director and fashion editor during 36 years with Women's Wear Daily, died on Tuesday at her home in Wellfleet, Mass. She was 93. Ms. Stimson, who began her career at Women's Wear Daily as an illustrator in 1930, was appointed fashion editor in 196
 Sally Moffet, a stage and television actress, died on Monday at her home in Upper Nyack, N.Y. She was 63. The cause was lung cancer, said George Dessart, her companion. Ms. Moffet appeared on Broadway in "The Young and the Fair" (1948), "The Member of the Wedding" (1950) and
 Alice Manheim Kaplan, an art collector and a leading supporter of the arts in New York City, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91. Mrs. Kaplan was involved with New York City civic groups and with many museums throughout her life. In 1982 she received the Mayor's Awar
 Lola Flores, one of Spain's most popular singers and the star of many film musicals of the 1950's and 60's, died today at her home outside Madrid. She was 72. She died after a long struggle with breast cancer, her family said. Her body was transferred to the Villa Cultural C
 Reva Rubin, who was among the first specialists in maternity nursing, died on Saturday at her home in Harrisville, Pa. She was 76 and also lived in Panama City, Fla. The cause was a heart attack, said officials at the University of Pittsburgh, where Professor Rubin had taught for 21
 Willette Craine Murray, a founder of La Famille restaurant in Harlem, a fixture for Southern food and Sunday-night jazz, died on Monday at St. Luke's Hospital. She was 82. Her husband, Earle, said she died of a heart attack. From the time Mrs. Murray and her sister, the late
 Elizabeth Montgomery, the pert actress who enchanted television audiences as the star of the long-running comedy series "Bewitched," died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 57. Last month, Ms. Montgomery underwent surgery for the removal of what was characterized at the t
 Mabel Olsen Phillips, who was president of the United Nations Delegations Women's Club from 1971 to 1973, died on Monday at Arlington Hospital in Virginia. She was 75 and lived in Washington. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said a daughter, Miriam P. Eley.     
 Anne Homer Doerflinger, a writer whose stories appeared in numerous magazines, died on Tuesday at Morristown Memorial Hospital in New Jersey. She was 87 and lived in Convent Station, N.J. The cause was cancer, her family said. Writing under the name Anne Homer, Mrs. Doerflin
 Mildred Finger Haines, who helped shape fashion tastes for four decades as a top buyer for department stores and a consultant to clothes makers and retailers, died on Saturday. She was 71 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was a heart attack, family members said. Fro
 Atlanta Constance Sampson, a painter who had her first one-woman show in New York at the age of 91, died on Thursday at a nursing home in St. Ansgar, Iowa. She was 98 and lived in Toeterville, Iowa. Miss Sampson was born on a farm in Lyle, Minn., where she began painting watercolors
 Sonia Moore, the founder and leader of the American Center for Stanislavsky Theater Art and the Sonia Moore Studio of the Theater, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 92. Mrs. Moore, an expert on Konstantin Stanislavsky, directed plays Off Broadway and was a writer and 
 Joan Thayer Hupper, Miss Joan of "Romper Room" in New York City from 1957 to 1961, died last Friday at her home in Wilton, Conn. She was 61. The cause was cancer, her family said. For the New York production of "Romper Room," Mrs. Hupper kept a changing cast of six toddlers 
 Kathryn Haeseler Stone, a former Virginia legislator who challenged school segregation and a reapportionment plan that penalized urban voters, died last Friday at her home in Alexandria, Va. She was 88 and had been a longtime resident of Arlington, Va. Elected to the Virginia Legisl
 Vivian Cadden, a New York writer and magazine editor, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cardiovascular disease, her family said. A former senior editor of Redbook and McCall's magazines, she became the founding editor o
 Margaret Chase Smith, a flinty, independent Maine Republican who made history as the first woman to win election to both houses of Congress and the first whose name was advanced for the Presidency at a national convention, died yesterday at at her home in Skowhegan, Me. She was 97 years old
 Jean Muir, the British fashion classicist whose design career spanned more than 30 years, died on Sunday in London at the London Clinic. She was 66. She died of breast cancer, according to a report in The Daily Telegraph. Often referred to as the doyenne of British fashion, 
 Sabina Lietzmann, a former American correspondent for the Frankfurter Allgemeine Zeitung, Germany's most influential daily newspaper, died on Monday at her home in West Cornwall, Conn. She was 75. A friend, Ingeborg von Zitzewitz, said she died of cancer. Miss Lietzmann join
