Hannelore Baron, an artist known for her collages and box assemblages, died of cancer Tuesday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. She was 61 years old and lived in Riverdale. Hannelore Baron, an artist known for her collages and box assemblages, died of cancer Tuesday at 
Helen M. Strauss, who created the literary department at the William Morris agency and became a major influence in the worlds of books, motion pictures and the theater, died of cancer yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. Miss Strauss, 83 years old and a resi
Dalida, an Egyptian-born singer and actress who first won fame in France for her song ''Bambino'' in 1954, was found dead Sunday from an apparent overdose of barbiturates, according to family members. She was 54 years old. Dalida, an Egyptian-born singer and actress who first 
Cathryn Damon, a stage and television actress who won an Emmy for her role on the popular television spoof ''Soap,'' died of cancer Monday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. She was 56 years old. Cathryn Damon, a stage and television actress who won an Emmy for her role on the po
Dr. Isabelle Barnum Wingate, an authority on textiles and a professor at the New York University School of Retailing for 44 years, died at her home in Manhattan on Saturday. She was 85 years old. Dr. Isabelle Barnum Wingate, an authority on textiles and a professor at the New 
Roslyn Lindheim, a professor of architecture at the University of California at Berkeley who was known for her work in hospital design, died of cancer Tuesday at her home in Berkeley. She was 65 years old. Roslyn Lindheim, a professor of architecture at the University of Calif
Dorothea Oppenheimer, a New York literary agent, died of cancer Thursday at New York Hospital. She was 68 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dorothea Oppenheimer, a New York literary agent, died of cancer Thursday at New York Hospital. She was 68 years old and lived in Manhatta
Harriette Ann Gray, a dance educator, choreographer and dancer, died in Columbia, Mo., on April 20. She was 73 years old. Harriette Ann Gray, a dance educator, choreographer and dancer, died in Columbia, Mo., on April 20. She was 73 years old. Born in Joplin, Mo., Miss
Dr. Milla Alihan, a psychologist and former management consultant, died of a stroke yesterday at New York Hospital. She lived in Manhattan and was in her 80's. Dr. Milla Alihan, a psychologist and former management consultant, died of a stroke yesterday at New York Hospital. S
Cynthia Auerbach, an opera director who was associated with the New York City Opera for 15 years, died Thursday night at Mt. Sinai Hospital. She was 44 years old and had been suffering from lung cancer. Cynthia Auerbach, an opera director who was associated with the New York C
Rita Hayworth, the legendary Hollywood beauty who rose to international fame in the 1940's and 1950's, died Thursday night, of Alzheimer's disease, in her Central Park West apartment in Manhattan. She was 68 years old. Rita Hayworth, the legendary Hollywood beauty who rose to 
Fanny Butcher, the literary editor of The Chicago Tribune for 40 years, has died at the age of 99. Fanny Butcher, the literary editor of The Chicago Tribune for 40 years, has died at the age of 99. Miss Butcher, who died Thursday at her apartment here, retired in 1963 
Audrey Palmer Hawks, the director general of the Caribbean Tourism Association and a former senator and minister of state for tourism in Grenada, West Indies, died of cancer May 1 at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. She was 44 years old and lived in Manhattan. Aud
Wynne Gibson, known for her wordless role as a suddenly rich lady of the night in the 1930's movie ''If I Had a Million,'' died on May 14 in a nursing home in Laguna Niguel, Calif. She was 81 years old, and had suffered a stroke. Wynne Gibson, known for her wordless role as a 
Claude Hill, associate principal harpist with the Metropolitan Opera orchestra for the last 25 years, died of cancer Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 53 years old and lived in Manhattan. Claude Hill, associate principal harpist with the Metropolitan Opera orchestra for t
Ellen Frankfort, the feminist author, died early yesterday at Long Island's Southampton Hospital. She was 50 years old and lived in Sag Harbor, L.I. Ellen Frankfort, the feminist author, died early yesterday at Long Island's Southampton Hospital. She was 50 years old and lived
Hermione Gingold, the irrepressible English-born comedienne whose tart, quick-witted repartee became her trademark, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 89 years old and lived on the East Side. Hermione Gingold, the irrepressible English-born comedienne whose tart, q
Virginia Swanson Kamen, a West Coast pediatric pathologist, died of cancer Wednesday at Santa Barbara Cottage Hospital in California. She was 64 years old and lived in Montecito, Calif. Virginia Swanson Kamen, a West Coast pediatric pathologist, died of cancer Wednesday at San
Anna Lois Jones, a supervisor with the Newark Housing Authority for many years, died of cancer May 20 in the Orange (N.J.) Memorial Hospital. She was 76 years old and lived in Newark. Anna Lois Jones, a supervisor with the Newark Housing Authority for many years, died of cance
Natica Nast Warburg, widow of Gerald Felix Warburg, the cellist, died last Friday at New York Hospital after a long illness. She was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan and in Brookville, L.I. Natica Nast Warburg, widow of Gerald Felix Warburg, the cellist, died last Friday at
