Harriett Johnson, music critic of The New York Post for 43 years, died of cancer Friday in La Jolla, Calif. She was 79 years old. Harriett Johnson, music critic of The New York Post for 43 years, died of cancer Friday in La Jolla, Calif. She was 79 years old. Miss John
Nellie Obendorf, who along with her husband, Orville, survived almost two weeks in a Kansas snowdrift last April, died Saturday in a nursing home. She was 65 years old. Nellie Obendorf, who along with her husband, Orville, survived almost two weeks in a Kansas snowdrift last A
Ruth Brinton Perera, a founder of an association to help the wives of Japanese executives and diplomats adapt to life in the United States, died Sunday at the Lehigh Valley Hospital Center in Allentown, Pa., of injuries suffered in an automobile accident. She was 81 years old and live
Alice Kavookjian, a philanthropist and a prominent member of the Armenian community, died of heart failure Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 86 years old. Alice Kavookjian, a philanthropist and a prominent member of the Armenian community, died of heart failure Friday a
Dr. Florence Hollis, a professor emeritus at the Columbia University School of Social Work, died Thursday at Crosslands, a retirement community in Kennett Square, Pa. She was 80 years old. Dr. Florence Hollis, a professor emeritus at the Columbia University School of Social Wo
Olive E. Andrews, a former director of women's activities for the United Hospital Fund of New York, died Tuesday at the Bethel Nursing Home in Ossining, N.Y. She was 90 years old. Olive E. Andrews, a former director of women's activities for the United Hospital Fund of New Yor
Natalie Priest, a stage, television and film actress, died of cancer Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 68 years old. Natalie Priest, a stage, television and film actress, died of cancer Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 68 years old. Ms. Priest appeared
Daisy C. Schapiro, a lawyer and an early advocate of child care for working parents in New York, died of natural causes Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 93 years old. Daisy C. Schapiro, a lawyer and an early advocate of child care for working parents in New York, died 
Ruth Karen Hagai, a business consultant, journalist and author who was known professionally as Ruth Karen, died of cancer Saturday at her Manhattan home. She was 65 years old. Ruth Karen Hagai, a business consultant, journalist and author who was known professionally as Ruth K
Tanya Zolotoroff Nash, who retired in 1968 after 35 years as the executive director of the New York Society for the Deaf, died last Friday at the Interfaith Hospital in Brooklyn. She was 89 years old and lived in Manhattan. Tanya Zolotoroff Nash, who retired in 1968 after 35 y
Ada M. Shearon, a children's book editor, died of cancer Friday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. She was 73 years old. Ada M. Shearon, a children's book editor, died of cancer Friday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. She was 73 years old. Ms. Shearon
Atsuko Chiba, a Japanese journalist known for her candid pieces describing her battle with cancer, died of the disease July 9 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan. Atsuko Chiba, a Japanese journalist known for her candid pieces
Elaine Brody, an author and professor of music in the Faculty of Arts and Science at New York University, died of cancer Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital. She was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan. Elaine Brody, an author and professor of music in the Faculty of Arts and 
Jean Bullowa Reavey, a playwright, died Monday at Northern Dutchess Hospital in Rhinebeck, N.Y. She was 70 years old. Jean Bullowa Reavey, a playwright, died Monday at Northern Dutchess Hospital in Rhinebeck, N.Y. She was 70 years old. Ms. Reavey, who lived in Woodstoc
Mollie Golub, former president of the Mizrachi Women's Organization of America, a Zionist organiztion now known as AMIT Women, died of pneumonia Tuesday in Maimonides Hospital. She was 85 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Mollie Golub, former president of the Mizrachi Women's O
Lady Rama Rau, a pioneer of family planning in India and a leader of the world family planning movement, died of kidney failure Sunday in a hospital in Bombay, India, her daughter said. She was 94 years old. Lady Rama Rau, a pioneer of family planning in India and a leader of 
Delores Martin, an actress and singer, died Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 72 years old. Delores Martin, an actress and singer, died Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 72 years old. Ms. Martin, a resident of the Bronx, appeared o
Slava H. Levi, a volunteer reader for the visually impaired, died of cancer of the pancreas Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 67 years old. Slava H. Levi, a volunteer reader for the visually impaired, died of cancer of the pancreas Saturday at her home in Manhattan. S
Laura Carter Fahy, a former community volunteer worker, died Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88 years old. Laura Carter Fahy, a former community volunteer worker, died Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88 years old. Mrs. Fahy was a daughter of Ernest T.
Natalie Hinderas, one of the first black artists to establish an important career in classical music and a pianist who played with most of the major American orchestras, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Philadelphia. She was 60 years old. Ms. Hinderas was born in Oberlin, Ohio,
Mary E. Harris, an editor, producer and director of radio and television shows for many years, died of a heart attack in her Manhattan apartment on July 19. She was 73 years old. Mary E. Harris, an editor, producer and director of radio and television shows for many years, die
Bessie Brimberg, widow of Louis Brimberg, founder of the brokerage firm Brimberg & Company, died of pneumonia Monday in Doctors Hospital in Manhattan. She was 90 years old and lived in Manhattan. Bessie Brimberg, widow of Louis Brimberg, founder of the brokerage firm Brimberg 
Emma Jean Hawes, one of the world's leading women in tournament bridge, died of breast cancer Tuesday at her home in Fort Worth after a long battle with the disease. She was 75 years old. Emma Jean Hawes, one of the world's leading women in tournament bridge, died of breast ca
