 Phoebe Snetsinger, who saw and recorded more birds than anybody else, died on Nov. 23 in a van accident on a birding expedition to Madagascar, shortly after viewing an exceptionally rare Helmet vanga. She was 68 and lived in Webster Groves, Mo., a suburb of St. Louis. Birding went f
 Madeline Kahn, the Oscar-nominated comedian best known for her work in the films ''Paper Moon'' and ''Blazing Saddles'' and in the Broadway revival of ''Born Yesterday,'' died yesterday in a Manhattan hospital. She was 57 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was ovarian cancer,  said J
 Lucile Petry Leone, the founding director of the United States Cadet Nurse Corps, which recruited more than 100,000 young women to study nursing and helped spare the country of the need to draft nurses in World War II, died on Nov. 25 at an assisted-living center in San Francisco. She was 9
 Nilde Iotti, an early leader of the Italian Communist Party and the first woman to become president of the lower house of Parliament, died Friday night of heart failure after a long illness, the news agency ANSA reported. She was 79. Ms. Iotti, who served as a Partisan during World 
 Rose E. Bird, who became the first woman on California's Supreme Court and whose resolute opposition to the death penalty later led voters to remove her as chief justice, died of complications from breast cancer on Saturday at a hospital near her home in Palo Alto, Calif. She was 63.       
 Anne Francine, an actress who worked in film, theater and television and who was also a prominent cabaret performer for six decades, died on Friday at the Lawrence and Memorial Hospital in London, Conn. She was 82 and lived in Old Lyme, Conn. Born into Main Line Philadelphia society
 Eleanor Brussel, the founder and former director of the Horace Mann School for Nursery Years in Manhattan, died on Sunday at her home in Riverdale, the Bronx. She was 94. Mrs. Brussel spent five decades in the company of preschoolers, founding several schools and a camp for them. Sh
 Margaret A. Greenfield, a founder and officer of the Independent Journalism Foundation and a dealer in art, antiques and real estate, died yesterday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 74. She had cancer, said her husband, James L. Greenfield. Beginning 
 Elizabeth Zimmermann, who brought a penetrating intellect and a sculptor's sensitivity to revolutionizing the ancient art of knitting, died Nov. 30 at a hospital in Marshfield, Wis., where she lived. She was 89. Mrs. Zimmermann's best-known gift to knitting was a mathematical formul
 Jeanne S. Chall, a leading expert on how children learn to read and a vociferous antagonist in at least two of the major educational controversies of the last quarter-century, died on Nov. 27 at her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 78. The cause was heart failure, said Ariadne Valsa
 Faith Sale, a publishing executive and the editor of dozens of novels and short-story collections by such authors as Donald Barthelme, Kurt Vonnegut, Joseph Heller, Kaye Gibbons and Amy Tan, died on Wednesday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 63 and had homes in 
 Pearl Resnick, the matriarch of a prominent New York real estate family and a philanthropist, died yesterday at a hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. She was 87 and lived in Manhattan and Palm Beach. Mrs. Resnick, whose maiden name was Ezaak, was born on Jan. 3, 1912, in Okna, Ukraine
 Gloria Caruso Murray, a visual artist who was the last surviving child of Enrico Caruso, died on Dec. 5 at St. Luke's Hospital in Jacksonville, Fla. She was 79 and had briefly tried to live up to the musical world's sentimental fantasy that she had inherited her father's vocal abilities.   
 Jill Craigie, a devoted socialist and feminist who became one of Britain's first successful female film directors and whose half-century marriage to the Labor Party leader Michael Foot put her at the heart of the country's leftist politics, died on Monday in London. She was 85. Ms. 
 Dorothy Allison, a self-proclaimed psychic with a knack for turning up at the scenes of notorious crimes, died on Dec. 1 at Clara Maass Medical Center in Belleville, N.J. She was 74 and lived in Nutley, N.J. The cause was heart failure, The Associated Press reported. Ms. All
 Felicia Lamport, a poet and satirist who took delight in skewering the high and mighty with verse, quips, puns and parodies, most of them first appearing in a column in The Boston Globe called Muse of the Week in Review, died on Thursday at her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 83. M
 Betty Cage, an administrator of the New York City Ballet who played a quiet but important role in creating the company, died on Sunday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. She was 82 and lived in Manhattan. Her title for many years was simply general manager, but Ms. Cage
 Janet Bode, the author of 14 nonfiction books with socially conscious themes for young adults, died yesterday at her home in Greenwich Village in Manhattan. She was 56. The cause was breast cancer, said her companion of many years, Stan Mack, the cartoonist. Ms. Bode's books
