 Anita B. Roberts, a molecular biologist who made pioneering observations of a protein that is critical in healing wounds and bone fractures and that has a dual role in blocking or stimulating cancers, died on Friday at her home in Bethesda, Md. She was 64. The cause was gastric canc
 Barbara Furrer Goodman, a teacher and former chairwoman of the board of trustees at Teachers College at Columbia University, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. She was 74. The cause was complications from a kidney disorder, said her husband, former State Senator Roy
 Barbara Furrer Goodman, a teacher and former chairwoman of the board of trustees at Teachers College at Columbia University, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. She was 74. The cause was complications from a kidney disorder, said her husband, former State Senator Roy
 Carlene R. Lewis, a Houston lawyer whose early suspicions about the safety of the pain reliever Vioxx put her in the forefront of what is now a wave of litigation against its maker, Merck, died Monday in Houston. She was 51. The cause was complications of ovarian cancer, according t
 Leslie Hansen Kopp, a dance and music archivist, died on May 27 in Manhattan. She was 53. The cause was breast cancer, said George Boziwick, a friend and the chief of the music division at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts at Lincoln Center. Born in Newport
 Flora Gill Jacobs, an internationally recognized authority on dollhouses who spent her adult life blissfully awash in minutiae, including tiny, lavishly appointed mansions and an ornate Mexican villa that came with its own chapel (very small priest included), died on May 31 in Washington. S
 Gloria Jones, whose marriage to the author James Jones placed her at the center of a postwar literary and social world in Paris and the Hamptons and whose own life became the basis of a novel and a movie, died on Friday at her home in Sagaponack, N.Y. She was 78. The cause was a hea
 Barbara Epstein, a founder and co-editor of The New York Review of Books and a figure at the center of New York literary life for decades, died yesterday in the apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan in which she had lived for more than 50 years. She was 77. The cause was lun
 Evelyn Dubrow, organized labor's most prominent lobbyist at the time of its greatest power in her four decades with the nation's largest apparel union, died on Tuesday in Washington. Family members said she was 95. She died at George Washington Hospital after several days in a coma,
 Virginia K. Rosenbaum, a prominent corporate research analyst and the widow of David E. Rosenbaum, a retired New York Times reporter who was fatally beaten in January, died yesterday at her home in Washington. She was 63. Her daughter, Dorothy, said the cause was colon cancer.      
 Mary Martin McLaughlin, an internationally renowned scholar of the Middle Ages who spent the last four decades working almost entirely outside the academy, died on June 8 at her home in Millbrook, N.Y. She was 87. The cause was cancer, her niece Kathleen Bayard Derringer said.      
 Norma Becker, a leading organizer of protests against the Vietnam War as well as the noted 1982 nuclear disarmament march into Central Park, died on June 17 at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 76. The cause was lung cancer, said her daughter, Diane Tosh. Ms. Becker, a 
 Sophie Maslow, a choreographer who drew on the populist sympathies of Woody Guthrie, Carl Sandburg, Duke Ellington and others to create dances about various sides of American life, from jazz to the Dust Bowl, died on Sunday in Manhattan. She was 95. Her death was confirmed by her da
 Anna Castelli Ferrieri, a pioneering architect associated with the postwar period of Italian modern design, known for its embrace of technological innovation and audacious style, died on Thursday at her home in Milan. She was 87. The cause was complications from lung disease, said a
