Frances Woodworth Wright, a Harvard University astronomer who taught celestial navigation to Navy officers, died of cancer Sunday. She was 92 years old and lived in Cambridge. Frances Woodworth Wright, a Harvard University astronomer who taught celestial navigation to Navy off
Suzanne Deschevaux-Dumesnil, the wife of the playwright and novelist Samuel Beckett, died on July 17 in Paris. She was 89 years old. Suzanne Deschevaux-Dumesnil, the wife of the playwright and novelist Samuel Beckett, died on July 17 in Paris. She was 89 years old. She
Sister Thomas Francis Cushing, executive director of St. John's Hospital in Queens for 22 years before retiring in 1982, died yesterday at Maria Regina Convent in Brentwood, L.I., where she lived. She was 85 years old. Sister Thomas Francis Cushing, executive director of St. J
Oriana Atkinson, a writer and the widow of Brooks Atkinson, a former drama critic of The New York Times, died of pneumonia on Monday at the Huntsville (Ala.) Hospital. She was 94 years old and had lived in Huntsville for 10 years. Oriana Atkinson, a writer and the widow of Bro
Rose Schulman, an acting teacher at the nation's oldest repertory company, the Hedgerow Theater of Rose Valley, Pa., died after a heart attack on Sunday at the Crozer Chester (Pa.) Medical Center. She was 79 years old. Rose Schulman, an acting teacher at the nation's oldest re
Dorothy Bigelow Melville, long active in philanthropy and civic affairs, died Tuesday at her home in Stony Brook, L.I. She was 95 years old. Dorothy Bigelow Melville, long active in philanthropy and civic affairs, died Tuesday at her home in Stony Brook, L.I. She was 95 years 
Genevieve R. Hanfield, a real-estate broker who specialized in sales of houses and cooperative apartments in Greenwich Village, died of bone cancer Tuesday at Beth Israel Hospital. She was 57 years old and lived in Manhattan. Genevieve R. Hanfield, a real-estate broker who spe
Jan Goren Zuckerman, retired head of the audio-visual division of the City College of the City University of New York, died of cancer Monday at Memorial-Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. She was 67 years old and lived in Manhattan. Jan Goren Zuckerman, retired head of the audio-v
Benita S. Feurey, a television reporter and editor who specialized in consumer affairs, died of cancer Wednesday at Miriam Hospital in Providence, R.I. She was 49 years old and had residences in Manhattan and Southampton, L.I. Benita S. Feurey, a television reporter and editor
Mary D. Romano, director of social work at the National Rehabilitation Hospital in Washington, which specializes in treating injuries and neurological disorders, died of non-Hodgkins lymphoma Monday at the Washington Hospital Center. She was 46 years old and lived in Washington.      
Antonia Brico, a conductor who led her own orchestras in New York in the 1930's and who devoted her life to fighting prejudice against women in the orchestral world, died on Thursday after a long illness. She was 87 years old and had lived at the Bella Vita Towers, a nursing home in D
Leonora Highet Messmore, a connoisseur of fine art and a needlepoint expert, died Thursday at her home in Southampton, L.I., after battling cancer for 23 years. She was 81 years old. Leonora Highet Messmore, a connoisseur of fine art and a needlepoint expert, died Thursday at 
Theodate H. Soule, director of social services at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center from 1938 to 1962, died on July 24 at Pennswood Village in Newtown, Pa., where she lived. She was 93 years old. Theodate H. Soule, director of social services at the New York Hospita
Lavinia Williams, a dancer and teacher, died of a heart attack on July 19 at the Canape Vert Hospital in Port-au-Prince, Haiti. She was 73 years old. Lavinia Williams, a dancer and teacher, died of a heart attack on July 19 at the Canape Vert Hospital in Port-au-Prince, Haiti.
Margaret Batts Tobin, a longtime board member of the Metropolitan Opera, died of bone cancer last Thursday in San Antonio, her hometown. She was 91 years old. Margaret Batts Tobin, a longtime board member of the Metropolitan Opera, died of bone cancer last Thursday in San Anto
Mira Trailovic, a Yugoslav theater director and founder of the Belgrade International Experimental Theater Festival, which invited many American theater groups to Europe, died of cancer on Monday in Belgrade. She was 65 years old and lived in Belgrade. Mira Trailovic, a Yugosl
Roberta Worrick, who wrote under the pen name Maria Thomas, was among the eight Americans killed last Monday in the crash of the airplane carrying United States Representative Mickey Leland of Texas. She lived in Addis Ababa; her age could not be learned last night. Roberta Wo
Helen Hadassah Lyons, a pioneer in Jewish education for women, died of a brain tumor on Sunday in New Rochelle (N.Y.) Hospital. She was 79 years old and lived in New Rochelle. Helen Hadassah Lyons, a pioneer in Jewish education for women, died of a brain tumor on Sunday in New
Louise Varese, an American biographer and translator of French and the widow of the composer Edgard Varese, died on July 1 in Eugene, Ore. She was 98 years old. Louise Varese, an American biographer and translator of French and the widow of the composer Edgard Varese, died on 
Kathleen Maguire, an actress who won an Obie Award in 1958 for her performance in ''The Time of the Cuckoo,'' died of cancer of the esophagus on Aug. 9 in Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan. Kathleen Maguire, an actress who won an Obie A
Mary Hunter Wallace, a former vice president of Ogilvy & Mather, a New York-based advertising concern, died Sunday at Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital after a long illness. She was 61 years old and lived in New Canaan, Conn. Mary Hunter Wallace, a former vice president of Ogilvy & Mat
Amanda Blake, who played the kindhearted saloonkeeper Miss Kitty in the ''Gunsmoke'' television series for 19 years, died of oral cancer on Wednesday at Mercy General Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 60 years old. Amanda Blake, who played the kindhearted saloonkeeper Miss Kitt
Marcia Whitney Schott, a prominent figure on the American horse racing scene for almost 30 years, died of cancer yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 66 years old. Marcia Whitney Schott, a prominent figure on the American horse racing scene for almost 30 years, died of 
An Keats, a book publisher and editor, died of pneumonia Sunday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital. She was 73 years old and lived in New Canaan, Conn. An Keats, a book publisher and editor, died of pneumonia Sunday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital. She was 73 years old and lived in New
Elsie M. Murphy, a former president of S. Stroock & Company, manufacturers of woolen goods in Newburgh, N.Y., died Tuesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. She was 81 years old and lived in Spring Valley, N.Y. Elsie M. Murphy, a former president of S. Stroock & Comp
Josephine Palmer Voorhees, long active in Brooklyn civic affairs and director of the Brooklyn Civilian Defense Volunteer office during World War II, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Alexandria, Va. She was 94 years old and had lived in Brooklyn Heights for 71 years until she became
Linda Lyon Van Voorhis, a poet, died yesterday at her home in Irondequoit in suburban Rochester. She was 87 years old. Linda Lyon Van Voorhis, a poet, died yesterday at her home in Irondequoit in suburban Rochester. She was 87 years old. Mrs. Van Voorhis, known as June
Edythe Gilfond, a costume designer for dance companies, theater and television, died yesterday at her home in Southampton, L.I., after a long illness. She was 79 years old. Mrs. Gilfond, a native of Brooklyn, designed costumes for Martha Graham's dance company - including those for th
Ethel Danzig, a New York State Supreme Court Justice, died of colon cancer Sunday at New York Hospital. She was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan. Ethel Danzig, a New York State Supreme Court Justice, died of colon cancer Sunday at New York Hospital. She was 58 years old and
Linda Lyon Van Voorhis, a poet, died Sunday at her home in Irondequoit in suburban Rochester. She was 87 years old. Linda Lyon Van Voorhis, a poet, died Sunday at her home in Irondequoit in suburban Rochester. She was 87 years old. Mrs. Van Voorhis, known as June in he
Charlotte B. Simon, a former executive director of the Jewish Home and Rehabilitation Center of New Jersey, died of complications of emphysema yesterday at Bayonne (N.J.) Hospital. She was 70 years old and lived in Bayonne. Charlotte B. Simon, a former executive director of th
Diana Vreeland, the legendary fashion editor and creator of spectacular fashion exhibitions at the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City, died of a heart attack yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was believed to be in her late 80's and had been in failing health for several y
Cepha Pasek Kindig, a social worker for more than 30 years, died of brain cancer on Aug. 17 at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital. She was 79 years old and lived in Englewood. Cepha Pasek Kindig, a social worker for more than 30 years, died of brain cancer on Aug. 17 at Englewood (N.J.
Margaret E. Boorman, who was awarded the Medal of Freedom in 1946 for her service in China, died on Wednesday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. She was 78 years old and lived in Cambridge. Margaret E. Boorman, who was awarded the Medal of Freedom in 1946 for her ser
E. Gail Macandrew, a producer for public television, died of complications from diabetes on Friday at Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola, L.I. She was 45 years old and lived in Manhattan and in Garden City, L.I. E. Gail Macandrew, a producer for public television, died of
Edith Park Martin, an authority on contemporary needlework, died Saturday at Northern Westchester County Hospital after a brief illness. She was 72 years old and lived in Katonah, N.Y. Edith Park Martin, an authority on contemporary needlework, died Saturday at Northern Westch
Fernanda Wanamaker Munn Kellogg, a philanthropist interested in wildlife, conservation and other concerns, died of heart failure Sunday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 69 years old and also lived in Manhattan. Fernanda Wanamaker Munn Kellogg, a philanthropist intereste
Rowena Wyant, the first woman to be named a vice president of Dun & Bradstreet, died Aug. 23 at Huntington (L.I.) Hospital of injuries received in an auto accident a few days earlier. She was 72 years old and lived in Centerport, L.I. Rowena Wyant, the first woman to be named 
Dorothy Schiff, owner of The New York Post for 37 years, died early yesterday in her apartment on the East Side of Manhattan. She was 86 years old. Dorothy Schiff, owner of The New York Post for 37 years, died early yesterday in her apartment on the East Side of Manhattan. She
