 Hansel Mieth Hagel, a photographer who documented the Great Depression and World War II for Time, Fortune and Life magazines, died on Feb. 14 at a friend's home in Santa Rosa, Calif. She was 88 and lived on a ranch nearby. She was known professionally as Hansel Mieth, and she left a
 Countess Anthony Szapary, the doyenne of Newport society and the great-great-granddaughter of Cornelius Vanderbilt who lived a good part of the year on the upper floors of  the Breakers, maintaining the family's presence in the 70-room mansion built by her grandparents, died on Sunday at No
 Augusta Braxston Baker, a spellbinding storyteller, editor and former custodian of the children's section at the New York Public Library, died on Feb. 23 at Baptist Medical Center in Columbia, S.C. A Columbia resident since 1980, she was 86 and formerly lived in St. Albans, Queens. 
 Celestine Tate Harrington, a quadriplegic street musician whose buoyant personality and unremitting chutzpah brought astounded smiles to everyone who watched her play the keyboard with her lips and tongue on Atlantic City's Boardwalk, died on Feb. 25 at the Atlantic City Medical Center. She
 Leonie Rysanek, the Austrian dramatic soprano whose illustrious international career spanned nearly 40 years, died on Saturday at a hospital in Vienna, the city of her birth, where she lived all her life. She was 71. She had been battling bone cancer, according to Peter S. Diggins, 
 Laurie Beechman, the throbbing-voiced singer and actress who played Grizabella in the Broadway musical ''Cats'' for more than five years, died on Sunday at her home in White Plains, N.Y. She was 44. The cause was complications from ovarian cancer, said her agent and friend, Jim Wilh
 Eleanor Shuman, who was too young to remember more than the screams but recalled them vividly for more than 85 years, died on Saturday at a hospital near her home in Elgin, Ill. She was 87 and one of the last half-dozen survivors of the sinking of the Titanic. Mrs. Shuman, whose ori
 Beatrice Wood, a ceramic artist known as much for her irreverent quips, beauty, bohemian life style and famous lovers as for her luminous luster-glaze chalices, and who  inspired at least two movie characters, died on Thursday at her home in Ojai, Calif. She had celebrated her 105th birthda
 Ilse Bing, one of the few surviving members of the fabled group of avant-garde artists who gathered in Paris in the early 1930's and produced brilliantly unorthodox and inventive photography, died Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. She was 98 and lived on the Uppe
 Jeanette Wakin, an expert in the arcane world of medieval Islamic law, died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 69 and a senior lecturer at Columbia University, where she had long been a mainstay in the department of Middle East and Asia Language and Culture. Her family said t
 Ruth Forbes Young, who founded the International Peace Academy, an organization that trains negotiators, diplomats and military personnel in peacekeeping and provides meeting grounds for diplomats involved in efforts to prevent hostilities, died on March 5 at her home in Berkeley, Calif. Sh
 Jeanette Wakin, an expert in the arcane world of medieval Islamic law, died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 69 and was a senior lecturer at Columbia University, where she had long been a mainstay in the department of Middle Eastern and Asian language and culture. Her famil
 Elizabeth Barnes, a volunteer for national organizations including the Y.W.C.A. and National Council of Negro Women, died on Thursday at the Health Clinic of Westminster Shores in St. Petersburg, Fla. She was 90 and a resident of St. Petersburg. Mrs. Barnes, who had been a resident 
 Marianne Burge, the first woman to become a partner in the accounting firm of Price Waterhouse, died Feb. 25 at Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 64. The cause of death was cancer, Price Waterhouse said. Mrs. Burge joined the firm as a tax consultant in 1966 and became 
 Anne Sayre, a short story writer turned scientific sleuth who helped establish the important role played by the British crystallographer Rosalind Franklin in the discovery of the structure of DNA, died on Friday at a hospital near her home in Bridgewater, N.J. She was 74 and the author of t
 Rose Steinberg Stamler, a pioneer in the prevention and treatment of high blood pressure and a professor emeritus of preventive medicine at the Northwestern University Medical School, died on Feb. 28 at Scottsdale Memorial Hospital in Arizona. She was 75 and lived in Chicago. The ca
 Esther Bubley, a documentary photographer who was noted for her sober, no-frills portrayal of post-World War II middle America, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 76 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said her niece, Jean Bubley. In the la
 Nena Manach Goodman, an artist, patron of the arts and philanthropist, died yesterday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. She was 88 and lived in Rye, N.Y. Mrs. Goodman was the widow of Andrew Goodman, owner and chairman of Bergdorf Goodman in the 1950's and 60's. Mr. Goodman, 
 The Dowager Countess of Enniskillen, formerly Nancy MacLennon, an American journalist and consular officer, died on Feb. 24 at Kinloch House, her home in Amulree, Perthshire, north of Edinburgh. She was 80. Lady Enniskillen started a newspaper career in her native Bridgeport, Conn. 
 Betty L. Santangelo, a retired teacher and school administrator who was long active in Italian-American and other civic affairs, died on March 15 at the home of a daughter in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 80 and formerly lived in the Bronx. The cause was pancreatic cancer, her family said
 Bernice F. Davidson, a historian of Italian Renaissance art who served as research curator at the Frick Collection for more than four decades, died at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx on Feb. 24. She was 70 and lived in Manhattan. She died of cancer, her sister, Anne Ferry, said.      
 Galina Ulanova, whose uncanny blend of unabashed emotionalism and lyrical restraint made her one of the greatest dancers of the 20th century, died here today. She was 88. Revered in Russia from the moment she made her debut in Leningrad's Maryinsky Ballet in 1928, she riveted the We
 Kay Coltoff, a social worker and educator who used her own illness to make things easier for breast cancer survivors, died on March 5 at her home in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. She was 61 and had been a professional-development counselor at Hunter College. In a career in which she work
 Once upon a time in a faraway land, where princes once vied and heroes died, where questers set out and there were trolls and the stories seemed to come straight from the stone, a child of the aristocracy was born. Her father was an Austrian baron. And if there were no sounds of tru
 Betsey Cushing Roosevelt Whitney, the widow of John Hay (Jock) Whitney, the first wife of James Roosevelt and the last of the three glamorous Cushing sisters of Boston, died yesterday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. She was 89. Mrs. Whitney was one of the most 
 Hilda Morley, an American poet who gained wider recognition late in life, decades after she first published her imagist free verse, died on Monday at Royal Free Hospital in Hampstead, London. A former resident of Sag Harbor, N.Y., she was 81 and had moved to London last year to continue wor
 Hilda Ginsburg Schwartz, a retired justice of the State Supreme Court in Manhattan, who was a mentor and role model for many female lawyers, died on March 18 at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 90 and lived in Greenwich Village. She was among the first women to reach
