Edna Boyne Campbell, known to generations of Morningside Heights residents through her association with the Morningside Junior Library, died of cancer May 10 at her home in Manhattan. She was 80 years old. Edna Boyne Campbell, known to generations of Morningside Heights reside
Gladys Shultz Sanders, a public relations consultant and writer, died of cancer Sunday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. She was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan. Gladys Shultz Sanders, a public relations consultant and writer, died of cancer Sunday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospit
Dr. Marion Armbruster Pierce, an educator and research scientist, died of a stroke Thursday at the Wilmington (Del.) Medical Center. She was 79 years old and lived in Wilmington. Dr. Marion Armbruster Pierce, an educator and research scientist, died of a stroke Thursday at the
Virginia Ram, program director of the Episcopal Church of the Epiphany in East Los Angeles and a former national Episcopal leader, died May 18 at her home in Los Angeles, apparently of heart failure. She was 65 years old. Virginia Ram, program director of the Episcopal Church 
Edna Boyne Campbell, known to generations of Morningside Heights residents through her association with the Morningside Junior Library, died of cancer Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 80 years old. Edna Boyne Campbell, known to generations of Morningside Heights reside
June Buchanan, who co-founded Alice Lloyd College in the 1920's and was mayor of this Appalachian Mountain valley town, died Tuesday at Our Lady of the Way Hospital in Martin, according to a college spokesman. She was 100 years old. June Buchanan, who co-founded Alice Lloyd Co
Gertrude Joy Grimm, an assistant director of the Waves in World War II, died of cancer Thursday at her home in Sarasota, Fla. She was 83 years old. Gertrude Joy Grimm, an assistant director of the Waves in World War II, died of cancer Thursday at her home in Sarasota, Fla. She
Ella Raines, an actress who starred in film dramas, comedies and westerns during the 1940's, died of throat cancer May 30 in Los Angeles. She was 67 years old. Ella Raines, an actress who starred in film dramas, comedies and westerns during the 1940's, died of throat cancer Ma
Paula L. Zajan, a professor of early childhood education at Hostos Community College, died of lung cancer Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 59 years old and lived in Manhattan. Paula L. Zajan, a professor of early childhood education at Hostos Community College, died of
Eve Orton, a former editor for Harper's Bazaar and a well-known figure in the fashion industry, was found dead of an overdose of sleeping pills in her Manhattan apartment on May 31, her son said. She was 72 years old and had been ill for more than two years. Eve Orton, a forme
Monica Bergman, an art historian, died of cancer Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 40 years old and lived in Manhattan. Monica Bergman, an art historian, died of cancer Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 40 years old and lived in Manh
Elizabeth Duggan, a Broadway dancer, died Tuesday of cancer. She was 56 years old. Mrs. Duggan began her career at age 17 after studying at the Professional Children's School in New York City. Her Broadway credits included ''Brigadoon,'' ''Flahooley,'' ''Month of Sundays'' and ''New F
Gertrude Soule, a Shaker leader whose storytelling helped visitors understand a rapidly disappearing religious community, has died at 93, leaving only two Shaker women in their 90's in the state. Gertrude Soule, a Shaker leader whose storytelling helped visitors understand a r
Adele De Leeuw, who wrote more than 75 children's books, died of cancer of the colon Sunday at her home in Plainfield, N.J. She was 88 years old. Adele De Leeuw, who wrote more than 75 children's books, died of cancer of the colon Sunday at her home in Plainfield, N.J. She was
Catherine Reynolds Fennelly, an actress and the widow of the actor and playwright Parker W. Fennelly, died of heart failure last Friday at her home in Cortlandt, N.Y. She was 95 years old. Catherine Reynolds Fennelly, an actress and the widow of the actor and playwright Parker
Gertrude Soule, a Shaker leader whose storytelling helped visitors understand a rapidly disappearing religious community, died Saturday at 93 years of age, leaving no more than 10 Shakers in the United States. Gertrude Soule, a Shaker leader whose storytelling helped visitors 
Alice May Hall, a noted puppeteer during a career spanning more than 70 years, died Monday at her home in Brooklyn. She was 96 years old, and had given her final performances just last weekend. Alice May Hall, a noted puppeteer during a career spanning more than 70 years, died
Dr. Frances Sergeant Childs, professor emeritus of history at Brooklyn College and a member of the founding faculty of the college in 1930, died Saturday at the Interchurch Residence in Bridgeport, Conn., where she lived. She was 87 years old. Dr. Frances Sergeant Childs, prof
Dr. Regine Kronacker Stix, a physician and former chief of secondary-school health services in New York City, died of a heart attack Monday at Brookside House on Martha's Vineyard, Mass. She was 92 years old and lived in Chilmark on the island. Dr. Regine Kronacker Stix, a phy
Evelyn D. Seide Walter, personal secretary and companion to Helen Keller for 37 years, died Thursday at a hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., after a long illness. She was 88 years old and lived in Pompano Beach, Fla. Evelyn D. Seide Walter, personal secretary and companion to 
Ziona Tagger, an Israeli artist known for her depictions of the old port city of Jaffa, died Thursday in Tel Aviv. She was 88 years old. Ziona Tagger, an Israeli artist known for her depictions of the old port city of Jaffa, died Thursday in Tel Aviv. She was 88 years old.    
Cleo Hartwig, a sculptor whose works featuring animals, birds and other natural subjects were inspired by her childhood in rural Michigan, died of cancer of the pancreas yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital. She was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan. Cleo Hartwig, a sculptor 
Former Representative Gladys Noon Spellman died early today in a nursing home in suburban Maryland after being in a coma for nearly eight years. She was 70 years old.  Mrs. Spellman, a Democrat, was running for her fourth term in the House when her heart stopped beating temporarily on
Gloria Agrin Josephson, a lawyer in Manhattan, died of lung cancer Monday at the New York University Medical Center. She was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan. Gloria Agrin Josephson, a lawyer in Manhattan, died of lung cancer Monday at the New York University Medical Center
Sallie Martin, a singer who was known as ''the mother of gospel music,'' died Saturday. She was 92 years old. Sallie Martin, a singer who was known as ''the mother of gospel music,'' died Saturday. She was 92 years old. Mrs. Martin started singing in a Baptist church. 
Marta Abba, a leading Italian stage performer of the 1920's and 30's and the lifetime companion of the playwright Luigi Pirandello, died after suffering a stroke on her 88th birthday Friday in a Milan nursing home, her family announced today. Marta Abba, a leading Italian stag
Dr. Naomi M. Kanof, who edited The Journal of Investigative Dermatology for 50 years, died at George Washington University Hospital here Sunday after a heart attack. She was 76 years old. Dr. Naomi M. Kanof, who edited The Journal of Investigative Dermatology for 50 years, die
Leonie Adams, who served as a consultant in poetry to the Library of Congress in 1948 and 1949, died of heart disease Monday in the Candlewood Valley Care Center, a nursing home, in New Milford, Conn., where she made her home. She was 88 years old. Leonie Adams, who served as 
Dr. Naomi M. Kanof, who edited The Journal of Investigative Dermatology for 50 years, died at George Washington University Hospital here Sunday after a heart attack. She was 76 years old. Dr. Naomi M. Kanof, who edited The Journal of Investigative Dermatology for 50 years, die
