 Dolores Olmedo Patiño, the combative Mexican art collector who turned her hacienda into a museum devoted to paintings by Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo, died in Mexico City on Saturday. Her age was a matter of debate, but she used a birth date that would make her 88. Mrs. Olmedo amas
 Meredith Baylis, a prominent teacher at the Joffrey Ballet School in New York for 15 years and a former member of the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, died on July 26 in Burbank, Calif. She was 72 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was complications after heart surgery, said Leslie Aqu
 Helen Matthew Robinson, the matriarch of the family that in 1864 bought the Hawaiian island of Niihau and then so zealously guarded its privacy that it is the only one of the islands where Hawaiian is still spoken as an everyday language, died on July 31 at her home in Makaweli, on the isla
 Daphne Bayne Hellman, the jazz harpist who performed around the world and for three decades at the Village Gate but who had a special affection for playing on subway platforms, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Manhattan. She was 86. Ms. Hellman, who had played on the streets of P
 Marjorie Goldwasser Wyler, for many years the producer of ''Eternal Light,'' a weekly radio program on Jewish themes, died July 22 in Norwalk, Conn. She was 86 and lived in Westport, Conn., and Manhattan. Working with the late Milton Krents and later with others, Ms. Wyler produced 
 Diane J. Lipton, who fought for the rights of her disabled daughter and went on to become a lawyer and prominent advocate for children with disabilities, died on Aug. 8 at her home in Richmond, Calif. She was 57. The cause was a rare form of lung cancer, her husband, James Armstrong
 Eleanor Searle Whitney McCollum, a singer and a philanthropist in the fields of medicine, music and religion, died Aug. 12 at her home in Houston. She was 93. An Ohio doctor's daughter, Mrs. McCollum was a concert and opera singer for a short time after graduating from Florida South
 Nancy Chaffee Whitaker, a leading tennis player in the 1950's who won three consecutive national indoor championships, died Sunday in Coronado, Calif. She was 73 and lived in Indian Wells, Calif. The cause was complications of cancer, said her husband, the sportscaster Jack Whitaker
 Lucia Pamela, a one-of-a-kind entertainer best known for recording a music album in 1969 about her fictional travels to the moon, died on July 25 in a hospital in Los Angeles, where she lived. She was 98. Until 1992, Ms. Pamela's only album, ''Into Outer Space With Lucia Pamela,'' w
 Doris Wishman, a prolific independent director of truly tasteless movies -- from nudist camp romps to the cult classic ''Bad Girls Go to Hell'' -- died on Aug. 10 in Miami. She lived in Coral Gables, Fla. She never revealed her age, but her passport carried a date of birth of April 
 Josephine Laimbeer Schiff, who was active in a number of charitable organizations, died on Wednesday at North Shore University Hospital in Glen Cove, N.Y. She was 89. For more than three decades, Mrs. Schiff, who was known as Fifi, was a volunteer at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Can
 Lillian Goldman, who made a major contribution to the reconstruction of the library at Yale Law School, in part because it was among the first law schools in America to admit women, died yesterday at her home in East Hampton, N.Y. She was 80. The cause was pancreatic cancer, the fam
 Freidann Parker, a founder of the Colorado Ballet, died on Aug. 2 in Denver, where she lived. She was 77. The cause was a bacterial infection, said her companion, Lillian Covillo, a co-founder of the troupe. Ms. Parker was typical of the pioneers, mostly unsung, who develope
 Edith Lutyens Bel Geddes, a costume designer for theater, ballet and film and a theatrical producer, died on Aug. 16 at her home in Hudson, N.Y. She was 95. Known as Edith Lutyens for much of her professional career, she made and designed costumes for theater productions of ''The Cr
 Charlotte Schuchardt Read, the former director of the Institute of General Semantics, an educational center and publisher in Brooklyn, died on July 25 at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City. She was 92. General semantics, a branch of linguistics founded by Alfred Korzybski in the 
 Emily Genauer, an art critic who championed 20th-century painting and sculpture over the course of a four-decade newspaper career and won a Pulitzer Prize for criticism, died on Friday after a long illness. She was 91. Starting out as the critic for The New York World in the 1930's,
 Emily Genauer, an art critic who championed 20th-century painting and sculpture over the course of a four-decade newspaper career and won a Pulitzer Prize for criticism, died on Friday after a long illness. She was 91. Starting out as the critic for The New York World in the 1930's,
 Quail Hawkins, the author of gentle children's books like ''A Puppy for Keeps,'' and ''Mark, Mark, Shut the Door,'' both popular in the 1940's, died on Aug. 16 at the retirement home where she lived in Pacific Grove, Calif. She was 97. Miss Hawkins wrote nine books and edited or was
