 Virginia Donaldson, the press agent for the New York City Ballet from 1966 to 1982, died on Wednesday at her home in Chicago. She was 74. The cause was heart failure, said Jack Hakman, a friend. Ms. Donaldson worked with City Ballet during the years of some of its greatest t
 M. Shanara Gilbert, an associate professor of law at the City University of New York Law School at Queens College, was killed on Tuesday in a highway accident in South Africa. She was 45 and lived in Brooklyn. The accident, in which the school's former dean, W. Haywood Burns, also d
 Barbara McLean, an Oscar-winning Hollywood film editor whose influence at 20th Century-Fox extended far beyond the cutting room, died on March 28 at a convalescent home in Newport Beach, Calif. She was 92 and had lived in Newport Beach since her retirement in 1969 after 20 years as head of 
 Greer Garson, the actress who epitomized a noble, wise and courageous wife in some of the sleekest and most sentimental American movies of the 1940's, died yesterday morning at Presbyterian Hospital in Dallas. She was 92. Miss Garson, who had a history of heart problems, had lived a
 Barbara McLean, an Oscar-winning Hollywood film editor whose influence at 20th Century-Fox extended far beyond the cutting room, died on March 28 at a convalescent home in Newport Beach, Calif. She was 92 and had lived in Newport Beach since her retirement in 1969 after 20 years as head of 
 Ilka Tanya Payan, the Dominican-born soap opera star and New York civic leader who played a reluctant but eloquent role in raising AIDS awareness after  disclosing that she was infected with the H.I.V. virus, died on Saturday at her  home in Manhattan. She was 53. A friend, Carla Fi
 Ariel Allen, a senior advertising executive for the Colgate-Palmolive Company, died on April 7 in New York. She was 58. The cause of death was cancer, the company said. Miss Allen joined the Ted Bates advertising agency in 1960 to work on the Colgate account. She the
 Martha Keehn, a social worker in India and Africa, died on April 5 at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. She was 73 and lived in Forest Hills, Queens. The cause was cancer, her family said. From 1952 to 1961, Mrs. Keehn directed social welfare projects for the Indian Co
 Camilla de Leon, a dance composer and accompanist in the 1930's and 40's, died on April 3 at Middlesex Hospital in Middletown, Conn. She was 80, and lived in Middletown. Ms. de Leon accompanied classes at the Martha Graham studio and composed for  choreographers including Pearl Prim
 Frances Frenaye, a veteran American translator of French and Italian literary works into English, died on Friday at her apartment in Miami Beach. She was 88. Earlier, Miss Frenaye lived for some 50 years in Manhattan, where she was employed, from 1963 to 1980, by the Italian Cultura
 Lucille Bremer, an actress and dancer who was Fred Astaire's partner in "Yolanda and the Thief" and "Ziegfe'd Follies" during her brief film career in the 1940's, died on Tuesday at Scripps Memorial Hospital in La Jolla, Calif. She was 79 and lived in The cause of death was complica
 Lucille Bremer, an actress and dancer who was Fred Astaire's partner in "Yolanda and the Thief" and "Ziegfeld Follies" during her brief film career in the 1940's, died on Tuesday at Scripps Memorial Hospital in La Jolla, Calif. She was 79 and lived in La Jolla and in Las Cruces, Baja Califo
 Erma Bombeck, who mined the everyday lives of housewives and parents for the  mother lode of humor that transformed her into one of the country's most popular newspaper columnists and a best-selling author, died yesterday at the University of California at San Francisco Medical Center. Mrs.
 Molly Keane, an Anglo-Irish novelist who had ridden to enough hounds, attended enough hunt balls and listened to enough below-stairs gossip by the time she was 17 to sustain two literary careers three decades apart, died on Monday at her cliffside home in Ardmore, County Waterford, Ireland.
 P. L. Travers, who insisted she had never meant to write for children when the magical nanny Mary Poppins leaped from her pen, died on Tuesday at her home  in London. She was 96. Miss Travers, a native of Australia who had lived in England since she was a  young woman, had been at v
 Helen Keane, a manager and producer who was one of the few women on the business side of jazz, died at Cabrini Hospice in New York on Monday. She was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was breast cancer, her son Timothy Wood said. Ms. Keane is best known for her business r
 Margaret Livingston Partridge Burden, a Manhattan philanthropist long associated with the Community Service Society, died yesterday at her home on the Upper East Side. She was 86. Born in Manhattan, Mrs. Burden attended the Nightingale Bamford School and studied at the Art Students 
 Lynn O'Donnell, the producer of the documentary film "Crumb," died in San Francisco on April 17. She was 43. The cause was ovarian cancer, said her husband, Lawrence Wilkinson. Ms. O'Donnell produced and directed several films, but her greatest critical  success came with "Crumb," a
 Siti Hartinah Suharto, the wife of President Suharto of Indonesia, died today of a heart attack, a spokesman for the President said. She was 72. Mrs. Suharto died in the Gatot Subroto military hospital in central Jakarta.  The Government ordered a week of mourning. Her death
