 Ann Roe Robbins, a teacher of cooking who, along with James A. Beard and other food writers, helped to convince Americans of the 1960's that cooking could be an art form, died June 25 at her home in Manhattan. She was 94. In 1960, Craig Claiborne, the New York Times food critic, hea
 Barbara T. Christian, a professor of African-American studies at the University of California at Berkeley and a pioneer of contemporary American literary feminism, died on June 25 at her home in Berkeley. She was 56. The cause was complications from lung cancer, said Patricia McBroo
 Virginia Moffat Nickerson, a leader in many philanthropic and cultural organizations in New York, died June 18 at her home in Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. She was 73 and lived in New York City and Cold Spring Harbor. In 1997, Mrs. Nickerson was honored by the mayor of New York for her w
 Grace M. S. McKittrick MacNeil, a civic worker and philanthropist who was the national president of Girl Scouts of the U.S.A. from 1969 to 1972, died on June 30 in Natchez, Miss. She was 92, lived in Natchez and had also lived in Princeton, N.J. Mrs. MacNeil was a longtime owner and
 Laurel Fox Vlock, who was instrumental in the videotaping and archiving of many survivors' accounts of the sufferings caused by the Holocaust, died on Saturday in New Haven, Conn. She was 74 and lived in Woodbridge, Conn. She died of injuries suffered in a car accident on Friday, sa
 Ronne Wohl Wulwick, a founder of Hineni, an outreach group that encourages young Jews to reconnect to their heritage, died last Saturday at her home in Old Westbury, N.Y. She was 85. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Wulwick, a Bronx native who also lived in Palm B
 Rose Marie Thomas, the head of the fund-raising organization for St. Jude Children's Research Hospital in Memphis, which was founded by her husband, the comedian Danny Thomas, died on Wednesday. She was 86 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. Mrs. Thomas had held the fund-raising posi
 Ursule Molinaro, a novelist and translator, died on Monday at her home in New York City. She was believed to have been in her 80's, said McPherson & Company, her publishers. In a career that spanned five decades, she wrote 14 novels, 4 collections of short fiction and 18 one-act pla
 Sally Kovalchick, editor in chief of Workman Publishing Company, who supervised the publication of some notable best-selling books, died on Saturday at her home in Southampton, N.Y. She was 61. The cause apparently was a heart attack, a company statement said. Ms. Kovalchick
 Thea Dispeker, a molder of operatic talent from Lauritz Melchior to Richard Leech and boss of her own classical music artists agency for more than 50 years, died Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 97. Laurence Wasserman, her successor at the New York-based management agency th
 Alice Lord Landon, a pioneer in women's swimming and diving who was a presence on the American Olympic scene for eight decades, died last Thursday at her home in Ormond Beach, Fla. She was 98. At age 13, Alice Lord swam nine miles across Long Island Sound. At 18, she was a platform 
 Christie R. Basham, a former executive producer of ''Meet the Press'' who was one of the first women to work as an executive in television network news, died on Sunday at her home in Washington, D.C. She was 68. The cause was brain cancer, The Associated Press reported. Mrs.
 Neuma Goncalves da Silva, a central figure in the slums that served as the testing ground for the composers, seamstresses and fiercely talented layabouts who catapulted samba into an art form, died on Monday in Rio de Janeiro. She was 78. A poor woman all her life, Ms. Goncalves da 
 Virginia Saurwein, who was the United Nations' top liaison official with nongovernmental organizations from 1975 until 1989, died July 9 in Erie, Pa. She was 71 and lived in South Salem, N.Y. She suffered a heart attack and a stroke in February, according to a former colleague.     
 Dr. Josephine D. Martin, a psychiatrist who helped rootless children, troubled adolescents and terrified civil rights activists in a lifelong crusade to weld the healing of personal and social wounds, died on July 6 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. She was 84. Dr. Mart
 Ruth Werner, a colorful and successful Soviet spy whose exploits included radioing invaluable atomic bomb data to Moscow in the middle of World War II, died on July 7 in Berlin. She was 93. In her 20 years as an intelligence operative in China, Poland, Switzerland and England, she h
 Emily Maxwell, the wife of the author and New Yorker editor William Maxwell, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 78. The cause was ovarian cancer, her daughter Kate Maxwell said. Mrs. Maxwell published short articles and reminiscences in The New Yorker, and from
 Nija Battle, who brought a swaggering sense of sophistication to the furs she designed for the music world's most tireless clotheshorses, died last Thursday while on a business trip in Montreal. She was 37. The cause was a brain aneurysm, said her sister, Saddiya Battle. For
 Thea Porter, one of the earliest  among British fashion designers who rode hippie chic to high visibility, if not always to enduring commercial success, died on Monday in London. She was 72. Well before globalization became a fashion cliche, Ms. Porter was deploying the concept in h
