 Helen Lane, a versatile translator whose projects included works by many important Latin-American authors, died on Sunday in Albuquerque, where she had lived since returning from France 11 years ago. She was 83. The cause was a stroke, said Ronald Christ, a friend and collaborator. 
 Anne Coffin Hanson, an art historian and curator and the first woman to be hired as a full tenured professor at Yale, died yesterday at her home in New Haven. She was 82. Her death was announced by the Yale University Gallery of Art. Prof. Hanson was an authority on late-19t
 Rose Slivka, a writer, critic and editor and a major figure in the advancement of crafts as a serious artistic discipline in the United States, died on Thursday in Southampton, N.Y. She was 85 and lived in Springs, N.Y. The cause was heart failure, said her daughter, Charlotte Slivk
 Lenore Benson, a former executive director of the Fashion Group International, died on Wednesday at New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan. She was 80. From 1984 to 1993, Ms. Benson directed the Fashion Group, a 6,000-member organization that promotes the advancement of women in
 Nuha al-Radi, the Iraqi artist and diarist whose work depicted her country's tribulations with a wry, impish wit, has died in Beirut. She was 63. Ms. Radi died on Aug. 30, of pneumonia, her immune system severely weakened as a result of treatment for leukemia, said her sister, Selma
 Ilona Marton, an award-winning journalist who was imprisoned for her coverage of events leading up to the Hungarian uprising of 1956, died Saturday at her home in Silver Spring, Md. She was 92. The cause was heart failure, her daughter, Kati Marton, said. With her husband, D
 Jessie V. Stone, a philanthropist who was the widow of W. Clement Stone, the insurance magnate known for his optimistic books and speeches on success, died on Sept. 3 at her home in Winnetka, Ill. She was 100. Mrs. Stone's death, exactly two years after her husband's, was announced 
 Rose Gacioch, an outstanding outfielder and pitcher in the heyday of women's professional baseball who became a mainstay of the Rockford Peaches team later featured in the movie ''A League of Their Own,'' died last Thursday at a nursing home in Clinton Township, Mich. She was 89. He
 Virginia Hamilton Adair, a California poet who published her first collection, ''Ants on the Melon,'' when she was 83, died on Thursday in Claremont, Calif., her daughter, Katharine Adair Waugh, said. She was 91 and lived in Claremont. Published by Random House in 1996, ''Ants on th
 Margaret Kelly, a proper Irishwoman better known as Miss Bluebell who founded the Bluebell Girls, the long-stemmed, high-kicking, slightly clad troupe considered the most glamorous chorus line in Paris and perhaps the world, died in her sleep on Sept. 11 at her home in Paris, her son Patric
 Rona Goffen, a historian of Medieval and Renaissance art, died on Sept. 8 in Princeton, N.J. She was 60 and lived in Princeton. The cause was ovarian cancer, said Lucy Fremont, a cousin. Professor Goffen's method paid careful attention to the social and economic context surr
 Elly Annie Schneider, who was known for many years in the circus world and on the big screen as Tiny Earles, then Tiny Doll, and who played one of the Munchkins in ''The Wizard of Oz,'' died here on Sept. 6. She was 90. Her death was reported by Marlene Grunewald, a longtime friend 
 Françoise Sagan, the rebellious French writer who achieved fame as a teenager with her first novel, ''Bonjour Tristesse,'' a precocious tale of sexual disillusionment, but whose international reputation dimmed as literary tastes changed, died yesterday in Honfleur, in northern France. She 
 Annie Herron, an art dealer and curator in the East Village of Manhattan in the early 1980's who opened the first commercial gallery in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, died in the Bronx on Friday. She was 50. The cause was leiomyosarcoma, a rare form of cancer, said a friend and collaborato
 Izora Rhodes Armstead, one half of the disco-pop duo the Weather Girls, who sang the flamboyant and enduring club hit ''It's Raining Men,'' died on Sept. 16 at a hospital in San Leandro, Calif. Her age was unknown. The cause was heart failure, The San Francisco Chronicle reported. T
 Dr. Katharina Dalton, a British gynecologist who did early work establishing a link between fluctuations in the menstrual cycle and changes in behavior and who advocated using progesterone to treat premenstrual syndrome, died on Sept. 17 in Britain, The Associated Press reported. She was 87
