Nora Kaye, a leading American ballerina whose exceptional power as a dramatic dancer made her an international star, died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles after a long illness. She was 67. Nora Kaye, a leading American ballerina whose exceptional power as a dramatic dancer
Catharine Sargent Huntington, an actress, director and producer and a manager of the Provincetown Playhouse on the Wharf on Cape Cod, Mass., died Friday at Sherrill House, a Boston nursing home where she had lived for several years. She was 100 years old. Catharine Sargent Hun
Joan Greenwood, the husky-voiced British actress who starred in many film comedies and stage plays in the 1940's and 50's, has died at her home in London. She was 65 years old. Joan Greenwood, the husky-voiced British actress who starred in many film comedies and stage plays i
Marian Gerber Greenberg, who worked closely with Henrietta Szold, the founder of the Hadassah, the Woman's Zionist Organization of America, and its Youth Aliyah to help rescue thousands of Jewish children from Nazi Germany, died of congestive heart failure Feb. 24 at the Cooley-Dicken
Sarah Connell, a social worker and former New York City regional director for the State Office of Mental Health, died of cancer Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 56 years old. Sarah Connell, a social worker and former New York City regional director for the State Office
Ann C. Mersereau, a Manhattan school district superintendent in the 1970's, died of cancer Tuesday at her home in Teaneck, N.J. She was 65 years old. Ann C. Mersereau, a Manhattan school district superintendent in the 1970's, died of cancer Tuesday at her home in Teaneck, N.J.
Muriel Johnson Berlin, wife of the late Richard E. Berlin, the former president and chief executive of the Hearst Corporation, died Friday after a long illness at her home in Rye, N.Y. She was 72 years old. Mrs. Berlin, known to her friends as ''Honey,'' was born in Bronxville, N.Y., 
Helen Lightbody, the nanny who cared for Prince Charles and Princess Anne and was known as ''No Nonsense Lightbody,'' died in Hawick, Scotland, on Saturday, Buckingham Palace said today. She was 79 years old. Helen Lightbody, the nanny who cared for Prince Charles and Princess
Margaret Campbell, the chairwoman of the Washington Square Music Festival since 1956, died of a heart attack Sunday at University Hospital in Manhattan. She was 87 years old and had lived in lower Manhattan since 1922. Margaret Campbell, the chairwoman of the Washington Square
Tobia Brown Frankel, a teacher, editor and most recently third-year law student at Columbia University, died at New York Hospital early yesterday from the effects of a brain tumor diagnosed in 1985. She was 52 years old. Tobia Brown Frankel, a teacher, editor and most recently
Anna E.M. Levy, a charter founder of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University, died Tuesday in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 96 years old and lived in Palm Beach and Manhattan. Anna E.M. Levy, a charter founder of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yesh
Lieut. Gov. Ruth Meiers, the first woman to serve in that post in North Dakota, died Thursday. She was 61 years old. Lieut. Gov. Ruth Meiers, the first woman to serve in that post in North Dakota, died Thursday. She was 61 years old. Gov. George Sinner said Mrs. Meiers
Sadie Youngman, the target of one of the best-known and shortest one-liners in American comedy, died Thursday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center after a long illness. She was 82 years old and had been married to Henny Youngman for 58 years. Sadie Youngman, the target of o
Joy Simpson, an American soprano, died early today after suffering a brain hemorrhage during a performance last week, a hospital spokeswoman said. Ms. Simpson was 40 years old.  The soprano, who was from Philadelphia, went into a coma Saturday and never recovered, the spokeswoman said
Matilda W. Salpeter, a retired New York City elementary school teacher and principal who established the child-care All-Day Neighborhood School Program, died Tuesday at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. She was 96 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Matilda W. Salpeter, a retired
Nancy Bryan Luce, who was active in philanthropy, died of cancer Monday at her home in Millbrook, L.I. She was 58 years old. Nancy Bryan Luce, who was active in philanthropy, died of cancer Monday at her home in Millbrook, L.I. She was 58 years old. Mrs. Luce, whose hu
Sarah Goddard Power, New York City's deputy assistant secretary of state for human rights and social affairs in 1980 and 1981, died in a fall Tuesday from Burton Tower on the campus of the University of Michigan in Ann Arbor. She was 52 years old and lived in Ann Arbor. Sarah 
Maria Augusta von Trapp, the guiding force behind a family of singers who won world reknown when their story was portrayed in the play and film ''The Sound of Music,'' died of heart failure yesterday in Morrisville, Vt., three days after undergoing surgery. She was 82 years old, and h
Maria Augusta von Trapp, the guiding force behind a family of singers who won world renown when their story was portrayed in the play and film ''The Sound of Music,'' died of heart failure Saturday in Morrisville, Vt., three days after undergoing surgery. She was 82 years old, and had
Carolin Babcock Stark, a women's amateur tennis star in the 1930's, died Wednesday, March 25, at Southampton (L.I.) Hospital, two days after suffering a stroke at her home in the North Haven section of Sag Harbor. She was 74 years old. Carolin Babcock Stark, a women's amateur 
