Pearl Sacerdote, an artist whose works in oils, acrylics, collage and mixed media were exhibited widely in the last two decades, died Wednesday at Montefiore Hospital in the Bronx. She was 68 years old, and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx and in East Hampton, L.I. Her fami
Kathleen McLaughlin, a newspaper reporter for 44 years who won recognition as a political correspondent in the 1940's and 50's, died on Friday at a nursing home in Park Ridge, Ill. She was 92 years old. Kathleen McLaughlin, a newspaper reporter for 44 years who won recognition
Myrtle G. Hirsch, a philanthropist, board member of the United Jewish Appeal Federation and a recipient of the federation's highest honor, the Distinguished Service Award, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. Her death, at the age of 72, resulted from cancer, a family spokesman 
Grace Koehler Breslauer, one of this country's first women aviators, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 85 years old. Mrs. Breslauer died of cancer, said her son, Walter H. Liebman. She began flying in the early 1930's and was an original member of the ''Nin
Nancy Sutton, a retired advertising executive, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 67 years old. Ms. Sutton, who spent 30 years in advertising, became a vice president in 1962 at Grey Advertising Inc. in Manhattan. Canada Dry, Timex, Revlon and B. F. Goodrich were
Irene Dunne had a ladylike gentility that made her naughty antics in sophisticated comedies all the more hilarious. In classic farces like ''The Awful Truth,'' in which she portrayed a worldly divorcee briefly inpersonating a gauche chorine, she delighted audiences and reviewers with 
Elaine Penn, an opera coach and accompanist who worked with many principal singers at the Metropolitan Opera and the New York City Opera, died at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital on Aug. 28. She was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan. Her companion, Ellen Alexander, said she die
Irene Dunne, the patrician star of madcap comedies, sentimental dramas and Jerome Kern musical films of the 1930's and 40's, died on Tuesday at her home in the Holmby Hills section of Los Angeles. She was 91 years old. Besides enlivening many popular comedies, she proved her v
Helen Hammett Owen, a retired New York librarian, died on Aug. 26 at her home in Friendship, Me. She was 88 years old. Mrs. Owen died of congestive heart failure, her son, Wadsworth, said. Mrs. Owen was an assistant supervisor for the New York Public Library from 1923 
Mary Ellen McAdam Byrn, a senior banker in the Institutional Recovery Management Unit of Citibank, died on Monday at her home in Red Hook, N.Y. She was 45 years old and also lived in Manhattan. Before joining Citibank in 1982, she was an economist with the First National Bank 
Sari Biro, a Hungarian pianist who settled in the United States in 1939, died at St. Mary's Hospital in San Francisco on Sunday. She was 78 years old and lived in San Francisco. Her daughter, Maria Warren Watts, said Miss Biro died of pneumonia. Miss Biro was born in B
 Sari Biro, a Hungarian pianist who settled in the United States in 1939, died at St. Mary's Hospital in San Francisco on Sunday. She was 78 years old and lived in San Francisco. Her daughter, Maria Warren Watts, said Miss Biro died of pneumonia. Miss Biro was born in Budapes
Blossom Heller, a justice of the New York State Supreme Court, died on Friday at her home in Brooklyn. Justice Heller was elected to the State Supreme Court in the 2nd Judicial Department, which covers Brooklyn and Staten Island, in 1982. Before that, she served as a judge in 
Jane Stewart Mapes, a retired public relations executive, died on Friday at her home in Litchfield Park, Ariz. She was 73 years old and lived in Litchfield Park. A spokesman for the family said that the death was listed as a suicide. She had been ill for some time with amyotro
Dr. Jane Cary Peck, an educator, author and a vice president of the National Council of Churches, died Monday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. She was 58 years old and lived in Williamstown, Mass. A spokesman for the Andover Newton Theological School, where she was a
Nesha Bass Springer, the co-author of a 1978 guidebook on day care, died on Saturday at Newton-Wellesley Hospital in Newton, Mass. She was 60 years old and lived in Sunapee, N.H. She died of cancer, said her son Stephen. A graduate of Mount Holyoke College and Boston Universit
Dr. Vivian Allison Tenney, an internist and a gynecologist in Manhattan for 45 years, died on Monday at Rockingham Memorial Hospital in Harrisonburg, Va. She was 77 years old and lived in Bridgewater, Va. Dr. Vivian Allison Tenney, an internist and a gynecologist in Manhattan 
Elenore Lester, a writer, editor and teacher, died Sunday at New York Hospital. She was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan. Elenore Lester, a writer, editor and teacher, died Sunday at New York Hospital. She was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of lymphom
Athene Seyler, a popular British actress who specialized in satiric comedy and was a Commander of the British Empire, died on Tuesday at her home in the Hammersmith section of London. She was 101 years old. Athene Seyler, a popular British actress who specialized in satiric co
Fannie Gelb, a children's dress designer, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 94 years old and was a resident of the Jewish Home and Hospital in the Bronx. Fannie Gelb, a children's dress designer, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Cent
Lida Brodenova, a singer, producer and teacher of Czechoslovak opera, died on Monday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. She was 88 years old. Mrs. Brodenova died of a stroke, the hospital said. Since moving from New York to the Washington area in 1954, she staged 
Marya Mannes, an author, journalist and critic, died Thursday at Laguna Honda Hospital in San Francisco. She was 85 years old. Marya Mannes, an author, journalist and critic, died Thursday at Laguna Honda Hospital in San Francisco. She was 85 years old. Her son, David 
Priscilla May Liebman, the director of annual giving at the Rye (N.Y.) Country Day School, died on Thursday at her home in Rye. She was 58 years old and died of cancer, said her husband, Walter. Priscilla May Liebman, the director of annual giving at the Rye (N.Y.) Country Day
Althea T. L. Simmons, head of the Washington branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People since 1979 and the organization's chief lobbyist in the capital, died Thursday at Howard University Hospital in Washington. She was 66 years old. Althea T. L. 
Marta Osnos, a retired research associate at Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons, died on Saturday at Roosevelt Hospital. She was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan. Marta Osnos, a retired research associate at Columbia University's College of Physicians 
Dora P. Chaplin, an author and a retired professor of Christian education at the General Theological Seminary in Manhattan, died on Saturday at her home in Yonkers. She was 84 years old and died of cardiac arrest, a spokesman for the family said. Dora P. Chaplin, an author and
Janet Hill Gordon, a lawyer and former Republican State Senator from Chenango County, died on Monday at the Upstate Medical Center in Syracuse. She was 75 years old and lived in Norwich, N.Y. Janet Hill Gordon, a lawyer and former Republican State Senator from Chenango County,
Helen Finn Ruder, a specialist in child psychotherapy in Westchester County, died on Sunday at New Rochelle (N.Y.) Hospital. She was 64 years old and lived in Larchmont. Helen Finn Ruder, a specialist in child psychotherapy in Westchester County, died on Sunday at New Rochelle
Loretta Clemens Tupper, a radio entertainer of the 1930's and 1940's who appeared more recently in television commercials, died Tuesday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 84 years old and lived in Queens. Loretta Clemens Tupper, a radio entertainer of the 1930's and 194
Susan W. Shapiro, a lawyer and former law secretary to an appellate judge of the New Jersey Superior Court, died on Friday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 47 years old and lived in Woodcliff Lake, N.J. Susan W. Shapiro, a lawyer and former law sec
June Roth, the author of 36 books and a past president of the American Society of Journalists and Authors, died on Sunday at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital. She was 64 years old and lived in Teaneck, N.J. Mrs. Roth died of breast cancer, said a spokeswoman for the family.  A leading propon
Eleanor D. Blodgett, the first person appointed to the faculty at Hofstra University when it opened in 1935, died on Friday at her home in Cortland, N.Y. She was 94 years old. Eleanor D. Blodgett, the first person appointed to the faculty at Hofstra University when it opened i
Louise (Mama Lu) Parks, an actress and dancer who founded the Mama Lu Parks Jazz Dancers, died on Sunday at the Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. She was 61 years old and lived in the Bronx. Louise (Mama Lu) Parks, an actress and dancer who founded the Mama Lu Parks Jazz
Clara Beyer, an influential New Deal administrator who served as a confidential aide to Frances Perkins during her 12 years as Secretary of Labor, died Tuesday at her home in Washington. She was 98 years old. Clara Beyer, an influential New Deal administrator who served as a c
Denise Carty-Bennia, a lawyer and visiting professor at the City University of New York Law School at Queens College, died on Sept. 11 at her home in Detroit. She was 43 years old. Denise Carty-Bennia, a lawyer and visiting professor at the City University of New York Law Scho
Fran Smith, director of the Westbury (L.I.) Players, an amateur theater group, for 17 years, died on Wednesday at Winthrop University Hospital in Mineola, L.I. She was 69 years old and lived in Westbury. Fran Smith, director of the Westbury (L.I.) Players, an amateur theater g
