 Elizabeth Crow, a magazine editor, writer and executive who revitalized Parents magazine, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 58 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of esophageal cancer, her son, Samuel Crow, said. A
 Moura Lympany, the colorful and elegant British concert pianist whose career lasted more than 65 years, died on March 28 in Menton, France. She was 88. Her death was confirmed by her former French managers, Bureau de Concerts de Valmalete. Ms. Lympany avoided specialization,
 Dale Messick, a pioneering newspaper cartoonist who fought her way to the top of a man's profession by creating Brenda Starr, the glamorous red-haired journalist who fought her way to the top of a man's profession, died on Tuesday in Sonoma County, Calif. She was 98. She died after 
 Geraldine Stutz, who transformed Henri Bendel from a carriage trade retailer in decline into a chic emporium of designer brands in the 1960's, died yesterday at her home in New York. She was 80. Her death came after a long illness, said her stepdaughter, Emma Turner. Ms. Stu
 Marilyn Levine, a prominent ceramic sculptor known for deceptively realistic renditions of leather goods, died on April 2 at her home in Oakland, Calif. She was 69. The cause was mucosal melanoma, said John Allen, her partner of 25 years. Ms. Levine was born Marilyn Hayes in
 Charlotte Kempner Beyers, a documentary filmmaker whose works were among the first to introduce students to the realities of AIDS, died on March 10 at her home in Palo Alto, Calif. She was 73. The cause was complications of lymphoma, her family said. The producer and writer 
 Andrea Dworkin, the feminist writer and antipornography campaigner whose work was a lightning rod for the debate on pornography and censorship that raged through the United States in the 1980's, died on Saturday at her home in Washington. She was 58. Ms. Dworkin died in her sleep, s
 Dr. Jeanne Petrek, a cancer researcher known for her investigations into the aftermath of breast cancer surgery, especially its impact on fertility, was killed in an accident in Manhattan on Monday. She was 57 and lived in Bronxville, N.Y. Dr. Petrek died in surgery, hours after bei
 Kay Gardella, a television critic and columnist for The Daily News who worked at that paper for nearly 60 years, died on Wednesday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 82. The News, reporting her death, said she had been ill with cancer. Ms. Gardella was born in B
 Ida Libby Dengrove, a New York courtroom artist who visualized the moods and faces of some notorious trials for the television audience, died on Wednesday while on a family visit to Los Angeles. She was 86 and lived in Ocean Township, N.J. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's 
 Ellen Lentz, who reported from Berlin for The New York Times at the height of the cold war, died on April 10 at a hospital in Berlin. She was 88. The cause was heart failure, her son, Dr. Ulrich Lentz-Bartens, said. She was born in Berlin on Aug. 14, 1916, to a German father
 Faith McNulty, a New Yorker staff writer who wrote many books about animals and country life for adults and children, died last Sunday at her home in Wakefield, R.I. She was 86. The cause was complications of a stroke, her sister, Elisabeth Keiffer, said. In 1980, Ms. McNulty notabl
 The Rev. Phyllis Taylor Wofford, who in 1959 was the first woman to become a minister on the staff of Riverside Church in Manhattan, died on April 4 in Norristown, Pa. She was 96. A Pennsylvania resident since 1988, she lived in Lansdale. Her death was announced by a stepson, former
 Deena Burton, an expert on Indonesian dance, died April 3 at her mother's home in Queens. She was 56 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, said Helene Browning, a friend. Born in New York City, Ms. Burton began her studies of Asian theater at the University of W
 Diane Knippers, a religious strategist who helped conservative Christians raise an increasingly loud and unified voice in the traditionally liberal bastions of mainline Protestantism in recent years, died on Monday in Arlington, Va. She was 53. The cause was cancer, according to the
 Maria Schell, an Austrian actress who achieved international fame in Hollywood and became a major star of German-language films, died on Tuesday at her home in Preitenegg, Austria. She was 79. The cause was heart failure, the mayor of Preitenegg, Franz Kogler, told the German news a
