 Mary Cantwell, who wrote essays, books and editorials for The New York Times, many about the changing public and private lives of women in America, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 69. The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Margaret Lesche
 Anne Hebert, a poet and novelist who brought the violent passions of her native rural Quebec to wider audiences in France and the United States, died on Jan. 23 at a hospital in Montreal. She was 83 and lived in Quebec City. Part of a post-World War II generation of Quebecois intell
 Bonnie Cashin, one of the first designers to create and popularize that uniquely American approach to dress called sportswear, died Thursday after open heart surgery at New York University Medical Center. She was 84 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Cashin was one of a handful of women in
 Anna Holbrook Clark, who transcended a secretarial job to become an influential policy adviser to Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia and worked at five levels of government, died on Jan. 28 in a Manhattan nursing home. She was 95. The era in which Ms. Clark served the dynamic mayor known 
 Sarah Caudwell, the British author whose modest but ecstatically received output of three erudite and maliciously witty mystery novels led at least one critic to compare her to Oscar Wilde, died on Jan. 28 at her home in London. She was 60. The cause was cancer, said Barney Karpfing
 Doris Kenner-Jackson, a founding member of the Shirelles, one of the first and most emotionally affecting of pop's girl groups, died on Friday at a hospital in Sacramento, Calif. She was 58. The cause was breast cancer, said her niece, Lauren Nance. Ms. Kenner-Jackson was bo
 Nuala Pelletier, the office manager for The New York Times Company Foundation, died of breast cancer on Sunday at her home in Sparkill, N.Y. She was 63. Mrs. Pelletier, a native of Dublin, was with the foundation, which gives grants to nonprofit organizations, for eight years.      
 Mae Faggs Starr, an Olympic champion sprinter and the first renowned athlete of the Tigerbelle women's track teams at Tennessee State University, died Jan. 27 at her home in Woodlawn, Ohio. She was 67. The cause was cancer, said her husband, Dr. Eddie Starr. In the 1950's, w
 Lenore Kight Wingard, an American swimmer who won medals in the 1932 and 1936 Olympics, died Wednesday at a hospital in Cincinnati, where she lived. She was 88. Wingard won a silver medal in the 1932 Olympics in Los Angeles and a bronze at the 1936 Games in Berlin, both in the 400-m
 Jacqueline Auriol, the glamorous French flier who set several speed records as one of the world's leading military test pilots in the 1950's and 60's, died Saturday at her Paris home. She was 82. Ms. Auriol was born to the world of fine boarding schools and country manors and marrie
 Jane B. Davies, an independent architectural historian whose devotion took her from reference librarian at Columbia University to pre-eminent authority on the 19th-century American architect Alexander J. Davis, died on Feb. 9. She was 86 and lived in Manhattan. Although she never re
 Olgita DeCastro, who performed and recorded with her famous singing cousins, the DeCastro Sisters, for more than 30 years, died on Monday at her home in Las Vegas. She was 65. The cause was an asthma attack, said her publicity agents, Alan Eichler Associates. Ms. DeCastro, w
 Jeanne Simon, the wife of former Senator Paul Simon who forged her own public career as a prosecutor, lawmaker and lobbyist for literacy and libraries, died on Sunday at their home in Makanda, Ill. She was 77. Mrs. Simon had undergone surgery for the removal of a malignant brain tum
 Filomen D'Agostino Greenberg, a self-taught stock trader who used her good fortune to help her alma mater, New York University Law School, grow into an academic leader, died Friday. She was 101 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Arriving from Coney Island one morning in 
 Mildred Root Mottahedeh, a collector of Chinese export porcelains and co-founder of a company that produced porcelain reproductions for several United States presidents and institutions including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died last Thursday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhatt
 Ofra Haza, one of Israel's leading pop singers and songwriters, died yesterday at a hospital in Tel Aviv, where she was admitted 13 days ago. She was 41. She suffered massive organ failure, The Associated Press reported. A hospital staff member, Dr. Zeev Rortenstein, refused to say 
 Eva Julia Neer, a biochemist and heart researcher at Harvard University and Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston, died on Sunday at her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 62. The cause was complications from breast cancer, her family said. Dr. Neer was widely known for her i
 Suzanne Gallo, a designer who created costumes for many of Merce Cunningham's major recent works, died on Feb. 19 at her home in Manhattan. She was 46. The cause was cancer, said David Vaughan, the archivist for the Merce Cunningham Dance Company. In a relatively short caree
