 Alice Ehrenfeld Weil, the first American woman to hold the rank of Assistant  Secretary General at the United Nations, died on Wednesday at her home in New York. She was 70 years old and lived for most of her life on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The cause of death was cancer, a
 Bernice Lotwin Bernstein, a former New York regional director of the United States Department of Health, Education and Welfare, died on Wednesday at the Group Health Hospital in Seattle. She was 87 and had moved to Seattle from the Upper East Side of Manhattan eight months ago. She 
 Dr. Helene Wickham Koon, an author, scholar of 18th-century dramatic literature and former professor of English at California State University in San Bernardino, died on Feb. 13 at her home in Hollywood. She was 71. The cause was emphysema, said Bernard P. Wiesen, a friend. 
 Susie Marshall Sharp, the first woman to be popularly elected to the post of  chief justice of a state supreme court in the United States, died on Friday at her home. She was 88. Miss Sharp was appointed a North Carolina Superior Court judge in 1949, and she was appointed to the sta
 Dorothy Porter, a Ziegfeld girl and the first woman to be a mayor in Nevada,  died on Feb. 24 at a rehabilitation center. She was 89. Ms. Porter held office in North Las Vegas from 1953 to 1956. She was 15 when the producer Florenz Ziegfeld asked her to join the Ziegfeld Fol
 Ethlyne Clair, who starred in silent comedies, westerns and serials, died on  Tuesday at Tarzana Hospital here. She was 91. Ms. Clair was popular in movie westerns in the 1920's, although her career was less than a decade long. She made three films with Hoot Gibson, whom she later c
 Helen Bunce, who knitted so many mittens she didn't know what to do unless she was knitting more mittens, died on Feb. 24 at a nursing home in Watertown, N.Y., where she was known as the Mitten Lady. She was 86 and had been knitting mittens until a few days before her death. Mrs. Bu
 Marguerite Duras, author of the best-selling novel "The Lover" and one of the most widely read French writers of the postwar era, died today at her home in Paris. She was 81. Miss Duras, who was also a prolific playwright, film maker and screenwriter,  was best known for the way she
 Minnie Pearl, the raucously funny radio, television and stage personality who was known as the queen of country comedy, died yesterday at a hospital in Nashville. She was 83. No cause of death was immediately given, but Miss Pearl had been admitted to  the hospital nine days ago bec
 Minnie Pearl, the raucously funny radio, television and stage personality who was known as the queen of country comedy, died yesterday at a hospital in Nashville. She was 83. No cause of death was immediately given, but Miss Pearl had been admitted to  the hospital nine days ago bec
 Susan K. Kamen, an engineer for the military and, in a second career, a vice  president at the New York Life Insurance Company, died last Thursday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Mrs. Kamen, who also maintained a home in Wainscott, L.I., was 59. The cause was cancer
 Marie-Helene de Rothschild, one of Europe's most imaginative hostesses, whose activities were a major part of the Paris social season for many years, died on  Friday at her home in Ferrieres, 20 miles northeast of Paris. She was 65 and had suffered for three decades from an incurable degene
 Professor Jean Margaret Maxwell, who helped establish the New York School of  Social Work at New York University in the 1950's and the San Diego State University School of Social Work in the 1960's, died on Feb. 22 at the Casa de Manana retirement community in San Diego. She was 81.        
 Frieda Sandberg Lewis, a champion of Jewish causes and past national president of Hadassah, the Women's Zionist Organization of America, died on Feb. 29 in Deerfield Beach, Fla. She was 85, and a former resident of Great Neck, L.I., and Manhattan. Mrs. Lewis's association with Hadas
 Audrey Cohen, an innovative educator for more than 30 years and president and founder of Audrey Cohen College, died on Sunday morning at her home in Manhattan. She was 64. The cause was cancer, said Alida Mesrop, acting president of Audrey Cohen College. Despite her diminuti
 Lila Perlstein of Roslyn Heights, L.I., a top bridge player, died yesterday in North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. She was 70 and had cancer, said her son, Jay Perlstein of Pleasantville, N.Y. Mrs. Perlstein was already ill last year when she placed 16th in the Americ
 Razia Bhatti, a Pakistani editor who championed social causes and campaigned  against Government corruption, died on Tuesday at her home in Karachi. She was 52 and the founding editor of Newsline, Pakistan's most influential political monthly. Colleagues said Mrs. Bhatti, who suffer
 Jacquetta Hawkes, archeologist and author, who was the widow of the playwright and novelist J. B. Priestley, died on Monday at Cheltenham General Hospital in London. She was 85, and lived in the Cotswolds town of Chipping Camden. In "Man on Earth," "A Land" and many other books, Ms.
 Ruth Chinitz Uris, a New York philanthropist and chairwoman of the Uris Brothers Foundation, died on Tuesday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 86. Mrs. Uris was the widow of Harold Uris, the developer, and she continued the  couple's charitable work after his 
 Virginia Henderson, who took a temporary job caring for World War I wounded and ended up helping to elevate nursing into a respected independent profession  as a renowned researcher, teacher and scholar, died on Tuesday at a hospice in Branford, Conn. Known as the mother of modern nursing, 
 Dr. Jane Marion Oppenheimer, a biologist and science historian whose interests ranged from embryos to the physiological effects of weightlessness in  space, died on Tuesday at her home in Philadelphia after a brief illness. She was 84. She retired in 1980 as the Kenan Professor Emer
 Phyllis Smith Vineyard, a corporate communications and customer service consultant who was also involved in health, family planning and social welfare,  died of cancer on March 16 at her home in Blue Point, L.I. She was 72. In 1974, Mrs. Vineyard became the first woman to serve on t
 Lola Beltran, the soulful Mexican singer whose achingly emotional renditions  of mariachi ballads made her known as Lola the Great to generations of Latin Americans, died on Sunday night in Mexico City. During a career that spanned five decades, she made a point of refusing to discuss her a
 Margaret Rockefeller, who worked on behalf of farmland conservation, the American Farmland Trust, the New York Botanical Garden and the New York Philharmonic, died yesterday at New York Hospital. She was 80 and the wife of David Rockefeller, former chairman of the Chase Manhattan Bank and t
 Mary Lavin, whose short stories and novels about the conflicts in the hearts  of her fellow Irish men and women transcended mere tales of life in Ireland, died on Monday at a nursing home here. She was 83. Ms. Lavin was the author of 19 collections of short stories and three novels.
 Anne McDonnell Ford Johnson, who served on the White House Fine Arts Committee during the Eisenhower and Kennedy administrations, helped restore Blair House in Washington and played an active role in social and charitable events in New York, died Friday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical 
 Marsha Wenk, legal director of the New Jersey chapter of the American Civil Liberties Union, which prevailed in cases involving school prayer and a law requiring community notification about the presence of paroled sex offenders, died at New York University Medical Center on March 23.  She 
 Natalie Holland, who supported a number of philanthropic and other institutions, died on Monday at her winter home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 89 and lived on Manhattan's Upper East Side. She was a prominent supporter of Bar-Ilan University in Israel. Her other principal beneficiari
