 Mae Clarke, a film actress best remembered for the scene in which James Cagney pushed a grapefruit in her face in the 1931 gangster movie "Public Enemy," died on Wednesday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. She was 81 years old and lived in Woodland Hill
 Susan N. Brewster, the executive director of the State Financial Control Board for the City of Yonkers for the last six years, died on Tuesday at the Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 41 years old and lived in Ossining. She died of complications of leukemia
 Jean Tilford Palmer, a former director of the Navy Waves and longtime administrator at Barnard College, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88 years old. During World War II, Miss Palmer was a Wave captain, serving as women's reserve assistant to the Navy's director o
 Theodora Wiesner, the former director of the American Dance Festival and of the dance division of Brooklyn College, died on Saturday at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 83 years old. She died of cancer, said her brother, Alwin, of Lake Nebagamon, Wis. Dr. Wiesner, who 
 Marlene Dietrich, the magnetic movie star and singer who was an international symbol of glamour and sex for more than half a century, died yesterday at her home in Paris. She was 90 years old. In her films and record-breaking cabaret performances, Miss Dietrich artfully projected co
 Sylvia Syms, one of the most admired pop-jazz singers of her generation, died of a heart attack in Manhattan early yesterday morning after a performance in the Oak Room of the Algonquin Hotel. Moments after she had finished singing a program of songs associated with her longtime friend Fran
 Joan Merrill, a nightclub singer and actress, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 74 years old. She died of a stroke, said her husband, Israel Seeger. Miss Merrill was a featured actress and singer in several movies, among them "Time Out for Rhythm" (1941) and "
 Theodora K. Sklover, a former director of the Governor's Office of Motion Picture and Television Development who worked to broaden public access to film and television, died May 11 at her home in Manhattan. She was 53 years old. Ms. Sklover died as a result of jumping out of her apa
 Judith Brown, a sculptor of figurative works in steel, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 60 years old. She died of pancreatic cancer, said her daughter, Leslie. Using scrap and shaped steel and junkyard objects, Ms. Brown produced works that ranged from totemi
 Dr. Beth Anspach Bernstein, a psychoanalyst for children, died on May 8 at her home in Manhattan. She was 76 years old and died of breast cancer, her family said. Dr. Bernstein had a longtime private practice in Manhattan until she retired a year ago because of illness. She 
 Marlene Dietrich, the film star who embodied not only the fantasies of millions but also aspects of the complex German psyche, was buried today in her native Berlin, where people are still not sure what to make of her. Several hundred mourners crowded around the entrance to the smal
 Deane Marks Lee, a longtime resident of White Plains, N.Y. who was active in several Westchester County charities, died yesterday at White Plains Hospital. She was 74. Mrs. Lee died of lung cancer, said Heidi Bulow, one of her grandchildren. Mrs. Lee and her late husband, Bu
 Elisabeth Marton, an agent who represented foreign playwrights in the United States and American playwrights overseas, died at her home in Manhattan on Monday. She was 90 years old. Ms. Marton died of a stroke, said Morton D. Stone, her companion. She was born in Budapest, t
 Dr. Elizabeth Gougam Estrin, a physician in New Rochelle, N.Y., for more than 35 years and a member of the faculty at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan, died on May 16 in Paris during a visit. She was 79 years old. Dr. Estrin died of a heart attack, said her son, Jam
 Madeleine Feldman Gutman, who promoted free music, art and other cultural events in Greenburgh, N.Y., died on May 10 at St. John's Riverside Hospital in Yonkers. She was 68 years old and lived in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. She died after an accident at home, her family said. F
 Moira Dryer, an abstract artist known for working in glowing colors on sheets of plywood, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 34 years old. She died of cancer, said James McKinley, a friend. Ms. Dryer's distinctive painting method involved applying diaphanous wa
 Katherine Whelan Reynal, a vice chairwoman and a member of the board of directors of the New York Chapter of the American Red Cross in the 1950's, died on Monday in her apartment on the East Side of Manhattan. She was 84 years old. She died of a lung infection, her family said.     
 Constance Montague Montgomery, who at the age of 66 started a successful fashion designing career that continued for 26 years, died on Wednesday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 92 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died a few days after suffering a stroke, according
 Dr. Alexandra Symonds, a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who was deeply involved in broadening the consideration of women's issues in her field, died on May 20 at her home in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. She was 73 years old. Dr. Symonds died of pancreatic cancer, said Lily Harmon, her sister-i
 Janet Wolf Levy, a patron of the arts, died yesterday at her daughter's home in Manhattan. She was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan and Armonk, N.Y. Mrs. Levy died of lung cancer, her family said. She was named by Mayor David N. Dinkins earlier this month as one of severa
 Lydia Joel, the former editor in chief of Dance Magazine and head of the dance department at the School of Performing Arts, died on Sunday at New York Hospital She was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of leukemia, said her husband, Edwin Miller. As teacher and j
 Elizabeth David, a food writer credited with almost single-handedly changing the cooking in her native England, died on Friday at her home in London. She was 78 years old. She died of a stroke, British press reports said. Alice Waters, who is often described as the mother of
 Sari Dienes, an artist whose career spanned many different media and several decades of the New York art world, died on Monday at her home in Stony Point, N.Y. She was 93 years old. She died of cancer, said Rip Hayman, a friend and the curator of the Sari Dienes Foundation. 
 Gillian Barr Rudd, who ran a marketing firm and was a leader in national efforts to foster business ownership by women, died on Tuesday at Sibley Hospital in Washington. She was 49 years old and lived in Washington. She died of ovarian cancer, her company said. Ms. Rudd was 
 Marjorie Severyns Ravenholt, an expert on Asia for government, news and non-profit organizations, died on Monday at the Swedish Hospital in Seattle. She was 71 years old. She died of complications after surgery for lung cancer, said her husband, Albert. The couple lived in Seattle a
