 Margaret Cousins, a writer and editor of books and magazines, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in San Antonio, Tex. She was 91. Miss Cousins was born in Munday, Tex., and earned a bachelor's degree in English at the University of Texas at Austin in 1926. After working as an editor 
 Jean Broward Shevlin Gerard, who as America's permanent representative at Unesco played a key role in President Reagan's decision to pull out of the agency in 1984, died of cancer at her home in Paris yesterday. She was 58. Drago Najman, a friend and former senior Unesco offical, co
 Sandra Isham Vreeland, a poet who was the director of an AIDS poetry project for young people, died yesterday at her home in Bridgehampton, L.I. She was 38 and also had a residence in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS-related, her family said. Working with the Poetry Society of 
 Loret Miller Ruppe, who was head of the Peace Corps longer than anyone else in the organization's 35-year history and was credited by many with restoring much of its Kennedy-era vitality, died yesterday at her home in Bethesda, Md. She was 60. The cause was ovarian cancer, her famil
 Lynda Gudde, a modern dancer and choreographer, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 54. The cause has not been determined, said Ronny Cohen, a friend. Born in San Angelo, Tex., Ms. Gudde was raised in rural Missouri and came to New York City in the late 1960's t
 Rose Hamburger, who spent half a century as a real estate agent before eagerly coming out of a reluctant five-year retirement last December to start a new career -- as a racing handicapper for The New York Post -- died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital. She was 105. Her daughter 
 Helen Wilson Nies, a former Chief Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit, which specializes in patent law, died on Wednesday, her 71st birthday, at Beebe Hospital in Lewes, Del. She lived in Bethesda, Md. The cause was head injuries suffered in a bicycli
 Louisa James Calder, widow of the sculptor Alexander Calder, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91. Mrs. Calder, born in 1905 in Seattle, was a great-niece of Henry, William and Alice James. She met her future husband during a trans-Atlantic voyage. The couple married
 Maria Telkes, an advocate of putting the sun's energy to use and one of the first researchers to do so in an experimental residence, died last Dec. 2 in Budapest on her first visit to her native Hungary in 70 years. She was 95 and lived in North Miami, Fla. News of her death was rel
 Louise Talma, a composer whose music combined a Neo-Classical spareness, clarity and lyricism with the structural rigorousness of the 12-tone school, died on Tuesday at Yaddo, the artists' colony near Saratoga Springs, N.Y., where she was composing a song cycle with chamber accompaniment. S
 Barbara Srenco Brier, a former world bridge champion, died yesterday in Allegheny University Hospitals Center City in Philadelphia. She was 73 and a resident of Miami. Her daughter, Bonnie Brier of Penn Valley, Pa., said she died of complications after heart surgery. In 1970
 Andrea Ungar Wilson, a former investment analyst, school administrator and labor arbitrator, died on August 11 at her summer home in Wainscott, N.Y. She was 73 and a resident of Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, her family said. A native of Vienna, she graduated from M
 Nanette Bearden, the founder and artistic director of the Nanette Bearden Contemporary Dance Theater, died on Aug. 10 at St. Vincent's Medical Center on Staten Island. She was 69 and had homes in Manhattan and on St. Martin in the French West Indies. The cause was a pulmonary emboli
 Catherine S. East, a little-known Government researcher who became the quiet inspiration for the National Organization for Women and a persistent goad to the nascent feminist movement, died on Saturday at Kendal at Ithaca, a retirement community in Ithaca, N.Y. She was 80. The cause
 Geulah Abrahams, a modern dancer and choreographer, died on Saturday at the Princeton Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. She was 65 and had homes in Princeton and New York. She died after a brief illness, her husband, Elihu Abrahams, said. Ms. Abrahams performed with the Paul
 Lillian Clark, a singer who performed with many stars of the big-band era and helped preserve the work of her husband, the composer and arranger Sy Oliver, died on Tuesday at her home in New York City. She was 70. The cause was cancer, according to a statement from the American Fede
 Virginia Corwin Brautigam, a scholar who helped pioneer the field of comparative religion and who traveled the world in search of knowledge about Eastern faiths, died on Monday at a retirement community in Newtown, Pa. She was 95. Dr. Corwin, as she was know to her students and coll
 Dr. Inge Komers Broverman, a psychologist known for her studies of persistent sexual stereotypes, died on Aug. 12 at Cottage Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif., where she was on the staff of the Fielding Institute. She was 65 and lived in nearby Carpinteria. The cause was cancer, her
 Myra Cohn Livingston, a poet, anthologist and teacher who wrote  more than 80 books of poetry for children, died on Friday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 70. The cause was cancer, said her son Joshua. As a freshman at Sarah Lawrence College, Mrs. Livingston submitted a 
 Doris Rosenblum, an indefatigable combatant in 40 years of struggle over housing, education and development on Manhattan's Upper West Side, died of cancer yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. She was 71. Ms. Rosenblum served for the last six years as the borough historian
 Helen Kushnick, who managed Jay Leno's rise from small-time comic to star of the ''Tonight'' show but was dismissed as the program's executive producer four months after Mr. Leno succeeded Johnny Carson as host, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said 
 Phyllis Pearsall, who created the famous ''A to Z'' maps of London by traversing more than 3,000 miles of roads throughout the city, died on Wednesday, her business, Geographers' A-Z Map Company, said today. She was 89 years old and lived in Shoreham, England. Mrs. Pearsall began pr
