 C. DeLores Tucker, an outspoken advocate for minority and women's rights who marched arm in arm with Martin Luther King Jr. at Selma, Ala., and campaigned against profanity-ridden rap music lyrics, died on Oct. 12 at a rehabilitation center in Philadelphia. She was 78. Peter Bailey,
 Dorothy Wegman Raphaelson, who 80 years ago in chiffon, silk, feathers and lace floated across Jazz Age stages as a Ziegfeld Girl and went on to outlive all but one of her fellow dancers, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 100. The cause was complications of a long-ter
 Ruth Clement Bond, an educator and civic leader who in the mid-1930's, in her first and only foray into quilt design, helped transform the American quilt from a utilitarian bedcovering into a work of avant-garde social commentary, died on Oct. 24 at her daughter's home in Manhattan. She was
 Catherine M. Pessino, a naturalist and educator who spent more than three decades introducing young people to wildlife in the most inhospitable of places -- the sidewalks, sewers and catchment basins of New York City -- died on Nov. 5 in Mount Vernon, N.Y. She was 80. Her death was 
 R. Gaynor McCown, the executive director of the Teaching Commission, a bipartisan advocacy group of leaders in business, government, philanthropy and education, died on Monday at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 45. Her death was announced by the group's founder
 Dorothy Law Nolte, a writer and family counselor whose ubiquitous inspirational poem, ''Children Learn What They Live,'' was photocopied, circulated, anthologized and affixed to refrigerator doors worldwide for nearly two decades before she claimed rightful authorship of it in the 1970's, d
 Ruth M. Siems, a retired home economist whose best-known innovation will make its appearance, welcome or otherwise, in millions of homes tomorrow, died on Nov. 13 at her home in Newburgh, Ind. Ms. Siems, an inventor of Stove Top stuffing, was 74. The cause was a heart attack, accord
 Sybil Shearer, an unpredictable individualist of modern dance, died on Thursday in Evanston, Ill. She was 93 and lived in Northbrook, Ill. The cause was a stroke, said Toby Nicholson of the Morrison-Shearer Foundation and Museum. A dancer of extraordinary agility, Ms. Sheare
 Constance Cummings, a versatile American actress who lived mostly in England and, in a more glamorous age of liners and ocean crossings, captivated audiences on both sides of the Atlantic in a long stage, screen and television career, died on Wednesday in a nursing home in Oxfordshire. She 
