 Vestal Goodman, a matriarch of gospel music whose influence ranged far beyond its traditional audience, died on Saturday in Celebration, Fla. She was 74. The Associated Press reported her death based on information from funeral home officials and her own Web site. The cause was not 
 Maxine Postal, the Suffolk County legislative leader who resigned her post this week because of failing health, died Thursday in a hospice in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., where she also had a home. She was 61 and lived in Amityville, N.Y. In announcing her resignation, which took effec
 Linda Stone Davidoff, a civic activist and champion of progressive social causes who ran Elizabeth Holtzman's unsuccessful campaign for the United States Senate in New York in 1980, died on Wednesday in Tucson, Ariz. She was 62. The cause was pneumonia related to acute myelogenous l
 Joan Delano Aiken, a prodigious weaver of tales for adults and children, died on Sunday at her home in Petworth, in West Sussex, England. She was 79. Her death was announced by Brandt & Hochman, her literary agents, in New York. Ms. Aiken's fiction could have a Dickensian at
 Fraydele Oysher, a star of the Yiddish theater and a member of a musical dynasty, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan, said her daughter, the singer and comedian Marilyn Michaels. She was 90. The daughter of a cantor, Ms. Oysher began her career as a child actress in the Yiddish
 Elizabeth Kenowsky Fisher, who with her husband, Zachary Fisher, helped bring the aircraft carrier Intrepid to its Hudson River berth as a floating museum, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90. Her death was announced yesterday by the Intrepid Foundation, which was fo
 Georgette Klinger, who 60 years ago mixed a secret ingredient or two with common sense and created a recipe for clear skin -- and a chain of centers to pamper it -- died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan, said her daughter, Kathryn Klinger Belton. She was 88. Miss Klinge
 Uta Hagen, the formidable and wide-ranging stage actress who electrified audiences with her Tony Award-winning performance as the ferocious, tart-tongued Martha in the original Broadway production of Edward Albee's ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?'' in 1962, died yesterday at her home in M
 Olivia Goldsmith, author of the popular comic novel ''The First Wives Club,'' died late yesterday afternoon at Lenox Hill Hospital from complications related to anesthesia, said her literary agent, Nicholas Ellison. She was 54. On Wednesday she entered the Manhattan Eye, Ear and Thr
 Mary Jean Crenshaw Tully, a founding strategist of modern feminism and former president of the National Organization for Women's Legal Defense and Education Fund, died on Dec. 27 at White Plains Hospital. She was 78 and lived in Armonk, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, said her da
 Kiharu Nakamura, a geisha in Tokyo in the 1930's who wrote a popular memoir and taught sopranos how to portray the most famous geisha in fiction, Madama Butterfly, died on Jan. 5 at her home in Jackson Heights, Queens. She was 90. The report of her death came from Artemis Willis, wh
 Therese Thau Heyman, a curator of photographs, graphic art and drawings and an expert on American photographic history, died Friday in Berkeley, Calif. She was 74. The cause was pneumonia, said John Cummings, associate chancellor at the University of California, Berkeley, where I. M
 Dr. Harriet B. Braiker, a clinical psychologist and self-help author whose books touched on identity, resolving stress and the grief occasioned by the World Trade Center attacks, died on Jan. 10 at Huntington Memorial Hospital in Pasadena, Calif. She was 55. The cause was respirator
 Ann Miller, the long-legged tap-dancer with the lacquered raven hair and Nefertiti eye makeup whose athleticism made her a staple of big-screen musicals in the 1940's and 50's, died on Thursday at a Los Angeles hospital. She was believed to be about 80. The cause was lung cancer, Es
 Beatrice Winde, a character actress of stage, film and television, died on Jan. 3 at her home on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, two days short of her 80th birthday. The cause was cancer, her family said. Ms. Winde received a Tony nomination for her Broadway debut in 1972,
 Dr. Olga Ladyzhenskaya, a mathematician whose work with differential equations contributed to advances in the study of fluid dynamics in areas like weather forecasting, oceanography, aerodynamics and cardiovascular science, died on Jan. 12 in St. Petersburg, Russia. She was 81. The 
 Elma Lewis, a nationally recognized arts educator who was among the first people to be awarded a MacArthur Fellowship, died on Jan. 1 at her home in Roxbury, the Boston neighborhood. She was 82. The cause was complications of diabetes, said Sarah-Ann Shaw, a former student. 
 Fanny Blankers-Koen, a Dutch housewife who emulated her hero, Jesse Owens, and won four gold medals in track and field in one Olympics -- the only woman to do so -- died yesterday in Amsterdam. She was 85. The International Association of Athletics Federations, which oversees track 
 Alexandra Ripley, a writer of historical fiction who was best known for ''Scarlett,'' the officially sanctioned sequel to ''Gone With the Wind,'' died on Jan. 10 at her home in Richmond, Va. She was 70. Her daughter, Elizabeth Lyon Ripley, told The Associated Press that death result
 Charlotte Zwerin, a documentary filmmaker known for insightful depictions of visual and performing artists like Christo, Willem de Kooning, Ella Fitzgerald and Thelonious Monk, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 72. The cause was lung cancer, her niece Lisa Tesone sa
 Dr. Gertie F. Marx, a New York anesthesiologist who helped advance the use of modern epidural injections that ease women's pain during childbirth, died on Sunday at the Schervier Nursing Care Center in the Bronx, according to Dr. Jill M. Rabin, a friend and colleague. Dr. Marx was 91.      
 Janet Frame, whose vividly romantic explorations of madness and language in novels, poetry and autobiography propelled her to worldwide attention, died yesterday in Dunedin, New Zealand. She was 79. Dunedin Hospital said the cause was acute leukemia, The Associated Press reported.  
