 Alice Kornegay, a powerful community advocate in East Harlem for the better part of 40 years, died on Tuesday at North General Hospital.  She was 65. According to Barbara Brown, an adopted daughter, Mrs. Kornegay had a heart attack while attending a board meeting of an addicts rehab
 Rosaura Revueltas, the Mexican actress who starred in the politically inflammatory film "Salt of the Earth," died on Tuesday at her home in Cuernavaca, just south of Mexico City. She was 86. In "Salt of the Earth" (1954), Ms. Revueltas played the starring role of Esperanza Quintero,
 Anne Spivey Woodward, a museum director and former administrator of Brandywine Battlefield Park in Pennsylvania, died on Tuesday at Chester County Hospital in West Chester, Pa. A West Chester resident, she was 47. The cause was breast cancer, her family said. Born in Decatur
 Angel Wallenda, who defied cancer by walking the high wire on an artificial limb after her right leg was amputated just below the knee, died yesterday at Robert Packer Hospital in Sayre, Pa. Ms. Wallenda was 28, and lived in Mansfield, Pa., about 25 miles southwest of Elmira, N.Y. T
 Dr. Rachel Dunaway Cox, an emeritus professor of education and psychology at  Bryn Mawr College who was a leader in the field of child development, died on April 24 at the Quadrangle, a retirement village in Haverford, Pa. She was 92. She retired in 1971 after 27 years on the facult
 Hedwig Adele van Ameringen, a philanthropist who was a major supporter of the New York Philharmonic, died on April 27 at her home in Manhattan. She was 95. Mrs. van Ameringen, born Hedwig Pfaltz in Newark, first heard the Philharmonic as a child at Carnegie Hall and became the orche
 Janet A. Sloane, a fashion director who helped bring haute couture headware from Europe to upscale American stores, died on April 20 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 82. Beginning in the early 1940's, Ms. Sloane was a stylist, scout and vice president of Madc
 Patsy Montana, whose yodeling-cowgirl songs made her a pioneer in country music, died on Friday at her home in San Jacinto, Calif., The Associated Press reported. She was 81. Ms. Montana had her biggest hit, "I Want to Be a Cowboy's Sweetheart," in 1935, the first million-selling hi
 She was just 17 when she climbed on the shoulders of Karl Wallenda in the debut performance of the Wallenda pyramid in Madison Square Garden in 1928. The  act brought the audience to its feet and stopped the Greatest Show on Earth for 11 minutes. Helen Kreis Wallenda, who formed the
 Honor R. Holland, who served as a British Army officer with the future Queen  in World War II and as a high Government official in Imperial Ethiopia, died last Monday in Saratoga Hospital in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. She was 79 and lived  in Saratoga Springs. The cause was pneumonia, s
 Luana Patten, a child actress in the 1940's who appeared in the Walt Disney films "Song of the South" and "So Dear to My Heart," died on May 1. She was 57. The cause was respiratory failure, The Associated Press reported. Ms. Patten made her movie debut at the age of 8, oppo
 Bernice Hanft Shepard, a professional social worker who founded a private-care agency for the home-bound and elderly in Manhattan, died on Monday  at her home on the Upper East Side. She was 74. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said a friend, Betsy Flagler. Ms. Shepard was 
 Katharine Gladys Kaufman Smith, a philanthropist and longtime leader of civil rights and peace groups on Long Island, died on May 4 at her home in Riverdale,  Md. She was 104. Mrs. Smith was so active in antiwar activities during the Vietnam War that peace groups had the run of her 
 Dr. Henriette R. Klein, clinical professor emeritus of psychiatry at Columbia University and a pioneer in the study of childhood schizophrenia, died on May 11 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 94. She researched, taught and practiced psychiatry for six decades
 Pamela R. Berdan, a landscape designer responsible for many gardens in the New York area, died on May 15 at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 91. The cause was cancer, said a friend, Deborah Peterson. Ms. Berdan designed her best-known gardens in Greenwich Village, amon
 Irma Badillo, an adviser to Governors Mario M. Cuomo and Hugh L. Carey, died  yesterday at the Cabrini Hospital Hospice in Manhattan. Mrs. Badillo, who lived  in the Riverdale section of the Bronx until she was transferred to the hospice this month, was 72. She had suffered from Alz
 Olga Marie Madar, who rose to the top echelon in the United Automobile Workers and fought for women's rights in the labor movement, died on Thursday at her home in Detroit. She was 80. The cause was heart failure, the union said. Ms. Madar achieved several firsts for women i
 Betty Meredith-Jones, a dance educator and a pioneer in the field of movement rehabilitation and community dance in Britain, died last Sunday at her home in Rhosili, Wales. She was 87. Ms. Meredith-Jones, born in Wales in 1908, trained as a young dancer with Rudolf Laban, a movement
 Frances L. Loeb, who spent a dozen years as New York City's liaison to its vast corps of foreign diplomats and a lifetime maintaining a family tradition of philanthropy, died on Friday at her home on Park Avenue. Mrs. Loeb, who also had homes in Purchase, N.Y., and Lyford Cay, Nassau, the B
 Josephine DeNatale Butler, a dance educator, historian and author, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 85. Mrs. Butler and her husband, Albert Butler, wrote "The Encyclopedia of Social Dance." She was also the founder and president of the Institute for Social Dance Stu
 Mary Perot Nichols, the strong-willed former head of the television and radio stations operated by New York City, and a former columnist and city editor of The Village Voice, died yesterday in the hospice of the Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 69. She died of pancreatic
 Shelley List, a novelist and a producer of the television series "Cagney and  Lacey," died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 65 and lived in Venice, Calif. The cause was ovarian cancer, said her husband, Jonathan Estrin, who was also her longtime business partner. 
 Bettina Bancroft, a former director of Dow Jones & Company, which publishes The Wall Street Journal and Barron's magazine, died on Tuesday, at her Los Angeles home. Ms. Bancroft, who was 55, also had a residence in Manhattan, where she was involved in foundation work. The cause was 
 Mary Rosamond Haas, a professor of linguistics whose interests ranged from American Indian languages that were dying to the prehistory of languages and modern Thai, died on May 17 at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 86. She suffered a long illness, according to the University of
 Arona Lipman McHugh, the author of four novels, two of them set in her native Boston, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Staten Island. She  was 71 and lived in the West Brighton section. The cause was cardiac arrest, her family said. Mrs. McHugh's first no
 Marion Sands Kirk, a supporter of the arts in New York, died on May 17 at the Auburn Manor nursing home in Washington Court House, Ohio, where she had lived for the last decade. She was 92. From 1953 to 1968, Mrs. Kirk, the wife of a former Columbia University president, Dr. Grayson
 Constance Sullivan Carden, who helped plan Alice Tully Hall and was on the boards of the New York Philharmonic Orchestra and the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, died on Thursday at her Manhattan home. She was 86. Mrs. Carden was born in Manhattan, a daughter of Walter S. Su
 Dorothy Hyson, a Chicago-born stage and screen actress of the 1930's and 40's who was famed for her beauty, died on Thursday in a London hospital. She was 81  and had moved to London with her parents as a child. She had been in declining health after suffering a stroke, The Times of
 Eugenia Price, who turned a chance visit to coastal Georgia into a career as  the South's most popular writer of antebellum romantic fiction, died on Tuesday  at a hospital in Brunswick, Ga., not far from her home in St. Simons, the island she made famous through a series of novels. She was
 Tamara Toumanova, a child-prodigy ballerina of the 1930's who became familiar to American audiences as one of the most glamorous stars of 20th-century dance,  died on Wednesday at the Santa Monica Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 77 and lived in Beverly Hills. She died after
