 Diana Adler, a New York fashion designer for almost 40 years, died yesterday morning at her home in Manhattan. She was 73 years old. Ms. Adler died as the result of a heart ailment, said her daughter, Pamela Adler Golden of Goldens Bridge, N.Y. Ms. Adler, who joined George C
 Mary Frances Rice, known as Sister Berenice of the Order of St. Ursula, a retired faculty member and trustee of the College of New Rochelle, died on Sunday at the Marian Residence in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 89 years old. Sister Berenice was a member of the Ursuline Convent of St.
 Felicja Blumental, a Polish-born Brazilian pianist who was known for her performances of 19th-century rarities and music by contemporary composers, died on Tuesday in Tel Aviv, where she was attending a recital by her daughter, Annette Celine Blumental, a soprano. She was 80 years old and l
 Mary Virginia Gaver, who championed the cause of school libraries in America, died Tuesday at the Roman Eagle Memorial Home in Danville, Va. She was 85 years old and died of Parkinson's disease, her family said. Miss Gaver helped develop national school library standards in 1960 and
 Rear Adm. Grace Murray Hopper, retired, a mathematician and pioneer in data processing who was a legendary figure among both computer scientists and industry executives, died New Year's Day at her home in Arlington, Va. Admiral Hopper, who was 85 years old, had been in ill health re
 Dame Judith Anderson, who electrified Broadway audiences in 1947 with her savage performance of the title role in "Medea" and was a memorably sinister housekeeper in the 1940 film "Rebecca," died yesterday at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 93 years old. The cause of death
 Shirley Jenkins, a noted social work researcher, author and educator, died on Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 72 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of cancer, her family said. Dr. Jenkins wrote 10 books and was the founding director of the Center for
 Gertrude Shurr, who performed in the 1920's and 30's with such pioneering American modern dance companies as Denishawn, the Humphrey-Weidman Concert Company and the early Martha Graham company, died on Thursday at her home in Tucson, Ariz. She was 88 years old. She died of congestiv
 Cecile L. Naumburg, a philanthropist and former board member of Carnegie Hall and other cultural organizations, died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital.  Mrs. Naumburg was 94 years old and lived in Manhattan. Her death was caused by respiratory failure, her family said. She wa
 Mary Josephine Blair, a prominent figure in New York society for many years, died on Dec. 29 at her home in Hobe Sound, Fla. She was 75 years old. She died of cancer, said her daughter, Mary McFadden, the fashion designer. A skilled pianist, Mrs. Blair served on the boards o
 Cecile L. Naumburg, a philanthropist and former board member of Carnegie Hall and other cultural organizations, died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital.  Mrs. Naumburg was 94 years old and lived in Manhattan. Her death was caused by respiratory failure, her family said. She wa
 Martha Barber Montgomery, assistant vice president for program evaluation at Drexel University in Philadelphia, died Saturday at Presbyterian Hospital in Philadelphia. She was 62 years old.. She died of cancer, university officials said. Dr. Montgomery, who held a Ph.D. in p
 Gretchen Householder Poston, the White House social secretary in the Carter Administration, died Monday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. She was 59 years old and lived in Washington. She died of breast cancer, her family said. Mrs. Poston, who was born in Min
 Mary Louise Gale Hafford, a violinist, conductor and music teacher, died on Friday at Waterview Hills Nursing Center in Purdy's, N.Y. She was 89 years old. She died of a stroke, said her granddaughter Carol Bruzzese of Mount Vernon, N.Y. Mrs. Hafford was the concert mistress
 Ana Inez Astor, the former wife of Sir John Jacob Astor, died Friday at her home in London. She was 73 years old. Her family said she had died of natural causes but did not name a specific ailment. Mrs. Astor worked in theatrical costume and set design and was a contributing
 Catherine Viviano, an art dealer and consultant in Manhattan for many years, died on Tuesday at Hunterdon Medical Center in Flemington, N.J. She was 92 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Little York, N.J. She died of a stroke, said her sister Margaret, of Manhattan. Fr
 Sue Seton, a vocal coach for many stage and film stars, died on Dec. 30 at her home in Manhattan. She was 85 years old. She died of natural causes, said her son, Joseph Seton, of New York City. Among the singers Mrs. Seton coached were Bette Midler, Lainie Kazan and Abbe Lan
 Linda L. Ellenbogen, who was the first woman lawyer in the law department of the New York State Supreme Court in Westchester County, died on Thursday at Rosary Hill Nursing Home in Hawthorne, N.Y. She was 43 years old and a resident of White Plains. She died of a brain tumor, her fa
 Dora R. Inselbuch, a longtime national board member of Hadassah, the women's Zionist and charitable organization, died on Thursday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale. She was 93 years old and had lived in Manhattan until eight years ago. Her family said she died of natural
 Lucile Powell Singleton, one of the first female executives at CBS Radio, died last Wednesday at the South Roanoke Nursing Home in Virginia. She was 98 years old. She died of influenza, said her nephew, George Lightfoot Singleton of Birmingham, Ala. Miss Singleton joined CBS
 Marion Margery Scranton Isaacs, who was long active in Pennsylvania civic affairs and Republican politics, died on Thursday at the Scranton family home in Hobe Sound, Fla. She was 83 years old and lived in Dalton, Pa. Her family said she had a stroke on Dec. 25 and never recovered. 
 Evelyn Tennyson Openhym, a book collector and benefactor of Alfred University in western New York, died on Jan. 13 at her home in Wellsville, N.Y. She was 89 years old. She died of cancer, said Edward G. Coll Jr., president of the university, where she was a trustee. Mrs. Op
 Dr. Eileen Halsey Pike, a professor emeritus of microbiology at New York Medical College in Valhalla, N.Y., died on Jan. 7 at the Ruth Taylor Institute, a nursing home in Mount Pleasant, N.Y. She was 73 years old and lived in White Plains. The cause of death was listed as emphysema,
 Elsie May Gross Herzog, an interior designer for more than 50 years, died yesterday at her home in Larchmont, N.Y. She died of cancer, her family said. Her age was not given. Working under the business name of Elsie May Gross Interiors, she specialized in designing for resid
 Beatrice I. Lerner, a longtime Democratic party worker and government aide in New Jersey and a leader in Jewish, cultural and charitable causes, died on Monday at the Cedar Grove Manor Convalescent Home in Cedar Grove, N.J. She was 76 years old and was a resident of South Orange, N.J.      
 Esther Annenberg Simon, a painter and supporter of the arts, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90 years old. Mrs. Simon died of heart failure, her family said. She was a former board member of Carnegie Hall and raised money for the Metropolitan Museum of Art, 
 Anne Frankenthaler Kohn, a retired educator and travel agent, died on Thursday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 68 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of cancer, her family said. Mrs. Kohn was born in Manhattan and graduated from the Calhoun School and Vassar College
 Bettina Louise Chow, an internationally acclaimed model, restaurateur, jewelry designer, sculptor and fashion collector, died on Friday at her home in Pacific Palisades, Calif. She was 41 years old. Her death resulted from complications of AIDS, her family said. She worked with AIDS
 Bettina Louise Chow, an internationally acclaimed model, restaurateur, jewelry designer, sculptor and fashion collector, died on Friday at her home in Pacific Palisades, Calif. She was 41 years old. Her death resulted from complications of AIDS, her family said. She had talked openl
 Elizabeth Ogg Walters, the author of many public affairs studies, died on Jan. 14 at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of pneumonia, after having been hit on Dec. 1 by a bus near her Fifth Avenue residence, said Arnold Allentuch,
 Sally Mugabe, an anti-colonialist and the wife of President Robert Mugabe, died Monday. She was 60 years old and had suffered from a kidney disease, the Government announced. Mrs. Mugabe, who was born in Ghana, met Mr. Mugabe when he was teaching there in the 1950's. They married in
 Yvonne Bryceland, who was best known for her performances in the anti-apartheid plays of her fellow South African Athol Fugard, died on Jan. 13 at Royal Free Hospital in London. She was 66 years old. She died of bronchial pneumonia as a result of cancer, said Brian Astbury, her husb
 Elizabeth Coykendall Chase, a former campaign adviser to United States Senator Jacob K. Javits, died on Sunday at Stamford Hospital in Connecticut. She was 77 years old and lived in Stamford. Mrs. Chase, a writer and public relations specialist, counseled Mr. Javits in his first suc
 Francesca Primus, a writer and theater critic, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 45 years old. She died of lung cancer, said her brother, the actor Barry Primus. Ms. Primus, who was born in New York City and whose full name was Ronnie Francesca Primus, was a c
 Wanda Mary Jablonski, an expert on the international oil industry and founder of the Petroleum Intelligence Weekly newsletter, died on Tuesday at New York Hospital. She was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of heart failure, said Edward L. Morse, the newsletter's publish
