 Betty Roche, a singer who performed with Duke Ellington in the 1940's and 50's and was noted for her strong, dramatic delivery of blues material, died on Feb. 16 at the Mainland Manor Nursing and Rehabilitation Center in Pleasantville, N.J. She  was 81. ''She had a soul inflection i
 Judge Mary Johnson Lowe, a Federal judge in the Southern District of New York who was known for her rulings in discrimination cases, died  Saturday at a hospital in Las Vegas, Nev. She was 74 and had homes in the Bronx and Las Vegas. The cause was heart failure, and she had been in 
 Dusty Springfield, the smoky-voiced English torch singer whose interpretations of pop ballads were suffused with a heartbroken wistfulness, died on Tuesday at her home in Henley-on-Thames, near Oxford, west of London. She was 59. The cause was breast cancer, said her agent, Paul Fen
 Mathilda Terner, who engaged in philanthropy with her industrialist husband, Emmanuel, died on Wednesday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 88 and also maintained a home in Oakhurst, N.J. Together Mrs. Terner and her late husband made possible the Mathilda and Emmanuel M. Terne
 Harriet M. Waddy, one of the two highest-ranking black officers in the Women's Army Corps in World War II and its wartime adviser on racial issues, died on Feb. 21 in Las Vegas, Nev. She was 94. In April 1943, First Officer Harriet West, as Harriet Waddy was then known, made a radio
 Lois Wann, an oboist who played in several American orchestras and taught at the Juilliard School and the Mannes College of Music, died on Feb. 23 at her home in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 87. Ms. Wann who was born in Monticello, Minn., in 1912, studied the oboe and piano as a child i
 Ann Corio, the auburn-haired, green-eyed queen of burlesque whose long-running show, ''This Was Burlesque,'' kept alive the art of strippers and the comedy of baggy-pants clowns in the age of the X-rated film, died on March 1 at Englewood Hospital in Englewood, N.J. Ms. Corio, a resident of
 Barbara Pfeffer, a photojournalist whose pictures appeared in Life, People, Town and Country and other magazines, died March 3 in her Manhattan home. She was 65. The cause was lung cancer, said her sister, Doris Pfeffer of Manhattan. Ms. Pfeffer, a New York City native, grad
 Helen Priest Rogers, an authority on dance notation, a co-founder of the Dance Notation Bureau and a pioneer in the use of film to preserve choreography, died on Mar. 2 at Brattleboro Memorial Hospital in Brattleboro, Vt. She was 85 and lived in West Brattleboro. Ms. Rogers, who stu
 Peggy Cass, a brassy-voiced comedian best known for her portrayal of the pregnant, unwed secretary in ''Auntie Mame,'' died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan. She was 74 and had homes in Manhattan and Westhampton, N.Y. The cause was heart failure, Eugene Fe
 Bidu Sayao, a Brazilian soprano whose gossamer voice and vivacious personality made her one of the most popular stars of the Metropolitan Opera from the late 1930's through the 40's, died yesterday at Penobscot Bay Medical Center in Rockport, Me. She was 94 and lived in Lincolnville, Me.   
 Muriel Bentley, an early member of Ballet Theater (now American Ballet Theater) who was praised for her comic gifts and witty dancing, died on Monday at the Kaiser Permanente Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. She was 82 and lived in Los Angeles. Ms. Bentley was probably best known 
 Muriel Bentley, an early member of Ballet Theater (now American Ballet Theater) who was praised for her comic gifts and witty dancing, died on March 8 at the Kaiser Permanente Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. She was 82 and lived in Los Angeles. Ms. Bentley was probably best known
 Vivian Hallinan, the striking matriarch of one of San Francisco's best-known and most colorful political families, died on Tuesday at a granddaughter's home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 88. Mrs. Hallinan, the widow of Vincent Hallinan, a fiery socialist lawyer who died in 1995, made 
 DEBBIE BOYLAN is a dinosaur and proud of it, the owner of an independent bookstore in Westchester County who is not persuaded that she wants to go head-to-head with Barnes & Noble and Amazon.com. Her customers at Good Yarns in Hastings-on-Hudson are more than happy to bring their ow
 Marian Searchinger, a New York theatrical agent, died on Monday at a convalescent home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 81. Ms. Searchinger's clients included such actors as Ossie Davis, Ruby Dee and Jane Alexander, the television writer Ernest Kinoy and the directors Franklin Schaf
 Elizabeth Huckaby, who as a vice principal shepherded nine black students through the tumultuous integration of Central High School in Little Rock, Ark., in 1957, died on March 18 in Little Rock. Mrs. Huckaby, whose memoir, ''Crisis at Central High,'' inspired a 1981 television movi
 Dr. Hildegard Elizabeth Peplau, a nursing educator who played a major role in developing the theory and practice of psychiatric and mental health nursing, died on March 17 at her home in Sherman Oaks, Calif. She was 89. Dr. Peplau wrote a seminal text, ''Interpersonal Relations in N
 Lucienne Bloch, an acclaimed muralist whose most significant contribution to art may have been a series of surreptitious photographs she took in 1933, died on March 13 at her home in Gualala, Calif. She was 90. She was the photographer whose sneak pictures taken behind enemy lines o
 Her hair is boyishly cropped, her clothes are casual, and while riding her bike around Cape Cod she could pass as a college freshman. But Dr. Lene Vestergaard Hau is no freshman. A teacher at Harvard University and an accomplished experimenter, she has gained a formidable reputation
