 Belinda Wright, a British ballerina who toured the world and excelled in the 19th-century Romantic and classical repertory, died on Sunday in Zurich, Switzerland. She was 78. The cause was a coronary ailment, said J. David Enright IV, a spokesman for her family. Ms. Wright a
 María Julia Hernández, a prominent human rights advocate who braved death squads to speak for the victims of the long civil war in El Salvador, died Friday in San Salvador, the capital. She was 68. The cause was a heart attack, said her aides at Tutela Legal, the human rights offi
 Diane Rothschild, an advertising executive and copywriter who headed her own firm and created pithy and amusing ad campaigns, including some for the Range Rover off-road vehicle and J&B Scotch, died Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 63. The cause was lung cancer, her husban
 Elizabeth Kals Reilley, a horticultural librarian, scholar and book collector who amassed a major private collection of rare books on landscape design, died on March 29 at her home in Muttontown, N.Y. She was 99. Her death was announced by the New York Botanical Garden, to which in 
 Elizabeth Jolley, an Australian writer who came to wide public attention only late in life, but whose distinctive literary voice and eccentric literary preoccupations eventually made her one of her country's most acclaimed novelists, died in Perth on Feb. 13. She was 83. Ms. Jolley'
 Dakota Staton, a highly respected jazz and blues singer known from the 1950s on for her bright, trumpetlike sound and tough, sassy style, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 76 and had lived in New York for many years. Sharynn Harper, a spokeswoman for Ms. Staton's family, confirm
 Mimi Lerner, an internationally renowned mezzo-soprano and educator who came to the operatic stage late in life, died on March 29 in Pittsburgh. She was 61. The cause was complications of a heart tumor diagnosed 12 years ago, said her husband, Martin. Ms. Lerner's career as 
 Pat Buckley, for decades a leading player on Manhattan's social and charity benefit circuit, died yesterday in Stamford, Conn. Mrs. Buckley, the wife of William F. Buckley Jr., the writer, editor and television commentator, was 80. She died of an infection after a long illness, acco
 Mary D. Crisp, whose stalwart advocacy of feminism and abortion rights as national co-chairman of the Republican Party led to her ouster in 1980 and a sharp rebuke from the party's presidential candidate, Ronald Reagan, died on March 24 at her home in Phoenix. She was 83. Ms. Crisp'
 Mollie Orshansky, a statistician and economist who in the 1960s developed the federal poverty line, a measurement that shaped decades of social policy and welfare programs, died Dec. 18 at her home in Manhattan, a family member said yesterday. She was 91. The cause was cardiopulmona
 Kitty Carlisle Hart, a doyenne of New York culture and society and a perennial entertainer who appeared on Broadway and in films and was still singing on the stage as recently as last fall, well into her 10th decade, died Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 96. The cause was h
 Marie M. Clay, an internationally known educator who developed a remedial reading program known as Reading Recovery, which has been used with millions of children around the world, died last Friday in Auckland, New Zealand. She was 81 and lived in Auckland. Ms. Clay died after a bri
 Natalia Clare, a member of both of the influential Ballets Russes troupes of the 1940s and '50s and the founder of a prominent Los Angeles ballet school, died April 8 at her residence in Torrance, Calif. She was 87. The cause was complications of a stroke, said her son, Alex Tupine,
 Helen Robson Walton, whose husband, Sam Walton, founded Wal-Mart Stores and relied on her for advice, died on Thursday at her home in Bentonville, Ark. She was 87. Ms. Walton died of natural causes, said Mona Williams, a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart. Sam Walton is said to have c
 E. Dorrit Hoffleit, an astronomer who studied the features of stars visible to the naked eye, edited a standard reference on them and was probably the oldest working scientist in her field, died on April 9 at her home in New Haven. She was 100. Dr. Hoffleit's death was confirmed by 
 Anne Pitoniak, who began her stage career in late middle age, but received a Tony nomination for her Broadway debut, in '' 'night, Mother,'' and had an enduring career playing strong-willed older women, died on Sunday at home in Manhattan. She was 85. The cause was complications of 
 Emily W. Sunstein, an independent scholar known for writing biographies of an unconventional mother and her unconventional daughter -- Mary Wollstonecraft and Mary Shelley -- died on Saturday in Philadelphia. She was 82 and had lived in Philadelphia for many years. The cause was com
 Polly Hill, a horticulturist who stretched the boundaries of plant hardiness by gathering seeds from around the world, especially those of trees and shrubs that thrive in warmer climates, and studying which would sprout and then endure New England winters, died on Wednesday at her home in H
