 Abigail Adams Eliot, a social worker who became a nationally known authority on early childhood education, died Thursday at the New England Deaconess Home, a nursing home in Concord, Mass. She had celebrated her 100th birthday on Oct. 9. She died of a heart attack, said Jay Chrepta,
 Elizabeth Meusebach Carrington, who did volunteer work for a variety of charitable organizations, died yesterday at her Upper East Side home. She was 77 years old. She died of cancer of the esophagus, said a daughter, Judith C. Green of Manhattan. At the time of her death Mr
 Alice I. Bryan, a psychologist who fostered the advancement of women in her profession and who led a major study on the role of libraries, died on Friday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. She was 90 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of leukemia, her relatives said. Her de
 Hanya Holm, a major choreographer of modern dance and Broadway musicals, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 99 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of pneumonia, said Heidi Holm, her daughter-in-law. To theatergoers, Miss Holm was known as t
 Catharine A. Yard, president of the American Timber Company, died on Thursday at the Jersey Shore Medical Center in Neptune, N.J. She was 48 years old and lived in Sea Girt. Ms. Yard died of pneumonia, said Michael Cherenson, a family spokesman. In 1990 Ms. Yard became presi
 Barbara Reach, a former mayoral assistant in New York City and a housing and city planning expert, died on Sunday at New York Hospital. She was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of kidney failure, said a friend, Eleanor Stier, who lived with her. Ms. Reach was bo
 Sylvia Friedlander Robins, a theater and television producer, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 74 years old. She died of natural causes, said her husband, Sy R. Robins. Mrs. Robins's credits include "Bathsheba," a 1947 play that featured the actor James Mas
 Merline Foster, a health care worker and advocate for AIDS patients, died on Tuesday at her home in Boston. She was 46 years old. She died of complications from hepatitis and AIDS, her family said. Ms. Foster had said she acquired the diseases in a medical accident involving
 Norma K. Regan, a high school teacher and sculptor, died on Tuesday in a convalescent home in West Hartford, Conn. She was 95 years old and had been a longtime resident of Hartford. She died of pneumonia, said a spokesman for the DellaVeccia Funeral Home in Southington, Conn.       
 Regina Carrol, an actress who starred in many cult horror movies, died on Nov. 4 in St. George, Utah. She was 49 years old and had homes in St. George and in Palm Springs, Calif. She died of cancer, said her husband, Al Adamson, a film director. Miss Carrol, whose name was o
 Gertrude Farber Koskoff, a three-term Representative in the Connecticut General Assembly and former member of the State Board of Parole, died on Thursday at her home in Plainville, Conn. She was 81 years old. She died of complications from pancreatic cancer, said her son, David.    
 Jane Wasey, a sculptor known for her carvings of animals, died on Thursday at Penobscot Bay Medical Center in Glen Cove, Me. She was 80 years old and lived in Lincolnville, Me. Ms. Wasey died of cancer, said Priscilla Pattison, an artist and longtime friend. Ms. Wasey's work
 Dr. Gloria Glikin Fromm, a professor of English at the University of Illinois in Chicago, died Nov. 12 at Governors Park, a nursing home and rehabilitation center in Barrington, Ill. She was 61 years old and lived in North Barrington. She died of complications from lung-cancer, said
 Janice Gilbert Fulton, a bridge expert and game-show personality in the early days of television, was presumed dead after a boating accident last week near her home about 150 miles north of Haiti, her lawyer said yesterday. The lawyer, Ian Miller, said that Mrs. Fulton's husband, Da
 Dorothy Kirsten, an American lyric soprano who sang leading roles at the Metropolitan Opera for 30 years and was particularly renowned for her performances of Puccini heroines, died yesterday morning at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. She was 82 years old and lived in Los Angele
 Dr. Eleanor P. Spencer, a scholar of medieval art, died on Tuesday at Le Vieux Chateau, a retirement home near Paris. She was 97 years old. Dr. Spencer was the first woman to receive the Sachs Fellowship for Research in the Fine Arts from Harvard University, which enabled her to ear
 Hadassah, a pioneer of Israeli and Indian dancing in America, died yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital. She was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of cancer, said her husband, Milton Epstein. Hadassah, who was born in Jerusalem and whose original name was Hadassah Sp
 Audre Lorde, a black feminist writer who became the poet laureate of New York State in 1991, died on Tuesday at her home on St. Croix. She was 58 years old. She died of liver cancer, said a friend, Blanche Cook. Ms. Lorde had had cancer for 14 years and in 1980 wrote "The Ca
 Enid Schechter, who served as the executive assistant to four Speakers of the New York State Assembly in the Legislature's New York City office, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 62 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died after a brief illness, he
 Diana Hirsh, an editor and author, died on Nov. 14 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York in Manhattan. She was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan. Miss Hirsh died of pneumonia, said her sister, Hadassah Hirsh of Manhattan, who reported her death yesterday.       
 Ilse Sass, a pianist and voice teacher, died on Wednesday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. She was 84 years old and lived in New York City She died of a pulmonary embolism, said her sister, Leine Seligmann. Miss Sass was born in Cologne, Germany, and studied at the music 
 Vanessa S. Lynn, a New York gallery director who wrote about contemporary American crafts, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center. She was 42 years old and lived in Valley Stream, L.I. The cause of death was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Lynn held a B.A. degree
 Jacqueline K. Eubanks, a college librarian, an editor and a proponent of multicultural education, died on Thursday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 54 years old and lived in Brooklyn. She died of complications from AIDS, said friends and colleagues at the library at B
 Joann Thompson, a New York City health-care advocate and an advocate for social and religious causes, died on Thursday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. She was 59 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died after a short illness, friends said. Ms. Thompso
 Jacqueline K. Eubanks, a college librarian, an editor and a proponent of multicultural education, died on Thursday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 54 years old and lived in Brooklyn. She died of complications from AIDS, said friends and colleagues at the library at B
 Joann Thompson, a New York City health-care advocate and an advocate for social and religious causes, died on Thursday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. She was 59 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died after a short illness, friends said. Ms. Thompso
 Carol Weil Haussamen, a New York City philanthropist, hostess and Democratic fund-raiser, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 71 years old. Her family said she died of cancer of the esophagus. Mrs. Haussamen, a real-estate heiress, was born in Manhattan, the dau
 Paula Antoinette Neill, owner of And Why Not?, a clothing boutique in Fort Greene, Brooklyn, died on Friday after she was struck by a commuter train at the Baldwin Station of the Long Island Rail Road. She was 37 years old and lived in Baldwin, L.I. Ms. Neill, a former dietitian, fo
 Charlotte Jones, an actress who appeared in plays and musicals on and Off Broadway and in regional theater, died on Nov. 6 at Community Medical Center in Toms River, N.J. She was 76 years old and lived in Toms River. Her death was reported yesterday by her husband, Matteo Bocchino, 
 Ellen Furman, a founding member and a past president of the New York City chapter of the Juvenile Diabetes Foundation, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 62 years old. Mrs. Furman died of complications of diabetes, said her family, which reported her death yesterday. 
 Allene Z. Roach, a journalist and teacher whose struggle with Alzheimer's disease was described in a 1985 book by one of her daughters, died on Friday at the Fairfield Division of the Hebrew Home for the Aged in Riverdale, the Bronx. She was 65 years old. She died of Alzheimer's dis
