 Ellin Hobbins Mitchell, a private dealer in medieval and Renaissance art and Old Master drawings, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 57. Mrs. Mitchell, who had been suffering from brain lymphoma, was hit by a car early last month, said her husband, Jan, the New York b
 Nancy Lyman Roelker, a retired professor of European history at Boston University, died Saturday at her home in East Greenwich, R.I. She was 78. Dr. Roelker was best known for her work on 16th-century France. Her books included "The Paris of Henry of Navarre, as Seen by Pierre de l'
 Adele Earnest, one of the founders of the Museum of American Folk Art, died on Saturday in a nursing home in Mount Vernon, Wash. She was 92. In 1961 Mrs. Earnest was one of a group of six founding trustees of the museum and helped its early development at 2 Lincoln Square in Manhatt
 Florence Bibo Alexander, a Manhattan agent for illustrators of children's books for many years, died on Tuesday at the New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 89. The cause was pneumonia, said a friend, Meredith Charpentier. Mrs. Alexander began her career i
 Helen Marshall, an American painter and art teacher, died on Nov. 24 at her home in Lavenham, Sussex, England. She was 88. Mrs. Marshall, who was born in New York City, studied art here and then in Paris, where she began teaching. She later taught at the Parsons School in New York C
 Susan Resnick Fisher, a family therapist who specialized in stepfamily problems, died yesterday at her Manhattan home after a long illness. She was 50 and practiced in Manhattan and Mount Kisco, N. Y. Mrs. Fisher was a founder of Yeshiva University's Albert Einstein College of Medic
 Barbara M. Kellogg, a dog breeder in Connecticut, died on Thursday at Bridgeport Hospital as a result of burns she received on Nov. 27 during a fire at her home in Easton, Conn. She was 82. Mrs. Kellogg bred, raised and showed collies and was the first woman to be a director of the 
 Margaret Landon, whose novel "Anna and the King of Siam" was the inspiration for the Broadway musical "The King and I," died on Saturday at the Hermitage retirement home in Alexandria, Va. She was 90. Although Mrs. Landon spent more than 10 years in Siam, now Thailand, it was not he
 Marie Blake, a scat singer and stride pianist whose renditions of show tunes and jazz entertained lovers of popular music for 40 years in Greenwich Village, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 74 and lived in Manhattan. For 22 years, Miss Blake was the featured per
 Alice Tully, a philanthropist who was an important figure in New York City's musical life for almost half a century, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91. Her lawyer, James McGarry, said the cause was the flu. She had not been seen in public since suffering a stroke i
 Carlotta Monti, an actress who wrote the 1971 book "W. C. Fields and Me," an account of her role as companion to the comedian for the last 14 years of his life, died on Wednesday at the Motion Picture and Television Fund Hospital in Woodland, Calif., after a long illness. She was 86.       
 Anne Spencer Lindbergh, a writer and the elder daughter of the aviation pioneer Charles A. Lindbergh and Anne Morrow Lindbergh, died Friday at her home in Thetford Center, Vt. She was 53. The cause was cancer, said her husband, Noel Perrin. Ms. Lindbergh was one of six child
 Myrna Loy, the urbane actress who personified a liberated wife of intelligence and wry good humor in some of the best American movie comedies of the 1930's and 40's, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 88. She died in surgery after a long illness, said Sherle
 Phyllis C. Coffey, a philanthropist who supported many causes in New York City and Israel, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. A resident of Manhattan, she was believed to be in her late 80's. She had been ill for several months and died of natural causes, a hospital spoke
 Myrna Loy, the urbane actress who personified a liberated wife of intelligence and wry good humor in some of the best American movie comedies of the 1930's and 40's, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 88. She died in surgery after a long illness, said Sherl
 Dorothy Raedler, a stage director, choreographer and impresario who specialized in the works of Gilbert and Sullivan, died last Saturday at her home in St. Croix in the United States Virgin Islands. She was 76. The cause was cancer, The Associated Press reported. Miss Raedle
 Janet Margolin, an actress with a string of roles in the 1960's and 70's including parts in two Woody ALlen movies, died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 50. The cause was ovarian cancer, a cousin, Ruth Malin, said. At 18, Mr. Margolin won her first professional
 Jennifer Howard Coleman, a painter and former actress, died on Tuesday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 68. The cause was lung cancer, her family said. Mrs. Coleman's parents were Sidney Howard, who wrote the screenplay for "Gone With the Wind," and the actress Clare Eame
 Dolli Tingle Brackett, an artist and designer of Christmas stamps for the Postal Service, died on Dec. 11 in Norwalk Hospital, Norwalk, Conn. She was 82. The cause of death was respiratory failure, her son, Gordon Brackett, said. Mrs. Brackett lived in Westport, Conn., for 4
 Janet Margolin, an actress with a string of roles in the 1960's and 70's, including parts in two Woody Allen movies, died on Friday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 50. The cause was ovarian cancer, a cousin, Ruth Malin, said. At 18, Ms. Margolin won her first professiona
 Phyllis Van Buren Richard Gerrity, a philanthropist and sportswoman who was prominent in nonprofit institutions involving children and young people in the Albany area, died on Saturday at her home in Loudonville, outside Albany. She was 74. She had had a long illness, her family sai
 Elizabeth L. R. Coates, a Connecticut lawyer active in community affairs, died on Thursday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. She was 44 and lived in New Canaan, Conn. The cause was a viral infection following a bone marrow transplant, said her husband, Charles E. Coates 3d.
 Dr. Marie H. Briehl, one of the country's earliest child psychoanalysts, died on Saturday at her home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. She was 96. The cause was heart failure, her family said. Dr. Briehl was director emeritus of the child analysis section at the Southern California Psych
 Uki Heineman, a retired importer who was active in liberal causes, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 73. The cause was scleroderma, her family said. She was a native of Indiana. She and her husband, Frank Heineman, founded the Manhattan importing firm of Mensw
 Patricia Simon, a freelance writer who collaborated on a 1972 cookbook, "Simca's Cuisine," that won high praise from food critics, died on Friday at her home in Philadelphia. She was 59. The cause was arteriosclerotic cardiovascular disease, the Philadelphia Medical Examiner's offic
 Ann Ronell, a songwriter whose credits include "Willow, Weep for Me" and the lyrics for "Who's Afraid of the Big Bad Wolf?" died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. She was 85. The cause was heart and lung failure after surgery for a hernia, said her ni
 Gertrude Blom, a Swiss-born sociologist and photographer who spent five decades documenting the Mayan cultures of southern Mexico, died on Thursday in San Cristobal de las Casas, Mexico. She was 92. An associate of Mrs. Blom told Reuters the cause was pneumonia, secondary to heart d
 Dr. Mabel Satterlee Ingalls, a bacteriologist who was the last surviving grandchild of J. Pierpont Morgan, died on Tuesday at her apartment in Manhattan. She was 92. The cause was heart failure, said her daughter, Sandra van Heerden. For almost 30 years Dr. Ingalls was assoc
 Rita Klimova, a former dissident who served as Czechoslovakia's first Ambassador to the United States after the ouster of the Communist Government, died yesterday in a hospital in Prague. She was 62. Her death was reported by The Associated Press, which quoted C.T.K., the official n
