 Terry Ferrer, a former education editor at Newsweek magazine and The New York Herald Tribune, died on Feb. 12 in Charlottesville, Va., where she lived in retirement. She was 82. The cause was a thoracic aneurysm, her family said. A native of Manhattan, Miss Ferrer attended t
 Chaike Belchatowska Spiegel, one of the last surviving combatants of the 1943 Warsaw ghetto uprising against the Nazis, died in Montreal on March 26. She was 81. She had been hospitalized for about two years, her family said. Probably no more than 10 other combatants from th
 María Félix, the Mexican film star whose extraordinary beauty and force of personality made her a living myth to Mexicans and a symbol of glamour and sophistication to fans throughout the world, died yesterday at her home in Mexico City. She was 87. Ms. Félix made 47 films during
 Christa M. Gaehde, a pioneer in the United States of effective techniques for conserving prints and drawings, died on April 3 in Arlington, Mass. She was 79 and lived in Arlington. She died after being hit by a car in the street, said her husband, Joachim Gaehde, a retired professor
 Dorothy Love Coates, a gospel singer whose gruff delivery and blazing theatrics made her one of the giants of the genre, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Birmingham, Ala., where she lived most of her life. She was 74. The cause was heart disease, said Anthony Heilbut, a friend and g
 Beverly Bower, an operatic soprano who sang the lead at the first performance in the new Metropolitan Opera House at Lincoln Center, died on March 24 at her home in Washington Township, N.J. She was 76. The cause was cancer, her family said. Ms. Bower was born in Olean, N.Y.
 Libby Hillman, a cooking instructor and cookbook writer, died on April 6 in Bennington, Vt. She was 82 and lived in Whitingham, Vt. The cause was a heart attack, her family said. Mrs. Hillman, who was a pianist and piano teacher early in her career, taught adults cooking in 
 Wilma Cannon Fairbank, a historian of Chinese art and architecture, died on April 4 at her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 92. Mrs. Fairbank had studied fine arts at Radcliffe College and was an apprentice to the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera before she traveled to Beijing in 1932 
 Ruth Fertel, who found a New Orleans restaurant called Chris Steak House in the classified ads and from it built one of the largest steakhouse chains in the world, died Tuesday in New Orleans. She was 75. The cause was lung cancer, her company said. Ms. Fertel came to the fo
 Betty Shapian, a veteran book publicist on the West Coast, died last Monday at a hospital in Los Angeles, where she lived. She was 73. The cause was cancer, said her friend and colleague, Tom Brocato. In an industry that is based almost entirely in New York City, Ms. Shapian
 JOYCE HORMAN is talking about her search for the truth. Her cornflower blue eyes gaze into the distance, like she's staring into a camera lens. She's used to questions about her husband, Charles, a filmmaker and journalist whose execution in Chile during a 1973 military coup was dramatized 
 Linda Boreman, the woman once known as Linda Lovelace, who starred in one of the first feature-length pornography movies, ''Deep Throat,'' and who later denounced it as depicting her ''rape,'' died on Monday in Denver. She was 53. The cause was injuries from a car accident on April 
 Barbara Grizzuti Harrison, who emerged as a popular, prolific writer of keenly observed nonfiction with a 1978 book about the dozen years she spent as a Jehovah's Witness, died on Wednesday at a hospice in Manhattan. She was 67 and lived in the Park Slope neighborhood of Brooklyn. T
 Helen Levitov Sobell, a voice in the struggle to spare Julius and Ethel Rosenberg and free their co-defendant, Morton Sobell, her husband, died on April 15 in Redwood City, Calif. She was 84. She had long been in declining health, suffering from Alzheimer's disease, said her daughte
 Ruth Handler, creator of the Barbie doll, one of the world's best-selling toys and one that became an icon of American popular culture, an artistic muse and a lightning rod of feminist politics, died on Saturday at a hospital in Los Angeles, where she lived. She was 85. Mrs. Handler
 Indra Devi, the daughter of European nobility who introduced the ancient discipline of yoga to the Kremlin leadership, Hollywood stars like Gloria Swanson and even students in India, died on Thursday in Buenos Aires. She was 102. In Buenos Aires, where she had lived for several year
