 Katherine Judkins Clark, co-founder of the Historic Savannah Foundation in Georgia, died Thursday at a retirement home in Hilton Head Island, S.C. She was 95. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Clark, known as Kass, was the last survivor of seven women who founded t
 Sylvia A. Boone, a scholar of African and women's art and the first black woman to be granted a tenured professorship at Yale University, died on Tuesday at her home on campus. She was 52. The cause was heart failure, said a friend, Vera Wells. Dr. Boone, a professor of art 
 Valentina S. Grizodubova, a World War II air commander and pioneer aviator who was known as the Soviet Union's Amelia Earhart, died on Wednesday in Russia. She was 83. Itar-Tass news agency attributed her death to complications of a stomach ulcer. In 1938, Colonel Grizodubov
 Joan Sperry Rader, who was active for two decades in the Republican Party in Connecticut, died on Friday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 58. The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, William Donald Rader. Mrs. Rader, who had lived in Greenwich since 1965, was a re
 Maria Tolstoy, a professor of Russian language and a granddaughter of the novelist Leo Tolstoy, died on Monday at home in Manhattan. She was 85. She had a brief illness, said Cynthia Whittaker, a friend. Ms. Tolstoy fled her native Russia after the Bolshevik revolution, rese
 Ray Schaffer, who owned A La Vieille Russie, one of the world's leading sellers of Russian art, jewelry and antiques, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 82. She had been ill for a long time, her family said. Mrs. Schaffer and her husband, Alexander, founded th
 Dorothy B. Hughes, a mystery writer as well as a critic and historian of mystery fiction, died on Thursday at her home in Ashland, Ore. She was 88. She died of complications from a stroke, said her daughter Suzy Sarna. Ms. Hughes wrote 14 mystery novels, most of them set in 
 Dame Freya Stark, a resourceful and scholarly travel writer who was the first Westerner to journey through many regions of the Middle East, died on Sunday at her home in Asolo in northeast Italy. She was 100.. Dame Freya, who was born in Paris and grew up in several homes in England
 Penelope Gilliatt, a writer of fiction, journalism and screenplays, and a longtime film critic for The New Yorker, died on Sunday at her home in London. She was 61. She had been in poor health for some time. Ms. Gilliatt (pronounced with a hard G) was best known for the film
 Bernice Feinstein, a former lecturer on music history at George Washington University, died on Sunday at King Edward VII Hospital in Bermuda. She was 67 and lived in McLean, Va. She was stricken during a vacation and died after heart surgery, said her son John, who lives in Bethesda
 Marka Truesdale duPont, a patron of mental-health groups and the performing arts, died Tuesday at her home in Wilmington, Del. She was 82. She had had a prolonged illness, her family said. She was born in Manhattan and graduated from the Chapin School. As a young woman, she 
 Mary Duncan Sanford, a philanthropist and society grande dame for many years, died Sunday at her home in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 98 and also had residences in Saratoga Springs, N.Y., Locust Valley, L.I., and Manhattan. She died in her sleep. Mrs. Sanford reigned over Palm B
 Minnie L. Gentry, a stage and television actress, died at her home in Manhattan on Tuesday. She was 77. Ms. Gentry, whose given name was Minnie Lee Watson, was born in Norfolk and grew up in Cleveland, where she sang in church choirs and performed in operettas. Through Lloyd Gentry,
 Dr. Monica Healea, physics professor emeritus and former chairman of the physics department at Vassar College, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Rhinebeck, N.Y. She was 93. Dr. Healea, who was born in Uhrichsville, Ohio, was a resident of Pleasant Valley, N.Y., until nine years a
 Maggie Hemingway, a British novelist, died on May 9, the British press reported late last week. She was 47 and lived in London and in Deal, a seaside resort near Dover. The cause was defective functioning of the blood-forming organs, The Daily Telegraph said. Ms. Hemingway w
 Elizabeth Montgomery, a costume and set designer and a founding partner of the design company Motley, died on Saturday at her home in London. She was 91. Miss Montgomery was born in Kid lington, Oxfordshire, and grew up in Cambridge, England. She attended Westminster Art School in L
 Julia Knickerbocker, a leader in the field of book publicity, died on Sunday at the Robert Janker Clinic in Bonn. She was 56 and lived in Manhattan. She died of heart failure after fighting cancer for two years, said her sister, Miranda de Kay. A longtime public relations ex
 Alice Green Fredman, professor emeritus of English and comparative literature at Columbia University and an authority on the 18th- and 19th-century novel, died on Monday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. She was 68 and lived in Carmel, N.Y. Her husband, Irwin F. Fredman, said she had had 
 Jane Pack Dessau, an advertising executive, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 38 and lived in Manhattan. She died of breast cancer after a four-year battle, her husband, Stephen P. Dessau said. In 1989, Jane Pack, as she was known professionally, w
 Mary Spencer Nay, a painter and retired art professor, died on Saturday at her home in Provincetown, Mass. She was 80. The cause was gastrointestinal illness, said her daughter Malu Nay Block of Provincetown. Ms. Nay was born in Crestwood, Ky., and graduated from the Univers
