 Padmini Ramachandran, a star of Indian films who later started an influential school of Indian classical dance in New Jersey, died on Sept. 25 in Chennai (formerly Madras), India. She was 74. The cause was a heart attack, according to hospital officials. Known for her beauty
 Isabel Bigley, who won a Tony award in 1951 playing Sarah Brown, the Salvation Army missionary who falls in love with a handsome gambler in the raucous Broadway hit ''Guys and Dolls,'' died Saturday in Los Angeles. She was 80, and lived in Los Angeles and Rancho Mirage, Calif. The c
 Marjorie G. Lewisohn, a Manhattan internist who was the first woman to be a trustee of Johns Hopkins University, died Sept. 16 in Manhattan. She was 87. Her death was announced by her sister Elizabeth L. Eisenstein of Washington, who survives her, along with two other sisters, Joan 
 Former Representative Helen P. Chenoweth-Hage of Idaho, an archconservative who ridiculed the Endangered Species Act and the protection of salmon in her own state and called for disbanding large parts of the federal government, died on Monday in a car accident in Nevada. She was 68.        
 Mary Orr, an actress and writer whose first short story, about a scheming ingénue named Eve Harrington, became the Oscar-winning film ''All About Eve,'' died on Sept. 22 in Manhattan. She was 95. The cause was pneumonia, her niece Jessica Ivan said. Ms. Orr, who used the name Mary 
 Rosamond Carr, a Manhattan fashion illustrator whose love affair with Africa long survived her divorce from the dashing big-game hunter she followed there and culminated when she, as an octogenarian, opened an orphanage in war-ravaged Rwanda, died on Sept. 29. She was 94. She died o
 Elizabeth Allen, a leading actress on Broadway and in movies who got her start as the ''Away we go!'' girl on ''The Jackie Gleason Show'' in the 1950's, died Sept. 19 in Fishkill, N.Y. She was 77. The cause was kidney failure, her sister-in-law, Marion Gillease, said. Ms. Al
 Eve Adamson, who founded the Jean Cocteau Repertory and built it into a respected classical theater company, died on Sunday in her Manhattan apartment. She was 68. The cause has not been determined, said her brother and only survivor, Lloyd Crisfield. In 1971, disappointed w
 Danièle Huillet, the French-born filmmaker who, in collaboration with her husband, Jean-Marie Straub, created some of the most challenging and intensely debated motion pictures of the modernist era, died on Monday at the home of friends in the Loire Valley in France. She was 70. Th
 Wang Guangmei, the widow of President Liu Shaoqi and a powerful figure in China before she was imprisoned during the Cultural Revolution, died Friday in Beijing. She was 85. Her death was confirmed by a family member. Ms. Wang was once widely known in China as its beautiful,
 Michelle Urry, who brought a wicked sense of humor, an uncanny ability to nurture eccentric artists and what she called an ''inordinately dirty mind'' to her position as cartoons editor of Playboy magazine, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 66. The cause was an ocular
 Marcia Tucker, a forceful curator who responded to being fired from the Whitney Museum of American Art by founding the New Museum of Contemporary Art, died on Tuesday at her home in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 66. Ms. Tucker learned several years ago that she had cancer, but a spo
 Anna Russell, the prima donna of operatic parody who claimed to have begun her career as ''leading soprano of the Ellis Island Opera Company,'' who said she learned to play the French horn from an article in the Encyclopaedia Britannica, and who gave indelibly grating performances of a song
 Princess Irene Galitzine, a descendant of Russian nobility who founded a glamorous fashion house in Italy and popularized ornate pants as evening wear in the 1960's, died Friday at her home in Rome. She was believed to be 90. Her death was announced by Angela Savarese, her assistant
 Jane Wyatt, who reigned as America's ideal suburban mom during the 1950's when she starred with Robert Young in the television sitcom ''Father Knows Best'' and who nearly lured Ronald Colman away from diplomacy and into a lamasery in Frank Capra's 1937 film ''Lost Horizon,'' died on Friday 
 Petra Cabot, whose first and deepest love was painting but whose most famous work was an insulated pail covered with plaid, the ubiquitous Skotch Kooler of the 1950s, died on Oct. 13 at her home in Woodstock, N.Y. She was 99. Her friend Nancy Kline announced the death. Ms. Cabot als
 Bernice Kanner, who brought a quirky sense of humor and curiosity to books and articles on marketing, advertising and more whimsical subjects, died last Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 57. The cause was an aneurysm, her daughter, Elisabeth Cuming, said. Perhaps best known for 
