 Aida Alvarez, a dancer, choreographer and teacher of Spanish dance, died on Oct. 26 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 78 and lived in Manhattan. She died after a short illness, said Jen Nelson, a friend. Born in Mechanicsville, N.Y., Ms. Alvarez studied Spanish danci
 Ruth Diebold, a librarian who combined her professional interests with a personal dedication to culinary pursuits and so helped to preserve the legacy of James Beard, apostle of American cookery, died on Tuesday at her home in Upper Nyack, N.Y. She was 77. The cause was pancreatic c
 Elaine Anthony, a painter who specialized in lush semi-abstract landscapes, died on Oct. 26 at her home in West Redding, Conn. She was 53 years old. The cause was cancer, her family said Ms. Anthony was born in New York City, where her father, Jack Murray Anthony, was a cart
 Eleanor Lansing Dulles, an economic specialist for the State Department who played a major part in planning the reconstruction of West Berlin in the 1950's, died on Wednesday in the Knollwood military retirement home in Washington. She was 101. Her death was reported by The Associat
 Louise Bates Ames, a psychologist whose pioneering work on children held that development unfolded in discrete, predictable stages, died last Thursday at her granddaughter's home in Cincinnati. She was 88 and lived in New Haven until shortly before her death. The cause was cancer, s
 Carolyn Eugenia Agger, a prominent tax lawyer and the widow of former Justice Abe Fortas of the Supreme Court, died on Thursday at her home in the Georgetown section of Washington. She was 87. The cause was pneumonia, said the Washington law firm Arnold & Porter, where she retired t
 Eileen C. Dugan, a Brooklyn Democrat who was elected to her ninth term in the New York State Assembly only on Tuesday, died yesterday at Beth Israel Medical Center. Ms. Dugan, who lived in Carroll Gardens, was 51. The cause was breast cancer, according to her family. Gov. Ge
 Toni Stone, a scrappy second baseman who became a footnote to baseball history in 1953 as a member of the Negro League's Indianapolis Clowns when she became the first woman to play as a regular on a big-league professional team, died on Nov. 2 at a nursing home in Alameda, Calif. She was 75
 Diane Margo Morales, special assistant for families and children to the Manhattan Borough President, Ruth W. Messinger, died on Nov. 1 at New York Hospital. She was 52 and  lived in Park Slope, Brooklyn. She suffered a long illness, her office reported. Ms. Morales advised M
 Mary Rolfe, a radio and stage actress, died on Oct. 28 at Maui Memorial Hospital in Hawaii. She was 79 and lived in Paia, Maui. Ms. Rolfe began her theatrical career in a touring company of ''Brother Rat.'' She soon proved herself adept at both comedy and drama and went on to appear
 Irma Ullmann, the matriarch of a New York philanthropic family, died on Nov. 4 at White Plains Hospital while staying with family in Rye Brook, N.Y. She was 91 and lived in Palm Beach, Fla., since moving from Manhattan more than 30 years ago. Working through the Ullmann Family Found
 Dorothy Bird, an early Martha Graham dancer who also appeared on Broadway and became a noted Graham teacher, died on Tuesday at the home of her son, Casey Villard, in Etna, N.H. She was 84. Born on Vancouver Island in British Columbia, Miss Bird was a shy,  impressionable teen-ager 
 Nell Blaine, a widely respected New York landscape painter and watercolorist, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 74 and had homes in Manhattan and Gloucester, Mass. Ms. Blaine, who had been hospitalized since July, had been confined to a wheelchair since 1959, when she 
 Ruth E. Moskowitz of Brooklyn, a justice of the New York State Supreme Court in Brooklyn, died on Nov. 2 at Mount Sinai Medical Center. A native and lifetime resident of Brooklyn Heights, she was 60. Her family said the cause was scleroderma, a rheumatological disorder. Judg
 Alma Kitchell, a pioneering radio singer who became a pioneering talk show host, sang in the first televised opera and capped her career by presiding over the first television cooking show, died on Wednesday at her home in Sarasota, Fla. She was 103. She was known as the Golden Voic
 Hildegarde Fillmore Smith, a former fashion and beauty editor at the women's magazine McCall's, died on Monday in her garret apartment at the National Arts Club on Gramercy Park South. She was 98 and had lived at the club for the last 43 years. A native of Cincinnati and a g
 Virginia Cherrill, a 1930's actress who starred as a beautiful, blind flower girl in the classic Charlie Chaplin silent film ''City Lights'' (1931), died late Thursday in a hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif. She was 88 and had settled in Santa Barbara in 1950. Miss Cherrill was born 
 Dr. Evelyn Hooker, a psychologist who defied conventional wisdom and greatly emboldened the fledgling gay rights movement in the 1950's by finding there was no measurable psychological difference between homosexual and heterosexual men, died on Monday at her home in Santa Monica, Calif. She
 Joan Paterson Kerr, a picture editor and author, died yesterday at her home in New Haven. She was 75. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Kerr was a founding picture editor of American Heritage magazine. She was a co-editor of ''American Album,'' published by America
 Mary Louise Stack Duschl, a former artistic administrator for the Pittsburgh Ballet Theater, died on Wednesday at her home in Pittsburgh. She was 45. The cause was cancer, said Patricia Wilde, artistic director of the ballet company. Ms. Duschl began her professional career 
 Dr. Kathelyn Sue Steimer, a leading researcher in the quest for an AIDS vaccine, died on Nov. 16 at her home in Benicia, Calif. She was 48. The cause was cancer, according to the Chiron Corporation of Emeryville, Calif., where she was vice president for research in the vaccines divi
 Meridel Le Sueur, who reported on the plight of the poor during the Depression and celebrated the free spirits of early Americans in her fiction for children, died on Nov. 14 in Hudson Memorial Hospital in Hudson, Wis. She was 96 and had lived in the hospital's residential unit in nearby St
 Greer Lankton, an artist known for her flamboyant doll-like sculptures, was found dead in her apartment in Chicago last Monday. She was 38. An autopsy will be held to determine the cause of death, said her father, William Lankton of Park Forest, Ill. Ms. Lankton, who had a s
 Tess Hyman, whose efforts for nearly a half-century on behalf of fans in wheelchairs attending Giants and Jets football games earned her the nickname Tess of the Meadowlands, died yesterday morning at her home in Deerfield Beach, Fla. She was 92. Until recent years, on any game day,
 Rosalie Ulrich Rosenberger, who practiced law in Nassau County for nearly seven decades, starting even before the county bar association admitted women, died on Sunday at South Nassau Community Hospital in Oceanside, L.I. She was 97 and a 60-year resident of Rockville Centre. A woma
 Ruth Ratner Miller, a Cleveland business woman and civic leader, died on Tuesday at the Cleveland Clinic. She was 70 and a lifelong  resident of the city. The cause was cancer, her family said. At her death she was president of Tower City Center, part of a complex of buildin
