 Claire Zeisler, an artist and art collector who helped transform the two-dimensional craft of weaving into the three-dimensional medium called fiber art, died yesterday at her home in Chicago. She was 88 years old. She died of heart failure, said her daughter, Joan Binkley of Lake B
 Grace Zaring Stone, a novelist who also wrote under the pen name Ethel Vance, died on Sunday at the Mary Elizabeth Nursing Center in Mystic, Conn. She was 100 years old and had lived in Stonington, Conn. Three of Mrs. Stone's novels were made into films: "The Bitter Tea of General Y
 Margaret L. A. MacVicar, dean of undergraduate education at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an innovator in shaping policies for undergraduate education and science education in public schools, died Monday at the Dana Farber Cancer Institute in Boston. She was 47 years old and
 Ernestine McClendon, an actress, comedian and theatrical consultant, died on Sept. 23 at Good Samaritan Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 77 years old and lived in Los Angeles. She died of cancer, said Joahn Webb, a friend. In the late 1950's, after 18 years as an actress, Ms
 Nadine Gordimer, whose novels of South Africa portray the conflicts and contradictions of a racist society, was named winner of the 1991 Nobel Prize in Literature today as her country finally begins to dismantle the system her works have poignantly explored for more than 40 years. I
 Roberta Strauss Feuerlicht, an author of 18 books of history and biography who frequently espoused liberal social and political causes, died yesterday of congestive heart failure, her husband said. She was 59 years old. Mrs. Feuerlicht was born in 1931 in New York City. She earned a
 Dorothea Matthews Dooling, founder and editorial director of Parabola, The Magazine of Myth and Tradition, died on Friday at her ranch in Jackson, Mont. She was 80 years old. Mrs. Dooling had been diagnosed with acute leukemia last month, her family said. Parabola, a quarter
 Natalia Ginzburg, an author commonly ranked with Umberto Eco as one of Italy's most important writers of fiction, died on Monday at her home in Rome. She was 75 years old. She died of cancer, a spokesman for her publisher, Einaudi, said yesterday. Although once dismissed as 
 Doris Lilly, the author of "How to Marry a Millionaire" and a former newspaper society columnist, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of cancer, said Kurt von Schuschnigg, a friend and the executor of he
 Aline Laveen MacMahon, an actress whose career on the stage, screen, radio and television lasted more than 50 years, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 92 years old. She apparently died from pneumonia, friends said. A veteran of 43 films, Miss MacMahon was nomi
 Aline MacMahon, an actress whose stage, screen, radio and television career lasted more than 50 years, died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 92 years old. She apparently died from pneumonia, friends said. A veteran of 43 films, Miss MacMahon was nominated for an
 Nancy Proskauer Dryfoos, a sculptor in stone and terra cotta whose work is in the permanent collections of many museums and universities, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 73 years old. She died of a heart attack after a long illness with lung cancer, said her husband
 Ann C. Whitman, an influential figure in the White House as the personal secretary to President Dwight D. Eisenhower and later as chief of staff to Vice President Nelson A. Rockefeller, died Tuesday at Morton Plant Hospital in Clearwater, Fla. She was 83 years old and lived in Clearwater.  
 Dorothy Berliner Commins, a concert pianist and author, died on Monday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 102 years old. Mrs. Commins was born in New York City and made her recital debut at Town Hall at the age of 12. She studied in New York and in Europe and had an active caree
 Emily M. Rosenthal, the director of the 92d Street Y nursery school from 1946 to 1966, died yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 98 years old. Miss Rosenthal, who lived in the Salvation Army Williams Residence in Manhattan, died of respiratory failure, her family s
 Nedda Casson Anders, a publisher and writer who edited the first Weight Watchers cookbook, died on Wednesday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 70 years old, her family said, and lived in Manhattan and Tamarac, Fla. Her son, Richard, said she died of
 Marcia Simon Weisman, a collector admired for her discerning taste in postwar American art and as a benefactor who helped found the Los Angeles Museum of Contemporary Art, died on Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. She was 73 years old. She died of a stroke, a s
 Veronica Perry, a Harlem teacher and the mother of Edmund Perry, the honor student fatally shot by a police officer on Morningside Drive on June 12, 1985, died on Oct. 4 at St. Luke's Hospital. She was 44 years old. She died as a result of a heart condition, the funeral home said.  
 Mary S. Painter Garin, an American economist who was an important innovator in the use of statistical techniques during and immediately after World War II, died Monday in Toulon, France, near her home in Sollies-Toucas. She was 71 years old. The cause of death was cardiac arrest, sa
 Alice R. Bachrach, a volunteer leader of numerous national social service agencies who was involved in a landmark discrimination suit, died Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89 years old. Mrs. Bachrach died of cancer, her family said. Among her early activities, sh
 Melissa Gold, who was active in various civic causes, including help for earthquake victims in San Francisco and was a companion of Bill Graham, the rock music impressario, died Friday in the helicopter crash near San Francisco that killed Mr. Graham and his pilot. She was 47 years old and 
 Helen Herrmann, a veteran volunteer worker and former farmer in Monmouth County, N.J., who donated 71 acres of farmland to the county for preservation as open space, died on Thursday at her home in West Long Branch, N.J. She was 89 years old. She died after a stroke, said a friend, 
 Sylvia Fine Kaye, a producer, lyricist and composer, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 78 years old. She died of emphysema, said her daughter, Dena Kaye of Manhattan. Mrs. Kaye, the widow of the actor Danny Kaye, wrote the music and lyrics for many of her husb
 Dorothy Weed, a piano teacher and former director of the Diller-Quaile Music School on the Upper East Side, died on Tuesday at Doctor's Hospital. She was 92 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died after a long illness, said Marjory Duncalfe, the director of the school. Mi
