 Jane Hayward, a curator of medieval art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and an authority on stained glass, died on Sunday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 76 and lived in Riverdale. The cause was cancer, said William D. Wixom, chairman of the museum's department of mediev
 Lillian Hayman, a Tony Award-winning actress and singer, died on Oct. 25 at her home in Hollis, N.Y. She was 72. The cause was a heart attack, said her sister, Coreania Carter. Miss Hayman won a Tony in 1968 as best supporting actress for her performance in the musical "Hall
 Ruth Fizdale, who helped to make modern social work a profession, died on Sunday at the Jewish Home and Hospital in the Bronx. She was 86 and a resident of Patterson, N.Y. The cause of death was complications from a stroke, according to the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, where she 
 Sally A. Knapp, a singer and actress who appeared in numerous productions of Gilbert and Sullivan operettas, died on Tuesday at Gwinett County Hospital in Georgia. She was 68 and lived in Atlanta. The cause was an aneurism, said Tedi Dreiser Godard, a friend. Miss Knapp was 
 Elenore Hangley, a former executive vice president of the Advertising Council, died on Saturday at the Englewood Hospital and Medical Center, in Englewood, N.J. She was 63 and lived in Cliffside, N.J. The cause of death was cancer, said her husband, Charles. Mrs. Hangley spe
 Alice Miller, the director of the Brooklyn College Women's Center since 1985, died on Monday at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. She was 46 and lived in the Carroll Gardens section of Brooklyn. The cause was cancer, said Richard Coniglione, a spokesman for Brooklyn College. The
 Elinor F. Poindexter, a Manhattan dealer in contemporary art, died on Sunday at her home in Easton, Conn. She was 88. The cause was pneumonia, said her son, Joseph. Before she became a dealer, Mrs. Poindexter collected the works of both abstract and figurative painters with 
 Beatrice Kneeland, who helped to establish the Hartford College for Women in 1939 and had served as a trustee since then, died on Sunday at the Cherry Brook Health Center in Canton, Conn. She was 99 and lived in Bloomfield. The cause of death was congestive heart failure, said her n
 Carmen McRae, the jazz singer known for her probing interpretations of lyrics and her bruised but unbowed point of view, died on Thursday evening at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 74. She had fallen into a semi-coma four days earlier, a month after being hospitalized for 
 Jeanne Sumner Newman, a public health specialist who worked to improve medical services in developing countries, died on Oct. 24 at West Virginia University Hospitals in Morgantown, W.Va. She was 65 and lived in Baltimore. She died from injuries suffered in a car accident on Oct. 7,
 Wilma Rudolph, who grew from a sickly child unable to walk into a statuesque athlete of 20 who won three gold medals as a sprinter in the 1960 Olympics in Rome, died yesterday at her home in Brentwood, Tenn., near Nashville. She was 54. Her sister, Charlene Rudolph, said Rudolph lea
 Dr. Lucy Shields Morgan, a groundbreaking educator in public health and an adviser to the World Health Organization, died on Friday at the Deerfield Episcopal Retirement Center in Asheville, N.C. She was 93. She had suffered a long illness, said the University of North Carolina at C
 Elizabeth George Speare, an author of historical novels for children, died yesterday in Northwest General Hospital in Tucson, Ariz. She was 84. The cause was an aortic aneurysm, her family said. Beginning in 1957 with "Calico Captive," Mrs. Speare wrote a string of novels th
 Katherine Elliott, an advocate for simpler and more practical methods of health care for poor people, died on Saturday at the Hospital of St. John and St. Elizabeth in London, where she lived. She was 75. The cause was cancer, her daughter, Veronica Elliott of Washington, said.     
 Amelia Dietrich Lewis, a lawyer who helped reshape the American juvenile justice system, died on Wednesday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Phoenix. She was 91 and lived in nearby Scottsdale. She had suffered a brief illness, her family said. Mrs. Lewis argued a landmark 1967 cas
 Charlotte N. Montgomery, a pioneering consumer writer, died on Nov. 10 in Amherst Nursing Home in Amherst, Mass., where she had lived since April. She was 90 and had lived in Westfield, N.J., for most of her life. She died of pneumonia, said her daughter, Sarah Montgomery of South H
 Janet Ahlberg, who created the illustrations for a series of memorable children's books written by her husband, Allan, died on Tuesday in Leicester, England. She was 50. The cause was cancer, said a statement from the Ahlbergs' publisher, Little, Brown & Company. Together, M
 Evelyn Anderson, believed to be the last surviving member of the troupe that danced with Josephine Baker in "La Revue Negre" in Paris in the 1920's, died on Oct. 29 at Misericordia Hospital in Philadelphia. She was 87. The cause was pneumonia, her family said. Miss Anderson 
 Viola Spolin, who as a teacher and author was an inspiration for the improvisational theater movement, died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 88. Her sister, Beatrice Lees, said Mrs. Spolin had three strokes in recent years. Through her theater games and her book
 Norma Donaldson, whose sensuality and throaty voice entertained Broadway audiences, moviegoers and television viewers, died on Tuesday at Cedars Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 68 and lived in Hollywood Hills. The cause was cancer, said her cousin, Lovely Hill Billups of Wash
 Joanne Rathgeb, an actress, director and educator who fought for greater awareness and increased resources to fight breast cancer, died of the disease on Nov. 19 at her home in Essex Junction, Vt. She was 64. Her cancer was diagnosed nine years ago, but she continued an active life.
 Priscilla Morrill, a stage and television actress, died on Nov. 9 at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 67 and lived in Port Hueneme, Calif. The cause was complications of a kidney infection, said her agent, Richard Bauman. Ms. Morrill was born and reared in Bosto
