 Carol Rothschild Noyes, a supporter of civic and environmental causes, died on April 18 at her home in Laurel Hollow, N.Y. She was 88. Her family announced the death. Mrs. Noyes sat on the boards of the Natural Resources Defense Council, the Woods Hole Oceanographic Center, 
 Evelyn Annenberg Jaffe Hall, a New York arts patron for 50 years and a supporter of medical institutions, died on April 22 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 93 and also had homes in Palm Beach, Fla., and Newport, R.I. Mrs. Hall, a sister of the late publisher 
 Raisa Struchkova, one of the Soviet Union's leading ballerinas in the Bolshoi Ballet when that company first took audiences abroad by storm in the 1950's and 60's, died in Moscow on Monday, the Bolshoi Theater announced. She was 79 and lived in Moscow. Ms. Struchkova was highly prai
 Carolyn Brady, an artist known for her large Photorealist watercolor paintings, died on May 5 at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. She was 67 and lived in New York City. The cause was complications after heart surgery, said her dealer in New York, Nancy Hoffman. Ms. Brady 
 Helen Jackson Wilkins Claytor, a pivotal figure in the racial desegregation of the Y.W.C.A. and its first African-American president, died yesterday in Grand Rapids, Mich. She was 98. Her death was announced by her son, Roger Wilkins, the Robinson professor of history and American c
 Betty Talmadge, a former first lady of Georgia and a prominent Washington hostess who had a second career as a businesswoman, restaurateur and cookbook author after her divorce from Senator Herman E. Talmadge, died on Saturday in Atlanta. She was 81. Mrs. Talmadge died after a long 
 Louise Westergaard O'Neil, a theatrical producer best known for the hit Broadway musical revue ''Sophisticated Ladies,'' died on May 6 in New York. She was 67 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was leukemia, her family said. Based on the music of Duke Ellington, ''Sophisticat
 Elisabeth Fraser, a versatile character actress with a 40-year career on stage, screen and, most enduringly, television, died on May 5 at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 85 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was congestive heart failure, said her 
 Elizabeth McFarland Hoffman, who as poetry editor of Ladies' Home Journal sandwiched the work of W.H. Auden, Adrienne Rich and Sylvia Plath in between ''Is Your Marriage a Masquerade?'' and ''Bing Crosby's Kitchen for His Bride,'' died last Thursday in Philadelphia. She was 83 and had homes
 Ruth Laredo, a pianist equally at home in chamber music and solo works who was known for landmark recordings of Scriabin and Rachmaninoff, died on Wednesday at her apartment in New York. She was 67. Ms. Laredo, who played her last concert on May 6 at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, 
 Ludmilla Nikitina Shapiro, a Russian-born journalist and photographer who with her husband amassed a collection of Soviet-era political porcelain considered the most comprehensive in North America, died on May 8 in Madison, Wis., where she lived. She was 91. Mrs. Shapiro's death was
 Margaret Popkin, an American lawyer who worked to overhaul the judicial system in strife-torn El Salvador, died on May 18 at a hospital in Washington. She was 54. The cause was complications of heart surgery, her family said. After working in California as an immigration law
