Dr. Ora M. Rosen, a research scientist who was a leading investigator of the ways hormones and other factors control the development of cells, died of breast cancer yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 55 years old. Dr. Ora M. Rosen, a research scientist who was a leadi
Ruth M. Martin, a nurse who served in American embassies in Europe, Africa and Asia and who was later in charge of the international program of the American Nurses Association, died of pneumonia last Saturday in the Village Nursing Home in Greenwich Village. She was 78 years old and l
Grace Holmes Barbey, a consultant to the United Nations Children's Fund since its inception in 1947, died of a heart attack on Friday at New York Hospital. She was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan and in Paradise Valley, Ariz. Grace Holmes Barbey, a consultant to the United
Dorothy W. Weeks, a physicist whose professional career spanned nearly six decades, died of a stroke on Monday at Newton Wellesley Hospital in Massachusetts. She was 97 years old and lived in Wellesley, Mass. Dorothy W. Weeks, a physicist whose professional career spanned near
Dr. Mary Headlee Markham, an otolaryngologist in Manhattan for almost 50 years, died Wednesday at Princeton (N.J.) Medical Center after suffering a stroke. She was 81 years old and until March had lived in Manhattan. Dr. Mary Headlee Markham, an otolaryngologist in Manhattan f
Neta Lohnes Frazier, an award-winning writer, died Saturday. She was 100 years old. Neta Lohnes Frazier, an award-winning writer, died Saturday. She was 100 years old. Of her 14 books for young readers published between 1947 and 1973, four received awards from the Juni
Barbara Baxley, a stage, film and television actress, was found dead Thursday in her Upper West Side apartment. The medical examiner's office said the apparent cause of death was a heart attack. She was 63 years old. Barbara Baxley, a stage, film and television actress, was fo
Adele Lewis Corwin, who founded the Career Blazers employment agency in 1949 and headed it until she retired in 1975, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Hospital. Mrs. Corwin, who was 67 years old and lived in Hawley, Pa., died of complications from lung cancer, her son, William Lewis, s
Edna McRae, a Chicago ballet teacher who received national recognition as a trainer of young dancers, died Thursday in a residence for the elderly in Evanston, Ill. She was 88 years old. Edna McRae, a Chicago ballet teacher who received national recognition as a trainer of you
Maud Van Cortlandt Oakes, an ethnologist, writer and artist who chronicled the culture of primitive Indian tribes in Guatemala, died Sunday at her home in Carmel, Calif. She was 87 years old. The cause of death was Alzheimer's disease, said her conservator, Kay Woolsey. Maud V
Rita Jacobs Willens, a co-founder of radio station WFMT, died of lung cancer on Sunday at her home. She was 62 years old and lived in suburban Barrington Hills. Rita Jacobs Willens, a co-founder of radio station WFMT, died of lung cancer on Sunday at her home. She was 62 years
Beatrice Coleman, chairwoman of Maidenform Inc., a manufacturer of lingerie, died on Tuesday at her home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. Beatrice Coleman, chairwoman of Maidenform Inc., a manufacturer of lingerie, died on Tuesday at her home in the Riverdale section of 
Helen Cohen Mazer, long active in New York civic affairs, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan. Helen Cohen Mazer, long active in New York civic affairs, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital. She was 78 years old and lived i
Laura Lord Scales, a former dean of Smith College and its oldest graduate, died Tuesday at a retirement home in Northampton. She was 110 years old. Laura Lord Scales, a former dean of Smith College and its oldest graduate, died Tuesday at a retirement home in Northampton. She 
Kezia Keeble, a former Vogue editor and a powerful public-relations executive who helped reshape the image of American fashion, died at her home in Manhattan on Friday night. Kezia Keeble, a former Vogue editor and a powerful public-relations executive who helped reshape the i
Dame Eva Turner, a dramatic soprano of extraordinary range and power and later a voice teacher, has died. She was 98. Dame Eva Turner, a dramatic soprano of extraordinary range and power and later a voice teacher, has died. She was 98. Miss Turner, who broke a hip thre
Evangeline Johnson Merrill, a prominent figure in the arts who was the last surviving child of Robert Wood Johnson, co-founder of Johnson & Johnson, died yesterday at Bryan Health Care Center in Hendersonville, N.C. She was 93 years old and lived at World's Edge Apple Organic Farm in 
Kezia Keeble, a former Vogue editor and a powerful public-relations executive who helped reshape the image of American fashion, died at her home in Manhattan on Friday night. Kezia Keeble, a former Vogue editor and a powerful public-relations executive who helped reshape the i
Barbra Walz, a fashion photographer known as much for her informal pictures of designers as for their clothes, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 39 years old. The cause of death was breast cancer, her husband, Kevin, said. Barbra Walz, a fashion photographer kno
Palmira Henry, a fashion model known as Pal, died of a cerebral hemmorrhage on Sunday at New York Hospital, her daughter, Lisa, said. She was 44 years old and had modeled for more than 20 years. Palmira Henry, a fashion model known as Pal, died of a cerebral hemmorrhage on Sun
Sayde Brenner Busch, who as Sayde Tisch was a member of the family that founded the chain that is now Loews Hotels, died yesterday at Victoria Hospital in Miami. She was 90 years old and lived in Bal Harbour, Fla. She had been in a coma for 10 days, the family said. Sayde Bren
Ardis Rumsey Whitman, a writer and lecturer, died on Sunday at Presbyterian Hospital in Charlotte, N.C. She was 85 years old and lived for many years in New Britain, Conn., before moving to Charlotte. Ardis Rumsey Whitman, a writer and lecturer, died on Sunday at Presbyterian 
Barbara Cason, an actress in theater and television, died Monday in her home in the Hollywood Hills area of Los Angeles. She was 61 years old. Barbara Cason, an actress in theater and television, died Monday in her home in the Hollywood Hills area of Los Angeles. She was 61 ye
Portia Playfair Dunham, a registered nurse who had been active in mental-health causes in Westchester County and Binghamton, N.Y., died on Monday at Binghamton General Hospital. She was 80 years old and lived in Binghamton. She died of a stroke, her son said. Mrs. Dunham was a foundin
Ina Balin, a film and stage actress whose adoption of three Vietnamese orphans was dramatized in a 1980 television movie in which she played herself, died yesterday at the Yale-New Haven Hospital. She was 52 years old and lived in Westport, Conn. Ina Balin, a film and stage ac
Sarah Wiener, a retired teacher who became an advocate for retired people, died on Monday at her daughter's home in Teaneck, N.J. She was 80 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Mrs. Wiener died of lung cancer, her husband, Abraham, said.  Mrs. Wiener taught in New York high schools for m
Isabelle Silverman, a former public relations consultant for the Cooper-Hewitt Museum, died on Thursday at the Jewish Home & Hospital for the Aged in Manhattan. She was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan. Isabelle Silverman, a former public relations consultant for the Cooper
Elizabeth Harwood, one of Britain's best-known sopranos in the 1960's and 1970's, died of cancer on Friday, her family said. She was 52 years old.  Miss Harwood, who died at her home in Fryerning, 20 miles northeast of London, specialized in lyric and coloratura roles and in the music
June Christy, whose wistful, foggy alto epitomized ''cool'' jazz singing in the 1940's and 50's, died Thursday at the age of 64 at her home in Los Angeles. June Christy, whose wistful, foggy alto epitomized ''cool'' jazz singing in the 1940's and 50's, died Thursday at the age
Daryl Davis Furno, executive vice president of Halbrecht Associates of Stamford, Conn., an executive-search firm in the field of artificial intelligence, died on Friday at her home in Cos Cob, Conn. She was 51 years old. The cause of death was ovarian cancer, her family said. 
Grace M. Carhart, an assistant professor of geology and geography at Hunter College for 50 years, died on Wednesday at the Cortlandt Nursing Home in Peekskill, N.Y. She was 90 years old. Grace M. Carhart, an assistant professor of geology and geography at Hunter College for 50
Margot Austin, an author and illustrator of children's books, died yesterday at her home in New Fairfield, Conn. She was 81 years old. Margot Austin, an author and illustrator of children's books, died yesterday at her home in New Fairfield, Conn. She was 81 years old.        
Eleanor Clark French, a writer, editor and former vice chairwoman of the New York State Democratic Committee, died on Monday in Paoli, Pa. She was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan. Eleanor Clark French, a writer, editor and former vice chairwoman of the New York State Democ
Dr. Helen L. Miller, an obstetrician and a gynecologist in New York and New Jersey, died on June 18 at her home in Kinnelon, N.J. She was 93 years old. Dr. Helen L. Miller, an obstetrician and a gynecologist in New York and New Jersey, died on June 18 at her home in Kinnelon, 
Lee Grape, who was active in educational and recreational programs in Fairfield, Conn., died on Wednesday at her home there. She was 73 years old. Lee Grape, who was active in educational and recreational programs in Fairfield, Conn., died on Wednesday at her home there. She w
Peggy Glanville-Hicks, an Australian-born composer who lived in the United States between 1942 and 1959, died on Monday in St. Vincent's Hospital in Sydney. She was 77 years old and died of a heart attack, said James Murdoch, the executor of her estate. Peggy Glanville-Hicks, 
