 Kirsten Ralov, one of Denmark's greatest ballerinas and an authority on the unusually sparkling Danish style of classical dancing, died on Sunday at her home in Copenhagen. She was 77. The cause was cancer, said Ebbe Mork, a dance writer in Copenhagen. Miss Ralov was celebra
 Kirsten Ralov, one of Denmark's greatest ballerinas and an authority on the unusually sparkling Danish style of classical dancing, died on Sunday at her home in Copenhagen. She was 77. The cause was cancer, said Ebbe Mork, a dance writer in Copenhagen. Miss Ralov was celebra
 Leah Ray Werblin, a vocalist in the Big Band era and later, with her husband, the owner of the Elberon Farm in thoroughbred racing, died in her sleep May 27 at her home in Rumson, N.J. She was 82. Mrs. Werblin, the former Leah Ray Hubbard of Norfolk, Va., was a singer with Tommy Dor
 Ruth Whitney, the editor who steered Glamour magazine for 31 years and influenced several generations of women during three important decades in American feminism, died yesterday at her home in Irvington, N.Y. She was 71. The cause was Lou Gehrig's disease, or amyotrophic lateral sc
 Ruth Langer Lawrence, who as a 15-year-old Austrian Jewish swimmer refused to compete in the 1936 Olympic Games in Nazi Germany, died on May 2. Lawrence, who lived in London, was 77. Lawrence was born and reared in Vienna and took up swimming at age 11 with the Jewish sports club Ha
 Hillary Brooke, an actress who appeared in some 50 films as well as in the early 1950's television series ''My Little Margie,'' died on May 25 at a  hospital in Fall Brook, Calif. She was 84 and lived in Bosnall, Calif. Rarely the leading actress, Ms. Brooke mainly portrayed elegant
 Anne Sheafe Miller, who made medical history as the first patient ever saved by penicillin, died on May 27 in Salisbury, Conn. She was 90. In March 1942, Mrs. Miller was near death at New Haven Hospital suffering from a streptococcal infection, a common cause of death then. She had 
 Christina Foyle, London's best known bookseller and the creator and hostess of Britain's most famous literary luncheon series, died on Tuesday at her country home, Beeleigh Abbey, near Maldon in Essex. She was 88. An autocratic boss who resisted commercial and technological innovati
 Marie St. Louis, a jazz festival talent executive who booked such artists as Duke Ellington, Louis Armstrong and Ella Fitzgerald during a 37-year career, died of cancer yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. She was 71. Mrs. St. Louis was senior vice president of Festival P
 Flower Hujer, a modern-dance choreographer who performed with her company for four decades in small theater spaces and churches throughout Manhattan, died on May 1 at her home in Queens. She was 92. Ms. Hujer, who was trained in ballet by Theodore Kosloff, danced on the West Coast a
 Helena Kuo Kingman, the author of several books about China, died on April 25 at a hospital in Taipei, Taiwan. She was 86 and lived in Manhattan. Mrs. Kingman was in Taiwan to attend a reception for her husband, the painter Dong Kingman, at the Taiwan Museum of Art in Taichung.     
 Wilmina Rowland Smith, who in 1971 became the first woman to serve as a guest chaplain of the Senate, died on June 5 at a retirement home in St. Petersburg, Fla. She was 91. Billie Rowland, as she was known, was born in Augusta, Ga., on March 17, 1908, and received bachelor's degree
 Francine Everett, a singer, dancer and actress who was one of the stars of the all-black cast ''race'' movies of the 30's and 40's, died at a nursing home in the Bronx on May 27. She gave her birth year as 1920, however by 1933 she was already appearing with the Four Black Cats, a n
 Dolores Jimenez Alcantara, a blind singer who was one of Spain's leading flamenco artists, died on June 14 in a hospital in Malaga. She was 90. Onstage Ms. Jimenez wore dark glasses and typically performed while standing, supporting herself with one hand placed on the back of a chai
 Cecilia Danieli,  who helped revolutionize the world steel industry by developing the compact steel mills known in the industry as minimills, died last Thursday of cancer. She was 56. Though women made broad strides in Italian business in her lifetime, Ms. Danieli was one of a handf
 Georgette Scott, a novelist and playwright who wrote under the name Joyce MacIver, died on June 15 at her home in New York. She was 95. She was best known for her 1961 novel, ''The Frog Pond,'' which was inspired by her own experience with psychoanalysis and became a best seller. Mi
 Patricia Kerr Ross, former director of the State University of New York's Programs in the Arts, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Albany. She was 60 and lived in Albany. The cause was ovarian cancer, her family said. As director of the university-wide arts programs from 1971 
 Rose Kryzak, an outspoken lobbyist for the rights of the elderly who was once credited with getting a utility charge overturned as unfair to older people, died on Thursday at her home in Queens. She was 99. She first came to the public's attention in 1976, when she argued at a Feder
