 Adele Bowers, a short-story writer and publisher, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 78 years old. She died of cancer, said her husband, Richard Bowers. The couple also had a country home in upstate New York at Delhi. One of her most popular short stor
 Chloethiel Woodard Smith, a Washington architect who worked on the urban renewal of Southwest Washington and the creation of the new town of Reston, Va., in the 1960's, died on Wednesday at her home in Washington. She was 82. She died of cancer, said Sydney Kasper, a spokesman for t
 Constance Carpenter, an actress whose roles included a starring performance opposite Yul Brynner in the original Broadway production of "The King and I," died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 87 and lived in Manhattan. Miss Carpenter died of a stroke, said a 
 Laura Dubman Fratti, a child prodigy whose expertise as a classical pianist won her critical acclaim in the 1930's and 40's in San Francisco, New York and Paris, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 69. Her husband, Mario Fratti, a playwright and a professor of Italia
 Mitzi Berger Hamovitch, an English professor who taught at Queens College for more than 30 years, died on Thursday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, L.I. She was 68 and lived in Great Neck. She died after heart surgery, said her husband, William Hamovitch, a retired economics profe
 Jean Strachan Wilson, professor emeritus of history at Smith College, died Monday at Pennswood Village in Newtown, Pa. She was 89. She died of heart failure, said Prof. Elizabeth von Klemperer of Smith. A native of Duluth, Minn., Professor Wilson graduated from Smith in 1924
 Mary Tarleton Knollenberg, a sculptor, died on Dec. 21 at her home in Chester, Conn. She was 88 years old. She died in her sleep, said Edmund Delaney, her lawyer and a friend. Mrs. Knollenberg worked in bronze and stone and specialized in female forms, usually nudes.        
 Selma Rich Brody, an education consultant, died on Dec. 31 at her home in Westport, Conn. She was 66. She died of cancer, her husband, Roy, said. In 1965, Mrs. Brody was a founder of Miller Brody Productions, which produced educational audiovisual materials. She remained pre
 Meredith Bowman Neuffer, 70, an artist who specialized in Oriental brush painting, died on Friday at her home in Weston, Conn. She died of lung cancer, her family said. Ms. Neuffer's works, featuring flowers and landscapes painted on silk with color ink washes, are held in p
 Joyce V. Nadelman, a former Foreign Service aide who was also active in Riverdale, the Bronx, died on Saturday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 75. She died of heart failure, her husband said. Mrs. Nadelman, formerly Joyce Cavanah, was born in Mo
 Lacey Fosburgh, a writer whose books chronicled murder, family passions and mystery in India, died last night at California Pacific Hospital in San Francisco. She was 50 years old and lived in Mill Valley, Calif. Ms. Fosburgh, who began her writing career as a reporter for The New Y
 Barbara E. Brooks, an editor at three major women's magazines, died yesterday at her sister's home in Scarsdale, N.Y. She was 39 and lived in Manhattan. She died of lymphoma, said the sister, Suzanne Steinau. For the last four years Ms. Brooks was the home director of Family
 Diana Adams, who was a leading ballerina with both the New York City Ballet and American Ballet Theater and the former dean of students at the School of American Ballet, died on Sunday at Mark Twain-St. Joseph's Hospital in San Andreas, Calif. She was 66 and lived in Arnold, Calif. 
 Lacey Fosburgh, a writer whose books chronicled murder, family passions and mystery in India, died on Monday night at California Pacific Hospital in San Francisco. She was 50 years old and lived in Mill Valley, Calif. Ms. Fosburgh, who began her writing career as a reporter for The 
 Josephine T. Moran, a former Westchester resident who was active in many civic organizations, died on Wednesday at her home in Boulder, Colo. She was 90. She died of emphysema, said a son, Charles Moran 3d of Pelham, Mass. Mrs. Moran was born in Manhattan and attended the Ni
 Annapaola Cancogni, a teacher, writer and translator of French and Italian works into English, died on Wednesday at Mt. Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 48 and lived in Manhattan. She died of cancer, said Anne F. Garetta, her companion. Dr. Cancogni taught at Harvard and
 Elizabeth Wood, a public housing pioneer who advocated racial and economic integration and the designing of workable neighborhoods, died yesterday at a nursing home near Atlanta. She was 93. She suffered from Alzheimer's disease, a broken hip and a stroke, said Gisela Titman, a niec
 Beth Robertson Cosnow, a longtime community leader on the East Side of Manhattan, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 70. The cause was lung cancer, said a friend, Lauren Giber. Mrs. Cosnow, who was born in Dinuba, Calif., graduated from the University of Califo
 Mary Lazar, the wife of the literary and talent agent Irving P. (Swifty) Lazar, died last Thursday in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 60. She died of cancer, her family said. Mrs. Lazar was born in Aurora, Ill. She began her career as a model, and appeared in advertisements as
 Audrey Hepburn, the actress who epitomized Hollywood chic in the 1950's and 60's, died yesterday at her home in Tolochenaz, near Lausanne, Switzerland. She was 63 years old and had undergone surgery for colon cancer in November. Her death from cancer was announced by Unicef, the Uni
 Eleanor Hibbert, a prolific and popular novelist whose books, written under the pen names Jean Plaidy, Victoria Holt and Philippa Carr, sold more than 100 million copies, died on Monday aboard a Mediterranean cruise ship. She was believed to be in her 80's. She died on the Sea Princ
 Patricia Brooks Mann, a lyric soprano who helped fashion the modern standard for opera performers, died on Friday at her home in Mount Kisco, N.Y. She was 59. She died of complications of multiple sclerosis, said her husband, Theodore D. Mann, the artistic director and co-founder of
 Cynthia Wood, a horse breeder and patron of the arts, died on Saturday at her ranch in Santa Barbara. She was 55. She died of cancer, said Merrillee Ford, a friend of the family. Ms. Wood grew up on a working ranch in the Simi Valley, where her father, Adrian Gordon (Buddy) 
 Dr. Blanche Bernstein, a prominent welfare expert and former government official whose criticisms of the welfare system provoked stormy policy debates, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 80 and lived in Manhattan. She died of lung cancer, said Barbara
 Jeanne Sauve, a former Speaker of Parliament and Governor General of Canada in the 1980's, died on Tuesday in Montreal. She was 70. Her death was announced by the office of the Governor General, who represents Queen Elizabeth II. It did not give the cause of death. A former 
 Hannah Wilke, a sculptor and Conceptual artist who made the body and female sexuality the subject of her work, died yesterday at Twelve Oaks Hospital in Houston. She was 52 and lived in Manhattan. She died of complications from lymphoma, said her husband, Donald Goddard. In 
 Kay Swift, who wrote the music for the popular standards "Can't We Be Friends?," "Fine and Dandy" and "Can This Be Love?," died yesterday at the Alzheimer's Resource Center in Southington, Conn. She was 95. She died of Alzheimer's disease, which was diagnosed three years ago, said a
 Ann Osterhout Edison, a pharmacist and daughter-in-law of Thomas Alva Edison, died on Monday at the Caleb Hitchcock Health Center at Duncaster in Bloomfield, Conn. She was 91 and lived in West Orange, N.J. The cause of death was heart failure, said her niece, Sandy Karplus. 
 Katharine Morrison McClinton, the author of more than 30 books on antiques, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 94. She died of heart failure, said her daughter, Julianna A. Mortensen, of Darien, Conn. Mrs. McClinton, a native of San Francisco, graduated from
