 Amy Sue Rosen, a modern dance choreographer known for her collaborations with the painter Derek Bernstein, died on Feb. 19 at her home in Manhattan. She was 47. The cause was cancer, according to Mr. Bernstein, her husband. Ms. Rosen, who was born in Baltimore, trained with 
 Anne Burr McDermott, who as Anne Burr was a leading lady on Broadway and radio and in early television in the 1940's and 50's, died on Feb. 1 not far from her home in Old Lyme, Conn. She was 84. After acting in stock and radio roles, she made her Broadway debut in 1941 in the drama 
 Frankie Hewitt, who spearheaded the revival of Ford's Theater here and turned it into a showplace for plays and musicals, died Friday at her home in Kensington, Md. She was 71. The cause was cancer, Ford's Theater announced. Just one day earlier, President Bush had awarded h
 Elaine Barrie, the fourth wife of the Shakespearean actor John Barrymore, with whom she shared a tumultuous on-again, off-again engagement and marriage that enthralled the nation in the darkest days of the Depression, died on Saturday in Manhattan. She was 87. Her story unwinds like
 Fedora Barbieri, a dramatic mezzo-soprano celebrated for Verdi interpretations that were extensively preserved on records and film, died on Tuesday in Florence, Italy. She was 82. Gifted with a large, opulent voice, Miss Barbieri was of the same generation of opera stars as Cesare S
 Nadine Conner, who sang on the radio with Bing Crosby and Gordon MacRae before a lengthy career as a lyric soprano at the Metropolitan Opera, died March 1 in Los Alamitos, Calif. She was 96. She made her New York debut on Dec. 22, 1941, as Pamina in an English version of Mozart's ''
 Susan Johnson, who sang in musical theater on and off Broadway in the 1950's, died on Feb. 24 at her daughter's home in Sacramento. She was 75. She had emphysema, said Greg MacKellan, who produced some CD's she sang on. Her biggest moment came when she was a featured perform
 Sylvia K. Burack, a retired editor and publisher of a magazine that offered advice to budding writers, died on Feb. 14 in Boston. She was 86 and lived in Brookline, Mass. For nearly 40 years Ms. Burack and her husband, A. S. Burack, published The Writer, as well as another magazine 
 Amanda Davis, a promising writer whose first novel appeared in bookstores on Feb. 18, died on Friday when the small plane that was taking her on a publicity tour crashed into a mountain 18 miles from Asheville, N.C. She was 32 and lived in Oakland, Calif. Her father, Dr. James Davis
 Judy V. Wilson, long a successful publisher of children's books, most recently at Orchard Books, an imprint of Scholastic Inc., died in Manhattan on Friday. She was 63 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was cancer, said Deborah Hochman Turvey, a family friend. Mrs. Wilson was 
 Laura Rothenberg, who recorded an audio diary for National Public Radio that documented her daily life as she struggled with cystic fibrosis, died Thursday night at her apartment in Manhattan. She was 22. The cause was chronic rejection of a lung transplant, complicated by infection
 Peggy Conklin, a stage actress who found early success in ''The Petrified Forest'' in 1936 and followed it with a wide variety of dramatic and comic roles on Broadway, died last Tuesday at her home in Naples, Fla. She was 96. Ms. Conklin had leading or featured roles from the 1930's
 Sandy Carlson Tarlow, an advertising executive who was responsible for defining the public face of Polo Ralph Lauren for almost a quarter century, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 59. The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, Richard Tarlow. Mrs. Tarlow had been i
 Anne Logan Davis Wichern, a lung specialist at Bellevue Hospital Center and professor emeritus at New York University who established one of the country's first emphysema clinics, died March 9. She was 78 and lived on the Upper East Side. The cause was cancer, her family said, and s
