 Betty Kenward, who exhaustively and uncritically chronicled the lives of England's upper classes at their dinners, balls, race meetings and country weekends in the pages of London's toniest magazines, died last Wednesday in London. She was 94. A snob and proud of it, Mrs. Kenward co
 A tribute to Beverley Peck Johnson, a voice teacher and faculty member at the Juilliard School of Music, will take place on Monday at 5 p.m. at the Juilliard Theater, 155 West 65th Street, Manhattan. Ms. Johnson died on Jan. 20 at 96. The memorial service, which is open to the publi
 Carol Anne Letheren, a member of the International Olympic Committee from Canada, died yesterday, two days after collapsing while giving a speech in Toronto. She was 58. The cause of the collapse was a brain aneurysm, according to The Associated Press. Ms. Letheren was stric
 Constance Myers Anderson, a former head of both the New York City and national Young Women's Christian Association, died Jan. 31 at her retirement home in Kennett Square, Penn. Mrs. Anderson, a former resident of New York City and of Wilton, Conn., was 102. Mrs. Anderson, a 1919 gra
 Dare Wright, a photographer and children's book author whose best-known work is ''The Lonely Doll,'' died on Jan. 25. She was 86 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Wright's story about Edith, the lonely doll befriended by a pair of teddy bears, was first published in 1957 by Doubleday and 
 Mirra Ginsberg, a noted translator of works by Dostoyevsky, Mikhail Bulgakov and Isaac Bashevis Singer, died on Dec. 26 on Long Island. She was 91. Born in Russia on June 10, 1909, Ms. Ginsberg moved with her family to Canada and then to the United States, said her cousin, Barbara F
 Frances Bible, a mezzo-soprano who performed in the New York City Opera for nearly 30 years and created roles in several contemporary works, died on Jan. 29 in Hemet, Calif., where she lived. She was 82. Ms. Bible's warm voice and lively stage presence -- particularly in trouser rol
 Anne Morrow Lindbergh, the lyrical author and aviator whose marriage to Charles A. Lindbergh brought her both joy and tragedy, died yesterday at her home in Passumpsic, Vt. She was 94. Their daughter Reeve Lindbergh wrote in her 1998 memoir ''Under a Wing'' (Simon & Schuster) that h
 Dale Evans, who won the hearts of millions of Americans as she rode alongside her husband, Roy Rogers, in western films and on ''The Roy Rogers Show'' in the early years of television, died yesterday at her home in Apple Valley, Calif., east of Los Angeles. She was 88. Miss Evans ha
 Pauline Koner, one of the eclectic individualists of contemporary American dance, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88. A choreographer noted for powerful solos, Miss Koner was also a principal dancer with the José Limón Dance Company, a leading modern-dance troupe 
 Arlene Eisenberg, who with her two daughters wrote ''What to Expect When You're Expecting,'' which became known as the pregnancy bible, died on Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 66. The cause was breast cancer, her family said. From gir
 Fuki Kushida, a pioneer Japanese campaigner for women's rights, a peace activist and an opponent of nuclear weapons, died at her home in Tokyo on Monday, a family announcement said. She was 101. In February last year, at the age of 1OO, Ms. Kushida made headlines from her wheelchair
 Eleanor Lawrence, a flutist who played frequently in chamber music performances and with several orchestras in New York and who is credited with transforming a newsletter into an important resource for flutists, died on Jan. 16 at her home in Manhattan. She was 64. The cause was bra
 Kitty Buck, who with her husband, Otto, ran Cake Masters Bakery, an institution on the Upper West Side of Manhattan that made cakes for Liberace, President Kennedy and Elizabeth Taylor -- and for less famous families' celebrations -- for more than half a century, died on Jan. 9 in Oceanside
 A'Lelia Nelson, a librarian who was a former president of a famous early black enterprise, the Madame C. J. Walker Manufacturing Company, died Jan. 20 at her home in Manhattan. She was 82. The cause was pancreatic cancer. Ms. Nelson was linked to the company's founder, Madame C. J. 
 Phyllis S. Levy, a prominent Good Housekeeping book editor who in her early publishing career helped discover Ken Kesey, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 69. The cause was ovarian cancer, friends said. A New York native, Ms. Levy graduated from Radcliffe, whe
 Sonia Arova, a Bulgarian-born ballerina who became an international star and was an early partner of such great male dancers as Erik Bruhn and Rudolf Nureyev, died on Sunday in San Diego. She was 74. The cause was pancreatic cancer, her family said. Ms. Arova was the balleri
 Rosalie Gwathmey, a photographer who was noted for the warmth and artful simplicity of her pictures of black Southern communities, and who threw away all her negatives in 1955 after donating most of her prints to the New York Public Library, died on Monday at her home in Amagansett, N.Y., s
 Rose Freedman, the last survivor of the Triangle Shirtwaist fire in which 146 of her co-workers perished in 1911, died on Thursday in her apartment in Beverly Hills, Calif., her daughter said. She was 107. Mrs. Freedman, who at the time of the Manhattan fire was two days shy of 18, 
 Gail Fisher, who won an Emmy Award in 1970 for her portrayal of Peggy Fair, secretary to the gumshoe played by Mike Connors on the CBS television series ''Mannix,'' died on Dec. 2 at a hospital in Los Angeles. She was 65. The cause was kidney failure. Ms. Fisher's role on ''
 Dr. Donella Hager Meadows, an author, educator and advocate for the environment, died Tuesday at Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. She was 59 and lived in Hartland Four Corners, N.H. The cause was bacterial meningitis, said Prof. Jack E. Shepherd Jr., a friend and 
 Emily Vermeule, an emeritus professor of classical philology and archaeology at Harvard University who started her career with the discovery of an ancient Mycenaean tomb and went on to conduct excavations in Greece, Turkey, Libya and Cyprus, died on Feb. 6 at her home in Cambridge, Mass. Sh
 Mfon Essien, a Nigerian-born American photographer, died on Feb. 13 in New York. She was 34. The cause was breast cancer, according to her publicist and friend, Tonya Miller. Ms. Essien, whose full name is Mmekutmfon, was born in the village of Ikot Ekpene in Nigeria and cam
 Miné Okubo, a Japanese-American artist who recorded in 2,000 drawings and a book what she saw and felt as an internee in American detention camps for Japanese and Japanese-Americans during World War II, died on Feb. 10 in Manhattan. She was 88 and lived in Manhattan. Miss Okubo, wh
 Ann Colbert, the founder of Colbert Artists Management Inc., which manages the careers of classical musicians, died on Sunday. She was 95 and lived in Manhattan. Mrs. Colbert moved to the United States from Berlin in 1936 and started her management company with her husband, Henry Co
 Sylvia Lawry, whose brother's incurable multiple sclerosis prompted her to found national and international organizations to fight the disease, died on Saturday at Bird S. Coler Hospital on Roosevelt Island. She was 85 and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Lawry founded both the National Mult
