 Charlotte Baruth, a former president of the New York Federation of Women's Clubs, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. She was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of a heart attack, her grandson Charles Hutson of Washington, said. Mrs. Baruth, who was acti
 Dorette Vock Assael, a fundraiser for charities, died yesterday at New York Hospital. She was 59 years old and had residences in Manhattan, Paris and Cannes. Mrs. Assael died of cancer, a spokeswoman for the family said. She raised money for several organizations, including 
 Eleanor King, a modern-dance choreographer and a member of the original Doris Humphrey-Charles Weidman company, died on Wednesday at the Actor's Home in Haddonfield, N.J. She was 85 years old. Miss King had been in ill health since injuring her hip six weeks ago, a colleague, Mino N
 Enid C. Baird, executive assistant to three presidents of the National Urban League, died on Tuesday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Port Charlotte, Fla. She was 85 years old and lived in Port Charlotte and Brooklyn. Mrs. Baird died as the result of a stroke, a spokeswoman for the famil
 Lola Popper Kramarsky, former president of Hadassah, the national women's Zionist organization, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 95 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mrs. Kramarsky was president of Hadassah from 1960 to 1964 and was active in the organization for m
 Margaret Ann Chisholm, a bibliographer who worked for the Episcopal and Anglican churches, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital. She was 59 years old and lived in Manhattan and London. Miss Chisholm died after a cerebral hemorrhage, a spokeswoman for the family said. She w
 Olga Kattan, a professor of Spanish language and literature at Brooklyn College for the last 25 years, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 62 years old. She died of cancer, her niece, Roxanna Siman, said. Dr. Kattan, a 1963 Ph.D. graduate of the University of Ma
 Viola Hymes, a former president of the National Council of Jewish Women, died Friday at Methodist Hospital in St. Louis Park, Minn. She was 84 years old and lived in Minneapolis. Mrs. Hymes died of complications after suffering a stroke, her grandson Michael said. Mrs. Hymes
 Virginia W. Milliken, an animal-rights advocate, died on Friday at her home in Sarasota, Fla. She was 88 years old. She died of lung cancer, said her daughter, Jane, of Riverside, Conn. Mrs. Milliken, who opposed the use of animals in medical and scientific experiments, was 
 Elizabeth Olds, a writer and artist of children's books, died on Monday in Sarasota, Fla., where she lived. She was 94 years old. Miss Olds was the first woman to hold a Guggenheim Fellowship in art. During the fellowship, she studied art in Paris, where she also trained as 
 Corinne Prevost Abel, a volunteer active in civic causes around the world, died last Friday in Colwell, England. She was 66 years old and lived in Palo Alto, Calif. Her husband, Elie Abel, former dean of the Columbia University Graduate School of Journalism, said she had been in a d
 Katinka Loeser, many of whose short stories were infused with what a critic described as "autobiographical sketches of warmth and charm," died Wednesday in Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. She was 77 years old and lived in Westport. She died of kidney failure, said her daughter, Jan DeVrie
 Maria Eisner Lehfeldt, a photo editor and agent who was a founder of the Magnum photo agency, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 82 years old. Mrs. Lehfeldt, a native of Milan, Italy, was educated in Germany and started Alliance Photo, an agency in Paris, in the 1930's
 Elizabeth Ulman Rowe, former chairwoman of the National Capital Planning Commission and a leader in urban beautification, died yesterday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. She was 79 years old and lived in Washington. Mrs. Rowe died of pnuemonia, a spokesman for
 Frances Weitzenhoffer, an art historian, editor and specialist in Impressionist painting, died on Sunday in Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 46 years old. She died of breast cancer, her husband, Max, said. Mrs. Weitzenhoffer was the author of "The Havemeyers: Impressionism Comes
 Jane Lloyd-Jones, a stage actress, died yesterday at Benedictine Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. She was 69 years old and had homes in Woodstock, N.Y., and Manhattan. She died of a stroke, said her husband, Heywood Hale Broun, the writer, broadcaster and actor. Ms. Lloyd-Jones, a
 Ellen Israel Rosen, creator of the mayoral office that later became the New York City Commission for the United Nations and Consular Corps, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 51 years old and lived in Manhattan. Ms. Rosen died of lung cancer, a family spokesman said.    
 Dr. Margaret K. Chandler, the first female professor at the Graduate School of Business at Columbia University, died on Monday at the Somerset Medical Center in Somerville, N.J. She was 68 years old and lived in Piscataway. Dr. Chandler died of cancer, a Columbia spokesman said.    
 Dorothy Kramer, a Long Island church official, died on Monday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. She was 61 years old and lived in Port Washington. She died of breast cancer, a family spokesman said. Mrs. Kramer was active in hospice work in Nassau County 
 Helen Lee Caldwell, a leading designer of children's clothes in Manhattan for three decades under the name Helen Lee, died on Wednesday at Fort Sanders Hospital in Knoxville, Tenn. She was 82 years old and had lived in Knoxville since 1981. She died after a series of strokes, a spok
 Rose M. Singer, an original member of the New York City Board of Correction and founder and president emeritus of the Friendly Vistors, a service group that helps women in prison, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 94 years old. She died of heart failure, said her so
 Pilar Primo de Rivera, a fascist leader during the Spanish Civil War, died today in Madrid. There were conflicting versions of Miss Primo de Rivera's age. The EFE news agency gave her date of birth as Nov. 5, 1910, which would make her 80. But the Espasa encyclopedia and other local
 Elizabeth Youngblood Cobb, a writer on home improvement, died on Sunday at Middlesex Hospital in Middletown, Conn. She was 76 years old and lived in Chester, Conn. Mrs. Cobb died of complications from pneumonia, a spokeswoman for the family said. With her husband, Hubbard, B
 Jean Tennyson Boissevain, an operatic soprano and patron of the arts, died on Saturday at her home in La Tour-de-Peilz, Switzerland. She was 86 years old. She died in her sleep, her goddaughter, Dorothy Blencowe, said. Mrs. Boissevain appeared, as Jean Tennyson, with several
 Mabel Pickford Jenkins, a retired psychiatric social worker in New York City, died on Thursday at the University Village Retirement Center in Tulsa, Okla. She was 98 years old and had lived in Tulsa since 1984. Mrs. Jenkins, who lived in the New York City area for 60 years, died aft
 Margaret Kalil, a soprano who sang with the Metropolitan Opera, died on Thursday at the Royal Victoria Hospital in Montreal. She was 66 years old and lived in Montreal. She died of pulmonary disease, her niece, Barbara Wright, said. Miss Kalil was a soloist with the Metropol
 Norma Magid, a prize-winning writer and a lecturer at the University of Pennsylvania, died on Thursday at her home in West Philadelphia. She was 65 years old. Miss Magid died of natural causes, a spokesman for the family said. Miss Magid joined the faculty of the University 
 Louise Brayton Kline, a preservationist who oversaw the construction of several buildings at Bard College when her late husband was president there, died on Monday at her home in Barrytown, N.Y. She was 79 years old. She died of cancer, a college spokesman said. Mrs. Kline, 
 The Rev. Dr. Marie-Louise Schoelly Sherwin, a psychiatrist and an ordained Episcopal priest, died on Tuesday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 76 years old and lived in Manhattan. She died of cancer, a funeral home representative said. Dr. Sherwin graduated from the 
 Dagmar Freuchen-Gale, an artist and illustrator for such fashion magazines as Vogue and Harper's Bazaar, died March 9 at a hospital in Fredensborg, Denmark. She was 83 years old and had lived in Fredensborg since the early 1970's. She died as the result of a stroke, a friend, Donald
 Margaret Atwood Judson, a historian, educator and author, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Piscataway, N.J. She was 91years old and lived in Highland Park, N.J. Dr. Judson was professor emeritus of history at Douglass College of Rutgers University. She was chairwoman of the his
 Gloria Holden, an actress whose film career spanned three decades, died Friday after a heart attack. She was 73 years old. The London-born actress played the wife of Paul Muni in the Oscar-winning 1937 film "The Life of Emile Zola." She appeared with Spencer Tracy, Myrna Loy
 Helen Lacey Haskell, a camp administrator who was active in civic affairs, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 90 years old. She began her career in 1929 as a co-director of Camp Treetops with her husband, Douglas. The coeducational camp was affiliated with the North Co
 Juliette T. Benton, a lecturer on books and plays who headed the Wednesday Book Group in New York for more than half a century, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 92 years old. Mrs. Benton and several other women founded the weekly discussion group in 1932, and she bec
 Katherine Z. W. Whipple, former director of health education for the New York Tuberculosis and Health Association, died yesterday at a continuing care home in Medford, N.J. She was 97 years old. She died as a result of a stroke, her stepson, James Whipple of Tucson, Ariz., said.    
 Mary C. O'Connor, a former chairwoman of Community Board 6 on the East Side of Manhattan, died on Sunday at Bellevue Hospital Center, where she was taken after she was hit by a truck at Second Avenue and 45th Street. She was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan. Ms. O'Connor 
 Lillian Day Lederer, a novelist, biographer and playwright, died yesterday at the DeWitt Nursing Home in Manhattan, where she had lived for the last eight years. She was 98 years old. She died of heart failure, a cousin, Alexandra Lippman, said. She was a native New Yorker, 
 Claire Sullivan O'Keeffe, co-founder of Casita Maria, a Bronx service organization, died on Friday at Memorial Mission Hospital in Asheville, N.C. She was 82 years old and lived in Asheville. Mrs. O'Keeffe died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said. Casita Maria was fou
