 Lillian Gish, the last of the great silent film stars, who performed for more than 85 years in movies, theater and television, died in her sleep on Saturday evening at her home in Manhattan. She was 99 years old. Her personal manager, James E. Frasher, said the cause was heart failu
 Ruby Keeler, the innocent-faced tap-dancing sweetheart of nine Warner Brothers musicals in the 1930's, died yesterday morning at her home in Palm Springs, Calif. She was 82 years old. The cause of death was cancer, said her daughter Kathleen Lowe. In seven of those musicals,
 Bertha Mather McPherson, founder and first president of the Darien (Conn.) Historical Society, died Friday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. She was 86 and lived in Darien at the Mather Homestead, an historic landmark her family has called home since 1778. She had suffered a long illne
 Pina Carmirelli, a violinist who appeared as a soloist and in chamber-music ensembles, died on Saturday at her home in Rome. She was 79. She died after a long illness, said Frank Salomon, a co-administrator of the Marlboro Music School and Festival in Vermont, where Miss Carmirelli 
 Martha Dalrymple, a co-author of an exhaustive study of New York City landmarks, died on Monday in Portland, Ore., where she had moved 17 years ago. She was 89. The cause of death was chronic lung disease and heart failure, said her half-sister, Joanna Stuart of Portland. Wi
 Eleanor Sanger, a television producer who won several Emmy awards for her work on Olympics broadcasts for ABC Sports, died yesterday at her home in West Tisbury, Mass. She was 63 and also lived in Vail, Colo. The cause of death was cancer of the uterus, said her son, Robert P. Riger
 Julia Jones-Pugliese, who took up fencing as a New York University student in 1927 and five years later began a 60-year career as one the nation's premier coaches, died on Saturday after coaching Hunter College's men's team at a meet at St. John's. She was 84, and according to her f
 May Friend Goodman, who served for two decades as a representative of a leading international Jewish organization at the United Nations, died on Friday at her home in Cedarhurst, L.I. She was 85. She died of heart failure, a family member said. In 1952, Mrs. Goodman began he
 Judith Rothschild, an abstract painter whose works were shown internationally and who left a multi-million-dollar estate to support contemporary American artists, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 71 and lived in Manhattan and in Wellfleet, Mass. The caus
 Ruth Bernice Schnurmacher, a New York philanthropist and benefactor of medical institutions, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital. A resident of Manhattan, she was 83. Among her principal beneficiaries were the Albert Einstein College of Medicine and Beth Israel Medical Center, whi
 Andrea Boroff Eagan, a journalist, educator, union founder and advocate for women, died on Tuesday at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. She was 49 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause of death was cancer, her family said. The interwoven themes of her career were social change, group
 Claire Huchet Bishop, an author of popular children's books and a leading opponent of anti-Semitism, died on Thursday at her home in Paris at the age of 94. She had resided in Manhattan for about 50 years. The cause of death was a hemorrhage of the aorta, said Mira Felner, a friend.
 Masha Tumarkin, who helped institute a new technique for teaching English to upwards of 50,000 recent immigrants in New York City, died on Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital. She was 49 and was a Manhattan resident. The cause of death was leukemia, her family said. For several
 Margaret M. Mills, a former executive director of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, died on Sunday in an automobile accident in Naples, Fla., Hugo Weisgall, the academy's president, announced. She was 71. Ms. Mills was born in England and later moved with her family to Brazi
 Mildred Collins, president of Mildred Collins Inc., a Manhattan-based sales promotion and publicity company, died on Sunday at Tisch Hospital at the New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 69 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was cancer, her family said.   
 Helen Hayes, the tiny actress whose big-hearted portrayals of Queen Victoria and other regal women helped make her one of the century's best-loved stars, died yesterday at Nyack Hospital in Nyack, N.Y. She was 92 and lived in Nyack. The cause was heart failure, said John Springer, h
 Joyce Carey, a British stage actress known for her performances in plays by Noel Coward, died on Feb. 28 at a London hospital. She was 94 and lived in London. Miss Carey came from a theatrical family. Her mother, Lilian Braithwaite, was a star on the London stage, and her father, Ge
 Irene Claire Fromer, a retired teacher and artist, died on Tuesday at Doctors Hospital on Staten Island. She was 70 and lived on Staten Island and in St. Croix, V.I. Her death was a result of a myocardial flu virus, said her husband of nearly 50 years, Dr. Stephen Fromer. Mr
 Judith Grad, a former counsel to the New York City Board of Ethics who in later life became a psychotherapist, died yesterday at her home in Greenwich Village. She was 68. The cause of death was heart failure, her family said. A native of Brooklyn and graduate of Brooklyn Co
 Mrs. Silverstone co-founded the Jerusalem center with her husband, the late Murray Silverstone, former president of 20th Century Fox International. Dedicated in 1960, the center was designed to be a place where Jewish and Arab children could learn about their own and other people's cultures
 Regina Kiely Fox, a New York sportswoman and philanthropist, died on Sunday at her home in North Salem, N.Y. She was 87. The cause was cancer, her family said. Mrs. Fox was born in Brooklyn and graduated from Marymount College in Tarrytown, N.Y. She was active in the Crescen
 Jean Murray Branscombe, who helped develop one of New York City's first vest-pocket parks and was an aide to Laurence A. Rockefeller, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 64 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, her family said.    
 Ruth Tester Carothers, a singer and dancer in Broadway musicals in the 1920's and early 30's, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Weston, Mass., where she lived. She was 89. Miss Tester was best known for her rendition of "Sing Something Simple" in "The Second Little Show." She sang
 Kate Reid, an actress whose hundreds of roles included starring onstage in "Death of a Salesman," in the film "Atlantic City" and in television episodes of "Dallas," died on Saturday at her home in Stratford, Ontario. She was 62. The cause of death was cancer, said her agent, Richar
