 Emily Taft Douglas, a former United States Representative from Illinois, died on Friday at a nursing home in White Plains. She was 94 and had lived in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y., since moving from Washington in 1986. Mrs. Douglas was the widow of former Senator Paul H. Douglas, who repr
 Flora Stieglitz Straus, a philanthropist long active in nonprofit organizations benefiting children, died on Jan. 24 at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 98. In the 1930's and 1940's, Mrs. Strauswas a member and chairman of the New York State Commission for the Blind. Mrs
 Princess Lucie Jadot Shirazi, a founder of the World Wildlife Fund, died on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 86. The cause was cancer, said Roberto Mitrotti, co-executor of her estate. The princess was president of the Shirazi Wildlife Foundation, which supports sa
 Ruth Mortimer Lancaster, curator of rare books and assistant librarian at Smith College in Northampton, Mass., died on Monday at her home in Williamsburg, Mass. She was 62. Her husband, John Lancaster, said she had died of metastatic breast cancer. Known professionally as Ru
 Dr. Veronica M. Driscoll, a retired executive director of the New York State Nurses Association, died on Sunday at her home in Loudonville, N.Y. She was 67. The cause was cancer, the association said. In 1966, Dr. Driscoll was head of the group's negotiations for Registered 
 Betty Heitman, a Republican Party official who prodded two Presidents to appoint more women to high Government posts, died on Monday at her home in Baton Rouge, La. She was 64. Her son, Paul, attributed her death to natural causes. Mrs. Heitman was co-chairwoman of the Repub
 Dr. Madeline C. Hunter, an educator and psychologist who translated a psychological learning theory into practical teaching techniques, died last Thursday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. She was 78 and lived in the Bel Air section of Los Angeles. Dr. Hunter had a seri
 Willie Mae Ford Smith, a pioneering gospel singer, died on Wednesday at the Tower Village Nursing Home in St. Louis. She was 89. The cause was congestive heart failure, said Anthony Heilbut, a friend and her recording producer. Mother Smith, as she was widely known, was one 
 Doris C. Frankel, a playwright whose work found its way to Broadway, radio and television and who won an Emmy Award for her work on the soap opera "All My Children," died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 84. The cause was a stroke, said her son Benjamin R. Barber.       
 Dr. Marija Gimbutas, an author and archeologist, died Wednesday at U.C.L.A. Hospital in Los Angeles. She was 73 and had lived in Los Angeles. The cause was cancer, said a colleague, Dr. Cristina Biaggi. Dr. Gimbutas was the author of 20 books and more than 200 articles on Eu
 Edith Weisbuch, a proponent of progressive education and benefactor of Brandeis University, died on Jan. 29 at her home in Kings Point, L.I. She was 89. The cause was cardiopulmonary complications, said her son Thomas B. Weisbuch. A graduate of Smith College, Mrs. Weisbuch w
 Rose Nussbaum Justin, a lawyer who held legal positions in New York City government, died on Jan. 17 at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. She was 83 and lived in the Bronx. The cause was heart disease, said her daughter, Gail Justin. After graduating from St. John's Un
 Hilda Simms, an actress best known for her starring role on Broadway in "Anna Lucasta," died on Sunday in Buffalo at the home of her sister Evelyn Sharp. She was 75 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer of the pancreas, her sister said. "Anna Lucasta" and Ms. Simms's 
 Jarmila Novotna, a Czech-born lyric soprano who sang major roles at the Metropolitan Opera from 1940 to 1956, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 86. She died of natural causes, said her daughter, Jarmila Packard. Miss Novotna was widely considered one of the
 Madelin Thayer Gilpatric, a volunteer for almost five decades for several nonprofit organizations in New York City and California, died last Thursday at New York Hospital. She was in her 80's. The cause of death was a cerebral hemorrhage, according to her family. Mrs. Gilpat
 Ann M. Sperber, whose biography of Edward R. Murrow was a best-seller in 1986, died on Friday at her Manhattan apartment. She was 58. The cause was an apparent heart attack, said her brother, Dr. Alan Sperber. Miss Sperber's book, "Murrow: His Life and Times" (Freundlich Boo
 Murial Williams Hart, a Broadway actress of the 1930's and a soap-opera heroine of the 1950's and 60's, died on Thursday at York Hospital in York, Me. She was 80. The cause was cancer, said a stepdaughter, Frederica Hart. Miss Williams, as she was known professionally, appea
 Tiana Lemnitz, a German soprano who was a major interpreter of opera and lieder in Europe after World War I, died on Feb. 5 in Berlin. She was 96. Miss Lemnitz was born in Metz, studied in Frankfurt and made her debut in Heilbronn in 1920 in the title role of Lortzing's "Undine." Sh
 Andrea Heinemann Simon, a community leader in Riverdale, the Bronx, died yesterday at her home there. She was 84. The cause was lung cancer, said her daughter, Joanna Walker. Mrs. Simon served for more than 30 years on the board of directors of the Riverdale Mental Health As
 Esther Sherman, a theatrical agent and a vice president of the William Morris Agency, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. She was 56. The cause was cancer, the agency said. Ms. Sherman was a native of Newark. She joined William Morris in 1964 as a secretary 
 Maria St. Just, an actress and longtime friend of Tennessee Williams, died on Tuesday at her home in London. She was in her late 60's or early 70's, her family said. The cause was heart failure brought on by severe rheumatoid arthritis, said her daughter Natasha Grenfell. La
 Marjorie Keller Sitney, an independent film maker whose works have been shown at museums, festivals and film institutes around the world, died on Thursday in Winter Haven, Fla. She was 43 and lived in Wakefield, R.I. The cause has not been determined, said her family, whom she was v
 Susanne M. Yardney, a Russian emigre and a patron of the arts died on Friday in her home in Manhattan. She was 84. The cause was heart disease, said Dr. Jon Yardney, her son. Mrs. Yardney came to the United States in 1940, settled in New York and was a founding member of Fri
 Margaret Lane, the Dowager Countess of Huntingdon, a British author whose works included books about Peter Rabbit's creator, Beatrix Potter, died last Monday in Southampton, England. She was 86 and lived outside Southampton. Miss Lane's two biographies of Miss Potter were the basis 
 Mary Woodard Lasker, the philanthropist and champion of medical research and urban beautification, died on Monday at her home in Greenwich, Conn. She was 93 years old and also had an apartment on the East Side of Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, said her nephew, James W. Ford
 Ida Parkinson Bruce, a ballet dancer who performed in this country in the 1920's, died on Sunday at the Pine Run Health Center in Doylestown, Pa. She was 93 and lived in Greenwich, Conn., and Palm Beach, Fla., before she moved to Doylestown in 1984. She had a long illness, her famil
 Lillian Weber, a City College of New York professor who was known for her work in early childhood education, died on Tuesday at her home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. She was 77. The cause was cardiac arrest, reported the City University of New York. Professor Weber
 Dinah Shore, a vivacious entertainer who was widely loved for her homey, heartfelt singing and breezy Southern charm, died yesterday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 76. The cause was cancer, said Constance L. Stone, her publicity agent. Miss Shore's career, whic
 Isabel Bassett Wasson, one of the country's first female petroleum geologists, died on Monday in La Grange Park, Ill. She was 97. A former resident of River Forest, Ill., Mrs. Wasson moved to the Plymouth Place Retirement Community in La Grange Park 10 years ago. Mrs. Wasson
 Grace Roosevelt McMillan, a photographer who was the eldest grandchild of President Theodore Roosevelt, died on Tuesday at the Greater Baltimore Medical Center. She was 82 and lived in Baltimore. The cause was a stroke, her family said. Born Grace Green Roosevelt in San Fran
 Juliet Sieveking Saunders, a former New York City school district superintendent whose doctoral dissertation became the basis for a handbook for the city's elementary school principals, died on Saturday at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. She was 86. The cause of death was a h
