Ethel F. Donaghue, one of the first women to practice law in Connecticut, died in her sleep Saturday at her home in West Hartford. She was 93 years old. Ethel F. Donaghue, one of the first women to practice law in Connecticut, died in her sleep Saturday at her home in West Har
Helen Adams Masten, who read to children at the New York Public Library for nearly 38 years, died of congestive heart failure Sunday at Devon Manor, a retirement home in Devon, Pa. She was 94 years old and had lived in Pelham, N.Y., until two years ago. Helen Adams Masten, who
Lilly Dache, the milliner who flourished in this country in the decades when women selected their new hats before they chose their new clothes, died Sunday at a nursing home in Louvecienne, France. She was 97 years old. Lilly Dache, the milliner who flourished in this country 
Elsa Andresen Bledsoe, a charter member of the Oratorio Society of New Jersey, died Tuesday at the Arnold Walter Nursing Home in Holmdel, N.J. She was 92 years old.  Surviving are two daughters, Margery Owen Bostrom of Red Bank, N.J., and Elizabeth Owen Greene of Poughkeepsie, N.Y.; t
Arlene Dinnerstein Friehling, a former owner of the Stevensville Country Club, a resort hotel in Swan Lake, N.Y., died of cancer on Wednesday at the Community General Hospital in Harris, N.Y. She was 59 years old and lived in Liberty, N.Y. Arlene Dinnerstein Friehling, a forme
Gertrude Simon Kosting, a health-care worker and the president of the Huxley Institute of Connecticut, died of an embolism on Tuesday at Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. She was 84 years old and lived in Weston, Conn. Gertrude Simon Kosting, a health-care worker and the president of 
Ellen Neuwald Sherman, a literary agent, died of lung cancer Tuesday at her home in Laguna Hills, Calif. She was 74 years old. Ellen Neuwald Sherman, a literary agent, died of lung cancer Tuesday at her home in Laguna Hills, Calif. She was 74 years old. Mrs. Sherman, w
Margaret Kelly, the mother of the late Princess Grace of Monaco and the matriarch of the famed Kelly family of Philadelphia, died of pneumonia Saturday at a convalescent home here. She was 91 years old. Margaret Kelly, the mother of the late Princess Grace of Monaco and the ma
Josephine Young Case, a poet and writer and the first woman to be a director of the Radio Corporation of America, died on Monday at the Harding Nursing Home in Waterville, N.Y. She was 82 years old and lived in Van Hornesville, N.Y. Josephine Young Case, a poet and writer and 
Mary O'Neill, a children's book author, died of heart failure on Jan. 2 in Yuma (Ariz.) Regional Medical Center. She was 84 years old. Mary O'Neill, a children's book author, died of heart failure on Jan. 2 in Yuma (Ariz.) Regional Medical Center. She was 84 years old.        
Rose Kushner, a vigorous and tenacious advocate for women with breast cancer, died Sunday of the disease. She was 60 years old and lived in Kensington, Md. Rose Kushner, a vigorous and tenacious advocate for women with breast cancer, died Sunday of the disease. She was 60 year
Ruth Newman Schwarz, an early psychiatric social worker, died of cancer Dec. 28 at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan. Ruth Newman Schwarz, an early psychiatric social worker, died of cancer Dec. 28 at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 81 years old and
Helen Steele Reece, founder and director of the Reece School, a private elementary school for children with emotional and learning disabilities, died in her sleep on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 99 years old. Helen Steele Reece, founder and director of the Reece Sc
Margaret E. Hasebroock, former president of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, died Sunday at Bryan Memorial Hospital, Lincoln, Neb., after a brief illness. She was 83 years old and lived in Lincoln. Margaret E. Hasebroock, former president of the General Federation of W
Ann Stringer, a war correspondent who in 1945 transmitted the first report of the linkup of American and Russian forces, died of a heart attack Wednesday at the Skyrest Nursing Home in Carbondale, Ill. She was 71 years old and had lived until 1987 in Manhattan and Amagansset, L.I.    
Carolyn Haywood, a popular author and illustrator of children's books who is best known for her ''Betsy'' and ''Eddie'' series for 7-to-10-year-olds, died of a stroke yesterday at her home in the Chestnut Hill section of Philadelphia. She was 92 years old. Carolyn Haywood, a p
Juliet Berto, who starred in the Jean-Luc Godard films ''Weekend,'' ''La Chinoise'' and ''Le Gai Savoir,'' died of cancer on Wednesday. She was 42 years old. Juliet Berto, who starred in the Jean-Luc Godard films ''Weekend,'' ''La Chinoise'' and ''Le Gai Savoir,'' died of canc
Anne R. Izard, a retired children's librarian in Westchester County, died of complications from cancer on Monday at her home in Gwynedd, Pa. She was 74 years old. Anne R. Izard, a retired children's librarian in Westchester County, died of complications from cancer on Monday a
Virginia Thompson Adloff, an author and teacher who wrote extensively on the countries of Southeast Asia and French-speaking Africa, died on Tuesday at the home of her sister in La Jolla, Calif. She was 86 years old and a longtime resident of Manhattan. Virginia Thompson Adlof
Nell Webster, an actress and art dealer, died of ovarian cancer on Thursday at her home in Manhattan. She was 63 years old. Miss Webster was named Gloria Caroline Gall when she was born, in New York City. She changed her name when she became an actress. For a decade, she appeared at c
Marilyn Neale, a vice president of Ruder Finn & Rotman Inc., the public relations firm, died on Sunday of breast cancer at her home in Manhattan. She was 37 years old. Marilyn Neale, a vice president of Ruder Finn & Rotman Inc., the public relations firm, died on Sunday of bre
Marjorie Schuyler Van Ness, the first woman to be appointed to the New Jersey Board of Agriculture, died on Saturday at her horse farm in Raritan Township in Hunterdon County. She was 75 years old. Marjorie Schuyler Van Ness, the first woman to be appointed to the New Jersey B
Patricia Clark Greene, former president of the Rehearsal Club, a low-cost residence for women in the performing arts, died on Friday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center after a long illness. She was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan. Patricia Clark Greene, former preside
India Edwards, former vice chairwoman of the Democratic National Committee, who worked to advance the role of women in politics, died Sunday at Fircrest Convalescent Hospital in Sebastopol, Calif. She was 94 years old and lived in Greenbrea, Calif. India Edwards, former vice c
Mary DuBois Schwarz, a board member and secretary of the Union Theological Seminary, died on Saturday at the Mary Manning Walsh Nursing Home in Manhattan. She was 79 years old. Mary DuBois Schwarz, a board member and secretary of the Union Theological Seminary, died on Saturda
Ruth L. Bunzel, a retired adjunct professor of anthropology at Columbia University, died Sunday at St. Vincent's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, after a long illness. She was 91 years old and lived in Manhattan. Ruth L. Bunzel, a retired adjunct professor of anthropology at Columbi
Dr. Isabel Beck, a gynecologist and a pioneer in the field of family planning, died Tuesday at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y. She was 91 years old. Dr. Isabel Beck, a gynecologist and a pioneer in the field of family planning, died Tuesday at her home in New Rochelle, N.Y. She
Candy Jones, a 1940's cover girl whose career later encompassed teaching, broadcasting and writing, died of cancer yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan. Candy Jones, a 1940's cover girl whose career later encompassed teaching, broadcast
Marie Vale, a Republican fund raiser and a former government aide, died of leukemia on Tuesday at the New York University Medical Center. She was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan. Marie Vale, a Republican fund raiser and a former government aide, died of leukemia on Tuesday
Mrs. Dunn, who was 75, specialized in photographing children and was one of the early users of color film for advertising layouts. Her photographs appeared on the huge Kodak screen on the Grand Central Terminal concourse. She took the photographs for ''The Little Animals,'' a series o
Susan D. Hanson, a project director for AmeriCares, an international relief agency based in New Canaan, Conn., was killed on Monday along with her mother, Phoebe Dunn, a commercial photographer, and 19 other people in the crash of a Costa Rican airliner near San Jose, the capital city
Barbara Stanwyck, the luminous protagonist of such classic movies as ''Stella Dallas,'' ''The Lady Eve'' and ''Double Indemnity'' and the award-winning western television series ''The Big Valley'' in the 1960's, died of congestive heart failure yesterday in a hospital in Santa Monica,
Ruth V. Washington, the Ambassador to Gambia and a retired United States Magistrate, died after an automobile collision early yesterday near her home in the Hartsdale section of Greenburgh, N.Y. She was 67 years old. Ruth V. Washington, the Ambassador to Gambia and a retired U
S. Fannie Simon, a retired teacher and labor leader, died of a ruptured appendix Wednesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. She was 88 years old and lived in Manhattan. S. Fannie Simon, a retired teacher and labor leader, died of a ruptured appendix Wednes
Barbara Stanwyck, the luminous star of such classic movies as ''Stella Dallas,'' ''The Lady Eve'' and ''Double Indemnity'' and the award-winning western television series ''The Big Valley,'' died of congestive heart failure late Saturday at St. John's Hospital and Health Center in San
Doris Bernstein, a psychoanalyst and past president of the Institute for Psychoanalytic Training and Research, died of cancer on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 57 years old. Doris Bernstein, a psychoanalyst and past president of the Institute for Psychoanalytic Train
Dr. Claire B. Adler, associate professor of mathematics at New York University, died of stomach cancer Friday at Flushing Hospital in Queens. She was 94 years old and lived in Jamaica Estates, Queens. Dr. Claire B. Adler, associate professor of mathematics at New York Universi
Trude Fleischmann, a portrait photographer known in her native Vienna as the Photographer of the Famous, died on Saturday at the home of her nephew in Brewster, N.Y. She was 94 years old. Trude Fleischmann, a portrait photographer known in her native Vienna as the Photographer
Cecelia M. Kenyon, retired professor of government at Smith College, died Monday after a heart attack at her home in Northampton, Mass. She was 67 years old. Cecelia M. Kenyon, retired professor of government at Smith College, died Monday after a heart attack at her home in No
Claire McGlinchee, emeritus professor of English at Hunter College, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 91 years old.  Dr. McGlinchee, a graduate of Radcliffe College and a Shakespearean scholar, came to the college as an assistant instructor of English in 1924 and retir
Zelia P. Ruebhausen, a civic leader, died of ovarian cancer yesterday at her winter home in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. She was 75 years old and also lived in Manhattan. Zelia P. Ruebhausen, a civic leader, died of ovarian cancer yesterday at her winter home in Rancho Santa Fe, Ca
Anna Arnold Hedgeman, an educator, civil rights advocate and the first black woman to be a member of a mayoral cabinet in New York City, died Jan. 17 in Harlem Hospital. She was 90 years old and had lived in Harlem for many years. Anna Arnold Hedgeman, an educator, civil right
Ava Gardner, a North Carolina sharecropper's daughter who became one of the most bewitching movie actresses in the world, died of pneumonia yesterday at her home in the Kensington section of London. She was 67 years old. Ava Gardner, a North Carolina sharecropper's daughter wh
Elizabeth-Ann Campbell Knapp, a former architect and chairman of the Campbell Family Foundation, died of cancer on Sunday at her home in Princeton, N.J. She was 76 years old. Elizabeth-Ann Campbell Knapp, a former architect and chairman of the Campbell Family Foundation, died 
Peggy van Praagh, an English dancer, ballet mistress and teacher, died in Melbourne, Australia, on Jan. 15. She was 79 years old and had been in poor health for several years. Peggy van Praagh, an English dancer, ballet mistress and teacher, died in Melbourne, Australia, on Ja
Rachel Fitler, heiress to a rope-manufacturing fortune, died Wednesday at her home in Villanova, Pa. She was 93 years old. Rachel Fitler, heiress to a rope-manufacturing fortune, died Wednesday at her home in Villanova, Pa. She was 93 years old. Miss Fitler, who was an
Dr. Ruth Jaeger, one of the first American women to practice psychoanalysis, died of a heart attack yesterday at Middlesex Memorial Hospital in Middletown, Conn. She was 89 years old and lived in Middletown. Dr. Ruth Jaeger, one of the first American women to practice psychoan
Madge Bellamy, an actress who starred in silent films in the 1920's, died on Wednesday at San Antonio Community Hospital in Upland, Calif. She was 90 years old and lived in Ontario, Calif. Madge Bellamy, an actress who starred in silent films in the 1920's, died on Wednesday a
Marguerite Capen Hearsey, an educator and former principal of Abbot Academy, a school for girls in Andover, Mass., that merged with Phillips Academy in 1973, died Monday at her home in Bedford, Mass. She was 97 years old. Marguerite Capen Hearsey, an educator and former princi
Sister R. Mildred Barker, the spiritual leader of Maine's Shaker community, died on Thursday after a long illness. She was 92 years old. Sister R. Mildred Barker, the spiritual leader of Maine's Shaker community, died on Thursday after a long illness. She was 92 years old.    
Louella Luhrman, an Army nurse in World War I who became the nation's oldest veteran, died Friday. She was 108 years old. Louella Luhrman, an Army nurse in World War I who became the nation's oldest veteran, died Friday. She was 108 years old. Miss Luhrman, who joined 
Elizabeth Meyers, director of college activities at Barnard before she retired in 1972, died of cancer on Wednesday at Sentara Leigh Memorial Hospital in Norfolk, Va., while visiting a son in Virginia Beach. She was 83 years old and lived in Short Hills, N.J. Elizabeth Meyers,
Evelyn Ames, a poet and prose writer whose works on wildlife and the environment were praised by reviewers as graceful and intense, but not sentimental, died on Thursday at St. Johnland Nursing Home in Kings Park, L.I. She was 81 years old and had homes in Cold Spring Harbor, L.I., an
Barbara M. Weldon, former school superintendent of District No. 2 of the New York City Board of Education, died on Saturday at Martin Memorial Hospital in Stuart, Fla. She was 68 years old and lived in Stuart. Barbara M. Weldon, former school superintendent of District No. 2 o
Henrietta Klein, a founder and officer of the Kingsbrook Jewish Medical Center in Brooklyn, died of cancer Sunday at Kingsbrook's David Minkin Rehabilitation Institute. She was 85 years old and lived in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn. Henrietta Klein, a founder and officer o
Hope Sweetser Dean, a founder and former president of the Foundation for Children's Books, which sponsors teacher workshops and seminars to encourage children's reading, died Jan. 24 at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. She was 72 years old and lived in Marion, Mass. Hop
Irma Brandeis, a professor of literature at Bard College and an authority on Dante, died on Monday at her home on the Bard campus in Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y. She was 84 years old. Irma Brandeis, a professor of literature at Bard College and an authority on Dante, died on Mond
Nancy Gruver, one of the nation's leading contract bridge players, died of a heart attack Sunday at Howard County General Hospital in Maryland. She was 58 years old and lived in Ellicott City, Md. Nancy Gruver, one of the nation's leading contract bridge players, died of a hea
Vera Hahn, an interior-design editor for several magazines, died of lymphoma on Tuesday at New York Hospital. She was 67 years old and lived on Roosevelt Island. Vera Hahn, an interior-design editor for several magazines, died of lymphoma on Tuesday at New York Hospital. She w
