 Eleanor Clymer, who in dozens of children's books contrasted country and city life, died yesterday at a retirement community in Haverford, Pa. She was 95. Between 1943 and 1983, Mrs. Clymer published 58 books, mostly for elementary schoolchildren. Her first, ''A Yard for John,'' whi
 Hollis Sigler, a Chicago-based artist whose autobiographical narrative paintings often focused on her long struggle with breast cancer, died of the disease on Thursday at her home in Prairie View, Ill. She was 53. Ms. Sigler's early work was abstract expressionist, then photo-realis
 Emily MacFarquhar, who applied a scholar's meticulousness to many years of reporting on China and South Asia, notably in more than 20 years with The Economist, died on March 18 in her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 62. The cause was a brain tumor, said her son, Rory MacFarquhar.  
 Wendy A. Rives, director of the often tumultuous psychiatric emergency room at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan, died on March 24 at New York University Medical Center. She was 39. The cause was complications of breast cancer, said her partne, Dr. JoAnn Difede. As direc
 Vera Sandomirsky Dunham, who wrote extensively on Russian prose and poetry, died on March 22 in Cambridge, Mass. She was 88 and lived in Newton, Mass. Dr. Dunham, a retired professor in the Slavic department at Wayne State University in Detroit, also translated Russian poetry by wri
 Beatrice Straight, a graceful and versatile actress who won both an Oscar and a Tony Award, died on Saturday in North Ridge, Calif. She was 86 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif., for most of the last 10 years. Because she came from a wealthy  family, the Whitneys (her mother was Dor
 Marjorie Hunter, a reporter for The New York Times who covered the White House and Congress at a time when most other women in Washington journalism were assigned to the activities of the first lady, died here today. She was 78. The cause was acute leukemia. Journalism was a
 Graziella Sciutti, an Italian soprano and opera director whose purity of sound and deft characterizations won her admiration in Mozart, Puccini and Verdi roles, died on Monday in Geneva. She was 73 and lived in Geneva and London. The cause of death was cancer, according to The Assoc
 Nyree Dawn Porter, who entranced millions of television viewers around the world when she starred as the beautiful Irene, trapped in a loveless marriage in the BBC adaptation of John Galsworthy's ''Forsyte Saga'' in the late 1960's, died on Monday at her home in London. She was 61. 
 Kay Willis, who used the skills she honed as a mother of 10 to organize a national parents' support group and write a popular book on how to be a good parent, died on April 5 at a hospital in Montclair, N.J. She was 71 and lived in Rutherford, N.J. The cause was breast cancer, her f
 Josephine Premice, an actress nominated for Tony Awards for her performances in the musical ''Jamaica'' and ''A Hand Is on the Gate,'' an evening of black poetry, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 74. The cause was emphysema. Ms. Premice, whose married name wa
 Alice M. Gritsavage, who was chief nurse of the Far East command during the Korean War and Gen. Douglas MacArthur's nursing consultant, died on Monday in Daytona Beach, Fla. She was 98. In the Korean War, Ms. Gritsavage revolutionized the command structure of the Army Nursing Corps,
 Carolyn R. Payton, a psychologist who was the first black and the first woman to head the Peace Corps, died on April 11 at her home in Washington. She was 75. The cause was a heart attack. Dr. Payton was director of the Peace Corps from September of 1977 until November 1978.
 Maria-Gaetana Matisse, widow of the art dealer Pierre Matisse and a driving force behind the foundation that donated his vast personal archive to the Pierpont Morgan Library, died on April 7 in Manhattan. She was 58. The cause was kidney failure, said a spokeswoman for the Pierre an
 Maria Karnilova, a charter member of American Ballet Theater who channeled her comic gifts and vitality as a dancer into an award-winning career as an actress on Broadway, died on Friday in Manhattan. She was 80 and lived in Manhattan. A versatile performer, Ms. Karnilova won a Tony
