 Gisele Freund, the German-born photographer who was best known for her portraits of France's literary elite and was a founding member of Magnum Photo Agency, died today in Paris. She was 91. Ms. Freund was one of Europe's most prominent photographers and a pillar among French femini
 Frances Gray Patton, a writer whose short stories appeared in The New Yorker through four decades and whose works included the popular 1954 novel ''Good Morning, Miss Dove,'' died Tuesday at Duke University Medical Center in Durham, N.C. She was 94 and lived in Durham. Ms. Potter's 
 Jean E. Karl, who established the publishing imprint Atheneum Books for Young Readers in 1961 and led it until she retired in 1985, died on Thursday at a hospice in Lancaster, Pa. She was 72. Ms. Karl, who continued to edit books until recently, also wrote extensively, including non
 Evelyn Swarthout Hayes, a former concert pianist, educator and arts patron, died on March 24 at George Washington University Hospital. She was 87 and lived in Washington. Mrs. Hayes, who was born Evelyn Swarthout in Jacksonville, Ill., began her music career in the 1930's, appearing
 Helen Martin, a character actress whose career embraced the Broadway stage as well as films and television, died on March 25 at her home in Monterey, Calif. She was 90. A founding member of the American Negro Theater in Harlem, Ms. Martin was among the first African-American actress
 Margo Kaufman, a humorist, writer and radio commentator with a keen instinct for the comedic possibilities in the mundane, died on Friday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 46. The cause was breast cancer, her husband, Eric Mankin, said. In her writings for such publication
 Dr. Ruth Erica Benesch, a biochemist and educator who teamed with her husband at Columbia University to advance the knowledge of how the body's red blood cells function, died on March 25 at her home in the Bronx. She was 75. The cause was vascular disease, her family said. S
 Dina Abramowicz, the longtime librarian at the YIVO Institute for Jewish Research whose firsthand and encyclopedic knowledge of the lost Yiddish world of Eastern Europe made her a treasured resource for hundreds of scholars and writers for more than half a century, died on Monday at Beth Is
 Claire Trevor, an Academy Award-winning actress who epitomized cynical but warm-hearted careerists -- reporters, gun molls, saloon entertainers and trollops -- died Saturday at a hospital near her home in Newport Beach, Calif. She was 91 and had suffered from respiratory ailments in recent 
 Helen Ratnoff Plotz, who earned praise for compiling and editing almost a score of anthologies of poetry, mostly for young adults, died March 30 at her home in Brooklyn. She was 87. In a review of the anthology ''The Gift Outright: America and Her Poets'' (1977), Deborah Churchman w
 Lucia Dlugoszewski, a composer and the artistic director of the Erick Hawkins Dance Company, was found dead on Tuesday in her Greenwich Village apartment. According to music reference sources she was 68. She died of natural causes, said Ellen Borakove, spokeswoman for the New York C
 Sasha Von Scherler, an actress and comedian who appeared in more than 100 productions in New York City, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 65 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung disease, said her daughter, Ruth Mayer. Miss Von Scherler 
 Dorothy Hart, the editor of two highly praised books of song lyrics by her brother-in-law, Lorenz Hart, of Rodgers and Hart fame, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Ontario, Calif. She was 94 and lived in Rancho Mirage, Calif. Mrs. Hart was the widow of Lorenz Hart's brother, Theodore
 Hannah Komanoff, the first woman elected to the Board of Supervisors in Nassau County, N.Y., died on Sunday at a hospital in Long Beach, on Long Island. She was 89. Mrs. Komanoff, a Democrat, was elected to the board from Long Beach, where she lived much of her life, in 1973, and se
 Alice Sheets Marriott, matriarch of the tight-knit family whose name stands on thousands of hotels worldwide, died on Monday in Washington. She was 92. Beginning in 1927 with a single root beer stand, Mrs. Marriott and her husband, J. Willard Marriott Sr., built one of the world's l
 Lila Kedrova, the Russian-born actress whose portrayals of an aging French prostitute in screen and stage versions of ''Zorba the Greek'' won her an Academy Award and a Tony, died on Feb. 16 in Sault Ste. Marie, Ontario. She was believed to be around 82. Her death was announced in T
 Micheline Glover, who as an 18-year-old girl worked for the French Resistance during World War II, delivering secret messages under the eyes of unwitting German soldiers, died April 15 in White Plains Hospital in White Plains, N.Y. She was 76. Mrs. Glover, who was born in Paris, rec
 Jane Trahey, one of the most prominent advertising women of the 1960's, who was best known for Blackglama's ''What Becomes a Legend Most?'' campaign, died of cancer Saturday at her home in Kent, Conn. She was 76. Known as a brilliant copywriter, Ms. Trahey was also credited with cat
 Jean Head Sisco, a Washington-based executive and consultant and an energetic advocate of putting women on corporate boards, died on Thursday at her home in Chevy Chase, Md. She was 74. The cause was a brain tumor, her management consulting firm, Sisco Associates, said. Mrs.
 Margaret E. B. Jones, a retired Army major who served with the only battalion of African-American women to serve overseas in World War II, died on April 11 at Walter Reed Medical Center in Washington. She was 89. Mrs. Jones spent most of her adult life in military service and had li
 Sister Mary Geraldine Tobia, a longtime co-director of the Center for Family Life in Sunset Park, a social service agency serving people in that section of Brooklyn, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. She was 59 and lived at the center, which is at 345 43rd Street in Suns
 Ulla Isaksson, who wrote screenplays for two Ingmar Bergman films and novels about women's issues, died on April 20 in Stockholm after a long illness. She was 83. In 1958 Mr. Bergman directed ''Brink of Life,'' which Ms. Isaksson (pronounced EE-sack-sohn) adapted  from one of her sh
 Betsy Dworkin, a former senior lecturer in social policy and administration at the University of London's Chelsea and University colleges, died yesterday at her home in Greenwich Village. She would have been 67 today. The cause was cancer, said her husband, Ronald Dworkin. M
 Carmen Dillon, the first female art director in British film, whose set design for Laurence Olivier's ''Hamlet'' brought her an Academy Award in 1948, died on April 12, The Daily Telegraph of London reported. She was 91. Ms. Dillon regarded her role as interpretive rather than creat
 Evelyn Graham Irons, a war correspondent who had a romance with the Bloomsbury novelist and poet Vita Sackville-West, died April 3 at her home in Brewster, N.Y. She was two months short of her 100th birthday. Ms. Irons was a 30-year-old editor of the women's page of The Daily Mail i
