 Mary Benjamin, an autograph dealer with such an authoritative eye for authenticity and such a sure sense of value that for decades she virtually dictated prices United States collectors paid for the writings of Presidents, poets and other prominent people, died on Monday at her home in Hunt
 Margaret Walker Alexander, who wove her experience as a black woman in the Deep South into stories and poems that captured the struggles and desires of her race, died on Monday at the home of her daughter Marion Colmon in Chicago. She was 83 and lived in Jackson, Miss., on a street named fo
 Her first writings to reach print ran shoulder to shoulder with Ernest Hemingway's. For her first published poetry she was grouped with William Carlos Williams and Marianne Moore. She made it to Paris ahead of both Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald. She was a leader of the University of Chi
 Gyo Fujikawa, a prolific author and illustrator of children's books, including some of the first to feature children of many races, died on Nov. 26 at New York Hospital. She was 90 and lived in Manhattan. The California-born daughter of a Japanese farmer and an aspiring Japanese soc
 Hazel Bishop, who cooked up the first kissproof lipstick (''stays on you . . . not on him'') in a kitchen fitted out as a laboratory, then lost the right to use the name she made famous, died on Saturday at the Osborn Home in Rye, N.Y. She was 92. She exploited the skills of a resea
 Dr. Theodora Mead Abel, a psychologist who brought an anthropologist's view to her study of the Indians of New Mexico, died Dec. 2 at her home in Forestburgh, N.Y. She was 99. Dr. Abel was a leader in cross-cultural psychological research, which became her main focus after retiring 
 Flora Roberts, a dynamic play agent who represented many important theater artists, died on Saturday at New York Hospital. She was 77, and lived in Manhattan and Bridgewater, Conn. The cause was congestive heart failure, said her associate Sarah Douglas. Stephen Sondheim, Ti
 Mildred Baker, an arts administrator and trustee emeritus of the Newark Museum, died on Dec. 9 at the Florence Nightingale Medical Center in Manhattan. She was 93 and was a longtime resident of the Chelsea Hotel in Manhattan. Born into a musical family in Brooklyn and named Mildred 
 Judith Arron, the executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall since 1986, died on Friday at the University of Colorado Health Sciences Center in Denver. She was 56 and lived in Chappaqua, N.Y. The cause was breast cancer, Carnegie Hall officials said yesterday. Ms. Arro
 Janet Brewster Murrow, a radio broadcaster and relief worker during World War II in London, where her husband, Edward R. Murrow, was CBS's star war correspondent, died on Friday at the North Hill retirement community in Needham, Mass., where she lived. She was 88. Mrs. Murrow was bo
 Virginia L. Radley, who as the first female president of a state university college in New York created a general education division and an honors program on the Oswego campus, died on Sunday at her home in Poestenkill, near Albany. She was 71. She suffered a brief illness, the DeGr
 Virginia Graham, who went from writing radio soap operas in the 1940's to becoming one of the most successful and enduring of the early television talk show hosts, died on Tuesday in the Cardiac Intensive Care Unit of New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 86 and lived in Manhattan.       
 Irene Hervey, who secured her place as one of Hollywood's most beautiful leading ladies after playing Jimmy Stewart's love interest in the 1939 western ''Destry Rides Again,'' died on Sunday at the hospital of the Motion Picture and Television Fund in Woodland Hills, Calif. She was 89 and l
 Honoria Murphy Donnelly, the daughter of Gerald and Sara Murphy, the golden couple at the center of the modernist whirl in 1920's Europe, who was dandled on the knees of the towering figures of the avant-garde, died on Tuesday at the Hospice of Palm Beach in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 81 and 
 Michelle Thomas, an actress in the television programs ''The Cosby Show,'' ''Family Matters'' and ''The Young and the Restless'' died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 30 and lived in Los Angeles, though she had been staying with her family in Weeh
 Dorothy Bird Nyswander, who was widely regarded as a primary promoter of public health education in this country, died on Dec. 18 at her home in Berkeley, Calif. She was 104. Dr. Nyswander (pronounced nice-wonder) was a founder of the School of Public Health at the University of Cal
 If you saw her at all, you'd see her in a cemetery late at night. She'd be clambering about one of those huge cemeteries in Brooklyn and Queens, the ones beneath the flight paths to La Guardia and Kennedy, the ones you can see from certain expressways; the graveyards with comforting names l
 Viola Farber, a founding member of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company, a choreographer and the director of the dance program at Sarah Lawrence College, died on Dec. 24 at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. She was 67 and lived in Bronxville. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, J
