Dr. Ruth Ellen Steinman Bloustein, a pediatrician and clinical assistant professor at the Robert Wood Johnson Medical School of the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, died yesterday at her home in Piscataway, N.J. She was 65 years old. Dr. Ruth Ellen Steinman 
Judith Charach Wyker, who as Judith Garden delighted generations of New Yorkers with her flower designs, died of cancer yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. She was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan. Judith Charach Wyker, who as Judith Garden del
Flora Rheta Schreiber, the author of ''Sybil,'' a best-selling book about a woman with multiple personalities, and ''Shoemaker,'' a portrait of a Philadelphia murderer, died of a heart attack yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. She was 70 years old. Flora Rheta Sch
Veronica Castang, an actress who performed on and Off Broadway, on television and in a film, died of ovarian cancer on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 50 years old. Veronica Castang, an actress who performed on and Off Broadway, on television and in a film, died of 
Edna Baer, a retired New York City social worker and the widow of State Supreme Court Justice Harold Baer, died of heart disease Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 82 years old. Edna Baer, a retired New York City social worker and the widow of State Supreme Court Justice
Elizabeth Ramos, who won a $750,000 jury verdict in an AIDS malpractice case and later became an advocate promoting understanding of the disease, died Friday. She was 33 years old. Elizabeth Ramos, who won a $750,000 jury verdict in an AIDS malpractice case and later became an
Beatrice Kellogg McClintock, an advocate of legalized abortion and a member of the board of Planned Parenthood, died in her sleep Sunday at her home in Glen Cove, L.I. She was 74 years old. Beatrice Kellogg McClintock, an advocate of legalized abortion and a member of the boar
Shirley Burke, a literary agent who represented several prominent authors, died of a heart attack Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan. Shirley Burke, a literary agent who represented several prominent authors, died of a
Betty S. Cornfeld, a television executive and writer, died Wednesday at the Swedish Hospital in Seattle. She was 44 years old and had contracted viral pneumonia following a bone marrow transplant for lymphoma. Betty S. Cornfeld, a television executive and writer, died Wednesda
Lily von Klemperer, who was the director of the counseling division of the Institute of International Education for 20 years, died of cancer Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan. Lily von Klemperer, who was the director of the counseling 
Miranda Reeves, a slave's daughter who was believed to be 113 years old, died Thursday at a convalescent home here. Miranda Reeves, a slave's daughter who was believed to be 113 years old, died Thursday at a convalescent home here. Her oldest grandddaughter, Ruby Fletc
Josephine Bliss, retired director of the Weekday School at Riverside Church in Manhattan, died of cancer Nov. 2 at the home of a nephew in South Portland, Me. She was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan. Josephine Bliss, retired director of the Weekday School at Riverside Chur
Vet Boswell, the last surviving member of the popular and influential 1930's singing trio the Boswell Sisters, died Saturday. She was 77 years old and lived here. Vet Boswell, the last surviving member of the popular and influential 1930's singing trio the Boswell Sisters, die
Mildred Johnstone, a patron of the arts who created abstract canvas needlepoint tapestries that toured colleges and art galleries, died Thursday at her home in Manhattan after a brief illness. She was 88 years old. Mildred Johnstone, a patron of the arts who created abstract c
Louise Constantine, a former vice president of Aquascutum of London Inc., died of cancer Monday at New York Hospital. She was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan. Louise Constantine, a former vice president of Aquascutum of London Inc., died of cancer Monday at New York Hospit
Dr. Ully V. Hirsch, assistant dean of Fordham University's College at Lincoln Center and director of its adult programs, died Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan after a long illness. She was 54 years old and lived in Queens. Dr. Ully V. Hirsch, assist
Jennie Lee, a Scottish coal miner's daughter who rose to became a Labor Party Member of Parliament, Minister of State for the Arts and a baroness, died Wednesday at her home in London, a friend, Lord Goodman, said Thursday. She was 84 years old. Jennie Lee, a Scottish coal min
Sheilah Graham, who for some 35 years was part of what she called ''the unholy trio'' of powerful Hollywood gossip columnists - the others were Louella O. Parsons and Hedda Hopper - died Thursday of congestive heart failure at Good Samaritan Hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. She was 84 yea
Christina Onassis, the head of a family business empire and stepdaughter of Jacqueline Bouvier Kennedy Onassis, died of a heart attack while visiting friends in Argentina yesterday, according to local news reports from Buenos Aires. She was 37 years old. Christina Onassis, the
Peggy Parish, the author of more than 30 children's books that have sold more than 7 million copies, died of a ruptured abdominal aneurysm on Friday at Clarendon Memorial Hospital in Manning, S.C. She was 61 years old. Peggy Parish, the author of more than 30 children's books 
Esther Gottlieb, retired dean of girls at the Fashion Industries High School in New York and the widow of Adolph Gottlieb, the Abstract Expressionist painter, died of cerebral meningitis on Monday. She was 81 years old and lived in New York City and East Hampton, L.I. Esther G
Janet Kidd, socialite daughter of the first Lord Beaverbrook, the Canadian-born press baron and politician, died on Friday at home in Ewhurst, southwest of London, her family reported today. She was 80 years old. No cause of death was given. Janet Kidd, socialite daughter of t
Mary K. Frank, a theatrical producer, died Sunday at her home in Grand View-on-Hudson, N.Y. She was 77 years old. Mary K. Frank, a theatrical producer, died Sunday at her home in Grand View-on-Hudson, N.Y. She was 77 years old. Mrs. Frank was active in New York theater
Ruth Foreman, a theater producer, died of a brain tumor on Tuesday at her home in North Miami. She was 81 years old, according to published reports and associates. Ruth Foreman, a theater producer, died of a brain tumor on Tuesday at her home in North Miami. She was 81 years o
Irmgard Seefried, a German-born Austrian soprano who gained great success in the postwar years in operas of Mozart and Richard Strauss, died of cancer yesterday in Vienna. She was 69 years old. Irmgard Seefried, a German-born Austrian soprano who gained great success in the po
Alice Bacon Grant, an educator and labor relations specialist, died of cancer on Nov. 17 at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester. She was 66 years old and lived in Rochester. Alice Bacon Grant, an educator and labor relations specialist, died of cancer on Nov. 17 at Strong Me
Marian P. Welch, the editor of two publications for the John Birch Society, which was founded by her late husband, died Tuesday at Glover Memorial Hospital. She was 88 years old. Marian P. Welch, the editor of two publications for the John Birch Society, which was founded by h
Gwendolyn Cafritz, known as one of Washington's leading hostesses for several decades, died of cancer Tuesday at her home. She was 78 years old. Gwendolyn Cafritz, known as one of Washington's leading hostesses for several decades, died of cancer Tuesday at her home. She was 7
Mary D. Costa, the former deputy general manager of the New York City Housing Authority, died of a heart attack yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 69 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Mary D. Costa, the former deputy general manager of the New York City Housin
