 Hildegard Knef, the actress whose career emerged from the dark realism of German filmmaking that followed Hitler's defeat and then grew to encompass Broadway, recordings and a best-selling memoir, died yesterday in Berlin. She was 76. Ms. Knef, whose name was often anglicized as Nef
 Jean Patchett, a leading fashion model of the 1950's whose face was one of the signatures of a highly glamorous era, died on Jan. 22 at her home in La Quinta, Calif. She was 75. The cause was emphysema, her husband, Louis Auer, said. In a photograph in profile by Erwin Blume
 Annalee Whitmore Fadiman, a screenwriter, World War II correspondent and the author, with Theodore H. White, of the best seller ''Thunder Out of China,'' died yesterday in Captiva, Fla. She was 85. Mrs. Fadiman, who as a member of the Hemlock Society supported a right to suicide, to
 Suzanne Bloch, a musician and teacher who spurred interest in early music through her performances on the lute and other instruments, and who promoted the music of her father, Ernest Bloch, died on Jan. 29 in Manhattan, where she lived. She was 94. In frequent concerts beginning in 
 Princess Margaret, the younger sister of Queen Elizabeth II, whose troubled private life aroused both worldwide sympathy and widespread reprobation, died yesterday morning in London. She was 71. She suffered a stroke on Friday afternoon, the latest in a series that had left her part
 Pauline Trigère, the Paris-born designer who was not only her own best model but also an elegant and chic symbol of the American fashion industry for more than half a century, died at her home on the East Side of Manhattan last night, said her daughter-in-law Melanie Radley. She was 93.   
 Pauline Trigère, the Paris-born designer who was not only her own best model but also an elegant and chic symbol of the American fashion industry for more than half a century, died at her home on the East Side of Manhattan on Wednesday night, said her daughter-in-law Melanie Radley. She wa
 Elisabeth Mann Borgese, a multifaceted writer, defender of marine resources and founder of the International Oceans Institute based in Malta, died on Feb. 8 while on vacation in St. Moritz, Switzerland. She was 83 and lived in Halifax, Nova Scotia. Professor Borgese was the last sur
 Theresa Bernstein, who as a member of the Ash Can School of realistic painting was both hailed and flailed for ''painting like a man'' in the 1910's and then continued to generate vibrant canvases for eight more decades, died in Manhattan on Tuesday. She was generally believed to be 111 and
 Ani Pachen, celebrated as the warrior nun who led her Tibetan clan in armed rebellion against the Chinese invaders until she was captured and spent 21 years as a prisoner, died on Feb. 2 in her home in exile in Dharmsala, India. She was 68 or 69. John Hocevar, executive director of 
 Sylvia Rivera, who helped lead the charge -- in makeup and full voice -- at the birth of the modern gay liberation movement, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. She was 50 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was liver cancer, said the Rev. Pat Bumgardner of the Metropol
 Virginia Hamilton, an internationally recognized writer for children whose work celebrated the African-American experience as an essential component of American life, died yesterday in Dayton, Ohio. She was 65 and lived in Yellow Springs, Ohio. The cause was breast cancer, said Kris
 Peggy Durdin, a foreign correspondent and writer who in the course of four decades covered almost every country in Asia, died on Feb. 12 in Encinitas, Calif. She was 92. Ms. Durdin, who began writing in 1938 after marrying Tillman Durdin, a longtime foreign correspondent for The New
 Monte M. Williams, a reporter for The New York Times, died yesterday in Forest Hills, Queens. She was 40. She was taken to Parkway Hospital on Thursday after her cousins Renée Blakes and Rainey El-Shabazz went to her apartment in Forest Hills because she had not responded to an ans
 Elisabeth Luce Moore, who was active in many philanthropic and educational organizations, died on Feb. 9 at her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 98. She was a sister of the publisher Henry R. Luce, who died in 1967. Mrs. Moore retired in 1999 after 63 years 
