 Shirley Chisholm, the first black woman to serve in Congress and the first woman to seek the Democratic presidential nomination, died on Saturday night at her home in Ormond Beach, Fla. She was 80. She had suffered several strokes recently, according to a former staff member, William Howard
 Lucy Freeman, a reporter and an author whose early coverage of psychiatry and mental health for The New York Times led to wider reporting on the subject, died on Wednesday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale, in the Bronx. She was 88. The cause was complications of Alzheime
 Shirley Chisholm, the first black woman to serve in Congress and the first woman to seek the Democratic presidential nomination, died on Saturday night at her home in Ormond Beach, Fla. She was 80. She died after several recent strokes, according to a former staff member, William Ho
 Leslie Gourse, a prolific author best known for her biographies of a wide range of jazz musicians and singers, died on Dec. 23 at her home in Manhattan. She was 65. The cause was respiratory problems, said her cousin Melvin Zurier. The author or editor of more than 30 books,
 Sarah Jewler, the managing editor of New York magazine, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. She was 56. The cause was a rare blood disorder she had suffered with for many years, said her husband, Jay Kennedy. Ms. Jewler was a steady presence at the magazine even as it switched e
 Chesbrough Lewis Patcevitch, a former New York social figure and fund-raiser for charitable causes, died on Dec. 28 in Miami. She was 92 and she lived in West Palm Beach, Fla. Her death was announced by her family. Mrs. Patcevitch, who married four times, was the widow of Iv
 Dr. Esther Thelen, a psychologist whose research into the way babies develop early motor and mental skills exerted a powerful influence in the field, died on Dec. 29 at a hospital in Bloomington, Ind. She was 63. The cause was cancer, said her daughter, Jennifer Thelen of Richmond, 
 Joanne Grant, an activist who documented the grassroots efforts behind the civil rights movement through her journalism, filmmaking and commentary, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Midtown Hospital. She was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, her son, Mark Rabinow
 Elizabeth Janeway, who began her career as a best-selling novelist in the 1940's and later distinguished herself as a critic, a lecturer and an early advocate of the women's movement, died yesterday at a retirement home in Rye, N.Y. She was 91. Her death was reported by her son Mich
 The Spanish soprano Victoria de los Angeles, whose sweet-toned lyric voice and beguiling expressivity earned her a devoted following during a career of more than four decades, died overnight Friday in a hospital in Barcelona, a spokesman for the Liceu Opera there said. Ms. de los Angeles, w
 Marjorie Williams, a Washington Post columnist and contributing editor for Vanity Fair who was known for sharp observations on the political elite, died yesterday at her home in Washington. She was 47. The cause was liver cancer, said her husband, Timothy Noah. Ms. Williams 
 Suzie Frankfurt, an interior decorator who popularized 18th- and 19th-century Russian furniture among corporate raiders of the 1970's and 1980's and was an early collaborator of Andy Warhol, died on Jan. 7 at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale, in the Bronx. She was 73. She h
 Ruth Warrick, who made her movie debut with Orson Welles in ''Citizen Kane'' and ended her career with the long-running role of Phoebe Tyler Wallingford on the television soap opera ''All My Children,'' died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 88. The cause was complicatio
 Virginia Mayo, who began her film career as a chorus girl and comic foil and then proved herself an accomplished actress, died yesterday at a nursing home in Thousand Oaks, Calif., the Los Angeles suburb where she had lived for many years. She was 84. Her friend Mary Walsh told The 
 Nell Rankin, an American mezzo-soprano who sang at the Metropolitan Opera for 25 years and was highly regarded for her warm-toned portrayals of Amneris in Verdi's ''Aida'' and in the title role in Bizet's ''Carmen,'' died last Thursday at Cabrini Medical Center in New York. She was 81, and 
 Georgia Macris, an editor of influential energy industry publications for three decades, died on Jan. 13 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 86. The cause was lung cancer, her sister, Sophie Hocknell, said. Ms. Macris graduated from Radcliffe College in 1940. She joine
 Miriam Rothschild, the heiress who discovered how fleas jump, brought Chaucerian wildflowers back to modern England and was acknowledged as one of the world's most distinguished naturalists, died Thursday at her home, Ashton Wold, in Northamptonshire. She was 96. Her death was annou
 Anne Cox, a New York socialite who designed high fashion for high society in the 1950's and became the mother-in-law of a president's daughter, died on Tuesday in Westhampton Beach, N.Y. She was 86 and a resident of Palm Beach, Fla. The cause was Lewy body disease, a form of dementi
 Consuelo Velázquez, the songwriter who in 1941 created ''Bésame Mucho,'' a Latin hit that took on a life of its own worldwide, died on Jan. 22 in Mexico City. She was believed to have been 88. The cause was respiratory problems, her family told The Associated Press. ''Bés
