 Sally Lilienthal, who established one of the largest American foundations dedicated to preventing the spread of nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, died at a hospital in San Francisco on Oct. 24. She was 87. Her death came after an extended illness, said Deborah Bain, an admin
 Florence Klotz, who won six Tony Awards for designing some of the most memorable costumes in recent Broadway history, died Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 86. The cause was heart failure, said her lawyer, Mark Sendroff. With a flair for period dress and an obsess
 Adrienne Shelly, an actress, film writer and director who first gained recognition for her roles in Hal Hartley's dark comedies ''The Unbelievable Truth'' and ''Trust,'' was found dead on Wednesday at her office in Greenwich Village. She was 40. Grace Brugess, a spokeswoman for the 
 Dr. Edithe J. Levit, an educator who helped reform the bedside tests required for doctors to be licensed and oversaw the National Board of Medical Examiners in the 1970s and '80s, died on Oct. 18 in Amherst, Mass. She was 79. The cause was lung cancer, her family said. Dr. L
 Hilda van Stockum, an award-winning children's author and illustrator whose books depicted family life in the Netherlands, Ireland, the United States and Canada, died on Wednesday at her home in Berkhamsted, England. She was 98. The cause was a stroke, said her son John Tepper Marli
 Jane Hodgson, a prominent abortion rights advocate who in a highly publicized test case in 1970 became the only doctor in the United States to be convicted of illegally performing an abortion in a hospital, died on Oct. 23 at her home in Rochester, Minn. She was 91. Dr. Hodgson's de
 Ernestine Gilbreth Carey, who, with a younger brother, wrote ''Cheaper by the Dozen,'' the account of their growing up in a family of 12 children that led to several movies of the same name, died on Saturday in Fresno, Calif. She was 98 and lived in Reedley, Calif. Her death was con
 Ellen Willis, the noted journalist, feminist and cultural critic, whose work ranged seamlessly through politics and religion, sex, film and rock 'n' roll, died yesterday at her home in Queens. She was 64. The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, Stanley Aronowitz, the well-known
 Marian Marsh, a Hollywood actress of the 1930s and early '40s best known for starring opposite John Barrymore in the 1931 melodrama ''Svengali,'' died on Thursday at her home in Palm Desert, Calif. She was 93. Ms. Marsh, who was known by her married name, Marian Marsh Henderson, die
 Ruth S. Morgenthau, a former professor of international politics at Brandeis University and an adviser to President Jimmy Carter on rural development in poor countries, died on Saturday in Boston. She was 75 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The death was confirmed by her daughter, Sara
 Ruth Brown, the gutsy rhythm and blues singer whose career extended to acting and crusading for musicians' rights, died yesterday in Las Vegas. She was 78 and lived in Las Vegas. The cause was complications following a heart attack and a stroke she suffered after surgery, and Ms. Br
 Bettye Ackerman, an actress best known for her role as Dr. Maggie Graham, Vince Edwards's love interest in the television drama ''Ben Casey,'' died on Nov. 1 at her home in Columbia, S.C. She was 82. The Folk Funeral Home in Williston, S.C., confirmed her death. The widow of the not
 Michele Maxian, a Legal Aid Society lawyer who successfully battled to require New York State courts to arraign a suspect within 24 hours of being arrested, helping to spur reform in the New York City justice system, died last Tuesday in Union City, N.J. She was 55. The cause was ov
 Anita O'Day, whose coolly ebullient and rhythmically assured vocal style made her a premier singer of both the big-band and postwar jazz eras, and whose taste for fast living secured her name as one of jazz's toughest survivors, died yesterday in Los Angeles. She was 87. Her death w
 Betty Comden, who with her longtime collaborator Adolph Green wrote the lyrics and often the librettos for some of the most celebrated musicals of stage and screen, died yesterday in Manhattan. She was 89 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, said Ronald Konecky, her 
 Muriel Castanis, a sculptor whose fluidly draped figures are displayed in public places and galleries around the United States, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. She was 80 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was lung failure, her husband, George Castanis, said. A self-t
 Phyllis Cerf Wagner, who led a whirlwind life as the socially dynamic wife of two of New York's most prominent men but who was always proudest of collaborating with a former advertising colleague, Dr. Seuss, on a series of landmark children's books, died on Friday. She was 90. Mrs. 
 Phyllis Cerf Wagner, who led a whirlwind life as the socially dynamic wife of two of New York's most prominent men but who was always proudest of collaborating with a former advertising colleague, Dr. Seuss, on a series of landmark children's books, died on Friday. She was 90. Mrs. 
 Bebe Moore Campbell, a best-selling novelist known for her empathetic treatment of the difficult, intertwined and occasionally surprising relationship between the races, died yesterday at her home in Los Angeles. She was 56. The cause was complications of brain cancer, said Linda Wh
