 Diane Geppi-Aikens, who coached the Loyola of Maryland women's lacrosse team to a No. 1 ranking and the semifinals of the N.C.A.A. Division I tournament this season while in a motorized wheelchair with brain cancer, died Sunday at her home in Baltimore. She was 40. For the past eigh
 Khieu Ponnary, the quiet Cambodian intellectual who was the first wife of the Khmer Rouge leader Pol Pot and a prominent member of the movement in its early days, died on Tuesday in Cambodia. She was 83. A nephew, Ieng Vuth, said she died in the northwestern city of Pailin. 
 Gertrude Samuels, a writer and photographer whose 50-year career took her from the displaced-persons camps of postwar Europe to the blight of drug addiction in America's cities, died Wednesday at her home on the Upper West Side. She was 93. Beginning in the wartime 1940's, she worke
 Joan Lowery Nixon, a prolific, award-winning author of mysteries for children and young adults, died on Saturday in Houston. She was 76 and lived in Houston. The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, The Houston Chronicle reported. Mrs. Nixon wrote more than 140 book
 Frances Stevens Reese, a founder and chairwoman emeritus of the environmental group Scenic Hudson and a veteran of the fight to keep a power plant from being built on Storm King Mountain, died last Wednesday in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 85 and lived in Hughsonville, a village in Dutchess Count
 Kathleen Raine, a mystically inclined British poet and a scholar of Yeats and Blake, died on Sunday in London. She was 95. Less known in the United States than in Europe, where she was regarded as a grande dame of European letters, she published several books of poetry in America in
 Dorothy Miller, one of the first curators hired by the Museum of Modern Art, in 1934, and the woman responsible for pioneering exhibitions of new American artists that helped propel generations of painters like Pollock, Rothko, Frank Stella and Jasper Johns onto the international scene, die
 Josephine Jacobsen, a poet, short-story writer and critic who held the post that later became that of national poet laureate, died on Wednesday in Cockeysville, Md. She was 94 and had lived in Maryland most of her life. She was consultant in poetry to the Library of Congress from 19
 Rollie McKenna, a photographer best known for her portraits of Dylan Thomas and other lions of English literature, died on June 14 in Northampton, Mass. She was 84 and had formerly lived in Stonington, Conn. Rollie McKenna -- her full name was Rosalie Thorne McKenna -- found her cal
 Isabelle d'Orléans et Bragance, Countess of Paris, who was married to a pretender to the throne of France, died on July 5 in Paris. She was 93. The countess was the widow of Henri, Count of Paris, whom many royalists wanted to become King Henri VI of France. He died in 1999, and th
 Celia Cruz, the Cuban singer who became the queen of Latin music, died yesterday at her home in Fort Lee, N.J. She was 77. The cause was complications after surgery for a brain tumor, said a spokeswoman, Blanca Lasalle. Onstage, Ms. Cruz was a petite woman who wore tight, gl
 Leela Chitnis, an actress whose half-century-long 40-film career in India progressed from romantic roles to the motherly ones for which she is best remembered, died on Monday at a hospital in Danbury, Conn. She was 93. She had been living in Connecticut for many years to be near her family.
 Carol Shields, the Pulitzer Prize-winning Canadian novelist who captured and illuminated the ordinariness of life -- ''domesticity, the shaggy beast that eats up 50 percent of our lives,'' as she put it -- died on Wednesday in Victoria, British Columbia. She was 68. The cause was co
 Elisabeth Welch, an expatriate cabaret singer who mixed elegant phrasing and emotive power to craft extraordinary interpretations of the songs of America's Jazz Age and Britain's musical stage, died on Tuesday at a nursing home outside London. She was 99. Like Josephine Baker and Ma
 Lucille Roberts, a businesswoman whose ambition to create ''the McDonald's of health clubs'' inspired a chain of bargain-basement gyms for women, died yesterday at New York University Downtown Hospital in Manhattan. She was 59. The cause was lung cancer, said her husband, Bob. She l
 Rosalyn Tureck, a pianist and harpsichordist who played an important part in the revival of interest in the music of Johann Sebastian Bach, and who devoted more than six decades to performing, researching, teaching and writing about his works, died on Thursday at her home in Riverdale, the 
 Anne Rogovin, a teacher of mentally handicapped children who wrote manuals on child rearing with admonitions like ''Turn off the TV!'' died on July 7 at her home in Buffalo. She was 84. The cause was brain cancer, her family said. Mrs. Rogovin's years as a teacher made her a
 Barbara B. Lazarus, an educational anthropologist who studied barriers to women entering science and engineering and created programs to overcome them, died last Tuesday in Pittsburgh. She was 57. The cause was cancer, her husband, Marvin Sirbu, said. Dr. Lazarus, who was as
 Carol Matthau, whose outspoken memoir of her life and three marriages to two famous men brought her notoriety far beyond her own wide circle of Hollywood and literary celebrities, died on Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 78. The cause was a brain aneurysm, said her son Charl
 Jean R. Warnke, a volunteer in social service organizations in Washington and the widow of Paul C. Warnke, a top official in the Johnson and Carter administrations, died on Monday in a Brooklyn hospice. She was 80 and lived in Washington. The cause was cancer, her family said.      
 Jane Barbe, who was known to millions, though not by name or appearance, as the voice of telephone-company recordings and voice-mail systems across America, died on July 18 in Roswell, Ga. She was 74. The cause was complications of cancer, said her husband, John. Ms. Barbe b
