 Janice Farrar Thaddeus, a scholar, poet, editor and former Harvard lecturer in English, died on Dec. 23 in Cambridge, Mass. She was 68. The cause was a stroke, said her husband, Patrick Thaddeus. In ''When Women Look at Men'' (Harper & Row), the feminist anthology Dr. Thadde
 Eileen Heckart, the actress with a smoky voice and toothsome smile who won an Oscar for ''Butterflies Are Free,'' three Emmys and a special lifetime achievement Tony, died on Monday at her home in Norwalk, Conn. She was 82. The cause was cancer, her son Mark said. One of tho
 Julia Phillips, the Hollywood producer who turned her rage at the stars and power brokers into the best-selling chronicle ''You'll Never Eat Lunch in This Town Again,'' died Tuesday at her apartment in West Hollywood. She was 57. The cause was cancer, her daughter, Kate Phillips, sa
 Aniela Mlynarski Rubinstein, the widow of the pianist Arthur Rubinstein and a patron of charities and the arts in New York, died on Monday at her home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. She was 93. She was a co-founder of the Polonaise Ball and, as its frequent chairwoman, helped 
 Barbara Barker, a dance historian focusing on American classical ballet and dance in popular culture and the organizer of a major attempt to document the choreography of Agnes de Mille, died Thursday at her home in Sioux City, Iowa. She was 63. The cause was breast cancer, said her 
 Beatrice Seckler, a lead dancer with Doris Humphrey and Charles Weidman in the 1930's and early 40's and a longtime teacher of the Humphrey-Weidman modern-dance technique, died on Dec. 28 at the Actors' Fund Residence in Englewood, N.J. She was 91. Born in Brooklyn, Ms. Seckler stud
 Margaret Loeb Kempner, a philanthropist whose special concerns included the well-being of children, families with children and the elderly, died on Dec. 31 at her home in Purchase, N.Y. She was 102. In 1999, when Mrs. Kempner had her 100th birthday, she was made an honorary director
 Dr. Sheila Sherlock, one of the world's leading authorities on liver disease and a pioneer in the science of hepatology, died on Dec. 30 at her home in London. She was 83. Her classic reference work, ''Diseases of the Liver and Biliary System'' (Blackwell Science, 1955), now in its 
 Mari Kajiwara, an American modern dancer of stunning quality who mesmerized audiences as a leading member of the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, the Ohad Naharin Dance Company and the Batsheva Dance Company of Israel, died on Dec. 25 in Tel Aviv. She was 50 and had lived in Tel Aviv sin
 Jane Montant, a former editor in chief of Gourmet magazine who prized passionate writing, died on Jan. 1 in her home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. She was 85. She had Parkinson's disease, emphysema and liver cancer, her son, Jon Carson of Boston, said. She was editor 
 Bibi Osterwald, an actress in theater, television and films, died on Jan. 2 in Burbank, Calif. She was 83 and lived in Burbank. Ms. Osterwald appeared in Broadway shows that included the original production of ''Gentlemen Prefer Blondes,'' ''Bus Stop'' ''Look Homeward, Angel'' and '
 Naomi Bliven, a writer at The New Yorker for more than 40 years, died on Monday in New York, where she lived. She was 76. She had lymphoma and had recently had a stroke. Ms. Bliven, who had been contributing to The New Yorker since the late 1950's and became a staff writer in 1961, 
 Anne Poor, an American artist who painted combat scenes in World War II and later concentrated on dreamlike landscapes, died in Nyack, N.Y., on Jan. 12. She was 84 and lived in Haverstraw, N.Y. A native of New York City, Ms. Poor studied at the Art Students League while in high scho
 Charity Adams Earley, the commander of the only all-black Women's Army Corps unit to serve overseas during World War II, died on Jan. 13 in Dayton, Ohio, long her hometown. She was 83. At a time when a segregated military provided few opportunities for blacks, Charity Adams was one 
 Dr. Ruth Whittemore, a Yale professor who conducted groundbreaking research in pediatric cardiology based on data from clinics she founded in 1940's, died on Dec. 27 in North Branford, Conn. She was 84. In 1947, at the request of the federal Children's Bureau, Dr. Whittemore set up 
 Peggy Lee, whose sultry singing style set standards for pop jazz sophistication for more than half a century, died on Monday night at her home in Los Angeles. She was 81. The cause was a heart attack, said her daughter, Nicki Lee Foster. Ms. Lee had surmounted many medical problems 
 Edith Bouvier Beale, once a successful model and aspiring actress who later lived a gothic life in Grey Gardens, a dilapidated 28-room house in East Hampton, N.Y., with her mother and dozens of cats, raccoons and opossums, was found dead in her small apartment in Bal Harbour, Fla., on Jan. 
 Astrid Lindgren, the Swedish writer whose rollicking, anarchic books about Pippi Longstocking rattled some tradition-bound Swedes when they first appeared almost 60 years ago but came to captivate millions of children around the world, died yesterday at her home in Stockholm. She was 94.   
 Elizabeth Mildred Riley, a prominent children's book editor, died Sunday at her home in Manhattan. She was 94 and lived on the Upper East Side. Her publishing career was spent at the Thomas Y. Crowell Company, now merged into HarperCollins. She joined the company in 1938, rose to se
 Inge Morath, a photographer who brought a whimsical, lyrical touch to her images from travelogues to reportage to portraits, died yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. She was 78 and lived in Roxbury, Conn. Arthur Miller, her husband, said the cause of death was lymphoma.    
 Raji Jallepalli-Reiss, a chef credited with originating the fusion of classic French and Indian cuisines, died on Jan. 27 at her home in Memphis. She was 52. The cause was cancer, according to The Commercial Appeal of Memphis. As the executive chef of the Indian restaurant T
