 Barbara Doyle Duncan, who collected, exhibited and wrote about modern Latin American art when the field was still little known to much of the United States art world, died on March 28 at her home in New York. She was 82. Ms. Duncan's interest in Latin American art began when she and
 Anita Borg, a computer scientist who devoted much of her career to the advancement of women in computer science, died on Sunday at her mother's home in Sonoma, Calif. She was 54. The cause was brain cancer, said her husband, Winfried Wilcke. Although highly respected as a co
 Jutta Hipp, a jazz pianist from Germany who had a short, celebrated career in the 1950's playing in New York nightclubs and making records for the Blue Note label, then turned her back on jazz to become a dressmaker, died on Monday at her home in Queens. She was 78. The cause has no
 Vera Zorina, a dancer and actress who starred in ballets, films and stage musicals choreographed by her first husband, George Balanchine, and whose mix of glamour and culture made her prominent in a variety of theatrical and musical fields, died on Wednesday at her home in Santa Fe, N.M. Sh
 Margaret Formby, a rancher's daughter whose collection of cowgirl costumes, stored in the basement of a local library, evolved into the National Cowgirl Museum and Hall of Fame, died on April 10 at her home in Hereford, Tex. She was 73. She apparently hit her head in a fall in her b
 Nina Simone, a singer whose distinctively emotional style blended elements of jazz, gospel, blues, European art song and other influences, died yesterday at her home in Carry-le-Rouet, France, near Marseille. She was 70. Her manager, Clifton Henderson, said she had been ill for some
 Luella M. Bennack, a supporter of many Texas and national charities and the wife of Frank A. Bennack Jr., vice chairman of the board of the Hearst Corporation and previously its chief executive, died on April 17 at her home in San Antonio. She was 67. The cause was an aneurysm, the 
 Martha Wright Griffiths, a longtime United States representative who was a legend in Michigan Democratic politics and one of the most effective women's civil rights legislators of her day, died on Tuesday at her home in Armada, Mich. She was 91. Known for her sharp intellect and blu
 Caroline H. Newhouse, a philanthropist and artist who was the widow of Theodore Newhouse, a co-founder of the Newhouse communications company, died on Saturday at her weekend home in Roxbury, Conn. She was 94 and lived in Manhattan. Her husband, whom she wed in 1956, and his brother
 Elaine Anderson Steinbeck, who was one of the first women to become a Broadway stage manager and who in later years kept bright the artistic torch of her late husband John Steinbeck, died on Sunday in Manhattan. She was 88 and lived in Manhattan and Sag Harbor, N.Y. Mrs. Steinbeck w
 Rose Augustine, a former chemistry teacher who with her husband revolutionized the world of the classical guitar by developing the nylon guitar string and who commissioned new works and underwrote concert series and competitions, died on April 21 in Manhattan. She was 93 and lived in Manhat
