 Rose Mattus, who with her husband, Reuben, turned a family-owned ice cream business in the Bronx into a national brand with the invented name Häagen-Dazs, died Tuesday in Westwood, N.J. She was 90 and lived in Cresskill, N.J. The death was confirmed by Brian McNamara of Gutterman &
 Dr. Jeanne A. Smith, a former top administrator at Harlem Hospital Center and an expert on sickle cell anemia who helped establish broader federal guidelines for testing newborns for the disease, died on Nov. 11 in Lewisboro, N.Y. She was 75. The cause was complications of a stroke,
 Eleanor Thomas Elliott, an advocate for women's rights who successfully fought Columbia University's attempt to take over Barnard College in the early 1970s, died Sunday in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 80 and lived in Cross River, N.Y. The cause was injuries from a car accident, said her 
 Rosie Lee Tompkins, a renowned African-American quiltmaker whose use of dazzling color and vivid geometric forms made her work internationally acclaimed despite her vehement efforts to remain completely unknown, was found dead on Friday at her home in Richmond, Calif. She was 70. Th
 Esther Lederberg, a microbiologist who identified a stealthy virus that invades bacteria and hides within its DNA, often emerging later to do its destructive work, died Nov. 11 in Stanford, Calif. She was 83. The cause was complications of congestive heart failure and pneumonia, her
 Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, the Reagan administration's first United Nations ambassador and a beacon of neoconservative thought who helped guide American military, diplomatic and covert action from 1981 to 1985, died Thursday at her home in Bethesda, Md. She was 80. Her death was announce
 Georgia Gibbs, a brassy-voiced pop singer who topped the charts in the 1950s with ''Kiss of Fire'' and other hits, died on Saturday in Manhattan, where she had lived for many years. She was 87. The cause was pneumonia, said Leslie Gottlieb, a publicist and family friend. She said Ms
 Martha Tilton, who as one of Benny Goodman's vocalists in the 1930s was billed as the ''Sweetheart of Swing'' and appeared on 80 of his recordings, including the celebrated 1939 rendition of ''And the Angels Sing,'' died on Dec. 8 at her home in the Los Angeles neighborhood of Brentwood. Sh
 Ruth Webb, a successful Hollywood agent who was a master of the art of professional rehabilitation, reviving dormant careers and representing clients few other agencies would touch, died on Dec. 4 in Los Angeles. She was 88. The cause was a long pulmonary illness, said Sherri Spilla
 Ruth Bernhard, whose classical black-and-white photographs of the female nude and inanimate objects earned her a place of distinction among 20th-century photographers, died on Monday at her home in San Francisco. She was 101. The San Francisco medical examiner's office said her deat
 Anne Rogers Clark, a commanding figure in the world of show dogs who won renown at the Westminster Dog Show as a handler, a judge and a breeder, died Wednesday in Wilmington, Del., at the home of a friend. She was 77 and a longtime resident of Greenwood, Del. The cause was kidney fa
 Kyoko Kishida, who starred in the landmark film ''Woman in the Dunes'' as a young widow consigned to a life of isolation and Sisyphean labor at the bottom of a sand pit, died on Dec. 17 in Tokyo. She was 76. The cause was a brain tumor, a theater company she belonged to told Japanes
 Galina Ustvolskaya, a Russian composer of expressive and often forceful works who studied with Shostakovich, and whose music has found an enthusiastic audience in the West since the early 1990s, died on Dec. 22 in St. Petersburg, Russia. She was 87. Her death was announced online by
 Wilma Dykeman, a noted writer about Appalachia who explored her native region -- often joyously, sometimes painfully -- in many works of fiction and nonfiction, died on Dec. 22 in Asheville, N.C. She was 86 and had lived in Asheville for many years. The cause was an infection result
