 Madhavrao Scindia, scion of one of India's legendary royal families and a senior leader of the opposition Congress Party, died yesterday when a small plane carrying him to a political rally crashed into a paddy field during a lashing rainstorm. He was 56. Mr. Scindia, reared in pala
 Nguyen Van Thieu, the former president of South Vietnam who led his nation through most of its war against North Vietnam until it was finally overrun by a Communist offensive in 1975, died late Saturday at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center here, a hospital spokesman said. He was 76.     
 Henry A. Ashforth Jr., a major commercial real estate developer in New York City and its suburbs, died on Sept. 21 at a hospital in Stamford, Conn. He was 73 and lived in Greenwich, Conn., and Peru, Vt. The cause was cancer, his son Thomas A. Ashforth said. As chairman and c
 William F. Laporte, a former president and chairman of the American Home Products Corporation, died on Sept. 10 at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 and also lived in Buck Hill Falls, Pa. Mr. Laporte oversaw American Home for two decades and built it into one of the biggest producers
 Frank Gasparro, who as an engraver at the United States Mint designed the tails side of the current Lincoln penny, showing the Lincoln Memorial, died on Saturday in Havertown, Pa. He was 92. There are more than 100 billion of the pennies in circulation, each with Mr. Gasparro's tiny
 Seymour Milstein, who, with his brother, Paul, presided over a multibillion-dollar real estate and banking empire with three million square feet of office space, 8,000 apartments and one of New York's oldest financial institutions, the Emigrant Savings Bank, died yesterday at New York Presb
 W. Barry McCarthy, an executive at The New York Times Company for two decades, died last Wednesday in Stamford, Conn. He was 79 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. The cause was complications from cancer, his family said. Mr. McCarthy joined the Times Company in 1968 as director o
 Dr. Donald J. Cohen, a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who as the director of Yale University's renowned Child Study Center reshaped the field of child psychiatry, died in New Haven on Tuesday. He was 61. The cause was ocular melanoma, a rare form of cancer, his colleagues at Yale sa
 Gregory H. Hemingway, whose 1976 book, ''Papa: A Personal Memoir,'' lent humanity and balanced insight to the life of his celebrated father, Ernest Hemingway, died on Monday in Miami. He was 69. The cause was hypertension and heart disease, according to the Reuters news agency.     
 Dr. Rhys Maengwyn Jones, a pioneer investigator of human origins in Australia, whose research pushed back the beginning of human settlement there to a far earlier date than previously thought, died on Sept. 19 in Canberra, Australia. He was 60. The cause was leukemia, his family sai
 Frederick M. Lussen, a police detective who investigated many of the city's most famous cases in the 1960's and 70's, from gangland shootings to the Mad Bomber, died on Oct. 4, at his home in Nanuet, N.Y. He was 91. As the son of a police officer and the father of another, Mr. Lusse
 Manny Albam, a musician, composer and arranger in the jazz world of the 1950's and 60's who also played a major role in the growth of jazz education, died on Tuesday at his home in Croton, N.Y. He was 79. The cause was cancer, his family said. Although he was far from a hous
 Mike Mansfield, who served as Senate majority leader longer than anyone else and was instrumental in the 1960's and 1970's in the enactment of legislation on civil rights, social policy and foreign affairs that changed the course of the country, died today at Walter Reed Army Medical Center
 Dr. John C. Lilly, a neuroscientist and writer who explored human consciousness, dolphin communication and the borders of reality with the showmanship of P. T. Barnum and the infectious zeal of Jacques Yves-Cousteau, died on Sept. 30 in Los Angeles. He was 86 and lived in Maui, Hawaii.     
 Brian E. Kendrick, a leader in the retail industry and chief executive of Asbury Autogroup, died on Thursday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 48. The cause was a heart attack, a company spokeswoman said. Mr. Kendrick became widely known in the retail industry in the 19
 Charles W. Mathews, the program manager of NASA's Project Gemini in the 1960's, died on Sept. 10 in a hospital in Gainesville, Fla. He was 80 and lived in Gainesville. The cause was kidney failure, said the Forest Meadows Funeral Home in Gainesville. Mr. Mathews, an aeronaut
 Dougie Millings, a tailor to the stars whose crowning achievement was outfitting the Beatles in the distinctive round-necked suits in which they rocked to global glory, died on Sept. 20 in his London home. He was 88. Mr. Millings was called Dad by the Beatles, and appeared as a tail
 Roger J. Boisvert, one of Japan's leading Internet pioneers, died on Sept. 30 during a robbery in Los Angeles. He was 50 and lived here. Mr. Boisvert was shot after he and a friend became lost in the Hawthorne section of Los Angeles early in the morning. They stopped their car along
 George P. Brockway, former president and chairman of the publishing house W. W. Norton & Company, died on Friday at his home in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 85. He had a long illness, the company said in announcing his death. After doing much editing at Norton, which is based in M
 Herblock, the Washington Post editorial cartoonist, whose critical eye and rapier pen made him one of the leading journalists of his time, died on Sunday in Washington. He was 91. His cartoons were a chronicle of politics over the last seven decades, including the atomic bomb, which
 Paul J. Fitzgerald, the lead defense lawyer in the murder trial of Charles M. Manson and three young women who were his followers, died on Oct. 1 at his Beverly Hills, Calif., home. He was 64. The cause was heart disease, his family said. Mr. Fitzgerald was a Los Angeles pub
 William G. Cahan, a Manhattan surgeon, author and tireless advocate of laws and educational programs to reduce smoking, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 87. Dr. Cahan (pronounced KAY-han) was a thoracic surgeon at Sloan-Kettering for more
 Calvin C. Hernton, a scholar, critic and poet whose work explored the terrain where American race relations collide with American sexual politics, died on Oct. 1 at his home in Oberlin, Ohio. He was 69. He had been ill with cancer for some time, said a spokesman for Oberlin College,
 Norris Houghton, a theatrical producer and designer, and founder of the Phoenix, one of the first and most successful of New York's not-for-profit Off Broadway theaters, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital, said Frank Lloyd Dent, a longtime friend and neighbor. He was 92. Born 
 Herbert Ross, a Broadway choreographer-turned-film director who brought serious dance into the Hollywood mainstream with movies like ''The Turning Point,'' translated five Neil Simon comedies to the screen and directed a pantheon of actresses in some of their most memorable roles, died on T
 Eddie Futch, who trained six heavyweight champions with a firmness and compassion that inspired the confidence of his fighters and whose boxing roots went back to the Joe Louis era of the 1930's, died Wednesday in Las Vegas. He was 90. Futch was still training champions well into hi
 Roberto Campos, one of the most prominent figures in Brazilian economic, intellectual and political life, died of a heart attack at his apartment here late Tuesday. He was 84. In a long career, Mr. Campos was a diplomat, cabinet minister, senator, congressman and bank president, dis
 Beni Montresor, who conjured magical, dreamlike images in the children's books he illustrated and the sets and costumes he designed for opera productions around the world, died on Thursday in Verona, Italy, near the village where he was born. He was 78. The cause was pancreatic canc
 Dr. Caryl P. Haskins, a biophysicist and former president of the Carnegie Institution of Washington whose lifelong love of learning led him to study subjects as diverse as ants, radiation and the Amazon, died on Monday in Westport, Conn. He was 93. ''The man who is too old to learn 
 Joseph Stein, an American architect who designed some of India's most important modern buildings, died on Oct. 6 in Raleigh, N.C. He was 89. In the nearly half-century he spent in India, Mr. Stein won acclaim for marrying his structures to the natural landscape. He favored buildings
 Clyde L. Choate, who received the Medal of Honor in World War II while an Army sergeant for single-handedly turning back an attack by a German tank and who later became a prominent member of the Illinois Legislature, died on Oct. 5 at a hospital in Carbondale, Ill. Mr. Choate, who lived in 
 Michael Kahan, a political science professor at Brooklyn College who was one of the leaders in the battle to keep poorly prepared students from being turned away from the City University of New York, died on Sept. 30 in New York City. He was 61. The cause was cancer of the gall blad
 Robert Riley, an expert on fashion design who oversaw collections and organized design shows at the Brooklyn Museum of Art and the Fashion Institute of Technology, died on Oct. 6 at a hospital in Hyannis, Mass. He was 90 and lived in Truro, Mass. Mr. Riley retired in 1981 after two 
 Lord Hailsham of St. Marylebone, a leading British Conservative politician who served in six governments, including Churchill's wartime administration, and was the longest-serving lord chancellor, or head of the British judiciary, in the 20th century, died on Friday at his London home. He w
 Luis Antonio García Navarro, one of Spain's best known conductors and the first music and artistic director of Madrid's newly restored opera house, the Teatro Real, died on Oct. 10 in a Madrid clinic after a long illness. He was 61. The cause of death was cancer, according to Spani
 Dr. Robert Matthew Berne, a heart specialist and educator whose textbooks were used by generations of doctors, died on Oct. 4 at his home in Charlottesville, Va., where he was a professor emeritus at the University of Virginia Medical Center. He was 83. The cause was lung cancer, hi
 Willam F. Christensen, an enthusiastic champion of American ballet who headed important companies in Portland, Ore., San Francisco and Salt Lake City, died on Sunday in Salt Lake City, where he lived; he was 99. Mr. Christensen was the last survivor of the three Christensen brothers
 Frederick DeMatteis, longtime chairman and chief executive of the DeMatteis Organizations, a large development and construction corporation, died on Tuesday at his home in Old Westbury, N.Y. He was 78. He had been ill for 10 months, said Howard Blankman, a family spokesman. 
 Jay Livingston, the pop composer and lyricist who collaborated with Ray Evans on three movie songs that won Academy Awards -- ''Mona Lisa,'' ''Que Será, Será'' and ''Buttons and Bows'' -- died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 86 and lived in Los Angeles. In their heyday in the 194
 Dr. Kenneth Locke Hale, a master of more than 50 languages and the keeper of aboriginal tongues in danger of vanishing with their speakers, died on Oct. 8 at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 67. The cause was prostate cancer, said the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where 
 Zhang Xueliang, a onetime warlord who in two turbulent weeks in 1936 helped turn the course of Chinese history -- and then spent the next 55 years under house arrest, gradually and reluctantly becoming a national hero -- died on Sunday in Honolulu, where he had been living in recent years. 
 Dr. Joseph B. Slowinski, an expert on venomous snakes who was in the middle of an ambitious inventory of the reptile and amphibian populations of Myanmar, died on Sept. 12 in the northern reaches of that country. He was 38. Dr. Slowinski, who recalled hunting for snakes at age 4 in 
 Brother Marinus Leonard LaRue, who as a merchant marine captain in the Korean War evacuated 14,000 refugees from a besieged North Korean port, died on Sunday at St. Paul's Abbey in Newton, N.J. Brother Marinus, who became a Benedictine monk after two decades at sea, was 87. Three da
 David Kellogg Lewis, a metaphysician and a philosopher of mind, language and logic at Princeton University, died on Sunday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 60. The cause was heart failure, Princeton University said. Mr. Lewis was once dubbed ''a mad-dog modal realist'' 
 Richard Buckle, an influential British dance critic and dance historian and the organizer of imaginative exhibitions, died on Oct. 12 while being taken by ambulance from his country cottage in Dorset to a hospital in Salisbury. He was 85. Mr. Buckle wrote sharp-tongued reviews and s
 Dr. Bernard H. Fox, a federal researcher who became a pioneer in investigating the effect of psychological problems on cancer risk, died on Oct. 9 at a hospital in Everett, Mass. He was 83 and lived in the nearby town of Malden, outside Boston. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, his 
 Murray Schwartz, a former New York State senator from Queens, died on Oct. 5 at his summer home in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 82 and also had a home in Lake Worth, Fla. He was a Democrat in the State Senate from 1965 to 1973 and later was New York City commissioner of commerce and industry
 Dr. Edward P. Radford, who energetically promoted a higher estimate of the cancer risk from radiation exposure and whose position was eventually upheld, died on Oct. 12 at his home in Haslemere, England. He was 79. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Dr. Radford was cha
 James F. Phillips, an environment advocate who used flamboyant tactics like putting metal caps on top of belching smoke stacks, then leaving a note signed ''the Fox,'' died on Oct. 3 in Aurora, Ill. He was 70. The cause was complications of diabetes, his sister Dorothy Spring said. 
 Joseph H. Crown, who was active in the Lawyers Committee on American Policy Towards Vietnam, died on Sept. 28 at his home in Cuernavaca, Mexico. He was in his mid-90's and also had a home in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. Mr. Crown, a Manhattan-based lawyer, was secretary of the Lawyers Com
 Don S. Maurer, a longtime advertising and marketing executive who was president and chief executive at one of the largest ad agencies in the Southeast, McKinney & Silver, died on Saturday. He was 47. The cause was injuries suffered in an automobile accident in Raleigh, N.C., accordi
 Henryk Tomaszewski, a Polish theater artist who surprised the West with his dreamlike, wordless presentations and influenced American avant-garde artists like Robert Wilson and Meredith Monk, died on Sept. 23 in Kowary, near Wroclaw, Poland. He was 81. The cause was a cerebral hemor
 Howard Finster, a Baptist preacher whose evangelical faith, outgoing personality and compulsive work habits made him one of the most prominent and prolific folk artists of the 20th century, died yesterday in a hospital in Rome, Ga. He was 84 and lived in Summerville, Ga., a few miles from t
 Louis Zara, a publisher and editor of magazines and books who was best known for his own historical novels, died on Oct. 5 in his Manhattan apartment. He was 91. Mr. Zara was known for long, weighty novels, many of them with historical heroes, from Stephen Crane to Herman Melville t
 Sir John Plumb, a prolific British historian of the 18th century whose  lucrative and popular history books and unerring knack for picking brilliant students may have eclipsed his own potential as a serious historian, died Sunday in Cambridge, England. He was 90. Sir John was a form
 Pavel G. Bunich, a moderate Russian economic reformer and two-time Parliament member who broadly supported the switch to a market-based economy under Presidents Mikhail S. Gorbachev and Boris N. Yeltsin, died on Saturday in Moscow. He was 71. His family gave no cause. A prol
 The Rev. William Henry Kirk, a prominent figure in the settlement-house movement and a community leader in East Harlem as it underwent a historic transformation, died last Friday in Branford, Conn. He was 92 and lived in Hamden, Conn., and on Isle au Haut, Me. Mr. Kirk was executive
 Francis John Anscombe, a mathematician who helped computerize statistical analyses while seeking to avoid flawed interpretations of such data, died Oct. 17 at his home in New Haven. He was 83. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, according to Yale University, where he retired in 1988 
 George Feyer, a gifted pianist and delightfully versatile entertainer who charmed Manhattan cafe society at the Carlyle, Stanhope and Waldorf-Astoria hotels for three decades, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Feyer mixed an ed
 Daniel Wildenstein, the French-born head of one of the art world's wealthiest and most secretive dynasties who was also a prominent figure in thoroughbred horse-racing circles, died on Tuesday in a Paris hospital, the Wildenstein Institute announced here today. He was 84. Mr. Wilden
 Ken Aston, the referee for one of the most infamous World Cup soccer matches and the originator of the cards used to indicate that a player is guilty of misconduct, died Tuesday in Ilford, England. He was 86 and lived in Ilford. Aston, a longtime British referee, officiated the open
 Former Representative Thomas Nelms Downing, a conservative Democrat who represented the Peninsula district of eastern Virginia from 1958 to 1976, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Newport News, his hometown. He was 82. The cause was emphysema and cancer, his law firm said. Mr
 William F. Melville Jr., the former chief executive of a large credit card company and executive of a bank, died on Oct. 10 at a nursing home in Arnold, Md. He was 80 and lived in Severna Park, Md. The cause was respiratory failure stemming from Alzheimer's disease, The Baltimore Su
 Ferris Fain, the American League batting champion in 1951 and '52 and a slick-fielding first baseman for the lackluster Philadelphia Athletics, died on Oct. 18 at his home in Georgetown, Calif. He was 80. He had been in poor health for many years, with leukemia and diabetes.        
 Gerald B.H. Solomon, a conservative former congressman from New York who led crusades to punish flag burners and draft dodgers, died today at his home in Glens Falls, N.Y. Mr. Solomon, who retired from the House in 1998, died from congestive heart failure, his family said. He was 71
 Ismat Kittani, an adroit Kurdish diplomat who represented Iraq at the United Nations from 1985 to 1989, was president of the General Assembly and served five secretaries general in senior posts, died on Tuesday in Geneva. He was 72. The cause was cancer. Mr. Kittani's term as Iraqi 
 Piero Corsini, a dealer in old master paintings who had galleries in New York and Monaco, died on Monday in Monaco. He was 63 and lived in Monaco. The cause of death was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Mr. Corsini was born in Florence, Italy, and began to acquire and stu
 Ernest A. Lindner, whose business of selling and upgrading Linotype machines became a single-minded mission of collecting and preserving hundreds of antique presses and other printing equipment, died on Oct. 3. He was 79 and lived in Glendale, Calif. The cause was heart failure, his
 Marvin Harris, an anthropologist who spent his career adding fuel to the fires of academic controversy, as when he theorized that the cannibalism of the Aztecs was motivated by protein deprivation, died on Thursday in Gainesville, Fla., where he lived. He was 74. His daughter, Susan
 Dr. Alvan Feinstein, an epidemiologist who advanced the science of disease diagnosis and prognosis and made significant strides in preventing rheumatic fever, died Wednesday in Toronto, where he was attending an awards ceremony. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, according to 
 Dr. George F. Solomon, one of the first scientists to see a link between emotions and immunity and a pioneer in the field now known as psychoneuroimmunology, died on Oct. 7 in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 69. The cause was a stroke, his family said. ''Even though doct
 Herbert Weissenstein, a management consultant specializing in the arts, died on Friday in New York. He was 56. The cause was cancer, his wife, Constance Shuman Weissenstein, said. After working for both the New York Philharmonic and Carnegie Hall, Mr. Weissenstein retained p
 Dr. Vasily P. Mishin, who helped preside over the Soviet Union's failed effort to beat the United States to the Moon, died on Oct. 10 in Moscow. He was 84. The death was reported by the Russian news media. He is survived by his wife, Nina Andreyevna Mishina, and three daughters.    
 Grigory Chukhrai, the Soviet-era filmmaker whose poignant explorations of wartime themes earned not just the Lenin Prize but also top awards at Cannes, Edinburgh and San Francisco, died Sunday at Moscow's Central Clinical Hospital. He was 80. The cause of death was not disclosed. He
 Larry Aldrich, for 40 years a successful fashion designer in New York and the founder in 1964 of the innovative Aldrich Museum for Contemporary Art in Ridgefield, Conn., died on Friday at the New York Weill Cornell Center. He was 95 and lived in Manhattan. Initially disparaged by so
 Laszlo Halasz, the first music director of the New York City Opera, died on Friday at his home in Port Washington, N.Y. He was 96. During a tumultuous eight-year tenure, which began in 1943, Mr. Halasz established several crucial elements of the New York City Opera's artistic person
