 Bernard R. Kant, a former president and chairman of the Gimbel Brothers Philadelphia division, died Sept. 15 at his home in Elkins Park, Pa. He was 82 years old. Mr. Kant died of congestive pulmonary disease, said his daughter, Carole K. Rosenthal of Jenkintown, Pa. Mr. Kant
 Brother Casimir Gabriel Costello, a professor emeritus at Manhattan College who wrote a two-volume history of the institution, died on Tuesday at the Christian Brothers residence in Lincroft, N.J. He was 82 years old and had lived in Riverdale, the Bronx. He died of complications fr
 Chauncey Scott Northern, a tenor and voice teacher, died on Sept. 22 at the Englewood Hospital and Medical Center in Englewood, N.J. He was 90 years old and lived in Englewood. He died of a stroke, his family said. Mr. Northern was one of the first black opera singers to app
 Feodor Chaliapin Jr., who blossomed into an octogenarian movie star after 60 years of mostly bit parts and cameos, died on Sept. 17 in Rome. He was 87 years old and had been a resident of Rome since shortly after World War II. He died after a brief illness, his family said. 
 Jerry Jontry, a former president of the publishing group of Esquire Inc., died on Sunday at his Manhattan home. He was 81 years old. He died after a long illness, said Fred Ferguson, a family friend. Mr. Jontry, a native of Chenoa, Ill., and graduate of the University of Chi
 Richard Grossman, a retired corporate lawyer, died on Sunday at Highland Park Hospital in Chicago. He was 82 years old. He died of complications from pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Grossman, who lived in Lake Forest, Ill., worked for 40 years for Mayer, Brown & Platt in Chi
 William Miller, an author, historian and educator, died on Sunday at the Wicke Health Center in Shelton, Conn. He was 79 years old and lived in Redding, Conn. He died of Alzheimer's disease, his family said. Mr. Miller wrote and edited many articles and books, several of whi
 Carmelo Pomodoro, a rising talent as an international designer in the fashion industry, died on Thursday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 37 years old and lived in Cornwall, Conn. He died of AIDS-related pneumonia, said an announcement from his company, C
 Don West, a labor organizer and civil-rights advocate who helped found the Highlander Folk School for poor children of the Tennessee mountains in 1932, died Tuesday at Charleston Area Medical Center in Charleston, W.Va. He was 86 years old and lived in Cabin Creek, W.Va. Heart disea
 Frederick Combs, an actor, playwright, director and teacher, died on Sept. 19 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 57 years old. He died of AIDS, said a friend, Jane Richmond. Mr. Combs created the role of Donald in the 1968 play "The Boys in the Band." Its blunt, provocative 
 John A. Weed, a vice president of Salomon Brothers Asset Management, died yesterday at his home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 52 years old. He died of abdominal cancer, his wife, Elizabeth, said. Mr. Weed joined the Salomon Brothers Funds Company in 1990, when the Lehman Fund,
 Louis Simon, a longtime New York union leader who helped to organize the city's laundry workers during the Depression in 1937, died on Wednesday at New York University Hospital. He was 97 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died after a yearlong illness, said Dr. William Schneider,
 Paul Jabara, a songwriter, singer and actor who won an Academy Award in 1979 for writing the disco hit "Last Dance," died on Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 44 years old. He died after a long illness, a spokesman for Kaleidoscope Films said. Mr. Jabara was born in
 Dr. David T. Purtilo, a specialist in disorders of the immune system and chairman of the pathology-microbiology department at the University of Nebraska Medical Center, died Monday at the Naples, Fla., Community Center. He was 53 years old. Dr. Purtilo, who lived in Omaha, was in Na
 Dr. David Caplovitz, a sociologist and an authority on American spending habits and misleading sales practices, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of cancer of the esophagus, his family said. Dr. Caplovi
 Edward H. Gottesman, an artist and designer, died on Monday at the Kaiser Permanente Hospital in Oakland, Calif. He was 41 years old and lived in nearby Berkeley. He died of an AIDS-related illness, his family said. Mr. Gottesman was a painter of watercolors and oils and a d
 John A. Weed, a vice president of Salomon Brothers Asset Management, died on Thursday at his home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 52 years old. He died of abdominal cancer, his wife, Elizabeth, said. Mr. Weed joined the Salomon Brothers Funds Company in 1990, when the Lehman Fun
 Antonello Marescalchi, who retired last year as the New York-based American correspondent for the Italian television network RAI, died on Tuesday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 65 years old. He died of lung cancer, his family said. A native of Leghorn (Liv
 Haldore Hanson, a State Department official who was cleared of charges by Senator Joseph McCarthy that he was a Communist sympathizer, died on Sept. 24 at a hospital in Texcoco, Mexico. He was 80 years old and lived in San Nicholas, Mexico, and Arcola, Va. He had heart disease and d
 Vincent W. Hallinan, a lawyer who invented a new defense trial strategy, reformed San Francisco's corrupt jury system, defended the union leader Harry Bridges and ran for President from jail, died on Friday at his home in San Francisco. He was 95 years old. The cause of death was no
 Haldore Hanson, a State Department official who was cleared of Senator Joseph McCarthy's accusation of being a Communist sympathizer, died Sept. 24 at a hospital in Texcoco, Mexico. He was 80 years old and lived in San Nicholas, Mexico, and Arcola, Va. He had heart disease and died 
 William S. Chapin, a former general manager of the New York State Power Authority, died on Friday at the Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center in East Patchogue, L.I. He was 88 years old and lived in Mastic Beach, L.I. He died of heart failure, his son Richard said. Mr
 Dr. William T. Foley, a cardiovascular specialist who treated Joseph P. Kennedy and the royal family of Sikkim, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old. He died of heart failure, his brother-in-law John Cady said yesterday. Dr. Foley had been on the st
 William L. McGuire, a longtime lawyer and the Village Attorney of Asharoken, L.I., died on Saturday at his home in Northport. He was 66 years old. He died of a heart attack, his son Mark said. Mr. McGuire, who had previously served as trustee and justice in the Village of As
 Cyril Chesnut Means Jr., professor emeritus of constitutional law at New York Law School, died yesterday at his home in Great Neck, L.I. He was 73 years old. His family said he died after a long illness. Professor Means, who also had a home in Gloucester, Mass., was an exper
 David von Schlegell, an abstract sculptor and painter who was also a professor emeritus at the Yale University School of Art, died yesterday at St. Raphael's Hospital in New Haven. He was 72 years old and lived in Guilford, Conn. He had been ill for some time with prostate cancer an
 John G. Friend, a retired chairman and former director of NBD Chicago Bank, died Friday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 58 years old and lived in Winnetka, Ill., and Rancho Mirage, Calif. Mr. Friend died of prostate cancer, said his wife, Abby Mandel. A 
 Some of the luminaries of the worlds of labor, folk music and progressive politics in New York City and beyond filled Avery Fisher Hall yesterday in tribute to Leon J. Davis, the founder of the nation's largest labor organization of health-care workers, who died last month. As his w
 William S. Chapin, a former general manager of the New York State Power Authority, died on Friday at the Brookhaven Memorial Hospital Medical Center in East Patchogue, L.I. He was 88 years old and lived in Mastic Beach, L.I. He died of heart failure, his son Richard said. Mr
 Denholm Elliott, an award-winning supporting actor who gained a reputation as an accomplished scene-stealer in the course of his 47-year career in theater, films and television, died on Tuesday at his home in Ibiza, Spain. He was 70 years old. He died of AIDS-related tuberculosis, s
 Dr. Ernest H. Volwiler, a leader in medicinal chemistry who did groundbreaking work in anesthetics in the 1930's, died Saturday at the Westmoreland nursing home in Lake Forest, Ill. A longtime resident of nearby Highland Park, he was 99 years old. Dr. Volwiler spent his entire caree
 Felipe Hernandez, a former development officer of the Hispanic AIDS Forum in New York City, died on Sunday at Cabrini Medical Center. He was 29 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of AIDS-related illnesses, according to the forum. Mr. Hernandez, a native of New Jersey,
 Richard Sedric Fox Eells, a retired adjunct professor of business at Columbia University's Graduate School of Business and a leading authority on corporate philanthropy, died on Monday at New York Hospital. He was 75 years old. Professor Eells died after surgery for an arterial embo
 Dr. Roy Allen Ginsburg, president of the San Francisco Psychoanalytic Institute and an associate professor of clinical psychiatry at Stanford University School of Medicine, died Friday at Stanford University Hospital in Stanford, Calif. He was 48 years old and lived in Palo Alto, Calif.    
 William Mellon Eaton, a founder and retired senior partner of the Manhattan law firm of Eaton & Van Winkle, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 67 years old. His family said he died of a heart attack. Specializing in corporate, banking and estate law, Mr. Eaton w
 Allan Bloom, the professor of political philosophy whose book on American universities became a best-selling text for conservative attacks on contemporary intellectual life, died yesterday at the University of Chicago's Bernard Mitchell Hospital. Mr. Bloom, 62 years old, died of pep
 Bert Ottley, a former manager of the Joyce Theater, died on Oct. 1 at the New York University Medical Center. He was 46 years old and lived in East Orange, N.J. He died of AIDS, said a friend, Terence Womble. Mr. Ottley was well known to dancegoers as a stern but warm presen
 David L. Maloof, a maritime lawyer, died on Friday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Maloof died of complications following heart surgery, said his son, David. In the early 1960's, Mr. Maloof was a founder o
 George E. Bates, professor emeritus of investment management at the Harvard Business School and an authority on ancient coins, died Sept. 25 at his retirement home in Camden, Me. He was 89 years old. Professor Bates was a former editor of the Harvard Business Review and for many yea
 Harold R. Brown Sr., an investment executive and organizer of a church shelter for the homeless, died on Monday at Long Island Jewish Hospital in New Hyde Park, L.I. He was 61 years old and lived in Queens. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Brown was the vice president
 James E. Thomson, who started as a message runner for Merrill Lynch and rose to become its president and board chairman, died on Sunday while on a vacation in France. He was 87 years old and lived in Indian Wells, Calif. Information on the cause of death was not available. A company
 Noah M. Bee, a retired New York graphic artist and political cartoonist published in Jewish newspapers throughout North America, died on Sunday at the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. He was 76 years old and lived in Encino, Calif. His family said he died of prostate c
 Sol J. Paul, a publisher of magazines covering the communications industry, died on Monday at Princeton Hospital in Princeton, N.J. He was 78 years old and lived in Princeton. Mr. Paul died of complications after a stroke, said his daughter Celia. Mr. Paul was the publisher 
 Dr. Benjamin B. Greenberg, an orthopedic surgeon, died on Oct. 1 while vacationing in La Baule, France. He was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Greenberg died of a heart attack, said his son, Dr. Robert A. Greenberg. Dr. Greenberg, a native of Providence, R.I., earne
 Ed Blackwell, one of the most important drummers in jazz, died on Wednesday at Hartford Hospital in Connecticut. He lived in Hartford and would have been 63 years old tomorrow. He died of complications of renal failure, said his manager, Kunle Mwanga. One of jazz's great syn
 Edwin G. Roberts, a retired retailing executive who headed large store chains from New York to Chicago and Los Angeles, died Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 73 years old. He apparently died of a heart attack, said his son Brian. Mr. Roberts was a native of Chicago
 H. Gardner Ingraham, a lawyer whose career in New York City spanned nearly four decades, died on Tuesday at his home in Northport, L.I. He was 80 years old. Mr. Ingraham died of heart failure, said a son, Robert E., of Northport. Mr. Ingraham, who was a native of Brooklyn, a
 Louis Smadbeck, a leading New York real-estate executive for more than four decades, died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 72 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Waccabuc, N.Y. The cause of death was lung cancer, his family reported. Over t
 Morton W. Royse, a scholar who was an expert on international conflict, died Sept. 21 at his summer residence in Old Saybrook, Conn. He was 96 years old and also lived in St. Petersburg, Fla. Mr. Royse died of complications resulting from a failure of the digestive system, said Kerr
 The Rev. Joseph M. Kitagawa, a theologian who was instrumental in establishing religion as an independent discipline on America's campuses and in introducing the religions of Japan to the West, died Wednesday in Chicago.  He was 77 years old. He died of pneumonia at the Bernard Mitc
 Rabbi Philip Paretzky, a professor of Talmud at the Rabbi Isaac Elchanan Theological Seminary in Manhattan and a member of the faculty there since 1963, died on Sunday at his home in the Bronx. He was 75 years old. He died of a heart attack, according to Sam Hartstein, a spokesman f
 Steven P. Grunewald, a tenor, died last Friday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 30 years old. Mr. Grunewald died of complications related to H.I.V. infection, said his brother, Theodore J. Grunewald of Manhattan. Mr. Grunewald, a native of Stamfor
 Willy Brandt, whose life spanned the defeat of his German fatherland in two world wars and who won the Nobel Peace Prize for his efforts to overcome the cold-war division of Europe, died last night. He was 78 years old. Mr. Brandt, who had been under treatment for intestinal cancer 
 Zoltan L. Bay, a pioneering physicist in the United States and his native Hungary, died Sunday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 92 years old. He died of emphysema, his family said. His experiments with microwaves reflected from the Moon in 1946 helped start radar astro
 Johnny Carisi, a jazz trumpeter and composer, died on Oct. 3 at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 70 years old. He died of complications from heart surgery, said a friend, Don Leight. Mr. Carisi was best known for his compositions and arrangements, including "Israel" and "Springs
 Larry Pond, a founder and the first chairman of the Design Industry Foundation for AIDS in New York City, died yesterday in St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. He was 42 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Pond died of AIDS, said Muriel Chess, a friend. In 1984 Mr. 
 Dr. Paul A. Olshansky, a chiropractor and an AIDS educator, died Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 39 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Olshansky died of AIDS, said his companion, Michael Fanelli. A native of Flushing, Queens, Dr. Ol
 Richard B. Farnham, the former head of the New York Horticultural Society and past director of the annual International Flower Show, died on Wednesday at the Social Circle Nursing Home in Social Circle, Ga. He was 91 years old. The cause of death was not specified. Mr. Farnh
 Stephen F. Temmer, an audio innovator and retired executive, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 64 years old. He died of AIDS, his family said. In his varied career, Mr. Temmer was a technical adviser to the Watergate prosecutors on the gap in the White House 
 The Rev. James D. Watson, an leader in housing, civil rights and peace causes as a pastor and New York regional head of the United Presbyterian Church, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications from Par
 Alvin Z. Rosenfeld, who was vicedirector for the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and a foreign correspondent for newspapers and television, died of cancer at Georgetown Hospital in Washington, on Saturday. He was 73 years old. Born in St. Louis, Mr. Rosenfeld began his journ
 John Bogart, a longtime labor relations executive at New York City newspapers, died on Friday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died after a stroke, his family said. Mr. Bogart began his career in 1934 at The
 Alvin Z. Rosenfeld, who was vice director for the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum and a foreign correspondent for newspapers and television, died on Saturday at Georgetown Hospital in Washington. He was 73 years old and lived in Washington. He died of cancer, said his wife, 
 Dr. Daniel Horn, whose research on the negative effects of cigarette smoking helped to influence government policy and public attitudes, died on Wednesday at the Hunterdon Medical Center in Flemington, N.J. He was 76 years old and lived in Frenchtown, N.J. Dr. Horn died of a heart a
 Frank B. Mercurio, a longtime enforcer of labor laws, died on Saturday at St. Mary's Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 80 years old. The cause of his death was not immediately available. Mr. Mercurio, a foe of the sweatshops in New York and New Jersey, was a native of
 Joseph Toy Curtiss, a member of the Yale University English faculty for nearly four decades, died Sunday at his home in Simsbury, Conn. He was 91 years old. Professor Curtiss, who suffered a stroke recently, died of heart failure, said Prof. David Calleo of the Johns Hopkins School 
 Peter Ornstein, a vice president at Merrill Lynch in Manhattan who was active in civic affairs in Greenwich, Conn., died on Sunday at Greenwich Hospital. He was 64 years old and lived in Greenwich. Pending an autopsy, the cause of death was unknown yesterday. Mr. Ornstein, w
 Robert Trumbull, who chronicled war, the birth of nations and sweeping economic change in Asia and the Pacific region in more than three decades as a correspondent for The New York Times, died on Sunday at a hospital in Honolulu. He was 80 years old. Mr. Trumbull had been suffering 
 Ben Maddow, a screenwriter, novelist and photography critic, died on Friday at the Queen of Angels/Hollywood Presbyterian Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 83 years old and lived in Los Angeles. He died of congestive heart failure after a long illness, said his wife, Freda Flier
 Froelich G. Rainey, an archeologist, museum director and creator of an award-winning television program, died on Sunday at a hospital in Cornwall, England. He was 85 years old and lived in Cornwall. He died of cancer, his family said. As a young field researcher, Dr. Rainey 
 Howard A. Jones, a former New York State judge who helped Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller shape the anti-drug law of 1973, died on Sunday at his home in New Rochelle. He was 69 years old. He died in his sleep of a heart ailment, his family reported. Mr. Jones was the chairman of 
 Hughes Rudd, a former television correspondent for CBS News and ABC News noted for his deft, sardonic touch, died yesterday in a hospital in Toulouse, France. He was 71 years old. Mr. Rudd died of complications from an aneurysm of the aorta he suffered in August, said Tom Goodman, a
 Jacob H. Horwitz, a fashion innovator who helped to create "junior miss" clothing and a philanthropist who was a founder of Long Island Jewish Medical Center, died on Sunday at his home in Lawrence, L.I. He was 100 years old. He died of congestive heart failure, his family said.    
 Ulysses Guimaraes, a veteran congressman often called the "grandfather" of Brazil's democracy, drowned on Monday when a helicopter in which he was flying fell into the South Atlantic about 100 miles south of here. He was 76 years old. Also killed in the crash were his wife, Ida de A
 Don R. Davis, a retired insurance executive, died on Monday at his home in Fairfield, Conn. He was 68 years old. Mr. Davis died of prostate cancer, said a son, Timothy J. Davis, of Fairfield. In 1968 he became president of the American Life Insurance Company of Wilmington, D
 Gerald Newman, the chief accountant for the McDonald's Corporation of Oak Brook, Ill., died Saturday on his way to a fund-raising event in Cleveland for the Ronald McDonald Children's Charities. He was 61 years old and lived in Highland Park, Ill. He died of a heart attack, the comp
 James Marshall, an illustrator and author of popular children's books, died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 50 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Mansfield Hollow, Conn. He died of a brain tumor, his family said. Although he had no
 John T. McNutt, who retired in 1979 as manager and associate editor of The New York Times News Service, died at his home in Monroe, Wash., on Oct. 2. He was 78 years old. The cause of death was pulmonary fibrosis, his family said. He worked for The Stars and Stripes in Paris
 Al Brackman, a music publisher and board member of the National Music Publishers' Association, died Oct. 9 at Scripps Memorial Hospital in La Jolla, Calif. He was 80 years old and lived in Plandome, L.I., and San Diego. He died of heart failure, a spokeswoman for the music publisher
 Allen Friedman, a former union official who was the co-author of a book on mob influence after being prosecuted in 1983 in a case involving the teamsters president Jackie Presser, died on Tuesday in Cleveland. He was 71 years old. He died of heart failure at the Cleveland Clinic Hos
 Cleveland L. Dennard, a management officer of the Martin Luther King Center for Nonviolent Social Change in Atlanta and a former college president, died on Saturday in Atlanta. He was 63 years old and lived in Atlanta. Dr. Dennard died of pancreatic cancer at Southwest Hospital and 
 Martin Gregg, a producer of entertainments and theater for children, died on Sunday at Mercy Hospital in San Diego. He was 51 years old and lived in San Diego. He died of AIDS-related causes, said his companion, Milton Arroyo. Mr. Gregg was the president of the North Park Th
 Msgr. John Tracy Ellis, a leading Roman Catholic historian whose criticism of the church's colleges and universities in the United States moved them to seek higher academic standards, died yesterday at Providence Hospital in Washington, his hometown. He was 87 years old. He died of 
 Oliver Shewell Franks, a British diplomat and academic who played a crucial role in putting the Marshall Plan for European recovery into effect after World War II, died on Thursday at his home in Oxford, England. He was 87 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. In 
 Dr. Ward H. Dennis, Columbia University's senior dean and the head of its School of General Studies, died on Friday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 54 years old and lived in Pleasantville, N.Y. He died of complications from a brain tumor, his family said
 William F. Chafin, a record producer and founder of a national magazine for homosexuals and lesbians, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 35 years old. He died of AIDS-related lymphoma, his family said. The president of Chafin Communications, he founded and finan
 Carl T. Mitnick, a leading New Jersey home builder, housing industry official and philanthropist, died on Thursday at the Atlantic City Medical Center in Atlantic City. He was 87 years old and lived in Ventnor, N.J. The cause of death was undetermined, but he had had heart disease, 
 Joseph J. Ferro, a former New York City Buildings Commissioner, died on Saturday at Astoria General Hospital in Queens. He was 90 years old and lived in Queens. He died of a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Ferro began his 45-year career in city government in the Transport
 Mark F. Hawkins, a humorist whose essays on human foibles spanned 50 years, died on Oct. 7 at the California Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco. He was 82 years old and lived in San Francisco. He died of a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Hawkins started his career as
 The Rev. Timothy G. Sheehan, a Federal drug enforcement agent who became a priest and later managed the finances of the Diocese of Brooklyn, died on Saturday at Mary Immaculate Hospital in Jamaica, Queens. He was 53 years old and lived in the diocesan chancery residence in Brooklyn.        
 Rouben Ter-Arutunian, a prolific designer for dance, opera, theater and television, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 72 years old. He died of lymphoma of the brain, said Dro Proudian, a friend and the executor of his will. Mr. Ter-Arut
 David Harris Cohen, an associate curator of decorative arts at the J. Paul Getty Museum in Malibu, Calif., died on Sunday at the Midway Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 43 years old and lived in Los Angeles. He died of AIDS-related causes, said his companion, Dale E. Thumma. 
 Howard W. Lipman, an art collector and a former chairman of the Whitney Museum of American Art, died on Sunday at his home in Carefree, Ariz., his son announced yesterday. He was 87 years old. Mr. Lipman had a series of small strokes in recent months and was generally in declining h
 Leonard Zissu, an authority on copyright law and a founding member of the Copyright Society of the U.S.A., died on Sunday at the Green Manor Nursing Home in Ghent, N.Y. He was 83 years old and lived in Ancramdale, N.Y. Mr. Zissu died of cancer, his wife, Joyce said. Mr. Ziss
 Dr. Kimball Chase Atwood 3d, a geneticist who helped develop a technique for the detection and analysis of individual genes in a chromosome, died on Oct. 13 at his home in Woods Hole, Mass. He was 71 years old. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said the Columbia University College of
 Dr. Lester S. Lipsitch, a former chief of staff of the American Hospital of Paris, died Oct. 17 at his home in Longboat Key, Fla. He was 80 years old. His death of a heart attack was reported yesterday by a daughter, Dr. Carol Lipsitch, of Montclair, N.J. Dr. Lipsitch was ch
 Philip G. Kuehn, who twice lost narrow elections for governor of Wisconsin, died Sunday at home in Picayune, Miss. He was 72 years old. He died of complications from a stroke, his family said. Mr. Kuehn (pronounced keen) was a former chairman of the International Association
 W. Arthur Cullman, a retired educator and executive who was a marketing expert, died on Sunday during a visit to Manhattan. He was 77 years old and lived in Columbus, Ohio. He died of a heart attack, his family reported yesterday. Dr. Cullman was president of the American Ma
 Werner Torkanowsky, a conductor, composer and violinist, died on Tuesday at Mount Desert Hospital in Bar Harbor, Me. He was 66 years old and lived in Hancock Point, Me. He died of cancer, his family said. Since his conducting debut in 1954 when, as concertmaster for the Ball
 Bob Harrington, the cabaret critic of The New York Post and of the trade newspaper Back Stage, died on Monday at Central General Hospital in Plainview, L.I. He was 42 years old and lived in East Meadow, L.I. His family said he died of AIDS-related causes. Mr. Harrington disclosed hi
 Charles M. Grigg, an expert on the civil rights movement and a professor emeritus of sociology at Florida State University, died on Oct. 14 at his home in Tallahassee, Fla. He was 73 years old. A family friend, John Griffin, said the professor died of cancer. Dr. Grigg wrote
 Jackson J. Weaver, a radio personality in Washington and for 45 years the voice of Smokey Bear, died there on Tuesday at Holy Cross Hospital. He was 72 years old. Mr. Weaver died of complications from diabetes, said a spokesman for WMAL radio, where Mr. Weaver had worked. Wi
 Dr. James Johnston Stoker Jr., a former director of New York University's Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences, died on Monday at his home in Greenwood Lake, N.Y. He was 87 years old. His family reported the death on Tuesday and said he had died after a long illness. D
 Jim Garrison, who as District Attorney in New Orleans made startling assertions of a widespread conspiracy and cover-up in President John F. Kennedy's assassination, died yesterday at his home in New Orleans. He was 70 years old. The New Orleans coroner, Dr. Frank Minyard, a longtim
 Robert W. MacGregor, a former union official and Labor Commissioner for Nassau County, died on Monday at his home in Coram, L.I. He was 76 years old. His daughter, Janet E. MacGregor, reported his death yesterday. She said he died of heart failure. A native of Paisley, Scotl
 Cleavon Little, the actor best remembered for his role as a black sheriff hired to save a redneck town in Mel Brooks's 1974 comedy "Blazing Saddles," died yesterday at his home in Sherman Oaks, Calif. He was 53 years old. He died of colon cancer, said David C. Pollick, his publicity
 Dr. Frederic A. Gibbs, a neurologist who brought relief to untold numbers of epileptics, died Sunday at the Whitehall North convalescent home in Northbrook, Ill. He was 89 years old. Dr. Gibbs, who lived in Wilmette, Ill., died after a brief illness resulting from a stroke, accordin
 Glenn N. Appleyard, a leader in creating "dial it" telephone services, died on Wednesday at his home in Middletown, N.J. He was 70 years old and had also lived in Boca Raton, Fla. His son Glenn Jr., of Old Greenwich, Conn., said Mr. Appleyard had died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosi
 Harry Williamson, a celebrated World War II double agent for Britain who was so successful that he won Hitler's Iron Cross award, died on Monday at a hospital in Watford, England, where he lived. He was 80 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. His wartime exploits e
 Newman T. Halvorson, a former partner of the Ernst & Young accounting firm, died on Oct. 19 at University Hospital in Cleveland, Ohio. He was 84 years old. His death was reported yesterday by a spokesman for Ernst & Young, Marc Eiger, who said the cause of death was congestive heart
 Red Barber, the Mississippi-born broadcaster whose distinctive Southern twang still echoes as the unmistakable voice of the Brooklyn Dodgers, died yesterday at the Tallahassee Memorial Regional Medical Center in Florida. He was 84 years old, and a hospital spokesman said he died of 
 Richard P. Hunt, a retired foreign correspondent for newspapers, radio and television, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 70 years old. He died of complications of cancer, his family said yesterday. Mr. Hunt was best known for his reporting from the Middle Ea
 Walter T. Lucking, a former head of the Hackensack Water Company in New Jersey, died on Tuesday in the John C. Lincoln Memorial Hospital in Phoenix. He was 78 years old and lived in Phoenix. His death was reported by Martha Green, a spokeswoman for the Hackensack Water Company, who 
 Don Cahalan, who did early research on alcohol abuse, died on Tuesday at his home in Laguna Hills, Calif. He was 80 years old. His family said he died from cancer. Dr. Cahalan, a retired professor at the University of California at Berkeley's School of Public Health, receive
 Donald E. Oberg, an internationally known tool-and-die expert, died on Oct. 10 at his retirement home in Jupiter, Fla. He was 76 years old. His family reported his death yesterday and said the cause was cancer. A native of Hartford, Mr. Oberg attended Carnegie Mellon Univers
 Edward F. Denison, an economist who was an expert on national income and production, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 76 years old. The cause of death was not determined, but he had suffered from heart disease, his family said. Mr. Denison served for 18 years
 Nelson Buhler, a lawyer who helped to establish the Baruch Foundation on the environment and was a prosecutor in a Japanese war crimes trial, died on Tuesday. He was 77 years old and lived in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. His family said he died of a heart attack at North Beach Hospital in 
 Maj. Gen. Reginald C. Harmon, retired, the first Judge Advocate General of the United States Air Force, died on Monday. He was 92 years old and lived in Arlington, Va. His death was reported yesterday by his daughter, Susan Harmon Meyer, who said he had died as a result of an automo
 Vincent R. Fitzpatrick, a retired lawyer, law professor and twice an unsuccessful candidate for Congress in the 1950's, died yesterday. He was 75 years old. His family said he had a heart attack at his home in Grasmere, S.I. Mr. Fitzpatrick was born in Waltham, Mass. He was 
 William Masselos, a pianist admired for his incisive, individual performances of contemporary and American music, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 72 years old. He died of complications from Parkinson's disease, said Anahid Ajemian, a friend. In musical circle
 Frederick G. Eaton, a retired publisher of newspapers in three states and a leader in the creation of performing arts centers in Saratoga Springs and Binghamton, N.Y., died on Friday after dining with friends in Provincetown, Mass. He was 71 years old and lived in nearby Brewster. H
 Mel Finkelstein, The New York Post's photography editor and an award-winning photographer at three other newspapers, died on Friday at South Nassau Community Hospital in Oceanside, L.I. He was 60 years old and lived in Baldwin, L.I. He died of bone-marrow cancer, his family said.   
 Timothy E. Noll, an investment and finance executive, died on Thursday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 35 years old and lived in Manhattan and Ridgefield, Conn. He died of intestinal cancer, his family said. Mr. Knoll was a senior vice president of Shea
 Arnold Eagle, a documentary photographer in the 1930's and 40's who later worked as a cinematographer for Robert Flaherty and Hans Richter, died on Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death has no
 Avard E. Fuller, a former chairman and president of the Fuller Brush Company and a son of Alfred C. Fuller, the company's founder, died Sunday in Daytona Beach, Fla. He was 76 years old and lived in Westerly, R.I. The Buckler-Johnston Funeral Home in Westerly reported his death yest
 Benjamin Weiss, a New York stock-market investor and art collector, died on Friday at New York Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died after a brief illness, his family said. Mr. Weiss had been associated with the firm of Allen & Company since 1979 and 
 Jerome Andrews, an American dancer and choreographer who taught modern dance in France after moving there in 1952, died yesterday in Paris. He was 84 years old. No cause of death was given. Mr. Andrews was born in Plaistow, N.H., and studied at the Cornish School of the Arts
 Ralph Rosenborg, an abstract painter whose career spanned more than five decades, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Portland, Ore. He was 79 years old and until recently had lived in Manhattan. He died of complications from a stroke, said Gary Snyder, owner of the SoHo gallery t
 Raymond P. Kurshan, for many years a leading figure in the computer industry, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 69 years old and lived in Woodmere, L.I. He died of cancer, his son, Peter, said yesterday. Mr. Kurshan was a former ch
 Richard Pousette-Dart, a painter who belonged to the first generation of Abstract Expressionists, which helped catapult American art onto the world stage in the late 1940's, died on Sunday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 76 years old. He died of complications from colon cancer
 Albert Bosco Reyes, a playwright, director and founder of the Nat Horne Musical Theater and School, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 51 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of stomach cancer, said Nat Horne, a co-founder of the theater that bears his name. It is t
 Bernard N. Moore, a former chief of exploration for the Atlantic Richfield Company, the oil company, died on Oct. 20 at his home in New Haven. He was 86 years old. He died of pneumonia, said his son, David. A native of East St. Louis, Ill., Mr. Moore was reared in Los Angele
 James E. Bristol, a former Lutheran minister and longtime activist for the American Friends Service Committee in the United States and overseas, died Monday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 80 years old. The committee said the cause of death was heart disease. Mr. Bristol
 Koca Popovic, a former Chief of the General Staff, Foreign Minister and Vice President of Yugoslavia under Tito, died Thursday at the military hospital in Belgrade. He was 84 years old and lived in Belgrade and in Dubrovnik, Croatia. His death was reported yesterday in the United St
 Norman I. Schvey, a former managing director of Merrill Lynch, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 70 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Schvey died of lymphona of the bone marrow, said Marian Bott, a spokeswoman for the family. Beg
 Scott Newhall, the editor of The San Francisco Chronicle from 1952 to 1971, died Monday at Henry Mayo Newhall Hospital in Valencia, Calif. He was 78 years old and had homes in Piru, Calif., and San Francisco. He was a member of a pioneering California family and the great-grandson o
 Walter Krementz Jr., the longtime head of a major jewelry company, died yesterday at the Morristown Memorial Hospital in Morristown, N.J. He was 81 years old and lived in New Vernon, N.J. He also had a home in Bermuda. He died of heart failure, his family said. Mr. Krementz 
 William Moore, a critic and scholar who specialized in black dance, died on Saturday at his home in New York City. He was 59 years old. He died of a heart attack, said his sister Margaret Moore. Mr. Moore, who was born in Manhattan, was influential in the careers of black mo
 David J. Bohm, an American-born physicist who taught at the University of London for 22 years, died Tuesday. He was 74 years old. A colleague, Basil Hiley, said Mr. Bohm died of a heart attack. Professor Bohm was the author of several books and articles for various scientifi
 Dr. E. Stanley Crawford, who helped develop new techniques in cardiovascular surgery, died Tuesday at the Methodist Hospital in Houston. He was 70 years old and lived in Houston. Dr. Crawford died of respiratory failure from the effects of a stroke suffered in 1990, a son, Bruce G. 
 Edward L. Devlin, the manager of entertainment publicity for CBS television, died Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 38 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. He joined CBS in 1987, and was promoted last year to his last post, in which he managed national medi
 Melvin Dixon, a professor of English at Queens College whose works on African and African-American literature were widely praised, died on Monday at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 42 years old. Professor Dixon died of complications from AIDS, said his sister, Cynthia Peters, who
 David K. Eckert, a decorated Air Force pilot who became a minister and an advocate for gay and lesbian military veterans, died Sunday at the David Grant Medical Center at Travis Air Force Base near Sacramento, Calif. He was 47 years old and lived in Sacramento. He died of non-Hodgki
 Dr. Saul S. Weinberg, professor emeritus of art history and archeology at the University of Missouri at Columbia and the founding director of the university's Museum of Art and Archeology, died Saturday at his home in Columbia. He was 80 years old. The museum said he died after a br
 William T. Carroll, a Democrat who served as a Connecticut State Treasurer and a Lieutenant Governor and as a three-term Mayor of Torrington, died on Sunday at the Valerie Manor Health Care Center in Torrington. He was 90 years old. Mr. Carroll was a lifelong resident of Torrington,
 Walter Butler Mahony Jr., a retired executive editor of Reader's Digest and a member of its board, died on Saturday at his home in Bedford, N.Y. He was 77 years old. His family said he died of cancer. A native of Scarborough, N.Y., Mr. Mahony spent 42 years at the Reader's D
 William Ward Foshay, a leading corporate lawyer, professional golf official and philanthropist, died on Tuesday at his home in Hobe Sound, Fla. He was 82 years old. He died after a long illness, a family spokesman said. An expert on corporate law and securities, Mr. Foshay p
 Brett Elliot Langstaff, an authority and consultant on rare books, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City. He was 59 years old and lived in Morristown, N.J. His wife, the former Linda Miller, said the cause of death was non-Hodgkins lymphoma. Before becomin
 Charles F. Murphy, a Manhattan lawyer whose years of public service in New York City and State date to the time of Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia, died on Wednesday at Tisch Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan. His law firm, Murphy & Maviglia, said he die
 Egon H. Ottinger, a former chairman of Frank B. Hall & Company, a leading marine insurance company, died on Monday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in North Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 93 years old and lived in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. Mr. Ottinger died of complications from a recent fall, said
 Frank A. Weg, a lawyer who was an expert on insurance cases, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 64 years old. His family said he died of heart failure. Mr. Weg was the founding senior partner of Weg & Myers, a Manhattan law firm. He specialized in insurance law
 Howard H. Goodkin, an educator and publishing executive, died on Tuesday at Cabrini Hospice of Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 40 years old and lived in Manhattan. A cause of death was not immediately available. Mr. Goodkin was a vice president and the editorial 
 J. Van Ness Philip, a Hudson Valley fruit grower and editor of a manufacturing newsletter, died on Tuesday at his home in Claverack, N.Y. He was 70 years old. Mr. Philip, who had emphysema, died of a heart attack, said a daughter, Leila S. Philip of Cambridge, Mass. In 1967,
 Max Miller, an award-winning director of network television programs and documentary films, died on Saturday at the North Hollywood Medical Center in Studio City, Calif. He was 74 years old and lived in Studio City. He died of a cerebral hemorrhage, his family said. In telev
 Ralph Ettlinger, an inventor and co-developer of a long-term health-care program that serves the elderly in their homes, died on Wednesday at the Anne Arundel Medical Center in Annapolis, Md. He was 75 years old and lived in Annapolis. The cause of death was cancer, his family said.
 Roger Wood Bayldon, a member of the United Nations Secretariat for 30 years, died on Oct. 23 at the Burke Rehabilitation Center-New York Hospital in White Plains. He was 77 years old. He died of emphysema, his wife said. He joined the newly formed United Nations in its early
 Shien-Ming Wu, who helped to modernize automobile factories and other industries around the world, died on Wednesday at the St. Joseph Mercy Hospital in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 68 years old and lived in Ann Arbor. He died of complications from heart surgery, his family said.        
 Ted Thomas, a Broadway and Hollywood producer, died on Wednesday at his home in Van Nuys, Calif. He was 88 years old. He died of a heart attack, said his son, Michael Tilson Thomas, the conductor. Mr. Thomas, whose name was originally Theodore Hertzl Thomashefsky, was the yo
 William Cole, a freelance writer whose articles appeared in many popular magazines, died on Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 years old and had lived in Manhattan for 60 years. Mr. Cole died of heart failure, said Maxine J. Lewis, a friend. Mr. Cole wa
 Bernard S. Moskow, a noted periodontist and dentistry educator, died on Thursday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 62 years old and lived in Engelwood, N.J. He died of lymphoma, his family said. Dr. Moskow was a clinical professor of dentistry at t
 Charles J. Cole, the founder of a shoe manufacturing company on Long Island, died yesterday at his home in Manhasset, L.I. He was 69 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Cole went into the footwear business in 1962. His company, El Greco, of Port Washington, L.
 Manuel Antonio de Varona, a former Prime Minister of Cuba and a leading foe of Fidel Castro's Government, died on Thursday at his home in Miami. He was 83 years old. He died of cancer, his family said without giving further details. First arrested in a student protest at the
 Sir Kenneth MacMillan, the resident choreographer and former director of the Royal Ballet, died on Thursday night backstage at the Royal Opera House, Covent Garden, in London. He was 62 years old. He died of a heart attack, a spokesman for the Royal Ballet said. Sir Kenneth,
