 Sidney A. Swensrud, a former president and chairman of the Gulf Oil Corporation, who led the company on a major expansion in the United States and overseas, died on Wednesday. He was 95 and lived in Naples, Fla. The cause was pancreatic cancer. Mr. Swensrud got his start in 
 Timothy Leary, who effectively introduced many Americans to the psychedelic 1960's with the relentlessly quoted phrase, "turn on, tune in, drop out," died yesterday at his house in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 75. However indelible his connection with another era, Mr. Leary was very
 Charles Rappelje DeBevoise, a New Jersey naturalist who championed conservation causes across the state, died on Tuesday at his home in Harding Township, Morris County, N.J. He was 71. He had a long illness, according to the New Jersey Conservation Foundation of Morristown, of which
 Cuthbert C. Hurd, a computer scientist and entrepreneur who was instrumental  in helping the International Business Machines Corporation develop its first general-purpose computer, died on May 22 at his home in Portola Valley, Calif. He was 85. Dr. Hurd was a mathematician at the At
 Earl Philip Benditt, a pathologist known for his research on hardening of the arteries and other diseases, died on Monday at his home in Seattle. He was 80. The cause was complications from cardiovascular disease, according to the University of Washington, where he had served as cha
 Ebrahim Eshaghian, a dealer in carpets, a real estate executive and a philanthropist who was a benefactor of Yeshiva University, died on Tuesday at the Bencor Hospital in Los Angeles. Mr. Eshaghian, who maintained homes in Flushing, Queens, and Los Angeles, was 85. In 1990, Mr. Esha
 Jeremy Sinden, an actor who built a successful stage and television career playing comic cads, died of cancer on Wednesday at a hospice in London. He was 45. Mr. Sinden, a son of the veteran actor Donald Sinden, had recently won some of the finest reviews of his career playing Mr. T
 John Abbott, an actor in films, theater and television, died on May 24 at Cedars Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 90. Mr. Abbott, who was born in England, began his long career in show business in 1934, when he made his professional stage debut in a revival of Dryden's "A
 Kenneth E. Hasbrouck, who turned his family heritage into an acclaimed campaign for historical preservation that has made New Paltz, N.Y., an unusual repository of early Huguenot architecture, died on Sunday, May 26, at the New Paltz Nursing Home. He was 79. His wife, Alice, said th
 Paul M. Schlem, a leading figure in the American wine industry for more than  30 years, died on Wednesday at his home in Somers, N.Y. He was 71, and until recently also had a home in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, said his daughter, Margaret Gramble of Patterson, N.Y.      
 The Rev. Kenneth G. Neigh, a national Presbyterian Church official who put the church in the forefront of the civil rights movement and broadened its commitment to social causes during the 1960's, died on Monday at his home at the church's Meadow Lakes retirement home in Hightstown, N.J. He
 Walter W. Morrison, a former speechwriter and policy adviser at the National  Association for the Advancement of Colored People, died on May 17 at Good Samaritan Hospital in Baltimore. A resident of Baltimore, he was 59. The cause was complications of diabetes and kidney fai
 Albert (Pud) Brown, a Dixieland jazz clarinetist and saxophone player who created the "Johnson Rag," died of a heart attack on Monday. He was 79. Mr. Brown, who was born in Wilmington, Del., began playing the saxophone at 5, touring state fairs with his family band before joining th
 Alton Howe Clingan, a composer whose works have recently been performed in New York City, Boston and Amsterdam, died on Tuesday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 27. John Thomason, the manager of a funeral home in Vicksburg, Miss., said the cause of death was under investigatio
 Edward P. Bullard 4th, the former president of TechnoServe, a non-profit international development organization, died on Thursday in his home in Wilton,  Conn. He was 61. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Carol. After graduating from Yale College in 1957, Mr. Bul
 Francois Genoud, a Nazi sympathizer who became a banker for Arab militants and defender of terrorists, committed suicide by poison on Thursday with the help of a Swiss pro-euthanasia group, a family spokesman said. He was 81. Mr. Genoud, who made a fortune from publishing the diarie
 Jose Cuatrecasas, a research botanist at the Smithsonian Institution and the  National Science Foundation, and an expert on the flora and ecology of South and Central America, died on May 23 in Bethesda, Md. He was 93 and had lived in Washington. Dr. Cuatrecasas worked as a research
 James Daniel Blanc, a modern dancer who performed with Pilobolus and other troupes, died on May 11 at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 36. The cause was AIDS, said a friend, Peter Pucci. Mr. Blanc was born in Jefferson City, Tenn. He began his dance training at Texas
 Martin M. Schaeffer, a theater and cabaret critic for Variety and other publications, died on Wednesday at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 50. The cause was AIDS, said Brian Bradley, a friend. Mr. Schaeffer was a nightclub critic for Variety from 1988 to 1991 and served
 Neelam Sanjeeva Reddy, a former President of India who was at the center of a split in the powerful Congress Party in 1969, died of pneumonia on Saturday, hospital officials here said. He was 83. The Government of Prime Minister H. D. Deve Gowda, who was sworn in on Saturday, declar
 Robert Pusey Hastings, a co-founder of a prominent international law firm and a civic leader in Los Angeles, died at his home in Pasadena, Calif., on May 23,  his 86th birthday. With Lee G. Paul and Leonard S. Janofsky, Mr. Hastings founded in 1951 what became Paul, Hastings, Janofs
 Rabbi Simon Potok, who headed the Nanuet Hebrew Center in Nanuet, N.Y., for 20 years and was a founding board member of a New York Holocaust studies center, died on Tuesday at his home in Nanuet. He was 58. The cause was a brain tumor, his family said. Rabbi Potok became hea
 William F. Storke, a producer of television drama whose programming was regarded as a cultural oasis in commercial television, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 73. His family said the cause was cancer. A native of Rochester who grew up in California and grad
 Don Grolnick, a pianist, songwriter and producer best known for his work with songwriters, including Bonnie Raitt, Paul Simon and James Taylor, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 48 and lived in New York City. The cause was complications from non-Hodgkins 
 Henry Schwarzschild, a refugee from Hitler's Germany who became a prominent American spokesman for civil rights and against the death penalty, died on Saturday at White Plains Hospital in White Plains, where he lived. He was 70. The cause was cancer, said his daughter Hannah Schwarz
 Herman Starobin, a former research director of the International Ladies Garment Workers Union and a critic of free-trade policies, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75 and lived in Great Neck, L.I. The cause was heart disease, his wife, Carol Fijan Starobi
 Dominic Quinn, a talk-show host in Philadelphia who cherished opera, the printed word and, very pointedly, the proper use of the English language, died on Friday at his home in Wayne, Pa. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Quinn, who was previously
 Jesse Hill Ford, the novelist whose haunting examination of the destructive relations between the races in his native South helped sow the seeds of destruction of his own acclaimed literary career, took his life on Saturday at his home in Nashville. He was 66 and had undergone open heart su
 Peter Glenville, a director who won accolades for his staging of plays in the West End of London as well as on Broadway, died on Monday at a friend's home in  Manhattan, while on a visit from his home in San Miguel, Mexico. He was 82. Mr. Glenville, who was also a producer and an ac
 Thomas F. X. Smith, a former Mayor of Jersey City who helped revive the city's downtown area but lost in the Democratic primary when he made a bid for Governor in 1981, died on Friday at his home in Jersey City. He was 68. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Carol Smith.       
 Dr. Amos Tversky, a cognitive psychologist who changed the way experts in many fields think about how people make decisions about risks, benefits and probabilities, died on Sunday at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 59. The cause was metastatic melanoma, said Stanford University,
 James B. Lewis, a prominent tax lawyer, author and teacher, died of liver failure on May 25 at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan. A partner at Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison from 1955 until his retirement in 1982, Mr. Lewis was a l
 Tommy Collins, a popular fighter of the 1950's who was once beaten so savagely that his defeat sparked a national outcry to reform boxing, died on Monday in Boston. He was 67 years old. Although he was only 123 pounds, Collins packed a powerful punch that let him knock out 70 percen
 William Dwight, who as president of the American Newspaper Publishers Association helped clear the way for American reporters to gather news in Communist China, died at the Bishop Gadsden Nursing Center in Charleston on Tuesday. He was 92. Mr. Dwight was born in Holyoke, Mass., wher
 Alexander E. Racolin, a lawyer and theater producer, died on Thursday at New  York University Hospital in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived in Briarcliff Manor,  N.Y. Mr. Racolin began his career as a labor lawyer and then became a theater lawyer. He was also active as a producer, and 
 Delmar Dennis, a former Ku Klux Klansman whose testimony helped convict Byron De La Beckwith in the 1963 slaying of the civil rights leader Medgar Evers, died on Saturday at Fort Sanders Sevier Medical Center in Sevierville. He was 56 and  lived in Sevierville. The cause was a heart
 Frank H. Kenan, who founded several oil and transportation concerns and became a major benefactor of his alma mater, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, as well as many other American colleges and universities, died at his home in Durham on Tuesday. He was 83. The cause
 James R. Harvey, a former chairman, president and chief executive of the Transamerica Corporation, died yesterday at a hospital in San Francisco. He was  61 and lived in San Francisco and in Moraga, Calif. The cause was pneumonia, a company spokesman said. Mr. Harvey had been hospit
 Kermit Axel, a former principal of 21 Brands, a wine and spirits importing company, died yesterday in New York. He was 75. He died after a short illness, his son, Blair, said. Mr. Axel joined 21 Brands in 1948 and worked in the family-run business until 1972, aggressively se
 Martin Ormandy, a cellist who played for 36 years with the New York Philharmonic and then became a fixture in many of New York's freelance orchestras for another three decades, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 95 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Ormandy played r
 Robert J. Zeller, who retired in 1982 as chairman and chief executive of the  Dollar Savings Bank in the Bronx, died on Tuesday at his daughter's home in Somers, N.Y. He was 79. The cause was cancer, said the daughter, Diane J. Zeller. Mr. Zeller, who had homes in Bedford Vi
 Thomas H. Dawson, an early television industry executive who was president of the CBS network in the late 1960's, died on Sunday at a medical center in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 82. Mr. Dawson, who had homes in La Quinta, Calif., and Greenwich, Conn., joined  the Columbia Broadcast
 Dr. George Davis Snell, an authority on genetics and tissue transplantation who shared a Nobel Prize in 1980 for milestone research that helped make human organ transplants possible, died on Thursday at his home in Bar Harbor, Me. He was 92. Dr. Snell, with Dr. Baruj Benacerraf and 
 Jerry Plotkin, the only nongovernment worker among 52 Americans held hostage  for 444 days in the United States Embassy in Iran, died on Thursday in a San Fernando Valley hospital. He was 62. Mr. Plotkin, who had had a heart transplant about six years ago, had been ill for the last 
 Dr. Alvin E. Strock, a retired oral surgeon who advanced the art of tooth implants while in his residency in Boston, died on May 31 at the Alice-Peck Day  Hospital in Lebanon, N.H. He was 85 and lived in Lebanon and formerly in Newton, Mass. The cause of death was stomach cancer, hi
 Elsbeary Hobbs, the bass singer with the rhythm-and-blues vocal group the Drifters, died on May 31 at Veterans Hospital in Manhattan. He was 59. The cause was throat and lung cancer, said Larry Marshak, his manager. Mr. Hobbs was born in Manhattan, where he joined the vocal 
 Harold E. Emerson, a former vice president for development and alumni relations at Columbia University, died on Thursday at St. Vincent's Hospital in  Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was emphysema, his family said. Mr. Emerson, himself a Columbia gradu
 Gen. James Karrick Woolnough, an Army combat officer of the Battle of the Bulge and the Korean War who went on to command the First Cavalry Division as well as the Army's Vietnam-era central training command in Virginia, died on May 30 at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He wa
 John Davis Hatch, a collector, consultant and former museum director who donated an important collection of 19th- and 20th-century American drawings to the National Gallery of Art in Washington, died on May 30 at St. Vincent Hospital in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 89. When Mr. Hatch donat
 Joseph Milton Glasco, an artist and sculptor, died on May 31 at the University of Texas Medical Branch Hospital in Galveston. He was 71 and lived in Galveston. The cause was heart failure, said David Jones, the trustee of the Joseph Glasco Charitable Foundation. Mr. Glasco's
 Leon Garfield, whose rollicking historical novels for young readers conjured  up the London of Hogarth and Dickens, died last Sunday in a London hospital. He  was 74 and lived in London. The cause was complications after surgery, The Associated Press reported Mr. Garfield ca
 Raymond Bongiovanni, a film executive who acquired the novels "The Firm" and  "Nobody's Fool" for the screen, died on Wednesday at Christ Hospital in Jersey City. He was 41 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a blood infection, Michael Gabrieli, his brother, said. A native
 Dr. Roland W. Force, who directed the Museum of the American Indian, one of the world's foremost collections of Indian artifacts, when it moved from a cramped upper Manhattan building to become a national museum run by the Smithsonian Institution, died on May 19 at the Queen's Medical Cente
 Thomas F. Connolly, a three-star admiral who sacrificed his chance for a fourth star, clearing the way for his namesake, the F-14 Tomcat, died on May 24  at a hospital near his home in Holland, Mich. He was 86. The cause was emphysema, said his wife, Margaret. Almost 25 year
 Al Poulin, a French-Canadian New England mill hand's son who had such an appetite for language that he managed to live the life of a poet in a world that sometimes seems to value typesetters more, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Brockport, N.Y., the Erie Canal town he had made a center o
 Dr. Shih-I Pai, a retired aeronautical researcher at the University of Maryland who conducted pioneering studies focusing on the drag and lift of ever-faster airplanes, space engines and missiles, died on May 23 at Georgetown  University Hospital in Washington. He was 82 and lived in Beltsv
 Edward M. Bernstein, who, as a leading international economist helped negotiate the international monetary system at Bretton Woods, N.H., near the end of World War II, died on Saturday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He  was 91 and lived in Washington. Dr. Bernstein was b
 Gen. Tito Okello, who briefly ruled Uganda after seizing power in a military  coup in 1985 before being toppled himself, has died, the radio reported. He was  82. The privately run Capital Radio station said General Okello died last Monday  night at a Roman Catholic mission hospital
 Jack Warren Lowe, for more than 40 years the partner of Arthur Whittemore in  a popular duo-piano team, died on June 2 at his home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 79 and had suffered from emphysema. When the duo made their debut in 1940 at Town Hall in Manhattan, the reviews  were sup
 Michael Fox, a film, theater and television actor, died last Saturday at the  Motion Picture Home in Los Angeles. He was 75. The cause was pneumonia, said his agent, Sid Craig. Mr. Fox portrayed many characters in the course of his long career, but was  best known for the ro
 William J. Baroody Jr., a high aide to President Gerald R. Ford who was also  president of the conservative American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research from 1978 until he resigned in 1986, died on Saturday at Alexandria Hospital in Alexandria, Va. He was 58 and lived in Alexand
 C. Arnholt Smith, once a multimillionaire California banker who brought major league baseball to San Diego but who was later convicted of embezzling $8.9 million from his business properties, died on Saturday in Del Mar, Calif., at the age of 97. Mr. Smith was the original owner of 
 Franklin D. Israel, an architect whose designs for private houses and offices for film production companies epitomized the creative ferment of contemporary Hollywood, died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 50 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was complications from AIDS, said Mr. I
 R. Thornton Wilson Jr., a former Manhattan restaurateur and patron of the arts, died on Wednesday at his home in Newport, R.I. He was 73. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Wilson, a descendant of John Jacob Astor, was born in Manhattan. He was an o
 John Alton, whose cinematography helped define film noir and who later shared an Academy Award for "An American in Paris," died on June 2 in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 94 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Alton was born in Sopron, Hungary, and immigrated to America in 1919. After  spending fou
 Col. John R. Kane, who won the Medal of Honor for his role in the bombing of a refinery in Romania that supplied oil for Nazi operations in eastern Europe in World War II, died on May 29 at the Veterans Administration Nursing Home in Coatesville, Pa. He was 89. Colonel Kane, who was
 Hugh Burnton Mitchell, a New Deal Democrat who served Washington State in both houses of Congress half a century ago, died on Monday night at a nursing home here. He was 89. Mr. Mitchell was still in his mid-20's when, in the early 1930's, he became chief of staff to Monrad Wallgren
 Lonne Elder 3d, the playwright who wrote "Ceremonies in Dark Old Men," died on Tuesday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 69 and died "after a chronic illness," said his former wife, the actress Judyann Johnson Elder. Although Mr. Elder wr
 Judge Nicholas S. Nunzio of the District of Columbia Superior Court, who presided over the trial of a dozen militants who seized three buildings in Washington and held more than a hundred people hostage in 1977, died on June 6 at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 66 and lived in Nor
 Wilson W. Wyatt, a onetime wonder boy of Kentucky politics who shrugged off his failure to capitalize on his early promise by becoming one of Louisville's most active and revered civic leaders, died on Tuesday at a Louisville hospital. He was 90. In a political career marked by almo
 Le Mai, Vietnam's Deputy Foreign Minister, who for many years was his country's voice in its edgy postwar relationship with the United States, died of a heart attack on Wednesday, the Foreign Ministry said today. He was 56. A junior member of the Paris negotiating team that secured 
 James Stacy Coles, a former president of Bowdoin College who went on to lead  the Research Corporation, a private foundation for the advancement of science and technology, died on Thursday at the J. M. L. Care Center in Falmouth, Mass.  He was 83 and lived in Quissett, Mass., and in Manhatt
 Alan Booth, a pianist who accompanied the singer Paul Robeson in concerts and on recordings and who was one of the first black musicians to tour the United States as a member of integrated chamber ensembles and orchestras, died on June  4 at the Heathwood Nursing Home in Newton, Mass., wher
 Ben Tobin, a hotel and real-estate investor who over the years held stakes in the Empire State Building, Broadway shows and the Hollywood Beach Hotel in Florida, died on June 7 at his home in Hollywood, Fla. He was 92. Mr. Tobin was brought to Boston from Russia as a child and moved
 The Rev. David Allan Hubbard, an Old Testament scholar who retired in 1993 after 30 years as president of the Fuller Theological Seminary in Pasadena, Calif., died on June 7 at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 68. The cause was a heart attack, said his family and the seminar
 Dr. William J. Messinger, a founding physician at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I., died on Monday at his home in Floral Park. He was 85. In the early 1950's, Dr. Messinger helped organize and open what was then North Shore Hospital. He was director of the Division
 Dr. N. Bruce Hannay, a retired vice president for research and patents at Bell Laboratories in Murray Hill, N.J., died on June 2 at Harrison Memorial Hospital in Bremerton, Wash. He was 75 and had lived in Port Ludlow, Wash., since leaving New Jersey in 1989. The cause was pneumonia
 Saba Habachy, a former Egyptian official, oil industry consultant and international lawyer, died last Sunday in Evelyn Hospital in Cambridge, England. He was 98 and lived in Cairo and Manhattan. Born in Egypt, Dr. Habachy received a doctorate at the University of Paris. He taught cr
 Vito Scotti, a character actor in films and television, died on June 5 at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 78. Mr. Scotti first delighted television audiences in 1953 as Luigi Basco, an Italian immigrant who ran a Chicago antiques store in 
 William Alan Bales, who contributed to NBC News coverage on radio and television during more than 32 years as a writer, editor and documentary maker,  died on June 6 at his home in Locust Valley, L.I. He was 79. The cause was prostate cancer, his family said. Mr. Bales, know
 Emmet L. Wemple, a noted Los Angeles architect who let others design the structures while he concentrated on turning their settings into landscaped works of art, died on June 5 in Los Angeles, the city whose public face he helped shape for more than 40 years. He was 75. The cause wa
 Mel Allen, the exuberant Alabaman who turned "How about that!" and "Ballantine Blast" into common parlance during a glorious reign as the voice of  the Yankees, died yesterday at his Greenwich, Conn., home some time after watching the Yankees' game with the Cleveland Indians, his sister, Es
 Pandit Pran Nath, an internationally renowned Indian classical singer and the teacher of leading American composers, died at Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley,  Calif., on Thursday. He was 77, and lived in Berkeley. The cause was congestive heart failure, said the composer La Monte Yo
 A. Phillip Goldsmith, a fixture in the garment industry for decades and a donor to Jewish institutions, died yesterday at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 88 and lived in New York and Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Goldsmith, born in London, immigrated to the United States
 Abraham Rosen, who founded a Harlem discount store that has survived recessions, fire and unrest among people of different heritage and skin color, died on Sunday at Holy Name Hospital in Teaneck, N.J. He was 85. A resident of Fort Lee, N.J., Mr. Rosen came to the United States from
 Boris Leavitt, a founder of one of the country's first successful direct-marketing companies and a collector of contemporary art seen in museums throughout the country, died on Sunday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 91 and lived in Palm Beach. Mr. Leavitt'
 David Mourao Ferreira, a leading Portuguese writer of essays, fiction and poetry, died of cancer Sunday, his family said. He was 69. The son of a historian, Mr. Mourao Ferreira began his prolific career while a literature student in the late 1940's. He won a series of literary prize
 Sir Fitzroy Maclean, an intrepid Scot known for his farflung military adventures in World War II and his writings about faraway lands, died on Saturday at the home of friends whom he and his wife were visiting in the English county of Hertford. He was 85 and lived in Strachur House, the fam
 Joseph R. Shapiro, a prominent art collector and philanthropist who was the founding president of the Museum of Contemporary Art in Chicago and an active trustee at the Art Institute of Chicago, died on Sunday at a hospital in Oak Park, Ill. He was 91 and lived in River Forest, Ill.        
 Thomas S. Kuhn, whose theory of scientific revolution became a profoundly influential landmark of 20th-century intellectual history, died on Monday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 73. Robert DiIorio, associate director of the news office at the Massachusetts Institute of Tech
 Dr. Clarence (Buddy) Combs, the galloping New Jersey veterinarian who rode his way into the United States Polo Hall of Fame, died last Sunday at his home in Colt's Neck, N.J. He was 81. He wife, Dr. Margaret Combs, said the cause was complications from a series of strokes over the l
 Kiki Mason, a brash advocate for people with AIDS who chronicled his own struggle with the disease in a column for Poz magazine, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 36. The cause was complications from AIDS, said a friend, David France. Mr. Mason was vice preside
 Richard Roberts, a former editor of the New Jersey Weekly section of The New  York Times, died yesterday at his home in Morristown, N.J. He was 67. The cause was cancer, his sister, Jaki Soreff, said. Mr. Roberts was the editor of the New Jersey Weekly, a regional section pu
 Charles L. Kades, a lawyer who supervised the drafting of Japan's postwar Constitution, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Greenfield, Mass. He was 90 and had lived in Heath, Mass., since his retirement from law practice in New York in 1976. In a long and varied career, Mr. Kades, a n
 G. David Schine, a catalytic figure in the fierce drama that brought to a climax the chapter in American history known as the McCarthy era, was killed on  Wednesday when a single-engine plane piloted by his son Berndt crashed shortly after takeoff from Burbank, Calif. Mr. Schine, wh
 Dr. Michel Mathew Ter-Pogossian, who led the research that turned the positron emission tomography (PET) scanner from an intriguing concept to a medical tool used in hospitals and laboratories everywhere, died on Wednesday while vacationing in Paris. He was 71 and lived in St. Louis, where 
 Edvin Wide, who won medals at three Olympic Games and set three world track records in the 1920's, died on Wednesday. He was 100. Wide was also the United States indoor champion in the two-mile event in 1929. The Finnish-born Wide, who turned 100 on Feb. 22, moved to Sweden 
 Edward Dugmore, an abstract painter whose work is to be featured in an exhibition opening next month at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, died on June 13 at his home in Minneapolis. He was 81. The cause was lung cancer, said Linda Hooper of the Manny Silverman Gallery in Los A
 Joseph Green, who turned a walk-on role in the first talking movie, "The Jazz Singer," into a film making career that ushered in the golden age of Yiddish cinema, died on Thursday at the Grace Plaza nursing home in Great Neck, L.I. He  was 96 and had emphysema. Working at a feverish
 Louis J. Lefkowitz, a crack political campaigner who served as attorney general longer than anyone else in New York State history, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. Mr. Lefkowitz, a moderate Republican who had been retired and out of the public eye much of the la
 Maj. Gen. John C. Giraudo, a combat pilot who commanded bomber and fighter units in World War II, Korea and Vietnam, died on Monday at Palm of Pasadena Hospital in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 73 and lived in St. Petersburg. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Much decor
 Robert Carmel, a New York real estate executive who contributed to Jewish and medical causes, died last Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 59 and also  kept homes in Quogue, L.I., and Palm Beach, Fla. The cause was lymphoma, his family said. Mr. Carmel, who specialize
 Andreas Papandreou, the former Prime Minister of Greece and a maverick who towered over Greek political life for more than two decades, died early today at his home in Athens. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, his doctors said in a statement. Mr. Papandreou had open-heart sur
 Dr. Daniel Mazia, a biologist who carried out pioneering work on cell division, structure and regulation, died on June 9 in Monterey, Calif. He was 83. The cause was heart failure and complications of cancer, said Stanford University, where he had been a professor. Dr. Mazia
 Henry Regnery, a one-time New Deal Democrat who became the godfather of modern conservatism as the publisher of the movement's leading theorists after World War II, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Chicago. He was 84. His son, Alfred, said the cause was complications from brain surg
 Ramachandra V. Patwardhan, who long provided the cultural and religious thread that knitted New York's Indian community together as the city's only Hindu priest, died on May 30 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Greenwich Village. He  was 79. His wife, Tara, said the cause was congestive 
 Tom Killefer, a shrewd financial executive who revived the United States Trust Corporation from a slump in profits as its chairman and chief executive during the late 1970's, died on June 16 of cardiac arrest at his home in Portola Valley, Calif. He was 79. Widely regarded as one of
 Walter Guevara Arze, a leader of the Bolivian revolution in 1952, died on Thursday at his home in La Paz, the Bolivian capital. He was 84. He suffered a heart attack, his son, Ramiro, said. Mr. Guevara served only 85 days as President of Bolivia, but he is considered one of 
 Andreas Papandreou, the former Prime Minister of Greece and a maverick who towered over Greek political life for more than two decades, died yesterday in Athens. He was 77. His symptoms "were compatible with a heart attack, which finally caused his death at 2:30 A.M.," his doctors s
 Adm. Bernard A. Clarey, a former Vice Chief of Naval Operations who commanded naval forces in the Pacific at the height of the Vietnam War, died on June 15 at Tripler Hospital in Honolulu. He was 84 and lived in Honolulu, where he retired  in 1973 as commander of the Pacific fleet. 
 Clement M. Hakim, who helped develop the market for instant tea in the United States, died last Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. His Hakim Tea Corporation was a major importer of tea and a supplier to manufacturers of instant tea. When he returned to New York aft
 Jack Lacy, a New York radio personality and disk jockey who was heard on WINS-AM from the late 1940's through 1965, died on June 9 at San Juan de Dios Hospital in San Sebastian, Spain. He was 79 and had lived in San Sebastian since 1989. He suffered a lengthy illness, his family sai
 Jerome Melvin Edelstein, a former staff member of the Getty Center for the History of Art and the Humanities in Santa Monica, Calif., died on June 12 at a  hospital in Providence, R.I. He was 71 and lived in Bristol, R.I. The cause was cancer, said Norman Fiering, director and libra
 Prentice Bloedel, a founder of the Canadian timber giant MacMillan Bloedel Ltd., died on June 15. He lived in Seattle and was 95. Mr. Bloedel retired in 1951 when a merger created MacMillan Bloedel of Vancouver, British Columbia. The company, which manufactures and exports lumber, n
 Representative Bill Emerson, a Missouri Republican who was the vice chairman  of the House Agriculture Committee, died on Saturday at the Bethesda Naval Hospital in Maryland. He was 58. The cause was lung cancer, said a spokesman in Mr. Emerson's Congressional office in Washington. 
 Terrel H. Bell, who served as President Ronald Reagan's Education Secretary and who was credited with starting a national school reform movement, died at his home here on Saturday. He was 74. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said his wife, Betty. Mr. Bell led the Education 
 Nicholas D'Agostino Sr., a founder of one of New York City's largest and most innovative supermarket chains and supporter of charities in this country and his native Italy, died Sunday at his home in Manhasset, L.I., his son Nicholas D'Agostino Jr. said. He was 86. Mr. D'Agostino an
 Harold Trobe, a key figure in efforts to rescue and resettle hundreds of thousands of Jewish refugees from war-ravaged Europe, died on Monday at his home in Gainesville, Fla., where he had retired in 1980. He was 82. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Trobe spent 36 
 Pasquale De Santis, the Italian cinematographer who won an Academy Award in 1968 for his work on Franco Zeffirelli's film version of "Romeo and Juliet," died on Sunday in Ukraine. He was 69. Mr. De Santis, an animated, mustachioed man known to friends as Pasqualino, suffered a heart
 George W. Rothschild, a Chicago lawyer and Federal official who retired last  year as judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County, died on Tuesday at Evanston Hospital. He was 80 and lived in Evanston. A graduate of Harvard College and the University of Chicago Law School, he went to 
 Dr. James Alfred Field Jr., a former history professor at Swarthmore College  and author on American naval history and foreign relations, died on Monday at his home in Newton Square, Pa. He was 80. The cause was complications after a stroke, his family said. Dr. Field joined
 Thomas Howard Wolf, a photo journalist and documentary maker for ABC News and the Smithsonian Institution, died on Monday at a hospital in Annapolis, Md. He was 80 and lived in Annapolis. Mr. Wolf, seasoned in war correspondence in London and documentary production at CBS News, beca
 Ronald P. Lynch, a mutual-fund executive who led a successful industry campaign to curb improper trading practices, died at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn., on Wednesday. He was 60. The cause was prostate cancer, according to his investment management firm, Lord, Abbett & Com
 Albert (Cubby) Broccoli, who was a producer of the James Bond films, one of the most successful movie series of all time, died on Thursday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif.  He was 87. In the late 1950's, Mr. Broccoli (pronounced like the vegetable) and his partner, Harry Saltzma
 John K. Hanson, an indefatigable entrepreneur who built Winnebago Industries  into a leading mobile home manufacturer, died on Thursday at St. Mary's Hospital in Rochester, Minn. He was 88 and lived in Forest City, Iowa. An avid camper, Mr. Hanson began what would become a lucrative
 Dr. Allan Beigel, a psychiatrist at the University of Arizona who served as an adviser on mental health in the Carter Administration, died on June 22 at his home in Tucson. He was 56. The cause was a brain tumor, his family said. Dr. Beigel was a professor of psychiatry with particu
 Charles Fayette Taylor, an engineer who was one of the last living links to the Wright brothers era of aviation and helped to design the engine for the plane that carried Charles A. Lindbergh across the Atlantic, died on June 22 at  his home in Weston, Mass. He was 101. Mr. Taylor w
 Edward Y. Mavian, a New York businessman and supporter of Armenian causes, died on June 20 at his home in Haworth, N.J. He was 99. Born in Smyrna, Turkey, Mr. Mavian came to the United States at 14.  He went  into the photoengraving business in 1928 and retired in the mid-1970's as 
 Irving P. Krick, one of the first commercial meteorologists in the United States and a member of the team that provided forecasts for the D-Day invasion,  died on June 20 at his home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 89. The cause was heart failure, said officials of Strategic Weather Serv
 J. Lee Rankin, a Solicitor General in the Eisenhower Administration who argued forcefully for desegregation of the nation's public schools and for equal voting rights and later was counsel to the commission that investigated President John F. Kennedy's assassination, died on Wednesday at a 
 Peter Adair, a documentary film maker who used the eloquent voices of ordinary people to chart the progress first of gay liberation and then of the AIDS epidemic, died on Thursday at his home in San Francisco. He was 53. The cause was complications from AIDS, said Rob Epstein, a fri
 Robert C. Meade, a retired State Supreme Court Justice on Long Island, who issued the state's first living will decision and oversaw the care of the artist Willem de Kooning, died last Sunday at his home in Great Neck. He was 88. Mr. Meade practiced law for five decades, mostly in p
