 Glenn Ford, a laconic, soft-spoken actor whose leading roles in westerns, melodramas and romantic films made his name a familiar one on movie-house marquees from the early 1940's through the 60's, died Wednesday at his home in Beverly Hills. He was 90. Paramedics called to the home 
 Leonard W. Levy, an exacting, dogged, prolific and combative constitutional historian whose work was frequently cited by the United States Supreme Court and won him a Pulitzer Prize, died on Aug. 24 in Ashland, Ore. He was 83. His death followed years of poor health and a recent str
 Mel A. Sachs, for decades a colorful fixture of the New York City courts, who was known not only for his famous clients but also for his trademark bow ties, grandiose trial oratory and penchant for performing magic tricks before juries, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 60. The cause w
 Rocco A. Petrone, who directed the countdown for launching the first mission to land astronauts on the Moon and later headed the entire Apollo program, died Aug. 24 at his home in Palos Verdes Estates, Calif. He was 80. His death was confirmed by the Marshall Space Flight Center in 
 Hrishikesh Mukherjee, who produced and directed memorable and successful Hindi films in a career of more than five decades, died on Aug. 27 in Mumbai. He was 83. The cause was complications of kidney failure, his family said. Known to all of India as Hrishida, he made stars 
 Roy Tobias, a ballet dancer known for his large repertory at the New York City Ballet and an internationally known teacher, died on Aug. 16 in Seoul, South Korea. He was 78. Mr. Tobias, who had had a chronic condition for 13 years that made it difficult for him to eat, died in the h
 Bernard J. Wohl, a relentless advocate for the poor, the homeless and the forgotten elderly of New York and for 26 years the leader of Goddard Riverside Community Center on the Upper West Side, one of the city's largest private social service agencies, died on Thursday at NewYork-Presbyteri
 Bob Mathias, who won the gold medal in the Olympic decathlon in 1948 at age 17, did it again four years later and went on to serve four terms in Congress, died yesterday at his home in Fresno, Calif. He was 75. The United States Olympic Committee announced his death. The cause was c
 Warren J. Mitofsky, an innovator and standard-setter in the polling industry for four decades, died on Friday. He was 71. The cause was an aneurysm of the aorta, said his widow, Mia Mather. Kathleen A. Frankovic, his successor as director of surveys at CBS News, said yesterd
 Bob Mathias, who won the gold medal in the Olympic decathlon in 1948 at age 17, and again four years later, then later served four terms in Congress, died Saturday in Fresno, Calif. He was 75. The United States Olympic Committee announced his death. The cause was cancer, his brother
 Dewey Redman, an expansive and poetic tenor saxophonist and bandleader who had been at the aesthetic frontiers of jazz since the 1960's, died on Saturday in Brooklyn. He was 75 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was liver failure, said Velibor Pedevski, his brother-in-law. Wal
 Guy Gabaldon, a Marine private in World War II who used extraordinary grit and a smattering of Japanese phrases to capture more than 1,000 Japanese soldiers single-handedly in the battle for Saipan, died Thursday in Old Town, Fla. He was 80. The cause was heart disease, his son Guy 
 Warren J. Mitofsky, an innovator and standard-setter in the polling industry for four decades, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 71. The cause was an aneurysm of the aorta, said his wife, Mia Mather. Kathleen A. Frankovic, his successor as director of surveys at CBS News, 
 John Ripley Forbes, a naturalist, conservationist and educator whose genius for persuading complete strangers to give him things, be they cold cash or gently used polar bears, helped him plant hundreds of nature museums for children in more than 30 states, died Aug. 26 in Atlanta. He was 93
 Steve Irwin, the khaki-clad wildlife stalker who won global fame with his televised death-defying crocodile stunts and whose booming voice made ''Crikey!'' in a ripe Australian accent an international catchword, was killed by a stingray yesterday while filming a documentary at the Great Bar
 Vladimir Griegorovich Tretchikoff, an exile from Siberia whose emotional depictions of wilting flowers, dancers and especially the daughter of a San Francisco Chinese merchant earned both global popularity and critics' scorn, died in Cape Town on Aug. 26. He was 92. His daughter, Mi
 Willi Ninja, known as the Grandfather of Vogue, a dance form that he helped move from the New York club scene of the 1980's to the concert stage, died on Saturday in Queens. He was 45. The cause was AIDS-related heart failure, said Archie Burnett, a close friend. Vogueing --
 Burt Goldblatt, a prolific designer of moody jazz LP album covers for artists like Herbie Mann, Billie Holiday, Carmen McRae and Charles Mingus, died on Aug. 30 in Boston. He was 82. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Katherine Holzman Goldblatt. In the e
 Jawn A. Sandifer, a former New York State judge who as a young lawyer argued a civil rights case before the United States Supreme Court that served as a precedent for the landmark Brown v. Board of Education decision, died Friday in Sarasota, Fla. He was 92. The death was confirmed 
 Robert Mitchell, a scenic designer for shows on and off Broadway as well as for dance and music performances, died on Aug. 18 in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was complications of epithelioid hemangioendothelioma, a rare disease of the blood vessels, said his partner, Patrick Horr
 Peter B. Greenough, a former financial columnist for The Boston Globe and the husband of the opera star Beverly Sills, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 89. Ms. Sills confirmed the death and said he had been ill for several years. Mr. Greenough was a columnist for The G
 Richard L. Blinder, who as a founding partner of the architecture firm Beyer Blinder Belle played a leading role in projects like the Rubin Museum of Art and the former Ford Center for the Performing Arts in Manhattan, died yesterday in Shanghai, where he was working on a theater complex. H
 Ronald Mansbridge, a publisher who, in the late 1940's, established the first American branch of Cambridge University Press, died last Friday at his home in Weston, Conn. He was 100. His family confirmed the death. Mr. Mansbridge began his association with the press in the e
 James deAnda, a retired federal judge who as a lawyer in the early 1950's had a leading role in a Supreme Court decision that prohibited courts from keeping Mexican-Americans off juries, died on Thursday at his summer home in Traverse City, Mich. Judge deAnda, who lived in Houston, was 81. 
 Sheldon Binn, an editor at The New York Times who guided the newspaper's coverage of New York government and politics for nearly two decades and who mentored two generations of reporters, died yesterday at his home in Teaneck, N.J. He was 83.The cause was cardiac arrest, his son, Joshua, sa
 William A. Garnett, who elevated the genre of aerial photography to a form of artistic expression with his sweeping pictures of forests, sand dunes, agricultural crops and suburban grids, died at his home in Napa, Calif., on Aug. 26. He was 89. His death was confirmed by his son, Bi
 Armin H. Meyer, a former United States ambassador to Lebanon, Iran and Japan, died Aug. 13 in Washington. He was 92. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his daughter, Kathleen White of Bethesda, Md. Mr. Meyer was ambassador to Lebanon from 1961 to 1965, to Iran from 1965
 Bill Stumpf, a designer of the much-honored and highly popular Aeron ergonomic office chair, died on Aug. 30 in Rochester, Minn. He was 70. The cause was complications of abdominal surgery, said his daughter, Carol Stumpf. In 1994, Mr. Stumpf and Don Chadwick, an industrial 
 King Taufa'ahau Tupou IV of Tonga, the ruler of a Polynesian archipelago of 150 islands with 100,000 subjects and the last reigning monarch in the South Pacific, died late yesterday. He was 88 and had been on the throne since the death of his mother in 1965. He died after a long ill
 Norman Kelley, a tenor who sang with the New York City Opera, the Metropolitan Opera and many other companies around the world, died last Monday in Rockland, Mass. He was 95. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, from which he had suffered for many years, said Lisa Waitt Belcher of the
 Charles Aug, a retired real estate executive who helped create a specialty in the commercial brokerage business -- marketing storefront space -- died in Boston on Sept. 1. Mr. Aug, a resident of South Beach, Fla., and Manhattan, was 68. The cause was heart complications of amyloidos
 Tom Suzuki, an art director and graphic designer who in the 1970's transformed academic textbooks by introducing vibrant color and pictorial variety to a genre long strait-jacketed by outdated formats, died on Sept. 3 in Fairfax, Va. He was 76. The cause was complications of leukemi
 William B. Ziff Jr., a publishing executive who made publications like Car and Driver and PC Magazine must reading among hobbyists and computer enthusiasts, died Saturday at his home in Pawling, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was prostate cancer, his son Dirk said. Mr. Ziff, a po
 Arkady I. Volsky, a confidant of the Soviet leader Mikhail S. Gorbachev and founder of Russia's most prominent business lobby, died here on Saturday. He was 74. The cause was complications of leukemia, according to the Union of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs, the business lobby he
 Joachim Fest, a German journalist and author known internationally for his biographies and interpretations of Hitler, Albert Speer and the regime they embodied, died Monday in Kronberg-im-Taunus, his hometown, near Frankfurt-am-Main. He was 79. His death was announced by the Frankfu
 Dr. A. James Rowan, a noted expert on epilepsy who studied the disease in the elderly and helped investigate more effective medications to prevent seizures, died on Aug. 27 in Manhattan. He was 71. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. In 1998, Dr. Rowan, a neurologist
 Pierre Vidal-Naquet, an eminent French historian of the ancient world who became widely known for exposing wartime atrocities of the modern one, died on July 29 in Nice. He was 76. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, his publisher, Éditions la Découverte, told the French newspape
 Dr. Robert J. Gorlin, an oral pathologist who achieved penetrating insights into genetic disorders of the head and neck and helped write a definitive medical reference work on the causes of facial malformations, died on Aug. 29 in Minneapolis. He was 83. The cause was complications 
 Tyron Garner, one of two plaintiffs in the Supreme Court case in 2003 that overruled a Texas sodomy law in the broadest possible terms, effectively making homosexual relations a basic civil right, died Monday in Houston. He was 39. The cause was complications of meningitis, said his
 John Drummond, who as director of the Edinburgh International Festival from 1979 to 1983 transformed what had been a rather formal presentation of classical music into a kaleidoscopic celebration of many arts, died on Sept. 6. Mr. Drummond, who lived in Lewes, England, was 71. The d
 Collie J. Nicholson, for 30 years the imaginative sports information director whose marketing brought national and international fame to Grambling State University in Louisiana, died Wednesday at his home in Shreveport, La. He was 85. The cause was heart failure, said Jane Davis, a 
 Dr. Michael S. Mamakos, part of a Long Island medical team that successfully reattached a child's severed leg in 1978, early in the development of microsurgery, died on Monday at his home in Huntington, N.Y. He was 80. The cause was complications of prostate cancer, his family said.
 Ira F. Brilliant, a real estate developer whose passion for Beethoven led him to found one of the world's major centers for the study of his work -- which contains first editions, musical instruments and a storied lock of the composer's hair -- died last Sunday in San Jose, Calif. He was 84
 Ivan Luini, who, as founder and president of the New York-based Kartell U.S. Inc., helped bring plastic furniture out of the garden and into the American living room, died on Friday in a small-plane crash in Moffat County, Colo., near the Wyoming border. Mr. Luini was 46 and lived in New Yo
 Warren Bolster, whose innovative photography helped popularize surfing and skateboarding, died on Sept. 6 at his home in Mokuleia, Hawaii. He was 59. The cause was a self-inflicted gunshot wound, said Janet Tramonte, Mr. Bolster's sister. For decades, Mr. Bolster remained pe
 Edward J. King, a governor of Massachusetts who defeated the incumbent, Michael S. Dukakis, in the 1978 Democratic primary for governor but lost a rematch in 1982, died on Monday in Burlington, Mass. He was 81. Mr. King died after tripping and falling about 10 days ago, his son Timo
 Robert Earl Jones, a stage and screen actor and the father of the actor James Earl Jones, died on Sept. 7 in Englewood, N.J. He was 96 and a longtime resident of Manhattan. Mr. Jones died of natural causes, according to Dale Olson, a spokesman for the family. The senior Mr. 
 David T. Lykken, whose studies of criminal behavior, polygraph testing and especially the genetics of personality in twins helped undermine some of the most cherished notions of social science, died Friday at his home in Minneapolis. He was 78. The cause was heart failure, which str
 Joseph Hayes, who wrote the novel ''The Desperate Hours,'' which he later turned into a Tony Award-winning play and a movie, died on Sept. 11 in St. Augustine, Fla., where he lived. He was 88. Mr. Hayes died in a nursing home of complications from Alzheimer's disease, said his son D
 Mickey Hargitay, the Hungarian-born bodybuilder who won the 1955 Mr. Universe title, married the voluptuous actress Jayne Mansfield and went on to have his own acting career, died Thursday in Los Angeles. He was 80. The cause was bone marrow cancer, said Bill Comstock, a spokesman f
 Joe Glazer, the singer-songwriter known as Labor's Troubador, who played cowboy tunes on a $5.95 mail-order guitar as a boy in the Bronx, then sang songs of solidarity on picket lines and union halls and once on the White House lawn, died on Tuesday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 88
 Sven Nykvist, one of the world's foremost cinematographers, whose poetic use of light illuminated many of Ingmar Bergman's greatest films, died yesterday in Sweden after a long illness. He was 83 and was living at a nursing home where he was being treated for aphasia, a symptom of d
 Henri Jayer, an untrained French vineyard worker who rose to become one of the most important winemakers in Burgundy in the 1970's and 1980's, died Wednesday in Dijon, France. He was 84. The cause was cancer, according to Martine Saunier, his representative in the United States. He 
 Pham Xuan An, who led a double life as a trusted reporter for Western news organizations during the Vietnam War while spying for North Vietnam, died Wednesday in Ho Chi Minh City. He was 79. His death, at a military hospital, was reported by his son Pham Xuan Hoang An, who told The 
 Syd Thrift, the longtime major league executive and scout who revitalized the Pittsburgh Pirates franchise in the 1980's and championed innovative baseball techniques, died Monday in Milford, Del. He was 77. Thrift's wife, Dolly, said he died hours after undergoing knee-replacement 
 Vico Magistretti, an architect and industrial designer celebrated as the dean of Italian modernism for his sculptural furniture and lamps of the 1960's and afterward, died on Tuesday in Milan. He was 85 and had lived and worked in Milan all his life. John Ryan, the senior sales mana
 Dean E. Wooldridge, a crucial figure in the development of the technology of nuclear warfare in the 1950's, died Wednesday at a hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif., his hometown. He was 93. The cause was pneumonia, his son James said. Dr. Wooldridge was the ''W'' in TRW, one o
 Richard D. Caleal, a self-taught automotive designer who, working at his kitchen table, helped create the 1949 Ford -- the compact, streamlined and hugely popular car credited with lifting the company out of its postwar financial slump -- died last Saturday in West Bloomfield, Mich. He was 
 Roy M. Brewer, an ardent anti-Communist who headed the Hollywood branch of the movie industry's leading union of stagehands during the blacklist era, died last Saturday in West Hills, Calif., a Los Angeles suburb. He was 97. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his daughte
 Jack Banta, whose superb relief stint as a sidearming rookie right-hander helped propel the Brooklyn Dodgers to the 1949 National League pennant on the season's final day, died last Sunday in Hutchinson, Kan. He was 81. The cause was cardiovascular disease, said his son, Michael.   
 Armin Jordan, the Swiss conductor, died on Wednesday in Zurich. He was 74. He died in his sleep in a hospital, according to a statement by the Orchestre de la Suisse Romande. Mr. Jordan had collapsed last Friday while conducting Prokofiev's opera ''The Love for Three Oranges
 Fred N. Spiess, an oceanographer and marine explorer who helped create an unusual floating laboratory that has yielded a bounty of information about underwater acoustics and sea currents, died on Sept. 8 in San Diego. He was 86. The cause was cancer, his family said. In the 
 Sir Malcolm Arnold, one of the best-known British composers of the 20th century, who wrote nine symphonies, composed 132 film scores and won an Oscar for the soundtrack to ''The Bridge on the River Kwai,'' died Saturday in Norwich, England. He was 84 and lived in Attleborough, near Norwich.
 Patrick Quinn, a former president of the Actors' Equity Association who was about to become its first new executive director in 25 years, died yesterday at his country home in Bushkill, Pa. He was 56 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said Maria Somma, a spokeswom
 Alan Fletcher, who helped revive postwar British design and typography through his vibrant corporate identity work and book designs and who was a co-founder of Pentagram, London's first major international design consultancy, died on Sept. 21 at his daughter's home in East Sussex, England. 
 Thomas Stewart, an American baritone who was renowned for his portrayals of Wotan, Amfortas and other central Wagnerian roles and who was heard frequently at Bayreuth and the Metropolitan Opera, died on Sunday in Rockville, Md. He was 78. The soprano Evelyn Lear, Mr. Stewart's wife 
 Alfred Mann, a musicologist and teacher, died on Thursday in Fort Wayne, Ind. He was 89 and lived in Fort Wayne. His death was announced by his son Adrian. Mr. Mann is perhaps best remembered for his translations of and commentary on the works of the Austrian composer and mu
 Byron Nelson, the winner of a record 11 consecutive professional golf tournaments in 1945 and one of golf's most renowned figures, died yesterday at his home in Roanoke, Tex. He was 94. The Tarrant County Medical Examiner's Office said he died of natural causes, The Associated Press
 Gilbert Jonas, a longtime fund-raiser for the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 76 and made his home in Manhattan. Mr. Jonas died at NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital, his family said. In recent years, he had 
 Dr. Harris Busch, a biochemist and cancer researcher at Baylor College of Medicine who helped unravel and describe aspects of the chemical structure of cancer cells, died on Sept. 22 in Houston. He was 83. The cause was complications of pneumonia, his family said. Dr. Busch 
