 Alton E. Peters, a Manhattan lawyer and philanthropist who was a passionate champion of opera, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 64 and also had homes in Falls Village, Conn., and on Mount Desert Island in Maine. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Elizabet
 Col. William R. Lawley Jr., who won the Medal of Honor in World War II for flying a crippled bomber with wounded crewmen safely back to England despite his multiple wounds, died on Sunday at a hospital in Montgomery, Ala., his hometown,  He was 78. The cause was complications of pne
 John Fullerton Neilson, a vice president of the Microsoft Corporation responsible for an array of electronic commercial properties, died on Saturday at his home in Seattle. He was 37. The cause was non-Hodgkins lymphoma, his family said. Mr. Neilson joined the company in 198
 William E. Ringel, who ruled Andy Warhol's ''Blue Movie'' obscene, lectured civil rights protesters on the evils of anarchy and sent a parade of slumlords, thieves and vagrants to jail in 25 years as a judge in Criminal Court and other lower courts in New York, died on Thursday at his apart
 Charles F. McErlean, a former vice chairman of United Airlines and president of UAL Inc., its parent, died May 21 at his home in Oak Brook, Ill. He was 87. Mr. McErlean was serving on the legal staff of the National Labor Relations Board in 1945 when he was hired by William A. Patte
 Raphael Recanati, an Israeli-American shipping and banking figure better known in New York for his philanthropic largesse -- particularly as a mainstay of Beth Israel Medical Center -- died last Friday in the medical center. He was 75 and lived on the Upperast Side and in Herzliyah, Israel.
 Charles Pierce, a female impersonator who found fame in his witty satirical sendups of stage and screen icons, died on Monday at his home in Toluca Lake, Calif. He was 72. The cause was cancer, said Don Lee Kobus, a friend. A pioneer in the form, Mr. Pierce set the stage for
 Frank Spencer, an anthropologist who rummaged through the bones of controversy to theorize about the identity of the mastermind behind the Piltdown Man hoax of 1912, died on Sunday. He was 58 and lived in Bayside, Queens. The cause was cancer, said Queens College, where Dr. Spencer 
 Nathan S. Ancell, a co-founder of Ethan Allen Inc., who pioneered the concept of selling furniture in room-style settings, died Monday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 90. Mr. Ancell, who grew up in New York City and graduated from Columbia University, established a small ho
 Sir Christopher Cockerell, the creator of the hovercraft, who often came to feel that invention was the mother of frustration, died on Tuesday at his home in Hythe, Hampshire, England. He was 88. His daughter, Francis Airy, said Sir Christopher had been ill for several months after 
 Sir Christopher Cockerell, the creator of the hovercraft, who often came to feel that invention was the mother of frustration, died on Tuesday at his home in Hythe, Hampshire, England. He was 88. His daughter, Francis Airy, said Sir Christopher had been ill for several months after 
 Crombie Taylor, an architect and teacher who helped spread the influence of the Bauhaus to American architecture during the 1940's, died on May 24. He was 85 and lived in Santa Barbara, Calif. Born in Oakmont, Pa., Mr. Taylor was educated at Penn State and Princeton University. In 1
 Crombie Taylor, an architect and teacher who helped spread the influence of the Bauhaus to American architecture during the 1940's, died on May 24. He was 85 and lived in Santa Barbara, Calif. Born in Oakmont, Pa., Mr. Taylor was educated at Penn State and Princeton University. In 1
 Robert Sobel, a prolific historian of American business life whose topics ranged from the economic philosophy of President Calvin Coolidge to the influence of the junk-bond financier Michael Milken, died on Wednesday at his home in Long Beach, N.Y. He was 68. The cause of death was 
 Robert Sobel, a prolific historian of American business life whose topics ranged from the economic philosophy of President Calvin Coolidge to the influence of the junk-bond financier Michael Milken, died on Wednesday at his home in Long Beach, N.Y.  He was 68. The cause of death was
 John J. McKeithen, Louisiana's first Governor to serve two consecutive terms, who practiced moderation at a time of intense racial conflict in the Deep South and gave New Orleans the Superdome, died yesterday at a hospital in Columbia, La. He was 81 and lived in Columbia. He had bee
 Michael Lax, an industrial designer best known for the craftsman-like appreciation for texture and color that he brought to such household icons of the 1960's as the Copco teakettle with the bent teak handle and the Lightolier sphere-resting-on-a-cube mini-lamp, died on May 28 at his home i
 William Schuyler Pettit, president of Ursinus College until a dispute with the faculty led him to resign in 1976, died on May 25 at a nursing home in Naples, Fla. He was 90. In his six years as president of Ursinus, a liberal arts institution in Collegeville, Pa., Mr. Pettit dealt w
 Zachary Fisher, a leading New York builder and philanthropist who virtually willed the Intrepid Sea-Air-Space Museum into existence at its Hudson River berth, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan and Boca Raton, Fla. Mr. Fisher w
 Crocker Snow, a pilot and aviation official whose aerial adventures spanned more than seven decades, from the biplane era to the jet age, died on Tuesday at his home in Ipswich, Mass. He was 94. Mr. Snow, who had flown more than 15,000 hours in 140 types of planes, helped inaugurate
 Harold F. Grumhaus, a former executive of the Tribune Company who began his career as a loyal lieutenant of the legendary publisher Robert R. McCormick and later helped dismantle some of his conservative mentor's political and managerial legacy at the company and its flagship newspaper, die
 Dr. L. Joseph Butterfield, whose innovative care of newborns earned him a reputation as a pioneer of modern neonatology, died on Tuesday at his home in Denver. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, according to the Children's Hospital of Denver, where he spent more than 40 years 
 Mel Torme, the fluent pop-jazz singer who earned the nickname the Velvet Fog for his smooth, soft vocal timbre, died yesterday of complications from a stroke he suffered in 1996. He was 73 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. Mr. Torme was rushed early yesterday from his home to the Universit
 Olivier Debre, one of France's best-known abstract painters of the postwar era, whose large-format works include the stage curtain at the Comedie Francaise, died here on Tuesday. He was 79 and lived in Paris. Mr. Debre's form of abstract art, which he described as ''opposite to the 
 Philip H. Reisman Jr., a versatile screenwriter who worked in early television and motion pictures, specializing in dramas and documentaries, died on Tuesday at a hospital in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 82 and  lived in Larchmont, N.Y. Mr. Reisman's best-known work was ''All the Way H
 Bruno Caravaggi, the suave co-owner of Quo Vadis, one of New York's most fashionable Continental restaurants for almost four decades before its demise in 1984, died on May 30 at Long Island Jewish Hospital in New Hyde Park, N.Y. He was 83 and lived in Jamaica Estates, Queens. Mr. Ca
 Col. Lloyd L. Burke, who won the Medal of Honor in the Korean War for killing 100 Chinese Communist soldiers in a five-and-a-half-hour battle to capture a hill, died on Tuesday at his home in Hot Springs, Ark. He was 74. Colonel Burke died in his sleep, his family said, after he ret
 Eddie Stanky, the combative infielder whose inspired play helped bring pennants to the Brooklyn Dodgers, the Boston Braves and the New York Giants, died yesterday at a hospital in Fairhope, Ala. Stanky, who had homes in Mobile, Ala., and Fairhope, was 83. The cause was a heart attac
 Judge J. Edward Lumbard Jr., whose career as a lawyer, prosecutor and jurist spanned eight decades, highlighted by his 1955 appointment by President Dwight D. Eisenhower to the Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit, died on Thursday at his home in Fairfield, Conn. He was 97. As a 
 Paul S. Newman, who was listed in the Guinness Book of World Records as the most prolific comic-book writer of all time, died on May 30 in Columbia, Md. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Peter. Mr. Newman's stories included scripts for Superman, Mighty M
 Ralph E. Chamberlain, a philanthropist and businessman who raised the profile of the Salvation Army with national television and magazine campaigns in the 1970's, died on Wednesday of pancreatic cancer at his home in Fly Creek, N.Y., a spokesman for the Salvation Army said yesterday. He was
 Randolph Bullock, a curator emeritus of arms and armor at the Metropolitan Museum of Art who helped build its collection into one of the world's finest, died on May 28 at a hospital in Oceanside, N.Y. He was 96 and lived in Wickford, R.I. Perhaps Mr. Bullock's most important contrib
 Ernie Wilkins, a jazz saxophonist and one of the important arrangers and composers for the Count Basie band of the 1950's, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Copenhagan. He was 79 and lived in Copenhagen. The cause was complications from a stroke, said his wife, Jenny. Bo
 Harold S. Fawcett, a Navy photographer who captured memorable scenes of the Japanese attack at Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941, died on Saturday at a hospital in Grafton, W. Va. He was 82 and lived in Bridgeport, W. Va. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Norma Webb Fawcett. S
 Louis Guirandou-N'Diaye, a member of the International Olympic Committee from the Ivory Coast in West Africa, who was censured for inappropriate behavior during the Salt Lake City bribery scandal, died Friday. He was 76. Mr. Guirandou-N'Diaye, who had suffered from intestinal proble
 David Seidner, a photographer known for his highly stylized fashion shots inspired by moments in art history, died on Sunday at his home in Miami Beach. He was 42. The cause was AIDS, said the lawyer for his estate, Herbert E. Nass. Mr. Seidner, born in Los Angeles, was just
 Myron Weiner, a political scientist whose studies of migration, ethnic conflicts and child labor in the developing world reflected moral purposes and influenced practical policy, died last Thursday at his home in Moretown, Vt. He was 68. The cause was brain cancer, said a spokesman 
 George S. Dillon, a former president, chief executive and chairman of the Air Reduction Company, died of cancer on Monday at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan, his son Peter Dillon said. He was 81. A Brooklyn native, at the time of his death Mr. Dillon maintained residence
 Henry J. Kurth, a theater lighting and set designer who created scenery for Martha Graham, Erick Hawkins and Doris Humphrey, died on Sunday at his home in Cleveland. He was 81. Trained at the Goodman Theater and the Art Institute of Chicago, Mr. Kurth designed more than 450 theater 
 Kenneth Dodson, who wrote best-selling books about his experiences as a seaman in World War II, died on May 24 at his home in Stanwood, Wash. He was 91. After graduating from high school, Mr. Dodson spent 20 years in the Merchant Marine. Shortly after the attack on Pearl Harbor in 1
 Paul Oskar Kristeller, a leading authority on Renaissance philosophy, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 94. Professor Kristeller began teaching at Columbia University in 1939, became Woodbridge Professor of philosophy there in 1968 and retired in 1973. Columbia
 Robert J. McDonald, a tax lawyer for many years at Sullivan & Cromwell, the New York-based law firm, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. The cause of death was heart disease, said Willard B. Taylor, a close friend and a partner in the law firm. Mr. McDonald 
 William Everest Ryan, a Federal prosecutor who in the 1960's helped obtain the criminal conviction of James R. Hoffa, the teamsters' president, died on May 28 at a health care center in Baltimore. He was 78 and lived in Silver Spring, Md. The cause was a neurological disorder, said 
 William R. Hess, a microbiologist and a leading expert in African swine fever, died on May 29 at the Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He was 82, and lived in Tuftonboro, N.H. Dr. Hess spent his life researching how to prevent and control the kinds of diseases that
 The Rev. Dr. Canon H. Boone Porter, an Episcopal theologian and liturgical scholar who played a leading role in modernizing the church's Book of Common Prayer in 1979, died on Saturday at Bridgeport Hospital in Connecticut. He was 76 and lived in Southport, Conn. The cause was pneum
 Rick Fields, a journalist, poet and leading authority on Buddhism's history and development in the United States, died on Sunday at his home in Fairfax, Calif. He was 57. The cause was lung cancer, said Helen Tworkov, a longtime friend and the editor in chief of Tricycle: The Buddhi
 Robert J. Lapham, who served as president of Conde Nast Publications from 1974 through 1986, died June 4  at a nursing home in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 77 years old and lived in Corona del Mar, Calif. He died of lung cancer, his wife, Edith, said. During his years as pre
 DeForest Kelley, the crotchety country doctor who healed countless human and nonhuman patients as Dr. Leonard McCoy on the science fiction series ''Star Trek,'' died yesterday at the Motion Pictures and Television Fund Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 79, and had last donned a space uniform 
 Judge Giles S. Rich, the oldest active Federal judge in the country's history, who helped draft the nation's patent laws and later, as a patent judge, became a powerful advocate for the rights of inventors, died Wednesday night at a hospital in Washington. He was 95. The cause was l
 John Calhoun Baker, president emeritus of Ohio University, who guided it through the burgeoning enrollment when the veterans of World War II surged in under the G.I. Bill, died on Wednesday at a retirement community in Hightstown, N.J., where he moved three years ago. A former resident of E
 John Wesley Mayhew Whiting, a professor emeritus of social anthropology at Harvard who studied learning processes and child development in varying societies, died on May 13 at home in Chilmark, Mass., in the house where he was born on Martha's Vineyard. He was 90. Dr. Whiting and hi
 Ron Link, a director known for his work off Off Broadway in the 1970's and 80's and later in experimental theater in Los Angeles, died on Monday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 58 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was cardiac failure after abdominal surgery, said Dan Gerrity,
 Eugene Kalbacher, the publisher and editor of Hot House, a small monthly magazine covering the jazz world, died on May 25 at his home in Rockaway Township, N.J. He was 47. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Lynn. As a young jazz journalist in the early 1980's, Mr. Kalbache
 Karl Z. Morgan, a founder of the field of health physics, the science of human health and radiation exposure, died on Tuesday in Oak Ridge, Tenn., after years as a top official at the national laboratory there. He was 91. Dr. Morgan was a member of the metallurgical laboratory staff
 Gen. Charles Day Palmer, the four-star general in charge of American forces in Europe in the early 1960's, died on June 7. He was 97. General Palmer died in Knollwood, the Army retirement home in Washington, said his nephew, Michael Neill. The cause was heart failure. Genera
 Ilya Musin, the Russian conductor who taught a generation of maestros while remaining relatively unknown outside his own country, died on June 6 in St. Petersburg, Russia. He was 95. During his six-decade tenure at the St. Petersburg State Conservatory, formerly the Leningrad Conser
 John Lloyd, a British archeologist who unearthed relics yielding new information about day-to-day living in classical times, died on May 30 in Oxford, England. He was 51 and had worked with Oxford University's Institute of Archeology for a decade. He had a brain tumor, said The Inde
 Henry Grunfeld, a refugee from Nazi Germany who helped his fellow expatriate Siegmund G. Warburg build an investment banking empire that transformed the British financial world after World War II, died Thursday. He was 95. Mr. Grunfeld was a senior adviser to Warburg Dillon Read, th
 Kenneth Sidney Davis, the author of a four-volume biography of Franklin Delano Roosevelt, died on Thursday at University Hospital in Madison, Wis. He was 86. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Jean. Mr. Davis did not belong to the fraternity of trained historians. Yet, lik
 Dr. Floyd Ratliff, a physiological psychologist and biophysicist who explored the depths of consciousness and perception, died on Sunday in  Santa Fe, N.M., where he moved after retiring from Rockefeller University in New York. He was 80. Dr. Ratliff combined expertise in his specia
 Joseph Druffel, a prolific architect of low-income housing in New York City for the last 25 years, died on Friday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 60 years old and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from amyloidosis, a disorder in which prote
 Bruno Balke, a sports medicine innovator who preached a regimen of sensible exercise as an antidote to heart ailments, died on June 7 at St. Mary's Hospital in Grand Junction, Colo. He was 91 and had lived in Grand Junction in retirement. Dr. Balke was credited with being the first 
 Harold E. Kohn, a lawyer who filed some of the earliest class action lawsuits accusing corporations of anti-competitive practices, died Monday at his home in Philadelphia, a law partner said. He was 85. In the 1960's, Mr. Kohn became nationally known when he won a key case against G
 J. F. Powers, who won a National Book Award in 1963 for his first novel, ''Morte d'Urban,'' and had a long career as a writer of sardonic but deeply compassionate fiction about Roman Catholic priests in the Midwest of the United States, died on Saturday at his home in Collegeville, Minn. He
 Basil Cardinal Hume, who led the Roman Catholic Church in England and Wales for 23 years, forging a renewed public role for the institution in a country where even the word ''Popish'' had long been a derogatory adjective, died yesterday in London. He was 76. The cause was cancer, hi
 Jack M. Campbell, a former governor of New Mexico, died on Monday in a retirement home in Santa Fe. He was 82. Mr. Campbell, a Democrat, served two terms as Governor from 1963 to 1967 and four terms in the State House of Representatives, including two years as Speaker. Remem
 Screaming Lord Sutch, the leader of the Official Monster Raving Loony party, who delighted even the victims of his lampooning of British politics over three decades, has died in London. He was 58. He was discovered hanged in his North London home on Wednesday afternoon by his partne
 Bob Bullock, among the last of the earthy, string-pulling, hard-living political giants who used to sprout in Texas as thick as bluebonnets, died early yesterday at his home in Austin from what aides said was congestive heart failure. He was 69. Blunt, mercurial and often fearsome, 
 Cecil Morgan, a leader of the group of Louisiana state legislators that impeached but failed to convict the popular and populist demagogue Gov. Huey P. Long in 1929, died last Monday at his home in New Orleans. He was 100. Representative Morgan and other state legislators who were a
 Lawrence Stone, a social historian whose broad view of the past helped transform historical studies, died on Wednesday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 79. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Jeanne. Professor Stone, who taught at Princeton University for 
 Oswald Tippo, a former provost and botany professor at the University of Massachusetts and the first chancellor there, died on June 10 at a hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 87 and lived in Amherst. He was in Santa Barbara for a grandchild's wedding. He was provost from 1964 
 Bob Briner, a pioneer professional tennis administrator and later a television sports executive, died Friday night in his home in Greenville, Ill. He was 63. He learned last September that he had abdominal cancer, his company, ProServ, said. Mr. Briner was a key figure in br
 Douglas Seale, a British producer, actor and director whose 65-year career on both sides of the Atlantic brought him to the stage, films and television, died last Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan.. Mr. Seale's most recent appearance was
 Walter E. Maloney, a nationally known admiralty lawyer for many years, died on Monday at a nursing home in Chatham, N.J. He was 88 years old and lived in Convent Station, N.J. Mr. Maloney, whose specialty involved the law of the sea, served as chief attorney for the American Merchan
 Clifton Fadiman, the essayist, critic, editor and indefatigable anthologist whose encyclopedic knowledge made him a mainstay of ''Information Please'' and other popular radio programs in the late 1930's, 40's and 50's, died yesterday on Sanibel Island, Fla. He was 95 and lived on the nearby
 Henri VI, Count of Paris, who might have been King if France were still a monarchy, died on Saturday in the family home in Dreux. He was 90 and had been suffering from prostate cancer. His eldest son, also Henri, 66 -- one of nine surviving children, six of them daughters -- immedia
 Louis J. Glickman, a widely known real estate investor and philanthropist, died on Friday at New York Hospital. He was 94 and lived on the Upper East Side. Mr. Glickman formed a Manhattan-based real estate investment company in 1942 and was widely active in real estate investments i
 Dr. Juan A. del Regato, a pioneer in using radiation therapy to treat cancer, died on June 12 at Munson Medical Center in Traverse City, Mich. He was 90 and lived in a retirement home in Tampa, Fla. Dr. del Regato, who had been visiting his daughters in Michigan, died after surgery 
 Kamal Eddin Hussein, a crusty Egyptian army officer who helped to overthrow King Farouk of Egypt in 1952, became a Vice President of Egypt and then clashed with two Presidents, died on Saturday. He was 77. He had liver cancer, his family said, according to The Associated Press.     
 Leonard Price Stavisky of Queens, a longtime Democratic legislator in Albany and an outspoken advocate of state support for public education, died Saturday in a hospital in Queens. He was 73 and lived in Whitestone, Queens. The cause was complications from a cerebral hemorrhage, sai
 Dr. Louis Robert Wasserman, an authority on the diagnosis and treatment of blood diseases and the founder of one of the nation's foremost hematology training programs, died on Monday at Danbury Hospital in Connecticut. He was 88 and lived in Sandy Hook, Conn. Dr. Wasserman's associa
 Frederick L. Sachs, a physician, hospital administrator and educator long associated with Yale University and Yale-New Haven Hospital, died on Sunday at his home in Woodbridge, Conn. He was 61. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Ruth. Dr. Sachs, a pulmonologist, o
 Mario Soldati, a prolific Italian writer and film director, died on Saturday at his home in Tellaro, near La Spezia. He was 92. Although Mr. Soldati became a household name in Italy as the director of 29 films from 1931 to 1960, writing was thought to be his stronger talent.        
 Neil Jacobson, a psychology professor at the University of Washington who was known for his research on domestic violence, marital therapy and depression, died on June 2 in his hotel room in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 50 and lived in Seattle. Dr. Jacobson died after a heart attack, said
 Pietro Deiro Jr., a music publisher devoted to the expansion of the repertory for the accordion, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Deiro, who was known as Lee, played the accordion and, though he did not give concerts, had
 Frank J. Pagliaro, a concrete contractor whose projects included the Chrysler Building and the New York Athletic Club in Manhattan, died on Sunday at his home in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 99. Mr. Pagliaro provided concrete for the United Nations, Shea Stadium, the New York Coliseum, 
 Gaynor Jacobson, a former world director of the Hebrew Immigrant  Aid Society, or Hias, who helped thousands of Jews leave Eastern Europe for Israel and other countries in the West in the World War II period, died on June 6 at a hospital in Sun City West, Ariz. He was 87 and lived i
 Norman B. Hirsh, who supervised the development of the Apache attack helicopters that were used extensively in the Persian Gulf war in the 1990's and recently in Yugoslavia, died on June 8 at his home in Coto de Caza, Calif. He was 64 years old. He died of a heart attack, his wife, 
 David Freeman Hawke, professor emeritus of American history at Lehman College of the City University of New York and author of several widely admired books about people and events in the American Revolution, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Madison, Conn. He was 75. The cause was
 James Ross Kennedy, a former vice chairman of the Celanese Corporation of America, died on June 17 at Mountainside Hospital in Montclair, N.J. He was 87. Mr. Kennedy joined Celanese, a maker of plastics and chemicals, in 1944 as an accountant in the plastics division. He became a vi
 Julius Tobias, a Manhattan painter and sculptor who was best known for the abstract, gallery-filling Minimalist environments he created in the 1970's, died on June 16 at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83. Mr. Tobias was born in Manhattan, dropped out of sc
 Dr. Louis K. Diamond, who developed a revolutionary transfusion method to save newborn babies with Rh disease, died on June 14 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 97. Dr. Diamond was a longtime professor at Harvard Medical School and associate chief of staff at Children's Hospital Me
 Robert G. Neumann, whose dismissal as the American Ambassador to Saudi Arabia in 1981 revealed fissures in President Reagan's first foreign policy team, died of cancer in Los Angeles last Friday. He was 83. Mr. Neumann's firing by Secretary of State Alexander M. Haig Jr.  -- and the
 Fred C. Trump, one of the last of New York City's major postwar builders, died yesterday at a hospital in Queens. He was 93 and lived in Jamaica Estates, Queens. Although Mr. Trump was stricken with Alzheimer's disease six years ago, he still retained his title of chairman of the bo
 George E. Keck, an industrial engineer who briefly headed United Airlines during some of the airline's most turbulent years, died in his sleep at his home in Milwaukie, Ore., a suburb of Portland, on Tuesday, The Associated Press reported. He was 87 years old. Mr. Keck joined the ai
 Joe Redington, who died Thursday at the age of 82 at his homestead in Knik, Alaska, near Anchorage, did not get to mush until he was in his late 30's, but when he did, he realized something that no one else had thought of: if you organize a 1,100-mile dog sled race, even if you don't have a
 Thomas (Tommy) Ivan, the diminutive and dapper coach and general manager who helped turn around two franchises in the National Hockey League's six-team era, died yesterday at the age of 88. Ivan, who had been suffering from a kidney ailment, died at Lake Forest Hospital in suburban 
 Anastassios Fondaras, who went from a career in the Royal Greek Navy and later in Greece's private shipping industry to international investment banking, died on Thursday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in New York. He was 81. The cause of death was complications from a fall, his 
 George Papadopoulos, who headed a military dictatorship that dominated Greece in the late 1960's and early 1970's and which was widely reported to have tortured and imprisoned opponents of its rule, died yesterday in a hospital in Athens. He was 80. The cause was a heart attack, Age
 Hugh Alton Carter Sr., a former Georgia state legislator and businessman who had a central role in the campaigns of his first cousin Jimmy Carter and turned his store into a center of Jimmy Carter lore, died Thursday at a hospital in Americus, Ga. He was 78 and lived in nearby Plains.      
 Marion Motley, one of the National Football League's first black players of the modern era and one of its best fullbacks ever, died yesterday in Cleveland. He was 79. Motley, a star with the Cleveland Browns from 1946 to 1953 and a member of the Pro Football Hall of Fame, had been s
 Peter Abeles, a Hungarian who fled to Australia after World War II and as a transport executive became one of his adopted country's most powerful business leaders, died on Friday at his home in Sydney. He was 75. The cause of death was cancer, said the Australian Consul General in N
 Shig Kariya, one of the founders of Mikasa Inc., the big tableware company, died on Friday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 84. The cause was pneumonia, his son Scott said. Mr. Kariya was born in 1915, when the Japanese Government was busily gearing up for
 Angelo Bertelli, the first of Notre Dame's seven Heisman Trophy winners and its first T-formation quarterback, died Saturday at his home in Clifton, N.J. He was 78. The cause was brain cancer, his son Michael said. When Bertelli entered Notre Dame in 1940, he was 6 feet 1 in
 Jiri Pelikan, a leader of Communist Czechoslovakia's ''Prague Spring,'' the short-lived period of liberal reforms in 1968, died on Saturday in a hospital in Rome. He was 76. He lived in Rome, having received political asylum in Italy after the end of the Prague Spring when Soviet-le
 Catholicos Karekin I, the spiritual leader of Armenian Orthodox Christians worldwide, who faced the enormous task of reinvigorating his ancient church after the fall of Soviet Communism, died yesterday at his pontifical residence in Echmiadzin, near the Armenian capital, Yerevan. He was 66.
 Marshall Wayne, who displeased Adolf Hitler by winning gold and silver medals in the 1936 Berlin Olympics and who was later shot down over Italy fighting the Nazis, died June 16 in Hendersonville. He was 87. He died at Pardee Hospital, according to his sister, Dever Antes, after he 
 Vere C. Bird, a child of the slums and a Salvation Army drummer who carried the Caribbean island of Antigua to independence and then sired the family dynasty that has led and dominated the country ever since, died on Monday in the capital, St. Johns. He was 89. At his death after a 
