 Louis J. Sigel, a Teaneck, N.J., rabbi who was a prominent voice for integration of the township's public schools in the early 1960's, died on Sunday at his home in Hackensack, N.J. He was 81. His wife, Miriam, announced his death. Teaneck became the first town in America to
 Oliver Jensen, a founder and former editor of American Heritage magazine, died early yesterday morning in Chester, Conn. He was 91 and had lived in Old Saybrook, Conn., for many years. Mr. Jensen died in his sleep at an assisted-living facility, his stepdaughter, Penelope Hargrove, 
 Louis N. Friedland, a retired broadcast executive who played a prominent role in the development of syndicated television programming, died on Wednesday in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 92 and lived in Kings Point, N. Y. His death, at North Shore General Hospital, after a short illness, w
 Luther Vandross, the silky-voiced R&B crooner who spun romance into hits like ''Here and Now'' and ''Any Love,'' winning eight Grammy Awards, died yesterday afternoon at John F. Kennedy Medical Center in Edison, N.J. He was 54. The medical center, which did not disclose the cause, r
 Obie Benson, an original member of the Motown singing group the Four Tops and a lyricist best known for the antiwar song ''What's Goin' On,'' died here this morning. He was 69. The cause was lung cancer, said Matt Lee, the group's publicist. Doctors discovered cancer a few weeks ago
 Philip Hobsbaum, a British poet and literary critic whose workshops and criticism helped inspire a new generation of writers, including Seamus Heaney, died on Tuesday in Glasgow. He was 72. The cause was complications of diabetes, said the University of Glasgow, where he was a profe
 William J. Brink, a former managing editor of The Daily News of New York who was responsible for one of the most memorable headlines in American journalism, FORD TO CITY: DROP DEAD, died yesterday morning in Norwalk, Conn. He was 89 and lived in Westport, Conn. The cause was congest
 Brian C. Pohanka, whose passion for the Civil War led him to a prominent role in starting the recent movement to preserve Civil War battlefields, died on June 15 at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 50. The cause was melanoma, said his wife, Marylynne, who is known as Cricket.     
 Gaylord A. Nelson, a former senator from Wisconsin who was one of the architects of America's modern environmental movement and the founder of Earth Day, died yesterday in Kensington, Md. He was 89. The cause was cardiovascular failure, Bill Christofferson, a family spokesman, told 
 Christopher Fry, the British playwright who created memorable parts for John Gielgud, Laurence Olivier and Edith Evans, gave Richard Burton his first role on Broadway, and was primarily responsible for the script of ''Ben-Hur,'' among other films, died on Thursday in Chichester, England. He
 Hank Stram, the innovative Hall of Fame coach who took the Kansas City Chiefs to the first Super Bowl, in 1967, and coached them to a Super Bowl victory in 1970, died yesterday at a hospital in Covington, La., near New Orleans. He was 82. The cause was complications of diabetes, his son Dal
 Ernest Lehman, a noted Hollywood screenwriter whose work included classic films of the 1950's and 60's like ''North by Northwest,'' ''Sweet Smell of Success'' and ''The Sound of Music,'' died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 89 and lived in Los Angeles. The apparent cause was a he
 Gerard C. Bond, a marine geologist at Columbia University who conducted novel studies of earth's climate changes by interpreting sediments taken from beneath the seafloor, died last Wednesday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 65 and lived in Pearl River, N.Y. The cause was ca
 Vice Adm. James B. Stockdale, a highly decorated Navy pilot who inspired fellow prisoners of war in North Vietnam and later ran for vice president as H. Ross Perot's running mate in 1992, died on Tuesday in Coronado, Calif. He was 81. Admiral Stockdale's death was announced by the N
 Joel Gersmann, the longtime artistic director of the Broom Street Theater, a provocative experimental company based in Madison, Wis., died at his home there on June 24. He was 62. The cause was a heart attack, said Rod Clark, the company's acting chairman. Working out of a b
 Bernard Kilbourn, New York's first Republican state chairman in the fractious post-Rockefeller era, died on June 29 at his home in Port Jervis, N. Y. He was 81. His death was announced by the Gray-Parker Funeral Home in Port Jervis. Dr. Kilbourn, a dentist by profession in C
 Evan Hunter, the author who as Ed McBain virtually invented the American police procedural with his gritty 87th Precinct series featuring an entire detective squad as its hero, died yesterday at his home in Weston, Conn. He was 78. The cause was cancer of the larynx, said his agent,
 L. Patrick Gray III, the former acting director of the F.B.I. whose misplaced trust in Richard M. Nixon and early missteps in handling the Watergate investigation made him a lasting victim of a scandal he ultimately helped to expose, died yesterday at his home in Atlantic Beach, Fla. He was
 Charles R. Thomson, a leading federal firearms and explosives investigator who helped track down the people who bombed the World Trade Center in 1993 and those who blew up the Federal Building in Oklahoma City two years later, died Sunday at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 61. Th
 Judge Vito J. Titone, long a firm liberal voice on the New York State Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, died on Wednesday on Staten Island. He was 76. The death was announced by the Court of Appeals in Albany, to which he was elevated as an associate judge in 1985 by Gov.
 Dr. Vincent J. Fontana, a national voice for abused and neglected children and the longtime medical director of the New York Foundling, the service agency for such children and their families, died on Tuesday while vacationing on Block Island, R.I. He was 81 and lived in Stony Brook, N.Y.  
 Claude Simon, the French writer who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1985 and is best remembered for his place in the so-called nouveau roman movement, died on Wednesday, his publisher said Saturday. He was 91. His publishing house, Éditions de Minuit, said the author was burie
 Rowland B. Wilson, whose watercolor cartoons were instantly recognizable to readers of Playboy, The Saturday Evening Post, Esquire and The New Yorker, died on June 28 at Scripps Memorial Hospital in Encinitas, Calif. He was 74 and lived in La Costa, Calif. The cause was heart failur
 Byron C. Preiss, an author and a publisher who specialized in illustrated books by celebrities, graphic novels and science fiction, died in a traffic accident on Saturday in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 52 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Preiss was the president of Byron Preiss Visual Publ
 James Haskins, an educator who in seeking to make up for the dearth of children's books on black historical figures ultimately became one of America's most prolific children's book authors with more than 100 works of nonfiction to his credit, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He w
 John Stubblefield, a tenor saxophonist who worked with Mary Lou Williams, Charles Mingus, Tito Puente, Miles Davis, Anthony Braxton and Abdullah Ibrahim, among other jazz musicians, died last Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 60 and lived in Manhattan. He had been hosp
 Gustaf Sobin, an American-born writer who for more than 40 years wove the history, sensations and language of his adopted Provence into his poetry and prose, died on July 7 at a hospital in Cavaillon, Vaucluse, near his home in Goult in the south of France. He was 69. The cause was 
 James G. Baker, an astronomer who designed powerful lenses and cameras for the U-2 spy plane in the 1950's and became a pioneer of satellite reconnaissance in the cold war, died on June 29 at his home in Bedford, N.H. He was 90. His death was reported by his son Neal. Dr. Ba
 Karim Emami, a prominent Iranian translator and editor who for more than 50 years devoted his life to Persian literature and art, died at his home in Tehran on Saturday. He was 75. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Mr. Emami was best known for his translations from En
 Lord King, a tough-minded executive who in 1981 took over British Airways when its initials were said to signify ''bloody awful,'' and turned it into a sleek, profitable airline attractive enough to draw throngs of public investors when it was privatized six years later, died yesterday at h
 Seymour M. Finger, a retired United States diplomat at the United Nations and a recognized authority on foreign affairs, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90. The cause was aspiration pneumonia, his wife, Annette, said. At his death, Mr. Finger was a senior fel
 Arthur A. Fletcher, a Republican civil rights advocate whose plan in the 1960's requiring the government to enforce timetables and goals in the hiring of minority workers became the framework for affirmative action, died Tuesday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington, D.C. H
 Mortimer Levitt, an irrepressible and outspoken patron of the arts who made a fortune selling custom-made shirts to celebrities, business executives, political figures and others who didn't have to ask the price, died on Tuesday at his home in Green's Farms, Conn. He was 98. His fam
 Daniel P. Weadock, who rose from an accounts payable clerk at the ITT Corporation to lead its Sheraton hotels unit, died on Tuesday at a Boston hospital of injuries from an automobile accident in Maine. He was 66 and made his home in Concord, Mass. Nadeen N. Ayala, a spokeswoman for
 Mickey Owen, the Brooklyn Dodger catcher remembered for a misadventure in the 1941 World Series that propelled the Yankees to the championship and overshadowed his All-Star career, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Mount Vernon, Mo. He was 89. The cause was complications of Alzhei
 Ronald W. Haughton, an innovative mediator and arbitrator whose work put him in the forefront of major national labor disputes over 40 years, died on July 4 at his home in Palm Harbor, Fla. He was 88 and also kept a residence on Martha's Vineyard, Mass. The cause was complications after a s
 Alberto Lattuada, a highly regarded Italian filmmaker of the postwar years who was also known for giving a young screenwriter named Federico Fellini his first directing job, died on July 3 at his home outside Rome. He was 90. Rome city officials announced the death to The Associated
 Harold W. Stevenson, a psychologist specializing in child development who produced the first comprehensive study highlighting the difference between the academic achievement of American children and children overseas, particularly in Japan and Taiwan, died on July 8 at a hospital in Palo Al
 Norman Raab, a co-founder of the Villager line of women's clothing that was a mainstay of country club and collegiate style in the 1960's, died Saturday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 89. The cause was complications of pneumonia, his family said. Villager style 
 John J. Ford Jr., a coin dealer and collector known for catalogs that brought new clarity to numismatics and whose collections, including the earliest American coins and prized Confederate pennies, have dazzled recent auctiongoers, died on July 7 at a nursing home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He wa
 Sir Edward Heath, who as prime minister took Britain into the European Economic Community in 1973 and for decades was the Conservative Party's leading advocate of European unity, died yesterday at his home in Salisbury, his spokesman said. He was 89 and had retired from the House of Commons
 John L. Procope, an entrepreneur and former publisher of The New York Amsterdam News, died on Friday. He was 82 and lived in Queens. The cause was complications from pneumonia, according to E.G. Bowman Co., where he had served as chairman. Mr. Procope, a graduate of Morgan S
 Gavin Lambert, an incisive observer of life in Hollywood through his screenplays, novels and film histories, died on Sunday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 80. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said Mart Crowley, the executor of his estate. Mr. Lambert's fiction and non
 Gen. William C. Westmoreland, who commanded the United States forces in Vietnam from 1964 to 1968, overseeing the vast troop buildup and the height of the fighting, died last night in a retirement home in Charleston, S.C., his son, James Ripley Westmoreland, announced. The general was 91.  
 Dr. Clarence Dennis, a pioneering developer of the heart-lung bypass machine and other mechanical heart devices that have extended the lives of millions, died on July 11 in St. Paul. He was 96. The cause was dementia, his family said. Dr. Dennis trained hundreds of surgeons 
 John Seitz, a mainstay of the Off Broadway stage for 40 years, died on July 4 at an assisted-living residence in Baltimore. He was 67 and had lived most of his life in Manhattan. He died of congestive heart failure, said his daughter, Becca Seitz. A physically commanding pre
 Paul Duke, the longtime moderator of the ''Washington Week in Review'' program on public television, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 78. The cause was acute leukemia, his family said. In 1974 Mr. Duke took the chair at what was then a locally broadcast weekl
 Gen. William C. Westmoreland, the Army artilleryman and paratrooper who failed to lead United States forces to victory in Vietnam from 1964 to 1968 and then made himself the most prominent advocate for recognition of their sacrifices, spending the rest of his life paying tribute to his sold
 Gerry Thomas, who designed clever packaging for a frozen meal and called it the TV dinner, died on Monday in Phoenix, Ariz. He was 83. The cause was cancer, his wife, Susan Mills Thomas, said. In the early 1950's, Mr. Thomas was a salesman for C.A. Swanson & Sons, a frozen f
 Dr. Irwin M. Freedberg, a dermatologist and an influential educator at New York University who led national medical organizations and advanced the study of the genetic foundation of the skin, hair and nails, died on Sunday at N.Y.U. Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 74. The cause 
 James Doohan, who faked a Scottish burr to create one of television's most endearing characters -- Scotty, the chief engineer of the U.S.S. Enterprise on the original ''Star Trek'' -- died yesterday at his home in Redmond, Wash. He was 85. Mr. Doohan, who had Alzheimer's disease, di
 Jim Parker, who was the first full-time offensive lineman elected to the Pro Football Hall of Fame and is widely regarded as the best offensive lineman ever, died Monday at a nursing home in Columbia, Md. He was 71. The cause was congestive heart failure and chronic kidney disease, 
 John H. Ostrom, a paleontologist influential in the revival of scientific research about dinosaurs, notably previously unsuspected clues to their speed and agility and their probable ancestral link to modern birds, died on Saturday in Litchfield, Conn. He was 77. His death, from com
 Piero Cappuccilli, considered one of the finest Italian baritones of his generation, died on July12 in Trieste, Italy. He was 75. His death was reported by the newspaper Il Piccolo di Trieste, which said he had been in fragile health since a car accident in 1992. Though Mr. 
 Alex Shibicky, who was a mainstay of the Rangers team that won the 1940 Stanley Cup and is believed to be the first player to use a slap shot in a National Hockey League game, died July 9 in South Surrey, British Columbia. He was 91 and lived in Surrey. The cause of death was conges
 Blue Barron, one of the last surviving leaders of the sweet bands that rivaled the popularity of the hot bands of the swing era, died last Saturday in Baltimore. He was 91. He died in his sleep, his sister, Clarisse B. Mechanic, told The Baltimore Sun. The Blue Barron orches
 David Daiches, who was an authority on Scotch whiskey as well as Scottish and English literature, died on July 15 in Edinburgh. He was 92. A prolific literary biographer, historian, essayist, critic and poet, he was a former director of the Institute for Advanced Studies in the Huma
 Eugene Record, the leader of the 1970's harmony group the Chi-Lites, which scored hits with mellifluous soul ballads like ''Oh Girl'' and ''Have You Seen Her?,'' died yesterday. He was 64. The cause was cancer, Jack Bart, the president of the group's booking agency, told The Associa
 John Herald, a guitarist and singer whose group the Greenbriar Boys was among the first bluegrass bands in New York in the 1960's, died on Monday at his home in West Hurley, N.Y. He was 65. The Ulster County medical examiner has not ruled on the cause of death, but the state police 
 The Rev. George E. Calvert, a minister who became a pioneer in efforts to revitalize East Harlem by providing low-cost housing, died on July 17 at his home in Andes, N.Y. He was 76. The cause was colon cancer, his wife, Elizabeth Calvert, said. He was one of the founders of 
 Alain Bombard, who deliberately drifted across the Atlantic for 65 days in a lifeboat with no provisions -- subsisting on plankton, saltwater and raw fish -- to prove it was possible, died on July 19 at a hospital in Toulon, France. He was 80. His death was reported by French, Engli
 George Crews McGhee, a geophysicist who struck it rich in oil and became a top-ranking State Department troubleshooter and ambassador to West Germany in the cold war era, died on July 4 in Leesburg, Va. He was 93 and lived on his farm in Middleburg, Va. His death was announced by hi
 Franz Weissmann, one of Brazil's most prominent Modernist sculptors and the last surviving member of the Neo-Concrete movement of the early 1960's, died at his home in Rio de Janeiro on July 18. He was 93. His death was reported by The Associated Press. Like many ambitious B
 Long John Baldry, a British blues-rock singer who helped start the careers of the Rolling Stones, Rod Stewart, Elton John and other British stars, died on Thursday in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 64 and had been a longtime resident of Vancouver. The cause was a severe chest i
 Myron Floren, an accordion virtuoso whose televised solos with the Lawrence Welk band became a staple of the cheerful folksiness that was the Welk show's hallmark, died on Saturday at his home in Rolling Hills, Calif., said Margaret Heron, syndication manager for the show. He was 85.       
 Rabbi Paul M. Steinberg, a dean at Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion in New York for 50 years, died on July 8 at a hospice in Riverdale, the Bronx. He was 79. Dr. Steinberg, whose home was in Scarsdale, N.Y., had been ill for some time but remained a presence on the 
 Glynn Ross, the founding general director of Seattle Opera, who established the company's tradition of performing Wagner's ''Ring'' cycle, died on Thursday in Tucson. He was 90 and lived in Tucson and Seattle. The cause was complications of a stroke, the opera company announced.    
 Sir Richard Doll, a British epidemiologist whose pioneering studies lasting more than 50 years linked smoking to lung cancer, emphysema, heart attacks and many other ailments, died on Sunday in John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, England. He was 92. Sir Richard worked until his death
 A. William Holmberg Jr., a newspaper executive and civic leader who was chief business officer of The Chattanooga Times from 1970 until the paper's sale in 1999, died yesterday at a hospital in Chattanooga, Tenn. He was 81. The cause was complications of pulmonary disease, the famil
 Bruce A. Bolt, a seismologist who made important observations about earthquakes in California and later helped translate the research into safer and more resilient bridges and buildings, died on July 21 in Oakland, Calif. He was 75. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. 
 Danny Simon, a veteran television writer and teacher whose comedy writing partners over the years included Mel Brooks, Larry Gelbart, Woody Allen and his younger brother, the playwright Neil Simon, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Portland, Ore. He was 86. The cause was complica
 Al Held, an American painter widely recognized for his often immense geometric abstractions, died on Tuesday at his home in Todi, Italy. He was 76. He was found in his swimming pool, but his dealer, Betsy Wittenborn Miller of the Robert Miller Gallery in New York, said the cause of 
 Shelley Appleton, a former general secretary of the old garment workers' union, chairman emeritus of the World ORT Union and board president of The New Leader magazine, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Manhattan. He was 86 and formerly lived in Greenwich Village. The death was
 Sonny Hertzberg, the scoring leader for the Knicks in their inaugural 1946-47 season, when the set shot reigned and the new franchise seemed an extension of the New York City college basketball scene, died Monday at his home in Woodmere, N.Y. He was 82. The cause was heart failure, 
 Arthur Zankel, a financier who oversaw the Carnegie Hall endowment fund and made a $10 million donation that led to the construction of a new concert space there named for him, died in a fall from his Upper East Side apartment building on Thursday. He was 73. Mr. Zankel, who had bee
 Robert Alan Maguire, an authority on early Soviet literature and the writings of Nikolai Gogol, died on July 8 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 75 and lived in Morningside Heights in Manhattan. The cause of death was cancer, according to Columbia University, where he was the
