 Slim Aarons, whose charm won the trust of jet-setters and movie stars and whose cameras captured fleeting, golden images as his favorites subjects played and preened in a privacy almost unimaginable today, died on Tuesday in Montrose, N.Y. He was 89. The cause was complications of a
 Perry R. Bass, the patriarch of a family that came to symbolize wealth and oil in Texas, died yesterday at the age of 91. Mr. Bass was at the center of a family business that traces its origins to Sid Richardson, the Texas wildcatter who borrowed $40 from Mr. Bass's mother during th
 Raymond Davis Jr., a chemist at Brookhaven National Laboratory who won a Nobel Prize in Physics for capturing evanescent particles known as neutrinos from the sun, died on Wednesday at his home in Blue Point, N.Y. He was 91. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said h
 Steve Mizerak, who sank his first pocket billiards shot at age 4, became a national champion while a full-time schoolteacher, then emerged as a pop-culture celebrity after doing television beer commercials, died Monday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 61. The cause was a heart ailment tha
 Alan Kotok, a computer designer who helped create the first video game program as a member of a small group of M.I.T. students in the early 1960's, died at his home in Cambridge, Mass., on May 26. He was 64. The cause was a heart attack, his daughter, Leah Kotok, said. As a 
 Edward Aldwell, a pianist and scholar who was a major exponent of Bach's keyboard works and the co-author of a standard music theory textbook, died on Sunday in Valhalla, N.Y., of injuries suffered in an accident near his country house in Kerhonkson, N.Y. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan.  
 Dr. Ronald E. Cranford, a neurologist, bioethicist and brain injury expert who helped establish clearer standards to determine when a patient is in a deep coma or a vegetative state, died Wednesday in Minneapolis. He was 65. The cause was complications of kidney cancer, his family s
 Ruben F. Mettler, a former chief executive of the aerospace company TRW and a leader in the development of America's ballistic missile program, died at his home in Los Angeles on May 23. He was 82. Mr. Mettler had been in declining health since suffering a stroke in 2004, Dan McClai
 Dr. Fritz Klein, a psychiatrist and sex researcher who studied bisexuals and their relationships and later helped start a foundation for promoting bisexual culture, died on May 24 at his home in San Diego. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, said his companion, Tom Reise.      
 Gen. Johann-Adolf Count von Kielmansegg, a German panzer division officer during World War II who became commander in chief of NATO forces in Central Europe during the height of the cold war, died on May 26 in Bonn. He was 99. His son Hanno von Kielmansegg of Celle, Germany, confirm
 Michael Riffaterre, an internationally renowned literary theorist and critic who specialized in the study of French literature, died on May 27 at his home in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, his family said. At his death, Mr. Riffater
 Onwin S. Primus Borde, a percussionist known for his work in dance and theater, died on May 21 in Las Vegas, where he lived. He was 51. The cause was a heart attack, said Margaret Goodfellow, a longtime friend. Mr. Borde, the son of the dancers and choreographers Pearl Primu
 Spencer B. Witty, the last of four brothers whose company, Witty Brothers, fashioned and sold elegant men's clothing through a small, prestigious chain of stores in New York, died May 29 at his home in Manhattan. He was 92. The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, said his 
 Alex Toth, an influential comic book artist best known for his work on ''Zorro'' and for his animation on children's television shows like ''Jonny Quest,'' died on May 27 at his home in Burbank, Calif. He was 77. The cause was heart failure, said his son, Eric Toth, who said that hi
 Bernard Loomis, who had no toys as a child but became a toy industry legend by using children's television to turn Star Wars dolls, Strawberry Shortcake and Care Bears into stupendous successes, died on Friday at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 82. The cause was heart di
 Eric Gregg, who umpired in the major leagues for more than two decades while battling a craving for food and drink that spotlighted health concerns surrounding overweight umpires, died yesterday in Philadelphia. He was 55. His death was announced by his son Kevin, who said he had a 
 The conductor Richard Kapp, who founded and led the Philharmonia Virtuosi, a chamber orchestra, and released a series of classical ''greatest hits'' records, died on Sunday at his home in Danbury, Conn. He was 69. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Barbara Borders Kapp. Mr
 Sol W. Cantor, an early proponent of discount retailing featuring warehouse-style stores, died Friday in Manhattan, his son, Robert, said. He was 95. Born and raised in New York City, Mr. Cantor began his retailing career on the Lower East Side, selling fabric. He joined Int
 Arnold Newman, the portrait photographer whose pictures of some of the world's most eminent people set a standard for artistic interpretation and stylistic integrity in the postwar age of picture magazines, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived on the Upper West Side. The
 Billy Preston, the splashy gospel-rooted keyboardist whose career included No. 1 solo hits and work with the Beatles and the Rolling Stones, died yesterday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 59. He died after having been in a coma since November, his manager, Joyce Moore, told The Associat
 Claude Terrail, owner of La Tour d'Argent, a Paris restaurant, died on June 1. He was 88. His death was announced yesterday by the restaurant, which did not say where he died. Until just a few months ago, the tall, imposing Mr. Terrail, with his flashing smile, impeccable ta
 Hilton Ruiz, a versatile and prolific pianist equally at home in the worlds of modern jazz and Latin music, died yesterday in New Orleans. He was 54 and lived in Teaneck, N.J. His death was announced by his agent, Joel Chriss. Mr. Ruiz had been hospitalized in a coma since May 19, w
 Wayne Hage, a cattleman who won a significant legal case affirming the rights of ranchers to have their herds graze and drink water on federally owned land, died Monday at his ranch in Tonopah, Nev. He was 69. The cause was cancer, said his son, also named Wayne Hage. In 199
 Caleb D. Hammond Jr., who was president of C. S. Hammond & Company, the map makers, from 1948 to 1974, died Monday in Summit, N.J. He was 90 and lived in Maplewood, N.J. The cause was complications of a stroke, said his son, Dean Hammond, who later headed the company. Mr. Ha
 Dr. Harold F. Falls, an ophthalmologist whose early studies of inherited abnormalities shed light on how diseases pass between generations, died on May 27 in Brighton, Mich. He was 96. Dr. Falls's death was confirmed by his family. Beginning in the 1930's, Dr. Falls spent hi
 Howard Rosenstone, a prominent theatrical agent who helped shepherd the work of some of the country's most distinguished playwrights and lyricists onto the stage, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was pulmonary failure, said Phyllis Wender, his partner
 Ken McIntyre, a star guard who helped propel an underdog St. John's team to the Holiday Festival and National Invitation Tournament championships in 1965 to bring a stirring conclusion to Coach Joe Lapchick's Hall of Fame career, died May 31. He was 63. The cause was cancer, his bro
 Kemoko Sano, the choreographer and director who founded Les Merveilles de Guinée, an African dance and music troupe, died on May 25 in Conakry, Republic of Guinea. Mr. Sano was unsure of his birth date and is believed to have been in his mid-70's. The cause was complications of dia
 Wilber B. Huston, whose selection by Thomas A. Edison as the nation's ''brightest boy'' in 1929 launched him into the intellectual stratosphere but eventually gave him a solid career on the ground as a rocket scientist for NASA, died on May 25 in Fountain Hills, Ariz. He was 93. Mr.
 Charles F. Brush III, an archaeologist who as president of the Explorers Club persuaded his brethren to take on a singular adventure -- admitting women to their den of stuffed polar bears, tarantula appetizers and overstuffed armchairs -- died on June 1 in Manhattan. He was 83. The 
 Gyorgy Ligeti, the Central European composer whose music was among the most innovative of the last half of the 20th century -- sometimes eerie, sometimes humorous usually fantastical and always polished -- died yesterday in Vienna. He was 83. His family confirmed his death but decli
 Kenneth R. Thomson, a shy art collector who built Canada's largest fortune by transforming his father's trans-Atlantic newspaper business into one of the world's leading providers of electronic data and information, died on Monday. He was 82. Mr. Thomson died unexpectedly in his Tor
 Moe Drabowsky, who set a World Series strikeout record for a relief pitcher but was equally renowned as one of baseball's most accomplished pranksters, died Saturday in Little Rock, Ark. He was 70. His death was announced by Liz Caldwell, a spokeswoman for the University of Arkansas
 William G. Hundley, whose Brooklyn street smarts made him first a leader in the Eisenhower and Kennedy administrations' fight against organized crime and then a sought-after defense lawyer for powerful people, died Sunday at his home in Vienna, Va. He was 80. The cause was liver can
 Charles J. Haughey, a three-time Irish prime minister who helped pave the way for Ireland's economic boom of the 1990's but whose own lavish accumulation of wealth tarnished his reputation and was partly responsible for driving him into retirement, died yesterday. He was 80. His dea
 Ingo Preminger, a Hollywood agent and producer who represented several blacklisted screenwriters the anti-Communist fervor of the postwar years, died on Wednesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 95. Mr. Preminger's family announced the death. A brother of the producer and
 Mike Quarry, a leading light-heavyweight boxer of the 1970's and a younger brother of the heavyweight contender Jerry Quarry, died Sunday in La Habra, Calif. He was 55. The cause was boxing-induced dementia, his sister Wilma Pearson told The Associated Press. Jerry Quarry, who had a
 Philip Merrill, an Annapolis publisher and former diplomat who has been missing since he set out for a solitary sail on Saturday afternoon, is now presumed to be dead by his family. He was 72 and lived on the Severn River in Arnold, Md. Mr. Merrill's 41-foot sailboat, Merrilly, turn
 Luis Jimenez, a sculptor whose color-splashed images of swirling dancers, roughneck cowboys in motion and the working class made him a controversial and easily recognized international figure in the art world, died Tuesday at his studio in rural Hondo, N.M. He was 65. The Lincoln Co
 Talcott W. Seelye, a former United States ambassador to Tunisia and Syria, died last Thursday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 84. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. A career diplomat, Mr. Seelye (pronounced SEE-lee) was the ambassador to Tunisia from 1972 
 Craig Morris, an archaeologist who helped transform modern knowledge of the Inca civilization and a leader of research and exhibitions at the American Museum of Natural History, died Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was complications of hea
 German Goldenshteyn, a celebrated traditional clarinetist from the former Soviet Union who forged a crucial link to the vibrant klezmer music of the Old World with his arrival in the New World 12 years ago, died on Saturday while fishing on Hempstead Lake on Long Island. He was 71 and lived
 Frank S. Streeter, an investor, philanthropist and collector of rare books and records from sea voyages during the Age of Exploration, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 88. He died after a short illness, his family said. Mr. Streeter's collections included books and maps from the 
 George Washington, who trained some of boxing's top names, including Riddick Bowe and Mark Breland, died on Sunday in Brooklyn, where he had long trained any would-be contender who came his way. He was 79. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son Kenneth. Mr. Was
 Wes Hill, who, like the other storied river men in his family, mastered the currents and crevices of the Niagara River and its falls and became an expert at saving lives and recovering bodies, died Monday in Niagara Falls, Ontario. He was 76. His wife, Sarah, said that he had suffer
 Frederick Franck, an artist and author whose sculptures, sketches, paintings and more than 30 books reflect a constant search for the core of spirituality, died on June 5 at his home in Warwick, N.Y., near a park dedicated to peace that he studded with his own works. He was 97. The 
 Wulff-Dieter Heintz, an astronomer who was a leading investigator of the fiery evolution of linked pairs of stars, died on June 10 in Swarthmore, Pa. He was 76. The cause was lung cancer. Dr. Heintz was a lifelong smoker, his family said. Dr. Heintz, an astronomer at Swarthm
 Daniel Steiner, the president of New England Conservatory, died on June 11 in Boston. He was 72. The cause was complications of chronic lung disease, according to a statement released by the school. Mr. Steiner, a lawyer, was the first nonmusician to head the conservatory. H
 Dr. Morton M. Kligerman, who in the 1950's was an early advocate for using radiation and other experimental methods for treating cancer, died on June 7 in Philadelphia. He was 88. The cause was complications of esophageal cancer, his family said. Dr. Kligerman held professor
 Yitzhak Ben-Aharon, a pioneer of the Israeli kibbutz movement, a contentious colleague of the nation's leaders and the leader of its labor federation in the early 1970's, died on May 19. He was 99. Often describing himself as a radical Socialist, Mr. Ben-Aharon took controversial po
 Bill Lamb, a key member of the team that founded New York's public television station Channel 13 and the station's director of production for programs that included ''Nature'' and ''Great Performances,'' died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 76. The cause was complications after a
 Donald Reilly, a prominent cartoonist best known for his four-decade-long association with The New Yorker, died on Sunday in Norwalk, Conn. He was 72 and lived in Wilton, Conn. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Reilly, who began drawing for The New Yorker in 1964, d
 Charles H. Older, a no-nonsense judge who presided over the bizarre and boisterous circus that was the trial of Charles Manson and his followers, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 88. The cause was complications of a fall at his home in West Los Angeles, said Edward Cazier, a 
 Vincent Sherman, one of Hollywood's last surviving studio-era directors, who made a string of successful movies with legendary stars like Bette Davis, Clark Gable, Humphrey Bogart, Joan Crawford and Errol Flynn in the 1940's and 50's, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 99. His so
 Arthur M. Wood, the executive at Sears, Roebuck & Company who oversaw the completion of the company's tower in Chicago even as the chain's domination of the American retail market was eroding, died Sunday in Lake Forest, Ill. He was 93. The cause was complications of pneumonia, acco
 Howard Shanet, a conductor, composer and professor at Columbia University who wrote an important history of the New York Philharmonic, died on Monday. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. His wife, Bernice Grafstein, announced his death. As a conductor, Mr. Shanet appeared with
 Louis B. Sohn, a professor of international law who helped draft parts of the United Nations Charter in 1945 and was a leader in subsequent efforts to turn the United Nations into a true world government, died on June 7 at his home in Falls Church, Va. He was 92. The cause was compl
 Robert A. Hatch, a public-relations executive who helped shepherd ''Sesame Street'' onto the air in 1969, died on June 16 at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 75. The cause was heart failure, his brother, Stanley, said. A newspaperman by training, Mr. Hatch joined Car
 Aaron Spelling, the most prolific producer in American television, whose company generated hit shows over five decades, including ''The Mod Squad,'' ''Charlie's Angels,'' ''The Love Boat,'' ''Dynasty,'' ''Beverly Hills, 90210,'' and ''7th Heaven,'' died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles.
 Dr. Heinz L. Ansbacher, whose encounters with the psychologist Alfred Adler in 1930, first in a lecture hall and then in a therapy session, led to a lifetime of scholarship devoted to his work, died Thursday at his home in Burlington, Vt. He was 101. His death was confirmed by his s
 Robert W. Mann, a mechanical engineer and designer who helped create advanced prosthetic joints, a Braille printing machine and devices to aid patients in rehabilitation, died on June 16 at his summer home in Moultonborough, N.H. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, his family s
 Aaron Spelling, the most prolific producer in American television, whose company generated hit shows over five decades, including ''The Mod Squad,'' ''Charlie's Angels,'' ''The Love Boat,'' ''Dynasty,'' ''Beverly Hills, 90210,'' and ''7th Heaven,'' died Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He
 Sir Peter Smithers, who saw his work as a lawyer, politician, diplomat, scholar, photographer and spy as distractions from his passion for growing glorious gardens, died on June 8 in Vico Morcote, Switzerland. He was 92. Sir Peter's death was announced by the Council of Europe, for 
 Lyle Stuart, a renegade journalist and publisher whose picaresque life included clashes with Walter Winchell, the publication of ''Naked Came the Stranger'' and the decision to print ''The Anarchist Cookbook,'' died on Saturday at Englewood Hospital and Medical Center in Englewood, N.J. He 
 Arif Mardin, the Turkish-American record producer who was one of the most successful and artistically significant behind-the-scenes figures in popular music in the last half-century, died on Sunday at his home in New York City. He was 74. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his so
 William A. Shurcliff, a physicist who helped develop the atomic bomb and went on to play an outspoken role in defeating plans for a supersonic passenger plane in the 1960's and the Star Wars antimissile defense system in the 80's, died June 20 in Cambridge, Mass. He was 97. The caus
 Al Brounstein, a Napa Valley vintner who was an early proponent of both making wines from a single vineyard and charging sky-high prices for them, died on Monday at his home in Calistoga, Calif. He was 86. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his family said. 
 Dr. Melvin L. Moss, an anatomist and former dean of Columbia University's dental school who developed a theory to explain how the jaw, cheekbones and other facial bones grow and come together, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 83. His death was announced by Columbia. From 
 Eric Rofes, an educator, author and organizer whose iconoclastic writings on gay concerns preceded the AIDS epidemic and who then helped define its stages, died on Monday in Provincetown, Mass. He was 51. The cause was not determined, said Richard Burns, executive director of the Le
 Herman I. Merinoff, who transformed his family's liquor distribution business into a company with more than $3 billion in annual revenue, died yesterday in Melville, N.Y. He was 77. The cause was cancer of the pancreas, according to his business partner and corporate counsel, Andrew
 Irving A. Berk, who as founder of the Berk Trade and Business School in New York supervised the training of plumbers, electricians, car mechanics and secretaries for 65 years, died on June 16 at his home in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn. He was 100. His death was announced by his son Joel, 
 Donald M. Halperin, a former New York state senator who represented shorefront neighborhoods of Brooklyn for 23 years and then served briefly as Gov. Mario M. Cuomo's housing commissioner, died on Monday in Brooklyn. He was 60. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Brenda Halper
