 Calvin Hawley Oakes, a retired Foreign Service Officer and a former senior executive at the Central Intelligence Agency, died on July 18 at his daughter's home in East Hampton, L.I. He was 86 years old and lived in Washington. He died of congestive heart failure, his daughter, Sarah
 Edward C. Prehn, a professor of education and author of economics textbooks for high-school students, died on Saturday at his home on Staten Island. He was 81 years old. He died of a heart attack, a friend, Michael Rosenfeld, said. Dr. Prehn taught at City College, Wagner Co
 Ephraim J. Frankel, a major builder and developer of office and residential properties around the country, died last Thursday at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. He was 86 years old and lived in Philadelphia. He died of a stroke, a family spokeswoman s
 Dr. F. Brantley Scott, a urologist who developed the inflatable penile prosthesis to treat impotence in men, died Saturday when a light airplane he was piloting crashed while trying to land near his vacation home in San Marcos, Tex. He was 61 years old and lived in Houston. Dr. Scot
 Jon Tuttle, a television reporter, commentator and documentary producer in Portland, Ore.,, died Sunday at Emanuel Hospital there. He was 49 years old and died of complications from leukemia, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Tuttle was a member of the KGW-TV news staff in 
 Joseph D. Lewis, an archivist and concert librarian for the Rodgers & Hammerstein Organization since 1980 and a musical director, died on Sunday on his way to the hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of a heart attack, said Bert Fink, the organization's dire
 Joseph Insalaco Sr., a builder who took part in the construction of more than 1,500 high-rise buildings, including the World Trade Center, Co-op City and the Pan Am Building, died on Tuesday at North Shore Hospital in Great Neck, L.I. He was 80 years old and lived in East Meadow, L.I.      
 Pierre Brunet, a French figure skater and Olympic champion who was equally renowned as a skating teacher, died on Saturday at his home in Boyne City, Mich. He was 89 years old, and according to friends had been suffering from Parkinson's disease. In winning 10 consecutive Fr
 Russell LeGrand Carpenter, a zoologist and professor emeritus at Tufts University in Medford, Mass., died Sunday at Sweetbrook Nursing Home in Williamstown, Mass. He was 89 years old and lived in Williamstown. He died of respiratory failure, said his daughter, Cynthia. Dr. C
 Thomas J. Swales Jr., a horse breeder who was a former mayor of Edison, N.J., and a former racing commissioner in New Jersey, died on Sunday at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick. He was 81 years old and lived in Edison. He died of a heart attack, his wife, Mar
 Benjamin Siegel, a novelist and short story writer, died Wednesday at his home. He was 76 years old and lived in Tuxedo, N.Y. He died of cancer, said his wife, Brook Lark Ing. Mr. Siegel's works included "The Principal," "Witch of Salem," "The Sword and the Promise," "A Kind
 Chris Short, a left-handed pitcher who won 135 games in 15 major league seasons, spending almost all of his career with the Philadelphia Phillies, died today in a convalescent home. He was 53 years old. Mr. Short suffered a ruptured aneurysm and lapsed into a coma in October 1988. H
 Edward Neighbor Waters, a musicologist and former music division chief at the Library of Congress, died on Saturday at his home in Mitchellville, Md. He was 85 years old. He died of cardiopulmonary failure, a spokesman for the library said. Mr. Waters worked at the library f
 George Jablow, an accountant and former executive vice president of Charles of the Ritz, a cosmetics firm, died on Tuesday at his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 89 years old. He died of kidney failure, said his daughter, Joan Fine of Boca Raton, Fla. Mr. Jablow helped 
 John Underhill Crandell, a former publisher of Money magazine, died yesterday at his home in Manchester, Vt. He was 74 years old. He died of cancer, a family spokeswoman said. Mr. Crandell, a 1940 graduate of Dartmouth, joined Time Inc. in 1954 as an advertising salesman in 
 Lee V. Eastman, a lawyer and art collector, died on Tuesday in New York Hospital. He was 81 years old and had homes in Manhattan and East Hampton, L.I. He died of a stroke, his wife, Monique, said. Mr. Eastman specialized in entertainment law and for 25 years maintained a pa
 Lionel Fitzgerald Payne, a retired New York City employee and a civic leader in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn, died on July 20 at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 80 years old and lived in Brooklyn. He died of cancer, said his son Richard. Mr. Pa
 Milton Greenstein, a former vice president and assistant secretary of the New Yorker magazine, died on Monday in New York Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of respiratory failure, said his daughter Ruth, of Washington. Mr. Greenstein, a lawyer, jo
 Morton Brautman, the founding president of Hemisphere Forwarding Inc., international shipping agents, died on Tuesday. He was 64 years old and lived in West Nyack, N.Y. He suffered a heart attack after taking ill in the company's offices near Kennedy International Airport, a company
 Robert Battey Troutman Jr., a lawyer who in the 1960's developed a voluntary approach to opening industrial jobs for blacks, died Tuesday at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta. He was 73 years old and lived in Atlanta. He died of cancer, said a son, W. George Troutman, of Arlington, Va.  
 William Ball, the founder of the American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco, was found dead at his apartment in Hollywood on Tuesday. He was 60 years old. The coroner's office said the cause of death had not been determined. Mr. Ball founded the theater in Pittsburgh in 
 Albert Bates Lord, a scholar of oral folk tales who taught at Harvard University for 33 years, died on Monday at New England Baptist Hospital in Boston. He was 78 years old. Professor Lord died of pancreatic cancer, the university said. In his Harvard career, which began in 
 Donald Day, an author and editor who wrote or compiled biographies of Will Rogers, three American Presidents and other historical figures, died on July 22 at the Mediplex Nursing Home in Westport, Conn. He was 92 years old. He died of complications from pneumonia and other illnesses
 The Rev. Finian Kerwin, a Franciscan friar and former head of the Holy Name Province, the largest province in the Franciscan Order of Friars Minor , died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan. He di
 Irving Lash, who taught several generations of musicians during his more than 30 years as a teacher at the High School of Performing Arts, died on Monday at the North Shore Medical Center in Miami. He was 82 years old and lived in Miami. He died of complications of Alzheimer's disea
 John Francis Whealon, Roman Catholic Archbishop of Hartford for 22 years, died yesterday at St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center in Hartford. He was 70 years old. Dr. Francis L. Geary said the Archbishop "died unexpectedly during a routine surgical procedure" in which the Archbis
 Leo Cawley, an economist and radio commentater whose weekly program on economics, "Fearful Symmetry," was broadcast on WBAI-FM, died on July 22 in the Seattle Veterans Affairs Medical Center. He was 47 years old and lived in New York. He died of complications from a bone-marrow tran
 Michael Arceneaux, a producer and director of fashion shows, died on Sunday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 47 years old. He died of a cerebral hemorrhage, said Mark Hummel, a spokesman for the family. Mr. Arceneaux, a graduate of Pratt Institute, began his career a
 Miroslav A. Kriz, an international economist and retired vice president of Citibank, died yesterday at his home in Hightstown, N.J. He was 83 years old. He died of complications of a stroke, his son said. Mr. Kriz, who was educated in Prague and Paris, began his career as an
 Yusuf Idris, one of Egypt's best-known playwrights, whose work often reflected his strong anti-Israeli views, died on Thursday in London of heart failure. He was 64 years old. The Egyptian Embassy in London confirmed his death. Mr. Idris had been a patient at the National Hospital f
 Albert Bates Lord, a scholar of oral folk tales who taught at Harvard University for 33 years, died on Monday at New England Baptist Hospital in Boston. He was 78 years old. Professor Lord died of pancreatic cancer, the university said. During his Harvard career, which began
 Former Vice President Aly Sabry of Egypt died today at a Cairo hospital. He was 71 years old. Officials at the Specialists Hospital said Mr. Sabry died of internal bleeding. He had been hospitalized after suffering a blood clot in his left lung, the officials said. Mr. Sabry
 Henry L. Shenier, who practiced patent law for 60 years, died on Friday at St. John's Hospital in Elmhurst, Queens. He was 89 years old and lived in Forest Hills, Queens. Mr. Shenier's son, Richard, said he died of complications after a stroke. Mr. Shenier retired in 1985 as
 Maynard E. Sensenbrenner, who was Mayor of Columbus for 14 years, died of complications of Alzheimer's disease on Friday. He was 89 years old. Mr. Sensenbrenner, a Democrat, was appointed Mayor in 1953. He was elected in 1955 and served until 1959, then was elected a second time in 
 Brig. Gen. Pio Yukwan Deng, a member of Sudan's ruling Revolutionary Command Council, died today, the official radio reported. He was 43 years old. The radio said he died of a heart attack at the military hospital in Khartoum. It gave no other details. General Deng was among
 Craig J. Davidson, a community advocate and founding executive director of the Gay and Lesbian Alliance Against Defamation, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 37 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications from AIDS, said his companion, Mi
 Dean Burch, chairman of the Federal Communications Commission from 1969 to 1974 and of the Republican National Committee in 1964 and 1965, died yesterday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 63 years old. Mr. Burch died of bladder cancer, said his son, Dean A. Burch. In April 
 Henry L. Shenier, who practiced patent law for 60 years, died on Friday at St. John's Hospital in Elmhurst, Queens. He was 89 years old and lived in Forest Hills, Queens. Mr. Shenier's son, Richard, said he died of complications after a stroke. Mr. Shenier retired in 1985 as
 John Field, a former artistic director of the Sadler's Wells Theater Ballet who was long associated with the Royal Ballet, died Saturday. He was 69 years old. The Times of London reported that he had had cancer. Born in Doncaster in northern England, Mr. Field studied dancin
 Julian H. Handler, an editor and publisher of food-industry newsletters and trade journals, died on Friday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Handler died of a stroke after heart surgery, a family friend, Morton 
 Paul Brown, a football innovator who founded the Cleveland Browns and the Cincinnati Bengals and built them into professional powers, died yesterday morning. He was 82 years old. Allan Heim, a spokesman for the Bengals, said Mr. Brown died from complications caused by pneumonia, at 
 The Rev. Alvin A. Illig, a Roman Catholic publishing leader and founding director of the Paulist National Catholic Evangelization Association, died Friday. He was 64 years old. Father Illig died of colon, lung and liver cancer at St. Paul's College in Washington, where he had lived 
 Soichiro Honda, a rebellious auto mechanic who defied the Japanese Government and built one of the world's biggest and most innovative auto companies from the ruins of World War II, died today. He was 84 years old. Mr. Honda, who appeared to be in vigorous health until he was hospit
 Cornelius V. S. Roosevelt, a retired official of the Central Intelligence Agency, died Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 75 years old. He died of a heart attack, said his sister, Grace McMillan. Mr. Roosevelt, a grandson of President Theodore Roosevelt, was a gradua
 Edward T. McCormick, a former member of the Securities and Exchange Commission and former president of the American Stock Exchange, died on Monday at Danbury (Conn.) Hospital. He was 80 years old and lived in Green Valley, Ariz. He died of a heart attack while attending a family reu
 Harry Reasoner, whose wry wit and low-key unflappable delivery were mainstays in network newscasting for four decades, died last night at Norwalk Hospital in Norwalk, Conn. He was 68 years old. He died of cardiopulmonary arrest, said a CBS News spokeman, Tom Goodman. Mr. Rea
 Howard Roland Quick, former national administrator of the A.T.& T. and Bell Systems public relations education program, died on Saturday at his home in Morristown, N.J. He was 62 years old. He died of a heart attack, a daughter, Louise Quick Spann of Mount Vernon, N.Y., said.       
 Nikiforos Vrettakos, one of Greece's best-known poets and the first leftist member of the Athens Academy of Arts and Sciences, died on Sunday. He was 79 years old. He had a stroke at his village home at Ploumitsa in the Peloponnesus and died on the way to a hospital in Sparta, frien
 Dr. Paul F. de Gara, an allergist who treated President John F. Kennedy for extreme allergy to dogs, died Saturday at the New Rochelle Hospital Medical Center. He was 88 years old and lived in the Westchester County town of Pelham. Dr. de Gara was a former president of the American 
 Benjamin Garcia Jr., an executive vice president of the Social Service Employees Union, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 50 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of cancer, said his daughter Yvette. Mr. Garcia, who began wor
 Clifford Jahr, a writer who specialized in the world of entertainment, died Tuesday at New York Hospital. He was 54 wears old. He died of AIDS, said his sister, Beverly J. Murphy. After writing a number of newspaper and magazine profiles of entertainers, Mr. Jahr collaborate
 Henry Charles Bayer, managing partner and co-founder of Mercury Securities, a Manhattan investment firm, died on Monday at Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 48 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Bayer graduated from Cornell Un
 Jesse R. Fillman, a retired Boston lawyer who was an expert on tax law, died on Sunday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 86 years old. He died of cancer, said his wife, the former Mary Otis Stevens. Mr. Fillman was a lawyer for almost 50 years. He joined the Justice Dep
 Joe Bowen, who supervised the buying, screening and editing of theatrical feature films for CBS Entertainment, died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 56 years old. He died of a heart attack, said a CBS spokeswoman, Liza Rindge. Mr. Bowen's career with CBS started 
 Joseph Fink, a retired deputy inspector on the New York City Police Department who in the 1960's gained a national reputation for his sensitive handling of hippies in the East Village, died on Sunday at Universal Medical Center in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 76 years old and lived in Pompano
 Judson Jerome, a poet and writer, died on Monday in Greene Memorial Hospital in Xenia, Ohio. He was 64 years old and lived in Yellow Springs, Ohio. He died of lung cancer, his wife, Marty Jerome, said. His most recent book of poetry, "Jonah and Job," published by John Daniel
 Larry Kane, an award-winning designer of men's fashions, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 61 years old. He died of a brain tumor, his wife, Helayne, said. Mr. Kane began his career as a child actor and as an assistant talent agent with MCA Inc. before serving
 Murray Heilweil, a retired vice president of Hasbro Industries, died on Sunday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 80 years old and lived in Greenwich. He died of cardiac arrest, his wife, the former Charlotte Freeman, said. He was an Army lieutenant in World War II and gr
 Sanford Hegleman Bolz, a lawyer who as Washington counsel for the American Jewish Congress was active in civil rights cases in the 1950's, died Monday at the Washington Hospice. He was 76 years old and lived in Washington. He died of cancer, said his daughter Jody. After gra
 James E. (Scoops) Cooney, who in 1927 made the last unassisted triple play in the National League, died on Wednesday in a Warwick nursing home. The nursing home said Mr. Cooney, who was 96 years old, had died of natural causes. Mr. Cooney was playing shortstop for the Chicago Cubs w
 The Rev. John J. Collins, a Jesuit priest and a biblical scholar for more than 50 years, died yesterday at the health center at the Campion Center in Weston, Mass. He was 91 years old and lived at the Jesuit residence at Campion. He died of complications from a stroke, a spokesman f
 Richard C. Hess, a prize-winning graphic designer, illustrator and painter who began his career by creating pictures for the paint-by-the-numbers kits in the 1950's, died Monday at Charlotte Hungerford Hospital in Torrington, Conn. He was 57 years old and lived in Norfolk, Conn. He 
 Robert Monzon, an audiologist who had one of the largest hearing aid practices in New York City, died on Wednesday at his home in Upper Grand View, N.Y. He was 65. He died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said. Mr. Monzon was born in Cuba and after serving in the United
 Sam Goody, a toy-store owner who turned a hugely profitable sideline -- selling scratchy, breakable 78-r.p.m. records -- into one of the world's largest record stores, died yesterday at St. John's Hospital in Far Rockaway, Queens. He was 87 years old and lived in Woodmere, L.I. He d
 Shahpur Bakhtiar, who was found stabbed to death in France yesterday, had caught the attention of the world for a brief 39 days as Prime Minister of Iran between the reigns of Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi and Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini. Virtually unknown outside Iran before January 1
 Socrates K. Butsikares, who worked for four decades in a variety of editing assignments at The New York Times, died yesterday at Staten Island University Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Butsikares, who retired from The Times in 1987, had been news productio
 Bernard Reines, an author and playwright, died Tuesday at home. He was 84 years old and lived in New York City. He died of cancer, said his wife, Frances. Mr. Reines was the author of a 1949 Broadway play, "Forward the Heart," about a blind veteran in an interracial romance.
 Charles (Cookie) Cook, a member of the vaudeville tap-dance act Cook and Brown and a popular tap-dance teacher, died on Thursday at the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in New York City. He was 77 years old. He died of kidney failure, said Susan Goldbetter, his personal manager.
 Dr. Herbert Holt, a psychiatrist who pioneered in training members of the clergy in psychotherapy and psychoanalysis, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications of leukemia, said his daughter, Renata Holt of New York.
 Graham B. Ford, founder of The New York Construction News and its publisher for 31 years, died on Monday at the Bayview Nursing Home in Beaufort, S.C. He was 87 years old and had lived in Mountain Lakes, N.J., and in Manhattan for many years. He died of a heart attack, his family sa
 Herbert Levine, a leading manufacturer of high-fashion women's shoes for nearly three decades, died on Thursday at his summer home in Westhampton Beach, L.I. He was 75 years old and also had a home in Manhattan. Mr. Levine ran the business he founded with his wife, Beth, in 1948, tw
 James B. Irwin, an astronaut who walked on the moon in 1971 and later founded an evangelical religious organization, died Thursday night at Valley View Hospital in Glenwood Springs, Colo. He was 61 years old and lived in Colorado Springs. A spokeswoman for Mr. Irwin in Colorado Spri
 James E. (Scoops) Cooney, who in 1927 made the last unassisted triple play in the National League, died on Wednesday in a Warwick nursing home. The nursing home said Mr. Cooney, who was 96 years old, had died of natural causes. Mr. Cooney was playing shortstop for the Chicago Cubs w
 William P. Steven, a former executive at newspapers in Minneapolis, Houston and Chicago, died Tuesday at the age of 82. A native of Eau Claire, Wis., Mr. Steven started his career at the Tulsa Tribune in Oklahoma in 1930, moving up to managing editor in 1937. During World War II, he
 Msgr. Robert G. Rappleyea, pastor emeritus of the Roman Catholic Church of the Holy Cross at 42d Street near Eighth Avenue in Manhattan, died on Thursday at St. Francis Hospital in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 66 years old and died of leukemia, a funeral home spokesman said. Mo
 Robert W. Purcell, a philanthropist and business adviser to the Rockefeller family, died on Friday at his home in New York City. He was 79 years old. He died of cancer, his wife, Wendy, said. A lawyer by training, Mr. Purcell became an investment adviser to the Rockefeller f
 Robert Kazmayer, a former minister who became a business analyst and publisher, died at his home in Mariposa, Calif., on Aug. 4. He was 82 years old and died of lung cancer, his son, Robert, said. Mr. Kazmayer, a longtime resident of Rochester, founded Kazmayer Seminar Tours
 Anthony A. Bliss, a patrician New York lawyer who stood at the center of the city's opera and dance worlds for four decades, died on Saturday on Prince Edward Island, Canada, He was 78 years old and lived in Oyster Bay, L.I. He died of a brain hemorrhage and pneumonia, said David Re
 Brother Albert Bernard McKenna, whose career as a Roman Catholic educator in New York and New Jersey spanned 54 years, died on Saturday in Lincroft, N.J. He was 77 years old and died of heart failure after several strokes, said associates at the Christian Brothers residence hall, a 
 Don A. Lautman, an astronomer who helped track and project the path of the Soviet satellite Sputnik in the pioneering days of space exploration, died Friday at the age of 61. Mr. Lautman, who lived in Cambridge, Mass., died of pancreatic cancer, said the Harvard-Smithsonian Center f
 John Wilkie, a former president and chairman of Central Hudson Gas and Electric Corporation, died on Saturday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 87 years old and lived in Katonah, N.Y. He died of complications after surgery, his wife said. Mr. Wilki
 Ralph W. Zwicker, a retired Army major general who was a central figure in the Senate's censure of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy in 1954, died at a nursing home at Fort Belvoir, Va. He was 88 years old. General Zwicker died of a heart ailment, The Associated Press reported. He 
 Robert Kazmayer, a former minister who became a business analyst and publisher, died at his home in Mariposa, Calif., on Aug. 4. He was 82 years old and died of lung cancer, his son, Robert, said. Mr. Kazmayer, a longtime resident of Rochester, founded Kazmayer Seminar Tours
 Hans Weigel, a leading literary figure in Austria and a critic of anti-Semitism, died today at his home here. He was 83 years old. He died of heart disease, Austrian state television reported. Mr. Weigel, a prolific novelist, playwright, essayist, translator and theater crit
 John J. Abt, a lawyer who spent most of his career as chief counsel to the Communist Party in the United States, died on Saturday at the Columbia-Greene Medical Center in Hudson, N.Y. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died as a result of a stroke, his family said.      
 Thomas F. Anderson, a biophysical chemist and geneticist who developed techniques for using electron microscopes, died Sunday at Jeanes Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 80 years old and lived in Fox Chase, Pa. He died after a series of strokes, his wife, Wilma, said. Dr. And
 Charles A. Willard, a Broadway theatrical producer and manager, died on Sunday in Lake Placid, N.Y., where he had a summer home. He was 48 years old. He died in a boating accident, said George Pappastavrou, a friend and coexecutor of the estate. In recent years, Mr. Willard 
 Isador Perlman, a nuclear chemist long associated with the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and the University of California at Berkeley, died Aug. 3 at the John Douglas French Center for Alzheimer's and Related Diseases in Los Alamitos, Calif. He was 76 years old and lived in Albany, Calif.   
 James Roosevelt, a six-term Congressman, former delegate to the United Nations and eldest son of President Franklin Delano Roosevelt, died yesterday at his home in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 83 years old. Complications from a stroke and Parkinson's disease were the causes of death
 Ralph E. Kennickell Jr., chief of the Government Printing Office in the second term of the Reagan Administration, was killed in an auto accident in Bland County in southwestern Virginia on Sunday. He was 45 years old and lived in Wexford, Pa. A car driven by Mr. Kennickell, who was 
 Robert E. Dallos, a New York-based business reporter for The Los Angeles Times, died on Sunday while on vacation in Budapest. He was 59 years old and lived in Larchmont, N.Y. He died of a heart attack, said his mother-in-law, Herta Griffenhagen. Mr. Dallos joined The Los Ang
 Henry (Buster) Smith, an alto saxophonist and band leader who played an important part in the musical upbringing of Charlie Parker, died on Saturday in Dallas. He was 86 years old. He died of a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Smith, whose other nickname was 
 Douglas Kiker, an NBC News correspondent for 25 years, died yesterday at his summer home in Chatham, Mass. He was 61 years old and lived in Washington. He apparently died of a heart attack, the network said. Through his career at NBC, most recently as national-affairs corres
 George Elrick Cummings, a professional squash player and later a coach, died on Friday in Bennington, Vt. He was 92 years old. Mr. Cummings's daughter, Judy Cotter, said he had died after a short illness. From 1919 until he retired in 1965, Mr. Cummings was the squash profes
 Helmut Walcha, an organist and harpsichordist known for his interpretations of the works of Bach, died on Sunday in Frankfurt, Germany. He was 83 years old. He died of cardiopulmonary failure, said Paul Jordan, a professor at the State University of New York in Binghamton and one of
 Martin X. Solow, an advertising writer who played a major role in broadening the use of Yiddish words in mainstream American advertising, died on Tuesday at Southampton Hospital on Long Island. He was 71 years old and lived in Sag Harbor, L.I. He died of a heart attack, his son Stev
 Gov. Richard A. Snelling of Vermont, a Republican who blended fiscal conservatism and concern for the environment during nearly nine years in office, died Tuesday night at his home in Shelburne, Vt., just south of Burlington.  He was 64 years old. Mr. Snelling's body was found by hi
 Victor F. Condello, who served three New York City mayors as the city's lobbyist in Albany, died on Tuesday at Albany Medical Center. He was 73 years old and lived in Albany. He died of a heart attack, a spokesman for the family said. Mr. Condello served as the lobbyist for 
 Alan J. Haber, the spokesman for the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission in the early 1980's, died yesterday at Long Island College Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 34 years old and lived in Brooklyn Heights. He died of pneumonia resulting from AIDS, his sister said.        
 Chauncey Guy Suits, a former director of research for the General Electric Company who helped develop the process for creating synthetic diamonds and contributed to understanding electric arc behavior, died Wednesday at his home in Pilot Knob, N.Y. He was 86 years old. He died of ca
 Daniel Haberman, a poet associated with the Poets' Corner at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in Manhattan, died on Aug. 8 at Montefiore Medical Center. He was 58 years old and lived in Lewisburg, W.Va. He died of lymphoma, said His wife, Barbara Nissman Haberman. In add
 Dr. William S. C. Dolan, an obstetrician-gynecologist, died on Tuesday at Howard County General Hospital in Columbia, Md. He was 79 years old and lived in Norway, Me. He died of a hypertensive disease and a series of strokes, a brother, Dr. Jerome Dolan of Jersey City, said.        
 Allen Barnett, an author and AIDS educator, died on Wednesday at his home in New York City. He was 36 years old. He died of AIDS, said a spokesman for St. Martin's Press, his publisher. Mr. Barnett was the author of "The Body and Its Dangers" (1990), a collection of stories 
 Frederick H. Schneider, the president of Roosevelt Savings Bank from 1967 to 1983, died on Monday at his home in La Canada, Calif., where he was living in retirement. He was 73 years old. He died of lung cancer, said a spokesman for the bank, which is based in Garden City, L.I.     
 George W. Mayer, the retired co-owner of Mayers Parkway Restaurant in the Bronx, died on Thursday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 82 years old. He died of a heart attack, his family said. The family business at East 233d Street and Bronx River Parkway in the Williamsb
 Gordon K. Lewis, a leading expert on Caribbean politics, died today. He was 72. The University of Puerto Rico, which reported his death, said he died after a lengthy illness. A native of Wales, he first came to Puerto Rico to help write its first constitution, adopted in 195
 Dr. Henry F. Jackson, a Hunter College professor and an expert on United States foreign policy toward Africa, died on Thursday at Daniel Freeman Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 52 years old and lived in Los Angeles. He died of toxoplasmosis, kidney failure and pneumonia, said a frie
 Luigi Zampa, a film director, screenwriter and author whose career spanned four decades, died on Thursday. He was 86 years old. A close friend reached at home said the director had died in a Rome hospital from complications of surgery. He had broken a leg in a fall earlier this year
 R. David Swindell Jr., a travel writer and editor, died on Wednesday at Mercy Hospice in Daphne, Ala. He was 44 years old and lived in Manhattan and Gulf Shores, Ala. He died of complications of AIDS, friends said. Mr. Swindell wrote for the Fodor and Penguin travel guide bo
 Dr. A. Damien Martin, one of the founders of Harvey Milk High School and a social-service agency to assist young homosexuals and their families, died on Thursday at his home. He was 57 years old and lived in New York. He died of complications of AIDS, said Frances Kunreuther, execut
 James T. Leonard, the last non-lawyer to sit as a New Jersey municipal judge, died on Thursday in Rahway Hospital in Rahway, N.J. He was 80 years old and lived in Garwood, N.J. Mr. Leonard died of cardiac arrest, his wife, Anne, said. Mr. Leonard's judicial career began in 1
 Alexander Weinstein, a teacher in the New York City school system for more than 30 years and a championship tennis coach, died on Saturday at his home in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He was 76 years old. He died of brain cancer, his grandson, Allan, said. From 1972 to 1985, Mr. Weinst
 Dr. Gerson D. Cohen, chancellor emeritus of the Jewish Theological Seminary, who in 1985 ordained the first female rabbi in Conservative Judaism, died on Friday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He was 66 years old. Dr. Cohen died of a disease of
 Harlan Foss, a longtime New York City Opera baritone, died on Saturday at his in-laws' home in North Myrtle Beach, S.C. He was 50 years old. He died of colon cancer, said his agent, Martha Munro. Mr. Foss was born in Beverly, Mass., and graduated from the University of South
 Clarence B. Hutchenrider, a clarinetist who emerged as a top-ranking instrumentalist when he worked with the Casa Loma Orchestra 50 years ago, died on Sunday at the Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 83 years old and lived in Fresh Meadows, Queens. He died of lung cance
 Harlan Foss, a longtime New York City Opera baritone, died on Saturday at his in-laws' home in North Myrtle Beach, S.C. He was 50 years old. He died of colon cancer, said his agent, Martha Munro. Mr. Foss was born in Beverly, Mass., and graduated from the University of South
 Larry Bogart, an influential critic of the nuclear power industry and editor of widely read newsletters published from the basement in his home, died yesterday at East Orange General Hospital in East Orange, N.J. He was 77 years old. Mr. Bogart, whose given name was Herman, but who 
 Mervyn Nelson, who acted, wrote, produced and directed for the stage, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 76 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of cancer, said Sam Crothers of the Producer Circle Company. Mr. Nelson's career began in vaudeville when he was
 Herbert Ferber, an internationally recognized Abstract Expressionist sculptor, died yesterday at his summer home in North Egremont, Mass. He was 85 years old and also had a home in Manhattan. He died of cancer of the bile duct, his wife, Edith, said. Mr. Ferber was one of a 
 James Edward Clark, a dog sportsman and dog show judge, died on Monday in Centreville, Md. He was 64 years old. A spokesman for the family said Mr. Clark died of lung cancer. Mr. Clark was a manager at the American Kennel Club, a board member of the Dog Museum and a member o
 John Musilli, a producer and director of television documentaries, died on Saturday at his home in Kinnelon, N.J. He was 55 years old. He died of cancer, said his wife, Linda. Mr. Musilli was the executive producer of "In Performance at the White House," the Public Broadcast
 Harley O. Staggers Sr., a West Virginia Congressman for 32 years who is credited with helping to revive the nation's rail system, died yesterday at Sacred Heart Hospital in Cumberland, Md. He was 84 years old and lived in Keyser, W.Va. Mr. Staggers died of congestive heart failure a
 Robert Herman, the general manager of the Greater Miami Opera from 1973 to 1985 and an assistant to Sir Rudolf Bing at the Metropolitan Opera from 1953 to 1973, died on Monday at his home in Miami. He was 66 years old. He died of lung cancer, said Walter Naujoks, his friend and busi
 Roberto Tomas Agosin, associate director of residency training at the Bronx Psychiatric Center, died on Sunday at the University of Massachusetts Medical Center in Worcester, Mass. He was 43 years old and lived in Great Neck, L.I. He died of a pulmonary embolism while on vacation, s
 James M. MacLachlan, a marketing and electronics specialist who developed a technique of "time compression" into a tool widely used in radio and television, died on Sunday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 57 years old and lived in South Delmar, N.Y. He died of lymphoma, sai
 The Rev. Carl J. Peter, a prominent theologian who for the last 27 years was professor of systematic theology at Catholic University in Washington, died suddenly Tuesday at his campus residence. He was 59 years old. A university spokesman said the cause of death was apparently a hea
 Sydney Gittler, a retail executive known for offering the finest line-for-line copies of European couture coats and suits during the 1950's, 60's and 70's, died Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 85 years old. He died of a heart attack, said his brother Dr. Robert Gittler.     
 Vaughn Shoemaker, an editorial cartoonist who created the character John Q. Public and won two Pulitzer Prizes, died Sunday at the Windsor Park Manor Medical Center in Carol Stream, Ill. He was 89 years old and lived in Carol Stream, a Chicago suburb. He died of cancer, said his phy
 Wolfgang Hildesheimer, a novelist, playwright and painter whose 1977 biography of Mozart became an international best seller, died on Wednesday. He was 74 years old. He died of a heart attack at his home, his family said. Mr. Hildesheimer's "Mozart" differed from previous bi
 Dr. Joseph Lawrence Goldman, a retired professor and chairman of the ear, nose and throat department of Mount Sinai Medical Center, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old. He died suddenly of a heart attack, his son, James, said. Dr. Goldman, an auth
 Edward Joseph Leon, a retired lawyer, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital. He was 91 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died after a brief illness, his family said. Mr. Leon, a graduate of New York Law School, was a founder of the Children's Blood Foundation at New York
 George Copeland, a journalist, died on Sunday in North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I.. He was 98 years old and lived in Great Neck, L.I. He died of cardiac arrest, his wife, Dr. Lynn Copeland, said. He worked for The New York Times from 1928 to 1942 and was tra
 Helmy Kresa, a songwriter and the principal arranger and orchestrator for Irving Berlin, died on Monday at Southampton Hospital on Long Island.  He was 86 years old and lived in Bayside, Queens. He died of pneumonia, said his son, Kent Kresa. Mr. Kresa's was the first publis
 Milton Perry, the former curator of the Harry Truman Library and Museum, died Tuesday at Washoe Medical Center in Reno. He was 65 years old and lived in Lake Tahoe, Nev. He died following a heart attack, said a son-in-law, Bill Sherriff of Kansas City, Mo. The Truman museum 
 Paul Miller, who presided over the Gannett Co. for 16 years as it grew into the nation's largest newspaper group, died Wednesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 84 years old. Mr. Miller, who had homes in Palm Beach and Pittsford, N.Y., outside of Rochester
 Richard Maltby, a composer, arranger and band leader, died on Monday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 77 years old. Mr. Maltby was an arranger for Artie Shaw's big band, and conducted or arranged for such recording stars as Ethel Merman, Vaughn Monroe, Peggy Lee
 Richard Wilson, a director, producer, writer, actor and longtime associate of Orson Welles, died Wednesday at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 75 years old. He died of pancreatic cancer, said Myron S. Meisel, one of his co-producers. Mr. Wilson joined Welles and John 
 Stephen Cobbett Steinberg, a writer, historian and documentary film maker, died on Wednesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 42 years old. He died of complications from AIDS, said a spokesman for the San Francisco Performing Arts Library and Museum, where he worked. Mr.
 Bernard Castro, the man who "conquered space -- living space, that is" -- by inventing and then selling more than 5 million Castro Convertible sofas, died yesterday at his estate in Ocala, Fla. He was 87 years old. Mr. Castro died of cardiac arrest, said his daughter, Bernadette, wh
 Donald Robinson, a writer on health care for The Reader's Digest, Parade and other national publications, died on Saturday at Misericordia Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Robinson died of cancer complicated by pnuemonia, said a long-time fri
 John Gerow Gazley, a retired professor of European history and international relations at Dartmouth College, died on Tuesday at his home in Hanover, N.H. He was 96 years old. He died of cardiac arrest associated with Parkinson's disease, his wife, Elizabeth T. Bassett Gazley, said. 
 Abel Kiviat, a former world-recordholder in the 1,500-meter run who won a silver medal in the 1912 Olympics, died Saturday afternoon at his home in Lakehurst, N.J. He was 99 years old. Before his death, Mr. Kiviat was the oldest living American Olympian. A family friend said
 Bernard Castro, the man who "conquered space -- living space, that is" -- by inventing and then selling more than 5 million Castro Convertible sofas, died Saturday at his estate in Ocala, Fla. He was 87 years old. Mr. Castro died of cardiac arrest, said his daughter, Bernadette, who
 Donald Robinson, a writer on health care for The Reader's Digest, Parade and other national publications, died on Saturday at Misericordia Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Robinson died of cancer complicated by pnuemonia, said a long-time fri
 Harlan Hobart Grooms, a senior Federal district judge whose desegregation rulings led Gov. George C. Wallace to stand in the door of a university building to block entry by blacks, died Friday. Judge Grooms was 90. Judge Grooms died at his home in Birmingham. In 1962, three 
 Marshal Sergei F. Akhromeyev, chief military adviser to President Mikhail S. Gorbachev and a top arms-control negotiator, was a reluctant reformer who steadfastly defended Communist ideology and the interests of the Soviet Army. His suicide on Saturday night at the age of 68 has lef
 Barney Pressman, the legendary haberdasher whose savvy promotions and eye for fashion trends transformed a cut-rate men's clothing store into an emporium of expensive exotica, died on Saturday at St. Francis Hospital in Miami. He was 96 years old. One of seven siblings growing up on
 Donald C. Platten, chairman and chief executive of Chemical Bank from 1973 to 1984, died on Sunday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 72 years old and lived in Darien, Conn. He died of lung cancer, his family said. Chemical Bank was the only place M
 Gottfried E. Noether, the chairman of the department of statistics at the University of Connecticut, died on Thursday at Windham Community Memorial Hospital in Windham, Conn. He was 76 years old and lived in Storrs, Conn. Dr. Noether died of complications from prostate cancer, his w
 Minor Lee Rogers, a specialist in Japanese Buddhism and a professor of religion at Washington & Lee University, died Sunday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 61 years old and lived in Lexington, Va. His son, Dr. John D. Rogers, said he died of complications from metast
 Niven Busch, a screenwriter and novelist best known for his novel "Duel in the Sun," which David O. Selznick made into a classic western film in 1947, died at his home on Sunday. He was 88 years old and lived in San Francisco. He died of heart failure, said his son Jerry. Bo
 Sidney E. Cohn, a lawyer whose half-century-long career included a key role in helping workers in New York City organize and join unions, died on Sunday at his Manhattan home. He was 83 years old. He died of heart disease, his stepson, David Garfield of Los Angeles said. In 
 Dr. Irving Bieber, a psychoanalyst and professor who headed a major study in 1962 on the origins of homosexuality, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of pulmonary complications, a friend of the family said.        
 Joseph B. Lanterman, the former chairman and chief executive officer of Amsted Industries, died Sunday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 76 years old and lived in Chicago and Palm Springs, Calif. He died of kidney failure, said his sister-in-law, Georgia Swicegood
 Arthur J. Quinn, former chief executive officer, president and chairman of the New York Bank for Savings, died on Saturday at his home in Southold, L.I. He was 77 years old and also lived in Manhattan. He died after a heart attack, said his son Kieran P. Quinn of Atlanta. Mr
 Elias Friedensohn, a painter, watercolorist and sculptor and professor emeritus of art at Queens College, died on Monday at his home in Leonia, N.J. He was 67 years old. He died of cancer, said a spokesman for the college. Mr. Friedensohn's work was exhibited at the Corcoran
 The Rev. Dr. John Mosher Mulligan, who directed the 157-year-old Seamen's Church Institute in Manhattan during a period of great growth, died on Sunday at his home in Keene Valley, N.Y. He was 79 years old and also lived in the Florida Keys, in Islamorada. He died after a heart atta
 Nicholas Schaffner, the author of several books about the Beatles and a recent biography of the rock group Pink Floyd, died yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 38 years old, and lived in Manhattan. He died of AIDS, his brother, Val, said. Mr. Schaffner was born in Manh
 Robert M. Pyle, a retired stock and bond broker, died on Saturday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J., after a long illness. He was 86 years old and lived in Short Hills and Mantoloking, N.J. Mr. Pyle, a past president of the New Jersey Bond Club and a member of the New Jersey Secu
 Walter Taylor Fisher, a Chicago lawyer and civic leader who gained national attention for the tenacity with which he pursued a celebrated double-jeopardy case that he argued before the United States Supreme Court, died Tuesday at his home in Highland Park, Ill. He was 99 years old. 
 Dr. Edward W. Luka, president of the New Jersey Board of Medical Examiners and co-founder of the only Polish-language daily newspaper in the United States, died on Sunday at Beth Israel Hospital in Passaic, N.J. He was 58 years old and lived in Garfield, N.J. Dr. Luka, a dermatologi
 George V. Bobrinskoy Jr., a lawyer who represented heirs to the estates of Ernest Hemingway and Igor Stravinsky, died at his home in Chicago on Sunday. He was 57 years old and also lived on his farm in Harvard, Ill. He died of lung cancer, a spokesman at his law firm said. S
 Dr. John Wilson Boylan, an internist who specialized in experimental kidney medicine, died on Tuesday at the University of Connecticut Health Center in Farmington. He was 76 years old. His family gave the cause of death as heart failure and complications from a yearlong illness.    
 Mark Lawrence, a composer, producer and advertising copywriter, died on Saturday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 70 years old. He died of prostate cancer, said his daughter, Wendy. Mr. Lawrence was the founder of Mark-L Enterprises, which produced movies 
 Russell Edwards, a former society editor of The New York Times, died on Wednesday at the Grand Islander Health Center in Middletown, R.I., where he had lived for six years. He was 82 and had lived in Newport, R.I., since he retired in 1976. He died of a ruptured aneurism, said his s
 Sidney Silverman, the founding president of one of New Jersey's largest community colleges, died on Tuesday at Englewood Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived in Hackensack, N.J. He died of complications resulting from a kidney disease, his so, Michael, said. In 1967, Dr. 
 Will Shafroth, who helped shape the current Federal judical system, died Aug. 23 at the Stewart Health Center in the Springmoor retirement community in Raleigh, N. C. He was 97 years old and lived at Springmoor. He died of complications after a stroke, his son, Stephen, of Chapel Hi
 Alekos Sakellarios, one of Greece's most prolific comic playwrights and lyricists whose works frequently portrayed the lighthearted side of crises, died on Thursday. He was 78 years old. He died of a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Sakellarios wrote 187 stage comedies and
 Dudley Dillard, a professor and author who was a specialist in Keynesian economics and the history of the North Atlantic Community, died Wednesday at Leland Hospital in Riverdale, Md. He was 77 years old and lived in University Park, Md. He died after a heart attack, said Mahlon Str
 Gordon Heath, who lived an expatriate life in Paris after winning critical praise on Broadway in 1945 for his performance in "Deep Are the Roots," died on Tuesday at the Clinique Edouard Rie in Paris. He was 72 years old. He died after a long illness, said Alain Woisson, his longtim
 Michael Korn, the founder and artistic director of the Philadelphia Singers, the city's only all-professional chorus, died on Thursday in Pennsylvania Hospital. He was 44 years old. He died of AIDS, said a spokesman for the chorus. Mr. Korn was born in Harrisburg, Pa., and m
 Pierre Guillaumat, often called the architect of France's energy independence and the first president of ELF-Aquitaine, France's largest oil company, died on Wednesday. He was 82 years old. Mr. Guillaumat's family declined to indicate his cause of death, Agence France-Presse said.  
 Ronald G. Segel, who headed two American branches of a British publishing concern, died yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. He was 56 years old. Mr. Segel, a resident of Weston, Mass., died of lung cancer, his family said. He was chairman and chief executive of Reed
 Walter F. Diehl, the international president of the stage and film workers' union Iatse from 1974 to 1986, died on Monday at his home in Allendale, Fla. He was 84 years old. He died of a heart attack, said a union spokesman, Walter Blanchard, in Los Angeles. Mr. Diehl starte
 Will Shafroth, who helped shape the current Federal judical system, died Aug. 23 at the Stewart Health Center in the Springmoor retirement community in Raleigh, N. C. He was 97 years old and lived at Springmoor. He died of complications after a stroke, his son, Stephen, of Chapel Hi
