 Rabbi Balfour Brickner, a voice of Reform Judaism on issues like race and abortion and the rabbi emeritus of the Stephen Wise Free Synagogue in Manhattan, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 78 and lived in Fort Lee, N.J., and Stockbridge, Mass. His death was announced to
 Ken Germann, a former football star and later athletic director at Columbia, and for 14 years the commissioner of the Southern Conference, died Aug. 24 in Glen Ellen, Va. He was 84. Mr. Germann was born in Garden City Park, N.Y. At Columbia, he was a football wingback and punter for
 Nurcholish Madjid, a prominent Muslim scholar in Indonesia who was instrumental in persuading President Suharto to step down, died here on Monday. He was 66. The cause was liver and kidney failure, according to Pondok Hospital in Jakarta. Mr. Madjid, known as the conscience of his n
 Sir Joseph Rotblat, a physicist who was the only scientist to quit working on developing the atomic bomb for moral reasons and who won the Nobel Peace Prize a half-century later for his worldwide campaign to eliminate nuclear weapons, died Wednesday night in London. He was 96. His d
 R.L. Burnside, a blues singer and guitarist who found fame only in his gray years, when his music was embraced by young rock fans and remixed with electronic beats, died yesterday at a hospital in Memphis. He was 78 and lived near Holly Springs, Miss. The cause was unknown, said Mat
 Jan Moor-Jankowski, a scientist known for groundbreaking immunology work with chimpanzees and whose life was defined by many impassioned battles, from fighting Nazis in his native Poland to defending press freedoms to exposing animal abuse, died on Aug. 27 at his home in Manhattan. He was 8
 William H. Rehnquist, who died Saturday at the age of 80 almost a year after learning he had thyroid cancer, helped lead a conservative revolution on the Supreme Court during 19 notably successful years as chief justice of the United States. Including 14 years as an associate justic
 Alan Truscott, the contract bridge columnist of The New York Times for the last 41 years, whose lifelong profession grew out of the card game he learned as a British schoolboy in an air-raid shelter during the London blitz, died yesterday at his summer home in the Adirondacks. He was 80 and
 Robert Denning, an interior decorator whose lush interpretations of French Victorian décor became an emblem of corporate-raider tastes in the 1980's, died on Aug. 26 at his home in New York. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, said his brother, Paul Besser. A silver-ha
 William H. Rehnquist, who died Saturday at the age of 80, almost a year after learning he had thyroid cancer, helped lead a conservative revolution on the Supreme Court during 19 years as chief justice of the United States. Chief Justice's Rehnquist's death came six weeks after he r
 Arnold Weinstein, the poet, playwright and librettist who wrote works performed on and off Broadway, taught playwriting at Yale and Columbia, and collaborated with composers from William Bolcom to Henry Threadgill to Philip Glass, died Sunday at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 78.     
 Dr. Daniel A. Ruge, the White House physician who made crucial decisions in the care of President Ronald Reagan after he was shot in 1981, died Aug. 30 in Denver. He was 88. Dr. Ruge died in his sleep at his home from a ruptured aortic aneurysm, said his daughter, Charlotte Wiessner
 Bob Denver, whose television roles as Gilligan, the wacky first mate in ''Gilligan's Island,'' and Maynard G. Krebs, the beatnik with a bongo in ''The Many Loves of Dobie Gillis,'' were first hits, then cult classics, died on Friday in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 70. Mike Eisenstadt,
 Horace W. Davenport, a physiologist and educator at the University of Michigan who laid a foundation for more effective ulcer treatments by revealing how gastric acid works in digestion without consuming the stomach itself, died Aug. 29 at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 92. The cause w
 Theodore R. Sarbin, a prominent social psychologist who in 1988 helped write a controversial Pentagon report recommending that the United States military end discrimination against gay men and lesbians, died on Aug. 31 at his home in Carmel, Calif. He was 94. The cause was pancreati
 Bernard S. Meyer, a former judge of the New York State Court of Appeals who led an investigation in 1975 into the state's handling of crimes arising from the Attica prison revolt four years earlier, died on Saturday in Valley Stream, N.Y. He was 89. The cause was heart failure, said
 Jacob A. Marinsky, a chemist who helped discover promethium, No.61 in the periodic table and one of several elements isolated during work on the Manhattan Project, died Sept. 1 at his home in Buffalo, where he taught at the State University of New York. He was 87. The cause was multiple mye
 Henry Luce III, the elder son of the founder and editor in chief of Time Inc., who held prominent positions at the company and went on to be head of the Henry Luce Foundation, died on Wednesday at his summer home on Fishers Island, N.Y. He was 80. The cause was not immediately deter
 Stanley Dancer, an eighth-grade dropout who became harness racing's most successful trainer, driver, owner and breeder during the sport's glory days from the 1940's to the 60's, died yesterday in his home in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 78. The cause of death was complications from pr
 Bill Charmatz, a humorous editorial and advertising illustrator best known in the 1960's and 70's for pictorial essays in Sports Illustrated that captured the joy and folly of sporting events, died on Sunday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 80. No cause was an
 Lewis E. Platt, who rose from an entry-level engineer to become the chief executive of Hewlett-Packard, died on Thursday at his home in Petaluma, Calif. He was 64. His death was announced by the company, which did not give a cause. During his tenure as chief of Hewlett-Packa
 Robert W. Funk, founder of the Jesus Seminar, a consortium of Bible scholars who popularized a wave of studies that raised doubts about whether the deeds and sayings attributed to Jesus were historically authentic, died on Sept. 3 at his home in Santa Rosa, Calif. He was 79. The cau
 Charles Capen McLaughlin, who edited the tens of thousands of papers of Frederick Law Olmsted, the designer of Central Park and much more, making Olmsted's remarkable life accessible to both general readers and researchers, died on Sept. 2 at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 76. 
 Chris Schenkel, whose versatility and genial style made him one of the most important sports broadcasters from the 1950's to the 1970's, died yesterday at Lutheran Hospital in Fort Wayne, Ind. He was 82. Mr. Schenkel had emphysema for many years and recently had complications from u
 Clarence Gatemouth Brown, an eminent guitarist and singer who spent his career fighting purism by synthesizing old blues, country, jazz, Cajun and R&B styles, died on Saturday. He was 81. His death was confirmed by Rick Cady, his booking agent, who said Mr. Brown had suffered from l
 Al Casey, a guitarist whose playful acoustic rhythms and solos were a defining feature of Fats Waller's band in the 1930's and 1940's, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 89. The cause was colon cancer, said Albert Vollmer, leader of the Harlem Blues and Jazz Band, with which Mr. Ca
 Eugene Desmond O'Kelly, the former chairman and chief executive of KPMG's United States unit, died Saturday night in his apartment in Manhattan. He was 53. The cause was cancer, according to a statement released by KPMG, the fourth-largest accounting firm in the United States, with 
 Joseph T. Smitherman, who in more than 35 years as mayor of Selma, Ala., went from ardent support of segregation at the time of the notorious 1965 beatings there to pride in his backing among blacks, died on Sunday in Montgomery, Ala. He was 75. No specific cause of death has been d
 Henryk Tomaszewski, whose animated and witty posters for cinema, circus and theater led to the distinctive postwar Polish Poster School style, died on Sunday at his home in Warsaw. He was 91. The cause was a progressive nerve degeneration, which had kept him bedridden for years, sai
 Hermann Michael, a conductor who appeared around the world and was music director of the Phoenix Symphony for seven seasons, died on Sept. 1 at his home in Uffing, Germany. He was 68. The cause was aplastic anemia, a rare blood disease diagnosed in 1999, the orchestra announced.    
 Norman F. Levy, the chairman of the Cross & Brown commercial real estate brokerage of Manhattan from 1976 to 1990, died on Friday. . He was 93 and lived in Fisher Island, Fla. He died in Montauk, N.Y., while staying in a house co-owned by his daughter, Jeanne Levy-Hinte, she said.  
 John H. Slade, a former star athlete in Germany who fled the country in the 1930's and over the next seven decades established a career as a prominent investment banker on Wall Street, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 97 and was believed to be the oldest active member of the 
 Robert Wise, a conscientious craftsman in many movie genres who twice received Academy Awards as best director, died yesterday at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 91. His death was confirmed by Lawrence Mirisch, a family friend. Mr. Wise enjoyed a long care
 David C. Anderson, a journalist and author who wrote extensively about criminal justice in books and in The New York Times, where he was a member of the editorial board for 12 years, died yesterday at the hospice of Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 62 and a Manhattan resident.   
 Robert Wise, a conscientious craftsman in many movie genres who twice received Academy Awards for best director, died on Wednesday at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 91. His death was confirmed by Lawrence Mirisch, a family friend. Mr. Wise enjoyed a long 
 Sir Hermann Bondi, an astronomer and mathematician whose ideas about cosmology shaped an important theory about the origin of the universe, and who later became a leading science adviser to the British government, died last Saturday in Cambridge, England. He was 85. His death was co
 Stanley Burnshaw, a consummate man of letters who was not only a poet, critic, translator, editor, publisher and novelist, but also skilled at setting type by hand, died yesterday on Martha's Vineyard. He was 99. Susan Copen Oken, his wife, confirmed his death. Mr. Burnshaw 
 John Calvin Jureit, the inventor of the Gang-Nail connector plate, a simple-to-use connecting device for roof trusses that helped revolutionize the home-building industry in the 1950's and make housing much more affordable, died Sept. 9 in Stuart, Fla. He was 87. He died a day after
 Perry Lafferty, a retired network television executive who helped produce a string of popular shows, including ''All in the Family,'' ''M*A*S*H,'' ''The Mary Tyler Moore Show'' and ''Maude,'' died on Aug. 25 at his home in Century City, Calif. He was 87. The cause was cancer, his fa
 Donn Clendenon, the most valuable player in the 1969 World Series, when he hit three home runs to help propel the team known as the Miracle Mets to a five-game triumph over the Baltimore Orioles, died Saturday at his home in Sioux Falls, S.D. He was 70. His death was announced by th
 Jay M. Gould, a statistician and epidemiologist whose contention that radiation from nuclear power plants was causing high rates of cancer in surrounding neighborhoods made him a leading figure in the antinuclear movement, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 90 and lived on the U
 Dr. Mansour F. Armaly, an ophthalmologist and researcher who led an early national study of glaucoma and discovered an unusually high incidence of the disease among family members of those who had it, died Aug. 19 at George Washington University Medical Center in Washington. He was 78.     
 The Rev. Dr. Donald S. Harrington, a Unitarian minister who crusaded for social justice and was the public face of New York's Liberal Party in its heyday as a candidate for public office and its titular state chairman, died on Friday in Romania. He was 91. His death was announced by
 Gordon Gould, who fought for three decades for recognition of his work in the invention of the laser -- and eventually won millions of dollars in royalties -- died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85. His death was confirmed by his wife, Marilyn Appel. I
 Simon Wiesenthal, the death camp survivor who dedicated the rest of his life to tracking down fugitive Nazi war criminals, died yesterday at his home in Vienna. He was 96. He died in his sleep, said Rabbi Marvin Hier, dean and founder of the Simon Wiesenthal Center in Los Angeles.  
 Joe Bauman, who hit 72 home runs in 1954 playing for a minor league team in Roswell, N.M., setting a single-season record for professional baseball that stood for nearly half a century, died Tuesday at a hospital in Roswell. He was 83. The cause was pneumonia, which developed after 
 William S. Bartman, an art patron and the founder of a nonprofit publishing company and exhibition space, died last Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 58 and a Manhattan resident. Yael Meridan Schori, president of the board of Art Resources Transfer, or ART, Mr. B
 Michael deCourcy Hinds, a former national correspondent for The New York Times, died on Monday at the NewYork-Presbyterian/Weill Cornell hospital in Manhattan. He was 58 and a Manhattan resident. The cause was complications of multiple myeloma, said his wife, Susan Lapinski.        
 Theodore X. Barber, a psychologist who became a leading critic of hypnosis after his scientific studies concluded that the power of suggestion often worked nearly as well, died on Sept. 10 at a hospital in Framingham, Mass. He was 78 and lived in Ashland, Mass. The cause was a ruptu
 Harold L. Friedman, a chemist who studied the structural and thermodynamic properties of liquids, in work that has relevance to both oceanography and human physiology, died on Sept. 16 at the Long Island State Veterans Home in Stony Brook, N.Y. He was 82. The cause was complications
 Noel Mander, an organ builder who salvaged, repaired and reconstructed organs in London churches damaged in World War II and went on to rebuild and enlarge the great organ in St. Paul's Cathedral, died Sunday at his home in Suffolk, England. He was 93. His son John Pike Mander confi
 Victor Futter, a prominent New York lawyer and professor of law, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhasset. He was 86. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Until recently, Mr. Futter was special counsel to the dean and a professor of law at Hofstra Unive
 William A. Vacchiano, a master of the trumpet who never missed a concert during 38 years in the New York Philharmonic and is said to have instructed some 2,000 students, died on Monday. He was 93. The Juilliard School, where he taught for many years, announced his death. Mr.
 Serge Lang, a leading mathematical theorist who became better known for his academic jousts with nonmathematicians on social and political issues than for his work in geometry and the properties of numbers, died Sept. 12 in Berkeley, Calif. He was 78. The Yale University mathematics
 Tobias Schneebaum, a New York writer, artist and explorer who in the 1950's lived among cannibals in the remote Amazon jungle and, by his own account, sampled their traditional cuisine, died on Tuesday in Great Neck, N.Y. He was in his mid-80's and a longtime resident of Greenwich Village. 
 Don Adams, who played Maxwell Smart in the 1960's sitcom ''Get Smart,'' combining clipped, decisive diction with appalling, hilarious ineptitude, died on Sunday at a Los Angeles hospital. He was 82. The cause was a lung infection, his friend and former agent Bruce Tufeld said, accor
 George Archer, the 1969 Masters champion, who was once the tallest player on the PGA Tour and maybe its best putter, died Sunday at his home in Incline Village, Nev. He was 65. The cause was Burkitt's lymphoma, a form of cancer, which he had been battling for a little more than a ye
 Urie Bronfenbrenner, an internationally renowned psychologist and authority on child development who in the mid-1960's helped found the federal Head Start program, which aids poor preschool children and their families, died on Sunday at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 88. The cause 
 Harry Heltzer, who began at the 3M Company as a $12-a-week manual laborer, invented one of the company's most profitable products and rose to be its top executive, died on Sept. 21 at his home in Lenoir, N.C. He was 94. A granddaughter, Deborah Heltzer, confirmed the death. 
 M. Scott Peck, the psychiatrist and author whose best-selling book ''The Road Less Traveled'' offered millions of readers an inspirational prescription of self-discipline, died on Sunday at his home in Warren, Conn. He was 69. The cause was complications of pancreatic and liver duct
 Austin Leslie, the New Orleans chef whose fried chicken was considered the gold standard even by the South's most persnickety chefs and whose good-natured swagger inspired a television sitcom, died yesterday in Atlanta. He was 71. His death was announced by Stanford Barre, who owns 
 Brian Roylance, an English publisher whose company, Genesis Publications, turned rock into history with hand-crafted, autographed limited editions of musicians' memoirs and photography collections, died on Tuesday in Guildford, England. He was 60. His son, Nicholas, said that Mr. Ro
 Joseph Smagorinsky, a meteorologist and a pioneer in combining computers and mathematical models to make extended predictions of the weather and ultimately of trends in the global climate, died on Sept. 21 at a nursing home in Skillman, N.J. He was 81. The cause was complications of
 Steve Marcus, a jazz saxophonist who was an early exponent of the style that came to be known as fusion, died on Sunday at his home in New Hope, Pa. He was 66. His death was announced by his family, which did not specify the cause. A graduate of the Berklee School of Music i
 Thomas P. Lawless, the chief of police for the Metropolitan Transportation Authority since 2003, died on Wednesday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 62 and lived in Flushing, Queens. The cause was pancreatic cancer, which was diagnosed seven weeks ago, said his son-in-law, Ja
