 Elliott P. Skinner, a former United States ambassador to the Republic of Upper Volta, the West African nation now known as Burkina Faso, and a former chairman of the anthropology department at Columbia University, died April 1 at his home in Washington. He was 82. The cause was hear
 Octavio Frias de Oliveira, who built one of Brazil's biggest and most influential media empires, died at his home in São Paulo on Sunday. He was 94. The cause was kidney failure, his company, Grupo Folha, said. Mr. Frias was the publisher of Folha de São Paulo, Brazil's bi
 Tommy Newsom, the good-humored backup bandleader on ''The Tonight Show'' who earned fame as Johnny Carson's comical punching bag -- and respect among musicians as a composer, arranger and saxophone soloist -- died on Saturday at his home in Portsmouth, Va. He was 78. The cause was c
 Carl Friedrich von Weizsäcker, whose discoveries helped define nuclear astrophysics and whose work toward developing an atomic bomb for Nazi Germany spurred him to help found his country's postwar peace movement, died April 28 in the Bavarian town of Starnberg. He was 94. His death
 Donald P. Lay, a former chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit who rigorously defended the rights of women, Native Americans and convicts during his 40 years on the bench, died Sunday at his home in North Oaks, Minn. He was 80. The death was announc
 Tom Poston, an Emmy-winning comic actor whose television characters ranged from the slow-witted Everyman on "The Steve Allen Show" to a cantankerous closet-dwelling clown on the recent sitcom "Committed," died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 85. Mr. Poston died after a 
 Tom Poston, an Emmy-winning comic actor whose television characters ranged from the slow-witted Everyman on ''The Steve Allen Show'' to a cantankerous closet-dwelling clown on the recent sitcom ''Committed,'' died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 85. Mr. Poston died afte
 Henry LeTang, a master dancer, teacher and Tony-winning choreographer who for three-quarters of a century taught the leading lights of Broadway and Hollywood how to tap dance, often with show-stopping results, died last Thursday in Las Vegas. He was 91 and was active until shortly before hi
 Robert M. Warner, who built a legislative consensus to wrest the National Archives from political control when he was its director, died on April 24 in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack after a yearlong battle with cancer, his son, Mark Warner, said. From 1980
 J. Robert Bradley, whose deep, swooping, octave-leaping voice and charismatic presence made him one of the most important figures in gospel music, died yesterday in Nashville. He was 87. The cause was complications of diabetes, said Anthony Heilbut, the author of ''The Gospel Sound:
 Walter M. Schirra Jr., one of the original Mercury Seven astronauts and the only astronaut to fly in all three of NASA's earliest manned space programs -- Mercury, Gemini and Apollo -- died yesterday in San Diego. He was 84 and lived in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif. His death, at a hospit
 Edward F. Boyd, who as a young sales executive parlayed his assignment to promote Pepsi-Cola to fellow blacks into a war against white racism and black stereotypes, meanwhile selling oceans more soda, died on April 30 in Los Angeles, PepsiCo announced. He was 92. Pepsi hired Mr. Boy
 Russell W. Kruse, whose sonorous voice auctioned off everything from funeral parlors to castles, but who achieved fame for thinking up and building the business of auctioning classic cars, including ones owned by the pope and Al Capone, died Friday, in Fort Wayne, Ind. He was 85. Th
 Diego Corrales, who once held four world boxing championships and was remembered most for a pair of brutal lightweight bouts two years ago, died Monday night in a motorcycle accident on the outskirts of Las Vegas. He was 29. Corrales was riding a new motorcycle when he tried to pass
 Yahweh ben Yahweh, who, as the charismatic leader of a religious, black separatist sect in the Miami area was convicted of conspiring to murder white people as an initiation rite, died on Monday night or early yesterday in Miami. He was 71. The cause was cancer, his lawyer, Jayne We
 Alan V. Lowenstein, a prominent New Jersey lawyer who headed the commission that drafted the restructuring of Newark's government in the 1950s, allowing for the direct election of the mayor, and who also led one of the nation's early attempts at employee ownership of a major company, died T
 Curtis Harrington, who dived under his seat while watching his first horror film as a child, then went on to be a filmmaker known for his elegant, edgy cinematic forays into the macabre, died on Sunday at his home in the Hollywood Hills section of Los Angeles. He was 80. Robert Mund
 Theodore H. Maiman, a physicist who on May 16, 1960, demonstrated the world's first laser, a device small enough to fit in his hand, died on May 5 in Vancouver, British Columbia. He was 79. The cause was systemic mastocytosis, a rare genetic disorder, his wife, Kathleen, said.      
 Alfred D. Chandler Jr., an economic historian who revolutionized the writing of business history, shunning the old debate about whether tycoons are good or bad, and instead arguing persuasively in almost two dozen books that it was the emergence of professional management that propelled mod
 Leonard D. Eron, a psychologist whose pioneering studies of youth violence led him to conclude that television had a significant role in prompting destructive behavior in later life, died on May 3 at his home in Lindenhurst, Ill., near Chicago He was 87. The cause was congestive hea
 John K. Lattimer, a prominent urologist, ballistics expert and collector of historical relics who treated top-ranking Nazis during the Nuremberg war crimes trials and was the first nongovernmental medical specialist allowed to examine the evidence in President John F. Kennedy's assassinatio
 Stanley Holden, whose Chaplinesque blend of wistfulness and wit made him one of the finest character dancers in Britain's Royal Ballet before he settled in Los Angeles and became one of the area's most popular ballet teachers, died on Friday in Thousand Oaks, Calif. He was 79. The c
 William Becker, who after enduring rundown, though not particularly cheap, motel rooms on a cross-country trip in 1960 got the idea for the Motel 6 chain, charging $6 a night for a spare but clean room, died April 2 at his ranch outside Kingman, Ariz. He was 85. The cause was a hear
 The Rev. Jerry Falwell, the fundamentalist preacher who founded the Moral Majority and brought the language and passions of religious conservatives into the hurly-burly of American politics, died yesterday in Lynchburg, Va. He was 73. His death was announced by Liberty University, i
 Robert S. Oelman, who was chief executive of the NCR Corporation for 17 years and moved in the circles of leaders of business, politics and golf, died in Delray Beach, Fla., last Thursday. He was 97. Mr. Oelman worked for NCR, based in Dayton, Ohio, for 47 years, and also served on 
 Thomas Curry, one of two New York City police officers who were seriously wounded by machine-gun fire in 1971 while guarding the Manhattan district attorney's home, died on Monday in the Bronx. He was 74. The cause was cancer, his wife, Mary Lou Curry, said. Officer Curry an
 Myer Shark, a Minnesota consumer lawyer whose last case sought to recover $300 million of taxes that electric customers paid a utility but that federal and state governments never received, died yesterday in a suburb of Minneapolis, days after filing the final papers in the case. He was 94.
 Norman Frank, the public relations executive who in 1966 devised the strategy by which New York City's police union turned back Mayor John V. Lindsay's attempt to create a civilian complaint review board, died Friday near his home in Miami. He was 82. The death was announced by his 
 Denis G. Kuhn, an architect who oversaw many major restoration and reuse projects in New York City, including the transformation of the Alexander Hamilton Custom House into the Smithsonian's National Museum of the American Indian and the conversion of the old Police Department headquarters 
 Giorgio Cavaglieri, an architect who took his fascination with how buildings and cities change over time from his native Italy to New York, where he helped start and define the city's preservation movement, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 95. His nephew Andrew Tesoro announced 
 Donald M. Ginsberg, a physicist who became a leading expert on the production and functioning of superconductors, died on May 7 at his home in Urbana, Ill. He was 73. The cause was melanoma, his family said. In their various forms, superconductors are used in computers, elec
 Lloyd Alexander, a National Book Award-winning author of fantasy novels for young people whose work was noted for its romantic locales, complex characters and barely concealed allegorical depictions of the struggle against tyranny, died on Thursday at his home in Drexel Hill, Pa. He was 83.
 Alphonse Ardoin, a Louisiana Creole accordionist and singer nicknamed Bois Sec whose music stalwartly sustained South Louisiana tradition, died Wednesday of natural causes in Eunice, La., where he had been living in a nursing home, said his son Morris. He was 91 years old. For five 
 Robert N. Buck, a distinguished pilot who in the 1930s crossed the continent at record speed, flew a light plane higher than anyone had done before and photographed ancient ruins of the Yucatán from the air for the first time -- all by the age of 20 -- died on April 14 in Berlin, Vt. He wa
 Anthony M. Brooks, who led a network of saboteurs who delayed German reinforcements for weeks after the Normandy invasion, died on April 19 in London. He was 85. The cause was stomach cancer, said M. R. D. Foot, a historian and friend of Mr. Brooks. Mr. Brooks was 20 when he
 Eugen Weber, the Romanian-born, English-educated American historian who was one of the world's foremost interpreters of modern France and an authority on modern Europe, died Thursday at his home in Los Angeles, where he had taught at U.C.L.A. and was a former dean of its College of Letters 
 Roy De Forest, a Bay Area artist whose paintings depicted a comical, crowded frontier land of people and animals in patchworks of scorched, textured color, died on Friday in Vallejo, Calif. He was 77 and lived in nearby Port Costa. His death was confirmed by George Adams, his New Yo
 Stanley L. Miller, a scientist whose spectacular discovery as a young graduate student pioneered the study of the origin of life on earth, died Sunday at a hospital near his home in National City, Calif. He was 77. The cause was heart failure, said his brother, Donald Miller.       
 Kenneth L. Sokoloff, an economic historian who was a leading expert on the role the United States patent system played in technological and productivity advances in the 19th century, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 54. The cause was liver cancer, said his father, Dr. Louis Sok
 Pierre-Gilles de Gennes, who received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1991 for studying the boundary lines between order and disorder in materials like liquid crystals and polymers, died Friday in Orsay, a Paris suburb. He was 74. His death was reported by the newspaper Le Monde, whic
 Douglas Holmes, a noted social psychologist who spent his career investigating means of improving social services for people at both ends of the life cycle -- children and the elderly -- died on Wednesday at his home in Weston, Conn. He was 73 and also had a home in Manhattan. The c
 Harvey J. Weinstein, a formal wear manufacturer whose kidnapping and survival after 12 days in a barrel-shaped pit near the Hudson River in Manhattan made headlines around the country in August 1993, died on May 13 at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. He died after a long illness, h
 Philip M. Kaiser, a former ambassador to Austria, Hungary and Senegal who served as a diplomat or political appointee under every Democratic president from Harry S. Truman to Jimmy Carter, died Thursday in Washington. He was 93. The cause was pneumonia, said his son Charles.        
 Harold E. Froehlich, a resourceful engineer who applied the principles of aeronautics and balloons to help design the Alvin, the deep-diving exploratory submarine used to recover a misplaced hydrogen bomb in the 1960s and to explore the Titanic wreck, died on May 19 in Maplewood, Minn. He w
 Kawika Kapahulehua, who, in 1976, as the seasoned captain of the first ocean-voyaging canoe to sail from Hawaii to Tahiti in perhaps 600 years battled fierce storms, becalmed seas and a mutiny, died on May 17 in Honolulu. He was 76. Ben Finney, the anthropologist who wanted to prove
 Charles Nelson Reilly, who acted and directed on Broadway but came to be best known for his campy television appearances on talk shows and ''Match Game,'' died on Friday in Los Angeles. He was 76 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said his p
 Indar Jit Rikhye, a major general in the Indian Army who was a key military adviser to United Nations peacekeepers around the world and then founding president of a research institute devoted to training peacekeepers, died May 21 in Charlottesville, Va. He was 86. The cause was resp
 James Beck, a Columbia University art historian who became well known as a critic of what he viewed as the ruinous conservation of world masterpieces, including Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel ceiling, died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was cancer, according to Columb
 Dr. Tod H. Mikuriya, a California psychiatrist who was widely regarded as the grandfather of the medical marijuana movement in the United States, died on May 20 at his home in Berkeley. He was 73. The cause was complications of cancer, his family told California news organizations. 
 Parren J. Mitchell, who as the first black elected to Congress from Maryland led the Congressional Black Caucus and spearheaded programs to aid minority-owned business, an effort he viewed as the second phase of the civil rights movement, died on Monday in Baltimore. He was 85. The 
 Earl Ubell, a science reporter and editor familiar to generations of New Yorkers for his wide-ranging reports in newspapers and on television, died on Tuesday in a nursing home in Englewood, N.J. He was 80 and had lived in Hackensack, N.J. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his wife
 Jörg Immendorff, a German painter best known for crowded scenes depicting an acidic, often autobiographical comedy of art, politics and history, died on Monday at his home in Düsseldorf. He was 61. He died of complications from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's diseas
 Sam Kagel, a mediator and arbitrator whose career settling labor disputes ranged from the rowdy San Francisco docks of the 1930s to the N.F.L. fields of the early 1980s, died on May 21 in San Francisco. He was 98. His son, John, announced the death. In 1982, a strike by Nati
