Allan V. Cox, dean of earth sciences at Stanford University, died Tuesday of injuries suffered in a bicycle accident near his home in Woodside, Calif. He was 60 years old.  Dr. Cox, who became a Stanford professor in 1967 and was appointed dean in 1979, was known for his work in paleo
George W. Wyckoff, a former vice president and governor of T. Mellon & Sons, a Pittsburgh investment management concern, died Jan. 23 at the Latrobe Hospital in Latrobe, Pa. He was 80 years old. George W. Wyckoff, a former vice president and governor of T. Mellon & Sons, a Pit
Robert Bradford Browne, a Miami architect noted for his distinctive designs of tropical homes and buildings in Florida, the Caribbean and Mexico, died Thursday of cancer. He was 64 years old. Robert Bradford Browne, a Miami architect noted for his distinctive designs of tropic
The brother and sister-in-law of the fashion designer Albert Nipon were found shot to death in their oceanfront condominium Saturday morning, the authorities said. The brother and sister-in-law of the fashion designer Albert Nipon were found shot to death in their oceanfront c
Christian Broda, a former Austrian Justice Minister who fought long and successfully for abolishing the death penalty, died today at his home, apparently after a heart attack, according to relatives. He was 70 years old. Christian Broda, a former Austrian Justice Minister who 
Harold M. Florsheim, former chairman of the Florsheim Shoe Company, died here Friday. He was 87 years old. Harold M. Florsheim, former chairman of the Florsheim Shoe Company, died here Friday. He was 87 years old. Mr. Florsheim was the son of Milton F. Florsheim, who f
Robert Edward Waterman, a research chemist associated with the discovery and mass manufacture of synthetic vitamin B1, died Saturday at his winter home in Delray Beach, Fla., following a brief illness. He was 87 years old and a resident of Morristown, N.J. Robert Edward Waterm
Ted Fagan, a simultaneous translator for 30 years at the United Nations who became the organization's chief interpreter, died Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 66 years old. Ted Fagan, a simultaneous translator for 30 years at the United Nations who became the organiza
Yves Allegret, a prominent French film maker, died Saturday, his family announced in Paris. He was 79 years old. Yves Allegret, a prominent French film maker, died Saturday, his family announced in Paris. He was 79 years old. Perhaps Mr. Allegret's most notable film wa
Alistair MacLean, author of ''The Guns of Navarone'' and one of the biggest-selling adventure writers in the world, died of heart failure yesterday in Munich, West Germany. He was 64 years old and lived near Geneva. Alistair MacLean, author of ''The Guns of Navarone'' and one 
Donald S. Lowitz, a Chicago lawyer who was the chief United States delegate to the United Nations Disarmament Conference here, died Saturday, apparently of a heart attack, American officials said today. He was 57 years old. Donald S. Lowitz, a Chicago lawyer who was the chief 
Edmund Pendleton, organist at the American Church in Paris for 40 years and a composer and choirmaster, died Friday at his Paris home, his family said today. He was 86. Edmund Pendleton, organist at the American Church in Paris for 40 years and a composer and choirmaster, died
Ted Fagan, a simultaneous translator for 30 years at the United Nations who became the organization's chief interpreter, died Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 66 years old. Ted Fagan, a simultaneous translator for 30 years at the United Nations who became the organiza
Bohdan Nagorski, a port and shipping specialist, died Jan. 27 at Cabrini Medical Center. He was 96 years old and lived in Manhattan. Bohdan Nagorski, a port and shipping specialist, died Jan. 27 at Cabrini Medical Center. He was 96 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr.
Dr. Jay E. Greene, who three times served as chairman of the New York City school system's Board of Examiners during the 23 years he served on the board, died Friday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 72 years old and lived in Queens and Palm Beach Gardens, Fla
Prince Takamatsu, a younger brother of Emperor Hirohito and a philanthropist, died of lung cancer today in a Tokyo hospital. He was 82 years old. Prince Takamatsu, a younger brother of Emperor Hirohito and a philanthropist, died of lung cancer today in a Tokyo hospital. He was
Gerhard Klopfer, a former SS general who was the last surviving member of the 1942 Berlin conference that plotted the ''Final Solution'' to systematically kill European Jews, died Jan. 28. He was 81 years old. Gerhard Klopfer, a former SS general who was the last surviving mem
James H. Stubblebine, an art historian at Rutgers University, died of a heart attack Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan. James H. Stubblebine, an art historian at Rutgers University, died of a heart attack Tuesday at St. 
Liberace, whose glitzy costumes, giant candelabra and extravagant showmanship made him almost as famous as his piano playing, died yesterday at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 67 years old. His spokesman in New York, Denise Collier, said the cause of death was cardiac arrest d
Carl R. Rogers, a popular author and preeminent American psychotherapist whose influence has spanned decades, died Wednesday night of a heart attack after surgery for a broken hip at the Scripps Clinic in La Jolla, Calif. He was 85 years old. Dr. Rogers, a psychologist, was known for 
Dr. Martin Louis Kaye, a general practitioner on New York's Lower East Side for almost 60 years, died Wednesday at University Hospital after a brief illness. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Martin Louis Kaye, a general practitioner on New York's Lower East Side
George W. Woodruff, a director of the Coca-Cola Company for 49 years and a major contributor to education and medicine in Georgia, died of pneumonia Wednesday at Emory University Hospital. He was 91 years old. George W. Woodruff, a director of the Coca-Cola Company for 49 year
Michael Burke, who when president of the New York Yankess got the city to refurbish Yankee Stadium and kept the team from moving to the New Jersey Meadowlands, died of cancer yesterday in Ireland. He was 70 years old. Michael Burke, who when president of the New York Yankess g
Danny O'Neil, a consulting producer and a former acting program manager at Channel 31, died Thursday at Doctors Hospital of acquired immune deficiency syndrome, according to his family. He was 45 years old. Danny O'Neil, a consulting producer and a former acting program manage
Dr. Emery S. Hetrick, who helped establish a network of social service agencies for New York's homosexual community, died Wednesday of respiratory failure attributed to an AIDS-related condition. He was 56 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Emery S. Hetrick, who helped esta
Dr. Jerome S. Coles, a physician who was chairman of the trustees of New York University Medical Center, died in his sleep Thursday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 74 years old and also lived in Southampton, L.I. Dr. Jerome S. Coles, a physician who was chairman of the trus
Hugh Johnson, senior vice president of Salem House Publishers, died of a heart attack Wednesday while vacationing on Grand Cayman Island in the Bahamas. He was 67 years old and lived in Clifton, N.J. Hugh Johnson, senior vice president of Salem House Publishers, died of a hear
Michael Burke, who as president of the Yankees got the city to refurbish Yankee Stadium and kept the team from moving to the Meadowlands in New Jersey, died of cancer Thursday in Ireland. He was 70 years old. Michael Burke, who as president of the Yankees got the city to refur
Richard Porter Leach, the founder and a former director of the Saratoga Performing Arts Center, a nonprofit corporation, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home in Saratoga Springs, N. Y. He was 75 years old. Richard Porter Leach, the founder and a former director of the S
Hundreds of people mourned Liberace at a memorial service today while a coroner, questioning the pianist's reported cause of death, examined his body for signs of AIDS. Hundreds of people mourned Liberace at a memorial service today while a coroner, questioning the pianist's r
E. Robert Livernash, professor emeritus at Harvard Business School, died of cancer Monday at the Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 77 years old. E. Robert Livernash, professor emeritus at Harvard Business School, died of cancer Monday at the Brigham and Women's Ho
Francis Wells Davison, a physician who specialized in disorders of the ear, nose and throat, died Thursday at the Geisinger Medical Center in Danville, Pa. He was 84 years old. Francis Wells Davison, a physician who specialized in disorders of the ear, nose and throat, died Th
J. Philip Smith, a former vice president and director of Pfizer Inc., died Friday at his home in Boynton Beach, Fla., after a long illness. He was 72 years old. J. Philip Smith, a former vice president and director of Pfizer Inc., died Friday at his home in Boynton Beach, Fla.
John Leypoldt, a former place-kicker for the Buffalo Bills, died today of an apparent heart attack. He was 40 years old. John Leypoldt, a former place-kicker for the Buffalo Bills, died today of an apparent heart attack. He was 40 years old. From 1971 to 1976, Leypoldt
Alfred Lion, who founded the influential Blue Note Records jazz label, died last Monday of heart failure at Pomerado Hospital in the San Diego suburb of Poway. He was 78 years old. Alfred Lion, who founded the influential Blue Note Records jazz label, died last Monday of heart
Davidson Dunton, a former journalist and retired president of Carleton University, died in a hospital here Saturday. He was 74 years old. Davidson Dunton, a former journalist and retired president of Carleton University, died in a hospital here Saturday. He was 74 years old.  
Herk van Tongeren, a sculptor, died Thursday, apparently of a heart attack, in Seattle. He was 43 years old and lived in Hopewell, N.J. Herk van Tongeren, a sculptor, died Thursday, apparently of a heart attack, in Seattle. He was 43 years old and lived in Hopewell, N.J.      
Stuart T. Saunders, a railroad merger specialist who was a driving force in the creation of the Penn Central Railroad and who served as its chairman, died Saturday of heart failure at Stuart Circle Hospital in Richmond, Va. He was 77 years old. Stuart T. Saunders, a railroad m
Warren Arthur Bahr, a former chief operating officer of the advertising agency Isidore Lefkowitz & Elgort Inc., died at his home in North Salem, N.Y., on Friday. He was 62 years old. Warren Arthur Bahr, a former chief operating officer of the advertising agency Isidore Lefkowi
William E. Chilton 3d, the firebrand publisher of The Charleston Gazette, died of a heart attack Saturday while playing in a squash tournament in Washington, D.C. He was 65 years old. William E. Chilton 3d, the firebrand publisher of The Charleston Gazette, died of a heart att
Claudio Villa, the Little King of Italian song, died late Saturday in a hospital where he had heart surgery last month. He was 61 years old. Claudio Villa, the Little King of Italian song, died late Saturday in a hospital where he had heart surgery last month. He was 61 years 
Carlos Clarens, a movie historian, died of a heart attack Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 56 years old and lived in Manhattan. Carlos Clarens, a movie historian, died of a heart attack Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 56 years old and lived in Manhattan.      
John M. Hightower, who won a Pulitzer Prize and other honors as a diplomatic correspondent for The Associated Press, died today of cancer. He was 77 years old. John M. Hightower, who won a Pulitzer Prize and other honors as a diplomatic correspondent for The Associated Press, 
Charles Stewart Desmond, who was Chief Judge of New York from 1960 through 1966, died Monday at Mercy Hospital in Buffalo. He was 90 years old and lived on a farm in Eden, N.Y., near Buffalo. Charles Stewart Desmond, who was Chief Judge of New York from 1960 through 1966, died
Emanuel Heller, professor of marketing and dean of students at Pace Unversity's Manhattan campus, died Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan. Emanuel Heller, professor of marketing and dean of students at Pace Unversity's Manhattan campus
R. V. Carleton, an aviation pioneer and retired Braniff pilot and executive, died at a hospital Tuesday after a long illness. He was 81 year old. R. V. Carleton, an aviation pioneer and retired Braniff pilot and executive, died at a hospital Tuesday after a long illness. He wa
Sir John Burgess, chairman of Reuters from 1959 to 1969, died Tuesday after a short illness. He was 74 years old. Sir John Burgess, chairman of Reuters from 1959 to 1969, died Tuesday after a short illness. He was 74 years old. Sir John had spent his life involved with
Jules Bergman, science editor of ABC News for more than 25 years, was found dead yesterday in his apartment on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 57 years old.  The police said Mr. Bergman's body was found by a maid, Argelia Torres, in a bathtub with scalding water running. A sp
Henry Bohn Hass, a specialist in organic chemistry who is credited with the discovery of gas chromatography, one of chemistry's most powerful analytic tools, died of pnuemonia yesterday at Long Island Jewish Hospital, Manhasset, N.Y. He was 85 years old and lived in Queens. He
John J. Meehan, a New York lawyer, died Tuesday at North Shore University Hospital as the result of injuries he suffered earlier in a fall outside his home in Plandome, L.I. He was 70 years old. John J. Meehan, a New York lawyer, died Tuesday at North Shore University Hospital
Karolos Koun, a Greek theater director whose lively staging of ancient Greek plays won him acclaim in Europe, died last Saturday after suffering a heart attack, according to friends in Athens. He was 78 years old. Karolos Koun, a Greek theater director whose lively staging of 
Richard Kendrick, a retired actor, died at the Bellevue Hospital Center last Tuesday after suffering a stroke. He was in his early 80's and lived in Manhattan. Richard Kendrick, a retired actor, died at the Bellevue Hospital Center last Tuesday after suffering a stroke. He was
Theodore M. Weis, a trumpet player with several classical ensembles in New York, died, apparently of a heart attack, at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital on Saturday. He was 66 years old and lived in Englewood. Theodore M. Weis, a trumpet player with several classical ensembles in New
Dr. Leonardo Santamarina, professor emeritus of Spanish language and literature at Douglass College in New Brunswick, N.J., died Thursday at the Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick. He was 74 years old and lived in Franklin Township, N.J. Dr. Leonardo Sant
Edwin M. Appel, a founder and senior partner of the accounting firm of Oppenheim, Appel, Dixon & Company and a philanthropist, died of cancer Sunday in Desert Hospital in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 70 years old and lived in New York. Edwin M. Appel, a founder and senior partn
Federal District Judge Gus J. Solomon, who championed the cause of civil rights in a 58-year career, died Sunday of complications resulting from cancer. He was 80 years old. Federal District Judge Gus J. Solomon, who championed the cause of civil rights in a 58-year career, di
Sanders Kahn, head of Sanders A. Kahn Associates, a New York real-estate and financial consulting concern, died of a heart attack Thursday at St. Clare's Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in Kinnelon, N.J. Sanders Kahn, head of Sanders A. Kahn Associates, a New York real
Bryce N. Harlow, a Presidential counselor and speechwriter who held key positions in the Eisenhower and Nixon Administrations, died today. He was 70 years old. Bryce N. Harlow, a Presidential counselor and speechwriter who held key positions in the Eisenhower and Nixon Adminis
Anthony R. DiPaola, a former first deputy commissioner of the New York City Department of Water Supply, Gas and Electricity in the 1950's, died of a liver ailment last Wednesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 78 years old and lived in Queens. Anthony R. DiPaola,
Dmitri Kabalevsky, a Soviet composer best known for his suite ''The Comedians'' and the Overture to his opera ''Colas Breugnon,'' has died at the age of 82, Tass, the official Soviet press agency, said yesterday. Tass provided no details of Mr. Kabalevsky's death but said that leaders
Enno W. Ercklentz, a retired banker and industrialist, died Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan. Enno W. Ercklentz, a retired banker and industrialist, died Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan.        
Oliver H. Renninger, a survivor of the first reported airplane crash, died Sunday of kidney failure at the Lebanon Veteran's Administration Medical Center. He was 103 years old. Oliver H. Renninger, a survivor of the first reported airplane crash, died Sunday of kidney failure
Allan Mitchell (Al) Robbins, a video artist who showed his work at the Whitney Museum and Anthology Film Archives here as well as at museums abroad, died of a heart attack Feb. 8 in San Francisco. He was 49 years old and lived in New York City. Allan Mitchell (Al) Robbins, a v
J. Truman Bidwell, former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange and an exchange member for 55 years, died Tuesday in the Naples (Fla.) Community Hospital after suffering a stroke two weeks earlier. He was 83 years old and lived in Naples. J. Truman Bidwell, former chairman o
J. Raymond Ylitalo, former United States Ambassador to Paraguay, died of cancer on Feb. 10 at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 70 years old and lived in Washington. J. Raymond Ylitalo, former United States Ambassador to Paraguay, died of cancer on Feb. 10 at Sibl
Dr. Henry Blumenthal, a historian of Franco-American relations at Rutgers University for many years, died Tuesday at the New York University Medical Center. He was 75 years old and lived in South Orange, N.J. Dr. Henry Blumenthal, a historian of Franco-American relations at Ru
Dr. Edward H. Rynearson, a retired Mayo Clinic physician who argued against prolonging the lives of those with incurable diseases, died here Tuesday in an automobile accident. He was 86 years old. Dr. Edward H. Rynearson, a retired Mayo Clinic physician who argued against prol
Henry-Russell Hitchcock, one of the country's most distinguished architectural historians and teachers, died of cancer yesterday in New York. He was 83 years old. Henry-Russell Hitchcock, one of the country's most distinguished architectural historians and teachers, died of ca
Charles C. Wei, a shipping executive and a leading figure in contract bridge, died in New York Hospital yesterday from complications resulting from diabetes. He was 72 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Houston. Charles C. Wei, a shipping executive and a leading figure i
George F. Tibbles, a composer and television writer who put Woody Woodpecker's laugh to music and got an Academy Award nomination for the effort, died last Saturday at the Eisenhower Medical Center. He was 73 years old. George F. Tibbles, a composer and television writer who p
Gerald Hahn, a painter and associate professor of art at Queens College, died of Hodgkin's disease on Monday at the Westchester County Medical Center. He was 48 years old and lived in Manhattan. Gerald Hahn, a painter and associate professor of art at Queens College, died of H
N. Philip Bastedo, a lawyer and former president of the trustees of the Hospital for Special Surgery, died Thursday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan. N. Philip Bastedo, a lawyer and former president of the trustees of the Hosp
Dr. P. Harvey Chase, former chief of medicine at Brooklyn Jewish Hospital, now Interfaith Medical Center, died of cancer Wednesday at North Shore University Hospital, Manhasset, L.I. He was 57 years old and lived in Roslyn, L.I. Dr. P. Harvey Chase, former chief of medicine at
Sir Hugh Carleton Greene, a former director general of the British Broadcasting Corporation and a brother of Graham Greene, the novelist, died of cancer Thursday at a London hospital. He was 76 years old. Sir Hugh headed the BBC television and radio networks from 1960 until 1969. He j
Joseph Cardinal Parecattil, retired Roman Catholic Archbishop of Ernakulam in southern India, died Friday in Cochin, the United News of India reported today. He was 74 years old. Joseph Cardinal Parecattil, retired Roman Catholic Archbishop of Ernakulam in southern India, died
Dr. P. Harvey Chase, former chief of medicine at Brooklyn Jewish Hospital, now Interfaith Medical Center, died of cancer Wednesday at North Shore University Hospital, Manhasset, L.I. He was 57 years old and lived in Roslyn, L.I. Dr. P. Harvey Chase, former chief of medicine at
Philip Lawrence, an actor and director noted for his work in Shakespearean and other classical stage productions, died Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan of complications resulting from diabetes. He was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan. Philip Lawrence, an actor 
Andy Warhol, a founder of Pop Art whose paintings and prints of Presidents, movie stars, soup cans and other icons of America made him one of the most famous artists in the world, died yesterday. He was believed to be 58 years old. Andy Warhol, a founder of Pop Art whose paint
David Susskind, the television producer and one of the country's earliest and best-known television talk-show hosts, was found dead, apparently of natural causes, yesterday afternoon in his hotel suite in midtown Manhattan. He was 66 years old.  Although Mr. Susskind had given up ''Th
Petro G. Grigorenko, a Red Army general who became an outspoken critic of the Soviet Government, died in exile Saturday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 79 years old and lived in Sunnyside, Queens. Petro G. Grigorenko, a Red Army general 
Edward G. Lansdale, an Air Force officer whose influential theories of counterinsurgent warfare proved successful in the Philippines after World War II but failed to bring victory in South Vietnam, died yesterday at his home in McLean, Va. He was 79 years old and had a heart ailment. 
Dr. Frank A. Calderone, an authority on preventive medicine and on public health who was a leading figure in the World Health Organization in its formative years, died of emphysema on Feb. 10 at Doctor's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 years old and lived in Old Brookville, L.I.     
Glenway Wescott, one of the last of the major expatriate American writers who lived in France in the 1920's and 30's, died of a stroke Sunday night at his home in Rosemont, N.J. He was 85 years old. Glenway Wescott, one of the last of the major expatriate American writers who 
Henry John Heinz 2d, chairman of the H. J. Heinz Company and the father of Senator John Heinz, Republican of Pennsylvania, died today in Florida. He was 78 years old.  He died at the family's winter home in Hobe Sound after a short illness, a company spokesman, Mike Kelly, said in a b
Dr. George H. Vineyard, a former director of the Brookhaven National Laboratory in Upton, L.I., died of cancer Saturday at University Hospital in Stony brook, L.I. He was 66 years old and lived in Bellport, L.I. Dr. George H. Vineyard, a former director of the Brookhaven Natio
Edwin McArthur, a conductor, accompanist, singing coach, composer and biographer of Kirsten Flagstad, died yesterday at his studio in Manhattan, immediately after giving a lesson. He was 79 years old and lived in Hackensack, N.J. Edwin McArthur, a conductor, accompanist, singi
Ike Vern, a freelance magazine photographer and documentary film maker, died Monday after heart surgery at the Texas Heart Institute of St. Luke's Hospital in Houston. He was 70 years old and lived in Orlando, Fla. He was a former resident of Manhattan. Ike Vern, a freelance m
Libya sought to acquire the ability to produce nuclear weapons in 1981 negotiations with Edwin P. Wilson, a former Central Intelligence Agency official, and other arms dealers, according to a report made public today. Libya sought to acquire the ability to produce nuclear weap
William T. Fairbourn, who retired from the Marines with the rank of major general and then spoke out against the nuclear arms race, died Saturday. He was 72 years old. William T. Fairbourn, who retired from the Marines with the rank of major general and then spoke out against 
William M. Masland, a former pilot who in 1943 commanded the first round-the-world flight by a commercial aircraft, died of a heart attack Friday at his home in Manhasset, L.I. He was 79 years old. William M. Masland, a former pilot who in 1943 commanded the first round-the-wo
George S. Musulin, a World War II veteran who helped evacuate 400 American airmen from Nazi-occupied Yugoslavia in 1944, died Saturday of complications of diabetes at the age of 72. He lived in McLean, Va.. George S. Musulin, a World War II veteran who helped evacuate 400 Amer
James Coco, who was proclaimed a Broadway star for a touching and flamboyantly amusing performance in Neil Simon's ''Last of the Red Hot Lovers,'' died last night at St. Vincent's Hospital of a heart attack. He was 57 years old. James Coco, who was proclaimed a Broadway star f
John A. Lowe, a former assistant United States Attorney in Manhattan, died Friday of a cerebral aneurism at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 44 years old and lived in Manhattan and Westhampton Beach, L.I. John A. Lowe, a former assistant United States Attorney 
Prof. Jose Vazquez-Amaral, a critic of Spanish literature and a professor at Rutgers University, died Tuesday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He had a heart condition. He was 73 years old and lived in Warren, N.J. Prof. Jose Vazquez-Amaral, a critic of Spanish literature 
Lionel Meyers Harrison, a New York lawyer and businessman, died of cancer Tuesday at the Winthrop University Hospital, Mineola, L.I. He was 72 years old and lived in Westbury, L.I. Lionel Meyers Harrison, a New York lawyer and businessman, died of cancer Tuesday at the Winthro
Vincent H. Herrmann, a retired government bond dealer on Wall Street, died Tuesday at the North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 80 years old and lived in Mattituck, L.I. Vincent H. Herrmann, a retired government bond dealer on Wall Street, died Tuesday at t
William H. Nims, retired assistant secretary of the Ford Foundation, died of a pulmonary embolism Saturday at St. Luke's Hospital. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan. William H. Nims, retired assistant secretary of the Ford Foundation, died of a pulmonary embolism Satu
Arthur A. Collins, a pioneer in radio communications, avionics and telecommunications who was founder of the Collins Radio Company, died Wednesday at Gaston Episcopal Hospital in Dallas, the city where he had lived for the last 14 years. He was 77 years old. Arthur A. Collins,
Dr. Jesse Waring Mahoney, who was chief of surgery at Bellevue Hospital Center for 20 years, died of a heart attack Tuesday at University Hospital. He was 80 years old and lived in Oldfield, L.I. Dr. Jesse Waring Mahoney, who was chief of surgery at Bellevue Hospital Center fo
Edgar Daniel Nixon, who selected the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to lead the Montgomery bus boycott in 1955, died here Wednesday night. He was 87 years old. Edgar Daniel Nixon, who selected the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. to lead the Montgomery bus boycott in 1955, die
Fredric R. Mann, an industrialist and patron of the arts who helped finance music centers in Philadelphia and Tel Aviv, died of cancer yesterday morning in Miami. He was 83 years old and had homes in Miami, Philadelphia and Manhattan. Fredric R. Mann, an industrialist and patr
James Coco, the roly-poly actor who parlayed his sizable girth into a successful career in character parts that ranged from the comic to the terrifying, died Wednesday night after suffering a heart attack. The actor, who was 56 years old, was pronounced dead at St. Vincent's Hospital,
Knut Olav Frydenlund, Foreign Minister for four Labor Party Governments since 1973, died today after suffering a cerebral hemorrhage. He was 59 years old. Knut Olav Frydenlund, Foreign Minister for four Labor Party Governments since 1973, died today after suffering a cerebral 
Charles F. Eaton Jr., a retired investment counselor, died Thursday in Duxbury, Mass. He was 89 years old. Charles F. Eaton Jr., a retired investment counselor, died Thursday in Duxbury, Mass. He was 89 years old. Mr. Eaton was a founder of Eaton & Howard Inc., a Bosto
Dr. William Withers, professor emeritus of economics at Queens College and chairman of the New York Teachers Pension Association, died Wednesday at Riverview Hospital in Red Bank, N.J. He was 81 years old and lived in Red Bank. Dr. William Withers, professor emeritus of econom
Jess Larson, the first Administrator of the General Services Administration and former chairman and president of the Air Force Association, died Wednesday. He was 82 years old. Jess Larson, the first Administrator of the General Services Administration and former chairman and 
Sidney Blaxill, a retired partner and managing director of Morgan Stanley & Company Inc., died of cancer Tuesday at Williamson County Hospital, Franklin, Tenn., after a long illness. He was 58 years old and lived in Princeton, N.J. Sidney Blaxill, a retired partner and managin
