 Dr. Meyer Friedman, an originator of the theory linking heart attacks to impatient, angry ''Type A'' behavior, died on Friday in San Francisco. He was 90, and until a few weeks before his death continued to do research at an institute that he had founded and that was named for him at the Mo
 Michael S. Modell, a co-president of the Modell's Sporting Goods chain and a philanthropist, died on Saturday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 48 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from Hodgkin's disease, said his brother, Mitchell,
 Billy Mitchell, a bebop tenor saxophone player who matured in the Detroit jazz scene of the 1950's and played in the bands of Woody Herman, Dizzy Gillespie and Count Basie, died on April 18 at his home in Rockville Centre, N.Y. He was 74. The cause was lung cancer, said Thelma Higgi
 Dr. Fred Gillett, who pioneered infrared astronomy, died on April 22 at a hospital in Seattle. Formerly of Tucson, Ariz., he was 64 and lived in Hilo, Hawaii. The cause was a rare bone-marrow disease, said the National Optical Astronomy Observatory in Tucson. Dr. Gillett was
 G. Willing Pepper, a Philadelphia civic leader and former president of the Scott Paper Company, died on April 21 at his home in Media, Pa. He was 92. Mr. Pepper, who was known as Wing, was a Philadelphia native. He attended the University of Pennsylvania and became treasurer and a d
 Happy Hairston, a starting forward for the Los Angeles Lakers team that ran off an unprecedented winning streak in the 1971-72 season on the way to the National Basketball Association championship, died early yesterday morning at U.C.L.A Medical Center. He was 58. Hairston, who play
 Dr. John S. O'Brien, who identified the gene that causes Tay-Sachs disease and helped develop screening tests for the rare but fatal disorder among infants, died on Feb. 1 at his home in San Diego. He was 66. The cause was a long illness related to postpolio complications, his famil
 Allan Hall, a British journalist whose musings over a long liquid lunch in 1972 led to the annual race to ship newly bottled Beaujolais Nouveau to Britain, and in later years around the world, died on April 26 in Bury St. Edmunds, Suffolk. He was 71. As a columnist for The Times of 
 Dr. Morton Klass, an anthropologist and a writer who focused on the people of South Asia and their descendants in the West Indies, died Saturday at his home in Washington Heights in Manhattan. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Klass taught for mor
 John B. Johnson, the editor and publisher of The Watertown Daily Times for the last 52 years, died yesterday at his home in Watertown, in northern New York. He was 84. The Daily Times, which covers Jefferson, St. Lawrence and Lewis Counties near the Canadian border, has a daily circ
 Andy Phillip, the Hall of Fame guard who starred in the early 1940's for the University of Illinois basketball teams known as the Whiz Kids and then became a premier playmaker in the N.B.A., died last Saturday at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 79. The cause was congestive 
 Billy Higgins, one of the best-loved and most-recorded drummers in postwar jazz, died yesterday at a hospital in Inglewood, Calif. He was 64 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was kidney and liver failure, said a friend, Dorothy Darr. Since the late 1950's, when he  made a 
 Heiko Oberman, a Luther biographer and scholar of the Reformation, the Renaissance and the late Middle Ages, died on April 22 in Tucson, where he had been Regents' professor of history at the University of Arizona since 1984. He was 70. The cause was melanoma, said the university's 
 Dr. Wesley C. Salmon, a philosopher of science who developed a theory in which he sought to show that improbable events could still be explained scientifically if their causes could be traced with sufficient clarity, died on April 22 in an automobile accident in Madison County, Ohio. He was
 Henry Benach, a retired chairman of the Starrett Corporation, the New York-based development and construction concern, died last Sunday at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 83. Mr. Benach, formerly of Scarsdale, N.Y., was an executive in the apparel industry when he joined
 John Scanlon, a public relations man who brought cunning, bare-knuckle tenacity and the nimbleness of a leprechaun to promoting the interests of high-profile clients, including Bob Kerrey in the current controversy over his actions in Vietnam, died yesterday at his Manhattan apartment. He w
 Otis L. Guernsey Jr., whose love affair with theater led to 36 years of chronicling its achievements as editor of the annual ''Best Plays'' volumes, died on Wednesday at his home in Woodstock, Vt. He was 82. Mr. Guernsey, a former film and theater critic and arts editor for The New 
 Richardson Pratt Jr., a former president of the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn and chairman of Charles Pratt & Company, which was established in 1891 to oversee the Pratt family interests, died Tuesday at his home in Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. He was 78. The cause was pancreatic cancer, 
 Theodore Roosevelt III, a grandson of President Theodore Roosevelt and former partner in a Philadelphia brokerage firm, died on Wednesday at his home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 86. A native New Yorker, Mr. Roosevelt was the last of four siblings. Their father, Theodore Jr., was a sold
 Boozoo Chavis, an accordionist, singer and bandleader who was a patriarch of Louisiana zydeco music, died yesterday after a heart attack and a stroke in Austin, Tex., said Jack Reich, his manager. He was 70 and lived in Lake Charles, La. During the 1990's, Mr. Chavis was widely ackn
 Theodore Wilentz, who with his brother, Eli, owned the Eighth Street Bookshop, a bustling bibliophilic beehive in the 1950's and 60's, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Washington. He was 86 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. When it opened in 1947, the fabled store -- ''three floors of b
 Boozoo Chavis, an accordionist, singer and bandleader who was a patriarch of Louisiana zydeco music, died Saturday in Austin, Tex., after suffering a heart attack and then a stroke late last month, said Jack Reich, his manager. He was 70 and lived in Lake Charles, La. During the 199
 Clifton Keith Hillegass, who for 40 years published Cliffs Notes, the literary study guides that have saved millions of procrastinating students from academic ruin, died in his home in Lincoln, Neb., on Saturday. He was 83. He died of complications after a stroke in late April, his 
 Jo-Jo Moore, a perennial All-Star outfielder whose batting stroke and powerful arm helped the New York Giants capture three pennants in the 1930's, died April 1 in Bryan, Tex. He was 92. Known as the Gause Ghost, for his slender build and the central Texas town where he was born, Mo
 Aage B. Sorensen, a Danish-born Harvard sociologist who played an important role in developing new sociological theories of inequality, died on April 18 in Boston He was 59. He had been in bad health since falling on the ice near his home in Cambridge, Mass., in February last year, 
 Prof. Charles L. Black Jr., a leading authority on constitutional law who taught at Columbia and Yale Universities for 52 years and was a prominent voice in the national debates on presidential impeachments, desegregation, the death penalty and other issues, died at his home in Manhattan on
 John J. Lee Jr., a basketball star for Yale who became a corporate executive and a leading fund-raiser for his alma mater, died Saturday at his home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 64. The cause was kidney cancer, said his son, John J. Lee III of Larchmont. As a 6-foot-3-inch juni
 Morris Graves, an artist whose paintings of wounded birds and supernaturally radiant flowers combined the spirit of American Transcendentalism with Asian philosophy, and whose reclusive efforts to avoid what he called ''the machine-age noise of America'' were the stuff of legend, died on Sa
 Dr. Arthur Walker, who shot innovative telescopes into space to give scientists a view of the Sun that they had never seen before and who spent a lifetime helping women and minority students find careers in science, died on April 29 at his home on the campus of Stanford University. He was 6
 Cecil R. Price, who as a deputy sheriff arrested three civil rights workers in Mississippi in 1964 and was eventually found guilty of delivering them into the hands of their killers, died on Sunday in Jackson, Miss. He was 63. The cause was a skull fracture that Mr. Price, a truck d
 Terry Ryan, an award-winning comedy writer, died on Saturday at his home in New York. He was 78. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Ryan began his career writing for the Fred Allen radio show in the late 1940's. After he switched to television, he b
 Dr. Dan Hanley, the chief physician of the United States Olympic team from 1964 through 1972 and a pioneer who helped develop Olympic drug-testing programs, died Sunday at a hospital in Portland, Me. He was 85. From 1946 until he retired in 1980, Dr. Hanley was the head physician fo
 Edwin Finckel, a composer, jazz pianist, conductor and musical educator, died on Monday in Madison, N.J. He was 83 and lived in Madison. Traversing musical genres, Mr. Finckel wrote more than 200 pieces for a variety of ensembles, including orchestral works, concertos, ballets, chor
 Morton Klein, a professor of industrial engineering at Columbia University who did pioneering work in the field of operations research, a discipline that applies mathematics to complex management problems, died on April 26 after collapsing in his office on campus. He was 75 and lived in Haw
 Henry Schuman, a prominent oboist, conductor and teacher who founded and directed Our Bach Concerts, a popular series of midnight  performances at Carnegie Hall and Lincoln Center in the 1970's, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack, sai
 L. Dean Brown, a World War II combat veteran who became a career diplomat and carried out tough assignments in the Middle East and elsewhere including organizing the airlift of Americans and friendly Vietnamese from Saigon, died on May 2 at a hospital in Washington. He was 80. Mr. B
 Lester Atwell, a novelist and short-story writer, died on April 30 at his home in Cary, N.C. He was 92. Born in Brooklyn, where he lived for more than eight decades, Mr. Atwell graduated from Fordham University in the Bronx and attended the Art Students League in Manhattan. He worke
 Nikos Giorgiades Sampson, president of Cyprus for eight days after a military coup in 1974 overthrew Archbishop Makarios and provoked a Turkish invasion that has divided the Mediterranean island to this day, died on May 9 in a clinic in Nicosia. He was 66. The cause was cancer, his 
 Theodore Van Dam, a philatelic writer and historian of the handling of mail in wartime, died in Los Angeles on May 1. He was 84. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Mr. Van Dam's special interests led him to produce several books on postal markings used by the American 
 Allan E. Sloane, who wrote socially conscious dramas for radio and television that won many awards, died on April 29 at his home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 86. Critics particularly praised his television and radio scripts involving children with physical or mental  handicaps.      
 Charles A. Dana Jr., a philanthropist of diverse interests, died on Wednesday at Bellevue Hospital Center in New York City. He was 86. Mr. Dana was struck by a vehicle at Madison Avenue and 52nd Street in Manhattan on May 8, said his son, Charles A. Dana III. As a founding m
 David Jamieson, who as a British Army captain received the Victoria Cross, the British Commonwealth's highest award for valor, for his role in repulsing a German attack during the breakout from the D-Day invasion beaches in August 1944, died on May 5. He was 80. ''I'm a very nervous
 Dr. Kenneth Mark Colby, a psychiatrist known for his work with artificial intelligence, died on April 20 at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 81. Dr. Colby, a founder and chairman of Malibu Artifactual Intelligence Works, a software company, was an emeritus professor of psychiatry a
 Perry Como, a small-town barber from Pennsylvania whose rich voice and easy manner made him one of the nation's most popular singers and entertainers in the decades after World War II, died in his sleep yesterday at his home in Jupiter, Fla. He was six days short of his 89th birthday.      
 Sebastian Snow, an eccentric English explorer who helped confirm the source of the Amazon River as he bumbled about vast portions of South America singing the ''Eton Boating Song'' with somewhat perplexing frequency, died on April 20. He was 72. Christian Bonington, a widely travele
 Artemas Holmes Crimmins, former chairman and president of Thomas Crimmins Contracting, once a prominent builder in the New York City area, died on April 21 at a hospital in Boulder, Colo. He was 92 and had homes in Longmont, Colo., and Boca Grande, Fla. He retired in 1974 after 42 y
 Jacques Lowe, whose exhaustive fly-on-the-wall photographs of the Kennedy family are a bittersweet elegy to a period of presidential history that has come to be known as Camelot, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said Judy Twersky, a family 
 Jonathan Bixby, a costume designer in theater and television, died on April 29 at the Cabrini Hospice in New York City. He was 41. The cause was colon cancer, said Steven Padla, a spokesman for the Drama Dept., a theater company of which Mr. Bixby was a founding member. A Pe
 Perry Como, a small-town barber from Pennsylvania whose rich voice and easy manner made him one of the nation's most popular singers and entertainers in the decades after World War II, died in his sleep at his home in Jupiter, Fla., on Saturday. He was six days short of his 89th birthday.  
 R.K. Narayan, the literary chronicler of small-town life in South India and one of the first Indians writing in English to achieve international acclaim, died yesterday in Madras, India. He was 94. Long before writers of the subcontinent broke free of the passions and ideologies of 
 Aleksei A. Tupolev, an aircraft designer whose work included some of Russia's sturdiest passenger planes and the Soviet Union's ill-fated supersonic airliner, died on Saturday, officials of the company OAO Tupolev said. Mr. Tupolev was 75. Officials said he had been ill for some tim
 Douglas Adams, the whimsical British novelist who wrote ''The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy,'' the best-selling science fiction humor series that introduced readers to a universe of preening, two-headed aliens, manic-depressive robots and space travelers who never parted with their bath 
 Jason Miller, the playwright and actor who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1973 for ''That Championship Season,'' died on Sunday in Scranton, Pa. He was 62 and lived in Scranton. The cause was a heart attack, said Joseph Brennan, the Lackawanna County coroner. Mr. Miller also won a 
 Dr. Joseph H. Greenberg, an eminent linguist and classifier of the world's languages, died on May 7 in Stanford, Calif. He was 85. The cause was cancer. Dr. Greenberg's effort to work out the historical relationships among most of the world's 5,000 languages is regarded as a
 Sheldon Oliensis, who was president of the City Bar Association from 1988 to 1990 and headed other New York law organizations, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Lyn. He was a partner for more than three decades in the Ma
 Jesús Aguirre Ortiz de Zárate, who became the Duke of Alba and who helped tear down the legacy of repressed intellectualism of Franco's long dictatorship in Spain, died in the family's Liria Palace in Madrid on May 11. He was 66. The cause of death was cancer of the pharynx, the S
 Didi, one of the world's most creative soccer players who, as the team captain, led Brazil to World Cup championships in 1958 and 1962, died on Saturday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 71. The cause was liver failure, said Julio Mazzei, who still has strong ties to Brazilian soccer throug
 John M. Newell, a lawyer handling the appeals of the longest-serving death row inmate in the country, died on April 9 at Southampton Hospital in Southampton, N.Y. He was 47 and lived in East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was internal bleeding, said a family member. Mr. Newell was 
 Simon Raven, whose 36 novels provided a highly personalized, exceedingly hedonistic vision of the English upper classes, died Saturday at a London hospital. He was 73. The cause was not announced, the Associated Press reported. Mr. Raven's acidly satiric style was likened to
 Andrew Mackenzie Hay, an importer and expert on international trade who was once married to the socialite Sharman Douglas, died in his sleep on May 2 at his home in Portland, Ore. He was 73 and had lived in Portland since 1982. He had been ill, but the exact cause of death was uncle
 Jerome Brody, who transformed the restaurant culture of New York as operator of a series of glittering restaurants like the Four Seasons, the Rainbow Room, Gallagher's Steak House and the Oyster Bar in Grand Central Terminal, died on Tuesday at his home in Miami. He was 78. He died 
 Murray Murdoch, the last survivor of the original New York Rangers of 1926-27 and later the Yale hockey coach for 27 years, died yesterday at Georgetown Memorial Hospital in South Carolina. He was 96. Murdoch played 11 seasons for the Rangers, including the team's first 574 games. F
 Georgi K. Shakhnazarov, a propagandist and political scientist of the Soviet era who rose to become a pro-reform assistant to Mikhail S. Gorbachev in the final years of the Soviet Union, died on Tuesday. He was 77. Russian news agencies said he died suddenly en route to Yasnaya Poly
 Ralph Miller, who learned basketball from the pioneers of the game and went on to become a highly successful head coach at major colleges for 38 years, died Tuesday at his home in Black Butte Ranch near Bend, Ore. He was 82. Miller coached at Wichita State (1951-64), Iowa (1964-70) 
 Smokey Yunick, whose ingenious wizardry with automobile innards made him one of the most celebrated mechanics in racing car history, died of leukemia on May 9 at his home in Daytona Beach, Fla. He was 77. In 1990, the International Motorsports Hall of Fame in 1990 inducted Yunick, w
 George A. Fox, an engineer who was a leading figure in one of New York City's most ambitious public-works projects -- the construction of the Third Water Tunnel -- died on Thursday at the Beth Israel Medical Center hospice in Manhattan. He was 81. Mr. Fox, the retired chairman of th
 Ross Feld, a novelist and critic, died on May 9 in Cincinnati, where he lived. He was 53. The cause was pneumonia related to cancer, said Josh Rubins, a friend. Mr. Feld was the author of four novels, ''Years Out'' (1973); ''Only Shorter'' (1982), which recounted his first b
 Stanley I. Tannenbaum, a longtime top executive at the advertising agency Kenyon & Eckhardt and an educator at the Medill School of Journalism at Northwestern University, died on Monday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 73. The cause was complications from dialysi
 Howard Kahane, a philosopher who sought to rid logic of its strict mathematical connotations, making it instead a tool for assessing the truthfulness of anything, including political statements, advertisements and school textbooks, died on May 2 in Mill Valley, Calif. He was 73. He 
 Jerry Jarrett, an actor whose career ranged from ''This Is the Army'' to ''Fiddler on the Roof,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. Mr. Jarrett, whose original name was Jerome Jaroslow, was born in Brooklyn and studied with Lee Strasberg and at the Actors Lab in
 Msgr. John J. Egan, a Roman Catholic priest in Chicago whose work on issues of civil rights, changing neighborhoods and poverty shaped church efforts in those areas nationally, died on Saturday in Chicago in the rectory of Holy Name Cathedral. He was 84. An influential figure for ov
 Robert Forbes Woodward, a career foreign service officer and Latin America expert who left an imprint on American policy from Cuba to Argentina, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 92. Mr. Woodward, who was ambassador to three Latin American countries and Spain before b
 Tad Szulc, a former foreign correspondent for The New York Times whose reports of an imminent assault on Cuba by anti-Castro Cubans in 1961 came to reality in the disastrous Bay of Pigs invasion, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 74. In postings to Rio de Ja
 Frank G. Slaughter, a surgeon who became a prolific best-selling novelist, publishing 56 books that sold an estimated 60 million copies and were translated into all major languages, died on May 17 in Jacksonville, Fla.  He was 93. His first novel, ''That None Should Die,'' published
 Harry G. A. Seggerman, a pioneer in investing in Asian companies, died on Saturday in Fairfield, Conn., where he lived. He was 73. The cause was complications from diabetes, according to his family. Mr. Seggerman was one of the first mutual fund managers to explore investmen
 Loften Mitchell, a playwright, author, teacher and an early leader of the black theater movement, died on May 14 in Queens, where he lived. He was 82. Mr. Mitchell was nominated for a Tony Award in 1976 for his book for the musical ''Bubbling Brown Sugar,'' a collage of black music 
 Mario Delamo, who performed with the Martha Graham Dance Company in the 1970's, died on May 13 in Los Angeles. He was 55 and lived in West Hollywood. The cause was hepatitis and liver failure, said Diana Rodriguez, his sister. Born in Havana, Mr. Delamo came to the United St
 Robert Emmet Curry, former president of Catholic Big Brothers of New York, died on Saturday at his son's home in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived on the Upper East Side. Mr. Curry was also a former president and chairman of a Manhattan-based insurance brokerage, the John F. Curry Agen
 Belton Kleberg Johnson, a descendant of the founders of the King Ranch who made millions as the head of his own ranch and other businesses, died on Saturday at a San Antonio hospital. He was 71. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Mr. Johnson's mother, Sarah, w
 Philip W. Buchen, a lawyer who in 1974 first laid plans for Gerald R. Ford to succeed Richard M. Nixon as president and then worked on legal aspects of President Ford's decision to pardon Nixon, died on May 21 at his home in Washington. He was 85. The cause was pneumonia, his family
 Stanley L. Neisloss, a major home builder on Long Island, died on Sunday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Brookville, N.Y. He died of causes related to Alzheimer's disease, his family said. In a career that spanned more than half a century, he built thousan
 Hartzell Spence, a writer who as founder and executive editor of Yank magazine during World War II helped introduce the term ''pinup,'' died on May 9 at his home in Essex, Conn. He was 93. According to the Oxford English Dictionary, Yank was the first to use the term as a noun, in 1
 Jacques-Louis Lions, a French mathematician recognized internationally for his work with highly complex equations that underpin the physical sciences, died May 17 in Paris after a long illness. He was 73. His principal work was in developing methods and systematic theories to analyz
 Dr. James David Ebert, a research biologist who helped upgrade embryology from an adjunct of anatomy to a modern discipline employing genetics, biochemistry and molecular biology, was killed on Tuesday in an automobile collision in Maryland. He was 79 and lived in Baltimore. His wif
 Maurice J. Noble, a film animator whose award-winning design work can be seen in the Disney classics ''Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs,'' ''Bambi,'' ''Dumbo'' and ''Fantasia,'' died on May 18 at his home in La Crescenta, Calif. He was 91. In addition to the Walt Disney Company, Mr. 
 Francis Ruivivar, a musical performer whose Broadway credits included ''Miss Saigon'' and Stephen Sondheim's ''Passion,'' died on Wednesday in Las Vegas. He was 40. The cause was leukemia, said a publicity agent for ''Miss Saigon.'' In 1991 Mr. Ruivivar stepped into the role
 Dr. Russell Andrew Nelson, who led Johns Hopkins Hospital in a period of robust growth in the 1950's and 60's, died last Saturday at a nursing home in Naples, Fla. A former resident of Baltimore, he was 88. Dr. Nelson became director of the hospital in 1952 and president in 1963. Un
 Walter Eytan, an early British immigrant to Israel who developed a foreign service to meet the needs of a new state suddenly at war with its neighbors, died on May 23 in a hospital in Jerusalem. He was 90. As first director general of the Foreign Ministry, from 1948 to 1959, Mr. Eyt
 Lloyd Shearer, a Hollywood fixture whose Personality Parade column in Parade magazine reached as many as 50 million readers in its heyday, died on Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 84. Mr. Shearer, who had been ill for several years with Parkinson's disease, died of a hear
 David Klein, an emeritus professor of social science and pediatrics and human development at Michigan State University and a prolific author, died May 19 at his home in Seattle. He was 82. The cause was cancer, family members said. Professor Klein wrote more than a dozen boo
 Hiram Z. Mendow, whose eight decades of practicing law included defending Al Capone and other gangsters, died on May 11 at a retirement home in San Diego. He was 107. He defended Capone in 1929 after the gangster was arrested in Philadelphia on charges of carrying a concealed .38-ca
 Ibrahim Abu-Lughod, a Palestinian-American political scientist who was a spokesman in the United States for the Palestinians, died on Wednesday in his home in Ramallah, in the West Bank. He was 72. The cause was a debilitating lung disease, said Edward W. Said, professor of English 
 Representative Joe Moakley, who for a half-century was the proud quintessence of the South Boston Irish Democrat, died of complications from leukemia today at Bethesda Naval Hospital in Maryland. He was 74. Mr. Moakley announced on Feb. 12 that he had an incurable form of leukemia a
 Malcom Purcell McLean, an entrepreneur who started as a truck driver and reinvented worldwide shipping 45 years ago when he hefted big loaded trailers into freighter holds, died Friday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 87. The cause was heart failure, said John D. Mc
 Victor Kiam, the man who said he liked Remington razors so much that he bought the company and the former owner of the New England Patriots professional football team, died Sunday morning at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 74. The cause of death was unclear, although he had suffe
 Benjamin J. Malcolm, who as New York City's commissioner of correction from 1972 to 1977 led its vast jail system through a turbulent six years of riots, demolition and rebuilding, died last Friday. He was 81. When Mayor John V. Lindsay named Mr. Malcolm to be correction chief, New 
 Bernard H. Mendik, the chairman of the Real Estate Board of New York and a longtime force in the city's commercial real estate market, died Monday at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 72 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was cardiac arrest, his family sai
 Charley Pell, who coached the University of Florida to football prominence in the 1980's but was fired amid highly publicized violations of N.C.A.A. rules, died Tuesday in Southside, Ala. He was 60. He had been suffering from lung cancer. Pell was a disciplinarian who drove 
 William North Jayme, a direct-mail copywriter who elevated magazine subscription solicitations to an art form, died on May 18 at his home in Sonoma, Calif. He was 75. The cause was emphysema, said his partner, Heikki Ratalahti. In a personal and professional partnership that
