 Irwin Maier, former chairman of The Journal Company, which publishes The Milwaukee Journal and The Milwaukee Sentinal, died on Sunday at Bradford Terrace Nursing Home in Milwaukee. He was 95. The cause was pneumonia, The Milwaukee Journal reported. Mr. Maier (pronounced MY-e
 Ivan Lyons, who wrote the novel "Someone Is Killing the Great Chefs of Europe" with his wife, Nan, died on Aug. 18 at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 59 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a widespread infection, said his wife. Mr. Lyons was born 
 Lindsay Anderson, the British film and theater director whose distaste for conformity and class-conscious English tradition informed such anarchic films as 'If . . . " and "O Lucky Man!," died on Tuesday in the Dordogne region of France, where he was vacationing. He was 71 and lived in Lond
 Louis E. Stahl, a retired food company executive who was a supporter of charitable and not-for-profit organizations in Massachusetts, died on Monday at Salem Hospital in Salem, Mass. He was 80 and lived in Swampscott, Mass. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Lesley Stahl, a co
 Michael Peters, the Tony Award-winning choreographer and director, died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 46. The cause was AIDS, said his publicity agent, Simon Halls. Mr. Peters shared a Tony with Michael Bennett for their choreography for "Dreamgirls," the 1981
 Naohiro Amaya, a major architect of the industrial policy that has contributed to Japan's dramatic economic growth, died here on Tuesday, one day before his 69th birthday. The cause was lung cancer, the Ministry of International Trade and Industry said. Mr. Amaya worked at t
 Robert F. Bennett, who in World War II was among a small group of New Yorkers who joined the first units of the Free French Forces as they liberated Paris, died at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Manhattan on Aug. 19. He died just days before he was to deliver Mayor Rudolph W.
 Dr. Samuel Aaron Hale, a family physician practicing in the Bronx for more than 40 years, died on Aug. 13 in St. Luke's Hospital. He was 83 and lived on the Upper West Side in Manhattan. The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said. Dr. Hale was a native of Brooklyn.  He gr
 Sol A. Shenk, who built a single surplus outlet in Columbus, Ohio, into the Consolidated Stores Corporation, an empire with more than 700 stores and annual sales of $1.1 billion, died yesterday in Columbus, his hometown. He was 83. The cause of death was a heart attack, said Brady C
 Artur Balsam, a pianist best known as a chamber player and as an elegant accompanist for violinists and cellists, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was pneumonia, said Dan Berlinghoff, a friend and student of the pianist. Fro
 Harry Rosenblatt, one of the last survivors of the Jewish Legion of World War I, which fought with the British against the Turks in Palestine, died Wednesday at Victory Memorial Hospital in Brooklyn. A Brooklyn resident, he was 101 years old. The cause was heart and kidney failure, 
 Thomas Chastain, a best-selling mystery writer and a former head of the Mystery Writers of America, died yesterday in Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lung cancer, said Priscilla Ridgway, the executive director of the Mystery Writers of America. M
 Edward T. O'Toole, a former bank vice president and a retired financial writer and communications consultant, died on Wednesday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. A native of Brooklyn, Mr. O'Toole worked in the public re
 John W. Wade, an authority on tort law who was dean of Vanderbilt University's law school from 1952 to 1971, died on Aug. 24 at his home in Nashville, Tenn. He was 83. The cause was apparently a heart attack, said Elizabeth Latt, a spokeswoman for the university, which is in Nashvil
 Paul Codman Cabot, the founder of the country's first mutual fund and a former treasurer of Harvard University, died on Thursday at Deaconess-Glover Hospital in Needham, Mass. He was 95 and lived in Needham. Mr. Cabot died of natural causes, said Theresa Poule of the J. S. Waterman 
 David Wright, an acclaimed South African-born poet, died on Aug. 28 at his stepdaughter's home in Waldron, East Sussex, England. He was 74 and had homes in Cumbria in northern England and in Portugal. The cause was cancer, The Times of London reported. Another British newspa
 Hollis B. Chenery, an economist who served the World Bank and the Agency for International Development and was a Harvard professor, died on Thursday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 77. The cause was pneumonia, and he had been suffering from Parkinson's disease, said his daughte
 Major Lance, a Chicago-born soul singer whose biggest hits were in the 1960's, died on Saturday at his home in Decatur, Ga. He was 55. The cause was heart disease, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Lance performed at music festivals and clubs until his death, said his agent
 Alexander Louis Levine, a commercial real-estate developer and philanthropist who gave $5 million to the Metropolitan Museum of Art last year, died on Saturday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Verona, N.J., and Palm Beach, Fla. The cause was complications
 Maj. Gen. Douglas B. Kendrick, a doctor and retired Army officer who once headed Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, died on Friday at Watauga Hospital in Boone, N.C. He was 87 and had homes in Blowing Rock, N.C., and Tampa, Fla. His family said he had been in declining h
 The Most Rev. Bill Burnett, who headed the Anglican Church in southern Africa from 1974 to 1981, died on Aug. 23 in Grahamstown in the Cape Province of South Africa. He was 77 and lived in Grahamstown. From 1974 to 1981, he was concurrently Archbishop of Cape Town, South Africa.    
 Elliot Liebow, an anthropologist and sociologist whose acclaimed books dealt with homeless women and street-corner society, died on Sunday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md., the community in which he lived. He was 69. The cause of death was cancer, his daughter Elisabeth 
 Dr. Arthur B. Robins, a former director of New York City's Bureau of Tuberculosis Control, died on Saturday at the Park Vista Nursing Home in Fullerton, Calif., where he lived. He was 86. The cause was renal failure, said Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, the bureau's current director.        
 Christopher Coe, a novelist, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 41. The cause was AIDS, said his sister, Kally Kumler. Mr. Coe's first novel, "I Look Divine," was published in 1987. It is the story of Nicholas, a pathologically narcissistic homosexual, told by 
 James Clavell, the author of "Tai-Pan," "Shogun," "Noble House" and other richly detailed historical novels set in the Far East, died on Tuesday in Vevey, Switzerland. He was 69 and had homes in Vevey and Cap Ferrat, France. The cause was cancer, said his wife, April. Althou
 James F. Maloney, a former New Jersey Democratic chairman and one of the people who brought minor-league baseball back to Trenton after 44 years, died on Tuesday at his home in Haddonfield. He was 49. The cause was a heart attack, officials of the team said. Mr. Maloney was 
 Max Kaminsky, a trumpeter associated with the Chicago school of jazz musicians of the 1920's and 30's, died on Tuesday at Castle Point Veterans Administration Medical Center in Castle Point, N.Y. He was 85. The cause was a stroke, said his wife, Virginia, of Hopewell Junction, N.Y..
 Dennis Morgan, who appeared in Hollywood films opposite Bette Davis, Betty Grable and Barbara Stanwyck, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Fresno, Calif. He was 85 and lived in neighboring Madera County. A family friend said he had had heart problems for some time, The Associated Pr
 Frederick Manfred, the author of many novels set in a mythical High Plains territory he called Siouxland, died on Wednesday in Luverne, Minn. He was 82 and lived in Luverne. The cause was lymphoma, said his agent, Albert Eisele. Mr. Manfred was born on a farm near Doon, Iowa
 James F. Jacobs, a dancer and interior designer, died on Saturday at Cabrini Medical Center. He was 42 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS, said Annabella Gonzalez, a friend and choreographer with whom Mr. Jacobs danced. Mr. Jacobs, a native of Chambersburg, Pa., atte
 Robert A. Weaver, an influential illustrator who combined dazzling draftsmanship with an unusually painterly style, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 70. The cause was cancer, said his brother, Fritz. At the height of his career in the 1950's and 60's, Mr. Weav
 Dr. Howard S. Tager, a researcher on diabetes and a medical professor at the University of Chicago, died at his home here on Tuesday. He was 49. He died of a heart attack, university officials said. Dr. Tager's specialty was the structure and workings of two hormones, insuli
 Nicky Hopkins, a keyboardist who played on albums by the Rolling Stones, the Who, the Kinks and other top rock bands of the 1960's and 70's, died on Tuesday at the St. Thomas Hospital in Nashville, where he lived. He was 50. The cause was complications from previous intestinal surge
 Samuel Ervin Hill, a conservationist and retired labor arbitrator, died on Sunday at his home in Redding, Conn. He was 81. The cause was cancer, his son William said. Dr. Hill, who had a Ph.D. in economics from Harvard University, was an economic planner in Federal agencies 
 Edwin K. Wiles, an energy consultant who once headed the West Virginia Coal Association, died on Thursday in the USAir plane crash. He was 50 and lived in Mount Lebanon, Pa. As a reporter for United Press International in the late 1960's, Mr. Wiles covered the rescue of coal miners 
 John Kupchun, the president of the Nashua Industrial Machine Company in Nashua, N.H., died on Thursday in the USAir plane crash. He was 52 and lived in Merrimack, N.H. Mr. Kupchun got a job as a draftsman at Nashua Industrial after graduating from Nashua High School, and he had been
 Manville J. Mayfield, an engineer at the Department of Energy who helped develop fuel cells, died on Thursday in the USAir plane crash. He was 68 and lived in Morgantown, W.Va. Mr. Mayfield was the engineering project manager of the fuel cells research and development program at the
 Marshall L. Berkman, the chairman and chief executive of the Ampco-Pittsburgh Corporation, a manufacturing company that specializes in metals and hardware, died on Thursday in the USAir plane crash. He was 57 and lived in Pittsburgh. The Berkman family is the largest shareholder of 
 Dr. Walter F. Heiligenberg, a scientist who learned about animal behavior and the nervous system by studying electric fish, died on Thursday in the USAir plane crash. He was 56 and lived in Del Mar, Calif. Dr. Heiligenberg, a professor of behavioral physiology at the Scripps Institu
 William T. Langan, who worked to develop clean-burning coal for the Department of Energy, died on Thursday in the USAir crash. He was 57 and lived in Morgantown, W.Va. Mr. Langan was the director of the department's Clean Coal Technology Division at the Morgantown Energy Technology 
 Dr. Abraham Gelbart, whose achievements in mathematics gained him an international reputation even though he never received a high school diploma, died on Wednesday. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was complications from cardiovascular surgery, said his son Will
 James T. Aubrey Jr., a hard-driving television and film executive who headed CBS and then Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, died on Sept. 3 at U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 75 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was a heart attack, the Associated Press reported. It said paramedi
 Raymond C. Firestone, a former chairman and chief executive of his family's tire company and a philanthropist, died on Friday in the Cleveland Clinic in Cleveland. He was 86 and had houses in Bath Township outside Akron, Ohio, and in Southern Pines, N.C. The cause was heart failure,
 Vernon Boggs, a sociologist and expert on Afro-Caribbean music and American rhythm-and-blues, died on Sept. 3 at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 55 and lived in New Jersey. The cause was acute pneumonia, said a friend, Bill Kornblum. Mr. Boggs, who taught social scie
 William T. Langan, who worked to develop clean-burning coal for the Department of Energy, died on Thursday in the USAir crash. He was 57 and lived in Morgantown, W.Va. Mr. Langan was the director of the department's Clean Coal Technology Division at the Morgantown Energy Technology 
 Alfred Lee Loomis Jr., a businessman and avid sailor, died last Wednesday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan, where he had been admitted for tests. The cause of death was not known, said his daughter, Candace DiLello. He was 81. Mr. Loomis had homes in Bluffton, S.C., an
 Frederick R. Weisman, a businessman, philanthropist and avid collector of contemporary art, died on Sunday at his home in the Holmby Hills section of Los Angeles. He was 82. He died after a long struggle with pancreatic cancer, his family said. In a career that spanned sever
 H. J. Maidenberg, a former correspondent for The New York Times in South America and a specialist in commodities and money markets for the newspaper's business and financial news section, died yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Greenwich Village. T
 Randall Fostvedt, a concert and record producer and artists representative, died on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 41 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS, said Vincent Wagner, a friend. Mr. Fostvedt represented many well-known performers, including Ivan Mo
 Dr. Vernon N. Houk, one of the Government's top environmental health specialists, who raised a scientific and political furor by declaring three years ago that it had been a mistake to evacuate Times Beach., Mo., in 1982 after fears were raised about the chemical dioxin, died on Sunday in A
 Boris B. Yegorov, the first physician to fly in space, died in his apartment in Moscow on Monday night, Russian news agencies reported yesterday. He was 57. The cause was a heart attack, the Itar-Tass news agency said. Dr. Yegorov and two colleagues were launched aboard the 
 John Bradshaw Holt, a career diplomat who was the deputy chief of the United States Embassy in Vientiane, Laos, during civil strife there in 1960, died on Friday at the Mid-Coast Hospital in Brunswick, Me. He was 84 and lived in Brunswick. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, El
 Langbourne Meade Williams Jr., the retired chairman of a company now known as Freeport-McMoRan Inc., died on Thursday at his country home near Rapidan, Va. He was 91. Mr. Williams was born in Richmond and was the descendant of a family that had been socially prominent since the foun
 Patrick O'Neal, an actor who appeared on stage, on television and in more than a dozen films, died on Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Greenwich Village. The immediate cause was respiratory failure, and he had tuberculosis and cancer, said his wi
 Dr. Moses C. Shelesnyak, a physiologist who carried out research on human fertility and contraception, was found bludgeoned to death on Monday morning at his home here. He was 85. On Tuesday, investigators booked an acquaintance on suspicion of murdering Dr. Shelesnyak. The acquaint
 Theo Crosby, an architect and a founding partner of Pentagram, an international design company, died on Monday in London, where he lived. He was 67. He died in surgery for a lung infection, Pentagram said. Mr. Crosby was the architect for a reconstruction of the Globe Theate
 Dr. Wladimir Theodore Liberson, a physician and medical researcher, died on Sept. 3 at the Miami Heart Institute in Miami. He was 90 and lived in North Miami Beach. The cause was respiratory failure, said his wife, Dr. Cathryn Liberson. Dr. Wladimir Liberson was a specialist
 Bill D. Ross, a Marine Corps combat correspondent in World War II who wrote books on two Pacific-island campaigns, died on Aug. 30 at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 73 and lived in Somerset, N.J. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Dorothy.   
 Franz Bader, a prominent retired art dealer and bookseller, died on Wednesday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington, where he lived. He was 90. The cause was a pulmonary embolism, said his wife, Virginia. Mr. Bader was born and educated in Vienna, where he w
 George Bardyguine, a technical director and stage manager for dance and theater, died on Sept. 11 in Leader, Bethel Park, a nursing home in Pittsburgh, where he lived. He was 74. The cause was vascular disease, said a spokeswoman for the Pittsburgh Ballet Theater, which is directed 
 Matthew Gordon, a news executive who established the press operations of the United Nations in 1946 and ran its Office of Public Information for the next 15 years, died on Wednesday at Sibley Memorial Hospital here. He was 84. The cause of death was a heart ailment, said his compani
 Philip Bosakowski, a playwright, died on Sunday at Middlesex Memorial Hospital in Middletown, Conn. He was 47 and lived in Portland, Conn. The cause was cancer, said a spokesman for Wesleyan University in Middletown, where Mr. Bosakowski was a visiting playwright at one time.       
 Richard J. Herrnstein, a Harvard University psychologist whose theory that intelligence was largely inherited made him a focus for debate, died at his home in Belmont, Mass., on Tuesday. He was 64. The cause was lung cancer, said the Reardon Funeral Home in Belmont. Dr. Herr
 Arthur Siegel, a pianist and composer whose best-known song was "Love Is a Simple Thing," died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 70. The cause was heart failure, said Dr. Howard Rosen, a cousin of Mr. Siegel. Mr. Siegel, whose career in show business spanned nearly
 Dr. Harry Most, an authority on tropical diseases who helped protect American soldiers against malaria in World War II, died on Sunday at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged on West 106th Street. He was 86 and had lived in Manhasset, L.I., until December. The cause was complic
 Marshall Sprague, who wrote books about the American West, died last Friday at St. Francis Hospital in Colorado Springs, his hometown. He was 85. He had had a long illness, said his wife, the former Edna Jane Ailes. Mr. Sprague's books included "Newport on the Rockies: the L
 Albert Decourtray, the influential and outspoken Roman Catholic cardinal who held the formal title Primate of the Gauls, died yesterday in Lyons, France. He was 71. The cause of death was a cerebral hemorrhage, a hospital spokesman said. Cardinal Decourtray was hospitalized after co
 Richard A. Heyman, a former Mayor of Key West, Fla., who was among the first openly gay Americans to be elected to public office, died on Friday. He was 59 and lived in Key West. He died of pneumonia that was brought on by AIDS, said his former assistant, June Keith. Mr. Hey
 Robert Austerlitz, an authority on linguistics whose professorship was at Columbia University and whose fieldwork ranged the globe, died on Sept. 9 in Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 70 and lived in the Morningside Heights section of Manhattan. He had cancer, his family said. 
 Edward J. Patten, who served nine terms as a Democratic Congressman from New Jersey and retired in 1981 after a political career of nearly five decades, died on Saturday at the John F. Kennedy Medical Center in Edison, N.J. He was 89 and lived in Perth Amboy. The cause was complicat
 Jerry M. Tinker, the staff director of the Senate Subcommittee on Immigration and Refugee Affairs and an authority in those fields, died on Friday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 55. The cause was a gastrointestinal hemorrhage, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Tinker w
 Jon Mensinger, a principal dancer with the Mark Morris Dance Group, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. Mr. Mensinger was 37 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS, said Esther Rosenberg, a friend. Mr. Mensinger was a dancer of special delicacy with a
 Vitas Gerulaitis, the garrulous New Yorker who rose from the public courts of Brooklyn and Queens to become the third-ranked men's tennis player in the world, was found dead yesterday at a friend's home in Southampton, L.I. He was 40 years old and lived in Turnburry, Fla. The Southa
 Bill Branche, a former copy editor at The New York Times and editorial page editor of The Niagara Gazette in Niagara Falls, died on Sunday in Cape Vincent, N.Y., where he had recently moved. He was 67. The cause of death was lung cancer, his family said. He graduated from Sy
 Franco Moschino, the Italian designer known for bringing humor and irreverence to fashion, died on Sunday in a country house he had rented in Annone, Italy, outside Milan, where he lived and worked. He was 44. The cause of death was cardiac arrest associated with complications from an abdom
 Larry Klein, a world champion yachtsman from San Diego, died Saturday in a boating accident while competing in the Big Boat Series, an annual event in San Francisco Bay. He was 42. Mr. Klein's mother, Diana Klein, said on Sunday that he might have died from hypothermia, but tests we
 Richard V. Irizarry, a playwright and a political figure, died yesterday at Beth Israel North Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 38 and lived in the Inwood section of Manhattan. The cause was complications from AIDS, his mother, Margaret, said. Besides writing plays, includ
 Thorsten Sellin, an authority on criminology and opponent of the death penalty who taught at the University of Pennsylvania, died on Saturday at his home in Gilmanton, N.H. He was 97. The cause was heart failure, said Prof. Marvin E. Wolfgang, the director of the university's Sellin
 Vitas Gerulaitis, the flamboyant former professional tennis player, was found dead in a guest cottage on Long Island Sunday afternoon. He was 40. An autopsy was performed yesterday by Suffolk County's acting chief medical examiner, Stuart L. Dawson, but the preliminary findings were
 Carleton Sprague Smith, a musicologist and an expert on Hispanic and Brazilian culture, died on Monday at his home in Washington, Conn. He was 89. He had Parkinson's disease, said his daughter, Damaris Horan. Dr. Smith, who held a doctorate in history from the University of 
 Jule Styne, the versatile, prolific songwriter whose tunes became standards for three generations and the composer of such classic Broadway musicals as "Gypsy," "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes" and "Funny Girl," died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived in Manhattan
 Lawrence K. Rosinger, an author of books on China who was questioned by the Senate Internal Security subcommittee in 1952, died last Wednesday in the nursing home unit of the Hillside Terrace retirement community in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 78 and lived in Ann Arbor. He had Parkinson
 Arthur B. Krim, an entertainment lawyer and former chairman of Orion Pictures and United Artists, died in his sleep early yesterday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 84. He had suffered a long illness, said Barbara Handman, a friend of his family. At hi
 Jimmy Hamilton, one of jazz's great clarinetists, who was a member of Duke Ellington's orchestra from 1943 to 1968, died on Tuesday in St. Croix Hospital in the United States Virgin Islands. He was 77 and lived on St. Croix. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his granddaug
 Bishop Corrigan supported the right of women to be ordained priests, demonstrated against the war in Vietnam, marched with the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. on Washington and sat with him when Dr. King delivered his "I have a dream" speech in 1963. Beginning in the 1930's, Bishop 
 Dr. Donald M. Kaplan, a psychoanalyst and professor of psychology at New York University, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 67 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was an aortic aneurysm, said Dr. Mark Grunes, a colleague at N.Y.U. Unt
 Haywood Henry, an important saxophonist and clarinetist who was one of the last of the living members of the 'Bama State Collegians, died on Sept. 15 at his home in the Bronx. He was 81. The cause was heart failure, said his daughter, Diane Washington. In the early 1930's, M
 John T. Galvin, a public relations executive and political author who played a leading role in the redevelopment of Boston in the 1950's and 1960's, died Monday at Youville Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. Mr. Galvin was 79 and lived in Boston and Edgartown, Mass. The cause of d
 Neil M. Ratliff, a music librarian and expert on Greek music, died on Saturday at the Hospice of Washington. He was 58 and lived in Washington. The cause was AIDS, said Herb Scher, a spokesman for the New York Public Library. As the head of the music library at the Universit
 The Rev. Daniel N. Corrigan, an Episcopal bishop whose long career was marked by campaigns for peace and human rights, died on Wednesday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 93 years old. The cause of death was internal bleeding after a fall at home last week, said Timothy Co
 Oliver J. Lissitzyn, an authority on international air law who taught at Columbia University, died on Saturday at the Hughes Convalescent Home, in West Hartford, Conn., where he lived. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Lawrence, through a spokeswoman. Pr
 Robert S. Johnson, an advisory director of Lehman Brothers, the New York investment banking firm, died in New York Hospital on Sept. 14. He was 79. He died of a stroke, said A. Edward Gottesman, an associate. At his death, Mr. Johnson, who had a varied career in investment b
 Irving Mitchell Felt, a highly successful businessman who led the drive in the 1960's to build a new Madison Square Garden on West 33d Street, died at his home on Thursday. He was 84. Mr. Felt, for whom the Garden's Felt Forum, now the Paramount Theater, was named, also had wide inf
 Leonard Feather, the dean of American jazz critics and a composer and musician, died on Thursday at Encino Hospital in Encino, Calif.  He was 80 and lived in Sherman Oaks, Calif. The cause was complications from pneumonia, said a friend, Virginia Wicks. Mr. Feather's influen
 Rabbi Joseph B. Glaser, executive vice president of the Central Conference of American Rabbis, the association of Reform rabbis, died on Wednesday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 69. The cause was lung cancer, said Francine I. Urist, a member of the conference's staff.        
 Robert Brown, an ex-convict who drew on his experiences to help law-enforcement authorities combat juvenile prostitution in Times Square in the 1970's and 1980's, died on Tuesday in Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Manhattan. His family said he had
 Robert Bloch, the prolific mystery writer whose novel "Psycho" was adapted for the classic Alfred Hitchcock horror film, died on Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 77. The cause was cancer of the esophagus and the kidneys, said his daughter, Sally Francy of Los Gatos, Calif. 
 Lord Shackleton, a British Cabinet minister who played a key role in Britain's decision to give up its colonial toehold in southwest Arabia, died on Thursday in Lymington in southern England. He was 83 and lived in London. Edward Arthur Alexander Shackleton was Minister Without Port
 Michael Kermoyan, an actor who starred in revivals of "The King and I," died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said his nephew, Loren Toolajian. Mr. Kermoyan played the first minister in the 1977 B
 Alpheus C. Beane, a Wall Street investment banker for more than five decades, died last Wednesday in Aurora, Colo., where he was vacationing. He was 84. Mr. Beane, who lived in Delray Beach, Fla., where he had moved from Greenwich, Conn., in 1978, died of heart failure, his family s
 Paul C. Echols, a musicologist, conductor and director of the Mannes Camerata, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 50. The cause was a brain tumor, said Charles Kaufman, the dean of the Mannes College of Music. Mr. Echols was an expert in medieval music. He direc
 Prince Louis Ferdinand of Prussia, the man who would have been Kaiser if Germany still had a throne, died on Sunday in the north German city of Bremen. He was 86 and had a home outside Bremen. He died after a long illness, said The Associated Press, which did not immediately report 
 Charles Jeremy Sopkin, an author, book editor and publisher, died on Thursday at Stanford University Medical Center. He was 62 and had lived in Palo Alto, Calif., for the past five years. Mr. Sopkin had been in poor health for several years, and died apparently after a heart attack,
 Dr. Davidson S. H. W. Nicol, who was an Under Secretary General of the United Nations and the executive director of the United Nations Institute for Training and Research, died on Sept. 20 at Addenbrooke's Hospital in Cambridge, England. He was 70 and lived in Cambridge and in Freetown in h
 George H. Lesch, a former chairman and chief executive of the Colgate-Palmolive Company, died last Thursday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 84. Mr. Lesch was president and chief executive of the Manhattan-based company, whose headquarters are at 300 Park Avenue, from 1960 to 19
 Jeff Wadlington, who danced with the Paul Taylor Dance Company, died on Saturday at his home in Galisteo, N.M. He was 29. The cause was AIDS, said Nelson Bloncourt, his companion. Mr. Wadlington was a dancer with a sunny, boyish charm that was captured in the "Boogie-Woogie 
 Karl Donch, a bass-baritone who sang at the Metropolitan Opera, died on Sept. 16 at a hospital in Vienna, where he lived. He was 80. He died after a long illness, his family said. Mr. Donch made his Metropolitan debut in 1959 as Beckmesser in "Die Meistersinger von Nurnberg,
 Thomas E. Moran, who led the Moran Towing Corporation of Greenwich, Conn., for more than three decades until its sale earlier this year, died on Monday at his home in Darien, Conn. He was 69. The cause was heart failure, said Malcolm W. MacLeod, president of Moran Towing. Wh
 Charles H. King, a social worker known for his work with troubled adolescents, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived on the Upper West Side. The cause was cancer, said Chris Dolin, the executive director of Creative Arts Workshop for Kids, a Manha
 Douglas S. Morrow, a screenwriter who won an Academy Award for "The Stratton Story," died on Sept. 9 in Kingston, N.Y., while on vacation. He was 81 and lived in Glendale, Calif. The cause was an aneurysm, said his wife, Margot Stevens Morrow. Mr. Morrow was born and reared 
 George A. LeMaistre, a former chairman of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, died on Monday at University Hospital in Birmingham, Ala. He was 83. He died of complications after heart surgery, said his daughter Alice LeMaistre of Bethesda, Md. Mr. LeMaistre, who was b
 Harry Saltzman, who with Albert R. Broccoli produced early James Bond films like "Dr. No" and "Goldfinger," died yesterday at the American Hospital in Neuilly-sur-Seine, a Paris suburb. He was 78 and lived in a village near Versailles. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Ad
 Dr. Julius Segal, a psychologist and author who for 12 years was the director of the Office of Scientific Information at the National Institute of Mental Health, died on Monday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 69. The cause was cancer, said Dr. Robert Cohen, a family friend and t
 Angelo C. Petromelis, a member of the Civilian Complaint Review Board and a retired chairman of the State Crime Victims Board, died on Sunday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 66 and lived in College Point, Queens. He had been suffering from a blood disorder and the 
 Sigmund L. Miller, a prominent Connecticut lawyer, died on Tuesday in Bridgeport Hospital. He was 82. Mr. Miller, who lived in Easton, Conn., died from injuries sustained in a head-on automobile collision in Fairfield, Conn., on Sept. 22, Harold Rosnick, Mr. Miller's law partner for
 William Gibberson, an actor and announcer, died on Saturday at St. Luke's/Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 74. The cause was a stroke, said Nancy Lynch, his companion. Mr. Gibberson first appeared on Broadway in 1947 in "It Takes Two," produced by George Abbott. His o
