 Dr. Edward P. Perley, a retired ophthalmologist who practiced in Manhattan for more than 30 years and who also was a professor at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, died on Thursday while playing golf at the Westchester Country Club in Rye. Dr. Perley, who lived in Rye Brook, was 72.
 James J. Kriegsmann, a theatrical photographer in New York for 60 years, died on Friday at his home in Forest Hills, Queens. He was 85. The cause was heart failure, said his wife of 50 years, Eugenie. Mr. Kriegsmann studied photography in his native Vienna and set up his own
 Joseph C. Fitzpatrick, an art teacher whose students included Andy Warhol and Philip Pearlstein, died on Friday at the Elk Haven Nursing Home in St. Marys, Pa. He was 85 and lived in Pittsburgh. The cause was congestive heart failure, said a friend, Marlene Harris. Mr. Fitzp
 Dr. Niels H. Sonne, the retired librarian of the General Theological Seminary in Manhattan, died Friday at the Medical Center of Princeton, N.J. Dr. Sonne, who lived in Rossmoor, N.J., was 86. The cause was internal bleeding after an infection, said his wife, Grace. A specia
 Ayrton Senna, a Brazilian whose laser-like focus on driving race cars made him a three-time Formula One world champion, died yesterday after a crash during the San Marino Grand Prix in Imola, Italy. Senna, 34 years old, died of multiple skull fractures in a hospital in Bologna, Ital
 Donald B. Harden, a British archeologist who was an authority on ancient glass, died on April 13. He was 92 and lived in London. Dr. Harden, whose doctorate was from the University of Michigan, was acting director of the Museum of London from 1965 to 1970. He was assistant keeper an
 Justice Paul J. Baisley of New York State Supreme Court, who made an important ruling in 1990 in litigation involving the protection of the Long Island Pine Barrens, died on Saturday at Huntington Hospital. He was 67 and a longtime resident of Huntington, L.I. He died after a brief 
 Roy A. Foulke, a Wall Street executive and analyst who created a system of rating the quality of companies, died on Thursday in Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. Mr. Foulke, who lived in Bronxville, was 97. The cause was heart failure, said his son, Roy A. Jr. Mr. Foulke
 Dr. Oliver Cope, an innovative surgeon who taught at Harvard Medical School, died on Saturday at his son's home in Woodsville, N.H. A former resident of Lincoln and Cambridge, Mass., Dr. Cope was living with his son at his death. He was 91. He died after a brief illness, said his so
 Peter Reed, a dancer, dance-company director and film maker, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 40. The cause was AIDS, said Frances Murdock, a friend. Mr. Reed was born in Cincinnati. He trained as a dancer at the American Conservatory Theater in San Francisco,
 Richard Scarry, a best-selling author and illustrator of children's books, died on Saturday at Saanen hospital in Gstaad, Switzerland. He was 74 and lived in Gstaad. The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Richard Jr. of Gstaad. Mr. Scarry, who was born in Boston and mov
 Ashley A. Boone Jr., a motion-picture marketing and distribution executive associated with hits like "Star Wars," "The Empire Strikes Back" and the James Bond movies, died on Sunday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 55. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said.    
 Benjamin Schechter, the managing and artistic director of Folksbiene, a Yiddish theater in Manhattan, died on Monday at the Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 74 and lived in the Bronx. He died of congestive heart failure said Leonard Schechter, his son. Born in 
 Dr. Charles Botstein, the retired chief of radiotherapy at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx, died on Monday at his home in Riverdale. He was 83. The cause was kidney cancer, said his daughter, Dr. Eva Griepp. Dr. Botstein was director of the division of radiotherapy at
 Dan L. Thrapp, a chronicler of the American West, died on Friday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 80. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, his family said. A native of West Chicago, Mr. Thrapp began his travels as a paleontologist for the New York Museum of Natural Histor
 Clarence H. Linder, a retired vice president of the General Electric Company, died on Tuesday at Ellis Hospital in Schenectady. Mr. Linder, who lived in Schenectady, was 91. The cause was a burst appendix, said his son, Clarence Jr. Mr. Linder worked for General Electric for
 George Sturgis Coffin, a prolific publisher and writer of books on bridge and other games, died on March 12 at Waltham-Weston Hospital near his home in Belmont, Mass. He was 90. He died of congestive heart failure, said his executor, Frederic Crafts 3d. Mr. Coffin, who gradu
 Henry Dyer Tiffany Jr., former headmaster of the Allen-Stevenson School in Manhattan and the Bancroft School in Worcester, Mass., died on Sunday on his 84th birthday at the Summerhill Retirement Center in Peterborough, N.H. He was a resident of Weare, N.H. A native of Port Chester, 
 James E. Devitt, a retired chairman of the Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York, died on Tuesday in Manatee Memorial Hospital in Bradenton, Fla. Mr. Devitt, who lived in Holmes Beach, Fla., was 73. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said his wife, Judith. Mr. Devitt joi
 Prof. Jewell M. Garrelts, a bridge engineer who taught at Columbia University for 45 years and helped design the Rainbow Bridge over Niagara Gorge, died Friday at the Dunrovan Health Center in Cresskill, N.J. A longtime resident of Tenafly, N.J., he was 90. He had had several stroke
 John McLiam, a character actor who worked in dozens of films and television shows and wrote the 1957 Broadway play "The Sin of Pat Muldoon," died on April 16 at his home in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 76. The cause was melanoma and Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Roberta Willi
 Dr. R. Lee Clark, who helped build a small university hospital in Houston into one of the world's foremost cancer centers, died there on Tuesday.  He was 87 and lived in Houston. The cause was complications after colon-cancer surgery, said the University of Texas M. D. Anderson Canc
 Dr. Benjamin Post, a retired professor of physics and chemistry at New York Polytechnic University in Brooklyn, died on Wednesday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 82. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Janet. Dr. Post was an authority on X-ray diffraction and its use
 Ferdinando Scarfiotti, who won an Academy Award in 1988 for the art direction of Bernardo Bertolucci's film "The Last Emperor," died on Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 53. The cause was liver failure, said Henry Penner, a spokesman. "He was a major force in conte
 Joseph F. Czechlewski, a retired New York lawyer who was active in Polish-American political and cultural affairs, died on Wedneday at Cabrini Medical Center. He was 85 and had homes in Manhattan and Wainscott, L.I. The cause was prostate cancer, his family said. A native of
 Louis F. Branco, an international art dealer who also was an adviser to the New York Public Library, died on Tuesday in the Whitehall Gallery in Manhattan. Mr. Branco, who lived in Manhattan, was 43. The cause was a heart attack, said his sister, Fran Crescenzo. Mr. Branco o
 The Rev. Vincent G. Potter, a scholar of philosophy and the first holder of the Loyola Chair in the Humanities at Fordham University, died on Tuesday in Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 65 and lived at Loyola-Faber Hall, a Jesuit residence on the Rose Hill campus in the Bronx.        
 S. L. Kirloskar, the patriarch of one of India's largest industrial empires, died on April 24 in a hospital in Pune, India, after a stroke. He was 90 and lived in Pune, 75 miles southeast of Bombay. At his death, he was a director of various companies and chairman of Kirloskar Broth
 Stefan H. Baum, a retired president of Reichhold Chemicals in White Plains, died on Monday at the 3030 Park Avenue Nursing Home in Bridgeport, Conn. Mr. Baum, who had lived in Greenwich, was 91. The cause was a stroke, said his son, Axel H. Baum. Mr. Baum moved to the United
 Fred Sadoff, an actor and director whose 50-year career included productions on Broadway and the West End in London as well as films and television, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 68. The cause was AIDS, said Adam Rodman, a friend. Mr. Sadoff, whose first 
 John P. Roche, a political scientist, counselor to Presidents and emeritus professor at Tufts University, died yesterday at Youville Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. A resident of Weston, Mass., he was 70. The cause was complications after a stroke, a Tufts announcement said. He had tau
 Michael H. Walsh, who struggled to complete the turnaround of Tenneco Inc., one of the nation's largest companies, as he battled a brain tumor, died yesterday. He was 51. Mr. Walsh resigned in February as chairman and chief executive of the conglomerate based in Houston whose produc
 William Hale Ferguson, an executive of resort and beach clubs in Queens and Long Island, died on Thursday at his second home in Lawrence, L.I. He was 77 and lived in Sanibel Island, Fla. The cause was cancer, said Thomas P. August, a business associate. At his death, Mr. Fer
 Clement Greenberg, the art critic who propelled the career of Jackson Pollock and helped to establish Abstract Expressionism as a major artistic movement, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 85 years old. He died of complications from a four-year bout with emphysema, his d
 Francis X. Murtagh, a retired lawyer and Assistant District Attorney in New York, died on Thursday at his home in Venice, Fla. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said his son, Francis X. Murtagh Jr. Mr. Murtagh became an Assistant District Attorney in Manhattan in 1947, and la
 James M. Grossman, an author and lawyer who practiced in New York for more than 50 years, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital. Mr. Grossman, who lived in Manhattan, was 90. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his wife, Elsa. Mr. Grossman was a retired partner of Bote
 Winston May, who acted in Off-Broadway productions, television commercials and films in a 35-year career, died on April 29 at the New York University Medical Center. He was 57 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS, said his manager, Roxy Horen. Mr. May was an original m
 Clement Greenberg, the art critic who propelled the career of Jackson Pollock and helped to establish Abstract Expressionism as a major artistic movement, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications from a four-year b
 Joe Layton, the award-winning director, producer and choreographer, died on Thursday at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 64. He died after a long illness, said his press agent, Michael Sterling. Mr. Layton's wide-ranging career included work in theater, film, television and
 Lord Sharp of Grimsdyke, former chairman and chief executive of Cable and Wireless P.L.C., the British-based international telecommunications company, died last Monday in London. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, The Times of London reported. Born Eric Sharp, he was m
 Dr. Lester A. Gelb, a former director of clinical services in the Department of Psychiatry and, since 1987, consultant emeritus at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 74 and lived in Riverdale, the Bronx. The cause was pneumo
 George Peppard, the actor who played a would-be writer smitten with Audrey Hepburn in the 1961 film "Breakfast at Tiffany's" and was better known to younger generations as the cigar-chomping, tough-guy commander of "The A-Team" on television, died on Sunday at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center. H
 Hubert Potter Earle, a Philadelphia lawyer and former general counsel of the Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission, died on Saturday in Bryn Mawr Hospital. A resident of Bryn Mawr, he was 75. He suffered a long illness, his family said. A graduate of Harvard College, class of 194
 Jim Finks, the New Orleans Saints executive who moved in pro football from player to coach to general manager to club president and almost to commissioner of the National Football League, died Sunday night at his home in Metairie, La., outside New Orleans. He was 66. The cause of de
 Heinz-Werner Meyer, the leader of Germany's labor federation in the turbulent years since reunification, died on Monday at a clinic in Siegburg, near Bonn. He was 61. He died of a heart attack, said a spokesman for the German Union Federation, or Deutsche Gewerkschaftsbund, known as
 Norman J. (Skip) Garrett, a press officer for the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation for the last 23 years, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 67 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer of the salivary glands, his office said. A native of Has
 William S. Carlson, who served as the second president of the State University of New York and as president of three other universities, died on Sunday at his home in Belleair Bluffs, Fla. He was 88. He died of lung cancer, said his wife, Claire Callan Carlson. During his lo
 William Dickey, a poet whose work spanned more than four decades, died on May 3 at Kaiser Hospital in San Francisco. He was 65 and lived in San Francisco. The cause was complications from surgeries, said his companion, Leonard Sanazaro. Mr. Dickey first attracted attention i
 Arthur J. Minasy, an entrepreneur and inventor who developed the surveillance tags used in retail stores to thwart shoplifters, died on Monday in Brussels. Mr. Minasy, who lived in Woodbury, L.I., was 68. The cause was pneumonia, said his daughter, Kathy Nicollette. Mr. Mina
 Cleanth Brooks, an educator, author and eminent Southern literary critic who helped spread the principles of the New Criticism movement throughout American universities, died on Tuesday at his home in New Haven. He was 87. The cause was cancer of the esophagus, said the Beecher & Be
 Dr. Emanuel Goldberger, a cardiologist who practiced in Manhattan and Westchester County for more than 40 years until he retired last year, died on Saturday at Jupiter Hospital in Jupiter, Fla. He was 81 and had homes in Scarsdale, N.Y., and Singer Island, Fla. He suffered a lengthy
 Harley Flaum, who wrote and produced music for radio and television as well as humorous radio advertisements, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 48. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Margie. In 1972 Mr. Flaum founded and became president of Radio Band of Amer
 James Seeman, a watercolorist, muralist and designer of wall coverings, died on Tuesday at his winter home in Miami. He was 79 and lived in Water Mill, L.I., the rest of the year. The cause was complications from heart disease, his family said. Mr. Seeman, a native of Vienna
 Lewis B. Puller Jr., who won the Pulitzer Prize for chronicling his fight against despair and alcoholism after he lost both legs while serving in Vietnam, died this afternoon. He was 48 years old. A spokesman for the police in Fairfax County, Va., said Mr. Puller died of a self-infl
 Dr. Martin Bodian, a retired eye surgeon who practiced in Brooklyn for more than 40 years, died on Saturday at Mediplex of Southbury, a nursing and rehabilitation center in Southbury, Conn. Dr. Bodian, who lived in Southbury, was 82. The cause was a head injury sustained in a fall, 
 William E. Barlow, a founder and publisher of Spanish and Portuguese-language news magazines distributed in Latin America, died on Tuesday in New York Hospital. Mr. Barlow, who lived in Manhattan, was 76. The cause was cancer, said a son, Christopher. Mr. Barlow founded Visi
 David DuVivier, who practiced law in New York and Paris for 30 years, died on May 7 at the Medical Center of Princeton, N.J. Mr. DuVivier, who lived in Princeton, was 83. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his wife, Georgine DuVivier. After receiving a law degree f
 Erik H. Erikson, the psychoanalyst who profoundly reshaped views of human development, died yesterday at the Rosewood Manor Nursing Home in Harwich, Mass. He was 91. He had a brief illness, said his daughter, Sue Erikson Bloland of Manhattan. A friend and disciple of Sigmund
 Herman Walker Jr., a former Foreign Service officer and emeritus professor of history, economics and political science at SUNY College at New Paltz, N.Y., died on Sunday at the New Paltz Nursing Home. A resident of New Paltz, he was 83. He had been ill for a long time, said his wife
 James F. Hoch, a partner in the Manhattan law firm of Shearman & Sterling, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 40. The cause was AIDS, said Michael E. Zega, his companion. Mr. Hoch joined the law firm in 1982 and two years ago became a partner specializing in tax
 John Smith, who died today at the age of 55 after suffering a heart attack, led the opposition Labor Party for the last two years, building a commanding lead in public opinion polls that he hoped would carry him into 10 Downing Street at the next election. A lawyer with a reputation
 Norman Brad Blumenthal, a member of the review board of the Federal Communications Commission, died on Wednesday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 51 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Blumenthal was born and reared in
 Ralph H. O'Brien, an executive of business equipment and computer companies for 30 years, died on Wednesday at the Naples Community Hospital in Naples, Fla. Mr. O'Brien, who lived in Naples, was 64. He died of colon cancer, said his wife, Barbara. Mr. O'Brien had been an exe
 Heywood (Woody) McGriff, a dancer, choreographer and teacher, died on Sunday at Christopher House, a hospice in Austin, Tex. He was 36. The cause was AIDS, a friend, Pierre Apraxine, said. Mr. McGriff was a long, lean dancer of special intensity, who brought an equal passion
 Paul Child, a retired foreign-service officer, artist and husband of Julia Child, America's quintessential television chef, died on Thursday at the Fairlawn Nursing Home in Lexington, Mass. A longtime resident of Cambridge, he was 92. He had been ill for a long time, a spokeswoman f
 Rustum Bastuni, a retired New York architect and campaigner for Palestinian-Israeli conciliation, died on April 25 at his home on the Upper West Side. He was 71. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Bastuni was born in Palestine near Haifa, trained at Technion,
 Stephen C. Smith, a lobbyist for gay rights, died on Tuesday at the Hospice of Washington. Mr. Smith, who lived in Washington, was 37. He died of AIDS, said Gregory King, a friend. Mr. Smith, who received a law degree from Harvard in 1980, was a lobbyist from 1987 to 1993 fo
 Dr. Roy J. Plunkett, the scientist whose accidental invention of Teflon 50 years ago not only changed the way Americans cook but also helped develop a multibillion-dollar plastics industry, died on Thursday at the Wooldridge Place Nursing Home in Corpus Christi, Tex. He was 83. The 
 W. Graham Claytor Jr., who ended a long career in the railroad industry by guiding Amtrak to a measure of prosperity, died yesterday at the Blake Memorial Hospital in Bradenton, Fla. Mr. Claytor, who lived in Washington and Holmes Beach, Fla., was 82. The cause was cancer, his famil
 Erwin A. Glikes, a leading publisher of nonfiction books for a quarter-century, whose authors included some of the most prestigious figures in American intellectual life, died on Friday night. He was 56 and lived in Manhattan. He died of a heart attack while on his way to his weeken
 John B. Swainson, who was Governor of Michigan and then a Justice of the Michigan Supreme Court until he was convicted of perjury and resigned, died on Friday at his home in Manchester, Mich. He was 68. The cause was a heart attack, said his son John Stephen. Mr. Swainson, a
 Sir Alfred Beit, a wealthy but unlucky British baronet whose art collection was twice sacked by criminals, died on Thursday in Dublin, the British newspaper The Independent reported. He was 91 and lived southwest of Dublin, in County Wicklow. Sir Alfred's collection was chiefly amas
 Mario Einaudi, who spent most of his life explaining Europe to Americans and America to Europeans, died on Sunday in the house in which he was born in Piedmont, Italy. He was 90. For most of the last 30 years he had divided his time between Italy and Ithaca, N.Y. He died after a bri
 Alfred O. C. Nier, a physicist at the University of Minnesota whose early work on lead and uranium isotopes helped determine the age of the earth and usher in the atomic age, died on Monday in Hennepin County Medical Center in Minneapolis. He was 82. He died from injuries suffered i
 Edgar A. Grunwald, an executive of the McGraw-Hill publishing company for more than 25 years, died on Friday at his home in Northport, L.I. He was 84. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Janie. Mr. Grunwald joined Business Week in 1941 as marketing editor and became
 Gilbert Roland, a lean, dynamic and virile performer who began his career as a Latin lover in silent films and over four decades became one of Hollywood's ablest and most popular character actors, died on Sunday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 88. He had been suffering f
 Paul A. Murtaugh, a writer and marketing consultant in New York, died on Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. Mr. Murtaugh, who lived in Manhattan and Amagansett, L.I., was 72. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Suzanne. Mr. Murtaugh was the marketing and creative dire
 Steven Keats, a screen, television and stage actor, who played Carol Kane's husband in the film "Hester Street," was found dead on May 8 in his Manhattan apartment. He was 48. He had committed suicide, said his son Thatcher, of Manhattan. Mr. Keats, the son of Jewish emigran
 Alain Cuny, a tall and ascetic-looking French actor who seemed made to play priests and aristocrats, died on Monday night at the Cochin Hospital in Paris. He was 85. Mr. Cuny was born and educated in St. Malo in Brittany, and studied acting in Paris, where the playwright Paul Claude
 Dimitri Romanoff, a dancer, teacher and longtime ballet master with American Ballet Theater, died on Feb. 6 in a nursing home in St. Helena, Calif. Mr. Romanoff, who lived in St. Helena, was 86. He died of natural causes, said Dr. Michael Shifflett, Mr. Romanoff's great-nephew, of N
 Etienne Hirsch, a French administrator who was a leading advocate of a United States of Europe, died on Tuesday in Paris. He was 93 and lived in nearby Sevres. The cause was a heart problem, his family said without releasing further details. After World War II Mr. Hirsch dir
 At his death, Jose Enrique Trias, 49, was a prominent tax lawyer and a vice president and the general counsel of the Howard Hughes Medical Institute, one of the nation's richest research institutes. He was in charge of all legal matters affecting the institute, which has 60 laboratories thr
 Robert P. Mauthner, the diplomatic editor of The Financial Times, died yesterday in London. He was 65. The cause was cancer, the newspaper said without providing further details. Mr. Mauthner joined The Financial Times in 1968 and served as its Paris bureau chief from 1971 t
 Burke McHugh, a former actor, model and restaurateur, died on May 15 at Falmouth (Mass.) Hospital. A resident of Falmouth for nearly three decades, he was 77. The cause was heart failure and pneumonia, said Frank Gehrecke, a friend in New York. A native of Rutland, Vt., Mr. 
 H. William Fitelson, an entertainment lawyer in New York for 50 years who was active in the Theater Guild and Actors Studio, died yesterday at his home in New York. He was 89. The cause was obstructive cardiopulmonary disease, said his son, Dr. David Fitelson. After graduati
 Henry Morgan, the scalpel-tongued satirist who became the legendary bad boy of radio in the 1940's and went on to appear on such television panel shows as "I've Got a Secret," died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79. The cause was lung cancer, said Joan Harris, a spokeswo
 I. Frank Crystal, a retired New York insurance broker, died on Wednesday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 90. He suffered a lengthy illness, his family said. A native of Manhattan, Mr. Crystal was a 1926 graduate of Harvard University, majoring in economics. He est
 Michael Schwartz, a dancer and pioneer in dance video documentation, died on Tuesday at New York Hospital. Mr. Schwartz was 47 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Mark Robison. After a career performing with choreographers who included Margaret Je
 Bishop Noah W. Moore Jr., a retired executive of the United Methodist Church, died on May 14 in the Linwood Convalescent Center, Linwood, N.J. Bishop Moore, who lived in Atlantic City, was 92. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Carolyn Weddington. A native of Newark, B
 Charles H. Hoens Jr., a law partner in the firm of Lum, Hoens, Conant, Danzis & Kleinberg in Roseland, N.J., died on Monday at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. He was 72 and lived in Basking Ridge. He suffered a brief illness, said a spokesman for Gallaway & Crane Fun
 George Gregory Jr., the nation's first black All America basketball player, who was later a New York City civil service commissioner and a civic leader in Harlem, died on May 11 at his Manhattan apartment. He was 88. The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Helen Gregory. 
 Gilbert F. Richards, who retired in 1980 as chairman of the Budd Company, a manufacturer of transportation equipment based in Troy, Mich., died on Wednesday at his home in Alamos, Sonora, Mexico. Mr. Richards, a former resident of Bloomfield Hills, Mich., was 78. He died of a stroke
 Harry Winthrop Fowler, a retired president and chairman of Fiduciary Trust Company International, an investment management concern based in Manhattan, died on Thursday at Lawrence and Memorial Hospital in New London, Conn. A former resident of Katonah, N.Y., he was 73 and lived in Stoningto
 Jacques Ellul, a French Protestant theologian whose pessimistic assessment of modern technological society found a receptive American audience in the late 1960's, died on Thursday at his home in Bordeaux, France. He was 82. From 1946 to 1980, he was a professor of law and history at
 Paul Lenti, a theatrical reporter and critic who translated "Objects of Desire, Conversations With Luis Bunuel," died on Wednesday at the Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. Mr. Lenti, who lived in Manhattan, was 45. The cause was complications following heart surgery, said Thoma
 Edward J. Meade Jr., an educational expert at the Ford Foundation who sought for almost 30 years to improve the quality of public schools, died on Friday at Mountainside Hospital in Montclair, N.J. Mr. Meade was 63, and lived in Montclair. The cause of death was cancer, said his wif
 John G. Lord, who as an author, television producer and documentary script writer dealt with modern history, died on Wednesday at his home in Upper Montclair, N.J. He was 70. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Karolyn Lord. In the 1970's Mr. Lord wrote "Duty, Hono
 Meyer Parodneck, who promoted self-help programs for New York's poor ranging from a milk cooperative to community housing, died on Friday at his winter home in West Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Parodneck, who lived in Brooklyn, was 89. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Paro
 Alec Nove, a Russian-born British economist and longtime critic of the Soviet system, died on May 15 in a hospital in Voss, Norway. He was 78 and lived in Glasgow. The cause was a heart attack he suffered while vacationing in Norway, his son David said. Professor Nove taught
 Cecil Gould, a specialist in Renaissance painting and former keeper and deputy director of the National Gallery in London, died on April 7. He was 75 years old and lived in a village in Somerset, southwest England. Mr. Gould worked at the London museum from 1946 until his retirement
 Elias Motsoaledi, a South African opponent of apartheid and a former Johannesburg regional commander of the African National Congress's guerrilla wing who was imprisoned with Nelson Mandela, died on May 10 in Soweto, South Africa. He was 69 years old. He died of throat cancer, The A
 Ghulam Farid Sabri, a noted Pakistani singer of centuries-old devotional music, called Qawwali, in praise of the saints of Sufism, the principal mystical extension of Islam, died on April 5 in Karachi, Pakistan. He was in his mid-60's.. Mr. Sabri grew up in Gwalior, in central India
 Dr. James Augustine Shannon, a medical investigator and educator who was director of the National Institutes of Health from 1955 to 1968, died on Friday at the Church Home in Baltimore. He was 89. The cause was a ruptured aortic aneurysm, according to the National Institutes of Heal
 Paul J. Goldin, a former statistics professor who parlayed his son's interest in baseball cards into Score Board Inc., a multimillion-dollar marketing company specializing in sports collectibles, died on Saturday at West Jersey Hospital in Voorhees, N.J. He was 62. The cause of deat
 Stephen Walter Brener, a leading Manhattan-based expert, consultant and broker in hotel and motel real estate, died on Wednesday while on vacation in Chaumont-sur-Tharonne, France. A resident of Manhattan, he was 68. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Brener 
 Dr. Dallas B. Pratt, a retired Manhattan psychiatrist who was the co-founder of the American Museum in Britain, died on Friday at his home in Garrison, N.Y. He was 79. The cause was cancer, said Shirley Fisher, a friend. Dr. Pratt founded the American Museum in 1961 together
 Mark Lipman, a private investigator for 60 years and founder of an investigative services agency with offices across the nation, died on Sunday at his home in Memphis. He was 88. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Lipman was born in Philadelphia, studied accounting a
 Sar A. Levitan, an economist widely known for his analysis of social policy and influence on government programs as diverse as employment training and rural development, died on Tuesday in Washington. He was 79. Friends said he had died of cancer. Dr. Levitan came to the Uni
 Dr. Saul Herbert Riesenberg, a former chairman of the department of anthropology at the Smithsonian Institution and a specialist in Micronesian ethnology, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach. A former resident of Silver Spring, Md. He was 82 and lived in Miami. T
 Dr. Thomas J. King, a retired professor of English at the City College of New York, died on Friday at his home in New City, N.Y. He was 68. The cause was lung cancer, according to his wife, Joan King. Dr. King, who specialized in Renaissance theater, was on the faculty at Ci
 Dr. Warren Dean, a professor of Latin American history at New York University, died on Saturday in Santiago, Chile, where he had been conducting research. Dr. Dean, who lived in Manhattan, was 61. Cooking gas that had leaked from an apparently defective fuel line asphyxiated Dr. Dea
 William Pearce, the chairman of the National Football Foundation and College Hall of Fame Inc., died on Friday in Hilton Head, S.C., while traveling from his home in Palm City, Fla., to his home in Lawrenceville, N.J. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, his family said.        
 Dr. George Nemethy, a scientist who conducted research on the structures of proteins, died on May 18 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. Dr. Nemethy, who lived in Pelham, N.Y., was 59. The cause of death was brain cancer, said his wife, Judith. Dr. Nemethy had been a professor
 Jack Barbash, a labor economist and educator who was an architect of the 1955 merger of a divided trade union movement into the A.F.L.-C.I.O., died on Saturday at a hospital in Madison, Wis. A resident of Madison since 1957, he was 83. The cause of death was a heart attack, his fami
 John Wain, a poet, novelist and critic who was one of Britain's antiheroic "angry young men" in the 1950's, died on Tuesday at John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, England. He was 69. The cause was a stroke, the hospital said. Mr. Wain did not like to be categorized as one of 
 Rudolf Muhsam, a leading behind-the-scenes figure in the world of bridge, died on Tuesday at the Fort Tryon nursing home in Manhattan. He was 88 and died of cancer, said Patricia Muhsam, a relative. Mr. Muhsam worked as an engineer in his native Berlin, where he was also a bridge to
 The Rev. S. Garry Oniki, a Protestant clergyman who ministered to congregations in poor urban neighborhoods for more than 30 years, died on Monday in Elmhurst Hospital in Elmhurst, Ill. Mr. Oniki, who lived in Bensenville, Ill., was 73. He died of a heart attack, his family said.   
 Wilbert A. Walker, who retired in 1975 as president of the United States Steel Corporation, died last Friday at his home in Belleair, Fla. Mr. Walker, a former resident of Short Hills, N.J., Manhattan and Ligonier, Pa., was 83. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Walker,
 Edison Dick, a retired Chicago industrialist, died on Wednesday at his home in Lake Forest, Ill. He was 93. Mr. Dick was chairman of the executive board of the A. B. Dick Company of Niles, Ill. The company, founded by his father, Albert B. Dick, originally made mimeograph machines b
 Joe Brainard, an artist, writer, set designer and frequent collaborator with the New York School poets, died on Wednesday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 52 and lived in SoHo. The cause was AIDS, said his brother John, of Greenwich, Conn. In a care
 John Devaney, the author of 80 nonfiction books, most for young readers, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was prostate cancer, his family said. A native of Manhattan, Mr. Devaney served in the Army toward the end of World War II as a staff mem
 Richard J. Walsh, a television producer, died on Tuesday at Brandywine Nursing Home in Briarcliff, N.Y. He was 68. Mr. Walsh served as a cryptographer in the Army Air Force in World War II and graduated from Fordham University in 1949. After working for the Young & Rubicam advertisi
 Dr. Alfred Frazer, a specialist on the architecture of Mediterranean civilizations and a professor at Columbia University for 28 years, died on Monday at his home in Larchmont. He was 66. The cause was cancer, said a colleague, Richard Brilliant. Dr. Frazer, who was a regist
 George W. Ball, who as Under Secretary of State in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations argued forcefully but unsuccessfully against United States involvement in the Vietnam War, died Thursday night in New York Hospital. He was 84 years old and lived in Princeton, N.J. The cause 
 The trumpeter and band leader Red Rodney, known for his association with Charlie Parker, died yesterday at his home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 66. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Helene. Mr. Rodney, whose original name was Robert Chudnick, was one of jazz's best
 Daniel J. Flood, who as a Congressman helped direct the billions of tax dollars that poured into Federal social programs in the 1960's and 1970's but resigned in disgrace in 1980, died yesterday at Mercy Hospital in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. He was 90 and lived in Wilkes-Barre. The cause wa
 E. J. Kahn Jr., who used the globe and its peoples and landscapes as canvases for his voluminous writings as a staff writer for The New Yorker magazine since 1937, died yesterday afternoon in Holyoke Hospital, Holyoke, Mass. Mr. Kahn, who lived in Manhattan and Truro, Mass., was 77.        
 Leo Kuper, a retired professor of sociology at the University of California at Los Angeles who wrote extensively on race relations and genocide, died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 85. The cause was heart disease, said a daughter, Mary Kuper. His most important
 Erich Honecker, the stolid Marxist who ruled East Germany for 18 years until a people's uprising swept him aside in October 1989, died yesterday in Chile. He was 81. His doctor said the cause of death was liver cancer. It took the collapse of Communism in Eastern Europe and 
 Julius Boros, whose rhythmic swing and tranquil tempo helped him win two United States Open championships and 16 other professional tournaments, died Saturday at his favorite spot on the Coral Ridge Country Club golf course near his home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 74 years old.        
 Dr. Hiroshi Hatanaka, a Japanese neurosurgeon who persevered with research on a new treatment for brain tumors when most of his peers had given up on it, died on May 14 in a Tokyo hospital. He was 62 and lived in Tokyo. He died of a stroke, said Prof. Rolf F. Barth, a friend and col
 Ezra Taft Benson, the president of the Mormon Church since 1985 and a Secretary of Agriculture in the Eisenhower Administration, died yesterday at his home in Salt Lake City. He was 94. Mr. Benson, who had been in frail health in recent years and rarely appeared in public, died of c
 Sonny Sharrock, a major figure in free-jazz guitar, died on Thursday at his home in Ossining, N.Y. He was 53. The cause was a heart attack, said his manager, Mary McGuire. Mr. Sharrock was a pioneering guitarist in the free-jazz movement of the late 1960's. His guitar solos 
