 Damon Wright, a playwright, died on Monday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan after a long illness, his family said. He was 48 and lived in Manhattan. Born in Long Beach, Calif., and a graduate of Stanford University, he was the author of ''Testimony,''  ''Mr. Baldwin Goes t
 David C. Adams, a former chairman of NBC and a member of its board, died Sunday at Cedar Manor Nursing Home in Ossining, N.Y. A resident of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y., Mr. Adams was 85. Known for his dry wit and lack of pretension, Mr. Adams was regarded as one of television's most popu
 Robert S. Johnson, an Eighth Air Force fighter pilot who shot down 27 German planes in an 11-month span in World War II and then came home  to a hero's welcome from President Franklin D. Roosevelt, died on Sunday at St. Francis Hospital in Tulsa, Okla. He was 78 and the second-leading Ameri
 Don Taylor, a film actor of the 1940's and 50's who later turned to directing, died on Tuesday at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 78 and lived in Santa Monica, Calif. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Mr. Taylor, who was born in Pittsburgh, beg
 Edward M. Mervosh, an economist and business journalist, died on Tuesday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 57. The cause was heart failure, according to his daughter. Mr. Mervosh was an economist for the Research Institute of America, Chase Manhattan Bank and the 
 Walker Kirtland Hancock, a sculptor known for his monumental war memorials, celebratory depictions of Presidents and works with religious themes, died on Wednesday at his home in Gloucester, Mass. He was 97. In a career that nearly spanned the century, Mr. Hancock produced hundreds 
 William A. Lee, whose exploits in Nicaragua between the two world wars earned him three Navy Crosses, the nickname Ironman and a lasting place in Marine Corps legend, died last Sunday at Mary Washington Hospital in Fredericksburg, Va. He was 98 and lived in the nearby town of Ferry Farms.  
 David Manners, who starred in Hollywood films in the 1930's and played the hero in Tod Browning's 1931 ''Dracula'' and other classic horror movies of that day, died on Dec. 23 in the health center of a retirement community in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 98. Almost a decade ago, Mr.
 Eric Crull Baade, a scholar of the classics, teacher and co-author of a widely used Latin textbook series, died on Dec. 15 at his home in Rockport, Mass. He was 70. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said a spokeswoman for the Brooks School in North Andover, Mass. Dr. Baade taught and
 The Rev. Dr. Charles Earl Cobb, a civil rights advocate who led a major Protestant commission on racial justice, died Dec. 27 after a lengthy illness. He was 82 and lived in Washington, where he died. Dr. Cobb leapt to national prominence from the pulpit of St. John's Congregational
 George Jackson Eder, a lawyer and economist active in Latin American affairs, died last Wednesday in Shands Hospital in Gainesville, Fla. He had collapsed the previous evening while Christmas shopping at Wal-Mart, his son Richard said. He was 98. Born and raised in New York City, Mr
 Dr. Henry Gerard Schwartz, a neurosurgeon and lecturer who trained a new generation of specialists in his field at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis, died there on Dec. 24 at St. Mary's Health Center. He was 89 and lived in suburban St. Louis. In recognition of h
 John D. McDonald, who with Alfred P. Sloan Jr. wrote ''My Years With General Motors,'' a classic volume on business strategy that has been used as a college text for 35 years, died Dec. 23 of respiratory failure, his daughter Joan McDonald Miller said yesterday. He was 92. Mr. McDon
 Marshall Perlin, a civil-liberties lawyer who was engaged on a decades-long quest to keep the Rosenberg spy case in the national consciousness, died last Thursday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 79 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He suffered a brie
 Dr. Merle E. Frampton, an internationally known leader in the education and rehabilitation of the visually handicapped, died on Dec. 17 in Portland, Ore. He was 95. Dr. Frampton, the director of the New York Institute for the Education of the Blind from 1935 to 1971, established man
 Natale Laurendi, a New York criminal investigator whose expertise with lie detectors helped convict the guilty and clear the innocent for many years, died on Dec. 21 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 75. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Mr. Laurendi joined the New York
 Rolf Liebermann, a Zurich-born composer who was the dynamic general administrator of the Paris Opera from 1973 to 1980 after directing the Hamburg Opera for 13 years, died on Saturday in Paris. He was 88. Mr. Liebermann revitalized the Paris Opera after it had declined. He has been 
 Harold Edelman, an architect and teacher who helped to preserve some of New York's small treasures -- a park, an ornate library and a quiet church -- died on Dec. 21 at the Beth Israel Medical Center hospice. He was 75. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Edelman, the fo
 Iron Eyes Cody, the actor who played an Indian shedding a tear at the sight of a littered American landscape in one of television's best-known and most-honored television commercials, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles, the police said. He was 94. Mr. Cody played the noble In
 Jerry Quarry, a heavyweight contender of the late 1960's and early 1970's who faced the sport's greatest names of his era and then spent his final years debilitated by boxing-induced brain damage, died Sunday at Twin Cities Community Hospital in Templeton, Calif. He was 53. Quarry, 
 Dr. Henry Paolucci, a prolific scholar of classical politics and literature, professor emeritus of government and politics at St. John's University and vice chairman of the New York Conservative Party for the last 20 years, died Friday at New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens. He was 7
 Jose Vela Zanetti, a Spanish artist who in the 1950's created the imposing mural ''Mankind's Struggle for a Lasting Peace'' at United Nations headquarters in New York, died on Monday in a hospital in Burgos in northern Spain. He was 85. In 1952, Mr. Vela Zanetti won an international
 Robert E. Kirby, a former chief executive of the Westinghouse Electric Corporation who masterminded a turnaround of the company in the 1970's, died last Thursday at Naples Community Hospital in Naples, Fla. He was 80. Mr. Kirby, who retired from the company in 1983, suffered several
 Goro Yamaguchi, a player of the shakuhachi, or wooden flute, who was named a ''living national treasure'' in Japan and who introduced the instrument to many Western listeners, died on Sunday in Tokyo. He was 65 and lived in Tokyo. The cause was a heart attack, said Ralph Samuelson, 
 Michel Petrucciani, a French jazz pianist and composer with an international following whose keyboard virtuosity earned him comparisons to Art Tatum and Bill Evans, died yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 36 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a pulmonary infec
 Paul Corser, the senior program officer of the American Foundation for AIDS Research, died Monday at his home in Harlem. He was 37. The cause was AIDS related, his wife, Sally Morrison, said. A native of St. Paul, Mr. Corser graduated from New York University. As program officer, he
 Philip Sterling, an actor whose long career embraced theater, films, television and radio, died on Nov. 30 at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 76. The cause was complications from myelofibrosis, a bone disease, his publicist said. M
 Dr. Paul M. Zoll, a Harvard cardiologist and pioneer in developing the heart monitors, pacemakers and defibrillators used by millions of people around the world, died on Tuesday at the Heathwood Rehabilitation and Nursing Center in Chestnut Hill, Mass. He was 87 and had lived at the nursing
 Paul E. Manheim, a collector of Asian art, died on New Year's Day at his home in East Hampton, N.Y., 55 years to the day after he became a partner at the old Wall Street investment house of Lehman Brothers. He was 93. It was Mr. Manheim who led Lehman Brothers into providing individ
 Charles Francis Adams, a former president and chairman of Raytheon, the military and commercial electronics manufacturer, died Tuesday at his home in Dover, Mass. He was 88. Mr. Adams joined the Raytheon Manufacturing Company as executive vice president in 1947 and became president 
 James Hammerstein, a producer and a frequent director of the musicals of his father, Oscar Hammerstein 2d, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Dena. In more than four decades in show business, Mr. Hammerstein was
 James Holmes, an organist and choir director long associated with the Episcopal Church of St. Matthew and St. Timothy on West 84th Street in Manhattan, and a sometime composer of considerable skill, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 59. The cause was cancer, which he
 Dr. Louis Jolyon West, a charismatic leader in psychiatry whose work centered on people who have been taken to the limits of human experience, like ''brainwashed'' prisoners of war, kidnapping victims and abused children, died last Saturday in his home in Los Angeles. He was 74. The
 When he started a securities firm under his own name in 1967, Sanford Charles Bernstein made sure that hurried investors would not fail to notice. To announce the firm, the 41-year-old upstart ran a series of full-page newspaper ads emphasizing in bold, black type a single word: ''Bernstein
 Florendo M. Visitacion, who built upon childhood experiences in a rural Philippine village to develop and promote his own eclectic and well-known system of martial arts in New York, died on Monday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 88. His daughter, Justice Laura Visitacion Lewis of the 
 Leon M. Goldstein, the gentle, genial, politically savvy president of Kingsborough Community College of the City University of New York and a leading candidate for New York City schools chancellor in 1995, died in his sleep Friday night at his home in Manhattan, a CUNY spokesman said. He wa
 Ntsu Mokhehle, who introduced the former British protectorate of Lesotho to modern politics, died on Wednesday after falling ill during his 80th birthday party. He became sick on Dec. 26 and died in a hospital in Bloemfontein, South Africa, The Associated Press reported. The
 Abdel-Latif Baghdadi, an energetic Egyptian Air Force officer who helped Gamal Abdel Nasser oust Egypt's last sovereign, King Farouk, in 1952 and then held key posts in Nasser's Government, died late Friday. He was 81. He was hospitalized on Friday for complications from liver cance
 Lorin E. Price, a theatrical producer, died on Dec. 28 at his home in Tampa, Fla. He was 77. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said. Mr. Price began producing in 1959, beginning Off Broadway with shows like ''The Mime and Me'' and ''The Tiger Rag.'' His first Bro
 Orlandus Wilson, whose bass voice was the foundation of the Golden Gate Quartet's gospel harmonies, died on Dec. 30 in Paris, where he lived. He was 81. The Golden Gate Quartet had a huge influence on American sacred and secular music. Performing in clubs and concert halls as well a
 Brian Moore, the author of 19 novels, including ''The Lonely Passion of Judith Hearne,'' died yesterday at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 77. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said his wife, Jean Denney. With his sparse, clear prose and lonely characters stifled by a narr
 Former Representative Carl Elliott, a Democrat from rural Alabama who sacrificed his political career to the principles of social justice, died Saturday at his home in Jasper, Ala. He was 85. Having grown up poor, Mr. Elliott took pride in serving as a prime mover of the National De
 Frederick Zissu, former chairman and chief executive of the discount store chain Vornado Inc., died of heart failure on Saturday at the St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. A resident of North Caldwell, N.J., Mr. Zissu was 85. Shortly after getting a law degree from New Y
 Gavin W. H. Relly, the retired chairman of the Anglo American Corporation who in 1985 led a delegation of business leaders to meet the banned African National Congress in Zambia, died on Sunday in Hermanus, South Africa. He was 72. The cause of death was complications of cardiac sur
 Gilbert M. Haggerty, a skillful and good-humored aide to six metropolitan editors at The New York Times, died on Sunday at his home in Forked River, N.J. He was 79. He had leukemia, his family said. Mr. Haggerty, known as Gil, was the administrative assistant to the metropol
 Dr. Manfred L. Karnovsky, a biochemist who cast new light on the way white blood cells fight off bacteria, died on Jan. 7 at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. A resident of Cambridge, he was 80 and had worked at Harvard University for 50 years. His research showed how white 
 Myles Tierney, the Associated Press newsman who died Sunday after being shot by a Sierra Leone rebel while covering the wars, famines and riots of West Africa, was living precisely the life he had sought, according to his mother, Hanne Tierney of Manhattan. He was 34 and was station
 William H. Whyte, the author who defined corporate conformity and warned against its growth in the classic book ''The Organization Man,'' died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Whyte, who was an editor of Fortune magazine when he wr
 Dr. David Newton, who shaped the introduction of open admissions at the City University of New York as chairman of its Task Force on Open Enrollment in 1969, died on Monday at his home in Brookville, N.Y. He was 76. He had suffered from serious heart and kidney ailments, his wife, L
 Harold P. Spivak, a lawyer for many theatrical unions for more than 40 years, died on Tuesday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 83. Mr. Spivak was born in Savannah, Ga., grew up in New York and graduated from City College and New York University Law School. In 1989, 
 Leo Cherne, who turned the International Rescue Committee into the largest agency in the world for the relief and resettlement of refugees, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. A lawyer, economist and businessman, Mr. Cherne became chairma
 Jerzy Grotowski, the Polish director who was one of the most important and influential theatrical innovators of his time, died yesterday in Pontedera, Italy. He was 65 and lived in Italy. Mr. Grotowski died after years of fighting leukemia, said the director Andre Gregory, a friend.
 Arthur C. Fatt, one of the founders of Grey Advertising and a former chief executive of the company, died on Tuesday at his winter home in Delray Beach, Fla. Mr. Fatt, whose main residence was in New York City, was 94 years old. He had been in failing health for nearly three years a
 Henry Cohen, an urban planner, a retired dean at the New School for Social Research and a prominent New York City official in the Wagner and Lindsay administrations, died Thursday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 76. The cause was liver cancer, his family said. Dean 
 Robert Douglas, a stage and screen actor who made a career portraying swashbucklers and military commanders before turning to directing, died on Monday at his home in Encinitas, Calif. He was 89. Mr. Douglas, who name was originally Robert Douglas Finlayson, was born in Bletchley, E
 Theo Hios, a New York painter and teacher, died on Sunday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 90 and had homes in Manhattan and Hampton Bays, N.Y. During his six-decade painting career, his style occasionally turned abstract, but he mostly hewed to expressive portr
 Anybody who watched Ted Hustead roll into Wall, S.D., on a cattle truck in December 1931, his wife and 4-year-old son at his side, the family's entire stock of meager possessions piled in the back, would have needed quite a crystal ball to predict that by the time Mr. Hustead died two-third
 Thomas W. Binford, an Indianapolis businessman who was a co-founder of that city's Urban League and who helped steer the Indianapolis 500 through two crises, died on Thursday in Indianapolis. He was 74. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage. Mr. Binford was stricken on Wednesday at th
 David W. Belin, a lawyer for the Warren Commission, which investigated the Kennedy assassination, and for the Rockefeller Commission, which looked at Central Intelligence Agency activities, died yesterday at St. Mary's Hospital of the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. He was 70 and lived in W
 Fabrizio De Andre, one of Italy's most popular singers and songwriters, died on Jan. 11 in a hospital in Milan where he was admitted in December. He was 58. The cause was cancer, according to Italian news reports. Known in Italy as the ''poet of music,'' Mr. De Andre became 
 The jazz bassist Fred Hopkins, an important figure of the new jazz in New York during the 1970's and 80's, died on Jan. 7 at the University of Chicago Hospital. He was 51 and lived in Chicago. The cause was heart disease, said his mother, Lula Hopkins. Always playing behind 
 Gayle Young, a principal dancer with American Ballet Theater who partnered such leading ballerinas as Margot Fonteyn and Cynthia Gregory, died on Jan. 8 at Cottage Hospital in Woodsville, N.H. He was 63 and lived in Haverhill, N.H. The cause was emphysema, said Darryl Dodson, his co
 Harvey Miller, a film and television comedy writer who was nominated for an Oscar for his collaboration on the 1980 movie ''Private Benjamin,'' died on Jan. 8 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 63 and had a second home in East Hampton, Long Island. The cause was heart failure, his f
 James Priest Gifford, a political strategist, spokesman and lobbyist for New York businesses and institutions, died in Manhattan on Jan. 9. He was 56 and lived on the East Side. He suffered a heart attack while on a midtown shopping trip, said Evangeline Binder, vice president of Hu
 Dr. Mario Dario Grossi, a radio physicist and engineer who developed the concept of tethered satellites as well as the hardware that made such free-flying space maneuvers possible, died Jan. 11 at Boston Medical Center in Boston. He was 74 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause was
 Walter H. Page, a former chairman and president of J. P. Morgan & Company, died Jan. 8 at his home in Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. He was 83. The cause of death was heart failure, said his son Mark. Mr. Page joined the company as a trainee in 1937, when it was still a privately 
 William Bentley Ball, a constitutional lawyer nationally known for his defense of religious doctrine and practice against secular encroachment, died Jan. 10 at Lee Memorial Hospital in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 82, lived in Camp Hill, Pa., and was in Florida on vacation. Mr. Ball suff
 Bennett Harrison, a leading radical economist, vocal critic of United States economic policy and the co-author of the 1983 book ''The De-Industrialization of America,'' died at home on Sunday of complications from cancer of the esophagus. He was 56 years old and lived in Brooklyn Heights.  
 David Dempsey, a reviewer, biographer, novelist, columnist, fiction and magazine writer who as a Marine Corps combat correspondent during World War II covered four Pacific landings toting a rifle and a typewriter, died on Wednesday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 85. A prolific auth
 Monroe W. Karmin, a reporter who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1967 for an article about links between organized crime in the United States and businesses in the Bahamas, died on Friday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 69. He had had a long battle with cancer, said his wife, Mayanne.  
 W. Page Keeton, a leading expert on tort law who as longtime dean at the University of Texas Law School brought the school to national prominence, died on Jan. 10 at his home in Austin. He was 89. As dean from 1949 to 1974, he presided over the school's growth in size and stature. A
 Sammy Solovitz, a wise-cracking, hard-living mentor to generations of copy boys at The New York Times, died on Jan. 12 in Houston. He was 71 and had lived in Texas since his retirement in 1984. He died in his apartment of natural but as yet undetermined causes, said his niece, Brend
 Ernest Schier, director of the National Critics Institute at the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center in Waterford, Conn., died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Schier was well equipped for his position at the Cri
 Eugene S. Pulliam, publisher of The Indianapolis Star and The Indianapolis News, a champion of the First Amendment who signed a declaration that said Senator Joseph R. McCarthy's methods threatened press freedom and American freedom, died on Wednesday in Indianapolis. He was 84 and 
 John Frederick Nims, a poet, translator and author, died on Tuesday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 85 and lived in Chicago. Mr. Nims wrote eight books of poetry, beginning in 1947 with ''The Iron Pastoral,'' in which he addressed life in Chicago. One poem, ''Pe
 Theodore Tannenwald Jr., a senior judge on the United States Tax Court in Washington, a foreign-aid adviser to three Democratic Presidents and a governor of Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion in Manhattan for the last 40 years, died on Sunday at Georgetown University Hospital
 Dr. Charles Gordon Zubrod, a retired oncologist at the National Institutes of Health who furthered the use of chemotherapy to treat cancer, died on Tuesday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 84 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. Dr. Zubrod's medical career included 20 year
 Edward T. Parrack, an advertising executive who supervised some of the best-known campaigns in the early years of television, died Jan. 13 at his home in Oakland in western Pennsylvania. He was 84. As an account executive of Ketchum MacLeod & Grove, an international advertising and 
 Jules W. Lederer, the founder of Budget Rent-a-Car and former husband of Ann Landers, the popular syndicated newspaper advice columnist, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home near London. He was 81. Born in Detroit, Mr. Lederer dropped out of school in the ninth grade to suppo
 It was one of the great cliffhangers of the 20th century, one that held a nation in white-knuckled thrall for more than a week in 1925 as the world wondered whether a supply of life-saving serum would make it to icebound Nome, Alaska, in time to save the town's 1,429 residents from a raging
 Jay Pritzker, whose hunch in the 1950's that America's restless business executives would flock to hotels near airports prompted him to build the Hyatt hotel chain, died yesterday  of cardiac arrest at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. Mr. Pritzker, who had a history of heart troub
 The Rev. Walter Donald Kring, a Unitarian clergyman, author, ceramic artist and sleuth into the secrets of Herman Melville's private life, died on Jan. 15 at his home in East Brookfield, Mass. He was 82. The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said. For 23 years, Mr. Kring 
 Buzz Kulik, a director whose made-for-television movie ''Brian's Song'' attained such popular success that it was released theatrically, died on Jan. 13 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 76 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was heart failure, his wife, Lorraine
 Charles Brown, the singer of the hit ''Merry Christmas Baby'' and a member of Johnny Moore and the Three Blazers, died on Thursday in Oakland, Calif. Mr. Brown, who was 76 and lived in Oakland, was to have been inducted into the Rock-and-Roll Hall of Fame in March. The cause was con
 Jay Pritzker, whose hunch in the 1950's that America's restless business executives would flock to hotels near airports prompted him to build the Hyatt hotel chain, died on Saturday of cardiac arrest at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. Mr. Pritzker, who had a history of heart trou
 Mark Warren, an award-winning television director, died on Jan. 11 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 60 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Beryl. Mr. Warren, who was born in Harrodsburg, Ky., began his television career in Toro
 Robert Shaw, the renowned choral conductor and the elder statesman and great spirit of American musical performance, died yesterday at a hospital in New Haven, where he had been visiting one of his sons at Yale University. He was 82. The cause was a stroke, according to the Atlanta 
 Edward Joseph Kiernan, a retired New York City police officer who headed the city's police union and two international police organizations, died on Saturday at Castle Point Veterans Hospital near Newburgh, N.Y. He was 77 and lived in Congers, N.Y. The cause was a stroke, his family
 Gabor Carelli, a Hungarian tenor who sang at the Metropolitan Opera between 1951 and 1974, and was on the vocal faculty of the Manhattan School of Music for 35 years, died on Friday. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Carelli was born in Budapest in 1915 and began his vocal studi
 Lord Lewin, the British seadog who is credited with engineering his country's victory over Argentina in the Falkland Islands war in 1982, died on Saturday in Woodbridge in the County of Suffolk in southeastern Britain, not far from the sea. He was 78. The cause was stomach cancer, T
 William Milfred Batten, a former chairman of the New York Stock Exchange and a former chairman and chief executive of the J. C. Penney Company, died on Friday in Hilton Head, S.C. He was 89. Mr. Batten, who was often called Mil, became only the second paid chairman of the New York e
 Bryn Jones, who recorded dozens of CD's of experimental music under the name Muslimgauze, died on Jan. 14 in Manchester, England. He was 38. The cause was pneumonia derived from a rare fungal infection in his bloodstream, said Geert-Jan Hobijn, who released Mr. Jones's music on his 
 Charles Luckman, an architect and businessman who had the misfortune to design the building that replaced New York's Penn Station but who also helped to create Lever House,the landmark Park Avenue skyscraper, died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 89. Though his buildings
 Jacques Lecoq, a mime, theater director and influential teacher, died on Jan. 19 at a hospital in Paris. He was 77 and lived in Paris. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, according to his son Patrick. As a mime, Mr. Lecoq was not as well known internationally as Etienne Dec
 August Everding, the German opera director and administrator who once ran the Munich and Hamburg State Opera companies and created five productions for the Metropolitan Opera, died on Wednesday in a Munich hospital. He was 70. Mr. Everding died following a long illness, officials at
 Gonzalo Torrente Ballester, a novelist who drew heavily on the myths and witchcraft lore of his native Galicia and won top literary prizes, died on Wednesday at his home in Salamanca. He was 88. The cause was a heart attack, a family member said. In 1985, he won the Governme
 Jerzy Turowicz, who skirmished with Communist censors for nearly four decades to produce a Polish Catholic weekly that became widely known as ''the only free newspaper from Berlin to Vladivostok,'' died on Wednesday in Cracow. He was 86 and had suffered a heart attack. News of Mr. T
 Leonard C. Lewin, whose Vietnam-era satire of a supposed secret Government study on the dangers of peace, ''Report From Iron Mountain,'' resurfaced nearly 30 years later as proof of Government conspiracies for right-wing paramilitary groups, died on Thursday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He w
 Linwood Parks Shipley, a partner in the investment banking firm of Brown Brothers Harriman & Company, died in Summit, N.J., on Tuesday. He was 93. Mr. Shipley, who was born in 1905 in Cockeysville, Md., graduated from  the University of Maryland. He began his banking career in 1927 
 Thomas C. Mann, a career diplomat and an architect of a switch to an American policy in Latin America in the 1960's that emphasized free enterprise, died last Saturday at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 87. Mr. Mann's appointment by President Johnson to a high State Department post 
 Vernon E. (Copy) Berg 3d, an artist who was one of the first military officers to challenge a discharge on the ground of homosexuality, died Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 47 and lived in Manhattan and Bridgehampton, N.Y. The cause was complications from AIDS,
 Dr. Richard Harold Freyberg, a leading rheumatologist who helped organize the Arthritis Foundation and build it into today's 700,000-member organization with a professional staff of 750, died Jan. 23 at his retirement home in Venice, Fla. He was 94 and formerly lived in Scarsdale, N.Y.     
 George L. Mosse, a retired University of Wisconsin historian who was an authority on European fascism and Hitler's Germany, died on Jan. 22 in his home in Madison, Wis. He was 80. Professor Mosse was selected to be the first scholar-in-residence at the Holocaust Museum in Washington
 Lewis J. Gorin Jr., a Princeton-educated, Harvard-trained lawyer who had a long, respectable and thoroughly obscure career as a business executive, gentleman farmer and amateur military historian, died on Jan. 1 at his home in Louisville, Ky. He was 84 and all but forgotten as the man who h
 Paul Metcalf, who made his mark as an experimental writer of prose, poetry and plays, died on Jan. 21  near Pittsfield, Mass. He was 81 and lived in Chester, Mass. His wife, Nancy, said Mr. Metcalf had a heart attack after buying apples at a farmers market not far from Arrowhead, th
 Dr. William E. Hunt, a retired neurosurgeon at Ohio State University who devised a widely used system for the clinical evaluation of brain aneurysms, died on Tuesday at his home in Columbus. He was 77 and also had a home in Gouldsboro Point, Me. The cause was a recurrent rupture of 
