Archibald B. Roosevelt, a former high-level official of the Central Intelligence Agency, died in his sleep Wednesday night in his house in the Georgetown section of Washington. He was 72 years old. Archibald B. Roosevelt, a former high-level official of the Central Intelligenc
Carl Apfelschnitt, a painter, died of AIDS yesterday at the Chandler Hall Hospice in Newtown, Pa. He was 42 years old and had homes in New York City and Madrid, N.M. Carl Apfelschnitt, a painter, died of AIDS yesterday at the Chandler Hall Hospice in Newtown, Pa. He was 42 yea
Herbert Spencer Duckworth, a retired vice admiral who commanded the aircraft carrier Cowpens in World War II, died at St. Luke's Hospital on Tuesday. He was 90 years old. Herbert Spencer Duckworth, a retired vice admiral who commanded the aircraft carrier Cowpens in World War 
John Francis Hackett, retired Auxiliary Bishop of the Archdiocese of Hartford, died of cancer yesterday at St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center in Hartford. He was 88 years old and lived in West Hartford. John Francis Hackett, retired Auxiliary Bishop of the Archdiocese of 
Kenneth A. Noseck, a retired Army lieutenant colonel who accepted the formal surrender of the city of Munich in 1945, died of cancer on Wednesday at Manchester (Conn.) Memorial Hospital. He was 72 years old and lived in South Windsor, Conn. Kenneth A. Noseck, a retired Army li
Kipp Alan Rogers, a lawyer who represented entertainment figures and organizations, died of AIDS on Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 32 years old. Kipp Alan Rogers, a lawyer who represented entertainment figures and organizations, died of AIDS on Saturday at his hom
Patrick V. Peppe, an associate professor of political science at Lehman College of the City University, died yesterday at New York Hospital after heart surgery. He was 49 years old and lived in Manhattan. Patrick V. Peppe, an associate professor of political science at Lehman 
Brig. Ralph Bagnold, an expert on the physics of desert sand and winds, died on Monday. He was 94 years old and had fought in both world wars. Brig. Ralph Bagnold, an expert on the physics of desert sand and winds, died on Monday. He was 94 years old and had fought in both wor
Dr. Erich J. Kahn, retired director of pediatrics at Harlem Hospital and professor emeritus of pediatrics at the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, died of a stroke on Wednesday at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital. He was 77 years old and lived in Englewood. Dr. 
Hubert J. O'Gorman, professor of sociology at Wesleyan University, died suddenly on Thursday at his doctor's office in Middletown, Conn. He was 64 years old and lived in Middletown. Hubert J. O'Gorman, professor of sociology at Wesleyan University, died suddenly on Thursday at
Joseph A. Gimma, an investment banker, Republican Party official and former chairman of the New York State Racing Commission, died of a heart attack on Thursday at St. Joseph Medical Center in Stamford, Conn. He was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan and South Norwalk, Conn. 
Judson Hand, a former education writer and editor, died on Thursday in Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. Mr. Hand, who was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan, had suffered a stroke a month ago. Judson Hand, a former education writer and editor, died on Thursday in Cabrini 
Rabbi Joseph Asher, the former senior rabbi of San Francisco's largest synagogue, Temple Emanu-El, died of cancer last Tuesday. He was 69 years old. Rabbi Joseph Asher, the former senior rabbi of San Francisco's largest synagogue, Temple Emanu-El, died of cancer last Tuesday. 
Rex Harrison, the suave British actor who won a Tony in 1957 and an Academy Award in 1964 for his portrayals of Prof. Henry Higgins in ''My Fair Lady,'' died of pancreatic cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 years old.  The actor, who was knighted in July 1989, played
Richard W. Millar, a major force in the development of Southern California's aerospace industry and former chairman of the Northrop Corporation, died Friday in a nursing home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 91 years old. Richard W. Millar, a major force in the development of Southe
Sam M. Rose, a Bronx car dealer who became well known in the New York area for appearing in his own local television commercials, died yesterday at the St. Joseph Medical Center in Yonkers after a brief illness. He was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan. Sam M. Rose, a Bronx 
Sydney Ullman, a retired Federal administrative law judge, died Thursday at a nursing home in Montclair, N.J. He was 79 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md. Sydney Ullman, a retired Federal administrative law judge, died Thursday at a nursing home in Montclair, N.J. He was 79 
Walter C. Reisinger, an executive of the Anheuser-Busch Companies, died of lung cancer on Friday at Jewish Hospital in St. Louis. He was 66 years old and lived in St. Louis, where the brewery is based. Walter C. Reisinger, an executive of the Anheuser-Busch Companies, died of 
William Elliott Burch, a race-horse trainer and the son and grandson of members of horse racing's Hall of Fame, died of cancer on Friday. He was 36 years old and lived in Garden City, L.I. William Elliott Burch, a race-horse trainer and the son and grandson of members of horse
Robert N. Noyce, an inventor of a computer chip that revolutionized the electronics industry and gave rise to the high-technology era, died yesterday at Seton Medical Center in Austin, Tex., after suffering a heart attack at his home. He was 62 years old. Robert N. Noyce, an i
Daniel L. Burrows, a businessman and former Democratic leader in Harlem who became the father-in-law and a political mentor of Mayor David N. Dinkins, died of cancer yesterday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 83 years old and lived in Belmar, N.J. Daniel L. Burrows, a 
Ethan Hoffman, a photographer whose work appeared in magazines around the world, died on Friday at University Hospital in Newark, where he was being treated for injuries suffered May 26 while on assignment for Fortune magazine. He was 40 years old and lived in Manhattan. Ethan
Frederick Mellinger, the founder of the Frederick's of Hollywood lingerie chain, died of pneumonia Saturday. He was 76. Frederick Mellinger, the founder of the Frederick's of Hollywood lingerie chain, died of pneumonia Saturday. He was 76. Mr. Mellinger said his succes
Harry Altshuler, a former New York newspaperman, died of Parkinson's disease on Saturday in a San Antonio nursing home. He was 77 years old. Harry Altshuler, a former New York newspaperman, died of Parkinson's disease on Saturday in a San Antonio nursing home. He was 77 years 
Henry Salko, the president of the New York and New England district of B'nai B'rith, died of prostate cancer yesterday at the Stamford (Conn.) Hospital. He was 65 years old and lived in Stamford. Henry Salko, the president of the New York and New England district of B'nai B'ri
Jules L. Wacht, a lawyer for more than 50 years and a former Scarsdale village official, died of heart failure on Saturday at the Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 76 years old and lived in Scarsdale. Jules L. Wacht, a lawyer for more than 50 years and
Sydney Ullman, a retired Federal administrative law judge, died Thursday at a nursing home in Montclair, N.J. He was 79 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md. Sydney Ullman, a retired Federal administrative law judge, died Thursday at a nursing home in Montclair, N.J. He was 79 
Walter C. Reisinger, an executive of the Anheuser-Busch Companies, died of lung cancer on Friday at Jewish Hospital in St. Louis. He was 66 years old and lived in St. Louis, where the brewery is based. Walter C. Reisinger, an executive of the Anheuser-Busch Companies, died of 
Walter Davis Jr., a be-bop pianist and composer, died of complications from liver and kidney disease on Saturday afternoon at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 57 years old. Walter Davis Jr., a be-bop pianist and composer, died of complications from liver and ki
Daniel L. Burrows, a businessman and former Democratic leader in Harlem who became the father-in-law and a political mentor of Mayor David N. Dinkins, died of cancer Sunday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 83 years old and lived in Belmar, N.J. Daniel L. Burrows, a bus
Donald L. Mulford, former publisher of The Montclair (N.J.) Times and a past president of the New Jersey Press Association, died on Sunday at his home in Montclair. He was 72 years old. Donald L. Mulford, former publisher of The Montclair (N.J.) Times and a past president of t
Guy C. McElroy, an art historian who organized a major current show dealing with the portrayal of black people in American art, died on Thursday evening at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. The cause of death was a pulmonary embolism, the coroner's office said. Mr. 
Harold Israel, a media research executive, died of a brain tumor yesterday at his home in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He was 60 years old. Mr. Israel, who designed research programs for newspapers and television companies, was the co-founder and former president of the Scarborough Research Corp
Jack Gilford, the actor and comedian whose malleable face, rapier wit and buoyant manner energized scores of plays, films and television shows, died of stomach cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81 years old. Jack Gilford, the actor and comedian whose malleable 
John Farley, a patent lawyer in Manhattan for 40 years, died of a cerebral hemorrhage on Saturday at his home in Westfield, N.J. He was 74 years old. John Farley, a patent lawyer in Manhattan for 40 years, died of a cerebral hemorrhage on Saturday at his home in Westfield, N.J
Norman E. Richardson, chairman of the philosophy department at Gettysburg College from 1945 until he retired in 1979, died of heart failure on Saturday at Gettysburg Hospital. He was 80 years old and lived in Gettysburg. Norman E. Richardson, chairman of the philosophy departm
Roger Allan Moore, a lawyer who served as general counsel to the Republican National Committee from 1981 until last year, died of cancer of the esophagus yesterday at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston. He was 58 years old and lived in Boston. Roger Allan Moore, a lawy
Msgr. Stephen J. Hudacek, retired pastor of St. John Nepomucene Roman Catholic Church on the East Side of Manhattan, died of a heart attack on Saturday at Yonkers General Hospital. He was 82 years old and had lived at the Hudson View Nursing Home in Yonkers for the last five years.   
Vinjamuri E. Devadutt, a retired professor of ecumenical theology and world Christianity at Colgate Rochester Divinity School, died of a heart attack May 26 at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester. He was 81 years old and lived in Rochester. Vinjamuri E. Devadutt, a retired p
Craig Starbuck Atkins, a retired judge of the United States Tax Court, died of Alzheimer's disease on Saturday at a nursing home in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 86 years old and lived in Fort Myers. Craig Starbuck Atkins, a retired judge of the United States Tax Court, died of Alzh
Fairfax Downey, a biographer and military historian, died last Thursday at New London (N.H.) Hospital. He was 96 years old and had lived in West Springfield, N.H., since the mid-1950's, when he moved there from Manhattan. Fairfax Downey, a biographer and military historian, di
Norman W. Lee, a retired shipping executive, died of leukemia last Wednesday at Fishermen's Memorial Hospital in Marathon, Fla. He was 76 years old and lived in Ramrod Key, Fla. Norman W. Lee, a retired shipping executive, died of leukemia last Wednesday at Fishermen's Memoria
Robert Francis Pulleyn, a corporate lawyer in Manhattan for 40 years, died yesterday at his home in Oldwick, N.J. He was 88 years old. Mr. Pulleyn joined the law firm of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett in 1926 after graduating from the Columbia University Law School, where he was editor of
Robert L. Yost, a former United States Ambassador to Burundi and the Dominican Republic, died of liver failure on May 29 at Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 67 years old and lived in Oakland, Calif. Robert L. Yost, a former United States Ambassador to Burundi and
Stiv Bators, the lead singer for the early punk band the Dead Boys, died Monday in Paris after being hit by a car. He was 40 years old. Stiv Bators, the lead singer for the early punk band the Dead Boys, died Monday in Paris after being hit by a car. He was 40 years old.      
Thomas E. (Tom) Brown, who modeled Buster Brown shoes as a child and portrayed a rancher in television's ''Gunsmoke'' after a long film career, died of cancer on Sunday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 75 years old. Thomas E. (Tom)
Dan Turner, a playwright, actor and composer who waged an eight-year battle against AIDS and lectured on how to live productively with the disease, died on Monday at a San Francisco hospice. He was 42 years old. Dan Turner, a playwright, actor and composer who waged an eight-y
Dr. Harry Louis Segal, a gastroenterologist and educator, died of pneumonia on Monday at Strong Memorial Hospital in Rochester. He was 90 years old and lived in Brighton, N.Y., a suburb of Rochester. Dr. Harry Louis Segal, a gastroenterologist and educator, died of pneumonia o
George Girard, a pastry maker whose shop, La Vie en Rose in Long Island City, Queens, supplied prominent restaurants and airlines for a quarter-century, died on May 22 at his home in Long Island City. He was 83 years old. Mr. Girard died of heart disease, his son Pierre said yesterday
Joe Loss, a band leader who was one of the kings of the ballroom dance era, died of kidney failure today in a London hospital, his publicity agent said. He was 80 years old. Mr. Loss's soft-spoken manner and easy-to-dance-to music won him millions of fans, including the British royal 
Joseph C. Bevis, a pioneer in the public opinion and market research industry, died of a cerebral hemorrhage on Tuesday at Martin Memorial Hospital in Stuart, Fla. He was 80 years old and lived in Stuart. Joseph C. Bevis, a pioneer in the public opinion and market research ind
Joseph J. Tomassi Jr., an industrial executive and a specialist in mergers and acquisitions, died on Monday at his home in Milford, Conn., at the age of 67. His family attributed his death to heart failure. Joseph J. Tomassi Jr., an industrial executive and a specialist in mer
Dr. Leslie P. Barker, a physician who founded the dermatological service at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan in 1942, died of colon cancer on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 years old. Dr. Leslie P. Barker, a physician who founded the dermatological service at St. L
Nicholas Williamson Danforth, a retired investment counselor, died of a heart attack on May 30 at his home in Weston, Mass. He was 85 years old. Nicholas Williamson Danforth, a retired investment counselor, died of a heart attack on May 30 at his home in Weston, Mass. He was 8
J. Parker Van Zandt, who founded Scenic Airways at the Grand Canyon and established what is now Phoenix's main airport, died of complications of pneumonia on Sunday at a retirement home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 96 years old. J. Parker Van Zandt, who founded Scenic Airwa
The Rev. Vincent J. Hart, a former president of St. Peter's College in Jersey City and a former director of development at Fordham University, died on Tuesday at the St. Ignatius Retreat House in Manhasset, L.I., where he had been retreat master since 1969. He was 91 years old.       
Vasily V. Kuznetsov, a former First Vice President of the Soviet Union and a delegate to the United Nations, died Tuesday in Moscow, the official Soviet press agency Tass reported. He was 89 years old. The immediate cause of his death was not given. Vasily V. Kuznetsov, a form
Demian Acquavella, a dancer with Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane and Company and other troupes, died of AIDS on Saturday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 32 years old. Demian Acquavella, a dancer with Bill T. Jones/Arnie Zane and Company and other troupes, died of AIDS on Saturday at 
M. Glenn Abernathy, who taught at the University of South Carolina for 35 years, died of a stroke on Tuesday while visiting a son in Richmond. He was 68 years old and lived in Columbia, S. C. Dr. Abernathy retired in 1986 as the Olin D. Johnston Professor of Political Science at the u
Dr. Henry I. Russek, a cardiologist who conducted early studies of the relationship of occupational and emotional stress to heart disease, died on May 30 at Shands Hospital in Gainesville, Fla. He was 78 years old and lived in Boca Raton, Fla. Dr. Henry I. Russek, a cardiologi
Dr. James L. Green, a urologist who was a founding physician at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I., died of a heart attack on Tuesday at his home in Floral Park, L.I. He was 70 years old. Dr. James L. Green, a urologist who was a founding physician at North Sho
Dr. John W. Alexander, a pediatrician and educator who helped develop the first neonatal intensive-care unit in Newark, died of a heart attack on Sunday at his house in Orange, N.J. He was 71 years old. Dr. John W. Alexander, a pediatrician and educator who helped develop the 
Meyer Mitchell Kailo, a career civil servant for the City of New York, died on Monday at the West Boca Raton (Fla.) Hospital. He was 73 years old and had homes in Boca Raton and Suffern, N.Y. Meyer Mitchell Kailo, a career civil servant for the City of New York, died on Monday
Myron A. Wick Jr., former chairman and chief executive officer of Dominick & Dominick, the investment banking house, died on Wednesday at his home in Hobe Sound, Fla. He was 75 years old. Myron A. Wick Jr., former chairman and chief executive officer of Dominick & Dominick, th
The Rev. Robert Aaron Mayo, a priest in the Episcopal Diocese of Newark, died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Newark after a long illness. He was 53 years old and lived in East Orange, N.J. The Rev. Robert Aaron Mayo, a priest in the Episcopal Diocese of Newark, di
The last military dictator of Ecuador, Adm. Alfredo Poveda Burbano, died of a heart attack on Thursday in Miami, relatives in Quito said today. He was 64 years old.  Family members said Admiral Poveda died at Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami, where he had gone for treatment. His remains 
Herbert Blueweiss, executive publisher of a men's wear and textile industry newspaper and an officer with Fairchild Publications Inc., died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 67 years old and his death was attributed to an apparent heart attack by a spokesman for the family.  
Jerome Metzner, who taught biology in New York City for more than 30 years, died of cancer on Thursday at his home in Lido Beach, L.I. He was 79 years old. Jerome Metzner, who taught biology in New York City for more than 30 years, died of cancer on Thursday at his home in Lid
Jose Figueres Ferrer, the Costa Rican leader who helped install democracy in his homeland in 1948 and was President three times, died yesterday of a heart attack, his physician said. He was 83 years old and lived in San Jose, the capital. Jose Figueres Ferrer, the Costa Rican 
Dr. Lynn R. Callin, a physician, died of complications of open heart surgery yesterday at the Southwest Regional Medical Center in Fort Meyers, Fla. He was 82 years old and had moved to Fort Meyers from Rochester in 1982. Dr. Lynn R. Callin, a physician, died of complications 
Michael Raffetto, a radio actor who played Paul Barbour, the eldest son on ''One Man's Family,'' during the 1930's and 40's, died on May 31. He was 91 years old. Michael Raffetto, a radio actor who played Paul Barbour, the eldest son on ''One Man's Family,'' during the 1930's 
Dr. Milton J. E. Senn, a pioneering expert in child psychiatry, died of bladder cancer yesterday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 88 years old. Dr. Milton J. E. Senn, a pioneering expert in child psychiatry, died of bladder cancer yesterday at the Connectic
Nick Kerbawy, a former general manager of the Detroit Lions and the Detroit Pistons, died of cancer Thursday. He was 77 years old. Nick Kerbawy, a former general manager of the Detroit Lions and the Detroit Pistons, died of cancer Thursday. He was 77 years old. Mr. Ker
Dr. Shepard B. Clough, who retired after 42 years as a history professor at Columbia University, died on Thursday at Northeast Vermont Hospital in St. Johnsbury. He was 88 years old and lived in East Peacham, Vt. His son Peter said Dr. Clough (pronounced cluff) had died after a stroke
Thomas R. Sheridan, a trial lawyer who was a special assistant to Attorney General Robert F. Kennedy in the 1960's, died of a heart attack on Thursday at St. Vincent's Medical Center. He was 60 years old. Thomas R. Sheridan, a trial lawyer who was a special assistant to Attorn
Edward Campbell 4th, an actor and dancer who made his Broadway debut in the musical ''Black and Blue'' and performed in it until last April when illness forced him to retire, died of AIDS on Friday in a private hospice in Los Angeles. He was 33 years old. Edward Campbell 4th, 
Edward C. Embury, an architect who designed the Children's Zoo in Central Park among other recreational, educational and residential projects, died on Wednesday of emphysema at the Winchester (Va.) Medical Center. He was 84 years old and lived in Berryville, Va. Edward C. Embu
John E. Stambaugh, a professor of classics at Williams College, died on Wednesday at his home in Williamstown, Mass., after a long illness. He was 50 years old. John E. Stambaugh, a professor of classics at Williams College, died on Wednesday at his home in Williamstown, Mass.
Sepp Ruschp, an Austrian-born skier who helped develop skiing in the United States as a recreational and competitive sport, died Friday at his home in Stowe, Vt. He was 81 years old. Sepp Ruschp, an Austrian-born skier who helped develop skiing in the United States as a recrea
John Caples, a retired advertising executive who as a fledgling copywriter in 1926 wrote one of the most famous advertising headlines - ''They Laughed When I Sat Down at the Piano but When I Started to Play!'' - died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 90 years old and lived in M
Nathaniel M. McKitterick, a retired Government consultant on international development, trade and finance, died Friday at his vacation home in Woodville, Va. Mr. McKitterick, who was 64 years old, also had a home in Alexandria, Va. The cause was a heart attack, said Allan Eustis, a so
Peter Throckmorton, an underwater archeologist who located and explored shipwrecks, died last Tuesday at his home in Newcastle, Me., at the age of 61. The family said he was found dead in bed of natural causes. Peter Throckmorton, an underwater archeologist who located and exp
Angus McBean, the best-known British photographer of actors and other entertainers, died of undisclosed causes on Saturday at Ipswich General Hospital in eastern England. He was 86 years old and died a day after his birthday. Angus McBean, the best-known British photographer o
Dr. Arthur Mangelsdorff, retired vice president for medical services of the Prudential Insurance Company, died yesterday at Princeton Medical Center. He was 85 years old and lived in Rossmoor, N.J. Dr. Arthur Mangelsdorff, retired vice president for medical services of the Pru
C. Robert Haines, a retired banker in Philadelphia and New York, died on Thursday at Shore Memorial Hospital in Somers Point, N.J. He was 79 years old and lived in Linwood, N.J. The cause of death was pneumonia, family members said. C. Robert Haines, a retired banker in Philad
Horace Havemeyer Jr., a former president of the National Sugar Refining Company, died yesterday at his home in Dix Hills, L.I. He was 75 years old. Mr. Havemeyer died of lung cancer, his son William said. Horace Havemeyer Jr., a former president of the National Sugar Refining 
Jack Paparo, a retired clothing manufacturer, died yesterday at his home in Miami. He was 86 years old and had suffered from Parkinson's disease, his son said. Jack Paparo, a retired clothing manufacturer, died yesterday at his home in Miami. He was 86 years old and had suffer
Lloyd B. Seaver, who spent nearly 50 years with Belding Heminway, the textile concern, died on Sunday at his home in Thompson, Conn. Mr. Seaver, who was 96 years old, died of complications from a stroke, his family said. Lloyd B. Seaver, who spent nearly 50 years with Belding 
Marvin Cohn, a professor of reading and head of the reading clinic at the Adelphi University School of Education, died on Sunday at Glen Cove (L.I.) Hospital. He was 66 years old and lived in Plainview, L.I. He died of cancer, a university spokeswoman said. Marvin Cohn, a prof
Samuel Levine, a retired lawyer, died on Sunday at Yale-New Haven Medical Center. He was 79 years old and had lived in Guilford, Conn., for 14 years. He died of lung cancer, said his son Robert, of Guilford. Samuel Levine, a retired lawyer, died on Sunday at Yale-New Haven Med
Sir James Carreras, who as head of Hammer Films produced horror movies that chilled a generation of filmgoers, died of a stroke on Saturday at his home at Henley-on-Thames, west of London, according to a death notice published by his family. He was 81 years old. Sir James Carr
James Edward Goslee 3d, a floral designer who planned decorations for some of the city's brightest social events, died on Monday at Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 39 years old and lived in Manhattan. James Edward Goslee 3d, a floral designer who planned decorations for som
Otto Sturzenegger, chairman of the Ciba-Geigy Corporation, the United States subsidiary of the Swiss chemical company, died on Saturday at White Plains Hospital. He was 64 years old and lived in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. Otto Sturzenegger, chairman of the Ciba-Geigy Corporation
Rabbi Solomon B. Freehof, a leader of the Reform Jewish movement and a world-renowned interpreter of Jewish law, died yesterday at Montefiore Hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 97 years old. Rabbi Solomon B. Freehof, a leader of the Reform Jewish movement and a world-renowned inte
Valerian S. Rybar, the interior designer internationally known for creating opulent rooms and extravagant party designs, died Saturday at his Manhattan home. He was 71 years old. Valerian S. Rybar, the interior designer internationally known for creating opulent rooms and extr
Emmanuel George Mesthene, a professor of philosophy and a former dean at Rutgers University, died yesterday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 69 years old and lived in New Brunswick, N.J. Emmanuel George Mesthene, a professor of philosophy and a 
Fred Severud, a civil engineer whose work included the structural design of Madison Square Garden and the Gateway Arch in St. Louis, died on Monday at his home in Miami. He was 91 years old. Fred Severud, a civil engineer whose work included the structural design of Madison Sq
Dr. George Clayton Armistead Jr., a retired physician who had specialized in hematology and internal medicine, died on Saturday at Lewis Gale Hospital in Salem, Va. He was 74 years old and lived in Pelham Manor, N.Y. Dr. George Clayton Armistead Jr., a retired physician who ha
John Collett Goodbody, retired director of communications for the Episcopal Church, died on Sunday at Roper Hospital in Charleston, S.C. He was 75 years old and lived on Seabrook Island, S.C. John Collett Goodbody, retired director of communications for the Episcopal Church, d
Lord O'Neill, who was Northern Ireland's top official from 1963 to 1969, died yesterday at his home in southern England. He was 75 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. Lord O'Neill, who was Northern Ireland's top official from 1963 to 1969, died yesterday at his ho
Richard P. Martel Jr., a senior vice president and associate creative director of BBDO New York, the largest operating division of the advertising agency BBDO Worldwide Inc., died on Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 35 years old and lived in Manhattan. R
Bertrand Latimer New, a psychiatrist and teacher, died on Wednesday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan. Bertrand Latimer New, a psychiatrist and teacher, died on Wednesday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He 
Harold C. Roser Jr., retired manager of community development programs for the Exxon Corporation, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan and Southampton, L.I. Harold C. Roser Jr., retired manager of community development programs for
Hugh Jerome Smallen Jr., an architect and interior designer, died on Monday at Sarasota (Fla.) Memorial Hospital. He was 71 years old and lived in Osprey, Fla. Hugh Jerome Smallen Jr., an architect and interior designer, died on Monday at Sarasota (Fla.) Memorial Hospital. He 
Jay Gorney, who wrote the music for ''Brother, Can You Spare a Dime?,'' one of the most enduring songs of the Depression, died yesterday at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in Manhattan. He was 93 years old. Jay Gorney, who wrote the music for ''Brother, Can You Spare
John H. Manley, who helped build the first atomic bomb, died of heart disease on Monday. He was 82 years old and lived in Los Alamos. John H. Manley, who helped build the first atomic bomb, died of heart disease on Monday. He was 82 years old and lived in Los Alamos. F
John Summerskill, an educator who was president of San Francisco State College for two years when the campus was swept by political and social unrest in the 1960's, died yesterday at his home in Belle Mead, N.J. He was 65 years old. His family said he died of liver cancer. Joh
Lord Ponsonby of Shulbrede, chief opposition whip in the House of Lords, died Wednesday, the Labor Party announced. He was 59 years old and was hospitalized last month, but no cause of death was given. Lord Ponsonby of Shulbrede, chief opposition whip in the House of Lords, di
Paul Wilson Rigo, an engineering contractor whose testimony in 1970 led to the conspiracy and extortion conviction of former Mayor Hugh J. Addonizio of Newark, was buried on Tuesday after a Mass in Nutley, N.J., where he grew up. Paul Wilson Rigo, an engineering contractor who
Sol Orlinsky, president of S. O. Textiles, which manufactures plastic hangers and supplies notions to the garment industry, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 73 years old and lived in Woodmere, L.I. Sol Orlinsky, president of S. O. Textiles, which manufactures p
Steven A. Martindale, a Washington lawyer and lobbyist known for his access to socialites and for the parties he gave, died of complications from AIDS on Wednesday at George Washington University Hospital. He was 46 years old. Steven A. Martindale, a Washington lawyer and lobb
Willis Peter Bilderback, whose Naval Academy lacrosse teams won eight consecutive national titles between 1959 and 1966, died Tuesday. He was 81 years old. Willis Peter Bilderback, whose Naval Academy lacrosse teams won eight consecutive national titles between 1959 and 1966, 
Clyde H. Allison Jr., a former special counsel to the Congressional subcommittee investigating allegations of mismanagement at the Department of Housing and Urban Development during the Reagan Administration, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 31 years old. Mr. Allisio
David M. Corcoran, president of the international division of Sterling Drug Inc., for 40 years before his retirement in 1973, died in his sleep on Thursday at his home in Waterville Valley, N.H., his family reported. He was 86 years old. David M. Corcoran, president of the int
Frank S. Endicott, creator of the annual Endicott Report, the job barometer for graduating college students and the business community, died of heart failure on June 8 at a retirement home in Evanston. He was 85 years old. Frank S. Endicott, creator of the annual Endicott Repo
Guy Paulin, the Parisian fashion designer, died on Wednesday at Pitie-Salpetriere hospital in Paris. He was 44 years old. The cause of death was not made public. Guy Paulin, the Parisian fashion designer, died on Wednesday at Pitie-Salpetriere hospital in Paris. He was 44 year
Harry F. Bliss Jr., a former president of the international division of the American Cyanamid Company, died last Saturday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 75 years old. His family said he died from bone cancer. Harry F. Bliss Jr., a former president of the international divi
Jay Doyle, a character actor who worked primarily in regional theaters, died June 2 in St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 59 years old. Jay Doyle, a character actor who worked primarily in regional theaters, died June 2 in St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 59 years old. A hos
Joe Wright, one of 10 people whose arrests and jailing for the firebombing of a grocery store became a rallying point for the civil rights movement, died on Wednesday at Hanover Memorial Hospital here. He was 37 years old. Joe Wright, one of 10 people whose arrests and jailing
John Edison Sloane, an investment counselor and a grandson of Thomas A. Edison, died on Thursday at his home in Summit, N.J., at the age of 72. He died of multiple strokes, the Brough Funeral Home said. John Edison Sloane, an investment counselor and a grandson of Thomas A. Ed
Msgr. John T. Egan, pastor of St. Sebastian's Roman Catholic Church in Woodside, Queens, died on Thursday. He was 71 years old and lived in Queens. Msgr. John T. Egan, pastor of St. Sebastian's Roman Catholic Church in Woodside, Queens, died on Thursday. He was 71 years old an
Dr. Lewis C. Robbins, the first chief of cancer control for the United States Public Health Service, died of cancer on Thursday at Methodist Hospital here. He was 80 years old and lived in Indianapolis. Dr. Lewis C. Robbins, the first chief of cancer control for the United Sta
Ryszard Cieslak, an actor and a central figure in the Polish Laboratory Theater, died Thursday at the Burzynski Research Institute in Houston. He was 53 years old and lived in Manhattan. Ryszard Cieslak, an actor and a central figure in the Polish Laboratory Theater, died Thur
The Rev. William Van Etten Casey, a former academic vice president of Boston College and later professor of theology at Holy Cross College, died Wednesday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 76 years old. The Rev. William Van Etten Casey, a former academic vice
George Nakashima, the master woodworker and designer who sought to capture the noble character of trees in chairs, tables and cabinetry, died on Friday at his home in New Hope, Pa. He was 85 years old. His family said he died after a brief illness. George Nakashima, the master
J. P. Thibault Bouet, a fashion designer, died on Thursday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 42 years old and also lived in Manhattan. J. P. Thibault Bouet, a fashion designer, died on Thursday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 42 years old and also lived in Manhatta
Michael Anthony Haimsohn, a dancer, actor, puppeteer and set designer, died on Thursday at the University of Southern California Medical Center in Los Angeles. Michael Anthony Haimsohn, a dancer, actor, puppeteer and set designer, died on Thursday at the University of Southern
Dr. Henry Brill, an authority on drug addiction who was director of the Pilgrim State Psychiatric Center in West Brentwood, L.I., from 1958 to 1974, died yesterday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Islip, L.I. Dr. Henry Brill, an authority on drug addiction who was director o
George Nakashima, the master woodworker and designer who sought to capture the noble character of trees in chairs, tables and cabinetry, died on Friday at his home in New Hope, Pa. He was 85 years old. His family said he died after a brief illness. George Nakashima, the master
John T. Shannon, a retired senior vice president of operations of Pan American World Airways, died after a long illness Saturday at Greenwich Hospital. He was 87 years old and had lived in Greenwich, Conn., for more than 40 years. The cause of his death was not disclosed. John
Dana Gardner Munro, a retired professor of Latin American history at Princeton University and a former State Department official, died on Saturday at his summer home in Waquoit, Mass. He was 97 years old and lived in Princeton. Dana Gardner Munro, a retired professor of Latin 
Herman S. Bloch, a retired chemist and inventor and a former chairman of the American Chemical Society, died on Saturday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 78 years old and lived in Skokie, Ill. Herman S. Bloch, a retired chemist and inventor and a former cha
Mark A. Costantino, a senior judge in Federal District Court in Brooklyn, died on Sunday at Staten Island University Hospital after a long illness. Judge Costantino, a lifelong resident of Staten Island, was 70 years old. Mark A. Costantino, a senior judge in Federal District 
The Rev. Dr. William J. Wolf, a theologian and Episcopal minister, died on June 6 at his home in Heath, Mass., at the age of 72. The cause of death was cardiac arrest, said his son, Edwin. The Rev. Dr. William J. Wolf, a theologian and Episcopal minister, died on June 6 at his
Alan Schwarz, a retired Rutgers University law professor, died on Friday at his home in Talent, Ore. He was 58 years old and died of a heart attack, a university spokeswoman said. Alan Schwarz, a retired Rutgers University law professor, died on Friday at his home in Talent, O
Benjamin Alk, a life-insurance underwriter and real-estate investor, died on Friday at the Courtland Gardens Health Center in Stamford, Conn. He was 98 years old and had lived for many years in Manhattan and Norwalk, Conn. Benjamin Alk, a life-insurance underwriter and real-es
Dmitri Baltermants, a Soviet photographer best known for his pictures of the Soviet battlefield during World War II, died on June 11 in Moscow. He was 77 years old. Dmitri Baltermants, a Soviet photographer best known for his pictures of the Soviet battlefield during World War
James F. White, a retired vice president and treasurer of the National Broadcasting Company, died on Monday at his home in Wilton, Conn., at the age of 69. The cause of death was congestive heart failure, his son Bryan said. James F. White, a retired vice president and treasur
Nathan George Horwitt, an independent industrial designer whose Movado watch is part of the permanent collection of the Museum of Modern Art, died last Wednesday at his home in Stockbridge, Mass. He was 92 years old. Nathan George Horwitt, an independent industrial designer wh
Paul Giovanni, a director and playwright, died in Cabrini Medical Center on Sunday. He was 57 years old and had homes in Columbia, S.C., and Manhattan. Paul Giovanni, a director and playwright, died in Cabrini Medical Center on Sunday. He was 57 years old and had homes in Colu
Ralph J. Mills, a former president and chairman of the Yonkers Savings Bank, died on Sunday at his home in Southbury, Conn. He was 88 years old. He died of pneumonia, his son said.  Mr. Mills went to work at the Yonkers Savings Bank in 1918 as a high school student. He retired as chai
Raymond Huntley, an actor who specialized in comedy roles deflating pompous officialdom in a career on the stage, in movies and on television, died on Friday in Westminster Hospital here. He was 86 years old. Raymond Huntley, an actor who specialized in comedy roles deflating 
Robert K. Campbell, chairman and president of the Pennsylvania Power and Light Company, died Saturday at the Lehigh Valley Hospital Center. He was 59 years old. The cause of death was not made known. Robert K. Campbell, chairman and president of the Pennsylvania Power and Ligh
Roy Ketner McDonald, publisher of The Chattanooga News-Free Press, died in his sleep yesterday at his home in Lookout Mountain, Tenn. He was 88 years old. Roy Ketner McDonald, publisher of The Chattanooga News-Free Press, died in his sleep yesterday at his home in Lookout Moun
Roy Nutt, a pioneer in the computer software industry who was a developer of the computer language Fortran, died Thursday at his home in Seattle. He was 59 years old. Roy Nutt, a pioneer in the computer software industry who was a developer of the computer language Fortran, di
Dr. Stanley Eisenberg, an optometrist on Long Island for 32 years, died Monday at his home in Woodbury, L.I. His wife, Sondra, said he died of cancer. He was 59 years old. Dr. Stanley Eisenberg, an optometrist on Long Island for 32 years, died Monday at his home in Woodbury, L
Thomas Nyfenger, the principal flutist of the Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra and the New York Chamber Symphony of the 92d Street Y, died on June 12 at his home in Guilford, Conn. He was 53 years old. Sandra K. Wehner, Mr. Nyfenger's companion, said he committed suicide after a long 
Walter H. Bieringer, who as president of the United Service for New Americans in the 1950's helped resettle European Jews in the United States, died Monday at his home in Boston. He was 90 years old. Walter H. Bieringer, who as president of the United Service for New Americans
Charles P. Farnsley, a colorful fixture of Kentucky politics for many years and a former Mayor of Louisville, died in a Louisville nursing home on Tuesday at the age of 83. Charles P. Farnsley, a colorful fixture of Kentucky politics for many years and a former Mayor of Louisv
George F. Addes, a founder of the United Automobile Workers union and its secretary-treasurer from 1936 until 1947, died on Tuesday at Bon Secours Hospital in Grosse Pointe, Mich. He was 79 years old and lived in St. Clair Shores, Mich. George F. Addes, a founder of the United
John Markay Williamson, an interior designer, died on Sunday at a convalescent home in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 85 years old. John Markay Williamson, an interior designer, died on Sunday at a convalescent home in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 85 years old. Mr. Williamso
Ralph T. McElvenny Sr., a retired utility executive and a leader in the renaissance of Detroit, died on Monday at the Henry Ford Hospital there. He was 83 years old and lived in Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich. Ralph T. McElvenny Sr., a retired utility executive and a leader in the 
Ralph Neuhaus, the rabbi of Congregation Ohav Sholaum in the Inwood section of Manhattan, died on Tuesday at Presbyterian Hospital. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan. Ralph Neuhaus, the rabbi of Congregation Ohav Sholaum in the Inwood section of Manhattan, died on Tue
Dr. Sidney Blumenthal, an educator, a pediatric cardiologist and a former director at the National Institutes of Health, died on Tuesday at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Sidney Blumenthal, an educator, a 
St. Clair Drake, a pioneer in black studies who was the first permanent director of Stanford University's African and Afro-American studies, died Friday at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. His death, at age 79, resulted from a heart attack, a family spokesman said. St. Clair Drak
Stephen H. Spurr, a noted forest ecologist who was president of the University of Texas in the early 1970's, died yesterday at Seton Hospital in Austin. He was 72 years old and lived in Austin. Stephen H. Spurr, a noted forest ecologist who was president of the University of T
Wesley Lefferts Bailey, a retired magazine executive, died June 13 in Tampa, Fla. He was 80 years old and had moved to Tampa last year from Sea Cliff, L.I. Wesley Lefferts Bailey, a retired magazine executive, died June 13 in Tampa, Fla. He was 80 years old and had moved to Ta
Cedric H. Belfrage, an author, editor and translator who was deported from the United States to his native Britain in 1955 after refusing to tell Congressional investigators whether he had ever been a Communist, died yesterday at his home in Cuernavaca, Mexico. He was 85 years old.   
Souther (Chick) Whittelsey, a naval architect and yachtsman, died on Wednesday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived in Greenwich. He died of a brain tumor, his wife, Harriet, said. Souther (Chick) Whittelsey, a naval architect and yachtsman, died on Wed
Dr. Edward L. Coffey Jr., an educator and a pathologist at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. for more than 20 years, died on Tuesday at St. Francis Hospital in Port Washington, L.I. He was 55 years old and lived in Port Washington. Dr. Edward L. Coffey Jr., an
Eliahu Elath, a journalist who championed the Zionist cause, helped found the State of Israel and became its first Ambassador to Washington in 1948, died Thursday in Jerusalem. He was 86. The cause of death was not announced. Eliahu Elath, a journalist who championed the Zioni
Louis A. Moskowitz, a banker and philanthropist, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan. Louis A. Moskowitz, a banker and philanthropist, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Cent
Narciso Puente Jr., a retired administrative law judge, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 70 years old and lived in Manhattan. Narciso Puente Jr., a retired administrative law judge, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 70 years old and lived in Ma
Wendell Stacy Johnson, a retired professor of English at Hunter College and a teacher at the graduate school of the City University of New York, died on Sunday at Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 62 years old and lived in Southampton. Wendell Stacy Johnson, a retired profes
John Quincy Adams, a retired cold-storage company president, died Thursday at Mountainside Hospital in Glen Ridge, N.J. He was 85 years old and lived in Montclair, N.J. John Quincy Adams, a retired cold-storage company president, died Thursday at Mountainside Hospital in Glen 
Levin Kipnis, a prolific writer of children's literature, died Wednesday in Tel Aviv. He was 96 years old. Levin Kipnis, a prolific writer of children's literature, died Wednesday in Tel Aviv. He was 96 years old. Mr. Kipnis, who was born in the Ukrainian city of Ushom
Paul Josef Crost Friedlander, retired editor of The New York Times Travel section, died on Thursday at Arlington (Va.) Hospital. He was 79 years old and had recently moved to Falls Church, Va., from his home in Roslyn, L.I. Paul Josef Crost Friedlander, retired editor of The N
Robert H. Lurie, a part-owner of two professional sports teams in Chicago, died of cancer Wednesday at Northwest Memorial Hospital, hospital officials said today. He was 48 years old. Robert H. Lurie, a part-owner of two professional sports teams in Chicago, died of cancer Wed
Roscoe V. Elsworth, a retired justice of the State Supreme Court in Ulster County, died on Wednesday at his home in Port Ewen, N.Y. He was 97 years old. Roscoe V. Elsworth, a retired justice of the State Supreme Court in Ulster County, died on Wednesday at his home in Port Ewe
Sir Tom Hopkinson, a pioneer in British photojournalism, died on Wednesday at his home in Oxford, his family said today. He was 85 years old. Mr. Hopkinson was editor of the now defunct magazine Picture Post from 1940 to 1950 and of the South African magazine Drum, which was aimed at 
Frank Hinchman Platt 3d, a retired lawyer and conservationist died at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital on Wednesday. He died after a brief illness, his wife, Audrey said. He was 77 years old. Frank Hinchman Platt 3d, a retired lawyer and conservationist died at Greenwich (Conn.) Hos
Joseph Murumbi, who served briefly as Kenya's second Vice President in 1966, died on Friday after a long illness, Kenyan newspapers reported. He was 79 years old. Mr. Murumbi, who had been confined to a wheelchair since damaging a nerve in a fall eight years ago, died at his home, the
I. H. (Hack) Miller, who brought the name Crock-Pot to millions of households, was killed in his home Friday, and a grandson was charged in the slaying, the police in Kansas City, Mo., reported yesterday. He was 83 years old. I. H. (Hack) Miller, who brought the name Crock-Pot
Austin J. Montgomery, a retired brigadier general who commanded Army cargo traffic and terminals in the Atlantic in the 1960's, died on Wednesday at the Hospice of Northern Virginia in Arlington. He was 77 years old and lived in Alexandria, Va. His death resulted from lung cancer, fam
Arthur J. Crockett, a writer and crime magazine editor, died on Friday at Jamaica Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Richmond Hill, Queens. Arthur J. Crockett, a writer and crime magazine editor, died on Friday at Jamaica Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Rich
Dr. Ilya M. Frank, who won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1958 for his work in neutron physics, has died, the Soviet television reported today. He was 81 years old. Dr. Ilya M. Frank, who won the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1958 for his work in neutron physics, has died, the Sovi
I. H. (Hack) Miller, who brought the name crock pot to millions of households, was killed in his home Friday, and a grandson was charged in the slaying, the police in Kansas City, Mo., reported yesterday. He was 83 years old. I. H. (Hack) Miller, who brought the name crock pot
Matthew Ward, the winner of the 1989 PEN-Book-of-the-Month Club prize for the first translation by an American of Albert Camus's ''The Stranger,'' died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital. He was 39 years old and lived in Manhattan. Matthew Ward, the winner of the 198
Phil Lansdale, an advertising executive best known as the force behind the successful 4day Tire Stores chain, died of cancer Friday at Hoag Memorial Hospital Presbyterian. He was 83. Phil Lansdale, an advertising executive best known as the force behind the successful 4day Tir
Alfred Rosengarten, a retired garment district executive, died on Saturday at Peninsula Hospital Center in Queens. He was 80 years old and lived in Belle Harbor, Queens. The cause of death was not disclosed.  Mr. Rosengarten, a native of Brooklyn, was founder and president of the Budg
Charles G. Taylor, a retired vice president and former general merchandising manager for the Associated Merchandising Corporation, died on Friday at the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 90 years old and lived in Rye, N.Y. Charles G. Taylor, a retired v
Eddie Cotton, a light-heavyweight boxer for 20 years who lost close decisions in his two championship fights, died on Sunday at the University of Washington Medical Center in Seattle. He was 64 years old. He died from an infection in his blood and lungs that developed two days after a
Gabriel Mace, editor in chief of Le Canard Enchaine, the satirical weekly, died of heart disease on Saturday, the newspaper said today. He was 72 years old. Gabriel Mace, editor in chief of Le Canard Enchaine, the satirical weekly, died of heart disease on Saturday, the newspa
Dr. Harry M. Poppick, who maintained a general medical practice at his home in Keyport, N.J., for 35 years until he retired in 1987, died on Sunday at Bayshore Community Hospital in Holmdel, N.J. He was 73 years old. Dr. Harry M. Poppick, who maintained a general medical pract
Irwin Panken, a lawyer in Manhattan for more than 50 years, died on Sunday at his home in Plainfield, N.J. He was 82 years old. Irwin Panken, a lawyer in Manhattan for more than 50 years, died on Sunday at his home in Plainfield, N.J. He was 82 years old. He died of ca
Otto Rudolf Trautz, a biochemist and a retired New York University professor, died on Sunday at Central Vermont Hospital in Berlin. He was 90 years old and lived in Cabot, Vt. Otto Rudolf Trautz, a biochemist and a retired New York University professor, died on Sunday at Centr
Philip L. Bondy, retired vice chairman of the Culbro Corporation, a diversified concern based in Manhattan, died on Saturday at his home in Carefree, Ariz. He was 80 years old. Philip L. Bondy, retired vice chairman of the Culbro Corporation, a diversified concern based in Man
Adm. Robert B. Carney, a retired Chief of Naval Operations and former commander in chief of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces in Southern Europe, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 95 years old. Adm. Robert B. Carney, a retired Chief of Naval Operatio
Gerard Appy, for nearly two decades an executive at WNET, the major New York public television station, died on Sunday at his home in Lake Oswego, outside Portland, Ore. He was 69 years old. Gerard Appy, for nearly two decades an executive at WNET, the major New York public te
Harry Crockett Grumpelt, a former partner in the accounting firm of Arthur Young, died on Monday at his home in Salisbury, Conn. He was 82 years old. Harry Crockett Grumpelt, a former partner in the accounting firm of Arthur Young, died on Monday at his home in Salisbury, Conn
Henry Hocart Wiggins, a former assistant director of Columbia University Press, died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan. Henry Hocart Wiggins, a former assistant director of Columbia University Press, died on Saturday
Rabbi Wolfe Kelman, a major leader of Conservative Judaism for four decades who helped professionalize the American rabbinate and pave the way for the ordination of women as rabbis, died yesterday at the New York University Medical Center. He was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan.  
Robert Bower, founder of the Washington-based Bureau of Social Science Research, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 71 years old. Robert Bower, founder of the Washington-based Bureau of Social Science Research, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 71 
Scot Haller, a senior editor of People magazine and chief of its Los Angeles bureau, died Sunday at the Sherman Oaks Community Hospital in California. He was 35 years old and lived in Los Angeles. Scot Haller, a senior editor of People magazine and chief of its Los Angeles bur
Theodore Lionel Mander, an insurance company officer who was active in British-American affairs, died on Sunday. He was 64 years old and lived in Pine Plains, N.Y. Theodore Lionel Mander, an insurance company officer who was active in British-American affairs, died on Sunday. 
Robert Waldron Herzberg, the surrogate in Columbia County, N.Y., from 1963 to 1971 who ruled in an important adoption case, died on Thursday at Monterey Peninsula Hospital in Carmel, Calif. He was 84 years old and lived in Carmel. Robert Waldron Herzberg, the surrogate in Colu
William Pelton Wright Jr., a retired textile executive and former chairman of the textile section of the New York Board of Trade, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Suffolk, England. He was 78 years old and lived in Princeton, N.J. William Pelton Wright Jr., a retired texti
Dr. John Knox Sr., a biblical scholar and an educator, died on Monday at his home in Medford, N.J. He was 89 years old. Dr. John Knox Sr., a biblical scholar and an educator, died on Monday at his home in Medford, N.J. He was 89 years old. Dr. Knox was the Baldwin Prof
Harold W. Robbins, who retired last year as an associate professor at Fordham University's Graduate School of Social Service, died on Monday at Presbyterian Hospital in Albuquerque, N.M. He was 69 years old and lived in Albuquerque. Harold W. Robbins, who retired last year as 
James A. Moss, University Professor of Social Science Emeritus at Adelphi University on Long Island, died on June 20 at New York Hospital. He was 70 years old and lived in Manhattan. James A. Moss, University Professor of Social Science Emeritus at Adelphi University on Long I
Kemper Marley Sr., a millionaire Arizona rancher and liquor distributor whose name arose in the investigation of a newspaper reporter's death in a 1976 bombing, died on Monday at a beach home in La Jolla, Calif. He was 83 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. Mr. Marley, on
Leonard M. Elstad, president of Gallaudet College in Washington from 1945 to 1969, died yesterday at a nursing home in Mauston, Wis., where he lived. He was 91 years old. The family said the cause of death had not been determined. Leonard M. Elstad, president of Gallaudet Coll
Mike Jones, a boxing manager since the mid-1970's, died Tuesday at his home in West Hempstead, L.I. He was 55 years old. Mike Jones, a boxing manager since the mid-1970's, died Tuesday at his home in West Hempstead, L.I. He was 55 years old. Mr. Jones was conferring by
Modie J. Spiegel, retired chief executive of Spiegel Inc., the Chicago-based mail order company, died on Saturday at Weiss Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 89 years old and lived in Chicago. The cause of death was not disclosed.  Mr. Spiegel joined the family-owned mail order comp
Newton Felch McKeon, a retired professor of English and former director of the Robert Frost Library at Amherst College, died Tuesday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 85 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed.  Mr. McKeon joined the faculty at Amherst in 1931 and, except
Dr. Richard A. Atkins, a former first deputy commissioner of local government in New York, died on Sunday at the Albany Medical Center Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Delmar, N.Y. Dr. Richard A. Atkins, a former first deputy commissioner of local government in New Y
Dr. Bart T. Heffernan, a cardiologist who was an early leader in the anti-abortion movement, died on Tuesday at Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 65 years old and lived in Sea Ranch Lakes, Fla. His family said the cause of death was heart failure. Dr. Bart T.
Charles S. Jensen, a retired executive of the CIT Corporation, died on Tuesday at St. Francis Hospital in Roslyn, L.I. He was 76 years old and lived in Manhasset, L.I. Charles S. Jensen, a retired executive of the CIT Corporation, died on Tuesday at St. Francis Hospital in Ros
Leonard M. Elstad, president of Gallaudet College in Washington from 1945 to 1969, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Mauston, Wis., where he lived. He was 91 years old. The family said the cause of death had not been determined. Leonard M. Elstad, president of Gallaudet Coll
Mike Jones, a boxing manager since the mid-1970's, died Tuesday at his home in West Hempstead, L.I. He was 55 years old. Mike Jones, a boxing manager since the mid-1970's, died Tuesday at his home in West Hempstead, L.I. He was 55 years old. Mr. Jones was conferring by
Msgr. Joseph C. Krug, a Roman Catholic priest who was the first principal of Stepinac High School in White Plains, died on Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 90 years old and lived in the Bronx. Msgr. Joseph C. Krug, a Roman Catholic priest who was the first princ
Newton Felch McKeon, a retired professor of English and former director of the Robert Frost Library at Amherst College, died Tuesday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 85 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed.  Mr. McKeon joined the faculty at Amherst in 1931 and, except
Raymond J. McDonough, a former vice president of LOcal 32-E of the Building Service Employees International Union, died Wednesday at the Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. Mr. McDonough, who was 61 years old an lived in Mahopac N.Y., died of heart failure, his s
Robert Bierman, president of the Jandus Electric Construction Corporation of Long Island City, Queens, died on Wednesday after suffering a heart attack while driving on the Gov. Thomas E. Dewey Thruway near Pelham, N.Y., his brother-in-law, Seth Bartner, said yesterday. He was 59 year
Steven Robert Gordon, a concert pianist best known as half of the piano duo he formed with his wife, Nadya, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 45 years old and had homes in Los Angeles and New York. Steven Robert Gordon, a concert pianist best known as half of the piano d
Gilberto Roman, a former superflyweight world champion, died in a car accident on Wednesday night, the World Boxing Council said today. He was 29 years old. Gilberto Roman, a former superflyweight world champion, died in a car accident on Wednesday night, the World Boxing Coun
Irving Wallace, whose popular novels over the past 30 years made him one of the best-read and best-selling 20th-century American authors, died yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 74 years old and lived in Brentwood, a Los Angeles suburb. Irving Wall
Jerome K. Ohrbach, president of Ohrbach's apparel stores before the chain was sold to Europeans in 1962, died on Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 82 years old. Jerome K. Ohrbach, president of Ohrbach's apparel stores before the chain was sold to Europeans in 1962, d
Julius Leventhal, founder and chairman of Leventhal Brothers & Company, clothing manufacturers in Manhasset, L.I., died on Wednesday at his home in Manhasset. He was 91 years old. Julius Leventhal, founder and chairman of Leventhal Brothers & Company, clothing manufacturers in
Peter W. Bove, a retired telephone company supervisor who was active in community affairs, died on Tuesday at his home in Upper Montclair, N.J. He was 82 years old. Peter W. Bove, a retired telephone company supervisor who was active in community affairs, died on Tuesday at hi
Richard Foth Ferris, a management consultant, died on Monday at his home in Darien, Conn. He was 61 years old. Richard Foth Ferris, a management consultant, died on Monday at his home in Darien, Conn. He was 61 years old. Mr. Ferris died of a heart attack, a funeral-ho
William E. Davies, a retired official of the United States Geological Survey, died on Wednesday at his home in Falls Church, Va. He was 72 years old. William E. Davies, a retired official of the United States Geological Survey, died on Wednesday at his home in Falls Church, Va
