Albert Rose, a research scientist whose work in converting optical images to electrical signals led to the development of the modern television picture tube, died on Thursday at the Princeton Medical Center in New Jersey. He was 80 years old and lived in Princeton. Albert Rose
Bolton Sullivan, the founder and retired president of the Skil Corporation of Chicago, died Thursday at his home in Lake Forest, Ill. He was 94 years old. Bolton Sullivan, the founder and retired president of the Skil Corporation of Chicago, died Thursday at his home in Lake F
Charles M. Mapes, a communications consultant and retired engineer with A. T. & T., died on Friday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was 89 years old and lived in Suffern. Charles M. Mapes, a communications consultant and retired engineer with A. T. & T., died on 
Donald L. Ranard, a longtime Foreign Service official who played a key role in uncovering the role of South Korean lobbyists in Washington in the mid-1970's, died on Saturday at Georgetown University Hospital. He was 73 years old and lived in Centreville, Va., and Romney, W. Va. Mr. R
George E. Echols, who fought in France in World War I and was the nation's oldest known war veteran, died last Thursday at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center, the Department of Veterans Affairs reported. He was 105 years old. George E. Echols, who fought in France in World Wa
Georges Conchon, a prize-winning novelist and screenwriter, died on Sunday in a Paris-area hospital after a sudden illness, his family said Monday. He was 65 years old. Georges Conchon, a prize-winning novelist and screenwriter, died on Sunday in a Paris-area hospital after a 
Michel Guy, a former Minister of Culture and director of the annual Autumn Festival in Paris, died on Monday after a long illness, associates said today. He was 63 years old. Michel Guy, a former Minister of Culture and director of the annual Autumn Festival in Paris, died on 
Dr. Norman Pleshette, an obstetrician and gynecologist in Manhattan for almost 60 years, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old. Dr. Norman Pleshette, an obstetrician and gynecologist in Manhattan for almost 60 years, died on Monday at his home in Manhatt
Charles (Red) Barrett, who holds the major league record for the fewest pitches in a nine-inning game, died at his home Saturday after a long illness. He was 75 years old.  While pitching for the Boston Braves in 1944, he faced 27 batters and threw only 58 pitches in a 2-0 victory ove
Charles H. Willard, a retired partner of Davis Polk & Wardwell, a Manhattan law firm, died on Monday at his home in Somers, N.Y. He was 85 years old. He died of pneumonia, his wife, Nancy, said.  Mr. Willard, who specialized in practice relating to banking, joined the firm in 1930 and
Dr. Edward Mahon Kline, an educator, cardiologist and retired medical director of the General Electric Company, died on Monday at his home in Southport, Conn. He was 81 years old. Dr. Edward Mahon Kline, an educator, cardiologist and retired medical director of the General Ele
Ed Emshwiller, who created avant-garde films and videotapes, died on July 26 at the Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hospital in Valencia, Calif. He was 65 years old. Ed Emshwiller, who created avant-garde films and videotapes, died on July 26 at the Henry Mayo Newhall Memorial Hos
Dr. Edward Frederick Landau, a retired research chemist and holder of six patents, died on Monday at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. He was 74 years old and lived in West Orange. Dr. Edward Frederick Landau, a retired research chemist and holder of six patents,
Frederick Carl Gloeckner, a New York horticulturist, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 88 years old and lived in Manhattan. Frederick Carl Gloeckner, a New York horticulturist, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 88 years old and lived in Manhattan.  
George Napack, a chemical engineer and a retired vice president of the Hatco Chemical Corporation, died on Tuesday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 65 years old and lived in Westfield, N.J. George Napack, a chemical engineer and a retired vice president of the Hatco
George W. May, founder of Firecom Inc. of Woodside, Queens, a manufacturer and installer of alarms, died on Sunday at Glen Cove Community Hospital on Long Island. He was 64 years old and lived in Locust Valley, L.I. George W. May, founder of Firecom Inc. of Woodside, Queens, a
Jan Stussy, a West Coast artist with works in many museums and private collections, died on Tuesday at his home in West Los Angeles. He was 68 years old. Jan Stussy, a West Coast artist with works in many museums and private collections, died on Tuesday at his home in West Los
Phil David Fine, a lawyer who played an important role in several major development projects in Massachusetts, died Tuesday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 64 years old and lived in Boston. Phil David Fine, a lawyer who played an important role in several m
Sidney Brill, a civil engineer and the owner of a public-works construction company, died on Monday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Bay Shore, L.I. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of lung cancer, his family said. Sidney Brill, a civil engineer and the owner o
Frank G. O'Neill, a lawyer who served as chief prosecutor of Japanese war criminals in the Philippines after World War II, died Monday at Milton Hospital in Massachusetts. He was 83 years old and lived in Milton. Frank G. O'Neill, a lawyer who served as chief prosecutor of Jap
George James Fleming, an author, editor and political science professor who became chairman of the regents at Morgan State University in Baltimore, died Wednesday at the age of 84 at his home in Cockeysville, Md. His wife, Hazel, said the cause of death was liver and heart ailments.  
Herbert O. Fisher, a test pilot and a retired aviation executive of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, died on Sunday at Chilton Memorial Hospital in Kinnelon, N.J. He was 81 years old and lived in Kinnelon. Herbert O. Fisher, a test pilot and a retired aviation ex
Norman Maclean, a professor of English who turned his hand to fiction in retirement and wrote an acclaimed book about fishing, died yesterday at his home in the Hyde Park district of Chicago. He was 87 years old. Norman Maclean, a professor of English who turned his hand to fi
Theodore Birnbaum, a New York business executive, died on Wednesday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 years old and lived in Ossining, N.Y. Theodore Birnbaum, a New York business executive, died on Wednesday at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 years o
Carl Ekern, a former linebacker with the Los Angeles Rams, died of head injuries on Wednesday when the Jeep he was driving ran off a highway near the Kern County town of Ridgecrest, the California Highway Patrol said. Carl Ekern, a former linebacker with the Los Angeles Rams, 
Hans Paul Verhoef, a Dutch AIDS patient who was imprisoned in Minnesota last year because he did not declare that he had the disease when he entered the country, died in the Netherlands on July 23. He was 33 years old and had been hospitalized since May. In April 1989 Mr. Verh
Dr. John Honan Keating Jr., a retired specialist in internal medicine and cardiology, died on Thursday at the Riverview Medical Center in Red Bank, N.J. He was 70 years old and lived in Locust, N.J. Dr. John Honan Keating Jr., a retired specialist in internal medicine and card
Milton C. Sapinsley, a retired manufacturing executive, died Wednesday at his home in Providence, R.I. He was 94 years old. Milton C. Sapinsley, a retired manufacturing executive, died Wednesday at his home in Providence, R.I. He was 94 years old. Mr. Sapinsley was the
Thomas M. Macioce, a lawyer and former chairman and chief executive officer of the Allied Stores Corporation, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 71 years old and lived in Brookville, L.I. Thomas M. Macioce, a lawyer and former chairman and chief exe
Clyde H. Shaffer, retired president of the Breyer Ice Cream Company, died Friday in the Whitehall Nursing Home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 90 years old and lived in Pompano Beach, Fla. Clyde H. Shaffer, retired president of the Breyer Ice Cream Company, died Friday in the White
Ettore Maserati, a founder and guiding force of the Maserati racing-car company, died today, the ANSA news agency reported. He was 96 years old. Ettore Maserati, a founder and guiding force of the Maserati racing-car company, died today, the ANSA news agency reported. He was 9
Martin Victor, a former Mayor of Lattingtown, L.I., and a former vice president of Babcock & Wilcox, an engineering concern, died on Friday in his home in Glen Cove, L.I. He was 76 years old. Martin Victor, a former Mayor of Lattingtown, L.I., and a former vice president of Ba
Dr. Mortimer Jacob Blumenthal, a New York City psychiatrist and child psychoanalyst, died yesterday at his home. He was 68 years old and lived and practiced on the Upper East Side. Dr. Mortimer Jacob Blumenthal, a New York City psychiatrist and child psychoanalyst, died yester
Boris Hansen Klosson, a retired foreign service officer specializing in Soviet and Eastern European affairs, died Friday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 71 years old and lived in Chevy Chase. Boris Hansen Klosson, a retired foreign service officer specializing in 
John F. Fanning, the advertising makeup manager for The New York Times, died yesterday at Centrastate Medical Center in Freehold, N.J. He was 61 years old and lived in Howell, N.J. John F. Fanning, the advertising makeup manager for The New York Times, died yesterday at Centra
Maurice Braddell, an actor, author and art restorer, died July 28 in England. He was 89 years old. Maurice Braddell, an actor, author and art restorer, died July 28 in England. He was 89 years old. Mr. Braddell, born in 1900 in the seacoast city of Folkestone, lived in
Dr. Mortimer Jacob Blumenthal, a New York City psychiatrist and child psychoanalyst, died Saturday at his home. He was 68 years old and lived and practiced on the Upper East Side. Dr. Mortimer Jacob Blumenthal, a New York City psychiatrist and child psychoanalyst, died Saturda
Paul V. Galloway, a retired bishop of the United Methodist Church, died Saturday at St. John Medical Center in Tulsa, Okla. He was 86 years old and lived in Tulsa. Paul V. Galloway, a retired bishop of the United Methodist Church, died Saturday at St. John Medical Center in Tu
David J. Melamed, a lawyer and former secretary of the Communications Satellite Corporation, died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 60 years old and lived in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. David J. Melamed, a lawyer and former secretary of the 
Francis C. Symonds Jr., clinical professor of surgery at the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University, died on Saturday in Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. He was 63 years old and lived in Tenafly, N.J., and Southold, L.I. Francis C. Symonds Jr., clinical pro
George Stavrinos, a graphic artist and illustrator who helped revive interest in finely drawn representational art, died Friday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 42 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications of pneumonia, his sister Lydia said. Mr. Stavrinos
Harold E. Beste, an electronics researcher and engineer who helped develop television components and weapons systems, died on Friday at his home in Verona, N.J. He was 81 years old. Harold E. Beste, an electronics researcher and engineer who helped develop television component
John A. Gronvall, former chief medical director of the Department of Veterans Affairs in Washington, died Aug. 2. He was 59 years old. John A. Gronvall, former chief medical director of the Department of Veterans Affairs in Washington, died Aug. 2. He was 59 years old.        
John T. Kolody, retired president of St. Barnabas Hospital, died on Saturday at St. Agnes Hospital in White Plains. He was 70 years old and lived in Whitestone, Queens. John T. Kolody, retired president of St. Barnabas Hospital, died on Saturday at St. Agnes Hospital in White 
Maurice A. Pollak, president of the Maurice Pollak Investment Office in West Long Branch, N.J., died on Sunday at his home in West Long Branch, N.J. He was 94 years old. Maurice A. Pollak, president of the Maurice Pollak Investment Office in West Long Branch, N.J., died on Sun
O. B. Hardison Jr., a professor of English at Georgetown University and former director of the Folger Shakespeare Library, died Sunday at the Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 61 years old and lived in Washington. O. B. Hardison Jr., a professor of English a
Rabbi Jacob J. Hecht, an educator, writer and radio commentator, died on Sunday while visiting Camp Emunah, a summer camp he founded in Greenfield Park, N.Y. He was 66 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Rabbi Jacob J. Hecht, an educator, writer and radio commentator, died on Sun
Alfred H. Lovell, a retired consular official and former executive at the Book-of-the-Month Club, died Aug. 1 at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 74 years old. Alfred H. Lovell, a retired consular official and former executive at the Book-of-the-Month Club, died Aug. 1 at h
Gordon Bunshaft, whose modernist skyscrapers, museums and libraries made him one of the most influential architects of the 20th century, died on Monday evening at his apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 81 years old. Gordon Bunshaft, whose modernist skyscrape
Gen. Lemuel C. Shepherd Jr., a former Commandant of the Marine Corps and a decorated veteran of both World Wars and the Korean War, died Monday at his home in San Diego. He was 94 years old. Gen. Lemuel C. Shepherd Jr., a former Commandant of the Marine Corps and a decorated v
The Rev. Dr. Ralph M. Holdeman, a former official with the National Council of Churches who worked in the civil rights movement, died July 31 at Elkhart General Hospital in Elkhart, Ind.. He was 84 years old.  Dr. Holdeman, who lived in Elkhart, died of a stroke, said his wife, Mildre
Robert W. (Richard) Casper, an actor, director and choreographer who worked on 30 productions for An Evening Dinner Theater in Elmsford, N.Y., died Friday at Memorial Hospital in Mount Holly, N.J. He was 41 years old and lived in Manhattan. Robert W. (Richard) Casper, an actor
Taylor Garrison Belcher, former United States Ambassador to Cyprus and Peru, died on Monday at Peekskill (N.Y.) Community Hospital. He was 70 years old and lived in Garrison, N.Y. Taylor Garrison Belcher, former United States Ambassador to Cyprus and Peru, died on Monday at Pe
Arthur L. Samuel, a computer scientist who did early research on machine learning and artificial intelligence, died July 29 at Stanford University Memorial Hospital in California. He was 88 years old. Arthur L. Samuel, a computer scientist who did early research on machine lea
The Rev. Arthur H. Tildesley, an Episcopal priest, died on Saturday at his home in Fair Haven, N.J. He was 58 years old. The Rev. Arthur H. Tildesley, an Episcopal priest, died on Saturday at his home in Fair Haven, N.J. He was 58 years old. He died of lung cancer, his
Eugene F. Black, a former Michigan Supreme Court justice, died Saturday at his home in Port Huron, Mich. He was 87 years old. The cause of death was not announced. Justice Black was a member of the State Supreme Court from 1955 until 1972, when he returned to private practice. He was 
Jacques Soustelle, an anthropologist and former Cabinet minister who was one of the leaders of an underground movement that fought against Algerian independence, died Tuesday in the Paris suburb of Neuilly-sur-Seine. He was 78 years old. The cause of death was not reported.  Dr. Soust
Joaquin E. Meyer, a former Cuban diplomat who later served at the Inter-American Development Bank, died on Sunday at the Hospice of Washington. He was 83 years old and lived in Washington. Joaquin E. Meyer, a former Cuban diplomat who later served at the Inter-American Develop
John G. Aston, emeritus professor of organic chemistry and former director of the Low Temperature Laboratory at Pennsylvania State University, died Monday at Centre Community Hospital in State College, Pa. He was 87 years old and lived in State College. John G. Aston, emeritus
John T. Wilson, a former president of the University of Chicago, died Saturday at Rush Presbyterian St. Luke's Hospital in Chicago. He was 76 years old. John T. Wilson, a former president of the University of Chicago, died Saturday at Rush Presbyterian St. Luke's Hospital in C
Karl A. Weber, an actor and former president of the Screen Actors Guild of New York, died on July 30 at New England Baptist Hospital in Boston. He was 74 years old and had homes in Fort Myers, Fla., and Edgartown, Mass. Karl A. Weber, an actor and former president of the Scree
Morris Ginsberg, a retired steamship company executive who helped buy ships to settle Jews in Palestine in the 40's, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83 years old. Morris Ginsberg, a retired steamship company executive who helped buy ships to settle Jews in Pale
Prescott A. Tolman, a retired vice president of the E. F. MacDonald Incentive Company and a sport fisherman, died on Friday at St. Luke's Hospital in Bethlehem, Pa. He was 80 years old and lived in Swiftwater, Pa. He died of leukemia, his family said. Mr. Tolman joined MacDonald, the 
Raphael Yavneh, retired president of the Forbes Investors Advisory Institute, an affiliate of Forbes Inc., the magazine publisher, died on Monday at New York Hospital. He was 60 years old and lived in Manhattan. Raphael Yavneh, retired president of the Forbes Investors Advisor
W. M. Spackman, a writer and classicist who in a burst of creativity late in life became the author of five novels, died on Friday at his home in Princeton, N.J. W. M. Spackman, a writer and classicist who in a burst of creativity late in life became the author of five novels,
Wade Omer Martin Jr., Louisiana Secretary of State for 32 years, died Monday at his home in Baton Rouge, La. He was 79 years old. The cause of death was not given. Mr. Martin, a lawyer, was elected Secretary of State in 1944 at the age of 33. He quit in 1976 to run for governor. After
William Leigh Ellis, a retired administrative law judge with the Federal Power Commission, died at the age of 82 on Monday at his home in Arlington, Va. The cause of death was cancer, a family spokesman said. William Leigh Ellis, a retired administrative law judge with the Fed
Zvee Aroni, a prominent cantor for Conservative Jewish congregations, died Tuesday at his daughter's home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 65 years old and lived in North Miami Beach. Zvee Aroni, a prominent cantor for Conservative Jewish congregations, died Tuesday at his daughter'
Dr. Earl R. Zack, a psychologist and an educator, died yesterday in Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Florida. He was 77 years old and lived in Sarasota. Dr. Earl R. Zack, a psychologist and an educator, died yesterday in Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Florida. He was 77 years old 
Edward F. Buxton, an author and advertising executive, died on Tuesday at New England Memorial Hospital in Boston. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan. Edward F. Buxton, an author and advertising executive, died on Tuesday at New England Memorial Hospital in Boston. He 
Fred L. Heyes, a former vice president of F. Eberstadt & Company, a Manhattan brokerage firm, died on Wednesday at his home in Glen Cove, L.I. He was 70 years old. Fred L. Heyes, a former vice president of F. Eberstadt & Company, a Manhattan brokerage firm, died on Wednesday a
Howard O. McMahon, a scientist, inventor and former president of Arthur D. Little Inc., the international management and technology consulting concern, died Sunday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 75 years old and lived in Cambridge. Howard O. McMahon, a sci
The Rev. Paul V. Callahan, a Jesuit priest and a teacher of classical languages for 33 years, died on Wednesday at St. Ignatius Loyola Residence in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 68 years old. The Rev. Paul V. Callahan, a Jesuit priest and a teacher of classical languages f
Richard A. Styskal, deputy director of the Center for Labor-Management Policy Studies at the City University of New York, died on Sunday. He was 53 years old and lived in Mountainside, N.J. Richard A. Styskal, deputy director of the Center for Labor-Management Policy Studies a
Robert Synes, a producer and writer of television game shows, died Sunday at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 58 years old and lived in Los Angeles. Robert Synes, a producer and writer of television game shows, died Sunday at Cedars-Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. H
Bryan Holme, an author and retired publisher of photographic and art books, died Wednesday at his summer home in Round Pond, Me. He was 78 years old and also lived in Vero Beach, Fla. His son, Christopher, said his father had died of kidney failure.  Mr. Holme had been the head of Stu
The Rev. Dr. Donald R. Heiges, a former president of two Lutheran seminaries, died yesterday at the Lutheran Retirement Village in Gettysburg, Pa. He was 80 years old. A funeral home spokesman said Dr. Heiges died of cardiomyopathy, a disease of the muscular tissue of the heart.      
James L. Howard, a lawyer, certified public accountant and former insurance executive, died on July 29 at Engelwood Hospital in New Jersey. He was 71 years old and lived in Teaneck, N.J. James L. Howard, a lawyer, certified public accountant and former insurance executive, die
Joseph Marion Jones, an economist and former Government official, died Thursday at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 81 years old. His family said he died of cardio-pulmonary arrest. Joseph Marion Jones, an economist and former Government official, died Thursday at his home in
Lewis Iselin, a sculptor known for his portraits and other figurative works, died Friday at his home in Camden, Me. His wife, the former Sally Cary Curtis, said he died of cancer. Mr. Iselin was 77 years old. Lewis Iselin, a sculptor known for his portraits and other figurativ
Norman Marcus, an architect and a vice president of Citicorp, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 53 years old. Norman Marcus, an architect and a vice president of Citicorp, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 53 years old. He died of complicati
Steven Merriman Rundle, manager of creative services for MBI Inc., a direct marketing company in Norwalk, Conn., died on Tuesday at Norwalk Hospital. He was 44 years old and lived in Weston, Conn. Steven Merriman Rundle, manager of creative services for MBI Inc., a direct mark
William R. Moseley, retired chief executive of Day & Zimmermann Inc., a major Government munitions supplier, died last Sunday at a nursing home in Springfield Township, Pa. He was 75 years old and lived in Philadelphia. William R. Moseley, retired chief executive of Day & Zimm
Harry (Cookie) Lavagetto, the popular Dodger infielder best recalled for his ninth-inning double that spoiled a no-hitter for the Yankee pitcher Bill Bevens in the 1947 World Series, died in his sleep Friday morning at his home in Orinda, Calif. Harry (Cookie) Lavagetto, the p
George Whiteley, a teacher, author, sailor and marine biologist, died Wednesday at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 81 years old and lived in West Chester, Pa. George Whiteley, a teacher, author, sailor and marine biologist, died Wednesday at the
Harold G. Mangelsdorf, a petroleum industry executive who spent much of his 40-year career in senior positions with Standard Oil of New Jersey, now Exxon, died on Wednesday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 83 years old and lived in Short Hills, N.J. His family said he died 
Harry W. Faeber, a designer of printing presses and a consultant to printing concerns around the world, died at Brookhaven (L.I.) Hospital on Thursday. He was 95 years old and lived on Shelter Island. His family said he died of pneumonia. Harry W. Faeber, a designer of printin
John G. Briggs Jr., a music critic who once served as Arturo Toscanini's press agent, died on Friday at the Cooper River Convalescent Center in Pennsauken, N.J. John G. Briggs Jr., a music critic who once served as Arturo Toscanini's press agent, died on Friday at the Cooper R
Robert W. Cleveland, a road builder and heavy-equipment supplier, died on Thursday at the United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 80 years old and lived in Rye, N.Y. His family said he died of lymphoma. The company that bears his name was the contractor for road work at several m
Dr. William Bosworth Castle, an eminent hematologist who discovered the cause of pernicious anemia, died Thursday at New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston. He was 92 years old and lived in Brookline, Mass. Dr. William Bosworth Castle, an eminent hematologist who discovered 
Dr. George M. Parks, dean of Pace University's Lubin Schools of Business, died on Saturday while scuba diving in Bermuda, the university said yesterday. He was 56 years old and lived in Rye, N.Y. Dr. George M. Parks, dean of Pace University's Lubin Schools of Business, died on
Wendell G. Randolph, a chemical engineer who played an important role in developing gas masks for the United States Army in World War I and who later headed a family concern that produced industrial paints, died on Monday at his home in Saddle River, N.J. He was 94 years old. 
William E. Foley, the Federal judiciary's chief administrative officer from 1977 to 1985, died Saturday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 79 years old and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. William E. Foley, the Federal judiciary's chief administrative officer from 1977
B. Kliban, an art-school dropout whose cartoons of hordes of round-eyed, striped cats became a multi-million-dollar craze, died Sunday at the University of California Medical Center in San Francisco, two weeks after undergoing heart surgery. He was 55 years old and lived in Corte Made
Ethyl Eichelberger, a flamboyant presence on the New York theatrical scene for the last 15 years as an actor, performance artist, clown and playwright, died over the weekend at his home on Staten Island. Black-Eyed Susan, an actress who was a frequent leading lady in his plays, said t
Hedley Donovan, a former editor in chief of Time Inc. who is credited with greatly enhancing the journalistic stature of Time magazine, died yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 76 years old and lived in Manhattan and Sands Point, L.I. Hedle
Jay Rubin, president emeritus of the New York Hotel and Motel Trades Council, A.F.L.-C.I.O., died on Sunday at his home in Newtown, Conn. He was 86 years old. Jay Rubin, president emeritus of the New York Hotel and Motel Trades Council, A.F.L.-C.I.O., died on Sunday at his hom
Dr. Simon Grolnick, a psychoanalyst and a teacher, died on Sunday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset L.I. He was 60 years old and lived in Great Neck, L.I., and East Hampton, L.I. Dr. Simon Grolnick, a psychoanalyst and a teacher, died on Sunday at North Shore Uni
Asa S. Knowles, president of Northeastern University from 1959 to 1975, died Saturday at his home in Boston at the age of 81. Asa S. Knowles, president of Northeastern University from 1959 to 1975, died Saturday at his home in Boston at the age of 81. His family said h
Augustus Dayton Clark, a retired Navy captain who played a significant role in the invasion of Normandy during World War II, died on Sunday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 90 years old and lived in Yorktown Heights, N.Y. Augustus Dayton Clark, a re
Charles M. Warren, a television and film writer who brought such popular Western successes as ''Gunsmoke'' and ''Rawhide'' to the television screen, died Saturday at Humana Hospital in West Hills, Calif. He was 77 years old and lived in Agoura Hills, Calif. Charles M. Warren, 
Marsh Jeanneret, a leading Canadian book publisher, died Friday at his home in King City, Ontario. He was 73 years old. Marsh Jeanneret, a leading Canadian book publisher, died Friday at his home in King City, Ontario. He was 73 years old. Mr. Jeanneret died of a heart
Sidney Lightstone, an advertising executive, died last Wednesday at his home in Flushing, Queens. He was 94 years old. He died of cancer, his son John said. Mr. Lightstone began in advertising in Detroit with the J. L. Hudson Co. He became sales promotion manager for Gimbel Brothers i
Walter James Lopp 2d, an investment banker and an innovator in corporate financing, died on Friday at his vacation home in Auribeau, France. Mr. Lopp, who also lived in Manhattan, was 51 years old. Walter James Lopp 2d, an investment banker and an innovator in corporate financ
Geoffrey Leon, an actor and lyricist, died Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 44 years old. He died of complications of AIDS, said a friend, Robert Poterelli. Mr. Leon graduated from the University of California at Santa Barbara in 1967 and moved to New York the same year. He a
Harry Leahey, a jazz guitarist and teacher, died on Sunday at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 54 years old and lived in North Plainfield, N.J., until last year, when he moved to Iselin, N.J. Harry Leahey, a jazz guitarist and teacher, died
Henry Crown, the billionaire whose life exemplified the Horatio Alger rags-to-riches story of American industrialists, died Tuesday at his Lake Shore Drive apartment in Chicago. He was 94 years old. Henry Crown, the billionaire whose life exemplified the Horatio Alger rags-to-
Louis Vola, a jazz bassist who was a founding member of the legendary Hot Club Quintet in the 1930's, died last week in a Paris hospital after a long illness, friends announced Tuesday. He was 88. Louis Vola, a jazz bassist who was a founding member of the legendary Hot Club Q
Robert C. Kilmartin, a retired brigadier general in the United States Marine Corps, died on Sunday at his home in McLean, Va., at the age of 93. His family said he died of cardio-pulmonary arrest. Robert C. Kilmartin, a retired brigadier general in the United States Marine Cor
Stephen S. Lai, a physician and a civic leader in Chinatown in Manhattan, died on Saturday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 61 years old and lived in Watchung, N.J. Stephen S. Lai, a physician and a civic leader in Chinatown in Manhattan, died on Saturday at
Thomas J. McDermott, an independent television producer who created many popular shows, including ''Father Knows Best'' and the daytime serials ''As the World Turns'' and ''The Edge of Night,'' died on Saturday at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 65 years old. Thomas J.
Walter E. Harris Jr., a former head of the American subsidiary of Alfred Dunhill, the London tobacco merchant, and earlier an executive at Abraham & Straus in Brooklyn, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan. Walte
Chester Zardis, an original slap-style string bass player who most recently appeared with the Preservation Hall Jazz Band in New Orleans, La., on July 16, died Tuesday at Charity Hospital in New Orleans. He was 90 years old and lived in New Orleans. Chester Zardis, an original
Franklin G. Ebaugh Jr., chief of staff at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Palo Alto, Calif., and a former dean of two medical schools, died on Aug. 7 at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 68 years old. Franklin G. Ebaugh Jr., chief of staff at the Veterans Affairs Medi
Harry B. Freeman Jr., an investment banker, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhatan. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan. Harry B. Freeman Jr., an investment banker, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhatan. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan.
Hugo Gladstone Koehler, an investment banker, died on Tuesday at a friend's home in Manhattan. He was 60 years old and lived in Manhattan and in Cos Cob, Conn. Hugo Gladstone Koehler, an investment banker, died on Tuesday at a friend's home in Manhattan. He was 60 years old an
Julius Lipsett, owner of Lipsett Inc., the demolition and salvage company responsible for tearing down the old Pennsylvania Station, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 years old. Julius Lipsett, owner of Lipsett Inc., the demolition and salvage company respons
Dr. Lawrence A. Frost, a podiatrist and a historian who published several books on Gen. George A. Custer, died on Tuesday at Mercy Memorial Hospital in Monroe, Mich. He was 83 years old and lived in Monroe. His family said he died of cardiac arrest. Dr. Lawrence A. Frost, a po
Lew DeWitt, the tenor and guitarist of the Statler Brothers country-music group for 20 years, died on Wednesday at his home in Waynesboro, Va. His death resulted from heart and kidney disease, his mother said. He was 52 years old. Lew DeWitt, the tenor and guitarist of the Sta
Louis Barron, editor in chief of Barnes & Noble Books, died on Monday at the Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan while undergoing surgery for renal failure, his family said. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan and Downsville, N.Y. Louis Barron, editor in chief of Ba
Paul M. Bernstein, senior partner of the Manhattan law firm of Bernstein Litowitz Berger & Grossman, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 60 years old and lived in Belmore, L.I. Paul M. Bernstein, senior partner of the Manhattan law firm of Bernstein L
William A. Grier, a retired lawyer in Manhattan for the General Motors Corporation, died last Friday at a nursing home in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 78 years old and lived in Vero Beach. William A. Grier, a retired lawyer in Manhattan for the General Motors Corporation, died last
The Rev. Wofford Kreth Smith, an Episcopal priest who was chaplain at the University of Mississippi during the turbulent era of integration, died on Aug. 10 at his home in College Park, Md. He was 62 years old. The Rev. Wofford Kreth Smith, an Episcopal priest who was chaplain
Alfred M. Vinton, a retired senior vice president of Citibank, died on Thursday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 84 years old and lived in Rye, N.Y. Alfred M. Vinton, a retired senior vice president of Citibank, died on Thursday at United Hospital in Port Cheste
Dr. John M. Walker, a physician and investment banker, died on Thursday at Southern Maine Medical Center in Biddeford, Me. He was 81 years old and lived in Easton, Md. Dr. John M. Walker, a physician and investment banker, died on Thursday at Southern Maine Medical Center in B
Gerhard Wagner, chairman of the Osterreichische Landerbank in Vienna, which ranks 164th among world banks, died Thursday while cycling in a province of lower Austria, where he was on vacation. He was 56 years old and lived in Vienna. Gerhard Wagner, chairman of the Osterreichi
James Thomas Foley, a Federal judge for 40 years, died yesterday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 80 years old and lived in North Greenbush, N.Y. James Thomas Foley, a Federal judge for 40 years, died yesterday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 80 years old an
John Hall Page, a retired executive, died on Thursday at Huntington Hospital on Long Island. He was 70 years old and lived in Huntington. John Hall Page, a retired executive, died on Thursday at Huntington Hospital on Long Island. He was 70 years old and lived in Huntington.  
Joseph F. Stein, head of the Joseph F. Stein Cadillac Agency in Asbury Park, N.J., died on Wednesday at his house in Deal, N.J. He was 93 years old. Joseph F. Stein, head of the Joseph F. Stein Cadillac Agency in Asbury Park, N.J., died on Wednesday at his house in Deal, N.J. 
Julian A. McDermott, a lighting engineer who founded the Julian A. McDermott Corporation of Ridgewood, Queens, a producer of warning lights and signal equipment, died on Tuesday at Sentara Norfolk General Hospital in Virginia. He was 81 years old and lived in Gambrills, Md. Ju
Michael Kraus, professor emeritus of history at City College, died Aug. 9 in a nursing home in Sun City, Ariz. He was 89 years old and lived in Sun City. Michael Kraus, professor emeritus of history at City College, died Aug. 9 in a nursing home in Sun City, Ariz. He was 89 ye
Hermann E. Simon, a lawyer who specialized in estates and trusts and who obtained compensation from West Germany for victims of Nazi persecution, died of a heart attack on Tuesday in an elevator on his way to work at his office in lower Manhattan. He was 89 years old and lived in Manh
Lee J. Richmond, a poet and novelist who taught at St. John's University for more than two decades, died on Friday at Mercy Hospital in Rockville Centre, L.I. He was 54 years old and lived in Hempstead, L.I. The Hempstead Funeral Home said he died of complications from pneumonia.     
Roderick Cook, the British-born stage and film actor who was perhaps best known for his 1972 Off Broadway revue ''Oh Coward!'' in which he adapted and performed the works of Sir Noel Coward, died on Friday at his home in Los Angeles at the age of 58. Dan V. Fuller, his business manage
B. F. Skinner, who studied human and animal behavior in ingenious experiments and hoped that his findings would foster creativity and curtail repression, died Saturday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 86 years old and lived in Cambridge. B. F. Skinner, who s
Stephen E. Smith, a financial analyst and political strategist in the Presidential campaign of his brother-in-law, John F. Kennedy, in 1960, died yesterday at his Manhattan home. He was 62 years old. Stephen E. Smith, a financial analyst and political strategist in the Preside
Chris Silva, a swimmer and a leading force in attracting blacks to American competitive swimming, was killed Sunday when the car he was driving crashed into a tree. He was 29 years old. Chris Silva, a swimmer and a leading force in attracting blacks to American competitive swi
Harry C. Piper Jr., a Minneapolis stockbroker who paid a $1 million ransom for the return of his kidnapped wife in 1972, died on Sunday at his home in Orono, Minn., at the age of 72. He died of bone cancer, his family said. Harry C. Piper Jr., a Minneapolis stockbroker who pai
James A. Starr, who wrote one of the first Hollywood movie columns, died at his home here on Monday. He was 86 years old. His wife said he died in his sleep.  Mr. Starr began his newspaper career in 1924, writing reviews, gossip and features for The Los Angeles Daily Record. He later 
Kenneth J. Germeshausen, a founder of the technology company E. G. & G. Inc., whose work was considered fundamental in the development of radar and nuclear weapons, died Thursday at his home in Weston, Mass. He was 83 years old. Kenneth J. Germeshausen, a founder of the techno
Maurice Gendron, the French cellist and conductor whose lyrical style brought him international renown, died yesterday at his home in Grez-sur-Loing, near Paris. He was 69 years old. Maurice Gendron, the French cellist and conductor whose lyrical style brought him internationa
Richard L. Strout, the acerbic nonconformist who wrote the ''TRB From Washington'' political column in The New Republic for 40 years and was Washington correspondent for The Christian Science Monitor for more than 60 years, died Sunday at the Georgetown University Medical Center in Wa
Dr. Stephen L. Feldman, a professor of energy management and policy at the University of Pennsylvania, died Saturday at the university's hospital. He was 43 years old and lived in Philadelphia. Dr. Stephen L. Feldman, a professor of energy management and policy at the Universi
Albert E. Whitaker, a retired special agent of the Secret Service who was in charge of the New York district for many years, died on Monday in Mercy Hospital in Rockville Centre, L.I. He was 82 years old and lived in Wantaugh, L.I. Albert E. Whitaker, a retired special agent o
Boris Shragin, a Soviet human-rights advocate and writer, died on Aug. 15 in La Guardia Hospital in Queens. He was 63 years old and lived in Queens. He died of lung cancer, his wife, Natalia Sadomskaya, said. Boris Shragin, a Soviet human-rights advocate and writer, died on Au
Frank J. Viola, a former Postmaster of Bronx County, died yesterday at his home in New Fairfeld, Conn. He was 78 years old. Frank J. Viola, a former Postmaster of Bronx County, died yesterday at his home in New Fairfeld, Conn. He was 78 years old. The cause of death wa
Gerald F. Stevens, a lawyer, former Connecticut legislator and a 1978 Republican candidate for governor of Connecticut, died on Monday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 52 years old and lived in Milford, Conn. Gerald F. Stevens, a lawyer, former Connecticut legisl
Gerard A. Fulham, former chairman of the Pneumo Corporation, a concern with holdings in the aerospace and military industries and food and drug distribution, died Sunday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 70 years old and lived in Oyster Harbors, Mass. Gerard 
Harry Adelberg, founder of the law firm of Adelberg, Rudow, Dorf, Hendler & Sameth in Baltimore, died Sunday at his home in Baltimore. He was 84 years old. Harry Adelberg, founder of the law firm of Adelberg, Rudow, Dorf, Hendler & Sameth in Baltimore, died Sunday at his home 
Irving X. Fabrikant, the president of M. Fabrikant & Sons, a leading diamond importing and manufacturing concern, from 1930 to 1980, died on Saturday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan. Irving X. Fabrikant, the president of M. F
John Fox, a novelist and short-story writer, died of AIDS on Aug. 14 at his home in Manhattan, a family spokesman said. He was 38 years old. John Fox, a novelist and short-story writer, died of AIDS on Aug. 14 at his home in Manhattan, a family spokesman said. He was 38 years 
John M. Stalnaker, a psychologist, educator and former president of the corporation that selects high school students as National Merit Scholars, died Sunday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 87 years old. John M. Stalnaker, a psychologist, educator and former president of 
Dr. Leo I. Dana, a former Union Carbide research executive who specialized in low-temperature physics, died on Thursday in Canton, Ohio, at the age of 94. Dr. Leo I. Dana, a former Union Carbide research executive who specialized in low-temperature physics, died on Thursday in
Mitchell R. Cutler, a dealer in rare art books, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 39 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mitchell R. Cutler, a dealer in rare art books, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 39 years old and lived in Manhattan. M
Richard Little Purdy, a retired professor of English at Yale University, died on Aug. 7 in a nursing home in Chatham Township, N.J. He was 86 years old and lived in New Haven. Richard Little Purdy, a retired professor of English at Yale University, died on Aug. 7 in a nursing 
Robert W. Trombino, chief of stadium and marina operations for the New York City Department of Parks and Recreation, died on Sunday at his home in East Elmhurst, Queens. He was 39 years old. Robert W. Trombino, chief of stadium and marina operations for the New York City Depar
Viktor Tsoi, the lead singer and songwriter for Kino, one of the Soviet Union's most popular rock bands, died in a car crash outside Leningrad on Aug. 15. He was 28 years old. Viktor Tsoi, the lead singer and songwriter for Kino, one of the Soviet Union's most popular rock ban
George O. Chambers, an Indiana Republican apparently elected to Congress by 12 votes in 1960 but rejected seven months later by the House of Representatives, died Friday at the Muncie-Ball Hospital in Muncie, Ind. He was 87 years old and had lived in Anderson, Ind., before moving to M
Harold L. Oram, the founder and president of the Oram Group, fund-raisers for humanitarian and environmental causes, died on Tuesday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 83 years old and lived in Yorktown Heights. Harold L. Oram, the founder and preside
Joe Lombardo, an award-winning graphics designer, died on Aug. 15 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 45 years old and lived in Manhattan. Joe Lombardo, an award-winning graphics designer, died on Aug. 15 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 45 years old
Dr. Leo I. Dana, a former Union Carbide research executive who specialized in low-temperature physics, died last Thursday in Canton, Ohio, at the age of 94. Dr. Leo I. Dana, a former Union Carbide research executive who specialized in low-temperature physics, died last Thursda
David W. Peck, a retired Presiding Justice of the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court who played a leading role in court reform in the late 1940's and 1950's, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old. David W. Peck, a retired Presiding Justice of the 
Edward W. Pattison, a former United States Representative from Troy, N.Y., died on Wednesday at his home in West Sand Lake, N.Y. He was 58 years old. Edward W. Pattison, a former United States Representative from Troy, N.Y., died on Wednesday at his home in West Sand Lake, N.Y
Luigi Cardinal Dadaglio, a Vatican diplomat who played a major role in liberalizing the Roman Catholic Church in Spain in the waning years of Franco's rule, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Rome at the age of 75. The Vatican said he died of a heart ailment. Luigi Cardinal Da
Richard Kaufman, a managing director of the Wall Street firm of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 54 years old and lived in Stamford, Conn. Richard Kaufman, a managing director of the Wall Street firm of Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, d
Slavomir Stracer, Czechoslvakia's Minister of Foreign Trade, died of a heart attack Tuesday. He was 55 years old. Slavomir Stracer, Czechoslvakia's Minister of Foreign Trade, died of a heart attack Tuesday. He was 55 years old. Mr. Stracer fell ill at a luncheon in his
Thomas W. McMahon Jr., a former executive at the Chase Manhattan Bank, died yesterday at Union (N.J.) Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Union. Thomas W. McMahon Jr., a former executive at the Chase Manhattan Bank, died yesterday at Union (N.J.) Hospital. He was 69 yea
Victor J. Siegel, former adminstrative vice president of the Bank Street College of Education, a private school for teachers, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan. Victor J. Siegel, former adminstrative vice president of the Bank
Harold Masursky, the former chief scientist of the United States Geological Survey's Center of Astrogeology and a leader in lunar and planetary exploration, died yesterday at his home in Flagstaff, Ariz. He was 66 years old. Harold Masursky, the former chief scientist of the U
James W. Wine, a Protestant layman who played a major role in defusing anti-Catholic sentiment in the Presidential campaign of John F. Kennedy, died Thursday at his home in Linden, Va. He was 71 years old. James W. Wine, a Protestant layman who played a major role in defusing 
Jefferey D. Bucholtz, an architectural designer, died Thursday at the Davies Medical Center in San Francisco. He was 33 years old. Michael Goldblum, a colleague of his, said he had died of AIDS. Jefferey D. Bucholtz, an architectural designer, died Thursday at the Davies Medic
John Marshall Karns Jr., a retired Justice of the Illinois Appellate Court, died Wednesday at Memorial Hospital in Belleville, Ill. He was 62 years old and lived in Belleville. His wife, Joan, said he died of lung cancer. John Marshall Karns Jr., a retired Justice of the Illin
Roosevelt Watson, one of five black youths who won dismissal of murder charges in a widely publicized case in rural Dawson, Ga., in the mid-1970's, died Tuesday at his home in Albany, Ga. He was 34 years old. Roosevelt Watson, one of five black youths who won dismissal of murd
Sergei Dovlatov, a leading Soviet emigre writer noted for the laconic irony and graceful irreverence of his stories about his homeland, died of heart failure yesterday at Coney Island Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 48 years old. Sergei Dovlatov, a leading Soviet emigre writer no
David Rose, a composer and conductor whose work in television, films and recordings won four Emmy awards, 22 Grammys and an Oscar nomination, died Thursday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Burbank, Calif. He was 80 years old and lived in Los Angeles. David Rose, a composer and cond
Francis J. Sugrue, a writer for The New York Herald-Tribune for a quarter-century before the newspaper closed in 1966, died on Friday at the Ozanam Hall of Queens Nursing Home in Bayside. He was 72 years old and had lived in Flushing, Queens. Francis J. Sugrue, a writer for Th
Marc Neuhof, an architectural photographer whose work appeared in publications in the United States and abroad, died on Thursday at White Plains Hospital. He was 75 years old and lived in Larchmont, N.Y. His family said his death followed a stroke. Marc Neuhof, an architectura
Thomas Willson McKnew, chairman emeritus of the National Geographic Society, died Friday at Carriage Hill, a nursing home in Bethesda, Md. He was 94 and was a resident of McLean, Va. Thomas Willson McKnew, chairman emeritus of the National Geographic Society, died Friday at Ca
Calmen Fleisig, a viola player who led fellow musicians in a bitter labor dispute with the New York Philharmonic in the 1940's, died Friday at Booth Memorial Hospital in Flushing, Queens. He was 81 years old and lived in Bayside, Queens. He died of a cerebral hemorrhage, his son Paul 
Mario Pinto de Andrade, the father of Angolan nationalism and first president of the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola, which has governed Angola since independence in 1975, died in London today. He was 62 years old. Mario Pinto de Andrade, the father of Angolan na
Max Gordon, an architect internationally known for his mastery of exhibition spaces, both public and private, died on Friday in London, where he lived. He was 59 years old. Max Gordon, an architect internationally known for his mastery of exhibition spaces, both public and pri
Morley Callaghan, a Canadian writer who lived in Paris in the 1920's and mixed with Ernest Hemingway and F. Scott Fitzgerald, died Saturday, his son Barry said today. He was 87 years oldandlived in Toronto. The cause of death was not disclosed. Morley Callaghan, a Canadian wri
Osel Tendzin, the first Westerner to lead an international Tibetan Buddhist sect, died Saturday, members of the religious group said today. He was 47 years old. Osel Tendzin, the first Westerner to lead an international Tibetan Buddhist sect, died Saturday, members of the reli
Dr. R. Caird Watson, a radiologist and chairman of the medical-imaging department at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, died there on Thursday. He was 61 years old. Dr. R. Caird Watson, a radiologist and chairman of the medical-imaging department at Memorial Sloan-Ketteri
Harold Thorkilsen, a leader in the agricultural cooperative movement who built Ocean Spray Cranberries from a small New England producer into a Fortune 500 concern, died Thursday at his home in Osterville, Mass. He was 64 years old. Harold Thorkilsen, a leader in the agricultu
Osel Tendzin, the first Westerner to lead an international Tibetan Buddhist sect, died Saturday at Pacific Presbyterian Medical Center here. He was 47 years old. Osel Tendzin, the first Westerner to lead an international Tibetan Buddhist sect, died Saturday at Pacific Presbyte
Stevie Ray Vaughan, one of the nation's top blues guitarists, and four other people were killed in a helicopter crash here early today after a performance with Eric Clapton at an outdoor theater. Mr. Vaughan was 35 years old. Stevie Ray Vaughan, one of the nation's top blues g
Msgr. Thomas J. Gillhooly, a former dean at Seton Hall University and a retired priest, died on Saturday at Newton (N.J.) Memorial Hospital. He was 79 years old and had lived in Sparta, N.J., since retiring in 1987. Msgr. Thomas J. Gillhooly, a former dean at Seton Hall Univer
Willard L. Beaulac, a Foreign Service career officer who served as United States ambassador to five Latin American countries in the 1940's and 1950's, died Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 91 years old. Willard L. Beaulac, a Foreign Service career officer who served 
Arthur Rich, a professor of physics at the University of Michigan, died Saturday at his home in Ann Arbor at the age of 52. His family said he died of a brain tumor. Arthur Rich, a professor of physics at the University of Michigan, died Saturday at his home in Ann Arbor at th
Dr. Hugh C. Banks, assistant chancellor at New York University, died on Saturday at New York University Hospital. He was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Hugh C. Banks, assistant chancellor at New York University, died on Saturday at New York University Hospital. He wa
Dr. Selvan Davison, a rheumatologist who was chief of the arthritis clinic at Mount Sinai Hospital and clinical professor of medicine emeritus at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, died on Sunday at the hospital. He was 78 years old and lived in Bayside, Queens. He died of leukemia, 
Frederick Schang, a founder and former president of Columbia Artists Management Inc., the world's largest classical-music management firm, died Sunday at Bethesda Memorial Hospital in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 96 years old, said his granddaughter, Gabrielle Schang of Manhattan.       
Henry L. Duncombe Jr., a retired vice president of General Motors, died on Aug. 18 at Baptist Memorial Hospital in Miami. He was 76 years old and had homes in Key Biscayne, Fla., and Southampton, L.I. Henry L. Duncombe Jr., a retired vice president of General Motors, died on A
James E. Snyder, a professor and art historian, died Thursday at Mercy Hospital in Port Jervis, N.Y. He was 61 years old and lived in Sunrise Lake, Pa. James E. Snyder, a professor and art historian, died Thursday at Mercy Hospital in Port Jervis, N.Y. He was 61 years old and 
Paul Russell Fitchen, a former banking executive, died on Saturday at his home in Brewster, N.Y. He was 88 years old. Paul Russell Fitchen, a former banking executive, died on Saturday at his home in Brewster, N.Y. He was 88 years old. Mr. Fitchen died after cancer sur
The Rev. Paul J. Murphy, a Jesuit priest who was a former president of Morality in Media, the national anti-pornography organization, died Monday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 82 years old and lived in Weston, Mass. A spokeswoman for Morality in Media said he die
William Leslie Jr., an insurance executive who was general manager of the National Bureau of Casualty Underwriters and the National Council on Compensation Insurance, died Aug. 22 at the Villa Pomerado nursing home in San Diego at the age of 71. He lived in San Diego and was a former 
Earl E. Veron, a judge of the United States District Court for the Western District of Louisiana, died Tuesday at Tulane Medical Center in New Orleans. He was 68 years old. He collapsed at the Federal courthouse in New Orleans and was pronounced dead of heart failure at the medical ce
The Rev. F. Sanford Cutler, an Episcopal priest who was active in the peace and women's rights movements died on Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 68 years old and lived in Manhattan. The Rev. F. Sanford Cutler, an Episcopal priest who was act
Gilbert Lesser, a designer of theater posters and a former promotion director for Life magazine, died on Tuesday at the Milstein Hospital of Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 55 years old and lived in Manhattan. Gilbert Lesser, a designer of theater posters and a fo
Harris Levin, a lawyer who specialized in bankruptcy law, died yesterday at Franklin Medical Center in Valley Stream, L.I. He was 83 years old and lived in Woodmere, L.I. Harris Levin, a lawyer who specialized in bankruptcy law, died yesterday at Franklin Medical Center in Val
John J. O'Hara, a former Internal Revenue Service intelligence agent and a member of the Justice Department's Organized Crime Strike Force, died on Tuesday at the Community Medical Center in Toms River, N.J. He was 71 years old and lived in Berkeley Township, N.J. John J. O'Ha
John J. Snodgrass, founding director of the Division of Radiology at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I., died at the hospital on Monday. He was 70 years old and lived in Manhasset. John J. Snodgrass, founding director of the Division of Radiology at North Shore
Julian Bingham Abbott, an interior designer based, died on Aug. 20 at Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 64 years old and lived in East Hampton, L.I. Julian Bingham Abbott, an interior designer based, died on Aug. 20 at Southampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 64 years old and liv
LeRoy Makepeace, a career Foreign Service officer, died Friday at Martha's Vineyard Hospital in Massachusetts. He was 75 years old and lived in Washington. LeRoy Makepeace, a career Foreign Service officer, died Friday at Martha's Vineyard Hospital in Massachusetts. He was 75 
Raymond St. Jacques, an actor who helped lower racial barriers for blacks in television and films, died Monday in Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 60 years old and lived in Beverly Hills. Raymond St. Jacques, an actor who helped lower racial barriers for blac
Robert H. Brooks, a theatrical booking agent, died on Monday in a helicopter crash in East Troy, Wis., which killed the blues guitarist Stevie Ray Vaughn and three others. He was 34 years old and lived in Los Angeles. Robert H. Brooks, a theatrical booking agent, died on Monda
Robert H. Phillips, a photographer whose work has appeared in the nation's leading magazines and is in the photography collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Museum of Modern Art, died on Friday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 64 years old. Robert H. Phil
Talbert Abrams, an aviation pioneer and the developer of aerial mapping, died Saturday at a nursing home in Lansing, Mich. He was 95 years old and lived in Lansing. Talbert Abrams, an aviation pioneer and the developer of aerial mapping, died Saturday at a nursing home in Lans
DeWitt Stetten Jr., a biochemist and former deputy director of the National Institutes of Health who in the 1970's headed a committee that drafted guidelines on genetic engineering, died Tuesday at the Fernwood Nursing Center in Bethesda, Md. He was 81 years old. DeWitt Stette
Dr. John K. Frost, a physician and researcher who specialized in early detection and diagnosis of lung cancer, died on Wednesday at the Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 68 years old and lived in Brooklandville, Md. Dr. John K. Frost, a physician and researcher who s
Edmund H. North, a screenwriter who shared an Academy Award with Francis Ford Coppola in 1970 for their script for ''Patton,'' died Tuesday in St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 79 years old and lived in Brentwood, Calif. Edmund H. North, a screenwriter who sha
Emmet V. Murray, a lawyer who had retired from the Caltex Petroleum Company, died yesterday at his home in Quogue, L.I. He was 64 years old and also lived in Gulf Stream, Fla. Emmet V. Murray, a lawyer who had retired from the Caltex Petroleum Company, died yesterday at his ho
Gerald L. Norman, a retired administrative judge for the Workmen's Compensation Board, died on Sunday at Downstate Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 78 years old and lived in Brooklyn. He died of lung cancer, his sister, Winifred L. Norman, said. Mr. Norman served as a judge for the 
Herbert C. Johnson, retired chairman and president of the Consolidated Natural Gas Company, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital on Staten Island. He was 81 years old and lived in Dongan Hills, S.I. Herbert C. Johnson, retired chairman and president of the Consolidated 
I. A. Lewis, who in the late 1960's was one of the first poll takers to predict election results by surveying voters leaving polling places, died Aug. 18 at the Glendale Adventist Medical Center in California. He was 68 years old and lived in Los Angeles. I. A. Lewis, who in t
Larry Jackson, who pitched for three National League teams and was named to three All-Star teams, died of cancer Tuesday. He was 59 years old. Larry Jackson, who pitched for three National League teams and was named to three All-Star teams, died of cancer Tuesday. He was 59 ye
Luigi Beccali, a prominent and popular long-distance runner in the 1930's and the gold medalist in the 1,500-meter run at the 1932 Olympic Games in Los Angeles, died of natural causes Tuesday in Rafaello, Italy. He was 83 years old. Luigi Beccali, a prominent and popular long-
Norman Richard DeHaan, a Chicago architect and interior designer, died at Passavant Hospital in Chicago on Aug. 24. He was 63 years old. Norman Richard DeHaan, a Chicago architect and interior designer, died at Passavant Hospital in Chicago on Aug. 24. He was 63 years old.    
Dr. Paul P. Casamassimo, a retired dentist who was on the staff of the North Central Bronx Hospital for almost 50 years, died on Monday at Waterbury (Conn.) Hospital. He was 77 years old and lived in Southbury, Conn. Dr. Paul P. Casamassimo, a retired dentist who was on the st
The Rev. Allan J. Burry, a Methodist minister and an official with the campus ministry section of the United Methodist Church, died Tuesday at his home in Nashville, Tenn. He was 56 years old. The Rev. Allan J. Burry, a Methodist minister and an official with the campus minist
Robert H. Phillips, a photographer whose work has appeared in the nation's leading magazines and is in the photography collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Museum of Modern Art, died last Friday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 64 years old. Robert H. Ph
