 Esker K. Davis, a manager of several missions of planetary exploration, died  on Friday in La Canada, Calif. He was 60. The cause was cancer, a spokesman for the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., said yesterday. Mr. Davis was the manager of the planetary and spa
 Howard Higman, the agile-minded academic impresario whose annual World Affairs Conferences at the University of Colorado attracted a dazzling and diverse array of fun-loving intellectuals, died on Nov. 22 at Boulder Community  Hospital. He was 80. Officially, Mr. Higman was a sociol
 The Rev. Richard C. Halverson, who retired in March after 14 years as chaplain of the United States Senate, died on Tuesday at Arlington Hospital in Virginia. He was 79 and lived in Arlington. Mr. Halverson's successor, the Rev. Lloyd Ogilvie, said Mr. Halverson had been in "declini
 Stanley Adelman, whose Upper West Side typewriter-repair shop served as an intensive-care unit for the malfunctioning margin releases and cantankerous carriage returns of well-known writers, died yesterday at the Washington Adventist Hospital in Takoma Park, Md. He was 72 and lived in Manha
 Dakin B. Ferris, a retired executive who helped Merrill Lynch & Co. expand outside the stock brokerage business, died Thursday at his home in Atlanta after a long illness. He was 69. During the late 1970's and early 1980's, Mr. Ferris was in charge of Merrill  Lynch's expansion into
 Dr. Herschel Harold Hobbs, a former president of the Southern Baptist Convention and chairman of the committee that wrote the latest statement of church doctrine, died on Tuesday at Baptist Hospital in Oklahoma City. He was 88 and lived in Oklahoma City. Dr. Hobbs, one of his church
 Jack Maxwell Oliphant, a white supremacist who spent four years in prison for a right-wing bombing plot, died on Saturday. He was 71. Mr. Oliphant was an early organizer of the paramilitary movement in Arizona.  In 1987, he was convicted with two members of the Arizona Patriots orga
 Jeffrey Lynn, who played the handsome leading man in a string of Warner Brothers films in the 1930's and 40's, died on Nov. 24 at St. Joseph's Hospital  in Burbank, Calif., his daughter, Letitia Lynn, said on Thursday. He was 89. Mr. Lynn made his debut in the 1938 film "Four Daught
 Gen. Maxwell Thurman, who led the 1989 invasion of Panama and was a principal architect of the all-volunteer United States Army, died today at Walter Reed Army Medical Center. He was 64. General Thurman had been found to have leukemia in 1990. Dubbed "Mad Max" and "Max atoll
 NATO chose the Spanish Foreign Minister today as its next secretary general,  ending six weeks of wrangling in which the allies publicly quarreled over two other leading candidates. The Spaniard, Javier Solana, a 53-year-old Socialist, is expected to be formally appointed next week 
 O. Roy Chalk, an entrepreneur whose interests included real estate, airlines, bus companies, newspapers and a rail line that hauled bananas in Central America, died yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 88. Mr. Chalk, who had homes in Manhattan, Washington and Palm Beach, Fla., die
 Clair R. McCollough, a radio and television executive who helped set industry standards as a longtime officer of the National Association of Broadcasters, died on Thursday in a nursing home in Lancaster, Pa. He was 92 and lived in Lancaster. Mr. McCollough retired in 1974 after a 44
 David Briggs, a record producer best known for his 26-year association with the rock artist Neil Young, died on Nov. 25 at his home in San Francisco. He was 51. The cause was lung cancer, said Joel Bernstein, Mr. Young's archivist. Mr. Briggs was born in Douglas, Wyo. He hit
 Dr. John H. C. Ranson, a surgeon at the New York University Medical Center who developed a widely used system for predicting the outcome of pancreatic disease, died on Thursday at the University of Arkansas Medical Center in Little Rock, where he had gone for treatment. He was 57 and lived 
 Eli Morris Spark, an expert in arbitration and comparative law who retired as a professor of law at the Catholic University of America in Washington in 1972,  died on Nov. 9 in his Washington home. He was 88. Professor Spark joined the Catholic University faculty in 1955. He was bor
 Henry S. Dyer, an educator who played a major role in forming the Educational Testing Service in Lawrence Township, N.J., and helped adjust the Scholastic Aptitude Test, died on Monday at the Medical Center at Princeton, N.J. A Princeton resident since 1952, he was 88. He was also a
 J. Frank Burke, who was president of Fanny Farmer Candy Shops Inc. for about  18 years, died on Tuesday at his home here. He was 92. Mr. Burke was born in Toronto and worked for Fanny Farmer for 50 years, beginning as a stock clerk in Rochester. He became president in 1955. 
 Jerome Cooper, who helped organize a professional soccer league in 1966 that  later merged with another league to form the North American Soccer League, died  of pneumonia Thursday in Washington. He was 81. Mr. Cooper was involved with the Washington Whips, one of 12 teams in the Un
 Leon McQuay, a former New York Giants running back who played in the Canadian, National and United States Football Leagues, died on Wednesday in Tampa, Fla. He was 45. The cause of death apparently was a heart attack, said his mother, Margarete  McQuay. She said her son, an ordained
 Reuben A. Holden, a former executive at Yale University who became a college  president in North Carolina, died on Wednesday at Memorial Mission Hospital in Asheville, N.C. He was 77 and lived in Black Mountain, N.C. The cause was cancer, said his son Reuben A. Holden 5th. M
 Roland L. Dobrushin, a Russian mathematician who was an expert on probability theory and a foreign associate of the National Academy of Sciences in the United States, died on Nov. 12 in Moscow, where he taught at Moscow State University. He was 66. The British daily The Independent 
 Solomon L. Siegel, who served as the executive director of Kingsbrook Jewish  Medical Center in Brooklyn during a crucial period of its development, died Nov. 24 at the Manor Care nursing home in Boca Raton, Fla. A former resident of Little Neck, Queens, he was 80. He had suffered a
 Dinesh Singh, a former Foreign Minister, died on Thursday after a long illness, his family said. He was 70. Mr. Singh, who had been a member of Parliament for 38 years, became Foreign Minister in 1993. He was made a Minister Without Portfolio this year after failing health made acti
 James M. Yeargin, who was one of the first black prosecutors in the Manhattan District Attorney's office and who later served 12 years as a Criminal Court judge, died on Nov. 13 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. From the time he was named an ass
 John H. Eisele, who had a 45-year career as a builder in and around New York  City, died on Tuesday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 104. Mr. Eisele went into the building trade in 1905 at 14 as a clerk for the construction of the New York Public Library. He completed his educ
 Jurgen Wattenberg, a U-boat commander who engineered the largest and most spectacular escape from a prisoner-of-war camp in the United States in World War II, died on Nov. 27 at a nursing home in Hamburg, Germany. He was 94. On the night of Dec. 23, 1944, 25 German prisoners made th
 Nelson Butters, a professor of psychiatry at the University of California at  San Diego and an expert on memory and memory disorders, died on Nov. 18 at his home in San Diego. He was 58. Dr. Butters died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, his colleagues said.
 Robertson Davies, the novelist, journalist and educator who became one of the first Canadian literary figures to gain an international following, died on Saturday at a hospital in Orangeville, Ontario, 50 miles northwest of Toronto. He was 82. The cause was a stroke, said his secret
 Mr. Davies built his international following through publishing more than 30  volumes of fiction, including three trilogies, as well as plays, essays and criticism. He was once mentioned as a potential recipient of the 1993 Nobel Prize in literature, which went instead to the American novel
 Dr. E. Theodore Bachmann, a Lutheran theologian and church historian, died on Wednesday at the Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick, N.J.  He was 84 and lived in Princeton Junction. In nearly six decades as a pastor, Dr. Bachmann showed a deep concern for the uni
 Frederic Waldman, an enterprising conductor who for more than 30 years presented programs of forgotten works by great composers of the past as well as  premieres of contemporary works, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92. Mr. Waldman was a powerful presence on the New
 Ira Wallach, who wrote the novel "Muscle Beach" and collaborated with Peter Ustinov on the screenplay for "Hot Millions," died on Saturday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Lillian. Mr. Wallach was born in New Yo
 Former Representative James Colgate Cleveland, a nine-term Republican Congressman from New Hampshire, a lawyer and a conservationist, died on Sunday in New London, N.H. He was 75 and lived in New London. The cause was complications from a stroke, said his administrative assistant, W
 John H. Eisele, who had a 45-year career as a builder in and around New York  City, died last Tuesday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 104. Mr. Eisele went into the building trade in 1905 at 14 as a clerk for the construction of the New York Public Library. He completed his ed
 Charles Gillett, who was credited with creating the Big Apple tourism campaign when he was president of the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau, died on Monday at his home in Great Neck, L.I. He was 80 and also lived in Palm  Beach, Fla. The cause was a heart attack, the bureau 
 Robert Parrish, an Academy Award-winning film editor whose career in motion pictures took him from childhood acting in Chaplin's "City Lights" to the director's chair, died on Monday at Southampton Hospital on Long Island. He was  79 and lived in Sag Harbor. Besides being an actor, 
 Thomas L. Washington, a Michigan conservationist and outdoorsman who for the  last 18 months was the sometimes embattled president of the National Rifle Association, died yesterday at a hospital in Dearborn, Mich. He was 58 and had been hospitalized since he had a heart attack while hunting
 Alfred I. Schlossberg, a longtime New York textile manufacturer who was Caroline Kennedy Schlossberg's father-in-law, died on Monday at a hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 87 and had lived in Palm Beach since his retirement. Mr. Schlossberg, whose son, Edwin, married Miss Kennedy,
 Col. Gen. Dmitri A. Volkogonov, a Soviet Army historian who lost his illusions about Communism and helped strip his countrymen of theirs, died today  in Moscow of stomach cancer. He was 67. General Volkogonov's biographies of Stalin, Trotsky and Lenin, based on secret documents that
 Dr. Edward Daniel Sullivan, a scholar on 19th-century French and comparative  literature who was dean of the college at Princeton University, died on Nov. 21  in the Medical Center at Princeton. He was 82 and lived in Jamesburg, N.J. The cause was a stroke, said Carol Rigolot, execu
 James Reston, former columnist, Washington correspondent and executive editor of The New York Times, died tonight at his home here. He was 86. The cause was cancer, said his son Thomas. First as a reporter and then, beginning in 1953, as a columnist, Mr. Reston  was perhaps 
 Lord Matthews of Southgate, a British newspaper baron better known as Victor  Collin Matthews, the rags-to-riches former proprietor of the Express Newspapers  in London, died on his 76th birthday on Tuesday. News reports, quoting family and friends, said he died of cancer at his farm near S
 William Roerick, an actor in theater, film and television, died last Thursday in a car accident in Monterey, Mass. He was 82. Mr. Roerick's theatrical career began in the 1930's. He acted in a 1936 production of "Hamlet" starring Sir John Gielgud, Lillian Gish and Dame Judith Anders
 Dr. William S. Kroger, a pioneer and longtime champion of the medical uses of hypnosis, died on Monday at Cedars Sinai Hospital in Los Angeles. He was 89 and  lived in Los Angeles. A native of Chicago who obtained his medical training at Northwestern University, Dr. Kroger specializ
 Arthur Frederic Kip, an expert in solid-state physics and a professor emeritus at the University of California at Berkeley, died on Saturday at Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley. He was 85 and lived in Berkeley. The cause was a heart attack, the university said. Dr. Kip, worki
 Billy Bruton, the leadoff batter, chief base stealer and rangy center fielder for the powerful Milwaukee Braves teams of the 1950's, died on Wednesday after suffering a heart attack while driving near his home in Wilmington. He was 69. The Delaware State Police said Bruton's car dri
 Clair C. Patterson, a geochemist who made the first accurate measurement of Earth's age and raised the alarm about dangerous levels of lead in the environment, died on Tuesday at his home in Sea Ranch, Calif. He was 73. The cause was an asthma attack, said a spokesman for the Califo
 Danny William Abreu, director of marketing for the New York City Opera, died  on Tuesday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 39. The cause was AIDS, said his companion, Paul G. Wasmund. Mr. Abreu began his career at the Metropolitan Opera and later worked as marketing manager fo
 David Rittenhouse Inglis, emeritus professor of physics at the University of  Massachusetts, who campaigned to dismantle the nuclear arms he helped to build in World War II, died on Sunday at his home in Amherst, Mass. He was 90. A native of Detroit and a 1928 graduate of Amherst Co
 James Reston, former columnist, Washington correspondent and executive editor of The New York Times, died on Wednesday night at his home here. He was 86. The cause was cancer, said his son Thomas. First as a reporter and then, beginning in 1953, as a columnist, Mr. Reston  w
 John Brennan, a nationally recognized expert on polling who for the last four years directed the Los Angeles Times Poll, died on Sunday at Midway Hospital in  Los Angeles. He was 41 and lived in nearby Marina del Rey. The cause of death was a stroke related to brain cancer, The Los 
 Matityahu Shmuelevitz, a close aide to the late Prime Minister Menachem Begin, died on Sunday. He was 75. Yehiel Kadishai, a longtime Begin spokesman, said that doctors at Tel Aviv's  Tel Hashomer Hospital, where Mr. Shmuelevitz was taken after he collapsed on Saturday, reported tha
 Milton Lyon, a stage director long associated with Princeton University, died on Saturday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 72. The cause was cardiovascular disease, said Dan Bauer, a spokesman for the McCarter Theater Center for the Performing Arts, of which Mr. Lyon was the fo
 Richard Haydock, who organized the legal referral service of the New York City bar association in 1947 and headed it until his retirement in 1984, died on Nov. 23 at Tally-Ho Manor in Boonton Township, N.J. A 43-year resident of Mountain Lakes, N.J., he was 82. Mr. Haydock, a native
 Ernest L. Boyer, who helped to shape American education as Chancellor of the  State University of New York, as United States Commissioner of Education and as  President of the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching, died yesterday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 67.      
 Melvin Kranzberg, a scholar who helped establish the study of the history of  technology and explained its impact on society, died on Wednesday at his home in Atlanta. Dr. Kranzberg, a professor at the Georgia Institute of Technology, was  78. The cause was cancer, said August Giebe
 Robert Fizdale, a pianist, biographer, gastronome and for more than 30 years  a partner in the piano duo known as Gold and Fizdale, died on Wednesday in Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was Alzheimer's disease. Mr. Fizdale and Arthur Gold, who died in 
 Sydney Dawson Bailey, a devout pacifist, mediator and prolific writer on international affairs, died on Nov. 26 at his home in North London. He was 79. The cause was cancer, Stephen Collett, head of the Quaker United Nations Office, said. Word of the death arrived late this week at 
 Edmund D. Campbell, a lawyer in Washington and Virginia who argued cases involving the desegregation of schools and the representation of counties in state legislatures, died on Thursday at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 96. Mr. Campbell was formerly a partner of and, in later ye
 James B. Reston, the New York Times reporter and columnist, was hailed today  as a man "who towered over the times in which he lived" -- "a hero to some of the most skeptical people in the world." The words were those of Katharine Graham, the chairwoman of the executive committee of
 Richard Blair Barnett, a lawyer specializing in maritime and aviation finance cases and a Kansas-bred champion of Greenwich Village and its history, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital. A Village resident, he was 68. The cause was cancer, his law firm said. Mr. Barnett
 Rajat Neogy, the Ugandan-born founder of Transition, a magazine that became influential in Africa, died on Dec. 3 at his home in San Francisco, where he settled two decades ago. He was 57. He had been in declining health and had inflammation of the pancreas, his daughter Renu Neogy 
 Sam Stoneburner, an actor in theater, film and televison, died on Nov. 29 at  his home in Manhattan. He was 66. The cause was esophageal cancer, said his companion, Kenneth Bennett. Mr. Stoneburner appeared on Broadway in "Bent"; the 1981 Lincoln Center production of "Macbet
 Walter Gellhorn, the longtime Columbia University law professor whose writings, teachings and periodic sallies into the public arena helped shape key  elements of modern American law, died on Saturday at his home in Morningside Heights. He was 89. Until a few days ago, Mr. Gellhorn,
 Dr. Julian Szekely, a metallurgist and professor of materials engineering at  the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died on Thursday at the M.I.T. In-Patient Unit in Cambridge. Dr. Szekely was 61 and lived in Weston, Mass. The cause was cancer, said an M.I.T. spokesman, Charles
 Dr. Leonidas Harris Berry, a specialist in diseases of the digestive tract who dedicated himself to bringing medical care to black communities that had none, died on Dec. 4 at his home in Chicago. He was 93. In 1946, Dr. Berry became the first black physician to join the staff of Mi
 P. Gordon B. Stillman, a private school administrator and teacher who shared  his knowledge of history, tennis and squash with generations of students, died yesterday at his home in New York City. He was 77. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Stillman taught history 
 Darren Robinson, the 450-pound member of the rap group the Fat Boys, who were known for vocally mimicking the sounds of a drum machine, died on Sunday at his  home in Queens. He was 28. The cause was cardiac arrest during a bout with respiratory flu, said Charles Stettler, who named
 Harold L. Schiff, a lawyer whose clients included many prominent show-business figures, died on Sunday at his home in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He was 76. Mr. Schiff was born in New York City and was a graduate of Columbia University and Columbia Law School. A senior partner in the firm of 
 Homer Thornberry, the longtime Texas Congressman and United States Court of Appeals judge who lost an appointment to the Supreme Court in 1968 because of a  controversy involving the man he had been named to replace, died early yesterday at his home in Austin. He was 86 and until a month ag
 Irwin Tobin, a former director of the Bureau of Health and Physical Education for New York City's public schools, died on Monday at New York University Hospital. He was 71 and lived in Valley Stream, L.I. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. In his citywide position, 
 Karl Schrag, a German-born American painter and printmaker whose work combined aspects of European and American modernism, died on Sunday at his home  in Manhattan. He was 82 and also had a home on Deer Isle, Me. In a career that spanned more than 60 years, Mr. Schrag came to specia
 Larry Maxwell, an actor in theater and films, died on Thursday at his home in Laurelville, Ohio. He was 43. The cause was leukemia, said his manager, T. C. Rice. He appeared in a number of Off Broadway productions. As a member of Charles  Ludlam's Ridiculous Theatrical Compa
 Vincent S. Baker, who devoted his life to keeping black history alive while pursuing a vision of a bias-free Harlem society, died on Monday at Beth Israel Medical Center. A lifelong resident of Harlem, he was 75. His sister Ruth Baker Harwell said the cause was a heart attack.      
 Dr. Donald Grigg Anderson, a professor emeritus of medicine at the University of Rochester School of Medicine and Dentistry and a counselor on medical education nationally, died on Sunday at the Carol Woods retirement community in  Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 82. The cause was cancer, 
 Douglas Corrigan, a brash, errant aviator who captured the imagination of a Depression-weary public in 1938 when he took off from Brooklyn on a nonstop solo flight to Los Angeles and landed his improbable airplane in Dublin a day later,  died on Saturday at a hospital in Orange, Calif. He w
 Howard A. Bartnick, a senior investment banking lawyer, died on Friday while  at a business meeting in Manhattan. He was 43 and lived in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. The cause was heart failure, said Sarah A. Luke, a spokeswoman for Paine Webber Inc., the investment banking concern where 
 Paul Bernard Shore, the founder, chairman and chief executive of one of North America's largest carton producers, died on Sunday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 74 and also had homes in Manhasset, L.I., and Manhattan. He died in his sleep, said Floyd S. Glinert, executive vic
 Andrew Lytle, an author, critic, teacher and raconteur and the last of the 12 Southern writers who banded together in the 1920's to form the Agrarian movement, died on Tuesday at his cabin in Monteagle, Tenn. He was 92. Although he was overshadowed by such Agrarians as Robert Penn W
 David Marshall, one of the founding fathers of Singapore and one of the last  Singaporeans brave enough to speak up against the authoritarian Government now running the city-state, died on Tuesday at his home in Singapore. He was 87. He had been suffering from lung cancer, a family 
 Lee Zhito, a former editor in chief and publisher of Billboard, the music-industry trade magazine, died last Friday near his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 77. He was struck by a car, said a spokesman for the family, Joel Brokaw. Mr. Zhito was born in Kiev, which was th
 Robert Shelton, a former music critic for The New York Times who was a catalyst and chronicler of the 1960's folk boom, died on Monday at a hospital in Brighton, England. He was 69 and lived in Brighton. The cause was a stroke following complications from diabetes, said Liz Thomson,
 Rabbi Roland B. Gittelsohn, a scholar on religious and governmental issues who was a Marine Corps chaplain during the battle of Iwo Jima, died Wednesday at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. He was 85. Rabbi Gittelsohn was rabbi emeritus at Temple Israel in Boston, where he served from
 Samuel D. Ratcliffe, an Emmy-winning scriptwriter, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 50. The cause was AIDS, said David Ziff, a friend. Mr. Ratcliffe won the Emmy in 1991 for his work as head writer for the NBC series "Santa Barbara." He also served as chief wr
 Baldwin Maull, a former president and board chairman of Marine Midland Banks  Inc. who took a leading role in a host of civic commissions and educational organizations in New York and New Jersey, died on Thursday at his home in Hightstown, N.J. He was 95. As a banker, Mr. Maull was 
 Judge Hubert Louis Will, who sat on the bench of Federal District Court in Chicago for 34 years, died on Saturday at his vacation home in Oconomowoc, Wis.  He was 81 and lived in Chicago. The cause was cancer, said Kevin Feldis, his law clerk at the United States District Court for 
 Manuel Gutierrez Mellado, a Franco-era general who played a major role in Spain's transition to democracy and helped face down a coup attempt in 1981, was killed in a highway crash today, Defense Ministry officials said. He was 83. As First Deputy Prime Minister in charge of defense
 Judge Murray Mogel, an acting State Supreme Court justice sitting in Manhattan, died at his apartment on the Upper East Side on Dec. 8. He was 68. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Judge Mogel, whose term would have expired at the end of 1998, took disability 
 Robert I. Williams, an accountant, founding board member of the Joyce Theater and enthusiast of world travel, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. A lifelong resident of Manhattan, he was 82. Mr. Williams, who worked as an investment consultant until his death, was a founding par
 Dr. Sheldon Green, a theoretical chemist for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in Manhattan, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. He was 51 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was a heart attack, said the Goddard Institute for Space Stu
 Edward Dudley Hume Johnson, a longtime professor at Princeton University who  was an authority on aspects of British arts and letters, died on Dec. 9 at the Princeton Medical Center in New Jersey. He was 84 and lived in Princeton. The university announced his death last week. The ca
 James W. Altgens, a longtime Associated Press staff member known for his photograph of the anguished Jacqueline Kennedy, seconds after her husband's assassination, clambering onto the back of their car while a Secret Service agent moved to her aid, was found dead on Tuesday in his home in D
 Michael Emery, a journalist and professor who with his father wrote a textbook used in more than 200 colleges, died on Wednesday at his home in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 55. The cause was cancer. Mr. Emery taught at California State University, Northridge, for nearly thr
 Al Stump, the sportswriter and ghostwriter whose two versions of the life of  Ty Cobb provided contrasting portraits of the tempestuous baseball immortal, died on Thursday in Hoag Memorial Hospital in Newport Beach, Calif. Mr. Stump, who lived in Newport Beach, was 79. The cause of 
 Anthony J. Ingrassia, a playwright, producer and director whose works were produced on and Off Broadway and abroad, died on Saturday night at Brunswick Hospital in Amityville, L.I. Mr. Ingrassia, who lived in Massapequa Park, L.I.,  was 51. By his own admission a compulsive eater wh
 Rabbi Chaim Pearl, who was active in religious and community affairs in the Riverdale section of the Bronx before becoming a scholar and lecturer in Israel, died yesterday in Jerusalem after a long illness. He was 76. Rabbi Pearl was associate editor of the Jewish Bible Quarterly in
 Ross Thomas, the author of the political thrillers "Chinaman's Chance," "The  Cold War Swap" and "Briarpatch," died yesterday at St. John's Hospital in Santa  Monica, Calif. He was 69 and lived in Malibu. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Rosalie. Mr. Thomas, who als
 Dr. William A. Ritchie, a retired archeologist for the State of New York who  conducted nearly 100 excavations of prehistoric sites, died on Thursday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 92 and lived in Delmar, N.Y. He served as chief archeologist at the New York State Museum a
 Edward L. Schuman, a film and theater executive, died on Saturday at his daughter's home in Detroit. He was 79 and lived in Seattle. In the early 1950's, Mr. Schuman was director of the Film Society at the Detroit Institute of Arts. He was also part owner and chief operating officer
 Fabian Linden, the economist who developed the widely quoted consumer confidence index of the Conference Board, died at his home in Manhattan on Monday. He was 79. The cause was cancer of the colon, his wife, Anita, said. Mr. Linden joined the Conference Board, a worldwide b
 Frank Luther Driver 3d, the former president and chairman of the Driver Harris Company, a wire and cable manufacturer, died at his vacation house in Little Compton, R.I., on Friday. He was 65 and lived in Essex Fells, N.J. The cause was malignant melanoma, said his son, Frank L. Dri
 Frank Olive, a designer of hats for fashion houses, celebrities and the theater, died last Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 66 and lived on the  Upper West Side of Manhattan. The cause was complications from pneumonia, said Winfield Huppuch, his companion. Mr. Olive,
 Giorgio Fini, a restaurateur who first packaged and sold homemade pasta, died on Monday in a Rome clinic. He was 70. Mr. Fini died several days after entering the clinic for heart trouble. After World War II, he built a fortune by selling dried tortellini in a package. In th
 William Marchant, who wrote "The Desk Set" and other plays, died on Nov. 5 at Bergen Pines County Hospital in Paramus, N.J. He was 72. His body was unclaimed in the hospital morgue until this week. Mr. Marchant had been a resident of the Actors Fund of America Nursing and Re
 Mario A. Procaccino, an immigrant's son from the Bronx who tapped the resentments of disaffected New Yorkers from outside Manhattan in a colorful but  unsuccessful bid to wrest the mayoralty from John V. Lindsay in 1969, died yesterday at Our Lady of Mercy Hospital in the Bronx. Mr. Procacc
 William J. Curtin, a Washington lawyer, labor-management expert and senior partner in the international law firm Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, died on Tuesday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 64. The cause was cancer, his firm said. Mr. Curtin was a past chairman of his firm. A
 Anthony Vasconcellos, managing director of the Institute for Contemporary Art, P.S. 1 Museum, in Long Island City, Queens, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 36. He died of AIDS, said his companion, Lucio Seixas. Mr. Vasconcellos was born in Fall River, Mass., i
 Beryl Harold Levy, a retired lawyer, author and teacher of law and philosophy, died on Nov. 17 at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Islip, L.I. He was 87 and lived in Babylon, L.I., said his family, who reported his death this  week. Professor Levy was a scholar in the works of the Su
 Dr. Hugh Hollingsworth Smith, a virologist who was a principal member of the  scientific team that developed the yellow fever vaccine for the Rockefeller Foundation in the 1930's, died on Monday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 93. Dr. Smith, in collaboration with Dr. Max Theiler
 Joseph B. Vasquez, an independent film maker whose "Hangin' With the Homeboys" won the 1991 Sundance Film Festival screenwriting award, died on Saturday at Scripps Memorial Hospital in Chula Vista, Calif. He was 33 and lived in Hollywood. The cause was AIDS, said Mark Groubert, his 
 Lewis A. Lapham, who held senior management posts in both the shipping and the banking industries, died on Wednesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 86. Mr. Lapham died after a brief illness, said a son, Lewis H. Lapham, the editor of Harper's magazine. The elder Mr. 
 Loree (Rip) Collins, a former New Jersey Assemblyman and Union County Republican chairman, died on Dec. 14 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 68 and lived in Summit, N.J. The cause was cancer, said a family spokeswoman, Margo Feiden. At his death,
 George B. Craig Jr., a Notre Dame professor who was one of the world's foremost experts on mosquitoes, died on Thursday while attending a meeting of the Entomological Society of America in Las Vegas, Nev. Dr. Craig, who lived in  South Bend, Ind., was 65. His son, James, said Dr. Cr
 Dr. Nathan Rosen, one of Israel's foremost scientists, a theoretical physicist who collaborated with Albert Einstein on his historic and still argued-over attack on quantum mechanics, died on Monday at his home in Haifa. He was 86 and had continued his research to the last day. A na
 Tom Pettit, an award-winning television reporter who was the only broadcaster on the scene and on the air when Lee Harvey Oswald was killed in Dallas, died on Friday at Columbia- Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 64 and lived in Hamilton, Bermuda. A spokesman for NBC News said the
 Lawrence Berk, a composer who founded the Berklee College of Music here, died on Friday. He was 87. The college had three students when it opened in 1945. Now, with 2,700 students from 70 countries, it is one of the world's most famous jazz schools. Mr. Berk was born in Bost
 Giraud Chester, an author and television executive responsible for shows that include "The Price is Right," "Family Feud" and "What's My Line?" died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 73. The cause was congestive heart disease, his family said. Mr. Chester, who was
 Bernard E. Witkin, a legal scholar who for some 60 years condensed and explained everything a lawyer or judge could want to know about California law,  died on Saturday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 91. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Witkin start
 Dean Martin, the sleepy-voiced pop crooner and movie actor who with Jerry Lewis formed one of the most popular comedy teams in movie history, died yesterday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 78. The cause was acute respiratory failure, said Mort Viner, his longtime agent  
 Giraud Chester, an author and television executive responsible for shows that include "The Price Is Right," "Family Feud" and "What's My Line?" died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 73. The cause was congestive heart disease, his family said. Mr. Chester, who was
 William H. D. Cotrell Jr., who helped create Disneyland, died here on Friday  at the St. Joseph Hospital Medical Center. He was 89. Mr. Cotrell was a close adviser to Walt Disney. He headed the division of the Disney company that designed and built Disneyland, which opened in Anahei
 Al DeRogatis, a former defensive tackle for the New York Giants who achieved  considerable popularity and recognition through his keen analyses of pro football games on radio and television, died today at Jersey Shore Medical Center. He was 68. In 1960, when pro football was on the 
 Emmanuel Levinas, a philosopher and religious thinker who made ethical responsibility for "the Other" the bedrock of his philosophical analyses, died of heart failure in Paris on Monday. He would have been 90 within a few days. His thought influenced several generations of French ph
 Nicolas Slonimsky, a formidably gifted musicologist and lexicographer who also made his mark as a conductor, pianist and composer, died on Monday at the U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 101. Mr. Slonimsky's many reference works, among them "Music Since 1900," "A Lexico
 Dr. Norman Kretchmer, a leading expert on infant nutrition, died last Wednesday in the Moffett Hospital of the University of California at San Francisco. He was 72 and lived in San Francisco. The cause was kidney failure due to myeloid metaplasia, a bone-marrow disease, his family s
 Phillip Areeda, a Harvard Law School professor who was considered the country's foremost specialist on antitrust legislation and was writing the eleventh volume of his life work, "Antitrust Law," at his death, died on Sunday  in Cambridge, Mass. He was 65. Doctors at the Stillman In
 William Woodman, a theater director and a former artistic director of the Goodman Theater in Chicago, died on Dec. 19 in Manhattan. He was 63 and lived in New York City. He collapsed while having dinner in a restaurant and died of cardiac arrest,  said his former wife, Liz Woodman. 
 Al Barlick, whose calls of balls and strikes in major league baseball games were among the loudest in umpiring history, died of cardiac arrest at Memorial Medical Center today. He was 80. Barlick collapsed at his home in Springfield and died after being taken to the medical center. 
 Al DeRogatis, a former defensive tackle for the New York Giants who achieved  considerable popularity and recognition through his keen analysis of pro football games on radio and television, died of cancer on Tuesday at the Jersey  Shore Medical Center. He was 68. In 1960, when pro 
 Andrew H. Heide, the retired chairman of Henry Heide Inc., manufacturers of such candies as Jujyfruit, Jujubes, Red Hot Dollars, Gummi Bears and Mexican Hats, died on Saturday at Muhlenberg Hospital in Plainfield, N.J. Mr. Heide, who lived in Martinsville, N.J., and Manhattan, was 86.      
 Bernard Yoh, a lecturer on psychological warfare and former underground fighter in China and Vietnam, died on Monday at a nursing home in Bethesda, Md.  He was 74 and lived in Rockville, Md. He suffered a stroke, according to Accuracy in Media, a conservative media watchdog organiza
 Darwin E. Smith, who led the growth of the Kimberly-Clark Corporation into a  consumer products giant, died on Tuesday after collapsing at his home in Longboat Key, Fla. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Lois Claire Archibold Smith. Mr. Smith, who was c
 Edward Julius Pope, an international business executive and onetime civilian  adviser to American military commanders in Europe, died last Saturday at Sibley  Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 76 and lived in Middleburg, Va. The cause of death was cancer, said the National Ass
 James E. Meade, an economist who won a Nobel Prize for his pioneering research into international trade and played an influential role in British politics, died on Dec. 22 at his home in Cambridge, England. He was 88. His family, which withheld announcement of the death until today,
 Klaus Heinrich Hofmann, University Professor emeritus of experimental medicine and biochemistry at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, died on Monday at the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. He was 84 and lived in Mount Lebanon, Pa. The cause was acute kidney fai
 Patric Knowles, a patrician British actor who was a co-star of the 1936 film  "The Charge of the Light Brigade" and had roles in more than 80 other movies, died on Saturday at a hospital in suburban Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 84. He was born Reginald Lawrence Knowles in 1911 in H
 A. Sydney Herlong Jr., who spent 20 years in Congress as a conservative Democrat and was then appointed by President Richard M. Nixon to the Securities  and Exchange Commission, died on Wednesday at his home in Leesburg, Fla. He was  86. Mr. Herlong became an influential member of t
 Dr. Thomas C. Chalmers, a past president of the Mount Sinai Medical Center and the Mount Sinai School of Medicine whose urgings led to the establishment of the country's first department of geriatrics, died on Wednesday at the Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He was 78.  
 Rabbi Pinchas Mordechai Teitz, a prominent Orthodox religious leader, educator and broadcaster, died on Tuesday at St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Elizabeth, N.J. A longtime resident of that city, he was 87. He suffered a long illness, according to the Jewish Educational Center of Eliza
 Ralph H. Demmler, who served as chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission during the first two years of the Eisenhower Administration, died in  Pittsburgh on Saturday. He was 91. A lawyer, Mr. Demmler began his practice in Pittsburgh in 1928. A specialist  in corporate bank
 Shura Cherkassky, a Ukrainian-born, London-based pianist whose individualistic interpretive style and affinity for dazzling virtuoso showpieces made him one of the last exponents of the great Romantic keyboard tradition, died on Wednesday at the Royal Brompton Hospital in London. He was 84.
 Virginius Dabney, historian, author, journalist and a winner of the Pulitzer  Prize for editorial writing, died in his sleep yesterday at his home in Richmond. He was 94. A native of Virginia and a grandson of a Confederate veteran, he was an early and steadfast opponent of segregat
 Walter Horn, a historian of medieval architecture and the co-author of a monumental study of the monastery of St. Gall in Switzerland, died on Tuesday at his home in Point Richmond, Calif. He was 87. Mr. Horn, the son and grandson of Lutheran ministers, was born in Waldangeloch, Ger
 Adm. F. Julian Becton, who was at the center of a dramatic two hours of naval history when his destroyer survived a swarm of Japanese kamikaze planes off Okinawa in 1945, died on Monday at his home in Wynnewood, Pa. He was 87. The 2,200-ton U.S.S. Laffey, guns blazing, battled an on
 Jacques Schwalbe, a Manhattan business executive who was a prominent supporter of Jewish institutions, died on Tuesday at New York Hospital. He was 94 and lived in Manhattan. Among Mr. Schwalbe's principal beneficiaries were Yeshiva University, where he established a Samson Raphael 
 Joel Martin Solomon, former chief executive officer of the American Association of Blood Banks, died on Wednesday at the Shady Grove Nursing Center  in Shady Grove, Md. He was 63. The cause was complications from a brain tumor, his family said. Dr. Solomon began his career a
 Lynden G. Newland, a journalist who helped found Jamaica's main opposition party and went on to become Labor Minister and Mayor of Kingston, died on Tuesday. He was 81. The cause was pneumonia, family friends said. The journalist and labor leader helped found the Jamaica Lab
 Marshall Burns Williams, the President pro tempore of the South Carolina Senate whose legislative career of almost 50 years made him the longest-serving  State Senator in the United States, died on Thursday at Providence Hospital in Columbia, S.C. He was 83 and lived in Orangeburg. 
 Robert Farber, an artist whose installations and paintings dealt with AIDS, died last Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 47. The cause was AIDS, said his mother, Lillian. Mr. Farber was born and brought up in Hartsdale, N.Y. After earning a degree in theater in 1970 a
 Bob Woolger, who helped shape the career and muscles of the bodybuilder-turned-actor Arnold Schwarzenegger, has died, The Daily Telegraph reported today. He was 83. Mr. Woolger, who suffered a stroke in April, is recognized as the founding father of British bodybuilding. Mr. Woolger
 Heiner Mueller, one of East Germany's most prominent and debated playwrights, died today at a Berlin hospital, a spokesman for his theater company said. He was 66. The cause was cancer, the spokesman said. Mr. Mueller was the artistic director of the Buehne am Schiffbauerdam
 Joey Fariello, a New York boxing trainer who handled several champions and sent Buster Mathis Jr. into the ring against Mike Tyson two weeks ago, died on Wednesday after suffering a stroke on Christmas Eve. He was 58. He died in St. John's Hospital in Elmhurst, Queens, near the Masp
 Sir Colville Deverell, who became the first full-time secretary general of the International Planned Parenthood Federation after a career as an administrator of British colonies, died on Dec. 18 at Wokingham, west of London. He was 88, and his family home was nearby in Henley-on-Thames.    
