The Rev. John Thomas Walker, the first black Episcopal bishop of Washington and a staunch crusader against racial discrimination at home and abroad, died of heart failure at Georgetown University Hospital yesterday. He was 64 years old.  Bishop Walker had undergone triple bypass surge
Morris N. Fox, founder of the company that makes Smith Brothers cough drops, died Wednesday. He was 102 years old. Morris N. Fox, founder of the company that makes Smith Brothers cough drops, died Wednesday. He was 102 years old. Mr. Fox came to Omaha with his family f
Stephen P. King, an architect, died of cancer Friday at his home n East Hampton, L.I. He was 44 years old and also lived in Manhattan. Stephen P. King, an architect, died of cancer Friday at his home n East Hampton, L.I. He was 44 years old and also lived in Manhattan.        
Virgil Thomson, whose homespun, subtly sophisticated compositions and witty but trenchant criticism made him a central figure in American intellectual life for 55 years, died early yesterday in his suite at the Chelsea Hotel in Manhattan. He was 92 years old, and his health had been i
Arthur O. Dahlberg, an economist and the inventor of the Parker fountain pen, died early Saturday morning at White Plains Hospital after a long illness. A resident of Scarsdale, N.Y., he was 91 years old. Arthur O. Dahlberg, an economist and the inventor of the Parker fountain
Charles I. Rostov, retired president and chief executive officer of the Trans-Ocean Import Company, a home furnishings importer in Manhattan, died of a heart attack Friday in Budapest, where he was traveling. He was 74 years old and lived in Greenwich, Conn. Charles I. Rostov,
The Rev. John Thomas Walker, the first black Episcopal bishop of Washington and a staunch crusader against racial discrimination at home and abroad, died of heart failure at Georgetown University Hospital on Saturday. He was 64 years old. The Rev. John Thomas Walker, the first
Manuel Clouthier, the candidate of the right-of-center National Action Party in the 1988 presidential election, was killed today in an automobile accident in northern Mexico, the highway police reported. He was 55 years old. Manuel Clouthier, the candidate of the right-of-cent
Judge Norman F. Smith, an administrative law judge who was a leading advocate of abortion rights, died of cancer Friday in Crouse Irving Memorial Hospital in Syracuse. He was 64 years old and lived in Syracuse. Judge Norman F. Smith, an administrative law judge who was a leadi
Walter O'Meara, a former New York advertising executive and author of 16 books, died of heart disease Friday at his home in Cohassett, Mass. He was 92 years old. Walter O'Meara, a former New York advertising executive and author of 16 books, died of heart disease Friday at his
Amos J. Peaslee Jr., a lawyer and the Mayor of East Greenwich, N.J., died Friday at his home in Clarksboro, N.J. He was 66 years old and had suffered a heart attack in April that left him in a coma. Amos J. Peaslee Jr., a lawyer and the Mayor of East Greenwich, N.J., died Frid
Harold R. Fatzer, former Chief Justice of the Kansas Supreme Court shot himself to death at his home on Saturday. He was 79 years old. Harold R. Fatzer, former Chief Justice of the Kansas Supreme Court shot himself to death at his home on Saturday. He was 79 years old.        
Huynh Tan Phat, a leader of the Vietcong during the Indochina war and later a senior official in the Hanoi Government, died Saturday in Ho Chi Minh City. He was 76 years old. Huynh Tan Phat, a leader of the Vietcong during the Indochina war and later a senior official in the H
William M. Fairbank, whose work in low-temperature superconductivity for more than three decades involved some of the most difficult and subtle experiments in physics, died of a heart attack Saturday while jogging in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 72 years old. William M. Fairbank, 
Robert J. Felheim, a retired partner of Neuberger & Berman, a brokerage and money-management concern, died Friday at New York Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Singer Island, Fla. Robert J. Felheim, a retired partner of Neuberger & Berman, a brokerage and money-manage
Simon Gluckman, an accountant and an executive, died of cardiac arrest Friday at Benedectine Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. He was 81 years old and lived in Palm Beach, Fla., and Woodstock, N.Y. Simon Gluckman, an accountant and an executive, died of cardiac arrest Friday at Bened
Stanley S. Joseloff, a radio and advertising executive, died of leukemia Sunday in Yale-New Haven Hospital in New Haven. He was 82 years old and lived in Branford, Conn. Stanley S. Joseloff, a radio and advertising executive, died of leukemia Sunday in Yale-New Haven Hospital 
Witold Rowicki, who founded the Warsaw National Philharmonic Orchestra and was its conductor for nearly 25 years, died on Sunday, the official Polish press agency reported today. He was 75 years old. Witold Rowicki, who founded the Warsaw National Philharmonic Orchestra and wa
Arthur J. Keeffe, a law professor and columnist on legal matters, died of congestive heart failure Monday while recuperating from surgery at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 86 years old and lived in Washington. Arthur J. Keeffe, a law professor and columni
David H. Geiger, an engineer who invented an air-supported fabric roof system used for almost half the domed stadiums in the world, died, apparently of cardiac arrest, Sunday at the Lotte Hotel in Seoul, South Korea, where he was traveling on business. He was 54 years old and lived in
Harold William Conroy, a lawyer specializing in corporate law, died of a disease of the cartilage on Saturday at his home in Southhold, L.I. He was 82 years old. Harold William Conroy, a lawyer specializing in corporate law, died of a disease of the cartilage on Saturday at hi
Joseph William Allen, an electrical engineer, inventor and pioneer in the field of aviation engineering, died Monday at the Morristown (N.J.) Medical Center of injuries sustained in a recent fall at his home in Whippany, N.J. He was 96 years old. Joseph William Allen, an elect
Julian Miller, a retired actuary who became an environmentalist, died of cancer Thursday at Holy Name Hospital in Teaneck, N.J. He was 85 years old and lived in Teaneck. Julian Miller, a retired actuary who became an environmentalist, died of cancer Thursday at Holy Name Hospi
William F. Turner, an interior designer and a management consultant, died Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 53 years old. Mr. Turner died of pneumonia, Kenneth L. Wyse, a former business associate, said. William F. Turner, an interior des
Willis M. Tate, who was president of Southern Methodist University for nearly 20 years, died Sunday, apparently from a heart attack, while on a trip to Colorado. He was 77 years old and lived in Dallas. Willis M. Tate, who was president of Southern Methodist University for nea
Arnold Ehrlich, deputy editor of Town & Country magazine and a former editor in chief of Publishers Weekly, died of lung cancer Tuesday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan. Arnold Ehrlich, deputy editor of Town & Country magazine and a 
Dean Chamberlin, a retired Time Inc. executive, died of cancer on Tuesday in a nursing home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 82 years old and lived in Sarasota. Dean Chamberlin, a retired Time Inc. executive, died of cancer on Tuesday in a nursing home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 82 year
Dennis McGee, a fiddler who performed on some of the earliest recordings of Cajun music, died on Tuesday. He was 96 years old and lived in Eunice. Dennis McGee, a fiddler who performed on some of the earliest recordings of Cajun music, died on Tuesday. He was 96 years old and 
Edmund Jan Osmanczyk, a Polish journalist, independent legislator and compiler of encyclopedias on international affairs, died Tuesday in Warsaw, where he lived. He was 76 years old and had been suffering from heart disease. Edmund Jan Osmanczyk, a Polish journalist, independe
Graham Chapman, a Cambridge-educated physician who decided to specialize in comedy and who helped to found Monty Python's Flying Circus, died of throat cancer yesterday at a hospital near his home in England. He was 48 years old. Graham Chapman, a Cambridge-educated physician 
Horace G. Alexander, a teacher and writer who headed the British Quaker relief effort in India, died Saturday of a gastrointestinal illness at Crosslands, a Quaker retirement community in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 100 years old. Horace G. Alexander, a teacher and writer who h
Joel Stephenson Mitchell, the former chief executive of Standard Brands Inc., died Monday at his home in Lake Wales, Fla. He was 90 years old. Joel Stephenson Mitchell, the former chief executive of Standard Brands Inc., died Monday at his home in Lake Wales, Fla. He was 90 ye
Michael Eugene Choukas, an expert on the uses of propaganda who taught sociology at Dartmouth College for 30 years, died Monday at the Hanover Terrace Health Care Facility in New Hampshire. He was 87 years old and lived in Portsmouth, N.H. Michael Eugene Choukas, an expert on 
Milton Goldman, a prominent theatrical agent, died of heart failure in his sleep yesterday in Manhattan in his Sutton Place home. He was 75 years old. Milton Goldman, a prominent theatrical agent, died of heart failure in his sleep yesterday in Manhattan in his Sutton Place ho
Milton M. Rosenbloom, a copyright lawyer, died of a heart attack Monday at the Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 82 years old and lived in Teaneck, N.J. Milton M. Rosenbloom, a copyright lawyer, died of a heart attack Monday at the Bellevue Hospital Center in Manha
The Rev. Cedric Fitz-Oswald Thompson, a Perpetual Deacon in the Espicopal Diocese of Newark and the assistant at Christ Church in East Orange, N.J., died of a heart attack Monday at his home in Orange, N.J. He was 62 years old. The Rev. Cedric Fitz-Oswald Thompson, a Perpetual
Dr. Robert Tuby, a retired orthopedic surgeon, died of a heart attack Saturday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 82 years old and lived in Great Neck, L.I. Dr. Robert Tuby, a retired orthopedic surgeon, died of a heart attack Saturday at North Shore 
Harry A. LaBurt, a doctor and former director of Creedmoor State Hospital in Queens for 26 years, died on Monday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I., after being struck by a car. He was 91 years old and lived in Bellerose, Queens. Harry A. LaBurt, a doctor an
Dr. Lowyd W. R. Ballantyne Jr., a retired plastic surgeon, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at North Carolina Memorial Hospital in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 65 years old and lived in Chapel Hill. Dr. Lowyd W. R. Ballantyne Jr., a retired plastic surgeon, died of a heart atta
Peter Rodney Lessler, a lawyer and senior vice president for planning and acquisitions at Dun & Bradstreet, died, apparently of a heart attack, on Wednesday at St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center in Manhattan. He was 41 years old and lived in Westport, Conn. Peter Rodney Le
Victor Feingold, a lawyer who was general counsel to the Distillery, Wine and Allied Workers International Union, died Monday while recuperating from heart surgery at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 77 years old. Victor Feingold, a lawyer who was general counsel to the D
Wendolin John Nauss Jr., a lawyer in Manhattan for 40 years and a partner in the firm of Seward & Kissel, died of a heart attack Wednesday at the Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 69 years old and lived in Bronxville, N.Y. Wendolin John Nauss Jr., a la
Arnold Shaw, a writer about popular music and the founder of the Popular Music Research Center at the University of Nevada at Las Vegas, died of cancer on Sept. 26 at his home in Las Vegas. He was 80 years old. Arnold Shaw, a writer about popular music and the founder of the P
Malcolm John Wilson Jr., a radio personality known as Big Wilson, died after a heart attack Thursday at a hotel in Selma, N.C. He had observed his 65th birthday this week and was touring the country with his wife, Jody. Malcolm John Wilson Jr., a radio personality known as Big
Frederic de Hoffmann, a nuclear physicist who worked on the Manhattan Project, helped develop the hydrogen bomb and later directed the Salk Institute for Biological Studies for 18 years, died of complications of AIDS Wednesday in La Jolla, Calif. He was 65 years old. Frederic 
Irving Newman, a retired hat manufacturer who served as a neighborhood aide to three New York City mayors, died of a heart attack Thursday at Edward White Hospital in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 74 years old and lived in Tampa, Fla. Irving Newman, a retired hat manufacturer wh
John Daniel Cronin, a former partner of Eastman Dillon Union Securities in Manhattan, died of congestive heart failure Wednesday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 86 years old and lived in Summit. John Daniel Cronin, a former partner of Eastman Dillon Union Securitie
Dr. Michael D. Williams, a cardiologist who practiced in Harlem for more than 40 years, died of complications of heart disease yesterday at the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Medical Center. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Michael D. Williams, a cardiologist who
Ralph Ernest Henderson, the creator and first editor in chief of The Reader's Digest Condensed Books, died yesterday in Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mt. Kisco, N.Y., after a long illness. He was 90 years old and lived in Pleasantville, N.Y., and South Kent, Conn. Ra
Robert T. Ashmore, a former member of the House of Representatives from South Carolina, died Wednesday at St. Francis Hospital in Greenville, S.C., where he lived. He had undergone open heart surgery last summer and was suffering from pneumonia and kidney failure. He was 85 years old.
Alexander Mauro, a professor of biophysics at Rockefeller University, died of cancer Friday at New York Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in Manhattan. Alexander Mauro, a professor of biophysics at Rockefeller University, died of cancer Friday at New York Hospital. He wa
John B. Layton, police chief of Washington in a turbulent five years of strained race relations and rising crime in the 1960's, died of a pulmonary embolism Thursday at Washington Adventist Hospital. He was 77 years old and lived in Washington. John B. Layton, police chief of 
Martin J. Knorr, a Republican-Conservative who served in the New York State Senate for 23 years, died of congestive heart failure yesterday at his daughter's home in Long Beach, L.I. He was 83 years old and lived in Little Neck, L.I. Martin J. Knorr, a Republican-Conservative 
Henrik Kurt Carlsen, a sea captain who gained international attention in 1952 for staying stubbornly aboard his crippled freighter for seven days as she slowly sank, died Saturday at his home in Woodbridge. He was 75 years old. Henrik Kurt Carlsen, a sea captain who gained int
Leonard C. Yaseen, a real-estate executive who specialized in relocating factories and offices, died of a heart attack early yesterday at the Rhode Island Hospital in Providence, R.I. He was 77 years old and lived in Larchmont, N.Y. Leonard C. Yaseen, a real-estate executive w
William J. Fischer, a New York auctioneer of furnishings, decorations and art, died yesterday in a nursing home in Burbank, Calif. He was 91 years and lived in Manhattan until he moved to California 18 months ago. William J. Fischer, a New York auctioneer of furnishings, decor
Barry Andrew Kearsley, stage manager of the Broadway play ''M. Butterfly,'' died of a heart attack Saturday after collapsing backstage during a performance. He was 42 years old. Barry Andrew Kearsley, stage manager of the Broadway play ''M. Butterfly,'' died of a heart attack 
Ira Hirschmann, a business executive, pioneer in radio broadcasts of classical music and political associate of Fiorello H. La Guardia, died of heart failure yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 years old. Ira Hirschmann, a business executive, pioneer in radio broadca
The Rev. Dr. John Wesley Lord, a retired bishop of the United Methodist Church who was active in the civil rights movement and in the racial integration of his church, died Sunday, apparently of a heart attack, at Huggins Hospital in Wolfeboro, N.H. He was 87 years old and lived in Wo
Alan F. Conwill, a lawyer and former director of the division of corporate regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission, died of heart failure in his sleep Monday during a trip to San Antonio, Tex. He was 67 years old and lived in Wyckoff, N.J. Alan F. Conwill, a lawye
Anthony Gaubis, a securities analyst and investment adviser, died Sunday at John F. Kennedy Medical Center in Edison, N.J. He was 87 years old and lived in Sparta, N.J. Anthony Gaubis, a securities analyst and investment adviser, died Sunday at John F. Kennedy Medical Center i
Arnold M. Picker, former head of international operations for United Artists Pictures Inc. who was a prominent fund-raiser for Democratic political candidates, died of pneumonia on Sunday at New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston. He was 76 years old. Arnold M. Picker, forme
Lawrence Goossen, a co-producer of plays and a company manager, died of AIDS on Monday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 46 years old. Lawrence Goossen, a co-producer of plays and a company manager, died of AIDS on Monday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 46 year
Edgar P. Smith, a magazine and broadcast executive with Time Inc. who originated the ''Fortune 500'' list of the country's largest businesses, died of cancer Tuesday at Morristown (N.J.) Memorial Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Mendham Township, N.J. Edgar P. Smith,
Leonard S. Davidow, a publisher and executive of Sunday supplements and other publishing operations, died Tuesday at Highland Park Hospital in Illinois after a brief illness. He was 89 years old and lived in Highland Park. Leonard S. Davidow, a publisher and executive of Sunda
Dr. Mario D. Fantini, a former dean of the School of Education at the University of Massachusetts at Amherst who had a major role in the decentralization of New York City's public schools, died Friday at Kaiser Permanente Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif., after a long illness. He wa
Percival Goodman, an architect, planner and artist who was one of the nation's leading designers of synagogues, died of lung cancer yesterday at Beth Israel Hospice in New York. He was 85 years old and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and in a house of his own design in East 
Dr. Philip G. Colin, a chemical engineer who developed industrial processes for many drugs, died of a heart attack on Oct. 5 at his home in San Diego. He was 86 years old. Dr. Philip G. Colin, a chemical engineer who developed industrial processes for many drugs, died of a hea
Edward G. Schumacher, a former merchant seaman who helped win veteran status for merchant mariners who served in World War II, died of a heart attack Saturday at his home in Dale City, Va. He was 66 years old. Edward G. Schumacher, a former merchant seaman who helped win veter
Edward P. Moore, a management consultant for many years before his retirement in 1977, died Tuesday at his home in Darien, Conn., after a long illness. He was 80 years old. Edward P. Moore, a management consultant for many years before his retirement in 1977, died Tuesday at h
Frederick A. Bush 3d, an oil executive and consultant, died Monday of leukemia at the Greenwich Woods Health Care Center in Greenwich, Conn. He was 85 years old and lived in Greenwich. Frederick A. Bush 3d, an oil executive and consultant, died Monday of leukemia at the Greenw
J. Rupert Picott, an educator and early civil rights leader, died of prostate cancer Wednesday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 77 years old and lived in Washington. J. Rupert Picott, an educator and early civil rights leader, died of prostate cancer Wed
Lawrence Goossen, a co-producer of plays and a company manager, died of AIDS on Monday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 46 years old. Lawrence Goossen, a co-producer of plays and a company manager, died of AIDS on Monday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 46 year
Leslie S. Pearl, a retired advertising executive, died Tuesday after a long illness at his home in Katonah, N.Y. He ws 87 years old and also lived in Blue Hill, Me. Leslie S. Pearl, a retired advertising executive, died Tuesday after a long illness at his home in Katonah, N.Y.
Louis Levine, a retired manufacturer of women's coats and suits, died of colon and bladder cancer on Monday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 78 years old and lived in Great Neck, L.I. Louis Levine, a retired manufacturer of women's coats and suits, died of
Msgr. Arthur Francis Bukowski, president of Aquinas College here for 32 years, died Tuesday of heart disease. He was 83 years old. Msgr. Arthur Francis Bukowski, president of Aquinas College here for 32 years, died Tuesday of heart disease. He was 83 years old. Monsign
Dr. Ross F. Nigrelli, a marine biologist and world-renowned expert on diseases of aquatic creatures, died of complications of a stroke on Oct. 4 at Southhampton (L.I.) Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in East Quogue, L.I. Dr. Ross F. Nigrelli, a marine biologist and wor
Ross Reid, a lawyer and business executive, died on Monday at New York Hospital after a long illness. He was 72 years old and lived in Manhattan. Ross Reid, a lawyer and business executive, died on Monday at New York Hospital after a long illness. He was 72 years old and lived
Stephen C. Hartigan, a retired correction officer and former president of the Correction Officers Benevolent Association, died of congestive heart failure on Monday at New Rochelle (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 86 years old and lived in the City Island section of the Bronx. Stephen 
Col. C. Emil Nelson, the former national chief secretary of the Salvation Army, died of complications of heart disease Thursday at Jersey Shore Medical Center in Asbury Park, N.J. He was 83 years old and lived in Asbury Park. Col. C. Emil Nelson, the former national chief secr
Carl E. Newton, a New York lawyer for more than half a century who served as Deputy Coal Administrator in Washington during World War II, died Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91 years old. Carl E. Newton, a New York lawyer for more than half a century who served as D
Frederick A. Huettner, a former president and director of Selchow & Righter, the Long Island company that manufactured Scrabble, Parchesi and Trivial Pursuit before being bought by Coleco Industries, died Thursday at University Hospital in Stony Brook, L.I., after a long illness. He w
Herbert M. Weed, a former vice president of the Anaconda Company, a leading producer of nonferrous metals and uranium, died of a heart attack Tuesday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Denver. He was 68 years old and lived in Cherry Hills Village, a Denver suburb. Herbert M. Weed, a 
Hyman Solniker, a retired New York City Criminal Court judge, died Thursday at Beth Israel Hospital after a long illness. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan. Hyman Solniker, a retired New York City Criminal Court judge, died Thursday at Beth Israel Hospital after a lon
Jay Ward, the creator of Bullwinkle and other popular television cartoon characters, died of kidney cancer on Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 69 years old.  Mr. Ward, whose innovative work contributed sophistication and wit to television cartoons for more than three decade
Joe Foy, a third baseman with the 1967 American League champion Boston Red Sox and later a member of the Mets, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home in New York. He was 46 years old. Joe Foy, a third baseman with the 1967 American League champion Boston Red Sox and later
Merab Kostava, a leading Georgian human rights campaigner and dissident for more than 30 years, was killed today in a car accident, an independent newspaper said. He was 50 years old. Merab Kostava, a leading Georgian human rights campaigner and dissident for more than 30 year
Richard F. Uhlmann, a grain dealer who served as president of the Chicago Board of Trade in 1948, died at Highland Park (Ill.) Hospital on Monday after a brief illness. He was 91 years old. Richard F. Uhlmann, a grain dealer who served as president of the Chicago Board of Trad
William A. Kottmeyer, an educator and a prolific author of textbooks, died of an aneurysm Wednesday during abdominal surgery at St. Mary's Health Center in Richmond Heights, Mo. He was 79 years old and lived in Town and Country, Mo. William A. Kottmeyer, an educator and a prol
John F. X. Condon, the resonant voice of Madison Square Garden and the New York Knicks basketball team for 42 seasons, died of cancer Friday night at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 75 years old and lived in Queens. John F. X. Condon, the resonant voice of Madison Square Garden an
Andrew R. Tyler, a longtime civic leader in Harlem and a retired Justice of the State Supreme Court in Manhattan, died Friday at St. Luke's Hospital after a lengthy illness. He was 71 years old and lived in Yonkers. Andrew R. Tyler, a longtime civic leader in Harlem and a reti
Cesare Zavattini, an Italian screenwriter who collaborated on two Academy Award-winning films with the director Vittorio De Sica, died on Friday at the age of 87. Cesare Zavattini, an Italian screenwriter who collaborated on two Academy Award-winning films with the director Vi
Michal Zymierski, a Polish independence fighter who became a member of the first postwar Communist Government, died today. He was 99 years old and died in Warsaw, the state press agency said. Michal Zymierski, a Polish independence fighter who became a member of the first post
Arnold Jacobsen, the retired head surgeon for the Workmen's Benefit Fund of the U.S.A. Inc. in Manhattan, died Saturday at Holy Name Hospital in Teaneck, N.J., after a long illness. He was 91 years old and lived in Forest Hills, Queens. Arnold Jacobsen, the retired head surgeo
Cornel Wilde, an athletic actor who was expert in fencing and horsemanship but who won stardom with his portrayal of the tubercular composer Frederic Chopin in the 1945 film ''A Song to Remember'' died of leukemia yesterday in Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, three days aft
Danilo Kis, a Yugoslav-born writer and essayist whose works blended fact and fiction to describe the horror of the Holocaust and Stalin's forced-labor camps, died of cancer on Sunday, friends said today. He was 54 years old and had lived in Paris 10 years. Danilo Kis, a Yugosl
Franco, a Zairian guitarist and band leader who was one of Africa's most popular and influential musicians, died on Thursday in a Brussels hospital after a long illness. He was 51 years old. Franco, a Zairian guitarist and band leader who was one of Africa's most popular and i
M. King Hubbert, an award-winning scientist whose work in physics and geology brought radical changes in the petroleum industry, died Wednesday at his home in Bethesda, Md. Dr. Hubbert, who was 86 years old, had been undergoing treatment for a pulmonary embolism. M. King Hubbe
Scott O'Dell, who wrote ''Island of the Blue Dolphins'' and 25 other books for children, died of prostate cancer on Sunday at the Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 91 years old and lived in Waccabuc, N.Y. His latest book, ''My Name Is Not Angelica,'' is 
Thomas J. Spenker, retired president of the J. C. Penney Insurance Companies, died of heart failure Sunday at his home in Riverside, Conn. He was 74 years old. Thomas J. Spenker, retired president of the J. C. Penney Insurance Companies, died of heart failure Sunday at his hom
Arnold Billig, founder and president of the United Probation Officers Association of the City of New York, died of a heart attack Saturday at a restaurant in Savannah, Ga. He was 70 years old and was en route from his home in Queens to his winter home in Delray Beach, Fla. Arn
Cyril Mathew, a former Sri Lankan Industries Minister and an ardent crusader for Sinhalese nationalism, died of a heart attack on Monday. He was 77 years old. Cyril Mathew, a former Sri Lankan Industries Minister and an ardent crusader for Sinhalese nationalism, died of a hear
Dr. Edgar Bacon, a dentist in Manhattan for 50 years, died of a heart attack Sept. 28 at the Munson Medical Center in Traverse City, Mich. He was 86 years old and lived in Old Mission, Mich. Dr. Edgar Bacon, a dentist in Manhattan for 50 years, died of a heart attack Sept. 28 
James C. Kirby Jr., a law professor who taught at five schools and an expert on legal ethics, died of a heart attack Saturday at his home in Nashville. He was 61 years old.  For the last 11 years he had been on the faculty at the University of Tennessee Law School in Knoxville, where 
James B. Rosenwald, a securities analyst who specialized in Japanese insurance companies and banks, died Sunday at his home in Kings Bay Estates, Tobago, West Indies, after a series of strokes. He was 83 years old and also lived in Manhattan. James B. Rosenwald, a securities a
Ludwig Gluskin, who was a drummer for the orchestra leader Paul Whiteman and also led his own jazz group before becoming music director for CBS Radio and for CBS-TV, died of kidney failure on Friday. He was 90 years old. Ludwig Gluskin, who was a drummer for the orchestra lead
Michael Carmine, an actor, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 30 years old. Michael Carmine, an actor, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 30 years old. A spokeswoman for the New York Shakespeare Festival, Barbara Carroll, said he died of a
Miroslaw Dzielski, a Polish political leader who espoused entrepreneurship and market-economy principles in his native country, died of bladder cancer on Sunday at the hospital of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. He was 47 years old and lived in Cracow, Poland.      
Robert L. Myers, a chemist involved in industrial research and development, died of renal failure and other complications last Thursday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital. He was 66 years old and lived in Darien, Conn. Robert L. Myers, a chemist involved in industrial research and d
Sim Var, founder of the Cambodian Democratic Party and a former Prime Minister, has died in Paris, according to a statement issued on Saturday. He was 85 years old. Sim Var, founder of the Cambodian Democratic Party and a former Prime Minister, has died in Paris, according to 
Victor Thane Norton, retired chief executive and chairman of the board of the Amerace Corporation, died of congestive heart failure Saturday at his summer home in Riverside, Conn. He was 86 years old and also lived in Lighthouse Point, Fla. Victor Thane Norton, retired chief e
Walter Farley, whose 20 ''Black Stallion'' novels about the friendships between horses and children charmed young readers for nearly 50 years, died of heart failure yesterday at a hospital near his home in Venice, Fla. He was 74 years old and lived in Venice and on a farm near Earlvil
Adlai S. Hardin, a sculptor and former advertising executive, died of complications from a stroke on Monday at the Saybrook Convalescent Hospital in Old Saybrook, Conn. He was 88 years old. Adlai S. Hardin, a sculptor and former advertising executive, died of complications fro
Dr. Oscar J. Falnes, an educator and specialist in Scandinavian intellectual and cultural history, died on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91 years old. Dr. Oscar J. Falnes, an educator and specialist in Scandinavian intellectual and cultural history, died on Friday at
John Gombojab Hangin, a university professor in the United States and an expert on Mongolian language and culture, died of heart disease Oct. 9 in Ulan Bator, the capital of Mongolia, where he was doing research. He was 68 years old and lived in Bloomington, Ind. John Gombojab
James M. Fulton, a former executive at Merck & Company in Rahway, N.J., died of a heart attack on Monday at his home in Martha's Vineyard, Mass. He was 75 years old. James M. Fulton, a former executive at Merck & Company in Rahway, N.J., died of a heart attack on Monday at his
Milton Friedman, a labor-management arbitrator and mediator, died of pneumonia yesterday at University Hospital at the New York University Medical Center. He was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan. Milton Friedman, a labor-management arbitrator and mediator, died of pneumonia
Rudolph J. Boyko, a New Jersey steel executive who was one of the founders of Ben-Gurion University of the Negev in Israel in 1969, died of complications from surgery Tuesday at Newton (N.J.) General Hospital. He was 93 years old and lived in Blairstown, N.J., and Manhattan. R
Sam Moore, a writer for radio in the 1930's and 1940's on such comedy programs as ''The Great Gildersleeve,'' died of a heart attack on Friday while he was on vacation in France. He was 85 years old and lived in Blairstown, N.J. Sam Moore, a writer for radio in the 1930's and 
Talbot Rantoul, a carpet designer and former president of the Rhode Island School of Design, died Monday at a nursing home in Providence, R.I. He was 77 years old and lived in Chilmark, Mass., and Ojai, Calif. Talbot Rantoul, a carpet designer and former president of the Rhode
Adlai S. Hardin, a sculptor and former advertising executive, died of complications from a stroke on Monday at the Saybrook Convalescent Hospital in Old Saybrook, Conn. He was 88 years old. Adlai S. Hardin, a sculptor and former advertising executive, died of complications fro
Dr. Peter Dineen, a professor and vice chairman of the department of surgery at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan, died of cancer there Tuesday. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Peter Dineen, a professor and vice chairman of the department of
George Risk, an inventor who founded electronics companies in Nebraska, died Tuesday in a hospital in Cheyenne, Wyo., after a brief illness. He was 76 years old. George Risk, an inventor who founded electronics companies in Nebraska, died Tuesday in a hospital in Cheyenne, Wyo
Hubert F. Carr, a lawyer and steamship company executive, died of heart disease Wednesday at River View Medical Center in Red Bank, N.J. He was 68 years old and lived in Colts Neck, N.J. Hubert F. Carr, a lawyer and steamship company executive, died of heart disease Wednesday 
Robert P. Gersin, an award-winning industrial designer, died of cancer Wednesday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 60 years old and lived in Manhattan. Robert P. Gersin, an award-winning industrial designer, died of cancer Wednesday at the Memo
Sir Roger Mynors, one of Britain's leading classical scholars, was killed Tuesday in a car crash. He was 86 years old. Sir Roger Mynors, one of Britain's leading classical scholars, was killed Tuesday in a car crash. He was 86 years old. Sir Roger was educated at Eton 
Sam Moore, a writer for radio in the 1930's and 1940's on such comedy programs as ''The Great Gildersleeve,'' died of a heart attack last Friday while he was on vacation in France. He was 85 years old and lived in Blairstown, N.J. Sam Moore, a writer for radio in the 1930's an
William P. Palmer, a senior partner in the Manhattan law firm of Dewey, Ballantine, Bushby, Palmer & Wood, died Monday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital. He was 92 years old and lived in Darien, Conn. William P. Palmer, a senior partner in the Manhattan law firm of Dewey, Ballantin
Friends and fellow actors gathered at Westminster Abbey today to celebrate the life and achievements of Laurence Olivier. Friends and fellow actors gathered at Westminster Abbey today to celebrate the life and achievements of Laurence Olivier. At a memorial service ful
Edwin A. Elbert, a retired import-export executive, died of a heart attack Wednesday at Daniel Freeman Hospital in Marina Del Rey, Calif. He was 85 years old and lived in Marina Del Rey. Edwin A. Elbert, a retired import-export executive, died of a heart attack Wednesday at Da
James Benton Grant, a lawyer in Manhattan for 40 years and an avid yachtsman, died of leukemia Thursday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 71 years old and lived in Greenwich. James Benton Grant, a lawyer in Manhattan for 40 years and an avid yachtsman, died of leukemia Thu
Joseph I. Levine, who produced ''J. B.,'' a play by Archibald MacLeish that won a Pulitzer Prize in 1958, died of stomach cancer Tuesday in the Tarzana Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 63 years old and lived in Sherman Oaks, Calif. Joseph I. Levine, who produced ''J. B.,'
Otto E. Dohrenwend, a retired New York investment broker, died Thursday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y., after a long illness. He was 90 years old. Otto E. Dohrenwend, a retired New York investment broker, died Thursday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y., after a long illness. He w
Sir Roger Mynors, one of Britain's leading classical scholars, was killed in a car crash on Tuesday. He was 86 years old. Sir Roger Mynors, one of Britain's leading classical scholars, was killed in a car crash on Tuesday. He was 86 years old. Sir Roger was educated at
Samuel C. Pulitzer, founder and chief executive officer of the Wemco Corporation of New Orleans, one of the world's biggest manufacturers of neckwear, died of cancer yesterday at Touro Infirmary in New Orleans. He was 84 years old and lived in New Orleans. Samuel C. Pulitzer, 
Sir Anthony Quayle, a versatile actor and director who helped establish Stratford-on-Avon as a major center of British theater, died of cancer yesterday at his home in London. He was 76 years old. Sir Anthony Quayle, a versatile actor and director who helped establish Stratfor
Alfred Hayes, who headed the Federal Reserve Bank of New York until 1975 and played a pivotal role in the national and world banking systems for nearly two decades, died yesterday at a nursing home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 79 years old and a longtime resident of New Canaan.        
Dahn Ben-Amotz, a novelist, playwright and journalist who was a leading figure in Israeli culture for several decades, died of liver cancer on Friday at his home in the Jaffa section of Tel Aviv. He was 65 years old. Dahn Ben-Amotz, a novelist, playwright and journalist who wa
Marc A. Zambetti, a sales director for the Stella D'Oro Biscuit Company, was killed in the collapse of the Nimitz Freeway in Tuesday's earthquake in Oakland. The 27-year-old San Francisco resident was a grandson of the company's founders and the son of its chief executive officer.    
Frank A. Saunders, a retired vice president of corporate relations and communications at Philip Morris Inc., who helped increase corporate support for the arts, died yesterday of pneumonia in Doctors Hospital after suffering a series of strokes. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhat
Herbert Hastings Foster Jr., a former general counsel for the J. P. Stevens textile company, died Friday in the Westerly (R.I.) Hospital. He was 76 years old and lived in Block Island, R.I., and Captiva, Fla. Herbert Hastings Foster Jr., a former general counsel for the J. P. 
J. Donald Gartland 3d, a coin dealer who specialized in commemorative Olympic issues, died of cancer Thursday in Presbyterian Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 45 years old and lived in Ocean City, N.J. J. Donald Gartland 3d, a coin dealer who specialized in commemorative Olymp
Marc A. Zambetti, a sales director for the Stella D'Oro Biscuit Company, was killed in the collapse of the Nimitz Freeway in Tuesday's earthquake in Oakland. The 27-year-old San Francisco resident was a grandson of the company's founders and the son of its chief executive officer.    
David Victor, a producer of numerous television series including ''Dr. Kildare'' and ''Marcus Welby, M.D.,'' died after a heart attack on Oct. 18 while he and his wife, Florence, were vacationing in Williamsburg, Va. He was 79 years old and lived in Los Angeles. David Victor, 
Ewan MacColl, who led the folk music revival in Britain and wrote the Grammy Award-winning ballad ''The First Time Ever I Saw Your Face,'' died on Sunday in a London hospital after heart surgery. He was 74 years old. Ewan MacColl, who led the folk music revival in Britain and 
Gilbert J. Sinnott, a retired insurance executive, died of heart failure Saturday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 82 years old. Gilbert J. Sinnott, a retired insurance executive, died of heart failure Saturday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 82 years old. Mr. Sin
Israel L. Crausman, an architect and engineer, died of heart disease on Sunday at his home in Spring Valley, N.Y. He was 90 years old. Mr. Crausman was born in Bessarabia, now part of the Soviet Union, and came here with his family at the age of 13. He graduated from Cooper Union six 
John Archer Gifford, a lawyer, died Sunday at Falmouth (Mass.) Hospital after a brief illness. He was 88 years old and lived in Manhattan and Woods Hole, Mass. John Archer Gifford, a lawyer, died Sunday at Falmouth (Mass.) Hospital after a brief illness. He was 88 years old an
Michael S. Cecere, a lawyer who specialized in employment litigation, died of cancer of the colon Thursday at Hackensack Medical Center in Hackensack, N.J. He was 45 years old and lived in Tenafly. Michael S. Cecere, a lawyer who specialized in employment litigation, died of c
Tony Manero, the 1936 United States Open golf champion and a member of the 1937 United States Ryder Cup team, died of heart failure Sunday at Greenwich Hospital. He was 84 years old. Tony Manero, the 1936 United States Open golf champion and a member of the 1937 United States 
David J. Jacobson, a marketing executive, died of a heart attack Monday at his home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. He was 72 years old. David J. Jacobson, a marketing executive, died of a heart attack Monday at his home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. He was 72 years old. Mr. Jacobson, a gra
Edward W. Barrett, a journalist, government official and public-relations executive who was dean of the Columbia Graduate School of Journalism from 1956 to 1968, died of a ruptured aneurysm Monday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived in Greenwich. Edwar
Henry Bowen Burnett Jr., a specialist in direct-mail marketing, died Friday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif., after a long illness. He was 59 years old. Henry Bowen Burnett Jr., a specialist in direct-mail marketing, died Friday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif., after 
R. Nelson Rose, an engineer whose knowledge of rust inhibitors helped preserve equipment salvaged from the French liner Normandie after she sank in New York Harbor Feb. 9, 1942, died of a pulmonary embolism Sunday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital. He was 87 years old and lived in Darien, 
Roland Winters, an actor whose film portrayals included Charlie Chan and Elvis Presley's father, died of a stroke on Sunday at the Actors' Fund Nursing Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 84 years old. Roland Winters, an actor whose film portrayals included Charlie Chan and Elvis P
Tony Manero, the 1936 United States Open golf champion and a member of the 1937 United States Ryder Cup team, died of heart failure Sunday at Greenwich Hospital. He was 84 years old. Tony Manero, the 1936 United States Open golf champion and a member of the 1937 United States 
William Joseph McKeon, a former marketing professor at New York University's School of Business, died yesterday at his home in New Milford, N.J., after a long illness. He was 80 years old. William Joseph McKeon, a former marketing professor at New York University's School of B
S. Clark Beise, retired president and chief executive of the Bank of America, died Saturday at his home in Hillsborough, Calif. He was 91 years old. S. Clark Beise, retired president and chief executive of the Bank of America, died Saturday at his home in Hillsborough, Calif. 
Rear Adm. Edward J. Fahy, a World War II submarine officer and later chief of the Navy's Bureau of Ships, died of cardiac arrest yesterday in Delray Beach, Fla., where he lived in retirement. He was 79 years old. Rear Adm. Edward J. Fahy, a World War II submarine officer and l
Edward O. Johnson, a scientist and inventor with RCA for 34 years, died of cancer on Oct. 11 at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 69 years old. Edward O. Johnson, a scientist and inventor with RCA for 34 years, died of cancer on Oct. 11 at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 6
John A. McLaughlin, chairman emeritus of the biology department at Fordham University, died Tuesday at Southside Hospital in Bay Shore, L.I., after a long illness. He was 65 years old and lived in Oakdale, L.I. John A. McLaughlin, chairman emeritus of the biology department at
Konrad Wolff, a pianist and the author of several books about the piano, died of heart failure Monday in Cologne, West Germany, where he was performing and lecturing. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan. Konrad Wolff, a pianist and the author of several books about the 
Marion Harper Jr., a leader in the advertising industry, died, apparently of a heart attack, yesterday, at his home in Oklahoma City. He was 73 years old. Marion Harper Jr., a leader in the advertising industry, died, apparently of a heart attack, yesterday, at his home in Okl
Richard Harland Norwood, a former executive with Rockefeller Center Inc., died Tuesday at Monmouth Medical Center in Long Branch, N.J., after suffering a heart embolism. He was 73 years old and lived in Bay Head, N.J. Richard Harland Norwood, a former executive with Rockefelle
Dr. Richard Sterba, a psychoanalyst who was a disciple of Sigmund Freud and practiced for nearly 50 years in Detroit, died Tuesday at his home in Grosse Pointe, Mich. He was 91 years old. Dr. Richard Sterba, a psychoanalyst who was a disciple of Sigmund Freud and practiced for
Charles J. Pedersen, who shared the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1987 for wide-ranging research that included the creation of artificial molecules that can mimic vital chemical reactions of the processes of life, died yesterday at his home in Salem, N.J. He was 85 years old. Ch
Dean Alfange, a lawyer who ran unsuccessfully for governor of New York in 1942 as a candidate of the American Labor Party and who two years later was a leader in forming the Liberal Party, died of cancer on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91 years old. Dean Alfange, a
Fred E. Katzner, a former president of the Forest Hills Jewish Center in Queens, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at his home in Forest Hills. He was 88 years old.  Mr. Katzner was president of the Comfy Manufacturing Company, which made slipcovers, until he retired in 1965. He was
Herman Roth, a retired district manager for the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and the father of Philip Roth, the novelist, died of a brain tumor on Wednesday at St. Elizabeth Hospital in Elizabeth, N.J. He was 88 years old and lived in Elizabeth. Herman Roth, a retired d
Leo Stillman, a retired architect who was noted for his Art Deco designs in the 1930's and for later innovations in the use of poured concrete in apartment house construction, died of a stroke on Oct. 18 at the Ocala (Fla.) Geriatric Center. He was 85 years old. Leo Stillman, 
Richard Kendrick Parsell, a retired patent attorney, died Oct. 14 at Church Homes, a retirement community in Hartford. He was 89 years old and until two years ago, lived in Manhasset, L.I., and in Center Harbor, N.H. Richard Kendrick Parsell, a retired patent attorney, died Oc
Ted Malone, a radio pioneer who won a national following as a genial, soft-spoken reader of homey and sentimental poems and philosophy, died of liver cancer last Friday at his home in Stratford, Conn. He was 81 years old. Ted Malone, a radio pioneer who won a national followin
William F. Poten, a retired ship broker in Manhattan who specialized in chartering oil tankers, died Tuesday at his home in St. Simons Island, Ga., after a long illness. He was 79 years old. William F. Poten, a retired ship broker in Manhattan who specialized in chartering oil
Alfred C. Bruce, a retired civil engineer and business executive, died of heart disease Thursday at a nursing home in East Haven, Conn. He was 88 years old and had lived for many years in Southport, Conn. Alfred C. Bruce, a retired civil engineer and business executive, died o
Alfred M. Wilson, a retired executive vice president of the Minneapolis-Honeywell Company, died after a heart attack yesterday at Vineyard Haven Hospital on Martha's Vineyard, Mass. He was 85 years old and lived on the island. Alfred M. Wilson, a retired executive vice preside
Darwin Klingman, a professor at the University of Texas who was an authority on mathematical models and computer applications in policy and decision-making, died of a brain tumor yesterday at St. David's Hospital in Austin, Tex. He was 45 years old and lived in Austin. Darwin 
Ermal Cleon Fraze, an engineer who invented the pull-tab opener that is used on aluminum beer and soda cans, died of a brain tumor Thursday at Kettering Memorial Hospital in Dayton, Ohio. He was 76 years old and lived in Dayton. Ermal Cleon Fraze, an engineer who invented the 
Msgr. George J. Webby, Vicar General of the Maronite Church in the United States, died of a heart attack Thursday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 59 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Msgr. George J. Webby, Vicar General of the Maronite Church in the United S
John Denton Brundage, a retired insurance executive and former chairman of the American Heart Association, died of liver failure yesterday at his home in Winnetka, Ill. He was 70 years old. John Denton Brundage, a retired insurance executive and former chairman of the American
John T. Burnell, a former union official who held posts in labor-management relations under Mayor Abraham D. Beame, died Thursday at Mary Immaculate Hospital in Queens. He was 79 years old and lived in Flushing. John T. Burnell, a former union official who held posts in labor-
Sherman Walt, a former principal bassoonist of the Boston Symphony Orchestra, died on Thursday evening at Beth Israel Hospital in Brookline, Mass., a few hours after he was struck by an automobile. He was 66 years old and lived in Chestnut Hill, Mass. Sherman Walt, a former pr
Dan Wickenden, an author and retired senior editor at Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, the book publisher, died of a heart attack Friday at his home in Weston, Conn. He was 76 years old. Dan Wickenden, an author and retired senior editor at Harcourt Brace Jovanovich, the book publis
Frank F. Blaisdell, a former mayor of Middletown Township in New Jersey and longtime business and community leader in Red Bank, N.J., died at his home Thursday after a long illness. He was 76 years old. Frank F. Blaisdell, a former mayor of Middletown Township in New Jersey an
Robert Halsband, an authority on 18th-century English literature and a teacher and writer, died of pneumonia Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 75 years old.  Professor Halsband wrote a dozen books on the literary figures of the 1700's and their works. Among his books are ''Th
Burton Craige Gray, a businessman active in the Libertarian Party and conservative research organizations, died on Friday, apparently of a heart attack, at the home of a brother, Bernard, in Atlanta. He was 48 years old and lived in McLean, Va. Burton Craige Gray, a businessma
David Savage, an expert in direct-response advertising and a managing director of Krupp/Taylor USA, a subsidiary of Foote, Cone & Belding, died of a heart attack on Friday in his Manhattan office. He was 60 years old and lived in Manhattan and East Hampton, L.I. David Savage, 
Jonathan Goodhue Sherman, the retired Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Long Island, died of heart failure on Friday at St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center in Hartford. He was 82 years old and lived in Simsbury, Conn. Jonathan Goodhue Sherman, the retired Bishop of the Ep
Robert V. Van Fossan, board chairman and chief executive officer of the Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company and a longtime New Jersey civic leader, died of cancer yesterday at Morristown (N.J.) Memorial Hospital. He was 63 years old and lived in Mendham, N.J. Robert V. Van F
Sidney Dobish, a retired cameraman for ABC News and special projects, died Friday of cancer at the Nathan Adelson Hospice in Las Vegas, where he lived. He was 68 years old. Sidney Dobish, a retired cameraman for ABC News and special projects, died Friday of cancer at the Natha
The Rev. Thomas Oddo, president of the University of Portland and a trustee at three other Roman Catholic institutions, was killed Sunday in an auto accident. He was 45 years old. The Rev. Thomas Oddo, president of the University of Portland and a trustee at three other Roman 
Gerald Sussman, a humorist and advertising copywriter, died early Sunday in Alford, Mass., after a bronchial asthmatic attack while visiting friends. He was 56 years old and lived in Manhattan. Gerald Sussman, a humorist and advertising copywriter, died early Sunday in Alford,
Rabbi Israel Spira, who as the Grand Rabbi of Bluzhov was the spiritual leader of a Hasidic branch in Brooklyn and Israel, died yesterday at Maimonides Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 99 years old and lived in Brooklyn's Borough Park section, where his synagogue was situated. Rab
John Beckman, who designed the sets for ''Casablanca'' and other films and for the television series ''Designing Women,'' died in his sleep on Wednesday. He was 91 years old and lived in Sherman Oaks, Calif. John Beckman, who designed the sets for ''Casablanca'' and other film
John M. Ketteringham, an executive with Arthur D. Little Inc., died of cancer Friday at his home in Lincoln, Mass. He was 49 years old. John M. Ketteringham, an executive with Arthur D. Little Inc., died of cancer Friday at his home in Lincoln, Mass. He was 49 years old.      
Joseph Beruh, a theatrical producer whose shows included ''Godspell,'' ''The Magic Show'' and ''American Buffalo,'' died in his sleep on Monday, apparently of a heart attack. He was 65 years old. Joseph Beruh, a theatrical producer whose shows included ''Godspell,'' ''The Magi
Kateb Yacine, a leading Algerian novelist, poet and playwright, died of leukemia on Saturday in Grenoble, France. He was 60 years old. Kateb Yacine, a leading Algerian novelist, poet and playwright, died of leukemia on Saturday in Grenoble, France. He was 60 years old.        
Murray Levy, a clothing manufacturer and philanthropist, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 77 years old. Murray Levy, a clothing manufacturer and philanthropist, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 77 years old. Mr. Levy was active
Neil Harold George Green, senior vice president of finance and treasurer of Nestle Holdings Inc., died on Sunday at his home in Jackson, Miss. The cause of death was not released. He was 66 years old. Neil Harold George Green, senior vice president of finance and treasurer of 
Pedro Vargas, who was known as ''the tenor of the Americas'' during a career that lasted more than 60 years, died of heart failure today at his home here. He was 85 years old. His eldest son, Pedro Jr., said he died in his sleep, and that he had been suffering for several years from d
Dr. Rosario P. San Filippo, the retired director of surgery at Lutheran Medical Center in Brooklyn, died of a heart attack Friday at the medical center. He was 90 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Dr. Rosario P. San Filippo, the retired director of surgery at Lutheran Medical C
Thomas Ewing Noyes, a Broadway producer who later became a reporter and an editorial writer and a radio commentator, died of heart disease on Saturday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 67 years old. Thomas Ewing Noyes, a Broadway producer who later became
