Arthur H. Dean, the lawyer-diplomat who tried to arrange a post-Korean War peace conference with the Chinese at the request of President Eisenhower in 1953, and who served as a negotiator on disarmament and other matters for three other Presidents, died of pneumonia yesterday at the C
Dr. Choh Hao Li, a biochemist who was a leading researcher in the functions of the pituitary gland, died of cancer of the pharynx Saturday at a hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 74 years old and lived in Berkeley. Dr. Choh Hao Li, a biochemist who was a leading researcher in
Edward Carter Ives, a former Connecticut real-estate agent, died Friday at his home in Kennebunkport, Me. He was 81 years old. Edward Carter Ives, a former Connecticut real-estate agent, died Friday at his home in Kennebunkport, Me. He was 81 years old. Mr. Ives, a nat
Francis M. Gaffney, a partner in Peat, Marwick, Main & Company, an international accounting firm, died Friday after a brief illness at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 58 years old and lived in Stamford, Conn. Francis M. Gaffney, a partner in Peat, Marwick, Main & 
J. Howard Pyle, Governor of Arizona from 1951 to 1955 and an aide to President Eisenhower, died here Sunday. He was 81 years old. J. Howard Pyle, Governor of Arizona from 1951 to 1955 and an aide to President Eisenhower, died here Sunday. He was 81 years old. Mr. Pyle 
James Baldwin, whose passionate, intensely personal essays in the 1950's and 60's on racial discrimination in America helped break down the nation's color barrier, died of cancer last night at his home in southern France. He was 63 years old. James Baldwin, whose passionate, i
Joseph S. Stout Jr., a lawyer, died, apparently of a stroke, on Sunday in Canada at Toronto Western Hospital. He was 45 years old and lived in Lloyd Harbor, L.I. Joseph S. Stout Jr., a lawyer, died, apparently of a stroke, on Sunday in Canada at Toronto Western Hospital. He wa
Peter F. F. Kissel of Miami Beach, whose colt Pass Catcher won the Belmont Stakes in 1971, died Saturday at the Miami Heart Institute. He was 61 years old. Peter F. F. Kissel of Miami Beach, whose colt Pass Catcher won the Belmont Stakes in 1971, died Saturday at the Miami Hea
Roger A. Manvell, a professor of film at the Boston University College of Communications and a biographer and screenwriter, died of a stroke this morning at Beverly Hospital, in Beverly, Mass. He was 78 years old. Roger A. Manvell, a professor of film at the Boston University 
James Baldwin, whose passionate, intensely personal essays in the 1950's and 60's on racial discrimination in America made him an eloquent voice of the civil-rights movement, died of stomach cancer early yesterday at his home in St. Paul de Vence in southern France. He was 63 years ol
Joel Gordon, a retired business executive and former civil servant, died of a heart attack Sunday in Silver Spring, Md., while on his way to Florida. He was 78 years old and lived in Rosbury, Conn. Joel Gordon, a retired business executive and former civil servant, died of a h
John P. Doswell, a World War II combat pilot and the former director of operations for Flight Safety International, a pilot training school at La Guardia Airport, died of brain cancer Sunday at his home in Old Greenwich, Conn. He was 64 years old. John P. Doswell, a World War 
George (Punch) Imlach, who guided the Toronto Maple Leafs during their glory years in the National Hockey League and then built the expansion Buffalo Sabres into a contending team, died today after suffering his third major heart attack. He was 69 years old. George (Punch) Iml
Stephen Zoll, an architecture writer and editor, died Nov. 24 of injuries suffered in an automobile accident near Cambridge, England. He was 55 years old. Stephen Zoll, an architecture writer and editor, died Nov. 24 of injuries suffered in an automobile accident near Cambridg
David Lewis Seidel, a Washington physician and psychiatrist, died of leukemia Monday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 69 years old. David Lewis Seidel, a Washington physician and psychiatrist, died of leukemia Monday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. 
Donn F. Eisele, one of three astronauts who in 1968 flew the first manned flight of the Apollo spacecraft that eventually took man to the moon, died yesterday of a heart attack while on a business trip in Tokyo. He was 57 years old and lived in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. Donn F. Ei
Dr. George D. Ruggieri, director of the New York Aquarium and Osborn Laboratories of Marine Sciences in Coney Island, died of cancer Tuesday at the home of a sister in Moorestown, N.J. He was 62 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Dr. George D. Ruggieri, director of the New York 
E. E. Fogelson, an Army colonel, oil man, philanthropist and husband of the actress Greer Garson, died Tuesday. He was 87 years old. E. E. Fogelson, an Army colonel, oil man, philanthropist and husband of the actress Greer Garson, died Tuesday. He was 87 years old. Col
Edwin W. Ebel, a former vice president of the General Foods Corporation, died Monday at a nursing home in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 86 years old and lived in Chappaqua. Edwin W. Ebel, a former vice president of the General Foods Corporation, died Monday at a nursing home in Chapp
Erik Hamrin, a public-relations representative who represented many well-known classical musicians, died of cardiac arrest on Sunday in Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 57 years old. Erik Hamrin, a public-relations representative who represented many well-known classi
Jay Schulman, a sociologist who advised lawyers in the selection of jurors, died yesterday in his apartment on Central Park West. He was 60 years old. Jay Schulman, a sociologist who advised lawyers in the selection of jurors, died yesterday in his apartment on Central Park We
Simon Weber, a writer and editor at The Jewish Daily Forward for nearly 50 years, died Tuesday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Simon Weber, a writer and editor at The Jewish Daily Forward for nearly 50 years, died Tuesday at Bet
Victor Keppler, a commercial photographer, died Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83 years old. Victor Keppler, a commercial photographer, died Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83 years old. Born in Manhattan, he graduated from Stuyvesant High School and
Ben W. Lewis, Avery professor emeritus of economics at Oberlin College, died Tuesday of a heart attack in Cleveland. Professor Lewis, an economist in the Roosevelt Administration, was 87 years old. Ben W. Lewis, Avery professor emeritus of economics at Oberlin College, died Tu
Carlyle E. Maw, a former chief legal adviser and Under Secretary of State in the State Department, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Washington. He was 84 years old. Carlyle E. Maw, a former chief legal adviser and Under Secretary of State in the State Department, died of 
Jacques Travers, an instructor of French at Brooklyn College and founder of a Roman Catholic house for the homeless, died of cancer of the esophagus Nov. 23 in Elbeuf, France. He was 62 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Jacques Travers, an instructor of French at Brooklyn Colle
Juan Alberto Melgar Castro, a general who served four years as Honduras's chief of state, died of a heart attack Wednesday. He was 52 years old. Juan Alberto Melgar Castro, a general who served four years as Honduras's chief of state, died of a heart attack Wednesday. He was 5
Luis Federico Leloir, the Argentine who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1970, died Wednesday night, a family spokesman said. He was 81 years old. Luis Federico Leloir, the Argentine who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1970, died Wednesday night, a family spokesman said
Justice Amos E. Bowman of State Supreme Court in Manhattan died of cardiac arrest Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan. Justice Amos E. Bowman of State Supreme Court in Manhattan died of cardiac arrest Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. H
Arthur R. Momand, an artist and creator of the comic strip ''Keeping Up With the Joneses,'' died Nov. 10 at the Mary McClellan Hospital in Cambridge, N.Y. He was 101 years old and lived in a nursing home at the hospital. Arthur R. Momand, an artist and creator of the comic str
Edward Scher, founder of a clothing store chain for career women, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 61 years old. Edward Scher, founder of a clothing store chain for career women, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 61 years old.        
Pericle Fazzini, the sculptor whose monumental statue ''The Resurrection'' is the backdrop for Pope John Paul II's weekly general audiences, died today. He was 74 years old. Pericle Fazzini, the sculptor whose monumental statue ''The Resurrection'' is the backdrop for Pope Joh
Peter Darrell, the English choreographer and artistic director of the Scottish Ballet, died of a hemorrhage Tuesday while awaiting throat surgery at the Ruthhill Hospital in Glasgow. He was 58 years old. Peter Darrell, the English choreographer and artistic director of the Sco
Yakov B. Zeldovich, a physicist who played a major role in the Soviet military industry and helped develop theories on black holes and neutron stars, died Wednesday, the Soviet press agency Tass said today. Yakov B. Zeldovich, a physicist who played a major role in the Soviet 
Arnold Lobel, an award-winning children's book author and illustrator, died of cardiac arrest Friday at Doctors Hospital in Manhattan. He was 54 years old and lived in Manhattan. Arnold Lobel, an award-winning children's book author and illustrator, died of cardiac arrest Frid
Clyde Edd Hood Jr., who was was sentenced to prison with former Gov. Ray Blanton in a scheme to peddle liquor licenses to Mr. Blanton's political allies, died Thursday of head injuries from a tractor accident. He was 35 years old. Clyde Edd Hood Jr., who was was sentenced to p
Felix Haurowitz, a distinguished professor emeritus of chemistry at Indiana University who made several key discoveries relating to hemoglobin in blood, died Wednesday. He was 91 years old. Felix Haurowitz, a distinguished professor emeritus of chemistry at Indiana University 
Gerald Donovan, a lawyer in New York for six decades, died Thursday at New Rochelle (N.Y.) Hospital Medical Center after a short illness. He was 96 years old and lived in New Rochelle. Gerald Donovan, a lawyer in New York for six decades, died Thursday at New Rochelle (N.Y.) H
Henry Jacobsohn, a retired athletic director, died of Alzheimer's disease Monday at the Veterans Hospital in Miami. He was 80 years old and lived in Pompano Beach, Fla. Henry Jacobsohn, a retired athletic director, died of Alzheimer's disease Monday at the Veterans Hospital in
Michael Kory, a former radio and phonograph manufacturing executive and later a member of the American Stock Exchange, died of a heart attack Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 60 years old. Mr. Kory held various executive posts in the 1950's and 1960's for the Emerson Radio a
Rouben Mamoulian, the director of such benchmark musical shows as ''Porgy and Bess'' and ''Oklahoma!'' and more than a dozen innovative and distinctive movies, died Friday night. He was 90 years old. Mr. Mamoulian died at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Los Angeles, wher
Thomas E. Powell Jr. of Burlington, N.C., the founder of two biological supply companies, died Thursday at Alamance County Hospital, after a three-month illness. He was 88 years old. Dr. Powell, who was born in Warrenton, N.C., and had a doctorate in biology, founded the Carolina Biol
Arthur John Stringer Jr., an advertising agency copy supervisor, died of cancer Nov. 20 at his home in Mountain Lakes, N.J. He was 60 years old. Arthur John Stringer Jr., an advertising agency copy supervisor, died of cancer Nov. 20 at his home in Mountain Lakes, N.J. He was 6
Carl W. Priesing, former president of Wahl Eversharp Inc., manufacturers of pens and pencils, died of natural causes Monday at the home of his son, John, in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 89 years old and lived in Southbury, Conn. Carl W. Priesing, former president of Wahl Eversharp 
Dashiell L. Madeira, a retired Navy rear admiral, died Nov. 29 at his home in Virginia Beach, Va. He was 90 years old. Dashiell L. Madeira, a retired Navy rear admiral, died Nov. 29 at his home in Virginia Beach, Va. He was 90 years old. He was a native of Waterloo, Io
Jonathon ChaseLaw School Dean, 48 NORWICH, Vt., Dec. 6 (AP) - Jonathon Chase, who was dean of the Vermont Law School in South Royalton from 1982 to July 1987, died of cancer Saturday at his home here. He was 48 years old. Jonathon ChaseLaw School Dean, 48 NORWICH, Vt., Dec. 6 
Peter Lorenz, a conservative politician who was kidnapped by leftist extremists in 1975, died today of a heart attack at his home here, a Government spokesman reported. He was 64. Peter Lorenz, a conservative politician who was kidnapped by leftist extremists in 1975, died tod
Yevgeny I. Tolstikov, a Soviet explorer who led several pioneering expeditions to the Antarctic, died Friday, the official Soviet press agency Tass reported today. He was 74 years old. Yevgeny I. Tolstikov, a Soviet explorer who led several pioneering expeditions to the Antarc
C. George Willard, a Broadway press representative and former theatrical company manager, died Sunday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan. C. George Willard, a Broadway press representative and former theatrical company manager, 
Emanuel George Venetucci, who built a model of the Milan Cathedral out of more than a million matchsticks, died Sunday. He was 62 years old. Emanuel George Venetucci, who built a model of the Milan Cathedral out of more than a million matchsticks, died Sunday. He was 62 years 
Emanuel Saxe, dean emeritus of the School of Business and Administration of the Bernard M. Baruch College of the City University of New York, died Saturday, apparently of a heart attack, at his home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He was 88 years old. Emanuel Saxe, dean
Enzo Magnozzi, a promoter of international soccer games in the United States for the last three decades, died of a brain tumor Sunday at St. John's Hospital in Elmhurst, Queens. He was 67 years old. Funeral services are scheduled for Thursday morning at St. Leo's Church in Corona, Que
Harold M. Barrett, retired president of the Uniroyal Tire Company, died Friday at his home in Newtown, Conn. He was 80 years old.  Mr. Barrett, a native of New Haven, was also president of the Uniroyal Consumer Products Company in the 1960's. He was a graduate of Northeastern Universi
Jaime V. Ongpin, one of the first supporters of Corazon C. Aquino in her bid for the presidency, died today, apparently a suicide, three months after being dismissed as her Finance Minister, the police said. He was 49 years old. Jaime V. Ongpin, one of the first supporters of 
James Royal Case, a Masonic historian and retired United States Army colonel who served in both World Wars, died Nov. 26 while on a Thanksgiving visit to his daughter in North Granville, N.Y. He was 92 years old and lived in Wallingford, Conn. James Royal Case, a Masonic histo
Jonathon Chase, who was dean of the Vermont Law School in South Royalton from 1982 to July 1987, died of cancer Saturday at his home here. He was 48 years old. Jonathon Chase, who was dean of the Vermont Law School in South Royalton from 1982 to July 1987, died of cancer Satur
The Rev. Shunshin Kan, pastor of the Buddhist Church of New York and founder of the Ken-Zen Institute, a Japanese cultural and martial-arts center, died of carcinoma Nov. 22 at New York Hospital. He was 56 years old and lived in Manhattan. The Rev. Shunshin Kan, pastor of the 
Bishara Sirhan, whose son killed Robert F. Kennedy in 1968, died last week at his home village of Taibe in the Israeli-occupied West Bank.He was in his 80's. Bishara Sirhan, whose son killed Robert F. Kennedy in 1968, died last week at his home village of Taibe in the Israeli-
Dr. David Mann, a psychotherapist and former professor of psychiatry at the Albert Einstein College of Medicine, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 61 years old. Dr. David Mann, a psychotherapist and former professor of psychiatry at the Albert Einstein Co
Edward Staley, former chairman of the W. T. Grant Company, died of cardiac arrest Friday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 84 years old. Edward Staley, former chairman of the W. T. Grant Company, died of cardiac arrest Friday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 84 year
James Stewart McDonald, president of J. S. McDonald Consultants of Darien, Conn., died of a heart attack Saturday at his home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 59 years old. Mr. McDonald was previously a district manager for I.B.M. and a vice president of the Computer Usage Corporation.    
Morrill Cody, a former deputy director of the United States Information Agency, died Nov. 23 at the Manor Care nursing home in Wheaton, Md., after a long illness. He was 86 years old. Morrill Cody, a former deputy director of the United States Information Agency, died Nov. 23 
Cordell D. Meeks Sr., the first black district judge in Kansas and the first black in state history to be elected to a countywide office, died Monday. He was 73 years old. Cordell D. Meeks Sr., the first black district judge in Kansas and the first black in state history to be
Dick Williams, a former theatrical press agent and editor, died Sunday in a boating accident in Gulf Breeze, Fla. He was 72 years old. Mr. Williams, who was born in Farmingdale, L.I., served in the Army during World War II and became the editor of Theater Arts magazine in the late 194
Dr. Robert Landesman, who retired this year as clinical professor of obstetrics and gynecology at the Cornell University Medical School, died Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 71 years old. Dr. Robert Landesman, who retired this year as clinical professor of obstetrics a
Dr. Wilfred Bloomberg, a neuropsychiatrist who was Commissioner of Mental Health in Connecticut from 1958 to 1969, died Monday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston after a long illness. He was 82 years old and lived in Cambridge, Mass. Dr. Wilfred Bloomberg, a neuropsyc
Gottfried Neuburger, a trade-show organizer, died Dec. 2 at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan. Gottfried Neuburger, a trade-show organizer, died Dec. 2 at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.      
John Strohm, a founding editor of National Wildlife magazine, died Saturday at his home in Woodstock, Ill. Mr. Strohm, who had had surgery for brain cancer in November, was 75 years old. John Strohm, a founding editor of National Wildlife magazine, died Saturday at his home in
Peter Francis Kelly, a former company controller in New York, died of cancer Monday at the home of his daughter in Fort Collins, Colo. He was 58 years old and lived in Lake Wales, Fla. Peter Francis Kelly, a former company controller in New York, died of cancer Monday at the h
Donald Jackson, editor of the six-volume ''Papers of George Washington'' and other historical documents, died of cancer of the prostate Wednesday in Colorado Springs, Colo. He was 68 years old. Donald Jackson, editor of the six-volume ''Papers of George Washington'' and other 
Dr. Louis Gray, a retired physician from New York City, died Wednesday at the National Orthopaedic Hospital in Arlington, Va. He was 98 years old and lived in Rockville, Md. Dr. Louis Gray, a retired physician from New York City, died Wednesday at the National Orthopaedic Hosp
Frederic V. Grunfeld, an author and journalist whose biography of the French sculptor Auguste Rodin was published last month, died of a heart attack Wednesday in Barcelona, Spain. He was 58 years old and lived near Deya, Majorca. Frederic V. Grunfeld, an author and journalist 
Dr. Hugh Roberts Williams, director of the Talbot County Mental Health Clinic in Easton, Md., from 1977 to 1985 and the in-patient psychiatrist at Franklin Square Hospital in Baltimore from 1985 until early this year, died Wednesday of prostatic cancer at his home in Royal Oak, Md. He
James Dobson, who appeared with President Reagan in ''Hellcats of the Navy,'' died of a heart attack on Sunday. He was 67 years old. James Dobson, who appeared with President Reagan in ''Hellcats of the Navy,'' died of a heart attack on Sunday. He was 67 years old. Mr.
Louis T. Hindenlang, a retired executive vice president of the American Bank Note Company, died of cancer Sunday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital. He was 72 years old and lived in New Canaan, Conn. Louis T. Hindenlang, a retired executive vice president of the American Bank Note C
Slam Stewart, a distinguished jazz bassist celebrated for singing along with his solos, died of congestive heart failure Wednesday at his home in Binghamton, N.Y. He was 73 years old. Slam Stewart, a distinguished jazz bassist celebrated for singing along with his solos, died 
Dr. Sidney Yudin, a New York City psychologist, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He was 66 years old. Dr. Sidney Yudin, a New York City psychologist, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home in the Riverdale section of the B
Jascha Heifetz, the violinist whose name for more than half a century was synonymous with perfection of technique and musicianship, died late Thursday evening at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 86 years old and lived in Beverly Hills. Jascha Heifetz, the vio
John Heller, a retired candy manufacturer and writer, died of pnuemonia Monday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 91 years old and lived in Scarborough, N.Y. John Heller, a retired candy manufacturer and writer, died of pnuemonia Monday at Phelps Memorial Ho
Dr. Nicu Haas, an Israeli scientist who helped in the discovery of the only known remains of a man crucified in the time of Jesus, died last week after 13 years in a coma, colleagues said today. He was 60 years old. Dr. Nicu Haas, an Israeli scientist who helped in the discove
Ralph Nading Hill, a well-known writer and preservationist, died Thursday of a stroke at the Medical Center Hospital of Vermont, in Burlington. He was 70 years old. Ralph Nading Hill, a well-known writer and preservationist, died Thursday of a stroke at the Medical Center Hosp
Walter Anderson, an investigator in the office of the Queens District Attorney for 25 years, died Wednesday at the Huntington (L.I.) Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Lloyd Harbor, L.I. Walter Anderson, an investigator in the office of the Queens District Attorney for
Carl C. Lella, an artist whose murals appeared in several Brooklyn high schools, died Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital, after a long illness. He was 88 years old and lived in Manhattan. Carl C. Lella, an artist whose murals appeared in several Brooklyn high schools, died Thursd
Dr. George H. Brown, former executive vice president for research and engineering at the RCA Corporation who led the company's development of color television, died Friday at the Princeton (N.J.) Medical Center after a long illness. He was 79 years old and lived in Princeton. 
Frank G. Boyce, who served for nearly a quarter-century as president of the Experiment in International Living, an exchange program for students, died Wednesday at Brattleboro Memorial Hospital in Vermont after a long illness. He was 70 years old and lived in West Brattleboro, Vt.    
Bernard H. Barnett, past national president of the charity organization United Jewish Appeal, died Thursday at University Hospital here. He was 71 years old. Bernard H. Barnett, past national president of the charity organization United Jewish Appeal, died Thursday at Universi
Bernard E. Epton, a well-to-do Republican insurance lawyer who came close to wrecking Harold Washington's 1983 effort to become the first black Mayor of Chicago, died of an apparent heart attack yesterday in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 66 years old and lived in Chicago, where he was born.
Clifton Chenier, the Louisiana accordionist and singer whose fans called him ''the king of zydeco,'' died Saturday evening at Lafayette General Hospital in Lafayette, La. He was 62 years old. Clifton Chenier, the Louisiana accordionist and singer whose fans called him ''the ki
Roger L. Nichols, president and director of the Boston Museum of Science since 1982, died of a heart attack Thursday morning. He was 61 years old. Dr. Nichols supervised a major expansion of the Museum of Science, opening a new wing in March that contains a $14 million Omnimax theater
Denis Sanders, a film maker who directed the debut performances of Robert Redford and George Hamilton and who won an Academy Award for the short film that served as his master's degree thesis, died Thursday of an apparent heart attack at his home in San Diego. He was 58 years old.    
Dr. Robert J. Adrian, associate professor of educational and community programs in the department of education at Queens College, died of a heart attack Saturday at his home in Syosset, L.I. He was 66 years old. Dr. Robert J. Adrian, associate professor of educational and comm
Garson Meyer, a chemist who was a founder of the National Council on Aging and an advocate of programs for the elderly, died Sunday at the Jewish Home in Rochester, N.Y.. He was 91 years old and lived in Rochester. Garson Meyer, a chemist who was a founder of the National Coun
George S. Wunder, who wrote and drew the comic strip ''Terry and the Pirates'' for 26 years, died Sunday of a heart attack in the New Milford Hospital. He was 75 years old and lived in Sherman, Conn. George S. Wunder, who wrote and drew the comic strip ''Terry and the Pirates'
Louis Graeler, a violinist and member of the Kroll Quartet for 20 years, died of cardiac arrest Dec. 8 in Tokyo, where he lived. He was 74 years old. Louis Graeler, a violinist and member of the Kroll Quartet for 20 years, died of cardiac arrest Dec. 8 in Tokyo, where he lived
Roger M. Darby, a commercial real-estate appraiser and city planner, died of lung cancer Dec. 7 at his home in Woodstock, N. Y. He was 51 years old. Roger M. Darby, a commercial real-estate appraiser and city planner, died of lung cancer Dec. 7 at his home in Woodstock, N. Y. 
Dr. Arthur J. Antenucci, an internist, died of Hodgkin's disease Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Arthur J. Antenucci, an internist, died of Hodgkin's disease Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 
Dr. Martin R. Katz, a New York cardiologist, died of leiomyo sarcoma of the lung last Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 54 years old. Dr. Martin R. Katz, a New York cardiologist, died of leiomyo sarcoma of the lung last Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 54 year
Dr. Robert J. Adrian, associate professor of educational and community programs in the department of education at Queens College, died of a heart attack Saturday at his home in Syosset, L.I. He was 66 years old. Dr. Robert J. Adrian, associate professor of educational and comm
I. William Fishkind, an executive with the National Association of Securities Dealers in Washington, the regulatory organization for the securities industry, died of cancer Friday at his home in Burke, Va. He was 53 years old. I. William Fishkind, an executive with the Nationa
Peter Birch, a dancer, choreographer and television director, died of a heart attack Sunday at White Plains Hospital, White Plains, N.Y. He was 65 years old. Peter Birch, a dancer, choreographer and television director, died of a heart attack Sunday at White Plains Hospital, W
Ray Malavasi, who coached the Los Angeles Rams to their only Super Bowl appearance, died today of a heart attack, a spokesman for Western Medical Center said. Mr. Malavasi was 57 years old. Ray Malavasi, who coached the Los Angeles Rams to their only Super Bowl appearance, die
Robert S. Taft, a New York tax lawyer, died Thursday in Hollywood, Fla., after being struck by an automobile. He was 53 years old and lived in Great Neck, L.I. Robert S. Taft, a New York tax lawyer, died Thursday in Hollywood, Fla., after being struck by an automobile. He was 
Ulfert Wilke, a painter and calligrapher who was founding director of the University of Iowa Art Museum, died of complications from a stroke at his home in Anahola, Kauai, Hawaii, on Dec. 7. He was 80 years old. Ulfert Wilke, a painter and calligrapher who was founding directo
Van Ellis Huff, inventor of the jalousie window, died at home here last Thursday. He was 93 years old. Van Ellis Huff, inventor of the jalousie window, died at home here last Thursday. He was 93 years old. Inspired by the homemade wooden slat windows in houses in the B
William Edgar Park, retired president of Simmons College, died Dec. 7 at Falmouth Hospital in Falmouth, Mass. He was 78 years old. Mr. Park, who lived in Cotuit, Mass., was president of the Simmons from 1955 to 1970. As president he oversaw a self-study curriculum that expanded the nu
William Lewis Greene, an aeronautical and civil engineer whose security clearance was denied in the early 1950's, resulting in two important Supreme Court decisions, died of a heart attack Dec. 9 at his home in Bath, Me. He was 71 years old.  Mr. Greene was an executive with a Navy co
Charles George Muller, a novelist and naval historian, died Monday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 90 years old. Charles George Muller, a novelist and naval historian, died Monday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 90 years old. Mr. Muller wrote five books abo
Charles Shaw, a former newspaper and broadcast journalist, died of complications from emphysema and heart disease at Doylestown (Pa.) Hospital. He was 76 years old and lived in Doylestown. Charles Shaw, a former newspaper and broadcast journalist, died of complications from em
Dennis A. Volman, a reporter for The Christian Science Monitor, died of cancer Monday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 37 years old and lived in Washington. Dennis A. Volman, a reporter for The Christian Science Monitor, died of cancer Monday at the Mount Sinai Medica
Fred W. Carlson, who patented a 3-inch grocery store pie and was president of a baking company, died Dec. 10. He was 91 years old. Fred W. Carlson, who patented a 3-inch grocery store pie and was president of a baking company, died Dec. 10. He was 91 years old. He bega
J. P. Strom, who headed the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division for more than 30 years, died of a heart attack Monday at Providence Hospital here. He was 69 years old. J. P. Strom, who headed the South Carolina Law Enforcement Division for more than 30 years, died of a hea
Jerry H. Johnson, an AIDS coordinator for the Gay Men's Health Crisis, died Dec. 14 of lung cancer at his home in Manhattan. He was 53 years old. Jerry H. Johnson, an AIDS coordinator for the Gay Men's Health Crisis, died Dec. 14 of lung cancer at his home in Manhattan. He was
Joseph Grossfield, a professor of genetics at City College, died of lung cancer Saturday at the Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 47 years old. Joseph Grossfield, a professor of genetics at City College, died of lung cancer Saturday at the Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He w
Joseph I. Lichten, who served as head of the Vatican liaison office of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith for 15 years, died Monday at his home in Rome. He was 81. Joseph I. Lichten, who served as head of the Vatican liaison office of the Anti-Defamation League of B'na
DETROIT, Dec. 16 - DETROIT, Dec. 16 - Raymond E. Majerus, who led a long, successful strike against the Kohler Company in the 1950's and subsequently became secretary-treasurer of the United Automobile Workers, died today in St. Mary's Hospital in Milwaukee of a heart 
William Fifield, a writer of both fiction and nonfiction, died Monday at his home in Rancho Palos Verdes, Calif. He was 71 years old.  Mr. Fifield, who won an O. Henry short-story prize in 1942, was the author of ''In Search of Genius,'' a collection of interviews with people he consi
Albert P. Morano, a Republican who represented the Fourth Congressional District of Connecticut from 1951 to 1959, died of a cerebral hemorrhage Wednesday at Greenwich Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived in Greenwich. Albert P. Morano, a Republican who represented the Four
Mox Arthur Weber, retired chairman of the department of physical education at Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., died Dec. 5 at the North Hill retirement home in Needham, Mass. He was 85 years old and lived in Needham. Mox Arthur Weber, retired chairman of the department of ph
Will R. Sparks, a speech writer for President Lyndon B. Johnson and a retired director of public affairs for Citicorp, died of a brain tumor Wednesday at Long Island College Hospital. He was 63 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Will R. Sparks, a speech writer for President Lynd
Bernward U. Kurtz, an architect and former partner and director in the Eggers Group Architects & Planners in Manhattan, died of a lung ailment Monday in Tampa, Fla., where he lived. He was 51 years old. Mr. Kurtz, a native of Neustadt, West Germany, came to the United States in 1965 a
Bernard Cardinal Alfrink, the Archbishop Emeritus of Utrecht, who led the Dutch Roman Catholic Church through a stormy period in the 1960's and '70's, died Thursday in Nieuwegein, the Netherlands. He was 87 years old. Bernard Cardinal Alfrink, the Archbishop Emeritus of Utrech
The Rev. David Rhinelander King, rector of St. John's Episcopal Church in Elizabeth, N.J., died of a heart attack Monday at St. Elizabeth Hospital in Elizabeth, N.J. He was 58 years old and lived in Hillside, N.J. He was a Princeton University graduate and was ordained in 1954.  He is
Dr. Gordon F. Ekholm, curator emeritus of anthropology at the American Museum of Natural History and an authority on pre-Columbian archeology of Mexico and Central America, died Thursday at the Phelps Memorial Hospital Center in Tarrytown, N.Y., after undergoing minor surgery. He was 
Joe Rosenfield Jr., who was the host of a radio talk show called ''The Happiness Exchange'' for many years, died on Nov. 22 at a nursing home in Falmouth, Me., after a long illness. He was 86 years old. Joe Rosenfield Jr., who was the host of a radio talk show called ''The Hap
Theodore Hill Jr., a longtime Republican legislator from Westchester County, died of a stroke Wednesday at Peekskill (N.Y.) Community Hospital. He was 91 years old and lived in Jefferson Valley, N.Y. Theodore Hill Jr., a longtime Republican legislator from Westchester County, 
Charles W. Ferguson, a former senior editor of Reader's Digest, died Dec. 11 at Briar Crest Nursing Home in Ossining, N.Y. He was 86 years old and lived in Mount Kisco, N.Y. Charles W. Ferguson, a former senior editor of Reader's Digest, died Dec. 11 at Briar Crest Nursing Hom
Herbert H. Goldberger, founder and chairman of Hills Department Stores in Canton, Mass., died Dec. 16 in Boca Raton, Fla., where he lived. He was 69 years old. Herbert H. Goldberger, founder and chairman of Hills Department Stores in Canton, Mass., died Dec. 16 in Boca Raton, 
Joseph Marion Haggar, who founded and developed the Haggar Apparel Company, a major producer of men's slacks, sports coats and suits, died of heart failure Tuesday. He was 94 years old. Joseph Marion Haggar, who founded and developed the Haggar Apparel Company, a major produce
Karl F. Hoenecke, chairman and chief executive of the Federal Signal Corporation, died of cardiac arrest last Sunday at Hinsdale Hospital in Hinsdale, Ill., where he lived. He was 57 years old. Karl F. Hoenecke, chairman and chief executive of the Federal Signal Corporation, d
Kent K. Curtis, chief scientist of the National Science Foundation, died Thursday of cancer at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington, D.C. He was 60 years old and lived in Washington. Kent K. Curtis, chief scientist of the National Science Foundation, died Thursday of cancer 
Dr. Ormand C. Julian, a surgeon who helped perform the first heart bypass, died Friday in San Rafael, Calif., according to officials at a Chicago hospital where he had worked. He was 74 years old. Dr. Ormand C. Julian, a surgeon who helped perform the first heart bypass, died 
Paul Du Brul, a writer and political consultant who was a leader in the fight to outlaw the use of lead-based paint in New York City, died of cardiac arrest - a complication of cystic fibrosis -Friday at St. Luke's Hospital. He was 49 years old and lived in Manhattan. Paul Du 
Warne M. Marsh, a tenor jazz saxophonist who toured with the Lennie Tristano band and was known for his improvisations, died of an apparent heart attack Friday after collapsing in a performance. He was 60 years old. Warne M. Marsh, a tenor jazz saxophonist who toured with the 
Weir C. Ketler, president of Grove City College for 40 years and trustee for 23 more years, died Tuesday. He was 98. Weir C. Ketler, president of Grove City College for 40 years and trustee for 23 more years, died Tuesday. He was 98. Mr. Ketler became the third preside
Dr. Lienhard Bergel, a retired professor of comparative literature at the graduate school of City University of New York, died Dec. 14 at the North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I., after being struck by an automobile in Port Washington, L.I., where he lived. He was 82 yea
John F. Fleming, a rare-book dealer and collector who for 30 years dominated the antiquarian manuscript market, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 77 years old. John F. Fleming, a rare-book dealer and collector who for 30 years dominated the
Rabbi Leo Jung, a prominent Orthodox Jewish leader, and for 65 years the spiritual leader of the Jewish Center of New York, died at St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center Saturday, where he had been hospitalized after suffering a heart attack two weeks ago. Dr. Jung was 95 years old a
Arkady I. Raikin, who became the Soviet Union's most beloved comedian by deftly poking fun at the idiosyncracies of the Soviet system under a succession of rulers from Stalin to Mikhail S. Gorbachev, died over the weekend, the official press agency Tass reported today. He was 76 years
Carl E. McGowan, a senior judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, died yesterday of cancer at his home in Washington. He was 76 years old. Carl E. McGowan, a senior judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia, died
Fletcher Doughitt Richards Sr., a retired advertising executive, died Friday at the Albany Medical Center Hospital after a brief illness. He was 95 years old and lived in Clifton Park, N.Y., where he had moved from Greenwich, Conn. Fletcher Doughitt Richards Sr., a retired adv
Izler Solomon, music director of the Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra from 1955 to 1975, years that saw significant expansion and enhanced status come to that ensemble, died of heart failure Dec. 6 in Fort Wayne, Ind., where he lived. He was 77 years old. Izler Solomon, music d
Jacob R. Heller, an attorney who represented the Metropolitan Garage Owners Association for 40 years, died last Thursday at Wellington Regional Medical Center in Florida after a brief illness. He was 82 years old and lived in Rockville Centre, L.I., and in Royal Palm Beach, Fla.      
Jacques Sigurd, a French screenwriter whose films helped start the career of Simone Signoret, died of lung cancer Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital. He was 67 years old and lived in Paris and Manhattan. Jacques Sigurd, a French screenwriter whose films helped start t
John Francis O'Leary, chairman of the General Public Utilities Corporation and deputy secretary of energy in the Carter Administration, died Saturday at Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia after a brief illness. He was 61 years old and lived in Mendham, N.J. John Franc
Arnold Bernhard, the founder and chief executive officer of Value Line Inc., the world's largest investment advisory service, died yesterday at the Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. Arnold Bernhard, the founder and chief executive officer of Value Line Inc., the world's la
Casper Yost Offutt, a former diplomat who served in Chile and Panama, died Sunday. He was 93 years old. From 1917 to 1919, Mr. Offutt was second secretary of the United States Embassy in Chile and first secretary and charge d'affaires in Panama. Casper Yost Offutt, a former di
Daisuke Yamauchi, president of the newspaper Mainichi Shimbun, died of liver failure today. He was 62 years old. Daisuke Yamauchi, president of the newspaper Mainichi Shimbun, died of liver failure today. He was 62 years old. Mainichi Shimbun, Japan's third largest new
George R. Morrison, a professor of economics at the Rutgers University School of Management, died of a heart attack Dec. 15 at his home in Morristown, N.J. He was 57 years old. George R. Morrison, a professor of economics at the Rutgers University School of Management, died of
Jerome Seckler, a retired publishing company executive, died of cardiac arrest Sunday after undergoing bypass surgery at St. Luke's Hospital. He was 72 years old. Jerome Seckler, a retired publishing company executive, died of cardiac arrest Sunday after undergoing bypass surg
John Shiel, an electrical engineer and historian, died of a heart attack Saturday at his home in Glen Head, L.I. He was 87 years old. John Shiel, an electrical engineer and historian, died of a heart attack Saturday at his home in Glen Head, L.I. He was 87 years old. S
Raoul D. Edwards, the editor of United States Banker magazine since 1983, died of a heart attack Thursday after a staff meeting at the Westchester Country Club in Rye, N.Y. He was 59 years old and lived in Falls Church, Va. Raoul D. Edwards, the editor of United States Banker 
Robert W. Blankshine, an American dancer and teacher and a former featured member of the Joffrey Ballet, died of a heart attack Sunday at a friend's home in New York City, according to his mother, Serene Blankshine. He was 42 years old. Robert W. Blankshine, an American dancer
Blake Stern, an oratorio singer and a professor emeritus of music at Yale University, died Tuesday in Logan, Iowa. He was 70 years old. Blake Stern, an oratorio singer and a professor emeritus of music at Yale University, died Tuesday in Logan, Iowa. He was 70 years old.      
Gary Pallack, a clothing manufacturer, died of a heart attack Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 41 years old and lived in Manhattan. Gary Pallack, a clothing manufacturer, died of a heart attack Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 41 years
Hob Broun, a writer, died of asphyxiation Dec. 16 when his respirator broke down in his home in Portland, Ore. He was 37 years old. Hob Broun, a writer, died of asphyxiation Dec. 16 when his respirator broke down in his home in Portland, Ore. He was 37 years old. Seven
Paul E. Levine, a partner in a Manhattan law firm, died Friday, apparently of a heart attack, at his home in Manhattan. He was 38 years old. Paul E. Levine, a partner in a Manhattan law firm, died Friday, apparently of a heart attack, at his home in Manhattan. He was 38 years 
Robert Paige, an Emmy Award-winning actor who starred in such movies as ''Bye Bye Birdie'' with Janet Leigh and ''Can't Help Singing'' with Deanna Durbin, died Monday, apparently of a heart attack. The Orange County Coroner's office listed his age as 76, but biographies put his age at
Tanjore Ranganathan, a professional performer of South Indian music for half a century and a longtime artist-in-residence at Wesleyan University, died Monday after a long illness. He was 62 years old. Tanjore Ranganathan, a professional performer of South Indian music for half
Clinton Sundberg, a character actor in dozens of films in the 1940's and 50's, died of heart failure on Dec. 14. He was 81 years old. Clinton Sundberg, a character actor in dozens of films in the 1940's and 50's, died of heart failure on Dec. 14. He was 81 years old. M
George Armstrong Kelly, a professor and authority on the works of Hegel, died of a heart attack Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 55 years old and lived in Manhattan. George Armstrong Kelly, a professor and authority on the works of Hegel, died of a heart attack Wednesday in Manh
Henry Cotton, the most distinguished British golfer of his generation, died Tuesday. He was 80 years old.  Cotton, who turned professional in 1924, won the British Open in 1934, ending a long run of American victories and again in 1937 and 1948. He played many times in the United Stat
Joop den Uyl, a veteran Labor Party politician who served as Prime Minister of the Netherlands from 1973 to 1977, died yesterday. He was 68 years old. Joop den Uyl, a veteran Labor Party politician who served as Prime Minister of the Netherlands from 1973 to 1977, died yesterd
Knox Lamb, a retired Foreign Service officer, died Dec. 9 after surgery at St. Joseph's Hospital in Denver, where he lived. He was 85 years old. Knox Lamb, a retired Foreign Service officer, died Dec. 9 after surgery at St. Joseph's Hospital in Denver, where he lived. He was 8
Oscar Dane, a lawyer who was prominent in the Jewish community, died Tuesday at his Manhattan home after a long illness. He was 84 years old. Oscar Dane, a lawyer who was prominent in the Jewish community, died Tuesday at his Manhattan home after a long illness. He was 84 year
Ralph Nelson, who directed some of television's most memorable dramas in the 1950's, including ''Requiem for a Heavyweight,'' and the Academy Award-winning film ''Lilies of the Field,'' died of cancer Monday in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 71 years old. Ralph Nelson, who direct
Buell R. Fuller, one of the nation's oldest Boy Scouts, died Tuesday. He was 80 years old. Buell R. Fuller, one of the nation's oldest Boy Scouts, died Tuesday. He was 80 years old. Newsweek magazine featured Mr. Fuller and his brother, John W. Fuller, in a recent cove
Dr. Frederick C. Gevalt Jr., a specialist in internal medicine, died of heart failure Wednesday at his home in Lakeville, Conn. He was 73 years old. Dr. Frederick C. Gevalt Jr., a specialist in internal medicine, died of heart failure Wednesday at his home in Lakeville, Conn. 
Murray Posner, a resort hotel owner and president of the Catskill Resort Association, died of cardiac arrest Wednesday at his home in South Fallsburg, N.Y. He was 75 years old. Murray Posner, a resort hotel owner and president of the Catskill Resort Association, died of cardia
The Rev. John R. Connery, professor emeritus of theology at Loyola University in Chicago, died of heart failure Tuesday at St. Francis Hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 74 years old and lived in Chicago. The Rev. John R. Connery, professor emeritus of theology at Loyola Univer
Dr. Henry Morgenthau Fox, a Boston psychoanalyst, died at his home in Wellesley, Mass., Wednesday after a long illness. He was 80 years old. Dr. Henry Morgenthau Fox, a Boston psychoanalyst, died at his home in Wellesley, Mass., Wednesday after a long illness. He was 80 years 
Lewis C. Coffin, a former law librarian of the Library of Congress, died of cancer Monday at his home in Washington. He was 78 years old. Lewis C. Coffin, a former law librarian of the Library of Congress, died of cancer Monday at his home in Washington. He was 78 years old.  
Roderick Firth, a professor of philosophy at Harvard University, died of pneumonia Tuesday at Symmes Hospital in Arlington, Mass. He was 70 years. Roderick Firth, a professor of philosophy at Harvard University, died of pneumonia Tuesday at Symmes Hospital in Arlington, Mass. 
Alexander G. Barmine, a brigadier general in the Soviet Army who defected in 1937 and became an influential journalist and a United States Government official, died Friday at a nursing home in Rockville, Md. He died of complications resulting from a stroke. Alexander G. Barmin
Anthony West, the critic and novelist, died yesterday at his home in Stonington, Conn., after suffering a stroke. He was 73 years old and also kept a home on Fisher's Island, N.Y. Anthony West, the critic and novelist, died yesterday at his home in Stonington, Conn., after suf
Rewi Alley, a New Zealander who came to China in 1927 and stayed 60 years to help the Communist cause, died Sunday in Beijing, the official New China News Agency reported. He was 90 years old. Rewi Alley, a New Zealander who came to China in 1927 and stayed 60 years to help th
Alfredo Viazzi, a Greenwich Village restaurateur and an authority on the preparation of pasta dishes, died of a heart attack last night at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan. Alfredo Viazzi, a Greenwich Village restaurateur and an authority on t
Charles H. Malik, a former Foreign Minister of Lebanon who was president of the United Nations General Assembly in 1958-59, died today after a long illness. He was 81 years old. Charles H. Malik, a former Foreign Minister of Lebanon who was president of the United Nations Gene
Charles Prentice Thompson, a Manhattan architect, died of pneumonia Dec. 16 at New York University Hospital in Manhattan. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhattan. Charles Prentice Thompson, a Manhattan architect, died of pneumonia Dec. 16 at New York University Hospital in 
Robert Elston, an actor on Broadway and television, died of an AIDS-related pulmonary embolism in the Amsterdam Medical Center in the Netherlands on Dec. 10, his lawyer, Roy Barnitt of New York City, has announced. Mr. Elston was 53 years old and lived in Manhattan. Robert Els
Stephen Gordon Glatzer, founder and president of two corporations that design, manufacture and sell aviation search-and-rescue equipment, died Saturday at the hospital of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx after a long illness. He was 51 years old and lived in New Ro
Aaron Rubin, a former executive vice president and chief financial officer of NBC, died of a heart attack Dec. 23 at his home in Lake Worth, Fla. He was 72 years old, and also had a home in Brookville, L.I. Aaron Rubin, a former executive vice president and chief financial off
Donald H. Nathan, a motion picture trade association executive, died yesterday at his home in Wantagh, L.I. He was 62 years old. Donald H. Nathan, a motion picture trade association executive, died yesterday at his home in Wantagh, L.I. He was 62 years old. Mr. Nathan,
Dorrance Sexton, former chairman and chief executive officer of the international insurance firm Johnson & Higgins, died Saturday in the Sharon (Conn.) Hospital after a long illness. He was 76 years old and lived in Lakeville, Conn. Dorrance Sexton, former chairman and chief e
Edward Kleban, the Tony Award-winning lyricist of ''A Chorus Line,'' died Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 48 years old. Edward Kleban, the Tony Award-winning lyricist of ''A Chorus Line,'' died Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 48 years old. Mr. Kleban'
Dr. Harold Haydn Clum, who retired as professor of biology at Hunter College in 1962 after 35 years on the faculty, died Dec. 14 at Northern Westchester Hospital Center. He was 93 years old and lived in Chappaqua, N.Y. Dr. Harold Haydn Clum, who retired as professor of biology
James W. Dye Jr., executive vice president of the Long Island Lighting Company, died of intestinal cancer Thursday at his home in Oyster Bay, L.I. He was 63 years old. James W. Dye Jr., executive vice president of the Long Island Lighting Company, died of intestinal cancer Thu
Monroe M. Stearns, a teacher, writer and editor, died Dec. 17, apparently of a respiratory ailment, at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan. Monroe M. Stearns, a teacher, writer and editor, died Dec. 17, apparently of a respiratory a
Noye Monroe Johnson, a Dartmouth College geology professor who did early research on acid rain, died of cancer at his home here Sunday, school officials said Monday. He was 57 years old. Noye Monroe Johnson, a Dartmouth College geology professor who did early research on acid 
Patrick Bissell, a leading principal dancer with American Ballet Theater, was found dead yesterday morning in his apartment in Hoboken, N.J. He was 30 years old. Patrick Bissell, a leading principal dancer with American Ballet Theater, was found dead yesterday morning in his a
Richard Koopman, former president of the G. Fox & Company department stores, died Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Hartford. He was 73 years old and lived in West Hartford, Conn. Richard Koopman, former president of the G. Fox & Company department stores, died Monday at Mount
Sir Melford Stevenson, an outspoken judge who as a lawyer defended the last woman to be hanged in Britain, died of a heart attack Saturday. He was 85 years old. Sir Melford Stevenson, an outspoken judge who as a lawyer defended the last woman to be hanged in Britain, died of a
Aaron Rubin, a former executive vice president and chief financial officer of NBC, died of a heart attack Dec. 23 at his home in Lake Worth, Fla. He was 72 years old, and also had a home in Brookville, L.I. Aaron Rubin, a former executive vice president and chief financial off
Alfred W. Roberts, a lawyer who specialized in real-property law, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Mountain Lakes, N.J. He was 76 years old. Alfred W. Roberts, a lawyer who specialized in real-property law, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Mountain Lakes, N.J. He was
Charles J. V. Murphy, a biographer of the Duke and Dutchess of Windsor and Winston Churchill and a longtime journalist, died of lung cancer Tuesday at his home in Grafton, Vt. He was 83 years old and moved to Grafton in 1980 from Washington, where he had lived for many years. 
Emil Levin, a former commissioner of the New York State Human Rights Appeals Board, died Dec. 22 at his home in Queens after a long illness. He was 82 years old. Emil Levin, a former commissioner of the New York State Human Rights Appeals Board, died Dec. 22 at his home in Que
F. Joseph Holleran, a retired vice president of the First National City Bank in New York, died at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital on Dec. 23 after a heart attack. He was 88 years old and lived in Greenwich. F. Joseph Holleran, a retired vice president of the First National City Ban
Frank A. Grisanti, a businessman and management consultant in the computer field, died Dec. 21 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 67 years old. Mr. Grisanti was a founding partner of the consulting firm of Grisanti, Galef & Goldress. Most recently he was chairman of Deutschman & Compa
James B. Carsky, senior vice president of Scholastic Inc., the publishing company, died of lung cancer Saturday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 58 years old. James B. Carsky, senior vice president of Scholastic Inc., the publishing company, died of lung cancer Saturday 
John Wesley Hanes Sr., a former Under Secretary of the Treasury in the Roosevelt Administration and a corporate executive, died last Thursday at his home in Millbrook, N.Y. Mr. Hanes, who also lived in New York City, was 95 years old. John Wesley Hanes Sr., a former Under Secr
Monroe M. Stearns, a teacher, writer and editor, died Dec. 17, apparently of a respiratory ailment, at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan. Monroe M. Stearns, a teacher, writer and editor, died Dec. 17, apparently of a respiratory a
Dr. Peter Fousek, executive vice president and director of research at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, died Monday at White Plains Hospital Medical Center after a brief illness. He was 64 years old and lived in Larchmont, N.Y. Dr. Peter Fousek, executive vice president a
Rabbi Hershel Matt, a professor at the Reconstructionist Rabbinical College in Philadelphia and at the Academy of Jewish Learning in New York City, died of a heart attack Saturday at his home in Highland Park, N.J. He was 65 years old. Rabbi Hershel Matt, a professor at the Re
