 Adm. John Joseph Hyland Jr., a veteran test pilot and champion of naval air power who commanded the American armada off Indochina at the height of the Vietnam War, died last Sunday at a hospice in Honolulu. He was 86 and lived in Honolulu. President Lyndon B. Johnson went over the h
 Christopher Gable, an English ballet star who made an unusually successful transition to film and theater, died on Oct. 23 at his home near Halifax in Yorkshire. He was 58. The cause was cancer, said Anna Izza, spokeswoman for the Northern Ballet in Leeds, which Mr. Gable directed. 
 Francis X. Larkin, who built a career in home furnishings and helped lead Fieldcrest Mills Inc., a maker of home-furnishing textiles based in Eden, N.C., died last Monday at Brick Memorial Hospital in Brick, N.J. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said the Frank Halpin's Funeral Home 
 Samuel Blum, a writer and a former editor in chief of the Doubleday Book Club, died on Oct. 22 at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was leukemia, his family said. He was born in Wilkes-Barre, Pa., and was a graduate of Sy
 Bulldog Turner, the Chicago Bears Hall of Fame center and linebacker who played on four National Football League championship teams in the 1940's, died Friday at home in Gatesville, Tex. He was 79. Turner, who served as head coach of the New York Titans, the Jets' forerunners, in 19
 Paul Misraki, a prolific French composer of songs and also of the soundtracks for over 150 films made by Orson Welles, Jean-Luc Godard, Roger Vadim and others, died on Thursday in Paris, where he lived. He was 90. The French honors he received included being made a Chevalier de la L
 Peter Griffin, who called himself a simple algebra teacher but had such a winning way with numbers that he unlocked the mathematics of blackjack with a wink and became a cult figure to a generation of casino card counters, died on Oct. 18 at a hospital near his home in Sacramento, Calif. Mr
 Harry Weese, a Chicago architect whose design for the Washington Metro system produced some of the most powerful public spaces of our time, died on Thursday at a veterans' home in Manteno, Ill. He was 83. A major figure in Chicago architecture and planning since the 1950's, Mr. Wees
 Norbert Wollheim, a tenacious Auschwitz survivor who went on to sue the Germans for compensation for his work as a slave laborer, then devoted his life to building a spirited movement of Holocaust survivors, died on Sunday at Long Island Jewish Medical Center. He was 85 and lived in Fresh M
 Rudolph J. Melone, whose career as a college administrator was overshadowed by his founding of the famed Gilroy Garlic Festival in Gilroy, Calif., died on Sept. 17 in San Francisco. He was 73. The cause was complications from cancer. In 1979, Dr. Melone started the festival,
 James L. Day, a former Marine Corps squad leader who belatedly won a Medal of Honor earlier this year for almost single-handedly killing more than 100 advancing Japanese at the height of the Battle of Okinawa and went on to become an unofficial ambassador of good will on the island, died on
 Jerry L. Schwartz, a journeyman journalist who was equally comfortable writing about baseball and Beethoven, died on Sunday at Northside Hospital in Atlanta. He was 51 and lived in Atlanta. The cause was complications from leukemia, said Jonathan Wax, a family friend. As the
 Aleksandr Bogatyrev, a former star of the Bolshoi Ballet who was its acting artistic director until this spring, died in Moscow on Oct. 11. He was 49 and lived in Moscow. The cause was a heart attack, friends in New York said. Mr. Bogatyrev won the admiration of American bal
 Alfred Mitchell Bingham, a well-born, well-heeled radical who made a broken field run through 20th century intellectual history, coming of age as a rock-ribbed Republican in the 1920's, veering left in the 1930's as a leader of the quest for an American-style collectivism, then returning to
 Bernard James Dwyer, a former Representative from New Jersey, died Saturday in Edison, N.J., at the John F. Kennedy Medical Center, which he had served as a trustee. He was 77 and, a longtime Edison resident, had lived in Metuchen, N.J., for the last few years. The cause was a heart
 Glenn E. Nielson, who built a petroleum and asphalt empire from a single leased oilfield and a closed oil refinery it served in Cody, Wyo., died on Oct. 19 at his home in Cody, according to Margaret Ruth Bullock, his daughter. He was 95. Mr. Nielson found partners to help him buy wh
 Lee P. Gagliardi, a senior judge of Federal District Court for the Southern District of New York who presided over the historic trial of two former Nixon Cabinet members, John N. Mitchell and Maurice H. Stans, on criminal-conspiracy charges in 1974, died on Friday at his home in Manchester,
 Larry Ellis, the head coach of the 1984 United States Olympic men's track and field team, the first African-American head coach in any Ivy League sport and the former president of track and field's national governing body, died Wednesday at his home in Skillman, N.J. He was 70. He h
 Ramon Grau Alsina, who helped organize an undercover operation code-named Pedro Pan that smuggled thousands of children to the United States from Cuba in the early years of the Castro Government, died Tuesday night in Miami, his home for the last 12 years. He would have been 76 on S
 Bob Kane, the cartoonist who created Batman the Caped Crusader and his sidekick, Robin the Boy Wonder, died on Tuesday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 83 and lived in Los Angeles. Batman and Robin, the characters that Mr. Kane created with his partner, Bill Fin
 Bob Trow, an actor who helped usher two generations of children through their formative years as a member of the cast of ''Mister Rogers' Neighborhood,'' died on Monday at his home in New Alexandria, Pa. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, said David Newell, who plays Mr. McFee
 Jack Hartman, who led Kansas State to more basketball victories than any other coach in school history, and who coached the Knicks' great Walt Frazier at Southern Illinois, died yesterday morning at St. Vincent Hospital in Sante Fe, N.M. He was 73. According to a radio report, the c
 Luther Jerstad, an Oregon mountain guide and member of the first American team to reach the top of Mount Everest, in 1963, died last Saturday in Nepal on a trek up Mount Kala Pattar, a much lesser cousin in the Great Himalayan Range. He was 61 and lived in Portland. News reports fro
 Szeming Sze, a former director of the United Nations Health Service who helped build the World Health Organization into a specialized United Nations agency, died on Oct. 27 at Presbyterian Senior Care, at Presbyterian Medical Center in suburban Pittsburgh. Dr. Sze was 90 and most recently l
 Stan Wright, the track coach who took the blame for the disqualification of two American sprinters who showed up late for their races in the 1972 Munich Olympics, died on Friday night at St. Luke's Episcopal Hospital in Houston. He was 78. ''His kidneys just shut down,'' said his da
 Tommy Flowers, a British civil servant with a genius for electronics whose pioneering Colossus computers enabled the Allies to decode top-level German military communications in World War II, died on Oct. 28 at his home in London. He was 92. The Colossus machines were once described
 Francisco Sainz, an artist and member of the Abstract Expressionist circle in New York City and East Hampton, N.Y., died on Oct. 20 in East Hampton. He was 75. He had a heart attack while taking his morning walk, his family said. Born in 1923 in Santander, Spain, Mr. Sainz, 
 Louis P. Daniel, who tried to bring the food and atmosphere of the best bistros of Paris to Le Chambertin, the classic French restaurant he operated for many years in Manhattan, died at his home in Phoenicia, N.Y., on Oct. 29. He was 77. He had been suffering from cancer for many ye
 Patrick J. Frawley Jr., a high school dropout who made millions of dollars in business, gave millions to conservative causes and candidates, then made it his business and his life's work to combat alcohol and drug addiction, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 75 an
 Walter George Berl, a chemist whose research included high-energy ram-jet fuels and international firefighting programs, died on Oct. 24 while vacationing in Durango, Colo. He was 81 and lived in Bethesda, Md. The cause was heart failure, said a spokesman for Johns Hopkins Universit
 Wendell Chino, the longtime president of the Mescalero Apache Nation who helped to lift his tribe from tar-paper shack poverty with his persuasive style of ''red capitalism,'' died on Wednesday at the Santa Monica-U.C.L.A. Medical Center in California. He was 74. Mr. Chino had suffe
 Jean Marais, who became one of France's most popular movie and theater actors thanks to his close friendship with the Surrealist poet and artist Jean Cocteau, died on Sunday at a hospital in Cannes. He was 84 and lived in Vallauris on the French Riviera. Initially, Mr. Marais's grea
 Lord Hunt of Llanfairwaterdine, who led the expedition in 1953 in which Sir Edmund Hillary and Tenzing Norgay became the first people to reach the top of Mount Everest, died on Sunday at home in Henley, England, his family said. He was 88. Lord Hunt, then Colonel John Hunt of the Br
 Hal Newhouser, the Detroit Tigers' Hall of Fame left-hander and the only pitcher to win two consecutive Most Valuable Player awards, died yesterday at Providence Hospital in Southfield, Mich. He was 77. Newhouser, who lived in Bloomfield Hills, Mich., had been suffering from emphyse
 Leonard de Paur, a conductor of choruses and orchestras, an arranger and an administrator who for 17 years was the director of community relations for Lincoln Center, died on Saturday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 83. Mr. de Paur created the popular Lincoln Cent
 Harry Markson, a soft-spoken and scholarly type who spent 40 years in Madison Square Garden's often garish and turbulent boxing world, presiding over it for a quarter-century, died on Tuesday night at Riverview Hospital in Red Bank, N.J. He was 92. When Mr. Markson was made director
 Milton Handler, a leading antitrust expert and drafter of some of the nation's best-known laws, died on Tuesday. He was 95. Professor Handler suffered a stroke on Thursday, said his daughter, Carol E. Handler. Professor Handler, who taught at Columbia University Law School f
 Frankie (Mr. Zero) Brimsek, the Boston Bruins' Hall of Fame goaltender who was renowned for a remarkable string of shutouts during his first weeks in the National Hockey League, died Wednesday at his home in Virginia, Minn. He was 85 and one of the first American-born players to star in the
 Gerald Long, who as general manager of the Reuters news agency in the 1960's presided over its transformation from a hand-to-mouth wire service to a profitable, computer-age news organization, died in Paris on Sunday, Reuters said. He was 75. When Mr. Long took over at Reuters in 19
 Stephen Pierce Duggan, the founding chairman of the Natural Resources Defense Council and a leader in the fight that preserved the scenic Storm King Mountain from development, died on Sunday at Cornwall Hospital in Cornwall-on-Hudson, N.Y. A longtime Cornwall resident, he was 89 and formerl
 Tim Greathouse, a leading figure of the East Village art scene of the 1980's, died on Oct. 18 at his home in Manhattan. He was 48. The cause was AIDS-related complications, said Kathe Burkhart, a friend. Mr. Greathouse first showed his own photographs, many documenting life 
 Elvis J. Stahr Jr., an educator and environmentalist who was a Secretary of the Army in the Kennedy Administration and was later president of the National Audubon Society, died on Wednesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 82. Mr. Stahr's career spanned top jobs in the militar
 Red Holzman, the Hall of Fame coach who led the New York Knicks to their only two National Basketball Association championships, died last night at Long Island Jewish Hospital. He was 78. Holzman, whose wife, Selma, died in July, died of complications from leukemia, according to the
 Roman Cycowski, the last surviving member of the Comedian Harmonists, a legendary German vocal sextet that was forced to break up by the Nazis because three of its members were Jewish, died on Wednesday at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 97. Mr. Cycowski had been cantor at t
 Tex Johnston, a storied test pilot who ushered in the age of jet travel with such a heart-stopping flourish that some people in Seattle and the world of aviation are still shaking their heads, died on Oct. 29 at a nursing home in Mount Vernon, Wash. He was 84 and was recalled as the man who
 Ivan Shapiro, a real estate lawyer and former president of the Ethical Culture Society, who was also a leader in organizations concerned with civil liberties and the homeless, died Nov. 5. He was 69 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan. The cause was complications from Alzheimer'
 Red Holzman, the Hall of Fame coach who led the New York Knicks to their only two National Basketball Association championships, died on Friday night at Long Island Jewish Hospital. He was 78. Holzman, whose wife, Selma, died in July, died of complications from leukemia, their daugh
 William Curry Moloney, who studied and treated blood diseases well before hematology became a medical specialty, died on Nov. 3 in Boston at Brigham and Women's Hospital, where he was a former director of hematology. He was 91 and lived in Chatham, Mass. Dr. Moloney was one of the f
 Laurence Owen Vine Gandar, the South African newspaper editor credited with bringing investigative journalism to a country that desperately needed it, died Saturday in Pietermaritzburg. He was 82, and had been suffering from Parkinson's Disease. As editor and editor-in-chief
 Kwame Ture, the flamboyant civil rights leader known to most Americans as Stokely Carmichael, died yesterday in Conakry, Guinea. He was 57 and is best remembered for his use of the phrase ''black power,'' which in the mid-1960's ignited a white backlash and alarmed an older generation of ci
 Minot K. Milliken, who was treasurer and chief financial officer of Milliken & Company, the country's largest privately owned textile company, died at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital in New York on Saturday after a three-month illness, his eldest son, M. K. Milliken, said. He was 82 and live
 Peter Cotes, a British theatrical producer and director who staged the first production of Agatha Christie's ''Mousetrap'' in 1952, died on Tuesday at his home in Chipping Norton in the Cotswolds. He was 86. ''The Mousetrap,'' now in its 46th consecutive year in London, is the longe
 Weeb Ewbank, who coached the Baltimore Colts of 1958 and the New York Jets of 1968 to pro football championships in monumental title games, died yesterday at his home in Oxford, Ohio. He was 91. Ewbank, who attended the Jets-Colts game in Indianapolis last Sunday, was the only coach
 Chris Dundee, who promoted hundreds of fights and turned Miami Beach into a boxing center in a career that spanned six decades, died at the Miami Jewish Home for the Aged on Monday. He was 91. Dundee promoted eight world championship fights, including the Miami Beach bout in which M
 Eddie Elias, a lawyer who founded the Professional Bowlers Association in 1958 and later represented sports and entertainment celebrities, died on Sunday at Naples (Fla.) Community Hospital. He was 69. The P.B.A. said the cause was complications of pneumonia. Mr. Elias suffered a st
 Jacques Medecin, Mayor of Nice from 1966 until 1990, when he fled to Uruguay to avoid prosecution on corruption charges that later landed him in jail for nearly two years, died in Uruguay on Tuesday after several heart attacks, his family said. He was 70. Nice, where Mr. Medecin mad
 Patrick Clancy, who helped start a folk revival as a founding member of the Clancy Brothers and Tommy Makem, died on Nov. 11 at his home in Carrick-on-Suir, County Tipperary, Ireland. He was 76. The cause was cancer, said Bill Haller, his son-in-law. As the eldest of the Cla
 Perry H. Young Jr., an aviator whose career spanned more than 50 years and who was the first African-American pilot for a commercial airline in the United States, died on Nov. 8 at the Horton Medical Center in Middletown, N.Y. He was 79. Mr. Young, who lived in Pine Bush, N.Y., had 
 Robert Lyman Popper, a retired business executive who was long active in civic affairs and philanthropy, died Tuesday at White Plains Hospital. He was 90 and lived in Armonk, N.Y., and Manhattan. Mr. Popper was chairman of the New York State Office for the Aging in the Rockefeller, 
 Alan J. Pakula, a director of many psychologically penetrating and celebrated films including ''Sophie's Choice,'' ''All the President's Men'' and ''Klute,'' died yesterday in a freak accident on the Long Island Expressway. He was 70 and had homes in Manhattan and East Hampton, N.Y.        
 Robert H. Whitstock, a retired vice president of the Seeing Eye organization in Morristown, N.J., which trains guide dogs and those who use them, died on Oct. 16 at the home of a daughter, Holly Seeger, in Palisades, N.Y. He was 68 and lived in Cortland, N.Y. He had a brain tumor, s
 Dr. Tetsuya Fujita, a meteorologist who devised the standard scale for rating the severity of tornadoes and discovered the role of sudden violent down-bursts of air that sometimes cause airplanes to crash, died on Thursday at his home in Chicago.  He was 78. Known as Ted, the Tornad
 William J. McCarthy, a New England labor leader who served a term as national president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters when the union was fighting Federal racketeering charges, died on Thursday at Symmes Hospital in Arlington, Va. He was 79 and lived in Arlington. Mr.
 Yefim Geller, a Ukrainian-born grandmaster whose penetrating technical analysis, inspired innovations and brilliant play helped the former Soviet Union almost totally dominate international chess for decades, died on Tuesday at a hospital near his home in Moscow. He was 73. The caus
 Gerard Grisey, one of the most important French composers of the generation after Pierre Boulez, died Wednesday in a Paris hospital. He was 52. The cause was a stroke, the French Consulate said. Mr. Grisey was born in Belfort, France, and studied from 1963 to 1965 at the mus
 Milton Kutsher, who built Kutsher's Country Club into one of the leading resorts in the Catskills and kept it successful even as many other top hotels in the region lost their allure in the 1980's and 90's, died Monday in Monticello, N.Y. He was 82 years old. Mr. Kutsher's life span
 Ralph L. Wickiser, a painter and teacher who founded the fine arts graduate program at the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, died on Oct. 27 in a nursing home in Riverhead, N.Y. He was 88. A modernist abstract painter, Mr. Wickiser drew much of his imagery from nature, particularly, in t
 William French Githens, a newsreel pioneer and tennis-playing society figure, died on Nov. 10 at a hospice near his retirement home in Arlington, Va. He was 92 and is credited with opening the world's first all-newsreel movie theater in 1929. In a democratic nation famous for the fl
 You take a fellow who looks like a goat, travels around with goats, eats with goats, lies down among goats and smells like a goat and it won't be long before people will be calling him the Goat Man. Which is pretty much what Charles McCartney had in mind back in the Depression when 
 Dick Sisler, a member of a prominent baseball family who gained his own niche in the sport's history with a pennant-winning home run for the Philadelphia Phillies' 1950 Whiz Kids team, died on Friday in his hometown of Nashville. He was 78. Sisler had been suffering from pneumonia, 
 Frederick D. Wilkinson Jr., one of the first black executives at Macy's, the City of New York and, later, at the American Express Company, died at Mount Vernon Hospital on Nov. 15. He was 77. The cause of death was lung cancer, according to his family. Born in 1921 in Washin
 Jose Figueroa, a leading Puerto Rican violinist and teacher, died on  Nov. 9 at his home in San Juan, P.R. He was 94. Mr. Figueroa was born into a musical family; his father, Jesus Figueroa Iriate, was a composer, and his mother, Carmen Sanabia Ellinger, a pianist. At age 7, he bega
 Lonnie Pitchford, a Mississippi bluesman who was dedicated to reviving early Delta blues, died on Nov. 8 at his home in Lexington, Miss. He was 43. The cause was complications from pneumonia, said his manager, Patty Johnson. Mr. Pitchford performed around the world and appea
 Michael Todd, publisher of Grapezine, a magazine about winegrowing, died on Saturday at Winthrop University Hospital in Mineola, N.Y. He was 51 and had homes in midtown Manhattan and Sag Harbor on Long Island. The cause was complications from lymphoma, said his wife, Claudia Payne. 
 Henry Hampton, an Emmy-winning documentary filmmaker whose series ''Eyes on the Prize'' was hailed by many critics as the definitive look at the nation's early struggle over civil rights, died on Sunday in Boston. He was 58. Mr. Hampton had the bone marrow disease myelodysplasia, wh
 Meredith (Flash) Gourdine, the 1952 Olympic silver medalist in the long jump and later an engineer and physicist with 70 patents that deal with thermal management and the conversion of gas to electricity, died Friday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Houston. He was 69. The cause of death
 William Kennedy Douglas, the Air Force doctor who cared for Lieut. Col. John H. Glenn Jr. and the nation's six other original astronauts, died on Nov. 15 at Lewisville Medical Center in Lewisville, Tex., near Dallas. He was 76 and lived in Albuquerque, N.M. The cause was a viral inf
 Albert Conde Bickford, a retired Manhattan antitrust lawyer who represented Paramount Pictures during the filmmaker's divestiture of its chain of movie houses, died last Wednesday at his home in Ardsley-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 96. Born on Staten Island, he graduated from Harvard Coll
 Thomas Manning, an explorer known as the lone wolf of the Arctic who followed his dog sled and camped in igloos to map desolate reaches of the far north of Canada, died on Nov. 8 in the hospital in Smiths Falls, Ontario, near the gentleman's farm that he had in Merrickville. He was 86.     
 Vladimir P. Demikhov, a Russian surgeon whose pioneering work in performing organ transplants on dogs set the stage for similar operations on humans in later years, died on Sunday. He was 82 and lived in a small apartment on Moscow's outskirts. The Itar-Tass news agency, which repor
 Earl Kim, a composer whose music valued economy, precision and quietude, and who was an important mentor to younger composers during a 23-year career at Harvard University, died last Thursday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 78. He had recently been diagnosed with cancer, his 
 Flip Wilson, the popular comedian who became the first black entertainer to be the host of a successful weekly variety show on network television, died last night at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 64. He died of liver cancer, the comedian's assistant, Angie Hill, told The Associa
 Gene Moore, a window dresser who worked such fanciful wonders with shoes and had such a whimsical way with diamonds that he had Fifth Avenue pedestrians doing delighted double takes for more than half a century, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 and best known for turning T
 Warren Hunting Smith, who devoted more than 50 years of his life to editing the letters of Horace Walpole, died on Sunday at his home in Geneva, N.Y. He was 93. From 1931 to 1982, Mr. Smith worked in Yale University's Sterling Library on a project that had been started in 1924. The 
 Elmer H. Wavering, who as a young man growing up in Quincy, Ill., tinkered in his radio shop and came up with what eventually became the first commercial car radio, died on Friday. He was 91 years old. Mr. Wavering's invention helped him to rise quickly, and eventually  he became th
 Flip Wilson, the popular comedian who became the first black entertainer to be the host of a successful weekly variety show on network television, died Wednesday night at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 64. The cause was liver cancer, his assistant, Angie Hill, said. Mr. W
 Frank William Newell, an eye specialist, teacher and head of many leading ophthalmologic organizations, some of which he helped found, died on Nov. 18 at his home in Chicago. He was 82. The cause was a brain tumor, said the University of Chicago, where he was ophthalmology chairman 
 Dr. George Lee McNew, a plant pathologist who directed the Boyce Thompson Institute for Plant Research for 25 years and negotiated its move to Cornell University in Ithaca, N.Y., died on Oct. 30 at a retirement community in Las Cruces, N.M. He was 90. The institute was established a
 Valentin M. Berezhkov, a Russian who interpreted for Stalin and Molotov at conferences that they, Roosevelt and Churchill attended during World War II, died last Friday at his home in Claremont, Calif. He was 82. At his death he was the Diane and Guilford Glazer Distinguished Visiti
 Dr. William Taylor Miller, an organic chemist and expert in fluorine chemistry who worked on the team that built the atomic bomb in World War II, died on Nov. 15 at the Cayuga Medical Center in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 87. Dr. Miller spent 41 years on the faculty at Cornell University, w
 Dick O'Neill, an actor best known for his work as Charlie Cagney in the television series ''Cagney and Lacey,'' died on Nov. 17 at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 70 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Jackie. In a career 
 Javier Garcia Paniagua, a former senior Mexican official whose hard-line views exemplified those of a group within the governing Institutional Revolutionary Party known as the ''dinosaurs,'' died of a heart attack on Tuesday in Guadalajara. He was 61. The son of a Defense Minister, 
 Jonathan Kwitny, a journalist and author whose subjects were as varied as Mafia forays into board rooms and papal biography, died on Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 57 and lived in Cuddebackville, N.Y., and Manhattan. The cause was stomach cancer diagnosed
 Robert Eisner, former president of the American Economic Association and a staunch advocate of a view unpopular among an increasing number of academic economists that active Government spending is needed to achieve full employment and growth, died Wednesday at his home in Evanston, Ill. He 
 Allan Raymond Johnson, a former chairman of Saks Fifth Avenue who helped shepherd the elegant department store through an era of rapid expansion, died on Thanksgiving Day at the Mary Manning Walsh nursing home in Manhattan. He was 82 and had lived in Manhattan. The cause was complic
 Emil G. Reynolds, a globe-trotting press photographer who covered World War II and other events, died last Sunday at Monmouth Medical Center in Long Branch, N.J. He was 93 and lived in Long Branch. Mr. Reynolds, who was born in Vienna but grew up in Newark, supplied his work to Unit
 Erik Nitsche, an art director, graphic designer, photographer, illustrator and book packager known for his posters, advertisements, logos and book designs, died on Nov. 10 in Danbury, Conn. He was 90. Mr. Nitsche was born in Lausanne, Switzerland, in 1908 and worked in Switzerland, 
 M. Donald Grant, who as chairman of the Mets ordered the controversial trade of Tom Seaver in 1977 and whose decision to shun free agents at the start of the free-agent era helped send the team on a disastrous downward spiral, died at his home in Hobe Sound, Fla., yesterday. He was 94.     
 Rolando La Serie, one of the great Cuban singers of his time, died last Sunday at Healthsouth Doctors' Hospital in Coral Gables, Fla. He was 75. The cause was cardiac complications, The Associated Press reported. Mr. La Serie had a big, open voice, slightly hoarse and aggres
 Stephen K-M Tim, a botanist and illustrator who was a guiding force for many of the exhibits and publications of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, died on Nov. 21 at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 61 and lived in Brooklyn. Mr. Tim, who was the garden's vice presi
 Stuart Sutherland, a British psychologist who analyzed his own brush with mental illness in the most remarkable of his insightful books, died on Nov. 8 in his home in Brighton, England. He was 71. The cause was a heart attack, said the University of Sussex, where he was professor em
 Theodore Newhouse, who began a lifelong career in publishing as a manager of a family-owned newspaper, The Long Island Press, and helped his brothers assemble one of the nation's biggest communications conglomerates, died yesterday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged in the Riverdale section of
 Anthony Salvatore, a Grammy Award-winning recording engineer, died on Nov. 18 at Hackensack University Medical Center in Hackensack, N.J. He was 77 and lived in Hasbrouck Heights, N.J. Mr. Salvatore worked with RCA Records from 1955 to 1993, then retired to work independently. He wo
 Dr. Robert Silber, a hematologist and educator, died on Nov. 3 at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 67. The cause was heart disease, his family said. At his death Dr. Silber had been a clinical professor of medicine at Duke University Medical Center in Durham for six years. He
 M. Donald Grant, a winning amateur competitor in hockey, squash and golf who became the controversial chairman of the Mets and enjoyed mixed success, died at his home in Hobe Sound, Fla., on Saturday. He was 94. As the Mets' chairman, Mr. Grant made the key move that led to the team
 Former Representative Dante B. Fascell, a Florida Democrat who was chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee from 1984 through 1992, died on Saturday at his home in Clearwater, Fla. He was 81 and had lived in Miami until June. The cause was colon cancer, The Associated Press r
