 Albert Hakim, a businessman who wove an intricate web of Swiss bank accounts and dummy corporations in the Iran-contra arms-for-hostages deal, died on Friday in Inchon, South Korea. He was 66. The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Hakim had moved t
 Charlie Tolar, the star fullback for the Houston Oilers of the old American Football League who was known as the Human Bowling Ball for charging at massive linemen on his 5-foot-6 frame, died on Monday in Houston. He was 65. The cause was cancer, according to Northwestern State Univ
 Dr. Jeff Schell, a Belgian microbiologist who developed some of the first procedures for introducing artificial genes into plants to increase their hardiness and improve their ability to grow, died at his home in Brussels on April 17. He was 67. The cause was progressive supranuclea
 Paul Moore Jr., the retired Episcopal bishop of New York who for more than a decade was the most formidable liberal Christian voice in the city, died yesterday at home in Greenwich Village. He was 83. In recent months, the bishop had said that he was suffering from lung and brain ca
 Guy Mountfort, a British ornithologist, nature writer and advertising executive who helped to found the World Wildlife Fund, died on April 23 in Bournemouth on the southern coast of England. He was 97. In 1961, Mr. Mountfort created the World Wildlife Fund with three other distingui
 Dr. Ira Herskowitz, a geneticist who advanced the understanding of the way cells differentiate and a pioneer in the effort to learn how genetic differences among people influence the effectiveness of drugs, died on Monday at his home in San Francisco. He was 56. The cause was pancre
 Richard J. Sinnott, the last municipal official empowered to ban wickedness in Boston, died on Wednesday at his home in Hyde Park, Mass. He was 76. The apparent cause was a heart attack, his son Joseph said. He had had heart attacks in the past. For two decades, starting in 
 Allan Sack, a pioneering speed-reading educator who taught fast ways to absorb information from the printed page well before Evelyn Wood became a franchised household name, died last Sunday in San Diego. He was 88 and had lived in San Diego since 1990. Mr. Sack worked in adult readi
 Frank Manuel, an intellectual historian with a particular interest in the history of utopian ideas, died on April 23 at his home in Boston. He was 92. Dr. Manuel spent most of his teaching life at Brandeis University and New York University. He also held visiting professorships at s
 Frank P. Smeal, a municipal bond expert who became a principal adviser during the New York City fiscal crisis of the 1970's, died on April 8 at his home in Rumson, N.J. He was 84. Mr. Smeal worked on Wall Street for 38 years. The bulk of his career -- 30 years -- was spent at the Mo
 Fred J. Cook, a freelance investigative reporter who wrote exposés of the F.B.I., the C.I.A. and American corporations and who was involved in a landmark Supreme Court case affirming the regulation that broadcasters must serve the public interest, died on April 4 at his home in Interlaken,
 James Franklin Fulton, an industrial designer and former board chairman of the Pratt Institute, died on Tuesday at his home in Charlestown, R.I. He was 73 and had lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y., until four years ago. The cause was brain cancer, his family said. Mr. Fulton was the
 Lynn Chadwick, a British sculptor whose expressionistic, figurative works in welded iron and bronze earned him international acclaim, died on April 25 at his home in Lypiatt Park in Stroud, Gloucestershire. He was 88. Mr. Chadwick came of age as an artist after World War II,
 Michael Jendrzejczyk, a human rights expert whose advocacy on behalf of victims in Asian nations made him an unlikely power broker in Washington, died on Thursday. He was 53 and lived in Tacoma Park, Md. He died after collapsing during a walk near his office in Washington, his wife,
 Sir William Gunn, an Australian sheep farmer and businessman who generated a wool boom in his country and was the father of the Woolmark symbol, died on April 17 in Brisbane, Australia. He was 89 and lived in Goondiwindi, a town about 200 miles west of Brisbane. He was knighted in 1
 Fernand Fonssagrives, a photographer known for his elegant pictures of his first wife, the noted model Lisa Fonssagrives, and his later pictures of female nudes with patterns of light on their skin, died on April 23 in Little Rock, Ark. He was 93 and lived in Little Rock. Mr. Fonssa
 Walter Sisulu, one of Nelson Mandela's earliest political mentors and his closest collaborator for half a century in the campaign against South Africa's racist political order, died yesterday in Johannesburg. He was 90. Mr. Sisulu's political career was less celebrated than Mr. Mand
 Christopher Fairfield Edley, president emeritus of the United Negro College Fund, who built upon its slogan, ''A mind is a terrible thing to waste,'' to raise more than $700 million to help aspiring students, died on Monday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 75. The apparent c
 George Kozmetsky, co-founder of the conglomerate Teledyne and a lifelong educator who used his work and philanthropy to bring industry and academia closer together, died last Wednesday in Austin, Tex. He was 85. The cause was a heart attack, his son, Gregory, said. Over the 
 Hadhrat Mirza Tahir Ahmad, spiritual leader of the evangelical Ahmadiyya Muslim sect, which seeks to reinterpret Islamic doctrine in the light of the modern age, died on April 23 in London, where he had lived since fleeing Pakistan in 1984. He was 74. The cause was a heart attack, h
 Mohammed Dib, an award-winning Algerian novelist and poet who wrote in French, the language in which he had learned to read as a child, died on Friday at his home outside Paris. He was 82. He had suffered from diabetes, Le Monde reported in Paris. Mr. Dib moved from Algeria 
 William J. Goode, a sociologist who did research on family life, marriage and divorce, died on Sunday in Washington. He was 85 and had homes in East Hampton, N.Y.; Cambridge, Mass.; and Fairfax, Va. The cause was a blood clot, said his wife, Lenore J. Weitzman, a Clarence J. Robinso
 George Morrow, a mathematician and programmer who was a member of a group of unorthodox hobbyists who were instrumental in creating the personal computer industry, died at his home in San Mateo, Calif., on Wednesday. He was 69 and had suffered from aplastic anemia for the last year,
 Olivier Long, a Swiss diplomat who helped keep the Western world moving toward freer trade in the 1970's despite protectionist pressures brought on by soaring oil prices, inflation and recession, died on March 19 in Geneva, according to the Web site of the World Trade Organization. He was 8
 Bob Walter, a prominent horse breeder whose champion Cavonnier finished second in the 1996 Kentucky Derby, died on Wednesday at his home in Sebastopol, Calif. He was 86. The cause was acute leukemia, his family said. In 1996 Cavonnier, who had won the Santa Anita Derby, ran 
 David W. Rubin, a longtime Steinway & Sons executive whose deep love of the piano compelled him to spend his career prodding talented musicians to try even harder as he matched them with their concert instruments, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 83. He had lung cancer, his frie
 Jack Gelber, whose play ''The Connection,'' with its raw, graphic depiction of the dead-end life of drug addicts, sent a shock wave through contemporary American theater, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 71 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was Waldenstrom's macroglobulinemia, a 
 Russell B. Long, who carried the legacy of his powerful Louisiana family through four decades as a United States senator, died in Washington on Friday. He was 84. The cause of death was apparently a heart attack, his family said. The son of Huey P. Long, the legendary populi
 Geoffrey Bardon, the painter and teacher credited with inspiring Australian aborigines to depict their ancient culture in ways that could be shown and sold to the world, died Tuesday in Taree, a coastal town 235 miles north of here where he lived. He was 63. Family members said he h
 Gerrit Henry, an art critic and poet, died on May 1 at his home in Manhattan. He was 52. The cause was a heart attack, said John Wells, a friend. Mr. Henry was best known for his widely published writings on art, in which he tended to favor contemporary combinations of tradi
 Sam Lacy, a sports reporter for black newspapers for almost 70 years who struggled with the segregation and racial intolerance experienced by the black athletes he covered, died last Thursday morning at a hospital in Washington. He was 99. Since 1943, he had been the sports editor a
 Leonard Michaels, a novelist and short-story writer whose precise, highly literary style illuminated weirdly realistic human predicaments, died on Saturday in Berkeley, Calif. He was 70 and had homes in Italy and Berkeley. The cause was complications from bowel surgery, a friend, Da
 Frank Elijah Taplin Jr., a lawyer, arts patron and amateur pianist who as president of the Metropolitan Opera raised a large endowment fund in the 1970's, died on Sunday in Princeton, N.J. He was 87. At his death Mr. Taplin was a trustee emeritus of the Institute for Advanced Study 
 John L. Petrarca, an architect who brought a modern sensibility to the old blocks of TriBeCa in Lower Manhattan, died last Friday at his home there. He was 51. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Sarah C. Bartlett. As a partner at Guenther Petrarca, he created his most
 Dave DeBusschere, the Hall of Fame forward whose tenacious defensive play, rebounding prowess and timely scoring helped propel the Knicks to their only two N.B.A. championships, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 62. DeBusschere had a heart attack on a street in Lower Manhattan and
 L. Welch Pogue, a Washington lawyer who helped write the original rules for commercial air travel at the Civil Aeronautics Board, which he headed in the 1940's, died on Saturday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 103. Mr. Pogue was one of the central figures in internati
 Noel Redding, who played bass behind Jimi Hendrix as one of the two Englishmen in the Jimi Hendrix Experience, was found dead on Monday at his home in Clonakilty, Ireland. He was 57. The cause was not yet known, said his manager, Ian Grant. Mr. Redding was recruited to join 
 Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan, a philanthropist and environmentalist who served as United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and was the uncle of Prince Karim Aga Khan IV, current leader of the 20 million Shiite Ismaili Muslims , died on May 12 in Boston, Mass. He was 70. He died in
 Laurence I. Radway, a Dartmouth College professor of government with a zeal for practical politics who walked the length of New Hampshire in his losing 1972 campaign for the United States Senate, died on May 7 in Lebanon, N.H. He was 84. The cause was complications of abdominal surg
 Otto Edelmann, a leading Austrian bass-baritone of the postwar period particularly known for his interpretations of Wagner and Strauss roles, died on Wednesday in Vienna, where he lived. He was 86. Mr. Edelmann had a long association with the Vienna State Opera, where he sang for 30
 Robert Stack, who won an Emmy and received an Oscar nomination in his 60-year career in films and television but was best remembered as the implacable, square-jawed Eliot Ness of the 1959 series ''The Untouchables,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 84. Mr. Stack
 William D. Witter, an investment executive who founded two firms named William D. Witter Inc., died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 73. The cause of death was not announced. His father was Dean Witter, a founder of the investment firm Dean Witter & Company, which has beco
 Hadhrat Mirza Tahir Ahmad, spiritual leader of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Movement, a missionary movement that seeks to interpret Islamic doctrine in the light of the modern age, died on April 19 in London, where he had lived since fleeing Pakistan in 1984. He was 74. Hadhrat Mirza Tahir 
 Mark H. McCormack, who created the sports marketing industry and turned his company, IMG, into the largest of its kind in the world and a billion-dollar-a-year business, died yesterday at a nursing home in New York. He was 72. Mr. McCormack had been in a coma after a heart attack on
 Israel E. Levine, a former public-relations director at City College and the American Jewish Congress and the author of many biographies for young readers, died on May 10 in Queens. He was 79 and lived in Flushing. The cause was complications after vascular surgery, his family said.
 Skunder Boghossian, an Ethiopian-born artist who played an important role in introducing European modernist styles into Africa and who, as a longtime resident of the United States, became one of the best-known African modern artists in the West, died on May 4 at Howard University Hospital i
 Dr. Vincent J. Freda, a winner of a Lasker Award for medical research who helped develop a vaccine to prevent a disease that killed thousands of babies each year, died on May 7 at Columbia-Presbyterian Center in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was respiratory failure, his family sai
 Stefan Sharff, a filmmaker and author who was chairman of Columbia University's film division in the 1970's, died May 12 in Lebanon, N.H. He was 83. The cause was lymphatic cancer, his family said in a statement. He lived on a farm in Cornish, N.H. Mr. Sharff, who started Co
 David Otis Ives, who as head of the public broadcasting station WGBH-Boston helped build it into a national powerhouse for the Public Broadcasting Service, died on Friday in San Francisco, where he was on a family visit. He was 84 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. He suffered a brief il
 It was standing room only today as nearly a thousand people packed St. Joseph's Roman Catholic Church on Fifth Street this gentle spring morning. They had come to honor and bid farewell to, as Father Peter Colapietro said in his homily, ''the simple saloonkeeper's son, who always looked for
 Peter Flint Joyce, a retired Southern California banking executive who took a special interest in golf, helping to organize the 1992 U.S. Open, among other efforts, died on May 13 at his home in Pebble Beach, Calif. He was 61. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Judith Anne, sai
 William Holmes Forsyth, curator emeritus of medieval art at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, who helped transform piles of weathered old masonry into the Cloisters above the Hudson, died on May 14 in Hightstown, N.J. A former resident of Princeton, he was 96. Mr. Forsyth spent nearly
 C. A. Tripp, a psychologist, therapist and sex researcher who wrote an influential book on homosexuality, died on Saturday at his home in Nyack, N.Y. He was 83. The cause was cancer, said Lewis Gannett, a friend and author, with whom he finished a book shortly before his death specu
 Dr. Daniel George Miller, a cancer researcher and president emeritus of the Strang Cancer Prevention Center, died on May 7 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. The cause was bone-marrow disease, his family said. Dr. Miller was known fo
 Dr. William P. Longmire Jr., a surgeon who helped found the school of medicine at the University of California at Los Angeles, died on May 9 in his home in Los Angeles. He was 89. The cause was gastrointestinal cancer, officials at the American College of Surgeons said. In 1
 Alejandro DeTomaso, whose company produced a sports car that combined Italian flair with American horsepower, died on Wednesday in Modena, Italy. He was 74. The cause was heart failure, his family said. In 1971, Mr. DeTomaso's company, DeTomaso Automobili, based in Modena, b
 Albert Pratt, a retired senior partner of Paine Webber, former governor of the New York Stock Exchange and an assistant secretary of the Navy in the Eisenhower administration, died May 16 at his summer residence in Osterville, Mass. He was 91 and also had a home in Key Largo, Fla. A
 Gerard M. Weisberg, a judge on the New York State Court of Claims from 1977 to 1995, died at his home in Manahawkin, N.J., on May 17. He was 77. Mr. Weisberg held several posts in the judiciary and in New York City government. He was markets commissioner from 1966 to 1968, c
 Lionel Wilson, the voice of Tom Terrific, Mighty Manfred the Wonder Dog, Crabby Appleton and all the other characters of the ''Tom Terrific'' cartoons on the ''Captain Kangaroo'' children's television show, died on April 30 in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause w
 Roger Pilkington, a prolific British author of books about sex, religion and sailing small boats along Europe's inland waterways, died in England on May 5. He was 88. Mr. Pilkington's popular 19-volume ''Small Boat'' series started in 1956 when he published ''Thames Waters,'' an acc
 Joseph Doria Sr., who with his wife founded and operated Grace's Marketplace, a thriving Upper East Side food center, died on May 17. He was 68 and lived in Old Westbury, N.Y. His son Dino said that Mr. Doria had a heart attack in his office at the store. Mr. Doria and his w
 Rubin Leon Gorewitz, a New York tax accountant with an artistic who's who for a clientele, died on March 7 in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived on the West Side. A native of Brooklyn and a 1951 graduate of City College, Mr. Gorewitz started his career with a New York acounting firm in 
 Arthur Oldham, a British choirmaster who founded the Edinburgh Festival Chorus in 1965, died on May 4 in Paris. He was 76 and had retired to Paris. The cause was cancer, The Times of London reported. Mr. Oldham, who was also a composer, was best known in Europe for his years
 Chauncey William Wallace Cook, a former chairman and chief executive of the General Foods Corporation, died last Monday at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 93. After becoming General Foods' chief engineer in 1942, he rose in a succession of marketing posts. He became president in 196
 John E. Haigney, the former chief executive and president of the Rheingold Corporation, died on May 15 at Atria Manresa in Annapolis, Md. He was 91. Mr. Haigney, who had served as the corporate counsel for Rheingold for a decade beginning in 1957, was named president in 1967 and cha
 Hermann Anton Haus, an authority on optical communications who combined his knowledge of electrical engineering and quantum mechanics to advance technologies used in eye surgery, medical imaging and precision clocks, died on Wednesday in Lexington, Mass. He was 77. The cause was a h
 Sloan Wilson, the novelist who put ''The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit'' into the American lexicon in 1955, died on Sunday in Virginia. He was 83 and lived in Colonial Beach, Va. He had suffered from Alzheimer's disease, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Wilson had settled i
 David Keh, a pioneering restaurateur who helped introduce New York City to a world of Chinese cooking beyond egg rolls and fried rice, died Monday in his home in Manhattan. He was 69. He had been in poor health for several years after suffering two strokes, said a son, William Keh. 
 Luciano Berio, an Italian composer whose many compositions, ranging from chamber music to large-scale orchestral works and from operas to songs, combined innovative imagination and analytical depth with a richly sensuous feeling for sound and form, died yesterday in Rome. He was 77.        
 Almir Chediak, an arranger, producer, composer and publisher who was one of the most important behind-the-scenes figures in Brazilian popular music over the last 20 years, died late Sunday in a robbery attempt at his weekend home in the mountains north of here. He was 52 and lived in Rio.  
 Willard Goldsmith Rouse III, a scion of a family of builders who built his own niche with Liberty Property Trust of Malvern, Pa., a real estate business that includes some of the most visible peaks of the Philadelphia skyline, died on Tuesday at his home in Phoenixville, Pa. He was 60.     
 Dr. Ilya Prigogine, who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1977 for insights into how life could arise in apparent defiance of the classical laws of physics, died on Wednesday in Brussels. He was 86. The second law of thermodynamics states that in any isolated physical system, orde
 Sandman Sims, the celebrated tap dancer and Apollo Theater legend, died on May 20 in the Bronx. He was 86, although he long maintained that his age was ''a matter of opinion.'' For decades he was ''executioner'' at the Apollo Theater in Harlem, chasing unpopular acts off the stage o
 Geoffrey Bawa, a Sri Lankan architect whose striking blend of traditional Asian forms and contemporary international styles produced houses and public buildings in harmony with their Asian landscapes, died on Tuesday at his home in the capital, Colombo. He was 83. In 1998, a stroke 
 Peter Lasko, director of the Courtauld Institute of Art in London from 1974 to 1985, died on May 19. He was 79 and lived in Norwich, England. Mr. Lasko, who was born in Berlin, arrived in Britain as a teenager in 1937. According to The Times of London, his affection for his adopted 
