 Frederic Wakeman Jr., an eminent scholar of Chinese history who wrote richly detailed books spanning seven centuries -- from bloody dynastic struggles starting in the 1300's into the Communist era -- died Sept. 14 at his home in Lake Oswego, Ore. He was 68. The cause was cancer, sai
 Norman Lewis, a nationally recognized authority on English grammar and usage who preferred tuh-MAY-toh but in a pinch would countenance tuh-MAH-toh, died on Sept. 8 in Whittier, Calif. He was 93 and made his home in Whittier. Mr. Lewis died of natural causes, his daughter Debbie sai
 Robert H. Knight, an influential Wall Street lawyer who played behind-the-scenes roles for the Eisenhower and Kennedy administrations in sensitive political situations like the Bay of Pigs, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Rye Brook, N.Y., after a long battle with lung cancer and a sto
 Joseph F. Kauffman, an educator who helped start the Peace Corps and ran the basic training designed to turn its recruits into effective volunteers, then led the fight against war protesters at the University of Wisconsin, died on Sept. 29 in Madison, Wis. He was 84. The cause was c
 George Edward Steinhardt, who for 40 years, under the name George Edwards, was the host of the ''Bright and Early'' program on WQXR, the classical radio station owned by The New York Times Company, died on Aug. 21 at his home in Tenafly, N.J. He was 87. His death was announced by hi
 Joel T. Broyhill, an 11-term Republican congressman from Virginia known in the 50's and 60's for his energetic opposition to integration, especially in the predominantly white middle-class suburbs he represented, died on Sept. 24 at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 86. The cause wa
 R. W. Apple Jr., who in more than 40 years as a correspondent and editor at The New York Times wrote from more than 100 countries about war and revolution, politics and government, food and drink, and the revenge of living well, died yesterday in Washington. He was 71. The cause was
 Gary C. Comer, who as founder of the mail-order apparel company Lands' End printed a glossy catalog in the 1960's that became a prototype of the magazinelike catalogs of today, died Wednesday at his home in Chicago. He was 78. The cause was cancer, a company spokeswoman, Michele Cas
 Dr. Robert G. Petersdorf, an internationally known infectious diseases expert and educator who was also one of the most powerful figures in American medicine for many years, died in Seattle on Sept. 29. He was 80. The cause was complications of strokes, said Dr. William Bremner, cha
 Buck O'Neil, a star first baseman and manager in the Negro leagues and a pioneering scout and coach in the major leagues who devoted the final decade of his life to chronicling the lost world of black baseball, died last night in Kansas City, Mo. He was 94. Bob Kendrick, marketing d
 Friedrich Karl Flick, an heir to vast wealth, a father's notoriety and a name that in postwar Germany stood for a sinister nexus of politics and big business, died Thursday at his home on Lake Wörther in the southern Austrian province of Carinthia. He was 79. The cause was cancer, 
 Gilbert F. White, a geographer whose philosophy of accommodating nature instead of trying to master it had profound effects on policy and environmental thought, died on Thursday at his home in Boulder, Colo. He was 94. His death was announced by the University of Colorado, where he 
 Dr. Mortimer Ostow, a psychiatrist and neuroscientist who studied the psychological sources of anti-Semitism and other expressions of religious and racial fanaticism, died on Sept. 23 at his home in Riverdale, N.Y. He was 88. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Ostow,
 Peter M. Grosz, an engineer and authority on German aircraft from World War I who was also the son of the German Expressionist painter George Grosz, died on Sept. 29. He was 80 and lived in Princeton, N.J. The cause was brain cancer, his wife, Lilian, said. In recent years M
 Buck O'Neil, a star first baseman and manager in the Negro leagues and a pioneering scout and coach in the major leagues who devoted the final decade of his life to chronicling the lost world of black baseball, died Friday night in Kansas City, Mo. He was 94. Bob Kendrick, marketing
 Dr. Mortimer Ostow, a psychiatrist and neuroscientist who studied the psychological sources of anti-Semitism and other expressions of religious and racial fanaticism, died on Sept. 23 at his home in Riverdale, N.Y. He was 88. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Ostow,
 Danial Shapiro, a modern-dance choreographer known for his collaborations with his wife, Joanie Smith, died on Tuesday in Atlantic City. He was 48 and lived in Minneapolis. The cause was prostate cancer, said his publicist, Laura Colby. ''Mr. Shapiro is tall, an affectionate
 David G. Salten, an innovative and influential educator who devised a desegregation plan for the New Rochelle, N.Y., school system and, as an expert witness in 1958, urged the immediate opening of the newly integrated schools in Little Rock, Ark., died on Oct. 1 at his home in Port Washingt
 Kanshi Ram, who as the founder of the Bahujan Samaj Party in India achieved some success in mobilizing the voting power of the nation's Dalits, or untouchables, died on Monday in New Delhi. He was 72. The death was confirmed by Eugene Correa, a spokesman for the Consulate General of
 Timo Sarpaneva, a Finnish glassmaker whose sleek and adventuresome creations found their way into art museums, stylish dining rooms and textbooks on design, died on Oct. 2 in Helsinki, Finland. He was 79. His death was reported by STT, the Finnish news agency, which did not give a c
 Raymond J. Noorda, a co-founder of Novell Inc., a software company that helped pioneer computer networking, died Monday at his home in Orem, Utah. He was 82. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, which he had for many years, his family said in a statement. Mr. 
 William Whelan III, a director of the National Park Service in the Carter administration who oversaw the doubling of the park system's size with the creation of 10 parks in Alaska, died on Sept. 28 in Greenbrae, Calif. He was 66 and lived in Roseville, Calif. The cause was a heart a
 Morris Tarshis, a gruff, cigar-chomping official who exercised behind-the-scenes power in New York City for a generation by settling labor strikes and, later, by determining who got city franchises, died on Monday in Glen Cove, on Long Island. He was 87. His daughter Roberta Tarshis
 Dr. Saul J. Farber, a dean of New York University's medical school who led prestigious medical organizations, did groundbreaking research on kidneys and won many professional honors but was happiest making rounds with generations of interns and residents, died yesterday at New York Universi
 Howard Brett Kerzner, the chief executive of Kerzner International Holdings, a global developer and operator of casinos and luxury resorts, died Wednesday off the coast of the Dominican Republic. He was 42, and lived in New York and on Paradise Island in the Bahamas. Mr. Kerzner, kn
 Peter H. Rossi, a prominent sociologist best known for documenting the changing face of American homelessness in the 1980's, died on Saturday at his home in Amherst, Mass. He was 84. Professor Rossi died of natural causes, his family said. At his death, Professor Rossi was S
 Robert Richenburg, an Abstract Expressionist painter whose early works were shown alongside those of Jackson Pollock and Willem de Kooning, died on Tuesday at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 89. His death was announced by David Findlay Jr. Fine Art of Manhattan, a gallery that
 Norman Salsitz, whose harrowing tale of surviving the Holocaust by posing as a Christian took a particularly bizarre turn when he killed Polish partisans who were about to murder a group of Jews, died Wednesday in Boston. He was 86 and lived in Springfield, N.J. The cause was pneumo
 Gerry E. Studds, the first openly gay member of Congress and a demanding advocate for New England fishermen and for gay rights, died early Saturday at Boston University Medical Center, his husband said. The cause was a vascular illness that led Mr. Studds to collapse while walking h
 Freddy Fender, a sweet-and-light-voiced popular singer who had hit records in both English and Spanish, shifting from country to pop to Tex-Mex music, died on Saturday night at his home in Corpus Christi, Tex. He was 69. The cause was cancer, The Associated Press reported. I
 Todd Bolender, an internationally known dancer and choreographer who left a distinctive imprint on the New York City Ballet and its forerunner companies before leading the Kansas City Ballet and troupes abroad, died on Thursday in Kansas City, Kan. He was 92 and lived in Kansas City, Mo.   
 Carl A. Vergari, who modernized and strengthened law enforcement efforts as district attorney of Westchester County, died on Sunday in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 84. His death was confirmed by Jim Celestino, an employee at the McGrath & Son funeral home in Bronxville. Mr. 
 Sheldon Meyer, a distinguished editor of nonfiction books who was almost single-handedly responsible for the Americanization of Oxford University Press in his more than 40 years there, died on Oct. 9 at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. Mr. Meyer died after a long illness, his famil
 Christopher Glenn, a longtime CBS News correspondent whose soothing, authoritative baritone voice became familiar to millions as he read the news to adults, explained it to children and often reported it himself, died on Tuesday in Norwalk, Conn. He was 68. The cause was liver cance
 Marc Hodler, the senior Swiss member of the International Olympic Committee, who in 1998 exposed widespread bribe-taking among the Olympic delegates who decided where the Games would take place, died Wednesday in Bern, Switzerland. He was 87. The cause was complications after a stro
 Rafael Quintero, a daring secret agent in the most dangerous American covert operations against Fidel Castro, died Oct. 1 in Baltimore. He was 66. His death, after a history of kidney failure, was kept almost as secret as his life as a spy, until last night. It was confirmed at a me
 Hermann Frederick Eilts, who as a diplomat in the Middle East helped Henry A. Kissinger with his shuttle diplomacy, nursed President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt through the Camp David peace talks and dodged a Libyan hit team, died Oct. 12 at his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 84. His s
 Paul R. Halmos, a mathematician known for exploring the implications of probability theory and helping simplify the expression of mathematical concepts in writing and speech, died on Oct. 2 in San Jose, Calif. He was 90. The cause was pneumonia, said a spokesman for Santa Clara Univ
 Alvin M. Weinberg, a top nuclear scientist and leading advocate for commercial nuclear power who helped steer the Oak Ridge National Laboratory throughout the cold war, died on Wednesday in his home in Oak Ridge, Tenn. He was 91. Dr. Weinberg's death was confirmed by his family.    
 Herbert B. Leonard, a film and television producer who left an indelible mark on American popular culture with television series including ''Route 66'' and ''Naked City,'' died last Saturday at his daughter's home in Hollywood. He was 84. The cause was cancer, his daughter, Gina Leo
 Sigmund Strochlitz, a Holocaust survivor who worked with his close friend Elie Wiesel to create the National Holocaust Memorial Museum and who led the way in starting the annual ''day of remembrance'' now observed in every state, died on Oct. 16 at his home in New London, Conn. He was 89.  
 William Bright, an internationally renowned linguist who spent more than half a century inventorying the vanishing riches of the indigenous languages of the United States, died on Oct. 15 in Louisville, Colo. He was 78 and lived in Boulder, Colo. The cause was a brain tumor, said hi
 Edgar E. Summerlin, a tenor saxophonist and composer who wrote some of the first jazz music for church services, died on Oct. 10 in Rhinebeck, N.Y. He was 78 and lived in Staatsburg, N.Y. The cause was pneumonia associated with cancer treatments, said his wife, Karen. Mr. Su
 Eric Newby, a dean of postwar British travel writing who spent more than half a century visiting some of the world's remotest places in journeys that to his great delight often went horribly wrong, died on Friday near Guildford, in Surrey, England. He was 86 and lived in Chilworth, also in 
 John V. Murra, a professor of anthropology who culled voluminous Spanish colonial archives for research that reshaped the image of the Incas and their vast South American empire, died on Oct. 16 at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 90. The death was confirmed by Blaine Friedlander, a 
 S. Peter Rosen, a physicist who combined pioneering studies of the subatomic particles called neutrinos with an administrative role in helping to guide federal research in high-energy physics, died on Oct. 13 at his home in Rockville, Md. He was 73. The cause was pancreatic cancer, 
 Spoony Singh, a canny but star-struck entrepreneur whose brainstorm was to offer gawking Hollywood tourists wax statues of movie stars since the real ones were obligingly sparse, died on Oct. 18 at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 83. The cause was congestive heart failure, his gra
 Benjamin Meed, a leading advocate for Jewish Holocaust survivors who in the decades after the war gathered them together by the tens of thousands, reuniting people with friends, neighbors and family members presumed to have been lost forever, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was
 Leonid Hambro, a concert pianist noted for his prodigious memory, improvising genius and humorous musical desecrations as Victor Borge's straight man, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 86. The cause was complications of head and vertebrae injuries suffered in a fall six weeks ago,
 Arthur Hill, who brought engrossing complexity and understated intelligence to hundreds of roles on stage, screen and television and won a Tony Award for his performance in ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?,'' died on Sunday in Pacific Palisades, Calif. He was 84. The cause was comp
 Todd Skinner, an internationally renowned rock climber who made first ascents on dozens of the world's most treacherous routes and shared those adventures as a motivational speaker, died Monday after falling several hundred feet during a climb in Yosemite National Park in California. He was
 Former President Ghulam Ishaq Khan, a powerful bureaucrat who led Pakistan from 1988 to 1993 and dismissed two governments on charges of corruption, died Friday in the northwestern city of Peshawar. He was 91. The cause was pneumonia after a long illness, said his son-in-law, Irfan 
 Dr. Lawrence C. Kolb, a prominent mental health administrator and researcher who helped create the community mental health movement and became the public face of psychiatry for a generation of New Yorkers, died on Oct. 20 in Orlando, Fla. He was 95. Dr. Kolb, who had been living wit
 Lawrence W. Levine, a prolific historian whose deeply researched, tightly argued books challenged conventional wisdom in areas ranging from Shakespeare to slave songs to today's college curriculums, died on Oct. 23 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 73. The cause was cancer, the
 Joe Niekro, the knuckleballing right-hander who won 221 major league games in 22 seasons and combined with his Hall of Fame brother Phil to win more games than any pair of brothers in major league history, died Friday in Tampa, Fla. He was 61. His death was announced by Tal Smith, t
 Red Auerbach, who built the Boston Celtics into one of the greatest dynasties in sports, presiding over 16 National Basketball Association championship teams as a coach, general manager and club president, died yesterday in the Washington area. He was 89. His death was announced by 
 Pontus Hulten, a restless champion of contemporary art whose achievements spanned many countries and the founding directorships of several museums, including the Georges Pompidou Center in Paris and the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles, died on Wednesday at his home in Stockholm. H
 Red Auerbach, who built the Boston Celtics into one of the greatest dynasties in sports, presiding over 16 National Basketball Association championship teams as a coach, general manager and club president, died Saturday in Washington. He was 89. His death was announced by the Celtic
 Arnold Sundgaard, a lyricist, librettist and playwright who collaborated with some of the most distinguished artists of the 20th century, died on Oct. 22 at his home in Dallas. He was 96. The cause was congestive heart failure, his granddaughter, Maren Sundgaard, said. As a 
 Dr. Arthur I. Holleb, a surgical oncologist and educator who as chief medical officer of the American Cancer Society pushed to have mammograms provided to women under 50 and helped the society promote promising new treatments, died on Oct. 19 in Stamford, Conn. He was 85. The cause 
 Jozsef Gregor, a bass-baritone who parlayed stardom in his native Hungary into a second-act opera career in the United States, died on Friday in Budapest. He was 66. His death, after a long illness, was announced to the Hungarian news agency MTI by the opera house in Szeged, Hungary
 Richard Gilman, the drama and literary critic whose elegant, contentious voice resonated through four decades in American letters, earning him both admirers and enemies of partisan fierceness, died Saturday at his home in Kusatsu, Japan. He was 83. His death, after many years of ill
