 L. Arthur Larson, a top aide to President Dwight D. Eisenhower and chief theoretician for moderate Republicanism in that era, died on Saturday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 82. The presumed cause was heart failure, his family said. In the 1950's Mr. Larson, a law profes
 Peter Ripps, a former marketing executive in cosmetics and advertising, died on Tuesday at New York Hospital. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Mr. Ripps was born in Manhattan and attended City College. Over the years, he held va
 Richard H. Growald, a columnist at The San Diego Union-Tribune and a former correspondent for United Press International, died Tuesday at his brother's home near Fort Worth. He was 61. The cause was lung cancer, his brother, Martin, said. Mr. Growald grew up in Fort Worth. H
 William R. Brennan Jr., a former New York State Supreme Court Justice and former president and chief executive of the Apple Bank for Savings, died Tuesday in Winthrop University Hospital in Mineola, L.I. A resident of Manhasset, he was 72 and formerly lived in Garden City. His death
 Lieut. Col. Jose Maria Lemus Lopez, who was president of El Salvador from 1956 until he was ousted by a military coup in 1960, died here Wednesday of Hodgkin's disease. He was 81. Colonel Lemus, who used his Salvadoran title of military rank until his death, had lived here in exile 
 Joseph John Jova, a retired foundation executive and former Ambassador to Mexico and representative at the Organization of American States, died on Wednesday at Washington Hospital Center. He was 75. The cause was complications after surgery for a thoracic aneurysm, according to the
 Juan de Borbon, who renounced his claim to the Spanish crown to settle a dispute over the accession of his son, Juan Carlos, died today at the University Hospital of Navarre in Pamplona. He was 79. He had been hospitalized since September with throat cancer and died of respiratory a
 Lord Zuckerman, the British scientist and counselor to Churchill and other prime ministers on issues ranging from World War II bombing strategy to industrial pollution to "Star Wars" space weapons, died yesterday in London. He was 88. He had a heart attack, his family said. 
 Mitchell Parish, who wrote the lyrics for "Star Dust," one of the most beloved of all American popular songs, died late Wednesday evening at the New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of a stroke, a hospital spokesman said.     
 Rolf Bjoerling, a tenor and the son of the legendary Swedish tenor Jussi Bjoerling, died late Wednesday, the Associated Press reported. He was 64. The Swedish newspaper Aftonbladet said the cause of death was heart failure, at his home in Stockholm, the wire service said. Be
 Warren F. Stanion, who spent 58 years with Tiffany & Company before retiring as vice president of operations in 1977, died on Sunday at New York Hospital. A resident of Manhattan, he was 87. The cause was pneumonia, a company spokeswoman said. Born in New York City, Mr. Stan
 Alan Kulwicki, the Wisconsin-born racing driver who won the 1992 Nascar championship, was killed Thursday night along with three other men aboard a private plane that crashed while attempting to land at the Tri-County Airport near Bristol, Tenn. He was 38 and had been scheduled to compete i
 Frederick Nicklaus, a poet, died on March 23 at a nursing home in Columbus, Ohio. He was 55 and had lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, his family said. Two volumes of Mr. Nicklaus's poetry were published: "The Man Who Bit the Sun" (1964) and "Cut of Noon" (1971). The 
 Imam Yusuf Shah, a Black Muslim who helped to lead the Nation of Islam's Harlem mosque for 23 years and directed its Fruit of Islam security force in 20 Eastern states, died in his sleep on Wednesday at his home in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He was 65. He had heart disease, his family said.
 W. Rice Brewster, a New York lawyer specializing in corporate law and business finance, died on Thursday at Lenox Hill Hospital. A resident of Manhattan, he was 94. The cause of death was heart failure following a brief illness, his family said. At the time of his death, Mr.
 Andrew Goodman, the owner of Bergdorf Goodman who greatly expanded its stature as one of Fifth Avenue's most elegant and lucrative fashion stores in the 1950's and 1960's, died yesterday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 86. He had a long illness, a family spokeswoman said. Mr
 Richard N. Lander, the retired Commissioner of Jurors for Westchester County and also a local historian and church official, died on Friday at his home in Armonk, N.Y. He was 64. He had a long illness, his family said. As commissioner he broadened the pool of jurors, previou
 Woodrow Swancutt, a retired major general in the Air Force who was a decorated World War II pilot and later flew the plane that dropped a test atomic bomb on Bikini Atoll, died on March 21 while walking near his at home in San Antonio. He was 77. He collapsed from cardiac failure, h
 Andrew Goodman, the owner of Bergdorf Goodman who greatly expanded its stature as one of Fifth Avenue's most elegant and lucrative fashion stores in the 1950's and 1960's, died on Saturday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 86. He had a long illness, a family spokeswoman said. 
 Herbert Fisher, the founder and chairman of Jamesway Corporation, which operates 108 discount department stores, mainly in New York, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, died on Saturday at his home in Oradell, N.J. He was 71. His daughter Meredith Fisher said the cause was cancer of the co
 Ludwig Jesselson, a philanthropist and retired commodity trading executive who was chairman of the board of trustees of Yeshiva University, died Saturday at Shaare Zedek Medical Center in Jerusalem. He was 82 and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. Sam Hartstein, the univer
 Woodrow Swancutt, a retired major general in the Air Force who was a decorated World War II pilot and later flew the plane that dropped a test atomic bomb on Bikini Atoll, died on March 21 while walking near his at home in San Antonio. He was 77. He collapsed from cardiac failure, h
 Gary DeLoatch, a leading dancer with the Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater, died on Friday night at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 40 and lived in Manhattan. He had a long illness, said Michael Kaiser, the executive director of the Ailey company. Mr. DeLoatch was the company's
 Joseph Bryan 3d, an author and editorial writer, died on Saturday at his home, Brook Hill, in Richmond. He was 88. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Elizabeth Mayo Atkinson McIntosh. As a lieutenant commander in air-combat intelligence in the United States Navy in World W
 Alfred M. Butts, who as a jobless architect in the Depression invented the enduringly popular board game Scrabble, died on Sunday at a hospital in his hometown, Rhinebeck, N.Y. He was 93. Although its sales eventually approached 100 million sets, Scrabble languished for nearly two d
 Benjamin Baldwin, an architect and designer known for his simple and timeless interiors, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 80 and had a winter home in Sarasota and also lived in East Hampton, L.I. The cause was heart complications after a long illness, his fa
 Harold M. Altshul, the former head of Ketchum & Company, a leading drug wholesaler, died on March 29 at the Westerly Hospital in Westerly, R.I. He was 83 and lived in Stonington, Conn. The cause was respiratory failure, said his son, Dr. Victor Altshul of New Haven. Mr. Alts
 Martin P. Levine, a sociologist and educator who specialized in research on homosexuality and AIDS, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 42. The cause was AIDS, his family said. Dr. Levine founded the Lesbian and Gay Caucus of the American Sociological Associati
 Robert E. O'Bradovich, a makeup artist and actor, who won the first Emmy Award in makeup for his work in the 1961 television play "Victoria Regina," died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74. The cause of death was cardiac arrest, said his daughter, Tamara. Mr. O'
 Samuel London, a lawyer who worked for New York City, New York State and the United States Justice Department, died on Friday at Albany Medical Center Hospital. He was 79 and lived in Watervliet, N.Y., and New York City. Mr. London retired in 1981 after 20 years as a senior trial at
 William B. Crist, a retired public-relations counselor to schools and colleges, died on Thursday at Kingston Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. He lived in Manhattan and Woodstock, N.Y., and was 81. He had a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Crist was born in Newport, R.I., and att
 Cecil Burton Lyon, a retired career diplomat and former Ambassador to Chile and Sri Lanka, died on Tuesday at his home in Hancock, N.H. He was 89. The cause was pneumonia, after a brief illness, his family said. Mr. Lyon retired in 1968 at the age of 65. He then joined the s
 Harry Willmer Jones, Cardozo Professor emeritus at Columbia University School of Law, died on Tuesday at Del Webb Memorial Hospital in Sun City West, Ariz. He was 82 and had homes in Sun City and Gaylordsville, Conn. The cause was cancer, said his wife, the former Jean Brown.       
 Hugh Rodham, the father of President Clinton's wife, Hillary, died last night in Little Rock, Ark. He was 82 and lived in Little Rock. Mr. Rodham was hospitalized on March 19 at St. Vincent Infirmary Medical Center after suffering what his doctor said was a stroke. Carolyn Lindsey, 
 Jack Damlos, senior production manager for annual events at Macy's, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 44. His family said the cause was complications from AIDS-related pneumonia. Mr. Damlos joined Macy's in 1983 and was involved in the production of the Than
 Joseph G. Robbins, the first layman to serve as the Assistant Chancellor of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, died on Tuesday in Orlando, Fla., where he had retired. He was 71. His first career was at the Community Counseling Service, an international fund-raising and publ
 Paul Laszlo, an architect and interior designer in the United States and Europe, died on March 27 at home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 93. Mr. Laszlo, who retired two years ago, was known for his ultra-modern, spacious designs for celebrities, luxury stores and casinos. Hi
 Richard B. Stearns Jr. a real-estate investment executive, died on Tuesday night at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 54 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan. The cause was cancer of the bladder, said his brother-in-law Cecil Wray. Mr. Stearn
 Robert E. Lee, who helped to mold national telecommunications policy as the longest-serving member of the Federal Communications Commission, died Monday at a hospital in Arlington, Va., his hometown. He was 81. He died of liver cancer, an F.C.C. spokesman said. In his nearly
 Cyril Francis O'Neil Jr., the senior partner and a founder of Richards & O'Neil, a New York City law firm, died yesterday at his home in Bedford, N.Y. He was 60 years old. The cause was cancer, said Hugh J. Freund, managing partner of the firm. Mr. O'Neil founded the firm wi
 Michael Marsh, an author and Quaker leader, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Washington. He was 75 and lived in Washington. He died of lung cancer, his family said. Dr. Marsh, who was born in New York and graduated from Swarthmore College, started as an economist for the F
 Rabbi Joseph Dov Soloveitchik, a major Jewish philosopher who shaped Orthodox Judaism in America through his writing and lectures and his ordination of more than 2,000 rabbis, died last night at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 90. Sam Hartstein, a spokesman for Yeshiva Universit
 Richard E. Sherwood, a California lawyer and a former president and chairman of the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, died yesterday at the Hospital of the Good Samaritan in Los Angeles. He was 64 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. Anthony Day, a friend of the Sherwood family, said 
 Victor Jacobs, a lawyer who represented several leading French chefs and restaurants in New York City, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87. The cause of death was pneumonia, his doctor said. Mr. Jacobs practiced law in Manhattan for 60 years. Among his clients
 Rear Adm. Victor E. Tyson Jr., a retired chief of staff at the United States Merchant Marine Academy and the shoreside manager for three America's Cup yacht racing teams, died on Tuesday at the Medical Center of Ocean County in Point Pleasant, N.J. He lived in Allenwood, N.J., and was 76.  
 Charles G. Houghton Jr. a business executive and former athlete, died Wednesday at a hospital in his hometown, St. Louis, at the age of 78. He died of heart failure and cancer, his family said. He was chairman of Houghton & Associates in St. Louis, a manufacturer's represent
 Charles W. Lanphere, a former Ramada hotel executive who built a chain of hotels and resorts based in Dallas, drowned Sunday while fishing near his lakeside home in Wood County, Tex. He was 54 years old and lived in Dallas. Mr. Lanphere was president of the Registry Hotel Corporatio
 Rabbi Joseph Dov Soloveitchik, a major Jewish philosopher who shaped Orthodox Judaism in America through his writing and lectures and his ordination of more than 2,000 rabbis, died on Thursday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 90. Sam Hartstein, a spokesman for Yeshiva Universi
 Milan M. Vuitch, a doctor who brought one of the earliest legal challenges to restrictive abortion laws, died on Tuesday at Holy Cross Hospital here after suffering a stroke. He was 78 and lived in Silver Spring, Md. Dr. Vuitch's open defiance of legal prohibitions on abortion made 
 Hugh E. Rodham was buried today after a service at the Methodist church where his daughter, Hillary Rodham Clinton, was baptized as a child. The Rev. Jeffrey Hale of the Court Street United Methodist Church led the private, hourlong service, and President Clinton spoke briefly. Afte
 Dr. John McLean Morris, a leading gynecologic researcher who discovered the "morning after" birth-control pill and made important contributions to cancer treatment, died on Thursday at his home in Woodbridge, Conn. He was 78. The cause was prostate cancer, his family said. F
 Franz Schneider, a businessman and investor, died on Friday at his winter home in Key Largo, Fla. He was 105 and lived mainly in Oyster Bay, L.I. His daughter, June Occhiuto, said the cause of death was complications from hip surgery after a fall. Mr. Schneider was involved 
 Gabor Peter, who headed Hungary's powerful State Security Authority in the late 1940's and early 1950's, has died in Budapest, a Hungarian newspaper reported Thursday. He was 86. The newspaper, Reform, said Mr. Peter had died on Jan. 23. The Associated Press reported that a Hungaria
 Richard C. Failla, the first acknowledged homosexual elected to the New York State Supreme Court and a leader on gay rights and AIDS issues, died yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 53 and lived in Manhattan. The cause of death was complications fr
 Carroll Cloar, a Realist painter whose 1966 painting of children holding an American flag was reproduced on a poster commemorating President Clinton's inauguration, died on Saturday at his home in Memphis. He was 80. He had cancer for several years and died of a self-inflicted gunsh
 The Rev. Edward Gardiner Latch, a retired Methodist minister who was Chaplain of the House of Representatives from 1967 to 1978, died Friday at Asbury Methodist Village in Gaithersburg, Md. A resident of Gaithersburg, he was 92. Mr. Latch led the House in morning prayers through the
 The Rev. Arthur C. McGiffert Jr., a retired Congregationalist minister who was president of two seminaries, died on Friday in a retirement community in Claremont, Calif. He was 100. Mr. McGiffert served as president of the Chicago Theological Seminary from 1946 to 1958 and of the Pa
 Dr. DuMont Frelinghuysen Elmendorf Jr., a retired physician who specialized in pulmonary diseases, died on Saturday at St. Peter's Hospice in Albany. He was 69 and lived in suburban Menands. His death followed a brief illness, his family said. Dr. Elmendorf, a native of New 
 Dieter Plage, a German wildlife film maker whose documentaries brought attention to African conservation issues, died in an accident while filming in the rain forest in Sumatra on April 3, said a spokesman for Survival Anglia Ltd., a British film company. He was 57 years old. Mr. Pl
 Edmund Halsey Kellogg, a retired Foreign Service officer, conservationist and professor emeritus at Vermont Law School, died Friday at the Kendal retirement community in Hanover, N.H. He was 81. His family said he had been in declining health after a series of strokes. Mr. K
 Samuel R. Walker, a real-estate executive who directed the development of Sterling Forest in Orange County, died on Friday at his home in Niantic, Conn. He was 83. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Walker was a former executive vice president of the City Investing C
 Larry Berthelson, the creator of the Pickwick Puppet Theater and a former president of the Puppetry Guild of Greater New York, died at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif., on April 8. He was 60. Mr. Berthelson, who was born in New Haven, formed his puppet company when he was 21. He pe
 Stephen P. Taylor, an economist and a retired official of the Federal Reserve System, died last Friday at a hospital in Arlington, Va., his hometown. He was 69. He died of injuries suffered in a fall from a bicycle, his family said. Mr. Taylor worked for 32 years at the Fede
 Wallace Stegner, the novelist and short-story writer whose work celebrated the American West and won him the country's highest literary awards, died on Tuesday night at St. Vincent Hospital in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 84 and lived in Los Altos Hills, Calif. The cause of death was respi
 William Dawes Miller, a retired metals company executive and past president of the Metropolitan Club in Manhattan, died on Friday at his winter home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 74 and also had homes in Manhattan and Southampton, L.I. The cause was a heart attack, his family said.    
 Don Clay, an interior designer in Manhattan, died on Monday at the Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 46. The cause of death was AIDS, a family spokesman said. Mr. Clay specialized in architectural designs and furniture with an eclectic style. He taught interior design at 
 Dr. Denis P. Burkitt, a missionary surgeon in Africa who turned to research in his late 40's and came up with important findings on cancer and nutrition, died on March 23 in England. He was 82. His death from a stroke was reported in the current issue of The British Medical Journal.
 Dr. Harrison Echols, a biologist whose findings advanced the understanding of viral infections and normal cell functions, died on Sunday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 59. The cause of death was lung cancer, the University of California said. Dr. Echols was professor
 Prof. Fritz Steinhardt, who taught mathematics at City College for 39 years, died on Wednesday at his home on Manhattan's Upper West Side. He was 71. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Professor Steinhardt joined the college's mathematics department in 1954, a
 Prince Kyril Scherbatow, a member of the Russian nobility, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan at the age of 90. The cause was heart failure, his family said. He was a native of St. Petersburg. Both his parental families belonged to the House of Rurik, which founded Russia.    
 Philip J. Ryan, a lawyer, executive and former aide to Senator Robert F. Kennedy, died yesterday at a hospital in his hometown of Greenwich, Conn., at the age of 60. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Mr. Ryan recently stepped down as a director and the executiv
 Irving K. Kessler, a retired RCA executive and civic leader, died on Thursday at a hospital in Philadelphia. He was 74 and lived in Cherry Hill, N.J. The cause was heart failure, his family said. He was with RCA for 29 years in two different periods. For a decade he was the 
 Dr. James Lynn Hoard, an expert in crystallography whose work helped to explain crystalline and molecular structures, died last Saturday at Tompkins Community Hospital in Ithaca, N.Y., his hometown. He was 87. The cause was complications from injuries suffered in a fall, according t
 Prof. John Patrick Sullivan, a Latin scholar, literary historian and critic, died on April 9 at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 62. The cause was cancer, said Anthony James Boyle, a friend and colleague at the University of California, Santa Barbara. Professor Sulli
 John F. Ryan, an early union organizer and officer in the New York Newspaper Guild, died on Thursday at a hospital in Glen Cove, L.I., where he lived. He was 85. Mr. Ryan, a former reporter and editor on Long Island, joined the union staff in the 1930's. He became its general organi
 Edmund C. Horman, whose crusade in investigating his son's disappearance and death in a Chilean coup was portrayed in the film "Missing," died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Horman flew
 Peter F. Fleischmann, the former president and chairman of The New Yorker magazine, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan at the age of 71. The cause was cancer, his family said. For 32 years he served as an officer of The New Yorker. His father, Raoul H. Fleischmann, was 
 Robert L. Jennings, a retired president of the United States Woolworth division of the F. W. Woolworth Company, died on Thursday at a hospital in his hometown, Edgewater, N.J. He was 64. His doctor said the cause was a heart attack or stroke, his family said. Mr. Jennings st
 President Turgut Ozal of Turkey, who was combative, pugnacious and provocative to the last, died in his Ankara home yesterday. He was 66 years old. Officials said the cause of death was heart failure and suggested that it might have been hastened by a grueling 12-day tour of Central
 Edmund C. Horman, whose crusade in investigating his son's disappearance and death in a Chilean coup was portrayed in the film "Missing," died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Horman flew
 Leo H. Arnstein, a Chicago trial lawyer and partner in the law firm of Arnstein & Lehr, died on April 15 at his home in Glencoe, Ill. Mr. Arnstein was 86 years old. He died in his sleep, a spokeswoman for the law firm said. Mr. Arnstein, though retired, remained active in th
 Bernie Wayne, the composer of "There She Is, Miss America," the beauty-contest theme song, died on Sunday at his home in Marina del Rey, Calif. He was 74. The cause of death was heart failure, said Ervin Drake, a friend. Mr. Drake was a prolific composer who calculated in th
 Gov. George S. Mickelson of South Dakota, who followed his father's career path from a rural law practice to the state's highest office, died in a plane crash in Iowa yesterday, a spokesman for his office said. He was 52. Governor Mickelson was one of eight people killed in the cras
 Edward Burk Henning, the retired chief curator of modern art at the Cleveland Museum of Art, died Sunday at his home in Cleveland Heights. He was 70. The museum said the cause of death was complications from a stroke. Mr. Henning, who was born in Cleveland on Oct. 3, 1922, s
 Gottlieb Hammer, a financial consultant and active supporter of Jewish Palestine and of Israel, died yesterday at Miami Heart Institute. He was 82 and lived in Bay Harbor Island, Fla. He died of bone cancer, said a spokesman for the United Israel Appeal in New York. Mr. Hammer retir
 Msgr. John Maria Oesterreicher, who spent a lifetime nurturing understanding between Roman Catholics and Jews, died on Sunday at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston, N.J. He was 89 and lived near the campus of Seton Hall University in South Orange. The cause was cardiac arrest, said
 Reuben Hecht, an Israeli industrialist and confidant of Menachem Begin and Yitzhak Shamir, died Wednesday in Carmel Hospital in Haifa. He was 83. He died after a heart attack, said Benjamin Robert Payn, a friend in New York. Dr. Hecht, who lived in Haifa, held the title of a
 Robert Westall, the author of more than 30 books for children, died on Thursday in Warrington Hospital in Cheshire, England. He was 63 and lived in Lymm, Cheshire. The cause was respiratory failure brought on by pneumonia, said Wes Adams, his editor at Farrar, Straus & Giroux.      
 The Rev. Joseph A. Sellinger, who as president of Loyola College transformed a small commuters' school into one of the nation's leading Jesuit universities, died yesterday in the President's House on the campus at Baltimore. He was 72. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Mark Kell
 William C. McNeil, chairman of the history department at Barnard College and an associate professor, died on Sunday at Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco. He was 46 and lived at Mohegan Lake, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, said the Westchester County Medical Exa
 Gov. George S. Mickelson of South Dakota, who followed his father's career path from a rural law practice to the state's highest office, died in a plane crash in Iowa on Monday night, a spokesman for his office said. He was 52. Governor Mickelson was one of eight people killed in th
 Henry Brandon, an authority on world affairs who was the longtime Washington corespondent of the British newspaper The Sunday Times, died yesterday at the National Hospital for Neurology and Neurosurgery in London. He was 77 and lived in Washington. The cause was a stroke that he su
 James Edward O'Driscoll, an administrator at the Institute of International Education in Manhattan, died on Saturday at New York Hospital. He was 57 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. At the time of his death, Mr. O'Driscoll was director of pla
 Nino Caprioglio, a fashion illustrator whose drawings appeared in major publications in the United States and Europe for more than 40 years, died on Monday at his home in Casale Monferrato near Turin in northern Italy. He was 67. The cause of death was pancreatic cancer, friends sai
 Mario Moreno, who was better known as Cantinflas, Mexico's most famous comic actor, died on Tuesday in Mexico City. He was 81. The cause was lung cancer, said his son, Mario Jr. Thousands of mourners gathered yesterday outside the funeral home where his body lay. President C
 Howard Young, a producer of plays and musicals for Broadway, national tours and the Sacramento Music Circus, of which he was a founder, died on Monday at the Pleasant Care Convalescent Hospital in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 81. With his partner of many years, Russell Lewis, Mr. Yo
 Warmoth T. Gibbs, the retired president of a mostly black university in North Carolina who supported his students when they started the lunch-counter sit-ins that helped to overturn segregation, died on Monday at a hospital in his hometown of Greensboro, N.C. He was 101. He had had 
 Andries P. Treurnicht, the adamant advocate of apartheid who founded South Africa's Conservative Party, died yesterday at a hospital in Cape Town. He was 72. He died after heart bypass surgery, said the party's chief whip, Frank le Roux. Dr. Treurnicht established his party 
 Dr. Theodore Cooper, a scientist and former senior Government official who headed the Upjohn Company, died yesterday at the University of Virginia Medical Center in Charlottesville where he was being treated for bone marrow cancer. He was 64 years old. He was chairman and chief exec
 Dr. Kendall Emerson Jr., clinical professor of medicine emeritus at Harvard University, died on Tuesday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 86. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. A native of Worcester, Mass., Professor Emerson graduated from Yale University i
 Andre Oliver, Pierre Cardin's main assistant for more than 40 years, died at the Laennec Hospital in Paris on Thursday. He was 61 and lived in Paris. His friends said he died of AIDS. Born in Toulouse, he attended the Ecole des Beaux-Arts in Paris and joined Cardin in 1952 a
 Cesar Chavez, the migrant worker who emerged from the poverty of an agricultural valley in Arizona to found America's first successful union of farm workers, was found dead yesterday in San Luis, Ariz. He was 66. Mr. Chavez, who lived in Keene, Calif., and was in Arizona on union bu
 Emil Synek, a Czech author and playwright who opposed Hitler and Communism, died on April 12 at the Hopital Bichat in Paris. He was 89 and lived in exile in Paris since 1947. He died after a brief illness, said F. Malcolm Graff Jr., his son-in-law, in New York. Mr. Synek, wh
 Oliver R. Tambo, leader of the African National Congress for decades when it was banned and he was in exile, died early today from a stroke, the congress said in Johannesburg. He was 75 years old. In 1967 Mr. Tambo, a bespectacled, self-effacing man, became the leader of the largest
 Francis J. Gaudette, executive vice president and chief financial officer at the Microsoft Corporation, died Friday at the Virginia Mason Hospital in Seattle. He was 57. He died after an eight-month battle with cancer, said Marty Taucher, a spokesman for the software maker, which is
 Guido Carli, for decades Italy's foremost economic leader and an influential figure in international finance, died in Spoleto on Friday. He was 79. Official news reports said he died on the way to the hospital after a heart attack. Mr. Carli guided his country's economic rec
 Hal Schaffel, a television and film producer, died on Wednesday in Los Angeles. He was 78. The cause of death was complications after a heart attack and bypass surgery in December, said his son Robert, of Jersey City. Mr. Schaffel began his career as the producer of the radi
 Oliver R. Tambo, who led the African National Congress through its decades of banishment and its guerrilla war against the South African Government, died of a stroke here early this morning. He was 75. Nelson Mandela, his lifelong friend and successor as president of the congress, b
 Paul Suttman, a sculptor best known for Impressionistic figurative works in bronze, died on Wednesday at his home in South Kent, Conn. He was 59. The cause was heart failure, said Jacques Kaplan, an art dealer in Kent who represented Mr. Suttman. Mr. Suttman, who was born on
 Rex F. Harlow, a leader in public relations who helped to raise its professional standards, died on April 16 at his retirement community in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 100. Dr. Harlow, a former publishing manager and education professor, switched to public relations in the early days o
 Rodman Gilder, a psychoanalyst who specialized in treating emotional problems of children with major physical ailments, died on Wednesday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 74. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Dr. Gilder practiced in Scarsdale and taught ps
 William P. Fenn, a former missionary educator who led a coalition of Protestant-sponsored colleges and universities in Asia, died on Wednesday at a retirement community in Doylestown, Pa., at the age of 90. Dr. Fenn was the retired general secretary of the United Board for Christian
 E. Douglas Hamilton, a New York City libel lawyer for 66 years, died on Friday at St. Francis Hospital in Port Washington, L.I. He was 92. The cause of death was heart failure, his family said. Mr. Hamilton began a career in newspaper law as a counsel to The New York Herald 
 Rabbi Chaim Mordechai Aizik Hodakov, the chief of staff for the spiritual leader of the Lubavitcher movement, died on Friday at Brookdale Hospital and Medical Center in the East New York section of Brooklyn. He was 91. He died after a brief illness, said officials at the Hasidic gro
 Everett F. Drumright, who retired as United States Ambassador to Taiwan in 1962 after 32 years in the Foreign Service, died on Saturday at Pomerado Hospital in Poway, Calif. He was 86 and had lived in Poway since retiring. He had been ill for a brief time, his family said. D
 Frank Arthur Vanderlip Jr., a New York investment banker and philanthropist, died on Friday at the John Douglas French Center for Alzheimer's disease in Los Alamitos, Calif. He was 86 and lived in Somers, N.Y., and on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said Henr
 Alois M. Nagler, a scholar of theater history, died on Monday at his home in Wallingford, Conn. He was 85. He had been in failing health, said a friend, Phyllis Warfel. Dr. Nagler taught theater history at Yale University for 30 years and was the director of graduate studies
 Lawrence Calcagno, an artist who came to prominence during the heyday of Abstract Expressionism in the 1950's for his series "The Black Paintings," died on Thursday in State College, Pa., while visiting relatives. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan and Taos, N.M. The cause was brain c
 Richard B. Donchian, an early leader in the commodities futures market, died Saturday at a hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 87 and lived in Pompano Beach, Fla. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Donchian was a senior vice president of Shears
 Walter F. Blaine, a New York investment banker, died on Friday at a nursing home in Manhattan. He was 96 and lived in Sea Girt, N.J. He had suffered a long illness, his family said. Mr. Blaine, a native of Staten Island, took courses in finance at New York University and Pac
 Ben Schwartzwalder, who recruited a series of acclaimed running backs as he restored Syracuse to football glory during 25 sparkling seasons that included an undefeated campaign in 1959, died yesterday at Northside Hospital in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 83. Mr. Schwartzwalder, a res
 Dominique Bozo, president of the Pompidou Center and founding director of the Picasso Museum in Paris, died yesterday in Paris. He was 58. The cause was cancer, a Pompidou Center statement announced. As a creative curator, a master of installation and the guardian of the Fre
 Edgar P. Berry, who was a leading plastic surgeon and a former president of the New York County Medical Society, died on Monday at a nursing home in Sandwich, Mass. He was 78. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, his family said. Dr. Berry retired in 1984 as the director of pl
 George S. Springsteen Jr., a former State Department official, died on Saturday at his weekend home in Scientists Cliffs, Md. He was 70 and lived in Bethesda, Md. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Springsteen worked for the Government for 31 years, rising to
 Jim Valvano, the fast-talking, wisecracking New York-bred basketball coach who led North Carolina State to its Cinderella 1983 national championship, died yesterday at Duke University Medical Center after a yearlong battle with cancer. He was 47. Valvano, who had been a basketball c
 Dr. Michael Edward Stanley, a Columbia University neuroscientist known nationally for his research on the biochemistry of suicide, died on Monday at his home in Short Hills, N.J. He was 49. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife and fellow researcher, Dr. Barbara Stanley.      
 Ray Haight, a former racing announcer who served as director of publicity for Monmouth Park from 1971 until his retirement in 1988, died Tuesday at his home in Oceanport, N.J. He was 67. The cause of death was a heart attack, a track spokesman said. Mr. Haight had been in ra
 Cy Howard, a comedy writer, director and producer best remembered for his 1940's radio shows "My Friend Irma" and "Life With Luigi," died yesterday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 77 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was heart failure after a long illness, sa
 Josef Greindl, a German bass who was best known for his performances of Wagnerian roles, died on April 16 in Vienna. He was 80. Austrian press reports said the cause was heart failure. Mr. Greindl's performances as Hunding, Hagen and Fafner in Wagner's "Ring" cycle and as Po
 Arthur Roe, a chemist, educator and former official with the National Science Foundation, died on Tuesday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 80. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. He was the first director of the foundation's international program, from 1961 to 197
 Dr. Oskar Diethelm, professor emeritus at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, died on April 22 in Lachen, Switzerland. He was 95. The cause of death was pneumonia, the center reported. He returned to Lachen in January from Bronxville, N.Y., where he had lived. He r
 Ralph S. Gallagher, a publishing executive, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 67 and lived in Chappaqua. The cause of death was heart disease, his family said. Mr. Gallagher was a vice president of Enquirer/Star Group Inc., publishers of The National Enquir
