 Jacob Levitz, an educator and writer in Yiddish, Hebrew and English, died on June 17 at New York University Medical Center. He was 84 and lived in Brooklyn. Dr. Levitz was born in Kolno, Poland, a son and grandson of rabbis. He graduated from the Jewish Teachers Seminary in New York
 William Hickey, whose career as an actor on stage and in radio, television and films reached its peak in his portrayal of a decrepit, raspy-voiced Mafia don in the 1985 film ''Prizzi's Honor,'' died on Sunday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 69 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cau
 Harry A. McQuillen 3d, the chief operating officer of the K-III Communications Corporation, died over the weekend at his home in Darien, Conn. He was 51 years old. The cause of death was a gunshot wound to the head, according to the office of Connecticut's chief medical examiner. Dr
 John J. Reilly, a retired judge of the New York State Supreme Court and a former mayor of Upper Nyack, N.Y., died last Tuesday at Naples Community Hospital in Naples, Fla., where he had a vacation home. He was 84 and lived in Upper Nyack. He suffered a brief illness, the Hannemann F
 Robert Mitchum, the insouciant actor whose heavy-lidded eyes gazed on the world with cynical amusement as he radiated rugged strength in more than 100 movies, died in his sleep yesterday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 79. The Associated Press reported that he had been s
 Charles M. Hardin, professor emeritus of political science at the University of California at Davis and a widely respected advocate of constitutional revision, died on Saturday at his daughter's home in San Francisco. Professor Hardin, who also lived in San Francisco, was 88. In 198
 James Stewart, whose movie portrayals of decent, idealistic and naive small-town Americans made him a beloved national icon, died yesterday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 89. He died from a blood clot in his lung, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Stewart's per
 Michael E. Cohen, executive vice president of the Hudson News Company, a large wholesale distributor and retailer of magazines, died on Wednesday at his home in Englewood, N.J. He was 41. The cause was apparently a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Cohen, a native of Englew
 Robert Francis Byrnes, a professor emeritus of history at Indiana University who founded and directed the Russian and East European Institute, died on June 19 at the Columbia Brunswick Hospital in Ocean Isle, N.C. He was 79 and lived in Bloomington, Ind. He suffered a heart attack a
 Blair Birdsall, a civil engineer whose expertise in suspension bridges and other cable systems stretched from the Golden Gate in California to the East River to one of the world's engineering marvels, now being built in Denmark, died on June 25 at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 9
 Dr. Felix N. Rutledge, a gynecologic surgeon who is credited with developing the medical specialty dealing with cancer in the female genital tract, died on June 21 at Methodist Hospital in Houston. He was 79 and lived in Geneva, Tex. The cause was complications of a stroke, family m
 Johnny Copeland, one of the foremost Texas blues singers and guitarists of the 70's and 80's, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 60 and lived in Teaneck, N.J. The cause was complications during a surgical repair of a heart valve, seven months after
 Charles Kuralt, the CBS newsman who turned basic curiosity into a prize-winning journalistic ethos as he ranged across the country to interview the overlooked and explore the underappreciated, died yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 62. The cause of death was heart failure, said
 Jerome Machlin, one of America's most prominent directors of bridge tournaments, died on Tuesday in a nursing home near his home in Wheaton, Md. He was 83. He had been suffering from congestive heart problems and renal failure, his wife, Trudy, said. Mr. Machlin, known as Je
 Jess Meeker, a composer, accompanist and musical director at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival, died on Wednesday at Toledo Hospital in Toledo, Ohio. Mr. Meeker was 85 and lived in Toledo. The cause was cardiac arrest, according to a spokeswoman for the festival, in Becket, Mass.   
 Leslie (Bubba) Gaines, a noted tap dancer and leading member of the Copasetics tap group, died on Monday at the Veterans Hospital in Manhattan after a short illness. He was 85 and lived in Harlem. Mr. Gaines, born in Waycross, Ga., was a boxer who danced on street corners and in car
 Jose A. Martinez, who in the early 1940's danced with the American Ballet Caravan and Ballet Society, precursors of the New York City Ballet, died on June 24 at the Huntington Memorial Hospital in Pasadena, Calif. He was 84 and lived in Pasadena. Mr. Martinez, who was born in Mexico
 Wolcott Balestier Dunham, a cancer specialist whose research over more than six decades advanced the treatment of several infectious diseases, died on June 22 at a nursing home in Towson, Md., near Baltimore. He was 97. Dr. Dunham, who published his final research paper at 95, was l
 Woodbridge Strong, a former law partner in the family practice of Strong & Strong in New Brunswick, N.J., died on June 21 at the Francis E. Parker Memorial Home in Piscataway, N.J. He was 87 and had previously lived in Highland Park, N.J., and Lenox, Mass. Mr. Strong was a son of St
 Dr. Ade Thomas Milhorat, a pioneering researcher of neuromuscular disease and one of the world's foremost experts in muscular dystrophy, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Barre, Vt. He was 98 and lived in Pelham Manor, N.Y. Dr. Milhorat began his work with nerve and muscle disea
 Malcolm Arthur Hoffmann, a former Federal antitrust official, New York lawyer and author of legal textbooks, died on June 24 at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 84. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. A Brooklyn native, Mr. Hoffmann graduated magna cum 
 Dr. Richard Grimes, a pathologist and neurosurgeon who was the medical examiner of Queens County from 1929 to 1969, died Tuesday at Phoebe Home in Allentown, Pa. A former resident of Brooklyn and Queens, he was 93 and lived in Macungie, Pa. Born in Brooklyn, Dr. Grimes studied at Co
 Richard H. Randall Jr., an authority on medieval ivory carvings who was the director of the Walters Art Gallery in Baltimore from 1965 to 1981, died on Thursday in Baltimore. He was 71 and lived in Baltimore. The cause was heart failure, said his son, Christopher. Mr. Randal
 Mate Boban, the hard-line leader of the Bosnian Croats during their war with the Bosnian Muslims and a close ally of President Franjo Tudjman of Croatia, died today after a stroke, according to hospital officials in Mostar. He was 57. Mr. Boban, a former salesman for a clothing stor
 David Anderson, a United States Ambassador to Yugoslavia in the 1980's, died on July 4 in Berlin. He was 60. The cause of death was a liver disease, family members said. As Ambassador in Belgrade from 1981 to 1985, his main task was to help Yugoslavia cope with a deepening e
 Gloster B. Current, former deputy executive director of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, died on Thursday at North Shore University Hospital-Cornell University Medical College in Forest Hills, Queens. Mr. Current, who lived in Hollis, Queens, was 84. T
 Henry Evans Howell Jr., a populist-style liberal Virginia Democrat who irked party old-liners so much that they banded with conservative Republicans to end his political career in 1977, died on Monday at his home in Norfolk. He was 76. He had suffered a lengthy illness, his family s
 Alexander Carl von Summer, the head of one of New Jersey's leading commercial real estate companies, died on Friday in a motorcycle accident in Putnam County, New York. He was 58 and lived in Riverside, Conn. Mr. von Summer lost control of his motorcycle when it hit a patch of grave
 Charles L. Drake, emeritus professor of earth science at Dartmouth College and a leading advocate of the  theory that it was volcanic eruptions that killed off the dinosaurs, died on Tuesday at his home in Norwich, Vt.  He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, said  his wife, Martha
 Daniel J. Lyons, who rose from an assistant actuary to become chairman of the Guardian Life Insurance Company of America, died last Thursday at his home in Princeton, N.J. Mr. Lyons was 92 years old. After graduating with a mathematics degree from Harvard University in 1926, Mr. Lyo
 Edwin Diamond, an author, teacher and journalist whose career spanned more than 45 years and ranged from covering the space age to critiquing the news media, died yesterday afternoon at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Adelina.
 Franklin M. Heller, who directed the long-running television quiz show ''What's My Line?'' and many other dramatic and musical programs, died yesterday at Evergreen Woods, a retirement community in North Branford, Conn. He was 85. Mr. Heller began his career in the theater, taking u
 Harold Epstein, the elder statesman of the horticultural world, who invariably insisted that gardening was just a hobby but whose one-and-a-half-acre site in Larchmont, N.Y., contained a collection matched by few other American gardeners, died at his home on Tuesday. He was 94. His 
 Max E. Youngstein, a film producer and Hollywood executive who had a principal role in a 1950's financial rescue of United Artists, the legendary movie company, died Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 84. As head of production and marketing for United Artists from 1951 to 19
 Tony Thomas, a Hollywood chronicler and biographer, died on Tuesday  at Providence St. Joseph Medical Center in Burbank in Los Angeles. He was 69 and lived in Burbank. The cause was complications from pneumonia, said Jon Burlingame, a family friend. Mr. Thomas was the author
 Edwin Diamond, an author, teacher and journalist whose career spanned more than 45 years and ranged from covering the space age to critiquing the news media, died Thursday afternoon at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Adelina. 
 James C. Hill, former deputy director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, died on June 26 in Richmond, where he had undergone surgery for a liver ailment. He was 56 and lived in Washington. The cause was complications of his surgery, his family said.       
 Dr. Karl Gunther Kessler, a physicist and former associate director for international and academic affairs at the National Institute of Standards and Technology, died on Monday in Bethesda, Md. He was 77 and lived in Bethesda. The cause was a heart attack, family members said.      
 Dr. William J. Welch, who practiced internal medicine and cardiology for many years in New York City  and who was the former host of a radio advice program, died on Thursday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was lun
 Guy Murchie, an author, artist and aviator, died on Tuesday at a convalescent hospital in Fullerton, Calif. He was 90. Mr. Murchie was a Chicago Tribune photographer, staff artist and reporter, serving as a war correspondent in England and Iceland  from 1940 to 1942. He was also a f
 Henry Salvatori, an Italian-born geophysicist who founded an international oil exploration company and used his fortune to sponsor Los Angeles institutions and conservative causes, like the political career of Ronald Reagan, died last Sunday at St. John's Medical Center in Santa Monica. He 
 Joseph Edwin Finley, a labor lawyer and union counsel who also wrote about labor and published a novel, died Tuesday at his home in Baltimore. He was 77. The cause was complications from a severe injury suffered in a fall at home, said his wife, Dr. Joanne Otte Finley. Mr. F
 Ron Andersen, a leading personality in the world of bridge, died on July 3 at North-West Hospital in Chicago. He was 56. While officiating as chief commentator at the European Bridge Championships in Italy last month, he suffered two strokes associated with kidney failure, said his 
 Frank R. Parker, a civil-rights lawyer who was an authority on voting-rights law, died on Thursday at a hospital in Lexington, Va. He was 57 and lived in Lexington. The cause was complications from an aortic aneurysm, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Parker was a visiting 
 Dr. Lowell E. Bellin, a specialist in public health who served as New York City's chief health officer under Mayor Abraham D. Beame, died yesterday at his home in East Flatbush, Brooklyn. He was 68. His family said his death was caused by complications of advanced Parkinson's diseas
 Francois Furet, a prominent historian who challenged the popular Marxist interpretation of the French Revolution and reshaped French thinking about subsequent events, died on Saturday in a hospital in Toulouse. He was 70. He had received a head injury while playing tennis a few days
 Gianni Versace, the man who brought rock, art, sexuality and brilliant color into contemporary fashion, was shot to death yesterday outside his home in Miami Beach. He was 50. It is difficult to imagine another designer whose death would drain more life from the industry, an industr
 Glenn Dale Wilburn, who lost his two grandsons in the Oklahoma City bombing and led a successful campaign to set up a local grand jury to investigate the crime, died yesterday morning at his home in Oklahoma City. He was 46. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his son, Bart Wilburn of 
 Samuel Brookner Gould, a visionary educator who fused 58 New York campuses into today's unified State University system, died Friday at Sarasota (Fla.) Memorial Hospital. He was 86 and had lived in Sarasota since his retirement in 1970. The cause was congestive heart failure, said h
 Douglas Huebler, a founder of the Conceptual Art movement, died on Saturday at his home in Truro, Mass. He was 72. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Huebler was a member of an idealistic generation of artists, including Lawrence Weiner, Joseph Kosuth, Jan Dibbets, R
 Eugene C. Goossen, an art critic and former chairman of the art department at Hunter College, died on Monday at Southwestern Vermont Medical Center in Bennington, Vt.  Mr. Goossen, who lived in nearby Buskirk, N.Y., was 76. He died of pneumonia after a long illness, said his widow, 
 Miguel Najdorf, a flamboyant poet of the chess pieces who was one of the most celebrated grandmasters never to play for the world championship, died on July 4 in Malaga University Hospital in Malaga, Spain. He was 87 and a beloved figure in Buenos Aires. The cause was complications 
 Winfred Lamar Godwin, who played a central role in advancing education in the South and shaping educational objectives for the year 2000, died last Friday at his home in Smyrna, Ga. He was 71. The cause was complications from supranuclear palsy, a form of paralysis, said Bracey Camp
 Rear Adm. Albert Girard Mumma, a naval engineer who commanded the Navy Department's Bureau of Ships in the 1950's as its nuclear power and missile program went full throttle, died on Tuesday at the Waverly Heights nursing home in Gladwyne, Pa. He was 91. Admiral Mumma, who retired f
 Arthur L. Liman, a masterly legal strategist who made his living representing both corporate tycoons and scalawags but made his public mark investigating pivotal events like the Iran-contra affair and the Attica prison uprising, died yesterday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 64 a
 Thomas Mellon Evans Sr., a financier who was one of Wall Street's most feared corporate raiders in the 1950's and 1960's and later the breeder of champion thoroughbred horses, including a Kentucky Derby winner, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86. The cause of death w
 Dr. Eugene Merle Shoemaker, who, with his wife, Carolyn, held a world record for the number of comets discovered, was killed yesterday  in a car accident near Alice Springs, Australia. Mrs. Shoemaker suffered broken bones and was hospitalized. Dr. Shoemaker was 69 and lived in Flagstaff, Ar
 Dr. Robert C. Weaver, the first Secretary of Housing and Urban Development and the first black person appointed to the Cabinet, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89. Dr. Weaver was also one of the original directors of the Municipal Assistance Corporation, which was 
 Carl Maxey, a scrappy civil rights lawyer credited with virtually singlehandedly desegregating much of the inland Northwest, took his life on Thursday, the police said in Spokane, Wash., where he had long been known as the city's leading criminal defense attorney and a pre-eminent civic lea
 Daniel I. Sargent, the founder of the corporate finance department of Salomon Brothers and later a managing director of the firm as well as the head of its credit and business practice committee, died on Thursday at his home in North Salem, N.Y. He was 72 years old and had been suff
 Dr. Thomas H. Meikle Jr., a former dean of the Cornell University Medical College and retired president of the Josiah Macy Jr. Foundation, both in New York, died yesterday at his home in Roxbury, Conn. He was 68. The cause was cancer, his family said. During his career, which began 
 Leo Gruliow, who turned a chance Depression-era job as a Moscow journalist into a cold war career translating Soviet periodicals into English, died on July 13 in a hospice near his home in Columbus, Ohio. He was 84. For someone whose education did not go beyond high school, Mr. Grul
 Robert McCague Hays, the passionate plant propagator of the Brooklyn Botanic Garden, died Thursday at New York University Hospital. He was 38. He lived in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, and died of kidney failure after a 12-year struggle with AIDS, said Judy Zuk, the president of the Brooklyn
 Sir James Goldsmith, a flamboyant British-French financier who maintained three families, homes in four countries and used his billions to fight the European Union, died Friday in Spain, a spokesman said. He was 64. Sir James, who had battled pancreatic cancer for four years, died o
 Zane Klein, general counsel of Guardsmark Inc., a Memphis-based national security and investigative service, died on June 27 after collapsing in his office in Memphis. He was 60 and had lived in Memphis since moving from Manhattan in 1993. The company said the cause was thought to b
 Archie E. Albright, one of the first senior corporate managers recruited by Wall Street in the bull markets of the 1960's, died Tuesday at his home in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 76. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Mr. Albright worked for several investment banking 
 Joe Hauser, the only man in the history of organized baseball to have twice hit more than 60 home runs in a season, died on July 11 in Sheboygan, Wis. He was 98. As a minor leaguer, Hauser hit 63 home runs for the Baltimore Orioles of the International League in 1930 and 69 homers f
 Marvin J. Sonosky, a Washington lawyer who championed the cause of the American Indian throughout his long career, died on Wednesday at Alexandria Hospital in Virginia. An Alexandria resident, he was 88. The cause was heart failure, his law firm reported. Until his death, he
 Stuart Jewell, a celebrated cinematographer who was so enthralled with natural wonders that he pursued them from sunrise to sunset for half a century, died on July 13 at his home in Costa Mesa, Calif. He was 84 and best known for his time-lapse photography in Walt Disney's landmark nature m
 Dr. Thomas H. Meikle Jr., a former dean of the Cornell University Medical College and retired president of the Josiah Macy Jr. Foundation, both in New York, died yesterday at his home in Roxbury, Conn. He was 68. The cause was cancer, his family said. During his career, whic
 Alf Engen, who won 16 United States skiing titles, half in ski jumping, and who helped design more than 30 American ski areas, died Sunday in Cottonwood Hospital in Salt Lake City. He was 88. The best-known ski areas that he helped design were Sun Valley, Idaho; Alta, Utah, and Jack
 The Right Rev. John Elbridge Hines, the 22d Presiding Bishop of the Episcopal Church who guided the denomination through the social turmoil of the 1960's and helped open its clerical ranks to women and blacks, died on Saturday in Austin, Tex. He was 86 and had moved to Austin from North Car
 Raymond H. Herzog, former chairman of the Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing Company, died July 12 at his home in Pine Tree Hills, Minn. He was 81. The cause of death was cancer, according to a statement from the company. Mr. Herzog retired from 3M in 1980 after nearly 40 years of s
 William Reynolds, a deft and meticulous Hollywood film editor who won Academy Awards for ''The Sound of Music'' and ''The Sting,'' died on July 16 in South Pasadena, Calif. He was 87. The cause was cancer, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Reynolds was a versatile editor, h
 Bruno Zehnder, an adventurous Swiss photographer best known for his striking images of penguins and other wildlife, died earlier this month when he lost his way in a blizzard while trying to return to the Russian base at Mirnyy, Antarctica. He was 52 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Zehn
 Jerome Francis Cantwell, an aerospace and military industry analyst, died on July 5 at his home in East Quogue, N.Y. He was 52. The cause was a brain tumor, said his wife, Josephine Cantwell. Mr. Cantwell, who spent his entire career in the aerospace and military industry, f
 Alan Mixon, who discovered a passion for performing while traveling with his grandfather's circus and transformed it into a three-decade acting career, died on Saturday in New York. He was 64. The cause was a heart attack, said a friend, George H. Comptis. Mr. Mixon, who was
 Col. Patrick Gerald Collins, who as a retired Marine officer advised the  service and other organizations about the tactics, training needs and battlefield doctrine of tomorrow, died last Thursday in Fairfax, Va., at the home of one of his daughters. He was 64 and lived in Hampton, N.H., ne
 Eric Ashworth, a literary agent who specialized in guiding young authors first into print and then into careers, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 39. The cause was complications from AIDS, said Edward Hibbert of the Donadio & Ashworth literary agency in Manhattan.    
 George Nemeny, whose designs for family homes on Long Island earned him dozens of architecture awards in the 1950's and 60's, died on Sunday at the Village Nursing Home in Greenwich Village. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Nemeny, a native of Budapest, established himself as a
 Irving Strobing, the Brooklyn-born Army radio operator who stirred the pulse of a country by tapping out the last brave messages of horror, humor and hope before the surrender of the Philippines in World War II, died on July 8 at a veterans hospital in Durham, N.C. He was 77 and had sent th
 Robert Lamont Green, a men's fashion editor, consultant and lecturer who was the fashion director of Playboy magazine for more than 20 years, died last Thursday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 79. The cause was liver cancer, said his companion, David R. Taylor.
 Irving Strobing, the Brooklyn-born Army radio operator who stirred the pulse of a country by tapping out the last brave messages of horror, humor and hope before the surrender of the Philippines in World War II, died on July 8 at a veterans hospital in Durham, N.C. He was 77 and had sent th
 Justice William J. Brennan Jr., a towering figure in modern law who embodied the liberal vision of the Constitution as an engine of social and political change, died today, almost exactly seven years after his retirement from the Supreme Court. He was 91. Justice Brennan had been in
 William Rufus Scott, a pioneer publisher of modern children's books remarkable for their striking illustrations and educational content, died on Tuesday at his home in North Bennington, Vt. He was 86. He formed a small publishing house, W. R. Scott, in 1938 and began to publish what
 Ben Hogan, the flinty-eyed Texan who was perhaps the most creative shotmaker in the history of golf and one of its most accomplished players, died yesterday morning in Fort Worth. He was 84. He had been in poor health since undergoing surgery for colon cancer two years ago, then con
 Dick Taylor, a longtime golf journalist, died Thursday at his home in Pinehurst, N.C. He was 72. The cause of death was cancer, said his wife, Lynne. Mr. Taylor was a contributing editor of Golfweek, editor at large of Links and a columnist for Senior Golfer. He was best kno
 George H. Newi, a former president of the ABC Television Network, died on Tuesday while on vacation in Norway. Mr. Newi, a resident of Bonita Springs, Fla., was 62. The cause of death was a heart attack, said his wife, Sally Garnett Newi. Mr. Newi joined the ABC sales depart
 Robert Arnold Hurwitch, who served as United States Ambassador to the Dominican Republic in the 1970's, died on July 16 at his home in Minot, Mass. He was 76. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. A former Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs,
 Robert Warrn Barnett, a retired United States diplomat and author, died Friday in Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington, where he lived. He was 85. The cause was cancer and penumonia, his family said. An expert on China and the Far East, Mr. Barnett retired from the Foreign
 Gen. Saw Maung, an unassuming Burmese officer who organized a bloody military coup in 1988 and served as the titular ruler while Myanmar toyed with democracy and then brutally repressed it, died on Thursday at his residence in the capital, Yangon. He was 68. A Government statement s
 Alan J. Charig, a peripatetic paleontologist who pursued dinosaurs around the world and brought their story home to a generation of scholars and schoolchildren, died on July 15 in his home in Oxted, England. He was 70 and had been curator of fossil reptiles, mammals and birds at the British
 Frank Parker, a product of a poor Milwaukee family who was discovered by his mentor while working as a ball boy and who rose to win the United States Nationals singles tennis title twice, died last Thursday. He was 81. He died at the University of California Medical Center in San Di
 Irving Geis, an artist who illuminated the wonders of science, from the vastness of space to the intricacies of molecular structures, died on Tuesday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 88 and lived in the Inwood section of Manhattan. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage,
 Lawrence G. Chait, a pioneer of the direct marketing industry in the decades after World War II, died July 18 at his home in Croyden, N.H. He was 80. The cause of death was a heart attack, according to his daughter, Martha L. Berlin of Washington. Mr. Chait began his career as direc
 Winthrop Murray Crane 3d, a retired executive of the papermaker Crane & Company, and a lifelong supporter of the Red Cross and other charities, died on June 28 at his home in Dalton, Mass. He was 86. Mr. Crane's involvement with the Red Cross, nationally and in western Massachusetts
 Clarkson S. Fisher, who rose from Monmouth County judge to serve as the chief judge of the United States District Courts in New Jersey from 1979 to 1987, died on Sunday at the Medical Center of Princeton. He was 76 and a lifelong resident of Long Branch, N.J. The cause was lung canc
 Gregorio Weber, a biochemist at the University of Illinois who broke ground in an area of chemical analysis called fluorescent spectroscopy, died on July 18 at his home in Urbana, Ill. He was 81. The cause was acute leukemia, his family said. Dr. Weber's research, still goin
 Barry Lewis Zaretsky, a professor at Brooklyn Law School and a scholar in the fields of bankruptcy and commercial law, died on Monday, apparently in an explosion that destroyed his vacation home in Canaan, N.Y. He was 47 years old. Police in Claverack, N.Y., said the explosion was u
 Clarkson S. Fisher, who rose from Monmouth County judge to serve as the chief judge of the United States District Courts in New Jersey from 1979 to 1987, died on Sunday at the Medical Center of Princeton. He was 76 and a lifelong resident of Long Branch, N.J. The cause was lung canc
 Dr. Lee Edward Farr, an early proponent of the medical uses of nuclear energy and the first medical director of Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island, died on July 16 in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 90. The cause was cancer, his family said. At Brookhaven in the late 
 Kenneth P. Forbes, a stage and film actor who later became a newspaper executive in Suffolk County, died on Sunday in Muncy, Pa. He was 76 and lived in Hughesville, Pa. Mr. Forbes was born in New Rochelle, N.Y., a son of T. Harold Forbes and Carrie Forbes, a song-and-dance team that
 Paul L. Miller, an investment banker and a former president of the First Boston Corporation, died Saturday at Morristown Memorial Hospital in Morristown, N.J. He was 77. The cause was heart failure following surgery to remove a blood clot, his wife, Adele, said. Mr. Miller w
 Raymond Allen Jackson, who kept a good part of London chuckling, chortling and sometimes gasping in indignation during a three-decade run as Jak, the irreverent cartoonist for The Evening Standard, died on Sunday at his home in Wimbledon. He was 70. The Standard said the cause was c
