Bill Strauss, whose voice was familiar to radio listeners during the nearly four decades he served as an announcer and later news director for WQXR, died of cardio-respiratory failure Saturday at the Salem Hills (N.Y.) Nursing Care Center, where he lived for the past year. He was 74 y
Colvin R. de Silva, a founding member of Sri Lanka's leftist movement and a former Cabinet minister, died Monday. He was 82 years old. Colvin R. de Silva, a founding member of Sri Lanka's leftist movement and a former Cabinet minister, died Monday. He was 82 years old.        
Dr. Harold S. Leopold, a psychiatrist and former director of group psychotherapy at the Bronx Psychiatric Center, died of emphysema yesterday at the New Rochelle Medical Center. He was 88 years old and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y. Dr. Harold S. Leopold, a psychiatrist and former 
Faiyazuddin Dagar, a singer whose family has been performing its own tradition of Hindu classical music for 19 generations - since the 15th century - died of a heart attack Feb. 7 in New Delhi. He was 55 years old. Faiyazuddin Dagar, a singer whose family has been performing i
Guy Daniels, a translator and poet, died of prostate cancer Friday at Doctors' Hospital in Manhattan. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan. Guy Daniels, a translator and poet, died of prostate cancer Friday at Doctors' Hospital in Manhattan. He was 69 years old and lived
Konrad Lorenz, perhaps this century's most widely known experts on animal behavior, died Monday at his home in Altenburg, Austria, east of Vienna, at the age of 85. The Austrian Press Agency said he died of kidney failure. Konrad Lorenz, perhaps this century's most widely know
Lloyd William Daly, retired professor of Greek and Latin literature at the University of Pennsylvania, died Sunday at the home of his daughter, Caryl Johnson, in Englewood, N.J. He was 78 years old and lived in Englewood. Lloyd William Daly, retired professor of Greek and Lati
Norman G. Hickman, a stockbroker and author, died of lung cancer on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 69 years old and was also a resident of Southampton, L.I. Norman G. Hickman, a stockbroker and author, died of lung cancer on Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 69 
Aurelio Buarque de Holanda Ferreira, the author of a 1975 dictionary that became the best-selling book in the Portuguese language, died at home here on Monday. He was 78 years old and had suffered from respiratory problems and Parkinson's disease. Aurelio Buarque de Holanda Fe
Bernard Beryl Brodie, a leading researcher on drug therapy, died of cardiac arrest Monday at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 81 years old. Bernard Beryl Brodie, a leading researcher on drug therapy, died of cardiac arrest Monday at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He w
Clifford L. Alexander Sr., for many years resident manager of the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company's Riverton housing development in Manhattan, died Tuesday at St. Luke's Hospital after a brief illness. He was 91 years old and lived in Riverton. Clifford L. Alexander Sr., f
Dr. Charles A. Hoffman, a pediatrician, died Monday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 73 years old and lived in Queens. Dr. Charles A. Hoffman, a pediatrician, died Monday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 73 years old and live
Daniel Steinberg, a lawyer and businessman, died of a cerebral hemorrhage Sunday at Northwest Regional Hospital in Margate, Fla. He was 79 years old and lived in Woodmere, L.I. Daniel Steinberg, a lawyer and businessman, died of a cerebral hemorrhage Sunday at Northwest Region
Edward Francis Murphy, a leader in the gay-rights movement, died Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. Edward Francis Murphy, a leader in the gay-rights movement, died Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. Mr. Murphy, who was 63 years old and lived in
John Max Lentz, a retired Army major general, died Friday at a nursing home in El Paso, Tex. He was 93 years old and lived in El Paso. John Max Lentz, a retired Army major general, died Friday at a nursing home in El Paso, Tex. He was 93 years old and lived in El Paso.        
Lee E. Cooper, a retired real-estate editor of The New York Times, died Tuesday at the Lake Wales (Fla.) Hospital. He was 89 years old and lived in Lake Wales. Lee E. Cooper, a retired real-estate editor of The New York Times, died Tuesday at the Lake Wales (Fla.) Hospital. He
Richard Armour, a popular and prolific writer of whimsical and satirical verse and a retired college professor of English literature, died of Parkinson's disease Tuesday at a convalescent home in Claremont, Calif. He was 82 years old. Richard Armour, a popular and prolific wri
Roy Bongartz, a writer, died of a heart attack Tuesday in Lubbock, Tex. He was 64 years old and lived in Foster, R.I. Roy Bongartz, a writer, died of a heart attack Tuesday in Lubbock, Tex. He was 64 years old and lived in Foster, R.I. Mr. Bongartz was born in Providen
Virgil W. Peterson, a nationally known law-enforcement official, died Feb. 20 at his home in Riverside, Ill., a suburb of Chicago. He was 84 years old. Virgil W. Peterson, a nationally known law-enforcement official, died Feb. 20 at his home in Riverside, Ill., a suburb of Chi
Dr. William Bennett Bean, a medical educator and researcher, died of bowel cancer yesterday at his home in Iowa City. He was 79 years old. Dr. William Bennett Bean, a medical educator and researcher, died of bowel cancer yesterday at his home in Iowa City. He was 79 years old.
Clark P. Lattin Jr., former president of the M. W. Kellogg Company and Pullman Inc., died of cancer Friday at St. Mary's Hospital in Portsmouth, Va. He was 73 years old and lived in Portsmouth. Clark P. Lattin Jr., former president of the M. W. Kellogg Company and Pullman Inc.
Henry Gerard Bruns, a retired investment broker and railroad executive, died Wednesday at his home in New London, N.H. He was 84 years old and had lived in Montclair, N.J., before moving to New Hampshire in 1977. Henry Gerard Bruns, a retired investment broker and railroad exe
John A. Michaels, a stockbroker and a managing director of the Kidder, Peabody Group Inc., died of heart failure Tuesday at New York Hospital. He was 47 years old and lived in Short Hills, N.J. John A. Michaels, a stockbroker and a managing director of the Kidder, Peabody Grou
John P. McGrath, a lawyer, banker and real-estate developer who served as New York City's Corporation Counsel and as a member of the Waterfront Commission of New York and New Jersey, died yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center after a long illness. He was 82 years old and l
The Rev. Julius Lafayette Tucker, a radio and television minister, died Tuesday. He was 92 years old. The Rev. Julius Lafayette Tucker, a radio and television minister, died Tuesday. He was 92 years old. Mr. Tucker, an Adventist minister, developed his program, ''The Q
Dr. Marvin A. Block, professor emeritus at the State University of New York at Buffalo and an early advocate of medical treatment for alcoholics, died of a heart attack Tuesday at Buffalo General Hospital. He was 86 years old and lived in Buffalo. Dr. Marvin A. Block, professo
Robert M. Grosse, an investment banker, died of heart failure Sunday at his home in Bondville, Vt. He was 52 years old and also had a home in Scarsdale, N.Y. Robert M. Grosse, an investment banker, died of heart failure Sunday at his home in Bondville, Vt. He was 52 years old 
Charles Gillespie Jr., a retired Navy captain who was shot down over Vietnam and spent five and a half years in Hanoi as a prisoner of the North Vietnamese, was killed Tuesday in the crash of a civilian plane. He was 60 years old. Charles Gillespie Jr., a retired Navy captain 
Charles L. Mendelson, a certified public accountant who was active in New York civic affairs, died Thursday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 67 years old. Charles L. Mendelson, a certified public accountant who was active in New York civic affairs, died Thursday at his home in 
Dan Silverman, president of Metro Seliger Industries, a direct-mail advertising concern, died Feb. 22 at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 66 years old and lived in Great Neck, L.I. Dan Silverman, president of Metro Seliger Industries, a direct-mail adv
Edward L. Ballard, a former director of inventory control for Saks Fifth Avenue, died Wednesday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan after suffering complications from a heart transplant performed on Jan. 1. He was 47 years old and lived in Baldwin, L.I. Edward
Edward W. Bilinkas, a real-estate broker in Morris County, N.J., and a fund raiser for muscular dystrophy, died Thursday at Dover ( N.J.) Hospital. He was 62 years old and lived in Chester Township, N.J. Edward W. Bilinkas, a real-estate broker in Morris County, N.J., and a fu
Lewis Ketcham Sillcox, a retired mechanical engineer and an authority on transportation, died of pneumonia yesterday at the Samaritan-Keep Home in Watertown, N.Y. He was 102 years old and lived in Watertown. Lewis Ketcham Sillcox, a retired mechanical engineer and an authority
Dr. Mark M. Ravitch, a surgeon, teacher, author of medical textbooks and an editor of several professional journals, died of cancer of the prostate and colon Wednesday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 78 years old. Dr. Mark M. Ravitch, a surgeon, teacher, author of medical te
Nathan C. Belth, a writer and retired executive director of the Hebrew Free Loan Society, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old. Mr. Belth was director of the loan society from 1971 until his retirement in 1983. Previously, he was an official o
William H. Bambrick, an advertising executive, died of kidney failure Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 68 years old and lived in Manhattan. William H. Bambrick, an advertising executive, died of kidney failure Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He 
James W. Gaynor, a former New York State Commissioner of Housing and Urban Renewal, died of congestive heart failure Thursday at the Palm Beach Gardens (Fla.) Medical Center. He was 79 years old and lived in Tecuesta, Fla. James W. Gaynor, a former New York State Commissioner 
Walter N. Thayer, a lawyer, partner in the Whitcom Investment Corporation and former president of The New York Herald Tribune, died of pneumonia yesterday at New York Hospital. Mr. Thayer, who was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan, had been admitted to the hospital more than three w
Charles S. Scott Sr., an attorney who helped integrate public schools nationwide by bringing suit in the landmark Brown versus Topeka Board of Education case, died Friday. He was 67. Charles S. Scott Sr., an attorney who helped integrate public schools nationwide by bringing s
Richard B. Morris, a pre-eminent Colonial and American constitutional historian and a former chairman of the history department at Columbia University, died of melanoma, a type of skin cancer, Friday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan. He was 84 years old and lived 
Clayton Huff, former chief financial officer of the advertising concern of Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn Inc. in Manhattan, died of pneumonia Wednesday at Sarasota (Fla.) Memorial Hospital. He was 74 years old and lived in Longboat Key, Fla. Clayton Huff, former chief fina
Dr. Frank W. Foote Jr., an educator and pioneer in tumor pathology and classification, died of pneumonia Saturday at Sarasota (Fla.) Memorial Hospital. He was 78 years old and had moved to Sarasota from Manhattan in 1972. Dr. Frank W. Foote Jr., an educator and pioneer in tumo
Dr. Paul Margolin, a specialist in molecular genetics and professor of biology at City College, died after a heart attack Sunday at the New York University Medical Center. He was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Paul Margolin, a specialist in molecular genetics and pro
Emory S. Basford, a retired chairman of the English department at Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass., died Wednesday at Asbury Village, a retirement community in Gaithersburg, Md., his residence since 1970. He was 90 years old. Emory S. Basford, a retired chairman of the English
James Edwin Doyle, a founder of the Doyle Dane Bernbach advertising agency, died of emphysema Sunday at his home in Manhattan. Mr. Doyle, who was known as Ned, was 86 years old. James Edwin Doyle, a founder of the Doyle Dane Bernbach advertising agency, died of emphysema Sunda
Lloyd (Tiny) Grimes, a jazz guitarist known for his work with Art Tatum and Charlie Parker, died of meningitis Saturday in Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 72 years old. Lloyd (Tiny) Grimes, a jazz guitarist known for his work with Art Tatum and Charlie Parker, die
Robert Miller Lunny, the former director of the New Jersey Historical Society, died Saturday at Morristown (N.J.) Memorial Hospital after a long illness. He was 81 years old and lived in Oldwick, N.J. Robert Miller Lunny, the former director of the New Jersey Historical Societ
Bernard F. Huppe, a medieval scholar and a founding professor of Harpur College, later the State University Center at Binghamton, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home in Binghamton, N.Y. He was 77 years old. Bernard F. Huppe, a medieval scholar and a founding professor 
Dr. Harold P. Lazar, an internist who taught at the Northwestern University Medical School, died of stomach cancer last Wednesday at Evanston (Ill.) Hospital. He was 60 years old and lived in Winnetka, Ill. Dr. Harold P. Lazar, an internist who taught at the Northwestern Unive
Griffin Gold, a founding member and past president of the People With AIDS Coalition, a privately supported group, died of AIDS yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 33 years old and lived in Manhattan. Griffin Gold, a founding member and past president of 
Harry Andrews, a British film, stage and television actor, died Monday at his home in Salehurst, England. He was 77 years old. Harry Andrews, a British film, stage and television actor, died Monday at his home in Salehurst, England. He was 77 years old. Mr. Andrews app
Irving N. Wax, former chairman of the Wasko Gold Products Corporation, died of cancer Monday in the Good Samaritan Hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 61 years old and lived in Woodmere, L.I., and Boynton Beach, Fla. Irving N. Wax, former chairman of the Wasko Gold Products Co
Loomis J. Grossman, a real-estate developer whose career spanned more than half a century, died of congestive heart failure Monday at White Plains Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Harrison, N.Y. Loomis J. Grossman, a real-estate developer whose career spanned more th
Raymond Jean Picard, who helped establish subsidiaries of major French chemical companies here and in Canada and Mexico, died of cancer Monday at Doctors Hospital. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan. Raymond Jean Picard, who helped establish subsidiaries of major Frenc
Robert L. Weiner, who began his career as a theatrical and television producer and film executive at age 21, died Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 53 years old and lived in Manhattan. Robert L. Weiner, who began his career as a theatrical and televisi
Roger-Patrice Pelat, a longtime friend of President Francois Mitterrand, died today in a hospital three weeks after he was charged in an insider-trading scandal that had embarrassed France's Socialist Government. He was 70 years old. Roger-Patrice Pelat, a longtime friend of P
Alexander Bookstaver, a retired banker and financial consultant to unions, died of a liver ailment Tuesday at his home in Miami Beach. He was 77 years old. Alexander Bookstaver, a retired banker and financial consultant to unions, died of a liver ailment Tuesday at his home in
Byron Francis West, a banker and securities broker, died of leukemia on March 2 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 61 years old and lived in Wycombe, Pa. Byron Francis West, a banker and securities broker, died of leukemia on March 2 at Memorial Slo
Edward Powers, the F.B.I. agent who helped solve the $2.2 million Brinks armored car robbery in 1950, died Tuesday. Mr. Powers, who was later chosen for his law-enforcement background to manage the first modern American lottery, was 75 years old. Edward Powers, the F.B.I. agen
Jacob Kossman, a criminal lawyer whose clients included prominent racketeers, died Sunday at Fox Chase Cancer Center. He was 79 years old and lived in Philadelphia. Jacob Kossman, a criminal lawyer whose clients included prominent racketeers, died Sunday at Fox Chase Cancer Ce
Judson Philips, who wrote more than 100 mystery and detective novels under the pseudonym Hugh Pentecost as well as his own name, died of complications resulting from emphysema Tuesday in the Sharon (Conn.) Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Canaan, Conn. Judson Philips
Leo Plofker, a structural engineer who was responsible for the skeletal design of several skyscrapers in New York and other cities, died of a heart attack Monday at his home in Little Neck, Queens. He was 67 years old. Leo Plofker, a structural engineer who was responsible for
Paul J. Etzel, a former president of Brown, Harris, Stevens Inc., a realty company in Manhattan, died of complications from emphysema Monday at his home in Manhasset, L.I. He was 90 years old. Paul J. Etzel, a former president of Brown, Harris, Stevens Inc., a realty company i
Richard R. O'Connor, a lawyer and former New Jersey judge, died Monday in Mountainside Hospital in Montclair, N.J., after a brief illness. He was 70 years old and lived in Elizabeth, N.J. Richard R. O'Connor, a lawyer and former New Jersey judge, died Monday in Mountainside Ho
Royal Riley, a retired assistant district attorney in Queens and a former newspaper reporter, died of complications from emphysema on Friday at Booth Memorial Medical Center in Queens. He was 82 years old and lived in Queens. Royal Riley, a retired assistant district attorney 
Stuart Hamblen, a gospel and country singer who wrote inspirational songs and once ran for President as a Prohibition Party candidate, died today at St. John's Hospital and Health Center. He was 80 years old. Stuart Hamblen, a gospel and country singer who wrote inspirational 
David Goodman, a lawyer who practiced real-estate law in Manhattan for more than 60 years, died of heart failure Wednesday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 91 years old and lived in Manhattan. David Goodman, a lawyer who practiced real-estate law in Manhatta
Edward Powers, the Federal agent who helped solve the $2.2 million Brinks armored car robbery in 1950, died Tuesday in Fort Myers, Fla. Mr. Powers, who was later chosen to manage the first modern American lottery, was 75 years old. Edward Powers, the Federal agent who helped s
Army Maj. Gen. James H. Rumbaugh, commander of Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, died after making a parachute jump in Honduras, the Pentagon said today. He was 49 years old. Army Maj. Gen. James H. Rumbaugh, commander of Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washing
Dr. Henry Thomas Burns, a retired obstetrician and gynecologist who practiced for many years in New York City, died Monday at his home in Dorset, Vt. He was 95 years old and had also lived in Ardsley-on-Hudson, N.Y. Dr. Henry Thomas Burns, a retired obstetrician and gynecologi
Herman Kogan, a writer whose books celebrated the personalities and institutions of Chicago, died of a heart attack Wednesday while walking near his home in New Buffalo, Mich. He was 74 years old. Herman Kogan, a writer whose books celebrated the personalities and institutions
John Eastman Jr., an arts administrator, died of heart failure Wednesday on the island of St. Martin in the West Indies. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan. John Eastman Jr., an arts administrator, died of heart failure Wednesday on the island of St. Martin in the West
Robert Mapplethorpe, a photographer whose widely exhibited pictures combined classical beauty with sometimes shocking subject matter, died of acquired immune deficiency syndrome yesterday at New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston. He was 42 years old and lived in Manhattan. 
William E. Barnes Jr., an agent for film, literary and theatrical personalities, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan Kettering Hospital. He was 56 years old and lived in Manhattan. William E. Barnes Jr., an agent for film, literary and theatrical personalities, died yesterday at 
Dr. Frank J. Curran, a Manhattan psychiatrist, died Wednesday at New York Hospital after being hit by a car. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan. From 1945 to 1947, he was chief psychiatrist at St. Vincent's Hospital. He resigned from the post after Msgr. Fulton J. Sheen, then 
Edward H. Mahla, a lawyer specializing in maritime law, died of cancer Wednesday at Calvary Hospital. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan. Edward H. Mahla, a lawyer specializing in maritime law, died of cancer Wednesday at Calvary Hospital. He was 74 years old and lived
Fred Mogubgub, an artist and animator, died of bone cancer on Thursday at his home in Cliffside Park, N.J. He was 61 years old. Fred Mogubgub, an artist and animator, died of bone cancer on Thursday at his home in Cliffside Park, N.J. He was 61 years old. Mr. Mogubgub 
Frederick R. Moseley Jr., former executive vice president of the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company, died of bone cancer yesterday at Huntington (L.I.) Hospital. He was 75 years old and lived in Jericho, L.I. Frederick R. Moseley Jr., former executive vice president of the Morgan G
Gino P. Cofacci, a retired pastry chef, died of cancer March 1 in a Greenwich, Conn., nursing home. He was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan. Gino P. Cofacci, a retired pastry chef, died of cancer March 1 in a Greenwich, Conn., nursing home. He was 75 years old and lived in 
James Satterwhite, a social worker and educator, died of cancer Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 52 years old and lived in Manhattan. James Satterwhite, a social worker and educator, died of cancer Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering C
John Tobin Cassidy Jr., a retired shipping executive, died of heart failure Thursday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Fort Worth. He was 76 years old and lived in Fort Worth. John Tobin Cassidy Jr., a retired shipping executive, died of heart failure Thursday at St. Joseph's Hospit
Kermit K. Beahan, who dropped the atomic bomb on Nagasaki, Japan, died of cardiac arrest Thursday at St. John Hospital in nearby Nassau Bay, a day after undergoing prostate surgery. He was 70 years old and lived in Clear Lake, a Houston suburb. Kermit K. Beahan, who dropped th
Philip D. Reed, a former chairman of the General Electric Company and a former chairman of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, died yesterday at his home in Rye, N.Y., after a long illness. He was 89 years old. Philip D. Reed, a former chairman of the General Electric Compan
Prof. Albert Fein, a historian and an authority on the work of the landscape architect Frederick Law Olmsted, died of cancer Thursday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 58 years old. Prof. Albert Fein, a historian and an authority on the work of the landscape architect Frederick 
Robert B. Betts, former chairman of the William Esty advertising agency, now Campbell-Mithun-Esty, died of cancer yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 66 years old and lived in Manhattan. Robert B. Betts, former chairman of the William Esty advertising agency, now Campbell-M
Charles E. McDonnell, a stockbroker, died of cardiac arrest Friday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 65 years old. Charles E. McDonnell, a stockbroker, died of cardiac arrest Friday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 65 years old. Surviving are his wife, Mary Frances; his s
Daniel T. Adams, a former executive vice president of Marine Midland Bank, died of heart failure yesterday at Mediplex Nursing Home in Westport, Conn. He was 80 years old and lived Wilton, Conn., and Manhattan. Daniel T. Adams, a former executive vice president of Marine Midla
John J. McCloy, the lawyer and diplomat who was the United States High Commissioner in postwar Germany and an adviser to Presidents from Franklin D. Roosevelt to Ronald Reagan, died yesterday at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 93 years old. John J. McCloy, the lawyer and di
Kieran M. Bracken, an accountant and former controller of the Ford Foundation, died of pneumonia Friday in the Belleair Nursing Care center in Clearwater, Fla., where he lived. He was 65. Kieran M. Bracken, an accountant and former controller of the Ford Foundation, died of pn
Walter S. Fried, a member of the board of the New York City Housing Authority from 1970 to 1986, died Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old.  Mr. Fried, a lawyer, was formerly commissioner in charge of the office of housing and facilities production in the Housing and
David Cluger, the former president of Cluger Rayons Inc. of Paterson, N.J., died of heart disease yesterday at University Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan. David Cluger, the former president of Cluger Rayons Inc. of Paterson, N.J., died of hear
Joseph Ferriola, the reputed boss of organized crime in Chicago, died Saturday after his second heart transplant in recent weeks. He was 61 years old and lived in Oak Brook, Ill. Joseph Ferriola, the reputed boss of organized crime in Chicago, died Saturday after his second he
Lord Crook, a former British delegate to the United Nations and vice president of the Administrative Tribunal for nearly 20 years, died Friday, his lawyer said Saturday. Lord Crook was 88 years old. Lord Crook, a former British delegate to the United Nations and vice president
Lyle McDowell Allen Jr., a former head of the legal division and assistant secretary of the American Home Products Corporation, died of lung cancer Thursday at the Duke University Medical Center in Durham, N.C. He was 66 years old and lived in Chapel Hill, N.C. Lyle McDowell A
Bertram Greenglass, a former official of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and a business executive, died of leukemia Friday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 56 years old and lived in Lake Ridge, Va. Bertram Greenglass, a former of
Charles Randolph Bennett 2d, a former executive and editor of banking magazines, died of cancer Friday at his home in Irvington, N.Y. He was 79 years old. Charles Randolph Bennett 2d, a former executive and editor of banking magazines, died of cancer Friday at his home in Irvi
Edward A. Weeks, an author, essayist and editor of The Atlantic Monthly for 28 years, died Saturday at his home in Thompson, Conn. He was 91 years old. Edward A. Weeks, an author, essayist and editor of The Atlantic Monthly for 28 years, died Saturday at his home in Thompson, 
James S. Hays, a retired New York lawyer specializing in labor and corporate law, died Thursday at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 89 years old. James S. Hays, a retired New York lawyer specializing in labor and corporate law, died Thursday at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz
James Kee, who served eight years in the House of Representatives from a district that had been represented by both his parents, died of lung disease Saturday at Montgomery General Hospital. He was 71 years old. James Kee, who served eight years in the House of Representatives
Maurice Evans, one of the best-known Shakespearean actors of the 1930's and 40's, died Sunday in a nursing home in Rottingdean, near Brighton, England. He was 87 years old. Maurice Evans, one of the best-known Shakespearean actors of the 1930's and 40's, died Sunday in a nursi
Theodore I. Koskoff, one of Connecticut's most widely known trial lawyers, died, apparently of a heart attack, yesterday while being driven to a doctor's office in Milford. He was 75 years old and lived in Westport. Theodore I. Koskoff, one of Connecticut's most widely known t
Dr. W. Kenneth Riland, an osteopath whose patients included Richard M. Nixon and Nelson A. Rockefeller, died of complications from lymphoma Monday at New York Hospital. He was 76 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. W. Kenneth Riland, an osteopath whose patients included Rich
Dr. Walter Henry Mais, a retired dean of faculty at Brooklyn College, died of cancer Saturday at his home in Longboat Key, Fla. He was 82 years old. Dr. Walter Henry Mais, a retired dean of faculty at Brooklyn College, died of cancer Saturday at his home in Longboat Key, Fla. 
Edward Abbey, a naturalist, novelist and one-time forest ranger, died of a circulatory disorder yesterday at his home in Oracle, Ariz. He was 62 years old. Edward Abbey, a naturalist, novelist and one-time forest ranger, died of a circulatory disorder yesterday at his home in 
George Katz, a founding partner of Wachtel, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, a law firm in New York City, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 57 years old. George Katz, a founding partner of Wachtel, Lipton, Rosen & Katz, a law firm in New York City, died of
Jakob Gimpel, a concert pianist known for his interpretations of Chopin, died at his home in Los Angeles on Sunday. He was 82 years old. Jakob Gimpel, a concert pianist known for his interpretations of Chopin, died at his home in Los Angeles on Sunday. He was 82 years old.    
Louis John Puglies, once a senior partner of the now defunct Manhattan brokerage firm of Filor, Bullard & Smythe, died yesterday at his home in Saddle River, N.J. He was 79 years old. Louis John Puglies, once a senior partner of the now defunct Manhattan brokerage firm of Filo
Stephen Davison Bechtel, who built a family business into one of the world's largest construction companies, died today after a brief illness. He was 88 years old. Stephen Davison Bechtel, who built a family business into one of the world's largest construction companies, died
J. H. Tyler McConnell, a retired Delaware banker and lawyer who was a member of the board of governors of the United States Postal Service, died of a stroke Monday at St. Mary's Hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 74 years old and lived in Palm Beach. J. H. Tyler McConnell, a 
Alfred M. Ascione, a retired New York State Supreme Court justice, died of a brain tumor Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 73 years old. Alfred M. Ascione, a retired New York State Supreme Court justice, died of a brain tumor Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 73 ye
Claude E. ZoBell, a marine microbiologist who discovered living organisms at extreme ocean depths, died Monday at Scripps Memorial Hospital. He was 84 years old. Claude E. ZoBell, a marine microbiologist who discovered living organisms at extreme ocean depths, died Monday at S
James G. O'Hara, a Democrat who represented a district from suburban Detroit in the House of Representatives from 1959 through 1976, died of complications of cancer Monday at George Washington University Medical Center. He was 63 years old. James G. O'Hara, a Democrat who repr
Frederick J. Du Plessis, chairman of one of South Africa's largest insurance companies and an economic adviser to the Government, died in an automobile crash early today, his company said. He was 57 years old. Mr. Du Plessis was to have delivered the main address today at the 70th ann
Gevork Avedissian, a retired executive and philanthropist, died Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan. Gevork Avedissian, a retired executive and philanthropist, died Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital 
Joseph Francis Follmann Jr., a retired health insurance executive and author, died of a heart attack Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan. Joseph Francis Follmann Jr., a retired health insurance executive and author, died of a
Lieut. Comdr. James P. Anderson, who took part in a dogfight over the Mediterranean Sea in 1981 in which two Libyan jets were shot down, died Saturday in a skiing accident in Aspen, Colo. He was 37 years old.  Commander Anderson, then a lieutenant, was navigating one of two F-14's tha
Jerome A. Koch, a former president of the Karl Koch Erecting Company, which built the World Trade Center and Giants Stadium, died of cancer Sunday at his home in North Palm Beach, Fla. He was 68 years old and also lived in Englewood, N.J. Jerome A. Koch, a former president of 
Martin F. Shea, a senior vice president of the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, died of a heart attack Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 65 years old. Martin F. Shea, a senior vice president of the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York, died of a heart att
Richmond Barthe, a sculptor known for his realistic portrayals of religious subjects, figures from black history, and stage and dance celebrities, died on March 6 at his home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 88 years old. Richmond Barthe, a sculptor known for his realistic portrayal
Rupert Harris Johnson, the founder of R. H. Johnson & Company, a general securities firm and investment banking house, died of a heart attack Sunday at his home in Bal Harbour, Fla. He was 89 years old. Mr. Johnson founded the Manhattan-based company in 1927. In 1947 he founded and ma
Salvatore Dell'Isola, a Tony Award-winning musical director who was long associated with Rodgers and Hammerstein, died of heart failure Monday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Islip, L.I. He was 88 years old. Salvatore Dell'Isola, a Tony Award-winning musical director who wa
Walter C. Pew, for 41 years a director of his family's business, the Sun Oil Company, died of cardiovascular disease Tuesday at the Bryn Mawr Hospital in Pennsylvania. He was 87 years old and lived in Bryn Mawr. Walter C. Pew, for 41 years a director of his family's business, 
Albert G. Schmerge Jr., a real-estate investor and former insurance agent, died of liver cancer Tuesday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 71 years old and lived in Greenwich. Albert G. Schmerge Jr., a real-estate investor and former insurance agent, died of liver cancer Tu
Alfred Kalfus, a mathematics teacher who was awarded a Presidential citation for teaching excellence in 1983, died of a heart attack Wednesday at North Shore Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 67 years old and lived in Roslyn, L.I. Alfred Kalfus, a mathematics teacher who was 
Elmer Lee Fingar, a former partner in McCarthy, Fingar, Donovan, Drazen & Smith, a law firm in White Plains, died Tuesday at Martin Memorial Hospital in Stuart, Fla. He was 84 years old and lived in New Canaan, Conn. Elmer Lee Fingar, a former partner in McCarthy, Fingar, Dono
Herbert A. Brandon, the former publisher of Brandon's Shipper and Forwarder, a trade publication for the shipping industry, died of cancer Wednesday at his home in Pleasantville, N.Y. He was 76 years old. Herbert A. Brandon, the former publisher of Brandon's Shipper and Forwar
John P. Scripps, founder and chairman of the board of the John P. Scripps Newspapers division of the Scripps Howard media group, died of heart failure Wednesday night at the Scripps Clinic in La Jolla. He was 76 years old. John P. Scripps, founder and chairman of the board of 
John Van Buren, the former dean of Hofstra University's School of Education, died of liver cancer Wednesday at Mercy Hospital in Rockville Centre, L.I. He was 57 and lived in Hempstead, L.I. John Van Buren, the former dean of Hofstra University's School of Education, died of l
Joseph Carroll, an author, editor, journalist and prominent figure in the Irish-American arts, died of congestive heart failure March 7. He was 77 years old. Joseph Carroll, an author, editor, journalist and prominent figure in the Irish-American arts, died of congestive heart
Msgr. Joseph J. Oroshi, for 25 years spiritual leader of 20,000 Albanian Catholics in the Bronx, died of liver cancer Wednesday at the Albert Einstein-Weiler division of the Montefiore Medical Center. He was 74 years old and lived in the Bronx. Msgr. Joseph J. Oroshi, for 25 y
Roy Hanson, a writer and editor at Newsday, died of lung cancer Tuesday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 54 and lived in Copiague, L.I. Roy Hanson, a writer and editor at Newsday, died of lung cancer Tuesday at North Shore University Hospital in Man
Dr. Steven Koweity, a pediatrician, died of a heart attack Wednesday at Sand Lake Hospital in Orlando, Fla. He was 74 years old and lived in Searingtown, L.I. Dr. Steven Koweity, a pediatrician, died of a heart attack Wednesday at Sand Lake Hospital in Orlando, Fla. He was 74 
Abraham Berger, retired chief of the Jewish division of the New York Public Library, died Tuesday. He was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan. Abraham Berger, retired chief of the Jewish division of the New York Public Library, died Tuesday. He was 86 years old and lived in Ma
Charles Billingslea, a retired Army major general who served in World War II and Korea and later helped to enforce judicial desegregation orders in Mississippi and Alabama, died of pneumonia Tuesday at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 74 years old and lived in Oxf
Charles R. Henderson, a statistician and a pioneer in the genetic improvement of dairy cattle, died of a pulmonary embolism Tuesday at Carle Hospital in Urbana, Ill. He was 77 years old and lived in Urbana and Ithaca, N.Y.. Charles R. Henderson, a statistician and a pioneer in
Clyde A. Holbrook, Danforth Professor of Religion emeritus at Oberlin College, Ohio, an authority on Jonathan Edwards, the American theologian and philosopher, died Thursday, apparently of a heart attack, at his home in Oberlin. He was 77 years old. Clyde A. Holbrook, Danforth
Edwin Janss Jr., a California real estate developer who helped expand and develop the ski resorts of Sun Valley and Snowmass, fell to his death Thursday when he jumped from the 12th story of a building in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 74 years old and lived in Los Angeles. Edwin
Jesus Maria de Leizaola, who headed the Basque government in exile for nearly two decades during the Franco dictatorship, died Thursday after a heart attack, doctors in this Basque provincial capital said. He was 92 years old. Jesus Maria de Leizaola, who headed the Basque gov
Theodore W. Oppel, an internist at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center for almost 50 years, died of pneumonia Tuesday at the Sarah Newman Nursing Home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. He was 85 years old and lived in New Rochelle, N.Y. Theodore W. Oppel, an internist at New York Hospi
Alan V. Davies, president of the J. Clarence Davies real-estate concern in Manhattan, died of a heart attack Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 47 years old and lived in Manhattan. Alan V. Davies, president of the J. Clarence Davies real-estate concern in Manhattan, died of
Jacob P. Den Hartog, professor emeritus and former head of the department of mechanical engineering at the Massachussets Institute of Technology, died Friday at the Hanover Terrace Healthcase Center in Hanover, N.H., where he lived. He was 87 years old. Jacob P. Den Hartog, pr
Louis A. Landa, professor emeritus of English at Princeton University, died of kidney and heart failure Friday at the Princeton (N.J.) Medical Center. He was 87 years old and lived in Princeton. Louis A. Landa, professor emeritus of English at Princeton University, died of kid
Max Tishler, a pharmaceutical scientist who led in the development of drugs to treat arthritis and other diseases, died of complications of emphysema Saturday at Middlesex Memorial Hospital in Middletown, Conn. He was 82 years old and a Middletown resident. Max Tishler, a phar
William F. Kerby, a former chairman of Dow Jones & Company and for six years the executive editor of The Wall Street Journal, died of lung cancer yesterday at his home in Bethlehem, Pa. He was 81 years old. William F. Kerby, a former chairman of Dow Jones & Company and for six
Archie Bleyer, a musical director and arranger whose Cadence Records company provided a showcase for singers like Andy Williams, the Everly Brothers and the Chordettes, a 1950's-era quartet, died today at a rest home in Sheboygan, Wis. He was 79 years old. Archie Bleyer, a mus
David Shirra Meiklejohn, a retired financial executive, died of a heart attack Saturday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 80 years old and lived in Greenwich. David Shirra Meiklejohn, a retired financial executive, died of a heart attack Saturday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospi
George Perry Mahoney, a Baltimore contractor who was a frequent unsuccessful political candidate, died Saturday night at his residence in a Baltimore hotel, He was 87 years old. George Perry Mahoney, a Baltimore contractor who was a frequent unsuccessful political candidate, d
Henry G. Hay, a former vice president of Eastern Airlines, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Hobe Sound, Fla. He was 68 years old. Henry G. Hay, a former vice president of Eastern Airlines, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Hobe Sound, Fla. He was 68 years old.        
Milton Bernard Conford, a retired judge of the New Jersey Superior Court, died of heart disease yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 80 years old and lived in Elberon, N.J. Milton Bernard Conford, a retired judge of the New Jersey Superior Court, died o
Noboru Gotoh, a leader of one of Japan's largest business conglomerates and former president of the Japan Chamber of Commerce and Industry, died of respiratory failure today. He was 72 years old. Noboru Gotoh, a leader of one of Japan's largest business conglomerates and forme
Richard Barr, the longtime president of the League of American Theaters and Producers who died on Jan. 9 at the age of 71, was remembered last night during a tribute at Sardi's restaurant on West 44th Street. Richard Barr, the longtime president of the League of American Theat
William R. Olander, the senior curator at the New Museum of Contemporary Art in New York City, died of AIDS Saturday in Minneapolis. He was 38 years old. William R. Olander, the senior curator at the New Museum of Contemporary Art in New York City, died of AIDS Saturday in Min
Alan Civil, a British musician who was regarded as one of the world's most accomplished soloists on the French horn, died of liver and kidney failure on Sunday at King's College Hospital in London. He was 59 years old. Alan Civil, a British musician who was regarded as one of 
Charles Suppon, a fashion designer and co-author of the musical ''Legs Diamond,'' died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 40 years old. Mr. Suppon died of brain lesions, his assistant, Bruce Cudd, said. Charles Suppon, a fashion designer and co-author of the musical ''
Edward Hugo Michaelsen, a corporate executive and arts enthusiast who became managing director of Carnegie Hall, died of cancer yesterday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 71 years old and lived in Old Greenwich. Edward Hugo Michaelsen, a corporate executive and arts enthu
Esmond Austin Van Name, who was in charge of planning, design and building operations for many years at the United Nations headquarters, died Friday at his home in Garden City, L.I. He was 79 years old. Esmond Austin Van Name, who was in charge of planning, design and building
Francis Russell, a historian and prolific writer whose publication in 1968 of a biography of Warren G. Harding became a cause celebre when relatives of the former President succeeded in preventing Mr. Russell from printing some of Harding's love letters, died of a heart attack yesterd
Waldo Hutchins Jr., a lawyer who practiced in Manhattan for more than 30 years died Monday at his home in Glen Head, L.I. He was 93 years old. Waldo Hutchins Jr., a lawyer who practiced in Manhattan for more than 30 years died Monday at his home in Glen Head, L.I. He was 93 ye
Carl Frank Bayerschmidt, a former chairman of the Germanics Department at Columbia University, died of a stroke Sunday at St. John's Hospital in Yonkers. He was 84 years old and lived in Yonkers. Carl Frank Bayerschmidt, a former chairman of the Germanics Department at Columbi
G. Bennett Larson, a former vice president of WPIX-TV in New York and a former communications industry consultant, died of pneumonia Saturday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 79 years old and lived in Brentwood, Calif. G. Bennett Larson, a former vice pres
Louis Dupree, an anthropologist and educator who was an authority on Afghanistan, died of lung cancer Tuesday at Duke University Hospital in Durham, N.C. He was 63 years old and lived in Durham. Louis Dupree, an anthropologist and educator who was an authority on Afghanistan, 
Otis Douglas, who began his National Football League playing career at 35, died Tuesday after a long illness. He was 77 years old.  Douglas had never seen a football game before playing tackle at William and Mary from 1929 to 1930. Otis Douglas, who began his National Football
Peter Kilham, a biology professor at the University of Michigan, died Sunday, apparently of a heart attack, at Lake Victoria in Kenya. He was 45 years old. Peter Kilham, a biology professor at the University of Michigan, died Sunday, apparently of a heart attack, at Lake Victo
Robert F. Shea, a Red Cross executive who specialized in disaster preparedness, died Tuesday at the Fairfax Nursing Center in Fairfax, Va., after a long illness. He was 72 years old and lived in Fairfax. Robert F. Shea, a Red Cross executive who specialized in disaster prepare
Benjamin F. McLaurin, a longtime labor leader who helped organize sleeping-car porters in the 1920's and 1930's, died of cancer Wednesday at the North Central Bronx Hospital. He was 83 years old and lived in the Bronx. Benjamin F. McLaurin, a longtime labor leader who helped o
Donald Appleton, a retired senior vice president of the Oxford Paper Company in Manhattan and a former executive of paper companies in New England, died Tuesday at the Beverly Hospital in Massachusetts. He was 94 years old and lived in Manchester, Mass. Donald Appleton, a reti
Dr. Morris A. Lipton, professor emeritus of psychiatry, biochemistry and nutrition at the University of North Carolina School of Medicine, died of cancer March 15 at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 73 years old. Dr. Morris A. Lipton, professor emeritus of psychiatry, bioc
E. Wilson Lyon, president of Pomona College from 1941 to 1969, died March 3 at Pomona Valley Hospital Medical Center in Pomona, Calif., after a long illness. He was 84 years old and lived in Claremont, Calif. E. Wilson Lyon, president of Pomona College from 1941 to 1969, died 
George Lynn, a composer and the former music director of Westminster Choir College in Princeton, N.J., died of heart failure on March 16 at Penrose Hospital in Colorado Springs, Colo. He was 73 years old. George Lynn, a composer and the former music director of Westminster Cho
John H. Wallace, a chemical company executive and former director of the James Forrestal Research Center at Princeton University, died Wednesday at his home in Princeton after a long illness. He was 82 years old. John H. Wallace, a chemical company executive and former directo
Milton Frome, a comic actor who appeared in more than 50 movies and was Milton Berle's straight man on television, died of heart failure Tuesday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 78 years old. Mr. Frome, whose career began in vaudeville and
Timothy Meyers, an actor who received a Tony Award nomination for his performance as a tough teen-ager in the 1972 Broadway musical ''Grease,'' died of acquired immune deficiency syndrome on March 14 in Cabrini Hospital. He was 43 years old. Timothy Meyers, an actor who receiv
William Jay Schieffelin 3d, the seventh generation of his family to head Schieffelin & Company, the Manhattan wine and spirit importer that was founded in 1794 as a pharmaceutical company, died yesterday at his home in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 67 years old. William Jay Schieff
Everett Callender, a former securities analyst, died of pneumonia Tuesday at the Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 83 years old and lived in Greenwich. Everett Callender, a former securities analyst, died of pneumonia Tuesday at the Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 83 years
Harry Schnell, a retired surveyor whose projects included Lincoln Center and Madison Square Garden, died of pneumonia Tuesday at Parkway Hospital in Forest Hills, Queens. He was 85 years old and lived in Forest Hills. Harry Schnell, a retired surveyor whose projects included L
Irving Seligman, a retired men's clothing manufacturer, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center after suffering a stroke. He was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan. Irving Seligman, a retired men's clothing manufacturer, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Medical Center after
Jacob R. Van Mater Lefferts, a retired New Jersey real-estate developer, died Tuesday at Indian River Memorial Hospital in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 76 years old and lived in Vero Beach. Jacob R. Van Mater Lefferts, a retired New Jersey real-estate developer, died Tuesday at Ind
John G. Mapes, former vice chairman of Hill & Knowlton Inc., a Manhattan-based public relations concern, died of complications from pneumonia Thursday at a Phoenix nursing home. He was 82 years old and lived in Litchfield Park, Ariz. John G. Mapes, former vice chairman of Hill
The Rev. Robert C. Dodds, a former official of the National Council of Churches who was also a psychologist and marriage counselor, died last Saturday at Central Vermont Hospital in Barre, Vt., after a long illness. He was 70 years old and lived in Montpelier, Vt. The Rev. Rob
Theodore C. Agins, a retired dentist and former mayor of Kensington, L.I., died of a heart attack Thursday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 80 years old and lived in Great Neck, L.I. Theodore C. Agins, a retired dentist and former mayor of Kensingto
Wally Heider, a recording engineer whose studios were used by big bands and rock musicians in the 1960's and 70's and who recently produced a series of jazz videotapes, died of lung cancer Wednesday at the home of his daughter, Leslie Lee. He was 66 years old. Wally Heider, a 
Walter E. Klotzback, retired assistant chief inspector of the New York City Police Department, died of pneumonia Wednesday at Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 88 years old and lived in Fort Lauderdale. Walter E. Klotzback, retired assistant chief inspector o
Wilbur E. Kelley, a retired engineer who worked in the procurement and processing of uranium and other elements for construction of the first atomic bomb, died of colon cancer March 16 at Deepdale Hospital in New Hyde Park, L.I. He was 80 years old and lived in New Hyde Park. 
George Markham, president and general manager of the Carlyle Hotel, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63 years old. George Markham, president and general manager of the Carlyle Hotel, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He w
Joseph Romer, a former account executive in the advertising department of The New York Times, died Thursday at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Manhattan from complications after suffering a stroke. He was 76 years old and lived in Forest Hills, Queens. Joseph Romer, a 
Julius Eichel, a conscientious objector in World Wars I and II who was twice charged with refusing to register for the draft, died Friday after surgery at Coney Island Hospital. He was 93 years old and lived in the Coney Island section of Brooklyn. Julius Eichel, a conscientio
Said el-Mufti of Jordan Is Dead; Ex-Premier Helped Found Nation Said el-Mufti of Jordan Is Dead; Ex-Premier Helped Found Nation Said el-Mufti, a former Prime Minister of Jordan who helped lead the country in becoming an independent kingdom, died today, the state-run Jo
Hanina (Hank) Zinder, who took part in establishing the Tennessee Valley Authority and the Federal Power Commission, where he was head of the rates division, died Saturday after suffering a heart attack at his home in Longboat Key, Fla. He was 85 years old. Hanina (Hank) Zinde
S. M. (Mike) Michaelson, the co-founder and president of Mike Michaelson Associates, fur merchandisers in Manhattan, died of heart disease Friday at Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola, L.I. He was 66 years old and lived in Albertson, L.I. S. M. (Mike) Michaelson, the co-f
Arnett Cobb, a highly regarded tenor saxophonist who was a featured soloist with Lionel Hampton's orchestra in the 1940's, died of respiratory, liver and kidney failure on Friday in Park Plaza Hospital in Houston. He was 70 years old and lived in Houston. Arnett Cobb, a highly
Barney Tobey, whose gently humorous cartoons appeared in The New Yorker for more than five decades, died of pneumonia yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan. Barney Tobey, whose gently humorous cartoons appeared in The New Yorker for more
George Slaff, a former president of the American Civil Liberties Union of Southern California who also represented members of the film industry, died of colon cancer Friday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 83 years old and lived in Beverly Hills. George Sl
Gen. Lewis W. Walt, who won combat decorations in World War II, Korea and Vietnam and later served as assistant commandant of the Marine Corps, died Sunday at a retirement home in Gulfport, Miss., after a long illness. He was 76 years old. Gen. Lewis W. Walt, who won combat de
Maris Liepa, a star of the Bolshoi Ballet whose virile dramatic portrayals made him especially popular in the West, died Saturday in Moscow. He was 52 years old. Maris Liepa, a star of the Bolshoi Ballet whose virile dramatic portrayals made him especially popular in the West,
Adolph Dreher, founder and president of one of the largest leather manufacturers and importers in the country, died of a heart attack Thursday at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston, N.J. He was 86 years old and lived in Chatham, N.J. Adolph Dreher, founder and president of on
Anthony Riolo, an administrator for several arts organizations including the Joffrey Ballet and the New York City Ballet, died of complications from AIDS yesterday at the University of New Mexico Hospital in Albuquerque. He was 46 years old. Mr. Riolo, who was also a lawyer, was the e
Dr. Albert Guerisse, a hero of the Belgian underground who helped Allied airmen escape from occupied Europe during World War II, died on Sunday, his family said today. He was 78 years old. Dr. Albert Guerisse, a hero of the Belgian underground who helped Allied airmen escape f
Edward H. Davis, a Los Angeles neurologist for nearly 30 years, died of pneumonia Saturday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center. He was 61 years old and lived in Los Angeles. Edward H. Davis, a Los Angeles neurologist for nearly 30 years, died of pneumonia Saturday at Cedars-Sinai M
Ernest Bartley Gorin, a retired vice president of the RCA Corporation, died of congestive heart failure Sunday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 77 years old and lived in Riverside, Conn. Ernest Bartley Gorin, a retired vice president of the RCA Corporation, died of conges
George M. Hart, a lawyer and a former three-term Republican County chairman on Staten Island, died of pancreatic cancer March 20 at the University of California Hospital at San Diego. He was 57 years old and lived on Staten Island. George M. Hart, a lawyer and a former three-t
Dr. Henry Mannix Jr., the acting director of surgery at St. Francis Hospital and Medical Center in Hartford, died of cancer there Sunday. He was 61 years old and lived in West Hartford. Dr. Henry Mannix Jr., the acting director of surgery at St. Francis Hospital and Medical Ce
Joel Fineman, a professor of English at the University of California here who was a Shakespearean scholar, died of colon cancer Saturday at his home in Berkeley. He was 42 years old. Joel Fineman, a professor of English at the University of California here who was a Shakespear
Malcolm Cowley, a literary critic, historian, editor, poet and essayist who was best known for being the most trenchant chronicler of the so-called Lost Generation of post-World War I writers, died of a heart attack Monday. Malcolm Cowley, a literary critic, historian, editor,
Melville E. Stone 2d, the former owner and managing director of the Sporting Gallery and Bookshop, died of throat cancer Saturday at his home in York Harbor, Me. He was 84 years old. Melville E. Stone 2d, the former owner and managing director of the Sporting Gallery and Books
Nick Bremigan, an American League umpire since 1974, died today of a heart attack. He was 43 years old. Nick Bremigan, an American League umpire since 1974, died today of a heart attack. He was 43 years old. Mr. Bremigan umpired an exhibition game Monday in Palm Spring
Peter Gilbert, a cable television executive and the former owner of a professional hockey team, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 62 years old. Peter Gilbert, a cable television executive and the former owner of a professional hockey team, died of cancer S
Reginald Miller Sutton, who in 60 years with the Union Pacific Railroad rose from office boy to executive vice president, died of heart failure Monday at Bishop Clarkson Memorial Hospital in Omaha. He was 90 years old and lived in Omaha. Reginald Miller Sutton, who in 60 years
Dr. Robert Cushman Hunt, a psychiatrist and former assistant commissioner of the New York State Department of Mental Hygiene, died Monday at Coral Reef Hospital in Miami. He was 84 years old and lived in Miami. Dr. Hunt was a graduate of the University of Pennsylvania Medical School. 
Stanley E. Dimond, a professor emeritus of education at the University of Michigan, died Saturday after an extended illness. He was 83 years old. Stanley E. Dimond, a professor emeritus of education at the University of Michigan, died Saturday after an extended illness. He was
Alfred Rollin Manville, president and chief executive officer of the Fischbach Corporation, Manhattan electrical and mechanical contractors, died Sunday at his home in Middletown, N.J., after a long illness. He was 72 years old. Alfred Rollin Manville, president and chief exec
Arthur A. Charpentier, a retired law librarian, died of respiratory failure on March 19 at the Eastern Maine Medical Center in Bangor. He was 69 years old and lived in Mount Desert, Me. Arthur A. Charpentier, a retired law librarian, died of respiratory failure on March 19 at 
Dr. Glenn Sheline, a leader in the field of neuro-oncology, died of cancer last Friday at his home here. He was 70 years old. Dr. Glenn Sheline, a leader in the field of neuro-oncology, died of cancer last Friday at his home here. He was 70 years old. Dr. Sheline, prof
Jehiel R. Elyachar, an engineer, philanthropist and Manhattan real-estate developer, died of a heart attack yesterday at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 90 years old and lived in Manhattan. Jehiel R. Elyachar, an engineer, philanthropist and Manhattan real-estate
Marvin Tabak, the founder of The New York Almanac, died of liver cancer Tuesday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 60 years old and lived in Manhattan. Marvin Tabak, the founder of The New York Almanac, died of liver cancer Tuesday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 60 years old and
Nathan B. Fogelson, a bankruptcy lawyer, died of cancer Tuesday at New York University Hospital. He was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan. Nathan B. Fogelson, a bankruptcy lawyer, died of cancer Tuesday at New York University Hospital. He was 86 years old and lived in Manhat
Ralph W. Cutler, an owner of Fifty-50, a Manhattan gallery devoted to American mid-century decorative arts, died of complications from AIDS Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 41 years old and also had a home in Columbia County, N.Y. Ralph W. Cutler, an owner of Fifty-50
Seijiro Matsuoka, a real-estate entrepreneur and art collector, died of heart failure on March 20 in Toranomon Hospital in Tokyo. He was 95 years old and lived in Tokyo. Seijiro Matsuoka, a real-estate entrepreneur and art collector, died of heart failure on March 20 in Torano
William Drought Cox, a former owner of the Philadelphia Phillies who was banned from baseball after he admitted betting on his team in 1943, died Tuesday at the Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y., after a long illness. He was 79 years old and lived in Somers, N.Y.     
Bernard Blier, a popular French film actor, died on Wednesday in Paris. He was 73 years old. Bernard Blier, a popular French film actor, died on Wednesday in Paris. He was 73 years old. Mr. Blier appeared in more than 150 movies during the last half-century. The plump,
Bill Chappell Jr., a Florida Democrat who served 20 years in the House of Representatives before being defeated for re-election last year amid reports linking him to a Pentagon procurement scandal, died of bone cancer today at the National Institutes of Health. He was 67 years old, Mr
Dr. Morris Orgel, a retired dentist, died of cancer Monday at his home in Plantation, Fla. He was 78 years old. Dr. Morris Orgel, a retired dentist, died of cancer Monday at his home in Plantation, Fla. He was 78 years old. Dr. Orgel was born in Brooklyn and graduated 
Harry Leichter, who ran a news service for newspapers and news agencies in New York City for 36 years, died of Alzheimer's disease Monday at the Grotta Rehabilitation Center in West Orange, N.J. Mr. Leichter was 72 years old and lived in Cedar Grove, N.J. Harry Leichter, who r
Herman Epstein, an electrical engineer who developed high-speed electrostatic printing techniques for computers, died of leukemia Monday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 62 years old and lived in Fairfield, Conn. Herman Epstein, an electrical engineer who developed high-spee
Dr. Irving D. Buchin, an orthodontist and professor at the University of Pennsylvania School of Dental Medicine, died of prostate cancer yesterday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 69 years old and lived in Forest Hills, Queens. Dr. Irving D. Buchin, an orthodontist and
Dr. Richard E. Wilson, a medical educator and researcher who specialized in cancer surgery, died of a brain tumor Tuesday at the Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 60 years old and lived in Wellesley, Mass. Dr. Richard E. Wilson, a medical educator and researcher w
