 John B. Keane, an Irish writer who recorded the voice of a disappearing generation from his pub in County Kerry, died on Thursday in his beloved hometown, Listowel. He was 73. Mr. Keane died of complications from prostate cancer, which he had been battling for eight years and had me
 John Middleton Murry, a British science fiction writer who published almost two dozen novels and several collections of short stories exploring themes that included how the paranormal might affect ordinary lives, died on April 29. He was 76. The cause was a stroke, The Times of Lond
 Nathan Smith, the raspy-voiced manager at the Sunshine Hotel, one of the Bowery's last flophouses, died on Sunday at a hospital in Queens. He was 65. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Brenda Smith Johnson. Mr. Smith gained a measure of unlikely fame by hanging on to a
 Robert L. Bien, a prolific architect who designed a number of Manhattan apartment buildings from 1959 to 1967, often using the fashionable white-brick facades of the era, died on May 25 at his home near Stuyvesant Square in Lower Manhattan. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, s
 Clinton Adams, an artist and writer and one of the most important influences on the development of fine-art printmaking in America, died on May 13 at his home in Albuquerque. He was 83. In 1960, Mr. Adams helped start the renowned Tamarind Lithography Workshop in Los Angeles with th
 David Cohen, who led John's Bargain Stores to the top rungs of discount retailing in the 1960's, died on Thursday at his home in Medford, N.Y. He was 80. The cause was lung cancer, his wife, Blanche, said. He also had a home in Delray Beach, Fla. John's Bargain Store -- with
 Alfred Fleishman, a public relations executive who helped found the firm Fleishman-Hillard and was an eyewitness to the horrors of the Holocaust, died on Tuesday at his home in Creve Coeur, Mo. He was 96. Mr. Fleishman helped lay the foundation for Fleishman-Hillard, which is based 
 Albin Krebs, a reporter for The New York Times who specialized in writing obituaries of prominent artists, performers and politicians, died on Friday at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 73. The cause was cancer, Robert Krebs, his nephew, said. His obituary subjects ranged f
 Anthony B. Gliedman, who as commissioner of New York City's Department of Housing Preservation and Development emphasized efforts to build housing for the homeless, died on Friday at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 59 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was heart failure,
 Col. Henry A. Potter, who navigated the lead bomber in the United States' first attack on Japan in World War II, died on Memorial Day in Austin, Tex., where he lived. He was 83. Four months after Pearl Harbor, the Doolittle raid, named for the pilot of the lead plane, Lt. Col. James
 Jacques Fauvet, who ran France's most prestigious daily newspaper, Le Monde, for more than a decade, died on Saturday in Paris. He was 87. He had been hospitalized several days earlier after a fall at home, said his daughter Laurence Rey. After joining the paper at the end o
 Lew R. Wasserman, the former chairman and chief executive of the Music Corporation of America, who was arguably the most powerful and influential Hollywood titan in the four decades after World War II, died yesterday in Beverly Hills. He was 89. The man considered the last of the le
 Joseph Garba, a Nigerian soldier turned diplomat who helped organize a military coup that briefly restored civilian rule to his country, died on Saturday in the capital, Abuja. He was 58. No cause of death was given in The Associated Press report of his death. On July 29. 19
 Martin Esslin, a drama critic, teacher and author of ''The Theater of the Absurd,'' a seminal book that identified and codified experimental playwrights with a tragicomic view of what he called ''a world that has gone mad,'' died on Feb. 24 in London. He was 83. For many years, Mr. 
 Fernando Belaúnde Terry, the soft-spoken idealist who was ousted from the Peruvian presidency by the military in 1968 but won it back in 1980, died on Tuesday in Lima. He was 89. Elected in 1963 with only 39 percent of the vote, Mr. Belaúnde, an American-educated architect who bec
 Paul Gottlieb, the former publisher and editor in chief of Harry N. Abrams, who helped bring lavishly illustrated fine-art books to a mainstream audience, died yesterday at his home in New York. He was 67. The apparent cause was a heart attack, according to his wife, Elisabeth Schar
 Sandor Konya, a Hungarian tenor who was a mainstay of the Metropolitan Opera roster from 1961 to 1974, died on May 20 at his home on the Spanish island of Ibiza. He was 78. Mr. Konya had a powerful, dramatic voice and was most highly regarded as a Wagnerian tenor. But his broad repe
 Douglas Glenn Colvin, better known as Dee Dee Ramone, the founding bassist and songwriter of the pioneering punk band the Ramones, died on Wednesday in Los Angeles of an apparent heroin overdose. He was 50, and lived in Hollywood. The Los Angeles County Coroner's Office said that hi
 Hubert M. Tibbetts, who helped lead Thomas J. Lipton Inc. as it moved beyond the traditional cup of tea to iced tea in a can and other convenience foods, died on Sunday while bicycling in Armonk, N.Y. He was 77 and lived in Greenwich, Conn. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Gu
 The Rev. James P. Mahoney, a retired auxiliary bishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, died on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 76 and had lived in the residence for retired priests at Archbishop Stepinac High School in White Plains. The cause was canc
 Keith Fuller, a newspaper reporter whose career took him from small-town Texas to the top job at the world's largest news agency, the Associated Press, died yesterday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 79. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, the Associated Press reported.        
 Nathan Mantel, who in the 1950's developed statistical techniques still widely used in epidemiology and cancer research, died on May 25 at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 83. The cause was a heart attack, said his granddaughter Lauren Hale. Mr. Mantel was best known for the 
 Vicente Nebrada, the director of the National Ballet of Caracas and an internationally known choreographer, died on May 26 at home in Caracas, Venezuela. He was 72 and lived in Caracas and New York. The cause was leukemia, said Zane Wilson, his colleague and companion. Mr. N
 Alan M. Kranowitz, whose knack for bipartisan politics during his tenure as chief Congressional liaison for Ronald Reagan helped further the president's second-term legislative agenda, died on June 3 at a hospital here. He was 61 and lived in Bethesda, Md. He died after a long battl
 Charles Ede, who responded to the dreary appearance of books in austere postwar Britain by starting the Folio Society to create beautiful editions at affordable prices, died on May 29 at a clinic in Hampshire, England. A resident of Newbury in Berkshire, he was 80. The cause was hea
 Rogers Albritton, a philosophy professor at the University of California at Los Angeles and Harvard who was known for probing and engaging lectures in which he rarely came to a definitive conclusion about a question, died on May 21. He was 78. The cause was chronic emphysema, said h
 Benjamin Ward, who began his career as a traffic officer in white gloves on First Avenue, moved through a succession of state and city law-enforcement posts and eventually became the first black commissioner of the New York City Police Department, died yesterday at a Queens hospital. He was
 Dr. Donald S. Fredrickson, the former director of the National Institutes of Health and the Howard Hughes Medical Research Institute who discovered two genetic disorders and was a leading researcher on the links between lipids and fats and heart disease, died on Friday at his home in Bethes
 John J. Gotti, who seized control of the Gambino crime family in a murderous coup, flaunted his power during a flamboyant reign as a Mafia boss, and then spent the last years of his life locked away in a maximum security penitentiary, his gang in shambles, died yesterday at the federal pris
 Maxwell M. Rabb, former United States ambassador to Italy, died on Sunday at the New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan. He was 91 and lived on the Upper East Side. He died of injuries suffered in a fall while he was walking to his law office, his wife, Ruth, said. Mr. R
 Dr. Richard J. Wyatt, chief of the neuropsychiatry branch at the National Institute of Mental Health who made early advances in the study and treatment of schizophrenia, died on June 7 in Washington. He was 63. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Dr. Kay Redfield Jamison, a ps
 Bill Blass, the American designer who built a multimillion-dollar business on understated clothes and a keen perception of the taste of upper-income American women, died last night at his home in New Preston, Conn. He was just days short of his 80th birthday. The cause was cancer, s
 Malcolm Bosse, an author of best-selling historical fiction and children's books, died on May 3 at his home in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was esophageal cancer, his wife, Lori Mack, said. Mr. Bosse was perhaps best known for ''The Warlord,'' 
 Ralph Shapey, a composer whose idiosyncratic style combined the astringent angularity and structural rigor of Serialism with a Romantic passion for lush textures, grand gestures and lyrical melodies, died yesterday at a Chicago hospital. He was 81 and lived in Chicago. His wife, Els
 Rodney Howard Hilton, an influential British Marxist historian who was an expert on medieval social history, died on June 7 at his home in Birmingham, England. He was 85. His scholarship focuses on life of the townspeople and the peasantry of England in the Middle Ages. He was profe
 Tahseen Bashir, the erudite Egyptian diplomat who served as spokesman for the first two post-revolutionary Egyptian presidents and proved a bête noire to the third, died of heart failure in a London hospital on Tuesday. He was 77. Mr. Bashir, the scion of a wealthy Egyptian family,
 Mark Kram, one of Sports Illustrated's most lyrical writers of the 1960's and 70's and the author of a recent book about the tormented relationship between Muhammad Ali and Joe Frazier, died yesterday in Washington. He was 69. The cause was apparently a heart attack, said Mark Kram 
 Martin Aronstein, the five-time Tony Award nominee who was one of the American theater's most prolific lighting designers both on Broadway and beyond, died on May 3 in Van Nuys, Calif. He was 65. The cause was heart failure, said Lawrence Metzler, his companion. In his four 
 R. W. B. Lewis, the literary critic and Yale scholar who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1976 for his biography of Edith Wharton, died on Thursday at his home in Bethany, Conn. He was 84. Professor Lewis taught English and American studies at Yale from 1959 to 1988, but his knowledge and in
 John A. Cella, who oversaw the development of such skin care products as Visible Difference and Millennium for Elizabeth Arden, died on June 8 in San Diego. He was 76. The cause was kidney failure, said his son Dr. John A. Cella III, a neurologist. The elder Dr. Cella began 
 John Sinkankas, an internationally known mineralogist, gemologist, lapidary, author and illustrator, died on May 17 in San Diego. He was 87. A prolific writer and illustrator, Mr. Sinkankas wrote books that are considered vital references in the field of gems and minerals. His book 
 Dr. Nils R. Ringertz, who helped create a substantial Internet presence for the Nobel Foundation by transforming its outdated Web site into an online museum that includes recorded oral histories, died in his sleep on June 8 at his home in Stockholm. He was 69. The cause of death had
 Gino Merli, who was awarded the Medal of Honor in World War II for operating a machine gun that blocked a German advance at a United States Army outpost in Belgium, died last Tuesday at his home in Peckville, Pa. He was 78. He had heart and kidney problems and Parkinson's disease, h
 Jack C. Montgomery, who won the Medal of Honor by storming three German positions in the Battle of Anzio in World War II, died on June 11 in Muskogee, Okla. He was 84. Two hours before dawn on Feb. 22, 1944, in pitched fighting near the small town of Padiglione, Italy, Lieutenant Mo
 Marion J. Levy Jr., a scholar of sociology and international affairs who wrote about modernization theory, which seeks to explain why some societies undergo rapid economic development and corresponding social change, died on May 26 in Princeton, N.J., where he lived. He was 83. The 
 Robert Whitehead, the debonair and distinguished theatrical producer, who refused to let questions of economics take precedence over his artistic standards yet still managed to be a successful businessman, died Saturday at his home in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He was 86 and also had a home in Manha
 R.R. Palmer, a historian through whose eyes generations of college students have learned to see modern history, died on June 11 at his home in Newtown, Pa. He was 93. This year, the ninth edition of Dr. Palmer's textbook, ''A History of the Modern World,'' was published, and overall
 Scott Shuger, an early Internet journalist who wrote the popular column ''Today's Papers'' for the online magazine Slate, died on Saturday while diving off the coast of California just south of Los Angeles. He was 50 and lived in Los Angeles. His body was found in the water a little
 Daniel G. Collins, a professor and labor arbitrator who had a key role in smoothing the way for the New York City contract with its teachers this month, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 72. The cause was cancer, said Mary Kimble, his assistant. Dr. Collins hea
 J. Carter Brown, the eloquent, populist, patrician museum director who, as head of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, did as much as anyone to reshape art museums during the second half of the 20th century, died on Monday at a Boston hospital. He was 67. Mr. Brown, who under
 Jack Buck, whose nearly 50 years as the voice of the St. Louis Cardinals positioned him to describe the baseball exploits of Stan Musial and Mark McGwire and to work alongside his son, died yesterday. He was 77. Buck underwent lung cancer surgery Dec. 5, then had an intestinal block
 John A. Murphy, the president of the Miller Brewing Company at the time it began brewing different beers for different people, started advertising on sports broadcasts and introduced Miller Lite, died on Sunday at a hospital in his hometown of Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 72. He died of c
 Ralph Hunter, choral conductor and a former professor of music at Hunter College, died on June 3 in Grinnell, Iowa, where he lived. He was 81. Known for his passionate conducting of polychoral and spatially stereophonic music, Mr. Hunter also worked in radio and television and recor
 Willie Davenport, who won the 110-meter high hurdles at the 1968 Summer Olympics and also appeared in a Winter Olympics, competing as a bobsledder at Lake Placid in 1980, died Monday in Chicago. He was 59. Davenport had a heart attack at O'Hare International Airport, where he was ma
 Guilford Dudley Jr., a Tennessee insurance executive who was an ambassador to Denmark in the Nixon administration and a Nixon aide, died on Thursday at his home in Nashville. He was 94. Mr. Dudley, a Republican, was president of the Life and Casualty Insurance Company of Tennessee b
 Jack Buck, whose nearly 50 years as the voice of the St. Louis Cardinals' games positioned him to describe the baseball exploits of Stan Musial and Mark McGwire, and to call games with his son, died Tuesday in St. Louis. He was 77. Buck underwent lung cancer surgery Dec. 5, then had
 Leslie Midgley, a newspaperman who overcame his skepticism about television and became producer of 1,500 programs for CBS News, including coverage of the Kennedy assassination, its aftermath and the fall of Saigon, died yesterday in White Plains. He was 87. The cause was pneumonia, 
 Tom Mallow, a leading producer of Broadway's touring shows, died on June 6 at a medical center in Deerfield Beach, Fla. He was 71 and lived in Lighthouse Point, Fla. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's disease, said his wife, Jan. Beginning in the early 1960's, Mr. 
 Dr. Bernie Zilbergeld, a psychologist whose widely read books helped debunk popular assumptions about male sexuality, died on June 12 at his home in Oakland, Calif. He was 62. The cause was complications from diabetes, said his daughter, Claire Zilbergeld. In his 1978 book '
 James Merriam Howard Jr., a leading advocate of using writing as a tool for helping improve performance and thinking in all areas of the curriculum, died on Tuesday at a hospital close to his home in Westport Point, Mass. He was 80. His 1983 book, ''Writing to Learn,'' became a wide
 Timothy Findley, the prolific Canadian author whose complex novels and intricately layered plays often probed the madness and immorality of the last century, died on Thursday in a hospital in the south of France. He was 71. Mr. Findley fractured his pelvis in a fall in early spring 
 Frank O. Spinney, who played a principal role in the formation of Old Sturbridge Village, the outdoor historical museum in Massachusetts, died on June 4 in a Medford, N.J., retirement community. He was 93. Mr. Spinney, a leader in professionalizing the field of outdoor history-museu
 Truck Parham, a Chicago bassist who became known throughout the country playing with some of the biggest names in jazz during seven decades and crossing stylistic boundaries, died on June 5 in Chicago, where he lived. He was 91. Although he came of age in the early days of jazz and 
 Darryl Kile, a veteran pitcher for the St. Louis Cardinals who had one of the most effective curveballs in the major leagues, was found dead Saturday in a hotel room in Chicago, a day before he was supposed to pitch against the Cubs in a nationally televised game. He was 33. Dr. Edm
 Dr. Frank X. Ogasawara, a poultry expert whose advances in artificial insemination helped keep the fat and happy farm-raised turkey from going the way of the dodo, died on June 8 at a hospital in Davis, Calif. He was 88. Dr. Ogasawara, a longtime professor of avian and animal scienc
 Justin W. Dart Jr., a longtime advocate for the rights of disabled people who was a familiar sight around Washington in his cowboy hat, boots and wheelchair, died at his home here on Saturday. He was 71. He had been suffering from pneumonia and the aftereffects of the polio that too
 Dr. Harold M. Visotsky, a psychiatrist who revamped the Illinois mental health system, creating a model that was adopted in much of the nation, died on June 16 in Park Ridge, Ill. A resident of Evanston, he was 78. The cause was bone marrow cancer, his wife, Gladys, said. In
 Henry J. Latham, who represented Queens in Congress for 14 years and was a New York State judge for two decades, died on Wednesday at his home in Southold, N.Y. He was 93 and had lived in the Queens Village section of Queens. A conservative Republican with a strong anticommunist sta
 Samuel Rabinove, who as legal director of the American Jewish Committee for more than 30 years was a prominent advocate of strict church-state separation, died on June 9 in White Plains. He was 79 and lived in White Plains. The cause was complications after suffering pneumonia, his 
 Dr. Albert J. Solnit, a psychiatrist who helped introduce the idea that family law and custody disputes should focus on a child's needs, died on Friday in a car accident in Bethlehem, Conn. He was 82. Dr. Solnit was best known for writing a trilogy of books on family law with Anna F
 John D. Wirth, a scholar and historian of Latin American affairs with an interest in Canada, died on Thursday night in Toronto. He was 66 and lived in Atherton, Calif., and Santa Fe, N.M. The cause was a heart aneurysm he suffered while addressing the Friends of Fort York, a Canadia
 Jay Berwanger, who in 1935 became the first winner of the Heisman Trophy as the outstanding player in college football and then became the first player ever drafted by the National Football League, died Wednesday at his home in Oak Brook, Ill. He was 88. In an era when the Universit
 John Alec Entwistle, the bass player for the Who, died yesterday in Las Vegas, where the Who was preparing to start a United States tour today. Mr. Entwistle was 57. The cause appeared to be a heart attack, said Bob Leinbach, a spokesman for the Clark County Fire Department. An emer
 Gen. Choi Hong Hi, widely acknowledged as the founder of tae kwon do, a martial art that began in Korea and spread rapidly to community centers and storefronts around the United States, died on June 15 in Pyongyang, North Korea. He was 83 and lived in Mississauga, Ontario, a suburb of Toron
 Daniel H. Case III, an investment banker who helped take public many of the highest-flying technology companies in the 1980's and 1990's, died Wednesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 44. The cause was brain cancer, said David Golden, head of J. P. Morgan West Coast Investment
 I. W. Burnham II, a financier whose surname has been on the front door of a Wall Street firm virtually since the depths of the Depression, died on Monday after boating near Norfolk, Va. He was 93 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said a granddaughter, Debra Burnh
 Erwin Chargaff, whose research into the chemical composition of DNA helped lay the groundwork for James Watson and Francis Crick's discovery of its double-helix structure -- the pivotal finding of 20th-century biology -- died on June 20 in a New York hospital. He was 96. As a bioche
