 Francisco Salveron, a Philippine-born Army orderly whose devotion to Gen. Douglas A. MacArthur in World War II gave him a front-row role in MacArthur's historic return to the Philippines, died on Aug. 23 at his home in Bladensburg, Md. He was 88. The cause was lung cancer, his famil
 Albert Bela Bauer, who oversaw the construction of public buildings in New York as city architect for 30 years and prompted Mayor Robert F. Wagner's 1965 executive order providing for the use of art to adorn them, died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 99 and lived
 Charles T. Haskell, an environmentalist and adventurer who recreated perilous historic expeditions in South America and Africa with descendants of famous explorers, died on Aug. 18 at a hospital in Winston-Salem, N.C., near his family home. He was 55. The cause was cancer of the thy
 James Aaron Washington Jr., a retired District of Columbia judge and Howard University law dean who helped to formulate the Supreme Court case that resulted in the 1954 decision against school segregation, died on Saturday in his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 83. Judge Washingto
 Livingston Day (Pete) Watrous, a career diplomat who specialized in Latin America, died yesterday at his home in Nantucket, Mass. He was 82. Mr. Watrous joined the Foreign Service in 1940, after having graduated from Princeton and then Columbia University, with an advanced degree in
 Ralph G. Caso, who during his eight years as Nassau County Executive in the 1970's led efforts to build housing for the elderly, construct the Nassau County Veterans Memorial Coliseum and expand the county park system, died on Monday. He was 80. Mr. Caso, who had a history of heart 
 Allen Drury, the quintessential Washington novelist and author of ''Advise and Consent,'' died yesterday at St. Mary's Medical Center in San Francisco. He was 80 and lived in Tiburon, Calif. He suffered a cardiac arrest, said his nephew Kenneth Killiany. ''Advise and Consent
 Dr. Cary Middlecoff, who abandoned dentistry to play professional golf and won more prize money than Ben Hogan, Sam Snead or anyone else in the storied 1950's era, died Tuesday at the Allen Morgan Health Center in Memphis. He was 77. Dr. Cary Finn, his personal physician, said the c
 Viscount Rothermere, one of the last of Britain's great press barons, who helped transform The Daily Mail from a listless money loser to a highly successful newspaper aimed at Britain's growing middle class, died on Tuesday at St. Thomas's Hospital in London. He was 73 and had a heart attac
 John Mortimer, 75, a former senior vice president of The New York Times for personnel and industrial relations, and his wife of 22 years, Hilda, 69, died in the Swissair plane crash on Wednesday. They lived in Stamford, Conn. They were on their way to a vacation in France, their fam
 Dr. Jonathan Max Mann, a pioneer in the international campaign against AIDS and a founder of a movement to link health issues with those of human rights, died on Wednesday night alongside his wife, Dr. Mary Lou Clements-Mann, a vaccine scientist at Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public
 Pierce Gerety, a Harvard-educated lawyer who briefly considered the priesthood but instead devoted his life to helping refugees trapped in the maelstroms of war and disaster around the world, died on Wednesday night in the crash of the Swissair jetliner off Nova Scotia. He would have been 5
 Stephen Syms Merns, an apparel-chain executive and a philanthropist, died last Saturday during an outing to Columbia County in northern New York State. He was 45 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack suffered while swimming ashore from a canoe, said Doug Meyer, senior
 Walter L. Morgan, a pioneer of finance who founded an early mutual fund that sailed through the booms and busts of seven decades, died on Wednesday at Bryn Mawr Hospital in Pennsylvania. He was 100 and lived in Bryn Mawr. Mr. Morgan headed the Wellington Fund for 42 years until he r
 David Craig, a singing teacher whose students included many stars of film and stage musicals, died on  Aug. 28 at Tarzana Regional Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 75 and lived in Studio City, Calif. The cause was lung cancer, said his daughter, Miranda. Mr. Craig devel
 Dr. Roger Williams, a physician who pioneered the use of genetic data to identify people at risk for cholesterol-related heart disease, was among the 229 people who died in the crash of Swissair Flight 111 on Wednesday. He was 54. Dr. Williams lived in Salt Lake City and conducted h
 Dr. Robert J. Huebner, whose genius as a medical detective in pursuit of viruses and other agents of disease became a major force in the battle against cancer, died on Aug. 26 at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Coatesville, Pa. He was 84. Dr. Huebner, who had suffered 
 Stanley Seiden, an executive of the Nederlander theater organization, died on Aug. 27 at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 76 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif. The cause was Lou Gehrig's disease, company officials said. Mr. Seiden was president of the James
 Amory H. Bradford, a former vice president and general manager of The New York Times who was the chief negotiator for the Publishers Association in the bruising 114-day New York newspaper strike in 1962-63, died Friday at his home in Edisto Beach, S.C. He was 85. A Yale-educated Wal
 Deputy Chief Emil A. Ciccotelli, a longtime New York police commander who was an expert on organized crime and oversaw investigations of some sensational killings, died last Sunday at Our Lady of Mercy Hospital in the Bronx. He was 69. The cause apparently was a heart attack, said R
 Romeo Salta, one of the first Manhattan restaurateurs to introduce fine Italian cuisine, died on Aug. 31 at his home in Manhattan. He was 93. Mr. Salta's namesake restaurant, Romeo Salta, on West 56th Street, opened in 1953 and was one of the first in Manhattan to offer elegant  Nor
 Akira Kurosawa, who personified Japanese movies to most of the world and who grew into one of the handful of truly important directors that the cinema has produced, died yesterday at his home in Tokyo. He was 88. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Mr. Kurosawa, the son
 Albert W. Johnson, a former Republican Congressman from Pennsylvania, died last Tuesday at Boca Raton Community Hospital in Florida. He was 92 and lived in Boca Raton. The cause was complications from pneumonia, his family said. Mr. Johnson, the son of Swedish immigrants, gr
 Kirk O'Donnell, a lawyer and lobbyist for a leading Washington law firm and the former chief aide to former Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., died on Saturday near his weekend home in Scituate, Mass. He was 52 and lived in Washington. A family friend, Robert E. Holland, said that Mr. O
 Douglas C. Jones, a writer who chronicled the mythology of the American West through fictional accounts of historic events, died on Aug. 30 at his home in Fayetteville, Ark. He was 73. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. In 1968, after 25 years in the Ar
 George Hermann Buchi, an organic chemist who laid the groundwork for what became modern organic photochemistry, died on Aug. 28 while hiking with his wife in his native Switzerland, according to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He was 77 and lived in Cambridge, Mass., and Jackson,
 Edward Robb Ellis, who in 1927 began keeping a diary to fend off the boredom of his small town Midwestern adolescence and emerged nearly 70 years later as the most prolific known diarist in the history of American letters, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manha
 Glenn Bernbaum, the owner of Mortimer's restaurant, a favorite watering hole for Manhattan socialites, glitz folk and achievers since 1976, died late Monday night or early yesterday morning at his home in Manhattan. He was 76. The cause of death was unknown, his lawyer, A. Richard G
 Nikos Kefalidis, a real estate developer and founder of KLM Construction Inc., was among the 229  passengers who died on Swissair Flight 111 when it plunged into the sea off Peggy's Cove, Nova Scotia, last Wednesday. He was 55 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Kefalidis (pronounced keff-a
 Juan E. Metzger, the man credited with turning yogurt -- an obscure, highly acidic dairy product -- into a fruit-flavored staple in the diets of many Americans, died on Sunday at his home in New York. He was 79. The cause was heart failure following complications from a stroke in De
 Leo Penn, an actor whose decade on the Hollywood blacklist in the 1940's and 50's stalled his career and eventually led him to direct, primarily in television, died on Saturday at St. John's Health Center in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 77 and lived in Malibu. The cause was lung canc
 Phil G. Goulding, a Pentagon spokesman who unknowingly passed along encouraging but false reports about United States progress in the war in Vietnam and later wrote a book urging officials to press for accurate information from the military, died on Tuesday at his home in Potomac, Md. He wa
 Charlie Feathers, one of the great original rockabilly singers, died on Aug. 29 at St. Francis Hospital in Memphis. He was 66 and lived in Memphis. The cause was complications from a stroke, his wife, Rosemary, said. On his best records of the mid- and late 1950's, released 
 Georges Meyer, chairman and chief executive of Galeries Lafayette S.A., one of Europe's largest department store chains, died Tuesday afternoon at his home in Paris. He was 67. The cause of death was myeloma, a form of leukemia, his wife, Noelle, said. In a 34-year career wi
 Walter Adams, an antitrust expert whose concerns about concentrations of corporate power helped shape Government policy for three decades, died Tuesday at his home in East Lansing, Mich., according to a statement from Michigan State University, where he taught for 46 years. He was 78 years 
 David H. Holladay, a specialist in aviation safety, died on Sept. 4 at Scripps Memorial Hospital in La Jolla, Calif. Mr. Holladay, a resident of Jamul, Calif., was 73. The cause was heart failure, said Craig DeRousse, his stepson. Mr. Holladay became a licensed pilot when he
 Dr. Ellis R. Kerley, a forensic anthropologist whose expertise was widely sought in identifying human remains, including those of the Nazi war criminal Josef Mengele and victims of the Jonestown suicides in Guyana, died on Sept. 3 at a hospice in San Diego. He was 74 and lived in Lake San M
 Leonid Kinskey, the Russian-born character actor best known for his portrayal of Sascha, the bartender in Rick's Cafe Americain in ''Casablanca,'' died on Tuesday in Fountain Hills, Ariz. He was 95. In his most memorable role, Mr. Kinskey was one of the vivid nightclub characters wh
 Marco Rizo, a Cuban pianist best known for composing for the ''I Love Lucy'' show, died on Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 78. The cause of death was a heart attack, said a friend, David Younger. Although Mr. Rizo was known for his work w
 Richard Maass, a self-employed investments manager whose concern for the deprived and the victims of discrimination led him to become the founding chairman of the National Conference on Soviet Jewry and president of the American Jewish Committee, died at his home in Purchase, N.Y., on Thurs
 Bob Dixon, a longtime broadcast announcer who had an unlikely star turn as a Connecticut-bred television cowboy and an even less likely run as Edward R. Murrow's best friend, died on Aug. 22 at a nursing home in Bethel, Conn. He was 87 and lived in Gaylordsville. To the children who
 Dr. Clifford Grobstein, a scientist, university administrator and leading framer of the ethical questions raised by advances in developmental biology, died on Sept. 6 in La Jolla, Calif. He was 82 years old and lived in Rancho Santa Fe. The cause was pneumonia, according to the Univ
 John Holliman, a CNN correspondent who distinguished himself by being one of only three journalists to broadcast live coverage of the 1991 bombing of Baghdad, died yesterday morning. He was 49. Mr. Holliman suffered internal injuries from a head-on car collision with a pickup truck.
 Rabbi Sender Deutsch, a leader of one of the largest Hasidic Jewish groups in the United States and the longtime chief editor and publisher of Der Yid, a Yiddish-language weekly newspaper, died on Sept. 2 at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 76 and a resident of the Williamsburg
 Former Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama, who built his political career on segregation and spent a tormented retirement arguing that he was not a racist in his heart, died last night in Montgomery, Ala. He was 79 and lived in Montgomery. Mr. Wallace died of respiratory and cardiac 
 Dr. Irving E. Segal, an influential mathematician at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who embraced many unpopular notions, including the view that there was no Big Bang at the dawn of the universe, died on Aug. 30 after he collapsed while walking near his home in Lexington, Mass. H
 Vu Van Mau, who was briefly South Vietnam's Prime Minister -- and who called for all Americans to leave Saigon just before it fell to the Communist forces in 1975 -- died on Aug. 20 in a hospital in Paris. He was 84. He emigrated from Vietnam to France in 1988, Le Monde said in repo
 George M. Shapiro, who was counsel to Gov. Thomas E. Dewey and a managing partner at the Proskauer Rose law firm in New York, died Sept. 8 at his home in Manhattan. He was 78. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Rita. A Manhattan native, Mr. Shapiro graduated from L
 Former Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama, who built his political career on segregation and spent a tormented retirement arguing that he was not a racist in his heart, died Sunday night in Montgomery, Ala. He was 79 and lived in Montgomery. Mr. Wallace died of respiratory and cardia
 Henry Spira, the architect of the American animal rights movement's first successful campaigns to limit the use of animals in medical testing and a leading advocate of more humane treatment of farm animals, died early Saturday in his West Side apartment from esophageal cancer, according to 
 Holger W. Jannasch, who probed the dark recesses of the sea for the tiniest forms of life and helped discover how they constitute a hidden biosphere that dominates the planet and may be the place where life itself arose, died on Sept. 8 at his home in Woods Hole, Mass. He was 71. Th
 Ricardo Ramirez, the Guatemalan guerrilla commander turned peacemaker who was better known to his countrymen by his nom de guerre, Rolando Moran, died on Friday in a hospital in Guatemala City. He was 67 and had lived in the Guatemalan capital since a peace accord that ended the country's l
 Yang Shangkun, a former President of China and the military leader who orchestrated  the crackdown on pro-democracy demonstrators in 1989 on Tiananmen Square, died early today, the Chinese Government announced. He was 91. Mr. Yang was one of the last of the Old Guard of revolutionar
 Dane Clark, the Brooklyn-born actor whose down-to-earth portrayals of tough but appealing soldiers, sailors and pilots in World War II films for Warner Brothers brought him stardom, died on Friday at St. John's Health Center in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 85 and lived in Brentwood. 
 Johnny Adams, one of the last of the great blues and ballad singers, died on Monday in Baton Rouge, La., where he lived. He was 67. The cause was cancer, said a spokesman for his publicists, Myers Media, in New York. Mr. Adams was in many ways an anachronism, a singer who co
 Scott P. Mason, a former chairman of the finance department at Harvard University's business school, died on Sept. 8 at his home in Wellesley, Mass. He was 50. The cause of death was cancer, said his wife, Linda. Mr. Mason joined the faculty of the Graduate School of Busines
 Robert Bierstedt, an author and emeritus professor of sociology at the University of Virginia, died on Sept. 8 in Martha Jefferson Hospital in Charlottesville, Va. He was 85 and lived in Charlottesville. He began teaching at the University of Virginia in 1972 and became a professor 
 Thomas J. Murphy, who led the Newspaper Guild of New York for 22 years, including during the bitter 114-day strike of 1962-63, died yesterday at Regency Park Nursing Home in Hazlet, N.J. He was 91. Mr. Murphy was widely respected as a tough and savvy negotiator when he headed the Gu
 Carl Loeb Kempner, the managing senior partner at the Wall Street firm of Hamershlag, Kempner & Company and a longtime supporter of education, died on Tuesday at his home in White Plains. He was 74 and had been battling prostate cancer for more than 20 years, according to his son Michael Ke
 Junius Kellogg, the Manhattan College player whose refusal to accept a bribe to fix the score of a 1951 game touched off the widest betting scandal in basketball history, died Wednesday in the Kingsbridge Veterans Affairs Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 71. Kellogg, who was para
 Reynold B. Johnson, a prolific inventor best known for creating the world's first commercial computer disk drive, died on Tuesday in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 92. The cause was a metastatic melanoma, family members said. Mr. Johnson's first notable invention is familiar to an
 George E. Danielson, a California Congressman who urged the impeachment of President Richard M. Nixon in 1974, died of heart failure on Sept. 12. He was 83 and lived in Monterey Park, Calif. During his 12 years in the House, Mr. Danielson became known nationwide for the wit, brevity
 Gerold Frank, a pioneer of the contemporary literary form of the as-told-to celebrity biography, died on Thursday at the Logan Square East Retirement Community in Philadelphia. He was 91. Mr. Frank also wrote such well-reviewed books as ''The Boston Strangler,'' which was made into 
 Win Elliot, whose affable broadcasting style colored his calls of Rangers hockey games and whose sports reports were marked by sophisticated writing, died on Thursday at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. He was 83. The cause of death was not available. Mr. Elliot's diverse career was
 Arthur S. Lall, an Indian diplomat of the Jawaharlal Nehru generation who helped secure his newly independent country a place near the center of world affairs in the 1950's and 60's, died on Sept. 13 in New York. He was 87. Mr. Lall, who settled in Manhattan at the end of his diplom
 Dr. Edwin A. Weinstein, a former neuropsychiatrist at Mount Sinai Medical School in Manhattan who maintained that people, even Presidents, go to extraordinary lengths to hide their illnesses, died on Sept. 7 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 89. The cause was a stroke, family memb
 Frederick H. Korth, a Texas banker who served for two years as Secretary of the Navy in the Kennedy Administration, died on Sept. 14 at his home in El Paso. He was 89, and had retired from his practice at a Washington law firm in December. The cause was cancer, said his son, Fritz-A
 Michael Stephen Currier, a rancher and philanthropist who was the manager of the Economic Development Fund for the Tibetan Community in Exile, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 37, and lived in Santa Fe. The cause was injuries suffered in a fall in
 Bill Cratty, a choreographer and dancer with the Jose Limon Dance Company, died on Sept. 9 at his home in London. He was 47. The cause was liver cancer, said Trader Selkirk, Mr. Cratty's companion. Mr. Cratty was ''a very pure and concentrated dancer'' with ''integrity of ge
 Louis P. Martini, a leading figure in the California wine business and chairman of the Louis M. Martini Winery in Napa Valley, died Monday at his home in St. Helena, Calif. He was 79. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. The Martini family has been involved in the
 Terence A. McEwen, a former executive with London Records, a general director of the San Francisco Opera during the 1980's and a witty frequent panelist on the ''Texaco Opera Quiz,'' the intermission feature of the Metropolitan Opera radio broadcasts, died on Sept. 14 at his home in Honolul
 William Albright, a composer, organist and pianist, died on Sept. 17 at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 53. The cause was liver failure, said his agent, Karen McFarlane. Mr. Albright won special respect for his work in ragtime and organ music. These might seem quite dist
 Chet Hoff, who was born a decade before the American League was founded and pitched for the Yankees when they were known as the Highlanders, died last Thursday at a nursing home in Daytona Beach, Fla. He was 107 and had lived longer than anyone else who ever played major league baseball.   
 James Chittenden Dudley, an investor and geologist who was also active in education, died Sept. 16 in Danbury Hospital in Danbury, Conn. He was 77 and lived in Redding, Conn. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Dudley had been a managing partner of Dudley & Company, a
 James Fletcher, chairman of the South Shore Bank, a pioneering lender to some of the poorer neighborhoods in Chicago, died of complications of lymphoma on Sept. 16 at St. Joseph's Hospital in Chicago. He was 63 and a lifelong resident of the city. Mr. Fletcher was one of a group of 
 Lucio Battisti, a singer and songwriter who was the voice of Italians who came of age in the late 1960's and early 70's, died on Sept. 9 at a hospital in Milan. He was 55. The Associated Press said the cause was liver cancer. A fiercely private figure who had not made a publ
 Victor A. Coopersmith, a fashion entrepreneur who in July closed the company that made women's wool suits and other clothes designed by his wife, Andrea Jovine, drowned Sept. 9 while swimming in Lake Powell near Page, Ariz., the United States Park Service said. He was 51. Mr. Cooper
 William Whitney Ballard, professor emeritus of biology at Dartmouth College, died on Sept. 14 at his home in Norwich, Vt., in the same bed in which he was born 92 years earlier in Griswoldville, Mass. In between, Dr. Ballard seemed to do a little bit of everything, researching and p
 Albert V. Maniscalco, who was the Borough President of Staten Island during its dizzying shift from rural to urban borough, died on Sept. 2 at the Sisters of Charity Medical Center there. He was 90. Mr. Maniscalco, a lifelong politician who joined a Democratic Party club at the age 
 Ernst Rudolph Jaakson, the Ambassador from Estonia who maintained a consulate in New York after the Soviet Union absorbed the country, died on Sept. 4 in New York, the Estonian Consulate said. He was 93, and had been a diplomat for 75 years -- the longest-serving diplomat in the world, acco
 William Piel Jr., a leading corporate lawyer of his time, died Sept. 13 at his home in Sherman, Conn. He was 88. Mr. Piel joined the law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell in 1935 and became a partner in 1946. At his retirement in 1980 he was the firm's senior litigating partner. B
 Dr. Donald A. Pious, a University of Washington immunologist who advanced understanding of the immune system's responses to transplants and infection, died on Sept. 6 at his home in Seattle. He was 68. The cause was pancreatic cancer, family members said. Dr. Pious made impo
 James H. Lavenson, an advertising and marketing expert known for public speeches that were both hilarious and instructive, died Sept. 19 at  Penobscot Bay Medical Center in Rockport, Me., following a stroke, his wife, Susan, said. He was 79. In 1974, Mr. Lavenson gained attention wh
 Jeffrey A. Moss, a writer and composer whose accomplishments included dreaming up the ''Sesame Street'' characters Cookie Monster and Oscar the Grouch, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 56. The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Anne Boylan. Mr. Moss was 
 Archie M. Smith Jr., a Virginia winemaker who had the rare distinction of succeeding in a field where Thomas Jefferson failed, died on Sept. 19 at his home in Middleburg, Va. He was 78. His son, Archie M. Smith 3d, said the cause was Lou Gehrig's disease -- amyotrophic lateral scler
 Brendan M. Jones, who was a former reporter for The New York Times, died Sept. 18 at Western Queens Community Hospital. Mr. Jones, a resident of Jackson Heights, was 85. The cause of death was pneumonia, said his wife, Anne Virginia McCormick Jones. Mr. Jones joined The New 
 Dr. Edward Christopher Whitmont, a Jungian psychoanalyst and homeopathic physician who introduced many Americans to the fundamentals of Jungian psychology through his writing and teaching, died on Monday at his home in Sherman, Conn. He was 85. The cause was cancer of the thymus, hi
 Joe Miller's pal was born to play soccer, and he played it with such flair that 80 years later Mr. Miller could raise the hairs on a listener's neck simply by describing his friend's powerful kick. By the time Mr. Miller, a Bronx native, got to know him in history class at the old H
 Doak Walker, the 1948 Heisman Trophy winner and one of college football's legendary heroes, died yesterday at Routt Hospital in Steamboat Springs, Colo. He was 71. The cause was complications from the paralysis he suffered in a skiing accident last Jan. 30 in Steamboat Springs, wher
 Peter Brock Putnam, a blind historian who spoke in public and wrote about blindness and was active in nonprofit organizations, died on Wednesday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 78. He had suffered from lymphoma for three years, said his son Brock. Peter Brock Putnam ha
 W. Frederick Laird, former chairman and chief executive officer of the Columbia Gas System, died of cancer Sept. 15 at Christiana Hospital in Newark, Del. Mr. Laird, who lived in Greenville, Del., was 79. Born in London, Ohio, Mr. Laird graduated from Capital University in Columbus,
 Dr. John F. Prudden, a surgeon and researcher who used medicines made from the cartilage of sharks, reptiles and cows as well as the chitin of lobster or shrimp shells to help heal wounds and treat a range of diseases, died on Sept. 12 at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount  Kisco, N.Y. 
 Lamar Crowson, an American pianist who, though little known in the United States, was regarded by many colleagues as one of the finest chamber musicians of his time, died on Aug. 25 in Johannesburg, where he lived. He was 72. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr
 Minoru Niizuma, a sculptor and educator who taught at the Brooklyn Museum Art School and Columbia University, died on Sept. 5 at the University Hospital and Medical Center of Stony Brook on Long Island. He was 67 and lived in East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was a stroke, a family membe
 Sam Locke, a writer of plays, books, theater sketches and television scripts whose roots hark back to the golden days of radio, died on Sept. 18 at a convalescent center in San Diego. He was 81. Mr. Locke's credits include scripts for such classic radio programs as ''Grand Central S
 Julian Allen, an illustrator best known for realistic visual essays on contemporary subjects like the Watergate scandal, the Israeli raid to free hostages at the airport in Entebbe, Uganda, and the gangs of the South Bronx, died on Monday at a hospice in Baltimore. He was 55 and lived in Ba
 Philip F. Cohen, the founder and former president of Oceana Publications Inc., a publishing house that specializes in international law, died on Aug. 29 at Dobbs Ferry Community Hospital in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. He was 87 and lived in Dobbs Ferry. Mr. Cohen was born in Manchester, Engla
 Tom Bradley, the sharecropper's son who became Mayor of Los Angeles and presided over the city for two decades of explosive growth and change, died yesterday at the Kaiser Permanente Medical Center in West Los Angeles. He was 80. The cause was a heart attack, hospital officials said
