Scott Burton, an American sculptor whose work balanced stubbornly and elegantly between art and furniture while evolving into a new kind of public sculpture, died of AIDS on Friday at Cabrini Medical Center in New York City. He was 50 years old and lived in Manhattan. Scott Bu
Victor G. Trapasso, the president and chief executive officer of the GT Realty and Management Company of Herndon, Va., died of cancer on Thursday at Alexandria Hospital in Alexandria, Va., where he lived. He was 54 years old. Victor G. Trapasso, the president and chief executi
William Scott, a British artist acclaimed for his still life paintings and drawings, died of Alzheimer's disease on Thursday at his home outside Bath in Somerset, England. He was 76 years old. William Scott, a British artist acclaimed for his still life paintings and drawings,
Corneliu Bogdan, the longtime Rumanian envoy to Washington who broke with the Ceausescu dictatorship and took a prominent place in the new revolutionary Government, died of a stroke yesterday in Bucharest, his family said. He was 68 years old. Corneliu Bogdan, the longtime Rum
G. Douglas Hofe Jr., a former Deputy State Attorney General for New Jersey, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Morris Township, N.J. He was 59 years old and also lived in Orleans, Mass. G. Douglas Hofe Jr., a former Deputy State Attorney General for New Jersey, died of ca
John Frank Wood, a retired partner in the Manhattan law firm of Thacher Proffitt & Wood, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home in Buck Hill Falls, Pa. He also lived in Manhattan and was 81 years old. John Frank Wood, a retired partner in the Manhattan law firm of Thacher
Patrick Kelly, the American designer whose sexy, witty clothes attracted attention in Paris, died yesterday at the Hotel Dieu, a hospital near the Cathedral of Notre-Dame. The cause of death was bone marrow disease, Bjorn Amelan, his business partner, said. Patrick Kelly, the 
Alan Colby Green, the executive vice president of the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, died of a heart ailment on Friday at the Maho Bay campground in St. John, V.I., which he was visiting with his family. He was 54 years old and lived in Pelham, N.Y. Alan 
Evangelos Averoff, a former Foreign Minister and former Defense Minister of Greece and a leading conservative politician, died of a heart attack in Apolloneion Hospital in Athens yesterday, an official at the Greek Mission to the United Nations said. He was 79 years old. Evang
George B. Vest, general counsel of the Federal Reserve Board from 1945 until his retirement in 1957, died of liver cancer on Sunday at his home in Washington. He was 94 years old. George B. Vest, general counsel of the Federal Reserve Board from 1945 until his retirement in 19
Howard E. Kershner, a businessman and an outspoken conservative about politics and economics who retired 50 years ago to devote himself to relief causes for children, died of a pulmonary ailment on Monday at the Southland Lutheran Home in Norwalk, Calif. He was 98 years old and had li
Lawrence Alloway, an English-born art critic, historian and curator who was one of the earliest European champions of postwar American art, died of cardiac arrest yesterday morning at his home in Manhattan. He was 63. Lawrence Alloway, an English-born art critic, historian and
R. Jess Brown, a civil rights lawyer whose clients included James Meredith and a young black man who was lynched before he could be brought to trial on charges of raping a white woman, died of cancer on Sunday at Hinds General Hospital here. He was 77 years old and lived in Jackson.  
Solomon Birnbaum, a Jewish scholar credited with establishing the authenticity and age of the Dead Sea Scrolls, died here on Thursday. He was 98 years old. Solomon Birnbaum, a Jewish scholar credited with establishing the authenticity and age of the Dead Sea Scrolls, died here
Vincent T. Malone, a retired senior vice president of the Manhattan stockbrokerage firm of Pershing & Company, died of cancer on Friday at his home in Monmouth Beach, N.J. He was 64 years old. Vincent T. Malone, a retired senior vice president of the Manhattan stockbrokerage f
Alan Hale Jr., an actor who gained fame as the jolly Skipper in the television series ''Gilligan's Island,'' died of cancer of the thymus on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 71 years old and lived in Hollywood. Alan Hale Jr., an actor who gained f
Arthur Gold, a Canadian pianist who performed for nearly 40 years as part of a piano duo with Robert Fizdale, died of lung cancer yesterday at the Manhattan apartment he shared with Mr. Fizdale. He was 72 years old, and also had a home in Water Mill, N.Y. Arthur Gold, a Canadi
Ben Reifel, the first Sioux Indian elected to the United States House of Representatives, died of cancer on Tuesday at Sioux Valley Hospital in Sioux Falls. He was 83 years old. Ben Reifel, the first Sioux Indian elected to the United States House of Representatives, died of c
Bernard Stephens, a retired editor of newspapers for labor unions, died of a heart attack yesterday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 72 years old and lived in Albertson, L.I. Bernard Stephens, a retired editor of newspapers for labor unions, died of
Dominick R. Capello, Superintendent of the New Jersey State Police from 1962 to 1964 and later a private detective, died on Sunday at Holy Name Hospital in Teaneck, N.J. He was 80 years old and lived in Hackensack, N.J. Dominick R. Capello, Superintendent of the New Jersey Sta
Daniel Moffat, a retired stock broker, died of complications following open heart surgery Tuesday at New York University Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 years old and lived in Queens Village, Queens. Daniel Moffat, a retired stock broker, died of complications following open 
Dr. Nathaniel H. Pier, an internist whose practice consisted largely of AIDS patients, died of acquired immune deficiency syndrome at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 37 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Nathaniel H. Pier, an internist whose practice consisted largely of AIDS pa
Dr. Herbert Pollack, a physician, educator and Government consultant, died of cardiac arrest Tuesday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan before moving to Washington about 10 years ago. Dr. Herbert Pollack, a physic
J. Willcox Dunn, a retired newspaper editor and publisher who actively opposed gambling, died Friday at a nursing home here. He was 91 years old. J. Willcox Dunn, a retired newspaper editor and publisher who actively opposed gambling, died Friday at a nursing home here. He was
Jay Wells, who founded Wells Television, which became the country's largest supplier of rental television sets to hotels and hospitals, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 73 years old. Jay Wells, who founded Wells Television, which became t
John P. Devine, a municipal-bond trader, died of leukemia on Tuesday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 52 years old and lived in Short Hills, N.J. John P. Devine, a municipal-bond trader, died of leukemia on Tuesday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 52 year
Joseph A. Loftus, for 25 years a reporter for The New York Times and then a special assistant for communications to Secretary of Labor George P. Shultz, died of heart disease yesterday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 82 years old and had suffered a series of strokes. Jose
Joseph H. Magruder, a retired businessman, died of lung cancer on Saturday at his home in Venice, Fla. He was 76 years old and had lived for many years in Fairfield, Conn. Joseph H. Magruder, a retired businessman, died of lung cancer on Saturday at his home in Venice, Fla. He
Leonard Zahn, a stockbroker and philanthropist, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 73 years old and had homes in Palm Beach and Kings Point, L.I. Leonard Zahn, a stockbroker and philanthropist, died of a heart attack on Tues
Murray S. Kaplan, a lawyer and textile executive, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 82 years old. Murray S. Kaplan, a lawyer and textile executive, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 82 years old. Mr. Kaplan was a 
Oscar J. Gass, a retired economic consultant, died of respiratory and circulatory collapse Monday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 76 years old and lived in Washington. Oscar J. Gass, a retired economic consultant, died of respiratory and circulatory collapse Monda
Paul Corbin, a political consultant who was an aide to Senator Robert F. Kennedy, died of cancer on Tuesday at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 75 years old. Paul Corbin, a political consultant who was an aide to Senator Robert F. Kennedy, died of cancer on Tuesday at his ho
Peter Paul Muller, an architect, died of cancer on Sunday at Southampton (L.I.) Hospital after a long illness. He was 72 years old and lived in Bridgehampton, L.I. Peter Paul Muller, an architect, died of cancer on Sunday at Southampton (L.I.) Hospital after a long illness. He
Richard Z. Steinhaus, a lawyer and lobbyist, died of a heart attack on Dec. 25 at St. Thomas Hospital while on vacation in the United States Virgin Islands. He was 61 years old and lived in Loudonville, a suburb of Albany. Richard Z. Steinhaus, a lawyer and lobbyist, died of a
Salvatore J. Licata, an AIDS educator with the New York City Health Department, died of AIDS-related illnesss on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 50 years old. In 1985, Mr. Licata helped found People With AIDS Newsline, a monthly newspaper written by and for people with AIDS. 
Dr. Walter T. Heldmann, a physician, died of cancer on Monday at his home in Ward Hill, S.I. He was 85 years old. Dr. Walter T. Heldmann, a physician, died of cancer on Monday at his home in Ward Hill, S.I. He was 85 years old. Dr. Heldmann, an eye, ear, nose and throa
Alberto Lleras Camargo, twice President of Colombia and an architect of a 16-year coalition Government that reduced rural violence, died today after a long illness, a presidential spokesman said. Alberto Lleras Camargo, twice President of Colombia and an architect of a 16-year
Charles E. Arch, founder and chairman of Blistex Inc., manufacturers of lip care products, died of heart disease Monday at Loyola University Medical Center in Maywood, Ill. He was 79 years old and lived in Oak Brook, Ill. Charles E. Arch, founder and chairman of Blistex Inc., 
The Rev. Dr. Edward Nason West, the retired Canon Sacrist of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, where he was master of ceremonies for more than 40 years, died of pulmonary failure on Wednesday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan. 
Edwin F. Shelley, a management consultant and an inventor and engineer, died of a heart attack yesterday at New Rochelle (N.Y.) Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in New Rochelle. Edwin F. Shelley, a management consultant and an inventor and engineer, died of a heart atta
Gerhard Schroder, a former Foreign Minister of West Germany and a co-founder of the Christian Democratic Union that has been in power for much of the post-World War II period, died of heart failure on Sunday at his home on the North Sea island of Sylt, his family said. He was 79 years
Harold E. (Doc) Edgerton, professor emeritus of electrical measurements at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, whose invention of the electronic flash expanded the scope of photography, died yesterday after a heart attack at the institute faculty club, where he was having lunch
James P. McDonald, a retired public relations executive, died on Dec. 27 at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital. He was 73 years old and lived in Tenafly, N.J. James P. McDonald, a retired public relations executive, died on Dec. 27 at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital. He was 73 years old and 
Leonard Elliott, an actor and comedian who performed on the Broadway stage and in Manhattan nightclubs, died of cardiac arrest on Sunday in St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan. Leonard Elliott, an actor and comedian who performed on the Broadway 
Vladimir Ussachevsky, who composed the first piece of electronic music heard in concert in the United States and who went on to lead the pioneering Columbia-Princeton Electronic Music Center, died of a brain tumor yesterday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 78 years old.       
Alexis P. Fekula, an oil and gas consultant and choral conductor of Russian liturgical music, died of heart disease on Thursday in Boston. He was 58 years old and lived in Southport, Conn. Alexis P. Fekula, an oil and gas consultant and choral conductor of Russian liturgical m
Bruce Jay Heim, an investment banker, died of complications of AIDS on Thursday at his home in Bernardsville, N.J. He was 37 years old. Bruce Jay Heim, an investment banker, died of complications of AIDS on Thursday at his home in Bernardsville, N.J. He was 37 years old.      
Carmen Hill, a former National League pitcher who compiled a 49-33 record in 10 major league seasons over 16 years, died on Monday in Indianapolis. He was 94 years old. Carmen Hill, a former National League pitcher who compiled a 49-33 record in 10 major league seasons over 16
Duane C. Bogie, a television producer who helped create the ''Hallmark Hall of Fame'' drama series, died of brain cancer Tuesday in Parkland Hospital in Dallas. He was 67 years old and had homes in Dallas and Litchfield, Conn. Duane C. Bogie, a television producer who helped c
Ernest T. Brainard, who apparently was the nation's oldest active stockbroker, died on Wednesday as he was getting ready to go work. He was 99 years old and lived in West Hartford. Ernest T. Brainard, who apparently was the nation's oldest active stockbroker, died on Wednesday
Ian (Ernie) Horvath, producing director of the Jose Limon Dance Foundation, a founder of the Cleveland Ballet and a former soloist with the Joffrey Ballet and American Ballet Theater, died of AIDS yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital in New York. Mr. Horvath was 46 years old. I
Jospeh Crook Anderson, a retired Army colonel and former military attache, died of leukemia Monday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 75 years old. Jospeh Crook Anderson, a retired Army colonel and former military attache, died of leukemia Monday at his home in Bethesda, Md. 
Nils Hansell, an amateur sailor best known as the originator of Operation Sail, an international maritime festival in New York City in 1964, died of pnuemonia last Saturday at the Princeton (N.J.) Medical Center. He was 80 years old and lived in Princeton. Nils Hansell, an ama
Peter Carlsen, a writer and editor who specialized in design and architecture, was found dead, apparently a suicide, on Dec. 26 at his home in Manhattan. He was 43 years old. Peter Carlsen, a writer and editor who specialized in design and architecture, was found dead, apparen
Richard Hoffman Wels, a lawyer who was influential in the reform of New York State's divorce laws, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 76 years old.  Mr. Wels, an expert on family law, helped to modernize the state's matrimonial laws. For nearly 40 years, he was a leader
Robert Sivard, a painter and illustrator whose sprightly canvases range from urban street scenes to the lives of famous painters and literary figures, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 75 years old. Robert Sivard, a painter and illustrator whos
Theodore I. Felner, a retired executive of Burlington Industries and of Macy's New York, died of an embolism on Wednesday at his winter home in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 81 years old and also had a residence in Manhattan. Theodore I. Felner, a retired executive of Burlington 
Wilfred B. Doner, founder of W. .B. Doner & Company, an advertising agency based in Detroit, died Thursday, apparently of a cerebral hemorrhage, at his home in Birmingham, Mich. He was 75 years old. Wilfred B. Doner, founder of W. .B. Doner & Company, an advertising agency bas
Arthur Kennedy, who appeared in more than 70 Hollywood films and won a Tony Award on Broadway for creating the role of Biff in Arthur Miller's ''Death of a Salesman,'' died of a brain tumor on Friday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford. He was 75 years old. Arthur Kennedy, 
Harry R. Karp, an electrical engineer and retired editor in chief of Data Communications magazine, died of complications following heart surgery Thursday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Newark. He was 67 years old and lived in Westfield, N.J. Harry R. Karp, an electrical engi
Louis A. Schuker, an educator who in a 44-year career in the New York City public school system built a reputation as an iron-willed administrator and an outspoken proponent of the merit system for hiring teachers, died of heart failure Friday at his home in Forest Hills, Queens. He w
Clarke Taylor, a New York correspondent for The Los Angeles Times who wrote film and television reviews and articles for more than a decade, died of AIDS on Friday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan. Clarke Taylor, a New York corre
Harold Field Kellogg Jr., an architect who restored or altered 200 town houses in Manhattan, died of a heart ailment Jan. 1 at Cottage Hospital in Nantucket, Mass. He was 72 years old and lived on Nantucket island. Harold Field Kellogg Jr., an architect who restored or altered
Herbert W. Briggs, who taught political science and international law at Cornell for 40 years before his retirement in 1969, died of cancer Saturday at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 89 years old. Herbert W. Briggs, who taught political science and international law at Cornel
Ian Charleson, who won international fame in the 1981 film ''Chariots of Fire'' as a devout Scottish runner competing in the 1924 Paris Olympics, died of AIDS on Saturday night at his home in London. He was 40 years old. Ian Charleson, who won international fame in the 1981 fi
Joe Robbie, the owner of the National Football League's Miami Dolphins since their inception in 1965, died today. He was 73 years old. Joe Robbie, the owner of the National Football League's Miami Dolphins since their inception in 1965, died today. He was 73 years old.        
Peter Cookson, an actor, producer and writer known for his 1947 stage portrayal of Morris Townsend, the philandering fortune hunter in ''The Heiress,'' died of bone cancer on Saturday at his home in Southfield, Mass. He was 76 years old and also lived in Manhattan. Peter Cooks
Archibald H. Tunick, a former Connecticut Superior Court judge, died of heart failure on Sunday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Greenwich. Archibald H. Tunick, a former Connecticut Superior Court judge, died of heart failure on Sunday at Greenwi
Bela Boszormenyi-Nagy, a Hungarian-born pianist who taught in the United States and Canada for more than 50 years, died of esophageal cancer on Saturday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 77 years old. Bela Boszormenyi-Nagy, a Hungarian-born pianist who taught i
Bronko Nagurski, whose great strength as a running back and tackler seemed to football fans of the 1920's and 1930's the epitome of bonecrushing power, died Sunday night at Falls Memorial Hospital in International Falls, Minn. He was 81 years old. Bronko Nagurski, whose great 
C. Robert Devine, a retired executive of the Readers Digest Association Inc., died of prostate cancer on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 72 years old and lived in Manhattan. C. Robert Devine, a retired executive of the Readers Digest Association Inc., died of
Dr. Harry Lionel Shapiro, an anthropologist and former curator at the American Museum of Natural History, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital, where he was admitted Dec. 23. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Harry Lionel Shapiro, an anthropologist and former cu
E. Leland Webber, who worked at the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago as an usher at age 13 and eventually became its president, died of cancer Sunday in Evanston (Ill.) Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Wilmette, Ill. E. Leland Webber, who worked at the Fiel
Edward J. Ennis, a former Federal prosecutor who became chairman of the American Civil Liberties Union, died of complications of diabetes on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 82 years old and had homes in Manhattan; Lido Beach, L.I., and Palm Beach, Fla. Edward J. Ennis, a
The Rev. Dr. H. Ganse Little, a clergyman, author and former head of the United Presbyterian Church, U.S.A., died of complications of Alzheimer's disease last Tuesday at the Sweet Brook Nursing Home in Williamstown, Mass. He was 85 years old and lived in Williamstown. The Rev.
Horace C. Stoneham, the longtime owner of the baseball Giants who moved the club from New York to San Francisco in 1958, died in a nursing home in Scottsdale, Ariz., Sunday. He was 86 years old. Horace C. Stoneham, the longtime owner of the baseball Giants who moved the club f
Joe Robbie, the owner of the National Football League's Miami Dolphins since their inception in 1965, died Sunday. He was 73 years old. Joe Robbie, the owner of the National Football League's Miami Dolphins since their inception in 1965, died Sunday. He was 73 years old.      
Joseph V. Giffuni, a New York City builder and real-estate developer, died on Friday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 77 years old. Joseph V. Giffuni, a New York City builder and real-estate developer, died on Friday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 77 year
Robert W. Graham, a former personal representative of Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger at the Vienna arms talks, died Friday of respiratory failure. He was 74 years old. Robert W. Graham, a former personal representative of Defense Secretary Caspar W. Weinberger at the V
Tadeusz Brzezinski, a former Polish consular official and the father of President Carter's national security adviser, Zbigniew Brzezinski, died of pneumonia on Sunday at a nursing home in Montreal. He was 93 years old and a resident of Montreal. Tadeusz Brzezinski, a former Po
Temple Hoyne Buell, an architect, developer and philanthropist, died Friday at his home in Denver. He was 94 years old. Temple Hoyne Buell, an architect, developer and philanthropist, died Friday at his home in Denver. He was 94 years old. Mr. Buell, a graduate of the 
Terry-Thomas, the comedian and character actor who satirized virtually every type of Briton from upper-class cads to crooks, from dandies to daredevils, died of Parkinson's disease yesterday at a nursing home in Godalming, Surrey, England. He was 78 years old. Terry-Thomas, th
John L. Clive, a Harvard professor of history who won a National Book Award in 1974 for his biography of Thomas Babington Macaulay, the 19th-century Scottish historian, died Sunday while being driven to his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 65 years old. John L. Clive, a Harvard
Lord Gardiner, who as Lord Chancellor, or head of the judiciary, from 1964 to 1970 presided over the abolition of the death penalty in Britain, died on Sunday, his family said. He was 89 years old. Lord Gardiner, who as Lord Chancellor, or head of the judiciary, from 1964 to 1
Paul A. Kennon, an award-winning architect who was dean of the School of Architecture at Rice University, died of a heart attack on Monday at the Texas Medical Center in Houston. He was 55 years old and lived in Houston. Paul A. Kennon, an award-winning architect who was dean 
Robert J. Smith, a former airlines industry executive, died of a heart attack on Dec. 31 at his home in Dallas. He was 90 years old. Robert J. Smith, a former airlines industry executive, died of a heart attack on Dec. 31 at his home in Dallas. He was 90 years old. Aft
Alan Handley, a television director and producer, died of a heart attack on Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 77 years old. Alan Handley, a television director and producer, died of a heart attack on Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 77 years old. Mr. H
There are those who will tell you that little Johnny Sylvester was never that sick and certainly not dying. There are those who will tell you that little Johnny Sylvester was never that sick and certainly not dying. They will tell you that Babe Ruth never promised to h
Joseph Dermody, a retired labor organizer and former president of Local 12 of the United Electrical, Radio and Machine Workers of America, died of complications of diabetes on Friday at the Waverly Care Center in New Canaan, Conn. He was 84 years old and lived in New Canaan. J
Dr. Mansho T. Khilnani, a radiologist and educator, died of a chronic heart ailment on Jan. 4 at Coral Reef Hospital in Miami. He was 70 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. Dr. Mansho T. Khilnani, a radiologist and educator, died of a chronic heart ailment on Jan. 4 at Cora
Maston E. O'Neal Jr., a Democrat who served three terms in the House of Representatives in the 1960's, died of heart disease on Tuesday at his home in Bainbridge. He was 82 years old. Maston E. O'Neal Jr., a Democrat who served three terms in the House of Representatives in th
Richard P. Hayes, a theater arts teacher and drama critic, died after a heart attack on Monday in his Manhattan home. He was 60 years old. Richard P. Hayes, a theater arts teacher and drama critic, died after a heart attack on Monday in his Manhattan home. He was 60 years old.
Spud Chandler, who was voted the American League's most valuable player in 1943 and was twice a 20-game winner for the Yankees, died Tuesday. He was 82 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. Spud Chandler, who was voted the American League's most valuable player in 1
Alexander Lowenthal, a Pittsburgh businessman who was active in civic affairs, died of congestive heart failure Dec. 29 at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 91 years old. Alexander Lowenthal, a Pittsburgh businessman who was active in civic affairs, died of congestive heart failu
Arthur J. O'Brien, former president of the Associated Dry Goods Corporation, died of a heart attack Monday at his home in Jupiter, Fla. He was 80 years old. Arthur J. O'Brien, former president of the Associated Dry Goods Corporation, died of a heart attack Monday at his home i
Daniel David Brockman, a prominent tax lawyer and supporter of the arts, died of cancer at his home in Manhattan yesterday. He was 86 and had homes in Manhattan, East Hampton and Marbella, Spain. Daniel David Brockman, a prominent tax lawyer and supporter of the arts, died of 
Drew Middleton, who covered World War II and postwar Europe for The New York Times and later served as the newspaper's military correspondent, died quietly in his sleep Wednesday night at his apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 76 years old. Drew Middleton, w
Dudley Field Malone, a theatrical agent and manager, died of lung cancer on Jan. 1 at his home in Bellport, L.I. He was 59 years old. Dudley Field Malone, a theatrical agent and manager, died of lung cancer on Jan. 1 at his home in Bellport, L.I. He was 59 years old. M
Lieut. Gen. Basilio Olara Okello, a Ugandan rebel leader who led a coup against the civilian Government of President Milton Obote in 1985, has died of diabetes complicated by malaria. He was 61 years old. Lieut. Gen. Basilio Olara Okello, a Ugandan rebel leader who led a coup 
Georgie Auld, a saxophonist who played with Bunny Berigan, Artie Shaw and Benny Goodman, died of lung cancer on Monday at his home here. He was 70 years old. Georgie Auld, a saxophonist who played with Bunny Berigan, Artie Shaw and Benny Goodman, died of lung cancer on Monday 
Harold Zyskind, professor emeritus of philosophy at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, L.I., died of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as Lou Gehrig's disease, on Tuesday at the Veterans Hospital in Northport, L.I. He was 72 years old and had been in the hospital
Martin H. Newman, executive director of the Will Rogers Memorial Fund and former president of Century Theaters, died of cancer Monday in New York Hospital. He was 76 years old and lived in Manhattan. Martin H. Newman, executive director of the Will Rogers Memorial Fund and for
Robert B. Pirie, a retired vice admiral who was Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for air when he retired in 1962 after a 40-year career in the Navy, died of congestive heart failure Tuesday at the Belvoir Woods Health Care Center, Fort Belvoir, Va. He was 84 years old and had lived fo
Stephen H. Mayer, chairman of the MEM Company, a toiletries concern with headquarters in Northvale, N.J., died of a stroke on Wednesday at Tucson (Ariz.) Medical Center. He was 74 years old and had homes in Tucson and Denver. Stephen H. Mayer, chairman of the MEM Company, a to
The Rev. Victor J. Maritato, a priest in the Diocese of Brooklyn who had served as a Navy chaplain for 21 years, died Sunday at his home in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 65 years old. The Rev. Victor J. Maritato, a priest in the Diocese of Brooklyn who had served as a Navy chapla
Donald F. Bowler, an investigator best known for helping send the gangster Mickey Cohen to prison for tax evasion, was found dead on Tuesday at his home in Canoga Park, Calif. The cause of death was not made known. He was 69 years old.  Mr. Bowler, as intelligence chief of the Interna
Dr. Jerome I. Sashin, a psychiatrist who was chairman of the research committee of the Psychoanalytic Institute of New England East in Needham, Mass., died of lymphoma on Jan. 5 at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 49 years old and lived in Boston. Dr. Jerome I.
Dr. Joseph John Copeland, a biologist who became acting president of City College at the height of racial turbulence there in May 1969, died of pneumonia on Thursday at the Paul Kimball Medical Center in Lakewood, N.J. He was 82 years old and had moved to a retirement community in Lak
Earl D. Johnson, who was an Under Secretary of the Army and a top executive at General Dynamics and Delta Airlines, died in his sleep on Thursday at a nursing home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 84 years old and lived in Greenwich. Earl D. Johnson, who was an Under Secretary of th
Frederick Hurd, a retired investment counselor and a trustee of the Children's Aid Society, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan. Frederick Hurd, a retired investment counselor and 
Jack Lazar, the founder of Kimberly Knitwear Inc., in Manhattan, died Thursday at his home in Teaneck, N.J. He was 79 years old. With his wife, the former Helen Bandow, as the designer, Mr. Lazar opened the company in 1946. Over the years, Kimberley's knit dresses and other items came
Lyle Wheeler, an art director who won five Academy Awards for such classics as ''Gone With the Wind'' and ''The Diary of Anne Frank,'' died of pneumonia on Wednesday at the Motion Picture Country Home and Hospital in Woodland Hills. He was 84 years old. Lyle Wheeler, an art di
Northern J. Calloway, who played David, the proprietor of Mr. Hooper's store, on public television's ''Sesame Street,'' died Tuesday. He was 41 years old and lived in Ossining, N.Y. Northern J. Calloway, who played David, the proprietor of Mr. Hooper's store, on public televis
Walter J. Brownstone, the former president of a chain of clothing stores, died Thursday at his home in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 89 years old. Walter J. Brownstone, the former president of a chain of clothing stores, died Thursday at his home in Manhattan after a 
The Rev. Thomas Fletcher, who retired in 1981 after 20 years as rector of St. Mark's Episcopal Church of New Britain, died Friday at his home in Farmington, Conn., after a brief illness. He was 75 years old. The Rev. Thomas Fletcher, who retired in 1981 after 20 years as recto
William M. Freeman, a business and financial news reporter, columnist and editor for The New York Times from 1932 until his retirement in 1976, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 76 years old and lived in Cambridge, N.Y. William M. Free
David W. MacEachron, who retired last year as president of the Japan Society after leading the nonprofit group for 15 years, died of colon cancer on Saturday at his home in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 66 years old. David W. MacEachron, who retired last year as president of
Fire Chief Homer G. Bishop, the highest-ranking commander among New York City's uniformed firefighters, died early yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 57 years old and lived in Middle Village, Queens. Fire Chief Homer G. Bishop, the highest-ranking commander
James V. Delaney, an assistant acquisitions director for New York City's Division of Real Property, died of cancer Wednesday at Cabrini Medical Center. He was 28 years old and lived in Manhattan. James V. Delaney, an assistant acquisitions director for New York City's Division
Laurence J. Peter, who climbed the best-seller lists with a book meant to satirize ladder climbers everywhere, died Friday at his home in Palos Verdes Estates, Calif. He was 70 years old. Laurence J. Peter, who climbed the best-seller lists with a book meant to satirize ladder
Michael Fuchs, the president of Whitehall Business Archives, a pioneer in the storage of corporate records, died of a heart attack on Friday at St. Clare's Hospital. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan. Michael Fuchs, the president of Whitehall Business Archives, a pion
Dr. W. Rhys Jones, a former president of the medical staff and director of obstetrics and gynecology at Mountainside Hospital in Montclair, N.J., died of a heart ailment on Jan. 2 at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 95 years old and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. Dr. W. Rh
William G. Phillips, a lobbyist and former Congressional aide, died of heart failure Saturday at his office near the Capitol. He was 66 years old and lived in Potomac, Md. William G. Phillips, a lobbyist and former Congressional aide, died of heart failure Saturday at his offi
Gordon Jackson, an actor known to millions of television viewers as Hudson, the archetypal butler in the popular series ''Upstairs, Downstairs,'' died on Sunday in Cromwell Hospital in London. He was 66 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed, but Mr. Jackson's agent, Michael 
Herbert Buell West, a retired foundation president and a former advertising executive, died of abdominal cancer on Sunday at his home in Darien, Conn. He was 73 years old. Herbert Buell West, a retired foundation president and a former advertising executive, died of abdominal 
Ihsan Abdel Kuddous, an Egyptian journalist, novelist and short-story writer, died last Thursday after suffering a stroke. He was 71 years old. Mr. Abdel Kuddous, whose works were translated into several languages, also wrote regular syndicated columns in Cairo's Government-owned news
James Averell Clark Jr., a World War II fighter pilot who led a varied career in business after the war, died of a stroke on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 69 years old. James Averell Clark Jr., a World War II fighter pilot who led a varied career in business after 
Joseph S. Clark, a reform-minded politician who in 1951 became Philadelphia's first Democratic Mayor in 67 years and who went on to serve two terms in the United States Senate, died Friday at his home in the Chestnut Hill section of Philadelphia. He was 88 years old and had been in de
Adolph Oscar Krisch, a founder of what became the largest Holiday Inn franchise in the United States, died at his home Thursday, apparently from a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the head, a medical examiner said. He was 73 years old. Adolph Oscar Krisch, a founder of what bec
Dr. Basil Duke Henning, an educator, author and the resident master of Saybrook College at Yale University for 29 years, died Monday at Yale University Health Services Center in New Haven after a long illness. He was 79 years old and lived in New Haven. Dr. Basil Duke Henning,
Brainard Cheney, the author of five novels set in the swamp country of Georgia, died at a nursing home Monday after a long illness. He was 89 years old. Brainard Cheney, the author of five novels set in the swamp country of Georgia, died at a nursing home Monday after a long i
Charles A. Anderson, a former chief geologist of the United States Geological Survey, died of Alzheimer's disease today in Pomona, Calif. He was 87 years old. Charles A. Anderson, a former chief geologist of the United States Geological Survey, died of Alzheimer's disease toda
Jack L. Ashby, an investment banker and a retired president of the Kaiser Steel Corporation, died Jan. 7 at Children's Hospital in San Francisco, where he had been taken after a short illness. He was 78 years old. Jack L. Ashby, an investment banker and a retired president of 
Jack L. DiGiovanni, financial director of The New York Times circulation department, died yesterday at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center after a short illness. He was 54 years old and lived in Oradell, N.J. Jack L. DiGiovanni, financial director of The New York Times ci
James Heffernan, a retired photographer for the New York City Fire Department and for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of New York, died of colon cancer on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 79 years old and lived in Jackson Heights, Queens. James Heffernan, a ret
Jeff Alexander, a composer who worked in radio, television and motion pictures for more than 50 years, died of cancer on Dec. 23 at his home on Whidbey Island in Washington. He was 79 years old. Jeff Alexander, a composer who worked in radio, television and motion pictures for
Lee Goldstein, a conductor of operas and musical-theater pieces and a former composer in residence at the Lyric Opera of Chicago, died on Friday at St. Joseph Hospital in Chicago. He was 37 years old. Lee Goldstein, a conductor of operas and musical-theater pieces and a former
R. Peter Nyquist, a physicians' assistant and administrator of the AIDS Team at Bronx Municipal Hospital Center, died of complications of AIDS on Jan. 9 at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 31 years old and lived in Manhattan. R. Peter Nyquist, a physicians' assis
Robert Burritt Hiatt, a surgeon and teacher, died of cancer on Saturday at Kennebec Valley Medical Center in Gardiner, Me. He was 72 years old and lived in Dresden, Me. Robert Burritt Hiatt, a surgeon and teacher, died of cancer on Saturday at Kennebec Valley Medical Center in
Brainard Cheney, the author of five novels set in the swamp country of Georgia, died at a nursing home Monday after a long illness. He was 89 years old. Brainard Cheney, the author of five novels set in the swamp country of Georgia, died at a nursing home Monday after a long i
Y. C. James Yen, founder of a movement to combat illiteracy, poverty and hunger in developing countries on three continents, died of pneumonia yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 96 years old and lived in Manhattan. Y. C. James Yen, founder of a movement 
Dr. Edward W. Strong, chancellor of the University of California at Berkeley in the early 1960's, died of cancer Saturday at his home in Berkeley. He was 88 years old. Dr. Edward W. Strong, chancellor of the University of California at Berkeley in the early 1960's, died of can
Jay Stuart Haft, co-founder of the Jay Stuart Haft Company, died of leukemia on Monday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 62 years old and lived in Longboat Key, Fla. Jay Stuart Haft, co-founder of the Jay Stuart Haft Company, died of leukemia on Monday at Monte
Joe Alex Morris, a journalist and author who specialized in foreign affairs and biography, died of pneumonia Tuesday at White Plains Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He also had homes in Guilford, Conn., and Vineyard Haven, Mass. J
Lawrence Clayton Freer Jr., a business executive, died Saturday at Palm Beach Regional Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla., where he had lapsed into a coma after liver failure. He was 69 years old and lived in West Palm Beach. Lawrence Clayton Freer Jr., a business executive, di
Lee Goldstein, a conductor of operas and musical-theater pieces and a former composer in residence at the Lyric Opera of Chicago, died on Friday at St. Joseph Hospital in Chicago. He was 37 years old. Lee Goldstein, a conductor of operas and musical-theater pieces and a former
Max Gordon, who was city editor of The Daily Worker when he broke with the Communist Party in 1956 and who later was a medical writer for Purdue-Frederick, a pharmaceutical company, died of a heart attack Monday at the West Boca Raton (Fla.) Medical Center. He was 79 years old and liv
Mel Most, a former foreign correspondent and public-relations agent, died of a heart attack on Jan. 6 at Cabrini Hospital. He was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mel Most, a former foreign correspondent and public-relations agent, died of a heart attack on Jan. 6 at Cabri
Uriel G. Foa, a social psychologist and professor emeritus at Temple University, died of an aortic aneurysm Monday at Osteopathic Hospital in Philadelphia. He was 73 years old and lived in Penn Valley, Pa. Uriel G. Foa, a social psychologist and professor emeritus at Temple Un
William White, a Philadelphia lawyer, died Monday at a nursing home in Haverford, Pa., after a long illness. He was 75 years old and lived in Bryn Mawr, Pa. William White, a Philadelphia lawyer, died Monday at a nursing home in Haverford, Pa., after a long illness. He was 75 y
Yuzuru Abe, a Japanese steel industry executive, died of liver failure on Sunday at his home in Tokyo. He was 73 years old. Yuzuru Abe, a Japanese steel industry executive, died of liver failure on Sunday at his home in Tokyo. He was 73 years old. Mr. Abe. was chairman
Yvon C. Dihe, an advertising agency executive and a fashion industry publicity director known for his extravagant presentations, died of complications of AIDS yesterday at Doctor's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 49 years old and lived in Manhattan. Yvon C. Dihe, an advertising 
Antonio Cipollone, whose lawsuit against three cigarette makers resulted in the first jury award against the industry involving the death of a smoker, has himself died, his wife said today. He was 66 years old. Antonio Cipollone, whose lawsuit against three cigarette makers re
Charles Hernu, a French Socialist politician whose time as Defense Minister in the early 1980's was clouded by scandal, died of a heart attack Wednesday in Villeurbanne, a Lyons suburb where he had been Mayor for more than two decades. He was 66 years old. Charles Hernu, a Fre
Edward H. Kass, an epidemiologist who was a leading researcher into the mechanism of toxic shock syndrome in menstruating women, died of lung cancer Wednesday at his home in Lincoln, Mass. He was 72 years old. Edward H. Kass, an epidemiologist who was a leading researcher into
Judge Inzer B. Wyatt, a senior judge in the Federal District Court in Manhattan, died of pneumonia and heart failure Wednesday at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan. Judge Inzer B. Wyatt, a senior judge in the 
Franklin H. Middleton, a retired New York banker, died of kidney failure on Wednesday at the Fort Myers (Fla.) Care Center. He was 83 years old and lived in Fort Myers. Franklin H. Middleton, a retired New York banker, died of kidney failure on Wednesday at the Fort Myers (Fla
The Rev. George Peck, president of the Andover Newton Theological School in Newton Centre, a village in Newton, Mass., died of a heart attack Wednesday at his home in Little Compton, R.I. He was 58 years old. The Rev. George Peck, president of the Andover Newton Theological Sc
Ruskin Spear, who painted realistic and often satirical portraits of famous Britons, died on Tuesday at his home in the Hammersmith section of London after a short illness. He was 78 years old. Ruskin Spear, who painted realistic and often satirical portraits of famous Britons
Arthur J. Goldberg, who rose from humble beginnings in Chicago to become Secretary of Labor, an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court and then United States representative to the United Nations, was found dead yesterday morning in his apartment in Washington. He was 81 years old.    
Baghwan Shree Rajneesh, the Indian guru who attracted thousands of followers at his Oregon commune in the early 1980's before being deported from the United States, died yesterday of heart disease at his commune in Poona, in southern India, members of his entourage there told reporter
Donold B. Lourie, former chairman of the Quaker Oats Company, who served briefly as Under Secretary of State in the Eisenhower Administration, died of heart failure Monday in Longwood, Fla., where he lived in retirement. He was 91 years old. Donold B. Lourie, former chairman o
Frank Clifford Perkins 3d, an advertising executive in Manhattan, died of a brain tumor yesterday at his home in Redding, Conn. He was 48 years old. Frank Clifford Perkins 3d, an advertising executive in Manhattan, died of a brain tumor yesterday at his home in Redding, Conn. 
Rusty Hamer, a child actor in the television series ''Make Room for Daddy'' in the 1950's and 60's, was found dead of a gunshot wound in his home on Thursday. He was 42 years old. Rusty Hamer, a child actor in the television series ''Make Room for Daddy'' in the 1950's and 60'
Tomisaburo Hashimoto, a powerful official who was convicted in the bribery scandal that swept the Government in the mid-1970's, died of pneumonia today, a hospital official said. He was 88 years old. Tomisaburo Hashimoto, a powerful official who was convicted in the bribery sc
Aldo Gucci, the last surviving son of the founder of the elite Italian fashion house that bore his family name, died on Friday in Rome, the company said today. He was 84 years old. Aldo Gucci, the last surviving son of the founder of the elite Italian fashion house that bore h
Herbert Wehner, a leading member of West Germany's Social Democratic Party who was once described as an ''oratorical volcano'' and ''a boulder in the desert of German politics,'' died on Friday at his home in Bad Godesberg, a suburb of Bonn. He was 83 years old. Herbert Wehner
Dr. Hugh C. M. Ross, a choral director who, as conductor of the Schola Cantorum of New York, worked with some of the greatest figures in 20th-Century music, died of a heart attack at his home in Manhattan yesterday. He was 91 years old. Dr. Hugh C. M. Ross, a choral director w
Alfred Van Santvoord Olcott, a financial planner and founder of a maritime historical society, died of complications of heart surgery at the University of Pennsylvania Hospital in Philadelphia. Alfred Van Santvoord Olcott, a financial planner and founder of a maritime historic
Dr. Carl Goldmark Jr., an obstetrician and gynecologist and a former president of the New York State Medical Society, died Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Carl Goldmark Jr., an obstetrician and gynecologist and a form
Dominick Lamanna, a physics teacher at the Bronx High School of Science who worked with students in independent research, including helping them prepare entries for the Westinghouse Science Talent Search, was killed on Wednesday in an automobile accident on the Taconic State Parkway. 
Edouard V. M. Izac, a World War I Navy hero who served as a Congressman from California in the 1930's and 40's, died of congestive heart failure on Thursday at the home of a daughter in Fairfax, Va. He was 100 years old. Edouard V. M. Izac, a World War I Navy hero who served a
Edward H. Cleary, a lawyer, professor and authority on legal procedure who helped draft the uniform rules of evidence used in Federal courts, died of congestive heart failure on Friday at Scottsdale (Ariz.) Memorial Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Scottsdale. Edward
Frank Gervasi, a reporter who covered the Spanish Civil War and World War II in Europe, died yesterday after a stroke at Doctors Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan. Frank Gervasi, a reporter who covered the Spanish Civil War and World War II in E
Frederick Charles Shrady, a sculptor best known for his works on religious themes, died of cancer on Saturday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Easton, Conn. Frederick Charles Shrady, a sculptor best known for his works on religious themes, died o
Mitsuo Horiguchi, a former director of the Nippon Club in Manhattan, died of emphysema and heart failure on Wednesday at Rye General Hospital in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 82 years old and lived in Larchmont, N.Y. Mitsuo Horiguchi, a former director of the Nippon Club in Manhat
Tilford E. Dudley, a labor lawyer who served in President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal era, who clashed with President Lyndon B. Johnson over the Vietnam War and who continued to help social causes in the 1980's, died Thursday at the family home in Bellingham, Wash. He was 82 year
Dr. William Peter McEwen, an educator and former provost of Hofstra University, died of cancer on Wednesday at the Berkshire (Mass.) Medical Center. He was 77 years old and lived in Becket, Mass. Dr. William Peter McEwen, an educator and former provost of Hofstra University, d
Dean S. Butler, a tax lawyer and financial adviser to President Richard M. Nixon, died of heart failure on Wednesday. He was 69 years old. Dean S. Butler, a tax lawyer and financial adviser to President Richard M. Nixon, died of heart failure on Wednesday. He was 69 years old.
Harry Traulsen Sr., founder of Traulsen & Company, a commercial refrigeration business in Queens, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 82 years old and also lived in Deering, N.H. Harry Traulsen Sr., founder of Traulsen & Company, a commercial r
Irving I. Schachtel, former president of the Sonotone Corporation, a manufacturer of hearing aids, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan after a series of strokes. He was 80 years old. Irving I. Schachtel, former president of the Sonotone Corporation, a manufacturer of heari
J. Ernest Wharton, a lawyer and a former Republican Congressman from upstate New York for eight terms, died of a stroke on Friday at his home in Summit, N.Y. He was 90 years old. J. Ernest Wharton, a lawyer and a former Republican Congressman from upstate New York for eight te
Naruhiko Higashikuni, a member of the Japanese imperial family who became the country's first Prime Minister after World War II, died Saturday. He was 102 years old. Naruhiko Higashikuni, a member of the Japanese imperial family who became the country's first Prime Minister af
Dr. Roman Vishniac, a biologist whose brilliant talent for photography captured an extraordinary range of subjects, from Jewish life in Eastern Europe on the eve of the Holocaust to hitherto unseen life under the microscope, died of colon cancer yesterday morning at his apartment in M
Alan K. Magary, a former executive of Seth Thomas, the clockmaker, died on Saturday at his home in Woodbury, Conn., after a long illness. He was 78 years old. Alan K. Magary, a former executive of Seth Thomas, the clockmaker, died on Saturday at his home in Woodbury, Conn., af
Allen W. Brown, Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Albany from 1961 to 1974, died on Friday at the Meadow Wind Nursing Home in Massillon, Ohio. He was 81 years old and lived in Fort Myers, Fla., and in Massillon. Allen W. Brown, Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Albany from 1
Brother Cornelius Luke, an educator, missionary and former overseer of educational training centers for the Brothers of the Christian Schools, died of complications of diabetes on Monday at De La Salle Hall in Lincroft, N.J. He was 95 years old and had retired to De La Salle in 1983. 
Clifford V. Coons, retired president of the Rheem Manufacturing Company, died on Monday at Boca Raton (Fla.) Community Hospital. He was 78 years old and had homes in Boca Raton and Highlands, N.C. Clifford V. Coons, retired president of the Rheem Manufacturing Company, died on
Francis Higginson Philp, a senior vice president of the Fiduciary Trust Company International, died of a heart attack on Thursday at Presbyterian Hospital. He was 59 years old and lived in Larchmont, N.Y. Francis Higginson Philp, a senior vice president of the Fiduciary Trust 
Dr. Francis Place Coombs, an educator and dermatologist, died of cancer Sunday at Community Hospital in Glen Cove, L.I. He was 74 years old and lived in Old Westbury, L.I. Dr. Francis Place Coombs, an educator and dermatologist, died of cancer Sunday at Community Hospital in G
Gordon M. Buehrig, an automobile designer who numbered among his creations the sporty low-slung Cord 810 that electrified visitors to the 1935 New York Auto Show, died of heart failure Monday at his home in Grosse Pointe, Mich. He was 85 years old. Gordon M. Buehrig, an automo
Howard A. Golieb, a stockbroker and account executive, died of pneumonia on Sunday at New York Hospital. He was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan. Howard A. Golieb, a stockbroker and account executive, died of pneumonia on Sunday at New York Hospital. He was 77 years old and
Jerome H. Dols, a senior vice president of Chase Manhattan Bank, died of cancer Friday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 54 years old and lived in Chatham, N.J. Jerome H. Dols, a senior vice president of Chase Manhattan Bank, died of cancer Friday at Overlook Hospita
Mariano Rumor, a five-time Prime Minster who steered Italy's democracy through the shoals for part of its most trying period since the fall of Fascism, died Monday night of a heart attack in Vicenza, the town of his birth 74 years ago. Mariano Rumor, a five-time Prime Minster 
Rabbi Nathan N. Rosen, a chaplain at Brown University, Providence, R.I., for 25 years, died of cancer yesterday at Long Island Jewish Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Jamaica Estates, Queens. Rabbi Nathan N. Rosen, a chaplain at Brown University, Providence, R.I., fo
Thomas C. Renner, a newspaper reporter for 36 years and the author of several books about organized crime, died of heart disease on Friday at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 61 years old and lived in Smithtown, L.I. Thomas C. Renner, a newspap
Allen Collins, one of the original members of the rock group Lynyrd Skynyrd, died of pneumonia on Tuesday. He was 37 years old. Allen Collins, one of the original members of the rock group Lynyrd Skynyrd, died of pneumonia on Tuesday. He was 37 years old. Mr. Collins s
Charley Eugene Johns, who was Acting Governor of Florida for 15 months in the mid-1950's, died at Alachua County Hospital in Gainesville, Fla., on Tuesday after a long illness. He was 84 years old. Charley Eugene Johns, who was Acting Governor of Florida for 15 months in the m
Donald M. Bachmann, a retired certified public accountant and a former New York official, died, apparently of a heart attack, on Wednesday at his home in Sherman, Conn. He was 55 years old and also had a home in Manhattan. Donald M. Bachmann, a retired certified public account
Dr. Hugh Eustis Potts, a biologist and an educator, died of heart disease on Jan. 16 at New Milford (Conn.) Hospital. He was 87 years old and lived in Washington, Conn. Dr. Hugh Eustis Potts, a biologist and an educator, died of heart disease on Jan. 16 at New Milford (Conn.) 
Dr. Lucien J. Rubinstein, a neuropathologist who was director of the division of neuropathology at the University of Virginia Health Sciences Center since 1981, died Monday after a cerebral hemorrhage at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 65 years old. Dr. Lucien J. Rubin
Selden Jerome Dickinson, a pediatric surgeon, died of lung cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 62 years old. Selden Jerome Dickinson, a pediatric surgeon, died of lung cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 62 years old. Dr. Dickinson was affil
Grady Lee Huffman, who was shot 17 times in 30 years of robberies, burglaries and prison escapes, died of cancer Tuesday. He was 72 years old. Grady Lee Huffman, who was shot 17 times in 30 years of robberies, burglaries and prison escapes, died of cancer Tuesday. He was 72 ye
James J. Downey Jr., a construction company executive and former president of the General Society of Mechanics and Tradesmen of the City of New York, died in his sleep on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84 years old. James J. Downey Jr., a construction company executi
Lester S. Vander Werf, retired dean of Long Island University's Graduate School of Education, died of internal bleeding on Monday at Fairview Hospital in Great Barrington, Mass. He was 79 years old and lived in Sheffield, Mass. Lester S. Vander Werf, retired dean of Long Islan
Charles Goldstein, former operations director of the New York branch of the Postal Service, died of bone cancer on Tuesday at his home in Bloomfield, N.J. He was 83 years old. Charles Goldstein, former operations director of the New York branch of the Postal Service, died of b
Douglas Reid Brash, a retired investment banker, died of cardiac arrest on Wednesday at his home in Essex, Conn. He was 66 years old and lived in Essex and Point O'Woods, L.I. Douglas Reid Brash, a retired investment banker, died of cardiac arrest on Wednesday at his home in E
Frederick C. Abdelnour, former owner and president of Frederick's of Greenwich, a Connecticut clothing store for women, died of Parkinson's disease on Tuesday at a nursing home in Rye Brook, N.Y. He was 79 and lived in Mamaroneck, N.Y. Frederick C. Abdelnour, former owner and 
Dr. Henry G. Russell, a professor and college administrator, died Monday at Doctor's Hospital, after a long illness. He was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Henry G. Russell, a professor and college administrator, died Monday at Doctor's Hospital, after a long illness.
Walter John Lee, the owner and publisher of The Westfield (N.J.) Leader for 62 years, died on Wednesday at his home in Westfield after a long illness. He was 83 years old. Mr. Lee took over The Westfield Leader, a weekly newspaper, from his father in 1928, shortly after graduating fro
The poet and scholar Damaso Alonso, director emeritus of the Royal Academy of the Spanish Language, died at home Wednesday after a long illness. He was 91 years old and had suffered from respiratory problems for three years. The poet and scholar Damaso Alonso, director emeritu
Donald A. Stoddard, a former senior vice president of the Morgan Guarantee Trust Company in Manhattan, died yesterday at his home in Bloomingdale, N.J., after a short illness. He was 79 years old and had lived in Nutley until moving to Bloomingdale last year. Donald A. Stoddar
E. Clinton Towl, a founder and a former chief executive of the Grumman Corporation, died of cancer on Thursday at his home in Stuart, Fla. He was 84 years old. E. Clinton Towl, a founder and a former chief executive of the Grumman Corporation, died of cancer on Thursday at his
Emmanuel Ellenis, a public relations executive, died of a heart attack Thursday at New York University Medical Center. He was 61 years old and lived in Dix Hills, L.I. Emmanuel Ellenis, a public relations executive, died of a heart attack Thursday at New York University Medica
Jesse Creighton Reese Jr., a former director of Town Hall, a concert hall in Manhattan, died of heart disease on Jan. 17 at the Tulane Medical Center in New Orleans. He was 60 years old and had lived in New Orleans since last fall. Jesse Creighton Reese Jr., a former director 
Leland Moss, a theater director known for ''The AIDS Show,'' died of AIDS on Wednesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 41 years old. Leland Moss, a theater director known for ''The AIDS Show,'' died of AIDS on Wednesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 41 years old.  
Lewis Mumford, a philosopher, literary critic, historian, city planner, cultural and political commentator, essayist and perspicacious writer on the subject of architecture, died yesterday at his home in Amenia, N.Y. He was 94 years old. Lewis Mumford, a philosopher, literary 
Dr. Lothar Kahn, a retired professor of modern languages at Central Connecticut State University, died of acute leukemia on Tuesday at St. Mary's Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla., where he was vacationing. He was 67 years old and lived in Kensington, Conn. Dr. Lothar Kahn, a 
Morris M. Mintz, a lawyer and former New York State Assemblyman, died of Alzheimer's disease Wednesday at the Liberty Hill Nursing Home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 81 years old and lived in Delray Beach. Morris M. Mintz, a lawyer and former New York State Assemblyman, died of
Ned N. Fleming, former chairman and chief executive of the Fleming Companies Inc., a food distributing concern based in Oklahoma, died Wednesday at a hospital in Phoenix, Ariz. He was 90 years and had homes in Paradise Valley, Ariz., and Topeka. Ned N. Fleming, former chairman
Philip Adler, a theater manager and producer, died yesterday in his home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 84 years old. Philip Adler, a theater manager and producer, died yesterday in his home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 84 years old. Mr. Adler was general manager for scores 
Samuel G. Domash, a retired businessman and philanthropist, died of complications of diabetes on Tuesday at Brookdale Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 89 years old and lived in the Manhattan Beach section of Brooklyn. Samuel G. Domash, a retired businessman and philanthropist, die
Dr. Sydney C. Davis, professor emeritus of education at Adelphi University in Garden City, L.I., died of a heart attack on Wednesday at the Hollis Branch of the Queens Borough Public Library. He was 77 years old. Dr. Sydney C. Davis, professor emeritus of education at Adelphi 
Vernon C. Myers, a magazine executive who was publisher and president of Look in the 1950's and 1960's, died on Thursday at St. Joseph Medical Center in Stamford, Conn. He was 78 years old and lived in Norwalk, Conn. Vernon C. Myers, a magazine executive who was publisher and 
William Lyttleton Savage, retired religion editor of Charles Scribner's Sons, who also served as secretary of the publishing concern, died on Thursday at the Meadow Lakes retirement community in Hightstown, N.J. He was 91 years old and had been a resident of Morristown, N.J., for many
Alexei Yudenich, a former principal ballet dancer with the National Ballet of Canada who was a dance teacher in the South Jersey-Philadelphia area, died of cancer Thursday. He was 46 years old. Alexei Yudenich, a former principal ballet dancer with the National Ballet of Canad
Edward C. Corrigan, father of Christa McAuliffe, the teacher-astronaut who was killed along with six other crew members in the Challenger space shuttle explosion four years ago, died of cancer Thursday. He was 67 years old. Edward C. Corrigan, father of Christa McAuliffe, the 
Frank X. Gargiulo, a former member of the New York City Civil Service Commission, died Thursday of a brain tumor at the St. Rose of Lima Home in Manhattan. He was 60 years old and lived in the Carroll Gardens section of Brooklyn. Frank X. Gargiulo, a former member of the New Y
Federal District Judge George Carter Carr, the chief judge of the Middle District of Florida, died of a brain tumor on Friday. He was 60 years old. Federal District Judge George Carter Carr, the chief judge of the Middle District of Florida, died of a brain tumor on Friday. He
Archbishop Lewis Garnsworthy, an outspoken Anglican cleric who tangled with political leaders over school funding and once scolded his own church for being too ''respectable,'' died on Friday. He was 67 years old. Archbishop Lewis Garnsworthy, an outspoken Anglican cleric who 
Lewis Mumford, a philosopher, literary critic, historian, city planner, cultural and political commentator, essayist and perspicacious writer on the subject of architecture, died on Friday at his home in Amenia, N.Y. He was 94 years old. Lewis Mumford, a philosopher, literary 
Bernard J. Ferguson, a lawyer and former president of the Queens County Bar Association, died on Saturday at Mary Immaculate Hospital. He was 88 years old and lived in Bayside, Queens, and had previously been a resident of Flushing for more than 60 years. Bernard J. Ferguson, 
Blair Bolles, a retired journalist, author and corporate executive, died of liver cancer Friday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 78 years old. Blair Bolles, a retired journalist, author and corporate executive, died of liver cancer Friday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was
Frank X. Gargiulo, a former member of the New York City Civil Service Commission, died Thursday of a brain tumor at the St. Rose of Lima Home in Manhattan. He was 60 years old and lived in the Carroll Gardens section of Brooklyn. Frank X. Gargiulo, a former member of the New Y
J. Wilmer Mirandon, a banker, New York State official and retired chairman of a tuition-aid program, died of lymphoma on Friday at Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Canter in Hanover, N.H. He was 69 years old and had homes in Weathersfield, Vt., and Manhattan. J. Wilmer Mirandon, a 
Jack Iams, a journalist, a novelist and an editor, died of a stroke on Saturday. At the time of his death, he and his wife, Joan Walker Wenning Iams, were en route to New York City from London. Mr. Iams, whose journalistic career spanned more than half a century, was 79 years old.    
Robert L. Riddell, executive director of the U.S.O. in New York City for more than 30 years, died of heart failure on Saturday at Long Island Jewish Hospital in Queens. He was 65 years old and lived in Flushing. Robert L. Riddell, executive director of the U.S.O. in New York C
Walter Engel, an announcer and political commentator for the Voice of America and an American diplomat in West Germany, died of heart failure Saturday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 78 years old. Walter Engel, an announcer and political commentator for the Voice of Americ
Bernard J. Ferguson, a lawyer and former president of the Queens County Bar Association, died on Saturday at Mary Immaculate Hospital. He was 88 years old and lived in Bayside, Queens, and had previously been a resident of Flushing for more than 60 years. Bernard J. Ferguson, 
Casey Tibbs, a rodeo rider who won nine world championships from the 1940's to the 1960's, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Ramona, Calif. He was 60 years old. Casey Tibbs, a rodeo rider who won nine world championships from the 1940's to the 1960's, died of cancer Sunday 
Clarence (C) Sharpe, an alto saxophonist who exemplified the jazz underground, died on Sunday at Goldwater Memorial Hospital on Roosevelt Island in New York City. He was 53 years old. Clarence (C) Sharpe, an alto saxophonist who exemplified the jazz underground, died on Sunday
David Campbell, who retired in 1972 as president of the United States operations of the William Collins Ltd. publishing house, died Thursday of a heart ailment at St. Francis Hospital in Jersey City. He was 95 years old and lived in Jersey City. David Campbell, who retired in 
The Rev. Frank R. Heinze, a Presbyterian minister and former information officer for the United Presbyterian Church U.S.A., died yesterday at Thomas Jefferson University Hospital in Philadelphia after heart surgery. He was 68 years old and lived in Fort Washington, Pa. The Rev
John L. McCrea, a retired vice admiral of the Navy, died of pneumonia Thursday at his home in Needham, Mass. He was 98 years old. John L. McCrea, a retired vice admiral of the Navy, died of pneumonia Thursday at his home in Needham, Mass. He was 98 years old. Admiral M
Leo Jiranek, a furniture and interior designer, died of cancer Saturday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 89 years old and lived in Old Greenwich. Leo Jiranek, a furniture and interior designer, died of cancer Saturday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 89 years old and
Myron Matlaw, emeritus professor of English at Queens College, died of complications resulting from amyloidosis, a blood disease, Friday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 65 years old and lived in Manhattan. Myron Matlaw, emeritus professor of English at Queens College, died of 
Philip Nichols Jr., a senior judge of the United States Court of Appeals and a former Commissioner of Customs, died of a heart attack Friday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 82 years old and lived in Washington. Philip Nichols Jr., a senior judge of the 
Coral S. Potter, an actor with the Jean Cocteau Repertory Theater for 17 years, died of lung cancer on Thursday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 49 years old. Mr. Potter had been a member of the Cocteau's resident acting company since its second season in 1972. His many 
Donald J. Newman, a criminologist and former dean of the School of Criminal Justice at the State University of New York at Albany, died of a stroke on Friday at the Albany Medical Center. He was 65 years old and lived in the Albany suburb of Slingerlands. Donald J. Newman, a c
Emanuel Lazzaro, a retired trucking company executive, died on Saturday at his son's home in Brooklyn. He was 90 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Emanuel Lazzaro, a retired trucking company executive, died on Saturday at his son's home in Brooklyn. He was 90 years old and live
Dr. Emmanuel Gordon, a retired Queens dentist and past president of the Queens County Dental Society, died of complications of Parkinson's disease on Monday at his home in Royal Palm Beach, Fla. He was 93 years old. Dr. Emmanuel Gordon, a retired Queens dentist and past presid
Ewing Everett, a retired Federal tax lawyer, died on Sunday at Danbury (Conn.) Hospital after a brief illness. He was 92 years old and lived in Ridgefield, Conn. Ewing Everett, a retired Federal tax lawyer, died on Sunday at Danbury (Conn.) Hospital after a brief illness. He w
Hal Draper, a scholar and writer on Marxism and socialism for 50 years, died of pneumonia Friday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 75 years old. Hal Draper, a scholar and writer on Marxism and socialism for 50 years, died of pneumonia Friday at his home in Berkeley, Calif
Harold A. Webster, a past president of the National Electrical Contractors Association and also of its New York chapter, died on Sunday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Islip, L.I. He was 86 years old and lived in West Islip. Harold A. Webster, a past president of the Nation
Hugo Cohn, an electrical engineer who helped develop radio beacons for distinguishing between friendly and enemy aircraft, died on Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 102 years old and lived in Manhattan. Hugo Cohn, an electrical engineer who he
Masaru Ogawa, former editor of The Japan Times, Japan's largest English-language newspaper and one of the country's most prominent journalists, died on Sunday of heart failure at his home in Tokyo. He was 74 years old and had been ill for several weeks. Masaru Ogawa, former ed
