 Air Vice Marshal Johnnie Johnson, the British fighter pilot who shot down 38 German planes, becoming the leading Allied air ace of World War II in Europe, died yesterday at his home in Derbyshire, England. He was 85. The cause was cancer, The Daily Telegraph reported. Flying
 David Heneker, who wrote the score for the musical ''Half a Sixpence'' and collaborated on the English adaptation of the book and lyrics for ''Irma la Douce,'' died on Tuesday in a residential home in Wales. He was 94. ''Irma la Douce'' and ''Half a Sixpence'' were major successes i
 Davidson Sommers, a former chairman of the Equitable Life Assurance Society and World Bank official who had a keen interest in philanthropy, died on Dec. 17 at his home in Washington. He was 95. A graduate of Harvard Law School, Mr. Sommers joined the World Bank's legal department i
 O. Winston Link, a photographer whose requiem for steam railroading portrayed it as a spectacularly alive and often surreal presence in 1950's small-town America, died on Tuesday in South Salem, N.Y. He was 86. Mr. Link's epiphany came in January 1955. While on assignment for an adv
 Chester A. Rapkin, an influential theorist of urban planning who came up with the novel designation SoHo for the rapidly changing community south of Houston Street in Manhattan, died on Sunday at a hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Princeton, N.J. The cause was 
 Edmund Fuller, a novelist, historian and literary critic, died on Monday at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 86. A prolific writer, Mr. Fuller was the author of more than a dozen novels, histories and books of literary criticism. For 32 years he served as the chief book reviewer
 Murray Edelman, who in the 1960's and 70's helped pioneer a new approach to political science by arguing that the true importance of many political acts and institutions is often very different from what it seems, died on Jan. 26 in Madison, Wis. He was 81. Dr. Edelman was a profess
 Nicholas C. Forstmann, an investment banker and a philanthropist who was a founding partner of Forstmann Little & Company, the leveraged-buyout firm, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 54. Last year, Mr. Forstmann was found to have small-cell lung cancer, a spokesman fo
 Alfred J. Koeppel, an executive in one of the oldest real estate families in New York and a former board chairman at Trinity College, died of cancer on Jan. 19 at Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center. He was 68. Mr. Koeppel, who lived in a town house apartment on the Upper East Si
 Dr. Cesare Maltoni, an Italian oncologist who identified cancer risks in the workplace and campaigned for stricter factory health codes, died on Jan. 22 at his home in Bologna, Italy. He was 70. He had suffered heart disease for some time but had continued to work, said the Collegiu
 The Rev. Harry H. Kruener, former senior minister of Plymouth Church of the Pilgrims in Brooklyn Heights, died on Jan. 23 at a nursing home in Camden, Me. He was 85 and lived in nearby South Thomaston. From 1960 to 1984, Mr. Kruener led the historic Congregational church, founded in
 Robert Lee, the first and only chief of chiefs of New Orleans Mardi Gras Indian tribes, died on Jan. 19 at a New Orleans hospital. He was 85. The Mardi Gras Indians are an exuberant but lesser known ingredient in the zestful recipe for the renowned pre-Lenten celebration in New Orle
 Tom Lea, a West Texas artist and writer whose work was called inspirational by President Bush, then governor of Texas, in his acceptance speech at the Republican National Convention in August, died on Monday in El Paso. He was 93. In the 1930's, Mr. Lea, a landscape painter, produce
 Dr. M. Powell Lawton, a leading researcher on aging and the physical and psychological needs of the elderly, died on Jan. 29 at a retirement community in Haverford, Pa. He was 77 and a former resident of nearby Collegeville. The cause was a brain tumor, said the Philadelphia Geriatr
 Iannis Xenakis, the Greek-French composer who often used highly sophisticated scientific and mathematical theories to arrive at music of primitive power, died yesterday at his home in Paris. He was 78. He had been in poor health for several years and lapsed into a coma several days 
 Samuel H. Day Jr., a journalist and  opponent of nuclear weapons who led a leftist magazine in a landmark First Amendment court battle over the publication of an article on the hydrogen bomb, died on Jan. 26 of a stroke. He was 74 and lived in Madison, Wis. Mr. Day was managing edit
 Gilbert Trigano, who in the 1950's developed the concept of vacation clubs that later made Club Med synonymous with fake Polynesian villages and organized fun, died on Saturday after a long illness, his family said. He was 80. Mr. Trigano, who supplied tents to Club Med in its early
 Herman Liveright, who was dismissed in 1956 as program director for the New Orleans television station WDSU after refusing to tell a Senate panel whether he was a Communist, died on Jan. 19 in a hospital in Corpus Christi, Tex. He was 89, lived in Lenox, Mass., and spent winters in Texas.  
 J. J. Johnson, the most influential trombonist in postwar jazz, died on Sunday at his home in Indianapolis. He was 77. The Marion County Sheriff's Department reported the death as a suicide. Mr. Johnson translated the fast, linear style of bebop to the trombone in the late 1
 Rodolfo Morales, whose surreal paintings of rural Mexican culture won acclaim around the world, died last Tuesday in Oaxaca. He was 75. He was being treated for pancreatic cancer, according to news reports in Mexico. Mr. Morales was born in 1925 in a small Indian village in 
 Howard L. Clark, a visionary executive who helped transform the American Express Company into a modern corporate giant, died on Friday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 84. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his son Howard L. Clark Jr. When Mr. Clark was named president
 Larry Fisher, the last of the founding Fisher Brothers, a real estate dynasty that did much to reshape the Manhattan skyline, died on Sunday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 93 and also lived in Manhattan. At his death he was senior partner in a business that ranks among the l
 Norbert V. Osterland, the former president of Sperry & Hutchinson, the company that distributed S&H green stamps, died on Jan. 20 at his home in Souderton, Pa. He was 81. The cause was a stroke, his daughter, Jill Prescott, said. Mr. Osterland was named vice president for op
 Bernard Asbell, a writer on politics and government, a college professor and a folk singer, died on Feb. 1 in a hospital in State College, Pa., where he lived. He was 77. The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Prof. Jean Brenchley. Mr. Asbell wrote 12 books, including ''Whe
 Clay Lancaster, whose trained eye and playful imagination illuminated the history of architecture, and whose 1961 book documenting the historic houses of Brooklyn Heights proved to be one of the earliest and loudest shots in the historic preservation struggle in New York City, died on Dec. 
 George J. Ames, a philanthropist and investment banker whose career at Lazard Frères & Company spanned more than 60 years, died on Feb. 2 at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 83. The cause was cancer, one of his daughters said. Mr. Ames first joined Lazard as a college student i
 H. Otto Hirschler, an electronics expert who helped build the complex controls of rockets to propel American astronauts to the moon, died on  Feb. 2 at his home in Huntsville, Ala. He was 87. Mr. Hirschler was one of the 118 German V-2 rocket engineers rounded up by the Allied autho
 Laurence R. Goodyear Jr., a former investment banker with Kidder Peabody and the Fiduciary Trust Company, died last Friday while on a hunting trip near Los Lunas, N.M., on the Rio Grande. Mr. Goodyear, a resident of Bethesda, Md., was 65. The cause of death was probably a stroke, sa
 Leon Beer Schachter, a union organizer, negotiator and former head of the Washington office of the Amalgamated Meatcutters and Butcher Workmen, died on Jan. 25 at a nursing home near Philadelphia. He was 91. Born in Romania, Mr. Schachter came to the United States as a teenager and 
 Herbert A. Simon, an American polymath who won the Nobel in economics in 1978 with a new theory of decision making and who helped pioneer the idea that computers can exhibit artificial intelligence that mirrors human thinking, died yesterday. He was 84. He died at the Presbyterian U
 John Prebble, a writer and historian who specialized in the bloody battles that marked Scotland's past, died on Jan. 30 in London. He was 85. In books like ''Culloden'' (1961), ''The Highland Clearances'' (1963), ''Glencoe'' (1966) and ''The Darien Disaster'' (1968), Mr. Prebble wro
 Robert E. Garis, a writer on dance, literature, music and film, died on Jan. 26 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 75. Mr. Garis was best known in recent years for his ballet criticism, published in Ballet Review, Partisan Review and other journals. He also wrote ''Following Bal
 Abraham D. Beame, an accountant and clubhouse Democrat who climbed the gray ranks of municipal bookkeeping and confounded oddsmakers to become mayor of New York in the mid-1970's, only to spend his term struggling with the worst fiscal calamity in the city's history, died yesterday at New Y
 Arthur W. Hummel Jr., who as ambassador to China from 1981 to 1985 negotiated an agreement on United States arms sales to Taiwan, died on Feb. 6 at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 80. Under the joint communiqué in 1982, the United States stated its intention to reduce arms sale
 Dr. Marshall Raymond Urist, the orthopedic surgeon who identified the substance that mends broken bones, died on Feb. 4 at his home in Los Angeles, where for 46 years he practiced, taught and did research at the U.C.L.A. medical school. He was 85. Before Dr. Urist's discovery, physi
 Dr. Joseph Ransohoff, one of the country's foremost practitioners and teachers of neurosurgery, died on Jan. 30 at his home in Tampa, Fla., where he moved after retiring from New York University Medical Center. He was 85. Dr. Ransohoff was director of neurosurgical services at Belle
 Leslie Edwards, one of the great character dancers and mimes of contemporary ballet, died on Thursday in London at the age of 84. He had been in failing health in recent years, said Michael Zande, a friend who served as the Royal Ballet's company manager on some of its American tour
 William D. Krimer, the chief English-Russian interpreter for the State Department for nearly two decades, died on Feb. 4 in Fairfax, Va. He was 86 and lived in Reston, Va. Mr. Krimer was an interpreter for the 1967 meetings between President Lyndon B. Johnson and the Soviet prime mi
 Buddy Tate, a broad-toned saxophonist who was a vital part of the widely admired Count Basie band of the 1940's, died on Saturday in Chandler, Ariz. He was 87. Mr. Tate was one of the great tenor saxophonists of the swing era, a superbly sophisticated ballad player influenced by bot
 David Twersky, grand rabbi of a branch of the Skverer dynasty of Hasidic Judaism, died on Feb. 2 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79. He died of complications of heart and kidney ailments, his family said. Rabbi Twersky was the leader of the Borough Park, Brookly
 Eugene J. Casey, a marketing designer who founded the firm that designed the logo for the Merrill Lynch bull, died on Jan. 30 in Guilford, Conn., at the home of a son. He was 83. The cause was lymphoma, said his daughter Susan C. Engel. In 1953, Mr. Casey founded King-Casey 
 Dr. Leonard Mandel, a physicist whose experiments with light vividly demonstrated the strange, Alice-in-Wonderland quality of reality at the microscopic level, died Friday at his home in Pittsford, N.Y., a suburb of Rochester. He was 73 and an emeritus professor of physics and optics at the
 Nathan Edward Cohen, who helped shape professional social work in the United States, died on Jan. 27 at his home in Oakland, Calif. He was 91. He was the founding president of the National Association of Social Workers, which in 1955 merged seven groups into one far more influential
 Freddy Wittop, a Tony Award-winning costume designer who dressed hordes of Broadway actors, Latin Quarter nightclub dancers and Parisian showgirls, died on Feb. 2 in Atlantis, Fla. He was 89. Mr. Wittop created one of Broadway's most memorable creations: the glistening crimson gown 
 Shepard Kurnit, a longtime advertising executive, died on Saturday. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan and Boca Raton, Fla. The cause was a brain tumor, said his son Rick. Mr. Kurnit helped break down the barrier between art direction and copywriting in the 1960's and created wacky, e
 Dr. Herbert E. Robbins, who developed several widely used statistical techniques and wrote a popular book that inspired many students to enter the mathematics profession, died Monday at Princeton Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 86. The cause was esophageal cancer, his famil
 Dr. Ugo Fano, an atomic theorist who was a pioneer in the study of  radiation's effects on matter, including living tissue, died on Tuesday in Chicago, where he was an emeritus professor of physics at the University of Chicago. He was 88. Far from inclined to study mathematical theo
 William Epstein, a United Nations official involved in promoting disarmament for more than 20 years, died on Friday in New York. He was 88. Mr. Epstein participated in negotiating pacts like the Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty in 1968 and the Biological Weapons Convention in 1972.  
 George T. Simon, a jazz critic best known for his writing during the big-band era, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived in Brooklyn. Mr. Simon became a jazz critic in 1935 when, just out of Harvard, he joined the staff of Metronome magazine. In 1939 he became the magazi
 Gordon R. Dickson, a science fiction author best known for his Dorsai  books, died on Jan. 31 at his home in Minneapolis. He was 77. The cause was complications from severe asthma, said his brother, Craig. Mr. Dickson wrote over 80 books and many works of short fiction, incl
 Sir Richard William Southern, an Oxford University historian whose insights on the early Middle Ages won praise not only for their erudition but also for their literary style, died on Feb. 6 at his home in Oxford. He was 88. Sir Richard's international reputation was earned with his
 Donald C. Peirce, a specialist in American decorative art and a curator at the High Museum of Art in Atlanta, died on Feb. 5 at his home in Atlanta. He was 52. The cause was heart disease, said a spokesman for the High Museum. Mr. Peirce, who was born and reared in Champaign
 Boris Goldovsky, the conductor, pianist, lecturer and opera impresario best known to millions of radio listeners for his intermission commentaries during nearly 50 years of Saturday matinee broadcasts from the Metropolitan Opera, died on Thursday at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 92.  
 Khallid Abdul Muhammad, the former Nation of Islam official who was seen as a leader of the next generation of radical civil rights leaders by some and as a racist hatemonger by others, died yesterday in a hospital in Marietta, Ga., a suburb of Atlanta. He was 53. He was taken off l
 Martin LeBoutillier, a former president of Paine, Webber, Jackson & Curtis, the brokerage house, died Tuesday at a hospital in Old Lyme, Conn. He was 79. The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and pneumonia, said his wife, Janet. Mr. LeBoutillier was elected pre
 Morison S. Cousins, a designer who brought flashy, European-inspired designs to Tupperware without sacrificing its polyethylene American soul, died on Feb. 10 in Orlando, Fla. He was 66 and lived in Winter Park, Fla. The cause was colon cancer, his family said. A vice presid
 Balthasar Klossowski, the painter internationally known as Balthus, died yesterday at his chalet in La Rossinière, Switzerland, near Gstaad. He was 92. For the last 30 years of his long life, Balthus was among the most widely admired of European painters. He had excelled as a portr
 Dale Earnhardt, the legendary stock car driver known as the Intimidator for his blunt demeanor, his push-broom mustache and his steely, unrelenting driving style, was killed today in an accident on the last lap of the Daytona 500. He was 49. Earnhardt, driving his familiar No. 3 bla
 Dale Earnhardt Sr., stock car racing's greatest star, died yesterday in a crash on the last lap of the Daytona 500, Nascar's premier event and its season opener. Earnhardt, 49 years old, was locked in a battle for third place when his Chevrolet grazed another car and hit a concrete wall. He
 Eddie Mathews, the Braves' Hall of Fame third baseman who hit 512 home runs and teamed with Hank Aaron to form the most productive power-hitting combination in baseball history, died yesterday at a hospital in San Diego. He was 69. The cause was complications of pneumonia, his famil
 Edward E. Fitzgerald, an author and former chief executive of the Book-of-the-Month Club, died Feb. 11 at Sound Shore Medical Center in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 81. The cause was complications from a stroke, according to his family. Mr. Fitzgerald helped direct the Book-of-
 Dr. William H. Masters, who with his co-researcher, Virginia E. Johnson, revolutionized the way sex is studied, taught and enjoyed in America, died Friday at a hospice in Tucson. He was 85 and had lived in retirement since 1994, first in St. Louis and then in Tucson. He suffered com
 Charles Trenet, one of France's most beloved popular singers who was best known abroad as the composer of hits like ''La Mer'' (''Beyond the Sea''), ''Boum'' and ''Que Reste-t-il de Nos Amours'' (''I Wish You Love'') died on Sunday in Creteil, a suburb of Paris. He was 87 and lived in Paris
 Frank Bunker Gilbreth Jr., a journalist whose life-with-father memoir  ''Cheaper by the Dozen'' became a best seller and a popular movie of the same title, died on Sunday in Charleston, S.C., where he had lived for the last 50 years. He was 89 and also had a home in Nantucket, Mass.        
 Robert Tilove, a pension expert who helped draft state and federal pension laws, died on Feb. 9 in Mitchellville, Md. He was 86 and was a former resident of Baldwin, N.Y. and Roosevelt, N.Y. As a senior vice president of the Martin E. Segal Company, an actuarial and consulting firm,
 Roger A. Caras, one of the most prominent public voices for animal welfare as a popular writer, broadcast personality, A.S.P.C.A. president and announcer for the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show, died Sunday in Towson, Md. He was 72 and lived on a farm in Freeland, Md. He was presid
 T. Geoffrey Bibby, an archaeologist who unearthed a 4,000-year-old kingdom on Bahrain, proving the arid island state in the Persian Gulf to be richer in history than in oil, died on Feb. 6 in a hospital near Aarhus, Denmark, where he had lived for 50 years. He was 83. In the mytholo
 Bill Rigney, who played on the New York Giants' memorable pennant-winning team of 1951, then became the Giants' last manager at the Polo Grounds and first one in San Francisco, died yesterday in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 83. Rigney had been hospitalized since November with heart p
 Dr. Folke Karl Skoog, a biochemist who helped identify the hormonal forces that prompt plants to sprout and flourish, died on Thursday in Madison, Wis., where he was a professor emeritus at the University of Wisconsin. He was 92. Dr. Skoog was in the forefront of the research that t
 Stanley Kramer, the producer and director of socially groundbreaking films like ''The Defiant Ones'' and ''Judgment at Nuremberg'' and one of Hollywood's most respected filmmakers in the late 1950's and early 60's, died on Monday in Woodland Hills, a section of Los Angeles. He was 87.      
 Bob Buhl, who teamed with Warren Spahn and Lew Burdette as the pitching stars of the Milwaukee Braves' 1957 World Series champions, died Friday in Titusville, Fla. He was 72. Buhl had been suffering from pneumonia and emphysema, The Associated Press reported. His death came two days
 Guy Rodgers, a four-time National Basketball Association All-Star, a two-time all-American at Temple University and one of the most talented guards and playmakers of his era, died Monday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 65. Rodgers was attending a movie when he apparently suffer
 Jerome Shelby, the former co-chairman of Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft, one of America's oldest law firms, died yesterday. He was 70. The cause was leukemia, according to the firm. A graduate of Harvard Law School, Mr. Shelby joined the firm in 1953 at age 23 and held the po
 F. T. Liu, a Chinese-born United Nations official who worked closely with the American Nobel laureate Ralph J. Bunche during the Congo crisis of the 1960's and in many other trouble spots, died on Feb. 16 in his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 82. Born in Shanghai, the son of a dist
 Harmon Hendricks Goldstone, an architect whose career ranged from creating the 1939 World of Tomorrow to preserving broad swaths of the world of yesterday, died Wednesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 89. As a moving force behind the formation of the New Yo
 A tribute to Jason Robards, who died on Dec. 26 at age 78, will be held at noon on Monday at the Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street. Among the friends, family members and colleagues who will speak and perform are Paul Thomas Anderson, Matthew Broderick, John Connell, Herb Gard
 Michel Oksenberg, an American authority on China who as a member of President Jimmy Carter's National Security Council helped establish full diplomatic relations between Washington and Beijing, died on Thursday at his home in Atherton, Calif. He was 62. The cause of death was cancer
 Robert Weiskopf, who wrote scripts for ''I Love Lucy,'' ''Maude,'' ''All in the Family'' and several other hit television comedies, died on Tuesday in Los Angeles. He was 86. Mr. Weiskopf's longtime writing partner was Robert A. Schiller. The pair, who got together in 1953, won an E
 Warner LeRoy, a son of Hollywood pioneers who combined show business glamour with circus ballyhoo to create New York restaurants like Maxwell's Plum, Tavern on the Green and the new Russian Tea Room, died Thursday night at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 65. The cause of deat
 John Fahey, a guitarist who carved out a private corner of Americana only to see it become a foundation of new age music, died on Thursday at Salem Hospital in Salem, Ore., after undergoing sextuple heart bypass surgery, said Mitch Greenhill, the president of Folklore Productions and Mr. Fa
 Melville J. Ulmer, a liberal-minded economist, died at a group home in his hometown of Potomac, Md., on Feb. 9. He was 89. Mr. Ulmer was chairman of the economics departments at American University and later the University of Maryland and the author of eight books. Mr. Ulmer spent m
 Roderick Ninian Smart, a scholar of comparative religion whose copious writings on the essence of faith informed readers on both sides of the Atlantic, died unexpectedly on Jan. 29 in a hospital in Lancaster, England, apparently of a stroke. He was 73 and lived in Lancaster and Santa Barbar
 Robert W. White, a Harvard psychologist who brought a historian's perspective to the study of personality, died on Feb. 6 at a nursing home in Weston, Mass. He was 96 and lived in Brookline, Mass. Dr. White was among the early American proponents of personality psychology, which see
 Robert Enrico, a popular French movie director whose memorable 24-minute film, ''Incident at Owl Creek,'' won a Palme d'Or at the 1962 Cannes International Film Festival as well as an Oscar for best short film at the 1964 Academy Awards, died on Friday. He was 69. The cause was canc
 Dr. Arnold Jerome Friedhoff, a psychiatric researcher at New York University who investigated the biological underpinnings of mental disorders, died Wednesday at a rehabilitation center in Manhattan. He was 77 and a resident of the Upper East Side. The cause was complications from a
 Anthony J. Giacalone, who was reputed to be a Detroit gangster and was investigated in the disappearance of the former Teamsters boss James R. Hoffa, died on Friday at St. John Hospital and Medical Center in Detroit. He was 82. The cause of death was not disclosed. The Detroit Free 
 Johnny Warangkula Tjupurrula, one of the founding members of a thriving school of Aboriginal painters whose work is increasingly prized both in Australia and on the international art market, died on Feb. 12 at Papunya in the western Australian desert near Alice Springs. He was about 75.    
 A. R. Ammons, an award-winning poet who could turn any topic, even a heap of garbage, into poetry, died on Sunday at his home in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Phyllis. Typing some of his work on long strips of adding-machine tape, Mr. Ammons wr
 Dr. Claude Elwood Shannon, the American mathematician and computer scientist whose theories laid the groundwork for the electronic communications networks that now lace the earth, died on Saturday in Medford, Mass., after a long fight with Alzheimer's disease. He was 84. Understandi
 Herbert Kupferberg, a music critic, author and a senior editor of Parade magazine, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 83. Born in New York in 1918, Mr. Kupferberg earned master's degrees in English and journalism from Columbia University. For more than 20 years he was an editor a
 Sir Donald Bradman, rated the greatest player in the history of cricket, died Sunday at age 92, sending his native Australia and the sport's followers around the world into mourning. He had not played for 50 years, but his fame endured among millions of fans who have seen him only i
 Guy Wood, a songwriter whose works include ''Till Then,'' ''My One and Only Love'' and ''Shoo-Fly Pie and Apple Pan Dowdy,'' died on Friday at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 89. Mr. Wood was born in Manchester, England, where he played saxophone in dance bands before moving t
 Dr. Sidney Weinhouse, who received the first National Science Foundation grant half a century ago and distinguished himself as a teacher and researcher of the metabolism of cancer, died on Feb. 9 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 91. When the foundation received its first substant
 Dr. Theodore Lidz, a Yale professor of psychiatry who explored the background causes of schizophrenia and specialized in the treatment of it, died Feb. 16 at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 90. Dr. Lidz studied the relationships between normal development and the development of men
