 Dr. Rene G. Favaloro, a pioneer in heart-bypass surgery and a revered figure in Argentina, was found dead on Saturday at his home in Buenos Aires. He was 77. The police said his death appeared to have been a suicide. Dr. Favaloro, who left a successful career in the United S
 William Maxwell, a small-town boy from Illinois who edited some of the century's literary lions in 40 years at The New Yorker while also writing novels and short stories that secured his own place in American letters, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. John Updike, 
 Bruce J. Ennis, a First Amendment lawyer and former legal director of the American Civil Liberties Union, died on Saturday at a hospital in Boston, where he had been taken from his summer home on Martha's Vineyard. He was 60 and lived in Washington. The cause was complications from 
 Max Showalter, a prolific character actor in movies and theater and on television, died on Sunday in Middletown, Conn. He was 83 and lived in Chester, Conn. In his long and varied career, Mr. Showalter acted in two movies with Marilyn Monroe (''Niagara'' and ''Bus Stop''), and also 
 Dr. Roger E. Batzel, a nuclear chemist and former director of the Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, died on Saturday at a hospital in San Ramon, Calif. He was 78 and had homes in Danville and Mount Shasta, Calif. He had a major heart attack five days earlier, the laboratory sa
 Alvin R. Tresselt, a children's book author who won praise for describing and explaining nature to the young, died on July 24 at his home in Burlington, Vt. He was 83. Mr. Tresselt's books had sold over a million copies, the multivolume reference work ''Contemporary Authors'' report
 Grand Rabbi Shlomo Halberstam, a Holocaust survivor whose gentle charisma nurtured the exuberant postwar rebirth of the Bobov Hasidic sect in Brooklyn and around the world, died at Maimonides Medical Center yesterday after a long illness. He was 92. A regal-looking man with a great 
 Jorge Oscar de Mello Flores, a businessman who worked behind the scenes to influence important political events in Brazil, died on Monday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 88. Mr. Flores was known for getting business interests to support the military coup that deposed President Joao Goular
 Patrick T. McGahn Jr., a colorful casino lawyer and South Jersey Democratic Party leader who helped bring gambling to Atlantic City, died Sunday in Somers Point, N.J. He was 72. He had suffered a stroke on Thursday, his family said. Until the 1979 statewide referendum that l
 Don Weis, an award-winning director whose long career embraced both film and television, died on July 26 in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 78. Mr. Weis's screen career began at MGM, where he first found work after serving as an Air Force film technician during World War II. His film credits 
 Uri Gordon, an Israeli official and Zionist leader who played important roles in the resettlement of thousands of Ethiopian and Russian Jews in Israel in the 1980's and 90's, died on Sunday in Israel. He was 65. He had suffered for months from a number of illnesses, said Deborah Lip
 William R. Steinberg, a retired union leader who represented ships' radio officers and helped organize a low-cost housing program for retired union members, died Tuesday in Miami Beach, where he lived. He was 87 and formerly had a home in Manhattan. A native New Yorker, he was a rad
 Dr. Richard K. Hill, a child psychiatrist at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, died Thursday in New York. He was 64 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was a bone marrow disease, his family said. He was affiliated with the medical center until 1995. That year he also re
 Fred W. Hooper, who became one of the giants of horse racing after he won the Kentucky Derby in 1945 with his first thoroughbred, Hoop Jr., died yesterday in Ocala, Fla. He was 102 years old. In a half-century as an owner and a breeder, Hooper bred or raced the winners of more than 
 Thomas R. Ottenstein, the developer whose observation tower overlooking Gettysburg's historic fields drew tourists and wrath until it was felled by government fiat last month, died Thursday at his home in Washington. He was 70 and also had a home in Delray Beach, Fla. The cause was 
 William Roscoe Mercer, known for decades to New York radio listeners simply as Rosko, died on Tuesday. He was 73 and lived in New York. The cause was cancer, according to his daughter Valerie J. Mercer. Mr. Mercer was the first black news announcer on WINS in New York and, a
 Sir Alec Guinness, the elegant and versatile British actor known to older audiences for films like ''The Bridge on the River Kwai'' and to a whole new generation for his role as Obi-Wan Kenobi in ''Star Wars,'' died late Saturday at a hospital in West Sussex, England. He was 86. Pos
 John Hohenberg, who began his journalism career as a teenager by snatching an interview with the president of the United States and went on to become administrator of the Pulitzer Prizes, died Sunday morning at his home in Knoxville, Tenn. He was 94. Mr. Hohenberg also taught journa
 William Rossa Cole, an anthologist, editor and writer of children's books and light verse, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. Mr. Cole was the author, co-author, editor or co-editor of more than 75 books, including more than 50 anthologies for children and adults
 Dr. Michael Seth Burnhill, a leader in women's health care, family planning and reproductive health, died Friday in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 72 and lived in Belle Mead, N.J. He was attending to patients in his Belle Mead office earlier that day when he suffered an aortic dissectio
 Gibson McCabe, a former publisher and president of Newsweek who defended the editorial independence of the magazine from irate advertisers during the Vietnam War, died Saturday at Baptist Medical Center in Jacksonville Beach, Fla., from complications after a fall. He was 89. ''There
 Michael Meyer, whose translations of the plays of Ibsen and Strindberg are performed throughout the English-speaking world and who wrote monumental biographies of both Scandinavian playwrights, died on Thursday. He was 79 and lived in London. Mr. Meyer was himself a playwright and t
 Sir Robin Day, a BBC broadcaster widely known as the ''grand inquisitor'' for a relentless and searching interviewing technique that revolutionized British television news, died on Sunday night. He was 76. He died in a London hospital where he was being treated for heart problems.  
 Eugene R. Black, an investment banker, government adviser and off-Broadway playwright, died on April 24 in Manhattan. He was 75. A message about his death was misdirected within The Times on April 26. Mr. Black, who in recent years lived in East Hampton, N.Y., and Palm Beach
 Gordon B. Spivack, a prominent antitrust lawyer and former senior Justice Department official, died at his home in New Haven on Sunday. He was 71. The cause was colon cancer, said Stephen M. Hudspeth, head of the litigation department at Coudert Brothers, the New York City law firm 
 Jerome Smith, the original guitarist for the disco party kings K. C. and the Sunshine Band, died on Friday after a construction accident, The Associated Press reported. He was 47 and lived in Miami. His body was crushed in the accident, which took place at the construction site wher
 Dr. Thomas H. Wolff, a professor of mathematics at the California Institute of Technology who proved several important theorems in the study of mathematical functions and was regarded as a top expert in his field, died on July 31 in an automobile accident near Bakersfield, Calif. He was 46.
 Fuad Serag Eddin, a mainstay of Egyptian politics who fought British colonial rule before the 1952 revolution and headed the largest opposition party, the Wafd, against successive Egyptian governments, died on Wednesday after having a heart attack in a hospital here. He was 89. For 
 Jaap Marais, a fiery orator and right-wing political leader whose 30-year-battle to uphold strict government-enforced racial segregation continued even after apartheid had ended, died on Tuesday night. He was 77. The cause of death was unknown, said Louis van der Schyff, general sec
 Thomas Aquinas Foran, a Chicago trial lawyer best known as the pugnacious prosecutor in the Chicago Seven conspiracy case of 1969 and 1970, died on Sunday at his home in suburban Lake Forest, Ill. He was 76. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Foran was a senior partn
 John C. Harsanyi, who won the 1994 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science for his work on game theory, died on Wednesday in Berkeley, Calif. Mr. Harsanyi, 80, was a professor at the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley, for 25 years until 1990. He ha
 Walter Chappell, whose finely detailed, impeccably printed photographs of landscapes, natural forms and the human body were known for their mystical intensity, died on Tuesday in Santa Fe. He was 75 and lived in El Rito in northern New Mexico. The cause was complications from lung c
 Walter Andrew Maggiolo, a top trouble-shooter for the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service in the 1950's and 60's, died on Monday in Arlington, Va. He was 92 and lived in Arlington. His career as a labor-management negotiator started in 1933 when, as a freshly minted lawyer in
 There was a time when the shady patches of America's gardens were virtually a horticultural no-man's land: drab expanses where gardeners planted the laconically blooming hosta and hoped for the best, or just threw up their hands and put in ferns or coleus. There was a time, in other
 Don Ettlinger, a writer for film, television and theater, died on Monday at a hospital in Nyack, N.Y. He was 86 and lived in Pomona, N.Y. Mr. Ettlinger was born in Detroit and attended Stanford University and the University of Chicago. While still an undergraduate, he was hired by 2
 G. Warren Schloat Jr., a writer and illustrator of children's books who also worked on several of the classic films from the Walt Disney Studios, died on July 30 at a hospital in Escondido, Calif. He was 86 and lived in Rancho Bernardo, Calif. Mr. Schloat wrote and illustrated 22 ch
 Harold Pierson, a dancer, actor and educator, died on Aug. 1 in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said  Joan Myers Brown, the founder and artistic director of the Philadelphia Dance Company. Mr. Pierson was the former artistic directo
 Michael S. Reynolds, the author of a five-volume biography of Ernest Hemingway, died on Saturday at his home in Santa Fe, N.M. He was 63. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his daughter Dierdre Shipman. Ernest Hemingway's life as a novelist, war correspondent and adventur
 Dr. Charles Brooke Flint Gibbs, a Rochester internist who was the last survivor of the founders of the American Diabetes Association 60 years ago, died on Aug. 4 in Rochester. He was 105. Dr. Gibbs was one of 32 founders of the association in 1940. Since then, it has grown to 280,00
 Edward Brodsky, a nationally prominent courtroom lawyer who specialized in securities cases and criminal law cases, died on Friday in New Hyde Park, N.Y. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan and Southampton, N.Y. He had chronic lymphocytic leukemia, a family spokesman said. At h
 Edward S. Skillin, a former editor and publisher of Commonweal, a lay magazine of Roman Catholic opinion, died on Monday at Mountainside Hospital in Glen Ridge, N.J. He was 96 and lived in Montclair, N.J. Mr. Skillin spent more than six decades at Commonweal, a liberal journal based
 Ross Lee Finney III, a mathematician whose textbooks have instructed millions of high school and college students, died on Aug. 3 in Carmel Valley, Calif. A former resident of Lincoln, Mass., he was 67. The cause was a cancer-related illness, according to his publisher, Addison-Wesl
 Val Dufour, an Emmy Award-winning star of television soap operas, died on July 27 in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 73. Mr. Dufour won an Emmy Award as outstanding actor in a daytime drama series in the 1976-77 season for playing John Wyatt, a lawyer, on ''Search for Tomorrow.'' 
 David Henry Blee, a legendary American spymaster who played a critical role in dispelling the climate of paranoia that paralyzed the Central Intelligence Agency's espionage operations against the Soviet Union in the 1960's, died on Aug. 4 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 83. Plac
 Raymond J. Broderick, a former federal judge who closed a Pennsylvania institution for the retarded and disabled and ruled that Philadelphia should not have paid for a platform for a visiting pope, died on Aug. 6 in a retirement community in Gladwyne, Pa. He was 86. He stepped down 
 Robert B. Watson, dean of students at Harvard University during the student uprisings of the late 1960's and later the driving force behind the construction of sports facilities as the university's athletic director, died on Saturday at his home in Cataumet, Mass. He was 86. A popul
 George Carleton Myers, a sociologist and demographer who compiled and interpreted facts and figures about the elderly worldwide, died on Aug. 10 at his home in Burnsville, N.C. He was 69. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Duke University, from which he retired as professor emeri
 Milt Rosen, a versatile writer whose work included television scripts, comedy one-liners and books, died last Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 77. The cause was cancer, said a friend and author, Austin Kalisch. Mr. Rose's more than a dozen books include ''The Second
 Robert R. Gilruth, an early leader of the American space program and director of the Johnson Space Center during the Apollo lunar landings, died yesterday in Charlottesville, Va. He was 86 and lived near Warrenton, Va. Beyond the limelight occupied by astronauts, flight directors an
 Harllee Branch Jr., a top utility executive and outspoken critic of such government-subsidized competitors as the Tennessee Valley Authority, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Atlanta. He was 94. Trained as a lawyer, Mr. Branch joined the Georgia Power Company in midcareer and qui
 Lawrence H. Cooke, a former chief judge of New York State known for his homespun style and liberal rulings on such matters as the rights of criminal defendants and freedom of the press, died Thursday at his home in Monticello, N.Y. He was 85. As chief judge, he was responsible for a
 South African Judge Hassen Mall, an Indian immigrant who was the country's first nonwhite jurist and a key figure in the nation's searching effort to lay to rest its apartheid past, died Friday. He was 78, his son said. Judge Mall, who had been suffering both heart and kidney proble
 Judge David N. Edelstein of United States District Court in Manhattan, who in 48 years on the bench presided over two of the Justice Department's most historic undertakings -- the antitrust action against I.B.M. and the ongoing effort to rid the Teamsters union of corruption --  died on Sat
 Harry F. Oppenheimer, the South African gold and diamond magnate who used his great wealth and considerable influence in the fight against apartheid, died on Saturday in Johannesburg. He was 91. Mr. Oppenheimer was admitted to Kenridge Hospital in Johannesburg on Friday after compla
 Herbert Scheftel, an investor in real estate and television stations, died on Wednesday in New York. Mr. Scheftel, who lived in New York and had residences in East Hampton and Le Touquet, France, was 92. The best-known real estate project Mr. Scheftel was involved in, along with his
 Lynn A. Townsend, a retired chairman and chief executive of the Chrysler Corporation, died Thursday at Botsford Continuing Health Center in Farmington Hills, Mich. The cause of death was not disclosed. He was 81. When Mr. Townsend retired in 1975, Chrysler was heavily in debt and in
 Michael Maggio, a theater director known for his appetite for a wide range of works -- from Shakespeare and Samuel Beckett to Tom Stoppard and Stephen Sondheim -- but perhaps as much for his own personal drama, died on Saturday in Chicago, where he was born and lived most of his life. He wa
 Robert Edward Thibault, a staff editor on the national desk of The New York Times for 31 years, died Saturday in Manhattan. He was 69 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan. His death resulted from complications of a stroke, his family said. Born in Claremont, N.H., on Oct.
 A. Reynolds Morse, a wealthy businessman and collector whose passion for the work of Salvador Dali resulted in the founding of a popular small museum, died on Aug. 15 at a nursing home in Seminole, Fla. He was 85 and lived in St. Petersburg, Fla., where he and his wife, Eleanor Reese Morse,
 Abulfaz Elchibey, a former history professor who became the first democratically elected president of Azerbaijan before fleeing into internal exile, died early today in a Turkish hospital where he was being treated for advanced prostate cancer. He was 62. Mr. Elchibey's death was an
 Charles R. Pierce, a former chairman of the Long Island Lighting Company who championed the disputed Shoreham nuclear power plant only to see the project upend his 34-year association with the company, died on Monday. He was 78 and lived at Lloyd Harbor, near Huntington, N.Y.       
 Kevin McAuliffe, a speechwriter for three New York City mayors and the editor of a collection of comments by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani  published this year, died Saturday. He was 50 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. McAuliffe worked a
 Lt. Gen. David William Traub, a pivotal Army logistics officer for D-Day and in the Korean War, who later oversaw the rapid expansion of the State University of New York system, died on Aug. 16 at a hospital in Lawrence, Mass. A former resident of Loudonville, N.Y., an Albany suburb, he had
 Ole C. Risom, one of the most influential publishers of mass-market books for children, died on Saturday in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 80 and lived in Roslyn Harbor, N.Y. The cause was cancer, said his son Nicholas. Mr. Risom was vice president and art director of Golden Books W
 Robert J. Northshield, an innovator in television news who established one of its most enduring programs, died on Monday night in a New York area nursing home. He was 78. He had been ill for some time, his former colleagues said. Mr. Northshield, who was known to colleagues 
 Arthur Newman, a baritone who sang with the New York City Opera in the 1940's and 50's, died on Aug. 6 in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 92. Mr. Newman, who was born in St. Louis, began his stage career in the 1930's as a member of the Missouri Theater Company. Although his roles were pri
 Harry Bronstein, a veteran New York City official who was instrumental in changes that made it easier for women and members of minority groups to become police officers and sanitation workers, died on Aug. 3 in Los Angeles. He was 83 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Bronstein was the c
 Dr. Julian Nance Carsey, a Maryland college president who twice vanished and created a new life for himself, died on Sunday at his home in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 65. Dr. Carsey, known as Jay, had a liver ailment, said his companion, Corinne Silverton. Dr. Carsey first dis
 Neil Wilson, a tenor who sang at the Metropolitan Opera from 1988 to 1993 and was particularly admired for his portrayal of the title role in Massenet's ''Werther,'' died on Monday. He was 44 and had homes in New York and Berlin. The cause was kidney cancer, said his manager, Neil F
 Carl Barks, the once anonymous ''duck man'' for Walt Disney whose draftsmanship and writing gained him a cultlike following among artists and fans of Donald Duck comic books and of his very own creation, Scrooge McDuck, died yesterday at his home in Grants Pass, Ore. He was 99. Mr. 
 Dr. L. Bryce Boyer, a psychoanalyst who advanced the concept of countertransference in doctor-patient communication, died on Aug. 9 in Walnut Creek, Calif. Dr. Boyer, whose practice was in Berkeley, Calif., was 84. Transference, in psychotherapy, is the unconscious tendency 
 Dr. Serge Lebovici, a major figure in French psychoanalysis known for his work with infants, children and adolescents, died on Aug. 12 in the south of France, where he had gone for a professional project. He was 85 and lived in Paris. Dr. Lebovici wrote more than 500 scholarly paper
 William S. Cashel Jr., the former chairman of Campbell Soup and the chief financial officer of AT&T during its deregulation, died on Tuesday at his home in Amelia Island, Fla. He was 80. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, his wife, Marie, said. Mr. Cashel 
 Dr. Guillermo C. Sanchez, an internist and medical historian associated with Massachusetts General Hospital for five decades, died on Aug. 17 at his home in West Newton, Mass. He was 75. The cause was prostate cancer, his family said. Dr. Sanchez, a prominent figure in Bosto
 Edward Craven Walker, Royal Air Force squadron leader, champion of what the British call the naturist way of life and designer of the Lava lamp, a quintessential accessory of the 1960's and 1970's, died on Aug. 15 at his home in Ringwood, England. He was 82. Mr. Walker was a man of 
 Peter John Repetti, a retired law partner of the international firm of Fulbright & Jaworski, died Thursday at a hospital in Neptune, N.J. He was 82 and had homes in Spring Lake and Short Hills, N.J. He suffered from a long illness, his family said. Mr. Repetti, a corporate l
 Sir Lynden O. Pindling, the prime minister of the Bahamas for 25 years whose reputation and relationship with the United States were marred by unresolved accusations of protecting drug traffickers, died yesterday at his home in Nassau. He was 70. The cause was prostate cancer, aides
 Bunny Austin, an outstanding English player who introduced shorts to tennis, died Saturday in a nursing home in Coulsdon, England. He was 94 years old. Short pants or long, Austin was one of the world's highest-ranked players in the decade before World War II. He and the more celebr
 Douglas Allen Woody, a former bassist for the Allman Brothers Band and a spin-off group, Gov't Mule, died on Saturday at the Marriott Courtyard motel in Queens. He was 44. The cause was unknown, said Ellen Borakove, a spokeswoman for the New York City medical examiner's office. An a
 Lancelot Ware, a British barrister  who was the co-founder of Mensa, the society for intellectually gifted people, died on Aug. 15 in a nursing home in Surrey, England. He was 85. Mr. Ware became interested in unusually bright people when his father died, leaving him to care for his
 Sir Lynden O. Pindling, the prime minister of the Bahamas for 25 years whose reputation and relationship with the United States were marred by unresolved accusations of protecting drug traffickers, died on Saturday at his home in Nassau. He was 70. The cause was prostate cancer, aid
 Frederick C. Bock, a retired scientific researcher who piloted one of the planes monitoring the drop of the atomic bomb on Nagasaki, Japan, in August 1945, died on Friday at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 82. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Bock flew a plane
 Bernard Krainis, a noted recorder player and a founding member of the New York Pro Musica Antiqua and the Aston Magna Foundation for Music, two pioneering ensembles for the performance of early music on period instruments, died on Aug. 18 at his home in Great Barrington, Mass. He was 75.   
 Gilbert de Botton, a Swiss banker who helped change the way the wealthy manage their money and became a significant figure in the London worlds of modern art and old-book collecting, died Saturday at his house in the South of France. He was 65. In 1983, after moving from Zurich to L
 Arthur F. Anders, an officer of the United States Navy gunboat Panay who took command despite serious wounds after Japanese warplanes attacked it on the Yangtze River in China in 1937, died on Sunday at his home in Rancho Bernardo, Calif. He was 96. Lieutenant Anders, nicknamed Tex,
 Conrad Marca-Relli, an American artist linked to Abstract Expressionism and known for making large patchwork collages of cut pieces of canvas, died Tuesday at his home in Parma, Italy. He was 87. In 1967, when the Whitney Museum of American Art organized a retrospective of Mr. Marca
 Jack Nitzsche, an Oscar-winning songwriter, keyboardist and arranger who worked with musicians like Phil Spector, the Rolling Stones, Neil Young and Miles Davis, died on Friday in Hollywood. He was 63 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause of death was cardiac arrest brought on by a re
