Herbert R. Mayes, who built a reputation as one of the country's most respected magazine editors at Good Housekeeping and McCall's, died of pneumonia Friday evening at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 87 years old.  Having headed Good Housekeeping, a Hearst publica
Anthony Salvatore Accurso, an artist and illustrator best known for his courtroom sketches on television, died of a heart attack at the Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn on Oct. 23 shortly after returning from a news assignment in Florida. He was 47 years old and lived in Brooklyn
Burnett Bolloten, a writer and scholar on the Spanish Civil War, died Tuesday at his home in Sunnyvale, Calif., of prostate cancer. He was 78 years old. Burnett Bolloten, a writer and scholar on the Spanish Civil War, died Tuesday at his home in Sunnyvale, Calif., of prostate 
Joseph Campbell, one of the most knowledgeable writers on mythology and folklore, died Saturday at his home in Hawaii after a brief illness. He was 83 years old and had homes in Honolulu and Greenwich Village. Joseph Campbell, one of the most knowledgeable writers on mythology
Rene Levesque, who led an often bitter and ultimately unsuccessful struggle to separate Quebec from Canada and who served as the province's Premier from 1976 to 1985, died at his home in Montreal today after a heart attack, a police spokesman there said. He was 65 years old. R
Theodore R. Weiler, a founder and former president of the Boar's Head Provision Company of Brooklyn, a manufacturer of delicatessen products, died of coronary disease Thursday in White Plains Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Larchmont, N.Y., Manhattan and Palm Beach, Fla.   
The Rev. Grady B. Wilson, an evangelist and close associate of the Rev. Billy Graham, died of heart failure Friday at a hospital in Charlotte, N.C. He was 68 years old and lived in Charlotte. The Rev. Grady B. Wilson, an evangelist and close associate of the Rev. Billy Graham,
Homer M. Byington Jr., the first American Ambassador to newly independent Malaya, now Malaysia, from 1957 to 1961, died of a heart attack Sunday aboard the Vista Fjord, a Norwegian cruise ship, in the Atlantic Ocean. He was 79 years old and lived in Soto Grande, Spain. Homer M
Dr. Leo Goldberg, a noted astronomer and the former director of the Kitt Peak National Observatory in Arizona, died of cancer Sunday at the Tucson Medical Center. He was 74 years old and lived in Tucson. Dr. Leo Goldberg, a noted astronomer and the former director of the Kitt 
Rene Levesque, who led an often bitter and ultimately unsuccessful struggle to separate Quebec from Canada and who served as the province's Premier from 1976 to 1985, died of a heart attack Sunday in Montreal. He was 65 years old. Rene Levesque, who led an often bitter and ult
Seymour Vall, a theatrical producer and playwright, died of cancer Friday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 62 years old. Seymour Vall, a theatrical producer and playwright, died of cancer Friday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. 
Thomas G. Bergin, a professor emeritus of Yale University who was an authority on Petrarch, Dante and the medieval Provencal poets, died Friday at his home in Madison, Conn. He was 82 years old. Thomas G. Bergin, a professor emeritus of Yale University who was an authority on 
Prof. Charles Francis Bonilla, who retired in 1978 after 30 years on the faculty of Columbia University's department of chemical engineering, died of a heart attack Saturday at Morristown (N.J.) Hospital. He was 78 years old and lived in Tenafly, N.J. Prof. Charles Francis Bon
Leonard H. Steibel, a founding partner and senior member of the New York City law firm Smith, Steibel, Alexander & Saskor, died of cordoma, a rare form of cancer, Saturday at his home in Sands Point, L.I.. He was 72 years old. Leonard H. Steibel, a founding partner and senior 
Raphael Soyer, an artist whose gently rendered portraits of New York artists, dancers and the city's lonely and dispossessed won him fame that lasted from the 1930's to the present, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old. Raphael Soyer, an artis
The Rev. Dr. R.B.Y. Scott, an Old Testament scholar and former William H. Danforth Professor of Religion at Princeton University, died Sunday at a home for the elderly in Toronto, where he had lived for several years. He was 88 years old. The Rev. Dr. R.B.Y. Scott, an Old Test
Albert W. Luhrs, a civil engineer and executive in the paperboard container industry, died of cancer on Oct. 25 at the Heritage Hall Health Care home in Leesburg, Va. He was 89 years old and lived in Purcellville, Va. Albert W. Luhrs, a civil engineer and executive in the pape
David L. Goldring, a stockbroker, died Tuesday at his home in Litchfield, Conn. He was 44 years old and also lived in Manhattan. His wife, Nancy, said the cause of death was undetermined. David L. Goldring, a stockbroker, died Tuesday at his home in Litchfield, Conn. He was 44
Liang Shih-chiu, a popular Chinese writer who devoted about 30 years to the translation of all of Shakespeare's works into Chinese, died Tuesday in a hospital here after suffering a heart attack, family members said today. He was 86 years old. Liang Shih-chiu, a popular Chines
The nation's oldest Medal of Honor winner, Philip C. Katz, who was awarded the medal for rescuing a wounded comrade under fire in World War I, died here on Oct. 29, a month short of his 100th birthday. The nation's oldest Medal of Honor winner, Philip C. Katz, who was awarded 
Tor Halvorsen, chairman of Norway's 780,000-member Federation of Trade Unions, died of cancer on Wednesday. He was 56 years old. Tor Halvorsen, chairman of Norway's 780,000-member Federation of Trade Unions, died of cancer on Wednesday. He was 56 years old. Mr. Halvors
Maj. Gen. Vernon Evans, United States Army, retired, a former chief of staff of the China-India-Burma theater, died of kidney failure Wednesday at the Carriage Hill nursing home in Bethesda, Md. He lived in Washington and was 94 years old. Maj. Gen. Vernon Evans, United States
Vincent J. Malone, a matrimonial lawyer for many years, died of emphysema Tuesday at his home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 83 years old. Vincent J. Malone, a matrimonial lawyer for many years, died of emphysema Tuesday at his home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 83 years old.      
Arnold Markle, the State's Attorney for New Haven since 1968 and the prosecutor of several members of the Black Panthers in the 1970's, died Thursday, apparently of a heart attack. He was 60 years old and lived in Woodbridge, Conn. Arnold Markle, the State's Attorney for New H
Dr. Henry Young, a physician who practiced in Manhattan for more than 50 years and was an assistant professor of medicine at New York Medical College, died of a heart attack Monday at his home in Bloomingburg, N.Y. He was 74 years old. Dr. Henry Young, a physician who practice
Eamonn Andrews, an Irish-born British television personality who was the host of the British version of ''This Is Your Life,'' died Thursday after a long illness. He was 64 years old. Eamonn Andrews, an Irish-born British television personality who was the host of the British 
Edward Scheer Frese, a former vice president of the Marine Midland Bank, died of a heart attack Tuesday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in North Tarrytown. He was 77 years old and lived in Briarcliff Manor. Edward Scheer Frese, a former vice president of the Marine Midland Bank, d
Georges Franju, a French film director and co-founder of the Cinematheque Francaise, died on Thursday in Paris. He was 75 years old. Georges Franju, a French film director and co-founder of the Cinematheque Francaise, died on Thursday in Paris. He was 75 years old. Mr.
Jack L. Boulton, an arts adviser to the Chase Manhattan Bank, was found dead in his Chelsea apartment on Thursday by the police, who had been summoned by associates concerned about Mr. Boulton's absence from his office. Mr. Boulton was 43 years old and had been suffering from AIDS, ac
Former Gov. Ross Robert Barnett, whose advocacy of segregation helped make Mississippi a civil rights battlefield 25 years ago, died today, his son said. He was 89 years old. Former Gov. Ross Robert Barnett, whose advocacy of segregation helped make Mississippi a civil rights 
Alvin A. Dewey, chief investigator of the 1959 killings chronicled in the book and movie ''In Cold Blood,'' died Friday at a hospital here after suffering a stroke at his home. He was 75 years old. Alvin A. Dewey, chief investigator of the 1959 killings chronicled in the book 
Ben Itkin, a co-founder and past president of Itkin Brothers Inc., a distributor of office furniture, died Friday at the Miami Heart Institute after heart surgery. He was 78 years old and lived in Palm Beach, Fla., and Hillsdale, N.Y. Ben Itkin, a co-founder and past president
Bing Quon Chu, a businessman and leader of Chinese-American organizations, died of a heart attack Tuesday in Booth Memorial Hospital in Flushing, Queens. He was 65 years old and a resident of Flushing. Bing Quon Chu, a businessman and leader of Chinese-American organizations, 
John F. English, a national, state and Long Island Democratic leader for many years, died yesterday of liver cancer at Mercy Hospital in Rockville Centre, L.I. He was 61 years old and lived in Muttontown, L.I., and on Fire Island. John F. English, a national, state and Long Is
Moore P. Huffman, a retired partner of Morgan Stanley & Company, investment bankers, died of a heart attack Oct. 31 at his home in Woody Creek, Colo. A former resident of Bedford Hills, N.Y., and of Aspen, Colo., he was 77 years old. Moore P. Huffman, a retired partner of Morg
The Rev. Orlando Enrique Costas, dean of the Andover Newton Theological School and a prominent Hispanic Protestant theologian, died of stomach cancer Thursday night at his home in Newton Centre, Mass. He was 45 years old. The Rev. Orlando Enrique Costas, dean of the Andover Ne
William B. Beam, a retired executive vice president of the American Express International Banking Corporation, died of kidney failure Tuesday at Baylor Hospital in Dallas. He was 62 years old and lived in Dallas and Swiftwater, Pa. Until 1985, he also lived in Manhattan. Willi
Al Richmond, a former editor who was convicted of subversion and imprisoned during the McCarthy anti-Communist era, died of pneumonia Friday. He was 73 years old and lived in San Francisco. Al Richmond, a former editor who was convicted of subversion and imprisoned during the 
John Francis English, a national, state and Long Island Democratic leader for many years, died Saturday of liver cancer at Mercy Hospital in Rockville Centre, L.I. He was 61 years old and lived in Muttontown, L.I., and in Kismet on Fire Island. John Francis English, a national
Charles Holland, an American tenor who pursued his career primarily in Europe and was rediscovered by the American avant-garde late in life, died Saturday at his home in Amsterdam. He was 77 years old. Charles Holland, an American tenor who pursued his career primarily in Euro
Charles M. Heistand, a retired national executive of the Boy Scouts of America, died Friday at the Willow Valley Health Center in Lancaster, Pa. He was 90 years old and lived in Lancaster, where he was born. Charles M. Heistand, a retired national executive of the Boy Scouts o
Dr. Frederic M. Wheelock, a retired classics professor who had taught at Brooklyn College and City College, died of a heart attack on Oct. 29 at Sharon (Conn.) Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Kent, Conn. Dr. Frederic M. Wheelock, a retired classics professor who had
Jerome H. Schloss, former secretary of the New York Foundation, a philanthropic organization that provides funds for worthy organizations, died Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 103 years old. Jerome H. Schloss, former secretary of the New York Foundation, a philanthro
John Logan, a prize-winning poet, editor and English professor who taught at the State University at Buffalo and other colleges, died of a heart ailment and complications from gall bladder surgery Friday in San Francisco, where he lived. He was 64 years old. John Logan, a priz
Paul K. Cook, one of the country's leading specialists on the Soviet Union, died Sunday, apparently of a heart attack. He was 62 years old and lived in Alexandria, Va. Paul K. Cook, one of the country's leading specialists on the Soviet Union, died Sunday, apparently of a hear
Robert C. Allen, vice president of Walt Disney World, died Sunday, apparently after a heart attack. He was 55 years old. Robert C. Allen, vice president of Walt Disney World, died Sunday, apparently after a heart attack. He was 55 years old. Mr. Allen had been with the
Abdel Rahman Sharkawi, an Egyptian writer and left-wing political figure, died of a heart attack today, his 67th birthday, the Middle East News Agency said. Abdel Rahman Sharkawi, an Egyptian writer and left-wing political figure, died of a heart attack today, his 67th birthda
Albert Kreindler, a real estate lawyer and former member of the New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission, died Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital after a long illness. He was 59 years old and lived in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. Albert Kreindler, a real estate lawyer 
Graham D. Mattison, a retired investment banker, died Nov. 3 at his home in Rio de Janeiro after a long illness. He was 81 years old. Graham D. Mattison, a retired investment banker, died Nov. 3 at his home in Rio de Janeiro after a long illness. He was 81 years old. M
Hamilton S. Gregg, an investment executive, died of a heart attack Thursday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan and Falls Village, Conn. Hamilton S. Gregg, an investment executive, died of a heart attack Thursday at his apartment in Manhat
Harold Goldberg, associate executive vice chairman of the United Israel Appeal, died of cancer on Monday at New York Hospital. He was 50 years old and lived in Nanuet, N.Y. Harold Goldberg, associate executive vice chairman of the United Israel Appeal, died of cancer on Monday
Jackie Vernon, a television and nightclub comedian, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Hollywood. He was 62 years old. Jackie Vernon, a television and nightclub comedian, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Hollywood. He was 62 years old. Mr. V
Mikhail I. Tsarev, a leading actor who was director of Moscow's Maly Theater for 37 years, has died at age 83, the official Soviet news agency Tass reported today. Mikhail I. Tsarev, a leading actor who was director of Moscow's Maly Theater for 37 years, has died at age 83, th
William C. Pahlmann, a leading interior decorator and the first to design model rooms for department stores, died last Friday in a hospital in Guadalajara, Mexico, where he had a home. Mr. Pahlmann, who suffered for many years from arteriosclerosis, was 86 years old. William C
Dr. Abner H. Rosenthal, a physician who practiced family medicine in Queens for nearly 50 years before joining Phoenix House, a drug-abuse services agency, as a staff physician, died of complications Tuesday following a stroke at his home in Flushing, Queens. He was 81 years old.  Dr.
The Rev. Channing E. Phillips, a civil rights leader and the first black to be placed in nomination for the Presidency of the United States by a major political party, died of cancer yesterday at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 59 years old and lived in Manhattan.    
Tom Manning, who played a key role in the Federal Bureau of Investigation role in the D. B. Cooper airliner hijacking in 1971, died Tuesday. He was 65 years old. Tom Manning, who played a key role in the Federal Bureau of Investigation role in the D. B. Cooper airliner hijacki
Allan C. Bernstein, who invented a series of office communications systems, died of a heart attack Sunday at the inpatient unit of Hospice Inc. in Tamarac, Fla. He was 76 years old and lived in Tamarac. Allan C. Bernstein, who invented a series of office communications systems
John H. Rizzuto, former president of Givenchy Inc., the United States corporate office of the Paris fashion house, died Tuesday at his home in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 52 years old. John H. Rizzuto, former president of Givenchy Inc., the United States corporate o
John Lydenberg, a retired professor of American literature at Hobart and William Smith Colleges in Geneva, N.Y., died of cancer Wednesday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 74 years old. John Lydenberg, a retired professor of American literature at Hobart and William Smith 
Dr. Lowell T. Coggeshall, an authority on tropical diseases and a former vice president and trustee of the University of Chicago, died Wednesday at the South Baldwin Hospital in Foley, Ala. He was 86 years old and lived in Foley. Dr. Lowell T. Coggeshall, an authority on tropi
Nicholas L. Castellano, a Long Island criminal lawyer, died of a heart attack Tuesday at Long Beach (L.I.) Memorial Hospital. He was 72 years old and lived in Island Park, L.I. Nicholas L. Castellano, a Long Island criminal lawyer, died of a heart attack Tuesday at Long Beach 
Patrick J. Growney, a retired partner of the New York law firm of Shearman & Sterling, died Monday at a convalescent home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 81 years old and lived in Gladwyne, Pa. Patrick J. Growney, a retired partner of the New York law firm of Shearman & Sterling, die
Wilbur Dale Talley, a ballet dancer who performed with the Harkness Ballet and Ballet Internacionale de Caracas, died on Wednesday at the General Hospital South in Maracaibo, Venzuela, from injuries sustained when he was thrown from a horse on Sunday. Mr. Talley, whose stage name was 
Dr. Lehan K. Tunks, a former dean of law at Rutgers University and the University of Washington, died of lymphoma and acute respiratory distress in a Seattle nursing home Monday. He was 72 years old and lived in Seattle. Dr. Lehan K. Tunks, a former dean of law at Rutgers Univ
John H. F. Haskell, a retired banker and a former diplomat and officer of the New York Stock Exchange, died of heart failure Tuesday aboard the Queen Elizabeth 2 en route to New York on a visit. He was 83 years old and lived in Grasse, France. John H. F. Haskell, a retired ban
Michael S. Comay, Israel's chief delegate to the United Nations in the 1960's and one of his nation's most influential diplomats, died Nov. 6 in Jerusalem. He was 79 years old. Michael S. Comay, Israel's chief delegate to the United Nations in the 1960's and one of his nation'
Norman Applezweig, a consulting biochemist and the founder of Progenics Inc., a health care research and development company, died of a heart attack Monday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 70 years old and lived in Manhattan. Norman Applezweig, a consulting bioc
Gen. Valery A. Belikov, commander in chief of Soviet forces in East Germany, died of a heart attack Thursday, the official East German press agency reported today. He was 62 years old. Gen. Valery A. Belikov, commander in chief of Soviet forces in East Germany, died of a heart
William N. Bannard, a New York investment counselor, died of cancer Wednesday at his home in Cold Spring Harbor, L.I. He was 69 years old. William N. Bannard, a New York investment counselor, died of cancer Wednesday at his home in Cold Spring Harbor, L.I. He was 69 years old.
Joseph H. McMahon, Hollis Professor of Romance Languages and Literatures at Wesleyan University, died Thursday at Middlesex Memorial Hospital in Middletown, Conn., where he was hospitalized after a heart attack on Oct. 21. He was 57 years old and lived in Middletown. Joseph H.
Julius Gabris, one of four Roman Catholic bishops in Czechoslovakia, has died, the official Czechoslovak press agency reported Friday. He was 74 years old. Julius Gabris, one of four Roman Catholic bishops in Czechoslovakia, has died, the official Czechoslovak press agency rep
Dr. Julius Lane Wilson, first director of medical education of the American Thoracic Society, the medical section of the American Lung Association, died of an aneurysm Tuesday at his home in Tryon, N.C. He was 90 years old. Dr. Julius Lane Wilson, first director of medical edu
Pieter Nicolaas Menten, the Netherlands' most notorious Nazi war criminal, died here today in a nursing home, according to Dutch television. He was 88 years old and no cause of death was given. Pieter Nicolaas Menten, the Netherlands' most notorious Nazi war criminal, died her
Roger Lewis, a former Assistant Secretary of the Air Force, chairman of the General Dynamics Corporation and the first president of Amtrak, died Thursday at his home in Washington. He was 75 years old. Mr. Lewis' career, which began in 1934 in the sheet metal shop of the Lockheed Airc
William Rion Bonham, comptroller for the law firm of Goldberg & Finmann, died of a heart attack Tuesday at Glen Cove (L.I.) Community Hospital. He was 65 years old and lived in Sea Cliff, L.I. William Rion Bonham, comptroller for the law firm of Goldberg & Finmann, died of a h
Petras P. Griskevicius, the longtime Communist Party leader in the Soviet Baltic republic of Lithuania, died suddenly Saturday, the official Tass press agency reported today. He was 63 years old. Tass did not give the cause of death.  The son of a tailor, Mr. Griskevicius had been lea
Pieter Nicolaas Menten, the most notorious Nazi war criminal in the Netherlands, died here Saturday in a nursing home, according to Dutch television. He was 88 years old. No cause of death was given. Mr. Menten, a wealthy art collector, was convicted in the killings of dozens of Jews 
Robert D. Moss, a trustee and assistant to the president of the New York-based F. W. Olin Foundation, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 70 years old. Robert D. Moss, a trustee and assistant to the president of the New York-based F. W. Olin Foundati
Walter F. Frese, professor emeritus at the Harvard Business School and an authority on government accounting systems, died Wednesday of pneumonia at the Sancta Maria Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 81 years old and lived in Belmont, Mass. Walter F. Frese, professor emeritu
Edward Roesler Jr., a former banking executive and member of the New York Stock Exchange, died Saturday at his daughter's home in De Bary, Fla. He was 82 years old and lived in Portola Valley, Fla. Edward Roesler Jr., a former banking executive and member of the New York Stock
Harold E. Vick, a tenor saxophone player, composer and arranger, died last Friday of a heart attack at his home in Manhattan. He was 51 years old. Harold E. Vick, a tenor saxophone player, composer and arranger, died last Friday of a heart attack at his home in Manhattan. He w
Harry Greenwald, who invented the coin meters on coin-laundry washing machines and dryers, died of a stroke Friday at Flushing Hospital in Queens. He was 75 years old and lived in Whitestone, Queens. Harry Greenwald, who invented the coin meters on coin-laundry washing machine
Joseph Cantwell Brennan, a retired chairman and trustee of the Emigrant Savings Bank in New York and a prominent Roman Catholic layman, died last Thursday after a heart attack at his home in Manhattan. He was 77 years old. Joseph Cantwell Brennan, a retired chairman and truste
Jim Brewer, a former star relief pitcher for the Los Angeles Dodgers, died of injuries suffered in an automobile accident here today, the National League club said. Jim Brewer, a former star relief pitcher for the Los Angeles Dodgers, died of injuries suffered in an automobile
Joseph F. Heffernan, the photographer for the Metropolitan Opera House, died of lung cancer Thursday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan. Joseph F. Heffernan, the photographer for the Metropolitan Opera House, died of lung cancer Thursday at S
Joseph M. White, a consultant to pharmaceutical companies for 30 years, died of congestive heart failure Thursday at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 67 years old. Joseph M. White, a consultant to pharmaceutical companies for 30 years, died of congestive heart failure Thursd
Lansing Warren, a former correspondent for The New York Times in Paris, died of a heart ailment Saturday in Pasadena, Calif. He was 93 years old and had lived in Pasadena since 1980. Lansing Warren, a former correspondent for The New York Times in Paris, died of a heart ailmen
Wallace G. Taylor, former treasurer of the American Cyanamid Company, died Nov. 8 of complications resulting from a heart ailment at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in Fort Lee, N.J. Wallace G. Taylor, former treasurer of the American Cyanamid Company,
Walter C. Iooss Sr., a jazz bassist, died of a heart attack Sunday at his home in Riverhead, L.I. He was 73 years old. Walter C. Iooss Sr., a jazz bassist, died of a heart attack Sunday at his home in Riverhead, L.I. He was 73 years old. Mr. Iooss performed with Benny 
Arthur E. B. Tanner, former speaker of the Connecticut House of Representatives and past president of the Waterbury Foundry Company, died Sunday at his home here. He was 78 years old. Arthur E. B. Tanner, former speaker of the Connecticut House of Representatives and past pres
Dirk Bell Kuzmier, a New York trial lawyer, died Saturday in the crash of a private plane near Dorset, Vt. Mr. Kuzmier was the pilot; his passenger, Duffi Tomkeil of the Bronx, also was killed, the police said. Dirk Bell Kuzmier, a New York trial lawyer, died Saturday in the c
Donald Moss, the booking manager for the Feld Ballet and stage manager for a number of modern dance companies, including Alvin Ailey Dance Theater, died of heart failure on Sunday at his Manhattan home. He was 38 years old. Donald Moss, the booking manager for the Feld Ballet 
Gillis Purcell, a Canadian journalist who spent 41 years with The Canadian Press, 24 of them as general manager, died Monday in Toronto. He was 82 years old and had a stroke last summer. Gillis Purcell, a Canadian journalist who spent 41 years with The Canadian Press, 24 of th
Jim Brewer, a former star relief pitcher for the Los Angeles Dodgers, died of injuries suffered in an automobile accident here today, the National League club said. Jim Brewer, a former star relief pitcher for the Los Angeles Dodgers, died of injuries suffered in an automobile
Joseph Cantwell Brennan, a retired chairman and trustee of the Emigrant Savings Bank in New York and a prominent Roman Catholic layman, died Thursday after a heart attack at his home in Manhattan. He was 77 years old. Joseph Cantwell Brennan, a retired chairman and trustee of 
Paul Derringer, who won 161 games during 10 years with the Cincinnati Reds, died today in Sarasota, Fla., the team announced. He was 81 years old. Paul Derringer, who won 161 games during 10 years with the Cincinnati Reds, died today in Sarasota, Fla., the team announced. He w
Ralph Rice Boyer, retired chief of contracts finance for the Atomic Energy Commission, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home in Sandy Spring, Md. He was 83 years old. Ralph Rice Boyer, retired chief of contracts finance for the Atomic Energy Commission, died of a heart a
Terrence Des Pres, a writer and college professor, died at his home in Hamilton, N.Y., on Monday. He was 47 years old. The cause of death is undetermined, pending completion of an autopsy, but Neal Rose, the Madison County District Attorney and Coroner, said the death appeared to have
Walter F. Thomas, a retired vice chairman of the Manufacturers Hanover Corporation, died of cardiac arrest Nov. 7 in a nursing home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 77 years old and lived in Boca Raton. Walter F. Thomas, a retired vice chairman of the Manufacturers Hanover Corporati
Amos Comay, a Pittsburgh businessman who was a member of several Jewish cultural and educational associations, died Nov. 12 in an automobile accident. He was 72 years old. He was president of the National Foundation for Jewish Culture from 1978 to 1982, and was a board member of the C
Ansel Edward McLaurine Talbert, an aviation writer and editor for 50 years, died Oct. 7 at his home in Bridgeport, Conn. He was 75 years old. Ansel Edward McLaurine Talbert, an aviation writer and editor for 50 years, died Oct. 7 at his home in Bridgeport, Conn. He was 75 year
Antoine Magnin, a French chef whose wood-fired cuisine at his bistro, L'Ami Louis, attracted generations of avid followers, died of a heart attack Friday at a medical clinic in Versailles. He was 86 years old. Antoine Magnin, a French chef whose wood-fired cuisine at his bistr
Duncan M. Findlay, a former insurance and real-estate executive, died of lung cancer Monday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y. He was 87 years old and lived in Harrison, N.Y. Duncan M. Findlay, a former insurance and real-estate executive, died of lung cancer Monday at U
Frederick R. Kearns, a former president and chief executive of Canadair Ltd., died Saturday in London, Ontario, of complications from a liver transplant that he had in September. He was 63 years old and lived in Montreal. Frederick R. Kearns, a former president and chief execu
Jacques Anquetil, a five-time winner of the Tour de France bicycling race, died of stomach cancer today in a Rouen hospital, his doctors said. He was 53 years old. Jacques Anquetil, a five-time winner of the Tour de France bicycling race, died of stomach cancer today in a Roue
Michael Lekakis, an artist whose wood sculptures combined fluid and geometric forms and whose work in recent years had begun to attract increasing critical recognition, died yesterday at the Amsterdam Nursing Home in Manhattan, of complications following a series of recent strokes. He
Raymond Rohauer, a film archivist, distributor and producer, died of complications from a heart attack at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan on Nov. 10. He was 63 years old. Raymond Rohauer, a film archivist, distributor and producer, died of complications from 
William M. Swartz, a retired Chicago businessman, died of a stroke Nov. 11 at his home in Highland Park, Ill. He was 75 years old. William M. Swartz, a retired Chicago businessman, died of a stroke Nov. 11 at his home in Highland Park, Ill. He was 75 years old. Mr. Swa
Yigal Shiloh, an Israeli archeologist who led the excavation of the City of David, died of cancer Saturday in Jerusalem, where he lived and worked as a professor at the Hebrew University Institute of Archeology. He was 50 years old. Yigal Shiloh, an Israeli archeologist who le
Christopher Wilmarth, a critically acclaimed sculptor whose works are on permanent display at many of the nation's best-known museums, apparently hanged himself yesterday in his studio-home in Brooklyn, the police said. He was 44 years old. Christopher Wilmarth, a critically a
Dr. Samuel Engle Burr Jr., a former professor of education at the American University in Washington, died Monday at the Princeton (N.J.) Medical Center. He was 89 years old and lived in Hightstown, N.J. Dr. Samuel Engle Burr Jr., a former professor of education at the American
Godfrey Bloch, a former carpet manufacturer, died at Lenox Hill Hospital on Wednesday. He was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan. Godfrey Bloch, a former carpet manufacturer, died at Lenox Hill Hospital on Wednesday. He was 86 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Blo
Lee Byung Chull, chairman and founder of the Samsung Group and one of the fathers of modern industrial South Korea, died of lung cancer today. He was 77 years old. Mr. Lee started his business in 1938 and rebuilt it after the Korean War into a high-technology manufacturer and South Ko
Thomas W. Eglin, the dean of students at the Lawrenceville School, died of a brain tumor Wednesday at his home in Lawrenceville, N.J. He was 55 years old. Thomas W. Eglin, the dean of students at the Lawrenceville School, died of a brain tumor Wednesday at his home in Lawrence
William Anderson Sutherland, a founding partner of Sutherland, Asbill & Brennan, an Atlanta and Washington law firm, died Nov. 7 of a heart attack at his home in Washington. He was 91 years old. William Anderson Sutherland, a founding partner of Sutherland, Asbill & Brennan, a
Brand Blanshard, a philosopher, writer and Sterling Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at Yale University, died after a long illness Thursday at his home in New Haven. He was 95 years old. Brand Blanshard, a philosopher, writer and Sterling Professor Emeritus of Philosophy at Ya
Harry Liman, a retired New York dress manufacturer, died of complications after surgery Thursday at New York University Medical Center. He was 89 years old and lived in Lawrence, L.I. Harry Liman, a retired New York dress manufacturer, died of complications after surgery Thurs
John A. McCandless, a retired president of Vance, Sanders & Company, an investment management concern in Boston, Mass., died Wednesday in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 82 years old and a resident Delray Beach. John A. McCandless, a retired president of Vance, Sanders & Company, an
James E. Folsom, a Democrat who served twice as Governor of Alabama, died yesterday at his home in Cullman, Ala. He was 79 years old and had been in failing health in recent years. James E. Folsom, a Democrat who served twice as Governor of Alabama, died yesterday at his home 
John Schuyler Linen , a retired New York banker, died Thursday at his home in Lake Wales, Fla. He was 93 years old. John Schuyler Linen , a retired New York banker, died Thursday at his home in Lake Wales, Fla. He was 93 years old. Mr. Linen was a municipal bond expert
Sir John Colville, principal private secretary to Sir Winston Churchill and two other prime ministers, has died, family death notices said today. He was 72 years old. Sir John Colville, principal private secretary to Sir Winston Churchill and two other prime ministers, has die
Dr. Jeffrey L. Bishop, a lecturer in astronomy at Columbia University, died Nov. 13 when a car struck him as he jogged near his home in Rockland County. He was 29 years old. Dr. Jeffrey L. Bishop, a lecturer in astronomy at Columbia University, died Nov. 13 when a car struck h
Gregory Muhlin, a research scientist at the New York State Psychiatric Institute at the Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan, died at the hospital Tuesday after suffering a cerebral hemorrhage. He was 42 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Gregory Muhlin, a research scientist at th
Victor J. Herwitz, a Manhattan lawyer for more than 50 years and former chief assistant Corporation Counsel of New York City, died Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital Center after a long illness. He was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan. Victor J. Herwitz, a Manhattan lawyer fo
Former Gov. Haydon Burns, who served a special two-year term in the 1960's, died Sunday at Regents Park Nursing Home here. He was 75 years old and lived in Jacksonville. Former Gov. Haydon Burns, who served a special two-year term in the 1960's, died Sunday at Regents Park Nur
James Atherton, a Metropolitan Opera tenor and, more recently, an operatic stage director, died of an AIDS-related illness last Friday, according to his manager, Dorothy Cone. He was 44 years old and lived in St. Louis, where he served as artistic director of the opera studio at the S
James Secrest, a stage and television actor, died of cancer on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 51 years old and lived in Manhattan. James Secrest, a stage and television actor, died of cancer on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. H
Joseph Cornwall Palamountain Jr., who retired in June after 22 years as the fourth president of Skidmore College, died of cardiac arrest yesterday in Saratoga Springs, N.Y. Dr. Palamountain, who had triple bypass surgery within the last year, lived in Saratoga Springs and was 66 years
Joseph W. Stehn, retired general manager of the Breezy Point (L.I.) Cooperative, an association of homeowners on the Rockaway Peninsula, died of a stroke Saturday at Peninsula Hospital Center in Queens. He was 66 years old and lived in the co-op. Joseph W. Stehn, retired gener
Raymond D. Mindlin, professor emeritus of civil engineering at Columbia University, died after a long illness Sunday at Mary Hitchcock Hospital in Hanover, N.H. He was 81 years old and lived in Grantham, N.H. Raymond D. Mindlin, professor emeritus of civil engineering at Colum
William H. Callahan, a geologist and former manager of exploration for the New Jersey Zinc Company, died Thursday at Newton (N.J.) Memorial Hospital. He was 84 years old and lived in Franklin, N.J. William H. Callahan, a geologist and former manager of exploration for the New 
William L. Cooper Jr., a documentary-film producer, died of a heart attack at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J., Friday. He was 65 years old. William L. Cooper Jr., a documentary-film producer, died of a heart attack at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J., Friday. He was 65 ye
Ben C. Birdsall, a retired judge who presided over two of Arizona's most publicized criminal cases, died Sunday of cancer. He was 64 years old. Ben C. Birdsall, a retired judge who presided over two of Arizona's most publicized criminal cases, died Sunday of cancer. He was 64 
Gene Blakely, an actor who worked on and Off Broadway in the 1940's and 50's, died of bone cancer Monday at the Greater Community Hospital of Creston, Iowa. He was 66 years old and lived in Phoenix. Gene Blakely, an actor who worked on and Off Broadway in the 1940's and 50's, 
Irving Levitas, a scholar and lecturer in Jewish history, died yesterday of lung cancer at the Rosary Hill Home in Hawthorne, N.Y. He was 77 years old and lived in Yonkers. Irving Levitas, a scholar and lecturer in Jewish history, died yesterday of lung cancer at the Rosary Hi
Jacob Schulman, senior partner of the accounting firm of Jacob Schulman & Co., died Monday at Albany Medical Center. He was 72 years old and lived in Gloversville, N.Y. Jacob Schulman, senior partner of the accounting firm of Jacob Schulman & Co., died Monday at Albany Medical
Lynn Freeman Olson, a composer of works for children, college students and television, died of cancer last Wednesday in New York City. He was 49 years old. Lynn Freeman Olson, a composer of works for children, college students and television, died of cancer last Wednesday in N
William King, a fashion photographer, died of AIDS on Thursday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 48 years old and lived in Manhattan and Paris. William King, a fashion photographer, died of AIDS on Thursday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 48 years old and lived in Manhattan and 
Ben C. Birdsall, a retired judge who presided over two of Arizona's most publicized criminal cases, died Sunday of cancer. He was 64 years old. Ben C. Birdsall, a retired judge who presided over two of Arizona's most publicized criminal cases, died Sunday of cancer. He was 64 
C. Gordon Lamude, a lawyer, died of bronchial pneumonia Saturday at Community Hospital in Glen Cove, L.I. He was 84 years old and lived in Douglaston, Queens. C. Gordon Lamude, a lawyer, died of bronchial pneumonia Saturday at Community Hospital in Glen Cove, L.I. He was 84 ye
Harold Washington, the first black Mayor of Chicago, the nation's third largest city, died today of a heart attack. He was 65 years old. Harold Washington, the first black Mayor of Chicago, the nation's third largest city, died today of a heart attack. He was 65 years old.    
Dr. Edgar Berman, an author, newspaper columnist, surgeon and personal physician to former Vice President Hubert H. Humphrey, died of a heart attack yesterday at Sinai Hospital in Baltimore. He was 68 years old. Dr. Edgar Berman, an author, newspaper columnist, surgeon and per
Edward C. Maxwell, a realty and economic development executive, died of prostate cancer Sunday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Edward C. Maxwell, a realty and economic development executive, died of prostate cancer Sunday at Bet
Francis Keil Decker, a lawyer active in Westchester County civic affairs, died of leukemia Monday at his home in Somers, N.Y. He was 84 years old. Francis Keil Decker, a lawyer active in Westchester County civic affairs, died of leukemia Monday at his home in Somers, N.Y. He w
Mayor Harold Washington, who died here today after a heart attack in his office, was one of the nation's most visible symbols of urban black political power, a combative, street-smart politician who in 1983 became the first black to be elected Mayor of Chicago. Mayor Harold Wa
Placido Domingo Ferrer, a baritone who was a world-famous zarzuela performer and the father of the tenor Placido Domingo, died of a heart attack on Sunday at Hospital Espanol in Mexico City. He was 80 years old. Placido Domingo Ferrer, a baritone who was a world-famous zarzuel
Simon C. Kregar, an architect, died of an aneurism last Thursday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 74 years old and lived in Queens. Simon C. Kregar, an architect, died of an aneurism last Thursday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 74 years old and lived in Que
George W. Barton, founder of an international transportation planning firm, died Nov. 12 at his home in Sarasota, Fla., of a stroke. He was 81 years old. George W. Barton, founder of an international transportation planning firm, died Nov. 12 at his home in Sarasota, Fla., of 
George W. Korngold, a record producer and son of Erich Wolfgang Korngold, the Austrian composer, died of cancer Wednesday night at his Los Angeles home. He was 58 years old. George W. Korngold, a record producer and son of Erich Wolfgang Korngold, the Austrian composer, died o
Lewis George King, the president of LCP Chemicals and Plastics in Edison, N.J., died of cancer last Friday in the M. D. Anderson Hospital in Houston. He was 58 years old and lived in Colts Neck, N.J. Lewis George King, the president of LCP Chemicals and Plastics in Edison, N.J
Lord Duncan-Sandys, the longtime British politician and diplomat who negotiated the independence of nearly a dozen British colonies and territories in the 1960's, died yesterday at his home in London. He was 79 years old. Lord Duncan-Sandys, the longtime British politician and
Dr. Mohammed A. Aziz, senior director of clinical research at Merck & Company's research laboratories in Woodbridge, N.J., died of cancer Wednesday at the Princeton Medical Center. He was 58 years old and lived in Princeton Junction. Dr. Mohammed A. Aziz, senior director of cl
Robert B. Hudson, a retired educator and public broadcasting executive, died of pulmonary failure Sunday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 82 years old. Robert B. Hudson, a retired educator and public broadcasting executive, died of pulmonary failure Sunday at his home in
Anton Pieck, a painter whose quaint 19th-century scenes have appeared on millions of Christmas cards worldwide, died Wednesday. He was 92 years old. Anton Pieck, a painter whose quaint 19th-century scenes have appeared on millions of Christmas cards worldwide, died Wednesday. 
John F. Scileppi, a former associate justice of the New York State Court of Appeals, died of a heart attack Thursday at University Hospital in Stony Brook, L.I. He was 85 years old. John F. Scileppi, a former associate justice of the New York State Court of Appeals, died of a 
Frank E. Schwartz, a book publisher and marketing innovator, died of a heart attack Wednesday while on vacation in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 40 years old and lived in Manhattan. Frank E. Schwartz, a book publisher and marketing innovator, died of a heart attack Wednesday
Jerry Carlson, conductor of the Gay Men's Chorus of Los Angeles, died of complications from AIDS on Monday at his home here. He was 31 years old. Jerry Carlson, conductor of the Gay Men's Chorus of Los Angeles, died of complications from AIDS on Monday at his home here. He was
Peter Hujar, a photographer known for his portraits of personalities in the cultural world, died of AIDS-related pneumonia at Cabrini Medical Center on Thursday. He was 53 years old and lived in Manhattan. Peter Hujar, a photographer known for his portraits of personalities in
Thomas G. Lanphier Jr., the World War II fighter pilot who shot down the Japanese airplane carrying the architect of the attack on Pearl Harbor, died Thursday at the San Diego Veterans Administration Hospital at La Jolla, Calif. He was 71 years old. Thomas G. Lanphier Jr., the
James T. McShane, a former F.B.I. agent who helped in the Federal investigations into the conduct of Hamilton Jordan, the former Presidential aide, and Raymond J. Donovan, the former Secretary of Labor, died Friday at the Hospital of Saint Raphael in New Haven after a long illness. He
Babe Herman, the popular Brooklyn Dodger star of the 1920's and early 1930's, died Friday at the age of 84. Mr. Herman died of complications from pneumonia and a series of strokes, his son, Charles Robert Herman of Miami, Fla., said. Babe Herman, the popular Brooklyn Dodger st
Choo San Goh, the ballet choreographer and associate artistic director of the Washington Ballet, died Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 39 years old. Choo San Goh, the ballet choreographer and associate artistic director of the Washington Ballet, died Saturday at his h
Clarence E. Unterberg, an investment banker, died Saturday at his home in Tinton Falls, N.J. He was 86 years old. Clarence E. Unterberg, an investment banker, died Saturday at his home in Tinton Falls, N.J. He was 86 years old. In 1932, Mr. Unterberg founded C. E. Unte
