 James William Moore, a legal scholar, teacher and authority on Federal Court practice and procedure, died on Wednesday at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 89. The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said. Professor Moore was the Sterling Professor Emeritus of Law at Yale Un
 Richard Cohen, a public relations adviser to several of the nation's largest national Jewish organizations, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Dr. Aphrodite Clamar-Cohen. Mr. Cohen's firm, Richard Cohen Associates, repres
 Sir John Pope-Hennessy, a former museum director, an authority on the Italian Renaissance and the head of European painting at the Metropolitan Museum of Art from 1977 to 1986, died yesterday at his home in Florence. He was 80. The cause was complications from a liver ailment, said 
 Swaran Singh, Foreign Minister of India when it backed East Pakistan's breaking away from West Pakistan to form Bangladesh, died on Sunday in New Delhi, where he lived. He was 87. The cause was not immediately made public. Mr. Singh, a Sikh from Punjab Province in northweste
 Alfred Strasburger Jr., a retired executive of Schenley Industries, the beverages company, died on Monday at California Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco. He was 75 and had lived in San Francisco since 1974. He had a blood ailment and had been in failing health, said his wife,
 Bayard Stockton Clark, a former specialist in adult education at the Department of Education and a canon at the National Cathedral in Washington, died on Oct. 21 at Cape Cod Hospital in Hyannis, Mass. He was 75 and lived in Harwich Port, Mass. The cause was a heart attack, said his 
 Bernard Jolis, who helped find work for hundreds of political refugees in New York City as a volunteer over the last decade, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Until Friday, Mr. Jolis continued his work for the I
 Calvin S. Fuller, a chemist who was a co-inventor of a device to convert solar energy into electricity, died on Friday at his home in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 92. He had been in poor health for several years, said Robert B. Ford, a media relations manager at AT&T Bell Laboratories in
 Jerome Stenbuck, chairman of the Stenbuck Company, a Manhattan concern specializing in financial public relations and financial transactions, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Mr. Stenbuck, who lived in Manhattan, was 70. The cause of death was cancer, said h
 Maurice B. Stein, owner of a well-known summer camp in upstate New York, died on Monday in the crash of an American Eagle commuter plane near Roselawn, Ind. He was 58. For 30 years, Mr. Stein and his wife, the former Amy Medine, operated Camp Echo Lake, five miles northwest of Lake 
 Richard Charles Bollig, a dance accompanist and choral singer, died on Oct. 6 at his home in Manhattan. He was 51. The cause was AIDS, said Susan Paul, a friend. Mr. Bollig was born in Sleepy Eye, Minn., and graduated from the University of Minnesota. In New York City, he ac
 William M. Bristol Jr., a retired executive of the Bristol-Myers Company, died Oct. 23 at his summer home on Madeline Island, Wis. He was 98 and lived in Princeton, N.J. The cause was pneumonia. Mr. Bristol, a son of a founder of Bristol-Myers, which later became Bristol-Mye
 Dr. Edward Allen Mason, a chemical physicist known for his work with intermolecular forces, died last Thursday at his home in Barrington, R.I. He was 68. The cause was prostate cancer, said a spokeswoman for Brown University, where Dr. Mason was the Newport Rogers Professor of Chemi
 Erwin Knoll, the editor of The Progressive, an iconoclastic magazine that crusaded for civil liberties and against nuclear weapons and United States intervention abroad, died yesterday at his home in Madison, Wis. He was 63. He died in his sleep, apparently of a heart attack, the Pr
 Lowell Ferris Johnson, a retired consumer-products executive and business consultant, died on Saturday at Muhlenberg Regional Medical Center in Plainfield, N.J. A resident of North Plainfield, he was 82. He suffered a brief illness, his family said. Born in Butler, N.J., Mr.
 Dr. Martin H. Stryker, an official of the New York Blood Center who helped make the clotting factors derived from blood plasma safe for hemophiliacs, died on Sunday in Long Island Jewish Hospital in New Hyde Park, L.I. He was 51 and lived in Jericho, L.I. The cause was complications
 Maurice B. Stein, owner of a well-known summer camp in upstate New York, died on Monday in the crash of an American Eagle commuter plane near Roselawn, Ind. He was 58. For 30 years, Mr. Stein and his wife, the former Amy Medine, operated Camp Echo Lake, five miles northwest of Lake 
 Richard Krautheimer, the author of influential works on early Christian, medieval and Renaissance art and architecture, died on Tuesday in Rome, where he lived. He was 97. The cause was heart failure, said Kathleen Weil-Garris Brandt, a colleague. Mr. Krautheimer was born in
 David B. Feinberg, an author and Act Up member who chronicled AIDS in his books and battled it in the streets, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 37. The cause was AIDS, said Wayne Kawadler, a friend. Mr. Feinberg's two fictional works, "Eighty-Sixed" and "Sp
 Edward Rogers Wardwell, a retired New York lawyer and patron of the arts, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90 and also had a home in Lawrence, L.I. He died after a brief illness, said a partner in his old firm, Francis J. Morison. Mr. Wardwell, an amateur pia
 John Colman Whitwell, who in 42 years at Princeton University became an expert in applying statistical methods to chemical engineering problems, died Oct. 28 at Applewood, a retirement and nursing home in Freehold, N.J. He was 84. The cause of death was complications from a stroke, 
 Peter Taylor, a novelist and short-story writer whose work was often praised for its gentility and its emotional precision, died on Wednesday at the University of Virginia Hospital in Charlottesville, Va. He was 77 and lived in Charlottesville. He had suffered several strokes in Oct
 Frederick Jackson Bell, a decorated admiral who wrote several books about the Navy, represented an automobile industry group and eventually became an Episcopal minister, died last Saturday at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Miami. He was 91 and lived in Miami. His family said
 Hamish N. Munro, a nutrition scientist and doctor who was the first director of the Human Nutrition Research Center on Aging at Tufts University, died on Oct. 28 in a nursing home in Glasgow, Scotland. He was 79. He had suffered from Parkinson's disease for eight years, the universi
 Dr. M. Michael Cohen, an expert in pediatric dentistry, died on Oct. 17 at a nursing home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 89 and lived in Cambridge. Dr. Cohen had suffered a long illness, said his son, Dr. M. Michael Cohen Jr. of Halifax, Nova Scotia. In his career, which include
 Nicholas Georgescu-Roegen, a grand old man of economics who fled to the United States after Communists came to power in Romania, died on Sunday at the Vanderbilt University hospital in Nashville. He was 88. Professor Georgescu-Roegen suffered complications of diabetes and had been i
 Owen Harvey Nichols, the founding chairman of the Chicago Board Options Exchange, died on Tuesday at his home in Golf, Fla. He was 68. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Carol. Mr. Nichols was born in Market Harborough, England, and came to the United States in 1948
 Peter A. Bonanni, the publisher of Golf Magazine, died on Thursday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 62 and lived in Armonk. His family said the cause of death was cancer. For Mr. Bonanni, who had been Golf's publisher since 1986, his eight-year t
 Samuel R. Rosenthal, a Chicago lawyer and philanthropist, died on Tuesday at his home in Chicago. He was 95. The cause was a heart attack, said Larry Mandel, the chapel manager at Furth Funeral Direction in Chicago. At his death, Mr. Rosenthal was a senior partner in the Chi
 Rufus Burford Langhans, the town historian of Huntington, L.I., who once went to England to collect on Revolutionary War-era debts that were never paid to town residents, died Wednesday at Huntington Hospital. He was 72 and lived in the house Walt Whitman's grandfather built there in 1705. 
 United States Representative Dean A. Gallo, a Republican from Parsippany in Morris County, N.J., who was not running for re-election, died yesterday at St. Clare's-Riverside Hospital in Denville, N.J. He was 58. He had been undergoing treatment for prostate cancer, his spokesman, Ro
 Erwin E. Kelm, who led Cargill Inc. through a period of rapid growth in the 1970's that helped propel the agribusiness giant to its position as the nation's largest family-owned company, died on Sunday at his home in Minneapolis after a lengthy struggle with heart disease, the company said 
 Hal Ellson, a prolific writer of novels and short stories, died on Oct. 31 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 84. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Ellson wrote dozens of novels and hundreds of short stories, many dealing with big-city teen-agers and juvenile d
 McHenry Boatwright, a baritone who appeared in opera and concerts, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Ruth, the sister of Duke Ellington. Mr. Boatwright made numerous appearances as a recitalist, a soloist with orchestr
 Milton J. Petrie, the retailer and philanthropist who gave to charities, arts institutions and people he read about in the newspaper, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 92. Mr. Petrie, who had been ill most of this year, died of lung and kidney problems, his wife, Carro
 Milton Taylor, who with his brother Ralph took over the venerable Caswell-Massey pharmacy on Lexington Avenue in Manhattan in 1936 and helped build it into an international purveyor of fashionable toiletries, died on Saturday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 86. The cause was a
 Sam Francis, a painter known for lyrical, color-drenched abstractions, died on Friday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 71 and had homes in Santa Monica, Point Reyes Station, Calif., and Paris. The cause was prostate cancer, said Andre Emmerich, whose New York ga
 Archie San Romani, a Kansas coal miner's son who overcame a severe childhood accident to become one of the world's leading milers in the 1930's, died Monday at a nursing home in Auberry, Calif. He was 82 and a resident of Fresno, Calif. The cause of death was a heart attack, his fam
 Erwin E. Kelm, who led Cargill Inc. through a period of rapid growth in the 1970's that helped propel the agribusiness giant to its position as the nation's largest family-owned company, died on Sunday at his home in Minneapolis, the company said yesterday. He was 83. Mr. Kelm died 
 Fred (Sonic) Smith, a guitarist for the influential rock band the MC5, died on Friday at St. John's Hospital in Detroit. He was 44 and lived in St. Clair Shores, a suburb of Detroit. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Patti Smith, the poet and musician. Mr. Smith wa
 Dr. George D. Sands, a NASA project scientist who was the spokesman for the Viking spacecraft missions to Mars in 1976, died on Nov. 2 at his home in Williamsburg, Va. He was 75. He died after a long illness, said his daughter, Kimberley Sands of Maryville, Tenn. As the "voi
 Hal Ellson, a prolific writer of novels and short stories, died on Oct. 31 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 84. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Ellson wrote dozens of novels and hundreds of short stories, many dealing with big-city teen-agers and juvenile d
 Maurice Robert Smith, who commanded an Army balloon unit in World War I, died on Oct. 30th at his home in Lake Wales, Fla. He had turned 100 on July 4. Mr. Smith had been in declining health for the last six months, his family said. In World War I he was a major in the Ameri
 Milton Taylor, who with his brother Ralph took over the venerable Caswell-Massey pharmacy on Lexington Avenue in Manhattan in 1936 and helped build it into an international purveyor of fashionable toiletries, died on Saturday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 86. The cause was a
 Ralph W. G. Wyckoff, a research scientist who achieved renown in electron microscopy and crystallography, died on Thursday at a nursing home in Tucson, Ariz., where he lived. He was 97. The cause was bone cancer, said his wife, Laura. In his long career, Dr. Wyckoff used ele
 The Rev. Philip E. Dobson, an expert on industrial relations and a former dean of the Fordham University School of Business, died on Sunday at Fordham's Murray-Weigel Hall, a Jesuit infirmary in the Bronx. He was 85 and lived in Linden, N.J., most of his life. He suffered a long ill
 Dr. William J. Sanders, a retired educator and the former Commissioner of Education in Connecticut for 17 years, died on Sunday at the Fowler Nursing Home in Guilford, Conn. A resident of West Hartford, he was 87. He suffered a long illness, his family said. Dr. Sanders was 
 Dr. James W. Watts, a neurosurgeon who performed the first frontal lobotomy in the United States, died on Monday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 90 and lived in Washington. The cause of his death was cancer, a spokeswoman for the family said. The operation,
 Edward Schwartzman, a political campaign specialist whose clients included former Mayor Abraham D. Beame of New York City and a New York gubernatorial candidate, Assemblyman Perry B. Duryea, died on Saturday in Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 66 and had lived in Manhattan until 19
 Rear Adm. Edwin Boardman Dexter, a retired executive director of the Pan American Coffee Bureau and the New York Coffee and Sugar Exchange, died on Oct. 19 at his retirement home in Seminole, Fla. A former resident of Manhattan, he was 88. He joined the bureau in 1953 and became exe
 George Moskowitz, a labor lawyer and arbitrator who served on a number of statewide panels in New York, died Nov. 2 in Beth Israel Hospital North in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, said his daughter, Victoria Moskowitz of Brookline, Mass.   
 John Wood Blodgett Hadley, an investor and philanthropist, died on Monday at Huntington (L.I.) Hospital. He was 64 and lived in Lloyd Harbor, L.I. The cause was heart failure resulting from lung cancer, according to the Heckscher Museum in Huntington, of which Mr. Hadley was chairma
 Michael O'Donoghue, a comedy writer who helped create two of his generation's best-known institutions of humor, National Lampoon magazine and the NBC television show "Saturday Night Live," died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 54 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a cerebral hemorr
 Dr. James W. Watts, a neurosurgeon who performed the first frontal lobotomy in the United States, died on Monday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 90 and lived in Washington. The cause of his death was cancer, a spokeswoman for the family said. The operation,
 George Gentoku Shimamoto, an architect of Japan House, the home of the Japan Society, and a former senior partner of the Gruzen Partnership architectural firm, died on Friday at Englewood Hospital in Englewood, N.J. He was 89 and lived in Fort Lee, N.J. The cause was pneumonia, said
 Kenneth H. Ross, the chairman of a family-owned clothes-making company based in Milwaukee and a philanthropist, died on Wednesday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Milwaukee. He was awaiting a heart transplant at the time, a company spokeswoman said in New 
 Louis Nizer, the shrewd and voluble trial lawyer who made a long career of representing famous people in famous cases and whose autobiography, "My Life in Court," was a best seller, died yesterday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in midtown Manhattan. 
 Paul Frame, an award-winning illustrator of 300 children's books and the designer of Lord & Taylor's signature rose, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Jean. Mr. Frame, who was known for painstaking research and att
 S. O. Adebo, a pioneer of the Nigerian civil service, and a former United Nations envoy and university president, died of a stroke on Sept. 30 at Sacred Heart Hospital in Abeokuta, Nigeria. He was 80. Chief Adebo served as Nigeria's representative at the United Nations from 1962 to 
 William R. Hesse, an advertising executive who headed one of the nation's largest agencies and the American Association of Advertising Agencies, died Tuesday at his home in Yarmouthport, Mass. He was 80. The cause was heart failure, said Charles Stackhouse, his son-in-law. M
 Charles H. Tenney, a senior judge in the Federal District Court in Manhattan and a former deputy mayor under Robert F. Wagner, died yesterday at his home in Islip, L.I. Mr. Tenney, who also had an apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, was 83. The cause was cancer, said Marg
 Dr. Robert Henry Strotz, an expert in economic theory and econometrics who served as president of Northwestern University from 1970 to 1985, died on Wednesday in a nursing home in Deerfield, Ill. A resident of Wilmette, Ill., he was 72. He had suffered a long illness, the university
 Frederick R. Kappel, a former chairman of the AT&T Corporation who later held posts in the Johnson and Nixon Administrations, died on Thursday in Sarasota, Fla., at 92. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said his wife, Alice. Mr. Kappel spent 43 years at AT&T, joining the co
 Jess Richards, a versatile actor who appeared in 11 Broadway shows and numerous Off Broadway, touring and regional productions, died on Sunday at his home in Indianapolis. He was 51. The cause was AIDS, his agent, Beverly Anderson said. Mr. Richards was generally to be found
 John Anthony Volpe, a former Governor of Massachusetts, Ambassador to Italy and United States Secretary of Transportation, died last night of natural causes in Nahunt, Mass., the police said. He was 85. Mr. Volpe, who was born in a Boston suburb the son of Italian immigrants, began 
 Walter Ward, a former Democratic member of the New York City Council who fought for clean beaches and against airplane noise, died on Wednesday at his home in Howard Beach, Queens. He was 83. The cause was cancer, his family said. From 1968 until his defeat last year, Mr. Wa
 Peter Wilenski, a former ambassador to the United Nations from Australia who proposed reforms for the administration of the United Nations, died on Nov. 3 at his home in Sydney. He was 55 years old. The cause was lymphatic cancer, which had been under treatment for several years, ac
 David Salomon, one of the leading decorators of his generation, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 45. The cause was an AIDS-related heart attack, according to John S. Knott Jr., a friend. Mr. Salomon was known for his vibrant, lush rooms where he combined a 
 Dr. C. Andrew L. Bassett, a New York orthopedic surgeon whose work led to faster healing of broken bones, died yesterday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 70. The cause was a brain tumor, his family said. Dr. Bassett was associated for many years with Columbia Universit
 Henry A. Brachtl, a Manhattan securities lawyer and a former assistant United States Attorney, died on Monday at his home in Old Greenwich, Conn. He was 50. The cause of death was cancer, his wife, Martis, said. He taught at the New York University School of Law from 1974 to
 Dr. Jules H. Masserman, a psychiatrist and psychoanalyst who was a former president of the American Psychiatric Association and a former member of the Northwestern University medical school faculty, died on Nov. 6 at his home in Chicago. He was 89. He had been suffering from lung ai
 Peter Wilenski, a former representative at the United Nations from Australia, died on Nov. 3 at his home in Sydney. He was 55 years old. The cause was lymphatic cancer, according to a statement from the Australian Mission to the United Nations. Mr. Wilenski was born in Polan
 William A. Higinbotham, a physicist who developed electronic components for the first atomic bomb and then became a leading advocate of controlling nuclear weapons, died on Thursday at his home in Gainesville, Ga. He was 84. The cause was emphysema, his family said. Mr. Higi
 Brian Dutton, a scholar of medieval Spanish literature, died on Oct. 21 at his home in Oak Park, Ill. He was 59 and also had a home in Madison, Wis., where he taught at the University of Wisconsin. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his daughter Anna Dutton, also of Oak Park.       
 Donald Ballard Jones, a Trenton lawyer and preservationist, died on Saturday at his home in Sergeantsville, N.J. He was 83. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. At his death, Mr. Jones was the president and counsel of Charles Jones Inc., a computer information comp
 Frederic Spiegelberg, an early teacher of comparative religion in the United States, died on Thursday at the California Pacific Medical Center in San Francisco, where he lived. He was 97. The cause of death was complications from abdominal surgery, said Michael Murphy of San Rafael,
 Joseph H. Hazen, a retired lawyer, film producer, art collector and philanthropist, died on Sunday at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 96.. He died in his sleep, said his daughter, Cynthia Hazen Polsky. A member of the bar in Washington and New York City, Mr. Hazen was a 
 Dr. Motoo Kimura, a Japanese geneticist who challenged prevailing views about evolution, died on Sunday in a hospital in Shizuoka, Japan, after collapsing in his home, The Associated Press reported. He was 70. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, The A.P. said. Dr. Kimura wo
 Seymour Malman, a retired Long Island developer, died on Friday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 76 and lived in Great Neck, L.I. The cause was a heart attack, according to Riverside-Nassau North Chapels, a funeral home in Great Neck. Mr. Malman, 
 Sir Patrick Dean, who was Britain's representative at the United Nations from 1960 to 1964 and Ambassador to the United States from 1965 to 1969, died on Nov. 5 in Kingston in the English county of Surrey. He was 85 and lived in London. Sir Patrick gave up his law practice at the ou
 Stephen Dykes Bower, a British church architect skilled in the Gothic style, died on Friday in Quendon, 20 miles north of London. He was 91 and lived in Quendon. Mr. Dykes Bower was known particularly for his work on Westminster Abbey. From 1951 to 1973, he held the title of Surveyo
 Booker T. Washington 3d, a retired New York architect and grandson of the educator and author, died on Sunday at New York Hospital. He was 79 and lived in Harlem. He had been in failing health for several years, said his wife, Joyce Dodson Washington. He worked for a number 
 Caesar Nobiletti, a New York real estate lawyer associated with a number of well-known building projects, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 89 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Born in Manhattan, Mr. Nobiletti g
 Jake Dengel, a veteran character actor, died on Monday at the Group One Hospice in Sherman Oaks, Calif. He was 61 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was cancer, said Roy Brocksmith, a friend. Mr. Dengel's first break in the theater came when he was chosen by John Gielgud to
 Norville Morgan Downie, a former psychology professor whose lifelong hobby of collecting beetles resulted in an extensive contribution to the Field Museum of Natural History in Chicago, died on Nov. 9 at the Home Hospital in Lafayette, Ind., where he lived. He was 83. He died of can
 Don A. Schanche, who wrote books on American radicals and adventurers and was the chief editor of Holiday magazine, died yesterday at his home in Key Biscayne, Fla. He was 68. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Marybelle. After years as a magazine writer, editor
 Jim (Buster) Poole, one of three brothers to play football for the Giants and a member of four New York teams that played in championship games, died on Wednesday in Baptist Memorial Hospital in Oxford, Miss. He was 79. The cause was cancer, his family said. Poole, an end, p
 Llewellyn Charles Harrison Jr., a designer who worked in theater, television and film, died on Monday at the Medical College of Virginia Hospital in Richmond. He was 47 and lived in Richmond. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his sister, Grace Lee Harrison. Mr. Harrison was
 Louis J. Kleinklaus, a retired chief engineer of WQXR and WQXR-FM in New York who helped to shape FM stereo broadcast standards, died last Friday at Fair Oaks Hospital in Fairfax, Va. He was 83 and lived in Manassas, Va. He suffered a brief illness, said his stepdaughter, Virginia H
 Paul Dean Woodring, who wrote about education in the United States and offered suggestions for reforms, died last Saturday at his home in Bellingham, Wash. He was 87. The cause was leukemia, according to Western Washington University, with which he had been associated since 1939 as 
 Rodney Colin Campbell, a retired journalist and editor, died on Oct. 28 while visiting his daughter in London. He was 70 and lived in Los Angeles and La Jolla, Calif. The cause was an aortic aneurysm, his family said. Mr. Campbell drew widespread attention with his book "The
 Arnold H. Swenson, who sold books to five decades of students at Columbia, Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died on Tuesday in South Yarmouth, Mass., where he had lived for the last three years. He was 90 and had been a resident of Mashpee, Mass., since his retirement 
 Bob Carroll, a veteran film and stage actor, died last Saturday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 76 and lived in Port Washington, L.I. He died after a long illness, said Earl Kirmser, a friend. Best known for his portrayal of Tevye in the national
 Frank R. Thoms Jr., who served as director of athletics at Williams College from 1950 to 1971, died on Monday at Geisinger Medical Center in Wilkes-Barre, Pa. He was 85. His family said he was stricken with viral pneumonia during a trip from his home in East Boothbay, Me. A 
 Dr. Harold R. Kay, who helped develop surgical procedures to treat electrical disturbances in the heart, died on Nov. 12 at his home in Wynnewood, Pa. He was 47. He died of cancer, said his wife, Cindy Zeidman Kay. The techniques, developed at the Philadelphia Heart Institut
 Merton Max Gill, an academic psychoanalyst, died on Sunday at Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center in Chicago. Dr. Gill, who lived in Chicago, was 80 years old. The cause was kidney failure, said Dr. Boris M. Astrachan, head of the department of psychiatry at the University o
 Peter Thomas McKean, a pioneer in the development of the all-electronics department store, died on Tuesday while returning from a business trip to Nevada. He was 50 and lived in Manhattan, Southhampton, L.I., and West Palm Beach, Fla. The cause was a heart attack, according to his c
 Cab Calloway, the flamboyant band leader who strutted and scat-sang his way to enduring fame as the "Hi-de-ho" man of jazz, died on Friday in a nursing home in Hockessin, Del. He was 86 and lived in Greenburgh, N.Y. The cause was a stroke he suffered in June, said his wife, Nuffie. 
 Erwin N. Griswold, the United States Solicitor General under two Presidents and for many years dean of the Harvard Law School, died yesterday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 90. Mr. Griswold was a resident of Belmont, Mass., and Washington. The Harvard Law School
 Erwin N. Griswold, the United States Solicitor General under two Presidents, and for more than 20 years dean of the Harvard Law School, died on Saturday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 90. Mr. Griswold was a resident of Belmont, Mass., and Washington. The Harvard
 Melvin A. Eggers, the chancellor of Syracuse University from 1971 to 1991, died yesterday at his home in DeWitt, a suburb of Syracuse. He was 78. He had a long illness, said John Harvith, a spokesman for the university. Dr. Eggers, who retired in August 1991, was the ninth c
 Oscar Mpetha, a longtime African National Congress figure and union leader who was a political prisoner in South Africa even past his 80th birthday, died on Tuesday in Cape Town. He was 85. Mr. Mpetha had advanced diabetes, and the British newspaper The Guardian reported that both h
 Hans M. Kolstee, a retired professor of engineering at Queensborough Community College, died on Nov. 12 at North Shore Hospital in Glen Cove, L.I. A resident of Glen Cove, he was 74. The cause was cancer, his family said. Born in The Hague, Professor Kolstee graduated from t
 Dr. Samuel Henry Wilen, a professor of chemistry at the City College and a specialist in stereochemistry, died on Wednesday at Englewood (N.J.)Hospital. He was 63 and lived in Teaneck, N.J. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Wilen was born in Brussels and escaped the
 William Duff-Griffin, an actor who frequently appeared in productions by the New York Shakespeare Festival, died on Nov. 13 at the Manhattan home of his companion, the actor Robert Joy. He was 54. The cause was prostate cancer, Mr. Joy said. Mr. Duff-Griffin was a versatile 
 Charles Baskerville, a prominent portrait painter and muralist, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 98. The cause was apparently a heart attack, said Van der Veer Varner, a friend. Mr. Baskerville collapsed in the street after lunching with friends, Mr. Varner said. Mr. Bask
 Julian Symons, a prolific and urbane writer known for his finely fashioned crime novels, died on Saturday at his home in Kent. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, said his publisher, Macmillan. Mr. Symons (pronounced SIMM-ons), who wrote more than 30 books in a career t
 Levering Rothfuss, a pianist and vocal coach, died on Monday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital. He was 42 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was pneumonia, said his mother, Reva Rothfuss. Mr. Rothfuss was the accompanist or vocal coach for many singers from the Metropolitan an
 Dr. Marion Thomas Jenkins, the Texas anesthesiologist who tried to resuscitate both President John F. Kennedy and his assassin, Lee Harvey Oswald, 31 years ago, died on Monday at his home in Dallas. He was 77. The cause was stomach cancer, his family said. Testifying during 
 Sir Ian Potter, an Australian financier and philanthropist, died on Oct. 24 at his home in Melbourne, Australia. He was 92. Sir Ian, who was knighted in 1962, retired in 1967 from his stockbrokerage, where he had been the principal partner for 30 years after founding it in 1936 as I
 Rabbi Alfred Jospe, a retired national director of B'nai B'rith Hillel Foundations, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 85. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said. Dr. Jospe spent 35 years with the organization, which offers cultural, religious and
 Prof. Bernard Garniez, an expert in 20th-century French literature, died last Friday at the Village Nursing Home in Manhattan. A Manhattan resident, he was 69. The cause was complications after a stroke, his family said. A native of Remscheid, Germany, Professor Garniez join
 Erick Hawkins, a major figure in American modern dance who offered a radical new definition of the art form, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was prostate cancer, said David Guion, the executive director of the Erick Haw
 Harwood Simmons, a music professor and director of band music at Syracuse University, died on Nov. 14 at Crouse Irving Memorial Hospital in Syracuse. He was 92 and lived in Syracuse. The cause was a heart attack, said Alfred Balk, a friend. Mr. Simmons was a professor emerit
 Joseph Harold Reid, who was executive director of the Child Welfare League of America for 25 years until his retirement in 1978, died last Friday at his home in Melbourne Beach, Fla. A former resident of Bellerose, L.I., he was 78. The cause was a heart attack, his family said.     
 Sam Roffe, the founder and chairman of Roffe Inc., one of the nation's largest makers of ski apparel, died on Sunday at his home in Seattle. He was 85. The cause of death was cancer of the liver, said Ann Stables, a company spokeswoman. Mr. Roffe, a lifelong resident of Seat
 Thomas H. Kuchel, a Californian who spent 16 years in the United States Senate and who as Republican whip there played a vital role in enactment of major civil rights legislation in the 1960's, died on Monday night at his home in Beverly Hills. He was 84. He had been under treatment
 Milton Jerrold Shapp, former Governor of Pennsylvania and a Philadelphia industrialist who was the first Jew to mount a campaign for the Presidential nomination of a major party, died on Thursday at Lankenau Hospital in the Philadelphia suburb of Wynnewood. He was 82. The cause was 
 Dr. Robert Lee Patterson Jr., an orthopedic surgeon and former surgeon in chief at the Hospital for Special Surgery on East 70th Street in Manhattan, died last Friday at his home in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 87. Dr. Patterson served on the hospital staff for 36 years, starting in 193
 Dr. Robert M. Cohart, Winslow professor emeritus of public health at Yale University, died on Nov. 18. He was 84 and a resident of New Haven. The cause was complications of heart disease and pneumonia, his family said. Born in New York City, Dr. Cohart graduated Phi Beta Kap
 Horst Schulmann, who played a role in developing the European currency unit and served on the powerful policy-making council of the German central bank, died on Thursday in a hospital in Frankfurt, his office said today. He was 61. He had been undergoing treatment for lung cancer fo
 Maynard L. Pennell, a former executive of the Boeing Company who played a leading role in the development of nearly every type of aircraft that the company made during his career of 34 years there, died on Tuesday. He was 84 and lived in Seattle. The cause of death was Parkinson's d
 Michael Somes, the first male star to be trained by the Royal Ballet and Margot Fonteyn's longtime partner, died on Nov. 18 in London. He was 77. The cause was a brain tumor, according to The Guardian. Mr. Somes was often called the conscience of the Royal Ballet because of 
 Milton J. Shapp, former Governor of Pennsylvania and a Philadelphia industrialist who was the first Jew to mount a campaign for the Presidential nomination of a major party, died on Thursday at Lankenau Hospital in Wynnewood, a suburb of Philadelphia. He was 82. The cause was Alzhei
 Dr. Willem Jacob Luyten, an astronomer whose work expanded the understanding of stellar motion, dying white dwarfs and the origin of the solar system, died on Monday at his home in Minneapolis. He was 95. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Born on Java, Dr. Luyten
 George J. Feldman, a former United States Ambassador to Luxembourg and Malta and a leading figure in the United States space effort, died Tuesday at the Bryn Mawr Terrace Nursing Home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 91. A native of Boston, Mr. Feldman received his law degree from Boston Un
 Harry Abrams, who twice ran between Los Angeles and New York City in the late 1920's, died yesterday in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y. He was 87. Mr. Abrams discovered he had a brain tumor two months ago, said Dale Adams, a daughter. In an age when non-Olympic races were considered 
 James Whitney Cook, who was with the American Telephone and Telegraph Company and its subsidiaries for 40 years and was active in civic and business affairs in Illinois, died on Sunday at Naples Community Hospital in Naples, Fla. He was 90, and lived in Naples and Osterville, Mass. 
 Jerry Rubin, the firebrand 1960's radical who used to preach distrust of "anyone over 30," died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 56 and lived in Los Angeles.. The cause was cardiac arrest, a hospital spokesman said. Mr. Rubin was struck by a car on Nov. 15 in Los Angeles. Local auth
 Louis Weinstock, a New York labor union official in the 1930's and 40's who was also a leader of the Communist Party in the United States for more than half a century, died on Saturday at the Brookside Healthcare Center in Redlands, Calif. He was 91 and lived in Hemet, Calif. He die
 Soulima Stravinsky, a composer, pianist and the youngest son of Igor Stravinsky, died yesterday at the Emerald Oaks Nursing Home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 84. The cause was respiratory failure after a long illness, said his son, John. Sviatoslav Soulima Stravinsky was born in
 Vicente Cardinal Enrique y Tarancon, who played a leading role in the transition from dictatorship to democracy in Spain as Archbishop of Madrid and head of the Council of Bishops, died this morning in Casa de Salud, a hospital in Valencia. He was 87. He died of lung cancer, accordi
 William H. Timbers, a senior judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Manhattan, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Suffield, Conn. He was 79 and lived in Darien, Conn. The cause was kidney failure, said his son William H. Jr. Judge Timbers he
 Alfred Matthew Lee, a professor of English and the humanities at New Jersey Institute of Technology in Newark, died on Saturday at his home in Maplewood, N.J. He was 56. The cause was cancer, his family said. Professor Lee was born in Louisville, Ky., and graduated from Yale
 Jerry Rubin, the flamboyant 1960's radical who once preached distrust of "anyone over 30," died on Monday night in a Los Angeles hospital where he was being treated after having been struck by a car two weeks earlier. He was 56 and lived in the Brentwood section of Los Angeles. A ho
 Matthew A. Meyer, a New York book publisher and literary agent, died on Friday at Charlene Manor, a nursing home in Greenfield, Mass. He was 84. The cause was heart failure, his family said. During a 40-year career in publishing, Mr. Meyer held positions at Farrar Straus & Y
