 The Rev. Dmitri Dudko, a Russian Orthodox priest who spent years in prison for anti-Soviet activity but in his later years praised Stalin and grew close to nationalists who dreamed of restoring the Soviet Union, died in Moscow on Monday, the Moscow Patriarchate announced. He was 82.        
 Irvin Morton, a marketing executive who helped bring celebrity star power to corporate conventions and promotional events, died on Monday at his home in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 94. His death was announced by his company, Jack Morton Worldwide. Mr. Morton acquired the nickname Jack a
 Stanley M. Gortikov, a music industry executive who was the longtime president of the Recording Industry Association of America, died last Thursday at his home in Los Angeles, his wife, Barbara, said. He was 85. Mr. Gortikov was president of the association for 15 years, beginning i
 Bernard Grant, a soap opera star also well known for providing the English dubbed into foreign films, died on June 30 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of lymphoma and pneumonia, said his wife, Joyce Gordon, also an ac
 Sir Richard May, the British judge who presided over the first two years of the war crimes trial of the former Yugoslav president, Slobodan Milosevic, before falling ill early this year, died Thursday at his home in Oxford, England. He was 65. He suffered from a brain tumor, friends
 Marlon Brando, the rebellious prodigy who electrified a generation and forever transformed the art of screen acting but whose obstinacy and eccentricity prevented him from fully realizing the promise of his early genius, died on Thursday at a Los Angeles hospital. He was 80. The cau
 Peter Barnes, the sardonic English playwright best known in this country for his play and film ''The Ruling Class,'' died on Thursday at a London hospital. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, said his agent, Jodi Shields. Mr. Barnes, who also worked as a television producer and
 C.J. Hart, who had the idea of charging hot rodders a buck and spectators 50 cents -- a quarter more if they wanted to watch mechanics work -- thereby spawning the United States' first commercial drag strip, died on June 25 at the home of his son Gerald in Placentia, Calif. He was 93.      
 Dr. Howard A. Frank, a surgeon and clinical professor at Harvard Medical School who helped develop the cardiac pacemaker, died June 27 at his home in Brookline, Mass., his family announced. He was 89. Dr. Frank was a colleague of Dr. Paul M. Zoll, a cardiologist who first conceived 
 Alexander Yakob Lerner, a star of Soviet Russian cybernetics and patriarch of the Jewish ''refusenik'' colony in Moscow, died April 6 in Rehovot, Israel, where he had settled after finally being allowed to leave Russia in 1988. He was 90. The New York Times received word of his deat
 Joseph Wasserman, an architect active in community planning and affordable housing, both urban and rural, died on June 25 at his home in Stockbridge, Mass. He was 73. His death was announced by the Finnerty & Stevens Funeral Home, which said the cause was a cancer diagnosed two year
 Rodger Ward, a two-time winner of the Indianapolis 500 and one of auto racing's most prominent figures of the late 1950's and 60's, died Monday at a hospice in Anaheim, Calif. He was 83. His death was announced by the Indianapolis Motor Speedway, which said he had been in failing he
 Thomas F. Mancuso, a pioneering epidemiologist at the center of a bitter dispute with the federal government over the possible long-term effects of small doses of radiation on nuclear bomb workers, died Sunday at an assisted-living center in Oakland, Calif. He was 92 and had esophageal canc
 Carl A. Totemeier Jr., a horticulturalist who helped reclaim the New York Botanical Garden from neglect in the mid-1980's and led efforts to restore other public gardens around the country, died on Saturday. He was 77. His wife of 53 years, Jean Totemeier, said he died at a hospital
 Charles E. Andrews, a writer at the dawn of television who helped create an informal, intimate approach to programming for Dave Garroway, Studs Terkel and other early stars, died on Friday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 88. The cause was acute pancreatitis, 
 John Cullen Murphy, the artist and illustrator who continued the Arthurian saga ''Prince Valiant'' in the Sunday comics for the last 34 years, died on Friday in Greenwich, Conn., his family announced. He was 85. Noted as much for its detailed backgrounds and costumes as for its well
 Stewart Richardson, a former top editor at Doubleday and other publishing houses, died yesterday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a lung infection, said his wife, Sally Richardson. Mr. Richardson was the executive editor and later e
 Hugh Barnett Cave, an English-born American writer who started turning out pulp fiction at 18 and kept it up for 75 years, died on June 27 at a hospice in Vero Beach, Fla., which he had entered a week earlier. He was 93 and lived in Sebastian, Fla. His death was announced by Milt Th
 Al Gavin, one of boxing's best-known cut men, who spent four decades specializing in the art of stemming the blood flow that could keep a fighter from answering the bell, died Thursday at Winthrop Hospital in Mineola, N.Y. Gavin, who lived in Bethpage, N.Y., was 70. The cause was co
 R.W. Burchfield, an internationally renowned lexicographer who wrestled the Victorian behemoth known as the Oxford English Dictionary into the era of ''wimmin,'' ''sexploitation'' and ''microwave oven,'' died on Monday at Abingdon Community Hospital in Abingdon, England. He was 81. 
 William K. McClure, the first European producer for ''60 Minutes'' and the producer of some of its Emmy Award-winning segments, died on July 2 on the island of Sardinia, where he had a summer home. He was 81 and lived in London. His death was announced by CBS News, where he worked f
 Oved Shifriss, a plant breeder and geneticist whose development of hybrid vegetables in the 1940's, particularly for W. Atlee Burpee & Company, helped ignite the national boom in hobby gardening, died June 25 in Bloomington, Ind. He was 89. The cause was congestive heart failure, hi
 Fred Becker, a well-known artist and printmaker who taught in the fine arts department at the University of Massachusetts from 1968 until his retirement in 1986, died on June 30 at his home in Amherst, Mass. He was 90. The cause was esophageal cancer, said his daughter, Carla.      
 Laurance S. Rockefeller, the middle brother of the five prominent and philanthropic grandsons of John D. Rockefeller, who concentrated his own particular generosity on conservation, recreation, ecological concerns and medical research, particularly the treatment of cancer, died yesterday at
 William H. Avery, an aeronautics researcher whose work led to new ways to propel missiles and aircraft and who helped develop a method of generating energy from the ocean, died June 26 at a retirement home in West Yarmouth, Mass. He was 91. The cause was congestive heart failure, sa
 Albert V. Casey, who guided American Airlines through turmoil in the 1970's and 80's and later took on the task of managing the country's failed savings and loans institutions, died on Saturday at his home in Dallas. He was 84. The cause was a heart attack, said a close friend, Denn
 Joe Gold, whose beachfront ''Mecca of bodybuilding'' in California led to a worldwide net of health-and-fitness muscle gyms, with Arnold Schwarzenegger among its prize clients, died Sunday in Marina Del Rey, in suburban Los Angeles. He was 82. The cause was congestive heart failure,
 Walter Wager, a novelist whose crime and spy thrillers -- among them ''58 Minutes,'' which became the Bruce Willis film ''Die Hard 2'' -- amounted to a catalog of modern mayhem, nuclear and otherwise, died on Sunday at Amsterdam House, a home for the elderly in Manhattan. A resident of the 
 Arthur Kane, the bassist of the influential 1970's punk band the New York Dolls, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Los Angeles, a few weeks after the surviving members of the original group had reunited to play their first concerts in almost 30 years. He was 55 and lived in Los Angeles.     
 Colman Genn, a career educator who exposed corruption in New York City schools by secretly recording conversations about political and ethnic considerations in filling jobs, died on Thursday night at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset. He was 68. The cause was respiratory 
 Ron Milner, a playwright who translated the workaday rhythms and jazz riffs of his native Detroit into portraits of the struggles and triumphs of urban African-Americans, died on Friday at a hospital near his home. He was 66. The cause was complications from liver cancer, said his s
 Thomas F. Madigan, an Emmy Award-winning television producer whose career spanned radio, advertising and film, died on July 8 in New York City. He was 85. The cause was complications of heart surgery, his family said. In 1980 Mr. Madigan received an Emmy for producing ''The 
 George W. Thorn, a physician whose work helped transform the treatment of kidney diseases and other disorders, notably Addison's disease, died June 26 at an assisted living center in Beverly, Mass., said his son, Weston. He was 98. Dr. Thorn was physician in chief at Peter Bent Brig
 Dr. Loren R. Mosher, a former National Institute of Mental Health official who developed a drug-free approach to treating schizophrenia and argued that psychiatrists should rely less heavily on antipsychotic medications, died on July 10 at a clinic in Berlin. He was 70. The cause wa
 Dr. William W. Stead, a scientist and health administrator whose studies of tuberculosis in nursing homes suggested that blacks could have a genetic susceptibility to the disease, died July 8 at his home in Little Rock, Ark. He was 85. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's di
 Maj. Gen. Charles W. Sweeney, who flew the B-29 Superfortress that dropped the atomic bomb on Nagasaki, the second atomic strike on Japan in the final days of World War II, died Friday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. General Sweeney, who lived in Milton, Mass., was 84. 
 David Blow, a British biophysicist who helped develop X-ray crystallography, a technique used to unravel the molecular structures of animal and human proteins, died June 8 at his home in Appledore, England. He was 72. The cause was lung cancer, said his early collaborator, Dr. Micha
 Carlos Kleiber, a gifted Austrian conductor whose reclusiveness made him legendary, died last Tuesday at 74 after a long illness, a family member told The Associated Press. According to the Slovenian news agency S.T.A., The Associated Press reported, he was buried on Saturday in Kon
 James Williams, a pianist formerly in Art Blakey's Jazz Messengers and a leading jazz educator, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 53 and lived in Brooklyn. The cause was liver cancer, said Jenise Grice, fiancée of the drummer Tony Reedus, Mr. Williams's nephew. Mr. Willia
 Peter Baird, a master puppeteer in the mold of his legendary parents, Bil and Cora Baird, died on Friday at a hospital in the Bronx. He was 52 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan and in Los Angeles. The cause was esophageal cancer, diagnosed in November, said his wife, Mav
 Antonio Gades, whose pure style as a flamenco dancer and creative collaborations with the film director Carlos Saura made him an international star, died on Tuesday in Madrid. He was 67. Mr. Gades had been ill with cancer for several years. His death was announced by a spokesman for
 Richard A. Bloch, a co-founder of H&R Block and a champion of cancer patients, died early yesterday at his home in Kansas City, Mo. He was 78. The cause was heart failure, said Linda McDougall, an H&R Block spokeswoman. Mr. Bloch used his keen eye for business to build a fam
 Illinois Jacquet, the influential tenor-saxophone star who bridged swing and rhythm and blues and persevered as a big band leader into his early 80's, died yesterday at his home in Queens. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, said his companion of 23 years, Carol Scherick.      
 Jerry Goldsmith, a composer whose hundreds of innovative scores for movies and television, from ''Patton'' to ''Gunsmoke,'' showcased many musical styles, died on Wednesday at his home in Beverly Hills. He was 75. The cause was cancer, Lois Carruth, his personal assistant, told The 
 Richard Ney, an investment adviser and best-selling author on finance whose earlier career, in films, led to a brief, stormy marriage to the screen star Greer Garson, died on Sunday at his home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 87. The cause was heart disease, said his wife, Mei-Lee Ney.  
 Émile Peynaud, a Bordeaux enologist who virtually invented the role of wine consultant, transforming the way wine is made and enjoyed, died on Sunday in his home outside of Bordeaux. He was 92. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said his daughter, Danièle Peynaud. More tha
 Elie Abel, a former foreign and domestic correspondent at both The New York Times and NBC News who drew on those experiences as dean of the Graduate School of Journalism at Columbia University in the 1970's, died on Thursday at a hospice in Rockville, Md. He was 83. The cause was pn
 Hubert von Sonnenburg, one of the world's leading painting conservators and chairman of paintings conservation at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on July 16. He was 76. The cause was complications from cancer, said his wife, Renate von Sonnenburg. Known for conserving a
 Dr. Edward J. Hoffman, a scientist whose early research in medical imaging helped create the positron emission tomography scanner, used to detect cancers and other diseases, died July 1 at U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 62 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was live
 Ronald Sukenick, an American writer whose work dealt playfully and self-referentially with the conventions of fiction, died on Thursday at his home in New York City. He was 72. The cause was inclusion body myositis, a rare muscle disease, said his wife, the writer Julia Frey.       
 Dr. Edward B. Lewis, a geneticist whose landmark observations of fruit-fly genes shed light on embryonic development in humans and was recognized with a Nobel Prize in 1995, died July 21 at Huntington Memorial Hospital in Pasadena, Calif. He was 86 and lived in San Marino, Calif. Th
 Van Deren Coke, a curator, teacher, author and photographer with an eye for the experimental and surreal, died on July 11 at a hospital in Albuquerque. He was 83 and lived in Santa Fe, N.M. His death was announced by his family. Starting in the mid-1950's Mr. Coke's work was
 Carmine G. De Sapio, the last boss of Tammany Hall, as the once-notorious Manhattan Democratic Party organization was known, died late yesterday afternoon at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan, said his daughter, Geraldine A. De Sapio. He was 95 and lived in Greenwich Village. At h
 Frederick C. LaRue, a top Nixon campaign official who passed money from a secret White House fund to buy the silence of the Watergate burglars, died Saturday at a hotel in Biloxi, Miss. He was 75. His heart failed while he was reading a book, his son, Ike LaRue III, said. He lived i
 Jackson Beck, a man both familiar and anonymous to millions, who became a legend by regularly introducing Superman to radio fans, died on Wednesday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 92. His friend Anthony Tollin, a radio historian, confirmed the death. For most of its decad
 Lalo Delgado, a poet whose writings about the hardscrabble existence of Latinos in the Southwest made him one of the grandfathers of the Chicano literary renaissance of the 1960's and 1970's, died last Friday in Denver. He was 73. The cause was liver cancer, said Estevan Flores, a f
 Ruben Gomez, a leading pitcher for the New York and San Francisco Giants in the 1950's and one of the first prominent major leaguers from Puerto Rico, died Monday at his home in San Juan. He was 77. The cause was complications of a kidney ailment, the Giants said. Gomez, a r
 Martin E. Weaver, a noted historical preservationist whose projects ranged from buildings to steam locomotives, died on Wednesday in Ottawa. He was 66 and lived in Ottawa and on Morningside Heights in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, his family said. At his death he was on l
