 Budd Granoff, a one-time Broadway press agent who fell in love hard and ended up as a pioneering television syndicator, died on Sunday at his home in Englewood, N.J. He was 77. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. A native of Brooklyn, Mr. Granoff, who never used h
 David Michael Ifshin, a Washington lawyer who was active in Democratic Party  affairs and was a lobbyist for Jewish causes, died on Tuesday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 47. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Ifshin, who had worked in Democratic campaigns since 
 Herbert Brownell Jr., who as President Dwight D. Eisenhower's first Attorney  General speeded desegregation by encouraging the President to name judges who vigorously carried out the Supreme Court's school integration decisions in the South, died yesterday in his home in Manhattan. He was 9
 Itzhak J. Karpman, who spent his life helping to chronicle Jewish history and achievements, died on Tuesday at his home on Riverside Drive on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 82. His wife, Esther, said the cause was lung cancer. Mr. Karpman, a native of Warsaw, where
 David M. Kennedy, who was Secretary of the Treasury in the first two years of the Nixon Administration, died Wednesday at his home in Salt Lake City. He was 90, and had long suffered from a heart ailment. Mr. Kennedy, whose career included a succession of Government and business pos
 David Opatoshu, a versatile character actor best known for his role as Akiva, a scholarly Jewish resistance leader in the 1960 film "Exodus," died on Tuesday  at his home in Los Angeles after a long illness. He was 78. Mr. Opatoshu, whose father was the Yiddish novelist Joseph Opato
 Emile Habibi, an Israeli Arab writer whose depiction of the predicament of Arabs in the Jewish state made him one of the most prominent and popular authors in the Middle East, died today in a hospital in Nazareth. He was 73. The cause was cancer, his family said. Widely read
 Herbert Brownell Jr., who as President Dwight D. Eisenhower's first Attorney  General speeded desegregation by encouraging the President to name judges who vigorously carried out the Supreme Court's school integration decisions in the South, died on Wednesday in his home in Manhattan. He wa
 Bill Byers, a trombonist best known for his work as a musical arranger, died  at his home in Malibu, Calif., on Wednesday, his 69th birthday. The cause was cancer, his family said. During a career in which he scored more than 100 movies, orchestrated dozens of Broadway shows
 Peter E. Obletz, a dance-company manager and railroad buff who lived aboard two dining cars parked behind Pennsylvania Station in the 1970's and 80's, died  on April 23 at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 50 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said Ruth Moore, an assis
 Tim Gullikson, the effervescent tennis coach who helped transform Pete Sampras from an introverted prodigy to a genuine candidate to become one of the  greatest champions to play the sport, died yesterday. He was 44. Inoperable brain cancer had been diagnosed in Gullikson in January
 William Stuart Brennen, who helped the Beame and Koch administrations to lure businesses to New York City, died on Wednesday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 72. He suffered a brief illness, said Mort Lawrence, a family friend. Mr. Brennen also served Gov. Nelson A
 David Shipman, a British film historian, died on April 22 at his country home in Hampshire, England. He was 63. The cause was a heart attack, said James Watters, a friend. In his encyclopedic trilogy and in "The Great Movie Stars," "Judy Garland: The Secret Life of an Americ
 Donald Cammell, a screenwriter and director who was best known for his 1970 film, "Performance," which starred Mick Jagger, died on April 24 after shooting  himself at his home in Hollywood. He was 62. Mr. Cammell was born in Edinburgh and attended Westminster School in London,  whi
 Dr. Edmund Stephenson Hurdle, a retired executive medical director of the Bureau of Health Care Services in the city's Department of Health, died on April 27 in the Brooklyn Hospital Center. He was 70 and lived in Brooklyn. He suffered a prolonged illness, his family said. H
 Henry Clarke, whose fashion photographs and portraits of social personalities and royalty graced the pages of Vogue for a quarter-century, died on April 26 at the Anglo-American Hospital in Le Cannet in the south of France. He was 77. He died of leukemia, said Susan Train, the Paris
 Jack Weston, the chubby, bejowled actor who elevated anguish to a comic art in a 40-year career on television, in the movies and on Broadway, died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 71 and had had lymphoma for six years, his wife said. In a career in which he appeared 
 Richard P. Ettinger Jr., a prominent publisher whose life was transformed by  a single book, died on April 26 at the Stanford University Medical Center in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 73 and lived in Santa Fe, N.M., not far from the Native American Preparatory School he founded last year.      
 Dr. Roy Craig Swan, a retired chairman of anatomy at Cornell University Medical College noted for his research in kidney and skeletal muscle physiology, died on April 26 at an extended-care center in Camden, Me. A Camden resident, he was 75. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his fa
 Tim Gullikson, the effervescent tennis coach who helped transform Pete Sampras from an introverted prodigy to a genuine candidate to become the greatest champion to play the sport, died yesterday. He was 44. Inoperable brain cancer had been diagnosed in Gullikson in January 1995. His family
 Ai Qing, one of modern China's most famous poets, died at a hospital here today. He was 86. Mr. Ai, born in 1910 to a prosperous landed family in coastal Zhejiang Province, spent his first five years living with his nursemaid, a poor peasant woman. Those early years among Ch
 Christopher Bird, a writer whose books "The Secret Life of Plants" and "The Divining Hand: The 500-Year-Old Mystery of Dowsing" drew good-natured skepticism and some praise from critics, died on Thursday in a Blairsville, Ga., hospital.  He was 68 and lived in Blairsville. The cause
 Donald Glen Fink, an engineer who worked to advance television technology beginning in the 1940's, died on Friday at Northern Westchester Hospital Center  in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 84 and a longtime resident of Somers, N.Y. As a writer for Electronics magazine, joining the staff i
 Hubert Saal, Newsweek magazine's music and dance critic from 1964 until he retired in 1984, died on Saturday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 72 and lived in  Manhattan. The cause was not immediately clear, said his son, Matthew, who reported that Mr. Saal had collapsed earlier Saturda
 David Lasser, an immigrant's son whose vision of the future inspired men to build and fly rockets to the heavens and whose concern for life on earth impelled him to champion and organize the unemployed during the Great Depression, died on Sunday at the Remington Senior Care Facility in Ranc
 Fred Bridge, the founder of Bridge Kitchenware, for decades the leading cookware supplier for professional and home kitchens, died on Sunday at Ridgewood Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from a stroke he suffered on Apr
 Leo Joseph Cardinal Suenens, whose public and behind-the-scenes leadership at the Second Vatican Council made him a major architect of 20th-century Roman Catholicism, died yesterday in Brussels. He was 91. Active to his last day, the retired Archbishop of Mechelen-Brussels and Prima
 William E. Colby, who as Director of Central Intelligence chose to disclose some of the nation's darkest secrets to save the spy service he loved, drowned on April 27 in a tributary of the Potomac River in Maryland. He was 76 and lived in the Georgetown section of Washington. The Ch
 Aurand Harris, a prolific and much-performed playwright who wrote for young audiences, died on Monday at Beth-Israel Hospice in Manhattan. He was 80 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was cancer, said Nellie McCaslin, a colleague at New York University, where Mr. Harris taugh
 Boleslavs Maikovskis, who said he was just following orders when he ordered the arrests that led to the mass execution of 200 Latvian villagers in World War II, died in Munster, Germany, on April 18, two years after his trial there for mass murder was suspended because of his declining heal
 Don McNeill, the cheerful host who welcomed millions of radio listeners across the United States and Canada to a new day for more than 35 years as the creator and host of "Don McNeill's Breakfast Club," died yesterday at Evanston Hospital in Evanston, Ill. Mr. McNeill, who lived in Winnetka
 Dominguin, a leading bullfighter in the 1940's and 50's who was a close friend of Picasso, a lover of Ava Gardner and a dueling matador featured by Ernest Hemingway in "The Dangerous Summer," died today at his home in Soto Grande, in San Roque, in Cadiz province. He was 69. The caus
 Gen. Jean Crepin, a retired French Army officer who oversaw the development of the Exocet missiles, which played a key role in the war in the Falklands, died on Saturday in the French department of Seine-et-Marne, near Paris, where he lived. He was 87. General Crepin, who was known 
 Richard Rouilard, a prominent gay-rights advocate and a former editor in chief of The Advocate, a nationally distributed gay and lesbian news magazine, died yesterday at his home in West Hollywood, Calif. He was 43. The cause of death was complications from AIDS, said Mary McNamara,
 William N. Copley, an American Surrealist painter of sweetly risque images of naked women and men in starchy Edwardian suits, died on Tuesday at his home in Sugar Loaf Key, Fla. He was 77 and had lived in Florida since 1991. He died of complications of a stroke suffered three weeks 
 Garth Williams, the artist who illustrated E. B. White's "Stuart Little" and  "Charlotte's Web" and scores of other children's classics, died on Wednesday at  his home in Guanajuato, Mexico. He was 84. With the precision of Durer but with his own sense of innocence and wonderment, M
 Gen. Jean Crepin, a retired French Army officer who oversaw the development of the Exocet missiles, which played a key role in the war in the Falklands, died on Saturday in the French department of Seine-et-Marne, near Paris, where he lived. He was 87. General Crepin, who was known 
 Joseph Kallinger, a Philadelphia cobbler-turned-killer who terrorized New Jersey suburbs two decades ago and made his own lawyer envision a shadowland where illness and evil live side by side, has died in a Pennsylvania prison. He  was 59. The authorities at the State Correctional I
 Serge Chermayeff, a retired architect and former head of the architecture department at Harvard and Yale Universities, died on Wednesday at his home in Wellfleet, Mass., where he had lived for the last 55 years. He was 95. Mr. Chermayeff, born in the Caucasus, received his education
 Celedonio Romero, who founded the Romeros guitar quartet with his sons, Pepe, Celin and Angel, died on Wednesday at Mercy Hospital in San Diego. He was 83 and lived in Del Mar, Calif. Mr. Romero was best known for his work in the quartet, which helped make ensemble guitar mu
 Justin J. Finger, who spent three decades as a top lawyer for the Anti-Defamation League and then retired to the courtroom, prosecuting those charged with preying on the elderly, died on Tuesday as he was preparing to deliver the opening argument in an assault case. He was 69 and lived in M
 Lieut. Gen. Calvin A. H. Waller, deputy commander of American forces in the Persian Gulf war and one of the Army's highest-ranking blacks when he retired in 1991, died on Thursday while on a trip to Washington with his wife, Marion. He was 58. General Waller suffered a heart attack,
 Michael L. Glassman, an economist who helped pioneer the application of economic analysis to antitrust sports litigation, died of a heart attack on May  2 on a business flight to St. Louis. He was 56 and lived in Bethesda, Md. Mr. Glassman testified on a variety of matters, includin
 William Blackie, a Scottish-born accountant who presided over Caterpillar Inc. as chairman and chief executive during booming years of growth for the manufacturer of tractors and other earth-moving equipment, died on Thursday in San Rafael, Calif., where he lived after retiring from Caterpi
 Adam Roarke, an actor who turned to teaching other actors, died on April 27 at his home in Euless, Tex. He was 58. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Carla. Mr. Roarke appeared in more than 30 films and scores of television shows. He made nine motorcycle movies, in
 C. Speed Veal, who helped plant the advertising slogan "Get a Piece of the Rock" in American consciousness, died May 4 at the Florence Nightingale Nursing  Home in New York. He was 78. Mr. Veal died of Parkinson's disease, his wife, Charlotte Kelly Veal, said. Mr. Veal was t
 Charles H. Zimmerman, an aircraft engineer who pioneered experimental flying  machines and played a role in lofting the United States' first astronauts into orbit, died last Sunday in Sentara Hampton General Hospital in Hampton, Va. A Hampton resident, he was 88. Mr. Zimmerman spent
 Donald T. Campbell, a nimble-minded social scientist who left his mark on half a dozen disciplines and helped revolutionize the fundamental principles of  scientific inquiry common to them all, died on Monday in a hospital near his home in Bethlehem, Pa. He was 79. His wife, Barbara
 Harry Wald, a former president of Caesars Palace, a casino-resort on the Las  Vegas strip, who also served several years as president of the Nevada Resort Association, died on Tuesday at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 71. The cause of death was cardio-resp
 Merrill John Mattes, a historian whose work tracing the westward drive of European settlers in the United States is considered among the most authoritative, died of a heart attack last Sunday at the Swedish Medical Center  in Englewood, Colo. He was 85 and lived in nearby Littleton.        
 Peter Gladke, a dancer and choreographer who worked closely with June Taylor, the television choreographer, died last Sunday at a family birthday party at a relative's home in Yonkers. He was 74 and had homes in Manhattan and Miami. The cause was a heart attack, said Carol Ann Cefol
 Richard J. Scheuer Jr., a general partner in a Manhattan arbitrage firm who supported education and the arts as a trustee of his family's charitable foundation, died on May 5 at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 48 and lived in Larchmont, N.Y. The cause was a brain hemorr
 Saichiro Uesugi, who headed an organization that champions the rights of an outcast class in Japan, died on Friday, Japanese news organizations reported. He was 77. Mr. Uesugi died of liver failure in Fukuoka, in western Japan. He was chairman of the Buraku Liberation League
 Dr. Samuel Preston Martin 3d, who started a master's degree program for doctors at the University of Pennsylvania's Wharton School, died on May 2 at his daughter's home in Gainesville, Fla. He was 80 and had lived in Philadelphia until three months ago. The cause was lymphoma, his f
 Edwin Kennebeck, a longtime editor at Viking Press, died on May 2 at Calvary  Hospital in the Bronx. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer of the esophagus, said a friend, Jim Tamulis. In his 28 years at Viking, Mr. Kennebeck helped to ease the labor pains o
 Frank Hercules, whose novels dealt with racial and colonial oppression, died  last Monday at his home on Roosevelt Island. He was 85. Mr. Hercules was born in Port of Spain, Trinidad. He went to London to study  law at the Inns of Court. In the early 1940's, he left for the United S
 Harry Bennett Frank, the State Supreme Court justice and ardent New York Giants fan who ruefully decided that the owners of that baseball team were within their rights to leave the Polo Grounds and seek greener turf in San Francisco, died on May 5 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manha
 Kenneth H. Lavey, a founder of Lavey/Wolff/Swift Inc., an advertising agency  specializing in pharmaceuticals, died on April 26 at his home in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. He was 72. The cause was heart failure, said a spokeswoman for BBDO Worldwide, the agency's parent company. Mr. Lavey work
 Michael Herman, a teacher and an authority on folk dance, died on Friday in North Shore Hospital in Glen Cove, L.I. He was 85 and lived in Babylon, L.I. Mr. Herman, who was born in Cleveland to Ukrainian parents, filled his life with folk dancing from early on. The title of his popu
 Richard Marsh Bennett, a retired architect whose projects ranged from houses  of worship and campus buildings to shopping centers and a fire academy, died on  May 2 at the Sherrill House in Boston. A former resident of Chicago, he was 89 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. Born in Braddoc
 Richard M. Kaplan, a leader in the Manhattan fashion industry, died on May 3  in Manhattan. He was 60 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Born in New York City, Mr. Kaplan graduated from Yale College in 1956 and Harva
 Samuel Talmadge Ragan, the poet laureate of North Carolina and a veteran newspaper executive, died on Saturday at his home in Southern Pines, N.C. He was 80. He had been ill for some time, said Brent Hackney, a reporter at The Pilot, the newspaper in Southern Pines of which Mr. Raga
 Jack R. Osborn, a passionate popularizer of the venerable sport of croquet, died on Sunday at his home in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. He was 67. The cause of death was cancer, according to his son, John C. Osborn, also of Palm Beach Gardens. Besides devoting himself to popularizing cro
 Nnamdi Azikiwe, Nigeria's first President and a vigorous champion of African  independence from European colonial rule, died Saturday in a hospital in his native eastern Nigeria after a long illness. He was 91. Dr. Azikiwe, an Ibo from southeast Nigeria, presided over a democratic G
 William Hughes Mulligan, a retired New York lawyer who was dean of the Fordham University School of Law and a Federal appeals court judge, died yesterday at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. A Bronxville resident, he was 78. The cause was complications from a stroke, the univers
 Joseph Barbash, a former partner in the law firm of Debevoise & Plimpton, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. Mr. Barbash, who lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, was 74. The cause was cancer, according to his wife. In a 41-year career with Deb
 Gen. Merrill B. Twining of the Marine Corps, who helped plan the landing on Guadalcanal in World War II and later fought in the Korean War, died last Saturday at a hospital in Fallbrook, Calif., where he had been living in retirement. He was 92. General Twining retired in 1959 as Co
 Adm. Jeremy M. Boorda, the Chief of Naval Operations and the first man in the history of the United States Navy to rise from the lowest rank of sailor to four-star admiral, died today from a self-inflicted gunshot wound at his home in the Washington Navy Yard, Pentagon officials said. He wa
 Richard M. Clurman, whose passion for journalism brought him to prominence at Time magazine and Newsday and whose passion for New York City made him a leading figure in its cultural affairs, died on Wednesday at his summer home in Quogue,  L.I. Mr. Clurman, who lived on the Upper East Side 
 Edgar Ortenberg, a violinist in the Budapest String Quartet in the 1940's and a violin teacher in Philadelphia, died on Thursday at his home in Philadelphia.  He was 96. Mr. Ortenberg was born in Odessa and studied with Naoum Blinder at the Odessa Conservatory, and later with Jacque
 Sam Lopata, whose whimsical and exuberant restaurant designs set the standard for grand cafes in New York City, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 54. The cause was complications of brain cancer, said his wife, Gayle. Mr. Lopata's early life contained
 Arne Ekstrom, director of the Cordier & Ekstrom art gallery in Manhattan for  35 years, died on Monday at his home. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Ekstrom opened his gallery in 1959 at 980 Madison Avenue, operating under a reciprocal agreement with Daniel Cordier, a gallery o
 Chet Forte, the 5-foot-7-inch Columbia basketball player who won a national scoring title but earned more fame as the director of "Monday Night Football" before a gambling addiction ended his television career, died in San Diego yesterday of a heart attack. He was 60. Mr. Forte suff
 Joseph M. Stone, a Washington labor arbitrator who helped prosecute the German industrialist Friedrich Flick at Nuremberg in 1947, died on May 6 at a hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 79 and lived in Chevy Chase. His family said the cause was congestive heart failure. A nativ
 Johnny (Guitar) Watson, a flamboyant pioneer of rhythm and blues whose music  influenced performers like Jimi Hendrix, Frank Zappa and Stevie Ray Vaughan, died on Friday just after he took the stage for a performance in Yokohama, Japan. He was 61 and lived in Los Angeles. He suffere
 Robert Emmett Ginna, a champion of nuclear power who helped build some of the first nuclear generating plants in the United States, died on Wednesday at St. Ann's Home in Rochester after a long illness. He was 94. Mr. Ginna (pronounced gun-NAY) was a native of Brooklyn who became a 
 Robert A. Mead, an award-winning network news producer who also served as an  adviser to former President Gerald R. Ford, died on Tuesday at his home in Orange, Va. He was 61. Mr. Mead, who was the producer of NBC's "Weekend Nightly News" based in Washington, when he left the networ
 Lieut. Gen. William W. Dick Jr., whose 37-year Army career ended in 1968 with his retirement as commander of allied land forces in southern Europe, died on May 8 at a retirement community in Fort Belvoir, Va. He was 86. The cause was pneumonia, his family said. In World War 
 William Howard Quasha, a lawyer who fought under Gen. Douglas MacArthur in the Philippines and stayed behind to form one of the country's leading law firms, died last Sunday in St. Luke's Hospital in Manila. He was 83 and lived in Manila. He was a member of the Manila-based firm of 
 Willis Conover, the Voice of America disk jockey who fought the cold war with cool music, capturing the hearts and liberating the spirits of millions of listeners trapped behind the Iron Curtain, died on Friday at a hospital in Alexandria, Va. He was 75 and lived in Washington. Coll
 Barton Heyman, an actor whose last three words uttered in front of a camera brought him more acclaim than 30 years on stage and screen, died last Wednesday  in his Manhattan home. He was 59. The cause was heart failure, his son, Sean Heyman, said. Mr. Heyman, who played the 
 Chet Forte, the tiny Columbia basketball player who won a national scoring title but earned more fame as the director of "Monday Night Football" before a gambling addiction ended his television career, died in San Diego Saturday of a  heart attack. He was 60. The Associated Press re
 Howard Aaron Shapiro, who chronicled his four-year battle with AIDS through a series of newspaper and magazine articles, died of its complications on Saturday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 40. The lifelong New Yorker took up the pen when he discovered he was infected 
 Larry Patrick Levis, a poet and professor of English at Virginia Commonwealth University in Richmond, was found dead at his home there on May 8. He was 49. The cause was cardiac arrest, the university said. Mr. Levis wrote essays, stories and reviews as well as poetry. His m
 Spiros Argiris, the principal conductor and director of operatic and symphonic activities at the Spoleto Festival U.S.A., in Charleston, S.C., for most of the last decade, died yesterday at the Hopital Cimiez in Nice, France. He was 47 years old and lived in Monte Carlo. Nigel Redde
 Spiros Argiris, the principal conductor and director of operatic and symphonic activities at the Spoleto Festival U.S.A., in Charleston, S.C., for most of the last decade, died yesterday at the Hopital Cimiez in Nice, France. He was 47 years old and lived in Monte Carlo. Nigel Redde
 The Rev. Robert Hearn, a priest who was wounded twice in World War II, died on Thursday at the St. Patrick's Manor nursing home in Framingham, Mass. He was  92. Father Hearn was born and reared in the Mission Hill neighborhood of Boston and began studying for the priesthood at age 1
 Willi Daume, a longtime German sports official who was instrumental in bringing the Olympic Games back to Germany in 1972, died yesterday in Munich. He would have been 83 on Friday. Mr. Daume had been suffering from intestinal cancer, the SID sports news agency said. As pres
 Dr. E. Richard Feinberg, a psychiatrist who specialized in treating delinquent and violent children, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 64 and lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y. The cause was stomach cancer, his family said. Dr. Feinberg w
 John Beradino, who played Dr. Steve Hardy on the soap opera "General Hospital" for 33 years, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 79. The cause was cancer, The Associated Press reported. Mr. Beradino was born in Los Angeles and as a child appeared in the "Our Gang" comedies
 Dr. Julius Marmur, a biochemist and geneticist whose early D.N.A. research helped unravel the mysteries of heredity, died on Monday at the Jack D. Weiler Hospital of the Albert Einstein College of Medicine in the Bronx. He was 70 and  lived in Larchmont, N.Y. The cause was lymphoma,
 Edward J. Gurney, the Florida Senator who became President Richard M. Nixon's staunchest supporter on the Watergate committee only to see his own incandescent political career turn to ashes over corruption charges of which he was later acquitted, died on May 14 in a hospital in Winter Park,
 Moonface Bear, a Golden Hill Paugussett Indian who led a faction of that Connecticut tribe in an armed standoff with state officials in 1993, becoming for a time a symbol of American Indian defiance of authority, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Norwich. He was 35. The cause was leu
 Seymour H. Knox 3d, who along with his brother founded the Buffalo Sabres and served as principal owners of the National Hockey League team, died today. He was 70. Mr. Knox had been suffering from cancer for the last several years, said a team spokesman, Gil Chorbajian. It w
 Adm. Lewis B. Combs, a Navy engineer who helped create and direct the vast island-hopping force of Seabees, who dodged bombs and bullets as they built floating drydocks and airstrips and more across the Pacific during World War II, died on Monday at his home in Red Hook, N.Y. He was 101.   
 Judah Wattenberg, the first executive director of what is now the American Technion Society, a group that raises money for Technion, a technical university in Israel, died on Tuesday at his home on the West Side of Manhattan. He was 96. Mr. Wattenberg, a lawyer who specialized in re
 Max J. Rubin, a lawyer who took his first step toward becoming president of the New York City Board of Education when his wife sent him to a suburban Parent-Teacher Association meeting in 1946, died on Wednesday at the Fairhaven Life Care Community, a retirement facility in Sykesville, Md. 
 Dr. Percy Klingenstein, who was associated with the Mount Sinai Hospital and  Medical Center for more than 75 years, died Wednesday at his home in Manhattan.  The Mount Sinai Alumni Association commemorated his 100th birthday -- along with its own centennial -- in January. Dr. Kling
 Jay Allen, a publicity agent who turned authors into celebrities and their books into best sellers by cultivating a mass audience, died on Wednesday at Cedars Sinai Medical Center. He was 79. He had been hospitalized with pneumonia and heart problems, his associate, Michael Doughert
 Joseph Mitchell, whose stories about ordinary people created extraordinary journalism in the pages of The New Yorker, died of cancer yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. At the height of his creative powers, from the 1930'
 The Rev. Ralph Harper, a philosopher and theologian who wrote more than a dozen books exploring existentialist themes in modern literary classics, in fairy tales and even in spy thrillers, died yesterday at the Stella Maris Hospice in Baltimore. He was 80 and lived in Monkton, Md. T
 Alexander Langsdorf Jr., a physicist who worked to develop the atomic bomb, pleaded with his Government not to use it and was heartbroken when Hiroshima and Nagasaki were laid waste, died on Friday at Elmhurst Memorial Hospital near Chicago. He was 83. Dr. Langsdorf, who lived in th
 Jack McCarthy, who mixed a bit of a brogue and a fount of Irish lore into the elixir that charmed thousands of television viewers in his 41 years as the anchor of WPIX's coverage of St. Patrick's Day events, died on Friday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 81. The cause was pros
 Louis Jay Herman, a linguist and author who followed up a career as a United  Nations translator by becoming one of the most indefatigable letter writers to The New York Times, turning out more than 100 published letters to the editor since his retirement in 1987, died on May 13 at New York
 Dr. Mathew Alpern, a physiologist at the University of Michigan who took some of the mystery out of color vision and color blindness, died on May 16 at U-M Hospitals in Ann Arbor. Dr. Alpern, who lived in Ann Arbor, was 75. The cause was congestive heart failure, the university said
 Norman Rene, a director closely associated with the playwright Craig Lucas and a founder and the artistic director of an Off Off Broadway group, the Production Company, died on Friday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 45. The cause was AIDS, Debra Kletter, a
 Robert J. Joedicke, an airline industry analyst at Lehman Brothers for 30 years who was known for his yearly seminars, died on May 18. He was 73 years old. Mr. Joedicke died of a heart attack while he was shopping in Cohasset, Mass., near his home in Scituate. A large man wi
 Sim Iness, who won the Olympic gold medal in the discus throw in 1952 and became the first person to surpass 190 feet in the event a year later, died of a heart attack on Thursday in Porterville, Calif. He was 65. Iness lettered in track at the University of Southern California in 1
 Dr. Katsuma Dan, a Japanese developmental biologist who made fundamental discoveries in studies of marine organisms, died on May 18 at the home of his eldest daughter in Osaka. A former resident of Tokyo, he was 91. In the United States, his association with the Marine Biological La
 Jacob Druckman, a Pulitzer Prize-winning composer, teacher and conductor who, through his work as a consultant to major symphony orchestras and a president of foundations, became an influential proponent of contemporary music, died on Friday at the Yale Health Service in New Haven. He was 6
 James F. Comstock, a homespun humorist who published the weekly West Virginia Hillbilly and compiled a definitive 51-volume encyclopedia of West Virginia history, died on Wednesday at St. Mary's Hospital in Huntington, W.Va. He was 85. Mr. Comstock lived in Richwood, 100 miles east 
 John Laurance Dunning, a former vice president of Radio Free Europe and a retired Foreign Service officer, died on May 19 in St. Andrew's Hospital in Boothbay Harbor, Me. He was 83 and lived in East Boothbay. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Born in Ridgewood, N.J
 Charles Stuart Dennison, an executive who advised governments from Washington to Senegal on economic development, the environment, science and technology and  other policy issues, died last Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Santa Fe,  N.M. He was 78. A Santa Fe resident for the
 Philip B. Healey, a New York State Assemblyman who espoused the cause of the  elderly, died yesterday, apparently of a heart attack, at Massapequa General Hospital on Long Island, moments after he finished marching in the town's Memorial Day parade. He was 72. Mr. Healey, a Republic
 Barney Wilen, a French saxophonist who performed regularly with American jazz musicians, died on Saturday. He was 59. The cause was cancer, the French press reported. Mr. Wilen came to international prominence in 1957 as a sideman for Miles Davis on the legendary soundtrack 
 Howard Chapnick, who headed Black Star, a leading worldwide picture agency based in Manhattan, from 1964 until his retirement six years ago, died on Monday at his home in Somers, N.Y. He was 74. The cause was Lou Gehrig's disease, his family said. Mr. Chapnick, a native of M
 David B. Kriser, a major benefactor of Beth Israel Medical Center and New York University, where various medical services bear his name, died on Sunday at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 90. Mr. Kriser, a retired industrialist, was a vice chairman of the medical cente
 George S. Boolos, a professor of linguistics and philosophy at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the president of the Association for Symbolic Knowledge, died on Monday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 55. The cause was cancer of the pancreas, said his wife, Sally 
 Jerry R. Junkins, who rose from the factory floor to become chairman of Texas Instruments Inc., where he helped revive the American computer chip industry during the last decade, died yesterday. He was 58 and lived in Dallas. Mr. Junkins suffered a heart attack while on a business t
 The pianist and composer Jimmy Rowles, one of jazz's most gifted accompanists, died on Tuesday at Thompson Memorial Hospital in Burbank, Calif. He was 77. The cause was cardiac arrest, his daughter Stacy said. For decades, Mr. Rowles was considered by musicians to be one of 
 Dr. Peter F. Ostwald, an author, professor of psychiatry and the founding director of the Health Program for Performing Artists at the University of California at San Francisco, died on Saturday at his home. He was 68 and lived in San Francisco. The cause was cancer, said his family
 Leon-Etienne Cardinal Duval, the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Algiers who denounced the torture of Arab nationalists by the French Army in the 1954-1962 war of independence, died today in Algiers. He was 92 and had been retired since 1988. Pope John Paul II praised Cardinal Duval in
 Jennings Lang, a former vice president of Universal Studios and a Hollywood producer known for "Airport" and other disaster films, died on Wednesday at a nursing home in Palm Desert, Calif., one day after his 81st birthday. As studio executive or producer, Mr. Lang was at least part
 Lash LaRue, who expertly cracked a bullwhip in nearly two dozen low-budget westerns of the 1940's, died on May 21 at the Providence St. Joseph Medical Center in Burbank, Calif. He was 79. He had recently undergone triple-bypass surgery and suffered from emphysema,  said his wife, Fr
