 E. Fay Jones, an architect whose organically sensitive designs for houses, chapels and churches drew on early training with his mentor Frank Lloyd Wright, died on Monday at his home in Fayetteville, Ark. He was 83. The cause was heart and lung failure, said his wife, Mary Elizabeth. He also
 Larry Desmedt, a New York-based custom motorcycle builder and biker better known nationally as Indian Larry, died on Monday in Charlotte, N.C., of injuries he suffered doing a stunt on Saturday at an appearance there. He was 55 and lived in the East Village. His death was announced 
 Carl E. Morris, a former newspaper reporter and editor who then held several influential posts as an advocate for hiring black journalists, died Friday at his home in Reston, Va. He was 73. The cause was complications from heart surgery, his wife, Kelda, said. In 1984, he be
 Frank Jefferson Horton, a Rockefeller Republican from Rochester and the former dean of New York's Congressional delegation, died on Monday at a hospital in Winchester, Va. He was 84 and lived in Bentonville, Va. The cause was a stroke, said his son Frank. Representative Hort
 Johnny Bragg, the leader of the Prisonaires, a singing group of Tennessee State Penitentiary inmates whose R&B music helped start Sam Phillips's Sun Records and influenced Elvis Presley, died here on Wednesday. He was 79. The cause was cancer, his daughter, Misti Bragg, told The Ass
 Dr. Donald B. Effler, the leader of a team of surgeons at the Cleveland Clinic in Ohio that helped develop and refine heart surgery, died on Aug. 24 in Jamesville, N.Y. He was 89. He died in a nursing home, his wife, Joanna, said. In 1956, as chief of the department of thora
 Herbert H. Haft, a combative Washington pharmacist who pioneered discount pricing in drugstores but later became more widely known for aggressive financial maneuvering and a bitter family legal battle for control of a business empire, died Wednesday in a Washington hospital. He was 84.     
 Dr. Selig Neubardt, a Westchester obstetrician and gynecologist and an author who was a prominent early advocate for birth control and safe abortion, died on Aug. 24 in White Plains. He was 78 and lived in New Rochelle. The cause was pneumonia, said a son, Dr. Seth Neubardt, a spina
 Robert Denoon Cumming, an American interpreter and historian of 20th-century European thought, phenomenology in particular, died on Aug. 25 at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Morningside Heights. His death was announced by Columbia University. He taught there for 37 ye
 Gerard Piel, a science writer and editor who helped revive Scientific American magazine a half-century ago and made it thrive, died Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital of Queens. He was 89 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was a stroke he suffered in February, his 
 J. Wayne Fredericks, a retired businessman, diplomat and foundation executive credited with fostering American links with Africa, died on Aug. 18 in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 87. The cause was a stroke, his family said. As an engineer in the late 1940's, Mr. Fredericks was sen
 Beyers Naude, an Afrikaner cleric who renounced apartheid, defied his church and became his nation's leading exponent of white resistance to racism, died Tuesday in a Johannesburg suburb, family members said. He was 89 years old. The news of his death touched off an outpouring of tr
 Bob O. Evans, a computer scientist who in the 1960's led the development of a new class of mainframe computers -- the famous 360's -- helping turn I.B.M. into a data-processing power, died on Thursday in Hillsborough, Calif. He was 77. The cause was sudden heart failure, his family 
 Donald Merriam Allen, a poetry editor whose 1960 anthology of the era's contemporary and avant-garde poets remains a milestone in American letters, died on Aug. 29 in San Francisco. He was 92. His death was announced by his friend and executor, Michael Williams. Mr. Allen st
 Richard G. Butler, the founder of the Aryan Nations and a leading figure in the white supremacist movement who preached that Jews descend from Satan and black people are subhuman, died yesterday in his home. He was 86. Mr. Butler died in his sleep in Hayden, Idaho, The Associated Pr
 W.H. Krome George, a former chairman and chief executive of Alcoa, who was credited with overseeing the company's expansion into a global concern, died on Monday in Mars, Pa. He was 86 and lived in Sewickley, Pa. The cause was complications of a heart attack and stroke he had last f
 Billy Davis, a Detroit singer and songwriter turned advertising executive who was involved in many of the most memorable R&B hits and musical ad campaigns of the late 20th century, died on Sept. 2 at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 72. Mr. Davis's sister, Gladys Adams, did not announc
 Ralph E. Lapp, a physicist who was involved in atomic weapons from the earliest days of the Manhattan Project, was a prominent figure in the cold-war debate about civil defense and continued to speak out about the health effects of radiation into the 1990's, died Tuesday in Alexandria, Va. 
 Brock Adams, a liberal Democrat from Washington who was President Jimmy Carter's transportation secretary between six terms in the House and one in the Senate, died yesterday at his home in Stevensville, Md. He was 77. The cause of death was Parkinson's disease, Ellen Globokar, his 
 Jack Rohan, who in two stretches covering 18 seasons became Columbia University's most successful men's basketball coach, died Aug. 9 in a nursing home in South Yarmouth, Mass. He was 72. Columbia said yesterday that it had just been notified of Rohan's death. His wife, Barbara, tol
 Jonathan Mark Scharer, the original producer of the perennial Off Broadway spoof revue, ''Forbidden Broadway,'' died on Tuesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 56. The cause was cancer, said the Overland Entertainment Company, a production company he founded in 1986. His fina
 Ralph G. Allen, a Guggenheim-winning theater historian who parlayed a scholarly paper on the pratfalls, bawdy humor and very bad puns of American burlesque into the book of the hit Broadway musical ''Sugar Babies,'' died on Thursday after a walk in Manhattan. He was 70 and lived in Manhatta
 Alfred Z. Solomon, who transformed the way American women buy fashionable hats and in later years became famous as the cigar-chomping dean of the Saratoga Race Course in Saratoga, N.Y., died on Sept. 4 in Saratoga. He was 104. A party will be held as scheduled on his birthday in thr
 Fred Ebb, the devilishly witty Broadway lyricist who was half of the legendary musical theater team of Kander and Ebb, responsible for the songs in classic shows like ''Cabaret'' and ''Chicago,'' died on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. Mr. Ebb was coy about hi
 Petros VII, patriarch of Alexandria, who preached Christian-Muslim dialogue from one of the world's oldest seats of Christianity and who vigorously promoted the growth of Greek Orthodoxy in Africa, died Saturday at the age of 55. He was killed in a helicopter crash in the Aegean nea
 James A. Westphal, an astronomer who led the Palomar Observatory and directed the team that built the first camera for the Hubble Space Telescope, died on Wednesday at his home in Altadena, Calif. He was 74. His death followed a long illness, officials at the California Institute of
 Jerome Chodorov, a prolific playwright and librettist and co-author of the book for the musical ''Wonderful Town,'' who survived as a screenwriter despite being on a Hollywood blacklist, died on Sunday in Nyack, N.Y. He was 93 and lived in Pomona, N.Y. His death was announced by his
 Subandrio, who was a major voice for Indonesian independence while he was President Sukarno's foreign minister but then spent 30 years in prison after being condemned to die by a military tribunal in 1966, died on July 3 at his home in South Jakarta. He was 89. His death was reporte
 James D. Barber, a Duke University political scientist and authority on the American presidential character who predicted the downfall of Richard M. Nixon several years before the fact, died Sunday at his home in Durham, N.C. He was 74. The cause was complications of primary progres
 Jerry Turner, the longtime artistic director of the Oregon Shakespeare Festival, one of the nation's best regarded regional theaters, died on Sept. 2 at his home in Olympia, Wash. He was 76. The cause was heart failure, said Libby Appel, the festival's current artistic director.    
 Max Abramovitz, the architect who designed Avery Fisher Hall at Lincoln Center and also had a hand in the building of the United Nations complex and several well-known Midtown skyscrapers, died on Sunday at his home in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He was 96. Mr. Abramovitz was born in Chicago 
 Aaron Director, an economist whose rigorous free-market analysis profoundly influenced approaches to antitrust law, died on Saturday at his home in Los Altos Hills, Calif. He was 102. His death was announced by the University of Chicago, where he taught for two decades and imbued a 
 Anthony Toney, a painter who taught at the New School of Social Research for 43 years, died on Friday in Marin County, Calif. He was 91 and lived in Fairfax, Calif. Born in 1913 to Syrian immigrants in Gloversville, N.Y., Mr. Toney earned a bachelor's degree in fine arts from Syracu
 Michael Hamilton Jameson, a scholar of Greek antiquity who in the 1960's helped unearth the relics of battles fought more than two millenniums ago, died on Aug. 28 in Stanford, Calif. He was 79 and lived in Palo Alto, Calif. His family said his death followed a brief illness.       
 Harvey Wheeler, a political scientist and author, whose novel about nuclear war by accident, ''Fail-Safe,'' caused a national shudder in 1962, died on Sept. 6 at his home in Carpinteria, Calif. He was 85. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Wheeler, who worked on the 
 Johnny Ramone, the stone-faced guitarist of the punk band the Ramones, whose fast, buzz-saw blasts of noise laid the foundation for a school of rock guitar, died on Wednesday afternoon at his home in Los Angeles. He was 55. The cause was prostate cancer, said Arturo Vega, the band's
 Glenn Presnell, a star back in the National Football League during the 1930's with the Portsmouth (Ohio) Spartans and their successor franchise, the Detroit Lions, died Monday at a nursing home in Ironton, Ohio. He was 99. His death was announced by the Lions, who said he was the la
 Lt. Col. Jack Bolt, who flew with the Marines' Black Sheep Squadron in World War II and was the only Marine pilot to be an ace in two wars, died Sept. 8 at a hospital in Tampa, Fla. He was 83 and lived in New Smyrna Beach, Fla. The cause was leukemia, his son, Robert, said. 
 Roland Balay, an international art dealer and former president of Knoedler & Company, the New York gallery established in 1846 by his grandfather Michael Knoedler, died on Thursday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 102. His death was announced by the company, from which he 
 Eddie Adams, a Pulitzer Prize-winning photojournalist and combat photographer who produced one of the most riveting images of the Vietnam War, died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 71. The cause was Lou Gehrig's disease, or amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, said Judy Twersky, a spokesw
 Marvin M. Mitchelson, the Hollywood divorce lawyer who parlayed the concept of ''palimony'' settlements for unmarried partners into a successful career representing celebrities, becoming a celebrity himself, died Saturday night in Los Angeles. He was 76. The cause was cancer, said h
 Derald H. Ruttenberg, an investor and industrialist who ran Studebaker-Worthington, an automotive parts company, and a philanthropist who financed the Derald H. Ruttenberg Cancer Center at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York, died on Sunday at the hospital. He was 88 and lived in New Yor
 James O. Page, a longtime fire chief who helped shape modern-day emergency medical services and whose writings helped establish them nationally, died Sept. 4. He was 68 and lived in Carlsbad, Calif. The cause was a heart attack he suffered while swimming at a local spa, said Jems Co
 Norman Frank Cantor, a prominent American medievalist whose books, like his classic ''Civilization of the Middle Ages,'' were widely read in the classroom and beyond, died on Saturday at his home in Miami, where he retired four years ago. He was 74 and a former resident of Greenwich Village
 William C. Reeves, a medical entomologist whose pioneering research into the spread and control of mosquito-borne diseases laid the groundwork for the current nationwide efforts to contain the West Nile virus, died Sunday in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 87 and lived in Walnut Creek. 
 Edward Larrabee Barnes, a New York architect who cherished the ideals of clarity and functionality he learned from the Modernist masters even as he devised novel approaches to designing houses, campuses, museums, churches and skyscrapers, died on Tuesday in Cupertino, Calif. He was 89 and l
 Russ Meyer, whose 1960's fantasy films about the antics of giant-breasted, often assertive women were among the first ''nudies'' to have a story line but who later flirted with respectability when his style of filmmaking became influential in the mainstream movie industry, died on Saturday 
 James E. Beasley, a lawyer who won millions of dollars in jury verdicts in major cases, including an unpaid $104 million judgment stemming from the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks, died on Saturday at a hospital in Philadelphia. He was 78 and lived in Villanova, Pa. His death was announced 
 Ralph Kenneth Andrist, a historian, author and editor who wrote the classic ''The Long Death: The Last Days of the Plains Indian,'' died on Sunday at his home in Lynnwood, Wash. He was 90 and worked in New York for most of his career. His death was announced by family members, who s
 Stephen Baker, who created the ''Let your fingers do the walking'' ad campaign for the Yellow Pages and advised readers on how to live with a neurotic dog, died in Manhattan on Sept. 13. He was 83. The cause was cancer of the gastrointestinal tract, his son, Scott, said. As 
 Nigel Nicolson, the biographer and publisher and heir of the Bloomsbury group whose best-known work, ''Portrait of a Marriage,'' documented the loving, tumultuous union of his unconventional parents, Harold Nicolson and Vita Sackville-West, died on Thursday at his home in Sissinghurst Castl
 Richard S. Arnold, a federal appeals court judge who issued influential rulings involving individual rights and narrowly missed a Supreme Court nomination, died on Thursday at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. He was 68. The cause was an infection he contracted while being treated
 Dr. David B. Pall, a chemist who invented dozens of sophisticated filters, most notably for purifying blood for transfusions, died Tuesday at his home in Roslyn Estates, N.Y. He was 90. He died of complications of Alzheimer's disease, his daughter Ellen said. Dr. Pall receiv
 Marvin H. Davis, a billionaire who amassed his fortune through well-timed deals in the oil and entertainment industries, died yesterday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif., a family spokesman said. He was 79. Mr. Davis died of natural causes, said the spokesman, Michael Sitrick. Fr
 Dr. Raja Ramanna, an eminent physicist and developer of India's nuclear bomb program who played a major role in the country's first nuclear test in 1974, died on Friday morning at Bombay Hospital. He was 79. The cause was internal bleeding in the stomach, said Dr. B.K. Goyal, honora
 W. Dorwin Teague, an industrial designer and inventor who built, quite literally, the stuff of everyday life, died on Sept. 16 in Carbondale, Colo. He was 94. He lived in Carbondale, after spending many years as a resident of Nyack, N.Y. Mr. Teague's son Harry announced the death.  
 Marvin H. Davis, a billionaire who amassed his fortune through well-timed deals in the oil and entertainment industries, died Saturday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif., a family spokesman said. He was 79. Mr. Davis died of natural causes, said the spokesman, Michael Sitrick. Fri
 Pete Schoening, who became a mountaineering legend after saving a rope team of six men by single-handedly holding their weight on the sheer slope of K2, the world's second-highest peak, died Wednesday at his home in Kenmore, Wash. He was 77. The cause was bone cancer, his wife, Mell
 Eli Elias, a clothing manufacturer and leader of the New York City garment industry, died on Friday in Hollywood, Fla. He was 92. The cause was a stroke, his grandson, Dan, said. As president and executive director of the New York Skirt and Sportswear Association for several
 Gardner Botsford, a veteran editor at The New Yorker magazine who helped shape its reputation and its style under the longtime editorship of William Shawn, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 87. The cause was bone marrow disease, said his wife, the author Janet Malcolm. In 
 Geoffrey Beene, a single-minded innovator who put fashion above commerce yet succeeded in making a business from originality, died yesterday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said Russell Nardozza, vice president of
 Tsai Wan-lin, a financier and the wealthiest man in Taiwan, died on Monday in Taipei, his family told Agence France-Presse. His age was variously reported as 79, 80 and 81. The cause was a liver ailment, news agencies reported. Mr. Tsai was founder of the Lin-Yuan Group, whi
 Dr. John E. Mack, a Pulitzer Prize winner and Harvard psychiatrist who studied people who said they had encounters with alien beings, died in London on Monday. He was 74 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. Dr. Mack was struck by a driver suspected of being drunk and evidently died on impa
 Mulk Raj Anand, a renowned figure among Indian writers in English whose works depicted the lives of people in India's traditional society, an art critic and an educator, died at Jehandir hospital in Pune on Tuesday. He was 99. The death was announced by Ram Gohar, his nurse.
 Scott Muni, a disc jockey whose deep, leisurely, fogbound voice was a regular companion to New York City rock fans for nearly 50 years, died on Tuesday in New York. He was 74 and had not returned to the air after suffering a stroke in January. His death was confirmed by his son Maso
 Walter Scheuer, a New York investor and patron of the arts who produced the Oscar-winning documentary ''From Mao to Mozart: Isaac Stern in China'' among other films, died on Sept. 20 at his home in Manhattan, his family announced. He was 82. At his death, Mr. Scheuer was chairman of
