 Arturo Uslar Pietri, a novelist and essayist whose literary career became enmeshed with modern Venezuelan politics, died on Monday at his home in Caracas. He was 94. Mr. Uslar Pietri had retired from writing just recently, after failing health led him to dictate essays and columns f
 Glen Francis Brown, a retired American geologist who mapped the Arabian Peninsula and divined water where none was thought to exist, died on Feb. 22 at a hospital in Fairfax, Va. He was 89 and lived in Reston, Va. Dr. Brown spent 44 years with the United States Geological Survey, st
 John M. Gravitt, a former foreman for GE Aircraft Engines who made it easier for whistle-blowers and the federal government to win damages in fraud cases involving government contracts, died on Friday. Mr. Gravitt, who lived in Cincinnati, was 61. The cause was complications from di
 Ariel G. Loewy, a cell biologist who helped unravel the process of blood clotting, died on Feb. 13 at Bryn Mawr Hospital in Pennsylvania. He was 75. The cause was complications from a stroke, his family said. Dr. Loewy was widely recognized for having found the last of the b
 Henry Wade, who in nearly four decades as district attorney of Dallas County, Tex., became the very symbol of law and order there and is perhaps best remembered for the prosecution of Jack Ruby and as the Wade in Roe v. Wade, died yesterday at an assisted-living center in Dallas.  He was 86
 Hermann Field, who was imprisoned for five years by Communist authorities in Poland and who wrote two novels with his cellmate before his release in 1954, died on Feb. 23 at his home in Shirley, Mass. He was 90. Mr. Field, who was arrested while in Poland looking for his missing bro
 Paul D. Paganucci, a former vice president of Dartmouth College, died on Monday at his home in Hanover, N.H. He was 69. The cause of death was cancer, said his wife, Marilyn. Mr. Paganucci, a Dartmouth alumnus, joined the college in 1972 as a business professor and associate dean at
 George W. Wheelwright III, a co-founder of the company that eventually became the Polaroid Corporation, died on Thursday at the Marin Convalescent Center in Tiburon, Calif. He was 97. Most of the world thinks of Polaroid as the brainchild of Edwin H. Land, a scientist whose ideas fo
 Robert McGinnis, a Cornell University sociologist who founded and directed its Institute for Social and Economic Research, died Feb. 22 at a hospice in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 73 and lived in Ithaca. He suffered a brief illness, his family said. Dr. McGinnis joined the Cornell f
 William O. Bittman, who won a conviction against the Teamsters leader James R. Hoffa as a young federal prosecutor and became one of Washington's best-known lawyers, died on Thursday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 69. The cause was cancer of the esophagus, said his son Robert J.
 C. M. Woodhouse, a Briton who led Greek resistance forces against Hitler, wrote elegant books about modern Greece and was an unwavering opponent of dictatorship in Greece, died on Feb. 13 in Oxford, England. He was 83, and since his brother's death in 1998 had held the family title 
 Charly Baumann, a German-born trainer of big cats, died on Jan. 24 in Sarasota, Fla., where he lived. He was 72. Mr. Baumann made his reputation as a circus trainer of performing tigers in a spectacular Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus act that eventually included 16 tig
 Harold E. Stassen, a former governor of Minnesota, educator, and special presidential assistant who won an early reputation as a ''boy wonder'' of politics only to be remembered as the man who unsuccessfully sought the Republican Party's presidential nomination nine times, died yesterday at
 James A. Rhodes, a four-term Republican governor of Ohio who was known at home as a builder and booster of his state but remembered nationally more for sending onto the Kent State University campus the national guardsmen who killed four students there, died on Sunday at the Ohio State Unive
 Hugh R. Jones, a former judge of the New York State Court of Appeals who was known as an intellectual leader of the state's highest court and one of its best writers, died Saturday at his home in Utica. He was 86. As a member of the court from 1972 to 1984, Judge Jones wrote the dec
 Ivan Biro, a sculptor and a founding member of 55 Mercer Gallery, an artists' cooperative in SoHo, died on Feb. 9 at a hospital in Mt. Kisco, N.Y. He was 74. The cause was pneumonia after surgery, said his wife, Juliane. Mr. Biro was born in Paris in 1926 and grew up in Buda
 Ken Kiff, an English painter known for his bright, fantastical figurative painting, died on Feb. 15 in London. He was 65. Mr. Kiff was born in Essex, England, in 1935 and attended the Hornsey School of Art in northern London. He had his first gallery show at the Nicola Jacobs Galler
 Ralf D. Bode, a cinematographer who contributed indelible images to films like ''Rocky,'' ''Saturday Night Fever'' and ''Coal Miner's Daughter,'' died last Tuesday at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 59. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Christine. Among the m
 H. Harding Isaacson, a longtime fixture at Manhattan debutante balls, sometimes as the announcer who introduced the debutantes to society, died on Feb. 26 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said his stepdaughter, Christine Kr
 Leslie Paffrath, a retired foundation executive, died on Jan. 9 at a hospital in Racine, Wis. He was 85 and lived in Racine. He was the founding president of the Johnson Foundation in Racine. Established in 1958, it sponsors conferences at its Wingspread center on such concerns as c
 Mário Covas, outspoken and combative governor of Brazil's largest state and a chief architect of the country's delicate passage from dictatorship to democracy in the 1980's, died today at a hospital in São Paulo. He was 70. As governor since 1994 of São Paulo, whose 36 million pe
 Dr. Paul Fiset, a microbiologist who helped develop a vaccine against the infectious disease known as Q fever, or Balkan grippe, died on Feb. 27 at a hospital in Baltimore. Dr. Fiset, who had long been in poor health, was 78 and lived in nearby Timonium, Md. A professor emeritus at 
 Frank H. Johnson knew the truth about today's intelligent readers: they rebel against condescension and have scant time to waste. This pioneer of direct mail invented what became known as the Johnson Box, an enticing paragraph just before a letter's salutation that efficiently and pleasingl
 Felipe Pazos, a Cuban economist who initially supported Fidel Castro because he said he believed that he would restore democracy but broke with him in 1959, died on Feb. 26 in exile at Puerto Ordaz, Venezuela. He was 88. In February 1957, Dr. Pazos and his son Xavier arranged for a 
 Leslie C. Quick Jr., who provided investors with the chance to trade stocks at discounted prices and then earned a reputation as a leading supporter of Roman Catholic charities in the New York area, died yesterday at the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute in Boston, according to his son, Thomas. 
 Frankie Carle, the dean of the big-band leaders, who is best remembered for ''Sunrise Serenade,'' the popular, easy-swinging tune he wrote with Jack Lawrence that became his signature piece, died on Wednesday in a hospice in Mesa, Ariz. He was 97. The high point of his popularity  w
 Dr. Joe Gibbs, an expert on neurological diseases who helped show that maladies like mad cow disease and scrapie are infectious rather than genetic, died on Feb. 16 at a hospital in Washington, his hometown. He was 76. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. A career 
 Peter G. Mirto, a Brooklyn Democrat who was a member of the New York State Assembly from 1969 to 1978, died on Monday in Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 85 and lived in a retirement home in Glen Cove. A native New Yorker, he graduated from St. John's Law School and was an assistant district 
 Richard Ruggles, a Yale University economist who developed tools for measuring national income and improving price indexes used in formulating government policy, died of complications from prostate cancer at his home in New Haven on Sunday, according to Patricia Ruggles, his daughter. He wa
 David Glazer, a classical clarinetist, died last Sunday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. He made many solo and ensemble appearances in New York and performed with the New York Woodwind Quintet from 1951 until he retired in 1985. H
 Mario R. Russillo, who changed his surname twice to put it at the top of ballots when he ran for office in Johnston, R.I., died on March 2 in North Providence, R.I. He was 76 and lived in Johnston. Mr. Russillo, a Democrat, changed his name to aRussillo in 1964, when he ran for town
 Samuel J. Silverman, a skilled litigator in a variety of high-profile cases who later served 20 years as a judge and surrogate in New York, died on Tuesday at the Weill Cornell Medical Center of New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 92 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.        
 Ian L. McHarg, a landscape architect, planner and teacher whose passion for meshing communities and ecology inspired scores of successors, died on March 5 in Chester, Pa., near Philadelphia. He was 80. His most enduring contribution to the field, many colleagues say, is his 1969 boo
 James D. St. Clair, the Boston lawyer who represented President Richard M. Nixon in the Watergate scandal, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Westwood, Mass. He was 80. In a half-century as a trial lawyer, Mr. St. Clair developed a reputation as a dignified, courteous, highly com
 Louis Faurer, who pushed photography in an anything-goes direction in the 1940's and 50's, producing images taken on city streets that were raw, tender and often melancholy, died on March 2 in Manhattan. He was 84. His offhand style of street photography has been more commonly assoc
 Louis Edmonds, an actor who had a long career on the New York stage but was best known for his roles on the television shows ''Dark Shadows'' and ''All My Children,'' died on  March 3 at John T. Mather Memorial Hospital in Port Jefferson, N.Y. He was 77 and lived in Setauket, N.Y. M
 Paul L. Bernick, executive director of American ORT from 1952 to 1981, died on March 5 at New York University Medical Center. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Bernick joined the American branch of the Organization for Rehabilitation Through Training as the assistant to the exec
 S. Dillon Ripley, who led the Smithsonian Institution through its period of greatest growth, died today in a Washington hospital. He was 87. A biologist, ecologist, expert on the birds of India and, for a time, an officer in the United States' wartime spy service, Mr. Ripley
 Theodore Sachs, a Michigan constitutional lawyer and a legal adviser to organized labor, died on March 5 at a hospital in suburban Detroit. He was 72 and lived in West Bloomfield, Mich. The cause was a stroke, his family said. He was a former general counsel for the Michigan
 Edward T. Tait, an expert on antitrust and corporate law who was executive director of the Securities and Exchange Commission and a member of the Federal Trade Commission during the Eisenhower administration, died on March 3 in Chestertown, Md., where he lived. He was 80. A Republic
 Morton Downey Jr., whose loudmouthed manner and sneering, smoke-in-your-face approach to guests on his television show gave him a wildly popular, albeit short, career as a national talk show host in the 1980's, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 67 and lived in Los Angeles. The c
 Phil Berger, a sportswriter, author and screenwriter, died on Monday at his home in Jackson Heights, Queens. He was 58. The cause of death was colon cancer, said Veronica Vera, his companion. Mr. Berger, who was a boxing reporter for The New York Times from 1986 to 1992, wro
 Robert Ludlum, who wrote his first novel at 42 and whose masterly, multi-tiered plots about idealistic heroes and relentless villains led his 21 books to sell more than 290 million copies, died on Monday at a hospital in Naples, Fla. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, the hosp
 Robert T. Howard, a president of the NBC television network from 1974 to 1977, died on Sunday in New York. He was 73. The cause was complications from heart disease, according to his daughter, Barbara Jo, of Manhattan. Mr. Howard, a native of Red Bank, N.J., worked at NBC fo
 Carl A. Capasso, a businessman who went from being an obscure city sewer contractor to a lead player in a bizarre municipal scandal involving a former Miss America, died yesterday. He was 55. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his son Michael said. Mr. Capasso became a staple 
 Leopold Page, No. 173 on ''Schindler's list,'' whose relentless campaign to honor the German businessman who saved his life and the lives of 1,300 other Jews during World War II led to the book and film, died on Friday in Los Angeles. He was 87. Mr. Page, then called Poldek Pfefferb
 Sir Anthony Faville Tuke, head of Barclays Bank from 1973 to 1981, died on March 6 in England. He was 80. As a banker, Sir Anthony defended business and sports contacts with South Africa during the apartheid era and both exemplified and defended his bank's unusual tradition of reser
 Cord Meyer Jr., an articulate and passionate strategist who helped guide the young Central Intelligence Agency's efforts to contain Soviet communism at home and abroad, died here on Tuesday. He was 80. Mr. Meyer, whose career took extraordinary turns, from soldier to author to liber
 Edward Winter, a character actor who worked in theater, films and television, died on March 8 in Los Angeles. He was 63 and had Parkinson's disease. Mr. Winter began his acting career in 1962 with the San Francisco Actors Workshop and then moved to New York, where he appeared in pro
 Walter Dukes, a 7-foot center who set the N.C.A.A. single-season rebounding record when he led Seton Hall University to the National Invitation Tournament championship in 1953, then played for eight seasons in the National Basketball Association, was found dead in his Detroit home on Tuesda
 Ernesto Jofre, a political refugee from Chile who became a trade union leader and champion of low-income workers in New York City, died on March 5 at his home in Queens. He was 63. The cause was cancer, said Kevin Finnegan, a friend and colleague.  Before moving to the United States
 Glenn Hughes, who sang in a leather biker outfit with the Village People, died on March 4 at his home in Manhattan. He was 50. The cause was lung cancer, reported MTV. Mr. Hughes, who grew up in the Bronx, was working as a toll collector at the Brooklyn Battery Tunnel when f
 Isao Okawa, president and chairman of the Sega Corporation and a pioneer among Japanese venture capitalists, died of heart disease yesterday in a Tokyo hospital, the company said. He was 74. Mr. Okawa became chairman of Sega in 1984. Last June, he took on the expanded roles of presi
 A memorial tribute to the actor Werner Klemperer will be held on Thursday at 11 a.m. at the Broadhurst Theater, 235 West 44th Street, Manhattan. Among those to speak at the tribute, which is free and open to the public, are Philip Bosco, Tammy Grimes and Regina Resnick. Mr. Klemperer, best 
 Abraham H. Lass, an educator and writer whose books, articles and 40 years as an unorthodox teacher and outspoken principal made him one of the New York City school system's best-known personalities, died Friday night at his home in Fresh Meadows, Queens. He was 93. Mr. Lass, who re
 The Great Alzana, the high-wire artist ballyhooed as ''The Most Dare devilish Human Ever to Skirt Eternity's Brink,'' whose tricks were so dangerous that New York State passed a law to keep him from working without a net, died on Feb. 16 at a hospital in Sarasota, Fla. Away from the
 H. Gordon Skilling, a Canadian expert on Czechoslovakia who aided and encouraged dissidents there when it was a Communist state, died on March 2 at his home in Toronto. He was 89. Dr. Skilling, a political scientist, retired in 1982 from the faculty of the University of Toronto.    
 Samuel Shapiro, who presided over a company that responded to the fast-food appetite of consumers by churning out containers for Big Macs at McDonald's, popcorn at movie theaters and Häagen-Dazs ice cream at supermarkets, died on March 8 at a hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 83.        
 Abraham H. Lass, an educator and writer whose books, articles and 40 years as an unorthodox teacher and outspoken principal made him one of the New York City school system's best-known personalities, died on Friday night at his home in Fresh Meadows, Queens. He was 93. Mr. Lass reti
 John Phillips, a songwriter and founding member of the 1960's folk-pop group the Mamas and the Papas, died yesterday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 65. The cause was heart failure, his spokeswoman said. The Mamas and the Papas were a band of lovers, spouses and friends
 Edward T. Rogowsky, one of 13 members of the New York City Planning Commission, died of a heart attack Sunday night as he got into a car at Kennedy International Airport on his return from a Florida vacation. He was 60, and had homes in Park Slope, Brooklyn, and in Southold, on Long
 John Ardoin, the music critic for The Dallas Morning News for more than 30 years and the author of four authoritative books on the life and work of the soprano Maria Callas, died on Sunday in San José, Costa Rica, where he lived. He was 66. The Dallas Morning News said the cause wa
 Tran Van Lam, a former foreign minister of South Vietnam, died on Feb. 6 in Canberra, Australia, where he had settled after the fall of the government in Saigon in 1975. He was 88. His death was reported in the journal Indochina Chronology. Mr. Lam was an important figure in
 Wallace D. Hayes, an emeritus professor at Princeton University who made important contributions to understanding supersonic flight and aircraft design and who did major studies on airflow at speeds at least five times as fast as sound, died on March 2 in Hightstown, N.J. He was 82.        
 Maynard Mack, the Sterling Professor Emeritus of English at Yale University and a renowned expert on Shakespeare and Alexander Pope, died on Saturday at his home in New Haven. He was 90. Professor Mack was a member of the Yale faculty for 45 years, having begun as an instructor in E
 Ralph Thomas, a British film director best remembered for the wildly popular ''Doctor'' series with Dirk Bogarde in the 1950's and 60's, died on Saturday at a London hospital. He was 85. Mr. Thomas directed 39 films, nine of them starring Mr. Bogarde. He had a 24-year partnership wi
 Richard Harwood, who brought the determination and cunning of a combat marine to reporting and editing and, finally, to policing his own newspaper for editorial missteps, died of lung cancer on Monday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 75. Mr. Harwood, who worked at The Washington 
 Robert L. Clare Jr., a corporate lawyer who played a critical role in the growth and international expansion of the Wall Street law firm of Shearman & Sterling, died on Sunday at his home in Annandale, N.J. He was 86. Mr. Clare, who continued as the firm's counsel after stepping dow
 Chung Ju Yung, who rose from peasant origins to found the Hyundai Group, Korea's largest business empire before it began to crumble last year, died here on Wednesday. He was 85. More than any other Korean, Mr. Chung exemplified the ''miracle'' of a country that grew from the devasta
 Edward John Fee, who worked his way up from a clerk's job to overseeing the building of New York landmarks like Peter Cooper Village and the Port Authority Bus Terminal, died Monday at his home in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He was 92. Born in Queens, Mr. Fee took night courses in engineerin
 Norman Rodway, for many years a leading actor with the Royal Shakespeare Company, died on March 13 in Banbury, Oxfordshire. He was 72. He died after a stroke, according to The Guardian of London. Mr. Rodway played important roles in plays by Shakespeare, Chekhov, Gorky and S
 Billy Ray Smith, a defensive lineman who played 13 seasons in the National Football League and appeared with the Baltimore Colts in two dramatic Super Bowl games, died Wednesday at his home in Little Rock, Ark. He was 66. The cause was complications of cancer, said his son Billy Ray
 Jacob Kainen, a painter and printmaker who was an important force in the postwar Washington art scene and a curator of prints at the Smithsonian Institution, died on Monday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 91. In the catalog to the retrospective of Mr. Kainen's work organized 
 David McTaggart, credited with building Greenpeace into a worldwide environmental movement, died yesterday in a car crash in Italy. He was 69. Mr. McTaggart, a native of Canada, was killed near Perugia, where he lived since his retirement from Greenpeace in 1991. He spent his retire
 Mark F. Kessenich Jr., a former Citicorp executive who helped shape the way corporate and government bonds are traded, died on Tuesday at his home in Westhampton, N.Y. He was 62. The cause was Lou Gehrig's disease, according to the family. Mr. Kessenich took over Citibank's 
 Rowland Evans, a provocative newspaper columnist, commentator and author who antagonized liberal politicians and championed conservative causes, died yesterday at a Washington hospital. The cause was complications from esophageal cancer, his wife, Katherine Winton Evans, said. He wa
 Adolph Levis, the inventor of the Slim Jim dried meat snack, died on Tuesday in the Hospice by the Sea in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 89. Born in Philadelphia, Mr. Levis, who was known as Al, dropped out of school at 16 and began selling spices, pickles and condiments during the Depress
 Charles K. Johnson, president of the International Flat Earth Research Society since 1972, who stubbornly and cheerfully insisted that those who believed the earth was round had been duped, died on Monday at his home in Lancaster, Calif. He was 76. Jill Fear, secretary of the societ
 Herbie Jones, a jazz trumpeter, composer, arranger and educator who worked closely with two of the most influential jazz composers and arrangers, Duke Ellington and Billy Strayhorn, died on March 19 in the Bronx. He was 74. The cause was complications of diabetes, said Patricia Will
 Sigurd M. Rascher, a classical saxophonist compared by some to Casals and Segovia for his influence on his instrument and its concert repertory, died on Feb. 25 at his home in Shushan, N.Y. He was 94. In the course of a 50-year career, Mr. Rascher played with virtually all the major
 Mischa Richter, a painter whose drawings delighted readers of The New Yorker for the past half century, died Friday in Provincetown, Mass., where he worked and lived. He was 90. His magazine art -- his preferred term, rather than cartoon -- appeared in other magazines over the years
 Anthony Storr, the British psychiatrist who made a successful second career as a popular writer and broadcaster exploring depression, creativity, sexual deviance and other aspects of human behavior, died March 17 in Oxford, England. He was 80 and lived in Oxford. He suffered a heart
 Brian Trubshaw, a pilot who tested the British-French Concorde supersonic airliner and became its staunchest champion, died on March 24 at his home near Tetbury, in Gloucestershire, England. He was 77. He died in his sleep and had not been ill, said his wife, Yvonne. On Apri
 Paul Winterton, a British writer of crime and suspense novels who used the pseudonym Andrew Garve, died on Jan. 8 in a nursing home in the county of Surrey in southeastern England. He was 92 and a longtime resident of London. Dr. Robin W. Winks, a Yale historian and expert on detect
 Sherwin Rosen, the president of the American Economics Association and a pioneer in the study of why wages and incomes vary, died on March 17 at Bernard Mitchell Hospital at the University of Chicago. He was 62. The cause was lung cancer, said William Harms, a university spokesman. 
 John A. Alonzo, a Hollywood cinematographer, died on March 13 in Los Angeles. He was 66. Mr. Alonzo was nominated for an Academy Award for his work on Roman Polanski's 1974 murder mystery, ''Chinatown,'' which starred Jack Nicholson and Faye Dunaway. His other credits included ''Har
 Dr. John Clarke Saunders, a physician and clinical pharmacologist who won recognition in court for innovative use of biochemical drugs on chronic psychiatric patients, died  Saturday at the New York Weill Cornell Medical Center. He was 82 and lived in Upper Nyack, N.Y. The cause was
 John George McCarthy, a former New York State assemblyman from Huntington, N.Y., and justice of the State Supreme Court, died on March 19 at an assisted-living residence in Naples, Fla. A resident of Huntington Station until 18 months ago, he was 77. The cause was lung cancer, his f
 Anthony Steel, a British actor who starred in films of adventure and heroism during the 1950's, died on March 21 in London. He was 80. After a small role in ''The Mudlark'' (1951), with Irene Dunne and Alec Guinness, Mr. Steel went on to star in a series of adventure films for the J
 Helge Ingstad, the Norwegian writer and adventurer who followed a hunch and an ancient map to identify the place where Vikings landed in North America 500 years before Columbus, died Thursday in a hospital in Oslo. He was 101. Mr. Ingstad transformed a myth into scientific fact in t
 Dancers, musicians and old friends paid tribute to the tap-dancer Harold Nicholas on Thursday night at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine. But the star of the evening was Nicholas himself, who died on July 3 at age 79. ''Harold prayed and praised with his feet,'' the Rev. Canon Ro
 Dr. Arthur Davis Hasler, an internationally recognized authority on freshwater ecology who is credited with explaining the salmon's homing instinct, died on March 23 in Madison, Wis. He was 93. Dr. Hasler was on the faculty of the University of Wisconsin for 41 years and built it in
 John Lewis, the mastermind of one of the most famous ensembles in jazz, died on Thursday. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan. Over the years Mr. Lewis distinguished himself not just as a pianist with a distinctively low-key touch but also as a composer, arranger and educator. But he w
