 Daniel J. Boorstin, a Pulitzer Prize-winning author and social historian who was the librarian of Congress for 12 years, died Saturday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington, D.C. He was 89 and lived in Washington. The cause was pneumonia, his son David said. Dr. Boorstin
 Dr. Cecil G. Sheps, former director of the Beth Israel hospitals in New York and Boston and founder of a health policy research center, died on Feb. 8 at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 90. The cause was pneumonia, said his son, Dr. Samuel Sheps of Vancouver. Dr. Sheps 
 Gant Gaither, a busy Broadway producer in the 1950's who later found his niche as an artist, his first calling, died on Feb. 16 at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 86. His death was announced in New York by the Grace Kelly Foundation, of which he was a founder. The fo
 Labe C. Scheinberg, a New York neurologist and educator who helped improve the treatment for multiple sclerosis, died on Feb. 22 at the Lawrence Hospital Center in the Bronx. He was 78. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son, Dr. David Scheinberg. In a long ass
 Walter Perkins, a jazz drummer who played with major artists including Ahmad Jamal and Carmen McRae, and was part of a band in the early 1960's called the MJT +3, died on Feb. 14. He was 72. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Barbara Perkins. A busy sideman with a str
 Jerome Lawrence, a playwright and theater director whose plays include the classic courtroom drama ''Inherit the Wind,'' died on Sunday at his home in Malibu, Calif., his niece Deborah Robison said. He was 88. With Robert E. Lee, his writing partner of more than 50 years, Mr. Lawren
 Paul M. Sweezy, a Harvard University economist who left academia and became the nation's leading Marxist intellectual and publisher during the cold war and the McCarthy era, died Saturday at his home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 93. The cause was congestive heart failure, his daughter,
 Julius Dixon, a songwriter from the earliest days of rock 'n' roll whose enduring hit ''Lollipop'' was a model of bubble-gum pop, died on Jan. 30 in Manhattan, said his son, Julius Dixson Jr. He was 90 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Dixon, who was born with the surname Dixson but used 
 Commodore Leroy J. Alexanderson, the last master of the S.S. United States, the fastest Atlantic liner, died on Sunday in Hampton, Va., near the vessel's birthplace, Newport News. He was 93. His death was announced by his son, John Alexanderson of Concord, Mass. Commodore Al
 Meyer Blinder, who with his gold jewelry and extravagant promises became the self-proclaimed king of the nation's penny stock market in the 70's and 80's, died last Thursday in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, his son Larry said. He said his father also had
 Albert Axelrod, a champion fencer and one of the few Americans of his era to achieve success in international competition in the sport, died on Feb. 24 at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 83. The cause was a heart attack, said Eric Rosenberg, president of the Fencers C
 Stephen Sprouse, the American fashion designer and artist who in the early 1980's pioneered that decade's revolutionary idea of mixing uptown sophistication in clothing with a downtown punk and pop sensibility, died yesterday morning at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 50.      
 George Dewey Reycraft, a leading Wall Street litigator of complex corporate tangles and a former trustbuster for the Justice Department, died on Monday in Miami. A resident of Key Largo, Fla., he was 79 and formerly lived in Pelham Manor, N.Y. His death was announced by his daughter
 Jorge Guinle, one of the last of the millionaire playboys whose free-spending ways and romantic exploits made them global celebrities from the 1930's onward, died early Friday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 88 years old and died in a suite at the luxurious Copacabana Palace Hotel, which his fami
 Marc L. Miringoff, a professor who invented an index to better understand the nation's social health, died Thursday night at his home in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 58. The cause has not been determined, said his wife, Marque Miringoff. Dr. Miringoff, an associate professor of
 Pedro Pietri, a poet and playwright who chronicled the joys and struggles of Nuyoricans -- urban Puerto Ricans whose lives straddle the islands of Puerto Rico and Manhattan -- died on Wednesday en route from Mexico to New York. He was 59 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Pietri had been a
 Norval Morris, long a prominent criminologist at the University of Chicago, former dean of its law school and a strong voice for criminal justice reform, died Feb. 21 in Chicago. He was 80 and lived in the city's Hyde Park neighborhood, near the campus. He collapsed after dinner at 
 Dr. Fred Brown, a virologist who studied foot-and-mouth disease in cattle and later led in the development of early vaccines and methods to test for the disease, died on Feb. 20 in his home in Guildford, England. He was 79. The death was confirmed by Dr. Thomas G. Burrage, a colleag
 J. Beverley Oke, an astronomer who developed ways to analyze light from faint, fast-receding heavenly bodies billions of light-years away to help answer fundamental cosmological questions, died Tuesday at his home in Victoria, British Columbia. He was 75. The cause was heart failure
 Val Pinchbeck Jr., a former National Football League broadcasting executive, died Saturday night after collapsing and being struck by a taxi while crossing a street in Manhattan, a police spokesman, Detective Noel Waters, said. Mr. Pinchbeck, who had been at the league's Midtown off
 William R. Stewart, an expert in labor law and a former chief counsel of the National Labor Relations Board, died Feb. 16 in Washington. He was 71. The cause was organ failure, said his brother Stanley. Mr. Stewart joined the legal staff of the labor board in 1963 after havi
 A body that surfaced in the East River on Sunday was identified by the city medical examiner yesterday as that of Spalding Gray, the confessional monologuist and actor who disappeared two months ago. The cause of death had not yet been determined, but the police were investigating r
 Paul Winfield, an actor known for his versatility and power in stage, film and television roles that included a highly praised televised portrayal of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in 1978 and an Oscar-nominated part in ''Sounder'' in 1972, died on Sunday in Los Angeles. He was 62.    
 John Henry Williams, who sent the body of his father, Ted Williams, the Boston Red Sox Hall of Famer, to be frozen at an Arizona cryonics laboratory, died on Saturday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 35. The cause was leukemia, his lawyer, Peter Sutton, said. Mr. William
 George E. Pake, a physicist who assembled a team of extraordinary computer researchers while serving as the first director of the Palo Alto Research Center of the Xerox Corporation, died last Thursday at his home in Tucson. He was 79. The cause was multiple system failure, said his 
 Marshall Frady, a political diarist of the South in transition and the author of a widely read biography of Gov. George C. Wallace of Alabama, died on Tuesday at his home in Greenville, S.C. He was 64. The cause was cancer, his family said. Formerly a resident of New York an
 Russell F. Weigley, a leading American military historian who had an affinity for chronicling complex wars and strategies, died on March 3 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Emma, said. Dr. Weigley (pronounced WY-glee), a retired 
 Coleridge-Taylor Perkinson, a composer, conductor and pianist who combined styles from the classics to jazz to create sonatas, concertos and symphonies as well as scores for movies and television, died on Tuesday in Chicago. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said Rosita M. Sands, dir
 Dr. Ewald W. Busse, an early leader in the field of geriatric psychiatry and a founder of the Center for Aging and Human Development at Duke University, died on Sunday at his home in Durham, N.C., said his daughter Barbara Busse. He was 86. Dr. Busse was chairman of the psychiatry d
 Grant C. Gentry, an executive who built a reputation for reviving failing supermarket companies, including the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company and Food Fair, died March 4 at a hospital in Newport Beach, Calif, where he had a winter home. He was 79 and lived in Park Ridge, Ill.       
 Frank Riessman, a social psychologist and founding editor of the journal Social Policy, who stressed the importance of self-help as an agent of social and political change, died in Manhattan on March 1. He was 79. He was at a nursing home, suffering from Parkinson's disease and diab
 Gene Allison, whose groundbreaking 1957 rhythm-and-blues hit, ''You Can Make It if You Try,'' was a precursor of 1960's soul music and was recorded by the Rolling Stones on their debut album in 1964, died here on March 6. He was 69. The cause was kidney and liver failure, his brothe
 Cardinal Franz König, a skilled diplomat who worked to break down barriers between the Roman Catholic Church and Eastern Europe years before helping to elect a pope from a Communist country, died Saturday. He was 98. Cardinal König, an Austrian, was the Holy See's longest serving 
 Keith Hopkins, a professor at the University of Cambridge who was one of the first historians to use sociological methods to study the ancient Roman world, died last Monday at a hospice in Cambridge, England. He was 69. The cause was cancer, said his literary executor, Christopher K
 Ustad Vilayat Khan, one of India's most renowned sitar players, died on Saturday at Jaslok Hospital in Mumbai, the Indo-Asian News Service reported. He was 76 and had residences in Dehra Dun, India, and Princeton, N.J. The cause was lung cancer and other problems, the news service r
 Cid Corman, a prolific American poet, editor and translator who lived in Japan for the last four decades, died on Friday at a hospital in Kyoto. He was 79. His death was reported on the Web site for English Teachers in Japan. Richard Aaron, his archivist, said that Mr. Corman had be
 John W. Seybold, a pioneer in the field of computerized typesetting, which transformed the publishing industry, died on Sunday at a hospice in Haverford, Pa. He was 88. The cause was heart failure, according to his son Andrew Seybold. In 1963, Mr. Seybold, a longtime printin
 Richard Salyer, who built the local chapter of Volunteers of America into the largest and perhaps most aggressive nonprofit provider of shelter and treatment to the homeless in New York City, died on Saturday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 59. The cau
 Sidney Lorraine James, a 40-year veteran journalist at Time Inc., where he was the founding editor of Sports Illustrated in 1954, died last Thursday in Alameda, Calif. He was 97. His death was announced by his son Timothy M. James. Mr. James joined Time-Life in 1929 as a str
 William H. Pickering, a leader of the first successful spaceflight by the United States and its first two decades of planetary exploration, died on Monday at his home in La Cañada Flintridge, Calif. He was 93. Dr. Pickering's death, from pneumonia, was announced by the Jet Propulsi
 Bates Lowry, an art and architectural historian who was the founding director of the National Building Museum in Washington and served for a short time as director of the Museum of Modern Art in New York, died on Friday in Brooklyn. He was 80 and lived in Boston. The cause was pneum
 Sir John A. Pople, a mathematician who became a chemist and won a Nobel Prize in 1998 for a computer tool that describes the dance of molecules in chemical reactions, died Monday at his daughter's home in Chicago. He was 78. The cause of death was liver cancer, his family said.     
 Milton Resnick, a New York painter known for dour, thickly impastoed near-monochrome canvases, died on March 12 at his home on the Lower East Side of Manhattan. He was 87 and also had a home in Cragsmoor, N.Y. His wife, the painter Pat Passlof, said Mr. Resnick committed suicide.   
 Peter Tauber, a writer whose book ''The Sunshine Soldiers'' became a popular, irreverent memoir of the Vietnam era, died on March 12 in Park City, Utah. He was 56 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Mr. Tauber was on a skiing vacation when he collapsed while waiting for a
 Dr. J. Wayne Streilein, a scientist and an academic administrator whose research helped lay a foundation for corneal and other eye-tissue transplants, died on Monday in Boston, where he headed the Schepens Eye Research Institute. He was 68 and lived in Beverly, Mass. Dr. Streilein w
 Dr. John Rodgers, a Yale geologist who mapped the patterns of Connecticut bedrock and helped support the theory of continental drift with his ideas about mountain formation, died on March 7 in Hamden, Conn. He was 89 Dr. Leo Hickey, chairman of the department of geology and geophysi
 Richard A. Brown, a leading tactician of the New York Democratic revolt against the Tammany Hall machine half a century ago, died on Feb. 13 in Washington, where he had lived for the last 40 years. He was 85. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Brown earned his spurs 
 Sherman R. Lewis, a longtime financier who was a vice chairman at Lehman Brothers, died on March 11 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was leukemia, a Lehman Brothers spokeswoman said. During a career that spanned more than 30 years 
 Harrison McCain, a Canadian billionaire whose family-owned business began in a cow pasture in New Brunswick and grew into one of the world's largest producers of frozen French fries, died Thursday night. He was 76. Mr. McCain's company, McCain Foods, confirmed his death, which occur
 Claude Nougaro, a popular French singer and songwriter whose fondness for American jazz led him to add swing to the traditional French chanson, died on March 4 at his home here. He was 74. Le Monde, the French daily, said the cause was cancer. Mr. Nougaro, who once described
 J. J. Jackson, one of the five original MTV video jockeys and an influential black broadcaster on rock radio and on television, died Wednesday in Los Angeles. He was 62. Mr. Jackson apparently suffered a heart attack, friends told The Associated Press. He started in radio in
 Lester Dundes, who as the publisher of Interior Design Magazine for more than 45 years was a major force in helping to transform interior design from a hobby of the rich into a mainstream profession, died on March 13 at his home in Water Mill, N.Y., according to his daughter Kate Shattan. H
 Irving Crespi, a public opinion pollster, professor and market researcher long associated with The Gallup Organization and the author of books on polling, public opinion and democracy, died on Thursday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 77. He had had several minor strokes since 
 Nathan C. Heard, a novelist who wrote realistically of prison life and the mean streets of Newark, died last Tuesday at a hospital in Livingston, N.J. He was 67 and lived in West Orange, N.J. His family did not specify the cause of death. Mr. Heard began writing while servin
 Claus Josef Riedel, the former president of Riedel Crystal and one of the first in his age-old craft to realize that the design of a wineglass could alter the perception of how its contents tasted, died in Genoa, Italy, on March 17. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack, his famil
 Arthur Lithgow, a producer and director who was a pioneer in American regional theater, specializing in Shakespeare, died on Tuesday at his home in Amherst, Mass. He was 88. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son, the actor John Lithgow. Mr. Lithgow (pronounced
 Charles H. Haden II, the federal judge who drew national attention in 1999 to the leveling of Appalachian mountaintops for their coal, died Saturday at his home in Morgantown, W.Va. He was 66. His death was announced by the United States District Court for the Southern District of W
 Leo Hausman, a retired textile executive and philanthropist who was a senior official of United Cerebral Palsy of New York for more than 40 years, died at his home in Hallandale, Fla., last Friday. He was 94. Mr. Hausman, who lived in Hallandale and Manhattan, died of natural causes
 Robert Kleiman, a journalist specializing in foreign affairs and arms control and a former editorial writer for The New York Times, died Monday at his home in Washington. A former resident of Manhattan's Upper West Side, he was 85. Mr. Kleiman, who had cardiovascular problems, died 
 Samuel Sadin, a lumber executive who became an advocate for the elderly, died Sunday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 86. The cause of death was a brain disorder similar to Alzheimer's disease, said his wife, Terry Cooper Sadin. In 1975, Mr. Sadin sold his Seaway Lumbe
 Leonard Lewin, a sportswriter who wrote five books with Red Holzman, the onetime coach of the Knicks, died Monday in Tampa, Fla. He was 87. His death was announced by his son, John. From 1971 to 1980, Mr. Lewin and Mr. Holzman collaborated on ''The Knicks,'' ''Holzman's Bask
 Dr. Zhong Wei Chen, a leader in the field of microsurgery who was among the first doctors to perform a successful operation to reattach a severed hand, died Tuesday in Shanghai. He was 74. His death occurred when he fell from the balcony of his seventh-floor apartment. His daughter,
 Isaac Kleinerman, a leading producer and editor of television documentaries, including the celebrated 1960 condensation of ''Victory at Sea'' for NBC and ''The 20th Century,'' a CBS News series, died on March 7 while vacationing in Bucerias, Mexico. He was 87 and a resident of Todi, in Umbr
 Richard Perez, a South Bronx teacher who became a well-known advocate for human rights and social justice for Hispanics and other minorities, died Saturday in Manhattan. He was 59. Mr. Perez died of prostate cancer at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, said his wife, Martha Lau
 Edward J. Piszek, who once made too many deviled crab cakes for a local bar and threw the extras in a freezer, an accident that led to a frozen seafood empire, Mrs. Paul's Kitchens, died on Saturday at his home in Fort Washington, Pa. He was 87. The cause was bone cancer, his son Ed
 Peter Ustinov, the hair-trigger wit with the avuncular charm whose 60-year career amounted to a revolving series of star turns as actor, playwright, novelist, director and raconteur, died on Sunday at a clinic near his home in Bursins, Switzerland. He was 82. Sir Peter had suffered 
 Alistair Cooke, the urbane and erudite British-born journalist who became a peerless observer of the American scene for more than 70 years, died at his home in Manhattan, the BBC said yesterday. He was 95. A BBC spokesman said Mr. Cooke's daughter, Susan Cooke Kittredge, had contact
 Art James, a host and announcer for television game shows, died on Sunday in Palm Springs, Calif., where he was visiting. He was 74 and lived in Chaska, Minn. He died of natural causes, said his brother, Leo James; the exact cause was not known, pending an autopsy. Art James
 John Sack, a pioneer of New Journalism who was best known for his reporting from the battlefields of Korea, Vietnam, Iraq, Yugoslavia and Afghanistan, died Saturday in San Francisco. He was 74. The cause was complications of prostate cancer, according to an announcement from Esquire
