 Clark Battle Fitz-Gerald, a sculptor who produced public commissions for several American cities, churches and universities, died on Oct. 18 in Castine, Me. He was 87. His death was announced by his wife, Liddy. Mr. Fitz-Gerald, born in St. Louis, graduated from the Philadel
 Dr. William Dobelle, who developed an experimental system of artificial vision for the blind that involved the transmission of electrical signals to electrodes implanted in the brain, died on Oct. 5 at New York-Presbyterian Hospital/Columbia University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 62
 Herbert Katzman, an Expressionist painter known for his densely textured figurative canvases, died on Oct. 15 at his home in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, his former wife Laurel Carroll said. In the 1950's Mr. Katzman was featured
 Ezra Stoller, a celebrated architectural photographer whose work introduced the viewing public to the high modernism of the postwar era, died on Friday at his home in Williamstown, Mass. He was 89. The cause was complications of a recent stroke, his daughter, Erica, said. Tr
 Lord Hanson, a British tycoon once labeled Lord Moneybags for the fabled riches he acquired from a series of aggressive takeovers, died on Monday at his home in Newbury, England, according to business associates. He was 82. Lord Hanson built his business reputation as the creator of
 Paul F. Iams, a self-taught animal nutritionist whose pet foods bearing his name are sold in 70 countries, died Oct. 26 in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Sun City West, Ariz. The cause was complications of a broken hip, said his daughter Barbara Iams Korein. Mr. Iams started
 Sheik Zayed bin Sultan al-Nahayan, a Bedouin tribesman who became president of the federation known as the United Arab Emirates and one of the Arab world's leading statesmen, died yesterday. He was believed to be 86. He had been suffering from diabetes and kidney problems. His death
 Don Kennedy, whose 22-year reign as basketball coach turned St. Peter's College in Jersey City into a national contender, died Oct. 26 at Nyack Hospital in Nyack, N.Y. He was 97. Kennedy lived with his son George in Garnerville, N.Y. His son Paul said his father had collapsed at hom
 James H. Binger, the ultrawealthy and aristocratic chairman of Jujamcyn Theaters, which owns five Broadway houses, died on Wednesday night at his home in Minneapolis. He was 88. The cause was cancer, said Rocco Landesman, the president of Jujamcyn. A Minnesota native with a 
 Joe Bushkin, a swing-era pianist with a spirited, ebullient style whose career wound through big bands, cabaret, Hollywood and Broadway, died on Wednesday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 87. The cause was pneumonia said his son-in-law Robert Merrill. Mr. Bushkin 
 Theodore Taylor, a theoretical physicist who spent his early career as a designer of streamlined nuclear weapons and his later career as an antinuclear campaigner, died on Oct. 28 at a nursing home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 79 and until recently lived in the western New York community of
 Elliot Bredhoff, a leading Washington labor lawyer who helped define the role of federal courts in labor arbitration, died on Tuesday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 83. The cause was pulmonary complications related to a heart valve replacement, his law firm, Bredhoff & Kaise
 John R. LaMontagne, deputy director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases who helped organize efforts to develop vaccines for many diseases, died on Tuesday in Mexico City. He was 61. Greg Folkers, a spokesman for the institute, which is part of the National I
 David Shulman, a self-described Sherlock Holmes of Americanisms who dug through obscure, often crumbling publications to hunt down the first use of thousands of words, died on Oct. 30 at Victory Memorial Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 91 and lived in Brooklyn. His friend David Kahn an
 Harry Fleischman, a former officer of the American Socialist Party and a biographer of Norman Thomas, the six-time Socialist candidate for president, died Monday at his son's home in Manhattan. He was 90 and lived in West Caldwell, N.J. The cause was cancer, his son, Peter, said.   
 Benjamin Wm. Mehlman, the famously stern upholder of the famously fussy bylaws of Ocean Beach, the Fire Island community nicknamed ''The Land of No,'' died on Oct. 31 at his home in Manhattan. He was 94. His death was announced by his family. In Ocean Beach, the accused appe
 Charles F. Kennedy, an Iowan who gravitated to New York, where he became a familiar presence in Central Park as an amateur naturalist, died on Oct. 20 at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 67 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from lymphoma, said his brother, La
 Howard Keel, the barrel-chested star of lavish Hollywood musicals like ''Show Boat,'' ''Kiss Me Kate,'' and ''Seven Brides for Seven Brothers,'' and later of the television show ''Dallas,'' died early yesterday at his home in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 85. The cause was colon cancer
 Alexander Bassin, a founder of Daytop Village, the oldest continuing residential drug treatment program in the United States, died on Wednesday at his home in Tallahassee, Fla. He was 92. Msgr. William B. O'Brien, a co-founder of Daytop Village and its president, announced the death
 Ellmore C. Patterson, a New York banker who was instrumental in shaping the financial community's response to the city's fiscal crisis of the 1970's, died on Friday at his home in Locust Valley, N.Y. He was 90 and also had residences on Fishers Island and in Hobe Sound, Fla. Mr. Pat
 Jimmy McLarnin, an enormously popular fighter who beat 13 world champions, including Benny Leonard and Barney Ross, during his 14-year professional career, died Oct. 28. He was 96. McLarnin, known as Baby Face, died in an assisted-living home in Richland, Wash., where he had lived f
 Yasir Arafat, who died this morning in Paris, was the wily and enigmatic father of Palestinian nationalism who for almost 40 years symbolized his people's longing for a distinct political identity and independent state. He was 75. No other individual so embodied the Palestinians' pl
 Basil Thompson, a British dancer who became artistic director of the Milwaukee Ballet and an influential ballet master at the Joffrey Ballet, died in Lynchburg, Va., on Nov. 2. He was 67 and lived in Iowa City, where he taught at the University of Iowa. The cause was cardiac arrest,
 Chandler Harper, who won the 1950 Professional Golfers' Association Championship and became a mentor to Curtis Strange, a future two-time United States Open champion, died Monday in a hospital in Portsmouth, Va. He was 90 and lived all his life in Portsmouth. The cause of death was 
 Harry Schwartz, an editorial writer for The New York Times from 1951 to 1979 and a specialist in Soviet and East European affairs who wrote and lectured extensively on the cold war and later on health care, died on Wednesday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 85. The cause was
 Yasir Arafat, who died yesterday morning in Paris, was the wily and enigmatic father of Palestinian nationalism who for almost 40 years symbolized his people's longing for a distinct political identity and an independent state. He was 75. No other individual so embodied the Palestin
 Zachary Solov, a dancer and choreographer who led the Metropolitan Opera Ballet when Rudolf Bing was the opera's general manager, died on Saturday in New York. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, said Dean Temple, who is writing Mr. Solov's authorized biog
 George Gross, who reorganized New York's vast and troubled Human Resources Administration as its commissioner in the mid-1980's, died on Wednesday in Washington. He was 70 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. He had lung cancer and died after surgery to remove a section of his lungs, said 
 Thomas B. Allen, who helped originate a post-Norman Rockwell style of moodily impressionistic illustration and who was best known for his colorful portraits of country and western, bluegrass and jazz musicians for album covers, died on Nov. 8 at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 76.        
 Michel T. Halbouty, a legendary wildcatter who discovered more than 50 oil and gas fields from Louisiana to Alaska and warned of the Arab oil embargo 13 years before it happened, died on Nov. 6 at a Houston hospital. He was 95. Mary Stewart, his assistant for many years, confirmed t
 Milton H. Cohen, a securities lawyer whose insights into the stock market became the basis for innumerable regulatory proposals over the last 40 years, died Oct. 30 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 93. His death was announced by Schiff Hardin, the law firm where Mr. Cohen was a 
 Dr. Arthur H. Robinson, a geographer who improved on the venerable Mercator projection for drawing the round Earth on a flat map, died on Oct. 10 in Madison, Wis. He was 89. His death, after a brief illness, was announced by the University of Wisconsin, where he was an emeritus prof
 Robert Koch Woolf, the Los Angeles decorator who with his partner, the architect John Elgin Woolf, created a new style of luxury in Hollywood in the 1950's and 1960's, died on Nov. 3 at his home in Montecito, Calif. He was 81. The cause was complications of surgery, according to Gen
 Robin Kenyatta, a jazz saxophonist and composer whose eclectic style embraced hard bop, free jazz and an array of diverse influences from Latin to blues, died on Oct. 26 in Lausanne, Switzerland. He was 62 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Kenyatta, who was scheduled to perform in Lucerne
 Harry Lampert, an illustrator who in 1940 first drew the winged-footed, faster-than-light superhero known as the Flash for DC Comics and a half-century later was rediscovered by a new generation of fans, died on Saturday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 88. A resident of Deerfield Beach, Fla., an
 John E. Reilly, an auto executive who lobbied for open markets for imported cars at a time when domestic makers were at their most defensive, died Nov. 12 at his home in Dana Point, Calif. He was 77. The cause was complications of lung cancer, said his son Robert. Mr. Reilly, who wa
 Bill Bennett, a pioneer aviator and entrepreneur who helped introduce the fledgling sport of hang gliding to America in the 1960's and 70's, died on Oct. 7 in an accident during takeoff at the airport in Lake Havasu City, Ariz., where he lived. He was 73. Margo Brown, his fiancée, 
 Dr. Sidney Goldring, a neurosurgeon and educator who was an early advocate for a brain operation that he helped to develop for patients with severe epilepsy, died on Nov. 3 at a nursing home in Chesterfield, Mo. He was 81. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, which wa
 John J. Burns, a mainstay of New York politics who led the state's Democratic Party in the 1960's and helped guide campaigns of Robert F. Kennedy and Hugh L. Carey died Tuesday in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 83 and until recently had lived in Binghamton, where he was mayor for two terms. Th
 Dr. Joseph Weiss, a psychoanalyst and researcher who helped develop an influential theory involving ways that patients confront psychological trauma and then strive to overcome it, died Nov. 7 at his home in San Francisco. He was 80. The cause was complications of lung cancer, said 
 Norman Rose, a veteran stage actor whose sonorous baritone gained him national attention as the voice of Juan Valdez, the fictitious coffee grower and advertising spokesman for Colombian coffee, died on Friday at his home in Upper Nyack, N.Y. He was 87. His death was announced by Jo
 Adam Young, who helped found one of the nation's 25 largest television station groups, died Monday in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 91. He had a stroke, Young Broadcasting Inc. said. Mr. Young joined NBC as a page at 17, and moved up to the research and promotion department before
 Bobby Frank Cherry, the former Klansman whose conviction two years ago for the church bombing that killed four black girls in Birmingham, Ala., in 1963 resolved one of the most shocking cases of the civil rights era, died yesterday at the Kilby Correctional Facility near Montgomery, Ala., a
 Reed Irvine, the founder of Accuracy in Media, a watchdog group dedicated to exposing, challenging and at times bullying those he accused of slanting news coverage from a liberal perspective, died on Tuesday at a hospice in Rockville, Md. He was 82. A longtime resident of Silver Spring, Md.
 Cy Coleman, the debonair jazz pianist and composer of legendary Broadway tunes like ''Witchcraft,'' ''Big Spender'' and ''The Best Is Yet to Come,'' died on Thursday night at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, said John Bar
 Jasper Herbert Kane, a biochemist who had a central role in moving antibiotics like penicillin from the laboratory table into industrial production in World War II, died on Tuesday in Boca Raton, Fla. A resident of Delray Beach, Fla., he formerly lived in Shelter Island and Garden City, N.Y
 Martin M. Kaplan, a virologist, international public health official and humanitarian who spent his early career researching the spread of viral diseases and his later career working to fight the spread of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons, died on Oct. 16 in Geneva. He was 89 and li
 Covington Hardee, a lawyer who led one of Brooklyn's oldest banks, died Nov. 1 in Kent, Conn. He was 85 and until recently lived in Washington, Conn. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Diana. In 1975, after being a trustee for several years, Mr. Hardee became chairman and c
 Jimmy Lovelace, a veteran bebop drummer who performed with some of New York's leading jazz musicians, died on Oct. 29 at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 64 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his wife, Okaru Hoshino, said. Mr. Lovelace was a re
 Peter K. Loeb, an investment manager and a philanthropist, died last Tuesday in New York City. He was 68. The cause was a stroke, according to his wife, Jeanette W. Loeb. At the time of his death, Mr. Loeb, a lifelong New Yorker, was managing director of Neuberger Berman, an
 Dr. Robert F. Bacher, a nuclear physicist and one of the leaders of the Manhattan Project, died on Thursday at a retirement home in Montecito, Calif. He was 99. His death was announced by the California Institute of Technology, where he had been a professor and provost. In 1
 Terry Melcher, a record producer who created hits with the Beach Boys and the Byrds, died on Friday in Beverly Hills after a long battle with cancer, his publicist, Linda Dozoretz, said Saturday. He was 62. The son of the actress and singer Doris Day and her first husband, the tromb
 Walter Mintz, an investor who was co-founder of one of the country's first hedge funds and later promoted free-market approaches to education and city governance, died Nov. 16 at his home in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was neuroendocrine cancer, said his wife, Sandra. Wh
 Ancel Keys, the Minnesota physiologist who put saturated fat on the map as a major cause of heart disease and was the first scientist to champion the health value of a Mediterranean-style diet, died on Saturday in Minneapolis. He was 100 and had remained intellectually active through his 97
 Dr. John R. Vane, a British pharmacologist who shared a Nobel Prize for clarifying how aspirin works and helping to expand its use, died on Friday in Farnborough, England, the University of London reported. He was 77 and had been in failing health since he underwent heart surgery two years 
 Peter W. Cox, publisher, editor and co-founder of Maine Times, a feisty alternative weekly newspaper whose investigations into environmental and child welfare issues often helped lead to state action, died on Nov. 18 at his home in Georgetown, Me. He was 67. The cause was esophageal
 Corlies Smith, a New York book editor who in a 50-year career published an all-star list of writers, from Muriel Spark and Jimmy Breslin to William Trevor and Calvin Trillin, died on Monday in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was emphysema, said his wife, Sheila. Mr. Smith, w
 Martin Malia, a historian of Soviet Communism who persistently challenged the prevailing notion of that system's durability, died last Friday in a convalescent home in Oakland, Calif. He was 80 years old. The cause was pneumonia, said a statement from the University of California at
 Paul Stuart Ostrove, the executive vice president who suavely presided over the selling floor of the Madison Avenue clothing store that was named for him, died on Nov. 21 at his home in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 73. The cause was lymphoma, said Jack Freedman, marketing manager for Paul St
 Rafael Eitan, a former Israeli Army chief of staff and government minister who was reprimanded after Lebanese Christian allies of Israel massacred Palestinian refugees in 1982, drowned on Tuesday after being swept into stormy seas. He was 75. Mr. Eitan was a war hero whom Prime Mini
 Ellsworth Van Graafeiland, a senior judge and a longtime conservative mainstay on the federal appeals bench in New York, died last Saturday in Rochester. He was 89 and lived in Rochester. His death was announced in Manhattan by Chief Judge John M. Walker Jr. of the United States Cou
 Joseph J. Sisco, a hard-charging senior diplomat who helped forge America's Middle East policy in the 1960's and 70's and later became president of American University here, died Tuesday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 85. The cause was complications of diabetes, his family s
 Noel Perrin, a widely read scholar, essayist and critic whose work reveled in the deep, crystalline pleasure of ordinary experience, died on Sunday at his home in Thetford Center, Vt. He was 77. Mr. Perrin, who had been ill for some time with Shy-Drager syndrome, a degenerative neur
 Charles DeCarlo, an I.B.M. executive who became president of Sarah Lawrence College and led an overhaul of its finances and renovation of its campus, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. The cause was cancer, his daughter Tessa DeCarlo said. Dr. DeCarlo, wh
 Langdon Gilkey, a prominent Protestant theologian who argued for a rational, even satisfying, coexistence between science and faith in the modern, secular age, died on Nov. 19 in Charlottesville, Va. He was 85. The cause was meningitis, according to the University of Chicago, where 
 Larry Brown, a writer whose spare stories bluntly conveyed the painful hope of the rural poor, died on Wednesday at his home near Oxford, Miss. He was 53. The coroner of Lafayette County, Miss., told The Associated Press that the cause had not been officially determined. But a spoke
 Celso Furtado, Brazil's most influential economist during the 20th century and an important theorist of methods of spurring economic growth in developing countries, died Saturday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 84. His death was announced by Aloizio Mercadante, a senator of the governing 
 Gene Greif, whose witty collage and montage album-cover illustrations for CBS Records helped popularize the retro style of graphic design in the 1980's, died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 50. The cause was complications from hepatitis C, which he contracted from a blood transfusi
 Otis Dudley Duncan, a social scientist who used statistical tools and models to show sociological trends and later helped determine that education played a greater role than social status in determining a boy's future success, died on Nov. 16 in a hospice in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 82.
 Murray Schumach, a reporter who harvested rich stories from New York's neighborhoods and whose 48-year career at The New York Times also took him from the Orient to Hollywood, from the back rooms of City Hall to the gem-cutting sanctums of the diamond district, died yesterday He was
 The Rev. Billy James Hargis, a fiery evangelist and anticommunist preacher who founded the Christian Crusade and reached millions in an international ministry that used radio, television, books, pamphlets and personal appearances, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Tulsa, Okla. He was 79
 John Parr Miller, an early animator for Walt Disney whose later art adorned best-selling children's books, including those in the popular Little Golden Books series, died on Oct. 29 on Long Island. He was 91 and lived in Manhasset, N.Y. His death was announced by his family.        
 Murray Schumach, a reporter who harvested rich stories from New York's neighborhoods and whose 48-year career at The New York Times also took him from the Orient to Hollywood, from the back rooms of City Hall to the gem-cutting sanctums of the diamond district, died on Saturday. He 
 Tom Haller, an All-Star catcher who played for the San Francisco Giants, the Los Angeles Dodgers and the Detroit Tigers in a 12-year major league baseball career and was later the Giants' general manager, died Friday in Los Angeles. He was 67. His death was announced by the Giants, 
 Ivan Veit, a former executive vice president of The New York Times Company who helped usher the newspaper's circulation and promotion departments into the modern era, died on Saturday in Beacon, N.Y. He was 96 and lived in Millbrook, N.Y. Mr. Veit's daughter, Lenore Gale, reported the death
 Leroy F. Aarons, a reporter and newspaper executive who became the founder and first president of the National Lesbian and Gay Journalists Association, died Sunday at a hospital in Santa Rosa, Calif. He was 70. He was in the hospital for treatment of bladder cancer when his heart fa
 Ronald L. Plesser, a privacy lawyer who helped ease access to government records and shape policy on access to personal e-mail messages, customer databases and other innovations of the electronic age, died on Nov. 18 at Washington Dulles International Airport. He was 59 and lived in Washing
