 Benson Carlin, an engineer and inventor whose expertise lay in ultrasonics -- vibrations too fast for the human ear to hear -- died on June 22 at St. Mary's Hospital in Langhorne, Pa. He was 80 and had lived in Langhorne since moving from Princeton, N.J., in the early 1990's. The ca
 Daniel J. Terra, an American businessman and art collector who founded two museums of American art, one in Giverny, France, and the other in Illinois, died on Friday at a hospital in Washington. He was 85 and had homes in Chicago, Washington and Vernon, in northwestern France. He di
 Fred Anderson, a television and radio newsman in Los Angeles for many years,  died on June 23 at Glendale Memorial Hospital and Health Center, where he had undergone triple bypass surgery two days earlier. He had apparently suffered a heart attack the previous weekend, according to KABC-TV.
 George Barati, a Hungarian-born composer, conductor and cellist who came to the United States in 1938 and played in a faculty string quartet with Albert Einstein at Princeton University, died on June 22 at the Good Samaritan Hospital in San Jose, Calif. He was 83 and lived in Soquel, Calif.
 Howard O. Colgan Jr., a retired partner in the Manhattan-based law firm of Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, representing such clients as the New York Stock Exchange and Chase Manhattan Bank, died on Tuesday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. A longtime Ridgewood resident, he was 84 and l
 Lou Galterio, an opera director who created more than 60 productions for many of the major American and Canadian companies, died on June 20 at Barnes-Jewish Hospital in St. Louis. He was 53 and lived in St. Louis. Elizabeth Martin, a spokeswoman for the Santa Fe Opera, which is pres
 William Cattell Trimble, a retired Foreign Service officer, died last Monday  in his home in Brooklandville, Md. He was 89. Mr. Trimble began his career as a vice consul in Seville, Spain, in 1931 and  finished it in 1968 as Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs.  
 Bert Terborgh, a principal dancer and a rehearsal director with the Martha Graham Dance Company and a teacher at the State University of New York at Purchase, died on June 21 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan.  He was 51 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS,
 Steve Tesich, the Yugoslav-born playwright and Academy Award-winning screenwriter whose popular movies and not-so-popular plays plumbed his own changing attitudes toward the United States, his adopted country, and Americans, died yesterday in Sydney, Nova Scotia, where he was vacationing wi
 Tom Chauncey, a former owner of radio and television stations in Phoenix and  Tucson and an influential collector of Arabian horses, died on Thursday at his ranch in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 83. Mr. Chauncey was born in Houston, and was 13 when he arrived in Phoenix with  an elder b
 William T. Cahill, who as the Governor of New Jersey from 1970 to 1974, brought the New York Giants to New Jersey but was undone politically by scandals involving trusted friends and by opposition to his tax proposals, died yesterday at a daughter's house in Haddonfield, N.J. He was 84.    
 David McCampbell, naval aviation's ace of aces who shot 34 Japanese planes out of the sky during World War II in exploits that won him the Medal of Honor,  died on Sunday at the Veterans Affairs Nursing Home Care Unit in Riviera Beach,  Fla. Captain McCampbell, who lived in Lake Wor
 Dmitri Pokrovsky, a singer, composer, conductor and ethnomusicologist whose specialty was Russian folk music, dance and ritual, died on Saturday in Moscow.  He was 52 and had homes in Moscow and Boston. Jon Aaron, his manager, said the cause was heart failure. Mr. Pokrovsky 
 Howard Crabtree, a costume designer and a co-author of several Off Broadway musicals, died on Friday at his home in Bucks County, Pa. He was 41. The cause was AIDS, said his press agent, Tony Origlio. Mr. Crabtree, who was born in Excelsior Springs, Mo., began his show busin
 Robert J. McNulty, an original owner of the Minnesota North Stars and developer of the Metropolitan Sports Center, died on Sunday. He was 74. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. In 1966, Mr. McNulty was one of eight men who purchased a National Hockey Le
 Edward Mason Brown, the president and founder of the Lower Eastside Service Center for treatment of drug and alcohol abuse, died on Friday at his home in Piermont, N.Y. He was 66. His family said he died in his sleep of natural causes. In 1959, Mr. Brown started a counseling
 I. D. Robbins, a civic reformer and builder whose vision of low-cost single-family homes became reality for thousands of families in once-blighted areas of Brooklyn and the Bronx, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 86 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Long 
 Dr. Irwin M. Gelernt, a surgeon at Mount Sinai Hospital Center who advanced the diagnosis and treatment of inflammatory bowel disease, died on Monday at Mount Sinai. He was 60 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, the hospital said. Dr. Gelernt was an attendi
 Dr. Oliver Howe Lowry, a molecular biologist whose ever more sensitive methods of measurement and analysis found wide applications in biology and medicine, died on Saturday at a nursing home in St. Louis, his hometown. He was  85. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said Washington U
 Thomas R. Burke, a health economist and co-author of the Reagan Administration's failed effort to extend Medicare coverage to catastrophic illness, died on Monday at Alexandria Hospital in Virginia. An Alexandria resident, he was 57. The cause was blood poisoning, his family said.  
 Harold J. Ruvoldt Sr., a lawyer who practiced in Jersey City for more than 50 years, died on Monday at his home in Deal, N.J. He was 85. Mr. Ruvoldt was born in Jersey City and graduated in 1940 from John Marshall  College of Law, now part of Seton Hall University. He founde
 The Rev. Thomas Kirkland Thompson, an expert on church finances and fund raising, died last Friday at Doctors Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 81 and a  former resident of White Plains and Tulsa, Okla., who retired to Sarasota last year. He suffered a cerebral hemorrhage, his famil
 Victor Lange, a longtime Princeton University professor who was president of  the International Society of Germanists for five years and received a University of California award in 1975 as the dean of German studies in the United States,  died on Saturday in Princeton, N.J. He was 87 and l
 B. Gerald Cantor, who started out as a boy selling hot dogs at Yankee Stadium, became a wealthy financier and philanthropist, amassed the world's most comprehensive collection of Rodin sculpture in private hands and gave much of it away to dozens of cultural institutions, died on Wednesday 
 John M. Meyer Jr., a former chairman of J. P. Morgan & Company who helped develop some of the modern systems that allow for easier settlement of securities trades, died on Thursday at his home in Greenwich, Conn., said William G. McBride, a spokesman for J. P. Morgan. He was 89. As 
 Arthur Richard Silsdorf, a longtime mayor of the Fire Island resort village of Ocean Beach, died on Tuesday at his home there. He was 77 and also lived in Manhattan. He suffered a lengthy illness, his family said. Mr. Silsdorf, a Democrat and summer resident of Ocean Beach, 
 Bishop Ernest T. Dixon, a retired leader of the United Methodist Church in San Antonio and past president of the church's Council of Bishops, died on June  29 at Methodist Hospital in San Antonio. He was 73 and had lived there since his retirement. The cause was an aneurysm, the chu
 Frank Eliscu, a New York sculptor who designed the Heisman Trophy, died on June 19 at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Florida. He was 83. Mr. Eliscu was 23 and a recent graduate of the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn when he was commissioned to design the Heisman trophy, his best-known wo
 Henry R. Williams, a lawyer who represented Rep. Adam Clayton Powell Jr., headed the Model Cities program's Harlem office and was a Civil Court judge, died on June 29 at the New York Hospital Medical Center of Queens. He was 84 and lived in Harlem. He had prostate cancer, said his s
 John M. Meyer Jr., a former chairman of J. P. Morgan & Company who helped develop some of the modern systems that allow for easier settlement of securities trades, died on Thursday at his home in Greenwich, Conn., said William G. McBride, a spokesman for J. P. Morgan. He was 89. As 
 Mahonri Sharp Young, an art historian, writer and former museum director, died last Sunday at his home in Bridgehampton, L.I. He was 84. Mr. Young was for many years the North American correspondent of Apollo, the  English art magazine. He wrote one novel, "Old George" (1940), but o
 Milton T. Goldfine, who oversaw the test and launching operations for the spacecraft Galileo in the 1980's, died on June 21 at the University of Tennessee Medical Center in Knoxville. He was 74 and lived in Tellico Village, Tenn. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, his family said.
 Robert Ellis Dunn, whose classes in improvisation and choreography were the laboratory in which postmodernist dance was born in the early 1960's, died on Friday at his home in New Carrollton, Md. He was 67. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Gretchen. In the early 1
 William H. Hogeland, a former managing partner in the law firm of Webster & Sheffield, died June 29 at his home in Manhattan. He was 68 and also had a home  in Blauvelt, N.Y. The cause was prostate cancer, his family said. Mr. Hogeland, a corporate lawyer, litigator and anti
 William H. Kolberg, retired president of the National Alliance of Business, a nonprofit group based in Washington, and a former government official, died on Wednesday at George Washington University Medical Center in Washington. He was 70 and had lived in Washington. The cause was c
 Clyde E. Wiegand, a physicist who helped to detonate the first atomic bomb but suffered a crushing disappointment a decade later when he missed out on a Nobel Prize for helping discover a new atomic particle, died on Friday at his home in Oakland, Calif. He was 81. Dr. Wiegand had p
 Charles DeForest, a singer, pianist and songwriter who performed continuously in Manhattan nightclubs for more than four decades, died on Saturday in Penn Yan, N.Y., at the home of his nephew. He was 72. The cause was cancer, said Earl Janson, a close friend. A quintessentia
 Brig. Gen. Kenneth E. Fields, whose military career took him from the pinnacle of his class at West Point to battle for the bridge at Remagen, Germany, and on to the Manhattan Project and then to civilian eminence at the Atomic Energy Commission, died on July 1 at the Homestead, a nursing h
 Luis Rodriguez, a Cuban boxer who won 107 of his 120 professional fights and  held the world welterweight title briefly in 1963, died on Monday at South Shore Hospital in Miami Beach. He was 59. Rodriguez had undergone kidney dialysis for the last two years and had a heart operation
 Melvin Belli, an impressario of a lawyer who pioneered new techniques and huge settlements in personal injury cases and who defended Jack Ruby, the man who shot and killed Lee Harvey Oswald, died yesterday at his home in San Francisco. He was 88. "He was sitting; he just stopped bre
 Douglas G. Chapman, an expert on wildlife statistics who became especially influential and outspoken in the field of whale conservation, died on Tuesday in Seattle. He was 76 and a longtime resident of Seattle. His health had been deteriorating in the past year, said Jeff Breiwick, 
 Duke Albrecht of Bavaria, head of a dynasty more than 800 years old and pretender to the Bavarian throne, died on Monday at an ancestral home, Castle Berg, near Munich, his family said. He was 91 years old. Castle Berg is on Lake Starnberg, 12 miles southwest of Munich, the same pla
 Melvin Belli, an impresario of a lawyer who pioneered new techniques and huge settlements in personal injury cases and who defended Jack Ruby, the man who killed Lee Harvey Oswald, died on Tuesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 88. Mr. Belli had a stroke last week brought on b
 Robert Edwin Kenyon Jr., a former president of the Magazine Publishers Association, died on Monday at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. He was 87 and  most recently resided in Old Greenwich. Mr. Kenyon was a former publisher of Printers' Ink magazine, the weekly trade publication o
 Alexander G. Shulman, a physician who instinctively plunged his hand into cold water when he accidentally seared it with boiling grease one day in the 1950's and thereby altered medicine's approach to the emergency treatment of burns, died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 81.   
 Dr. Edward Purdy Ney, whose early work on the atomic bomb in World War II led him to stalk cosmic particles in the sky and background radiation on earth, died on Tuesday at his home in Minneapolis. He was 75. The cause was congestive heart disease, said the University of Minnesota, 
 Frank Waugh McCulloch, a liberal Democrat who was chairman of the National Labor Relations Board in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died on Tuesday in a hospice in Charlottesville, Va. He was 90 and a longtime resident of Charlottesville. In 1961, President John F. Kennedy 
 Soledad Seanez Holguin, the widow of the Mexican revolutionary hero Pancho Villa, died here today. She was 100. She died of respiratory failure after being hospitalized since Monday. Over the years, several other women claimed to be Pancho Villa's widow, including some who h
 T. F. Gilroy Daly, a senior United States District judge in Connecticut whose hallmark as a trial lawyer was winning the freedom of a man wrongly convicted of murder in 1976, died yesterday at his home in Roxbury, Conn. He was 65. Judge Daly died of melanoma, Alfred Pavlis, a spokes
 Alex Manoogian, the Armenian immigrant responsible for making the single-handled faucet a ubiquitous fixture in modern bathrooms and kitchens throughout the United States and around the world, died on Wednesday at St. John Hospital in Detroit. Mr. Manoogian, who lived in Grosse Pointe Farms
 John Chancellor, who covered 20 political conventions, a dozen space shots and a handful of wars in 41 years at NBC News, died yesterday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 68. The cause was stomach cancer, said his daughter Mary Chancellor Gregory. A college dropout who l
 Kenneth M. Bernstein, a veteran journalist and travel writer, died on July 3  at his home after a long illness. He was 67. As a broadcast journalist for NBC News, Mr. Bernstein covered events in the United States, South America, Europe, Asia and Africa. He spent four years as a  cor
 Soledad Seanez Holguin, the widow of the Mexican revolutionary hero Pancho Villa, died here on Thursday. She was 100. Over the years, several other women claimed to be Villa's widow, including some who had become his wife by his own proclamation. But in 1946 the legislature 
 Arthur E. DePhillips, a former judge on New York City's Municipal Court and its successor, the Civil Court, died on Tuesday at Long Island College Hospital  in Brooklyn. He was 86, and a lifelong resident of Greenwich Village in Manhattan. Judge DePhillips graduated from Fordham Uni
 Fred Hift, a journalist and former film executive, died on July 6 at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Hift, who was born in Vienna, settled in Chicago, where he wrote for The Chicago Sun, and
 Gottfried von Einem, a composer whose eclectic theatrical style made him Austria's best-known postwar composer, died on Friday at his home in Obernduernbach, a village about 30 miles north of Vienna. He was 78. He died in his sleep after a long illness, The Associated Press reported
 Harry E. Wedeck, a linguist, scholar of the classics and observer of spheres  beyond the norm, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 102  and lived on the Upper East Side. Some of his excursions into the unusual remain available in reprint editions. They include
 James O. Plinton Jr., one of the first blacks to be named an executive in the airline industry, eventually becoming a vice president at Eastern Airlines, died on July 4. He was 81 years old. Mr. Plinton, who spent most of his life trying to break down the strong barriers that blacks
 Lou Gottlieb, the bass player for the popular 1960's folk trio the Limeliters, died on Thursday at Palm Drive Hospital in Sebastopol, Calif. He was 72 and lived in Sonoma County, Calif. Ramon Sender, a friend, said that Mr. Gottlieb had been taken to the hospital because of internal
 William S. Lee, former chairman and chief executive of the Duke Power Company and a strong supporter of nuclear power, died on Wednesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center while visiting New York City from his home in Charlotte, N.C. He was 67. The cause was heart disease, said
 Fred Pressman, the man who transformed Barneys New York from a men's discount suit shop into a repository of cutting edge designer fashions, died yesterday at his home in Harrison, N.Y. He was 73 years old. The cause of death was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Phyllis. Mr
 Late Edition - Final, the Hollywood producer whose films brought fame, fortune or both to Fred Astaire, Ginger Rogers and other stars and skilled entertainment to American filmgoers from the Depression Era through the 1960's,  died on Saturday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 91.
 Robert Ellis Dunn, whose classes in improvisation and choreography were the laboratory in which postmodernist dance was born in the early 1960's, died on July 5 at his home in New Carrollton, Md. He was 67. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Gretchen. In the early 1
 Dr. Allen H. Postel, a surgeon who was one of the first doctors to treat shock by lowering the body temperature of the patient, died on Sunday at his home in Katonah, N.Y. He was 70. The cause was mesothelioma, a cancer of the chest cavity, the family said. Dr. Postel, who a
 Carl M. Shoffler, one of three Washington policemen whose arrest of five burglars 24 years ago touched off the Watergate scandals and ultimately brought  down a Presidency, died on Saturday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 51 and lived in Bowie, Md. The cause was pancr
 Ken Norton, the head coach at Manhattan College during the golden age of New  York-area college basketball, died last Thursday at his summer home in Hendersonville, N.C. He was 82 years old. The cause of death was a heart attack, according to the Manhattan College sports information
 Lester Robbins, a developer of tract housing in the United States after World War II who became a moving force in Brooklyn's highly praised Nehemiah Plan of the 1980's, died on Sunday at his home on Manhattan's Upper East Side. He was 90 and also lived in East Hampton, L.I., and Lantana, Fl
 Thomas E. Sandefur Jr., a dedicated and unapologetic tobacco salesman who, as chairman of the Brown & Williamson Tobacco Corporation testified before Congress that he did not believe nicotine was addictive, died on Sunday at Baptist Hospital East in Louisville, Ky. He was 56. The ca
 Gregory T. Frazier, a San Francisco visionary who hit on the idea of providing simultaneous electronic audio descriptions for the blind so they could enjoy more than the dialogue of movies, television and theater performances, died on Sunday at a hospital in San Francisco. He was 58 and pre
 Myron Goldsmith, an architect and engineer whose work merged the jewel-like precision of Mies van der Rohe with the greyhound-sleek forms of Pier Luigi Nervi, died on Monday at his home in Wilmette, Ill. He was 77. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Robin. A student
 Dr. Robert Alan Manners, professor emeritus and founding chairman of the Department of Anthropology at Brandeis University, died on Friday at his home in Newton Center, Mass. He was 82. The cause was prostate cancer, his family said. Dr. Manner was editor-in-chief of The Ame
 Chas Chandler, a veteran British rock musician whose bass playing helped the  Animals to fame with the 1964 hit "The House of the Rising Sun," died today at Newcastle General Hospital. He was 57. He was undergoing tests related to an aortic aneurysm, said Keith Altham, a friend.    
 John Panozzo, a co-founder and drummer of the rock group Styx, was found dead of a gastrointestinal hemorrhage in his home here on Tuesday, the Cook County Medical Examiner's Office said. He also suffered from cirrhosis of the liver as  a result of chronic alcoholism. He was 47. Mr.
 Dr. Kenneth T. Bainbridge, the physicist who directed the first test of an atomic bomb, died on Sunday in Lexington, Mass., where he lived. He was 91. When World War II began, Dr. Bainbridge was a noted researcher at Harvard University who had designed powerful mass spectrometers fo
 Paul Touvier, the only Frenchman to be convicted of war crimes against humanity and for half a century a troubling reminder of his country's ambivalence about World War II, died yesterday at a prison hospital near Paris.  He was 81. Mr. Touvier had suffered from prostate cancer, pri
 Chris Komar, assistant artistic director of the Merce Cunningham Dance Company and a leading Cunningham dancer, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 48 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was AIDS, said Art Becofsky, his companion. Mr. Komar was a small, slightly 
 Collin Wilcox, a mystery writer who set most of his 30 books in San Francisco, died on July 12 at his home. He was 71. Mr. Wilcox, who died of cancer, made his writing debut in 1967 with "The Black Door," which featured a detective equipped with extrasensory perception. The hero of 
 Dr. Narciso Garcia, a physics professor at Queens College whose experiments with photons and microwave radiation offered a powerful demonstration of the resemblance between light and matter established by quantum theory, died on Wednesday at his home in New Hyde Park, L.I. He was 55.       
 Marco Rivetti, the Italian entrepreneur who helped turn European designer labels into household names worldwide, died last Saturday at his home in Turin.  He was 52. The cause was lung cancer, said Group G.F.T. in Turin, the family business he headed as chairman and chief executive 
 Peter Hess Kurzman, who was the volunteer president of the National Association for Visually Handicapped, died on Monday at his weekend home in Erwinna, Pa. He was 63 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Kurzman gr
 Dr. William Dixon Mayer, a pathologist who was president of Eastern Virginia  Medical School in Norfolk from 1979 to 1986, died on June 30 in Virginia Beach.  He was 67 and lived in Virginia Beach. The cause was lung cancer, said the National Board of Medical Examiners, with which D
 Frederick J. Stock, a pharmaceutical-industry executive who supervised the nation's large-scale production of penicillin and other "miracle drugs" during World War II, died Tuesday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 88 years old. Mr. Stock, who earned a degree in pharmacy from P
 Richard W. Long, a college dropout who used a personal-injury settlement from a motorcycle accident to build a multimillion-dollar bicycle business that is supplying the most advanced equipment to the United States Olympic cycling team, died on July 12 when his motorcycle and a truck collid
 Russell Higginson Dorr, a retired international banker and Government official involved with postwar Europe and the Far East, died last Saturday during a visit to the Galapagos Islands. He was 89 and lived in Point O'Woods, N.Y., and Fort Myers, Fla. He suffered a heart attack while
 William Heyden Easton, a University of Southern California paleontologist and an authority on fossil corals, died at his home in Westlake Village on July 7. He was 80. The cause was cancer. Dr. Easton was the writer of the widely used textbook "Invertebrate Paleontology," pu
 Dr. John Gamble Harter, a clinical researcher who pioneered a revised treatment for people suffering from asthma and arthritis, died on July 11 at Shady Grove Adventist Hospital in Rockville, Md. He was 69 and lived in Darnestown, Md. The cause was liver cancer, said his wife, Mary 
 Merrill C. Gilfillan, an Ohio conservationist whose prose and poems told of the nature and denizens of the Great Plains, died on July 12 at a nursing home in Rochester, N.Y. He was 86. His writings celebrated the seasons, as in "Magpie Rising: Sketches From the  Great Plains" (Pruet
 Paul A. Schaefer, a founder or co-founder of several organizations for the preservation of the Adirondack wilderness, died on July 13 after knee surgery at St. Clare's Hospital in Schenectady. He was 87 and lived in the Schenectady suburb of Niskayuna and in an Adirondack cabin. Mr.
 Eddy Lawrence Manson, a harmonica virtuoso who composed for television and films, died on July 12 at Brotman Medical Center in Culver City, Calif. He was 77 and lived in Hollywood. Mr. Manson began performing at 15 with Borrah Minnevitch's Harmonica Rascals. He toured with the U.S.O
 Paul Howe Shepard Jr., a professor of natural philosophy and human ecology who wrote or edited books that won critics' praise, died on Tuesday at his home  in Salt Lake City. He was 71. His death was announced on Friday by his literary agent, Elizabeth Grossman.  The cause was lung 
 The Rev. Lawrence Martin Jenco, the Roman Catholic priest who was held hostage in Lebanon by Islamic radicals for 18 months in the 1980's, died on Friday. He was 61. Father Jenco had been undergoing chemotherapy for pancreatic and lung cancer. He died at St. Domitilla Church in the 
 Sir Geoffrey Jellicoe, one of the 20th century's leading landscape architects, died on Wednesday, in Devon, England. He was 95. Sir Geoffrey's work, which spanned seven decades, ranged from some of the grandest private gardens in England, including the Tudor-era Sutton Place, to tra
 Leon Shenandoah, the head of the Six Nations of the Iroquois Confederacy, died yesterday at Syracuse University Hospital after a long illness. He was 81. Mr. Shenandoah, who opposed Indians' involvement in gambling to raise money,  lived most of his life on the Onondaga Nation reser
 Dr. Leonard Wolsey Cronkhite Jr., an expert on radar and human survival in space, and an industrial physician who organized health plans and medical-care groups for industry and labor, died on Saturday at his home in Brunswick, Me. He was 77. He suffered a brief illness, said Bowdoi
 M. L. Rosenthal, a poet, a critic of 20th-century poetry and a teacher, died  on Sunday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was 79 and lived in Suffern. He died after prostate surgery, said his daughter, Dr. Laura McGarry. Through his many reviews and books of cri
 Peter Ludwig, a German chocolate manufacturer who amassed an immense art collection and gave or lent many artworks to public institutions in Germany and  elsewhere, died yesterday in a hospital in Germany. He was 71 and lived in Aachen. The announcement was made in Aachen by the man
 Vermont Royster, a former editor of The Wall Street Journal who won two Pulitzer Prizes and helped to shape his newspaper into the country's leading business daily, died yesterday in a retirement community in Raleigh, N.C., The Journal said. He was 82. The Journal said Mr. Royster h
 William J. Caunitz, a writer who drew on his experiences as a New York City policeman in "One Police Plaza" and other thrillers, died on Saturday at Sarasota Memorial Hospital in Florida. He was 63 and lived in Longboat Key, Fla. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, said Knox Burger, h
 Alfred L. Plant, an advertising executive who resisted pressure from the National Rifle Association to withdraw his company's ads from a television program critical of hunting, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan  after a brief illness. He was 84. Mr. Plant was vice p
 Hamilton Fish Jr., a New York Republican from an old Hudson River family who  continued its tradition of Congressional service into the fourth generation, holding a House seat from 1969 to 1994, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 70 and also had a home in Millbrook, N.Y.      
 Robert N. Wilentz, who in 17 years as Chief Justice of the New Jersey Supreme Court tried to streamline the state courts, make them more accessible and use them to promote his vision of social progress and equality, died yesterday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 69. Justice Wi
 Brian E. Bent, an accomplished researcher who was appointed a professor of chemistry at Columbia University this month, died on Tuesday while cycling with  his family in Superior National Forest in Minnesota. He was 35 and lived in Manhattan. After collapsing, Dr. Bent was taken to 
 Clive S. Menell, the deputy chairman of Anglovaal Ltd., a South African mining conglomerate, died yesterday at the age of 65. The cause of death was cancer, said Paul Theron, a spokesman for Anglovaal. Anglovaal is South Africa's fifth biggest gold producer, with interests i
 Michael Ference Jr., a physicist who was in charge of scientific research and development at the Ford Motor Company for almost 20 years, died yesterday in San Antonio. He was 84. A graduate of the University of Chicago, where he earned bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees, Mr. 
 Raphael Patai, a cultural anthropologist who turned the stories of the Jewish people into the story of his life as a preeminent scholar of Jewish and Middle Eastern studies, died on Saturday at the home of a daughter in Tucson, Ariz. He  was 85. The cause was cancer, said his daught
 Samuel Toledano, former secretary general of Spain's Jewish federation and an architect of the agreement that brought full legal recognition for Jews in Spain and in effect overturned the expulsion order of 1492, died in Madrid on Monday. He was 66. The cause was apparently a heart 
 James W. Near, the chairman of the restaurant chain Wendy's International Inc., died on Monday in Atlanta, where he was attending the Olympic Games. He was 58 and lived in Bonita Springs, Fla. The cause was a heart attack, said officials at the company's headquarters in Dublin, Ohio
 Kenneth Hollister Straus, a New York philanthropist and the last of the Straus family to be a top executive of R. H. Macy & Company, died on Wednesday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 71 and had homes on the Upper East Side of Manhattan and in Palm Beach, Fla. He suffered a brief illne
 Leo Martinuzzi, a former executive of R. H. Macy & Company and an exporting consultant, died at his home in Garden City, L.I., on Tuesday. He was 99. Mr. Martinuzzi was born in Venice and educated in Switzerland and later at the University of Padua in Italy. He began his car
 T. Clark Hull, a former lieutenant governor and State Supreme Court justice who was one of Connecticut's most irreverent and popular politicians, died yesterday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 75 and lived in Danbury. The cause was complications from heart surgery a week ago, his
 Colin Mitchell, a British officer who sacrificed his military career for one  moment of glory in 1967, died last Saturday at his home in London. He was 70. After a brief tenure in Parliament and a later career as an itinerant military consultant, he won renewed public recognition as
 Dr. David Valinsky, a statistician who applied his skills to civil rights issues ranging from voting rights to police hiring, died on July 19 at the Westchester County Medical Center. He was 81 and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. He had suffered a long illness, said a spokesman for Baruch 
 Dr. E. Lloyd DuBrul, an authority on dental anatomy and a noted author on the subject, died on Wednesday in Chicago. He was 87 and lived in Chicago. He was professor emeritus of oral anatomy at the College of Dentistry at the  University of Illinois at Chicago. Dr. DuBrul wa
 Edmund Mirassou, patriarch of one of the country's largest family-owned wine-making operations, died at his home here on Wednesday. He was 78. After his recent heart surgery, doctors discovered that Mr. Mirassou had acute leukemia, which because of his age could not be treated.     
 Herbert Edelman, a Brooklyn-born character actor best known for his portrayal of archetypal New Yorkers, died on Sunday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 62 and lived in Oxnard, Calif. The cause was emphysema, his family said. Mr.
 Rachmael Weinstock, a violinist who specialized in chamber music and was renowned as a teacher, died on July 19 at the Split Rock Nursing Home in the Bronx. He was 86. Mr. Weinstock toured widely during the 1930's as first violinist of the original Manhattan String Quartet. (An ense
 Richard Kneeland, for 25 years a leading actor with the Trinity Repertory Company in Providence, R.I., was found dead on July 19 in his home in San Diego, Calif. He was 68. His sister Faith Bitterolf said he was believed to have fallen and hit his head. An autopsy is pending.       
 S. Perry Schlesinger, who helped develop a type of laser used in operating rooms, died on Monday in Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived on the Upper West Side. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Dr. Schlesinger, who spent 31 years at Columbia Uni
 John Thomas Lenox, who was executive producer of the movie "Splash" and director of several popular television shows, died on Tuesday at his home in Van Nuys, Calif. He died on his 50th birthday, apparently of a heart attack. Mr. Lenox worked as an assistant director on such
 Joseph F. Miller, a lawyer, wartime Government counsel and former president of the National Electrical Manufacturing Association, died on Monday at his home in Deal, N.J. He was 89. Mr. Miller was born in Manhattan and graduated from Harvard Law School. In World War II, he was enlis
 Lee Adrien Lescaze, the weekend editor of The Wall Street Journal and a former assistant managing editor of The Washington Post, died Friday night at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 57. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Lynn Darling, a senior writer at Esquire magazine
 Paul Lammers, a theater and television director, died on July 16 at his home  in Washington, Conn. He was 74. The cause was cancer, said his companion, Dr. Leo Altschul. Mr. Lammers, who was born in Sacramento, Calif., was a graduate of Northwestern University, where he earn
 Samuel A. Kirk, an immigrant homesteader's son who became so intrigued by his childhood experiences teaching illiterate farmhands to read that he went on to an acclaimed career as the father of special education, died on July 21 at his retirement home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 92. Dr.
 Daniel Brustlein, a painter who also worked as a cartoonist under the name of Alain, died on July 14 at his home in Paris. He was 92. Mr. Brustlein was born in the Alsatian town of Mulhouse, then held by Germany, and studied art at the Ecole des Beaux Arts in Geneva. He moved to the
 Eric Ridder, a former publisher of The Journal of Commerce, a New York-based  business newspaper, died on Tuesday at his home in Locust Valley, L.I. He was 78. The cause was pneumonia, said his stepson Robin Roosevelt, and he had undergone radiation treatment for a malignant tumor f
 Hector Perez Garcia, a South Texas doctor who founded one of the nation's most influential Mexican-American civil rights organizations, died on Friday in  Memorial Medical Center in Corpus Christi, Tex. Dr. Garcia, who was 82, had stomach cancer for more than a decade and had been h
 Howard Fried, a tenor in supporting roles with several major American opera companies, died on July 10 at a hospital in San Diego. He was 75 and lived in East San Diego. Mr. Fried, who was born in New York City, received a bachelor's degree in physics from the City University of New
 Roger Tory Peterson, the ornithologist whose "Field Guide to the Birds" inspired and instructed millions of bird-watchers the world over, died on Sunday at his home in Old Lyme, Conn., where he had lived for many years. He was 87 and with the exception of the last six months or so, 
 Dr. Edward H. Birkenmeier, a geneticist who was a leader in the use of mice as models for studying human diseases, died on Saturday at his home in Bar Harbor, Me. He was 48. The cause was a brain tumor, said his family. Dr. Birkenmeier was a senior staff scientist at the Jac
 Mervyn Cowie, a British Kenyan who grew up with lions, frolicked with hyenas  and later spurred the creation of the vast network of East African parks that have protected his childhood playmates from modern encroachment, died on July 19. He was 87 and had retired to Suffolk, England, in 197
 William J. Alley, the former chairman and chief executive of American Brands  Inc., died Friday at his home in New Canaan. He was 66. The cause was suicide, the New Canaan police said. Mr. Alley was appointed chairman and chief executive of American Brands in 1987, a large c
