 Elliott Merrick, a writer, editor, teacher, farmer and sailor who distilled his experiences into acclaimed, enduring books about Labrador and northern Vermont, died on April 22 at his home in Asheville, N.C.. He was 91. His ''Northern Nurse'' (1942) told the epic tale of Kate Austen
 John Beal, an actor whose long career embraced film, theater and television, died on Saturday in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 87. Mr. Beal's early starring roles in films included ''Another Language'' with Helen Hayes and ''The Little Minister'' with Katharine Hepburn. He also appeared
 Lord Taylor of Gosforth, a former Lord Chief Justice of England who was a critic of the British criminal justice system, died on Monday at his home in Guildford, near London. He was 66. He had cancer, British newspapers reported. As Lord Chief Justice from 1992 until he reti
 Makoto Namba, a world-class match racer and an America's Cup skipper who became the first Japanese sailor to break into the top 10 in the world ranking, fell overboard during an ocean race on April 23 and is presumed lost at sea off Japan. He was 46. The Japanese Coast Guard conduct
 Peter Tali Coleman, a native of American Samoa who was its first popularly elected Governor, from 1978 to 1985, died on Monday in Honolulu. He was 77 and a longtime resident of Pago Pago, the capital of American Samoa. He had liver cancer, Agence France-Presse reported. Mr. 
 Bo Widerberg, the lyrical, socially conscious Swedish director of the popular ''Elvira Madigan'' and three films nominated for Academy Awards, died on Thursday at a hospital in Angelholm in southern Sweden. He was 66. The Swedish news agency TT said he died after an unspecified but 
 Howard E. Simmons Jr., the former head of research and development at E. I. du Pont de Nemours & Company, died on April 26 at his home in Greenville, Del. He was 67. The cause of death was congestive heart failure, his wife, Elizabeth, said. Mr. Simmons joined Du Pont as a r
 John P. Snyder, a chemical engineer who made cartography history by developing a set of mathematical equations to convert images of the Earth taken from space into accurate maps, died on Monday in Olney, Md. He was 71. Although never formally trained in map projections -- the mathem
 Quentin C. Crommelin, a retired Navy captain who was the last of five Alabama brothers who created a sibling sensation as Navy aviators in World War II, died on Monday at a hospital in Montgomery, Ala. He was 78 and lived on the family plantation outside Wetumpka. The cause was canc
 Allan Francovich, an award-winning documentary film maker, died on April 17 in Houston. He was 56. He died after a heart attack at an  airport. Mr. Francovich was best known as the director of the 1980 film ''On Company Business: A Documentary History of the Central Intellig
 Blaine Littell, an author, former television news correspondent and retired journalism professor, died on Tuesday at the Pendleton nursing home in Mystic, Conn. He was 71 and lived in nearby Stonington. The cause was emphysema, his family said. Mr. Littell reported and produ
 Lew Dietz, who celebrated his native Maine in some 20 books and hundreds of magazine articles, died on April 26 at a hospital in Rockport, Me. He was 90. Mr. Dietz was best known as the author, with Harry Goodridge, of ''A Seal Called Andre,'' the story of an orphaned baby seal that
 Paul Khan, a consultant on food safety and regulatory compliance, died on April 21 at Sound Shore Hospital in New Rochelle, N.Y. A New Rochelle resident, he was 73. A colleague, Robert L. Morris, said Mr. Khan was thought to have died of a heart attack. At his death, Mr. Kha
 Robert Lyons Danly, a translator from the Japanese and an editor and teacher, died on Sunday at his parents' home in Burr Ridge, Ill. A resident of Ann Arbor, Mich., he was 50. The cause was a brain tumor, according to a spokesman for the University of Michigan. He had been on leave
 Russell G. Cleary, who built the G. Heileman Brewing Company into one of the largest breweries in the country, died on Thursday in the Gundersen Lutheran Medical Center in La Crosse, Wis., of complications from heart surgery. He was 63. Mr. Cleary, who was chairman of the Wisconsin 
 S. Howard Goldman, a New York real estate developer and a private collector of American autographs, documents and manuscripts, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital. He was 67 and lived in New York City and New Canaan, Conn. The cause was cancer, the hospital said.   
 Sir John Carew Eccles, an Australian neurophysiologist whose research illuminated some of the most mysterious yet most basic functions of human nerve cells and won him a share of a Nobel Prize, died on Friday at his home in Switzerland. He was 94 and for the last 22 years had lived in retir
 Leslie George Katz, the founder of Eakins Press and a writer on art and literature, died on April 18 at his home in Manhattan. He was 78. The cause was cancer, said Jane Mayhall Katz, his wife. Mr. Katz's long and varied career included writing and directing experimentalist 
 Narciso Yepes, a Spanish guitarist who expanded his instrument from its normal 6-string configuration to a setup using 10 strings and who made dozens of recordings of a repertory that ran from Renaissance to contemporary works, died yesterday in Murcia, Spain. The Spanish news agency EFE sa
 Dudley Pope, a British author of a series of historical novels about a Royal Navy lieutenant named Ramage and of books of naval history, died on April 25 in Marigot, St. Martin, in the French West Indies. He was 71 and lived on St. Martin. His death was reported on Thursday by The G
 Gerald Freund, a veteran foundation administrator who was the first director of the MacArthur Foundation's Prize Fellows Program, giving large awards that became known unofficially and perhaps enviously as ''genius grants,'' died yesterday in his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He
 Jacob M. Snyder, an advocate of Israeli and Jewish causes and a former administrator of the Board of Jewish Education of Greater New York, died on April 22 at New York University Medical Center. He was 80 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. Mr. Snyder became the b
 Kennedy Shaw, a consultant on municipal development and the environment, died April 23 at UCSF Medical Center in San Francisco. He was 68 and lived in Guerneville, Calif. The cause was complications after heart surgery, said Ralph Prizio, his longtime companion. A native of 
 Robert A. Beck, who rose from door-to-door selling to the top position at the Prudential Insurance Company of America, died yesterday at his home in Vero Beach, Fla. Mr. Beck, who also had a home in Rumson, N.J., was 71. The cause was cancer of the esophagus, his son, Stephen, who l
 The Rev. William M. Lewers, a trustee and professor of law at the University of Notre Dame, died on April 19 at Holy Cross House in Notre Dame, Ind. He was 69. He suffered a lengthy illness, a university spokesman said. Father Lewers joined the law faculty at Notre Dame in 1
 Eugene Vale, author of the best-selling 1959 novel ''The 13th Apostle,'' and of ''The Technique of Screen Play Writing,'' a 1944 textbook that remained in print for more than four decades, died on Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 81. Born in Switzerland, Mr. Vale worked in 
 Irving Kaplan, a professor emeritus and founding member of the department of nuclear engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died on April 10 at Massachusetts General Hospital. He was 84 and lived in Belmont, Mass. The cause was complications after heart surgery, M
 Joseph Charles Swidler, one of the last New Dealers of 1933 and a Washington utilities lawyer who overhauled the Federal Power Commission and its regulatory equivalent in New York, died on Thursday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 90 and had lived in Chevy Chase. The cau
 Keith R. PorterKeith R. Porter, a biologist who made the first photographs of tissue cells with the aid of an electron microscope and thus helped found the modern field of cell biology, died on Friday at a retirement home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 84. The cause was pneumonia, a compl
 Murray Kempton, whose independence and unpredictability as a newspaper columnist in New York made him a model of conscience for five decades of journalists and readers, died yesterday at the Kateri Nursing Home in Manhattan. Mr. Kempton was 79 and lived for many years on the Upper West Side
 Paul Lambert, a character actor in movies and on television, died on April 27 at St. John's Medical Center in Santa Monica, Calif., where he lived. He was 74. In a diverse career, Mr. Lambert played cowboys, gangsters, ministers and executives and the national editor of The Washingt
 Paulo Freire, a radical Brazilian educator known for his methods of using everyday words and ideas to teach illiterates to read -- and to be skeptical about prevailing social and political systems -- died on Friday in Albert Einstein Hospital in Sao Paolo. He was 75 and had lived in Sao Pao
 Alan Gussow, an artist and conservationist, died on Monday at his home in Piermont, N.Y. He was 65. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Joan. Mr. Gussow was a landscape painter who combined close-up naturalistic observation with an abstract style. In pastel painting
 David E. Scherman, an editor and photojournalist who survived the sinking of an ocean liner by a Nazi warship disguised as a merchant vessel before the outbreak of World War II, and whose photos from a lifeboat enabled the British Navy to track down the German ship and sink it, died on Mond
 David Dolgenos, a lawyer and real estate investor who set aside much of his own office in SoHo as a contemporary art gallery, died on Tuesday in a taxi on his way to New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 66 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was apparently a heart attack, 
 Gilbert Green, a Communist Party leader who spent six years in a Federal penitentiary for ''conspiracy to teach and advocate'' the overthrow of the United States Government, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 90 and had lived in the Chelsea section of Manhattan unti
 Dr. James Melvin Washington, an expert on black American religious history who taught at Union Theological Seminary for two decades, died on Saturday in St. Luke's Hospital. He was 49 and lived in the Morningside Heights section of Manhattan. The cause was a stroke that he suffered 
 Manuel Elizalde Jr., a wealthy Filipino official who caused a sensation in 1971 when he announced that he had discovered a tiny tribe of people who had lived for thousands of years in such blissful Stone Age isolation that they had no word for war, died on Saturday at his home in Makati, a 
 Sydney J. Freedberg, an art historian who taught for nearly three decades at Harvard and was chief curator of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, died on Tuesday at his home in Washington. He was 82. Mr. Freedberg's writing on the art of the Italian High Renaissance embodied 
 Charles Schlaifer, an advertising agency owner and movie executive whose promotion of the film ''The Snake Pit'' inspired him to become an important advocate of improved mental health care in the United States, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87. Mr. Schlaifer was an
 One man speaks to God. The other speaks to the stock market. Both of them hear things that no one else does. The rabbi knows precious little about business and is fine with that. The investor, an avowed agnostic, bought his first stock when he was 11, and his acumen for making money
 Dr. George N. Aagaard, former dean of the University of Washington School of Medicine, died on Wednesday at the university's Medical Center in Seattle. He was 83 and lived in Seattle. The cause was leukemia, said Leila Gray, a spokeswoman for the medical school. When he beca
 H. Myles Jacob, a former chief executive of the Inspiration Consolidated Copper Company, died yesterday at his home in Pittstown, N.J. He was 84. Mr. Jacob joined Inspiration, an Arizona mining concern with headquarters in New York, in 1936. He was named president in 1960 and became
 Jerome Alden, a writer for stage, television and screen whose works included the play ''Bully'' and the musical ''Teddy and Alice,'' died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. The cause was kidney cancer, said his wife, Barbara Gaye. He was 76. Mr. Alden was born in Portland, 
 Manuel Nardy, a hard-drinking, tale-spinning cowboy of such hardscrabble simplicity that he didn't learn until years after the fact that he had been translated into one of the most memorable characters in Brazilian literature, died on Monday in a hospital in Belo Horizonte, 200 miles  north
 William A. Koshland, chairman emeritus and former president of the publisher Alfred A. Knopf, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 90 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said William T. Loverd, a senior vice president at Knopf, an autonomous
 Bob Devaney, a raconteur and humorist whose coaching made the University of Nebraska a national football power and whose leadership as athletic director modernized the athletics program, died yesterday at the Eastment Towers, a retirement home in Lincoln, Neb. He was 82. He had been
 Marco Ferreri, the fiercely satiric Italian director perhaps best known for ''La Grande Bouffe,'' in which four charming middle-age men gorge themselves to death in a suicide pact, died yesterday in a hospital in Paris. He was 68. The cause of death was a heart attack, Reuters repor
 Morton L. Deitch, a Manhattan lawyer affiliated for seven decades with the firm of Stroock & Stroock & Lavan and long active in the cause of child care, died on April 26 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 95. Mr. Deitch, a native of Knoxville, Tenn., and a gradu
 BILOXI, Miss., May 10 (AP) - Billy Joe Clegg, a minister who ran for President seven times, died of a heart attack on Monday. He was 69. Mr. Clegg ran for President every four years since 1972, advocating what he termed conservative spiritual convictions, and he recently announced t
 Dr. Chia-Shun Yih, an authority on fluid mechanics, died of heart failure in his sleep on April 25 while in a plane over Japan. He was 78 and lived in Gainesville, Fla. Dr. Yih was the Timoshenko University Professor Emeritus at the University of Michigan, where he retired in 1988 b
 Frederick E. M. Ballon, a practitioner of bankruptcy and insolvency law and a founder of the Manhattan law firm of Ballon Stoll Bader & Nadler, died on April 25 at a hospital in Palm Beach, Fla., where he had a winter house. He was 88 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. M
 J. Jacques Stone, a Manhattan lawyer and a leader in Jewish educational, religious and philanthropic causes, died on Tuesday at his home on Manhattan's East Side. He was 89 and also lived in Westport, Conn. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Stone was a partner in th
 Meir Lev, the director of research services and a professor of microbiology at City University of New York Medical School-Sophie Davis School of Biomedical Education, died on May 1 at his home in Riverdale, the Bronx. He was 67. The cause was cancer of the esophagus, his family said
 Allen F. Lovejoy, a retired lawyer who was an eminent and single-minded collector of American coins, specializing exclusively in dimes, died on Thursday in the Mediplex rehabilitation center in Stamford, Conn. He was 77 and lived in Riverside, Conn. The cause was complications resul
 Dr. Vernal G. Cave, a Brooklyn physician and civic leader whose series of imposing titles tended more to obscure than to reflect his almost half-century of quiet, day-to-day work on behalf of black medical, political and social causes, died on Wednesday at University Hospital of Brooklyn. H
 Alton Blakeslee, a longtime science editor of The Associated Press whose reporting covered everything from the first polio vaccine to heart transplants and space exploration, died on Sunday night at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 83 and lived in Port Washington.  
 The Rev. Dr. William Ragsdale Cannon Jr., a Methodist bishop and theologian whose ministry included national and international church activities that led to a friendship with President Jimmy Carter, died on Sunday at Crawford W. Long Hospital in Atlanta. He was 81. Dr. Cannon, who a
 The Rev. Dean M. Kelley, a leading proponent of religious liberty who used his position at the National Council of Churches to speak out for the rights of religious groups large and small, died Sunday at his home in West Swanzey, N.H. He was 70. The cause was cancer, the council sai
 L. Jeffrey Selznick, a film and television producer and the president of the Louis B. Mayer Foundation, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 64 and lived in Miami. His brother, Daniel, said he suffered a heart attack during a business meeting in Los Angeles. Mr. Selznick wa
 Peter Stackpole, an original staff photographer for Life magazine, who chronicled the building of the Golden Gate Bridge, the invasion of Saipan, the glamour of Hollywood and life beneath the sea, died on Sunday at Novato Community Hospital in Novato, Calif., where he lived. He was 83.     
 Laurie Lee, a poet, novelist and scriptwriter who grew up in a small Cotswold village, walked across Europe, fought in the Spanish Civil War and wrote about all three in a highly regarded series of memoirs, died  yesterday at his Gloucestershire,  England, home. He was 82. Mr. Lee w
 Harry Blackstone Jr., a magician who made handkerchiefs dance across a Broadway stage and globes of light float above his audience, who made elephants vanish and turned beautiful women into Bengal tigers, who sawed his wife in half 17 times a week during their 23 years of marriage, died on 
 Nathan Skolnik, long the bane of organized crime, bureaucratic inefficiency and official skulduggery in New York State, died on Saturday at New York University Hospital. He was 86 and had been deputy commissioner of the State Commission of Investigation from 1958 to 1975. His wife, 
 Ralph Wendell Burhoe, an educator and writer esteemed for his interpretations of the relevance of religion in a technological society, died on May 8 at his home in the Hyde Park section of Chicago. He was 85. Mr. Burhoe was widely known for his examination of evolution, technology a
 James M. Fox, who ran the New York office of the F.B.I. when it solved the World Trade Center bombing and built the case that finally sent John Gotti to prison, died yesterday morning at The Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 59 and a resident of Manhattan. Mr. Fox, who retired from
 Robert D. Campbell, a former chairman, publisher and president of Newsweek magazine, died of complications from Parkinson's disease on Monday in Rancho Santa Fe, Calif., his son, William, said. He was 79. Mr. Campbell, who spent three decades with Newsweek before he retired in 1979,
 Saadallah Wannous, whose courageously caustic plays and social criticism about the Arabs' political decline made him one of the Arab world's leading playwrights, died on Thursday in Damascus, Syria. He was 56. The cause was cancer, his family said. Though the Syrian Governme
 Alton Harrington Ketchum, a retired advertising executive and historian, died on April 29 at Reston Hospital Center in Reston, Va., during a family visit. He was 92 and lived in Cos Cob, Conn. Mr. Ketchum, a native of Cleveland and a 1926 graduate of what is now Case Western Reserve
 Charles Henry Bendheim, an industrialist and a supporter of Jewish causes and organizations in New York and Israel, died on May 5 at his home in Jerusalem. A former resident of Manhattan's West Side, he was 79 and also had homes in the Bronx and in Long Beach, N.Y. The cause was pro
 Dr. Julius Dintenfass, a chiropractor who was instrumental in the licensing of chiropractors in New York State, died on May 8 at Columbia Northwest Hospital in Coconut Creek, Fla., where he had a vacation home. He was 86. Dr. Dintenfass lived in Woodsburgh, N.Y., where he was Mayor 
 Michael J. Murphy, who served as the New York City Police Commissioner during a tumultuous period in the 1960's punctuated by riots and bitter accusations of police brutality, died early yesterday at his home in Smithtown, N.Y. He was 83. He died of natural causes, his daughter-in-l
 Richard E. Carlton, a lawyer who defended the Eastman Kodak Company in a landmark patent infringement case, died of a heart attack last Sunday while on vacation in Bath, England. He was 57. Mr. Carlton was with the New York law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell, which he joined in 1966 an
 Robert H. Krieble, a co-founder and former chief executive of the Loctite Corporation and a former vice chairman of the Heritage Foundation, the conservative policy research institute, died on May 8 at his home in Old Lyme, Conn. He was 80. Mr. Krieble, a chemist, founded Loctite wi
 Dana C. Creel, whose philanthropic hand helped mold the Rockefeller Brothers Fund into an eclectic charitable organization, died last Thursday night at his home, Haisdan Farm in Sharon, Conn. He was 84, said Fraser P. Seitel, an adviser to the Rockefeller family. Mr. Creel, 
 Frank Slocum, a former major league baseball executive and award-winning television writer who later devoted himself to aiding former players in need of financial assistance, died yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 71. The cause was cancer, according to his family.    
 Samuel Baron, a flutist and conductor who was a founding member of the New York Woodwind Quintet and the director of the Bach Aria Group, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y. Mr. Baron was born in Brooklyn in 1925 and began his
 Allyn Zelton Baum, a retired editor, news photographer and writer, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 72 and lived on the East Side of Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said Anne Trevor Brown, his companion. Mr. Baum, a native of Chicago, was a journalism gradua
 Aaron E. Henry, the gruff, blunt-speaking pharmacist who led the drive for racial equality in Mississippi all the way from the fire storms of the 1960's to a seat in the State Legislature and a position of power in the Democratic Party, died on Monday at a hospital near his home in Clarksda
 Nathan R. Sobel, a beloved Brooklyn lawyer, judge and adviser to several state political leaders whose career spanned seven decades, died yesterday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 91. The cause was complications from an adverse reaction to medication for gout, a 
 Troy Ruttman, a Southern California hot-rodder who in 1952 became the youngest driver to win the Indianapolis 500, died on Monday in Lake Havasu City, Ariz. He was 67. The cause was lung cancer, his daughter Roxanne Holland said. Ruttman checked into Havasu Samaritan Regional Hospit
 Bernard Louis Gladieux, a Federal official who helped mobilize the country for World War II, went on to advise a succession of Cabinet secretaries and later helped build the Ford Foundation into a major global benefactor, died on Sunday at his home in Oberlin, Ohio. He was 90 and a former r
 Daniel Saidenberg, a cellist, conductor and art gallery owner who supported an annual series of faculty recitals at the Juilliard School, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90. Mr. Saidenberg was born in 1906 in Winnipeg, Canada, and began his performing career, accompa
 Donald Irwin Warren, a sociologist who studied and wrote about alienation in America, died last Saturday at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He would have been 62 this Saturday. The cause was a brain tumor, said Prof. Peter Bertocci, a colleague at Oakland University in Rochester, Mich.
 Gordon Wies Reed of Greenwich, Conn., who for 22 years was chairman of the Texas Gulf Producing Company, an independent oil and gas concern, died on Saturday after a brief illness, said his son, Thomas, a former Secretary of the Air Force. He was 97. Mr. Reed was an early supporter 
 John Spencer-Churchill Guest, a retired investment banker who wrote about the Middle East, died on May 14 at his home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 84 and also lived in Fishers Island, N.Y. Mr. Guest, a native of London, graduated from Cambridge University and received an M.B.A. from 
 Virgilio Barco, an American-educated former President of Colombia whose dream of combatting rampant poverty with land reform and other ambitious social measures was sidetracked by an American-backed civil war with powerful drug barons, died Tuesday at a hospital in Bogota.  He was 75 and ha
 Myron Ruscoll Sharaf, biographer and interpreter of Wilhelm Reich, the Austrian-born psychiatrist and biophysicist, with whom he had an agonizingly complex personal relationship, died on May 13 while on a  trip to Europe. He was 70 and lived in Newton Highlands, Mass. Dr. Sharaf, a 
 Elbridge Durbrow, a retired Foreign Service officer who served in Moscow as the wartime Soviet ally turned into cold-war antagonist and who later led the United States Embassy in South Vietnam at the onset of America's longest war, died last Friday at his home in Walnut Creek, Calif.       
 Herbert W. Hoover Jr., a former chairman of the Hoover Company, the vacuum cleaner maker that his grandfather founded at the turn of the century, died on Monday in Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach. He lived in Bal Harbour, Fla., and was 79. Starting with summer jobs on the assemb
 Thomas F. Mallon Jr., a finance executive and trader who specialized in foreign currency futures and options, died of melanoma on Saturday in Lake Forest, Ill., his wife, Bette, said. He was 53. Mr. Mallon was a senior vice president in the Chicago office of Rodman & Renshaw Inc., a
 Dr. Alfred D. Hershey, who used a household blender to do experiments that made him a Nobel laureate by proving that DNA is the molecule that carries genetic information,  died on Thursday at his home in Syosset, N.Y. He was 88. Dr. Hershey, who did much of his work at the Cold Spri
 Fletcher Guard Watson, an astronomer and educator whose innovative methods took science subjects to a wider audience, died on May 7 at the Youville Nursing Home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 85 and lived in Belmont and North Eastham, Mass. Born in Baltimore, he graduated from Pomona Co
 Barry Bryant, a writer on Tibetan Buddhism who was also an artist, died on May 16 at his home in Manhattan. He was 56. The cause was renal cell cancer, his companion, Gregory Durgin, said. Mr. Bryant was a painter and musician strongly influenced by Tibetan Buddhism. In 1973
 Frederick Werle, a composer and former dean of the Mannes College of Music, died on May 15 at his home in Southbury, Conn. He was 87. Mr. Werle studied composition with Nadia Boulanger in Paris, with Rosario Scalero in Italy and at the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia. He also had d
 George Lessner, a composer who wrote music for films, television and the stage, died on May 12 at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 92. Mr. Lessener was born in Budapest, where he graduated from the Royal Academy of Music after studying with Zoltan Kodaly and Bela Bartok. He wro
 The Rev. Dr. Samuel DeWitt Proctor, a preacher, educator and former pastor of the Abyssinian Baptist Church in Harlem, died on Thursday at Mercy Medical Center in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. He was 75 and lived in Somerset, N.J. The cause was a heart attack he suffered on Wednesday, The Ass
 John Canfield Ewers, ethnologist emeritus of the Smithsonian Institution, historian of the West and chronicler of the Plains Indians, died on May 7 at Arlington Hospital in Arlington, Va. A resident of Arlington, he was 87. Mr. Ewers was one of the country's foremost interpreters of
 Joseph X. Dever, a retired journalist who covered the social scene in New York and Philadelphia, died on May 10 at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 77 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said Marian B. Javits, a friend. Mr. Dever graduated
 Alan Harrington, a novelist whose output ranged from black humor to social criticism to chronicles of the heart, died on Friday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 79. The cause was leukemia, The Arizona Daily Star reported. The paper said his friends included Jack Kerouac, who visi
 Edward Mulhare, an Irish-born actor who was a suave, handsome presence on the American stage and in films and television for four decades, died on Saturday at his home in Van Nuys, Calif. He was 74. The cause was lung cancer, said Pegge Forrest, his publicist and  friend. Te
 Thurston B. Macauley, a journalist whose assignments included seven years as a London correspondent for The New York Times, died on Saturday during a visit to Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 95. A resident of Maidenhead, England, and Villefranche-sur-Mer, France, he began his career as
 The Rev. William T. Cunningham, a Roman Catholic priest who became a leading Detroit civil rights advocate and  founder of one of the nation's largest programs to feed and train the urban poor, died here on Monday. He was 67. The cause was pneumonia and a liver infection that follow
 David M. Ludlum, a scholar who never lost his boyhood delight in the magic of snow, died on Friday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 86 and the nation's foremost historian of American weather. The cause was complications after a stroke, his family said. Mr. Ludlum's brig
 Dr. John G. Haddad Jr., an endocrinologist who created the standard test for vitamin D levels in the blood, died in Paris on May 22 while on his way to a medical meeting. He was 59 and lived in Philadelphia. The cause was a heart attack, family members said. Dr. Haddad was a
 Mohd Fadhel al-Jamali, an Arab statesman who helped establish the United Nations and the Arab League and was nearly hanged for his Western leanings after the revolution in Iraq in 1958, died in exile in Tunisia last Saturday. He was 94. A graduate of American University in Beirut an
 Ralph Horween, the oldest former National Football League player and a fullback for the unbeaten Harvard team that won the 1920 Rose Bowl, died Monday at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 100. He played in the backfield for the Chicago Cardinals from 1921 to 1923, teaming up w
 James Lee Byars, an American performance and installation artist whose idiosyncratic, Zen-influenced blendings of Minimal and Conceptual art stressed questions over answers, absence over presence and a lush momentary experience of beauty over permanence, died on May 23 at the Anglo-American
 John H. Sengstacke, the outspoken longtime owner of The Chicago Daily Defender and a tight-lipped perennial power in Chicago and national politics, died on Wednesday at a Chicago hospital. He was 84. His family said the cause was complications of a stroke. Mr. Sengstacke was
 Kurt Alfred Adler, a therapist who spent a career seeking to put into practice the novel approach to psychotherapy of his father, Alfred Adler, the Viennese psychiatrist, and to extend its reach, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Adler w
 J. Rembrandt George, an advertising executive who was instrumental in introducing the elongated, pyramid-like plasticized billboards that sit on top of many of New York City's taxicabs, died on May 23 at St. Anthony's Hospital in Warwick, N.Y., after a brief illness, his daughter, Linda Geo
 John W. Livingston, the first organizing director of the A.F.L-C.I.O. and a longtime senior official in the United Automobile Workers, died on May 25 in Westphalia, Mo. He was 88. Mr. Livingston, who was commonly called Jack, began organizing auto workers in 1933 when the U.A.W. was
 William Henry McNichols Jr., who as Mayor of Denver for 14 years helped transform the city from a somewhat stodgy and out-of-the-way regional center into a booming metropolis, died on Thursday at his home in Denver. He was 87. Mr. McNichols, a Democrat who was known as Mayor Bill, w
