 Fernando Gutierrez Barrios, Mexico's longtime spymaster, the feared chief of its secret police and a formidable figure in the once-dominant Institutional Revolutionary Party, died of a heart attack on Monday in a hospital here. He was 73. Mr. Gutierrez Barrios, who had worked for si
 Steve Allen, the versatile entertainer who created the ''Tonight'' show for NBC in 1953 and was widely regarded as a founding father of the late-night talk show, died on Monday at the home of his son Bill in Los Angeles. He was 78 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was apparently a
 Ring Lardner Jr., whose satirical screenplays twice won the Academy Award but whose career collapsed in 1947 after he refused to tell Congress if he had ever been a Communist, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 85. Mr. Lardner was the last surviving son of Ring Lardner
 Samuel R. Pierce Jr., whose accomplishments as one of the most prominent black lawyers of his generation were overshadowed by corruption and influence-peddling during his tenure as housing secretary in the Reagan administration, died on Tuesday. He was 78. Mr. Pierce failed to recov
 Sir Steven Runciman, a British historian who wrote stirring narratives of the crusades and the fall of the fabled Byzantine city of Constantinople to the 15th-century Turks, died on Wednesday in Radway, Warwickshire, England. He was 97 and lived in Dumfriesshire, in Scotland. Sir St
 Dr. Donald Jeffery Reis, a New York neurobiologist who explored the brain's role in human emotions, behavior and disease, died Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 69 and lived on the Upper East Side and in Stonington, Conn. The cause was complications during a liver transplant
 Joseph A. Greenwald, a diplomat who helped guide international trade policy for the United States over two decades, died on Monday in Washington. He was 82. The cause was leukemia, said his son John. Mr. Greenwald was appointed in 1969 to the post of ambassador to the Organi
 Kaj Aage Strand, an astronomer and former scientific director of the United States Naval Observatory, died on Tuesday in Washington. He was 93. In 1958, Dr. Strand joined the observatory, the nation's time-keeper and celestial observer since 1830, as head of its astronomy and astrop
 Mike Turnesa, a member of a renowned Westchester County golfing family who competed as a top touring pro in the 1930's and 1940's and was runner-up to Ben Hogan in the 1948 Professional Golfers Association Championship, died Tuesday at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. He was 
 Walter Shenson, the producer of the Beatles' films ''A Hard Day's Night'' and ''Help!,'' died on Oct. 17 in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 81. Mr. Shenson, who was born in San Francisco, was working in London as a film producer -- most notably of ''The Mouse That Roared,'' with Peter
 Winston Grennan, a Jamaican drummer whose extensive studio work crystallized and disseminated the fundamental reggae rhythm called one drop, died on Oct. 27 in Nantucket, Mass., where he had moved this year. He was 56. The cause was lung and bone cancer, said his wife, Ellie Hiteshe
 Alexander W. Allport, a founder of the Green Guerillas, died on Oct. 15 in a Mount Vernon, N.Y., hospital. He was 78 and lived in Denver, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, said a daughter, Susan Allport Howell. The Green Guerillas, founded in 1973, is a nonprofit group that
 Robert E. Cormier, the author of 18 challenging and critically acclaimed books for young adults, died on Thursday. He was 75 and lived in Leominster, Mass. The cause was complications from a blood clot, said a daughter, Chris Cormier Hayes. Although several of Mr. Cormier's 
 Robert M. Carroll, who used tools from medieval times and the space age on his job as armorer at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Oct. 22 at his home in Somers, N.Y. He was 53. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Catherine Gallagher. From marshaling armies of
 Donald F. Lach, a historian who was an authority on Asia's influence on Europe from 1500 to 1800, died on Oct. 26 at a Chicago hospital. He was 83 and lived in Chicago. Mr. Lach (pronounced lock) became the university's Bernadotte E. Schmitt professor in history in 1969, after teach
 Jimmie H. Davis, the troubador and composer of one of America's best-loved songs, ''You Are My Sunshine,'' who yodeled and smiled his way into the hearts of Louisiana voters to serve two terms as their Singing Governor, died yesterday at his home in Baton Rouge, La. Mr. Davis, who a
 David Brower, an uncompromising environmentalist who spent more than half a century fighting to protect America's wilderness areas against speculators, developers, state agencies and the federal government, died on Sunday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 88. Mr. Brower was wid
 Leonardo Benvenuti, who wrote some 200 film scripts, including classics like Sergio Leone's ''Once Upon a Time in America'' and Vittorio De Sica's ''Marriage, Italian Style,'' died on Friday in San Giacomo Hospital. He was 77. The cause was complications after heart bypass surgery. 
 Thomas Baird Campion, a former New York Times director of operations, campus administrator at the University of Massachusetts and innovative fund-raiser for Dartmouth College, died on Friday at his retirement home in Lebanon, N.H. He was 84 and formerly lived in Hanover, N.H., and Bronxvill
 Donald D. Jones, a retired ombudsman for The Kansas City Star, died on Sunday at a hospital in Kansas City, Mo. He was 73 and lived in Kansas City. The cause was cancer of the bone marrow, the newspaper said. Mr. Jones, who was known as Casey, spent much of his career at The
 Jack O'Brian, a longtime New York newspaper columnist who brought a breezy, peppery style to writing about television and Broadway gossip, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. A Time magazine profile in 1964 noted that Mr. O'Brian began writing about televi
 Roger Peyrefitte, a prolific French writer who seemed to delight in shocking French literary and social circles by detailing his homosexual adventures in print and by ''outing'' prominent figures in French public life in his romans a clef, died on Sunday at his home in Paris. He was 93.    
 Brooks Smith, a pianist and teacher who for many years toured and made recordings with the violinist Jascha Heifetz, died on Oct. 31 in Covina, Calif. He was 88 and lived in Hacienda Heights, Calif., near Los Angeles. Mr. Smith was born in McAllen, Tex., in 1912 and began his piano 
 Frederick S. Clarke, the creator, owner, editor and publisher of Cinefantastique, a magazine about science fiction, fantasy and horror films, died on Oct. 17 in Adair County, Iowa. He was 51 and lived in Oak Park, Ill., a Chicago suburb. He had been suffering from depression and com
 Dr. Hart Edgar Van Riper, a pediatrician who as a foundation official shepherded the development of the vaccines that virtually wiped out polio in the United States, died Saturday in Indianapolis. A former resident of the Upper East Side of Manhattan, he was 95. Dr. Van Riper was me
 J. Sinclair Armstrong, a Manhattan banker, lawyer and high government official whose 60-year career in the quiet corridors of power had its most public battle in the fight to stop St. Bartholomew's Episcopal Church from building a skyscraper on its Manhattan property in the 1980's, died on 
 Chidambaram Subramaniam, the political architect of the ''green revolution'' in India, which made the nation self-sufficient in wheat production, died Tuesday in Madras. He was 90. Mr. Subramaniam employed his formidable skills as a political persuader and administrator to spread th
 Sidney E. Woloshin, co-composer of ''You Deserve a Break Today,'' the jingle that set the chipper tone for the national introduction of McDonald's restaurants in 1971, died on Sunday at White Plains Hospital. He was 72. The cause of death was pneumonia, said his wife, Sylvia G. Wolo
 Vernel Fournier, a drummer who took part in some of the most modern and far-reaching permutations of small-group jazz as a member of the Ahmad Jamal Trio in the late 1950's and early 60's, died on Saturday in Jackson, Miss. He was 72. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said his da
 Eric Morley, who made a parade of pretty girls in swimsuits into a televised international sport with millions of fans, died Thursday in London. He was 82. A former British Army bandsman turned entertainment promoter, he had an extraordinarily simple idea in 1951, when he was asked 
 Etienne Aigner, a Hungarian-born belt maker and designer whose line of cordovan accessories with a distinctive omega-shaped logo helped define the preppy look of the 1960's and 70's, died in New York on Sunday, three days before what would have been his 96th birthday. He had homes in New Yo
 L. Sprague de Camp, who wrote over 100 science-fiction and fantasy novels and numerous short stories, died on Monday in Plano, Tex., where he lived. He was 92. Mr. de Camp was widely regarded as an imaginative and innovative writer and was an important figure in the heyday of scienc
 Larry Rhine, a writer whose 50-year career embraced radio, television and films, died on Oct. 27 in Los Angeles. He was 90. Mr. Rhine achieved his greatest success with ''All in the Family,'' which starred Carroll O'Connor as the loudmouthed Archie Bunker. His scripts brought him tw
 Victor Grinich, an electronics industry pioneer who helped start Fairchild Semiconductor in 1957 with seven other defectors from a small start-up founded by the Nobel Prize winner William Shockley, died last Sunday in Mountain View, Calif. He was 75. The cause was prostate cancer, s
 Gary Bonasorte, a playwright and a founder of an AIDS research clinic, died on Thursday. He was 45 and lived in Greenwich Village. The cause was lymphoma, said his companion, the playwright Terrence McNally. Mr. Bonasorte was the author of numerous plays, many of them produc
 James Dorr Dunning, an insurance executive who was senior warden of St. Bartholomew's Episcopal Church in Manhattan during a rancorous dispute over high-rise development on its land, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 89. At the outset of the struggle, which 
 Prof. John S. Morrison, a scholar whose boyhood vision of ancient Greek boats known as triremes inspired a modern re-creation of that juggernaut, died on Oct. 25 in London. He was 87. An academic and a college administrator, Professor Morrison was a central figure in one of the 20th
 Richard K. Webel, a landscape architect who designed for museums, colleges, racetracks and corporations, died Nov. 1 at a hospital in Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 100 and lived in Glen Head, N.Y. Mr. Webel retired in 1995 from his firm, Innocenti & Webel, after practicing for more than si
 Charles F. Hockett, one of the last great champions of structural linguistics, an approach to the study of language upstaged by the ''Chomsky Revolution'' of the 1950's, died Nov. 3 at the Cayuga Medical Center in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 84 and lived in Ithaca. Before his retirement in 
 Jacques Chaban-Delmas, a former French prime minister who tried to embrace social change despite the resistance of his conservative colleagues, died on Friday of a heart attack at his home in Paris, his family said. He was 85. Dashing and athletic, Mr. Chaban-Delmas was first a hero
 Herbert Clemens Kraft, an archaeologist whose research threw light on the long reign of the Lenape, New Jersey's earliest inhabitants, died Oct. 31 at his home in Elizabeth, N.J., his birthplace. He was 73. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Joan Albers Kraft. Professor Kr
 Walter Patrick McConaughy, a specialist on the Far East for the State Department whose high-profile postings included ambassadorships in Burma, Pakistan and Taiwan, died on Friday at a hospital in Atlanta. He was 92 and had moved to Atlanta after retiring in 1974 as ambassador to the Nation
 Robert Trout, a pioneering broadcast journalist who was admired for the ease with which he ad libbed his way through some of the century's most important breaking news reports, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 91 and had homes in  Manhattan and Madrid. Mr. Trout, whose career spa
 The Rev. Eugene A. Marino, the first black Roman Catholic archbishop in the United States, whose resignation as archbishop of Atlanta in 1990 was linked to his affair with a woman, died on Nov. 12 in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 66. The cause was apparently a heart attack, church spokesme
 Herbert Brun, a composer who helped introduce the use of electronics and computers in creating music, died on Nov. 6 in Urbana, Ill. He was 82 and lived in Urbana. Mr. Brun was a professor emeritus of music composition at the University of Illinois School of Music. He formally retir
 Michael P. Mortara, a partner at Goldman Sachs who was instrumental in the founding of the market for mortgage-backed securities, died on Sunday at his home in Litchfield, Conn. He was 51. The cause was a brain aneurysm, according to Steven Mnuchin, a family friend and a partner at 
 Rabbi Alexander M. Schindler, who led the Reform movement of American Judaism through 23 years of growth in which it opened its congregations to unaffiliated Jews, non-Jews and those born of intermarriage, and made room in its pulpits for women and gays, died early yesterday at his home in 
 William G. Harrington, a mystery novelist with a long career as a collaborator with celebrity authors, died on Nov. 8 at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 68. The police said he apparently committed suicide. Mr. Harrington, whose writing career spanned 37 years and include
 Hosea Williams, a field general for the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. in civil rights clashes of the 1960's, and more recently an Atlanta politician with a talent for confounding friends and enemies alike, died yesterday in Atlanta. He was 74 and had been suffering from cancer. Ra
 John Bury, the innovative production designer whose bold, stylized sets provided a dramatic alternative to the box sets and realistically painted scenes of traditional British theater, died on Sunday in Gloucestershire, England. He was 75. The cause was pneumonia brought on by heart
 Albert Joseph Guerard, an author and critical essayist who taught modern literature to fledgling luminaries like Alice Hoffman and John Updike, died on Nov. 9 at his home on the Stanford University campus in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 86. Dr. Guerard was a professor emeritus of litera
 Joseph Taubman, a New York tax expert for the entertainment industry and a lawyer for many star performers, died Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 and had his home and office in Midtown. He suffered a brief illness, his family said. Mr. Taubman's career 
 Stephen Borsody, a former Hungarian diplomat and scholar who wrote extensively on European history, died Friday in Wellfleet, Mass. He was 89. Dr. Borsody earned a doctorate in law at Charles University in Prague, and came to Washington in 1946 as counselor and press attache at the 
 William S. Woodside, a prominent business and civic leader who used his positions as a platform to promote social change in the New York area and nationwide, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 78 and also had homes in Scottsdale, Ariz., and Litchfield, Conn. The caus
 Curt Siodmak, the novelist, screenwriter and film director who wrote the 1941 film ''The Wolf Man,'' which gave new form to the ancient myth of a man turning into a wolf, adding riveting details like silver bullets, died Sept. 2 at his ranch in Three Rivers, Calif. He was 98. His ob
 Cal Turner Sr., who began a retailing empire based on the philosophy that no item should cost more than a dollar, died at his home in Scottsville, Ky., on Tuesday. He was 85. In 1955, the idea came to Mr. Turner that the success of major department stores' ''Dollar Day'' sales, when
 Gordon Rich, an investment banker at Credit Suisse First Boston who constructed some of the largest mergers in corporate history and was known on Wall Street for his irreverent personality, died yesterday. He was 43. The cause was injuries Mr. Rich suffered in a car accident early y
 Gordon W. Gilkey, an artist, teacher, collector and for 22 years the curator of prints and drawings at the Portland Art Museum in Oregon, died Oct. 28. He was 88. Mr. Gilkey was born in Scio, Ore., in 1912 and became the first graduate to earn a fine arts degree in printmaking at th
 James Russell Wiggins, a longtime editor of The Washington Post who served as United States Ambassador to the United Nations and spent his last 30 years running a weekly newspaper in Maine, died yesterday at his home in Brooklin, Me. He was 96. During his 22 years as managing editor
 Dr. John Hamilton Reynolds, a physicist who helped refine the techniques for dating meteorites and primordial rock formations, died on Nov. 4 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 77. The cause was a pulmonary embolism, said the University of California, where he had been a faculty
 Dr. Leon J. Epstein, a pioneer in the treatment of mental illness in the elderly, died Nov. 6 at his home in San Francisco. He was 83. The cause was complications from lymphoma, his family said. As a professor of psychiatry at the University of California at San Francisco, b
 Charles F. C. Ruff, a former White House counsel to President Clinton who was known as one of Washington's most influential if least self-important lawyers and who played an important role in events from Watergate to Mr. Clinton's impeachment, died on Sunday at 61. Friends and gover
 J. Russell Wiggins, the editor who was widely credited with transforming The Washington Post from a small and struggling enterprise into a nationally respected newspaper after World War II and who then became the United States ambassador to the United Nations in the waning months of the Joh
 Ethan Allen Hitchcock, a Manhattan lawyer and civic leader who was a former chairman of the Educational Broadcasting Corporation, died on Saturday at his home in Oldwick, N.J. He was 91. From 1961 to 1983, Mr. Hitchcock was a partner in the law firm that became Webster & Sheffield. 
 John Paul Manship, an American artist who was the son of the sculptor Paul Manship (1885-1966), died on Friday in Gloucester, Mass. He was 73. The cause was cancer, his family said. Named for the painter John Singer Sargent, his father's friend, Mr. Manship was born in New Y
 Lars-Erik Nelson, a columnist for The New York Daily News who covered and commented on the collapse of Communism and other events that shaped history, died on Monday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 59. The cause of death was apparently a stroke, his family said. Mr. Nels
 David B. Hermelin, ambassador to Norway until last January, a real estate developer, a philanthropist who gave to Jewish and other causes, and a contributor to the Democratic Party, died yesterday in Detroit. He was 63 and lived in Bingham Farms, Mich. He died of brain cancer, his s
 Emil Zatopek, perhaps the greatest distance runner ever and surely the most ungainly, died yesterday in Prague. He was 78 years old. Zatopek died in Prague's military hospital, where he was being treated after a stroke in late October, the Czech news agency CTK reported. He 
 Dr. Louis Neel, one of France's most distinguished physicists and a Nobel laureate for his discoveries about magnetic fields and their uses in everyday life, died last Friday in Brive-Correze, France. He was 95. Dr. Neel (pronounced NAY-ell) was the founder and a former director of 
 Eugene M. Farber, a California dermatologist who did groundbreaking research on psoriasis and allergies, died on Nov. 10 in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 83 and lived in Portola Valley. The cause was a brain tumor, said the Psoriasis Research Institute, which is affiliated with Stanford 
 John Keats, an author and biographer with a bent for social commentary, died on Nov. 3 in Kingston, Ont. He was 79 and lived in Kingston and on Pine Island in Ontario, in the Thousand Islands region of the St. Lawrence River. Mr. Keats set out in journalism after World War II but tu
 John L. Levitow, the only Air Force enlisted man to be awarded the Medal of Honor during the Vietnam War, died Nov. 8 at his home in Rocky Hill, Conn. He was 55. The cause was cancer, his family said. On the night of Feb. 24, 1969, Airman First Class Levitow was serving as l
 Michael Rudiakov, a cellist and teacher who performed with the Brooklyn Philharmonic and was heard regularly in recitals and chamber concerts, died on Nov. 17 in Yonkers. He was 66 and lived in Manchester, Vt. The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Ariel. Mr. Rudiakov w
 Geoffrey Marshall, the former provost of the City University of New York and the former deputy chairman of the National Endowment for the Humanities, died Nov. 18 at his home in Cranbury, N.J. He was 62. The cause was pneumonia associated with Lou Gehrig's disease, CUNY said.       
 Frederick L. Jacobs, the former chief financial officer of the advertising agency Wells, Rich, Greene, died on Nov. 14 at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 78. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Gloria. Mr. Jacobs, a lawyer and certified public accountant, had his own pr
 Jim Wise, who wrote the music for the 1968 Off Broadway hit ''Dames at Sea,'' died on Nov. 13 at his home in New York. He was 81. ''Dames at Sea,'' with book and lyrics by George Haimsohn and Robin Miller, was a spoof of Hollywood musicals of the 1930's. The show opened at the Bouwe
 Roger David Malkin, a leader in the American seed industry and high-technology agriculture, died on Wednesday at his home in Scott, Miss. He was 69. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Last month, because of his illness, Mr. Malkin took emeritus status as chair
 Theodore Andre Monod, a distinguished French naturalist and authority on the Sahara, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Versailles, outside Paris. He was 98. A member of the French Academy of Sciences and a professor at the National Museum of Natural History in Paris, Dr. Monod di
 Edward Ludlum, who won praise for his stage directing on both coasts, died on Tuesday in Los Angeles, where he had helped to establish professional theater. He was 80. The cause was heart failure, said  David Stanford, his publicist. Mr. Ludlum's direction of a 1951 revival 
 Hamilton Bissell, who developed a program to recruit students who were ''long on brains and short on cash'' for Phillips Exeter Academy, died on Nov. 17 at his home in West Caldwell, N.J. He was 89. In 1946 Mr. Bissell became director of scholarship students at Exeter, as the boardi
 Keith Mant, a pathologist who provided evidence from exhumed corpses for the war crimes trials of Nazi doctors after World War II, died on Oct. 11 in Walton-on-Thames, Surrey, England. He was 81. Evidence that Dr. Mant had collected was used to send a number of Nazis to the gallows.
 Gerald A. Soffen, a biologist who was chief scientist for the Viking missions that searched for signs of life on Mars in the 1970's, died on Wednesday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 74, and associates said he had a heart ailment. Dr. Soffen, who lived
 Henry G. Walter Jr., the former chairman and chief executive of International Flavors and Fragrances, died on Nov. 11 at New York Hospital. Mr. Walter, who lived in New York, was 90. Mr. Walter became president of International Flavors and Fragrances in 1962 and was named ch
 Dr. Louis S. Goodman, a renowned pharmacologist, a discoverer of the first effective anticancer chemotherapy and a creator of a textbook used by generations of doctors, died at his home in Salt Lake City on Nov. 19. He was 94 and had taught for many years at the University of Utah. 
 Dr. James Deetz, an American anthropologist who dug into the country's colonial past, died on Saturday at a hospital in Charlottesville, Va. He was 70 and lived in Charlottesville, where he had been the Harrison professor of historical archeology at the University of Virginia since 1994.   
 Joseph Hirsh, an authority on alcoholism who taught at medical schools, died last Tuesday at his home in Norwalk, Conn. He was 85. Dr. Hirsh, whose doctorate was in education, was executive secretary of the National Research Council's Committee on Problems of Alcohol from 1949 to 19
 Former Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, a pugnacious and partisan Texas Democrat who used his perch as the chairman of the House banking committee to champion public housing and tighter controls over the savings and loan industry, died today in a San Antonio Hospital. He was 84 and lived i
 Hugh Alexander, who became a baseball scout at age 20 and went on to sign dozens of future major leaguers in a career that spanned six decades and countless miles on the back roads of America, died Saturday at a hospital in Bethany, Okla. He was 83. Known as Uncle Hughie, Alexander 
 Sir Malcolm Bradbury, the English author, critic, biographer and teacher known for his passionate support of British and American fiction, died yesterday in Norwich, England. He was 68 and lived in Norwich. He had been ill for some months, his family said. Sir Malcolm was re
 Alan S. Emory, one of the longest-serving journalists in Washington and correspondent for one of the smallest papers to maintain its own bureau there, died on Monday at his Falls Church, Va., home. He was 78. He was Washington correspondent of The Watertown Daily Times of Watertown,
 David R. Hunter, an innovative matchmaker between progressive charities and liberal philanthropists who used a small family foundation to help bring widespread recognition to causes that had been little known, like protecting battered women and promoting environmental justice, died on Satur
 Below a movie screen -- flickering with images from films like ''The 400 Blows'' and ''Monty Python and the Holy Grail'' -- friends and associates of Vincent Canby delivered their reviews of the life and long career of the former film and drama critic for The New York Times. Mr. Canby died 
 Thomas Quinn Curtiss, for many years a reviewer of theater and film for The International Herald Tribune, died on Monday in Poissy, France, outside of Paris. He was 85. Long a fixture on the Paris scene, he had lived below the famous restaurant Tour d'Argent, where he was a friend o
