 Carl Gorman, a gentle Navajo artist who talked his way valiantly through some of the fiercest fighting of World War II, died on Thursday at a hospital in Gallup, N.M. He was 90 and the oldest of the 400 Navajo code talkers who were proud to call themselves Washindon be Akalh B-kosi-lai, or,
 James J. O'Brien Sr., a former executive at the Chase Manhattan Bank and on Wall Street, died on Friday at Johns Hopkins Geriatric Rehabilitation Center in Baltimore. He was 88. The cause of death was pneumonia, his daughter Patricia O'Brien Roth said. Mr. O'Brien joined Cha
 Jarlath J. Graham, a former editor of Advertising Age, died on Jan. 24 at Wagner Health Center in Evanston, Ill. Mr. Graham, a resident of Chicago, was 78. The cause of death was cancer, said Carol Graham, his daughter. Mr. Graham, who was known as Jack, joined Advertising A
 Joseph E. Marine, a Democratic State Senator from the North Bronx in the 1960's, died Sunday at the Oakwood Health Facility in Amherst, N.Y. He was 92 and had lived in Oceanside, N.Y., after his stint in Albany. Mr. Marine entered the Senate in 1960, representing the borough's Wakef
 Samuel D. Wright, a former City Councilman from Brooklyn and a former New York State Assemblyman who was chairman of the Black and Puerto Rican Caucus in both legislative bodies, died on Jan. 20 at his home in Hilton Head, S.C., where he lived in retirement. He was 73. The cause was
 Victor Pasmore, painter, printmaker, educator and for more than 50 years a volatile but invaluable figure in the British art world, died on Jan. 22 at his home on the island of Malta. He was 87. Mr. Pasmore lived the successive adventures of contemporary art and added something of h
 Woody Romoff, who moved effortlessly for a half-century between the worlds of Broadway and light opera, died on Jan. 20 at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in Manhattan, just down the block from his former apartment. He was 79. One of four sons born to Romanian and Hungaria
 Bob Russell, an inveterate entertainer who sang, joked, composed, wrote, staged and M.C.'d his way through an eclectic half-century career in the very penumbra of the national limelight, died on Jan. 24 at a hospital near his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 90. A baritone who yearned 
 Hector Eduardo Cabanillas, a retired Argentine Army colonel who was responsible for the military Government's effort to hide the body of Eva Peron, died on Jan. 30. He was 84 and suffered from a long illness, an army spokesman said. Colonel Cabanillas was in charge of military intel
 Joseph E. Marine, a Democratic State Senator from the North Bronx in the 1960's, died on Jan. 25 at the Oakwood Health Facility in Amherst, N.Y. He was 92 and had lived in Oceanside, N.Y., after his stint in Albany. Mr. Marine entered the Senate in 1960, representing the borough's W
 Kenneth Sherbell, a state senator from Brooklyn in the late 1940's, died on Jan. 23 at Parkway Hospital in Queens. He was 80 and lived in the Jamaica Estates section of Queens. He had a long illness, said his daughter, Suzanne Sherbell. Mr. Sherbell, a member of the old Amer
 Mario Schifano, one of Italy's best-known contemporary painters, died on Jan. 26 at the Santo Spirito Hospital in Rome. He was 63 and lived in Rome. The cause was a heart attack, his doctors said. Mr. Schifano was born in Homs, Libya, in 1934. He moved to Rome with his famil
 Marshall W. Wiley, a retired career diplomat and expert on the Arab world who was Ambassador to Oman, died on Saturday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 72 and lived in Bethesda, Md. The cause was acute leukemia, said his wife, Marjorie. Mr. Wile
 Renzo Mongiardino, a stage and screen set designer who also was called the world's greatest living interior decorator, died on Jan. 16 in Milan, Italy, where he lived. He was 81. The cause was a variety of ailments, including pneumonia, that stemmed from an operation in November to 
 Dr. Virgil E. Barnes, a geologist who contended that the black glassy beads called tektites, which had been regarded as extraterrestrial objects, were created from soil and rock by catastrophic cosmic collisions, some as many as 35 million years ago, died on Wednesday at Seton Medical Cente
 Alfred Edward Maumenee, director emeritus of the Wilmer Eye Institute at the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, died on Jan. 18 at his home in Port Clear, Ala. He was 84 and lived in Stevenson, Md., until his retirement in 1991. An eye surgeon and former William Holland Wilmer prof
 Clifford D. Siverd, a former chairman of the American Cyanamid Company, died on Jan. 16 at his home in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 85. Mr. Siverd was named president and chief executive of American Cyanamid in 1967, and was appointed chairman in 1972. He continued Cyanamid's 
 J. Scott Howard, a risk management expert who was a vice president of J. P. Morgan & Company in New York, died on Jan. 14 at Mount Sinai Hospital after a long hospitalization for cancer. He was 53 years old and lived in Hightstown, N.J. Mr. Howard spent 27 years with J. P. Morgan. H
 John Taylor Ellis, a pathologist and educator who was pathologist in chief at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center and chairman of the Pathology Department at Cornell University Medical College from 1968 to 1994, died on Jan. 10 at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence. He was 77 and live
 Nino Pirrotta, an influential Italian musicologist, died on Jan. 15 in his native Palermo. He was 89. Mr. Pirrotta is best known for having brought new and rigorous techniques to the study of music, asserting that music history should be examined within the broader context of litera
 Samuel Eilenberg, an eminent mathematician and collector of  Asian art, died on Friday at the Isabella Geriatric Center in upper Manhattan, where he had been for three months. He was 84 and had been a longtime resident of the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He had been in poor health 
 C. Lane Fortinberry, a media consultant and former executive at Time Inc. and The New York Times, died last Wednesday at his home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, said Steve Ellwanger, a friend. Mr. Fortinberry retired in 1976 as publisher of Lif
 John Peter McGoff, a conservative Republican fund-raiser, entrepreneur and onetime owner of a string of small radio stations and newspapers, died on Jan. 21 at his home in Charlevoix, Mich. He was 73. The cause was cancer, according to The Macomb Daily of Mount Clemens, Mich., which
 The American tenor Richard Cassilly, who was a mainstay in the heldentenor repertory in opera houses around the world for 30 years, died on Friday in Boston, where he lived. He was 70. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, his family said. Mr. Cassilly had a 6 foot 3 inch, 25
 Robert Gordon Main, a former appeals judge and Republican Assemblyman from New York's North Country, died on Monday at Alice Hyde Hospital in upstate Malone, N.Y. A native and resident of Malone, he was 80. He was practicing with the firm of Main & Pond when he was elected to repres
 Roger L. Stevens, the real estate magnate, legendary Broadway producer and bravura fund-raiser who enriched Washington's cultural life by finding ways to create the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts and by leading it for its first 17 years, died on Monday at Georgetown Universi
 Franklin M. Kreml, a former police officer who became an internationally known authority on traffic, including policing and safety, and on transportation in general, died on Jan. 28 at Evanston Hospital in Evanston, Ill. He was 91 and lived in Chicago. A formative moment in Mr. Krem
 Gary Nardino, a television executive who was instrumental in bringing long-running programs like ''Happy Days,'' ''Cheers'' and ''Taxi'' into American homes, died at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles on Saturday of complications from a stroke, Bill Nuss, his business partner, said.
 Junior Hernandez, whose Spanish-language morning program was the second-most popular radio show in New York City, died of a heart attack yesterday afternoon. He was 34 and lived in the Bronx. Mr. Hernandez, who suffered from asthma, was stricken outside his offices at WSKQ-FM in mid
 W. Bradford Wiley, a sixth-generation publisher who was a watchful guardian of the independence of the family-controlled John Wiley & Sons Inc., died Tuesday at his home in Summit, N.J. He was 87. Mr. Wiley started in the company in 1932 as a college book salesman, eventually rising
 A. Keith Brodkin, chairman and chief executive of MFS Investment Management, which oversees the MFS family of mutual funds, the country's 21st-largest fund company, died on Monday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 62. The cause was an embolism, said John Reilly, a sp
 Alan K. Campbell, the architect of the most sweeping changes in the Federal civil-service laws since the Administration of Theodore Roosevelt -- changes aimed at making the Government more efficient and enabling it to dismiss employees more easily for failing to do their jobs -- died on Wed
 Cristobal Martinez-Bordiu, a surgeon who married Gen. Francisco Franco's only child in 1950 and later led the medical team attending the dictator until his death in 1975, died on Wednesday in the Ruber Internacional hospital in Madrid. He was 75. The cause of death was a cerebral he
 Jack Streit, a master matzoh maker devoted to keeping an ancient tradition and a family business alive on the Lower East Side, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 89. Mr. Streit was president of Aron Streit Inc., the last independent matzoh company. 
 Eduardo Francisco Cardinal Pironio, one of Latin America's highest ranking churchmen, who was twice considered to be a candidate for the papacy, died on Thursday morning at the Vatican, where he had lived for many years. He was 77 and suffered from bone cancer. Cardinal Pironio, bor
 Dr. Jacob Cohen, a professor emeritus of psychology at New York University who reinvented some of the ways researchers in the behavioral sciences gather and interpret their statistics, died on Jan. 20 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center. He was 74 and a resident of Greenwich Villag
 Rear Adm. William Matthew Lukash, a naval internist and doctor to four sitting Presidents, from Lyndon B. Johnson to Jimmy Carter, died on Tuesday at Casa Palmera Care Center in Del Mar, Calif. He was 66 and lived in Solana Beach, Calif. The family did not make public the cause of d
 The Rev. John Garcia Gensel, who forged a remarkable relationship with New York's jazz musicians and their families as pastor and head of the ''jazz ministry'' at St. Peter's Lutheran Church in midtown, died Friday. He was 80. He was recuperating from a fall that occurred Dec. 19 an
 Norman J. Block, a bespoke businessman who helped define the epitome of masculine elegance as the very well-met and decidedly well-dressed founding proprietor of Dunhill Tailors in Manhattan, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 93. For a man who boasted that he never 
 Norman J. Levy, a Republican State Senator from Nassau County who sponsored the nation's first mandatory seat belt law and championed the metropolitan region's mass transit system, died last night at his home in Albany. He was 67. The cause was complications from a brain tumor, Jame
 Allan Grant, a California rancher who started as a sharecropper and came to speak for millions of farm families as president of the American Farm Bureau Federation in the 1970's, died on Jan. 27 at Kaweah Delta Hospital in Visalia, Calif., where he made his home. He was 91. Mr. Gran
 Ara Oztemel, who built a fortune by cultivating trade between the United States and the Soviet Union during the cold war, died on Feb. 2 at a Miami hospital. He was 71 and had retired to Key Biscayne, Fla., from his home in Greenwich, Conn. Mr. Oztemel had been in failing health for
 Carl Wilson, who helped form the Beach Boys as a teen-ager and played lead guitar and sang with the group for more than three decades, died on Saturday in Los Angeles, where he lived. He was 51. The cause was complications from lung cancer, The Associated Press reported. Mr.
 Enoch Powell, an eloquent, right-wing British political figure known for an address he gave in 1968 opposing immigration from former British colonies, died yesterday in King Edward VII Hospital in London. He was 85 and lived in London. His wife, Pamela, said he had Parkinson's disea
 Friedrich Kessler, a former professor at the Yale Law School who was an authority on contracts, comparative law and jurisprudence, died on Jan. 21 at Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 96 and lived in Berkeley. Born in Hechingen, Germany, he received his law degree from 
 Gerald Pencer, the chairman and chief executive of the Cott Corporation, the soft-drink maker based in Toronto, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Toronto. He was 52. The cause of death was brain cancer, a company spokeswoman said. In his eight-year tenure, Mr. Pence
 The French baritone Michel Roux, who sang frequently with the Paris Opera and at the Glyndebourne festival in England, died on Wednesday in Paris. He was 73. Mr. Roux, born in Angouleme, France, studied in Bordeaux and Paris before making his operatic debut in 1948 in a production o
 Philip Kramer, a former president and chief executive of the Amerada Hess Corporation, died on Jan. 30 at Del Ray Medical Center in Del Ray Beach, Fla. He was 77. Mr. Kramer joined Hess, an oil refining company, in 1969 as an executive vice president. He was named president three ye
 Robert Hughes Brisbane, a retired social scientist and historian at Morehouse College who wrote about the civil rights movement in its early years, died on Jan. 23 at the Georgia Baptist Health Center in Atlanta. He was 84. Dr. Brisbane, who lived in Atlanta, spent much of his life 
 Sam Marcy, an unabashed, unreconstructed and uncommonly prolific Marxist-Leninist, died on Feb. 1 at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 86 and as the founder of the Workers World Party had never wavered in his devotion to what he saw as the pure, shining core of an authentic politi
 Norman J. Levy, a Republican State Senator from Nassau County who sponsored the nation's first mandatory seat belt law and championed the New York metropolitan region's mass transit system, died on Saturday night at his home in Albany. He was 67 and also lived in Merrick, N.Y. The c
 Halldor Laxness, Iceland's foremost literary figure and winner of the 1955 Nobel Prize in Literature for his bardic epics and sharp social commentary, died on Sunday in a nursing home northwest of Reykjavik, The Associated Press reported. He was 95. In his more than 60 novels, plays
 The Rev. Thomas Kilgore Jr., a leading figure in the struggle for racial justice and one of the few men to lead two major national Baptist organizations, died Wednesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Los Angeles. Mr. Kilgore was pastor emeritus of Second Baptist Church, the oldest black Bapt
 William Burling Cocks, the nation's leading trainer of steeplechase horses five times between 1948 and 1986 and a member of thoroughbred racing's Hall of Fame, died on Saturday at his home in Unionville, Pa. He was 82. Mr. Cocks, known as Burley, was born in Old Westbury, N.Y., the 
 Jerome L. Murray, an inventor who touched people's lives by conceiving such items as the electric carving knife, the audible pressure cooker, the airplane boarding ramp and a pump that made open-heart surgery possible, died on Jan. 7. He was 85 years old. Mr. Murray, who was born in
 Maurice Schumann, a French aide to General de Gaulle in London during World War II who made moving broadcasts to Nazi-dominated France and later became a Foreign Minister, died yesterday at the Invalides military hospital in Paris. He was 86. Mr. Schumann was also leader of a politi
 Julian L. Simon, an economist and professor who spent much of his professional life taking on scientists, demographers and other academics who argued that mankind was stretching the resources of the earth to the breaking point, died at his home in Chevy Chase, Md., on Sunday. The ca
 Lawrence Sanders, whose first novel, the 1970 suspense thriller ''The Anderson Tapes,'' catapulted him into the front ranks of durable and best-selling genre authors, died on Saturday at his home in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 78. Putnam is planning to publish his 38th novel, ''Guilt
 Patrick Clark, a chef who helped lead a generation of Americans to embrace a new style of casual but sophisticated French cooking in the early 1980's, and then helped lead them back to the ingredients and preparations of their own country, died late Wednesday night at Princeton Medical Cent
 Thomas G. Dunn, the blunt, often irascible former Mayor of Elizabeth, N.J., who was a major figure in the city's politics over four decades, died Wednesday at his home in the city.  He was 76 years old. The cause of death was prostate cancer, said his son, Thomas G. Dunn Jr.        
 Lionel Aldridge, a defensive star on the great Green Bay Packers teams of the 1960's whose post-playing years were marked by mental illness, was found dead by a daughter in his suburban Milwaukee apartment Thursday night. He was 56. The Milwaukee County Medical Examiner's office, wh
 Robert Mackintosh, who designed costumes for several dozen Broadway and Off Broadway shows and evening dresses for some of the world's most glamorous women, including Marilyn Monroe and Lena Horne, died yesterday morning in his Manhattan apartment. He had been suffering from emphyse
 Alex J. Kramer, a writer of popular songs whose best-known compositions included ''Candy,'' ''Far Away Places'' and ''It All Comes Back to Me Now,'' died on Tuesday in Fairfield, Conn. He was 94 and lived in Westport, Conn. Those hits, and most of his 125 other songs, were written w
 Hans Wallach, an experimental psychologist at Swarthmore College who helped explain human vision and hearing, died on Feb. 5 at the Manchester House nursing home in Media, Pa. A longtime Swarthmore resident, he was 93. Dr. Wallach, a member of the National Academy of Sciences, did b
 Henry Schneider, a New York tax lawyer and president of a foundation benefiting New York hospitals, cultural institutions, parks and Jewish charities, died on Monday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 87. Mr. Schneider presided over the philanthropic work of the Henry and Lucy Moses
 Ibrahim Farrah, a performer of Middle Eastern dance and publisher of Arabesque, a magazine about ethnic dance, died on Feb. 7 at his home in Manhattan. He was 58. The apparent cause was a heart attack, according to Phyllis Saretta, Mr. Farrah's longtime companion. Mr. Farrah
 Milton W. Brown, a scholar and teacher who was a pioneer in 20th-century American art history, died at Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach on Feb. 6. He was 86. Mr. Brown's best-known book, ''American Painting From the Armory Show to the Depression'' (1955), was also his doctoral di
 Robert E. McEnroe, who wrote ''The Silver Whistle,'' a frequently revived 1948 Broadway comedy about a garrulous tramp who spreads good cheer through a home for the aged, died on Feb. 6 at the Hughes Convalescent Home in West Hartford, Conn. He was 82. Mr. McEnroe had written a doze
 Thomas Chapin, one of the more exuberant saxophonists and bandleaders in jazz, died of complications due to leukemia on Friday at Rhode Island Hospital in Providence, said a friend, Sam Kaufman. He was 40. Mr. Chapin was one of jazz's more extraordinary musicians. A typical solo of 
 Anthony W. Le Vier, a test pilot who helped pioneer the development of American jet fighters in the 1940's and 50's and who made the first test flights of the U-2 spy plane, died on Feb. 6 at Verdugo Hills Hospital in Glendale, Calif. He was 84 and lived in La Canada. Once, when spe
 Maurice V. Russell, an educator who taught and directed social services at New York institutions for four decades, died on Feb. 8 in a fire at his weekend home in Rhinebeck, N.Y. He was 74 and lived on Manhattan's East Side. He died of smoke inhalation from a fire near a wood stove,
 Richard S. West, a former member of Lloyd's of London in the United States, died Feb. 3 at his home in Wenham, Mass. He was 72. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Ruth. Mr. West and his partner, Allan D. Parker, became members of Lloyd's of London in 1968, and founded Lloy
 William G. Lambert, an investigative reporter whose work led to the resignation of Abe Fortas from the United States Supreme Court in 1969 and who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1957 for exposing corruption in the teamsters' union, died Feb. 8. He was 78 years old and lived in Villanova, Pa.      
 Hyman Nathan Glickstein, a retired Manhattan lawyer and businessman and an activist in New York City politics of the 1930's, died last Thursday at the Greenwich Woods Health Care Center in Greenwich, Conn. He was 91 and formerly lived in Manhattan, Scarsdale, N.Y., and Hollywood, Fla.      
 Jacques Robert, a key leader of the Resistance in France in World War II, died on Feb. 8, Le Monde reported on Saturday. He was 83. Mr. Robert, born in Paris, was decorated for bravery as a lieutenant in a tank unit during the German invasion in 1940. In August, 1940, he joi
 Arthur Cohn, a versatile and prolific composer, conductor and author whose books and articles celebrated the diversity of classical music and made it accessible to a large audience, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan. As an author, 
 Ernst Junger, an aloof warrior-author regarded as one of Germany's most controversial and contradictory writers, died yesterday in Wilflingen, in southwestern Germany, where he had lived for nearly 50 years. He was 102. Mr. Junger was so well regarded that Chancellor Helmut Kohl and
 Arnold Aronson, who devoted six decades to the civil rights struggle and was a planner of the 1963 March on Washington and a founder of the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, died on Tuesday at his home in Wheaton, Md. He was 86. Although not widely known beyond those who worked
 Bob Merrill, one of Tin Pan Alley's most prolific tunesmiths, who wrote  music, lyrics or both for popular Broadway musicals including ''Funny Girl'' and had the nation tapping its toes to such novelty hits as ''How Much Is That Doggie in the Window?,'' was found dead in his car on Tuesday 
 Harry Caray, whose zesty, raucous style of baseball play-by-play electrified airwaves and roused fans for more than half a century, died yesterday at Eisenhower Medical Center in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 78. Mr. Caray, who lived in Palm Springs, Calif., during the baseball off s
 Kenneth Frankel, a prolific stage director who won an Obie award for his production of Simon Gray's ''Quartermaine's Terms'' and staged the premiere of Mark Medoff's ''When You Comin' Back, Red Ryder?,'' died last Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 56. The cause was a brain
 Charles Cogen, the first president of the New York City teachers' union and the leader of a one-day strike in 1960 that won bargaining rights for the city's public-school teachers, died Wednesday. He was 94. Mr. Cogen died of Parkinson's disease in a retirement home in Washington, f
 Justice Lewis R. Friedman of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, who was entrusted with the most complex commercial cases on the docket, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital after suffering a heart attack. He was 56 and lived on the Upper East Side. He was stricken while exercising i
 Lord Granville of Eye, the oldest member of the British Parliament, died in a London nursing home on Saturday, two days after making a rare appearance in the House of Lords to celebrate his 100th birthday. His life as a soldier, politician, businessman and author of spy thrillers re
 Benjamin Aranda 3d, a judge of the Los Angeles Municipal Court and a founder of organizations that worked toward increasing employment opportunities for minorities in the judicial system, died on Jan. 28. He was 58 and lived in Torrance, Calif. Judge Aranda, who suffered from hypert
 David C. Masket, a former president of Maidenform Worldwide, died at New York University Hospital on Feb. 3. He was 67 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Masket, who did not smoke, died of lung cancer, his family said. Mr. Masket began his career in the 1950's with the Atomic Energ
 Donald Flamm, a former New York broadcaster and theatrical producer who helped shape the notion of a Voice of America, died on Sunday at Good Samaritan Medical Center in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 98 and had homes in Palm Beach and Alpine, N.J. Mr. Flamm was a native of Pittsburgh
 Fernando Abril Martorell, a former Deputy Prime Minister and a key figure in Spain's transition to democracy after the Franco dictatorship, died on Monday at Puerta de Hierro Hospital in Madrid. He was 61. The cause was lung cancer, the hospital said. Born in Valencia on Aug
 H. Gardner Ackley, an economics adviser to Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, and a United States Ambassador to Italy, died in Ann Arbor, Mich., on Feb. 12. Professor Ackley, who retired in 1984 after 43 years as a member of the economics department at the University of Michi
 Louis Marshall Jones, a mainstay of the Grand Ole Opry and country music since he transformed himself at age 22 into the corn-pone, banjo-pickin' Grandpa Jones who later gained ''Hee Haw'' fame, died on  Thursday at McKendree Village in Nashville. He was 84 and lived in  Goodlettsville, Ten
 Raymond Bushell, a lawyer who was a collector of Japanese art and an authority on the miniature sculptures called netsuke, died on Jan. 17 at a nursing home in San Francisco. He was 87. While living and practicing law in Tokyo from 1948 to 1989, Mr. Bushell acquired thousands of exa
 Anton Rosenberg, a storied sometime artist and occasional musician who embodied the Greenwich Village hipster ideal of 1950's cool to such a laid-back degree and with such determined detachment that he never amounted to much of anything, died on Feb. 14 at a hospital near his home in Woodst
 Jack D. Myers, a doctor who was widely regarded as one of the nation's best at diagnosis and who developed one of the first computer programs to help doctors diagnose complex cases, died on Jan. 31 at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 84. Dr. Myers, whose field was internal medicine, w
 Lee Sherman, who danced with Doris Humphrey and Charles Weidman in the 1930's and 40's, died on Feb. 12 at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan after a brief illness. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Sherman, who was born in Brooklyn, was a track star in high school; he 
 Thomas E. Norton, an art consultant, writer and former senior vice president and director of Sotheby's,  died on Feb. 7 at the Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center in Lebanon, N.H. He was 63 and lived in Kennebunkport, Me. The cause was a stroke, said his wife, Mary Louise. A 
 John Fulton, a Philadelphia-born artist who worked with cape and sword in the bullrings of Spain, then celebrated his momentary masterpieces of ritual death by painting pictures of the very bulls he had slain using their own blood, died on Friday in a hospital near his home in Seville. He w
 M. Norvel Young, the chancellor emeritus who guided Pepperdine University through a period of robust growth as its third president, died last Tuesday at his campus residence in Malibu, Calif. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, a Pepperdine spokesman said. Dr. Young was
 Morris Edward Kriensky, an artist and writer who helped Gen. Claire Lee Chennault's Flying Tigers bomb their targets with precision in the 1937-45 Sino-Japanese war, died on Feb. 8 at Beth Israel North Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Kriensky, who was bo
 Abraham A. Ribicoff, the powerful and popular Governor of Connecticut, Congressman and United States Senator who served as Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare under John F. Kennedy, the President he helped elect, died yesterday at the Hebrew Home for the Aged at Riverdale in the Bron
 Robert Jorgen, who led New York City's efforts to offer emergency shelter for homeless families from the time their files began to trickle to his desk until his retirement from the Human Resources Administration in 1986, died on Jan. 22 at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 72.        
 Stephen D. James, a onetime advertising copywriter whose unlikely proposal for a vast Soviet-American hostage-exchange program propelled him onto the cold war stage and led to cultural exchange tours in the 1960's, died on Jan. 30 at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived 
 Billy Sullivan, a former newspaperman, printing salesman, college publicist and oil-company executive who founded the Boston (now New England) Patriots professional football team and ran it for almost 30 often-rocky years, died yesterday at his retirement home in Atlantis, Fla. He was 82 ye
 Jose Maria de Areilza y Martinez de Rodas, who was Franco's Ambassador to the United States in the 1950's but later soured on the Government and, after the dictator's death in 1975, served briefly as Foreign Minister, died on Sunday at his Madrid home. He was 88. As Foreign Minister
 Mancur Olson, 66, an economist at the University of Maryland widely admired for his research on how groups that represent specialized interests affect economic growth, died last Thursday. He lived in University Park, Md. The cause of death was a sudden heart attack, the university s
 Ross Wetzsteon, a longtime editor at The Village Voice who helped create the Obie Awards for Off Broadway and Off Off Broadway theater and was for 28 years the chairman and host of the annual event, died on Friday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan after heart surgery. He was 65 and liv
 Sir Francis Harry Hinsley, a British historian and authority on wartime intelligence and naval warfare, died on Feb. 16 in Cambridge, England. He was 79 and had been associated with St. John's College, Cambridge University, since his student days. He was an undergraduate at St. John
 Donald Stuart Russell, a former Governor of South Carolina, former United States Senator and a Federal judge for more than 30 years, died on Sunday, his 92d birthday, at his home in Spartanburg, S.C. When Mr. Russell was elected Governor in 1962, he startled many supporters by invit
 George S. Leonard, a former Washington trial lawyer and Justice Department official during the Eisenhower Administration, died on Feb. 16 at Alexandria Hospital in Alexandria, Va. He was 86 and lived in Alexandria. Mr. Leonard died of congestive heart failure, his daughter Jennifer 
 Henny Youngman, the King of the One-Liners, who implored his audiences for more than six decades to ''take my wife -- please,'' died yesterday at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 91 years old and lived on West 55th Street in Manhattan. Mr. Youngman had been hospit
 Herb Scharfman, a sports photographer for International News Photos and Sports Illustrated, died last Saturday in Scottsdale (Ariz.) Memorial Hospital. He was 86. Mr. Scharfman, a native of Chicago, was a motorcycle messenger for International News Photos in New York and took pictur
 Mohammad T. Mehdi, an outspoken critic of Israel who was often quoted in the press and also spoke on radio and television, died on Monday. He was 70 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Mehdi collapsed in the foyer of a midtown Manhattan office building, his family said, and Paul Giffone of 
 Alfred Terlizzi, board chairman of Capezio/Ballet Makers and an unassuming friend to performers and other dance professionals, died on Feb. 8 at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 58 and also lived in Wayne, N.J. The cause was apparently a heart attack, said Jane Remer, director of the
 Ju Tang Chu, a retired chairman of the Shanghai Commercial Bank, now based in Hong Kong, and the Shanghai Commercial and Savings Bank, now based in Taipei, Taiwan,  died on Feb. 9 in a Hong Kong hospital. He was 97 and lived in Hong Kong. Mr. Chu graduated from St. John's University
 Jo Floyd, the former chairman of Christie's International, died on Feb. 20 in a hospital in London. He was 74 and had cancer, a colleague said. Mr. Floyd's career at Christie's began in 1947, when he took a job at the front counter in the auction house's principal London salesroom, 
 John A. Blum, who spent a long career as an advertising and public relations executive with R. H. Macy & Company, died on Tuesday in Colebrook, Conn. He was 82 and lived in Colebrook. The cause of death remained undetermined. Mr. Blum was found dead in his car after the vehicle ran 
 Leonardo Nole, a longtime postal worker who achieved a measure of immortality simply by standing nude on one foot and pretending to fly, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Sacramento, Calif. He was 91 and the model for the famous titan-sized statue of Prometheus at the Rockefeller Center s
 Dr. Robert E. Gould, a psychoanalyst who specialized in treating social outcasts, died on Wednesday at the Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was brain and lung cancer, said his wife, the novelist Lois Gould. Dr. Gould was a 
 Allen B. Morgan, a former chairman and chief executive of First Tennessee Bank, died on Monday at the Allen Morgan Health Center of the Trezevant Manor retirement community in Memphis. He was 89. The cause was heart failure, a spokeswoman for the family said. Mr. Morgan join
 Russell Carrell, a manager of charity antiques shows across the country for three decades, most notably the Winter Antiques Show at the Seventh Regiment Armory on Manhattan's East Side, died on Feb. 19 at the J.F.K. Medical Center in Lake Worth, Fla., after an emergency airlift from his Car
