 Dr. David M. Maurice, a pioneering eye specialist and researcher who invented a device that is commonly used to examine the cornea, died on July 20 in Manhattan. He was 80. The cause was a liver tumor, according to Columbia University, where he was a professor of ocular physiology. 
 Gerald Gunther, a constitutional scholar and the author of the definitive biography of his own mentor, Judge Learned Hand, and a legal educator who was sometimes mentioned as a Supreme Court prospect, died on Tuesday night at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 75. The cause was can
 Harold Samuels, an art dealer and self-taught scholar of American art, died on Sunday in Falmouth, Mass. He was 85 and lived in Falmouth. With his wife, Peggy, Mr. Samuels wrote or edited 10 books on art and history, including a well-received biography of the painter Frederic Reming
 Harry Walker, founder of the speakers' agency that represents former Presidents Bill Clinton and Gerald R. Ford and many other celebrities who can earn five- and six-figure fees for each appearance, died on Saturday in Burlington, Mass. He was 85 and lived in Lawrence, N.Y. He died 
 Gerhard Wessel, a spy for Nazi Germany who went on to head West Germany's espionage agency, died on July 28 at his home in Pullach, a suburb of Munich. He was 88. General Wessel's death was announced by Germany's Federal Intelligence Service, and reported by The Associated Press.   
 Louis Owens, a prizewinning American Indian novelist and scholar, died on July 26 at the University of New Mexico Hospital in Albuquerque. He was 54. The cause was a self-inflicted gunshot wound, the hospital said. He shot himself in the Albuquerque airport, the authorities said.   
 Msgr. James M. Ryan, a Roman Catholic missionary from Chicago who was one of the central figures of religious and civic life in the Amazon for more than half a century, died in Chicago on July 12. He was 89 and had lived in Santarém, Brazil, since 1943. The cause of death was cance
 Stephen G. Cary, who ran public-service work camps filled with fellow conscientious objectors during World War II and later became the leader of the American Friends Service Committee, the national Quaker humanitarian organization, died on Tuesday at his summer home in Chatham, Mass., on Ca
 Frank Inn, who helped train Lassie and Rhubarb the cat, and on his own discovered and made actors of Arnold the pig on ''Green Acres,'' the 500 or so animals on ''The Beverly Hillbillies'' and his greatest star, Benji, the cuddly movie dog, died on July 27 in Sylmar, Calif. He was 86.      
 Phillip Oesterman, a Broadway producer and director who worked extensively with Tommy Tune and whose bawdy musical ''Let My People Come'' was a long-running hit in the 1970's, died on Tuesday at his home in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 64. The cause was heart failure, said his publicist,
 Bernard Haldane, who founded a pioneering career counseling firm and wrote 14 books about changing jobs and looking for work, died on July 21 in Seattle. He was 91 and had lived in Seattle since 1977. His books include ''Career Satisfaction and Success: How to Know and Manage Your S
 Roy Kral, whose cool interpretations of classic pop songs in the language of jazz were the trademark of one of jazz's most famous duos, Jackie and Roy, died Friday at his home in Montclair, N.J. He was 80. The cause was congestive heart failure, said Jackie Cain, his wife and collab
 Dr. Archer Martin, a British biochemist who won a 1952 Nobel Prize in Chemistry for discovering one of the most widely used analytical techniques for separating and identifying the parts of complex mixtures, died on July 28. He was 92. The prize for developing the process, known as 
 Bernhard Lyon Kohn Sr., a retired tobacco executive and philanthropist, died on Saturday at his home in Bloomfield, Conn. He was 81. The cause was cancer, his family said. He became president of his family's business, the Kohn Brothers Tobacco Company, and sold it in 1953 to
 Chick Hearn, the radio and television voice of the Los Angeles Lakers for 42 seasons, whose vivid broadcast phrases were credited with adding ''slam dunk'' and ''air ball'' to the lexicon of professional basketball, died last night at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 85. The cause 
 Leslie Slote, former press secretary to Mayor Robert F. Wagner and Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, died on Friday at the hospice at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was liver cancer, said his son, Samuel. As press spokesman to two 
 Chick Hearn, the radio and television voice of the Los Angeles Lakers for 42 seasons, whose vivid broadcast phrases were credited with adding ''slam dunk'' and ''air ball'' to the lexicon of professional baskeball, died Monday night at Northridge Hospital Medical Center in Los Angeles. He w
 Darrell Porter, the All-Star catcher who overcame drug and alcohol addiction to become the most valuable player of the 1982 World Series with the St. Louis Cardinals, was found dead Monday at a park outside Kansas City, Mo. He was 50. The police in the suburb of Sugar Creek said tha
 Duncan Noble, a dance teacher at the North Carolina School of the Arts and a former member of Ballet Theater, the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and Valerie Bettis's modern dance group, died on Monday at a hospital in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 80 and lived in Winston-Salem. Mr. Noble 
 Dr. John T. Edsall, a Harvard biochemist known for his pioneering study of proteins, died on June 12 in Boston. He was 99 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. In the early 1940's, Dr. Edsall and Dr. Edwin Cohn wrote ''Proteins, Amino Acids and Peptides,'' which helped revolutionize the und
 Junius Scales, who in the postwar anti-Communist fervor was the only American sent to prison for being a member of the Communist Party, died Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan and Pine Bush, N.Y. He died of heart failure and the effects of 
 Cortlandt Parker, president and publisher of the Recorder Publishing Company in Bernardsville, N. J., died on Monday at Norwood Caritas Hospital in Norwood, Mass. He was 80 and lived in Portsmouth, R. I., and Boston. The cause was complications from cancer, the company said.
 Norman J. Rosen, a lawyer who was the top deputy to district attorneys in both Brooklyn and Queens, died Saturday morning at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 73 and lived in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn. After he fell ill on Friday, doctors recognized the early symptoms of leuk
 Charles P. Stetson Sr., a stockbroker, philanthropist and longtime board member of Outward Bound USA, died on Tuesday in Hanover, N.H. He was 82 and lived in Southport, Conn. He was the founding patron of Outward Bound South Africa, established in 1992. It works to improve the lives of youn
 Dr. Count D. Gibson, a leader in the movement to provide medical care and social services to low-income people and a founder of the country's first community health centers, died on July 23 in Hartford. He was 81. The cause was a stroke, said his son George. In 1965, Dr. Gib
 John M. Allen, a retired Reader's Digest executive and former official of the philanthropy set up by the magazine's founders, died on July 31 at his home in Pawling, N.Y. He was 75. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Allen joined Reader's Digest in 1956 and was a sen
 Woodrow Wilson Mann, who as mayor of Little Rock in 1957 asked President Dwight D. Eisenhower to send federal troops to prevent a mob from keeping black students out of a high school, died on Tuesday in Houston. He was 85. His son, Woodrow Wilson Mann Jr., said his father had lived 
 Charles Poletti, a son of Italian immigrants who served as governor of New York in the final weeks of 1942, then played a major role in the United States Army's reconstruction of Italy after the fall of Fascism, died Thursday at his home in Marco Island, Fla. He was 99. On Dec. 27, 
 Edsger Wybe Dijkstra, whose contributions to the mathematical logic that underlies computer programs and operating systems make him one of the intellectual giants of the field, died on Monday at his home in Nuenen, the Netherlands. He was 72. The cause of death was cancer, said offi
 Fumio Yoshimura, a sculptor known for his highly detailed wooden replicas of plants, machines and a variety of everyday objects, died on July 23 in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 76. The cause was complications from pancreatic cancer, his wife, Carol, said. Mr. Yoshimura,
 William R. Crawford, a retired American career diplomat and expert on the Middle East and Cyprus, died on Sunday at his home in Greensboro, Vt. He was 74 and also lived in Washington, D.C. He had cancer, his family said. In the 1970's, he was ambassador to Yemen and then to 
 Anthony P. Savarese Jr., a former assemblyman from Queens who played a central role in outlawing wiretapping and legalizing bingo before becoming a justice on the State Supreme Court, died on Monday in Port Washington, N.Y. He was 85. He was first elected to the Assembly as a Republ
 John G. Zimmerman, an innovative sports photographer who was among the first to use remote-controlled cameras to give the public the view from the hockey net, the basketball hoop and the bottom of the swimming pool, died Aug. 3 in Monterey, Calif. He was 74 and lived in nearby Pebble Beach.
 Vu Ngoc Nha, an unassuming man who lived a double life as a special adviser to two presidents of the American-backed government of South Vietnam, died on Wednesday in his home in Ho Chi Minh City after a long illness, his family said. He was 74. Ho Chi Minh City was called Saigon du
 Duke Dejan, who as head of the Olympia Brass Band perpetuated a swinging, exuberant tradition from the earliest years of New Orleans jazz, died on July 5 in New Orleans. He was 93. Born Harold Andrew Dejan, he began playing saxophone during the adolescence of jazz with masters like 
 Justin R. Meyer, a founder and for almost three decades president and winemaker at Silver Oak Cellars, one of California's most prestigious wineries, died on Tuesday while vacationing with his wife in the Sierra Nevada mountains, near Lake Tahoe. He was 63 and lived in Oakville, Calif.     
 Dr. Lyle B. Borst, a nuclear physicist who helped build Brookhaven National Laboratory's nuclear reactor and was an early member of the Manhattan Project, died on July 30 at his home in Williamsville, N.Y. He was 89. In 1950, Dr. Borst led the construction of the Brookhaven Graphite
 Enos Slaughter, the Hall of Fame outfielder whose base-running feat known as the Mad Dash gave the St. Louis Cardinals the 1946 World Series, died yesterday at a hospital in Durham, N.C. He was 86. The cause was complications of colon and stomach surgery, his family said. Pl
 Michael Houser, a guitarist and singer for the rock group Widespread Panic, died on Saturday at his home in Athens, Ga. He was 40. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said the group's publicist, Paula Donner. Mr. Houser announced his illness in a statement last month after miss
 Ed Headrick, who designed and patented the modern Frisbee, died Monday at his home in La Selva Beach, Calif. He was 78. The cause was a stroke, said Scott Keasey, national sales manager for the Disc Golf Association. The association governs and supplies equipment for disc golf, a va
 Galen Rowell, a photographer well known for sumptuous color pictures of the remotest corners of the earth, died on Sunday in the crash of a small plane as it approached the airport at Bishop, Calif. He was 61. He was returning to Bishop from a trip to the Bering Sea, where he had be
 Gary L. Klott, a journalist, syndicated tax columnist and founder of the Web site TaxPlanet.com, died Aug. 10 at his home in San Luis Obispo, Calif. He was 52. The cause was heart disease, said a brother, David L. Klott. Mr. Klott wrote widely syndicated columns on personal 
 Kristen Nygaard, a Norwegian mathematician who laid the groundwork for modern computer programming languages and who helped Scandinavian workers influence the design of labor-saving computer technologies, died on Saturday in Oslo, Norway. He was 75. The cause of death was a heart at
 Russell Barnett Aitken, an artist, expert marksman, big-game hunter and adventure writer whose substantial philanthropy reflected his passions for art and sport, died on Sunday at his home in Newport, R.I. He was 92. His wife, Irene, said he suffered from Parkinson's disease for mor
 James C. Thomson Jr., a Far Eastern specialist in the Kennedy and Johnson administrations who left government in 1966 because of his opposition to the United States' growing involvement in the Vietnam War, died on Sunday in Newton, Mass. He was 70 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The c
 Rabbi Mordecai Waxman, a Long Island rabbi prominent in the Conservative movement who in a notable speech in 1987 confronted the pope on the issues of anti-Semitism, the Holocaust and Israel, died on Saturday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 85. Rabbi Waxman, speaking 
 Neal Travis, a gossip columnist for The New York Post whose work appeared daily opposite the paper's Page Six celebrity page, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center. He was 62 and lived in Manhattan and Bridgehampton, N.Y. The cause was cancer, a spokesman for The Post
 Patrick Chavis, one of five black students whose admission to a medical school in California 30 years ago provoked a Supreme Court battle over affirmative action, died on July 23 in Hawthorne, Calif. He was 50. Mr. Chavis, whose medical license was revoked five years ago for malprac
 Donald J. Sutherland, the founder and chief executive of Quincy Partners of Glen Head, N.Y., one of the first leveraged buyout firms, died on Sunday at his home in Glen Head. He was 71. The causes were cancer and complications from Parkinson's disease, said a daughter, Paige C. Suth
 Kyle Rote, an all-American back at Southern Methodist who became a star receiver with Giants teams that went to four N.F.L. championship games in the 1950's and early 60's, died yesterday at a hospital in Baltimore. Rote, who lived in St. Michaels, Md., was 73. The cause was pneumon
 Larry Rivers, the irreverent proto-Pop painter and sculptor, jazz saxophonist, writer, poet, teacher and sometime actor and filmmaker, whose partly self-mocking bad-boy persona encapsulated the spirit of a restless era that shook up American art, died on Wednesday at his home in Southampton
 Jesse Brown, a secretary of veterans affairs under President Bill Clinton who helped expand veterans benefits to cover post-traumatic stress disorder, exposure to Agent Orange and illnesses related to the Persian Gulf war, died on Thursday at his home in Warrenton, Va. He was 58. Th
 Robert F. Borkenstein, who revolutionized enforcement of drunken driving laws by inventing the Breathalyzer to measure alcohol in the blood, died last Saturday at his home in Bloomington, Ind. He was 89. The Breathalyzer is a portable device that can determine whether the person bei
 Steven P. Yokich, the recently retired president of the United Automobile Workers whose salty language and zeal for confrontation accompanied a keen understanding of the automobile industry, died here today. He was 66. The cause was a stroke that he suffered on Thursday, a spokesman
 Steven P. Yokich, the recently retired president of the United Automobile Workers whose salty language and zeal for confrontation accompanied a keen understanding of the automobile industry, died here today. He was 66. The cause was a stroke that he suffered on Thursday, a spokesman
 Willis Hudlin, an outstanding pitcher with the Cleveland Indians in the late 1920's and 1930's and the victim of Babe Ruth's 500th home run, died on Aug. 5 in Little Rock, Ark. He was 96. Pitching 15 of his 16 major league seasons with the Indians, Hudlin had a record of 158-156. Wi
 Meredith Knox Gardner, a linguist and puzzle solver whose skill at deciphering codes played a pivotal role in the Rosenberg spy case, died on Aug. 9 at a hospice in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 89. Fluent in French, German, Greek, Italian, Japanese, Latin, Lithuanian, Spanish and Russian
 Edward Brodney, an artist assigned by the Army to paint idyllic pictures showing World War II soldiers praying, eating and playing baseball -- anything but being blown apart by bombs -- died on Aug. 3 at his home in Lake Worth, Fla. He was 92. His daughter, Jeanne Brodney, said he h
 Elias Bredsdorff, the biographer of Hans Christian Andersen, who said that his mission was to liberate Andersen from the nursery bookshelf and establish him as a serious author, died Aug. 8 at his home in Copenhagen. He was 90. Mr. Bredsdorff, who taught at Cambridge University for 
 Benjamin C. Thompson, an architect whose exuberant recreation of Faneuil Hall in Boston inspired festival marketplaces around the country and whose Design Research International stores have influenced home furnishings to this day, died on Saturday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 84. 
 Harvey E. Kapnick, a former chairman and chief executive of Arthur Andersen who in the 1970's raised concerns about conflicts of interest between the accounting and consulting arms of the firm, died last Friday. He was 77 and lived in Naples, Fla. Mr. Kapnick died of a heart attack 
 Jeff Corey, a character actor who was barred from his field in the 1950's because of past association with the Communist Party and then became a prominent Hollywood acting instructor, died on Friday in Los Angeles. He was 88 and lived in Malibu. Among his acting students were a coll
 John Roseboro, an outstanding catcher for the Dodgers who was remembered as the victim of an astonishing bat-wielding attack by the Giants' star pitcher Juan Marichal during a game in 1965, died Friday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 69. Roseboro had been treated for a heart ai
 Carter L. Burgess, who had served as president of Trans World Airlines, ambassador to Argentina and president of the Foreign Policy Association, among other posts, died on Sunday in Roanoke, Va., where he lived. He was 85 years old. He suffered two strokes this summer, The Roanoke T
 Dick O'Connell, the Red Sox executive who revived a floundering franchise and built Boston's pennant-winning teams of 1967 and 1975, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Lexington, Mass. He was 87. In September 1965, when Mr. O'Connell succeeded Pinky Higgins as general manager, the 
 Herbert B. Max, a retired lawyer and financier who wrote a book on private equity investing, died Aug. 4 at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 71. The cause was lung cancer, his family said. Mr. Max was the author of the second edition of ''Raising Capital: Private Placement Form
 Martin Deutsch, the Massachusetts Institute of Technology physicist who discovered the strange short-lived substance known as positronium, died on Friday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 85. Dr. Deutsch made his discovery in 1951. Positronium, whose existence had been theorize
 Richard I. Queen, an American diplomat among those taken hostage by Iranian militants in 1979, who was released early when he developed multiple sclerosis, died on Aug. 14 at his home in Falls Church, Va. He was 51. The cause was complications of multiple sclerosis, his brother, Ale
 Swami Satchidananda, the guru with the gigantic cottony beard who opened the Woodstock festival by calling music ''the celestial sound that controls the whole universe,'' died on Monday in Madras in South India. He was 87. He lived in Yogaville, Va., a community he founded, and was 
 Anton Guadagno, the artistic director and principal conductor of the Palm Beach Opera in Florida, and a frequent guest conductor in European and American opera houses, died on Friday in Vienna. Mr. Guadagno, who had homes in Vienna, Palm Beach and New York, was 79 and had conducted Verdi's 
 Bernard Canavan, 66, a former president of American Home Products, a major pharmaceutical and health care company, died on Aug. 10 at his home in Jupiter, Fla. The cause was heart disease, his family said. A native of Scotland, he was a practicing physician in Toronto before
 Eduardo Chillida, a Basque sculptor internationally celebrated for his graceful, monumental abstractions in steel, wrought iron, stone and concrete, died on Monday at his home near San Sebastián, Spain. He was 78. His family said that he died after a long illness. In the 19
 Alfred Ligon, the owner of one of the nation's oldest black-owned bookstores, who rebuilt the business after it was burned to the ground in the Los Angeles riots of 1992, died on Aug. 10 at a hospital in Montebello, Calif. He was 96 and lived in Los Angeles. Mr. Ligon's store, the A
 Allen R. Myerson, an assistant business and financial editor of The New York Times and a former national correspondent for the paper, died yesterday. He was 47 and lived in Glen Ridge, N.J. Mr. Myerson fell from a parapet above the 15th floor of the newspaper's building, at 229 West
 Alexander Klein, an author whose spy thriller ''The Counterfeit Traitor'' was made into a Hollywood movie in 1962, died at his home in Manhattan on Aug. 13. He was 83. ''The Counterfeit Traitor,'' published by Henry Holt in 1958, was based on the life of a Swedish oil executive, Eri
 Allen E. Murray, the former chairman and chief executive of Mobil from 1985 to 1994, died on Aug. 11 in San Diego. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, which occurred while Mr. Murray was visiting California, said his son, Allen R. Murray. The elder Mr. Murray lived in Syosset, 
 John Mather Lupton, a Connecticut politician and educator who had a Manhattan advertising agency, died on March 16 in Orange City, Fla. He was 85 and lived in Orange City. A memorial was held recently in Mattituck, N.Y., his hometown. Mr. Lupton, a Republican, served two ter
 John Willett, an English author, translator and cultural historian and one of the world's leading authorities on Bertolt Brecht, died on Tuesday in London, where he lived. He was 85. Along with Ralph Manheim, Martin Esslin and Eric Bentley, Mr. Willett was one of the people primaril
 Hoyt Wilhelm, the first reliever elected to the Hall of Fame, the last man to throw a no-hitter against the Yankees and a pitcher of almost unequaled longevity in the major leagues, died Friday in Sarasota, Fla. His wife, Peggy, told The Associated Press that the cause of death was 
 King-lui Wu, an architect whose students at the Yale School of Architecture over four decades included some of the most prominent designers of their time, died on Aug. 15 at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 84 and lived in Hamden, Conn. As his first principle in architecture, Profess
 Peter R. Hunt, a film director and editor who worked on several early James Bond films, died on Aug. 14 at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 77. The cause was heart failure, said Nicolas Kourtis, his son. Mr. Hunt worked an an editor on the first four James Bond films,
 Hoyt Wilhelm, the first reliever elected to the Hall of Fame, the last man to throw a no-hitter against the Yankees and a pitcher of almost unequaled longevity in the major leagues, died Friday in Sarasota, Fla. His wife, Peggy, told The Associated Press that the cause of death was 
 Ted Ashley, whose tenure as the chairman of Warner Brothers saw the release of films as diverse as the goofy ''Blazing Saddles'' and the gritty ''Dog Day Afternoon,'' died on Saturday at the New York Weill Cornell Center. He was 80 and lived in New York. The funeral home said he die
 STEVEN BANKS, a Legal Aid Society lawyer who represents the homeless, sits at the large kitchen table with his wife, a housing court judge whose hair is still damp from the shower. His 11-year-old daughter is slurping up Lucky Charms cereal, while his 14-year-old son, arms folded, is making
 William Warfield, the bass-baritone whose repertory included everything from theater works to Handel oratorios but who was best known for his portrayals of Porgy in Gershwin's ''Porgy and Bess,'' died on Sunday in Chicago. He was 82 and lived in Chicago. The cause was complications 
 Alexander Abraham, a retired investment banker and a philanthropist who sponsored low-cost housing for the homeless, died on Sunday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 83. The cause was a stroke, his family said. Mr. Abraham was chairman of his family's investment firm, Abraham & Compan
 Fred Darrington, who was to British sand castles what Sir Christopher Wren was to London churches, died Aug. 16 in his home in Esher, Surrey. He was 91. For nearly 70 summers, Mr. Darrington delighted visitors to the beach at Weymouth, a resort town on the southern coast, with magni
 John S. Wilson, the first critic to write regularly about jazz and popular music in The New York Times, died yesterday at a nursing home in Princeton, N.J. He was 89 and lived in Princeton. Mr. Wilson contributed to The Times for four decades and was a widely heard jazz radio host. 
 Frederick R. Selch, a broadcasting and advertising executive and magazine publisher who owned one of the largest private collections of antique American musical instruments, died on Aug. 22 at his home in Manhattan. He was 72. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Selch
 Per Anger, a Swedish diplomat who with Raoul Wallenberg saved tens of thousands of Hungarian Jews from deportation to Nazi death camps, died on Sunday in Stockholm. He was 88. After the war Mr. Anger, who later became Sweden's ambassador to Australia and Canada, worked to discover t
 Bill Wassmuth, a former Roman Catholic priest who waged a vigorous battle against white supremacist hate groups in northern Idaho, died on Tuesday at his home in Ellensburg, Wash. He was 61. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, commonly known as Lou Gehrig's disease, said Er
 Richard Lippold, a sculptor known for radiant, expansive abstractions in metal, died on Aug. 22 at a hospital in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 87 and lived in Lattingtown, N.Y. Mr. Lippold's works, in which webs of wires in polished gold and silver hues were punctuated by geometric forms, wer
 Charles M. Lichenstein, who as America's No. 2 envoy at the United Nations 20 years ago offered to wave ''a fond farewell'' to the world body if its members chose to leave the United States, died on Thursday in Washington. He was 75. The Heritage Foundation, a conservative research 
 Dr. Janusz Bardach, a plastic surgeon who improved techniques for treating cleft lip and cleft palate and who wrote an acclaimed account of his life in Soviet labor camps in the early 1940's, died on Aug. 16 in Iowa City, his home. He was 83. Dr. Bardach, a native of Ukraine who tra
 The Rev. Dr. Edwin Louis Cole, whose experience with an abusive father inspired him to build a worldwide Christian ministry that demanded sexual and social responsibility from men, died on Tuesday in Grapevine, Tex. He was 79 and lived in nearby Southlake. The cause was bone-marrow 
