 Anton Burg, an expert on the nonmetallic element boron who developed compounds used as building blocks in the creation of synthetic materials, died on Nov. 19 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 99. The experiments Dr. Burg conducted in the early 1930's as an instructor at the Univer
 Judge Raymond J. Pettine, a federal judge in Rhode Island whose rulings in several prominent cases included ordering an overhaul of the Rhode Island prison system and banning a Nativity scene on public property, died on Nov. 17 in Dallas. He was 91. Judge Pettine, who was appointed 
 Barber B. Conable Jr., an influential Republican congressman from western New York who as president of the World Bank steered it through a turbulent period of defaults and restructuring, died on Sunday at his winter home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 81 and lived in Alexander, in Genesee County.
 Clark Kerr, who created the blueprint for public higher education in the United States while president of the University of California system in the 1950's and 60's, died yesterday afternoon in El Cerrito, Calif. He was 92. Although Mr. Kerr transformed the shape and the scope of pu
 Walter J. Fried, a real estate lawyer who handled the conversion of prime Manhattan apartment buildings like the Beresford and the Ritz Tower into cooperatives, died on Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 99 and lived in Manhattan and East Hampton. Mr. Fried was a ret
 Julian Hirsch, an electrical engineer and writer who was among the first to help a growing audience of audiophiles sort through the good, the bad and the indifferent in electronic sound equipment, died on Nov. 24 in the Bronx. He was 81 and lived in New Rochelle, N.Y. Starting in th
 Meyer Kupferman, a prolific composer whose music embraced both jazz and 12-tone techniques, died on Wednesday near Rhinebeck, N.Y. He was 77 and lived in Rhinebeck. The cause was heart failure, said William Anderson, a guitarist who has performed Mr. Kupferman's music and is a frien
 Edward W. Scudder, former owner and president of The Newark News and the Newark Broadcasting Corporation, died on Nov. 27 at his home in Lake Placid, N.Y. He was 91. His principal residence was in Delray Beach, Fla., his son Edward said. Edward Wallace Scudder Jr. was born o
 George Arthur Murphy, former president and chairman of the Irving Trust Company and a civic leader who headed the board of trustees of New York University in the 1960's, died on Sunday at his home in Washington, Conn. He was 97. Mr. Murphy spent his banking career with Irving Trust,
 James Carter, who one September day in 1959 led fellow prisoners at the Mississippi State Penitentiary in a melancholy work song, ''Po' Lazarus,'' which became an unexpected Grammy Award-winning hit, died last Wednesday in Oak Park, Ill. He was 77 and lived in Chicago. His family sa
 Alan Davidson, a diplomat whose passion for food and its history led him to write indispensable works on seafood and to edit the comprehensive Oxford Companion to Food, died on Tuesday in London. He was 79. He was taken to the Chelsea and Westminster hospital after collapsing at his
 Aaron Schreier, a Michigan architect who early in his career was project director of the World Trade Center's design team and later collaborated with its architect, Minoru Yamasaki, on projects he built around the country, died on Wednesday at his home in Beverly Hills, Mich. He was 72.    
 Dr. John A. Kenney Jr., a leading specialist in dermatological conditions afflicting African-Americans, died on Nov. 29 at his home in Washington. He was 89. The cause of death was heart failure, said his daughter Anne Kenney of Brooklyn. Dr. Kenney was one of the first blac
 Jeff Brown, a magazine editor and short-story writer who created Flat Stanley, the two-dimensional hero of an enduring series of children's books, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived on the Upper East Side. The cause was a heart attack he suffered while walking near 
 Dr. An Tzu Yang, a mechanical engineer whose interpretation of a complex theory for studying motion aided scientists in fields like biomechanics and computer science, died on Nov. 21 in Woodland, Calif. He was 80. He suffered from a number of medical problems, said his wife, Linda T
 Barry Morell, a tenor who sang leading roles for 21 years at the Metropolitan Opera as well as at other major international houses, died on Thursday at his home on Cape Cod. He was 75. The cause was esophageal cancer. In his first year with the Metropolitan Opera, Mr. Morell
 Meyer Steinberg, a philanthropist and real estate developer with interests in a number of shopping centers in the Midwest and Southwest, died on Thursday in New York City. He was 84 and had homes in Manhattan and Hewlett, N.Y., and in Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Steinberg died at Mount Sin
 Lewis M. Allen, the producer of hit Broadway shows that included ''Annie'' and ''Master Class,'' died on Monday in New York. He was 81. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, the writer Jay Presson Allen. Mr. Allen's biggest hit by far was ''Annie,'' which, while it
 Paul Simon, a five-term Democratic congressman and two-term senator from Illinois who ran unsuccessfully for his party's presidential nomination in 1988 and retired from politics seven years ago, died on Tuesday in Springfield, Ill. He was 75. His death was announced by Southern Ill
 Ruben Gonzalez, the Cuban pianist who came out of retirement in his late 70's and unexpectedly rose to international fame, died on Monday in Havana. He was 84. He had been suffering from lung and kidney problems, said David Bither, the senior vice president of Nonesuch Records, whic
 Robert L. Bartley, who led the editorial page of The Wall Street Journal for three decades, championing the supply-side economics of the Reagan era and fashioning a showcase of conservative thought that became required reading for liberals and conservatives alike, died yesterday at Memorial
 Rudolph A. Peterson, who was the chief executive of Bank of America in the 1960's and later ran the United Nations Development Program, died Dec. 2 at his home in Piedmont, Calif., his son-in-law, Stephen Bennett, said yesterday. He was 98. Mr. Peterson spent all of his 45 years in 
 Eugene A. Cafiero, who was president of the Chrysler Corporation in the late 1970's, a period of roller coaster profits and losses for the company, died on Monday in Naples, Fla. He was 77. The cause was complications of pancreatic cancer, said his son-in-law, Stephan Hedbabny.     
 John W. Sidgmore, a leading Internet entrepreneur who became chairman and chief executive of the scandal-ridden WorldCom last year when its founder, Bernard J. Ebbers, was forced to resign, died yesterday of kidney failure, according to a statement issued by his family. He was 52 and lived 
 Joseph R. Daly, who spent 40 of his 43 years in advertising at one of the most influential American agencies, Doyle Dane Bernbach, serving in all the major senior management posts there, died on Saturday at his home in Jupiter, Fla. He was 85. The cause was complications of pneumoni
 Ross R. Millhiser, the Philip Morris executive who enlisted a rugged cowboy image and innovative packaging to make Marlboro America's best-selling cigarette, died on Saturday in Richmond, Va. He was 83. The cause was congestive heart failure, his son, Ross Jr., said. Mr. Mil
 Frank P. Schubert, America's last civilian lightkeeper, who for six decades maintained the beacons of New York Harbor for the safe passage of seafarers in a ghostly armada of merchantmen, warships and ocean liners, was found dead on Thursday at the Coney Island lighthouse he had tended sinc
 Heydar Aliyev, a former Soviet secret police general who for 30 years ruled his native Azerbaijan with an iron fist, first as its Communist leader, then as elected president after independence, died yesterday at a clinic in Cleveland, where he had been treated for congestive heart failure s
 Hans Hotter, whose stirring bass-baritone was a cornerstone of the German opera repertory of his generation, died at his home in Grünwald, Germany, near Munich, on Saturday, a few weeks before his 95th birthday. After suffering diabetes-related complications for the last few years,
 Lloyd Eugene Rigler, a California industrialist and investor whose arts philanthropy ranged from music in Los Angeles to ballet in his native Northern Plains, from the New York City Opera to public television, died on Sunday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 88. His death was annou
 The Rev. Dr. Carl F. H. Henry, a theologian who helped move evangelical Christianity from the sidelines to a central place in American religion, died on Sunday in Watertown, Wis. He was 90. Dr. Henry's death was announced on Monday by Christianity Today, a magazine he once served as
 The Rev. William J. O'Donnell, a Roman Catholic priest famous in the San Francisco area for having been arrested about 250 times in 30 years in support of often radical causes here and abroad, died on Monday while writing his Sunday homily at St. Joseph the Worker Church here. He was 73.   
 Sol Leon, a talent broker who matched stars and shows with producers and audiences, becoming a backstage power beginning in the early years of television, died on Dec. 5 in Los Angeles, the William Morris Agency announced. A former resident of Scarsdale, N.Y., he was 90 and lived in Beverly
 David P. Weikart, who did important studies of early childhood education that are widely cited as evidence that programs like Head Start can have long-term benefits, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Saline, Mich. He was 72. The cause was leukemia, his son James said. Dr. Weikart liv
 Dirk A. Flentrop, a Dutch organ builder who influenced a generation of American counterparts in making pipe organs that play and sound like the classical Baroque instruments of Bach's time, died at his home in Santpoort, the Netherlands, on Nov. 30, his company, Flentrop Orgelbouw, announce
 The Very Rev. Sturgis Lee Riddle, dean emeritus of the American Episcopal Cathedral in Paris, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 94. His death was reported on the cathedral's Web site. A funeral service was held for Dean Riddle on Friday 
 Michael Small, a prolific composer of film and television soundtracks, died on Nov. 25 at New York Weill Cornell Center. He was 64 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Lynn. Mr. Small wrote the music for more than 50 films and television show
 William V. Roth Jr., a longtime senator who gave his name to a popular tax-sheltered retirement account and a 1981 tax cut, died here on Saturday. He was 82. Mr. Roth, a Republican who represented Delaware for 30 years in the Senate and 4 in the House of Representatives, lived in Wi
 Dr. Edmund N. Goodman, a prominent New York surgeon who developed a procedure for detecting stomach abnormalities and treated legendary New Yorkers like Gov. W. Averell Harriman and Eleanor Roosevelt, died on Dec. 9 in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 95. The cause was cancer, said his daught
 John A. Mulheren Jr., a charismatic Wall Street trader during the 1980's and chief executive of one of the New York Stock Exchange's largest specialist firms, died on Monday at his home in Rumson, N.J. He was 54. The cause was seizures that resulted in a heart attack, according to S
 Oscar Schachter, who helped frame the legal underpinnings of the United Nations and taught at Columbia University Law School for the last 28 years, died on Saturday in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived on the Upper East Side. The cause was complications of heart disease, his fa
 David S. Lewis, an aeronautical engineer who took the helm of the ailing General Dynamics Corporation, pushed it to profitability and retired after what was seen as mild official censure by the Navy for cost overruns, died on Monday in Charleston, S.C., his son David said. He was 86.       
 Otto Graham, who led the Cleveland Browns to pro football supremacy in the decade after World War II and became one of the game's greatest quarterbacks, died yesterday at a hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 82. The cause was an aneurysm of the aorta, his son Duey said. Playi
 Dr. Judd Marmor, a psychiatrist who was influential in having homosexuality removed from the American Psychiatric Association's official list of clinical disorders, died on Tuesday in Los Angeles, his son, Dr. Michael F. Marmor, said. He was 93. In the early 1960's, Dr. Marmor, a ps
 Johnny Cunningham, one of the great Celtic fiddlers of his generation as well as a producer and composer, died on Monday at the apartment of his girlfriend, Trisha McCormick, in New York. He was 46, and had a home in New Bedford, Mass. The cause was a heart attack, Ms. McCormick sai
 Robert Lorne Stanfield, a onetime standard-bearer for Canada's conservatives who twice lost elections to become prime minister, died on Tuesday in Ottawa. He was 89. He died in a hospital after a long illness, Lowell Murray, a Canadian senator and longtime friend, told The Associate
 Felix Kaspar, a 5-foot-4 Austrian who won world championships and an Olympic medal in figure skating and dazzled audiences with his jumping, died Dec. 5 in a hospital near his home in Bradenton, Fla. He was 88. The cause of death was Alzheimer's disease, said June Kaspar, his wife o
 Gary Stewart, a singer and writer of hard-driving honky-tonk songs who had a No. 1 country hit in 1975 with ''She's Actin' Single (I'm Drinkin' Doubles),'' was found dead on Tuesday at his home in Fort Pierce, Fla. He was 59. The cause was a self-inflicted gunshot wound to the neck,
 John Dreves, a master crystal maker and creator of the classic olive bowl design that Steuben Glass introduced at the 1939 New York World's Fair, died on Nov. 16, the company announced this week. He was 90 and lived in Corning, N.Y. The bowl, one of the many pieces he designed for S
 Harold von Braunhut, who used comic book advertisements to sell whimsical mail-order inventions like Amazing Sea Monkeys, tiny shrimp that pop to life when water is added, died on Nov. 28 at his home in Indian Head, Md. He was 77. His wife, Yolanda, said that he died after a fall bu
 Henry Saglio, who helped make poultry the most popular meat in America when he slashed production costs by breeding a meatier bird that matured quickly and laid more eggs, died on Dec. 13 at a nursing home in Connecticut. He was 92. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his daughter, J
 William A. Delano, the first general counsel of the Peace Corps and an executive secretary of the City Bar Association, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79. The cause was kidney failure, his daughter, Laura, said. As a young litigation lawyer in 1953, just out
 David W. D. Dickson, the first African-American to head a New Jersey state college or university, died on Dec. 10 in Palm Coast, Fla., his retirement home, his family said. He was 84. Dr. Dickson, a scholar of Renaissance and biblical literature, was president of what is now Montcla
 Oleg A. Troyanovsky, the suave voice of successive Soviet leaders and his country's affable representative at the United Nations from 1977 to 1986, died on Sunday, the Russian Foreign Ministry told The Associated Press. He was 84. Mr. Troyanovsky, who was also Moscow's ambassador to
 Aram J. Kevorkian, an American lawyer in Paris whose witty and opinionated newsletter on the spirit of French law served both corporate clients and devoted Francophiles on his mailing list, died Dec. 20 at the American Hospital in Neuilly. He was 74. The cause was a heart attack, hi
 Dave Dudley, the pioneer of truck-driving country songs and a former radio D.J. who recorded more than 40 country hits from 1961 to 1980, died on Monday in Danbury, Wis. He was 75. The cause was a heart attack, his wife Marie told The Associated Press. Mr. Dudley was not the
 Les Tremayne, a honey-voiced leading man of radio's golden age, died on Friday at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 90 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was heart failure, said his wife, Joan. Among his radio credits were ''The Thin Man,'' ''The Falcon,'' ''Betty a
 Sidney A. Rand, a Lutheran elder statesman who served as president of St. Olaf College and as United States ambassador to Norway, died on Dec. 16 in Northfield, Minn. He was 87. His death was announced by St. Olaf College. Dr. Rand, an ordained Lutheran minister, was preside
 Charles R. Grean, a pop composer, arranger and music industry executive for more than 60 years, died on Saturday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 90 and lived in Weston, Conn. Mr. Grean was a copyist for the orchestras of Glenn Miller, Artie Shaw and Charli
 Don Lamond, a swing band drummer who was a standout with Woody Herman in the late 1940's, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Orlando, Fla. He was 82 and lived in Orlando. The cause was a malignant brain tumor, said his wife, Terry Lamond, who sang and recorded with his band in the 198
 Robert Ross, a retired advertising executive and author of historical suspense novels, died Tuesday in Hendersonville, N.C., where he had lived for the last 23 years, his family said. He was 85. Mr. Ross had worked for the Leo Burnett Company in Chicago and D'Arcy McManus Masius bef
 Alan Bates, the versatile British actor who forged his name on the West End stage in John Osborne's ''Look Back in Anger'' in 1956 and went on to captivate audiences on both sides of the Atlantic in a wide-ranging film, theater and television career, died on Saturday at a hospital in London
 Don Durgin, a former president of NBC Television who led the network's expansion of programming in the late 1960's, died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital in New York. Mr. Durgin, a resident of Mill Neck, N.Y. and Manhattan, was 79. The suspected cause was a brain aneurysm, said his 
 Francis Thompson, a filmmaker whose multiscreen documentaries paved the way for larger-than-life Imax movies, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. He was 95. The cause was pneumonia, said Bayley Silleck, his friend and colleague. During his 50-year filmmaking 
 Herman Keiser, who achieved one of golf's greatest upsets when he defeated Ben Hogan by a single stroke to win the 1946 Masters, died last Wednesday in suburban Akron, Ohio. He was 89. His death was reported by his daughter, Diane Parker, The Associated Press said. When the 
 Earl Hindman, the actor known to millions as the odd neighbor barely seen as he peeks over the backyard fence in the long-running television situation comedy ''Home Improvement,'' died yesterday at Stamford Hospital in Connecticut. A Stamford resident, he was 61. The cause was lung 
 David Bale, a businessman, environmentalist and animal rights activist, died on Tuesday in Santa Monica, Calif., his wife, the feminist author Gloria Steinem, said. He was 62. Ms. Steinem said the cause was primary brain lymphoma, for which Mr. Bale had been hospitalized since July.
 Edwin Leonard Knetzger Jr., the former head of the large multinational insurance brokerage firm Johnson & Higgins, died on Saturday in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 78. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, his family said. Mr. Knetzger spent most of his career with Johnson & Higgins, t
 Gerald Gutierrez, who won two consecutive Tony awards in 1995 and 1996 as best director for ''The Heiress'' and ''A Delicate Balance'' respectively, died suddenly at his home in Brooklyn. He was 53. The time of his death has not been determined. The cause was apparently respiratory 
 John Gregory Dunne, the brashly insightful novelist, journalist, and screenwriter who wrote novels and successful works of nonfiction crammed with pungent dialogue, lavish brutality and vivid glimpses of the Hollywood demimonde, died on Tuesday evening in his Manhattan apartment. He was 71.
 Phillip Y. Goldman, a Silicon Valley engineer and entrepreneur who was a co-founder of the Internet service WebTV and more recently of a company that provides a service to block junk e-mail messages, died at his home in Los Altos Hills, Calif., on Dec. 26. He was 39. The cause of de
