Bethuel M. Webster, the founder of Webster & Sheffield, a Manhattan law firm, died of complications from a throat disorder Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 years old. Bethuel M. Webster, the founder of Webster & Sheffield, a Manhattan law firm, died of complications 
Constantine Stackelberg, a retired economist with the Economic Development Administration in the Department of Commerce, died of cancer Thursday at his home in Washington. He was 90 years old. Born in St. Petersburg, Russia, Mr. Stackelberg was the son of Baron Nikolai Stackelberg, a 
Ferdinand Brickwedde, a physicist who in 1931 produced the first measurable amounts of deuterium, or heavy hydrogen, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Bellefont, Pa. He was 86 years old. The cause of death had not been determined yesterday. Ferdinand Brickwedde, a physicist 
Ralph R. McCoy, a retired foundation vice president and a former oil company executive, died of a heart attack yesterday at the Waveny Care Center in New Canaan, Conn. He was 79 years old and lived in Darien, Conn. Ralph R. McCoy, a retired foundation vice president and a form
Xiao Jingguang, former commander of the Chinese Navy and Deputy Defense Minister, died on Wednesday, the official New China News Agency said Thursday. He was 86 years old. Xiao Jingguang, former commander of the Chinese Navy and Deputy Defense Minister, died on Wednesday, the 
Bethuel M. Webster, the founder of Webster & Sheffield, a Manhattan law firm, died of complications from a throat disorder Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88 years old. Bethuel M. Webster, the founder of Webster & Sheffield, a Manhattan law firm, died of complications 
Charles S. Peckham, a retired political consultant, died of a brain tumor Friday at his home in Stonington, Conn. He was 56 years old. In 1975 and 1976, Mr. Peckham was director of field operations for the Republican National Committee. He was a consultant to Mayor John V. Lindsay and
Francis Henry Russell, a former United States Ambassador, died of a heart attack Friday at his home in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 84 years old. Francis Henry Russell, a former United States Ambassador, died of a heart attack Friday at his home in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 8
Frank Dickstein, a textile executive, died of cancer Friday at White Plains Hospital Medical Center. He was 71 years old and lived in Harrison, N.Y. Frank Dickstein, a textile executive, died of cancer Friday at White Plains Hospital Medical Center. He was 71 years old and liv
Franklin A. Korn, a Bell Telephone Laboratories researcher who helped create touch-tone telephones and the direct-dial long-distance system, died of kidney failure Friday at the age of 83. Franklin A. Korn, a Bell Telephone Laboratories researcher who helped create touch-tone 
Harold Field Horne Jr., former president of the Field Home, a senior-care center in Peekskill, N.Y., died of lung cancer Friday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 72 years old and lived in Somers, N.Y. Harold Field Horne Jr., former president of the F
Dr. John M. Hefton, a biomedical researcher whose work in skin grafting led to new techniques for treating burn victims, died of AIDS Thursday at New York Hospital. He was 50 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. John M. Hefton, a biomedical researcher whose work in skin graft
Leverett Edwards, a labor relations expert who for many years helped avert or settle national railway and airline strikes, died yesterday at Harris Hospital in Fort Worth after a long illness. He was 87 years old and lived in Fort Worth and Oklahoma City. Leverett Edwards, a l
Dr. Max Fine, an ophthalmologist who performed the first corneal transplant in the West in 1939 and trained many leading corneal surgeons, died of a heart attack Wednesday at Mt. Zion Hospital and Medical Center in San Francisco, where he lived. He was 81 years old. Dr. Max Fi
Franklin A. Korn, a Bell Telephone Laboratories researcher who helped create touch-tone telephones and the direct-dial long-distance system, died of kidney failure Friday. He was 83 years old. Franklin A. Korn, a Bell Telephone Laboratories researcher who helped create touch-t
Leverett Edwards, a labor relations expert who for many years helped avert or settle national railway and airline strikes, died yesterday at Harris Hospital in Fort Worth after a long illness. He was 87 years old and lived in Fort Worth and Oklahoma City. Leverett Edwards, a l
Alfred Rice, a prominent Manhattan lawyer who numbered Ernest Hemingway and E. E. Cummings among his clients, died of kidney failure Wednesday at Long Island Jewish Hospital in Queens. He was 81 years old and lived in Roslyn, L.I. Alfred Rice, a prominent Manhattan lawyer who 
Carel Goldschmidt, former president of the American Sumatra Tobacco Corporation, died of a heart attack Saturday at New York Hospital. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan. Carel Goldschmidt, former president of the American Sumatra Tobacco Corporation, died of a heart a
Col. Louis A. Nolfo, the first Deputy Commissioner of Correction in New York City and former director of the New York State Truck Mileage Tax Bureau, died of a stroke Friday at Southside Hospital in Bay Shore, L.I. He was 85 years old and lived in West Point, N.Y. Col. Louis A
Hugo Vincent Alessandroni, a chemical engineer who won a bronze medal in fencing in the Olympics in 1932, died of a heart attack Friday at his home in Little Silver, N.J. He was 81 years old. Hugo Vincent Alessandroni, a chemical engineer who won a bronze medal in fencing in t
Israel Laster, former director of the New York Chapter of the American Jewish Committee, died of a heart attack Saturday at the Addison Gilbert Hospital in Gloucester, Mass. He was 72 years old and had homes in Rockport, Mass., and Manhattan. Israel Laster, former director of 
Laurence I. Hewes, a retired land-use economist who had worked for the Agriculture Department and the Agency for International Development, died of complications resulting from Parkinson's Disease Friday at Williamson Medical Center, Brentwood, Tenn. He was 86 years old and lived in B
Millard Sheets, a prolific painter, a designer of more than 100 buildings and for 26 years an art professor at Scripps College in Claremont, Calif., died at his home in Gualala, Calif., on Saturday. He was 81 years old. Millard Sheets, a prolific painter, a designer of more th
Dr. Norman E. Zinberg, a psychoanalyst whose research into the effects of drugs on individuals and social groups influenced the direction of drug-abuse treatment, died Sunday of a heart attack at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 67 years old. Dr. Norman E. Zinberg, a psycho
Dr. Pinchas H. Peli, an Israeli rabbi and professor whose books, essays and lectures placed him among the world's most popular contemporary Jewish scholars, died of cancer complicated by pneumonia yesterday. He was 59 years old and lived in Jerusalem. Dr. Pinchas H. Peli, an I
Roger Cortesi, an investment banker, died yesterday at Westerly (R.I.) Hospital. He was 87 years old and lived in Stonington, Conn. Roger Cortesi, an investment banker, died yesterday at Westerly (R.I.) Hospital. He was 87 years old and lived in Stonington, Conn. Mr. C
Andrea Busiri Vici, an architect who helped design the Italian Pavilion at the 1939 World's Fair in New York City, died of heart failure Tuesday at the European Hospital here. He was 86 years old. Andrea Busiri Vici, an architect who helped design the Italian Pavilion at the 1
Brother John E. Daly, a former dean of students and professor of philosophy at Iona College, died of complications from emphysema Sunday at St. Joseph's Residence in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 70 years old and lived in New Rochelle. Brother John E. Daly, a former dean of studen
Richard H. Parke, a former reporter and editor for The New York Times, died of liver cancer yesterday at the hospice of Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 80 years old and lived in Greenwich. Richard H. Parke, a former reporter and editor for The New York Times, died of liver 
Thomas J. Brogan, founder of an automobile dealership and a former chairman of the New Jersey Racing Commission, died Sunday at St. Francis Hospital in Miami Beach. He was 93 years old and had homes in Bal Harbor, Fla. and in Ridgewood and Spring Lake, N.J. Thomas J. Brogan, f
Dr. Jan Aleksander Rajchman, an electronics expert whose work led to the development of high-speed computer memory systems, died Saturday at the Princeton (N.J.) Medical Center. He was 80 years old and lived in Princeton. Dr. Jan Aleksander Rajchman, an electronics expert whos
Howard Ellis Cox, a socially prominent Manhattan lawyer, died of a stroke Tuesday at the Hospice of Palm Beach, Fla. He was 76 years old and maintained homes in Palm Beach, Manhattan and Westhampton Beach, L.I. Howard Ellis Cox, a socially prominent Manhattan lawyer, died of a
Lawrence Pope, a bank president who became a bank robber, collapsed and died Monday on a street in Austin. He was 70 years old. Lawrence Pope, a bank president who became a bank robber, collapsed and died Monday on a street in Austin. He was 70 years old. Mr. Pope bega
Walter D. Floersheimer, an investment banker and philanthropist, died of cancer Monday at his home in Zurich. He was 89 years old and also lived in Palm Beach, Fla. Walter D. Floersheimer, an investment banker and philanthropist, died of cancer Monday at his home in Zurich. He
William Lee Phyfe, a former director of shareholder relations for A.T. & T., died Monday at Indian River Memorial Hospital in Vero Beach, Fla., after a brief illness. He was 78 years old and lived in Vero Beach. William Lee Phyfe, a former director of shareholder relations for
Archibald McG. Foster, a leading figure in the advertising industry for almost 40 years, died of a ruptured appendix Tuesday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 73 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Layford Cay in the Bahamas. Archibald McG. Fost
Bayard Schieffelin, executive officer of the New York Public Library from 1950 to 1968 and a member of the family that owned Schieffelin & Company, the drug-importing concern, died of heart failure yesterday at his home in Short Hills, N.J. He was 85 years old. Bayard Schieffe
Bill Gunn, a playwright, screenwriter, novelist and actor, died Wednesday in Nyack (N.Y.) Hospital, one day before his play ''The Forbidden City'' opened at the Public Theater. He was 59 years old and lived in Tappan, N.Y. Bill Gunn, a playwright, screenwriter, novelist and ac
Dr. David I. Gaines, who taught history at City College for 40 years before retiring in 1967, died March 23 at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged. He was 92 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. David I. Gaines, who taught history at City College for 40 years before ret
Dean Albertson, a historian who helped develop the oral history project at Columbia University and was a teacher at the University of Massachusetts since 1965, died last Friday at his home in Longmeadow, Mass. He was 68 years old. Dean Albertson, a historian who helped develop
Dr. Otto Brandman, an expert on diabetes and a former president of the New Jersey State Diabetic Association, died of pneumonia Wednesday at Bay Shore Community Hospital in Holmdel, N.J. He was 88 years old and lived in Locust, N.J. Previously, he lived in Maplewood. Dr. Otto 
Edmund F. Wagner, a longtime real-estate executive and former president of the Seamen's Bank for Savings, died yesterday at Lohman Village in the Wartburg Home complex in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He was 91 years old and, until this year, had lived in Scarsdale, N.Y., for 40 years. E
Harold T. P. Hayes, a former editor of Esquire magazine who nurtured the novelistic and experimental new journalism of the 1960's, died of a brain tumor Wednesday at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 62 years old and lived in West Los Angeles. Harold T. P.
John Kilbride, the retired chief executive of the North American interests of Sweden's Brostrom Shipping Company, died Tuesday at his home in Bellrose, L.I. He was 66 years old. John Kilbride, the retired chief executive of the North American interests of Sweden's Brostrom Shi
Msgr. Philip P. Shannon, pastor of the Immaculate Heart of Mary Roman Catholic Church in Scarsdale, N.Y., and a Navy chaplain in two wars, died of bone cancer Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 years old and lived in Scarsdale. Msgr. Philip P. Shannon,
Robert E. Dineen, a former president of the Northwestern Mutual Life Insurance Company and New York State Superintendent of Insurance, died of heart failure Wednesday at his home in Houston. He was 85 years old. Robert E. Dineen, a former president of the Northwestern Mutual L
Sol Mogal, an importing executive who won seven national bridge championships in the 1940's and 50's, died of cancer Wednesday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 77 years old and also had a home in Croton-on Hudson, N.Y. Sol Mogal, an importing executive who won seven nati
Stephen E. Rothbaum, a managing director of Morgan Stanley & Company, investment bankers, died of heart failure yesterday at Morristown (N.J.) Memorial Hospital. He was 47 years old and lived in Millburn, N.J. Stephen E. Rothbaum, a managing director of Morgan Stanley & Compan
Theodore Batton, a children's clothing designer, died March 25 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 39 years old and lived in Jamaica, Queens. Theodore Batton, a children's clothing designer, died March 25 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Cent
William Payette, former general sales manager of United Press International and a former president of Sigma Delta Chi, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Dallas. He was 75 years old. William Payette, former general sales manager of United Press International and a former 
Sheik Asad Mansur al-Faqih, the first Saudi Arabian Ambassador to the United States, died of prostate cancer April 2 at his home in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 79 years old. Sheik Asad Mansur al-Faqih, the first Saudi Arabian Ambassador to the United States, died of prostate c
Bruce Lawrence Bushey, a program officer with the Ford Foundation, died yesterday at Doctors Hospital in Manhattan. He was 43 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Bruce Lawrence Bushey, a program officer with the Ford Foundation, died yesterday at Doctors Hospital in Manhattan. He
Aleksander W. Rudzinski, who in 1950 resigned as a high-ranking member of the Polish delegation at the United Nations to protest Soviet domination of his country, died Thursday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 89 years old. Aleksander W. Rudzinski, who in 1950 resigned as a 
Maj. Gen. Harvey Jablonsky of the Army, retired, a former vice president of the Northrop Corporation, died of congestive heart failure Tuesday at the Nursing Center of the Army Residence in San Antonio. He was 80 years old and lived in San Antonio. Maj. Gen. Harvey Jablonsky o
Paul Grossinger, former co-owner of Grossinger's, the sprawling Catskills resort known for its kosher cuisine and borscht-belt humor, died yesterday at the Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. His death resulted from an automobile accident March 28 in Highland Falls, N.Y. Mr. Gros
Pembroke Squires, one of a group of fashion designers in the 1950's and 1960's who made American sportswear memorable, died of kidney failure Wednesday at Central Suffolk Hospital in Riverhead, L.I. He was 69 years old and had lived in nearby Quoque since his retirement in the mid-197
Brig. Gen. Samuel Robert Shaw of the Marines, retired, who was an adviser to President John F. Kennedy in the 1962 Cuban missile crisis, died Tuesday at DeWitt Army Hospital in Fort Belvoir, Va., after suffering a heart attack. Brig. Gen. Samuel Robert Shaw of the Marines, ret
Yorke Allen Jr., a former representative in the Connecticut legislature and a former associate with the Rockefeller Brothers Fund, died Thursday at Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. He was 73 and lived in New Canaan. Yorke Allen Jr., a former representative in the Connecticut legislat
Alfred Toefield, the first vice president of the United States Cycling Federation and a former manager and coach of the United States cycling team, died last Tuesday at his home in Floral Park, Queens. He was 68 years old and had been suffering from stomach cancer. Alfred Toef
Dr. Mack Lipkin, clinical professor of medicine at the University of North Carolina's Chapel Hill School of Medicine, died of a brain stem infarction Tuesday at his home at Chapel Hill. He was 82 years old and also maintained a residence in New York City. Dr. Mack Lipkin, clin
Judge Lloyd F. MacMahon of the Federal District Court in Manhattan died of a cerebral hemorrhage yesterday morning at White Plains Hospital. He was 76 years old and a resident of White Plains. Judge Lloyd F. MacMahon of the Federal District Court in Manhattan died of a cerebra
H. Lincoln Foster, a teacher and horticulturist, died of cancer Friday at Sharon (Conn.) Hospital. He was 83 years old and lived in Falls Village, Conn. H. Lincoln Foster, a teacher and horticulturist, died of cancer Friday at Sharon (Conn.) Hospital. He was 83 years old and l
John T. Dorrance Jr., the chairman of the Campbell Soup Company from 1962 to 1984, died yesterday, apparently of a heart attack, at Bryn Mawr Hospital in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 70 years old and lived in Gladwyne, Pa. John T. Dorrance Jr., the chairman of the Campbell Soup Compa
Sol Fishko, president of the International Printing and Graphic Communications Union from 1974 to 1983, died of cancer early yesterday in his Manhattan apartment, his daughter said. He was 80 years old. Sol Fishko, president of the International Printing and Graphic Communicat
Ernest E. Williams, former editor of The Fort Wayne News-Sentinel, the first person to encourage Vice President Dan Quayle to run for Congress, died Sunday of complications after cardiac bypass surgery. He was 72 years old. Ernest E. Williams, former editor of The Fort Wayne N
H. Kermit Green, a lawyer who was a former chairman of the North Jersey District Water Supply Commission, died of complications from surgery Saturday at Mercy Hospital in Miami. He was 86 years old and lived in Key Biscayne, Fla. H. Kermit Green, a lawyer who was a former chai
Herbert J. Jacobi, a retired lawyer, died of prostate cancer yesterday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 81 years old and also had a home in Mount Kisco, N.Y. Herbert J. Jacobi, a retired lawyer, died of prostate cancer yesterday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 81 years ol
John Paul Riddle, an early aviator and a leader in the fields of air cargo and aviation education, died after a brief illness Thursday at Cedars Medical Center in Coral Gables, Fla. He was 87 years old and lived in Coral Gables. John Paul Riddle, an early aviator and a leader 
Mario Chiari, an art director and costume designer, died Sunday in a Rome hospital after a long illness. He was 79 years old. Mario Chiari, an art director and costume designer, died Sunday in a Rome hospital after a long illness. He was 79 years old. Mr. Chiari was bo
Raymond C. Doop, a former vice president of the Montaldo Corporation, a chain of fashion specialty shops with its headquarters in Manhattan, died Saturday at his home in Boca Raton, Fla., after a long illness. He was 91 years old. Raymond C. Doop, a former vice president of th
Willard Francis McCormick, a founder and former chairman of Cresap, McCormick & Paget, the management consulting business, now part of Towers Perrin, died of a stroke Saturday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Darien, Conn. Willard Francis McCormic
William Henry White, an author, editor and publisher, died of cancer yesterday at the White Plains (N.Y.) Hospital Medical Center. He was 64 years old and lived in Manhattan. William Henry White, an author, editor and publisher, died of cancer yesterday at the White Plains (N.
Henry Luhrman, a theatrical and nightclub press agent for two decades, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 47 years old. Dr. Kevin Cahill, a spokesman for the hospital, said the cause was heart failure brought on by pneumonia. Henry Luhrman, a theatrical and nightclu
Howard B. Gill, an authority on prisons, died of cancer of the colon last Thursday at his home in Chestnut Hill, Mass. He was 99 years old. Howard B. Gill, an authority on prisons, died of cancer of the colon last Thursday at his home in Chestnut Hill, Mass. He was 99 years ol
Joseph L. Muscarelle, the founder and chairman of one of New Jersey's largest construction concerns, the Joseph Muscarelle Construction Company of Maywood, died Sunday at Hackensack (N.J.) Medical Center after surgery for an aneurysm. He was 85 years old and lived in Hackensack.      
Dr. John Dolce, an orthodontist who headed several organizations in the dental profession, died of heart failure yesterday at his home in Mamaroneck, N.Y. He was 78 years old. Dr. John Dolce, an orthodontist who headed several organizations in the dental profession, died of he
Louis Soriano, the originator and leader of the Brooklyn Dodger Sym-Phony, a light-hearted band of nonunion musicians who serenaded the Dodgers and musically harassed their opponents at Ebbets Field from 1938 until 1957, died Saturday at his home in the Greenpoint section of Brooklyn.
Martin J. Munroe, a retired vice president of United Parcel Service, died of congestive heart failure Monday at Kennedy Hospital in Saddle Brook, N.J. He was 64 years old and lived in Ridgewood, N.J. Martin J. Munroe, a retired vice president of United Parcel Service, died of 
Abbie Hoffman, the writer and antiwar protester who founded the Yippie movement in the 1960's and became a symbol of radical activism, was found dead last night at his home in New Hope, Pa. He was 52 years old. Abbie Hoffman, the writer and antiwar protester who founded the Yi
Capt. Burton O. Leeb, a retired United States Navy pathologist, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in McLean, Va. He was 53 years old. Capt. Burton O. Leeb, a retired United States Navy pathologist, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in McLean, Va. He was 53 years old.        
Henny Jurriens, the artistic director of the Royal Winnipeg Ballet, died in a car accident Sunday near Letellier, Manitoba. His wife, Judy, a former soloist with the Dutch National Ballet, was also killed. Mr. Jurriens was 40 years old, his wife was 36. Their 3-year-old daughter, Isa,
Hiram Sherman, a stage and film actor for more than 40 years, died after a stroke Tuesday in a nursing home in Springfield, Ill. He was 81 years old and lived in Springfield. Hiram Sherman, a stage and film actor for more than 40 years, died after a stroke Tuesday in a nursing
John Lee Baringer, a retired insurance executive and a director of the United Americas Insurance Company, died of bone cancer Sunday at South Miami Hospital. He was 67 years old and lived in Key Largo, Fla. John Lee Baringer, a retired insurance executive and a director of the
John Patrick Walsh, an advertising executive and former public relations official for the New York City Department of Correction, died of pneumonia Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 58 years old and lived in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn. John Patrick W
John Christian Warner, a prominent chemist who was president of the Carnegie Institute of Technology from 1950 to 1965, died in his sleep early yesterday at his suburban Pittsburgh home in Friendship Village. He was 91 years old. John Christian Warner, a prominent chemist who 
Sugar Ray Robinson, the five-time world middleweight champion who was considered by many boxing experts to have been the best fighter in history, died yesterday in Culver City, Calif. He was 67 years old. Sugar Ray Robinson, the five-time world middleweight champion who was co
William H. Brett, director of the United States Mint under President Eisenhower, died of pancreatic cancer Monday at his home in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 95 years old. William H. Brett, director of the United States Mint under President Eisenhower, died of pancreatic cancer 
Abbie Hoffman, the writer and antiwar protester who founded the Yippie movement in the 1960's and became a symbol of radical activism, was found dead Wednesday night at his home in New Hope, Pa. He was 52 years old. Abbie Hoffman, the writer and antiwar protester who founded t
Alden Perry Yates, president of the Bechtel Group Inc., the worldwide engineering and construction company, died of colon cancer Wednesday at Pacific Presbyterian Medical Center in San Francisco. He was 60 years old and lived in San Francisco. Alden Perry Yates, president of t
Denys W. Knoll, a retired Navy rear admiral who helped organize the first military staff for the United Nations, died Wednesday at St. Vincent Health Center. He was 82 years old and lived in Erie. Denys W. Knoll, a retired Navy rear admiral who helped organize the first milita
Dilson Funaro, a former Finance Minister of Brazil whose hard-line stance included suspending interest payments on most of Brazil's foreign debt, died of lymphatic cancer Wednesday. He was 55 years old. Dilson Funaro, a former Finance Minister of Brazil whose hard-line stance 
Dr. Elliott F. Osserman, the American Cancer Society Professor of Medicine at the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University, died of Parkinson's disease yesterday at his home in Closter, N.J. He was 64 years old. Dr. Elliott F. Osserman, the American Cancer Soc
Georges Sebastian, a Hungarian-born conductor who spent two seasons at the Metropolitan Opera in New York City and who conducted orchestras in Germany and the Soviet Union, died Wednesday at his home outside Paris. He was 85 years old. Georges Sebastian, a Hungarian-born condu
Harry A. Logan Jr., who was chairman and president of the United Refining Company from 1957 until he retired in 1981, died of heart failure on Wednesday at his home in Warren, Pa. He was 64 years old. Harry A. Logan Jr., who was chairman and president of the United Refining Co
Herbert Mills, who sang hits like ''Tiger Rag,'' ''Paper Doll'' and ''Lazy River'' as a member of the Mills Brothers for more than six decades, died Wednesday at Valley Hospital in Las Vegas, Nev. He was 77 years old. Herbert Mills, who sang hits like ''Tiger Rag,'' ''Paper Do
Marvin S. Corwin, a retired New York advertising executive, died Tuesday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif., after a long illness. He was 75 years old. Marvin S. Corwin, a retired New York advertising executive, died Tuesday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif., after a long
Thomas F. X. Gorman, an advocate for the mentally ill, died of septicemia April 1 at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 75 years old and lived in Washington. Thomas F. X. Gorman, an advocate for the mentally ill, died of septicemia April 1 at George Wa
Abraham Katz, a former vice president of David Crystal Inc., manufacturers of women's clothing, died of kidney and liver failure Wednesday at the Williamsburg Landing Health Center in Washington, Va. He was 88 years old and had lived in Freeport, L.I., for many years before moving to 
Chiang Hsiao-wen, eldest son of the late President Chiang Ching-kuo, died of throat cancer today, according to the hospital where he was admitted in September. He was 54 years old. Chiang Hsiao-wen, eldest son of the late President Chiang Ching-kuo, died of throat cancer today
Donald F. Hine, an investment counselor who was formerly a partner in the stockbrokerage concern of Neuberger & Berman, died of Alzheimer's disease on Monday at the Sierra Health Care Center in Davis, Calif. He was 90 years old and had lived in Garden City, L.I., and on Shelter Island
Msgr. Francis Del Vecchio, who was pastor of the Roman Catholic Church of the Sacred Hearts of Jesus and Mary and St. Stephen in Brooklyn for 36 years, died of cancer Thursday at the rectory there. He was 78 years old and lived at the rectory. Msgr. Francis Del Vecchio, who wa
Francis H. Griswold, a retired Air Force lieutenant general who had been a commandant of the National War College and a vice commander of the Strategic Air Command, died of heart failure Tuesday at Saddleback Community Hospital in Laguna Hills, Calif. He was 84 years old. Fran
George F. Burrows, a founder of the American Civil Liberties Union, died of a brain tumor Monday at the Meadow Green Nursing Center in Waltham, Mass. He was 89 years old and lived in Cambridge. George F. Burrows, a founder of the American Civil Liberties Union, died of a brain
Hu Yaobang, who helped navigate China away from orthodox Marxism and led the world's largest Communist Party for six years until he was forced to resign in disgrace in January 1987, died today, the Government announced. He was 73 years old. Hu Yaobang, who helped navigate Chin
Jacob Goodstein, a lawyer and certified public accountant, died of complications following a hernia operation Thursday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 84 years old and lived in Millburn, N.J. Jacob Goodstein, a lawyer and certified public accountant, died of compli
Larry Earl Bone, retired director of libraries at Mercy College in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., died of cancer Monday at Baptist East Hospital in Memphis, Tenn. He was 56 years old and lived in Dobbs Ferry. Larry Earl Bone, retired director of libraries at Mercy College in Dobbs Ferry, 
Bishop Philip J. Furlong, a retired auxiliary bishop of the Archdiocese of New York and the oldest Roman Catholic bishop in the United States, died Thursday at the rectory of St. Thomas More Church in Manhattan. He was 96 years old and lived at the rectory. Bishop Philip J. Fu
Stanley Butcher Kirk, a retired vice president of Union Carbide, died Thursday at New Rochelle (N.Y.) Medical Center. He was 97 years old and lived in New Rochelle. Stanley Butcher Kirk, a retired vice president of Union Carbide, died Thursday at New Rochelle (N.Y.) Medical Ce
Thomas Fogarty Jr., a painter and art teacher, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 73 years old. Thomas Fogarty Jr., a painter and art teacher, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 73 years old. Mr. Fogarty, who taught at the Art Students L
Werner G. Hollmann, professor emeritus of German at Princeton University, died Thursday at his home in Bryn Mawr, Pa., after a short illness. He was 81 years old. Professor Hollmann began his teaching career at the New Jersey College for Women, now Douglass College of Rutgers Universi
Albert Bonnier Jr., the former chairman of a family-run publishing empire that included Sweden's two largest newspapers, died yesterday at his home in Stockholm after a short illness, the Swedish News Agency reported. He was 81 years old. Albert Bonnier Jr., the former chairma
Bernard S. Rubel, who was executive vice president of Rubel's Inc., a Middletown, Conn., retail store, died of kidney failure Thursday in Humana Biscayne Hospital in Miami. He was 88 years old. An obituary last Sunday about the executive vice president of a retail store in Mid
Charles F. Bischoff, a management consultant and retired vice president of Allied-Signal, died of a heart attack Friday at his home in West Caldwell, N.J. He was 61 years old. Charles F. Bischoff, a management consultant and retired vice president of Allied-Signal, died of a h
Charles Vanel, a craggy-faced actor with a piercing gaze who appeared in more than 200 movies, died today in a Cannes hospital. He was 96 years old. Charles Vanel, a craggy-faced actor with a piercing gaze who appeared in more than 200 movies, died today in a Cannes hospital. 
The Rev. Edward J. Hogan, who was associated with St. Ignatius Loyola Roman Catholic Church for 48 years, died of cardiac arrest on Friday at the Murray-Weigel Health Care Center of Fordham University in the Bronx. He was 83 years old. The Rev. Edward J. Hogan, who was associa
Enzo Gaspari, a former New York State senator and assemblyman and the managing legislative lawyer for Shea & Gould, a Manhattan law firm, died of a stroke Thursday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 74 years old and lived in Albany. Enzo Gaspari, a former New York State
Hu Yaobang, who helped navigate China away from orthodox Marxism and led the world's largest Communist Party for six years until he was forced to resign in disgrace in January 1987, died today, the Government announced. He was 73 years old. Hu Yaobang, who helped navigate Chin
William Attwood, an author, former publisher of Newsday and former ambassador, died of heart failure yesterday at his home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 69 years old. William Attwood, an author, former publisher of Newsday and former ambassador, died of heart failure yesterday a
Albert Bonnier Jr., the former chairman of a family-run publishing empire that included Sweden's two largest newspapers, died Saturday at his home in Stockholm after a short illness, the Swedish News Agency reported. He was 81 years old. Albert Bonnier Jr., the former chairman
Charles K. McClatchy, editor and chairman of the board of McClatchy Newspapers Inc., died yesterday, apparently after suffering a heart attack while jogging. He lived in Sacramento, Calif., and was 62 years old. Charles K. McClatchy, editor and chairman of the board of McClatc
Dominic Olejniczak, who served as the Green Bay Packers' president for 24 years, died of complications from a series of strokes Saturday at his home here. He was 80 years old. Dominic Olejniczak, who served as the Green Bay Packers' president for 24 years, died of complication
John (Jocko) Conlan, a National League umpire for 24 years and a member of baseball's Hall of Fame, died today. He was 89 years old. The cause of death was not announced. John (Jocko) Conlan, a National League umpire for 24 years and a member of baseball's Hall of Fame, died t
Roy Valentine Titus, a New York City philanthropist and former chairman of the Helena Rubinstein cosmetics empire, died of complications from diabetes yesterday at the Rusk Institute of the New York University Medical Center. He was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan. Roy Val
Edward M. Brecher, an author of books and magazine articles on medical, scientific and social subjects, was found dead Saturday evening in what was apparently a suicide at his home in West Cornwall, Conn. He was 77 years old. Edward M. Brecher, an author of books and magazine 
Dr. Edwin N. Beery, an ophthalmologist who practiced for half a century, died of heart failure on Sunday at Brooklyn Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Dr. Edwin N. Beery, an ophthalmologist who practiced for half a century, died of heart failure on Sunday at
The Rev. Frederic C. Lawrence, the retired Suffragan Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Massachusetts, died Sunday at his home in Brookline, Mass., after a long illness. He was 89 years old. The Rev. Frederic C. Lawrence, the retired Suffragan Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese o
Prof. Henry H. Bolz, who worked at Fordham University for 30 years, died of a heart attack Sunday at his home in Brookville, L.I. He was 75 years old. Prof. Henry H. Bolz, who worked at Fordham University for 30 years, died of a heart attack Sunday at his home in Brookville, L
Irving Wise, who served in executive posts with the New York City Housing Authority for 34 years until his retirement in 1973, died of complications from leukemia on Sunday at North Shore Community Hospital in Great Neck, L.I. He was 77 years old and lived in Great Neck. Irvin
John B. Poole, a lawyer and broadcasting executive, died Friday at his winter home in Miami Beach, Fla., after a long illness. He was 76 years old.  Mr. Poole was a graduate of the University of Chicago and of the Detroit College of Law. He lived in suburban Detroit for more than 50 y
Sam Wheeler, 64, Harlem Globetrotter Sam Wheeler, 64, Harlem Globetrotter Sam (Boom-Boom) Wheeler, who was known for his comical antics on the basketball court as a Harlem Globetrotter and for his service to the young and needy, died Sunday night at Jewish Hospital. He
Richard Horn, a writer and design critic, died yesterday at New York University Hospital. He was 34 years and lived in Manhattan. Richard Horn, a writer and design critic, died yesterday at New York University Hospital. He was 34 years and lived in Manhattan. A colleag
Vernon J. Harward, who taught early English literature at Smith College for 26 years, died Sunday at his home in Arlington, Mass., after a long illness. He was 66 years old. Professor Harward, who received his doctorate at Columbia University in 1953, was on the faculty at Smith Colle
William Peter Howard, a film reproduction executive, died of a heart attack Friday at Sand Lake Hospital in Orlando, Fla. He was 61 years old and lived in New Vernon, N.J. William Peter Howard, a film reproduction executive, died of a heart attack Friday at Sand Lake Hospital 
Bill Brown, assistant football coach at Hofstra University who played briefly in the American Football League, died of cancer tonight. He was 52 years old. Bill Brown, assistant football coach at Hofstra University who played briefly in the American Football League, died of ca
Charles A. O'Malley, former chairman of Fred S. James & Company, an insurance brokerage firm, died of leukemia on Saturday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 71 years old and lived in Stuart, Fla. Charles A. O'Malley, former chairman of Fred S. James & Company, an 
Dr. Harold L. Ellis, a neurologist and psychiatrist, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in the Bronx. He was 94 years old. Dr. Harold L. Ellis, a neurologist and psychiatrist, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in the Bronx. He was 94 years old. Dr.
Henry C. Howells, who was active in the popularization of French wines in the United States, died on Monday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 88 years old and also lived in Stonington, Conn. Henry C. Howells, who was active in the popularization of French wines in the Uni
Mair J. Benardete, professor emeritus of Spanish at Brooklyn College, died of a heart attack Friday at his home in Somerville, Mass. He was 93 years old. Mair J. Benardete, professor emeritus of Spanish at Brooklyn College, died of a heart attack Friday at his home in Somervil
Raymond Dier, a retired professor of finance at Rutgers University and a retired Methodist minister, died of a heart attack Sunday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 71 years old and lived in Summit. Raymond Dier, a retired professor of finance at Rutgers University a
Robert L. Ketter, an authority on earthquake engineering research and a former president of the State University of New York at Buffalo, died of a heart attack yesterday at Millard Fillmore Hospital in Buffalo. He was 60 years old and lived in Buffalo. Robert L. Ketter, an aut
Thomas McPherson Brown, author of a disputed theory on the treatment and cause of rheumatoid arthritis, died Monday at the National Hospital in Arlington, Va., after a long illness. He was 82 years old. Thomas McPherson Brown, author of a disputed theory on the treatment and c
Bill Brown, an assistant football coach at Hofstra University who played briefly in the American Football League, died of cancer Tuesday night. He was 52 years old.  Mr. Brown was a 1958 graduate of Syracuse University and captain of the 1957 team, which played in the Cotton Bowl. He 
Cecil Leeson, a musician and teacher who was widely credited with establishing the saxophone as a legitimate concert instrument, died Monday. He was 86 years old. Cecil Leeson, a musician and teacher who was widely credited with establishing the saxophone as a legitimate conce
Charles G. Holle, a retired Army major general who was former deputy chief of the Army Corps of Engineers, died of pneumonia and complications of a stroke Monday at Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington. He was 90 years old and lived in Washington. Charles G. Holle, a 
Clifford Hoitt, founder and president of Mapeco Products Inc., a marine engineering concern with headquarters in Glen Head, L.I., died Tuesday at his home in Deerfield Beach, Fla., after a long illness. He was 76 years old and also had homes in Port Washington, L.I., and Manomet, Mass
David F. Sanders, founder of D. F. Sanders & Company, a modern-design store on Madison Avenue, died Monday at the New York University Medical Center. He was 42 years old and lived in Manhattan. David F. Sanders, founder of D. F. Sanders & Company, a modern-design store on Madi
George Whitmore, an author and playwright who wrote graphically about the impact of AIDS on society, died of the disease yesterday at New York University Medical Center. He was 43 years old and lived in Manhattan. George Whitmore, an author and playwright who wrote graphically
Dr. Gerald M. Feigen, a proctologist who was active in political affairs, died on Monday of complications following heart surgery in San Francisco, where he had lived and practiced for several decades. He was 76 years old. Dr. Gerald M. Feigen, a proctologist who was active in
Randolph Mauldin, conductor and music administrator for the Washington (D.C.) Opera and a conductor of Broadway musicals, died Sunday at his home in Falls Church, Va. He was 37 years old. Randolph Mauldin, conductor and music administrator for the Washington (D.C.) Opera and a
T. Coleman Andrews Jr., a former Virginia legislator who headed the American Independent Party, died of a heart attack Sunday at his home in Richmond, Va. He was 64 years old. T. Coleman Andrews Jr., a former Virginia legislator who headed the American Independent Party, died 
Dr. Thomas McPherson Brown, author of a disputed theory on the treatment and cause of rheumatoid arthritis, died Monday at the National Hospital in Arlington, Va., after a long illness. He was 82 years old. Dr. Thomas McPherson Brown, author of a disputed theory on the treatme
Charles W. Hine, retired president of the now defunct International Latex Corporation, of which Sarong Inc. and Playtex were then divisions, died Tuesday at his home in Madison, Conn., after a brief illness. He was 79 years old and also had homes in Miami and Barbados. Charles
The Rev. Chester L. Marcus, a retired regional secretary of the United Church Board for World Ministries, died of cardiac arrest Wednesday at his home in Teaneck, N.J. He was 72 years old. The Rev. Chester L. Marcus, a retired regional secretary of the United Church Board for 
David B. Findlay, an art dealer for more than 50 years, died Tuesday at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut after suffering from cancer, diabetes and kidney failure. He was 84 years old and lived in New Canaan, Conn. David B. Findlay, an art dealer for more than 50 years, died T
W. Deming Lewis, an inventor and researcher who served as president of Lehigh University from 1964 to 1982, died Wednesday at the Blough nursing home in Bethlehem after a long illness. He was 74 years old and lived in Bethlehem. W. Deming Lewis, an inventor and researcher who 
Fred Cramer, a former United States and international chess official who was Bobby Fischer's manager in a 1972 match with Boris Spassky of the Soviet Union, died of cancer Tuesday. He was 76 years old and lived in Mequon. Fred Cramer, a former United States and international c
George E. Bartol 3d, former chairman and chief executive of the Hunt Manufacturing Company, Philadelphia, manufacturers of art and office supplies, died of a brain tumor yesterday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 68 years old and also had a home in Sonoita, Ariz. George E
Hurst R. Anderson, president of American University from 1952 to 1968, died of bone cancer Wednesday at the Edward White Hospital in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 84 years old and lived in St. Petersburg. Hurst R. Anderson, president of American University from 1952 to 1968, die
Robert Amory Jr., Deputy Director of Central Intelligence from 1952 to 1962 and later head of the international division of the Bureau of the Budget, died of colon cancer Wednesday at the Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 74 years old and lived in Washington.       
Col. James N. Rowe, a United States Army officer who spent five years as a prisoner in Vietnam before escaping in 1968, was shot to death yesterday by gunmen near Manila, where he was a military adviser to the Philippine armed forces. He was 51 years old. Colonel Rowe was being driven
James Kirkwood, a novelist, actor and playwright who was a co-author of the book for the Broadway musical ''A Chorus Line,'' died yesterday in his apartment in Manhattan. James Kirkwood, a novelist, actor and playwright who was a co-author of the book for the Broadway musical 
Raymond Andrew Sears, a former track star, died Tuesday after being hit by an automobile in College Park, Md. He was 82 years old.  Mr. Sears went from a teen-age track star in Greencastle, Ind., to the best in the world in 1934 for the indoor two-mile (9:07). Raymond Andrew S
Tommy Thompson, the Philadelphia Eagles quarterback who led the team to National Football League championships in 1948 and 1949, died today. He was 72 years old and had been suffering from brain cancer. Tommy Thompson, the Philadelphia Eagles quarterback who led the team to Na
Edward C. Gray, a longtime executive of the New York Stock Exchange, died of heart failure Thursday at the Carolton Hospital in Fairfield, Conn. He was 86 years old and lived in Westfield, N.J. Edward C. Gray, a longtime executive of the New York Stock Exchange, died of heart 
James Knott, former chairman of Knott Hotels Corporation, died of bone cancer Friday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 79 years old and lived in Locust Valley, L.I. James Knott, former chairman of Knott Hotels Corporation, died of bone cancer Friday at Columbia P
Michael Joyce O'Neill, a former magazine publisher, died yesterday at New York Hospital after a brief illness. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan. Michael Joyce O'Neill, a former magazine publisher, died yesterday at New York Hospital after a brief illness. He was 69 y
Alfred J. Cawse, a New York City Criminal Court judge from 1953 to 1972, died of a heart attack on Friday at the Berkshire Medical Center in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 80 years old and had lived in Staten Island until he moved to Pittsfield last year. Alfred J. Cawse, a New York
Dr. Emilio G. Segre, a nuclear scientist who shared the 1959 Nobel Prize in physics with Dr. Owen Chamberlain for creating an antiproton, or antimatter with a negative charge, died of a heart attack on Saturday while walking near his home in Lafayette, Calif. He was 84 years old.     
John M. Joyce, retired chairman of Joyce Beverages Inc. and a prominent Roman Catholic layman and philanthropist, died yesterday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 80 years old. John M. Joyce, retired chairman of Joyce Beverages Inc. and a prominent Roman Catholic layman
Dr. Lawrence J. Roose, a psychoanalyst and clinical professor of psychiatry emeritus at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, died of a heart attack Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 77 years old. Dr. Lawrence J. Roose, a psychoanalyst and clinical professor of psychiatr
Aaron M. Diamond, a senior partner in the New York law firm of Diamond & Golomb, died of brain cancer yesterday at Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan. Aaron M. Diamond, a senior partner in the New York law firm of Diamond & Golomb, died of b
August H. Groeschel, a founder and the first president of the New York Blood Center, died of pneumonia Sunday at the Jersey Shore Medical Center in Neptune, N.J. He was 80 years old and lived in Sea Girt, N.J. August H. Groeschel, a founder and the first president of the New Y
Hamani Diori, who became President of the sub-Saharan African country of Niger when it won independence from France in 1960, died on Sunday in Rabat, Morocco, according to Moroccan officials quoted by The Associated Press. He was 72 years old. Hamani Diori, who became Presiden
Horace L. Hodes, the New York pediatrician credited with isolating the first virus shown to cause gastroenteritis in children, died of prostate cancer yesterday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhasset. Horace L. Hodes, t
Dr. Karre K. Nygaard, a retired surgeon and a sculptor, died of prostate cancer at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 85 years old. Dr. Nygaard, who was a sculptor before he studied medicine at the Royal Frederiks University in Oslo, did his surgical residency at the Mayo Clinic in Ro
Stefan Korbonski, a Polish statesman, author and a leader of the underground resistance against the Germans in World War II, died of pneumonia Sunday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington D.C. He was 86 years old and lived in Washington. Stefan Korbonski, a Po
Alex E. Weinberg, a tax lawyer and partner in the firm of Weil, Gotshal & Manges, died Sunday at University Hospital. He was 44 years old and lived in Manhattan. Alex E. Weinberg, a tax lawyer and partner in the firm of Weil, Gotshal & Manges, died Sunday at University Hospita
Anthony M. Yelencsics, the Mayor of Edison Township, N.J., died, apparently of a heart attack, yesterday at his home there. He was 67 years old and nearing the end of his sixth four-year term. Anthony M. Yelencsics, the Mayor of Edison Township, N.J., died, apparently of a hea
Bob Allen, a bandleader and singer, died of throat cancer on Monday at his home in Stockton, Calif. He was 75 years old. Bob Allen, a bandleader and singer, died of throat cancer on Monday at his home in Stockton, Calif. He was 75 years old. Mr. Allen was a singer with
Edwin Letsholo Makoti, a founding member of the Pan Africanist Congress, died Friday in Harare after a long illness. He was 68. Edwin Letsholo Makoti, a founding member of the Pan Africanist Congress, died Friday in Harare after a long illness. He was 68. Mr. Makoti, w
George A. Strichman, former chairman of Colt Industries Inc., died of cancer Monday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 72 years old and lived in New Rochelle, N.Y. George A. Strichman, former chairman of Colt Industries Inc., died of cancer Monday at the Mem
H. Bolton Seed, a civil engineer who was an expert in earthquake engineering, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Orinda, Calif. He was 66 years old. H. Bolton Seed, a civil engineer who was an expert in earthquake engineering, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Orinda, Cal
Henry Green Parks Jr., the founder of the Parks Sausages Company and one of the nation's most successful black entrepreneurs, died of complications from Parkinson's disease on Monday at the Meridian Multi-Medical Nursing Center in Towson, Md. He was 72 years old and lived in Baltimore
Irving Usen, president of O'Donnell-Usen Fisheries, one of the country's largest independent seafood processors, died of kidney failure Sunday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 92 years old and lived in Newton, Mass. Irving Usen, president of O'Donnell-Usen Fis
Robert S. Moss, a manufacturing executive, died of heart disease Monday at his home in Bergenfield, N.J. He was 69 years old. Robert S. Moss, a manufacturing executive, died of heart disease Monday at his home in Bergenfield, N.J. He was 69 years old. Mr. Moss was a fo
George Coulouris, an actor who portrayed a rogue's gallery of villains in dozens of plays and films, died of heart failure Tuesday in London after a long illness. He was 85 years old. George Coulouris, an actor who portrayed a rogue's gallery of villains in dozens of plays and
Konosuke Matsushita, who rose from poverty to found the world's largest producer of home electric appliances and to become Japan's leading postwar industrialist, died this morning in Osaka, Japan. He was 94 years old. Konosuke Matsushita, who rose from poverty to found the wor
Leal F. Norton, an investor who headed Norton Venture Partners of Palo Alto, Calif., died after a heart attack in Boston last Thursday while on a business trip. He was 58 years old and lived in Hillsborough, Calif. Leal F. Norton, an investor who headed Norton Venture Partners
Richard Bourne-Vanneck, who owned The New York Age, a black weekly newspaper that ceased publication in the 1960's, died of a heart attack Tuesday at his home on St. Thomas in the Virgin Islands. He was 75 years old. Richard Bourne-Vanneck, who owned The New York Age, a black 
Stanley Laurie Sloane, an investor and philanthropist who held a number of leadership positions in the United Jewish Appeal, died of cancer Tuesday night at his home in Manhattan. He was 65 years old. Stanley Laurie Sloane, an investor and philanthropist who held a number of l
Albert Loewentheil, a retired Westchester County real-estate developer, died Wednesday at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville. He was 88 years old and lived in Eastchester. Albert Loewentheil, a retired Westchester County real-estate developer, died Wednesday at Lawrence Hospital 
Dr. Arthur J. Mannix Jr., a surgeon who founded the largest doctor-owned company writing malpractice insurance, died of cardiac arrest on Wednesday at New Rochelle (N.Y.) Hospital, where he had practiced for four decades. He was 66 years old and lived in New Rochelle. Dr. Arth
Colin Carter, a former vice president of the Chase Manhattan Bank, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 55 years old. Colin Carter, a former vice president of the Chase Manhattan Bank, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 55 ye
Dr. Leonard V. Strong Jr., an osteopath who helped establish Alcoholics Anonymous, died of pneumonia Monday at the McKerley Health Care Center in Rutland, Vt. He was 90 years old and lived in Rutland. Dr. Leonard V. Strong Jr., an osteopath who helped establish Alcoholics Anon
Louis B. Neumiller, former chairman and chief executive officer of bi>Caterpillar Inc., died Wednesday at his home. He was 93 years old and had been ill for more than a year. Louis B. Neumiller, former chairman and chief executive officer of bi>Caterpillar Inc., died Wednesday
Michael John Danaher, a senior vice president of Prudential-Bache Capital Funding, died Wednesday at his home in Cold Spring, N.Y. He was 41 years old. Michael John Danaher, a senior vice president of Prudential-Bache Capital Funding, died Wednesday at his home in Cold Spring,
W. Ware Lynch, an author and retired public-relations executive, died of cancer Tuesday at the Charles W. Gerstenberg Hospice Center in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 75 years old and lived in Palm Beach. W. Ware Lynch, an author and retired public-relations executive, died of c
Colin Carter, a former vice president of the Chase Manhattan Bank, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 55 years old. Colin Carter, a former vice president of the Chase Manhattan Bank, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 55 ye
Donald S. Rugoff, who ran a chain of art-movie theaters in New York City for many years, died in his sleep yesterday at his home in Edgartown, Mass., on Martha's Vineyard. He was 62 years old. Donald S. Rugoff, who ran a chain of art-movie theaters in New York City for many ye
Howard Brookner, a director whose documentary about the writer William Burroughs won critical acclaim at film festivals around the world, died of AIDS Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 34 years old. Howard Brookner, a director whose documentary about the writer William
Marc Daniels, who directed the first 38 episodes of the ''I Love Lucy'' television series, died Sunday of congestive heart failure at St. John's Medical Center. He was 77 years old. Marc Daniels, who directed the first 38 episodes of the ''I Love Lucy'' television series, died
Monroe I. Katcher, former associate counsel for the New York State Liquor Authority, died of a heart attack Thursday at the New Rochelle (N.Y.) Medical Center. He was 80 years old and lived in New Rochelle. Monroe I. Katcher, former associate counsel for the New York State Liq
Raul Sendic, the founder of the leftist Tupamaro guerrilla movement in Uruguay, died late Thursday at a clinic in Paris after a long illness. He was 64 years old and had gone to France several weeks ago from Uruguay seeking treatment. Raul Sendic, the founder of the leftist Tu
Roy L. Williams, a former president of the International Brotherhood of Teamsters who served three years in prison for conspiring to commit bribery, died yesterday at the farm where he lived in Leeton, Mo. Mr. Williams, who was 74 years old, had long suffered from heart trouble and em
Stephen S. Chandler, a Federal judge who often feuded with other judges and lawyers, died at a hospital here early Thursday. He was 89 years old and had suffered from pneumonia and ulcers. Stephen S. Chandler, a Federal judge who often feuded with other judges and lawyers, die
Aaron R. Frosch, a lawyer for stage and screen actors, died yesterday of cerebellum atrophy, a neurological disease, at his home in Manhattan. He was 64 years old. Aaron R. Frosch, a lawyer for stage and screen actors, died yesterday of cerebellum atrophy, a neurological disea
Clyde (Gerry) Geronimi, an Academy Award-winning animator who worked on such classic Walt Disney films as ''Cinderella'' and ''Sleeping Beauty,'' died at his home Monday. He was 87 years old. Clyde (Gerry) Geronimi, an Academy Award-winning animator who worked on such classic 
Donald Deskey, the innovative industrial designer whose prolific career spanned more than half a century, died of pneumonia yesterday at Indian River Memorial Hospital in Vero Beach, Fla., where he had lived since he retired in 1975. He was 94 years old. Donald Deskey, the inn
Dr. Marcel J. E. Golay, a researcher in information theory, optics and instrumentation, died Thursday at his home in La Conversion, Switzerland. He was 86 years old. Dr. Golay was at the time of his death the senior research scientist for the Perkin-Elmer Corporation in Norwalk, Conn.
Jack Cummings, who as a veteran staff producer for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer was responsible for the motion-picture musicals ''Kiss Me Kate'' and ''Seven Brides for Seven Brothers,'' died of a heart attack Friday at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 84 years old and lived i
