 Mathew Aaron Kleiner, a former Manhattan prosecutor and advocate for those with H.I.V. infection, especially hemophiliacs like himself, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 31 and lived on the Upper West Side. The cause was hepatitis and H.I.V. infection, contracted through a blood
 Othar Turner, a Mississippi farmer who kept alive a style of music older than the blues, died on Thursday at the home of his daughter Betty Turner Freeman, said a family friend, Andria Lisle. He was 94 and lived in Gravel Springs, Miss., near Senatobia. Mr. Turner played a cane fife
 Roy Grace, an art director who was one of the leading lights during the so-called creative revolution in advertising in the 1960's and 1970's, helping to produce memorable campaigns for brands like Alka-Seltzer, American Tourister and Volkswagen, died on Wednesday. He was 66 and lived in Ne
 Alfred Bernstein, a New Deal lawyer who led the movement to unionize government workers and later helped desegregate the lunch counters, restaurants, public swimming pools and playgrounds of Jim Crow-era Washington, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 92. Mr. Bernstein 
 Dr. Kurt W. Deuschle, a leader in creating medical school programs in community medicine, teaching that understanding local culture is a necessity when providing health care in rural and poor areas, died on Feb. 10 at his home in New York City. He was 79. The cause was complications
 Harvey Probber, a furniture designer whose elegant, innovative modern furniture was popular in the 1950's, 60's and 70's and has recently become collectible, died on Feb. 16 in Greenwich, Conn. He was 80. Mr. Probber, who introduced Americans to sectional, modular seating in the 194
 Mario Perillo, the silver-haired tour operator whose raspy television pitch, ''Go Perillo to Italy,'' persuaded more than a million Americans to visit that country, died Friday at his home in Saddle River, N.J. He was 76. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Perillo wa
 Maurice Blanchot, a reclusive French novelist and essayist who influenced the postmodernist intellectual movement championed by Jean-Paul Sartre and Michel Foucault, died on Feb. 20. He was 95. Coming of age in the 1930's, Mr. Blanchot was among the first French intellectuals to tak
 Steve Carlin, an ingenious and irrepressible producer of television game shows, including ''The $64,000 Question'' and others that proved to be rigged, died on Feb. 4 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 84. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's disease, said
 Alfred Bernstein, a New Deal lawyer who led the movement to unionize government workers and later helped desegregate the lunch counters, restaurants, public swimming pools and playgrounds of Jim Crow-era Washington, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 92. Mr. Bernstein 
 Eugene J. Carroll Jr., a retired rear admiral of the Navy who became an outspoken expert witness for opponents of nuclear weapons, high military budgets and new armaments, died on Feb. 19 in Washington. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Margaret. He lived in Al
 Mario Perillo, the silver-haired tour operator whose raspy television pitch, ''Go Perillo to Italy,'' persuaded more than a million Americans to visit that country, died Friday at his home in Saddle River, N.J. He was 76. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Perillo wa
 Thomas W. Phipps, a versatile playwright and writer for films and television, died on Feb. 20 in Southampton, N.Y. He was 89 and lived in Southampton. He was particularly prolific as a television writer. By 1957 he had written more than 60 hour-length television plays. He ca
 Dr. John E. Fryer, a psychiatrist who electrified his colleagues by telling the 1972 convention of the American Psychiatric Association in a mask that he was a homosexual at a time homosexuality was classified as a mental illness, died on Feb. 21 in Philadelphia. He was 65. The caus
 Goffredo Petrassi, the Italian composer and a leading figure of Italian modernist music in the 20th century, died on Sunday in Rome. He was 98. Mr. Petrassi was noted for his pluralistic exploration of compositional styles. Vestiges of the 16th-century sacred Italian polyphony he wa
 Luis Marden, a writer and photographer who prowled the globe for National Geographic for 64 years, sometimes vanishing for months with little more than a pith helmet, quinine water and a medical kit, died on Monday in Arlington, Va. He was 90. Mr. Marden was one of the last of Geogr
 Colin de Land, a New York art dealer whose ambivalence about commercialism was reflected in an art gallery that sometimes resembled an anti-art gallery, if not a work of Conceptual Art, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital. He was 47. The cause was cancer, said Dennis
 Dr. Harold Amos, a microbiologist at the Harvard Medical School who campaigned for decades on behalf of minority scientists in higher education and was widely recognized for wielding his influence to open doors for other blacks, died on Feb. 26 in Boston. He was 84. The cause was co
 Kenneth Auchincloss, a veteran writer and later a top editor at Newsweek, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 65. The cause was complications of liver cancer, said Richard Smith, chairman and editor in chief of Newsweek. Mr. Auchincloss joined Newsweek in 1966 a
 Roger M. Needham, a leading computer scientist who did pioneering work on security software, led Cambridge University's computer science laboratory for 15 years and started Microsoft's first overseas research lab, died Friday at his home in Coton, England. He was 68. The cause was c
 John Edwards, an illiterate former barman from the East End of London who was the artist Francis Bacon's closest friend in the last 16 years of his life and the sole heir to his paintings and properties, died on Tuesday in Bangkok. He was 53. The cause was lung cancer, lawyers for t
 Peter Smithson, an influential British architect and teacher who, with his wife, Alison, infused the pure formalism of modern design with a broader concern for the social environment, died on Monday at home in London. He was 79. The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Simon.    
 Dr. Alexander R. Stokes, the scientist and mathematician who discerned in 1950 that DNA is helical in shape and provided a solid foundation for the discovery of the double helix three years later, died in Welwyn Garden City, a London suburb, on Feb. 5. He was 83. When Dr. Francis Cr
 G. Stuart Keith, a champion bird-watcher who was a founder of the American Birding Association and who at one time had a good claim to having seen more birds than anyone else alive, died on Feb. 13 while on a bird-watching expedition to the Micronesian island of Chuuk, sometimes called Truk
 Felix Landau, an art dealer who had owned a prestigious gallery in Los Angeles, died on Feb. 17 at his home in Garches, a suburb of Paris. He was 78. The cause was complications from diabetes, his family said. Mr. Landau married Mitzi Ruth Ander in 1948, and in 1951 they fou
 Herbert Passin, a distinguished scholar of Japan, who was chairman of Columbia University's sociology department and taught at its East Asian Institute, died on Feb. 26 in New York. He was 86. The cause of death was heart disease, according to his stepson, Scott Latham. Prof
 Peter Dimitroff Petroff, a NASA engineer and later an inventor whose enterprises developed heart-monitoring equipment and originated the digital wristwatch 30 years ago, died Feb. 27 at his home in Huntsville, Ala. He was 83. He had been in failing health since retiring last year as
 Gilbert W. Beebe, an expert on radiation who had a crucial role in studies of survivors of the atomic bomb attacks on Japan and the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine, died on March 3 in Washington. He was 90. As a member of the Atomic Bomb Casualty Commission,
 José Márcio Ayres, a zoologist who sought to save large swaths of rain forest in the Amazon Basin by enlisting the self-interest of its indigenous people in the effort, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 49 and lived most of the time in Belém, his native city, at
 Fred Danback, a former janitor and lover of the Hudson River who started one of the earliest successful battles against industrial pollution of the river, died on Monday at his home in Putnam Valley, N.Y. He was 79. The cause of death was an aortic aneurysm, his son Bruce said.     
 Stan Brakhage, one of the leading figures in American experimental cinema, died on Sunday in Victoria, British Columbia. He was 70. The cause was cancer, his wife, Marilyn, said in a statement. In a career that in the early 1950's and continued until the last weeks of his li
 Claus Helberg, a hero of the Norwegian resistance in World War II and principal architect of his country's mesh of year-round mountain trails, died last Thursday. He was 84. He suffered a heart attack, the Norwegian press reported from Oslo. Mr. Helberg, a lifelong skier and
 Howard Fast, whose best-selling historical fiction often featured the themes of freedom and human rights, elements in his own tumultuous political journey through the blacklisting of the 1950's, died yesterday at his home in Old Greenwich, Conn. He was 88. Mr. Fast was one of the 20
 Gen. Wallace M. Greene Jr., who commanded the Marine Corps early in the Vietnam War, died last Saturday in Alexandria, Va. He was 95. General Greene was promoted to four-star rank and commandant of the corps in 1964, when American marines in Vietnam numbered only in the hundreds. Bu
 John G. Dow, a staunchly liberal Democrat from the lower Hudson Valley who was one of the earliest Congressional opponents of the Vietnam War, died on Tuesday in Suffern, N.Y., near his home in Pomona. He was 97. In May 1965, four months after taking office as a freshman congressman
 Edward E. Colton, a theatrical lawyer who was an innovator in the financing of Broadway musicals and plays, died on Feb. 27 at his home in Venice, Fla. He was 97. Mr. Colton was a summa cum laude graduate in 1927 from New Jersey Law School, now Rutgers. He practiced law for 65 years
 Robert Mitchell Hanna, who taught urban landscape architecture at the University of Pennsylvania and made it work in places like Battery Park City, died last Saturday in Philadelphia. He was 67. A nationally known exponent of his field, Mr. Hanna was on the faculty of the university
 Al Gionfriddo, the Brooklyn Dodger outfielder who made one of baseball's most famous catches when he took a game-tying home run away from Joe DiMaggio at Yankee Stadium in the 1947 World Series, died on Friday in Solvang, Calif. He was 81. The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Sue
 Jean-Luc Lagardère, a customs inspector's son who built one of France's largest industrial empires, reaching from publishing to missiles and telecommunication satellites, died late Friday in a hospital here. He was 75. The cause was a rare neurological condition affecting the immun
 Dr. Elliott Jaques, a psychoanalyst, social scientist and management consultant who coined the phrase ''midlife crisis'' and urged companies to adopt hierarchies that reflected employees' abilities to handle long-range assignments, died on March 8 in Gloucester, Mass. He was 86. Dr.
 F. William Sunderman, a doctor and scientist who lived a remarkable century and beyond -- making medical advances, playing his Stradivarius violin at Carnegie Hall at 99 and being honored as the nation's oldest worker at 100 -- died on March 9 at his home in Philadelphia. He was 104.       
 John Sanford, a novelist, historian and autobiographer who often focused his moral fables on the American heartland, especially the Adirondacks, died on March 6 in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 98 and lived in Montecito, Calif. His memoir of his life from 1904 to 1927, ''The Color of
 Dr. William W. L. Glenn, a cardiac surgeon who developed a procedure for treating congenital heart disease and helped to create an early model of an artificial heart, died on March 10 in Peterborough, N. H. He was 88. The chief of cardiovascular surgery at Yale University from 1948 
 Joseph Coors Sr., who helped make his family's beer a nationwide brand and who used his fortune to support conservative causes, notably the Heritage Foundation and Ronald Reagan's climb to the presidency, died on Saturday at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif., where he had moved in retiremen
 Edgar Russell Fiedler, a former assistant secretary of the Treasury who later had major jobs at the Conference Board, died on Saturday in Chapel Hill, N.C., where he lived in retirement. A former resident of Scarsdale, N.Y., Mr. Fiedler was 73. He suffered cardiac arrest playing gol
 Henryk de Kwiatkowski, a thoroughbred horse owner and breeder and the owner of the celebrated Calumet Farm since 1992, died on Monday at his home in Lyford Cay in the Bahamas. He was 79. The cause was pneumonia, said Roy Roberts, the farm manager of Mr. de Kwiatkowski's Kennelot Sta
 Jack Goldstein, an artist whose performances, short films, paintings and sound pieces of the late 1970's and early 80's helped define the early stages of post-modernist art, died on Friday at his home in San Bernardino, Calif. Mr. Goldstein, who had struggled for many years to overc
 Herbert Aptheker, the prolific Marxist historian best known for his three-volume ''Documentary History of the Negro People in the United States'' and for editing the correspondence and writing of his mentor, W. E. B. DuBois, died on Monday in Mountain View, Calif. He was 87. Along w
 Robert Anthony Leonard, whose technical expertise and marketing prowess helped create the worldwide Ticketmaster machine that opens doors to well over 150,000 events a year, died March 12 in San Diego. He was 70 and lived in La Jolla, Calif. A frequent visitor to San Diego State Uni
 Robert M. Shelton, the longtime leader of one of the largest and most notorious factions of the Ku Klux Klan, died on Monday in Tuscaloosa, Ala. He was 73. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. The organization that Mr. Shelton had led since 1961, the United Klans of Americ
 Niels Bjorn Larsen, the Danish dancer and great mime who helped reveal the beauties of August Bournonville's Romantic ballets to Americans as artistic director of the Royal Danish Ballet during its first United States tour in 1956, died in Copenhagen on March 13. He was 89. Carefull
 Col. Edson D. Raff, who led the first combat jump by American paratroopers in World War II and served a decade later as an early commander of the Army's Special Forces, died March 11 in Garnett, Kan. Colonel Raff, who lived in Garnett and Bora-Bora, French Polynesia, was 95.        
 Thomas P. Ryan Jr., the mayor of Rochester during two decades of fiscal challenges and urban redevelopment, died on March 14 in Rochester. He was 74. The cause was pancreatic cancer, friends of the family said. His death came the day before the city's annual St. Patrick's Day parade
 Allen G. Schwartz, a federal court judge who was New York City's corporation counsel under Mayor Edward I. Koch, died Saturday. He was 68 and lived in Rye, N.Y. Mr. Schwartz, who had bone marrow cancer, suffered cardiac arrest and was involved in an accident on Friday as he drove ho
 Rem Krassilnikov, a legendary figure within the K.G.B. who was in charge of the investigations and arrests of the American spies betrayed by Aldrich H. Ames, Robert P. Hanssen and other moles in the final years of the cold war, died in Moscow last week. He was 76. Mr. Krassilnikov, 
 August Meier, an expert on African-American history, died last Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 79. He had a progressive neurological disorder, said Dr. Diane E. Meier, his niece. Much of Professor Meier's writing focused on the relationship of African-Americans' i
 Adam Osborne, a British technical writer who became one of Silicon Valley's legends by introducing the first portable personal computer in 1981, died on March 18 in Kodiakanal, India. He was 64 and had a series of strokes in the last decade, said his former wife Cynthia Geddes. The 
 Daniel Patrick Moynihan, the Harvard professor and four-term United States senator from New York who brought a scholar's eye for data to politics and a politician's sense of the real world to academia, died yesterday at Washington Hospital Center in Washington, D.C. He was 76. The c
 Eddie Jaffe, a press agent legendary for his lost causes, chutzpah and angst, who all but made Broadway his alias and held that the best kind of promotion was self-promotion, died on Tuesday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 89 and had been hospitalized since November, said h
 Paul Zindel, who drew on memories of his troubled childhood on Staten Island for a prize-winning play with a tongue-twisting title, ''The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds,'' died yesterday at the Jacob Perlow Hospice at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 66.   
 Robert B. Bourque, a co-designer of Zoltan the Astrological Wizard, a mechanical fortunetelling machine popular in penny arcades, died last Saturday in Duxbury, Mass. He was 82. The cause was congestive heart failure, his daughter Linda B. Sullivan said. An expert repairer o
 Boleslaw Wierzbianski, a founder, publisher and former editor in chief of the Polish-language newspaper Nowy Dziennik, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 89. The cause was pneumonia and he died at the hospice at Cabrini Medical Center, said his wife, Barbara. Mr. Wierzbi
 Paul Zindel, who drew on memories of his troubled childhood on Staten Island for a prize-winning play with a tongue-twisting title, ''The Effect of Gamma Rays on Man-in-the-Moon Marigolds,'' died on Thursday at the Jacob Perlow Hospice at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 66. 
 Dr. Roland Reiman De Marco, a former president of Finch College, a women's liberal arts institution in Manhattan that closed in the mid-1970's, died on March 21 in Rochester. He was 92. A graduate of Columbia, he also studied at Munich University and Shrivenham American University i
 Alan Howard, a lead dancer with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo and a ballet teacher, died on March 6 in Chicago. He was 72. The cause was cancer, said his niece, Pat Bostwick of Chicago, his only immediate survivor. Mr. Howard, who was born in Chicago, trained with Edna McR
 Bernard Rabin, an American art restorer who refurbished the Brumidi fresco inside the Capitol dome in Washington and helped save many of the artworks in Florence, Italy, after devastating floods in 1966, died on Monday in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 86. The cause was complications fr
 Milton G. Henschel, a member since 1971 of the Governing Body of Jehovah's Witnesses, which looks after their religious programs around the world, died on March 22 at his Brooklyn home. He was 72. The Jehovah's Witnesses' public information office did not give a cause. He li
 Alfred Eisenpreis, New York City's economic development administrator for two and a half years in the mid-1970's, died at Lenox Hill Hospital on Thursday. He was 78 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was not immediately disclosed, but he had been suffering from
 Dr. Vernon W. Hughes, a Yale physicist whose investigation of particles called muons poked holes in standard subatomic theory and provided evidence for the existence of previously undetected matter, died at Yale-New Haven Hospital last Tuesday. He was 81. Dr. Hughes began his study 
 Robert E. Hudec, a professor who broadened the study of laws governing international trade to embrace matters of diplomacy and politics, died on March 12 while vacationing in North Captiva Island, Fla. He was 68. The cause was coronary heart disease, according to an announcement by 
