 Lloyd Richards, one of the most influential figures in modern American theater and a pioneering director who brought the plays of Lorraine Hansberry and August Wilson to Broadway and championed several generations of young playwrights, died on Thursday in Manhattan. It was his 87th birthday
 Randy Walker, the only coach to lead Northwestern's football team to three bowl games, died Thursday night at his suburban Chicago home. He was 52. Walker died apparently of a heart attack after feeling chest pains around 10 p.m., said Mike Wolf, Northwestern's assistant athletic di
 George Page, the creator and resonant on-air voice of the award-winning public television series ''Nature,'' died Wednesday at his home in Equinunk, Pa. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said Roz Kay, a spokeswoman for Channel 13, the PBS station in New York where Mr. Page worked fro
 Jaap Penraat, an architect and industrial designer who saved 406 Jews in the Nazi-occupied Netherlands by forging false documents and taking them to safety, died last Sunday at his home in Catskill, N.Y. He was 88. The cause was esophageal cancer, his daughter Noëlle Penraat said. 
 Fernando Sanchez, a fashion designer who captured the naughty side of 1970's fashion with lingerie collections conceived for elegant boudoirs but often worn in public, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 70. The cause was cardiopulmonary arrest stemming from complicat
 Jan Murray, a stand-up comedian who became one of television's first stars, died yesterday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 89. He had suffered from deteriorating health for the past few months, according to his son Howard Murray. Mr. Murray belonged to a close-kn
 Vern Leroy Bullough, a historian of medicine and sexuality noted for chronicling the development of American nursing, died on June 21 at his home in Thousand Oaks, Calif. He was 77. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Bullough wrote prolifically about prostitution, medieval m
 Dieter Froese, an artist whose work helped define New York's downtown scene in the 1970's, died on Friday at his home in Lower Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was cancer, said his wife and creative partner, Kay Hines. Mr. Froese was one of the first video installation artist
 Herty Lewites, a contender in the race for the Nicaraguan presidency and an innovative minister of tourism under the Sandinistas, died Sunday of a heart attack in Managua. He was 66. His death was confirmed by President Enrique Bolaños. At the age of 19, Mr. Lewites joined 
 Jan Murray, a stand-up comedian who became one of television's first stars, died on Sunday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 89. His death followed a few months of deteriorating health, according to his son Howard Murray. Mr. Murray belonged to a close-knit generat
 Michael J. Parman, who became editor and then publisher of The Press Democrat, died Saturday at his home in Santa Rosa. He was 61. His death followed a 15-month battle with pancreatic cancer, the paper said. He posted an Internet journal about his fight with the disease. Mr.
 Philip Rieff, an influential sociologist, author and cultural critic who wrote well-known books on the impact of Sigmund Freud on society and on the direction of morality and Western culture, died on Saturday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 83. The cause was heart failure, said 
 Heliodoro Rico, an international, national and local track and field administrator for more than a half-century, died last Thursday in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 84. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Patricia. Rico's track and field jobs were unpaid. He earned a living
 F. Mark Wyatt, a career Central Intelligence Agency officer who played a significant role in the agency's first major cold war covert action, an operation to swing the Italian elections of 1948, died on Thursday in Washington. He was 86. The cause was complications of a stroke, said
 Kenneth L. Lay, the son of a Baptist preacher in rural Missouri who rose to the pinnacle of corporate America as head of Enron before becoming a symbol of corporate excess, died yesterday in Aspen, Colo. He was 64. The cause of death was coronary artery disease, a forensic pathologi
 Pierre A. Rinfret, an economist and adviser to several presidents who in 1990 recorded the worst showing by a Republican candidate for governor in New York's history, losing resoundingly to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, died on June 29 on Nantucket, in Massachusetts. He was 82 and had made his home 
 Theodore Levitt, a former professor at the Harvard Business School credited with coining the term ''globalization'' and with championing the undervalued role of marketing in defining what businesses should make and sell, died June 28 at his home in Belmont, Mass. He was 81. The caus
 Thomas Appleby, the first president of the United Nations Development Corporation and a former New York City housing commissioner who focused government attention on poor neighborhoods even during the fiscal crisis of the mid-1970's, died on Sunday in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. He was 82. 
 Jeffrey Wasserman, a painter who became known in New York in the 1980's for his buoyant, vividly colorful and poetically suggestive abstractions, died Sunday at his home in Millerton, N.Y. He was 59. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Anne Newburg. Mr. Wasserman was what a
 Ralph Ginzburg, a taboo-busting editor and publisher who helped set off the sexual revolution in the 1960's with Eros magazine and was imprisoned for sending it through the United States mail in a case decided by the Supreme Court, died yesterday in the Riverdale section of the Bronx. He wa
 Anatole Shub, who used his own rich Russian background to report from Moscow, conduct research on Russian topics for the United States Information Agency and write books about the Soviet Union, died on July 2 in Washington. He was 78. The cause was a stroke followed by pneumonia, hi
 Dr. Joseph J. Schildkraut, a Harvard psychiatrist whose studies of antidepressants and their effects on brain chemistry shed light on the biochemical basis of depression and mood disorders, died on June 26 in Boston. He was 72 and a resident of nearby Chestnut Hill. His death was an
 Lewis L. Glucksman, whose fierce battle for control of Lehman Brothers Kuhn Loeb in 1983 was a curtain-raiser for the titanic struggles of ego and will that swept Wall Street over the next decade, died Wednesday at his home near Cobh, County Cork, Ireland. He was 80. The cause was b
 Luis Barragan, 34, president and chief operating officer of 1-800-Mattress, a company founded by his father, died yesterday in a swimming accident while on vacation in Salisbury, Conn. According to state police reports, Mr. Barragan had been swimming in a lake called South Pond, nor
 Rabbi Louis Jacobs, an internationally renowned scholar of Judaism whose seemingly clear path to the post of chief rabbi of the British Commonwealth was blocked by the Orthodox establishment more than 40 years ago, died on July 1 in London. He was 85. The cause was cancer, according
 Ross Tompkins, a jazz pianist best known for his long tenure with Doc Severinsen's big band on the ''Tonight'' show, died on June 30 at his home in St. Augustine, Fla. He was 68. His death was announced by his family, who did not specify the cause, although published reports said it
 Jack Sameth, a television director and producer who worked with pioneering newscasters and on prime-time entertainment shows at ABC, then helped create award-winning programs like ''The Great American Dream Machine'' and ''The Brain'' for public television, died Tuesday at his home in North
 Paul Nelson, a pioneering rock critic, was found dead in his apartment in Manhattan on Wednesday. He was 69. Steven Feltes of Evergreen Video in Greenwich Village, his friend and former employer, said Mr. Nelson, who had been suffering from memory problems, had apparently died of st
 David A. Bright, an internationally renowned authority on the sinking of the Andrea Doria who was helping lead preparations to commemorate the disaster's 50th anniversary later this month, collapsed and died on Saturday after making a dive into the wreck of the ship, about 60 miles south of
 Hugh Stubbins Jr., an architect best known for the angular tower of the Citicorp Center in Manhattan, but also noted for his design of the Reagan Presidential Library in California and of the tallest building in Japan, died on Wednesday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 94. The cause was p
 John William Money, who helped found the field of sexual identity studies, died Friday in Towson, Md. He was 84. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, said Dr. Money's niece Sally Hopkins. A psychologist at Johns Hopkins University for over 50 years, Dr. Money 
 Wallace Potts, film archivist for the Rudolf Nureyev Foundation, died on June 29 in Los Angeles. He was 59. The cause was complications of lymphoma, said Sir John Tooley, chairman of the foundation. Mr. Potts assembled a comprehensive collection of every known appearance by 
 Barnard Hughes, a Tony- and Emmy-award-winning actor who was well-known for playing warm-hearted if not always serious-minded father figures, died yesterday in New York. He was 90. His death was confirmed by his son, the director Doug Hughes. Though Mr. Hughes made his actin
 Dr. Fred J. Epstein, a pediatric neurosurgeon who devised new ways to operate on slow-growing tumors intertwined with brain stems and spinal cords, died on Sunday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 68. The cause was melanoma, his wife, Kathy, said. Dr. Epstein performed 
 Harold P. Olmo, a world famous grape breeder and geneticist who helped to create the modern California wine industry, died in Davis, Calif., on June 30. He was 96. The cause was complications of a hip fracture, according to the University of California, Davis. Dr. Olmo serve
 Jesse Simons, a noted labor arbitrator who four decades ago helped arrange the system of collective bargaining between New York City and its employees that remains in use today, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 88. The cause was heart failure, said Karen Kushner, a 
 Syd Barrett, the erratically brilliant songwriter and singer who created the psychedelic rock of Pink Floyd only to leave the band in 1968 with mental problems, died on July 7 at his home in Cambridgeshire, England. He was 60. His death was confirmed by a spokesman for his former ba
 Irving Kaplansky, a mathematician who broke ground in exploring concepts central to algebra and multiplication, died on June 25 at his home in the Los Angeles community of Sherman Oaks. He was 89. The cause was respiratory failure, his family said. From 1945 to 1984, Dr. Kap
 Red Buttons, the Borscht Belt comic who rose to instant television stardom on his own variety show in 1952, descended to obscurity three years later after his program was canceled and then rebounded to win an Academy Award for his dramatic performance in the 1957 film ''Sayonara,'' died yes
 George W. Albee, a psychologist and former president of the American Psychological Association who argued that poverty and social deprivation were the root causes of many mental and emotional disorders, died on July 8 at his home in Longboat Key, Fla. He was 84. His death was confir
 Raja Rao, an internationally renowned novelist who was among the first major Indian writers to cajole the English language into conveying the distinctive cadences of his native country, died on July 8 at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 97. The cause was heart failure, said his wife,
 John Spencer, a three-time world-champion snooker player whose suave elegance and assertive style of play helped elevate his sport, a form of billiards, above soccer and cricket on British television in the 1970's, died Tuesday in Bolton, England. He was 71. The cause was stomach ca
 James A. Nicholas, a pioneer in the treatment of athletic injuries who was best known for performing four knee operations that saved the celebrated career of Jets quarterback Joe Namath, died Saturday in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 85. The cause was colon cancer, said his daughter, Nicol
 Lt. Gov. Winthrop Paul Rockefeller, who followed his family's twin traditions of philanthropy and politics in the state adopted by his father, died here Sunday. He was 57. The cause was complications of a rare blood ailment, his office said. Mr. Rockefeller disclosed last Ju
 Arthur J. Haggerty, perhaps the most famous dog trainer in the United States, who was familiar to legions of dog owners as Captain Haggerty and to legions of dogs as He Who Must Be Obeyed, died on July 3 in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 74 and lived in Jupiter, Fla. The cause was can
 Charles H. G. Rees, a former president of the Whitney Communications Corporation, which once owned a third of The International Herald Tribune, as well as numerous magazines, small newspapers and cable television stations, died last Wednesday in Westerly, R.I. Mr. Rees, who lived in Stoning
 Mickey Spillane, the creator of  Mike Hammer, the heroic but frequently sadistic private detective who blasted his way through some of the most violent novels of the 1940's and 50's, died yesterday at his home in Murrells Inlet, S.C. He was 88 and had homes in South Carolina and New York Ci
 Robert H. Brooks, who, as the self-styled ''Worldwide Wing Commander'' of Hooters restaurants, known for spicy chicken wings and spicier waitresses, took the company to 46 states and 20 countries, died on Sunday at his home in Myrtle Beach, S.C. He was 69. The company announced the 
 Aleksander Wojtkiewicz, a chess grandmaster originally from Latvia who won or tied for first in the five tournaments in which he played in the last month of his life, died Friday in Baltimore. He was 43. The cause was internal bleeding, said Amber Berglund, his companion. Mr
 Martin Gallent, a former vice chairman of the New York City Planning Commission who regularly fought to preserve open space in urban settings, drowned Sunday while swimming in a lake in Westchester County. He was 75 and lived in Jackson Heights, Queens. The death was announced by hi
 Winston Wilson, one of the founders of Wilson Daniels Ltd., the Napa Valley wine importing firm that is the American source of some of the most famous wines of France and Italy, died Sunday at his home in St. Helena, Calif. He was 63. The cause was esophageal cancer, a spokeswoman f
 Andy Sudduth, a leading American oarsman who captured Olympic and world championship medals and rowed on a powerful Harvard heavyweight crew in the 1980's, died Saturday in Marion, Mass. He was 44. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Ruth Kennedy Sudduth. Perform
 Henry Hewes, a longtime theater critic for The Saturday Review and the founder of the American Theater Critics Association, died at his home in Manhattan on Tuesday. He was 89. His death was announced by his friend Jeffrey Eric Jenkins, the editor of ''The Best Plays Theater Yearboo
 Mark Ryder, a prominent dancer in Martha Graham's company in the 1940's who went on to form his own company and to teach modern dance at several colleges, died on July 13 in Columbia, Md. He was 85. His death was announced by his wife, Mary Ratcliffe. Mr. Ryder was on the faculty of
 Robert C. Mardian, a lawyer for President Richard M. Nixon's re-election campaign whose conviction on charges of conspiring to cover up the administration's involvement in the Watergate break-in was overturned, died Monday at his vacation home in San Clemente, Calif. He was 82 and lived in 
 Thomas J. Manton, a former seven-term United States representative and New York City councilman who was chairman of the powerful Queens Democratic party for the past two decades, died on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 73 and lived in Astoria, Queens. The cause of 
 Walter Allner, the Bauhaus-trained graphic designer and art director of Fortune magazine from 1962 to 1974 who introduced a European Modernist typographic sensibility to American magazine design, died Friday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 97. His death was announced by his wi
 James E. West, who was recalled from office as mayor of Spokane over an Internet gay sex scandal, died on Saturday. He was 55. The cause was complications of recent cancer surgery, according to a family statement issued by the University of Washington Medical Center in Seattle.     
 Mako, a distinguished stage and screen actor who was widely regarded as having blazed the trail for Asian-Americans in films, on television and in the theater, died on Friday at his home in Somis, Calif. He was 72. The cause was esophageal cancer, his wife, Shizuko Hoshi, said.     
 H. Freeman Matthews Jr., a Foreign Service officer who helped lay the groundwork for the 1978 Camp David Peace Accords, which brought an end to three decades of conflict between Israel and Egypt, died Saturday in Washington. He was 78. The cause was kidney failure, said his wife of 
 John Mack, who was the principal oboist of the Cleveland Orchestra from 1965 to 2001 and who reigned as dean of American oboists for several decades, died on Sunday in Cleveland. He was 78. The cause was complications of treatment for brain cancer, his son John Richard Mack said.   
 C. Frederick Mosteller, the founding chairman of Harvard's statistics department and a pioneer in using statistics to analyze an array of topics as disparate as anesthesia, presidential elections and baseball, died on Sunday in Virginia. He was 89. The cause of death was sepsis, sai
 Carl M. Brashear, a son of Kentucky sharecroppers who in 1970 became the United States Navy's first black master diver, and whose story was told in the 2000 movie ''Men of Honor,'' died Tuesday in Portsmouth, Va. He was 75. The cause was heart and respiratory failure, said his forme
 Charles W. Bray III, the press secretary for Secretary of State William P. Rogers during tumultuous times in the Nixon administration, died Sunday at his home in Milwaukee. He was 72. The cause was pneumonia, his son David said. Mr. Bray, who later became an ambassador, was 
 George W. Wetherill, a planetary scientist whose studies of the age of Earth's rocks led to theories explaining how freewheeling bodies in space can coalesce to create new planets, died on July 19 at his home in Washington. He was 80. The cause was heart failure, his family said.   
 Charles E. Brady Jr., a former space shuttle astronaut and amateur radio enthusiast, died July 23 at his home in Oak Harbor, Wash., the National Aeronautics and Space Administration has reported. He was 54. A cause of death was not given, but an obituary published on the Web site of
 Keith R. DeVries, an archaeologist and authority on the excavation of Gordion, the ancient Turkish city once ruled by King Midas of the golden touch, died on July 16 in Philadelphia. He was 69. The cause was cancer, his family said. From 1977 to 1987, Dr. DeVries directed th
 Vincent J. Fuller, the lawyer who used the insanity defense to win the acquittal of John W. Hinckley Jr. in the 1981 assassination attempt against President Ronald Reagan, died Wednesday in Derwood, Md. He was 75. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife of 49 years, Beatrice Fuller
 Louis Winnick, an economist who played a major role in guiding the investments of the Ford Foundation in housing, community renewal and minority enterprise activity from the late 1960's through the 1980's, died yesterday at a hospice in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 85 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y
 A. Frank Carven III, who campaigned for the rights of victims of air crashes after his sister and a 9-year-old nephew were killed on Trans World Airlines Flight 800 a decade ago, died Thursday. He was 54. He died of pancreatic cancer at his home in Forestville, Md., his brother Jay 
 Kurt Kreuger, a German-born actor who reluctantly played Nazi soldiers in many films about World War II, died July 12 in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 89. The cause was a stroke, said Lynne Riehman, a friend. Mr. Kreuger played German soldiers and Nazi officers in movies like
