 Fred T. Korematsu, who lost a Supreme Court challenge in 1944 to the wartime internment of Japanese-Americans but gained vindication decades later when he was given the Medal of Freedom, died on Wednesday in Larkspur, Calif. Mr. Korematsu, who lived in San Leandro, Calif., was 86. T
 Mitch Hedberg, the lackadaisical, longhaired comedian whose surreal routines made him a cult figure on the national comedy circuit, died on Wednesday in Livingston, N.J., said his father, Arnold. He was 37. The cause was not immediately known, said Michael O'Brien, his publicist. Th
 Nathanael V. Davis, an industrialist and philanthropist who led the world's second-largest supplier of aluminum, Alcan, after World War II and through the 1970's, died on March 22 at his home in Boca Grande, Fla. He was 89. His death was announced by his son, J.H. Dow Davis.        
 Robert Creeley, who helped transform postwar American poetry by making it more conversational and emotionally direct, died on Wednesday in Odessa, Tex. He was 78 and had been in residence at a writers' retreat maintained by the Lannan Foundation in Marfa, Tex. The cause was complica
 Akira Yoshizawa, a master paper folder widely acclaimed as the father of modern origami, died on March 14, his 94th birthday, at a hospital near his home in Ogikubo, a suburb of Tokyo. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said June Sakamoto, a board member of Origami USA, based
 Alan Dundes, an internationally renowned folklorist who explored -- rigorously, engagingly and often provocatively -- a vast spectrum of human custom and belief, died on Wednesday after collapsing while teaching at the University of California, Berkeley. He was 70 and lived in Berkeley.    
 Frank Perdue, a Maryland farm boy who became a household word, face and voice in folksy ads for his brand of fresh chickens, died on Thursday at his home in Salisbury, Md. He was 84. He died after a brief illness, his company said, but it did not announce a cause. At his dea
 Donald Carswell, an executive at NBC television and a community leader, died on March 25 at the Brooklyn Hospital Center, where he served as vice chairman. He was 75. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Mr. Carswell spent 36 years with NBC and was senior vice president 
 Dr. John B. Buck, a biologist whose studies of fireflies advanced understanding of their behavior and explained their often spectacular displays of synchronized glowing, died on Wednesday at his home in Sykesville, Md., near Baltimore. He was 92. The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma
 On the night of Oct. 16, 1978, a vast, impatient throng in floodlit St. Peter's Square cheered wildly as white smoke curled from a chimney atop the Sistine Chapel, signaling the election of a new pope. A long wait had ended, but the enthusiasm was somewhat premature. Cardinal Pericl
 Richard Townsend Davies, who served as ambassador to Poland in the waning years of the Cold War, died on Wednesday in Washington after a brief illness, his family said. He was 84 and lived in Silver Spring, Md. As the American envoy in Warsaw from 1973 to 1978, Mr. Davies establishe
 Rodney Belknap Wagner, a retired international banker at what is now J.P. Morgan Chase & Company who handled major debt issues for Saudi Arabia and Mexico and had a second career in philanthropy, died on March 24 in Sarasota, where he had a winter residence. He was 74 and lived in Colebrook
 Dr. Canute C. Bernard, a prominent surgeon and a community leader in Queens, died on March 15 at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived in Jamaica, Queens. The cause was complications from a fall at church, his wife, Daisy Bernard, said. Dr. Bernard
 Guenter Reimann, a Marxist economist early in his career who eventually published one of the most expensive and influential newsletters on international capitalism and monetary exchange, died on Feb. 5 in Valley Stream, N.Y. He was 100 and lived in Manhasset, N.Y. His death was anno
 Marius Russo, a leading Yankees pitcher of the early 1940's who is best remembered for a bizarre and game-turning at-bat in the World Series against the Brooklyn Dodgers, died March 26 in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 90. His death was announced by his wife, Stasia. Russo, a nativ
 Walter Thabit, a leader among city planners in pressing cities to build low-cost housing and encourage diversity in blighted areas, a movement now known as advocacy planning, died on March 15 at his home in Manhattan. He was 83. The cause was complications of Barrett's esophagus, in
 Bradford N. Swett, a real estate developer active in the vigorous development of the Upper West Side of Manhattan in the 1980's and 90's, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 69. The cause was glioblastoma, a type of brain cancer, his family said. Mr. Swett boug
 John J. O'Leary, a former ambassador to Chile who helped start negotiations on a free trade agreement between the United States and that country in the late 1990's, died Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 58. The cause was complications of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or A
 Robert C. Wood, an academic, writer and bureaucrat whose acumen in domestic issues like housing and education prompted Presidents John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson to seek his advice and the University of Massachusetts and the Boston school system to name him as their leader, died on Fr
 Edward Maurice Bronfman, the elder of the two brothers known as the Toronto Bronfmans, who created their own corporate realm after being denied a place in their better-known cousins' Seagram liquor kingdom, died on Monday at his home in Toronto. He was 77. The cause was cancer, said
 Dr. Stanley J. Korsmeyer, a cancer researcher at Harvard who helped discover and investigate a gene that interferes with the natural regeneration of body tissue and creates conditions that often lead to cancer, died on March 31 in Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 54. T
 Saul Bellow, the Nobel laureate and self-proclaimed historian of society whose fictional heroes -- and whose scathing, unrelenting and darkly comic examination of their struggle for meaning -- gave new immediacy to the American novel in the second half of the 20th century, died yesterday at
 Frank Conroy, the author of the classic memoir ''Stop-Time'' and an influence on generations of young writers, died yesterday at his home in Iowa City. He was 69. The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Margaret. Mr. Conroy, who headed the Writers' Workshop at the Univers
 Michael Roberts, a restaurateur and chef whose playful and astonishingly successful marriages of preposterous ingredients helped forge the California culinary revolution of the 1980's, died on March 30 at his home in South Philadelphia, where he had lived for the last several years. He was 
 Rainier III of Monaco, the prince whose storybook romance and marriage to the actress Grace Kelly helped promote the transformation of his tiny fief from a pastel postage-stamp fantasy on the Mediterranean into a steel-and-glass tax haven, died yesterday at a hospital in Monaco. He was 81. 
 Neil Welliver, a painter widely admired for his large-scale Maine woods landscapes, died on April 5 in Belfast, Me., near his home in Lincolnville. He was 75. The cause was pneumonia, said Phil Alexandre, Mr. Welliver's New York dealer. Mr. Welliver came of age as an artist 
 J. Carter Bacot, the former chairman and chief executive of the Bank of New York who transformed it from a traditional bank into a powerhouse in servicing other banks and the securities markets, died on Thursday at his home in Montclair, N. J. He was 72. The cause was cardiac arrest
 Jim Wiwa, a chief of the Ogoni of southern Nigeria who became a symbol of his embattled people after the execution of his son, the dissident environmentalist and playwright Ken Saro-Wiwa, in 1995, died on April 1 at his home in Bane, Nigeria. He was believed to have been 101. Mr. Wi
 Kenneth Morley Wilson, a noted historian of glass manufacture in America, who was long associated with the Corning Museum of Glass and the Henry Ford Museum, died on March 29 at his home in Punta Gorda, Fla. He was 83. He died after a long illness, his family said. The ultim
 Al Wasserman, a filmmaker who made movie and television documentaries that won many major awards, died at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan on March 31. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan and Provincetown, Mass. The cause was lung cancer, his wife, Barbara, said. Mr. Wasserman, who
 Chalmers M. Roberts, a retired chief diplomatic correspondent for The Washington Post who covered the cold war, the nuclear arms race and the seats of power in Washington in the 1950's and 60's, died Friday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 94. The cause was congestive heart failu
 Dr. Maynard J. Ramsay, an entomologist noted for his efforts to track and eradicate exotic parasites carried in flowers, fruits and other cargoes arriving from overseas, died on March 20 at a nursing home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 90. The cause was pneumonia, his family said.    
 Wilson Carey McWilliams, a political scientist who took a special interest in the moral basis of politics, died on March 29 at his home in Flemington, N.J. He was 71. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. He was a professor in the department of political science at 
 Archbishop Iakovos, for 37 years the primate of the Greek Orthodox Archdiocese in North and South America, a towering figure in the ecumenical movement and the first Greek archbishop in 350 years to officially confer with a pope, died on Sunday at a hospital in Stamford, Conn. He was 93 and
 Dr. Maurice R. Hilleman, a microbiologist who developed vaccines for mumps, measles, chickenpox, pneumonia, meningitis and other diseases, saving tens of millions of lives, died yesterday at a hospital in Philadelphia. He was 85. The cause was cancer, said a son-in-law, Greg Slamowi
 Paul K. Perry, an architect of the Gallup Poll who pieced through the wreckage of pollsters' stunningly wrong predictions that President Harry S. Truman would be defeated in 1948 to improve forecasts for future elections, died on April 7 at a hospital in Princeton, N.J. He was 95. T
 Wilbur A. Levin, the Kings County clerk and a longtime civic and business leader in New York City, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. The cause was cancer, his daughter Kate D. Levin said. Mr. Levin's official title was county clerk and clerk of the Supreme 
 Chen Yifei, one of the China's most acclaimed and commercially successful painters and visual artists, died here on Sunday. He was 59. His death followed a stomach hemorrhage he suffered while working on a feature film, ''Barber,'' the official New China News Agency reported.       
 Johnnie Johnson, the blues and early rock 'n' roll pianist who played on many of Chuck Berry's early hits and performed with Mr. Berry for more than 20 years, died yesterday at home in St. Louis, according to a statement from his publicist, Margo Lewis. He was 80, according to Ms. Lewis.   
 André François, the French cartoonist and illustrator whose biting satires of the human comedy influenced a generation of American editorial illustrators to veer from traditional realism, died on Monday at his home in Grisy-les-Plâtres, France. He was 89. The cause was heart and 
 André François, the French cartoonist and illustrator whose biting satires of the human comedy influenced a generation of American editorial illustrators to veer from traditional realism, died on Monday at his home in Grisy-les-Plâtres, France. He was 89. The cause was heart and 
 Philip Pavia, a sculptor who was a powerful force in the midcentury avant-garde art scene in New York, died on Wednesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 94 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from a stroke he had two weeks ago, said his wife, Natalie Ed
 John T. McTernan, a left-wing legal gunslinger who prowled the nation to defend people accused of being Communists in the McCarthy years and who aided unpopular clients like Angela Davis and Cesar Chavez's United Farm Workers, died on March 28 at a nursing home in Santa Monica, Calif. He wa
 Norbert Brainin, the founding first violinist of the Amadeus Quartet, a string quartet that played together in the same constellation for 40 years and was one of the most active and most recorded of its day, died on April 10 in Harrow, England. He was 82. The cause was cancer, said 
 Ralph D. Gardner, a writer and advertising executive and a biographer of Horatio Alger, died on March 30 at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of diabetes, his son Ralph Jr. said. A freelance contributor to The New 
 José Melis, a classically trained pianist who helped pioneer a broadcasting genre as orchestra leader for the ''Tonight'' show with Jack Paar, died April 7 at Boswell Memorial Hospital in Sun City, Ariz. He was 85. The cause was a respiratory infection, said his son, Michael Melis,
 Joe Nash, a leading archivist of black dance in the United States, died Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. Mr. Nash, who lived in Manhattan, was 85. The cause was complications of cardiovascular problems, said Rashidah Ismaili, a friend. Mr. Nash built one of the country's l
 Kenneth Schermerhorn, a conductor who directed the Nashville Symphony since 1983 and was the music director of the American Ballet Theater and the New Jersey Symphony Orchestra for several years, died yesterday in Nashville. He was 75. The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said Alan
 Dr. Richard Henry Popkin, a historian of philosophy and its particular tradition of skeptical thought, died on Thursday at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 81 and lived in Los Angeles. The cause was complications of emphysema, his family said. Skepticism, a hallmark
 Sam Mills, who defied those who believed he was too small for pro football and became a Pro Bowl linebacker who was honored by the Carolina Panthers with a bronze statue outside their stadium, died Monday. He was 45. Mills, the Panthers' linebackers coach, died at his home here afte
 Big House Gaines, whose 828 victories at Winston-Salem State University rank fifth on the career list among men's college basketball coaches, died Monday at a hospital in Winston-Salem, N.C. He was 81. The cause was complications from a stroke, the Winston-Salem State's sports infor
 Charles McC. Hauser, a longtime editor of The Providence Journal who risked prison by defying a federal judge in a First Amendment battle, died on Sunday in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 76. He died after a three-day illness, The Journal said in reporting his death. He was the executive 
 Lt. Cmdr. Wheeler B. Lipes, who performed a storied appendectomy while a pharmacist's mate aboard a submarine in the Pacific during World War II, died on Sunday in New Bern, N.C. He was 84. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his daughter-in-law, Berniece Lipes. On Sept. 1
 Clement Meadmore, a sculptor who wrestled hulking lengths of steel into abstract artworks of arresting fluidity and lightness, died on Tuesday in New York. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, said Peter Rose, a New York art dealer 
 Martin Blumenson, a military historian who wrote extensively about American commanders and campaigns in World War II, died last Friday at his home in Washington. He was 86. He died after a brief illness, said his son, John J-G. Blumenson. Mr. Blumenson wrote biographies of G
 Peter F. Flaherty, a former mayor of Pittsburgh who was briefly deputy United States attorney general under President Jimmy Carter, died on Monday at his home in the Pittsburgh suburb of Mount Lebanon, Pa. He was 80. The cause was cancer, his son Shawn said. A Democrat, Mr. 
 Dr. Saunders Mac Lane, a mathematician at the University of Chicago who helped to develop category theory, an abstract branch of algebra that has applications in computer science and other fields, died on April 14 at a hospice in San Francisco. He was 95. The cause was internal blee
 Gene Frankel, a pioneering Off Broadway director and respected acting teacher whose career extended from Broadway to the 70-seat theater on Bond Street that bears his name, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 85. The cause was heart failure, said Gail Thacker, the manager of the 
 H. Richard Uviller, a provocative and influential legal educator who salted his scholarly analyses with gritty personal experiences he had collected as a prosecutor in the Manhattan district attorney's office, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause
 James A. Houston, a writer and artist almost single-handedly responsible for introducing contemporary Eskimo art to an international audience, died on Sunday in New London, Conn. He was 83 and lived in Stonington, Conn. The cause was complications of a heart attack, his wife, Alice,
 Cliff Montgomery, the quarterback who called and executed the hidden-ball play known as KF-79 that propelled Columbia to a 7-0 upset of Stanford in the 1934 Rose Bowl, died Thursday at Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola, N.Y. Montgomery, who lived in Roslyn Heights, N.Y., was 94.      
 Dr. Norman D. Newell, an influential paleontologist who challenged opponents of evolutionary theory and helped shape theories explaining the mass extinctions of species, died on Monday at his home in Leonia, N.J., his family said. He was 96. In a wide-ranging career that included sc
 David Hughes, an English man of letters best known for exploring the individual's role in traumatic public events in his elegantly written novels, among them ''The Pork Butcher'' (Schocken, 1985) and ''The Joke of the Century'' (Taplinger, 1986), died on April 11. He was 74 and lived in Lon
 Greg Jordan, a prominent Manhattan designer who created interiors for socialites like Blaine Trump and Elizabeth Johnson, with whom he formed close friendships, died on Wednesday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 48. The cause was a heart attack stemming from advanced coronary a
 Robert R. Granville, an F.B.I. agent in New York who headed the team that arrested Julius and Ethel Rosenberg, died on April 12 at a hospital in Tampa, Fla. He was 89 and lived in Crystal River. He had had a stroke two weeks earlier, said his son, Col. Robert R. Granville Jr., M.D. 
 Sir John Mills, the celebrated British actor who portrayed war heroes, Dickensian upstarts and an extraordinary pantheon of English characters in a film, stage and television career that spanned much of the 20th century, died yesterday at his home in Denham, west of London. He was 97.      
 Ezer Weizman, the swashbuckling and acerbic former president of Israel, who built the country's air force and guided it in the startlingly swift victory over the Arab forces in the 1967 Arab-Israeli war, died last night, the government said. He was 80 and suffered recently from pneumonia.  
 John Hultberg, an American abstract painter and printmaker who came to the fore with the avant-garde after World War II, died on April 15 at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 and lived on the Upper West Side. The cause was complications of a stroke, according to Christopher
 Sir John Mills, the celebrated British actor who portrayed war heroes, Dickensian upstarts and an extraordinary pantheon of English characters in a film, stage and television career that spanned much of the 20th century, died on Saturday at his home in Denham, west of London. He was 97.    
 Alexander J. Trotman, who rose from a student trainee at Ford Motor to become the company's chief executive for much of the 1990's, died on Monday in Yorkshire, England. He was 71. Ford said in a statement that Mr. Trotman had died after a brief illness. From 1993 to 1998, M
 Dr. Philip Morrison, who helped assemble the first atomic bomb with his own hands, and then campaigned for the rest of his life against weapons that could deliver such devastation, died Friday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 89. He died in his sleep, his family said. 
 Thomas J. Concannon, who abandoned a career in banking after a long bus ride across South Asia, then spent the next three decades wielding legendary charm and formidable negotiating skills as a lawyer for thousands of poor people in New York, died on Saturday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering
 Earl Wilson, a leading pitcher for the Boston Red Sox and the 1968 World Series champion Detroit Tigers, and one of the top home run hitters among major league pitchers, died Saturday at his home in Southfield, Mich. He was 70. The cause was a heart attack, said Jim Martin, the exec
 Sir Eduardo Paolozzi, a father of British Pop Art and a leading sculptor of the postwar era, died in a London hospital on Friday. He was 81. Sir Eduardo's death followed a period of decline that began when he suffered a stroke four years ago, said Emily Bishop, director of the New Y
 John F. White, president emeritus of the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art and an architect of public broadcasting in the United States, died on Friday at his home in Virginia Beach. He was 87. A former resident of Tuxedo Park, N.Y., he also had a home in Sarasota, Fla.   
 Johnny Sample, the former Jets defensive back who carved a place in National Football League lore by participating in three of the most storied games of the 1950's and 1960's, died Monday. He was 67. Sample, who became a radio talk-show host in his native Philadelphia after he retir
 Mason Adams, a ubiquitous character actor in radio, television, movies and the theater whose crotchety but reassuring tone of voice was as famous as his face, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 86. He died of natural causes, his daughter Betsy sa
 Arnie Lawrence, a jazz saxophonist and pioneering educator who helped found the jazz program at the New School University in New York and started an innovative program to train young jazz musicians of both Jewish and Arab backgrounds in Israel, died on April 22 in Jerusalem. He was 66 and l
 J.B. Stoner, an unapologetic racist whose conviction for bombing a church, divisive political campaigns and vituperations about Jews and blacks made him a benchmark for racial extremism in the United States, died on Saturday at a nursing home in La Fayette, Ga. He was 81. The cause 
 Percy Heath, whose forceful and buoyant bass playing anchored the Modern Jazz Quartet for its entire four-decade existence, died yesterday in Southampton, N.Y. He was 81 and lived in Montauk, on Long Island. The cause of death was bone cancer, his family said. Mr. Heath reco
 David T. Bazelon, a writer, social critic and teacher of political science, died on Monday in Madison, Wis. A former resident of Buffalo and Manhattan, he was 82 and had lived at a retirement residence in Madison since 1998. His son, Coleman D. Bazelon of Glenelg, Md., announced the
 Hasil Adkins, a rockabilly singer who became a cult figure among record collectors and musicians for his raw, idiosyncratic music and outsize personality, was found dead on Tuesday at his home near Madison, W.Va. He was 68. The cause was unknown, said Sheriff Rodney Miller of Boone 
 Jimmy Woode, a bassist who spent five years with Duke Ellington but was best known as one of the leading figures on the European jazz scene, died on Saturday at his home in Lindenwold, N.J. He was 78. He died of postoperative complications after surgery for a stomach aneurism, his d
 Miguel O. Martinez, who was a member of the New York City Board of Education for eight years, died on April 17 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 67 The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Mary Alice. Mr. Martinez was appointed to the Board of Education by Mayor Edward I. Ko
 Red Horner, a Hall of Fame defenseman who was one of hockey's most rugged players of the 1930's, died Wednesday in Toronto. He was 95. His death was announced by the National Hockey League, which said he was believed to be its oldest former player. Making his debut in 1928, 
