 Ben Martin, who coached the Air Force Academy football team from 1958 to 1977 and reached three bowl games, died July 24 in Colorado Springs. He was 83. Martin's death was announced by the academy. He had recently had a heart attack, Troy Garnhart, the academy's assistant athletic d
 David Baker, a noted audio engineer favored by many jazz recording artists, died on July 14 in Rochester, where he had gone for a recording session. He was 58 and lived in Manhattan. His death was announced by Kirk Imamura, president of Avatar Studios in Manhattan, and his family, w
 Frank Smith, who as an inmate leader at Attica prison was tortured by officers in the aftermath of the prisoner uprising of 1971 and then spent a quarter century successfully fighting for legal damages, died Saturday in Kinston, N.C. He was 71. The cause was kidney cancer, his wife,
 Bob Murphy, who brought a sunny disposition and ''happy recaps'' to Mets television and radio broadcasts from the team's first game in 1962 until his retirement last season, died yesterday at a hospice in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 79. The cause was lung cancer, the Mets said.    
 Dr. Joseph Silver, a former chief of orthopedic surgery at New York Methodist Hospital in Brooklyn, died on Monday in Stamford, Conn. He was 70. The cause was cancer, said Philip Fuchs, a friend. Born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, Dr. Silver lived in Lawrence, N.Y. Hi
 Larry R. Shannon, a retired writer and editor for The New York Times, died on Saturday at his home in Toms River, N.J. He was 67 and a former resident of Glen Rock, N.J. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, Jan. Mr. Shannon joined The Times in 1967, working as a c
 Sidney Morgenbesser, whose servings of logic, wit and insight as a Columbia University philosopher for a half-century prompted comparisons to Socrates -- minus the Yiddish accent -- died on Sunday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause was complic
 Henri Cartier-Bresson, who used his tiny, hand-held 35-millimeter Leica camera to bear humane witness to many of the 20th century's biggest events, from the Spanish Civil War to the German occupation of France to the partition of India to the Chinese revolution to the French student uprisin
 George Francis Kugler Jr., a prominent New Jersey lawyer who was the state's attorney general under Gov. William T. Cahill in the 1970's, died on Sunday at a hospital in Berlin, N.J. He was 79 and lived in Cherry Hill. He died after a brief illness, his family said. At the t
 Tiziano Terzani, an Italian journalist and writer who won international fame as he chronicled Asia's race toward modernity with the curiosity of a travel writer and a deep cultural sensitivity, died on July 28 at his home near Florence. He was 65. Mr. Terzani had had cancer since 19
 Rick James, the unabashedly bawdy funk-rock pioneer who had a run of hits, including ''Super Freak,'' from the late 1970's to the mid-80's, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles, his record company, Universal Motown, announced. He was 56. He was found yesterday morning by a hous
 Alexander Hammid, a filmmaker whose body of work spanned the genesis of the experimental movement in Czechoslovakia, early anti-Nazi documentaries and soaring modern Imax spectacles, died on July 26 at his home in Manhattan. He was 96. Mr. Hammid, whose original name was Alexandr Ha
 Philip H. Abelson, a versatile scientist, editor and administrator who helped discover the element neptunium and later chronicled laboratory advances as editor of the journal Science, died on Aug. 1 in Bethesda, Md. He was 91. The cause was pneumonia, said a nephew, Dr. John N. Abel
 Philip S. Holzman, a psychologist and researcher at Harvard University whose studies of schizophrenia led to a more detailed understanding of mental disease, died on June 1 at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center in Boston. He was 82. The cause was a stroke after surgery, said a son
 Robert E. Herman, a former state rent administrator of New York, died on July 28 at Hartford Hospital. A former resident of Great Neck, N.Y., he was 85 and lived in Boynton Beach, Fla., and Lee, Mass. The cause was cancer, his family said. A lawyer by training, Mr. Herman wa
 Donald Justice, an elder of American poetry whose formalist verse and teaching skills were equally acclaimed, died last Friday at an Iowa City nursing home, where he had been since a stroke several weeks ago. He was 78 and lived in Iowa City. His family said the cause was pneumonia;
 Red Adair, an indefatigable conqueror of ravenous fires in oil and gas wells on land and sea around the world, died Saturday at a hospital in his native Houston, his daughter, Robyn, announced. He was 89. Mr. Adair was an independent daredevil who more than made up for his lack of f
 David Raksin, who composed more than 400 scores for movies and television series but is remembered best as the author of the haunting theme for the 1944 movie, ''Laura,'' died on Monday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 92. The immediate cause was heart failure caused by cardiovasc
 James Stillman Rockefeller, who helped capture an Olympic rowing title for the United States before a banking career with a company that eventually become Citigroup, died yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn., his family announced. He was 102. Mr. Rockefeller joined the National
 Maxwell Dane, the last living founder of Doyle Dane Bernbach, a New York agency that helped change the face of advertising, died on Sunday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan, the agency, now known as DDB Worldwide, said yesterday. Mr. Dane, known as Mac, was 98. Mr. Dan
 Leon Golub, an American painter of expressionistic, heroic-scale figures that reflect dire modern political conditions, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications after surgery, said his son Stephen, a professor of economics at Swarthm
 Alan Norman Cohen, a sports and entertainment executive who once headed the company that owned Madison Square Garden, died Tuesday at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 73. The cause was idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a lung disease, his family said. At his death, he was ch
 Bill Martin Jr., who could not read more than a sentence at a time until he was in college but later earned a doctorate in early childhood education and led generations of young children to reading with simple stories like ''Brown Bear, Brown Bear, What Do You See?'' and ''Chicka, Chicka, B
 Dr. David W. Golde, an expert in blood disorders who was chief physician at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City, died on Aug. 9 at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 63. He committed suicide, said his son Michael D., of Silver Spring, Md. Dr. Golde (prono
 Wolfgang Mommsen, a scion of a dynasty of German historians who is best known in the United States for his scholarship on the historian Max Weber and the origins of imperialism, especially in Germany, died on Wednesday while vacationing on the island of Usedom, in the Baltic Sea. He was 73 
 Czeslaw Milosz, the Polish émigré writer who won the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1980, in part for a powerful pre-mortem dissection of Communism, in part for tragic, ironic poetry that set a standard for the world, died Saturday at his home in Krakow, his assistant, Agnieszka Kosinska, t
 Robert Span Browne, a prominent economist and foreign-aid administrator who founded important African-American self-help programs, died on Aug. 5 at a hospital in West Haverstraw, N.Y. He was 79 and lived in Teaneck, N.J. The cause was heart failure, said the 21st-Century Foundation
 Theodore W. Clymer, an expert who successfully challenged many common myths of early reading education, died at his home in Carmel, Calif., on July 25. He was 77. His death came after a long illness, said his daughter, Lorna Clymer. In 1963, Dr. Ted Clymer made a big impact 
 George Yardley, a Hall of Fame forward who was the first National Basketball Association player to score 2,000 points in a season, died Thursday at his home in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 75. The cause was amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, known as Lou Gehrig's disease, his daughter A
 Milton Pollack, a noted federal judge who presided over some of the biggest financial-scandal cases of the 20th century, died Friday at New York Weill Cornell Center. He was 97. The cause was complications from surgery, according to his family. Judge Pollack grew up in Flatb
 Ivan Hlinka, who coached the Czech Republic to the hockey gold medal at the 1998 Nagano Olympics and became the coach of the Pittsburgh Penguins two years later -- one of the first two National Hockey League head coaches born and reared in Europe -- died yesterday at a hospital in the Czech
 Kermit Swiler Champa, a professor of art and architecture at Brown University whose impassioned lectures inspired several generations of historians and curators, died on July 22 at his home in Providence, R.I. He was 64. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Judith Tolnick.     
 Sune Karl Bergstrom, a biochemist who shared the 1982 Nobel Prize in Medicine for unraveling the secrets of prostaglandins, a family of hormones with a wide array of biological functions, died on Sunday in his native Sweden. He was 88. The cause was a long illness, said news reports
 Carl Mydans, a photographer for Life whose career spanned all 36 years of the magazine's incarnation as a weekly, and whose most memorable pictures were taken under combat conditions during World War II, died on Monday at his home in Larchmont, N.Y., his family said. He was 97. Mr. 
 Shizuo Kakutani, a mathematician known for fundamental tools that have come to bear his name and that are used in disparate fields including economics, died yesterday in New Haven. He was 92 and lived in Hamden, Conn. His death was announced by his daughter, Michiko. A profe
 Gérard Souzay, the French baritone who was one of the 20th century's finest interpreters of art songs, died on Tuesday at his home in Cap d'Antibes, France. He was 85. He died of natural causes, said Winston Ku, director of the Gérard Souzay Vocal Arts Foundation and a student and
 J. Irwin Miller, the industrialist whose patronage turned Columbus, Ind., into a showcase for modern architecture, died on Monday at his home in Columbus. He was 95. He died after a brief illness, his family said. For 26 years, Mr. Miller was chairman of the Cummins Engine C
 Elmer Bernstein, the Academy Award-winning composer of more than 200 film scores, many more memorable than the movies they accompanied, died on Wednesday at his home in Ojai, Calif. He was 82. His death was announced to The Associated Press by his publicist, Cathy Mouton. Am
 Sir Godfrey Hounsfield, a British electrical engineer whose work in creating the computerized axial tomography scanner, the CAT scan, a diagnostic tool used in hospitals worldwide, won him a Nobel Prize, died Aug. 12 at New Victoria Hospital in Kingston upon Thames, England. He was 84.     
 Bernard H. Breslauer, a prominent New York rare book dealer and a leading collector of manuscript illuminations, died on Aug. 14 in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Manhattan. His death was announced by Felix de Marez Oyens, a friend and colleague. Known also as a leading e
 Horance Gibbs Davis Jr., a Pulitzer Prize-winning editorial writer who became an influential journalism educator at the University of Florida, died here on Monday. He was 80. The cause was heart failure, said his daughter, Jennifer Nicole of Gainesville. Mr. Davis, who was k
 Herbert Hill, who as the N.A.A.C.P.'s labor director in the 1950's and 1960's was one of the loudest and most effective voices raised against racial discrimination by unions, died on Sunday in Madison, Wis. He was 80. His death, which came after a long illness, was announced by the 
 Pendleton Herring, a political scientist, writer and foundation executive who did pioneering work in the study of American politics, died on Tuesday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 100. The cause was pneumonia, his son James said. As a scholar, Dr. Herring worked to understand
 Charles Eaton, a member of an American entertainment clan whose credits go back to the Ziegfeld Follies, died on Sunday in Norman, Okla. He was 94 and had been living with his sister, Doris Eaton Travis, one of four surviving Ziegfeld girls. His death was announced in New York by Ni
 Ward Smith, a manufacturing executive who was the longtime president of the Cleveland Orchestra's board, overseeing a great expansion of that orchestra's budget, endowment and reputation, died last Sunday at his home in Hunting Valley, Ohio. He was 73. The cause was cancer, an orche
 Albert Delacorte, an editor and teacher who helped guide his family's philanthropy, died yesterday at his home in San Francisco. He was 90. The cause was prostate cancer complicated by emphysema, said his daughter Erika Delacorte. Mr. Delacorte was a son of George T. Delacor
 Paul G. Garrity, a former Boston judge whose legacy was a cleaner Boston Harbor and improved public housing, died on Saturday at Massachusetts General Hospital. He was 66 and lived in Boston. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Judge Garrity retired in 1990 as a j
 Robert David Lion Gardiner, the last heir to bear the name of the family that has owned Gardiner's Island, off the coast of Long Island, for nearly four centuries, died yesterday at his home in East Hampton, N.Y. He was 93. His death was announced by Jeanne Toomey, a friend and form
 Hank Borowy, a right-handed pitcher who helped the Yankees capture pennants in 1942 and 1943, then starred for the last Chicago Cubs team to reach the World Series, died Monday at his home in Brick, N.J. He was 88. The cause was cancer, his daughter Mary Ellen Borowy said. F
 David T. McLaughlin, a business executive who became president of Dartmouth College in the 1980's, a time of academic and political turbulence on its campus, died on Wednesday while on vacation at a lodge in Dillingham, Alaska. He was 72 and lived in Newbury, N.H. The cause has not 
 Eddison Zvobgo, a Zimbabwean nationalist leader and Harvard-trained lawyer who won a reputation for his acerbic wit in negotiations to secure his country's independence from Britain, died in Harare, the capital, last Sunday. He was 69. His death in St. Anne's hospital after a long i
 Timothy B. Harbert, the chairman and chief executive of State Street Global Advisors, the Boston-based fund management giant, died Tuesday night. He was 53 years old. The cause was a sudden heart attack at his home in Boxford, Mass., the company said. Mr. Harbert joined the 
 N.A. Jewell, the British submarine commander who set afloat the body of ''the man who never was'' in an elaborate ruse to confuse the Germans about the Allies' invasion plans in World War II, died Aug. 18 in Richmond Upon Thames, Surrey, England. He was 90. His death was confirmed b
 Peter Woodthorpe, the defiantly eccentric character actor who played a significant role in the British postwar theatrical revolution, died on Aug. 13. He was 72. His death was reported in The Guardian of London. While performing with the Marlowe Society as a Cambridge underg
 Peter Woodthorpe, the defiantly eccentric character actor who played a significant role in the British postwar theatrical revolution, died on Aug. 13. He was 72. His death was reported in The Guardian of London. While performing with the Marlowe Society as a Cambridge underg
 David A. Woodward, a British-born geographer, editor and historian of mapmaking who helped create an encyclopedic series of books re-examining the place of mapmaking in world history, died last Wednesday at his home in Madison, Wis., where he taught at the University of Wisconsin for two de
 Dr. Fred L. Whipple, originator of the idea that comets consist of ice with some rock mixed in, died Monday at a hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 97. His death was announced by the Harvard-Smithsonian Center for Astrophysics, where Dr. Whipple had served as director for almost tw
 Hans Vonk, a Dutch conductor who was music director of the St. Louis Symphony from 1996 through 2002, helping maintain the orchestra's reputation with interpretations of Romantic and modern works, died on Sunday at his home in Amsterdam. He was 63. Jeff Trammel, a spokesman for the 
