 James Gibson, who had served on New York State's highest court and wrote the decision that upheld the constitutionality of the phrase "under God" in the Pledge of Allegiance, died on Friday at the Glens Falls Hospital in Glens Falls, N.Y. He was 90 years old and had lived in Hudson Falls, N
 Robert J. Kane, a former president of the United States Olympic Committee and a longtime director of athletics at Cornell University, died yesterday at Tompkins Community Hospital in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 81 years old. He died of heart and respiratory failure after a long illness.    
 Michael Talbot, a writer who specialized in paranormal phenomena, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 38 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of chronic lymphocystic leukemia, said his mother, Nancy Neve of Grand Rapids, Mich. Mr. Talbot published several 
 Morrie Elis, one of America's foremost bridge players, died on Sunday at his home in Lauderhill, Fla. He was 84 years old. He died after a series of heart problems, said his daughter, Judith Tucker of Manhattan. Mr. Elis won the Vanderbilt Knockout Team Championship in 1949 
 Sterling A. Stoudemire, a scholar of Spanish, died Tuesday at the University of North Carolina Hospital in Chapel Hill. He was 89 years old and lived in Chapel Hill. Dr. Stoudemire died of heart failure, a university spokeswoman said. Dr. Stoudemire enrolled at the Universit
 Antoni Zygmund, who was a professor of mathematics at the University of Chicago for 45 years, died on Saturday at his home in the Hyde Park section of Chicago. He was 91 years old. His death was announced by the University of Chicago. Dr. Zygmund was best known for his work 
 David Binney Putnam Sr., who explored the Galapagos Islands at age 12 and piloted a stunt plane at 17 after being tutored by Amelia Earhart's technical adviser, died on Monday at Lawnwood Regional Medical Center in Fort Pierce, Fla. He was 79 years old and lived in Fort Pierce. He d
 Franz Rupp, a pianist who was best known for his performances and recordings with the violinist Fritz Kreisler, the cellist Emanuel Feuermann and the contralto Marian Anderson, died last Wednesday at the Cabrini Hospice. He was 91 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of cancer 
 Glenn White, a principal dancer and a teacher with the Joffrey Ballet, died last Wednesday at the Lake Taylor Hospital in Norfolk, Va. He was 42 years old. He died of AIDS, said his mother, Lillian White of Norfolk. Mr. White danced with the Joffrey from 1968 to 1980. He als
 Irwin C. Lieb, a philosopher and educator who helped bring seven Soviet Jewish scientists to the United States, died on May 23 at Huntington Memorial Hospital in Pasadena, Calif. He was 66 years old and lived in Pasadena. He died of lung cancer, a family spokesman said. From
 Julien J. Soubiran, the chairman and a co-founder of the Horan Engraving Company in Manhattan, died yesterday at his home in Darien, Conn. He was 93 years old. He died after a long illness, his family said. Mr. Soubiran, who helped start the company in 1928, was the author o
 Karl-Erik Welin, a Swedish composer, pianist and organist, was found dead at his home on the Spanish island of Mallorca on Sunday, his 58th birthday. Reports in the Swedish press did not list the cause of death. As a performer, Mr. Welin was drawn to music that allowed him t
 Rear Adm. Raymond F. DuBois, retired, a highly decorated submarine officer in World War II, died last Thursday at the Bethesda Naval Medical Center in Maryland. He was 76 years old and lived in McLean, Va. His family said he died of a cerebral hemorrhage. Admiral DuBois was 
 Roger Manton Keefe, a retired banker who worked for nearly four decades at the Chase Manhattan Bank in New York and later with the Connecticut Bank and Trust Company, died on Saturday at St. Joseph's Medical Center in Stamford, Conn. He was 73 years old and lived in Norwalk, Conn. H
 Norman W. Schur, a New York lawyer who parlayed a lifelong love of words into a second career as a lexicographer, died on Friday at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. He was 84 years old and divided his time between homes in Weston, Conn., and Hawkhurst, Kent, England. Mr. Schur, a gr
 Philip Dunne, a leading screenwriter who was a founder of the Screen Writers Guild and a vigorous opponent of the House Committee on Un-American Activities in the 1950's, died on Tuesday at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 84 years old. He died of cancer, said a daughter, Philippa 
 Robert Morley, the portly, jowly character actor of the British and American stage and screen, best known for his comically pompous and jovial roles, died yesterday at a hospital in Reading, west of London. He was 84 years old. He died after a stroke on Sunday afternoon at his home 
 William M. Gaines, who as publisher of Mad magazine conferred immortality on a goofy-faced, gaptoothed cover boy and the "What -- me worry?" motto, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 70 years old. He died in his sleep, editors at Mad said. The first issue of the
 Carl E. Stotz, the lumberyard clerk who stumbled over a lilac bush during a backyard game of catch with his two young nephews in 1938 and came up with the idea for Little League baseball, died yesterday at Williamsport Hospital in Pennsylvania. He was 82 years old and died of a hear
 Dr. Maury P. Leibovitz, a psychologist and an art entrepreneur who was also active in Reform Judaism, died on Sunday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 75 years old. He died of a heart attack, said his cousin, Albert Vorspan. At his death, Dr. Leibovitz, who had a Ph.D. 
 Gerhard Closs, a chemist and educator, died May 24 at his home in Palos Park, Ill. He was 64 years old. He died of heart failure, said a spokeswoman for the University of Chicago, where Dr. Closs was chairman of the chemistry department. Dr. Closs, who taught at the Universi
 The Rev. Patrick Peyton, the Roman Catholic priest who coined the saying "the family that prays together stays together" and who fostered prayer by millions of people through radio, television, films and worldwide preaching crusades, died on Wednesday in California. He was 83 years old and 
 Reginald Malcolmson, professor emeritus of architecture and former dean of the University of Michigan's College of Architecture and Urban Planning, died on Monday at the University of Michigan Hospital in Ann Arbor. He was 79 years old and lived in Ann Arbor. An announcement from th
 Winfield Taylor, a retired New York advertising executive, died on Monday at his home in Somers, N.Y. He was 86 years old. His family said he died after a brief illness. Mr. Taylor, a native of Wilmette, Ill., attended Dartmouth College and turned to writing advertising copy
 John J. Flaherty, an executive in the home appliance industry, died on May 29 in Chicago, where he was attending the annual Consumer Electronics Show. He was 64 years old and lived in West Hartford, Conn., and Manhattan. He died of a heart attack, his family said. He helped 
 Max Lerner, an educator, journalist and student of American civilization who was for many years a syndicated columnist for The New York Post, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 89 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Southampton, L.I. He died of a stroke, said his so
 Ricardo A. Caminos, a longtime Brown University professor who was a leading scholar of ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics and writings, died on May 28 at his home in London. He was 76 years old. He died of a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Caminos, who was on the Brown facult
 Roy Anthony, a retired marketing consultant, died last Sunday at Saint Joseph's of the Pines nursing home in Pinehurst, N.C. He was 83 years old and a former resident of Scarborough, N.Y. Mr. Anthony worked for 30 years at the Quaker Oats Company and at the Pillsbury Company, where 
 The Rev. Thomas A. McGrath, a psychologist and professor emeritus of psychology at Fairfield University, died last Sunday in a one-car accident in Westport, Conn., a university announcement said. He was 73 years old and lived on campus in Fairfield, Conn. Father McGrath, a native of
 William Edgett Smith, a journalist for Time magazine for 35 years, died on Thursday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 62 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of carcenoid syndrome, a rare cancer, his family said. Mr. Smith became a centr
 John Charles Doerfer, who headed the Federal Communications Commission during controversies over payments to disk jockeys and quiz shows scandals and who was forced out of office for vacationing on a broadcaster's yacht, died on Friday at his home in Boston. He was 87 years old and 
 Irving Laurie, a retired businessman and a philanthropist with many causes in New Jersey, died on Friday at the Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. He had turned 95 years old the day before. The nature of his illness was not specified. Mr. Laurie f
 Nicholas G. W. Thorne, an American military and diplomatic officer who directed missions to resettle 50,000 Indochinese refugees and monitor an Egyptian-Israeli buffer zone, died on May 28 in the Philippines. He was 71 years old and lived in Manila. He died of complications of lymph
 Alexander W. Faber, a certified public accountant in Manhattan for the last 50 years, died on Sunday at New York University Hospital. He was 80 years old and lived on the Upper East Side. He died of congestive heart failure, his family said. A native of Manhattan and graduat
 Victor Alexander, a designer of women's fashions and co-owner of the Countess Alexander dress shops, died on May 11 in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 79 years old and lived in Palm Beach and Southampton, L.I. Mr. Alexander died of cancer, said his nephew, Garo Alexanian. Born 
 William G. McGowan, a maverick entrepreneur who changed the shape of the nation's telephone industry, bringing lower cost long-distance service to millions of American households and businesses, died yesterday in Washington. He was 64 years old. Mr. McGowan, the longtime chairman of
 William W. Green, the founder of the Motor Club of America and its chief executive from 1926 to 1986, died on May 29 at his daughter's home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 92 years old and lived in Palm Beach and Manhattan. Mr. Green died of Alzheimer's disease, said his son, Robert
 Calvin Morgan, a stage, furniture and interior designer, died on Saturday at Cardinal Cook Hospice in New York. He was 49 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications from AIDS, said David Ostwald, a friend. Mr. Morgan moved to New York in 1976 to be the direct
 Dr. David D. Denker, a historian and past president of New York Medical College, died on June 7 at the Princeton Medical Center, in Princeton, N.J. He was 77 years old and lived in Jamesburg, N.J. Dr. Denker died of cancer, said his wife, Jane Gurley Denker. In 1966, when Dr
 Edward F. Fagan, a retired detective inspector from New York City, whose final command included the Police Department's crime laboratory, the bomb squad and the daily lineup, died on June 1 at the Bon Secours in Maria Manor nursing home in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 80 years old and had be
 John J. Martin, a senior vice president at the Aetna Life and Casualty Company and a national spokesman for the insurance industry, died on Sunday at his home in Suffield, Conn. He was 57 years old. He died after a 13-month battle with brain cancer, said Elizabeth Krupnick, a spokes
 Clifford O. Anderson, a former president of the Kinney Shoe Corporation, died on Sunday at his home in Bay Head, N.J. He was 89 years old. Mr. Anderson graduated from the City College of New York in 1922. He joined Kinney in 1931 as a buyer, and became the company's general merchand
 Lawrence S. Eagleburger, the Deputy Secretary of State, entered a ringing defense of the American diplomatic corps today at a memorial service for his colleague, Philip C. Habib. Mr. Habib, who played a leading role in framing and carrying out American policy in the Middle East and 
 John J. Martin, a senior vice president at the Aetna Life and Casualty Company and a national spokesman for the insurance industry, died on Sunday at his home in Suffield, Conn. He was 57 years old. He died after a 13-month battle with brain cancer, said Elizabeth Krupnick, a spokes
 Leonard V. Haber, a retired architect and industrial designer, died on June 4 at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old. Mr. Haber died of heart failure, said a stepson, Robert F. Murchison. A native of New York City, Mr. Haber attended schools in Manhattan and studied a
 Martin Goodman, who as founder and publisher for many years of Marvel Comics invented such popular characters as Captain America and Spiderman, died on June 6 at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 84 years old. He also lived in Manhattan. Mr. Goodman died of natural causes, said hi
 Morris Kline, a professor of mathematics who was a longtime critic of the way mathematics was taught, died early yesterday at Maimonides Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 84 years old and lived in Brooklyn. He had been in declining health, and his death was caused by heart failure, said 
 Samuel S. Walker, the founder and president of the New York publishing house that brought John le Carre's first three novels to America, has died in a boating accident near his home in Stonington, Conn. He was 65 years old. Mr. Walker disappeared while kayaking alone in Long Island 
 Sylvan Furman, a former state official and an expert on community mental health issues, died at his home in Manhattan on Tuesday. He was 80 years old. Mr. Furman died of cancer, said Rebecca Meiskin, a granddaughter. In 1958 Mr. Furman was appointed to head the Manhattan Soc
 Cosmo Sirchio, a fashion industry executive and former fashion designer, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. Mr. Sirchio was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan and Newtown, Conn. He died of complications from AIDS, said his companion and business partner,
 Craig Ellwood, an architect known for his minimal steel-and-glass designs, died on May 30 in Pergine Valdarno, Italy, where he lived. He was 70 years old. He apparently died of a heart attack, said his wife, Leslie. Although trained as an engineer, Mr. Ellwood became a leadi
 Franklin F. Snyder, an associate professor emeritus of obstetrics and anatomy at Harvard Medical School, died on Tuesday at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 94 years old and lived in Newton Center, Mass. The cause of death was a heart attack, said his nephew, Frank Rot
 Julius B. Kuriansky, a retired lawyer and longtime civic leader in Stamford, Conn., died on June 8 at the Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Stamford. Mr. Kuriansky died of cancer, said his daughter, Joan. Mr. Kuriansky, a native of New Canaan, Conn., 
 Nicholas Guy Anton, a physicist, engineer and inventor of monitoring devices that detect radiation and cancer, died on Wednesday at his daughter's home in St. Louis, while on a visit. A former resident of Brooklyn, he was 85 years old and lived in Coconut Creek, Fla. He died after a
 Dr. Albert Saul Gordon, a physiologist whose work at New York University advanced the fight against blood disease, died yesterday at Long Beach Memorial Hospital on Long Island. He was 81 years old. He died of heart failure while visiting family members on the way to his summer home
 Dr. Harry Eagle, a medical scientist whose many discoveries included a method for growing cells in test tubes that was a breakthrough for biological research, died yesterday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y., where he was admitted three weeks ago. He was 86 years old and lived in Mam
 Gustave Schirmer 4th, a theatrical director, producer and agent, died on Wednesday at the Brotman Medical Center in Culver City, Calif. He was 73 years old and lived in Hollywood. He died of kidney failure, said Frank Liberman, a friend. Mr. Schirmer, who was the last member
 Louis Rudisch, a metallurgist who invented a crystal for popular radio kits and adapted a process for casting jewelry parts, died last Saturday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 90 years old and lived in Queens. He died of complications of pneumonia, his family said.        
 Meyer H. Robinson, a philanthropist and co-founder of the company that made Manischewitz wines, died yesterday at Beth Israel Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 86 years old and lived in Lawrence, L.I. He died of congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Robinson's car
 Peter von Zerneck, a character actor who appeared in 1940's films, including "Notorious" and "13 Rue Madeleine," died on Wednesday in Toluca Lake, Calif., where he lived. He was 84 years old. He died of complications after surgery, said his son Michael Zerneck of New York City.     
 Colin Campbell Cameron, a descendant of missionaries to Hawaii who became a major resort developer and pineapple industry executive, died on Friday while swimming near his home in Spreckelsville on Maui. He was 65 years old. He was found unconscious in the ocean, and rescue workers 
 Dr. Harry Eagle, a medical scientist whose many discoveries included a method for growing cells in test tubes that was a breakthrough for biological research, died on Friday at United Hospital in Port Chester, N.Y., where he was admitted three weeks ago. He was 86 years old and lived in Mam
 Richard Boehm, who created the author's book tour that has become a fixture of sales promotion in the publishing industry, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 57 years old. He died of a massive coronary attack, said Michael Mace, a friend and colleague. Mr. Boe
 Walter Thomas Wells Sr., who was a leading executive in the marine insurance industry, died on Friday at his home in Moraga, Calif. He was 64 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Wells retired earlier this year as the senior vice president and longest-serving e
 Conrad Jones, a retired management consultant who was an expert on methods for developing successful new products, died on Friday at his home in Southport, Conn. He was 68 years old. He died of prostate cancer, his family said. Mr. Jones worked 34 years for Booz, Allen & Ham
 George deBenneville Bell, chairman of a Philadelphia investment banking firm, died Saturday at his home in Gladwyne, Pa. He was 68 years old. Mr. Bell died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Bell was chairman of Janney Montgomery Scott, where he had worked for the last 19 years
 Lawrence William Towner, a historian and former president of the Newberry Library in Chicago, died Friday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 70 years old. Dr. Towner, who lived in Chicago, died of emphysema, his family said. Dr. Towner headed the Newberry, 
 Eddie Lopat, one of the three pitching mainstays for the New York Yankees during their reign of five straight World Series championships from 1949 to 1953, died in his sleep early yesterday at the home of his son, John, in Darien, Conn. He was 73 years old. Mr. Lopat, who lived in H
 Ephim Fogel, a professor of English emeritus at Cornell University and a poet, died on Friday at Tompkins Community Hospital in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 71 years old and lived in Ithaca. Professor Fogel died of a cerebral hemorrhage, said a son, Daniel Fogel. He immigrated to the
 Louis Biancolli, an author and a music critic, died on Saturday at the New Milford Hospital in New Milford, Conn. He was 85 years old and lived in New Milford. He died of complications after a hip fracture, said his daughter Amy Ringwald of Albany. Mr. Biancolli wrote 13 boo
 Martin B. McKneally, a former New York state and national commander of the American Legion who served one term as a Republican Congressman and later pleaded guilty to income-tax evasion, died on Sunday at the Castle Point Veteran's Administration Hospital near Beacon, N.Y. He was 77 years o
 Robert Collins Christopher, an author and journalist who administered the day-to-day operations of the Pulitzer Prize Board for the last 11 years, died on Sunday at Lawrence and Memorial Hospital in New London, Conn. He was 68 years old and lived in Old Lyme, Conn. Mr. Christopher d
 Robert William Haack, who led the New York Stock Exchange during a period of crisis and change and later became the chairman of the Lockheed Corporation, died on Sunday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 75 years old. Mr. Haack died of complications from kidney failure, his family s
 Arthur Knapp Jr., a yachtsman whose lifelong passion for the sport ranged from the America's Cup races of the 1930's to frostbite sailing on Long Island Sound, died on Monday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Larchmont, N.Y. He died of leukemia after a 
 Dr. Charles D. May, a pediatrician and an expert on childhood nutritional disorders, died on Saturday in Grantham, N.H. He was 84 years old. Dr. May died of complications from a stroke he suffered two weeks earlier, his wife, Ellen, said. A graduate of Harvard College, Dr. M
 H. Lawrence Bogert, a retired investment banker and an active civic figure in New York and Florida, died Monday at New York Hospital. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan, Hobe Sound, Fla., and Fishers Island, L.I. Mr. Bogert died from complications following heart surgery, sa
 Teodoro Moscoso, a former United States Ambassador to Venezuela and a leader of the Alliance for Progress in the 1960's, died Monday at his apartment in San Juan, P.R. He was 81 years old. He died of cancer of the liver, said Scott F. Runkle, a Washington-based consultant to the Gov
 William E. Hurley, an Oregon lawyer and former criminal court judge who played a role in a landmark civil rights case in Mississippi in 1968, died on Monday at the Veterans Administration Hospital in Portland. Known as Pat, he was 61 years old and lived in Portland. He died of a str
 Dewey Balfa, a fiddler and singer who helped create the Cajun music revival and became one of America's leading traditional musicians, died on Wednesday at Moosa Memorial Hospital in Eunice, La. He was 65 years old and lived in Basile, La. He died of liver cancer, said a longtime as
 Frederick E. Exley, whose trilogy of books about his troubled life won critical praise, died yesterday at the Edward John Noble Hospital in Alexandria Bay, N.Y. He was 63 years old and lived in Alexandria Bay, in the Thousand Islands region. He died after two strokes, his family sai
 Gary Cordial, a dancer with the Metropolitan Opera Ballet and a former member of American Ballet Theater, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 39 years old. He died of AIDS, said Deborah Allton, his companion. Mr. Cordial trained at the Ballet Theater school in Ma
 James H. Traynor, an automotive consultant and former owner of the Traynor Motors car dealership in Fairfield, Conn., died on Monday at St. Vincent's Medical Center in Bridgeport, Conn. He was 55 years old. Mr. Traynor was killed when the motorcycle he was driving was struck from be
 Paul J. Hartman, professor emeritus at the Vanderbilt School of Law, died on Monday at the Helen Pate-Bain Health Care Center in Nashville. A resident of Nashville, he was 81 years old. The announcement from Vanderbilt said he had died after a lengthy illness brought on by two strok
 Raphael Totah, a retired international rice trader and former executive of the Continental Grain Company in New York, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan and Southampton, L.I. He died of cancer, his family said. A n
 Albert X. Bader Jr., a partner in the law firm of Simpson Thacher & Bartlett, died on Monday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 59 years old and lived in Bronxville, N.Y. He died of complications from cancer, said Gabriel Belson, a spokeswoman for Simpson
 Peter Allen, the popular concert entertainer and Grammy- and Academy Award-winning songwriter, died yesterday at a hospital in San Diego. He was 48 years old, and lived in Manhattan and had homes near San Diego and in Australia. He died of an AIDS-related illness, said his personal 
 Philip Reisman, a Social Realist painter and printmaker known for his views of New York City street life, died on Wednesday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 87 years old, and lived in Manhattan. He died of congestive heart failure, said his wife, Louise. Fourteen of Mr. Reism
 The Rev. Daniel J. O'Hanlon, a Jesuit priest who was a nationally known theologian and ecumenical leader, died on Wednesday at Highland Hospital in Oakland, Calif. He was 73 years old and lived in Berkeley, Calif. His death resulted from multiple injuries suffered Tuesday night when
 J. Edward Crabiel, a New Jersey Democrat who was the state's Secretary of State and the minority leader of the State Senate, died yesterday at St. Peter's Medical Center in New Brunswick, where he was admitted two weeks earlier. He was 75 years old and a lifelong resident of Milltown.      
 The third Earl of Iveagh, who served as chairman of Guinness P.L.C. during a period of change and turmoil for the British brewing and spirits giant, died here on Thursday. He was 55 years old. Company officials said he had died of a throat ailment but declined to provide further det
 Dr. Alvin B. C. Knudson, who created and ran the Veterans Administration programs that restored hundreds of thousands of American soldiers injured in World War II, Korea and Vietnam to useful lives, died on Thursday at Fairfax Hospital in Fairfax, Va. He was 81 years old and lived in Fairfa
 Brother Gregory W. Nugent, the former president of Manhattan College and a top official at the Catholic University of America, died yesterday at his home on the university campus in Washington. He was 80 years old. The apparent cause of death was a heart attack, a university spokesw
 Dr. William H. Tooley, a leading pediatrician and neonatologist who developed a procedure that has saved the lives of more than 100,000 infants, died on Wednesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 66 years old. He died after a long illness, a spokesman for the family said.       
 Brother Gregory W. Nugent, the former president of Manhattan College and a top official at the Catholic University of America, died on Saturday at his home on the university campus in Washington. He was 80 years old. The apparent cause of death was a heart attack, a university spoke
 Joe B. Cordell, the recently retired head of Walter Industries, died on Thursday at Memorial Hospital in Tampa, Fla. He was 64 years old and lived in Tampa. He died of cancer, his family said. In Mr. Cordell's 33 years at the company and its predecessor, the Jim Walter Corpo
 Millard A. Ring, a retired immigration and customs lawyer who represented many foreign artists and performers, died on Wednesday at his home in Glen Cove, L.I. He was 76 years old. He died of a stroke, his family said. Among his clients for immigration and visas were the Bol
 Perry London, a psychologist and educator who studied the altruistic behavior of people who rescued Jews from the Holocaust, died on Friday at the Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 61 years old and lived in Edison, N.J. He died of cancer, his fami
 Edward P. Callahan, personnel director of the Estee Lauder Companies in New York for the last six years, died on Thursday at Stamford Hospital in Connecticut. He was 52 years old and a resident of New Canaan. His family said he died of cancer. A graduate of Iona College, Mr.
 Francis L. Broderick, a lawyer and a former chancellor of the University of Massachusetts at Boston, died yesterday at his home. He was 69 years old and lived in Stratham, N.H. He died of cancer, said his wife, Barbara. A native of Manhattan and a graduate of Phillips Andove
 John R. Platt, a physicist and biophysicist, died Wednesday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 74 years old and had homes in Cambridge and Woods Hole, Mass. He died of complications from a brain tumor, said a son, Dr. Terry Platt. From 1965 until his retirem
 Li Xiannian, a politician and military commander who rose to become President of China and a leading hard-liner, died on Sunday night, the official New China News Agency announced today. He would have been 83 years old on Tuesday. The agency said that Mr. Li, who was president from 
 Sir Charles Groves, an English conductor who in a career that spanned more than 50 years, directed orchestras in Liverpool, Manchester and Bournemouth, died on Saturday at St. Pancras Hospital in London. He was 77 years old and lived in London. He had been hospitalized since Februar
 James T. McDermott, a Justice of the Pennsylvania Supreme Court, died on Sunday at his home. He was 65 years old and lived in Chestnut Hill, Pa. He died of a heart attack, said Pierre Pie, a family spokesman. Justice McDermott was elected to the state's highest court in 1981
 Peter D. Joseph, executive vice president of the Related Companies, a real-estate and development business in New York City, died on Sunday at his home in Queens. He was 54 years old. Mr. Joseph died of cancer, the president of the company, Stephen M. Ross, said. Mr. Joseph,
 Ralph Winthrop Erickson, the former athletic director of the Loomis Chaffee School in Windsor, Conn., died on Saturday at the Avery Heights nursing home in Hartford. A longtime resident of Windsor, he was 88 years old. His family said he died of cancer. Mr. Erickson got his 
 Rick Sklar, whose programming made WABC in New York the most popular radio station in North America, died at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan on Monday. He was 62 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Sklar died from complications after minor surgery but the exact cause of death is n
 Robert Sanford Boas, head of an international securities concern, died on Monday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. Mr. Boas was 69 years old and lived in Great Neck, L.I., and Palm Beach, Fla. Mr. Boas died of multiple myeloma, or cancer of the bone marrow and bl
 Timothy Hawkins, a fashion journalist, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 44 years old. Mr. Hawkins died of AIDS, his sister, Heather Hawkins, said. His articles have appeared in Esquire, Men's Bazaar Italian, French Vogue Homme, Egg, Interview and The New York 
 Vittorio Cassoni, a senior executive of the Xerox Corporation, died on Sunday in the Capitanio Hospital in Milan, Italy. He was 49 years old and lived in New Canaan, Conn. Mr. Cassoni died of a brain tumor six weeks after the tumor was discovered, said Judd Everhart, a Xerox spokesm
 Bernard D. Nossiter, an author and journalist, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 66 years old. He died of lung cancer, said his companion, Eleanor Hauser. Mr. Nossiter was chief of the New York Times bureau at the United Nations from 1979 to 1983 after reporting for Th
 Josef Warkany, a pediatric researcher who helped focus the attention of modern medicine on the hazards of the nine months of life in the womb, died on Monday at the Scarlet Oaks Retirement Community in Clifton, Ohio, near Cincinnati. He was 90 years old. He died of a stroke, his fam
 Fred Robbins, a popular radio personality who went on to become a television host and celebrity interviewer, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 years old. He died of lymphoma, said his wife, Ingrid. Mr. Robbins was born in Baltimore and was a grad
 George J. McGuirk, a Ford dealer in Bronxville, N.Y., died yesterday at his home in Bronxville. He was 72 years old. He died of kidney cancer, his family said. Mr. McGuirk was at Smith-Cairns Ford for 42 years, for the last 31 as the owner. A graduate of the University of Ma
 Gerald A. Gura, the president and chief executive of CWT Specialty Stores in New England, died on June 19 at Sturdy Memorial Hospital in Attleboro, Mass. He was 57 years old and lived in Sharon, Mass. He died of a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Gura formed CWT in 1982 by
 James J. Patterson, a former vice president and assistant managing editor of The Daily News in New York, died yesterday in Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 69 years old and lived in Longboat Key, Fla. He died of complications from diabetes, his family said. Mr.
 Jesse H. Walker, a former executive editor of The New York Amsterdam News, the weekly newspaper published in Harlem, died on Sunday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Walker died of cancer, said his wife, Esther. A native
 Joseph Porrello, a tenor who performed opera, musical theater and cabaret music and also taught, died on Monday at the Terence Cardinal Cooke Health Care Center in Manhattan. He was 56 years old and lived in Greenwich Village. He died of AIDS, said Joseph Porter, a friend. M
 Thomas W. Kelly, a retired Manhattan lawyer who was the longtime general counsel for the national Girl Scouts and for several industry associations, died on Saturday at his home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 74 years old. Mr. Kelly died of complications of lung cancer, his family said. 
 Arthur C. Lundahl, an aerial-photography expert whose detection of missile installations in Cuba in 1962 led to the Cuban missile crisis, died on Monday at Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 77 years old and lived in Bethesda. He died of respiratory failure, his family said. 
 James Stirling, the maverick British architect whose work brought life to several major movements in postwar architecture, died yesterday in London. He was 66 years old and lived in London. His office declined to give the cause of death. Mr. Stirling, an unorthodox figure in
 Robert H. de Lone, a consultant on education who advocated school reforms to lift children out of poverty, died on Tuesday at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia. He was 52 years old and lived in Mount Airy, Pa. His family said he died of lymphoma.        
 David H. Sears, a writer on modern dance, died on Wednesday at the New York University Medical Center. He was 44 years old and lived in Jersey City. Mr. Sears died of cancer, his brother, Richard, said. Mr. Sears was a graduate of New York University, where he received a tea
 Dr. Daniel Casner, a retired clinical psychologist, died on Monday at St. Francis Hospital in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 82 years old and lived in Staatsburg, N.Y. Dr. Casner died of a stroke, said his daughter, Jill Casner-Lotto. Dr. Casner was chief of psychology services a
 Harry L. Case, a former official at the Ford Foundation and the Tennessee Valley Authority, died on Wednesday at his home in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 84 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Case worked at the T.V.A. from 1937 to 1956, becoming personnel directo
 John Jacob Astor 5th, a descendant of one of America's most fabled merchant princes, died yesterday at his home in Miami Beach. He was 79 years old. His death was reported by two of his cousins, R. Thornton Wilson, and Stephen Spencer, who said they did not know the cause. M
 Lewis Freedman, a television producer and program executive for CBS and PBS, died on Thursday at his home in Chicago. He was 66 years old. He died of complications of a stroke, according to an announcement by the University of Chicago, where he was the founding director of the Willi
 Allison Dunham, a retired law professor who helped reshape many major state laws across the nation to make the provisions uniform, died on Thursday at his home in Pomona, Calif. He was 78 years old. He died apparently of a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Dunham specialize
 Eugene S. Johnson, a leading spokesman for the oil industry in New York for 30 years, died at his home in New York on Friday. He was 60 years old. Mr. Johnson died after surgery for a malignant brain tumor, said his wife, Sarah Wallace Johnson. From 1976 until earlier this m
 James C. Millstone, an editor and former Washington correspondent of The St. Louis Post-Dispatch, died on Thursday at his home in University City, a suburb of St. Louis. He was 62 years old. The cause of death was brain cancer, the newspaper reported. Mr. Millstone joined Th
 Lewis B. Funke, a retired drama editor and critic for The New York Times, died on Friday at Horton Memorial Hospital in Middletown, N.Y. He was 80 years old and lived in Blooming Grove, N.Y., and Delray Beach, Fla. He died of a heart attack and complications of pneumonia and kidney 
 Sandy Amoros, who dashed across the Yankee Stadium outfield in Game 7 of the 1955 World Series and caught a piece of baseball immortality when he turned a deep Yankee drive into a spectacular Series-saving double play for the Brooklyn Dodgers, died yesterday in Miami. He was 62 years old.  
 Walter T. Shirley Jr., who helped his father develop the Long Island community that bears his family name, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 60 years old. Mr. Shirley died of a heart attack, a family spokesman said. During the suburban boom that followed World
 Allan J. Gussack, the Mayor of Great Neck Plaza, L.I. for the last 10 years, died yesterday at the Long Island Jewish Medical Center. He was 49 years old and died after a lengthy illness, his family said. Mr. Gussack was instrumental in getting state legislation passed that enables 
 Donald W. Woods, the head of an AIDS education organization and a former museum official, died on Thursday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 34 years old and lived in Brooklyn. He died of cardiac arrest, his family said. Mr. Woods was the executive director of AIDS F
 Dr. Jan Jakob Smulewicz, who escaped a Nazi death sentence by outsmarting concentration-camp guards and after World War II served as radiology chief at three New York City hospitals, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan.      
 Mikhail Tal, a Latvian grandmaster who held the world chess championship in 1960-61 and was one of the game's most popular and exciting players, died in Moscow yesterday after a long illness, the Russian news agency Itar-Tass reported. He was 55 years old. Since the breakup of the S
 Allan Jones, a Hollywood singing star in the 1930's and 40's whose romantic tenor rang out in 35 films, including "Show Boat," with Irene Dunne, died on Saturday in Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 84 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of lung cancer, said his wife, M
 Ernest R. Acker, a utility executive who retired as head of the Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corporation in 1964 after 45 years with the company, died on Friday in the Caleb Hitchcock nursing home in Bloomfield, Conn. A former resident of Poughkeepsie, N.Y., he was 96 years old. A 
 Jerrold S. Maxmen, a psychiatrist, author and associate professor of clinical psychiatry at Columbia University, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 50 years old. He died of a digestive disorder, said Carl D. Brandt, his agent and a friend of the family. Among Dr
 Lawrence Pomeroy, a former New York City lawyer who devoted his retirement to conservation activities on Block Island, R.I., died on Friday at Newport Hospital in Rhode Island. He was 79 years old and had lived in New Rochelle, N.Y., for many years before moving to Newport. Mr. Pome
 Lieut. Gen. Daniel B. Strickler, retired, who served in three wars and was a former Lieutenant Governor of Pennsylvania, died on Monday in a retirement home in Lancaster, Pa. He was 95 years old. A spokeswoman for the family gave no specific cause of death. Born in Columbia,
 Dr. Lothar B. Kalinowsky, a psychiatrist who was a teacher and author in the field of electroshock therapy, died on Sunday in his apartment in Manhattan. He was 92 years old. Dr. Kalinowsky, who was retired, had been in poor health, and the immediate cause of his death was heart fai
 Melvin C. Steen, a corporate and securities lawyer in New York, died at his home in Bronxville, N.Y., on Sunday. He was 85 years old. He died after a brief illness, his family said. A son of Norwegian immigrant parents, Mr. Steen was born in Minneapolis and graduated first i
 Mikhail Tal, a Latvian grandmaster who held the world chess championship in 1960-61 and was one of the game's most popular and exciting players, died in Moscow on Sunday after a long illness, the Russian news agency Itar-Tass reported. He was 55 years old. Since the breakup of the S
 Richard Fontana, a star of the Comedie Francaise and a leading stage actor in France, died here on Friday. He was 40 years old and lived in Paris. The Comedie Francaise administrator, Jacques Lassalle, gave no details on Mr. Fontana's illness. In 1979, Mr. Fontana made his f
