 Jed Mattes, a literary agent and gay-rights advocate, died on July 24 at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 50. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Fred Morris, his executor and business associate. Mr. Mattes started his career with International Creative
 Luther Henderson, a prolific arranger and conductor on Broadway whose deft touch in orchestrating jazz was prized by Duke Ellington, died on Tuesday at a hospice in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said his wife, the theater director and actor Billi
 Sam Phillips, who founded a small Memphis record label that made Elvis Presley a star and turned black blues and country music into what the world came to know as rock 'n' roll, died on Wednesday in Memphis, where he lived. He was 80. The cause was respiratory failure, said Jenny Ro
 Howard Armstrong, the last guardian of a vanishing African-American tradition of string-band music, died on Wednesday in Boston, where he lived. He was 94. Mr. Armstrong played 22 instruments although he was best known as a fiddle and mandolin player. He performed with a virtuoso's 
 Dr. Lazarus Astrachan, a geneticist who conducted a famous experiment in the field of molecular biology, died on Sunday while visiting Israel. He was 78. The cause was cancer, family members said. Dr. Astrachan's experiment, performed with Dr. Elliot Volkin at the Oak Ridge 
 Walter Taussig, a vocal coach and conductor who prepared generations of singers for their roles at the Metropolitan Opera, the Salzburg Festival and elsewhere, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 95. Coaches are the unseen motors of the opera house, conduits of invaluable musical 
 Charles S. Rhyne, a Washington lawyer whose arguments before the Supreme Court led to a 1962 decision that gave federal courts the right to redraw state electoral districts to reflect population shifts, was found dead in the pool at his home in McLean, Va., on July 27. He was 91. Th
 Hamer Harold Budge, a conservative Republican who was chairman of the Securities and Exchange Commission from 1969 to 1971 and represented Idaho's Second Congressional District from 1951 to 1961, died on July 22 at his retirement home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 92. Mr. Budge was no
 Dr. Frederick C. Robbins, a pediatrician who shared a Nobel Prize in 1954 for discovering a way to grow the polio virus in a test tube and paving the way for the vaccines that have eliminated the crippling disease from much of the world, died yesterday in Cleveland. He was 86 and until earl
 Peter Schwed, a former editorial chairman and trade books publisher at Simon & Schuster and an author in his own right, died last Thursday at Beth Israel North Hospital in Manhattan. He was 92 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Schwed began his career at Simon & Schuster in 1945 as an edit
 Herman Schneider, the author of more than 80 books, mostly science books for children, died in Boston on Thursday. He was 98 and lived on Martha's Vineyard. Many of Mr. Schneider's books were written with his wife, Nina, including ''How Big is Big? From Stars to Atoms, a Yardstick f
 James Jerome Dwyer, legal guardian for the pension funds of an army of past and present New York City employees, died last Thursday at his home in Stuyvesant Town. He was 54. The cause was esophageal cancer, his family said. Mr. Dwyer, a career civil servant, was the chief o
 John Lewis Selover, vice chairman of the Christian Science board of directors and publisher of The Christian Science Monitor, died on Friday at his home in Boston. He was 72. A church spokesman, Peter Osterlund, said Mr. Selover had suffered a brief illness. Mr. Selover had 
 Dr. Peter Safar, an anesthesiologist who developed lifesaving cardiopulmonary resuscitation techniques that are widely used today, died on Sunday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 79. The cause was cancer. Dr. Safar founded and led several institutions responsible for develo
 Robert J. Ward, a senior federal judge in New York, who presided over nationally prominent lawsuits that included charges of illegal interference with abortion rights and accusations of plagiarism by a best-selling author, died yesterday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 77 and live
 Robert J. Ward, a senior federal judge in New York, who presided over nationally prominent lawsuits that included charges of illegal interference with abortion rights and accusations of plagiarism by a best-selling author, died on Tuesday at New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 77 and liv
 David Webster, a former high official of the British Broadcasting Corporation who helped many of the countries of Eastern Europe develop independent broadcasting services, died on Wednesday at his home in Washington. He was 72 and also lived and worked in Manhattan. The cause was he
 Grover Mitchell, the lead trombonist for the late-period Count Basie Orchestra and the third leader of the band since Basie's death, died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said Dee Askew, the band'
 Julius Baker, the principal flutist of the New York Philharmonic for 18 years and the most prominent American flutist of his generation, died on Wednesday in Danbury, Conn. He was 87 and lived in Brewster, N.Y. Mr. Baker was known for the bright tone and rhythmic precision he brough
 Roberto Marinho, a journalist who built his father's newspaper, O Globo, into Brazil's most powerful media company that shaped culture and politics for much of its owner's career of seven decades, has died. He was 98. Mr. Marinho died late Wednesday at Samaritano hospital in Rio de 
 Rear Adm. Richard E. Bennis, the Coast Guard commander who marshaled the waterborne escape of half a million people from Lower Manhattan on Sept. 11, 2001, died last Sunday in Fredericksburg, Va. He was 52 and lived in Stafford, Va. The cause was melanoma, the Coast Guard said.     
 Charles P. Tolchin, who survived with cystic fibrosis decades longer than expected and who wrote and taught about the disease, died today at Georgetown University Hospital. He was 34. The cause was complications of the disease and a double lung transplant Mr. Tolchin received in 199
 James Welch, a Great Plains Indian writer whose poetry and spare, understated prose explored the complex relationship between his origins and the world outside, which welcomed his work with critical praise and a measure of fame, died on Monday at his home in Missoula, Mont. He was 62.      
 Mickey McDermott, who was known as much for his quick wit, blithe spirit and unfulfilled potential as for being the pitcher who led the Boston Red Sox in strikeouts from 1950 to 1952, died on Thursday. He was 74. McDermott died in a hospice in Phoenix. The cause of death was congest
 William Woolfolk, a novelist, television writer and comic book author who wrote stories for many popular wartime comic-book characters, including Captain Marvel and Blackhawk, died on July 20 in Syracuse, where he lived. He was 86. Mr. Woolfolk was chief scriptwriter for the televis
 Albert Field, the designated expert in divining when the surreal is real, at least in the work of Salvador Dalí, died on Monday at Mount Sinai Hospital of Queens. He was 86. Dalí, whose precisely realistic renderings of fantastic images like melting watches are very popular with a
 Donald Goddard, a trans-Atlantic journalist and an author of books on organized crime, died on Sunday at his home in Burgess Hill, Sussex, England. He was 75. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said his wife, the former Carol Dudding. A native of London, Donald Charles Goddard
 F.T. Prince, a South African poet whose work included ''Soldiers Bathing,'' one of the best-known poems inspired by World War II, died on Thursday in Southampton, England, where he had taught for years. He was 90. The first book-length collection of his poetry, ''Poems,'' was publis
 Henry A. Boorse, a physicist who was one of the original scientists who worked on the Manhattan Project in the development of the atomic bomb, died on July 28 in Houston, where he lived. He was 98 and a former resident of Leonia, N.J. Dr. Boorse, who received his Ph.D. in physics fr
 Nizar Hamdoon, who had been Iraq's ambassador to the United States and the United Nations, a deputy foreign minister of his country and under secretary of its Foreign Ministry, died on July 4 in Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 59. The cause was pneumonia,
 Richard H. Bauman, an actor and dancer who became a talent agent and a partner in a talent agency with clients including Robert De Niro, Bette Midler, James Earl Jones and Jean Stapleton, died on July 31 in Sherman Oaks, Calif. He was 79 and lived in Studio City, Calif. He was brief
 Robert J. Donovan, a ''shoe leather'' newspaper reporter without a college education who became a Washington correspondent, best-selling author and presidential historian, died on Friday at Bayfront Medical Center in St. Petersburg, Fla. A longtime resident of Washington, he moved to Florid
 Gregory Hines, the genial, suave dancer, singer and actor who for many personified the art of classical tap in the 1980's and 90's, died late Saturday on his way to a hospital from his home in Los Angeles. He was 57. The cause was cancer, said Yvette Glover, a longtime friend and th
 Louis Lasagna, a clinical pharmacologist who pioneered the study of placebos and wrote an alternative Hippocratic oath, died last Thursday at Newton-Wellesley Hospital in Newton, Mass. He was 80 and lived in Newton. The cause was lymphoma, said a spokeswoman at Tufts University, whe
 Saxon Riley, who led Lloyd's of London through a sweeping reorganization and helped it survive heavy losses in the World Trade Center attack in 2001, died on July 25. He was 64. Mr. Riley, who was known as Sax, collapsed on a golf course southwest of London where he was playing as a
 Alonzo Pettie, Colorado's oldest black cowboy, who after being barred from white rodeos helped start one for blacks, died on Aug. 2 in Denver. He was 93. Mr. Pettie lived in Denver, which was a relatively small town that still had some dirt roads when he went to Colorado as part of 
 Herb Brooks, who molded an unheralded collection of United States hockey players, most of them collegians, into the ''Miracle on Ice'' team that captured the gold medal at the 1980 Winter Olympics, died yesterday in an auto accident north of the Minneapolis-St. Paul area. Brooks, who lived 
 Billy Rogell, a leading shortstop of the 1930's who played on two pennant-winning teams with the Detroit Tigers, died Saturday at a hospital in Warren, Mich. Rogell, who lived in Sterling Heights, Mich., was 98. Playing in the major leagues for 14 seasons -- 3 with the Boston Red So
 Armand Borel, a Swiss-born mathematician who became a towering figure in the development of modern mathematics, died on Monday in Princeton, N.J. He was 80. The cause was cancer, said his daughter Dominique Odette Susan Borel. Dr. Borel, who was a professor emeritus at the I
 Judge Fred I. Parker, of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in Burlington, Vt., died in Burlington on Tuesday, his office said. He was 65. He had been undergoing a procedure to adjust a pacemaker, The Associated Press reported. Judge Parker, named to t
 Kirk Varnedoe, the articulate, courtly and wide-ranging art historian who as chief curator of painting and sculpture at the Museum of Modern Art helped to reshape the museum's collection and philosophy and in so doing created a broader public understanding of modern art, died yesterday at M
 Edward Porter Alexander, an authority on museums, died on July 31 at a rehabilitation center in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 96. He was president of the American Association of Museums and the founder and first director of the University of Delaware's Museum Studies Program. His 
 Harold Altman, a painter, printmaker and lithographer whose work was shown internationally and in major American museums including the Whitney and the Museum of Modern Art, died on July 28 in State College, Pa. He was 79. The cause was heart failure, his family said. For the
 James F. Romano, a longtime curator at the Brooklyn Museum of Art who recently finished the reinstallation of the museum's famed Egyptian collection, died on Monday morning in Lynbrook, N.Y., when the car he was driving veered off the road and hit a metal fence. He was 56 and lived in the n
 Ward Bennett, a New York designer of furniture, houses and much more, whose clean lines and exquisite materials quietly defined an era, died on Wednesday in Key West, Fla. He was 85. At the height of his career in the 1960's and 70's, Mr. Bennett represented a distinctly American lo
 Chester Ludgin, a baritone who sang more than 30 roles for the New York City Opera, including leading roles in its world premieres of ''The Crucible'' by Robert Ward and ''The Good Soldier Schweik'' by Robert Kurka, died on Aug. 9 at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York. He was 78. The 
 Claude Martel, a senior art director of The New York Times Magazine, died on Thursday in Ottawa. He was 34 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was plasmablastic multiple myeloma, a cancer of the blood, said Janet Froelich, the magazine's art director. Mr. Martel was a skilled 
 Idi Amin, whose eight-year reign of terror in Uganda encompassed widespread killing, torture and dispossession of multitudes and left the country pauperized, died yesterday in Jidda, Saudi Arabia, where he had lived for years in exile. He was believed to have been about 78 years old, though
 Richard W. Seeler, a New York City real estate broker and a former chairman of the Real Estate Board of New York, died on Aug. 7 at Long Island Jewish Medical Center. He was 84 and lived in Queens. In 1998, while with Grubb & Ellis New York, a major provider of real estate services,
 Bhupen Khakhar, a painter of social and personal narratives who was one of the most influential artists of his generation in India, died on Aug. 8 in Baroda, India. He was 69. The cause was prostate cancer, said a spokesman at Bose Pacia Modern, a Manhattan gallery that has shown hi
 George B. Rabinor, who was active in the development of rental housing in New York City, on Long Island and elsewhere in New York, Pennsylvania and Florida, died on July 22 at his home in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 91. He was an officer of the Long Island Home Builders Association and 
 Allen Latham Jr., who spent most of his career as an industrial engineer but was best known for his innovations to blood-processing instruments, died Aug. 5 at his home in Jamaica Plain, Mass. He was 95. In the early 1950's, Mr. Latham, who was known as Jack, collaborated with Edwin
 John Higham, a cultural historian who examined the interplay of ethnic and national identity in the United States, died July 26 at his home in Baltimore. He was 82. The cause was a cerebral aneurysm, said Dorothy Ross, a history professor at Johns Hopkins University, where Dr. Higha
 Donald J. Winn, an influential senior official of the Federal Reserve Board for two decades, died on Thursday in Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 66 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. He had pancreatic cancer, his son Daniel said. As chief lobbyist for the boa
 James T. Whitehead, whose only published novel, ''Joiner,'' a coming-of-age novel about segregationist Mississippi, received critical acclaim, died here on Friday. He was 67 and lived in Fayetteville. The cause was a ruptured aortic aneurysm, his family said. In 1971 Mr. Whi
 Thomas W. Kellogg, an industrial designer who worked on the Avanti, a radically styled, powerful sports coupe that could not save its maker, Studebaker, from financial collapse, died on Thursday in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 71 and lived in Irvine, Calif. A daughter, Kris Machado,
 W. Bernard Richland, who as corporation counsel of the City of New York was the city's chief lawyer during the fiscal crisis of the 1970's and was a principal framer of its periodic charter updates, died on Thursday at his home in Brooklyn Heights. He was 94. Mr. Richland's service 
 Dana Merriam Raymond, a patent lawyer who won or achieved settlements in 21 lawsuits filed by the inventor of FM radio against companies that had denied him credit and compensation, died on Aug. 3 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 89. Mr. Raymond represented Edwin Howard A
 Ed Townsend, a singer and songwriter who with Marvin Gaye produced and wrote the 1973 hit ''Let's Get It On,'' one of the most enduringly erotic songs of the R&B era, died on Aug. 13 at a hospital in San Bernardino, Calif. He was 74 and lived in Sun City, Calif. The cause was a hear
 Julius Ochs Adler Jr., a business executive and public relations consultant who ran a popular independent bookstore in Manhattan for 16 years, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from a stroke, said his so
 Sergio Vieira de Mello, the top United Nations official in Iraq and the United Nations high commissioner for human rights, who had served the organization in trouble spots around the globe, died yesterday from injuries received in the bombing of the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad. H
 Arthur C. Helton, a New York lawyer and human rights activist who devoted most of his professional life to the help and protection of refugees, died in the bomb attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad on Tuesday, the Council on Foreign Relations announced yesterday. He was 54. 
 HE was beaten by racists in Louisiana in 1965. He protested at segregated businesses in Ohio. Served as a leader of the Congress of Racial Equality, one of the leading civil rights groups in the 1960's. Worked in the trenches of antipoverty programs in the early 1970's. That was the
 Jack Arnold Shaffer, a Manhattan investment banker who specialized in major real estate deals like the sale of the Plaza Hotel, died on Monday in Norwalk, Conn. A resident of the East Side of Manhattan, he was 73 and had a weekend home in Westport. The cause was complications of kid
 John Coplans, a founder and former editor of Artforum magazine, whose career also encompassed phases as a painter, critic, curator, museum director and finally a photographer of discomfiting images of his own aging body, died yesterday at a Manhattan hospital. He was 83 and lived in Manhatt
 Msgr. Philip J. Murnion, whose work as a sociologist, organizer and adviser to parish and diocesan leaders made him a major behind-the-scenes influence in the Roman Catholic Church in the United States, died on Tuesday in the Bronx. He was 65. The cause was colon cancer, his family 
 Archie C. Epps III, one of the first high-ranking black administrators at Harvard, died on Thursday in Boston. He was 66 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause was complications of cardiac surgery, Harvard announced. In 1995, Mr. Epps had double-bypass cardiac surgery and, months l
 Cedric Price, one of the most influential British architects of the 20th century, died on Aug. 10. He was 68. The cause was a heart attack, possibly brought on by the record-breaking heat wave, said Barbara Jakobson, a close friend who lives in New York. Better known as an i
 Herbert R. Silverman, a prominent figure in the development of commercial finance, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91. He made his mark helping finance small businesses seeking to take part in the military procurement programs of World War II. Afterward, as a prime
 Dr. Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, who wrote a landmark textbook on dermatology and helped develop a treatment for severe psoriasis that is now widely used for a variety of skin diseases, died last Saturday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 83. In 1971, he published Fitzpatrick's Derma
 Bobby Bonds, who blended power at the plate with speed on the bases to become one of baseball's top players of the 1970's and who combined with his son Barry to form the game's leading father-and-son home run twosome, died yesterday morning in the San Francisco Bay area. He was 57. 
 David Jiranek, a theatrical producer who was a founder of a brochure display business and a champion for the young victims of Rwanda's ethnic violence, died Aug. 17 in a swimming accident while on vacation in North Hatley, Quebec, his family said. He was 45 and lived in Old Greenwich, Conn.
 George W. Marquardt, an Army Air Forces pilot who took part in the World War II atomic bomb raids on Hiroshima and Nagasaki, died Aug. 15 at a nursing-care center in Murray, Utah. He was 84. He had Parkinson's disease for many years, his wife, Bernece, said. On the morning o
 Haroldo de Campos, who transformed words into whimsical diagrams and subtle critiques of formal poetry as a founder of the 1950's Concrete poetry movement in Brazil, died Aug. 16 in São Paulo. He was 73. The cause was complications of diabetes, the newspaper O Globo reported.      
 Roy Neal, an NBC News television correspondent who covered the American manned space program from fledgling orbiters to the initial shuttle flights, died on Aug. 15 in High Point, N.C., where he had lived in retirement. He was 82. In his 38 years with NBC News, Mr. Neal worked as a 
 Sylvestre Randafison, a virtuoso of the valiha, considered the national instrument of Madagascar, and an ambassador of his country's music, died on July 12. He was 75. The news of his death was reported in The Independent of London and in various online music publications in conjunc
 Thomas Savage, whose spare novels of the American West, without six-shooters and gunsmoke, found wide acceptance in the 1940's and a whole new readership in his later years, died on July 25 in Virginia Beach, where he lived for the past six years. He was 88. When he published his fi
 The Rev. Walter Jackson Ong, a Jesuit scholar of language and its evolution as a means of communication, died on Aug. 12 in St. Louis. He was 90. Father Ong, who taught and wrote at St. Louis University, a Jesuit institution, was the author most notably of ''Orality and Literacy.'' 
 John J. Rhodes, the former House Republican leader who swayed President Richard M. Nixon to resign in the Watergate scandal, died on Sunday night at his home in Mesa, Ariz. He was 86. The cause was cancer, his former press secretary, Jay Smith, said. Originally a staunch def
 Richard M. Hooper, an American official of the United Nations who specialized in the Middle East, died in the bomb attack last Tuesday on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad, Iraq, the United Nations said on Friday. He was 40. Mr. Hooper was on a short assignment in Iraq. Sin
 Robert Jackson, a muralist and master of trompe l'oeil artistry, died on Aug. 17 at his home in Livingston, N.Y. He was 72. He had been suffering from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, or Lou Gehrig's disease, said Frederick Corke, his companion. Mr. Jackson's work appears in t
 Frederick L. Deming, an under secretary of the Treasury in the Johnson administration and a former president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, died Thursday in Fort Myers, Fla. He was 90. Mr. Deming, who had been a banker in the Federal Reserve system, was appointed under 
 The Rt. Rev. John Melville Burgess, who was the first African-American to preside as bishop over an Episcopal diocese in the United States, died on Sunday in Vineyard Haven, Mass., where he had lived since 1989. He was 94. Bishop Burgess retired in 1975 as head of the Diocese of Mas
 Wilfred Thesiger, who was among the last of the great explorers lucky enough to have lived when the globe still had some uncharted corners, died on Sunday in England. He was 93 and had been living in a retirement home in Coulsdon, Surrey. Sir Wilfred was an insatiable traveler throu
 Marion Hargrove, the hapless G.I. whose light-hearted account of Army basic training, ''See Here, Private Hargrove,'' became a No. 1 best seller in 1942 and transformed him into a World War II celebrity, died on Saturday in Long Beach, Calif. He was 83. The cause was complications f
 George S. Leisure Jr., who from 1957 to 1993 was a partner in the law firm of Donovan, Leisure, Newton & Irvine in Manhattan, died on Monday in Jacksonville, Fla. He was 78 and lived on Sea Island, Ga. He died of complications after a heart attack in a Jacksonville hospital, his fam
 Jean-Selim Kanaan, a United Nations staff member with both French and Egyptian citizenship, died in the bomb attack on the organization's Baghdad headquarters on Aug. 19, the United Nations announced on Tuesday. He was 33. Mr. Kanaan was working directly for Nadia Younes, chief of s
 John Shearman, a historian of Italian Renaissance art who advised on the restoration of Michelangelo's frescoes in the Sistine Chapel in the Vatican, died on Aug. 11 while on vacation near Lethbridge, Alberta. He was 72. He had a heart attack, his wife, Kathryn Bush, said. D
 Pierre Poujade, a French shopkeeper whose antigovernment protest movement in the 1950's opened a political career for the rightist leader Jean-Marie Le Pen, died on Wednesday at his home in La Bastide-l'Évêque, in southwest France. He was 82. His movement, which became known as Po
 Jack P. Eisner, who used the millions he made in the import-export business to tell the story of how he survived the Holocaust in a book, play, movie and many public appearances, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was colon ca
 William Scherle, who represented southwest Iowa for four terms in Congress, died on Wednesday in Council Bluffs. He was 80. Mr. Scherle, a Republican, was first elected to Congress in 1966. Before that, he served in the Iowa Legislature. An obituary in The Omaha World-Herald
 Charles W. J. Scaife, a chemistry professor who took everyday props like Alka Seltzer and balloons and roamed the nation's classrooms to promote the initially bizarre notion that science is fun, died last Sunday at his home in Schenectady, N.Y. He was 65. The cause was liver cancer,
 Frank MacDonald, Australia's oldest World War I veteran and its last surviving serviceman to have been cited for bravery in that war, died on Aug. 23 in Burnie, Tasmania. He was 107. Australia had been a commonwealth for just over a decade when it entered World War I, but its people
