 Stew Albert, who with Abbie Hoffman, Jerry Rubin and a handful of similarly scruffy, leftist anti-establishmentarians formed the Yippie party to protest the Vietnam War, mock institutional authority and nominate a pig, Pigasus, for president, died on Monday at his home in Portland, Ore. He 
 Christopher J. Makins, who followed his father into the British diplomatic service and then shifted course to become an influential expert on United States-European relations for Washington research organizations, died on Saturday at his home in Washington. He was 63. The cause was 
 Denis McInerney, a specialist in antitrust law whose clients included the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company, W. R. Grace & Company and Goodyear Tire, died on Tuesday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 80. His death was confirmed by his family. Mr. McInerney was a retired p
 Boris Kostelanetz, considered the dean of tax defense lawyers, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital near his home in Manhattan. He was 94. The cause was complications after a hip injury, his daughter, Lucy Kostelanetz, said. Mr. Kostelanetz, a founding partner of Kostel
 Henry S. Coleman, who arrived at Columbia University as a freshman who would have preferred Princeton and stayed for a third of a century as an administrator, including a memorable 24 hours in 1968 when student demonstrators took him hostage, died on Tuesday in Norwalk, Conn. He was 79.    
 Romano Mussolini, the Italian jazz pianist whose fame as the fifth and youngest child of the Italian dictator Benito Mussolini was ultimately rivaled by his musical renown, died on Tuesday in Rome. He was 79. His death was announced on the Web site of the small right-wing party Alte
 A memorial service for Skitch Henderson, the ''Tonight'' show bandleader and founder of the New York Pops, will be held on Monday at 4 p.m. in Carnegie Hall. He died on Nov. 1 at 87. The service, which will be open to the public, is to include performances by the New York Pops with 
 Herbert Schilder, a Boston dental surgeon who refined the instruments and techniques used to perform root canals and made the procedure safer and more successful, died on Jan. 25 at his home in Newton, Mass. He was 77. The cause was Lewy body disease, a brain malady, his family said
 John L. Behler, a naturalist and curator of herpetology at the Bronx Zoo who became an influential and international voice for saving endangered turtles, snakes and other reptiles, died on Jan. 31 at his home in Amawalk, N.Y. He was 62. The cause was congestive heart failure, his fa
 Basil V. Worgul, a biologist at Columbia University who studied radiation's harmful effects on the eye, particularly as a cause of cataracts, and helped lead a long-term international study of thousands of workers exposed to radiation in the Chernobyl disaster in 1986, died on Jan. 19 at hi
 John S. Bainbridge, who organized a law-education program that trained many leaders in emerging African nations in the 1960's and later helped establish the Touro College law center in Huntington, N.Y., died on Jan. 25 in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 90. His family said he died after 
 Myron Waldman, an animator and illustrator who worked on such celebrated characters as Betty Boop, Popeye, Superman and Casper the Friendly Ghost during his long career, died Saturday at New Island Hospital in Bethpage, N.Y. He was 97 and lived in Wantagh, N.Y. The cause was congest
 Ronald Hector, the silver-haired fellow in the morning suit behind the front desk of the Carlyle hotel whose aplomb in juggling room preferences and protecting the privacy of princesses, prime ministers and pretenders was the stuff of lobby legend, died on Jan. 29 at Memorial Sloan-Ketterin
 The bandleader Skitch Henderson, who died on Nov. 1 at 87, was honored yesterday at a Carnegie Hall memorial service as a towering influence over American entertainment who retained a wry sense of humor and common touch on the streets of New York. The service, on a stage where Mr. H
 John Vaught, who coached the University of Mississippi to national football prominence and developed the star quarterbacks Charlie Conerly and Archie Manning, died Friday in Oxford, Miss. He was 96. His death was announced by the university. In 25 seasons as head coach, Vaug
 Martin Feinstein, who helped the Kennedy Center in Washington and its resident opera company grow and fill a large, empty niche in the capital's cultural life as executive director of one, then general manager of the other, died on Sunday at his home in Potomac, Md. He was 84. The c
 Reuven Frank, a pioneering television news producer whose career at NBC ran from Huntley and Brinkley (whom he first paired on the evening news in the 1950's) to Tom Brokaw (whom he installed as a solo anchor in the 1980's), died Sunday at Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. He was 85
 Lou Jones, a former world-record holder in the 400 meters and a member of the United States 4x400-meter relay squad that won a gold medal at the 1956 Melbourne Olympics, died Friday at Montefiore Medical Center in the Bronx. He was 74 and lived in New Rochelle, N.Y. His death was an
 Peter Ladefoged, an internationally renowned linguist who spent his life blissfully awash in the whistles, murmurs, pops, clicks and trills that make up the world's spoken languages, died on Jan. 24 in London. Professor Ladefoged, who was returning to his home in Aliso Viejo, Calif., from f
 The Rev. William A. Jones, who marshaled his golden voice and forceful personality to exert influence far beyond his Brooklyn pulpit in support of local and national civil rights causes, died on Feb. 4 at his home in Brooklyn. He was 71. The cause was complications of kidney disease
 Frank Goodman, one of the last of the old-time Broadway press agents, a star handler and headline hustler, died on Friday at the Tisch Hospital of the New York University Medical Center. He was 89 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. The cause was congestive heart failure,
 Samuel W. Koster, who was an Army major general in 1968 and became the highest military officer to be charged in the massacre of South Vietnamese civilians at the village of My Lai, died on Jan. 23 at his home in Annapolis, Md. He was 86. The cause of death was renal cancer, said hi
 Dr. Norman E. Shumway, the Stanford cardiac surgeon who in 1968 performed the United States' first successful human heart transplant and later made the operation a standard procedure after virtually all other surgeons had abandoned it, died yesterday at his home in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 
 Freddie Laker, who introduced low-cost trans-Atlantic flights with Laker Airways in the late-1970's and helped usher in an era of more affordable travel, died Thursday in Hollywood, Fla. Sir Freddie, 83, died after suffering from heart problems, his son, also named Freddie, said.   
 Charles O. Henry, a former chief of the New York City housing police who commanded some of the city's toughest precincts in troubled times, died at his home in Las Vegas on Feb. 1. He was 78. He died after a brief illness, his family said. Mr. Henry joined the New York Polic
 Msgr. John T. Fagan, who retired in 2001 as director of Little Flower Children and Family Services of New York, one of the largest social service agencies in the country, died on Thursday at his home in Wading River, N.Y. He was 79. The cause was Parkinson's disease, said Herbert W.
 Sir Nicholas Shackleton, a geologist who studied cycles of climate changes going back more than a million years and who issued some early warnings on global warming, died Jan. 24 at his home in Cambridge, England. He was 68. The cause was leukemia, said Joyce Gavin, a climate resear
 Dave Tatsuno, a Japanese-American businessman and amateur filmmaker whose home movies, shot in secret in the 1940's, offer a rare documentary portrait of life in an American internment camp during World War II, died on Jan. 26 at his home in San Jose, Calif. He was 92. Mr. Tatsuno's
 Peter Benchley, whose 1974 novel ''Jaws'' turned shark attacks into a national obsession and who later used what he called his ''fish story'' to help promote oceanic conservation, died yesterday morning at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 65. The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, a pr
 James Yancey, the innovative and influential hip-hop producer known as J Dilla or Jay Dee, died on Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 32. The cause was cardiac arrest, according to his mother, Maureen Yancey. She said he had been suffering from lupus and had recently been hos
 John Belluso, a young playwright who translated his own experiences with physical disability into a prolific body of promising work, died on Friday at a hotel in Manhattan. He was 36 and lived in Los Angeles. A spokesman for the police department said an investigation was continuing
 Michael Gilbert, who somehow managed to produce dozens of intricately plotted and gracefully written detective stories, police procedural novels, espionage thrillers, puzzle mysteries and crime-based plays for stage, radio and television while carrying on a separate career as a senior partn
 Robert B. Hotz, an aviation expert and writer who helped investigate NASA's role in the explosion of the space shuttle Challenger in 1986 and became a strong critic of the agency, died Feb. 9 at a hospital in Frederick, Md. He was 91. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disea
 Norton J. Kiritz, who found his niche teaching people with a worthy cause how to pitch it effectively to potential sponsors, died Jan. 30 in Los Angeles. He was 70 and lived in Redondo Beach, Calif. The cause was melanoma, according to the Grantsmanship Center, of which he was the f
 Rabbi Yehuda Chitrik, a legendary storyteller in the Lubavitcher community, died on Tuesday at Maimonides Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 106 and lived in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, the hub of the worldwide Lubavitcher Hasidic movement. The death was announced by Rabbi Zalman Shmotkin of
 Robert W. Peterson, whose pioneering history of the Negro leagues, ''Only the Ball Was White,'' recaptured a lost era in baseball history and a rich facet of black life in America, died Saturday at a hospital in Salisbury Township, Pa. Mr. Peterson, who lived in Lower Macungie Township, Pa.
 Alan M. Levin, a documentary filmmaker whose work exploring political and social issues won major awards during a long career in television journalism, died on Monday at his home in Maplewood, N.J. He was 79. Mr. Levin died in his sleep, his son Marc said. Mr. Levin's work i
 Ernie Stautner, an undersized defensive tackle who became the best player on the Pittsburgh Steelers' woeful teams in the 1950's and was later enshrined in the Pro Football Hall of Fame, died yesterday in a nursing home in Carbondale, Colo. He was 80 and lived in Vail, Colo. The cau
 Robert E. Rich, who abandoned his family's dairy business to create the first nondairy whipped topping, died on Wednesday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 92. A spokeswoman for the company Mr. Rich founded, the Rich Products Corporation, based in Buffalo, said he died after a 
 Barry Martin, a modern dancer who turned to a career in choreography after an accident made him a quadriplegic, died on Feb. 6 at his home in Manhattan. He was 44. The cause was apparently heart failure, said a friend, Valerie Gladstone. Born in New York City, Mr. Martin tra
 Ray Barretto, a percussionist who helped define the role of the conga drum in jazz and became an influential figure in both jazz and Latin music during a career spanning more than 50 years, died yesterday at the Hackensack University Medical Center in New Jersey. He was 76 and lived in Norw
 Robert Lewis, the owner of the Kentucky Derby winners Silver Charm and Charismatic, died yesterday at his home in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 81. The cause of death was heart failure, said his son Jeff, who added that Lewis had been in failing health. Lewis, who owned a bee
 Roy Chapman, the owner and breeder of Smarty Jones, the 2004 Kentucky Derby and Preakness Stakes champion, died yesterday at his home in Doylestown, Pa. He was 79. Chapman died after a long battle with emphysema, according to his business associate Anthony Tigano, who announced his 
 George T. Davis, a swashbuckling criminal lawyer who over a half century gained fame in high-profile cases, more than 200 of them involving the death penalty, by marshaling a keen intelligence and artful folksiness, died on Feb. 4 at a resort on the Big Island of Hawaii. He was 98. 
 Helmut W. Schulz, a chemical engineer who received 64 patents in disparate fields like nuclear physics, rocketry and waste-to-energy processes despite having been blinded in a laboratory accident as a young man, died on Jan. 28 at a hospital in White Plains. Dr. Schultz, who lived in Harris
 Don Paarlberg, a farmer, writer and professor of agricultural economics who, as a White House assistant, helped President Dwight D. Eisenhower prepare and run his Food for Peace initiative, died Tuesday in West Lafayette, Ind. He was 94. His death was announced by Soller-Baker Funer
 Joel Dorius, one of three gay professors of literature caught in a pornography scandal and forced out by Smith College in 1960 only to be exonerated in a celebrated case of sexual McCarthyism, died on Tuesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 87. The cause was bone marrow cancer,
 Richard Bright, a veteran character actor who appeared in all three ''Godfather'' films and ''The Sopranos,'' died on Saturday in New York. He was 68 and lived in Manhattan. He was hit by a bus as it rounded the corner of Columbus Avenue and 86th Street at about 6:30 p.m., and was p
 Curt Gowdy, the Wyoming-bred outdoorsman whose voice defined big-game network television sportscasting during the 1960's and '70's, died yesterday. He was 86. Mr. Gowdy died at his home in Palm Beach, Fla., after a long battle with leukemia, said a spokesman for Mr. Gowdy's son, Cur
 William Cowsill, the lead singer and guitarist of the Cowsills, a sweet-toned 1960's family band that inspired ''The Partridge Family'' television series, died on Saturday at his home in Calgary, Canada. He was 58. No cause of death was reported, but a longtime friend and producer, 
 Paul C. Marcinkus, a prominent American archbishop and longtime head of the Vatican bank who was linked to a major Italian banking scandal in the 1980's, was found dead on Monday at his home in Sun City, Ariz. He was 84. No cause of death had been determined yesterday, according to 
 Eli J. Segal, who was the chief of staff in Gov. Bill Clinton's victorious campaign for president in 1992 and who went on to become an assistant in the Clinton White House, died Monday at his home in Boston. Mr. Segal, who headed the Clinton administration's AmeriCorps and Welfare-to-Work i
 Theodore Draper, a combative historian and social critic and one of the last of a generation of freelance intellectuals who wrote and lectured largely without academic affiliations or formal credentials, died yesterday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 93. His death was announced by his
 The Rev. Abraham Lopes Cardozo, the longtime cantor of a historic Manhattan synagogue and a major force in recovering and preserving the liturgical music of Spanish and Portuguese Jews, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 91. Mr. Cardozo had been in failing h
 Bruce Hart, who wrote lyrics for ''Sesame Street'' and ''Free to Be  You and Me,'' died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Carole. Mr. Hart and his wife were among the first writers on ''Sesame Street'' when it began in 
 James E. Hinton Jr., a documentary photographer who chronicled the racial and social upheavals of the 1960's, died on Sunday at a hospital in the Bronx. He was 69 and lived in Dobbs Ferry, N.Y. The cause was metastasized prostate cancer, his family said. Mr. Hinton's picture
 Ken Keuffel, the head football coach for 21 years at the Lawrenceville School in New Jersey and for 6 years at Wabash College and one of the last exponents of the single-wing offense, died Sunday at the University Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Lawrenceville, outsi
 Peter Hamilton, a dancer who performed with Charles Weidman and in Broadway musicals, died on Jan. 31. He was 90 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, said Don Liberto, his companion of 62 years and only immediate survivor. Born in Trent
 Thomas Malcolm Taylor, who managed money for the billionaire Bass brothers of Texas for more than 20 years, died Sunday in a snowmobile accident in the Adirondack region of upstate New York. He was 63. Mr. Taylor, known as Tommy, was part of a guided snowmobile tour near Saranac Lak
 Paul Avrich, a historian of the anarchist movement that played a role in the Russian Revolution and flourished in America in the 19th and early 20th centuries, died on Feb. 16 at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications from Alzheimer's dis
 Robert E. Fischer, a New York judge who prosecuted organized crime during the Rockefeller administration and opened the criminal inquiry into the 1971 rebellion at Attica prison, died on Feb. 16 in Binghamton, N.Y., his birthplace. He was 88. The cause was congestive heart failure, 
 Benno Besson, a disciple of Bertolt Brecht who became one of the most admired stage directors in Europe, died on Feb. 16 in a Berlin hospital. He was 83. Mr. Besson died after a long illness, said one of his daughters, Katharina Thalbach, a noted German actress and director.        
 Harold Hunter, whose skateboarding prowess and outsize personality led him to modeling and movie roles, celebrity friendships and prominence in the downtown Manhattan scene, was found dead on Feb. 17 in the East Village housing project where he grew up. He was 31. His brother, Ronal
 Henry N. Michael, an anthropologist and geographer who used the growth rings of ancient pine trees to help resolve problems of radiocarbon dating in archaeology, died last Sunday at a hospital in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 92 and a resident of nearby Ardmore. Dr. Michael's family confirm
 Darren McGavin, an actor with hundreds of television, movie and theatrical credits to his name, died on Saturday in Los Angeles. He was 83. The cause of his death, which was reported to The Associated Press by his son Bogart, was not announced, nor was the precise location, identifi
 Kenneth McCabe, an investigator who became a quiet legend among crime fighters by spying on and testifying against mobsters to help topple godfathers, died on Feb. 19 at his home in Breezy Point, Queens. He was 59. His daughter, Kelly McCabe Casey, a prosecutor in the office of the 
 Dennis Weaver, whose portrayal of Deputy Chester Goode in the classic television western ''Gunsmoke'' made him the favorite sidekick of the early television era, died on Friday at his home in Ridgway, Colo. He was 81. The cause was complications of cancer, said Julian Myers, his pub
 Otis Chandler, who inherited The Los Angeles Times from his parents and then, as its publisher, transformed it into one of the most respected, widely read and profitable newspapers in the United States, died yesterday at his home in Ojai, Calif. He was 78 years old. Mr. Chandler die
 Brig. Gen. Robert L. Scott Jr., one of America's most celebrated World War II fighter pilots and author of the best-selling wartime memoir ''God Is My Co-Pilot,'' died yesterday at an assisted living center in Warner Robins, Ga., home of Robins Air Force Base, near Macon. He was 97.        
