 Dimitri Hadzi, an internationally known sculptor whose most famous work is at once mythic and modernist, died on April 16 in Boston. He was 85 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. The cause was kidney failure, his wife, Cynthia, said. At his death, Mr. Hadzi was emeritus professor 
 Dr. Jean A. Bernard, a pioneering French hematologist who diagnosed the cancer that the shah of Iran kept secret for many years, and that ultimately sent him to an American hospital in a chain of events that led to the Tehran hostage crisis of 1979-81, died at his home in Paris on April 17.
 Grady McWhiney, a historian who called his fellow Southerners ''crackers'' in influential books and articles, then explained that this was a compliment to the glorious Celtic heritage he said they shared, died on April 18 at his home in Abilene, Tex. He was 77. Causes included cance
 Col. James B. Swindal, the Air Force One pilot who flew John F. Kennedy's body back to Washington in the hours after his assassination in Dallas, died Tuesday at a hospital in Cocoa Beach, Fla. He was 88. The cause was heart failure after complications from a broken hip, said his so
 John Kenneth Galbraith, the iconoclastic economist, teacher and diplomat and an unapologetically liberal member of the political and academic establishment he often needled in prolific writings for more than half a century, died Saturday at a hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 97. 
 Pramoedya Ananta Toer, who chronicled Indonesia's battle for independence against the Dutch in a quartet of sharply drawn novels composed in prison, died Sunday at the family home here. He was 81. Mr. Pramoedya, who was known by his first name, had been suffering from complications 
 Wolfgang Unzicker, a German judge and chess grandmaster who ranked among the world's top 50 players for almost two decades, died April 20 while on vacation in Portugal. He was 80 and lived in Munich. The cause was heart failure, according to the obituary in the newspaper Süddeutsch
 Heinz Poll, a choreographer and a co-founder of the Ohio Ballet, died on Sunday at his home in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. He was 80. The cause was kidney disease, said Fran Schaul, a friend. Mr. Poll and Tom Skelton, the theater and dance lighting designer who was Mr. Poll's c
 Jean-François Revel, a prolific philosopher, writer and journalist who summoned the classical polemical weapons of Voltaire and Montaigne, including humor, irony and surprise, to illuminate subjects from French cuisine to French anti-Americanism, died on Saturday in Paris. He was 82.      
 Joseph S. Iseman, a New York lawyer and educator who worked with Vladimir Nabokov, Robert Motherwell, National Educational Television and Bennington College, where he memorably stepped in as acting president in 1975, died on Tuesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 89
 George Haines, a renowned coach who helped develop some of the greatest swimmers of recent decades, including the Olympic champions Mark Spitz and Don Schollander, died Monday in Carmichael, Calif. He was 82. His death was announced by the Santa Clara Swim Club, which he founded. Th
 Louis Rukeyser, the exquisitely tailored and pun-loving television host who helped millions of Americans believe that they could get rich in the stock market, or at least begin to understand it, died yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 73. He died of multiple myeloma, s
 Stanley Hiller Jr., whose childhood passion for vehicles led him to design new technology for helicopters while still a teenager and who went on to become a leader in the industry, died on April 20 at his home in Atherton, Calif. He was 81. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's
 Earl Woods, who mentored his son Eldrick and watched him grow into the golfer Tiger Woods, one of the world's most celebrated athletes, died yesterday at his home in Cypress, Calif. He was 74. The cause was cancer, the Tiger Woods Foundation said. Earl Woods had heart problems, diab
 George Mgrdichian, a virtuoso on the oud, the pear-shaped lute common in Middle Eastern music, died on Sunday in the Bronx. He was 71 and lived in Wappingers Falls, N.Y. The cause was cancer, said his brother, Roger. In solo recitals, dozens of albums and collaborations with
 Leighton Kerner, a longtime classical music critic for The Village Voice, died Saturday in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Dorita. He had a stroke earlier in the week. Mr. Kerner, who wrote music reviews for The Voice
 Boris Koytchou, a colorful contract bridge player who represented France and later the United States in major international competitions, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 86 and had lived in New York for more than 50 years. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Koytc
 Harold Levitt, known as Bunny, who in 1935 sank 499 consecutive free throws in a basketball contest and traveled with the Harlem Globetrotters demonstrating his shooting prowess, died on Sunday in Ocala, Fla. He was 96. His death was announced by his wife, Edith. Levitt, who
 Edward R. Broida, an architect and real estate developer who retired at 40 so he could devote his fortune to his passion, collecting contemporary art, died on April 14 at his home in Malibu, Calif. He was 72. The cause was cancer, his wife, Gisele Galante Broida, said. On We
 Burt Kerr Todd, an entrepreneur, adventurer and international deal maker whose quixotic dreams and outlandish schemes more than occasionally paid off, as when he introduced the postage stamp to the tiny kingdom of Bhutan or resold the gently used Rolls-Royces of down-at-the-heels maharajas 
 Drexel A. Sprecher, a lawyer who researched, plotted strategy and argued cases at the Nuremberg trials of Nazi war criminals, including presenting the case that convicted the head of the Hitler Youth movement, died on March 18 in Washington. He was 92 and a resident of Chevy Chase, Md.     
 Grant McLennan, one of the founders and leaders of the influential Australian rock band the Go-Betweens, died on Saturday at his home in Brisbane. He was 48. His death was announced by a spokesman for Yep Roc, the Go-Betweens' American record label. No cause was given. The G
 Jim Delsing, an outstanding defensive outfielder who played 10 seasons in the American League but was remembered mostly for his role in baseball's most famous stunt, died Thursday at his home in Chesterfield, Mo. He was 80. The cause was complications of cancer, said his wife, Rosea
 Karel Appel, an internationally renowned Dutch painter whose impetuous, color-laden canvases were among the most vibrant hallmarks of the postwar European art movement known as Cobra, which he helped found, died on Wednesday at his home in Zurich. He was 85. Mr. Appel's death was an
 Lawrence Lader, a writer who so successfully marshaled his literary and political efforts in support of abortion rights that Betty Friedan, the feminist author, called him the father of the movement, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86. The cause was colon cancer, his
 A. M. Rosenthal, a Pulitzer Prize-winning foreign correspondent who became the executive editor of The New York Times and led the paper's global news operations through 17 years of record growth, modernization and major journalistic change, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 84. Hi
 Patrick Ntsoelengoe, known as Ace, who left the apartheid-era isolation of sports in South Africa to play soccer in North America for 11 seasons, was found dead in his car on Monday outside a hotel in Lenasia, South Africa, outside Johannesburg. He was 50. The cause of death has not
 Anthony R. Ameruso, a longtime New York City transportation commissioner who was implicated in a series of ethical lapses that engulfed the mayoralty of Edward I. Koch and shook the foundations of the city's political class, died on April 1. He was 68 and lived in Roslyn, N.Y. The c
 Floyd Patterson, a gentleman boxer who emerged from a troubled boyhood to become the world heavyweight champion, died yesterday at his home in New Paltz, N.Y. He was 71. The cause was prostate cancer and Alzheimer's disease, said a grandson, Kevin McIlwaine. In the 1952 Hels
 Former Representative G. V. (Sonny) Montgomery, a conservative Democrat from Mississippi who was a staunch voice for the military and the needs of veterans during his 30 years in Congress, died yesterday in his hometown, Meridian. He was 85. His death, of natural causes, came six mo
 John Hicks, a pianist who helped define the mainstream jazz aesthetic of his instrument, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 64. The cause was internal bleeding, said his daughter Naima Hicks. Mr. Hicks, a prolific mainstay of jazz in New York since the late 1960's, gave 
 A fenced rectangular garden is 10 meters wide and 20 meters long. When one side is moved outward and two other sides are increased in length, the area increases by 40 square meters. What is the fewest number of meters of additional fencing needed to form the larger rectangular garden?      
 James Keogh, a former executive editor of Time magazine and head of the White House speechwriting staff under President Richard M. Nixon, died on Wednesday in Greenwich, Conn. He was 89. The cause was respiratory failure, his wife, Verna Keogh, said. Mr. Keogh, who lived in 
 Alexander Zinoviev, a philosopher turned popular author who won wide repute for his savage satires of Soviet society, only to become a surprising apologist for Communism after its demise, died in Moscow on Wednesday. He was 83. The cause was brain cancer, his wife, Olga, told Agence
 George Crile, a television news producer who specialized in attacking difficult, controversial subjects, most famously in a documentary for CBS alleging that Gen. William C. Westmoreland and his military colleagues deliberately underestimated enemy troop numbers in the Vietnam War, died yes
 Jaroslav Jan Pelikan, a Yale scholar and historian of religion who interpreted Christian tenets to a vast lay audience in the English-speaking world, died on Saturday at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 82. The cause was lung cancer, said his son Michael. A prolific author o
 Stanley Kunitz, who was one of the most acclaimed and durable American poets of the last century and who, at age 95, was named poet laureate of the United States, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 100 and also had a home in Provincetown, Mass. The cause was pneumonia, 
 Jim Lemon, who hit 164 home runs and earned a visit with a box-seat fan named Dwight D. Eisenhower after slugging three consecutive homers in a game for the Washington Senators in 1956, died Sunday at his home in Brandon, Miss. He was 78. The cause was cancer, his son Patrick said. 
 Jiri Frel, a mercurial and eccentric curator who helped build the J. Paul Getty Museum into a major center for Greek and Roman art but resigned after revelations about unscrupulous acquisition practices, died on April 29. He was 82. Officials at Père-Lachaise cemetery in Paris supp
 Lou Carrol, an unknown traveling salesman from Texas whose spontaneous act of generosity one summer day in 1952 -- packing a puppy into a crate and shipping it to two little girls in Washington named Tricia and Julie -- has been credited with altering the course of American history, died on
 Lew Anderson, whose considerable success as a musician, arranger and bandleader paled before the celebrity he achieved as Clarabell the Clown, Howdy Doody's sidekick on one of television's first children's shows, died on Sunday in Hawthorne, N.Y. He was 84, but always felt he was ar
 Cy Feuer, the celebrated producer who gave theatergoers some of Broadway's most beloved musicals, including ''Guys and Dolls,'' ''Can-Can'' and ''How to Succeed in Business Without Really Trying,'' died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 95. The cause was bladder cancer, his
 Vincent J. Cristofalo, a cell biologist who became an authority on aging by studying the mechanisms that cause human cells to divide, mature and ultimately deteriorate, died on May 8 in Philadelphia. He was 73. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Dr. Cristofalo began hi
 Peter Viereck, a noted historian, a Pulitzer Prize-winning poet and a founder of the mid-20th-century American conservative movement who later denounced what he saw as its late-20th-century excesses, died on Saturday at his home in South Hadley, Mass. He was 89. Professor Viereck, w
 Robert J. Schwartz, a stockbroker who was an early advocate of using investment choices to foster social change and environmental awareness, died May 9 in Manhattan. He was 88. The cause was heart failure, his grandson, Mathew Schwartz, said. ''Bob was the grandfather of soc
 William R. Ginsberg, a leading advocate for the preservation of open space, a professor of environmental law and a New York City commissioner of parks and recreation in the Lindsay administration, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was lung cancer, his son
 Edward R. Becker, a former chief judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit and a highly respected jurist admired for his powerful decisions and personal humility, died Friday afternoon at his home in northeast Philadelphia, where he had lived almost all his life. He 
 R. Bruce Merrifield, who won a Nobel Prize in Chemistry for developing a much quicker way to synthesize proteins, streamlining many medical and scientific experiments, died Sunday at his home in Cresskill, N.J. He was 84. His death was announced by Rockefeller University, where he w
 Richard P. Brickner, a novelist, memoirist and critic known for his fictional and nonfictional explorations of an automobile accident that left him permanently paralyzed, died on May 12 at his home in Manhattan. He was 72. The cause was cardiac disease, said his brother, Philip W. B
 Gilbert Sorrentino, a Brooklyn-born poet, novelist, literary critic and professor whose erudite work drew frequent praise and occasional scorn but never a wide audience, died on Thursday in Brooklyn. He was 77 and lived in Bay Ridge. The cause was lung cancer, said his son Christoph
 Melvin M. Lebetkin, a lawyer who went to prison for his role in the New York City Parking Violations Bureau scandal of the late 1980's, died on May 11 in Queens. He was 77. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, said Mr. Lebetkin's son, Steven. Before his legal fall, 
 Robert Heinecken, an artist and teacher whose eclectic and challenging work radically expanded the range of possibilities for photography as art, died on Friday at a nursing home in Albuquerque. He was 74. The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Joyce Neimanas, who added that he had
 Dr. Lee Jong Wook, who led the World Health Organization as its director general as it struggled to cope with the spread of SARS, avian flu and other public health menaces, died yesterday in Geneva, where he was to attend the organization's annual meeting. He was 61. Spain's ministe
 Hans Fantel, a pioneering writer on high fidelity who produced a column on home electronics for The New York Times for 17 years and wrote movingly about his life in prewar Vienna, died on Sunday. He was 84. Mr. Fantel died in Springfield, Mass., of injuries suffered in a car acciden
 Lewis Davis, a co-founder of the architectural firm Davis Brody Bond, whose own work ranged from bold Brutalist apartment towers to ornate Beaux-Arts civic landmarks, died on Sunday night at the Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan, for which he designed two buildings. He was 80 and live
 Lloyd Bentsen, former congressman and senator from Texas, onetime secretary of the Treasury and the Democratic nominee for vice president in 1988, died yesterday at his home in Houston. He was 85. The cause was complications of a stroke he suffered in 1998, his family said. Rapid Ri
 Clifford Antone, founder of Antone's, the Austin, Tex., blues club that helped start the careers of Texas music artists including Stevie Ray Vaughan, the Fabulous Thunderbirds and Charlie Sexton and helped turn Austin into a city that bills itself as the live music capital of the world, die
 Hamza El Din, an oud player and composer who reinvented the musical culture of Nubia and carried it worldwide, died Monday in Berkeley, Calif. He was 76. The cause was complications after surgery, said his wife, Nadra, who survives him. Mr. El Din's austere, hypnotic music w
 Morris P. Glushien, who was general counsel for the International Ladies Garment Workers Union for a quarter-century and won a landmark free-speech case before the United States Supreme Court, died on Friday in Los Angeles, his family said. He was 96. In 1947, David Dubinsky, the ga
 James W. Carey, a respected communications theorist whose intellectual acrobatics added heft to the practical education of journalists at Columbia University, died on Tuesday at his home in Wakefield, R.I. He was 71. The cause was complications of emphysema, his son J. William Carey
 Jim Trimble, who was head coach of the Philadelphia Eagles for four years but spent the bulk of his professional football career with the Giants, died Tuesday at his home in Indianapolis. He was 87. The cause was emphysema, a Giants spokesman said. Trimble was with the Giant
 Robert N. Giaimo, an 11-term congressman from Connecticut who was co-sponsor of the bill that led to the creation of the National Endowment for the Arts, died on Wednesday in Arlington, Va. He was 86. The cause was complications of heart and lung disease, said his daughter, Barbara 
 Desmond Dekker, the Jamaican singer whose 1969 hit, ''The Israelites,'' opened up a worldwide audience for reggae, died on Wednesday. He was 64. He died after collapsing from a heart attack at his home in Surrey, England, his manager, Delroy Williams, told Reuters. ''The Isr
 James B. McClatchy, the patriarch of a prominent newspaper family, died yesterday at his home in Carmichael, Calif. The McClatchy Company, which was founded by his great-grandfather, said the cause was complications from an infection after a recent operation. He was 85. A li
 Ted Schroeder, a tennis champion who won Wimbledon and the United States singles titles in the 1940's but steadfastly declined to turn professional, died yesterday at his home in La Jolla, Calif. He was 84. The International Tennis Hall of Fame, which inducted him in 1966 and announ
 Val Guest, a prolific British filmmaker known for writing and directing a spate of genre films, some of them remarkably good and some of them remarkably bad, died on May 10 in Palm Desert, Calif. He was 94.The cause was prostate cancer, Mr. Guest's wife, Yolande Donlan, told The Los Angeles
 Bishop James O. Mote of the Anglican Catholic Church, who helped start a revolt in the Episcopal Church after it voted to ordain women in the late 1970's, died on April 29 in Indianapolis, his hometown. He was 84. The cause was kidney failure, said his brother, Richard, of Indianapo
 Craig Heyward, the powerful fullback known as Ironhead, who played 11 seasons in the National Football League despite battling binges of food and drink, died Saturday. He was 39. The cause was brain cancer, Blair Armstrong, who coached Heyward's son, Cameron, at a high school in Atl
 Frederick Ted Castle, an experimental novelist and New York art critic, died on May 16 in Far Rockaway, Queens. He was 67 and lived in Brooklyn. His death, after a long illness, was announced by Bruce McPherson, his publisher. Frederick Corson Castle Jr. was born Aug. 7, 193
 Ted Berkman, an author and screenwriter best known for his book ''Cast a Giant Shadow'' and the movies ''Fear Strikes Out'' and ''Bedtime for Bonzo,'' died on May 12 in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 92. The cause was cancer, his nephew, Joel Blau, said. Over a 60-year career 
 Donald E. Rudolph, an Army sergeant in World War II who received the Medal of Honor for single-handedly destroying Japanese machine-gun positions in the battle to recapture the Philippines, died Thursday at a nursing home in Grand Rapids, Minn. He was 85. The cause was complications
 George Field, who fought isolationism, Fascism, Communism, racism, McCarthyism, anti-Semitism and other extremisms for three decades as the guiding spirit behind Freedom House, a nonpartisan organization dedicated to democracy and human rights, died Friday in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 101.
 Hugh B. Patterson Jr., who was the publisher of The Arkansas Gazette in 1957 when that newspaper was thrust into national prominence for its stand against segregated schools during a federal-state confrontation, died Monday in Little Rock, Ark., where he lived. He was 91. His son Ra
 James Conway Sr., an entrepreneur whose company has been delighting the taste buds, if not always the ears, at this season for the past half-century, died on Sunday at his home in Ocean City, N.J. Mr. Conway, a founder of the Mister Softee ice cream company, was 78. The cause was ca
 Shohei Imamura, one of the most significant filmmakers of Japan's postwar generation, whose works include ''Black Rain'' and two top-prize winners at Cannes, died yesterday in Tokyo. He was 79. The cause was liver cancer, his son Hirosuke told The Mainichi Daily News. Born i
 Steve Mizerak, who sank his first pocket billiards shot at age 4, became a national champion while a full-time schoolteacher, then emerged as a pop-culture celebrity doing TV beer commercials, died Monday in Boca Raton, Fla. He was 61. The cause was a heart ailment that followed rec
