 Jon Stone, the Emmy Award-winning writer, producer and director who helped create ''Sesame Street'' and such beloved characters as Cookie Monster, Big Bird and Oscar the Grouch, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 65 and lived in Manhattan. His daughter Polly
 Cantor Samuel Rosenbaum, a Yiddish poet and composer and a founder and past president of the Cantors Assembly, died on March 23 in Rochester General Hospital. He was 77 and a resident of Rochester, where he served as cantor of Temple Beth El from 1946 until retiring 10 years ago. Th
 Ernest Goodman, a Detroit lawyer specializing in First Amendment and civil rights cases who served as president of the National Lawyers Guild, died last Wednesday at Harper Hospital in Detroit. He was 90. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage. Mr. Goodman practiced the law in 
 Lyman Spitzer Jr., a visionary theoretician of astrophysics and plasma physics who inspired the Hubble Space Telescope and an array of orbiting observatories now tracking X-ray emissions and assorted other heavenly phenomena, died on Monday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 82. 
 Arthur Cunningham, a composer, pianist and conductor who combined classical forms and instrumentation with elements of rock and jazz, died on Monday at his home in Nyack, N.Y. He was 68. John Ellis, a former student of Mr. Cunningham's and a friend of the family, said the cause was 
 Edward Ranzal, a reporter at The New York Times for 45 years, from the mid-1930's until 1979, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Tamarack, Fla. He was 83 and had lived in Deerfield Beach, Fla., since his retirement. He died after a brief illness, his family said. Mr. Ranza
 Marvin Liebman, a militant conservative and anti-Communist who became active in promoting gay rights, died on Monday at George Washington Medical Center in Washington. He was 73. The cause was heart failure, said William F. Buckley Jr., the editor-at-large of the conservative journa
 Howard Francis Shattuck Jr., a retired international counsel for the Mobil Oil Corporation who led a study of United Nations peacekeeping operations for the American Bar Association, died on Wednesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 76 and also had a residence in Dar
 Tomoyuki Tanaka, who frightened and fascinated generations of children with his series of films featuring an outsize, outdated creature named Godzilla, died on Wednesday at a hospital here. He was 86. Mr. Tanaka was a prolific film producer with a serious edge and a flair for the ex
 Dr. Albert E. Manley, who in 23 years as its president guided Spelman College to becoming a highly ranked institution for career-minded women, died on March 28 at his vacation home in Montego Bay, Jamaica. He was 89. Dr. Manley had lived in Washington with his wife, Dr. Audrey Forbe
 Joseph F. Sullivan, a former New Jersey bureau chief for The New York Times and a political reporter who covered the administrations of seven New Jersey governors, died yesterday at University Hospital in Newark. Mr. Sullivan, who was 66 and lived in Wall Township, suffered a heart 
 Dr. A. John Gwinnett, a professor of oral biology and pathology at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, died on March 16 in Orlando, Fla. He was 60 and lived in Setauket, L.I. He suffered a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Gwinnett was in Orlando for a meeting 
 Allen Ginsberg, the poet laureate of the Beat Generation whose ''Howl!'' became a manifesto for the sexual revolution and a cause celebre for free speech in the 1950's, eventually earning its author a place in America's literary pantheon, died early yesterday. He was 70 and lived in the Eas
 Donald E. Maude, chief economist of the United States unit of Scotia Capital Markets in Toronto and a former senior economist for Merrill Lynch, died on March 27 at New York Downtown Hospital. He was 55. The cause of his death was a heart attack, his wife, Kathleen Gustos Maude of S
 Dr. Irving Wexler, a pediatrician and researcher who in the 1940's pioneered the use of blood exchange transfusions as a treatment for infants born with severe jaundice and anemia as a result of blood group incompatibility with their mothers, died on Saturday in Westwood, Mass. He was 86.  
 Marvin A. Schneiderman, a specialist in health statistics and a retired associate director for science and public policy at the National Cancer Institute, died on Tuesday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 78. The cause was coronary artery disease, said his wife, Irene. Dr.
 Sylvester Campbell, a dancer who performed with the Dutch National Ballet and other troupes in Europe, Canada and the United States, died on March 9 at the Genesis-Eldercare Randallstown Center in Baltimore. The cause was respiratory failure, said Peggy Lynne, a friend. Mr. 
 August Heckscher, a Parks Commissioner under Mayor John V. Lindsay who was long active in public affairs and as a writer, died on Saturday at New York Hospital. He was 83 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was heart failure, which he suffered after being admitt
 Heberto Castillo Martinez, a civil engineer, an advocate of workers' rights and an opposition politician who helped pioneer the movement to make Mexico a modern democracy, died here on Saturday. He was 68. Mr. Castillo died of heart failure, according to a statement from the Party o
 Jack Kent Cooke, who started his career peddling encyclopedias in Canada and went on to build empires in newspapers, cable television and sports and to own the Los Angeles Lakers, the Washington Redskins and the Chrysler Building, died yesterday at George Washington University Hospital in W
 Henry Baldwin Hyde, a New York lawyer and onetime American spymaster who helped pave the way for the Allied landings in France, died on Saturday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 82. He suffered a lengthy illness, his family said. Mr. Hyde was a crucial
 Travis Bogard, an author, teacher and one of the foremost scholars on the life and work of Eugene O'Neill, died on Saturday at a hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 79 and lived in Berkeley. The cause was a stroke, said Betty Connors, a friend. Mr. Bogard, who for many years
 Gino P. Santi, a Brooklyn-born Air Force engineer who developed the modern pilot ejection system, died on Thursday at a hospice near his home in Dayton, Ohio. He was 81 and had spent most of his career at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base there. His wife, Dorothy, said the cause was b
 Lawrence A. Appley, a Methodist minister's son who served on the boards of 35 corporations and for almost 45 years preached the gospel of quality management in corporate life and Government service, died on  Friday at his home in Hamilton, N.Y. He was two weeks short of his 93d birthday.   
 Alejo Peralta Diaz, a pioneering figure in Mexico's industrial development who became a confidant of presidents and one of the country's wealthiest entrepreneurs, died here on Tuesday of heart failure. He was 80. Mr. Peralta had undergone heart surgery four times since 1992, and was
 Gerald Edward Gaull, a pediatrician whose research on the development of the human brain prompted the addition to baby formulas of a vital ingredient of mother's milk, died April 2 while vacationing in Quito, Ecuador. He was 66 and lived in Washington. The cause was an aortic aneury
 Joaquin M. Luttinger, a solid-state physicist who put his mathematical imagination to work on the behavior of electrons, devising theories that have advanced the knowledge of semiconductors and superconductors, died on Sunday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 73 and lived in Morningside
 Evsey D. Domar, a leading theorist of economic growth and expert on comparative economic systems, died April 1 at Emerson Hospital in Concord, Mass., where he had lived for many years. He was 82. The cause was myelodysplasia, a bone marrow disorder, said his wife, Carola R. Domar.  
 John Kremer Armstrong, a New York lawyer specializing in health and intellectual-property law, died on Saturday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 62. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Armstrong started with the law firm of Davis, Hardy & Schenck in 1960
 Toshiro Mayuzumi, an eclectic Japanese composer who combined traditional Japanese music, neo-Romantic orchestration and electronic and avant-garde techniques in his ballet, film scores, theater works and symphonic pieces, died yesterday at a hospital in Kawasaki, near Tokyo. He was 68 and l
 Aaron Kramer, a poet and translator, died on Monday at his Long Island home. He was 75. Mr. Kramer, a professor emeritus at Dowling College in Oakdale, L.I., was the author of a number of scholarly works including ''Seven Poets in Search of an Answer'' (1944), ''The Poetry and Prose
 Fredric S. Fay, a professor of physiology and pharmacology at the University of Massachusetts Medical School who was an expert on the function of muscle cells, died on March 18 in Germany. He was 53 and lived in Worcester, Mass. He suffered a heart attack on a visit to the Universit
 Herbert Resnicow, a late-blooming mystery writer, died on April 4 at a hospitalin Roslyn, L.I. He was 75 and lived in East Williston, L.I. The cause was congestive heart failure, his family said. A civil engineer by training and trade, Mr. Resnicow changed careers at 60 with
 Herbert Singer, a stockbroker who owned one of the largest over-the-counter brokerage firms of the 1960's, died Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 94. Mr. Singer had a career that resembled the American dream. The son of Hungarian immigrants, he never attended college and ye
 Irving J. Galpeer, a lawyer who served as a top enforcement official with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the 1930's and early 1940's, died April 3 at his home in Harwich, Mass., after a long illness. He was 87. While at the commission, Mr. Galpeer handled a series of frau
 John Francis Walsh, who served through turbulent times and four New York City police commissioners as the department's top uniformed commander in the 1960's, died on Thursday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. A longtime resident of Whitestone, Queens, he was 93 and and had recently moved to
 Martin Schwarzschild, an astronomer who studied the structure and evolution of stars and who was the first to use a hot air balloon to carry a telescope into the stratosphere to take clearer pictures of the Sun, died on Thursday at St. Mary Medical Center in Langhorne, Pa. He was 84. For th
 Arthur S. Kling, a California psychiatrist who was an expert on the brain functions linked to emotions and social behavior, died on March 28 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 67. The apparent cause was pneumonia, after a long struggle with cancer, according to the University of Cal
 J. Wister Meigs, an epidemiologist and researcher in occupational medicine, public health and the environmental causes of cancer, died on March 25 at the Evergreen Woods Health Center in North Branford, Conn. He was 82 and lived in Hamden, Conn. Dr. Meigs was associated with the dep
 David E. Diener, for decades a major figure in film industry advertising, died of kidney failure on Monday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 78. Mr. Diener served as president of the Diener Hauser advertising agency from 1964 to 1975. Known as the Monroe Greenthal Com
 Gabriel Wiener, an audio specialist and founder of Pro Gloria Musica, which produces recordings of early music, was found dead on Wednesday in his apartment in Manhattan. He was 26. No cause of his death was given. His father, Michael, said he was believed to have died of natural ca
 George Montgomery, a poet, photographer and museum curator and director, died on April 7 at St. Clare's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was Huntington's disease, said Dan Wagoner, his companion. A witty, vividly perceptive poet, Mr. Montgom
 George Wald, a biologist who was a joint winner of a Nobel Prize in 1967 for his research on how the eye passes images to the brain, died on Saturday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 90. Dr. Wald, who was also an outspoken opponent of United States' involvement in Vietnam, ret
 Howard G. Sloane, a New York real estate executive who advised four administrations on trade issues, died Monday at New York Hospital after a brief illness, according to his son, Peter Sloane. He was 76. Mr. Sloane, who lived in Larchmont, N.Y., was an advocate of increasing exports
 Judge Jerry Pacht, a retired Los Angeles Superior Court judge who served for many years on the California Commission on Judicial Qualifications, which reviews judicial conduct, died on April 1 at St. John's Medical Center in Santa Monica. He was 75. The cause was a cerebral hemorrha
 John Thomas Landry, whose knack for marketing helped turn Marlboro into the world's largest-selling cigarette and whose love of horse racing inspired the Marlboro Cup, died on Sunday at his home in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 73. The cause was cancer, his family said. Mr. Landry
 Michael Dorris, a prolific novelist, essayist, critic and educator who won the National Book Award in 1989 for ''The Broken Cord,'' about his adopted son's struggle with fetal alcohol syndrome, was found dead on Friday in a motel in Concord, N.H., where he had taken a room under an assumed 
 Paul Henson, the telephone executive who built the first major fiber optic network, which improved sound quality so much that Sprint advertised you could hear a pin drop at the other end of the line, died in Palm Springs, Calif., on Saturday. He was 71. Mr. Henson died of complicati
 David McCord, who earned renown as an author of children's poetry and also wrote adult poetry and prose, died on Sunday in Goddard House, a nursing home in Boston. He was 99. To generations of Harvard graduates like himself, Mr. McCord was also known as the executive director of the
 Mustafa Amin, a pioneer of Arab journalism and an advocate of Western-style democracy who was imprisoned under President Gamal Abdel Nasser, died at his home in Cairo on Sunday. He was 83. Mr. Amin and his twin brother, Ali, were publishers of Egypt's five best-selling publications 
 Craig B. Tate, a corporate executive who began his lifelong career with the Colgate-Palmolive Company as a summer intern and rose to become its chief technological officer with primary responsibility for product development, died on Tuesday evening in a helicopter crash in the East River of
 Ellis Benjamin Gardner Jr., a retired transportation executive who helped modernize American shipbuilding in the 1960's, died on April 4 at Stamford Hospital. He was 77 and lived in Darien, Conn. The cause was lymphoma, his family said. Mr. Gardner retired some years ago as 
 Gerald Piaget, whose name became synonymous with women's ultrathin watches that sold for as much as $3 million, died on Saturday in his native Switzerland. He was 79. Mr. Piaget died at Areuse, in Neuchatel canton, according to the Swiss news agency ATS, which cited a family announc
 Merrill Folsom, a Westchester County correspondent for The New York Times from 1937 until his retirement in 1968, died on Monday at White Plains Hospital. He was 94 and lived in White Plains. Mr. Folsom graduated from the Minneapolis Institute of Fine Arts and studied at Columbia Un
 Robert J. Hausman, a longtime chairman of Loews Hotels and of the Princess Grace Foundation, died on Tuesday at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. He was 73. Mr. Hausman died of leukemia, his wife, Gloria, said. They had lived in Greenwich. After returning from World War II,
 Chaim Herzog, Israel's outspoken President from 1983 to 1993, died yesterday at Tel Hashomer Hospital in Tel Aviv. He was 78 and lived in Herzliya Pituach, a suburb of Tel Aviv. The cause was heart failure after he contracted pneumonia on a recent visit to the United States, said Ra
 Craig Butler Tate, a corporate executive who began his lifelong career with the Colgate-Palmolive Company as a summer intern and rose to become its chief technological officer, died on Tuesday evening in a helicopter crash in the East River off Manhattan. He was 51 and lived in New Canaan, 
 Emilio Azcarraga Milmo, a hard-driving billionaire who built his family's television and radio network into the largest media empire in the Spanish-speaking world, died of cancer Wednesday at a residence he maintained in Miami, a company spokesman said. He was 66. Mr. Azcarraga was 
 L. Brent Bozell, a writer and longtime champion of conservative political causes, died on Tuesday at a nursing home in Bethesda, Md. He was 71 and lived in Washington. The cause was pneumonia, his  family said. Mr. Bozell (pronounced boh-ZELL) co-founded the national conserv
 Les Cason, whose overwhelmingly successful basketball career at East Rutherford High School in New Jersey signaled a promise he never came close to achieving, died on Wednesday. He was 43. Cason died from complications from AIDS at a nursing home in Manhattan, said Rod Malloy, a spo
 Richard Stockton, a playwright, died on April 5 at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 65. The cause was a heart-valve infection and complications from a stroke, said his wife, Irene. Mr. Stockton's play ''Prisoner of the Crown'' had its premiere at the Abbey Th
 Bernard Norman Samers, a fund-raiser for Jewish philanthropies and former executive vice president of the American Committee for the Weizmann Institute of Science in Israel, died last Sunday at Stamford Hospital in Stamford, Conn. He was 63 and lived in Stamford. The cause was cance
 David Hunter Elwyn, a biochemist who formulated nourishment to sustain critically ill patients unable to feed themselves, died on April 6 at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Tarrytown, N.Y. He was 77 and lived in Ossining. The cause was lymphoma, his family said. Dr. Elwyn was an
 Emery Deutsch, a violinist, songwriter and orchestra leader who had his first success in the early days of radio broadcasting, died on Wednesday at the Villa Maria rehabilitation center in Miami. He was 91. In a career of 60-some years, Mr. Deutsch wrote more than 80 songs, includin
 Hugh Percival Henry Gough, an instrument maker who was an important figure in the world of early-music performance, died on Monday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 81. Mr. Gough was born in Heptonstall, Yorkshire, England, in 1916, and earned a degree in economics at Univers
 Joseph Corteggiano, a bass-baritone with the New York City Opera, died on April 7 at his mother's home in Baltimore. He was 49 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was lymphoma, said Susan Woelzl, spokeswoman for the City Opera. Since his company debut in 1990 as the Bonze in P
 Robert Henry Wentorf Jr., a latter-day alchemist who employed superpressures to turn lowly graphite into diamonds for myriad uses in drilling, cutting and grinding, died on April 3 at his home in Easton, N.Y. He was 70. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Went
 Yank Rachell, one of the few blues musicians to specialize on the mandolin, died on April 9 at his home in Indianapolis. He was 87. Mr. Rachell, whose real first name was James, grew up on a farm near Brownsville, Tenn. He said that at the age of 8 he received his first mandolin in 
 Arthur Luce Klein, the founder and president of Spoken Arts, a pioneering company in the field of recorded literature, died on April 7 at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 81. Mr. Klein founded Spoken Arts with his wife, Luce, in the mid-1950's to record important works of liter
 Biju Patnaik, one of the most prominent survivors of the generation of Indian leaders who took part in the independence struggle against Britain, died here on Thursday. He was 81. Mr. Patnaik twice served as Chief Minister of Orissa, a state in eastern India with a population of mor
 Glanville Williams, a British authority on criminal law who taught at Cambridge and also was a visiting professor at Columbia and New York University, died on April 10. He was 86 and a longtime resident of Cambridge, England. His death was reported on Thursday by The Independent, wh
 Richard Tousey, a solar physicist who used a captured World War II V-2 rocket to take the first photographs of the Sun's ultraviolet spectrum from beyond the atmosphere, died on Tuesday at Prince Georges Hospital Center in Maryland. He was 88 and had lived in Mitchellville, Md. At t
 Thomas J. Connor, who had such a brief but decidedly eventful career with the Federal Bureau of Investigation that he dined out on it for six decades -- including 18 cold war years with the Central Intelligence Agency, died on April 14 at his home in Southbury, Conn. He was 91 and the last 
 Watkins Reynolds Matthews, a wiry wrangler who spent more than half a century presiding over his family's showcase Texas cattle spread, died on April 13 at the historic Lambshead Ranch, 140 miles west of Fort Worth. He was 98 and the last of his generation in one of the state's oldest and m
 Alan R. Gruber, who took charge of the Equity Funding Corporation after it collapsed in the 1970's in a big financial scandal and rebuilt it into the Orion Capital Corporation, a thriving insurance holding company, died Friday, the company announced. He was 69. Mr. Gruber, who was O
 Gen. Andres Rodriguez, who led a coup in Paraguay in 1989 that ended more than three decades of dictatorship by Gen. Alfredo Stroessner, died today at a New York hospital. He was 72. A spokesman for the Paraguayan Embassy in Washington said that Gen. Rodriguez had died of complicati
 Donald Joseph O'Connor, a civil engineer and a leading authority on water pollution and sanitary engineering, died on Friday at his home in Glen Rock, N.J. He was 74. He died of cancer, said a spokeswoman for Manhattan College in Riverdale, the Bronx, where he was distinguished prof
 Ben Raeburn, who published the complete works of Frank Lloyd Wright and a pantheon of authors from Irving Howe and Alfred Kazin to Robert Olen Butler and Oriana Fallaci, died on April 9 in a convalescent hospital in Menlo Park, Calif. He was 86. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, hi
 Harry Duncan, a skilled hand printer of books who was responsible for Robert Lowell's first volume of poetry and works by other well-known writers, died on Friday at his home in Omaha. He was 80. The cause was pneumonia, said his wife, Nancy. Mr. Duncan started operating a h
 Herbert Zipper, who as an inmate at Dachau started a secret orchestra and with a friend composed a song that became an anthem of the death camps, died on Monday at St. John's Medical Center in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 92, said his niece, Lucy Horowitz. Mr. Zipper, whose life was 
 Chester A. Gore, the founder, president and creative director of the Chester Gore Company, an advertising and marketing agency in Manhattan, died on Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 78 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. The cause was kidney and respiratory failure
 Henry A. Mucci, the charismatic Army colonel who became an instant and enduring American war hero in 1945 when he led the raid that rescued 500 survivors of the fall of Corregidor and the Bataan Death March from a Japanese prison camp in the Philippines, died on Sunday at a hospital near hi
 Jean Louis, an Academy Award-winning designer who created some of the most memorable costumes  and fashions worn by Hollywood stars of the 1940's, 50's and 60's, died on Sunday at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 89. Mr. Louis designed the strapless black satin gown in which 
 Denis Compton, a charming and flamboyant athlete who was widely considered one of Britain's greatest cricket players,  died on Wednesday in Windsor, England. He was 78. The cause was complications after hip surgery, friends said. Throughout a cricketing career of just over 2
 Sam Moskowitz, an unlikely scholar widely regarded as the world's foremost authority on science fiction and by far its most devoted fan, died on April 15 at a hospital near his home in Newark. He was 76 and the author or editor of 62 books. His wife, Dr. Christine Haycock, said the 
 Abe Feder, who in a lifetime devoted to the art of illumination virtually created the field of theatrical lighting design and was also a seminal figure in architectural lighting, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87. The name of Mr. Feder's company is ''Lighting by F
 Pat Paulsen, the mournful-looking comedian who ran five tongue-in-cheek races for the Presidency, died yesterday in Tijuana, Mexico. He was 69 and lived in Tujunga, Calif. The Associated Press reported that he had been receiving alternative treatment in Mexico for colon and brain ca
 Bernard Vonnegut,Bernard Vonnegut, a physicist and one of two researchers who first figured out how to wring more raindrops from cloud cover for the croplands below, died on Friday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 82 and lived in Albany. The cause was cancer, said his broth
 Dennis Patrick Cantwell, a child psychiatrist known for his work with developmental disorders and the classification of disease, died on April 14 at his home in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 58. The cause was complications from heart disease, said William Gorin, his administrative a
 Eugene M. Stoner, who developed America's classic assault rifle, the M-16, while tinkering at night in his garage, died on Thursday at his home in Palm City, Fla. He was 74. The cause of death was cancer, a spokesman for the family said. While he had no formal engineering ed
 Thomas H. D. Mahoney, an elder statesman of Massachusetts and world-traveling advocate for the elderly, died on Monday at Stanford Medical Center in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 83 and lived in Cambridge, Mass. He was on the way home from Seoul, South Korea, after addressing the 97th co
 Joey Faye, the last of the legendary burlesque comics and among the few to make a seamless transition to legitimate theater, movies, television and commercials, died early on Saturday at the Actors' Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 87. In a 65-year career, Mr. Faye played a second ban
 John Joseph Gunther, a longtime lobbyist for urban dwellers and big-town city halls across the country, died on April 14 in a hospital near Algarve, Portugal, where he had a vacation home. He was 71 and lived in Sun Valley, Idaho, having moved there permanently from Washington in retirement
 Ned A. Ostenso, a geophysicist who was assistant administrator of the Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research in Washington, died on April 13 at a Washington hospital. He was 66 and had lived in Washington. The cause was cardiac arrest, said his wife, Grace Laudon Ostenso.       
 Peng Zhen, one of China's foremost hard-line  leaders, died on Saturday at the age of 95. Best known as the longtime Mayor of Beijing who was the first prominent victim of the Cultural Revolution in 1966, Mr. Peng spent 12 years in internal exile before re-emerging to help codify an
 Lewis M. Isaacs Jr., a prominent New York lawyer known for his expertise in housing law and co-op conversions, died on Saturday at the Amsterdam Nursing Home in Manhattan. A resident of the Upper East Side of Manhattan, he was 89. He suffered a long illness, said Carol H. Isaacs, hi
 Richard Nevin Kerst, a former top administrator at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, died on April 22 at his daughter's home in Woodbridge, Conn. He was 83 and lived in Katonah, N.Y. The cause was cancer, said his daughter, Katrena K. Engstrom. Mr. Kerst spent 34 years a
 The Rev. Robert Laughlin Pierson, a retired Episcopal clergyman who worked for racial equality, women's rights and the welfare of migrant workers, died on April 13 at his home in St. Petersburg, Fla. A resident of Columbiaville, N.Y., he was 71. The cause was apparently a heart atta
 Gabriel Figueroa Mateos, the cinematographer whose vivid panoramas of Mexican landscapes defined a look for Mexican films in their heyday and whose work for Hollywood studios won him international acclaim, died on Sunday. He was 90. Mr. Figueroa's camera captured the mural-like dese
 Mike Royko, the increasingly cantankerous voice for this city's little guys and working stiffs, whose newspaper column seemed as much a part of Chicago as the wind, died today at Northwestern Memorial Hospital. He was 64. Mr. Royko had collapsed in his home in suburban Winnetka on A
 Norman Joseph Kelman, a Manhattan analyst who helped establish the New York school of psychoanalysis in the 1950's, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Dr. Kelman was associated with the American Institute for Psychoan
