 Arthur M. Goldberg, the union lawyer who was the chief legal strategist in a crucial and successful organizing campaign at the J. P. Stevens Company, died on Tuesday at New York University Medical Center. He was 67 years old and lived in New York City. He died of general sepsis, his
 Jean Tinguely, a Swiss-born sculptor who was best known for building whimsical self-destructing contraptions out of scrap parts, died Friday at a hospital in Bern, Switzerland, He was 66 years old. A hospital spokesman in Bern told The Associated Press that Mr. Tinguely died of comp
 Jean Tinguely, a Swiss-born sculptor who was best known for building whimsical self-destructing contraptions out of scrap parts, died Friday at a hospital in Bern, Switzerland, He was 66 years old. A hospital spokesman in Bern told The Associated Press that Mr. Tinguely died of comp
 Lawrence Speiser, a leading civil liberties lawyer who successfully represented himself in a 1958 Supreme Court case involving loyalty oaths, died at his home in Washington on Friday. He was 68 years old. Mr. Speiser died of cancer, said his son, Matt. Mr. Speiser was born i
 Edward R. Sammis, an editor and writer, died on Saturday in Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. He was 89 and lived in Westport, Conn. He died of heart failure, his brother, Fred Sammis, said. Mr. Sammis worked primarily as an editor with a number of publishing houses, from Faw
 George F. Dinneen, a former vice president of Merrill Lynch & Company who began his own financial planning company in New Jersey, died on Friday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 48 years old and lived in Chatham Township, N.J. Mr. Dinneen died of pneumonia, a funeral home
 Jean J. Vuillequez, a longtime executive with Amax Inc., the metal and energy company, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Jacksonville Beach, Fla. He was 80 years old and lived in Sawgrass, Fla. Mr. Vuillequez died of a heart attack, said the family's lawyer, Nelson Buhler. 
 Philetus H. Holt 2d, an executive at Exxon for 34 years, died on Friday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 83 years old. He died of heart failure, said his daughter, Frances H. Covert of MIddletown, N.J. Mr. Holt was born in Silverton, Colo., grew up in Denver and a
 Hendrick Christian Ahlers, a retired executive in the wholesale dairy and cooking-oil business, died on Thursday at Meridian-The Woodland Care Center in Plainfield, N.J. He was 73 years old and lived in Chatham, N.J. Mr. Ahlers, who was president of the New York Mercantile Exchange 
 Julko Litewka, the general secretary of the Jewish Labor Bund, a constituent member of Socialist International, died on Sunday at his home in the Bronx. He was 79 years old. He died of Hodgkin's disease, his son Albert said. Mr. Litewka, a native of Poland, joined the bund t
 Wes Anderson, the design director of The Village Voice from 1989 until this year, died on Friday. He was 39 years old. He died of colon and lymphatic cancer, his doctors said. Mr. Anderson was born in Fort Wayne, Ind., and attended the School of Visual Arts in New York City.
 Alfonso Garcia Robles, a former Mexican Foreign Minister who shared the 1982 Nobel Peace Prize for promoting disarmament, died late Monday in Mexico City. He was 80 years old. The Mexican Foreign Ministry said his death was the result of kidney failure. The United Nations Se
 Donald J. Chipman, a New York businessman and investor, died on Monday at New York Hospital. He was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of heart failure, family members said. Mr. Chipman, who attended Columbia University, was a former taxi-fleet owner and a prominen
 Frank Capra, the Academy Award- winning director whose movies were suffused with affectionate portrayals of the common man and the strengths and foibles of American democracy, died yesterday at his home. He was 94 years old and lived in La Quinta, Calif., a suburb of Palm Springs. H
 Gerald Jacobs, a New York businessman and investor, died of a massive heart attack on Saturday a few blocks from his Manhattan office in a taxi en route to Beth Israel Hospital. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan. In 1949, Mr. Jacobs, known as Jerry, founded the Boston Tea C
 Leigh Wade, a pioneer aviator who became an Air Force major general, died Saturday in the Belvoir Woods Health Care Center at Fort Belvoir, Va. He was 93 years old and lived in Washington. General Wade entered the health care center last December. His wife said he had recently been 
 Davis Factor Sr., who helped build his father's business, Max Factor & Company, into an international cosmetics empire, died Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 89 years old. He died of heart failure, said a daughter, Barbara Bentley. Davis Factor, the eldest son amo
 Dr. Erich Schatzki, an internationally known aeronautical engineer and aircraft designer, died Aug. 28 at a nursing home in Palo Alto, Calif. A resident of Palo Alto, he was 93 years old. A native of Germany, he became involved in the early development of the aircraft industry there
 Dr. Hiao-Tsiun Ma, a musicologist, conductor and teacher who founded the Children's Orchestra in New York and who was the father of the cellist Yo-Yo Ma, died on Aug. 28 at Long Beach Hospital on Long Island. He was 80 years old. He died of a stroke, said his daughter, Dr. Yeou-Chen
 James H. Fogelson, a corporate lawyer based in Manhattan who was active in Jewish affairs, died on Tuesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center. He was 48 years old and lived in Manhattan. One of his partners, Martin Lipton, said he died of lung cancer. Mr. Fogelson was a senior pa
 Martin H. Dubilier, an inventor who achieved prominence as an investor in poorly performing companies that he could fix up, died yesterday at the age of 65. He lived in Greenwich, Conn., and Fisher Island, Fla. He died of lung cancer, said a spokesman for the firm, Clayton & Dubilie
 Thomas Tryon, a popular Hollywood actor who stopped acting when he became a best-selling novelist, died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 65 years old. He died of cancer, said a spokesman for his publisher, Alfred A. Knopf. A tall, handsome man born to a prominent
 Gregorio Follari, the associate principal cellist in the New York City Opera Orchestra, died on Friday at his home in Park Ridge, N.J. He was 51 years old. He died of liver cancer, a spokeswoman for the New York City Opera said. Mr. Follari was born in Castel D'Accia, Italy,
 Henry L. Goldberg, who began trading stocks on a street corner in 1913 and retired from active trading at the New York Stock Exchange just three years ago when he sold his brokerage firm, died on Tuesday at Beth Israel Medical Center. A resident of Manhattan, he was 92 years old -- the olde
 Joe Bartelme, a former vice president of NBC News and a pioneer in television's local news operations, died on Saturday at White Plains Hospital. He was 61 years old. He died of lung cancer, said a spokesman for the family. As vice president of network news in 1978, Mr. Bart
 John C. Hilly, a former president of the Bush Terminal Company in Brooklyn and a leading figure in New York City's waterfront industry for more than two decades, died on Aug. 23 in Lantana, Fla. He was 77 years old. A definitive cause of death was not given but Mr. Hilly was thought
 Martin H. Dubilier, an inventor who achieved prominence as an investor in poorly performing companies that he could fix up, died Wednesday at the age of 65. He lived in Greenwich, Conn., and Fisher Island, Fla. He died of lung cancer, said a spokesman for the firm, Clayton & Dubilie
 Dr. Philip Knapp, professor emeritus of ophthalmology at Columbia University, died on Sunday at Dunroven Nursing Home in Cresskill, N.J. He was 75 years old and lived in Tenafly, N.J. Colleagues said he died of prostate cancer. A native New Yorker, Dr. Knapp graduated from C
 Dr. Earle W. Brauer, the senior vice president for medical affairs at Revlon Inc., died Thursday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 72 years old. He died of lung cancer, company officials said. Dr. Brauer, who received his medical degree from New York University in 1943, 
 Francis A. Turner, an educator who in the 1950's became the first black assistant superintendent in the New York City public school system, where he helped run the system's desegregation efforts, died on Tuesday. He was 95 years old. Mr. Turner died of cardiac arrest at his summer h
 Richard K. Van Nostrand, the longest-serving mayor of Tenafly, N.J., died on Tuesday. He was 72 years old. He suffered a heart attack on his way home from a New York Giants football game. Mr. Van Nostrand, a Republican, had planned to give up the mayoral seat in June, after 
 Selden J. Hannah, a former intercollegiate and seniors ski champion who became one of the nation's most prolific ski-area architects, died on Aug. 31 at his home in Franconia, N.H. He was 77 years old, and his family said he died in his sleep. A 1935 graduate of Dartmouth, w
 Delos Wilson Rentzel, a leader in the development of American aviation as a Federal official and an airline executive, died Friday at St. Anthony's Hospital in Oklahoma City. He was 81 years old. His death was caused by pneumonia and complications of a stroke, his family said.      
 Edwin Mattison McMillan, a pioneer in modern chemistry and physics who won the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1951 as a co-discoverer of plutonium and neptunium, died Saturday at his home in El Cerrito, Calif. He was 83 years old. He suffered a stroke several years ago and died of comp
 Dr. John H. Lawrence, a discoverer of the dangers of nuclear radiation who went on to pioneer its use in diagnosing and treating cancer and other diseases, died Saturday at Alta Bates Hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 87 years old. His family said he died of complications from a s
 Brad Davis, a stage, film and television actor who starred in "The Normal Heart," a polemical drama about the private and public fallout of the AIDS epidemic, died on Sunday at his home in Studio City, Calif. He was 41 years old. He died of complications from AIDS, said his wife, Su
 Dr. Robert J. Stoller, a leading psychoanalytic theorist on sex-identity problems and perversions, and a psychiatry professor at the University of California at Los Angeles, died Friday night in a traffic accident outside his home in Los Angeles. He was 66. Dr. Stoller was killed as
 John Crosby, a novelist and former syndicated radio and television columnist, died on Saturday at his farm outside Esmont, Va. He was 79 years old and had lived there since 1977. He died of cancer, said a spokesman for the family, Cameron Hildreth. As an author, Mr. Crosby w
 Allan W. McMillan, longtime columnist for The Amsterdam News and the first black syndicated columnist, died on Saturday at Cabrini Medical Center. He was 91 years old and lived in Manhattan. His niece, Marlene McMillan, said he died of prostate cancer. Mr. McMillan started w
 Felipe Rojas-Lombardi, the Peruvian-born chef who helped bring a Spanish and Caribbean influence into America's haute cuisine repertory, died yesterday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of heart failure after a two-year bout 
 Jack Crawford, who won three Grand Slam tennis tournaments in one year, died here today. He was 83 years old. Mr. Crawford, who won Wimbledon, the French and Australian Opens in 1933 and lost the United States final to Fred Perry of Britain, died in a nursing home after a long illness.     
 John R. Alden, a historian who was an authority on the American Revolution, died Aug. 14 at Morton Plant Hospital in Clearwater, Fla. He was 83 years old and had moved to Clearwater after retiring from the faculty of Duke University in 1976. Professor Alden's death was reported yest
 Marvin Oliv, co-founder and retired publisher of Recycling Today, died Monday at the Cherry Nursing Home in Montclair, N.J. He was 76 years old. His family said he died after a long illness. Mr. Oliv, a graduate of Paterson State Teachers College who was a major in the Army 
 Frederick Fox, a scene designer for the stage, opera and television, died on Wednesday. He was 81 years old and lived in Englewood, N.J. He died after a stroke, said a statement by his firm, Frederick Fox Associates, of Englewood. Mr. Fox designed scenery and lighting for mo
 Jan Josef Lipski, a Polish Senator who was a leading anti-Communist and a human rights advocate, died on Tuesday in a hospital at Cracow, in southern Poland, the Polish P.A.P. news agency reported. He was 65 years old and lived in Warsaw. The agency said a heart ailment brought the 
 Robert Martin Engelbrecht, an architect and building consultant based in Princeton, N.J., died of injuries sustained in a car accident in central Florida on Friday. He was 68 years old. Mr. Engelbrecht was known for his designs and construction techniques in the area of modular buil
 William F. Polito, an interior designer, graphic design consultant and artist, died on Sept. 4 at his home in Manhattan. He was 55 years old. He died of AIDS, said a friend, Ron Smith. Mr. Polito, whose business was known as Bill Polito Design Consultant, was born in Brookly
 Brother Bernard Alfred Welch, who retired in 1974 after 38 years on the faculty of Manhattan College, died on Tuesday at De La Salle Hall, a Christian Brothers residence in Lincroft, N.J. He was 82 years old. He died after a long fight with cancer, college officials said. A 
 Bernard I. Blickman, a civil engineer and inventor, died on Sunday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 76 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of cardiac arrest, his family said. Mr. Blickman was the former chairman of S. Blickman Inc., of W
 Efraim Racker, a leading researcher on energy storage in living cells and its implications for cancer, died on Monday at University Hospital in Syracuse. He was 78 years old and lived in Ithaca. He died of a stroke, said a spokeswoman for Cornell University, where Dr. Racker was on 
 Ellery Sedgwick Jr., a former president and chairman of the Medusa Corporation of Cleveland Heights, Ohio, a leading cement maker, died suddenly on Sunday at his home in Gates Mills, Ohio. He was 82 years old. His physician, Dr. Scott Inkley, said the cause of death was a heart atta
 John Fletcher Wilson, professor emeritus of speech and theater at Lehman College in the Bronx, died Tuesday at Bellevue Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in Manhattan. The college reported that he died from complications following the recent implantation of a cardiac pacemaker
 John L. Jerro, a retired shoe manufacturer, died on Tuesday at St. Vincent's Hospital on Staten Island. He was 89 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Mr. Jerro, a native of Aleppo, Syria, came to this country in 1921 and was the co-founder, with his three brothers, of Jerro Bros. Inc. 
 Ray Berry Burton Jr., a founding principal of the New York investment-management firm of Trevor Stewart Burton & Jacobsen Inc., died on Tuesday at Lawrence & Memorial Hospitals in New London, Conn. He was 52 years old and lived in Niantic, Conn., and Manhattan. He died of complicati
 S. Edward Peal, formerly Liberia's Ambassador to the United States and dean of the African diplomatic corps in America, died yesterday in a hospital in Arlington, Va. He was 68 years old. His family said he died of complications from hepatitis, which he had contracted this summer wh
 Silvan A. Tesoriere, a retired dean of the Fordham University School of Business Administration, died on Sunday at Southampton Hospital. He was 76 years old and lived in Southampton, L.I. He died of bone cancer, his family said. Mr. Tesoriere was born in Manhattan and receiv
 Adrian C. Israel, an investment banker and a former president of Bache & Company, died yesterday at Northern Westchester Hospital Center in Mount Kisco. He was 75 years old and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y. He died of heart failure, his family said. At the time of his death, Mr
 George Ashley, an arts administrator who worked with many of the leading figures of the New York avant-garde performance world, died on Monday at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 66 years old. He died of AIDS, said Rosemary Quinn of Performing Artservi
 Milton Harris, a prominent chemist whose research ranged from finding ways of keeping wool from shrinking to a substitute for sperm whale oil, died on Thursday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 85 years old. He died of stomach cancer, said his son, John A. Harris, of Potomac, M
 Louis Weintraub, a New York public relations and picture-service executive for more than 40 years, died on Friday at his home in Jericho, L.I. He was 69 years old. He died of a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Weintraub, who was born in Montreal and brought up in the New Y
 Robert F. Hanley, a leading civil trial lawyer who once won a $1.8 billion jury award in an antitrust suit against A.T.& T., died yesterday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. Mr. Hanley, who was 67 years old, had returned to Chicago in July to start a new law firm. He was
 Donald R. Cotter, a retired atomic energy and Pentagon official and a nuclear weapons strategist, died Tuesday at a nursing home in Arlington, Va. He was 68 years old and died of prostate cancer, his family said. Mr. Cotter drew national attention in 1983 when, speaking as a private
 John K. Fairbank, the Harvard history professor who was widely credited with creating the field of modern Chinese studies in the United States and was a leading advocate of diplomatic recognition of the People's Republic of China, died Saturday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 84 years old.      
 Robert F. Hanley, a leading civil trial lawyer who once won a $1.8 billion jury award in an antitrust suit against A.T.& T., died yesterday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. Mr. Hanley, who was 67 years old, had returned to Chicago in July to start a new law firm. He was
 Russell Lynes, a former managing editor of Harper's Magazine who for years was one of America's foremost arbiters of taste and mores, especially in architecture and the decorative arts, died Saturday night at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 80 years old and lived i
 Andre Baruch, a radio and television announcer whose career spanned almost 60 years, died on Sunday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 83 years old. He died of natural causes, said his son, Wayne Baruch. In the 1930's, Mr. Baruch's voice was the familiar signature o
 Charles H. King, a figure in the civil rights movement who conducted boot camp-style seminars to help both whites and blacks change their racial attitudes, died Saturday at his home in Atlanta. He was 66 years old. He died of liver cancer, said an employee of the funeral home engage
 The pianist and teacher Robert Goldsand died yesterday at a nursing home in Danbury, Conn. He was 80 years old. A family friend said the cause of death was diabetes; Mr. Goldsand had also been suffering from Alzheimer's disease. Mr. Goldsand had an active concert career unti
 Robert Irving, music director of the New York City Ballet from 1958 to 1989 and conductor for other major dance troupes including the Royal Ballet and the Martha Graham Dance Company, died Friday at the Royal Hampshire County Hospital in Winchester, England. He was 78 years old and lived in
 Zino Francescatti, the French violin virtuoso, died yesterday at his home in La Ciotat, France. He was 89 years old. He had been in failing health, a family friend said. Mr. Francescatti did not perform publicly in the last 15 years, but his recordings of the concerto repert
 Alexander Calder Jr., former chairman of the Union Camp Corporation, died on Wednesday at Mountainside Hospital in Montclair, N.J. He was 75 years old and lived in Upper Montclair. He died of a cerebral hemorrhage, said a Union Camp spokesman, Timothy McKenna. In 1940, Mr. C
 Dr. Frank H. Netter, a physician and medical illustrator whose works became standard reference materials in medical school libraries around the world, died at Mount Sinai Medical Center on Tuesday. He was 85 years old and lived in West Palm Beach, Fla. He died of heart failure after
 Louis H. Roddis Jr., an engineer who helped design the first nuclear submarine and who was president and vice chairman of the Consolidated Edison Company from 1969 to 1974, died on Sunday in Charleston, S.C. He was 73 years old. He died of bone marrow cancer, his wife, Alice Stets R
 Stanley Swerdlow, a textile executive and Off Broadway producer, died on Monday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 72 years old and lived in Riverdale, the Bronx. Mr. Swerdlow died of Parkinson's disease, his son Ezra said. Mr. Swerdlow co-produced the long-runn
 James Stewart, a former chairman and chief executive officer of Frank B. Hall & Company, an international insurance brokerage company, died Sept. 15 at New York Hospital. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died after a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Stewart w
 Leland Bell, a figurative painter and teacher, died on Wednesday at Mount Sinai Hospital in New York City. He was 69 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Reykjavik, Iceland. He died of leukemia, said his daughter, Temma Bell, who is also a painter. In a career that spann
 Rob Tyner, the lead singer for the rock group MC5, died on Tuesday in Detroit. He was 46 years old. He died of a heart attack, the police said. The Reuters news agency reported that Mr. Tyner, whose real name was Robert Derminer, was found near his home in the suburb of Berkley, slu
 Thomas M. Timlen, a former vice president and chief administrative officer of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 62 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died after a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Timlen was the second-ranking of
 Austin T. Graves, who was president of John Wanamaker, New York, when the Manhattan department store closed in 1954 and who was later president and chief executive of Gruen Industries, died on Sept. 10 at his home in Port St. Lucie, Fla. He was 82 years old. The Port St. Lucie polic
 Cyril Chappellet, a senior executive of the Lockheed Corporation for nearly half a century, died Wednesday at his home in Pebble Beach, Calif. He was 85 years old. His family declined to give the cause of death. In 1932 Mr. Chappellet, then a 26-year-old former Army Air Corp
 John Hoyt, an actor who appeared on stage, on television and in films, died on Sunday at his home in Santa Cruz, Calif. He was 86 years old. He died of of cancer, his family said. Mr. Hoyt had a career spanning more than half a century during which he appeared in dozens of r
 Lawrence I. List, a senior partner in the law firm of Carter, Ledyard & Milburn, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York City. He was 53 years old and lived in Brooklyn Heights and Tolland, Mass. He died of complications from lung cancer, the family said
 Charles Edward Widmayer, a founder of Editorial Projects for Education, which published the weekly Chronicle of Higher Education, and for 30 years the editor of the Dartmouth College Alumni Magazine, died Thursday at Alice Peck Day Memorial Hospital in Lebanon, N.H. He was 83 years old. He 
 Charles Edward Widmayer, a founder of Editorial Projects for Education, which published the weekly Chronicle of Higher Education, and for 30 years the editor of the Dartmouth College Alumni Magazine, died Thursday at Alice Peck Day Memorial Hospital in Lebanon, N.H. He was 83 years old. He 
 Robert Bishop, a Broadway dancer who became an author, an educator and the director of the Museum of American Folk Art in Manhattan, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 53 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of AIDS-related lymphoma, said his companio
 Bernard Shapiro, who served in high social welfare posts in both Connecticut and New York State, died on Sunday at the North Shore Hospital Hospice in Miami. He was 83 years old and had homes in Miami Beach and Guilderland, N.Y. He died of lung cancer, his family said. Mr. S
 Edward Fenno Hoffman 3d, a sculptor of portraits, children and religious themes, died on Friday at Bryn Mawr (Pa.) Hospital. He was 74 years old and lived in Wayne, Pa. His wife, the former Nadine Kalpaschnikoff, said he died of leukemia. Mr. Hoffman, who was born in Philade
 Sir Pao Yue-kong, a Shanghai bank clerk who became one of the world's richest men, died yesterday at his home in Hong Kong after a two-year battle with asthma, a family spokesman said. He was 72 years old. Mr. Pao, who was known by the Anglicized version of his name, Y. K. Pao, had 
 Paul Henry Lang, a renowned musicologist and music critic, died on Saturday at his home in Lakeville, Conn. He was 90 years old. He died of heart failure, his son Jeremy said. A pioneer in the field of musicology -- which was scarcely a field at all during his student years 
 Alfred E. Moon, a former budget director of Nassau County and budget director of New York City's Housing and Development Administration, died on Sunday at his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 73 years old. He died of lung cancer, his family said. Mr. Moon, who was born in S
 Dr. Frederick L. Hipp, executive director of the New Jersey Education Association for 32 years, died on Sept. 17 at his home in Lawrenceville, N.J. He was 83 years old. He died of lung cancer, his family said. He joined the education association in 1942 and was named executi
 Harry Sternberg, an accountant and an expert on the renegotiation of military contracts, died on Monday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 80 years old. He died of a heart attack, his wife, Judith, said. Mr. Sternberg, who grew up in Manhattan, headed Harry Sternberg Inc.
 Robert Kurt Woetzel, a professor and specialist in international law, died on Sept. 6 at his home in Montecito, Calif., a suburb of Santa Barbara. He was 60 years old. He died of a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Woetzel was the founder and president of the Foundation for
 Alan Lewis, the managing director of the Rainbow Room, died yesterday in the restaurant's office. He was 70 years old and lived in Manhattan.. He died of heart disease, his companion, Verna Hobson, said. He was born in the Bronx and studied at the Hotel School at Cornell Uni
 Theodor Seuss Geisel, the author and illustrator whose whimsical fantasies written under the pen name Dr. Seuss entertained and instructed millions of children and adults around the world, died in his sleep on Tuesday night at his home in La Jolla, Calif. He was 87 years old. The ex
 Dr. Edward Joseph, a prominent psychoanalyst and professor of clinical psychiatry at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, died at White Plains Hospital on Tuesday. He was 72 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. He died after a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Joseph had p
 Hugh Morrow, a speech writer and longtime public relations adviser to Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller, died yesterday at his home in Chestnut Ridge, N.Y. It was his 76th birthday. He died of complications from a stroke, a spokeswoman for the family said. Mr. Morrow began his comm
 John Howlett, the director of marketing and public relations for the Los Angeles Music Center Opera and the former vice president for promotion of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, died at his home in Los Angeles on Tuesday. He was 41 years old. He died of AIDS, said Marcia Lazar, a st
 Klaus Barbie died a prisoner yesterday in Lyons, the French city where he led a reign of terror as the local Gestapo chief during World War II. The last surviving German war criminal of rank to be tried by a tribunal of justice, he was 77 years old and had been in poor health for years.    
 Peter Bellamy, who helped spark a revival of British folk music, died last Thursday near his home in Keighley, in Yorkshire. He was 47 years old. He committed suicide, taking an overdose of tranquilizers and alcohol, his family said. Mr. Bellamy was born in Norwich. He dropp
 Dr. David A. Dreiling, a retired surgery professor at Mount Sinai School of Medicine in Manhattan, died on Tuesday in his apartment in Hollywood, Fla. He was 73 years old and lived in Florida after retiring last year. He died of prostate cancer, said a friend, Dr. Arthur Aufses.    
 James J. Fahey, a garbage-truck driver who became a best-selling author and gave his royalties to charity, died on Monday at the Veterans Administration Medical Center in Bedford, Mass. He was 73 years old and lived in Marco Island, Fla. No cause of death was given. Mr. Fahe
 Dr. Albert W. Grokoest, a retired doctor and a discerning art lover -- he once bought a painting for $5,000, hung it in his office and sold it years later for $2.4 million -- died on Sunday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of pr
 Benjamin A. Smith 2d, who filled John F. Kennedy's seat in the United States Senate for two years after Mr. Kennedy became President, died Thursday at Addison Gilbert Hospital in Gloucester, Mass. He was 75 years old. Mr. Smith died after a long illness. The cause of death was not given.   
 Hy Rensin, a music teacher at the Bronx High School of Science for more than 30 years, died on Wednesday at the Berkshire Medical Center in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 87 years old and lived in Lenox, Mass., and Miami Beach. He died of a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Rensi
 Martin T. Shields, a senior vice president at Staten Island University Hospital and a specialist in labor relations in the health care field, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital on Staten Island. He was 55 years old and lived on Staten Island. He died of injuries suffered in
 Miles Davis, the trumpeter and composer whose haunting tone and ever-changing style made him an elusive touchstone of jazz for four decades, died yesterday at St. John's Hospital and Health Center in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 65 years old. He died of pneumonia, respiratory failure
 A. L. Philpott, the Speaker of the Virginia House of Delegates and a political ally of Gov. L. Douglas Wilder, died of cancer at his home on Saturday. He was 72 years old. Mr. Philpott struggled with cancer for nearly two decades. Most recently, he had suffered from lymphatic cancer
 Keith Carlton Robertson, who wrote murder mysteries as well as children's books over 40 years, died last Monday at his house in Hopewell, N.J. He was 77 years old. He died of cancer, his daughter Hope said. Mr. Robertson began writing children's books in 1948 with "Ticktock and Jim.
 The Rev. Raymond A. Hill, head of United States operations for the Maryknoll Fathers and Brothers, died on Saturday at the Maryknoll St. Teresa's Residence in Ossining, N.Y. He was 66 years old and lived at the residence. He died of cancer, officials of the order said. Fathe
