 Richard Horner, a Broadway theater owner and producer who won a Tony Award for the 1974 revival of Eugene O'Neill's ''Moon for the Misbegotten,'' died on Saturday at his home in Palm Springs, Calif. He was 82. By himself and with his business partner Lester Osterman, Mr. Horner prod
 Salvatore Pepe, a major developer of commercial real estate in Westchester County, died on Sunday at a hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 93 and lived in Bronxville, N.Y. Mr. Pepe was the president of Bianco & Pepe Inc., based in Scarsdale, N.Y., which he founded decades ago in a p
 Joe Foss, a Medal of Honor winner as a Marine fighter pilot in World War II who was a two-term governor of South Dakota, commissioner of the upstart American Football League and head of the National Rifle Association, died yesterday at a hospital in Arizona. Mr. Foss, who lived in Scottsdal
 Ian MacNaughton, a British director who helped a group of young comedians shape ''Monty Python's Flying Circus'' into a watershed of absurdist television comedy, died on Dec. 10 in Munich after being injured in a car crash, The Times of London reported. He was 76. A former actor, Mr
 Al Bart, an all-American tackle on the Seven Blocks of Granite, Fordham University's famed football line of the 1930's, died last Sunday at a nursing home in Kettering, Ohio. He was 87. In the 1920's, Notre Dame had the Four Horsemen backfield and Illinois had the Galloping Ghost, R
 Sid Gillman, the longtime professional and college football coach who was considered a master of the passing game, died yesterday morning in Los Angeles. He was 91. ''Sid Gillman was the father of modern-day passing,'' said Al Davis, the prominent pro football figure who served as G
 Sydney Omarr, an astrologer whose divinations were available in more than 200 newspapers, in 13 books a year and on a pay-per-call phone line, died on Thursday at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 76. The cause was complications of a heart attack, The Associated Press report
 José Maria Gironella, a Spanish author who won praise in the United States for his fiction set in Spain during its civil war, died on Friday at home in Arenys de Mar, near Barcelona. He was 85. Mr. Gironella fought in the Spanish Civil War on the side of Franco. Robert Payn
 Mohammed al-Fassi, an in-law of the Saudi royal family who won fame by turning a Beverly Hills mansion into an eyesore, died on Dec. 24 in Cairo. He was 50. His death was reported this week in Los Angeles by Marvin M. Mitchelson, the divorce lawyer representing one of his wives, She
 Patrick J. Murphy, a former senior police official in New York who helped organize the city-federal Joint Terrorist Task Force and is credited with many policing innovations, including the use of nonlethal weapons for encounters with emotionally disturbed people, died Saturday at New York P
 Roy Jenkins, a Welsh miner's son who became a Socialist cabinet minister and president of the European Commission in Brussels and then tried to break the mold of British politics by creating a new governing party of the center, died yesterday at his home in Oxfordshire, his family said. He 
 Conrad L. Hall, a Hollywood cinematographer with a bohemian's soul and an artist's obsessiveness, who was nominated for nine Oscars and won two of them, three decades apart, died on Saturday in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 76 and split his time between a vintage penthouse just off the Sunset
 F. William Free, an advertising executive who attracted passengers to National Airlines and protesters to his agency with one of his best-known campaigns, ''I'm Cheryl -- Fly Me,'' died on Jan. 1 at Vassar Brothers Hospital in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He was 74, and lived in Millbrook, N.Y.      
 Harry Woolf, a historian of science who, as director of the Institute for Advanced Study at Princeton, helped triple its endowment, died at his home in Princeton on Monday. He was 79. The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, the institute announced. Appointed head
 Rabbi Ely Emanuel Pilchik, a scholar of Judaism who retired in 1981 as senior rabbi of Congregation B'nai Jeshurun in Short Hills, N.J., died on Monday at a nursing home in West Orange, N.J. He was 89 and formerly lived in Short Hills. He became spiritual leader at Congregation B'na
 Richard Mohr, who capped off a career as a producer of opera records by running the Metropolitan Opera broadcast's much-loved intermission programs for more than a decade, died on Nov. 23 in West Milford, N.J. He was 83. The cause was a heart attack he suffered in a nursing home, sa
 Siggi B. Wilzig, a Holocaust survivor who arrived penniless in the United States after World War II and went on to lead an oil company and a bank, died on Tuesday at Columbia- Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Fort Lee, N.J. The cause was multiple myel
 Albert I. Edelman, a top international lawyer in New York and a former law partner of Senator Jacob K. Javits and of John J. McCloy, died yesterday at St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center in Manhattan. He was 86 and lived in Bronxville and East Hampton, N.Y. The cause was complica
 John Cole, an author, conservationist and co-founder of Maine Times, a spirited weekly newspaper that championed the environment and doggedly kept tabs on state and local government, died of cancer on Wednesday at his home in Brunswick, Me. He was 79. Maine Times, which Mr. Cole fou
 Thomas H. Wyman, a former chairman and chief executive of CBS who resigned his membership in the Augusta National Golf Club last month to protest its refusal to admit women, died on Wednesday in Boston. He was 73. The cause was complications of an abdominal infection, his son, Micha
 Dr. George Van Brunt Cochran, an orthopedic surgeon, mountaineer and former president of the Explorers Club in New York, whose specialty was climbing uncharted Arctic mountains, died on Monday in Ossining, N.Y. He was 70. The cause was complications arising from Parkinson's disease,
 Will McDonough, a powerful voice of sports journalism at The Boston Globe since 1960, died Thursday at his home in Hingham, Mass. The cause of death was not determined. He was 67. Mr. McDonough had a mild heart attack last month followed by an angioplasty. Hours before his death, he
 C. Douglas Dillon, a versatile Wall Street financier who was named secretary of the Treasury by President Kennedy and ambassador to France under President Eisenhower, and was a longtime executive of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died Friday at New York Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan. 
 Howard Dressner, who retired in 1984 as general counsel of the Ford Foundation, died on Dec. 31 at New York University Medical Center. He was 83 and lived in Peter Cooper Village. Mr. Dressner joined the Ford Foundation in 1964 as a domestic affairs assistant and program officer in 
 Paul Klingenstein, who turned a childhood picture-taking hobby into a company that sold cameras and photographic equipment, died last Sunday at his winter home in Longboat Key, Fla. He was 88, and lived in Longboat Key and Scarsdale, N.Y. In 1934, with the Nazis in power, Mr. Klinge
 D. J. Enright, a British poet, novelist and critic whose ironic, self-deprecatory, minimalist verse was admired by writers but never won much of a public following, died on Dec. 31 in London. He was 82. As a poet, Mr. Enright adopted an astringent tone laced with irony. His verses s
 Leon van Speybroeck, an astrophysicist who designed a multifaceted X-ray eye for NASA to use to scan the universe, died on Dec. 25 at a hospital in Newton, Mass. He was 67 and lived in nearby Natick. The cause was melanoma, said the Chandra X-Ray Observatory Center, in Cambridge, Ma
 Gabriel A. Almond, a political scientist who did groundbreaking research on comparative politics, political development and political culture, died on Dec. 25 in Pacific Grove, Calif. He was 91. His son Peter said the Almond family was gathered for its annual Christmas retreat at As
 Julius Held, an art historian renowned for his studies in 16th- and 17th-century Dutch and Flemish art and a longtime professor of art history at Barnard College, died on Dec. 22 at his home in Bennington, Vt. He was 97. Dr. Held was one of the last surviving members of an immensely
 Maurice Gibb, who wrote songs and sang harmonies in the Bee Gees through decades of hits and more than 120 million albums sold worldwide, died early yesterday at a hospital in Miami. He was 53 and lived in Miami. He had collapsed at his home, and a statement released to Reuters by t
 Roger W. Martin, a restaurant consultant and a longtime associate of Joseph H. Baum at both Restaurant Associates and Windows on the World, the restaurant atop the World Trade Center, died on Jan. 4 at New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan. He was 70. The cause was heart failur
 Ward Cuff, an All-Pro back for the Giants in the early 1940's and one of the National Football League's leading place-kickers of his era, died Dec. 24 in Vallejo, Calif. He was 90. Playing with the Giants from 1937 to 1945, Cuff teamed up with the Hall of Famers Ken Strong, Mel Hein
 Du Burns, a Democratic grass-roots politician who rose through party ranks to become the first African-American mayor of Baltimore, died on Sunday in Baltimore. He was 84. In January 1987, as City Council president, he automatically became mayor when the incumbent, William Donald Sc
 Dean Amadon, a renowned authority on birds of prey and former Lamont curator of birds at the American Museum of Natural History, died Sunday at his home in Tenafly, N.J. He was 90. Starting in 1937, Dr. Amadon spent his professional life with the museum, traveling to exotic places f
 George W. Waters, an executive who turned the American Express card into a global brand, died Saturday at his home in Fair Haven, N.J. He was 87. His son-in-law, Marc Galligan, said that Mr. Waters had been in failing health and, in December, had been in a hospital with heart proble
 Walter Kerr, a former foreign correspondent and a magazine publisher who was the general manager of the international edition of The New York Times in the 1960's, died on Jan. 10 in White Plains. He was 91. Mr. Kerr was born in Syracuse in 1911. He attended Yale University before be
 Sir Anthony Havelock-Allan, a British film producer and scriptwriter who worked on major British films of the 1940's like ''Brief Encounter'' and ''Great Expectations,'' died on Jan. 11 in London. He was 98 and had made his home in London. Sir Anthony inherited the title of baronet 
 David Cummins Morton II, an architect who did the first residential loft conversion in the Fulton Ferry area in Brooklyn, died on Tuesday at his home in San Francisco. He was 61 and a former resident of Brooklyn Heights. The cause of death was cancer, his family said. Mr. Mo
 Riley D. Housewright, a microbiologist who helped direct United States research in biological warfare from World War II until 1970, died on Saturday at an assisted living center in Frederick, Md. He was 89. One of Dr. Housewright's projects in the 1960's was developing agents that c
 Robert J. Braidwood, a University of Chicago archaeologist who uncovered evidence of the beginnings of agriculture and the subsequent rise of civilization in the Middle East, died on Wednesday in Chicago. He was 95. From close to the beginning of his career, Dr. Braidwood worked in 
 Charles Sternberg, a refugee from Nazi persecution in Czechoslovakia and France who went on to head the International Rescue Committee, the largest private American organization helping international refugees, died on Thursday in Forest Hills, Queens. He was 91. From 1965 to 1985, M
 Will Cloney, a former sportswriter and journalism professor who transformed the Boston Marathon from an all-amateur rite of spring to a world-class prize-money production and lost his job as race director doing it, died Thursday in a hospital in Weymouth, Mass. He was 91 and lived in Duxbur
 Douglas Herrick, who gets both the credit and the blame for perhaps the tackiest totem of the American West, the jackalope -- half bunny, half antelope and 100 percent tourist trap -- died on Jan. 6 in Casper, Wyo. He was 82. The cause was bone and lung cancer, his brother, Ralph, s
 John M. Fox, a founder and president of the Minute Maid Corporation, which developed frozen orange juice concentrate in the late 1940's and made it popular within a decade, died on Jan. 9 in Winter Park, Fla. He was 90 and lived in Winter Park. At the end of World War II, Mr. Fox an
 Richard Crenna, the prolific actor who went from being a child performer in radio and eventually progressed to roles of complexity and nuance in serious films, died Friday morning in Los Angeles. He was 76. Mr. Crenna had pancreatic cancer and died of heart failure at Cedars-Sinai M
 Donald Karshan, a print collector, writer on the graphic arts and former director of the New York Cultural Center on Columbus Circle, died on Jan. 4 in Tampa, Fla. He was 73 and lived in Port Orange, Fla., where he moved from Manhattan in 1985. The cause was Alzheimer's disease, his
 Dr. R. Walter Schlesinger, a noted virologist who developed a vaccine for dengue fever with Dr. Albert B. Sabin and was a founding educator of what is now the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, died on Jan. 11 in North Falmouth, Mass. He was 89 and a former resident of Falm
 Dr. Sebastian von Hoerner, a radio astronomer and astrophysicist who was a pioneer in the search for extraterrestrial intelligence and an expert on the formation of stars, died on Jan. 7 in Esslingen, Germany, where he had retired. He was 83. Dr. von Hoerner spent much of his profes
 Dr. Pascal P. Pirone, an expert on plant disease for the New York Botanical Garden, died on Jan. 11 in Lexington, Ky. He was 95. A horticulturist at the garden in the Bronx from 1947 to 1974, Dr. Pirone was responsible for keeping its indoor and outdoor plants in good health. His sp
 Richard Crenna, the prolific actor who went from being a child performer in radio to roles of complexity and nuance in serious films, died Friday in Los Angeles. He was 76. Mr. Crenna had pancreatic cancer and died of heart failure at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, with his wife, Penn
 Al Hirschfeld, whose inimitable caricatures captured the vivid personalities of theater people and their performances for more than 75 years, died at his home in Manhattan yesterday. He was 99. To be the subject of a Hirschfeld drawing endowed one with a special cachet. To find the 
 Gavin Lyall, a prolific and popular British writer of thrillers, died on Monday in London. He was 70. The cause was cancer, said his wife, Katharine Whitehorn, a British writer and journalist. Starting his career when many British thriller writers had specialties -- spycraft
 Stephen Kates, a cellist and teacher who was a Tchaikovsky International Cello Competition prizewinner, died on Saturday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 59 and lived in Annapolis, Md. The cause was lymphoma, said his wife, Mary Louise. Mr. Kates won the silver
 Bill Mauldin, the Army sergeant who created Willie and Joe, the cartoon characters who became enduring symbols of the grimy, irrepressible American infantrymen who triumphed over the German army and prevailed over their own rear-echelon officers in World War II, died yesterday in Newport Be
 Burns W. Roper, a leading pollster for four decades and the author of political polling's central question about the state of the nation, died on Monday at his home in Bourne, Mass., on Cape Cod. He was 77. The cause was lung cancer, said his son David. It was Mr. Roper, kno
 Marvin Bower, whose leadership of McKinsey & Company turned the business of selling management advice into a keystone of American corporate culture, died on Wednesday at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 99. McKinsey was a small engineering and accounting firm in Chicago in the 
 Milton Lipson, a lawyer and investigator who, as a Secret Service agent from 1938 to 1946, was a personal bodyguard for Presidents Roosevelt and Truman, died on Wednesday in Glen Cove, N.Y. He was 89. Mr. Lipson was one of the small group of aides who helped President Roosevelt disg
 Craig Kelly, who played a major role in making snowboarding a modern-day sport and then a recreational outlet, died on Monday in an avalanche that killed seven skiers and snowboarders near Revelstoke, British Columbia. He was 36 and lived in Nelson, British Columbia. He was among 21
 George Haimsohn, who co-wrote the book and lyrics for ''Dames at Sea,'' a musical that has leavened summer stock and college repertories ever since its Off Broadway debut in 1968, died on Jan. 17 in Manhattan. He was 77. He collapsed in front of his Greenwich Village home and was ta
 Giovanni Agnelli, the shrewd, dashing and politically influential international business figure who turned his family's auto company, Fiat, into a worldwide conglomerate and helped industrialize postwar Italy, died this morning at his home here. He was 81. The cause was prostate can
 Friends, colleagues and Broadway itself celebrated the life and work of Al Hirschfeld yesterday at private funeral services at the Frank E. Campbell chapel on Madison Avenue. Hirschfeld, who drew his inimitable caricatures of people in the performing arts for more than 75 years, died on Mon
 Alfred Kantor, whose watercolors and sketches recreating daily life in Auschwitz, Theresienstadt and Schwarzheide constitute one of the few visual records of existence in a Nazi concentration camp, died on Jan. 16 in Yarmouth, Me. He was 79. The cause was complications of Parkinson'
 Clark Waring Blackburn, who led efforts in the 1960's to get social welfare agencies to provide education and job training in addition to traditional family counseling, died on Jan. 18 in Aurora, Colo. He was 94. From 1952 to 1974, Mr. Blackburn was general director of the Family Se
 Dr. David B. Skinner, who presided over the merger of New York Hospital and Presbyterian Hospital and served as president until his retirement in 1999, died on Friday. He was 67. The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said Myrna Manners, a hospital spokeswoman. Dr. Skinner bec
 Edward Farhat, who as the Sheik more or less single-handedly escalated the violence and commercial appeal of professional wrestling in the early years of television, died on Jan. 18 in Williamstown, Mich. He was 78. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Starting in h
 Renato Matteo Pachetti, an Italian broadcast journalist and executive in New York and chairman emeritus of the International Academy of Television Arts and Sciences, died last Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived on the Upper East Side. Mr. Pachetti was pr
 Hugh Trevor-Roper, a British historian who wrote a best-selling account of Hitler's final days in the Berlin bunker but damaged his reputation 35 years later by authenticating forged Hitler diaries, died yesterday in Oxford, England. He was 89. ''The Last Days of Hitler,'' published
 Marcel Jovine, who shaped such popular toys as the Visible Man and the Visible Woman before becoming an award-winning designer of coins and a sculptor of racehorses, died last Monday in Greenwich, Conn., at the home of his daughter, Andrea Coopersmith. He was 81 and lived and worked in Clos
 Norman Panama, whose screenwriting and directing career stretched from 1930's radio sketches to 1970's satires of sexual liberation and who, with Melvin Frank, created one of Hollywood's most durable and celebrated comedy writing teams, died Jan. 13 at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 88. 
 John Browning, a leading light in a pioneering older generation of American pianists of seemingly limitless promise, died on Sunday at his home in Sister Bay, Wis. He was 69. The cause was heart failure, said Shirley Kirshbaum, his publicist. Mr. Browning studied with Rosina
 Valery Brumel, a Russian who during the cold war became perhaps the best high jumper in history but had his world-class career end when he almost lost a leg in a motorcycle accident, died Sunday in a Moscow hospital. He was 60. Russian news agencies said Brumel had suffered from a p
 Francesco Trussardi, the chairman of one of Italy's leading fashion and leather goods manufacturers, died on Sunday after his Ferrari crashed into a lamppost near Bergamo in northern Italy, according to the Italian police. He was 29. Mr. Trussardi became chairman of the family busin
 Hisashi Shinto, one of Japan's most prominent postwar industrialists, who was caught up in a bribery scandal late in his career, died on Sunday in Tokyo. He was 92. A confidant of high-ranking businessmen and leading politicians, Mr. Shinto is best known for helping privatize the Ni
 Joseph Wharton Lippincott Jr., the last president and chairman of the J. B. Lippincott Company as an independent Philadelphia publisher, died on Saturday in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 88. Mr. Lippincott, a scion of an old Philadelphia family, presided over a rapid expansion of the publis
 Edward M. Korry, the United States ambassador to Chile from 1967 to 1971, who was for years wrongly suspected of helping to plot a military coup to prevent a Marxist from becoming president there, died yesterday at his home in Charlotte, N.C. He was 81. The cause was cancer, said a 
 John P. Thompson, the leader of the Dallas family who built an ice business into 7-Eleven, the world's largest convenience store chain, died on Tuesday at his home in Dallas. He was 77. The cause was brain cancer, according to the company. Among the Dallas elite, the Thompso
 Stan Martin, a cabaret expert and longtime New York radio personality who for six years helped run The New York Times's popular-music station, WQEW-AM, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 64. The cause was a stroke, his sister, Rochelle Levy Steinhardt, said. Mr. Martin joi
 Dr. Alexander Thomas, a child psychiatrist who served as director of psychiatry at Bellevue and whose research revealed much about the nature of human temperament, died on Wednesday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 89. For much of his professional life, Dr. Thomas worked 
 Leslie Fiedler, the maverick man of letters whose best-known book, ''Love and Death in the American Novel,'' attempted to tear away traditional masks of literary discourse and engage the deeper autobiographical and psychological considerations that might motivate the critic, died on Wednesd
 Lester Osterman, a Broadway theater producer and theater owner who won three Tony Awards for his productions of ''Da,'' ''The Shadow Box'' and ''A Moon for the Misbegotten,'' died on Tuesday at a hospital in Norwalk, Conn. He was 88. A successful Wall Street broker who did not disco
