 Francisco da Costa Gomes, a high-ranking Portuguese military officer whose opposition to his country's fight against liberation movements in its African colonies eventually led to his appointment as president, died yesterday at the military hospital in Lisbon. He was 87. General Cos
 Frederick Moss, the chairman of the Cincinnati Stock Exchange, died on Friday in New York, where he lived. He was 72. The cause was cancer, according to his family. Mr. Moss, a native of the Bronx, joined the securities industry in 1965 as president of the Boston Stock Excha
 Rex T. Barber, a World War II fighter pilot who was a central figure in the storied 1943 mission that resulted in the death of Adm. Isoroku Yamamoto, the architect of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, died on Thursday at his home in Terrebonne, Ore. He was 84. The shooting down o
 Martin Stern Jr., an architect who pioneered the eye-popping Googie-style coffee-shop architecture of Los Angeles and then brought his exuberant vision to the skyline of the Las Vegas strip, died on Saturday at a Los Angeles hospital. He was 84. Mr. Stern designed three Ships coffee
 Miklos Vasarhelyi, press secretary to the reformist prime minister,  Imre Nagy, during Hungary's unsuccessful anti-Soviet uprising in 1956 and one of the few survivors among Nagy's close associates, died on Tuesday, a Hungarian government radio broadcast said. He was 83. The cause o
 Wesley W. Posvar, former chancellor of the University of Pittsburgh, who led the university as it went from near bankruptcy to academic prestige, died on July 27. He was 75 and lived in Pittsburgh. The cause was a heart attack, the university said. Mr. Posvar served as chanc
 Dan Towler, an All-Pro fullback for the title-winning Los Angeles Rams teams of the early 1950's who combined pro football with studies for the ministry, died Wednesday at his home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 73. He died in his sleep after having attended a baseball game at Dodger St
 Italo Scanga, a sculptor and painter who fashioned much of his work from found objects in a style that blended Cubist and folk influences, died on July 27 at his studio in Pacific Beach, Calif. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack, said Winifred Cox, a spokeswoman for the Univers
 Dr. Jon Eisenson, who played a major role in calling attention to the speech problems of children and adults alike, died last Friday at his home in Stanford, Calif. He was 93. Dr. Eisenson, at his death an emeritus professor of speech at Stanford University, helped establish the dia
 Poul Anderson, who combined his education as a physicist with his passion for Nordic mythology to become a prolific and sometimes poetic author of science fiction, died on Tuesday at his home in Orinda, Calif. He was 74. The cause was prostate cancer, said his wife, Karen. T
 Charles N. Henderson, an organist and choral conductor who edited the American Guild of Organists' journal for nearly a decade, died on July 24 at his daughter's home in the Bronx. He was 84 and lived in Erwinna, Pa. Mr. Henderson was born in West Chester, Pa., and studied music at 
 Donald H. Rivkin, a lawyer with an international practice who helped build stronger ties between legal communities here and in Europe, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 77. The cause was complications from lung cancer, his family said. Mr. Rivkin represented fo
 Robert Miles Runyan, a graphic designer who changed the way that American corporations communicated by designing innovative annual reports, died on July 27 at his home in Ajijic, Mexico. He was 76. The cause was Shy-Drager syndrome, a neurodegenerative disease, said Gary Hinsche, hi
 Prof. Derek Freeman, who challenged Margaret Mead's famous account of adolescent sexuality in Samoa, provoking a fierce anthropological controversy, died July 6 in Canberra, Australia. He was 84. Dr. Freeman, emeritus professor of anthropology at the Australian National University a
 James A. D. Geier, a former chairman and chief executive of Milacron Inc. of Cincinnati, a producer of plastics and metal-working technology, died on Wednesday in a hospital in Portland, Me. He was 75. Mr. Geier suffered a ruptured aneurysm in his heart while racing his sailboat in 
 Philip Edward Rollhaus Jr., the founder, chief executive and chairman of the Quixote Corporation, died Tuesday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 66. The cause of death was cancer, said Barbara, his wife. Mr. Rollhaus founded Energy Absorption Systems in 1969. He develop
 Bert Grant, a veteran brew master who in 1982 opened the granddaddy of all the good, bad and so-so brew pubs slaking thirsts across the country today, died on July 31 at a hospital in Vancouver, British Columbia, where he had recently made his home. He was 73 and a longtime resident of Yaki
 Jack Maple, who helped script the Giuliani administration's crime control strategy, died of colon cancer on Saturday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 48. In his homburg, two-tone spectator shoes and bow tie, Mr. Maple made a colorful and exuberant figure, a throwback to the more f
 Lord Longford, a Labor peer famed for championing social outcasts and unpopular causes, and lampooned as everything from an endearing eccentric to a bumbling loon, died Friday in a London hospital. He was 95. The oldest living member of the House of Lords, he remained active in rece
 Steven L. Ross, a lawyer who was chairman of the Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis Association, died on Wednesday at his home in Bloomington, Minn. He was 58. He had cancer, the association said. The group has 35 chapters around the country fighting the disease, better known as 
 Jorge Amado, Brazil's best-loved writer and one of the most widely translated novelists in the world, died last night in Salvador in the northeastern state of Bahia. He was 88. Mr. Amado fell ill yesterday afternoon and was admitted to Alianca Hospital, the Associated Press reported
 Roy D. Chapin Jr., a former chairman and chief executive of the American Motors Corporation who oversaw the company's purchase of the Jeep Corporation in 1970, died on Sunday of heart failure at his summer home in Nantucket, Mass., his son, William R. Chapin, said. He was 85. Mr. Ch
 Duong Van Minh, the Vietnamese general who led the coup in 1963 that overthrew Ngo Dinh Diem as president of South Vietnam and later became the republic's last president for a few days before North Vietnamese troops stormed his palace in Saigon, died on Monday in Pasadena, Calif. He was 85.
 Howard Elting, a United States diplomat who in 1942, as vice counsel in the Geneva consulate, was one of the first American officials to pass on to the State Department information on the Nazi plan to eliminate the Jews of Europe, died on July 1 at his home in San Rafael, Calif. He was 93. 
 Larry Adler, a harmonica player of enormous sensitivity whose advocacy and artistry helped elevate the instrument to concert status, died yesterday at a London hospital. He was 87 and had lived in Britain since the early 1950's, when he was blacklisted for his political views and his career
 Stuart C. Davidson, who glimpsed potential gold in a 1962 law legalizing the sale of hard liquor at bars in Washington and then mined it by opening Clyde's, a Georgetown institution, died on Aug. 1. He was 78. He died in an Oslo hospital after becoming ill from acute myelogenous leu
 Martin Huston, an actor who appeared onstage and on television, died of cancer on Aug. 1 in Manhattan. He was 60. Mr. Huston made his Broadway debut in 1959 in ''Only in America,'' an adaptation by Jerome Lawrence and Robert E. Lee of the book by Harry Golden. His theater credits al
 S. Leslie Misrock, a New York patent lawyer who was an authority on biotechnology patent law, died on Tuesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Chappaqua, N.Y. He had prostate cancer for 27 years, his family said. Mr. Misrock was 
 Arthur A. Segall, a New York tax lawyer who early in his career spearheaded an assault in Mayor Fiorello La Guardia's war on the shadier aspects of New York City's night life, died Aug. 2 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 95 and lived on the Upper East Side. Mayor La Guard
 Dr. Josef H. Weissberg, a psychoanalyst and a former president of the American Academy of Psychoanalysis, died on Aug. 6 at Columbia-Presbyterian Center in New York. He was 72 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, his family said. Dr. Weissberg had a private practice
 Hans Richard Rathsack, whose personal cheerleading as head of Wüsthof knives in the United States helped make them a popular brand among chefs and cooking enthusiasts, died on Sunday while sailing on Long Island Sound. He was 59 and lived in Pleasantville, N.Y. His company said Mr.
 The funeral for Jack Maple, the former deputy police commissioner, was to have been held at a smaller church in Times Square, the neighborhood where he first worked as a transit officer. But there was something about the self-made guy from Queens -- the guy who told his people to ap
 Peter M. Hirsch, a former partner at Calet Hirsch & Spector, an advertising agency, died on July 29 at the Jacob Perlow Hospice in New York. He was 65. The cause was thyroid cancer, according to his wife, Patti. Mr. Hirsch was a chairman and a creative director, with Neil Ca
 Lou Boudreau, the Hall of Fame shortstop who both managed the 1948 Cleveland Indians and played inspired shortstop to lead them to their first American League pennant in 28 years and the World Series championship, died yesterday at a hospital in Olympia Fields, Ill. He was 84. He wa
 Robert H. Rimmer, who wrote ''The Harrad Experiment,'' a 1966 novel about an elite Eastern college where male and female students lived in the same dormitory rooms and did pretty much what came naturally, died on Aug. 1 at his home in Quincy, Mass. He was 84. The book was considered
 James A. Corbett, a rancher and Harvard-educated philosopher who helped start a movement to guide Central American refugees illegally across the United States border, died on Aug. 2 at his home in the Arizona desert, about 30 miles from Benson. He was 67. The cause was a rare brain 
 A. G. Dickens, a noted British historian of the Reformation who was among the first to play down the theological disputes of this period in Europe and to emphasize broader social change instead, died on July 31 in London. He was 91. For Professor Dickens, the Reformation was a Europ
 Eric Bedford, the British government's anonymous chief architect, whose works were visible to millions but whose name was scarcely known, died on July 28 in a hospital at Worcester near his home in England. He was 91. As chief architect for the Ministry of Public Building and Works,
 Carl Diedrich, who developed a coffee roaster bearing his name and whose business later evolved into a chain of coffeehouses, died on July 31 at his home in Costa Mesa, Calif. He was 86. The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, Mr. Diedrich's son Martin said. Mr
 Lawrence Minard, founding editor of Forbes Global, the international edition of Forbes magazine, died on Aug. 2 while climbing Mount Rainier, near Seattle. He was 51. Mr. Minard had a heart attack, collapsed and died while climbing with his daughter Julia in a guided party up Disapp
 Louis Rayfield Purnell Sr., who went from decorated Tuskegee airman to curator of air and space relics at the Smithsonian, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 81. The cause was cancer, the family said. Mr. Purnell was born on April 5, 1920, in Snow Hill, Md., an
 Robert S. Jones, respected editor of books by several authors, including Russell Banks and Oscar Hijuelos, as well as the author of two novels of his own, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center. He was 47 and lived in New York. The cause was cancer, his family said.   
 Dr. Howard Eugene Bauman, a food scientist whose menus for the space pioneers of the 1960's led years later to a quality control system safeguarding earthbound American consumers, died on Aug. 8 at a hospital in Minneapolis. He was 76 and lived in Minnetonka, Minn. The cause was com
 Roy A. Rosenberg, a rabbi who saw intermarriage as inevitable and joyously performed thousands of marriages between Jews and non-Jews, died on Saturday from irregular heart rhythms while driving his car. He was 70. His son Raoul said the car then crashed into a tree, slightly injuri
 Dr. Seymour L. Wolfbein, a federal economist and authority on employment, died on Aug. 7 in a nursing home in Potomac, Md. He was 85 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. Dr. Wolfbein joined the Department of Labor in Washington in 1942 and left it in 1967 for teaching. For years he was the
 Earl Anthony, professional bowling's No. 1 title-winner and its first $1 million man, was found dead Tuesday at a friend's home in New Berlin, Wis., having fallen down a flight of stairs. He was 63. The friend, Ed Baur, said he discovered Mr. Anthony's body at the bottom of the stai
 Jack N. James, a rocket engineer who oversaw the United States' first interplanetary missions, to Venus and Mars, died on Aug. 7 in Pasadena, Calif. He was 80 and lived in the nearby community of La Cañada. The cause was respiratory failure, his family said. Mr. James spent
 Dr. Richard Edward Honig, who  identified the vapor pressures of many of the chemical elements and created a widely used reference table of the results, died on July 31 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 84. The cause was cancer, his wife, Joan, said. In 1957, while at the
 Robert Kraus, a children's book author and a cartoonist, illustrator and publisher, died on Aug. 7 in a nursing home in Kent, Conn. He was 76 and had lived in Manhattan in recent years. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son C. William Kraus. Mr. Kraus wrote, i
 Representative Floyd D. Spence, a South Carolina Republican who was chairman of the House Armed Services Committee until earlier this year and used the post to call for a larger military budget and a national missile-defense program, died today at a hospital in Jackson, Miss., after emergen
 Nicholas Orloff, a dancer, ballet master and teacher whose career spanned many companies and eras, died on Tuesday at the Tolstoy Foundation in Valley Cottage, N.Y. He was 86. Mr. Orloff was well known for his dancing of the Drummer, a character he originated in David Lichine's 1940
 Dr. Henry Lewis Barnett, a pediatrician who was an expert on the diagnosis and treatment of kidney disease in children, died on Tuesday at New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan. He was 87. Dr. Barnett, who lived in Manhattan, was considered by many in his field to be the father
 Flip Phillips, a tenor saxophonist who was one of the last links to the swing era and who gained his greatest fame through his performances in the epic Jazz at the Philharmonic concerts of the 1940's and 50's, died yesterday at a hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 86 and lived in Pomp
 Jim Hughes, a hard-throwing relief pitcher for the Brooklyn Dodgers of the 1950's who set a franchise record for saves that endured for 35 years, died Monday in Worth, Ill. He was 78. Hughes, who lived in Crestwood, Ill., a suburb of Chicago, had a heart attack while driving his car
 Marty Geltman, an ordinary man who faced death in an extraordinary way, with a living funeral in June attended by 200 family members and friends after learning his cancer was terminal, died at home in West Orange, N.J., on Wednesday. He was 65. Mr. Geltman taught for 34 years at Spr
 Prince Albert Taylor Jr., a retired United Methodist bishop who was the first black president of the Council of Bishops of the Methodist Church, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Somers Point, N.J. He was 94 and lived in Ocean City, N.J. He was bishop of New Jersey when he was elec
 Rabbi Avrohom Pam, an elder of the Orthodox Jewish community in the United States, died early Friday at Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn. He was 88 and lived in Flatbush. The cause was cancer, said Abraham Biderman, his longtime student. Rabbi Pam was a member of the Co
 Donald Woods, the crusading white newspaper editor who championed the black anti-apartheid activist Steve Biko, died in England today. He was 67. The cause of death was cancer, his eldest daughter, Jane, told The Associated Press. The friendship of the white editor and the b
 Peter Bergson, a Zionist who crusaded in the United States on behalf of Jews in Europe during World War II, died on Saturday at his home in Kfar Shmaryahu, Israel, a Tel Aviv suburb. He was 86. Mr. Bergson, who was known in Israel by his Hebrew name, Hillel Kook, was born in 1915 in
 Sidney Tillim, an artist best known for his revival of history painting in the 1970's and a critic much admired for his lucid prose and independent outlook, died on Thursday in Manhattan. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was complications following surgery, said his wife,
 E. T. Hall, an archaeologist and art historian who devised scientific tools used to unmask the fraudulent Piltdown Man and to try to determine the Shroud of Turin's age, died Aug. 11 in Oxford, England. He was 77. Dr. Hall was a principal architect of archaeometry, the discipline th
 Dr. Patrick Wall, a British neurophysiologist and educator whose research centered on the nature of pain, died on Aug. 8. He was 76. The cause was prostate cancer, according to British press reports. Dr. Wall, of London, was among the first to undertake a systematic study of
 Sir Fred Hoyle, one of the most creative and provocative astrophysicists of the last half century, who helped explain how the heavier elements were formed and gave the name Big Bang, meant to be derisive, to the theory of cosmic origin he vehemently opposed, died on Monday in Bournemouth, E
 Morris Golde, a businessman and friend of the arts, who supported organizations like the Erick Hawkins Dance Foundation and the New York Festival of Song, of which he was a board member, died on Sunday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 81. Though business was Mr. Golde's profession
 Philip Bayard Crosby, a onetime assembly line worker who became an entrepreneur spreading the gospel of quality control in manufacturing, died on Sunday at a hospital in Asheville, N.C. He was 75 and lived in Winter Park, Fla., with a summer home in the North Carolina mountains.    
 George O'Toole, a novelist and historian who specialized in the history of American espionage, died on Aug. 10 at a hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 64 and lived in Mount Vernon. The cause was diabetes, said his wife, Mary Ann Werntz. Mr. O'Toole, who worked for the Centr
 Kenneth Reese Cole Jr., a White House aide in the Nixon era and an occasional commentator on Watergate, died on Thursday at his home in Willsboro, N.Y. He was 63. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Cole served in the White House throughout Richard M. Nixon's 
 Neil Cooper, the founder of the ROIR record label, which released music by underground rock and reggae bands, died on Aug. 13 at his home in Manhattan. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said his son Lucas. Mr. Cooper was born in Philadelphia and graduated from Columbia Busine
 Richard A. Cloward, a sociologist and social activist who was an architect of the welfare rights movement and the co-author of a groundbreaking critique of the welfare state as a tool for containing social unrest, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74. The cause of deat
 William G. Clark, a former chief justice of the Illinois Supreme Court and an outspoken critic of the Vietnam War in 1968, both at the Democratic National Convention and as a candidate for the Senate, died on Friday in Skokie, Ill. He was 77 and lived in Chicago. The cause was compl
 Amram J. Cohen, a heart surgeon who built a program that brought hundreds of children from developing countries to Israel for lifesaving cardiac operations, died on Aug. 16 while climbing Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania. He was 47. The cause was a heart attack and complications from a
 Peter Maas, who turned real-life good guys and bad guys into the stars of a long string of nonfiction best sellers, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72. A hospital spokeswoman declined to give the cause of death. Time and again Mr. Maas returned to
 Bob Williams, who had been a New York Post television columnist for 21 years, died on Monday at St. Vincent's Manhattan Hospital. He was 86 and lived in the Chelsea section of Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said his ex-wife, Beatrice Williams-Rude. Robert Colburn Williams 
 Boyd L. Jefferies, founder of the brokerage firm Jefferies & Company Inc. in Los Angeles and a crucial figure in some of the corporate takeover battles of the 1980's and in insider trading scandals toward the end of the decade, died Thursday near his home in Aspen, Colo., the firm reported 
 Edward Rice, an adventuresome American writer who wrote a best-selling 1990 biography of the 19th-century British explorer Richard Francis Burton, died on Saturday in a hospital in Southampton, N.Y. He was 82 and lived in Sagaponack, N.Y. Mr. Rice, who was also a photographer, was a
 Dr. Harry Martin Meyer Jr., a pediatric virologist who played a vital role in defeating German measles and other infectious diseases, died on Sunday in Kenmore, Wash., at the home of his stepson. He was 72 and lived in Friday Harbor, Wash., on San Juan Island. The cause was T-cell l
 Thomas A. Coughlin, a former state trooper who modernized New York State's mental retardation and prison systems, died on Thursday at a hospital in Syracuse. He was 63. The cause was complications after heart bypass surgery, the State Department of Correctional Services announced.  
 Steven Izenour, an architect and an author with Robert Venturi and Denise Scott Brown of ''Learning From Las Vegas,'' the influential radical manifesto of 1972 that celebrates the gaudy glories of the American commercial strip, died on Tuesday while bicycling on vacation in Vermont. He was 
 Varro E. Tyler, one of the nation's foremost experts on herbal medicine and nutritional supplements and a professor emeritus of pharmacognosy at Purdue University, died on Wednesday at St. Elizabeth's Hospital in Lafayette, Ind. He was 74. The cause was a blood clot in his lung, sai
 Hank Sauer, a slugging outfielder who was the National League's most valuable player in 1952 although his Chicago Cubs team managed only a fifth-place finish, died Friday in Burlingame, Calif. He was 84. Sauer, who lived in Millbrae, Calif., had a heart attack while playing golf wit
 John Ralph Apel, a physicist and oceanographer who three decades ago began surveying the seas from orbiting perches in the sky, died Aug. 16 in Suburban Hospital in Bethesda, Md. He was 71 and a resident of Rockville, Md. The cause was pancreatic cancer, his family said. Wor
 The blind Cuban pianist Frank Emilio Flynn, whose long career connected many tributaries of Cuban jazz, died Thursday at his home in Havana. He was 80, said René Lopez, his friend and record producer. Mr. Flynn's musical life encompassed many forms, including classical music; the f
 Gerard Zinser, the last surviving crewman from the sinking of John F. Kennedy's PT 109 in the South Pacific in World War II, died on Aug. 21 at a hospital in Orange Park, Fla. He was 82. Mr. Zinser, who lived in Orange Park, had Alzheimer's disease, The Associated Press reported.   
 Herbert Haag, a Swiss liberal Roman Catholic theologian who sought reform and liberalization of the church and had a noted dispute with church authorities over matters including whether ordained priests were needed to celebrate the Eucharist, died on Thursday in Lucerne, Switzerland. He was
 Karl Ulrich Schnabel, son of the pianist Artur Schnabel and an influential piano teacher and recitalist in his own right, died on Monday at a hospital in Danbury, Conn. He was 92 and had homes in Danbury and in Como, Italy. As a performer, Mr. Schnabel was best known for his devotio
 Michael L. Dertouzos, a computer scientist with a knack for explaining the ways that high technology affects people's lives, died on Monday night in Boston. He was 64. The cause of death is unknown, pending an autopsy. Mr. Dertouzos, a faculty member of the Massachusetts Ins
 Philip H. Trezise, a trade negotiator who was assistant secretary of state during the Nixon administration, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Bethesda, Md. He was 89. In 1965, as the deputy assistant secretary of state for economic affairs, Mr. Trezise was the chief negotiator of 
 David R. Hunter, a retired Episcopal priest and a pioneer in interfaith relations, died Sunday at a retirement community in Moorestown, N.J. He was 90 and a former resident of Brooklyn. Dr. Hunter, who held a Harvard doctorate in education, was deputy general secretary of the Nation
 Gabor Peterdi, a painter and printmaker who worked in New York during the heyday of Abstract Expressionism but who chose to retain ties to nature in his work, died on Aug. 13 at a hospice in Stamford, Conn. He was 85. Born in Budapest, the child of poets, Mr. Peterdi won a Prix de R
 Govan Mbeki, a South African liberation leader who sent his eldest son, Thabo, into the antiapartheid struggle and lived to see him become president of South Africa, died early this morning in the coastal city of Port Elizabeth. He was 91. A teacher by training, Mr. Mbeki was a sold
 Juan Muñoz, a Spanish sculptor  known for expansive and enigmatic architectural installations sparsely populated by anonymous figures, died on Tuesday on the island of  Ibiza, Spain. He was 48 and lived in Madrid. He died from a heart attack, said Lynne Cooke, a curator at the Dia 
