Arthur Klein, an educator who worked in the New York City public-school system for 50 years, died of cancer Friday night in a Pittsburgh nursing home. He was 90 years old. Arthur Klein, an educator who worked in the New York City public-school system for 50 years, died of canc
John Cardinal Dearden, a liberal voice in his church who was the spiritual leader of 1.2 million Roman Catholics in metropolitan Detroit for more then 20 years, died of pancreatic cancer yesterday at Providence Hospital in suburban Southfield, Mich. He was 80 years old. John C
Paul C. Reardon, a former Associate Justice of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, who directed a study that advocated restrictions on the release and publication of information about people accused of crimes, died of heart failure Friday at Massachusetts General Hospital in 
Seymour M. Klein, a lawyer who prosecuted several gangland figures as an assistant United States Attorney in the 1930's, died Sunday of complications after surgery at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan. Seymour M. Klein, a lawyer w
Stanley Givirtz, a biblical scholar who taught at Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion in Los Angeles, died of cancer of the liver on Friday at his home in Santa Monica. He was 59 years old. Stanley Givirtz, a biblical scholar who taught at Hebrew Union College-Je
Trinidad Silva Jr., who portrayed a gang leader in the movie ''Colors'' and in the NBC television series ''Hill Street Blues,'' was killed Sunday in an automobile accident that also injured his wife and son, the police said. He was 38 years old and lived here. Trinidad Silva J
Donald Erickson, a former editor in chief of Esquire magazine and more recently an editor with The New York Times Magazine, died of throat cancer yesterday at the Harkness Pavilion of Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 56 years old and lived in Manhattan and Clinton Corners,
Joseph Costa, a veteran newspaper photographer, died of pnuemonia Monday at a convalescent home in Carmel, Calif. He was 84 years old and lived in Rockville Centre, L.I.. Joseph Costa, a veteran newspaper photographer, died of pnuemonia Monday at a convalescent home in Carmel,
Raymond Carver, a poet and short-story writer who chronicled the lives of America's working poor, died of lung cancer yesterday at his home in Port Angeles, Wash. He was 50 years old. Raymond Carver, a poet and short-story writer who chronicled the lives of America's working p
Andre Navarra, a cellist and a longtime professor at the Conservatoire Nationale de Paris, died of a heart attack Sunday at his hotel in Siena, Italy. He was 77 years old. Mr. Navarra had been offering advanced music courses at nearby Chigiana, a summer activity he had pursued since 1
Caleb Gattegno, an educator who developed novel and sometimes controversial theories of the learning process, died last Thursday after surgery for cancer at a clinic in Paris. He was 76 years old. Caleb Gattegno, an educator who developed novel and sometimes controversial theo
Donald K. deNeuf, retired president of Press Wireless Inc., the international telecommunications carrier and subsidiary of ITT, died of a heart attack July 24 at St. Mary's Hospital in Waterbury, Conn. He was 81 years old and lived in Southbury, Conn. Donald K. deNeuf, retired
Dr. Henry Chase, the secretary of the National Horse Show, died Tuesday after apparently suffering a heart attack at his home in Manhattan. He was 64 years old. Dr. Henry Chase, the secretary of the National Horse Show, died Tuesday after apparently suffering a heart attack at
Joe Carcione, who offered millions of consumers advice about produce as television's ''Green Grocer,'' died of cardiac arrest Tuesday at Peninsula Hospital. He was 73 years old and had been suffering from intestinal cancer. Joe Carcione, who offered millions of consumers advic
Raymond Stross, a movie producer and director, died of heart disease Sunday at his home in Beverly Hills. He was 72 years old. Raymond Stross, a movie producer and director, died of heart disease Sunday at his home in Beverly Hills. He was 72 years old. Mr. Stross was 
A. L. Rauschenplat, a former vice president-Latin America for Pan American World Airways, died Wednesday at his home in Torremolinos, Spain, after a long illness. He was 55 years old. A. L. Rauschenplat, a former vice president-Latin America for Pan American World Airways, die
Aloysius Mazewski, president of the Polish American Congress since 1967, died of a heart attack on Wednesday at his summer home in Portage, Wis. He was 72 years old and lived in Northbrook, Ill., a Chicago suburb. Aloysius Mazewski, president of the Polish American Congress si
Bill Vehr, an actor, playwright and film maker, died of AIDS on Tuesday at Beth Israel Hospital in New York. He was 48 years old.  Mr. Vehr, born in Green Hills, Ohio, had no formal training in theater. He became known, in the late 1960's and 1970's, as the underground film maker who 
George B. Morris Jr., a retired vice president for industrial relations at the General Motors Corporation, died of respiratory failure Tuesday at the Charlevoix (Mich.) Area Hospital. He was 71 years old and lived in Grosse Pointe Shores, Mich. George B. Morris Jr., a retired 
George A. Palmer, a former superintendent of the Statue of Liberty and the first superintendent of the Home of Franklin D. Roosevelt National Historic Site at Hyde Park, died of a heart attack Tuesday at the Cooper Hospital University Medical Center in Camden, N.J. He was 81 years old
Dr. Grant F. Walton, a former dean of Cook College at Rutgers University, died Wednesday at Doylestown (Pa.) Hospital. He was 63 years old and lived in Stockton, N.J. Dr. Grant F. Walton, a former dean of Cook College at Rutgers University, died Wednesday at Doylestown (Pa.) H
Jack Goldberger, a labor leader in the San Francisco Bay area for more than four decades, died Tuesday. He was 84 years old. Jack Goldberger, a labor leader in the San Francisco Bay area for more than four decades, died Tuesday. He was 84 years old. Starting in 1937 as
Thomas V. Sinclair Jr., a retired judge of the New York City Civil Court, died Tuesday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center after a stroke. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan. Thomas V. Sinclair Jr., a retired judge of the New York City Civil Court, died Tuesday at 
Toshiwo Doko, a former president of the Toshiba Corporation, who helped to revitalize Japanese manufacturing after World War II and promote recent administrative and fiscal changes in Japan, died today. He was 91 years old. No cause of death was given.  Mr. Doko was born in the southw
Arthur Albert Alexander, a former executive with American President Lines, Ltd., worldwide shipping operators, died Wednesday at Eastern Long Island Hospital in Greenport, after a brief illness. He was 86 years old and lived on Shelter Island. Arthur Albert Alexander, a former
Colin Higgins, a screenwriter and director whose works include ''Silver Streak,'' ''Foul Play'' and the quirky cult movie ''Harold and Maude'' died yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 47 years old and had been suffering from AIDS, said a spokeswoman for his production company
John G. Keuhnelian, a prominent urologist, died of leukemia on Tuesday at New York Hospital. He was 60 years old and lived in Tenafly, N.J. John G. Keuhnelian, a prominent urologist, died of leukemia on Tuesday at New York Hospital. He was 60 years old and lived in Tenafly, N.
Joseph Lester Hankerson, a longtime participant in civil rights activities in the South, died of a heart attack Tuesday at Georgia Baptist Medical Center in Atlanta. He was 63 years old. Joseph Lester Hankerson, a longtime participant in civil rights activities in the South, d
Ralph Meeker, who starred on Broadway in William Inge's Pulitzer Prize-winning play ''Picnic,'' died of a heart attack yesterday at the Motion Picture and Television Hospital in Woodland Hills, Calif. He was 67 years old and lived at the hospital. Ralph Meeker, who starred on 
Rear Admiral William L. Knickerbocker, who retired from the United States Navy in 1963 after a 40-year career, died of cardiac arrest on Tuesday in York, Me., where he lived. He was 84 years old. Rear Admiral William L. Knickerbocker, who retired from the United States Navy in
Colin Higgins, a screenwriter and director whose works include ''Silver Streak,'' ''Foul Play'' and ''Harold and Maude,'' died Friday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 47 years old and had been suffering from AIDS, said a spokeswoman for his production company. Colin Higgins,
James P. S. Devereux, a World War II hero and former Maryland Congressman, died Friday of pneumonia at Stella Maris Hospice in Baltimore. He was 85 years old and was a resident of Ruxton, Md. James P. S. Devereux, a World War II hero and former Maryland Congressman, died Frida
Joseph A. Caruso, founder and chairman of the board of Bar Harbor Airways, died Friday. He was 67 years old. Joseph A. Caruso, founder and chairman of the board of Bar Harbor Airways, died Friday. He was 67 years old. Caruso, a native of Lawrence, Mass., founded the ai
George Templar, a retired Federal district judge and former member of the Kansas Legislature, died Friday. He was 83 years old. George Templar, a retired Federal district judge and former member of the Kansas Legislature, died Friday. He was 83 years old. Among his cas
J. Skelly Wright, who played an important role in promoting racial desegregation in a long career as a Federal judge, died of prostate cancer Saturday at his home in Westmoreland Hills, Md. He was 77 years old. J. Skelly Wright, who played an important role in promoting racial
Joseph A. Caruso, founder and chairman of the board of Bar Harbor Airways, died Friday. He was 67 years old. Joseph A. Caruso, founder and chairman of the board of Bar Harbor Airways, died Friday. He was 67 years old. Mr. Caruso, a native of Lawrence, Mass., founded th
William G. Helis Jr., a Louisiana oil producer and sportsman, died at Ochsner Foundation Hospital here Saturday after a long illness. He was 70 years old. William G. Helis Jr., a Louisiana oil producer and sportsman, died at Ochsner Foundation Hospital here Saturday after a lo
James P.S. Devereux, a World War II hero and former Maryland Congressman, died of pneumonia Friday at Stella Maris Hospice in Baltimore. He was 85 years old and was a resident of Ruxton, Md. James P.S. Devereux, a World War II hero and former Maryland Congressman, died of pneu
Alan Ameche, the Baltimore Colts fullback who was famous for scoring the touchdown that beat the Giants in the 1958 National Football League championship game, died today. He was 55 years old. Alan Ameche, the Baltimore Colts fullback who was famous for scoring the touchdown t
Alan Napier, a character actor in England and the United States for more than 50 years, and best known for his role in the ''Batman'' television series of the 1960's, died of pneumonia yesterday in the Berkeley East Convalescent Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 85 years old.   
Bernard E. Pollak, former managing partner of Josephthal & Company, a Wall Street brokerage firm, died of heart failure Thursday at Syosset Community Hospital on Long Island. He was 89 years old and was a longtime resident of Freeport, L.I., who in recent years had lived at the United
Edward Waldman, a retired president of Citicorp Factors, a commercial money lender, died of Parkinson's disease yesterday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 74 years old. Edward Waldman, a retired president of Citicorp Factors, a commercial money lender, died of Parkinson's
Francis Ponge, considered the last of the postwar generation of French poets, died Saturday at his home in Le Bar-sur-Loup, in the Maritime Alps, his family said today. He was 89 years old. Francis Ponge, considered the last of the postwar generation of French poets, died Satu
Henri Frenay, a leader of the French Resistance in World War II, has died, family members said today. He was 82 years old. Henri Frenay, a leader of the French Resistance in World War II, has died, family members said today. He was 82 years old. The family declined to 
Eligio Sardinias, a leading boxer in the 1930's who fought under the name of Kid Chocolate, died today in Havana, the Cuban state radio reported. He was 78 years old. Eligio Sardinias, a leading boxer in the 1930's who fought under the name of Kid Chocolate, died today in Hava
R. Bayly Winder, director of the Hagop Kevorkian Center for Near Eastern Studies and former dean of faculty of Arts and Science at New York University, died of cancer Saturday at Princeton Hospital in New Jersey. He was 67 years old and lived in Princeton. R. Bayly Winder, dir
Richard Kavanaugh, an actor who made his Broadway debut portraying the fly-eating lunatic in ''Dracula'' and who was nominated for a Tony Award for his performance in ''Hothouse,'' by Harold Pinter, was found dead in his home in Providence, R.I., on Saturday. He was 47 years old. Fami
Alan Ameche, the Baltimore Colt running back who scored in overtime to defeat the New York Giants in the National Football League's 1958 championship game, died of a heart attack on Monday in Houston after undergoing heart bypass surgery last week. He was 55 years old. Alan Am
Jacques Chwat, an experimental theater director, died of AIDS on Monday at his home in New York. He was 53 years old. Jacques Chwat, an experimental theater director, died of AIDS on Monday at his home in New York. He was 53 years old. Mr. Chwat was associated with La 
James R. Wolfe, chairman and chief executive officer of the CNW Corporation, and its railroad subsidiary, Chicago and North Western Transportation Company, died of cancer Monday at Rush Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center in Chicago. He was 58 years old and lived in Oak Brook, Ill.
Paul F. Douglass, a former president of the American University in Washington, died Sunday at the Rutland Regional Medical Center, Rutland, Vt., after a brief illness. He was 83 years old and lived in South Granville, N.Y. Paul F. Douglass, a former president of the American U
Robert Ricci, the head of Nina Ricci, one of the oldest haute couture houses in Paris for over 50 years, died Monday night at the Hopital Cite Universitaire, after a heart attack the day before. He was 83 years old. Robert Ricci, the head of Nina Ricci, one of the oldest haute
Dr. Arnulfo Arias Madrid, who long dominated civilian politics in Panama even though he was deposed from the presidency three times by the military, died in Miami today, the Panamanian consul here said. He was 87 years old. Dr. Arnulfo Arias Madrid, who long dominated civilian
M. Carl Holman, president of the National Urban Coalition, a major figure in the fields of civil rights and urban affairs over four decades, died of cancer Tuesday night at Howard University Hospital in Washington. He was 69 years old and lived in Washington. M. Carl Holman, p
C. George Dandrow, a retired sales executive of the Johns-Manville Corporation and a past president of the New York Building Congress, died of a heart ailment Tuesday in Jacksonville Beach, Fla., where he lived in retirement. He was 89 years old and had been a longtime resident of Bro
Jean Despres, a former executive of the Coty fragrance house and the husband of the milliner Lilly Dache, died Aug. 9 at his home in Meudon, France, of natural causes. He was 84. Jean Despres, a former executive of the Coty fragrance house and the husband of the milliner Lilly
Paul Thek, an artist best known for installations of objects depicting surrealistic scenes of death and renewal, died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 54 years old. Paul Thek, an artist best known for installations of objects depicting surrealistic scenes 
Alan K. Browne, a retired bank official and an authority on tax-exempt bond issues, died of congestive heart failure Saturday at his home in Walnut Creek, Calif. He was 78 years old. Alan K. Browne, a retired bank official and an authority on tax-exempt bond issues, died of co
Ernest St. John (Jack) Metz, an opera coach and vocal adviser at the Los Angeles Opera Center, died of liver cancer on Tuesday at St. Joseph Medical Center here. He was 66 years old. Ernest St. John (Jack) Metz, an opera coach and vocal adviser at the Los Angeles Opera Center,
Giacinto Scelsi, an Italian avant-garde composer, died of a cerebral hemorrhage on Tuesday in Rome. He was 83 years old. Giacinto Scelsi, an Italian avant-garde composer, died of a cerebral hemorrhage on Tuesday in Rome. He was 83 years old. Mr. Scelsi, who was widely 
James T. McDonald, a former assistant chief inspector of the New York City Police Department, died Wednesday following a stroke in Silver Spring, Md., where he lived with his daughter. He was 85 years old and had earlier been a resident of Ridge, L.I., and of Queens Village. J
Jimmie Fidler, the last of a generation of Hollywood gossip columnists that included Louella Parsons, Hedda Hopper and Walter Winchell, died Tuesday at Westlake Community Hospital. He was 89 years old. Jimmie Fidler, the last of a generation of Hollywood gossip columnists that
John Carter, a former Metropolitan Opera tenor, died of a respiratory illness July 22 at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77 years old. John Carter, a former Metropolitan Opera tenor, died of a respiratory illness July 22 at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77 ye
Manuel E. Kulukundis, the Greek-born shipping magnate who went bankrupt in the early 1960's, died of heart failure Tuesday at his home in Southampton, L.I. He was 89 years old. Manuel E. Kulukundis, the Greek-born shipping magnate who went bankrupt in the early 1960's, died of
Richard F. Sparks, professor of criminology at Rutgers University in Newark, died of heart failure on July 30 at his home in Manhattan. He was 54 years old. Richard F. Sparks, professor of criminology at Rutgers University in Newark, died of heart failure on July 30 at his hom
Jean-Pierre Ponnelle, one of the most successful of present-day operatic directors and designers, died yesterday in a hospital in Munich, West Germany, where he maintained an apartment. He was 56 years old. Jean-Pierre Ponnelle, one of the most successful of present-day operat
Abraham Goldin, a scientist emeritus with the National Cancer Institute who was a pioneer in the development of chemotherapy, died of cancer Aug. 5 at the Clinical Center of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. He was 76 years old and lived in Bethesda. Abraham G
George Woods, for 21 years the children's book editor of The New York Times, died of lung cancer Thursday, at Englewood Hospital in Englewood, N.J. He was 62 years old and lived in Demarest, N.J. George Woods, for 21 years the children's book editor of The New York Times, died
Louis Balducci, the grocer who put Italian sunshine on New York tables with the ripest tomatoes and the finest focaccio, died of leukemia Thursday at Flushing Hospital in Queens. He was 89 years old and lived in Flushing. Louis Balducci, the grocer who put Italian sunshine on 
Marvin Small, an advertising executive and author, died Tuesday after a heart attack at his summer home in East Hampton, L.I. He was 89 years old and lived in Manhattan. Marvin Small, an advertising executive and author, died Tuesday after a heart attack at his summer home in 
Edward Bennett Williams, a celebrated trial lawyer and influential Washington insider whose clients included the teamsters leader James R. Hoffa to Senator Joseph McCarthy, died today after a long illness. He was 68 years old. Edward Bennett Williams, a celebrated trial lawyer
Mr. Williams, considered a brilliant ''superlawyer'' who stood as a pillar of the Washington establishment, had no particular political power bloc of his own, but Republicans and Democrats sought his friendship and counsel, and he seemed always to be in good standing with the occupant
Elmo R. Zumwalt 3d, son of the admiral who ordered the spraying of Agent Orange in Vietnam, and who was exposed to the defoliant himself, died of cancer today at his home. He was 42 years old. Elmo R. Zumwalt 3d, son of the admiral who ordered the spraying of Agent Orange in V
Jerome Kidder, a retired judge of the New York City Criminal Court, died Thursday at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 79 years old and lived in Scarsdale. Jerome Kidder, a retired judge of the New York City Criminal Court, died Thursday at Lawrence Hospital in Bron
Otto E. Passman, an acid-tongued son of Louisiana sharecroppers who served in Congress for 30 years and pursued a relentless battle against spending for foreign aid, died yesterday at a hospital near his home in Monroe, La. He was 88 years old. Otto E. Passman, an acid-tongued
Edward Bennett Williams, a celebrated trial lawyer and influential Washington insider whose clients ranged from the teamsters' leader James R. Hoffa to Senator Joseph McCarthy, died Saturday after a long illness. He was 68 years old. Edward Bennett Williams, a celebrated trial
Mr. Williams, considered a brilliant ''superlawyer'' who stood as a pillar of the Washington establishment, had no particular political power bloc of his own, but both Republicans and Democrats sought his friendship and counsel, and he seemed always to be in good standing with the occ
Jean Michel Basquiat, a Brooklyn-born artist whose brief career leaped from graffiti scrawled on SoHo foundations to one-man shows in galleries around the world, died Friday at his home in the East Village. He was 27 years old. Jean Michel Basquiat, a Brooklyn-born artist whos
Michael Krasnopolsky, a double bass virtuoso who studied with Alexander Glazunov and played in the NBC Symphony under Arturo Toscanini, died in Seattle last Monday. He was 94 years old. Michael Krasnopolsky, a double bass virtuoso who studied with Alexander Glazunov and played
Barry Bingham Sr., whose newspapers in Louisville, Ky., were leading liberal voices in the South, for decades, died yesterday at his Louisville home. He was 82 years old and had been undergoing treatment for cancer. Barry Bingham Sr., whose newspapers in Louisville, Ky., were 
Enzo Ferrari, whose blood-red autos raced at the front of the pack for decades, was buried yesterday near his hometown of Modena, Italy. He died Sunday at the age of 90. Enzo Ferrari, whose blood-red autos raced at the front of the pack for decades, was buried yesterday near h
Giuliano Pajetta, a member of the Italian Communist Party Central Committee and a former member of Parliament, died today after a long illness, the party announced. He was 73 years old. Giuliano Pajetta, a member of the Italian Communist Party Central Committee and a former me
Hollis Dow Hedberg, professor emeritus of geology at Princeton University, died after a long illness Sunday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 85 years old. Hollis Dow Hedberg, professor emeritus of geology at Princeton University, died after a long illness Sunday at his ho
John Howard Sweet, chairman emeritus of U.S. News & World Report and a publishing executive for more than five decades, died Sunday of a heart attack at the Carriage Hill nursing home in Bethesda, Md. He was 81 years old and lived in Washington. John Howard Sweet, chairman eme
Joseph Peckerman, a Los Angeles lawyer who specialized in the publishing and entertainment fields, died Saturday of AIDS at his home in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 41 years old. Joseph Peckerman, a Los Angeles lawyer who specialized in the publishing and entertainment fields, 
Karl Nyren, a retired senior editor of Library Journal, a weekly publication for librarians, died of intestinal cancer Saturday at Castle Point Hospital in Beacon, N.Y. He was 66 years old and lived in Beacon. Karl Nyren, a retired senior editor of Library Journal, a weekly pu
Max A. Geller, an advertising executive for more than half a century who entered several other businesses when called upon to rescue companies in trouble, died of heart failure Sunday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 89 years old. Max A. Geller, an advertising executiv
Monroe Wheeler, who over the past half century was deeply involved in the publication and exhibition programs of the Museum of Modern Art, died Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 89 years old. Monroe Wheeler, who over the past half century was deeply involved in the publi
Bill Harris, whose prosecution of a poor man led the United States Supreme Court to rule that states must provide lawyers to indigents, has died of cancer. He was 64 years old. Bill Harris, whose prosecution of a poor man led the United States Supreme Court to rule that states
Clarence Lawson, a sculptor and painter, died of pneumonia at Lakeside Veterans Medical Center in Chicago on Monday. He was 78 years old and lived in Sag Harbor, L.I., and Chicago. Clarence Lawson, a sculptor and painter, died of pneumonia at Lakeside Veterans Medical Center i
David Cuevas, a dancer with American Ballet Theater, died of AIDS-related causes yesterday at his home in New York City. He was 33 years old. David Cuevas, a dancer with American Ballet Theater, died of AIDS-related causes yesterday at his home in New York City. He was 33 year
Elliott Graham, a publicist at E. P. Dutton, the publisher, died of colon cancer Saturday at Yonkers General Hospital. He was 62 years old and lived in Yonkers. Elliott Graham, a publicist at E. P. Dutton, the publisher, died of colon cancer Saturday at Yonkers General Hospita
Gilbert L. Thurston, former president of Thurston-McGuire of New York, a furniture company, died Sunday at Northern Westchester Hospital in Mt. Kisco, N.Y., after suffering a stroke. He was 72 years old and lived in Katonah, N.Y. Gilbert L. Thurston, former president of Thurst
Gordon H. Scherer, a former member of Congress who became the ranking Republican on the House Committee on Un-American Activities in the 1950's and who later served on the executive board of Unesco, died Saturday at Christ Hospital in Cincinnati after suffering a heart attack. He was 
Harold W. Schaefer, former president of the Eureka Company, the vacuum cleaner manufacturer, died Monday. He was 79 years old. Harold W. Schaefer, former president of the Eureka Company, the vacuum cleaner manufacturer, died Monday. He was 79 years old. When Mr. Schaef
Lino S. Lipinsky de Orlov, an artist, a designer of historic museum exhibits and a curator of history at the John Jay Homestead State Historic Site in Katonah, N.Y., died at his home in Katonah last Thursday. He was 80 years old. Lino S. Lipinsky de Orlov, an artist, a designe
Roy Buchanan, who was once described on a television documentary as ''the best unknown guitarist in the world'' and who went on to produce two gold records, hanged himself in a jail cell Sunday night, the Fairfax County Sheriff's Department said today. He was 48 years old. Roy
Frank M. Smith, an advertising executive for nearly half a century who retired in 1969 as a senior vice president and partner in Benton & Bowles, now D'Arcy Masius Benton & Bowles, died Aug. 11 of a heart attack at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 88 years old. Frank M. Smit
Franklin Delano Roosevelt Jr., a former United States Representative from New York and a son of the 32d President of the United States, died of lung cancer yesterday, his 74th birthday, at Vassar Brothers Hospital in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. He lived in Millbrook, N.Y., and Manhattan.      
Jerome B. Lurie, a Manhattan labor lawyer, died of cancer yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 71 years old and lived in Manhattan. Jerome B. Lurie, a Manhattan labor lawyer, died of cancer yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in 
Martin Jelin, a former president of the United Jewish Federation of MetroWest, coordinators of social welfare services, died Sunday at St. Barnabas Medical Center in Livingston, N.J. He was 78 years old and lived in South Orange. Martin Jelin, a former president of the United 
Richard Glenn Gettell, former president of Mount Holyoke College, died of lung cancer Sunday at his home in Menlo Park, Calif. He was 76 years old. Richard Glenn Gettell, former president of Mount Holyoke College, died of lung cancer Sunday at his home in Menlo Park, Calif. He
Richard E. Paige, an inventor, musician and author who held 170 patents, many of them in the packaging field, died of leukemia Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan. Richard E. Paige, an inventor, musician and author who held 170 patents,
Richard Glenn Gettell, former president of Mount Holyoke College, died of lung cancer Sunday at his home in Menlo Park, Calif. He was 76 years old. Richard Glenn Gettell, former president of Mount Holyoke College, died of lung cancer Sunday at his home in Menlo Park, Calif. He
William H. Phelps Jr., an ornithologist, explorer and former trustee of the American Museum of Natural History, died of circulatory problems last Saturday at his home in Caracas, Venezuela. He was 85 years old. William H. Phelps Jr., an ornithologist, explorer and former trust
C. Ray Smith, a writer and critic in the field of architecture, died of a heart attack Thursday in the emergency room of Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 59 years old and lived in Manhattan and Krumsville, Pa. C. Ray Smith, a writer and critic in the field of architect
Hal M. Freeman, who resigned as manager of the Department of Health and Human Services' regional Office of Civil Rights here two years ago in protest of the department's policy toward AIDS victims, died of the disease July 30. He was 52 years old and lived in San Francisco. Ha
Dr. Joseph Barnett, a psychoanalyst who specialized in the field of personality development, died of heart failure Sunday at the Sarasota (Fla.) Memorial Hospital. He was 62 years old and lived in Great Neck, L.I., and Sarasota. Dr. Joseph Barnett, a psychoanalyst who speciali
Karl Schriftgiesser, an author and retired journalist, died yesterday at the Gill Oddfellows nursing home in Ludlow, Vt. He was 84 years old and had lived in retirement for many years in Londonderry, Vt. Karl Schriftgiesser, an author and retired journalist, died yesterday at 
Nils Gosta Sahlin, former president of Quinnipiac College in Hamden, Conn., died of heart disease Thursday at the Sound View Specialized Care Center in West Haven, Conn. He was 88 years old and lived in New Haven. Nils Gosta Sahlin, former president of Quinnipiac College in Ha
Rufus C. Harris, former president of Mercer and Tulane universities, died Thursday. He was 91 years old. Rufus C. Harris, former president of Mercer and Tulane universities, died Thursday. He was 91 years old. Dr. Harris was president of Tulane, in New Orleans, from 19
Sir Frederick Ashton, one of the greatest Classical choreographers of the 20th century and a former director of the Royal Ballet, died in his sleep Thursday night at his home in Sussex, England. He was 83 years old. Sir Frederick's death brings to a close an era in ballet shaped and p
Thomas B. Dorsey, former director of the Los Angeles Times-Washington Post News Service, died of a heart atttack Wednesday at the Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 60 years old. Thomas B. Dorsey, former director of the Los Angeles Times-Washington Post News Se
John A. Livingston, a naval architect and marine engineer, died of heart failure Tuesday at the Maine Medical Center in Portland. He was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan. John A. Livingston, a naval architect and marine engineer, died of heart failure Tuesday at the Maine M
Leon McAuliffe, one of the early members of Bob Wills's popular swing band the Texas Playboys, died today at a local hospital after a long illness. He was 71 years old. Leon McAuliffe, one of the early members of Bob Wills's popular swing band the Texas Playboys, died today at
Paul J. Cupp, former chairman of Acme Markets Inc., died of heart failure Monday at Bryn Mawr (Pa.) Hospital. He was 86 years old and lived in Bryn Mawr. Paul J. Cupp, former chairman of Acme Markets Inc., died of heart failure Monday at Bryn Mawr (Pa.) Hospital. He was 86 yea
James Miles Hubball, who was headmaster of the Buckley School in Manhattan for 25 years until his retirement in 1972, died after a brief illness yesterday at his home in Southport, Conn. A former resident of Manhattan, he also had a home on Sanibel Island on the Gulf coast of Florida.
Jean-Paul Aron, a philosopher and writer who announced last year that he was suffering from AIDS, died Saturday, hospital officials said. He was 61 years old. Jean-Paul Aron, a philosopher and writer who announced last year that he was suffering from AIDS, died Saturday, hospi
John A. Livingston, a naval architect and marine engineer, died of heart failure Tuesday at the Maine Medical Center in Portland. He was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan. John A. Livingston, a naval architect and marine engineer, died of heart failure Tuesday at the Maine M
Robert S. Potter, a lawyer, died of cancer Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68 years old. Robert S. Potter, a lawyer, died of cancer Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68 years old. Mr. Potter was for 30 years general counsel and for 20 years a director
Chriss Gittens, who performed for 35 years in the British Broadcasting Corporation's long-running radio serial ''The Archers,'' died Sunday. He was 86 years old. Chriss Gittens, who performed for 35 years in the British Broadcasting Corporation's long-running radio serial ''Th
Dr. Gordon Pollock, an early advocate of prophylactic dentistry and a founder of the New York Institute of Clinical Oral Pathology, died of a heart attack Saturday at the Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. He was 91 years old and lived in New Canaan. Dr. Gordon Pollock, an early
Maj. Gen. Lewis A. Mologne, commander of the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, died yesterday of cancer at the center. He was 56 years old and lived in Washington. Maj. Gen. Lewis A. Mologne, commander of the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington, died yes
Jerome B. Zerbe, a chronicler and photographer of international society, died Friday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan after a long illness. He was 85 years old. Jerome B. Zerbe, a chronicler and photographer of international society, died Friday at his home on t
Joseph P. Alduino, a former controller of The New York Times, died of pneumonia early Sunday at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. He was 81 years old and lived in Boston. Joseph P. Alduino, a former controller of The New York Times, died of pneumonia early Sunday at Beth Israel 
Thomas C. Simons, an insurance and financial executive who was chairman of the Capital Holding Corporation, died of cancer of the esophagus on Wednesday in Louisville, Ky., where he lived. He was 59 years old. Thomas C. Simons, an insurance and financial executive who was chai
Hans Gunther Adler, a scholar and German-language author who wrote about his experiences in Nazi concentration camps, died of heart failure Sunday at the Mead Bank Nursing Home in Battersea, England, his son, Jeremy, said. He was 78 years old.  Mr. Adler won the Leo Baeck Prize, a maj
Jack Sher, who wrote, directed or produced 32 feature films, died in his sleep yesterday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 75 years old. Jack Sher, who wrote, directed or produced 32 feature films, died in his sleep yesterday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He w
Paul F. Switz, an economic development consultant to Puerto Rico, died after suffering a stroke Sunday at Duke University Medical Center in Durham, N.C. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan. Paul F. Switz, an economic development consultant to Puerto Rico, died after suf
Wade Carroll Stephens, the director of studies at the Lawrenceville School, a coeducational New Jersey boarding school, died of a heart attack Sunday while vacationing in Ogunquit, Me. He was 55 years old and lived on the Lawrenceville campus. Wade Carroll Stephens, the direct
William N. King, a retired Army master sergeant and the first enlisted man to make an official parachute jump, died Saturday at his home in Phenix City, Ala. He was 71 years old. William N. King, a retired Army master sergeant and the first enlisted man to make an official par
Edward W. Duffy, retired chief executive of the USG Corporation, died of heart failure Monday at Evanston (Ill.) Hospital. He was 68 years old and lived in Glenview, Ill. Edward W. Duffy, retired chief executive of the USG Corporation, died of heart failure Monday at Evanston 
Gennady Smakov, a scholar, translator and author of two books on dance, died Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 48 years old.  Mr. Smakov died of a brain tumor, according to a friend, Joseph Brodsky. Gennady Smakov, a scholar, translator and author of two books on dance, 
George Payson Shettle, an investment adviser, died of Parkinson's disease on Tuesday at Tibbitts Nursing Home in White Plains. He ws 78 years old and lived in White Plains. George Payson Shettle, an investment adviser, died of Parkinson's disease on Tuesday at Tibbitts Nursing
Jens Peter Larsen, a Danish musicologist whose investigations into the music of Haydn contributed enormously to understanding of the composer's style, died Monday of complications from gallbladder surgery. He was 86 years old and lived in Copenhagen. Jens Peter Larsen, a Danis
Leonard Frey, an actor admired for his vivid and often flamboyant performances, died of AIDS yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 49 years old. Leonard Frey, an actor admired for his vivid and often flamboyant performances, died of AIDS yesterday at Beth Isra
Andrew W. L. Brown, a retired official of the United Automobile Workers, died of heart failure Aug. 16 at St. John Hospital in Detroit. He was 73 years old and lived in Grosse Pointe Park. Andrew W. L. Brown, a retired official of the United Automobile Workers, died of heart f
Art Rooney Sr., the founder of the Pittsburgh Steelers and a figure on the American sports scene for more than half a century, died yesterday at Mercy Hospital in Pittsburgh, eight days after suffering a stroke in his office at Three Rivers Stadium. He was 87 years old. Art Ro
Charles T. Rice, a lawyer who was active in New York's Irish-American community, died of heart failure Saturday at Flushing Hospital in Queens. He was 94 years old and lived in Manhattan. Charles T. Rice, a lawyer who was active in New York's Irish-American community, died of 
Price Daniel, a former Governor of Texas and former United States Senator from Texas, who served along with Lyndon B. Johnson in the 1950's, died of a stroke yesterday at his ranch in Liberty, Tex. He was 77 years old. Price Daniel, a former Governor of Texas and former United
Irving Mansfield, a producer, publicity agent and writer, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old. Irving Mansfield, a producer, publicity agent and writer, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old.  
Joseph P. Maggio, who owned a design firm bearing his name in Manhattan, died of a heart attack last Saturday at his home in South Egremont, Mass. He was 61 years old. Joseph P. Maggio, who owned a design firm bearing his name in Manhattan, died of a heart attack last Saturday
Louis Shere, a former director of tax research for the Federal Treasury Department and a retired Indiana University professor, died here Wednesday. He was 88 years old. Mr. Shere joined the university faculty in 1948 and taught courses in federal, state and local finance. He also taug
Percy Foreman, the flamboyant lawyer who defended James Earl Ray in the assassination of Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., died yesterday at Methodist Hospital in Houston. He was 86 years old. Percy Foreman, the flamboyant lawyer who defended James Earl Ray in the assassination of D
Bernard J. Meislin, a corporate lawyer, died of pancreatic cancer Aug. 17 at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston, N.J. He was 60 years old and lived in Short Hills, N.J. Bernard J. Meislin, a corporate lawyer, died of pancreatic cancer Aug. 17 at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livin
Donald DeLue, a sculptor known for monuments and memorials, died yesterday in his sleep. He was 90 years old and lived in Leonardo, N.J. Donald DeLue, a sculptor known for monuments and memorials, died yesterday in his sleep. He was 90 years old and lived in Leonardo, N.J.    
Enzo Fano, an internationally known water-resources specialist at the United Nations, died of a heart attack Thursday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 57 years old and lived in Manhattan. Enzo Fano, an internationally known water-resources specialist at the United Nat
Dr. Lionel Deckle McLean, a dental surgeon and the first black to serve as president of the New Jersey Dental Association, died of respiratory failure last Saturday at University Hospital in Newark. He was 88 years old and lived in Jersey City. Dr. Lionel Deckle McLean, a dent
Richard E. Merriam, a former Chicago alderman who lost to Richard J. Daley in a 1955 mayoral race and then became an adviser to three Presidents, died Thursday of a heart attack at his Chicago home. He was 69 years old. Richard E. Merriam, a former Chicago alderman who lost to
Eugene S. Daniell Jr., a champion of the underdog who was known for his oratory in the state Legislature, died Friday at a local hospital. He was 83 years old. Eugene S. Daniell Jr., a champion of the underdog who was known for his oratory in the state Legislature, died Friday
Harold J. Salemson, a former film and book critic who translated biographies of Pablo Picasso, Salvador Dali and Georges Simenon, died Thursday at Community Hospital in Glen Cove, L.I., after suffering a heart attack. He was 78 and had lived in Glen Cove for 30 years. Harold J
Harry W. Raybin, a pioneer in the development of poison control centers throughout the country, died of pneumonia Friday at his home in Manhattan. He was 87 years old. Harry W. Raybin, a pioneer in the development of poison control centers throughout the country, died of pneum
Robert H. Schmid, a retired advertising executive, died of lung cancer Friday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 76 years old and also lived in Palm Beach, Fla. Robert H. Schmid, a retired advertising executive, died of lung cancer Friday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 76 
Solomon A. Klein, the former chief counsel to the Judicial Inquiry on Professional Conduct of the New York State Supreme Court, died of cancer of the prostate Friday at his summer home in Shelter Island, L.I. He was 82 years old and lived in Long Boat Key, Fla. Solomon A. Klei
Eugene S. Daniell Jr., a champion of the underdog who was known for his oratory in the State Legislature, died Friday at a local hospital. He was 83 years old. Eugene S. Daniell Jr., a champion of the underdog who was known for his oratory in the State Legislature, died Friday
Max Shulman, a novelist, playwright and humorist who created the Dobie Gillis character and steered him through four seasons on prime-time television, died of bone cancer yesterday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 69 years old. Max Shulman, a novelist, playwright and humoris
Milton Sperling, whose 50-year career as a screenwriter and producer included an Academy Award nomination for ''The Court-Martial of Billy Mitchell,'' died after a long illness at his home here. He was 76 years old. Milton Sperling, whose 50-year career as a screenwriter and p
Dr. Harold Aaron, formerly a medical consultant to Consumers Union Inc., which publishes the monthly Consumer Reports magazine, died of Parkinson's disease yesterday at his summer home on Fire Island. He was 82 years old and lived in Tenafly, N.J. Dr. Harold Aaron, formerly a 
Dr. Max Black, an author, educator and an authority on the philosophy of language, died of heart complications Saturday at Tompkins Community Hospital in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 79 years old and lived in Ithaca. Dr. Max Black, an author, educator and an authority on the philosophy
TORONTO, Aug. 29 - TORONTO, Aug. 29 - Jean Marchand, who made his early career as a Quebec labor leader and later played a pivotal role in the election of Pierre Elliott Trudeau as Canada's Prime Minister, died Sunday at his summer home outside Quebec City. He was 69 y
John W. Rindlaub, a retired executive vice president of Municipal Issuers, died of cancer Thursday at his home in Saddle River, N.J. He was 80 years old. John W. Rindlaub, a retired executive vice president of Municipal Issuers, died of cancer Thursday at his home in Saddle Ri
Richard P. Chapman, former chairman and president of the New England Merchants National Bank, died Friday. He was 83 years old. Mr. Chapman, who lived in Brookline, joined the old Merchants National Bank of Boston when he was 22 and became president in 1952. Under his leadership New E
Robertson Ward, an architect who designed many Caribbean resorts, died Wednesday of heart failure at the Nuffield Hospital in London. He was 90 years old. Robertson Ward, an architect who designed many Caribbean resorts, died Wednesday of heart failure at the Nuffield Hospital
Samuel Arch Latt, a physician and geneticist, died of an apparent heart attack Sunday at his home in Newton, Mass. He was 49 years old. Samuel Arch Latt, a physician and geneticist, died of an apparent heart attack Sunday at his home in Newton, Mass. He was 49 years old.      
William C. Woolfson, retired administrator of the Poe Center of Bronx Community College and a founder of the United Federation of Teachers, died of a heart attack Sunday. He was pronounced dead on arrival at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville. He was 84 years old and lived in the Bronx. 
Benjamin C. Willis, who as Superintendent of Schools in Chicago in the 1960's was accused of perpetuating segregation by refusing to move black children into white schools, died at his home in Plantation, Fla., on Saturday, his family said yesterday. He was 86 years old. Benja
Irving Honigsberg, a real-estate lawyer, died of complications after surgery Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan. Irving Honigsberg, a real-estate lawyer, died of complications after surgery Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 80 years o
John F. Riordan, a mathematician and engineer who was on the technical staff of Bell Laboratories for 42 years and later taught at Rockefeller University, died of Alzheimer's disease Saturday at the Ocean Manor nursing home in Scituate, Mass., where he lived. He was 85 years old.     
Walter Foy Prude, who helped to direct the careers of Arthur Rubinstein, Marian Anderson, Isaac Stern and many other artists during his more than four decades in concert management, died of heart failure Monday at St. Vincent's Hospital after a long bout with emphysema. He was 78 year
