 Gosta Oldenburg, the Swedish Consul General and Dean of the Consular Corps in Chicago until his retirement in 1959, died last Tuesday at New York Hospital. He was 98 years old and lived in Manhattan in recent years. The cause of death was not immediately available. Mr. Olden
 Ralph E. Shikes, a publisher, an editor and the author of several books on art, died on Saturday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 79 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Lakeville, Conn. He died of cancer, said his wife, Ruth. As a writer, Mr. Shikes focused on t
 Tom Kahn, former international affairs director of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. and a longtime civil rights advocate, died on Saturday at his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 53 years old. Mr. Kahn died of complications resulting from AIDS, said a statement issued by the American Federation o
 Doug Roby of Ypsilanti, Mich., a high-ranking American amateur sports official for 50 years and a member of the International Olympic Committee for 32 years, died Tuesday in a nursing home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 94 years old. He died of heart failure, his family said. Do
 James H. Bell, a vice president of District 65 of the United Auto Workers who was active in New York City's union affairs and political campaigns, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 48 years old and lived in Mt. Vernon, N.Y. He died of lung
 Jean-Francois Daigre, the surviving partner in the Valerian Rybar & Daigre Design Corporation of New York and Paris, once one of the world's most expensive decorating and architectural design firms, died on Saturday in a hospital in Paris. He was 56 years old and lived in Paris. Mr.
 Lawrence Olson, a retired history professor and expert on Japan, died on March 17 at his home in Washington. He was 73 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. In 1987 Dr. Olson won Japan's Order of the Sacred Treasure, the highest honor given to foreigners, for promot
 The Rev. James R. Harvey, who founded a program that has given thousands of ex-convicts training and jobs in florist shops and other businesses, died on Monday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 47 years old and lived in Queens. He died of natural causes after a long illness,
 Wendell Mayes, who wrote the screenplays for "Anatomy of a Murder" and "Advise and Consent," died on Saturday at St. John's Hospital and Health Center in Santa Monica, Calif.  He was 72 years old and lived in Bel Air, Calif. He died of bone cancer, said his sister, Judith. M
 James H. Bell, a vice president of District 65 of the United Auto Workers who was active in New York City's union affairs and political campaigns, died on Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 48 years old and lived in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He died of
 Lord Havers, who as a prosecutor and Attorney General was involved in some of Britain's most controversial trials of the last 20 years, died on Wednesday in London. He was 69 years old. Lord Havers retired from Government service in 1987 because of ill health after serving only four
 Paul Henreid, the suave leading man who won screen immortality as the noble, Nazi-battling Resistance leader Victor Lazlo in the 1942 film classic "Casablanca," died on Sunday at Santa Monica Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 84 years old and lived in Pacific Palisades, Calif.        
 Elwood T. Driver, one of America's first black combat pilots and later a high-ranking safety official with two Federal transportation agencies, died March 26 at his home in Reston, Va. He was 70 years old. He died of liver cancer, his family said. President Jimmy Carter appo
 Dr. Henry Greenbaum, a retired psychoanalyst affiliated with New York City hospitals and colleges for nearly 40 years, died March 25 at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. He was 85 years old and lived in Boston, having moved there from Forest Hills, Queens after his retirement at the end of 19
 James Barrington, a former Burmese Ambassador to the United States and Canada and delegate to the United Nations, died on Monday in a hospital in Edmonton, Alberta. He was 80 years old and lived in Edmonton. His family said he died after a long illness. Mr. Barrington was bo
 John J. Feketie, the executive in charge of labor relations for the construction and operation of the Meadowlands racetrack and stadium, died on March 25 at his home in South Orange, N.J. He was 67 years old. He died after suffering a heart attack, his family said. Before wo
 John Kai Tien, an expert in high-temperature alloys who was director of the Strategic Materials R & D Laboratory at the University of Texas, died on March 24 at Seton Hospital in Austin. He was 52 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. Dr. Tien, who lived in Marble F
 Len Giovannitti, an award-winning writer and television film maker, died on March 27 at his home in Manhattan. He was 71 years old. He died of heart disease, said his fiancee, Dr. Vera Miller. Mr. Giovannitti won a Peabody award for his television work. He wrote, directed an
 Dr. Thomas Park, a zoologist who was instrumental in transforming the field of ecology into a science with quantification and controlled experiments, died Monday at his home in Chicago. He was 83 years old and died of cancer, his family said. Earlier, ecology, the study of t
 William Holland Drury, eminent ecologist and former research director of the Massachusetts Audubon Society, died on March 26 at his home in Bar Harbor, Me. He was 71 years old. He died of cancer, said Elena Tuhy, a spokeswoman for College of the Atlantic at Bar Harbor, where he taug
 Dr. Gerald L. Klerman, a psychiatrist and expert on depression who was a former chief of the Federal mental health agency, died on Friday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of kidney disease, his family said.
 Milton R. Rackmil, a co-founder of Decca Records and head of Universal Pictures for two decades, died on Thursday at the DeWitt Nursing Home in Manhattan. He was 86 years old. He died of a stroke, his family said. Mr. Rackmil was born on the Lower East Side and grew up in Br
 Richard M. Millard, who headed the national organization that coordinates the accreditation of all public and private educational institutions, died on Wednesday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 73 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md. Dr. Millard died of pneum
 Aaron Bohrod, a noted realist painter, died on Friday at his home in Madison, Wis. He was 84 years old. He died of liver cancer, his family said. Mr. Bohrod's work appeared widely, in magazines, galleries, museums and even the White House. He won numerous prizes and two Gugg
 Dr. Gerald L. Klerman, a psychiatrist and expert on depression who was a former chief of the Federal mental health agency, died on Friday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of kidney disease, his family said.
 James C. Olson, an early leader in the field of management consulting, died last Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of congestive heart failure, his family said. Mr. Olson joined Booz Allen & Hamilton, then a fled
 Sam Walton, the founder of Wal-Mart Stores Inc. and the most successful merchant of his time, died yesterday at the University of Arkansas Medical Sciences Hospital in Little Rock. He was 74 years old. A spokeswoman at the hospital, where Mr. Walton was admitted a week ago, said tha
 Bedford Cook, a retired professor of French, died Thursday at his home in Westport Point, Mass. He was 68 years old. His family said he died after a long illness. A 1945 graduate of Williams College in Williamstown, Mass., with a doctoral degree from Yale University, Profess
 Dr. Leland B. Jacobs, a professor of education emeritus at Teachers College, Columbia University, who was known nationally for his concepts of teaching literature to the very young, died on Saturday at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital. He was 85 years old and lived in Leonia, N.J. He died 
 Isaac Asimov, the pre-eminent popular-science writer of the day and for more than 40 years one of the best and best-known writers of science fiction, died yesterday at New York University Hospital. He was 72 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of heart and kidney failure, said
 Robert A. McCardell, a former dean of faculty and teacher at the Horace Mann School for 35 years, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. Before his appointment as dean of faculty in 1990, Mr. McCardell was the chairm
 Samuel Reshevsky, the Polish-born chess prodigy and grandmaster who astounded the world with his feats as a boy and dominated American chess for nearly four decades, died on Saturday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was 80 years old and lived in Spring Valley, N.Y. Mr.
 Stanley S. Scott, who served as an aide to two Presidents and was a vice president of Philip Morris U.S.A., died Saturday night in New Orleans. He was 59 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Scott, a former New York journalist, was special assistant to Presiden
 Howard S. McMorris, a retired New York lawyer, died on Sunday at the Princeton Medical Center in Princeton, N.J. He was 81 years old and lived in Princeton. He died after a brief illness, his family said. Mr. McMorris, a native of Philadelphia, graduated from the University 
 Prof. Philip Paul Wiener, who taught philosophy at City College and Temple University in Philadelphia, died Sunday at Memorial Mission Hospital in Asheville, N.C. He was 86 years old and lived in Asheville. His family said he died after a brief illness. A native of New York 
 Dr. Robert Anthony Martinez, an associate professor of black and Hispanic studies at Baruch College, the City University of New York, died on Friday at New York University Medical Center. He was 49 years old and lived in Brooklyn. A statement from Baruch said his death was AIDS rela
 Robert Deane Pharr, an author whose several novels included "The Book of Numbers," died last Wednesday at Upstate Medical Center in Syracuse. He was 75 years old and lived in Watertown, N.Y. He died during surgery for an aneurysm, his family said. "The Book of Numbers," abou
 Sewell Sillman, a painter, art teacher and print publisher, died on Sunday at his home in Lyme, Conn. He was 67 years old. He died of cancer, said his companion, James McNair. In the art world, Mr. Sillman was acclaimed for the technically accomplished print editions of the 
 Clovis Ruffin, an award-winning fashion designer, died on Tuesday at the Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 46 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of complications from AIDS, a family spokesman said. Mr. Ruffin had his first major show of a collection in 1972, and th
 Earl Bernard Doolin, a co-founder of the Frito Company, died April 1 at the South Place nursing home in Athens, Tex. He was 86 years old and lived in on his ranch near Montalba in East Texas. He died of a stroke and a heart attack, his family said. Mr. Doolin, his brother El
 Joseph Patelson, the owner of the Joseph Patelson Music House, died on Friday at the Isabella Geriatric Center in Manhattan, where he was being treated after a stroke. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan. Patelson's is known to musicians around the world, and for decades has 
 Thomas M. Kirwan, the executive vice president and chief financial officer of the Equitable Life Assurance Society of the United States, died on Monday at his home in Franklin Lakes, N.J. He was 52 years old. The apparent cause of death was a heart attack, his family said. M
 Dr. William Edward Cadbury Jr., former executive director of National Medical Fellowships Inc. in Manhattan, died on Tuesday at his home in Kendal-at-Longwood, a retirement community in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 82 years old and previously lived in New York and in Haverford, Pa. Hi
 Rabbi Bernhard N. Cohn, who served 25 years as the rabbi of Congregation Habonim in Manhattan, died on Tuesday at Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 68 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of heart disease, his family said. The son of a rabbi, he was born in Bonn, 
 Dr. Herman F. Mark, a chemist who was a leader in research on polymers, giant long-chain molecules used in plastics and other materials affecting nearly all facets of life, died Monday in Austin, Tex. He was 96 years old and moved to Texas two years ago from Brooklyn, where he was dean emer
 Frank P. Clair, a co-founder of the Circle Line boat excursions for Manhattan and the Statue of Liberty and Ellis Island ferry company, died on March 31 at his home in Port Salerno, Fla. He was 90 years old. He had been in declining health and had suffered several heart attacks, his
 Dr. W. Paul Havens Jr., a medical professor and researcher of viral hepatitis and cirrhosis, died Monday at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 80 years old and died of heart disease, his family said. While serving with the United States Army Medical Corps in World War II, Dr.
 The Rev. Robert T. Taylor, a former general secretary of the American Bible Society, died on Sunday at Westminster Gardens Health Center in Duarte, Calif. He was 87 years old and lived in Duarte. Mr. Taylor worked at the society's national headquarters in Manhattan from 1949 until h
 Daniele Bovet, the Swiss-born Nobel Prize-winning pharmacologist who discovered the first antihistamine and created important muscle-relaxing drugs from curare, died Wednesday in Rome. He was 85 years old. Dr. Bovet died of cancer, the Associated Press quoted officials of the Lincei
 Dr. Frank M. Lapeyrolerie, a former dean of the dental school at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, died on Tuesday at East Orange General Hospital in New Jersey. He was 62 years old and lived in Montclair, N.J. He died of a stroke, his family said. Dr. 
 Frank J. Brennan, a retired New York advertising executive, died on Wednesday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 66 years old and lived in Jackson Heights, Queens. A friend, William Ivey, said lung cancer caused his death. Philadelphia-born, Mr. Brennan graduated from 
 Kenneth L. Dawson, a leader and adviser of gay and lesbian and AIDS organizations, died on Thursday at New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 45 years old and lived in Brooklyn. He died of complications from AIDS, said Jed Mattes, a friend. Mr. Dawson was on
 Konstantin Sergeyev, a former director of the Kirov Ballet who was also one of Soviet ballet's leading male stars through the 1950's, died on April 1 in St. Petersburg, Russia. He was 82 years old. Mr. Sergeyev had complained of fatigue and entered a hospital, said Anna-Marie Holmes
 Philip E. Burnham, a retired teacher, headmaster and adviser to the College Entrance Examination Board, died Thursday at his home in Hopkinton, N.H. He was 79 years old and died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Burnham worked at St. Paul's School in Concord, N.H., from 1946 to 1978 a
 Pierrepont Trowbridge Noyes, longtime head of Oneida Ltd., the company that started as a religious commune and today considers itself the world's largest tableware maker, died on Wednesday at his home in Oneida, N.Y. He was 78 years old. He died of multiple natural causes, his famil
 Arthur Nelson, a retired art professor, died April 4 at his home in Spring Valley, N.Y. He was 79 years old. He died of a lung ailment, his family said. For 32 years Mr. Nelson taught design, drawing, painting, art history and art education at City College in Manhattan.     
 Dr. Judson K. Albaugh, a retired psychiatrist and mental health administrator, died on Friday when he collapsed and fell into Cayuga Lake in New York while fishing on the shore. He was 66 years old and lived in Binghamton. His death was caused by a heart attack, his family said.    
 Sam Kinison, a former tent preacher who gained fame as a shrieking and often insulting stand-up comedian, was killed Friday night in a head-on automobile crash on a desert highway near Needles, Calif. He was 38 years old and lived in the Hollywood hills in Los Angeles. Mr. K
 Dr. Benjamin M. Parker, who had a four-fold career as an engineer, rabbi, corporate lawyer and government official, died on Saturday at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 92 years old. He died of cerebral arteriosclerosis, his family said. Born in Warsaw, he came to the Unite
 Charles Arthur Russell Jr., a cellist, vocalist and composer who was known for his fusion of classical and popular music, died on April 4 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 40 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of AIDS, said Tom Lee, his companion. Mr. 
 Dr. Harry G. Burks Jr., a retired executive of the old Standard Oil Company in New Jersey, died on Wednesday at the Meadow Lakes Retirement Community in Hightstown, N.J. A longtime resident of Hillside, N.J., and Madison, Conn., he was 92 years old. He died after a brief illness, hi
 Herman Cherry, an abstract painter who was a contemporary and friend of the vanguard Abstract Expressionist artists, died on Friday, his 83d birthday, at his home in Manhattan. He died of complications from heart and liver disease, said his wife, the former Regina Kremer. Kn
 Martin Williams, one of jazz's most influential critics and advocates, died over the weekend at his home in Washington. He was 67 years old. He was found dead about 2 A.M. yesterday. He died of complications from the flu after being ill with cancer for some time, said his former wif
 Dr. Peter Hobart Knapp, a Massachusetts psychiatrist noted for his research in psychosomatic medicine, died last Tuesday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 75 years old. The death was caused by a brain tumor, his family said. Psychosomatic medicine depicts emotions and p
 Dixon Coale Philips, a former Mayor of Plainfield, N.J., died on Sunday at the Meadow Lakes Health Care Center, a retirement community in Hights town, N.J. He was 97 years old. Mr. Philips, a former resident of Plainfield and Weston, Vt., graduated from Cornell University in 1916. H
 Donald Davis, a playwright, producer and director for the theater, radio and television, died on March 28 at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 88 years old. He died of a heart attack, said his wife, Thebe Bell Davis. Mr. Davis was born in New York City. His father was the 
 Dr. John Joseph Weber, emeritus professor of clinical psychiatry at the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, died on Sunday near his home in Connecticut. He was 72 years old and lived in Manhattan and Deep River, Conn. A statement by the college said he died of a
 Richard Pommer, an architectural historian whose writings linked modernist design to its social and political context, died on Friday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of brain cancer, said his wife, the art h
 Dr. A. Gregory Jameson, emeritus professor of clinical medicine at the College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia University, and former director of cardiology at Roosevelt Hospital, died on March 26 at his home in Manhattan. He was 77 years old. He died after a long illness rel
 Henry Hurwitz Jr., a research physicist who worked on plans for the hydrogen bomb and later helped develop nuclear power plants, died on Tuesday at his home in Schenectady, N.Y. He was 73 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. Dr. Hurwitz worked on the bomb at the Lo
 James Brennand, a former principal bassist with the New York City Opera Orchestra and a member of the New York City Ballet Orchestra, died on Saturday at Benedictine Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. He was 69 years old and lived in Shady, N.Y. He died of an aneurysm, said Susan Woelzl, di
 The Rev. Marshall Moran, an American-born priest regarded as the pioneer of modern education in Nepal, has died at the age of 85, his school announced today. Father Moran, a Jesuit who spent more than 40 years in the Himalayan Hindu kingdom, died in a New Delhi hospital on Tuesday n
 Dr. Martin W. Donner, a leader in radiology and in swallowing disorders, died on Monday at Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 71 years old and lived in Ruxton, Md. He died of complications after a heart transplant, his family said. Dr. Donner headed the radiology de
 Sammy Price, a jazz pianist whose career began in the 1920's, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83 years old. He died of a heart attack, said his granddaughter, Brenda Bonelli. Mr. Price was an exceptional pianist whose playing, rooted in blues and boogie-woog
 Vakhtang Mikhailovich Chabukiani, a Soviet ballet master and choreographer and one of the great dancers of his generation, died on April 5 in Tbilisi, Georgia. He was 82 years old. He had had heart trouble for some time, The Independent reported in London. Mr. Chabukiani emb
 Charles P. Ginsburg, an electrical and radio engineer who played a pivotal role in the development of videotape recording, died on April 9 at Sacred Heart Hospital in Eugene, Ore. He was 71 years old and moved to Eugene from the San Francisco area, his longtime home, two years ago. 
 Deane Keller, a portrait painter and former professor of art at Yale University, died on Sunday at the Whitney Center, a medical unit in Hamden, Conn. He was 90 years old and lived in Hamden. He died of pneumonia and complications from hypertension, said his son, Deane G. Keller.   
 James Ford, a sculptor and print maker, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 45 years old. He died of AIDS, said his companion, Peter Reed. Mr. Ford was known for austere sculptures that made use of a wide range of materials: glass, water, steel and copper. Recen
 Nicholas Edwards, a designer who specialized in murals, died on Thursday in his home in Manhattan. He was 42 years old. Mr. Edwards died of complications from AIDS, said Louise Crandell, his business partner. Mr. Edwards was a partner in Serpentine Studio of New York City, w
 Stanley H. Klein, an architect who specialized in housing developments, died on Sunday at Long Island Jewish Hospital in New Hyde Park, L.I. He was 83 years old and lived in Queens. He died of a stroke, said his wife, Audrey. Mr. Klein had his own architecture firm and desig
 Walter D. Engels, the first news director at WPIX television and an innovator in that field, died on Sunday at his home in Hampton Bays, L.I. He was 80 years old. He died of lung cancer, his family said. Mr. Engels worked as a photographer at The Daily News beginning in 1934
 Anthony G. DePalma, retired president of the world's leading banana company, died last Sunday at his home in Chester, N.H. He was 73 years old. He died of prostate cancer, his family said. Mr. DePalma had been president of the United Fruit Group, the largest grower, shipper 
 Peter Jay Sharp, a leading Manhattan hotelier and real-estate developer, died on Friday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 61 years old and lived in Manhattan and Edgartown, Mass. He died of melanoma, his family said. Mr. Sharp owned the Carlyle Hotel, at 35 
 Arthur C. Stern, a scientist and government official who pioneered in identifying air pollution as a major threat and in mobilizing efforts to combat it, died Friday at the Carolina Meadows Retirement Center in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 83 years old. Mr. Stern died of a heart attack,
 Joseph B. Williams, a retired judge, former head of New York City's Family and Criminal Courts and a top official in the Lindsay administration, died on Wednesday at Sentara Hampton General Hospital in Hampton, Va. He was 70 years old and had moved to Hampton this year from Brooklyn.       
 Neville Brand, a World War II hero who capitalized on his rough-hewn features in dozens of tough-guy roles in movies and television, died Thursday at Sutter General Hospital in Sacramento, Calif. He was 71 years old and lived in Sacramento. A spokeswoman for the Sacramento County Co
 Arthur C. Stern, a scientist and government official who pioneered in identifying air pollution as a major threat and in mobilizing efforts to combat it, died Friday at the Carolina Meadows Retirement Center in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 83 years old. Mr. Stern died of a heart attack,
 Maurice Sauve, a former Canadian Cabinet member and advocate for the French-speaking residents of Quebec, died on April 13 at his home in Montreal. He was 68 years old and died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Sauve, a member of the Liberal Party, was elected to the House of Commons 
 Prince Teymuraz Bagration, who escaped the Russian Revolution, became a Yugoslav official in World War II, then headed international relief efforts for political refugees for 43 years, died on April 10 at his home in Manhattan.  He was 79 years old. He died of a heart attack, his wi
 Benny Hill, the English television comedian whose mischievous grin and cherubic looks somehow made him a master of double-entendre, British bawdy style, and ultimately gained him a kind of international cult status, was found dead last night at his home in southwest London. He was 67 years 
 Byron King Callan, a founding member of the Manhattan law firm of Cichanowicz, Callan & Keane, died on Friday at Huntington Hospital in Huntington, L.I. He was 77 years old and lived in Cold Spring Harbor, L.I. His family said he died of leukemia. Mr. Callan, a native of Man
 Edward F. Fry, an art historian, a curator and a critic who specialized in 20th-century art, died on Friday at his home in Gladwyne, Pa. He was 56 years old. He died of a heart attack, said his wife, Sandra Ericson Fry. Mr. Fry, who was born on May 6, 1935, in Philadelphia, 
 Vincent Harris Jefferds, a creative marketing executive in the Walt Disney organization for three decades, died April 12 at his home in Los Angeles. He was 75 years old. A statement from Disney Consumer Products, a division of the Walt Disney Company in Burbank, Calif., said he died
 Timothy Tyson Ruttenber, a songwriter, poet and performance artist who used the stage name Deacon Lunchbox, died on Sunday in an automobile collision near Greenville, Ala. He was 41 years old and lived in Atlanta. Mr. Ruttenber had performed on Saturday night in Pensacola, Fla., wit
 Dr. Bernard Jacobs, an orthopedic surgeon and clinical professor at Cornell University Medical College who was an authority on the spine, died on Sunday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 68 years old. Dr. Jacobs died of heart failure, said his wife, Ingrid. An expert 
 Gaylord Donnelley, patriarch of the Chicago printing family and a well-known conservationist, died in his sleep on Sunday at his Ashepoo Plantation in eastern South Carolina. He was 81 years old, and his principal residence was in Libertyville, Ill., a suburb of Chicago. He died of 
 Grand Duke Vladimir Kirillovich Romanov, who would have been heir to the throne of the czars if imperial Russia still existed, died suddenly during a news conference in Miami yesterday. He was 74 years old. The Grand Duke, a direct descendant of Czar Alexander II, who ruled from 185
 Dr. Howard Sylvester Ellis, an economist of the post-World War II era and professor emeritus of economics at the University of California at Berkeley, died Wednesday at the Rosscare Convalescent Center in Capitola, Calif., near San Jose. He was 93 years old. His family said he died 
 Brian Shaw, a leading dancer with the Royal Ballet in London in the 1950's and 60's, died on April 2 at the age of 63 in a hospital in London. Mr. Shaw died after an undisclosed illness of several months. Mr. Shaw was known as a brilliant classicist, a dancer who combined cl
 Dr. Gerald Feinberg, a physicist with diverse interests who taught at Columbia University for more than 30 years, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 58 years old. He died of cancer, his wife, Barbara Jane Feinberg, said. Dr. Feinberg joined the faculty at Colum
 Gian Carlo Wick, a theoretical physicist whose work contributed to understanding of the symmetries underlying the universe, died on Monday in a hospital in Turin, Italy, his native city. Dr. Wick, who was 82 years old, had returned to Italy after retiring as professor of physics at 
 Vaino Linna, author of "The Unknown Soldier," a novel dealing with Finland's 1941-44 war with the Soviet Union, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Kangasala, a small town in central Finland. He was 71 years old. As is customary in Finland, hospital officials would not disclose the cau
 William O. Beers, who began as a part-time cheese maker and became president and board chairman of Kraft, one of the world's largest food companies, died on Sunday at Scottsdale Memorial Hospital North in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 77 years old and lived in Wilmette, Ill. He also had a winter
 Rear Adm. William J. Whiteside, who ferried Allied units across the Rhine in 1945 and then followed Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, his Commander-in-Chief, to Columbia University to manage its physical upkeep, died on Monday in a nursing home outside London. He was 90 years old. He died 
 David Fallek, a retired lawyer and New York City Police Inspector, died on Wednesday at North Broward Medical Center in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 77 years old and lived in Pompano Beach. He died of cancer, his family said. Mr. Fallek served 30 years on the police force, the
 Dr. Feza Gursey, an award-winning physicist and a retired Yale University professor, died April 13 at Yale-New Haven Hospital in New Haven. He was 71 years old and lived in Hamden, Conn. He died of cancer, a family friend said. Dr. Gursey, who taught at Yale from 1965 to 199
 George F. Dales Jr., an archeologist who helped unlock the mysteries of the ancient Indus River Valley civilization, died last Saturday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 64 years old. He died from cancer, said an official of the University of California at Berkeley, where Dr. D
 James L. Yassky, a founding member of the Lesbian and Gay Law Association of Greater New York, died on Saturday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 40 years old. The cause of death was asthma, his companion, George Piette, said. Mr. Yassky, a partner in the New York firm of Yass
 Satyajit Ray, the versatile and prolific Indian film maker whose "Apu" trilogy of a childhood, youth and manhood in Bengal was one of the most luminous series in film history, died yesterday in Calcutta. He was 70 years old. Mr. Ray (his name was pronounced satya-JIT RAY) received a
 Armando Balloffet, who had a career ranging over five decades as a hydraulics engineer, teacher and consultant on three continents, died on Thursday at the Westchester County Medical Center in Valhalla, N.Y. He was 74 years old and had lived in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., since 1955. 
 Dewey Albert, the co-founder of Coney Island's Astroland amusement park and later the operator of its popular Cyclone roller coaster ride, died Wednesday in Miami, Fla. Mr. Albert was 84 years old. He lived in Brooklyn and had a winter home in Lauderhill, Fla. He died of cancer, a f
 Dr. Joseph Laval, an ophthalmologist for 63 years and a leader in that specialty, died on Tuesday while walking near his home in Manhattan. He was 90 years old. He died of heart failure, his family said. Dr. Laval founded the eye pathology departments at the Manhattan Eye, E
 Robert M. Ganger, a leader in advertising who was instrumental in introducing diet soda and who also popularized filtered cigarettes when he headed a major tobacco company, died on Thursday at his home in Gulfstream, Fla. He was 88 years old and died of respiratory failure, his fami
 Ralph F. Batch, a pioneer in the development of state lotteries, died on Monday at the Northfield Manor Nursing Home in West Orange, N.J. He was 79 years old and lived in Short Hills, N.J. He died of complications from a stroke, his family said. Mr. Batch, known as the dean 
 Robert W. Bechtel, a retired Dun & Bradstreet executive, died on April 15 at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 68 years old and lived in Ridgewood, N.J. He died of complications after surgery, his physician said. In his 40-year career at the company, 
 Jack Dunphy, a novelist and playwright who was the author Truman Capote's closest friend and companion for 35 years, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77 years old, and lived in Manhattan and in Sagaponack, L.I. He died of cancer, his family said.        
 Jack Mintz, a leader in the garment industry in the 1930's and 1940's and a real-estate executive until he retired at the age of 95, died on Tuesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 97 years old and lived in Manhattan. He died of pneumonia, his family said.
 Richard E. Gerstein, the longtime prosecutor in Dade County, Fla., who uncovered the first direct links between the Watergate burglary and the White House of President Richard M. Nixon, died early yesterday morning in Miami. He was 68 years old. Mr. Gerstein suffered a heart attack 
 William T. Gardner, the producing director of the Pittsburgh Public Theater for the last eight years, died on Friday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 57 years old. Mr. Gardner died of a heart attack, said Rob Zellers, a spokesman for the theater. Mr. Gardner brought to the 
 William Seamon, one of America's leading bridge players, died Saturday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Miami Beach, Fla. He was 74 years old and lived in Miami Beach. He was suffering from the effects of a stroke, said his sister, Edith Kemp Freilich. Mr. Seamon, known throughout
 Dr. Charles Howard Kline, an international consultant to manufacturers of chemicals and related products, died on Thursday at his home in Kinnelon, N.J. He was 73 years old. He died of prostate cancer, his family said. A marketing consultant specializing in product strategy,
 John DeVries, the lyricist, designer and illustrator, died on April 17 at Methodist Hospital in Houston. He was 76 years old and lived in New York City. He died of complications after exploratory surgery, said a friend, Hank O'Neal. The first of Mr. DeVries's many collaborat
 Milton Rosenstock, a music director who worked in theater and ballet, died on April 24 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 74 years old in Manhattan. He died of heart disease, said a spokesman for Dance Theater of Harlem, where Mr. Rosenstock had been principal con
 Myron S. (Johnny) Falk Jr., an investment banker, philanthropist and prominent collector of Asian art, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 85 years old. He died of cancer, his family said. His first trip to China in 1937 prompted Mr. Falk to start his collection.
 Raymond Reisler, a former New York State Supeme Court judge and a past president of the Brooklyn Bar Association, died on Friday at New York Hospital. He was 84 years old and lived in Neponsit, N.Y. He died of a stroke, said his son, Raymond Jr. Judge Reisler's career as a p
 Richard E. Gerstein, the longtime prosecutor in Dade County, Fla., who uncovered the first direct links between the Watergate burglary and the White House of President Richard M. Nixon, died early Sunday in Miami. He was 68 years old. Mr. Gerstein suffered a heart attack and was dea
 Rear Adm. Armand Malcolm Morgan, retired, who supervised the design and construction of the nation's submarine fleet in World War II and later had charge of the design of Navy ships, died Saturday at the Falmouth-by-the-Sea convalescent home in Falmouth, Me. He was 90 years old and had live
 Francis Bacon, the Irish-born painter whose abstract images of psychological and physical brutality made him one of the most exalted, and most disliked, artists of the postwar era, died yesterday at a hospital in Madrid. He was 82 years old and lived in London. He died of a heart at
 Gerard K. O'Neill, a professor emeritus of physics at Princeton University, died on Monday at the Sequoia Medical Center in Redwood, Calif. He was 69 years old. He died of complications from leukemia, said Betty Graeber, a spokeswoman for the Space Studies Institute that Dr. O'Neill
 Morris I. Leibman, a senior partner in the Chicago law firm of Sidley & Austin, died of cancer on April 21 at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 81 years old. Mr. Leibman was the driving force behind the 1972 merger of his former firm, Leibman, Williams, Bennett, Bair
 Olivier Messiaen, one of the most important and influential French composers of the 20th century, died in his sleep on Monday evening at the Beaujon Hospital in Paris. He was 83 years old and lived in Paris. A spokesman for the French Culture Ministry said that Mr. Messiaen died aft
 Dr. Paul V. Lemkau, a psychiatrist and health administrator who was a leading advocate of treating mental health problems in community settings, died on Sunday at his home in the Chesapeake Bay town of Lusby, Md. He was 82 years old. He died of pneumonia, his family said. Dr
 Kevin Kennedy, a former advertising executive in Manhattan and a longtime resident of Princeton, N.J., and Vineyard Haven, Mass., died of a heart attack last Thursday while working in the garden of his home on Martha's Vineyard. He was 67 years old. A native of Buffalo, Mr. Kennedy 
