Harold A. Rousselot, a retired investment banker and commodity trader, died of cancer Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 years old. Harold A. Rousselot, a retired investment banker and commodity trader, died of cancer Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 80 year
Harry Green, a retired New Jersey lawyer, died of heart failure Monday at the University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center. He was 94 years old and lived in Los Angeles, where he moved in 1986. Harry Green, a retired New Jersey lawyer, died of heart failure Monday at
Leo Steiner, co-owner of the Carnegie Deli, who was renowned for his celebrated corned beef as well as his cornball kosher humor, died of complications from a brain tumor yesterday at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 48 years old and lived in Manhattan.       
Philip H. Weinberg, a lawyer who served as appointments secretary to two governors of New York, died of leukemia Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 58 years old and lived in Manhattan. Philip H. Weinberg, a lawyer who served as appointment
Raeburn Van Buren, a cartoonist and illustrator, died Tuesday at North Shore Community Hospital in Manhasset, L.I., after suffering an injury in a fall. He was 96 years old and lived in Great Neck, L.I. Raeburn Van Buren, a cartoonist and illustrator, died Tuesday at North Sho
Sheldon Andelson, a leader in the gay community and a fund-raiser for such politicians as Senator Edward M. Kennedy and Walter F. Mondale, died Tuesday of complications from AIDS. He was 56 years old. A member of the University of California Board of Regents and the founder of the Ban
Wilbur Schramm, an authority on mass communications who was the author of 30 books, died Sunday at his home in Honolulu. He was 80 years old. Wilbur Schramm, an authority on mass communications who was the author of 30 books, died Sunday at his home in Honolulu. He was 80 year
Anthony V. Barber, a former headmaster of preparatory schools in the New York metropolitan region, died of bronchial pneumonia Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. Mr. Barber, who had been ill with cancer, was 83 years old and also lived in Tuxedo Park, N.Y. Anthony V. Barber, 
Merle Evans, the ''Toscanini of the Big Top'' who for 50 years thrilled crowds as he led the blaring band of the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus, died Thursday in Sarasota, Fla., the winter home of the circus. He was 96 years old. Merle Evans, the ''Toscanini of t
Fletcher F. Acord, the third-ranking official in the United States Postal Service, died today of a cerebral hemorrhage, a Postal Service spokesman said. He was 56 years old. Fletcher F. Acord, the third-ranking official in the United States Postal Service, died today of a cere
Joseph Sittler, a Lutheran theologian known for his work on religion and ecology, died of cancer Dec. 28 at his home in Chicago. He was 83 years old. Joseph Sittler, a Lutheran theologian known for his work on religion and ecology, died of cancer Dec. 28 at his home in Chicago
Arthur J. Lumsden, a former head of the Greater Hartford Chamber of Commerce and chairman of the publishing house of Dodd, Mead & Company, died of lung cancer Sunday at Bethesda Memorial Hospital in Boynton Beach, Fla. He was 68 years old and lived in Delray Beach, Fla., and West Hart
Dr. Max Siegel, a New York psychotherapist for many years, died of a heart attack Friday at Boca Raton (Fla.) Community Hospital. He was 69 years old and lived in Boca Raton. Dr. Max Siegel, a New York psychotherapist for many years, died of a heart attack Friday at Boca Raton
Gaston Eyskens, a former Prime Minister of Belgium, who led six Governments during a period that spanned 24 years, died at his home in Louvain on Sunday. He was 82 years old. Gaston Eyskens, a former Prime Minister of Belgium, who led six Governments during a period that spann
Julius S. Impellizzeri, a lawyer and business executive who helped investigate police corruption in New York City, died Wednesday at Roosevelt Hospital after a long illness. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan and Cold Spring, N.Y. Julius S. Impellizzeri, a lawyer and b
Rolf Presthus, chairman of the Conservative Party and a former Finance Minister, died of a cerebral hemorrhage Friday, his family said. He was 51 years old. Rolf Presthus, chairman of the Conservative Party and a former Finance Minister, died of a cerebral hemorrhage Friday, h
Salah Hindawy, a senior Egyptian diplomat who took part in efforts to resolve a border dispute with Israel, died of a heart attack Sunday in Kuwait. He was 48 years old. Salah Hindawy, a senior Egyptian diplomat who took part in efforts to resolve a border dispute with Israel,
William J. Cagney, a brother of James Cagney and the producer of such films as ''The Time of Your Life'' and ''Kiss Tomorrow Goodbye,'' died of a heart attack Sunday at Hoag Memorial Hospital here. He was 82 years old. William J. Cagney, a brother of James Cagney and the produ
Alan Sweetser, founder and president of Compass Inc., which helped corporate managers who lost their jobs find new ones, died of a heart attack Nov. 16 at St. Mary's Hospital in Minneapolis. He was 59 years old and lived in Minneapolis. Alan Sweetser, founder and president of 
George Grayson Tyler, a former head of the tax department of the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore and a former president of the University Club, died of a heart attack Monday. He was 81 years old and lived in Manhattan and in West Redding, Conn. George Grayson Tyler, a form
Harold Matson, a literary agent who represented Evelyn Waugh, C. S. Forester, Arthur Koestler, Malcolm Lowry and William Saroyan, died yesterday at Cabrini Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 89 years old. Harold Matson, a literary agent who represented Evelyn Waugh, C. S. For
Henrique de Souza Filho, a prominent Brazilian cartoonist better known locally as Henfil, died here from pneumonia and other AIDS-related complications Monday. He was 43 years old. Henrique de Souza Filho, a prominent Brazilian cartoonist better known locally as Henfil, died h
John S. Millis, chancellor emeritus of Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, died of cancer Friday at his home in Cleveland Heights, Ohio. He was 84 years old. John S. Millis, chancellor emeritus of Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland, died of cancer Friday at
Jon Miles Kurtis, foreign sales executive with Manley Productions Inc., New York film producers, died in his sleep Sunday at his home in Woodstock, Vt. An autopsy is planned to determine the cause of death. He was 32 years old. Jon Miles Kurtis, foreign sales executive with Ma
Pete Maravich, the leading career and single-season scorer in major college basketball history, died yesterday in Pasadena, Calif., after suffering an apparent heart attack while playing in a pickup game. He was 40 years old. Pete Maravich, the leading career and single-season
Saday Courville, who played second fiddle on the first known Cajun record in 1928 and was one of the last links with the ''pure'' sounds of the Acadian heritage, died of heart failure Sunday. He was 82 years old. Saday Courville, who played second fiddle on the first known Caj
Solomon Telushkin, an accountant, died of a stroke Dec. 24 in his home in Brooklyn. He was 81 years old. Solomon Telushkin, an accountant, died of a stroke Dec. 24 in his home in Brooklyn. He was 81 years old. Born near Minsk, in the Soviet Union, he emigrated to New Y
Stuart Z. Perlman, who with his brother founded Caesars World Inc., a chain of opulent gambling casinos and hotels, and then severed ties with it amid charges of ties to suspected organized-crime figures, died of a heart attack Monday at the North Miami Medical Center in North Miami B
Alan Sweetser, founder and president of Compass Inc., which helped corporate managers who lost their jobs find new ones, died of a heart attack Nov. 16 at St. Mary's Hospital in Minneapolis. He was 59 years old and lived in Minneapolis. Alan Sweetser, founder and president of 
Bruce J. Bergman, a former library director at Pace University, died last Sunday at the Yale-New Haven Medical Center. He was 55 years old and lived in New Haven. Bruce J. Bergman, a former library director at Pace University, died last Sunday at the Yale-New Haven Medical Cen
David C. Sutherland, vice president of Home Line Cruises Inc., died of pneumonia Saturday at St. Barnabas Hospital in Livingston, N.J. He was 63 years old and lived in West Orange, N.J. David C. Sutherland, vice president of Home Line Cruises Inc., died of pneumonia Saturday a
Harold M. Lane, former chairman of the Lerner Stores Corporation, died of a stroke Friday at his country home in Byram, Conn. He was 96 years and lived in Manhattan. Harold M. Lane, former chairman of the Lerner Stores Corporation, died of a stroke Friday at his country home i
James H. Walker, a former vice president of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation, died of cancer Dec. 31 in Hobe Sound, Fla. He was 80 years old and lived in Hawley, Pa. James H. Walker, a former vice president of the Bethlehem Steel Corporation, died of cancer Dec. 31 in Hobe Soun
Mark J. Rozance, deputy director of the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, died of leukemia Tuesday at the New York University Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 36 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mark J. Rozance, deputy director of the Metropolitan Transportation Autho
Patrick Dolan, a retired international advertising executive, died Dec. 31 as a result of a stroke at St. Joseph's Hospital in Baltimore, Md. He was 76 years old and had residences in Manhattan and Much Hadham, England. Patrick Dolan, a retired international advertising execut
A. Hawley Peterson, a retired New York investment counselor and stockbroker, died Monday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 83 years old. A. Hawley Peterson, a retired New York investment counselor and stockbroker, died Monday at his home in Naples, Fla. He was 83 years old.  
Dr. Bern Dibner, a science historian and founder of the Burndy Corporation, manufacturer of electrical and electronic equipment, died in his sleep Tuesday night at his home in Wilton, Conn. He was 90 years old. Dr. Bern Dibner, a science historian and founder of the Burndy Cor
Bernard Krauss, former president of Esquire Inc., an educational and music publisher, died of cancer Jan. 4 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 58 years old and lived in Rye, N.Y. Bernard Krauss, former president of Esquire Inc., an educational and m
Bob Eddy, a former editor and publisher of The Hartford Courant, died Monday at his home in Glastonbury, Conn. He was 70 years old. Bob Eddy, a former editor and publisher of The Hartford Courant, died Monday at his home in Glastonbury, Conn. He was 70 years old. Mr. E
Gunnar Engellau, the Swedish industrialist who built the Volvo company into a major international automobile maker, died Tuesday in a nursing home in Goteborg, where he lived. He was 80 years old. Gunnar Engellau, the Swedish industrialist who built the Volvo company into a ma
Jules-Francois Crahay, a Belgian designer who began working as a couturier in Paris in the early 1950's, died of a heart attack Tuesday in Monte Carlo. He was 70 years old.  Mr. Crahay retired in 1984 from the House of Lanvin, where he had worked for 20 years. Before that, he worked f
Trevor Howard, the gravelly-voiced actor who made a career of playing English officers and gentlemen in his more than 70 motion pictures, died yesterday. He was 71 years old. Trevor Howard, the gravelly-voiced actor who made a career of playing English officers and gentlemen i
William C. Brennan, a former advertising executive, died of cancer of the colon and liver Tuesday at Fairview Hospital in Great Barrington, Mass. He was 75 years old and lived in Great Barrington. William C. Brennan, a former advertising executive, died of cancer of the colon 
Al Barabas, the Columbia halfback who scored the game's only touchdown in the famous 7-0 upset of Stanford in the 1934 Rose Bowl, died of cancer Thursday at his home in Rockville, Md. He was 77 years old.  He made other runs, he scored other touchdowns, and he later became one of Colu
Dan J. Bradley, a former president of the Legal Services Corporation who later became a leading advocate for gay rights, died of AIDS today at Doctors Hospital in Coral Gables, Fla., He was 47 years old and lived in Miami. Dan J. Bradley, a former president of the Legal Servic
Frederick Hammond Kelley Jr., a retired partner in the accounting firm of Peat Marwick Main & Company, died of emphysema Wednesday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Savannah, Ga. He was 69 years old and lived in Hilton Head, S.C. Frederick Hammond Kelley Jr., a retired partner in th
Michael N. Taylor, director of Indian education programs for the Association of American Indian Affairs, died of pnuemonia Tuesday at the Washington Adventist Hospital in Tacoma, Md. He was 47 years old and lived on Staten Island. Michael N. Taylor, director of Indian educatio
Robert Barrios, a copy editor for The New York Times and former Foreign Service officer, died Thursday at the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 33 years old and lived in Manhattan. Robert Barrios, a copy editor for The New York Times and former Foreign Service offic
Robert U. Redpath Jr., an advisor to corporations for pension and estate planning, died Dec. 28 at his home in South Orange, N.J., after a long illness. He was 81 years old. Mr. Redpath graduated from Yale College and was associated with several life-insurance companies. Rober
William L. Ryan, a retired special correspondent for The Associated Press, died yesterday after heart surgery at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 77 years old and lived in Greenwich. William L. Ryan, a retired special correspondent for The Associated Press, died yesterday af
Frank Pace Jr., a former Secretary of the Army and the first chairman of the Corporation for Public Broadcasting, died of a heart attack Friday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 75 years old and lived in Greenwich. Frank Pace Jr., a former Secretary of the Army and the fir
Harold Brayman, an author and retired director of public relations at the Du Pont Company, died of heart failure Sunday at his home in Wilmington, Del. He was 87 years old. Harold Brayman, an author and retired director of public relations at the Du Pont Company, died of heart
James V. Siena, a former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense and an executive at the American Institute of Architects, died of cancer last Sunday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 55 years old and lived in Washington. James V. Siena, a former Deputy Ass
Melvin H. Worth Sr., retired president and chairman of Cosmopolitan Mutual Insurance Company, died of cancer of the colon Thursday in Staten Island Hospital. He was 84 years old and lived in Deerfield Beach, Fla. Melvin H. Worth Sr., retired president and chairman of Cosmopoli
Dr. Randolph K. Byers, a Milton, Mass., pediatrician and child neurologist, died of cardiac arrest Tuesday. He was 91 years old. Dr. Randolph K. Byers, a Milton, Mass., pediatrician and child neurologist, died of cardiac arrest Tuesday. He was 91 years old. Dr. Byers w
Russell O. Blosser, senior vice president of the National Council of the Paper Industry for Air and Stream Improvement, died of a heart attack Dec. 29 in Denver. He was 63 years old and lived in Norwalk, Conn. Russell O. Blosser, senior vice president of the National Council o
Edward V. Hickey Jr., chairman of the Federal Maritime Commission since 1985, died unexpectedly of heart failure on Saturday at his home in Falls Church, Va. He was 52 years old. Edward V. Hickey Jr., chairman of the Federal Maritime Commission since 1985, died unexpectedly of
Gregory (Pappy) Boyington, the Marine flying ace of World War II who commanded the famous Black Sheep Squadron, shot down 28 Japanese planes and won the Medal of Honor, died here this morning at a hospice for cancer patients. He was 75 years old. Gregory (Pappy) Boyington, the
Isidor Isaac Rabi, a pioneer in exploring the atom and a major force in 20th-century physics, died yesterday at his home on Riverside Drive after a long illness. He was 89 years old. Isidor Isaac Rabi, a pioneer in exploring the atom and a major force in 20th-century physics, 
Sir Con O'Neill, who led the intricate negotiations that took Britain into the European Economic Community, died Monday, his family said. He was 75 years old. Sir Con O'Neill, who led the intricate negotiations that took Britain into the European Economic Community, died Monda
Donald S. Curtis, a financial analyst who retired as vice president in the investment research department of Marine Midland Bank in 1974, died Jan. 3 at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital after a long illness. He was 78 years old and lived in Old Greenwich. Donald S. Curtis, a financi
Gerald Peter Plano, a record producer for 25 years, died of lung cancer Saturday at his home in Pacheco, Calif. He was 49 years old.  Mr. Plano, a native of Los Angeles, was director of arts and repertoire services for RCA/Ariola Records in New York City. He produced 6,000 special rec
Gerry Letourneau, president of Airstream Inc., a leading manufacturer of motor homes, died in a snowmobile accident Saturday. He was 52 years old. Gerry Letourneau, president of Airstream Inc., a leading manufacturer of motor homes, died in a snowmobile accident Saturday. He w
John H. Johnson, who presided over the nation's 176 minor-league teams as president of the National Association of Professional Baseball Leagues, died of chest cancer yesterday at his home in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 66 years old. John H. Johnson, who presided over the nati
John J. Williams, a Republican Senator from Delaware for 24 years, died of heart and respiratory failure Monday night in a hospital in Lewes, Del. He was 83 years old and had been in poor health for some time. John J. Williams, a Republican Senator from Delaware for 24 years, 
Mark Saxton, an author and editor, died, apparently of a heart attack, last Thursday in his home in New York City. He was 73 years old. Mark Saxton, an author and editor, died, apparently of a heart attack, last Thursday in his home in New York City. He was 73 years old.      
Martin I. J. Griffin Jr., a historian and, for the last dozen years, dean of undergraduate studies at Yale University, died Sunday, apparently of a heart attack, at his campus residence in Saybrook College. He was 54 years old. Martin I. J. Griffin Jr., a historian and, for th
Morris Giloni, a stockbroker and a member of the board of the Jewish National Fund of America, a group that represents the Herut Zionists, died on Jan. 4 at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. Mr. Giloni, who had suffered a massive stroke five days earlier at his home in Manhatt
Ray Bauduc, a jazz drummer and composer in the era of the big bands, died Jan. 8. He was 81 years old. Ray Bauduc, a jazz drummer and composer in the era of the big bands, died Jan. 8. He was 81 years old. Mr. Bauduc played with the Dorsey Brothers in a group called th
Robert F. Kennon, who was Governor of Louisiana from 1952 to 1956, died Monday. He was 85 years old. Robert F. Kennon, who was Governor of Louisiana from 1952 to 1956, died Monday. He was 85 years old. Mr. Kennon, a native of Minden, La., had practiced law in Baton Rou
August T. Baden, a drugstore owner who founded cinnamon-flavored Baden's Hot Toothpicks almost 40 years ago, died Sunday. He was 93 years old. August T. Baden, a drugstore owner who founded cinnamon-flavored Baden's Hot Toothpicks almost 40 years ago, died Sunday. He was 93 ye
President Chiang Ching-kuo of Taiwan died of a heart attack yesterday, ending a four-decade era in which Chinese who fled the mainland in 1949 were the prime leaders of the island nation. President Chiang Ching-kuo of Taiwan died of a heart attack yesterday, ending a four-deca
Cornelius P. Mulder, who was forced to resign as South Africa's Information Minister in 1978 amid revelations about his role in a scheme to buy influence in the United States and other Western countries, died Tuesday at the age of 62, his family announced. He had been taken to hospita
Dr. Adam Munz, chief psychologist at the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center since 1962, died of cancer Monday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. He was 60 years old and lived in Leonia, N.J. Dr. Adam Munz, chief psychologist at the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital C
Hugh A. Roberston, a film maker who won an Academy Award nomination for editing ''Midnight Cowboy,'' died Sunday of cancer in the Wadsworth Memorial Center in Los Angeles. He was 55 years old. Mr. Robertson also edited ''Shaft'' and was associate editor of ''The Miracle Worker'' and '
Paul A. Cohen, the former senior partner of Herzfeld & Stern, a New York stock brokerage firm now owned by Gruntal & Company, died of Alzheimer's disease yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived in Manhattan. Paul A. Cohen, the former senior partner of Her
Ralph H. Cutler Jr., a commodity executive, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Morristown, N.J. He was 69 years old. Ralph H. Cutler Jr., a commodity executive, died of cancer Tuesday at his home in Morristown, N.J. He was 69 years old. Mr. Cutler, who received an M
Sam Raphling, a composer and pianist, died Friday of heart failure. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan. Sam Raphling, a composer and pianist, died Friday of heart failure. He was 78 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Raphling was born in Fort Worth on March 
William Duff, a theater investor and actor, died of heart failure Tuesday at Danbury Hospital in Danbury, Conn. He was 58 years old and lived in Redding, Conn. William Duff, a theater investor and actor, died of heart failure Tuesday at Danbury Hospital in Danbury, Conn. He wa
Harold J. Kennedy, a jack-of-all-theatrical-trades and for nearly half a century a champion of the summer theater circuit, died of cardiac arrest on Sunday at Doctors Hospital. He was 73 years old and lived in Manhattan. Harold J. Kennedy, a jack-of-all-theatrical-trades and f
Irving A. Greene, a Wall Street executive who worked in the securities industry for 75 years, died Tuesday in Manhattan after a brief illness. He was 89 years old and lived in Manhattan. Irving A. Greene, a Wall Street executive who worked in the securities industry for 75 yea
John D. Robilotto, a vice president of Helmsley-Spear and a life member of the Real Estate Board of New York, died of heart failure Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 85 years old and a lifelong resident of Manhattan. John D. Robilotto, a vice president of Helmsley-Spe
Jose Zacarias Arza, former president of Paraguay's ruling Colorado Party, died Tuesday. He was 93 years old. Jose Zacarias Arza, former president of Paraguay's ruling Colorado Party, died Tuesday. He was 93 years old. Mr. Zacarias spent more than 20 years in exile for 
Malcolm Reybold, an author and retired advertising executive, died Jan. 7 in Glen Cove Community Hospital on Long Island. He was 77 years old and lived in Locust Valley, L.I. Malcolm Reybold, an author and retired advertising executive, died Jan. 7 in Glen Cove Community Hospi
The Rev. Paul E. McKeever, professor of moral theology at St. John's University and a former editor of The Long Island Catholic, died of cardiac arrest Sunday at the Seminary of the Immaculate Conception in Huntington, L.I., where he lived. He was 64 years old. The Rev. Paul E
Preston Grover, who covered World War II in Germany, the Mediterranean and North Africa as a correspondent for The Associated Press, died Monday. He was 87 years old. In a 38-year-career with The A.P., he headed bureaus in New Delhi, Moscow and Paris. Preston Grover, who cover
Randolph S. Brown, a former vice president and sales director of A.G.B. Television Research, died of histoplasmosis last Dec. 30, according to the executor of his estate, Edward J. Kissko. Mr. Brown was 35 years old and lived in Manhattan. Randolph S. Brown, a former vice pres
Raphael L. Elias, a lawyer who specialized in probate cases and estate planning, died of cancer Tuesday at New York Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan. Raphael L. Elias, a lawyer who specialized in probate cases and estate planning, died of cancer Tuesday at 
Alfred Easton Poor, a New York architect who designed many government buildings, banks and institutional headquarters, and who was part of a group that designed the restoration and extension of the East Front of the United States Capitol in the early 1960's, died Wednesday at his home
David Bromberg, a lawyer who was a member of the New York State Commission on Judicial Conduct, an agency that investigates complaints against judges, died of a heart attack Thursday in Grand Central Terminal after a day of hearings at the commission. He was 61 years old and lived in 
Frederic Karoly, a painter whose abstract oils are in the collection of the Metropolitan, the Guggenheim and the Whitney museums, died on Dec. 15 at the Inter-Continental Hotel in Manhattan, where he had made his home for many years. He was 95 years old. Frederic Karoly, a pai
Gardner Cox, an artist known for his portraits of prominent Americans, died of heart failure on Thursday in a hospital in Cambridge, Mass., his city of residence. He was 81 years old. Gardner Cox, an artist known for his portraits of prominent Americans, died of heart failure 
James Lewis Marcus, a former New York City Water Commissioner who pleaded guilty to Federal charges in a kickback conspiracy involving a city reservoir contract, died of leukemia yesterday at Maricopa County Medical Center in Phoenix. He was 57 years old and had moved to Arizona from 
Joe Albany, a jazz pianist who first emerged in the be-bop era, died of upper respiratory failure and cardiac arrest on Tuesday in the Roosevelt Hospital Division of St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. He was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan. Joe Albany, a jazz pianist wh
Raimondo Manzini, editor of the Vatican daily L'Osservatore Romano for 18 years and a former member of parliament, died Thursday. He was 86 years old. Raimondo Manzini, editor of the Vatican daily L'Osservatore Romano for 18 years and a former member of parliament, died Thursd
Sean MacBride, an Irish revolutionary who went on to win the Nobel and Lenin peace prizes, died after a short illness yesterday at his home in Dublin. He was 83 years old. In a 70-year career that took him from street battles with the British in Dublin to the international award-cerem
Abe Waters, a textile executive, died of cancer Wednesday at his home in Lauderhill, Fla. He was 77 years old. Abe Waters, a textile executive, died of cancer Wednesday at his home in Lauderhill, Fla. He was 77 years old. Mr. Waters, who was a major merchandiser of ult
Donald Healey, designer of Austin-Healey sports cars in Britain, died last Wednesday after a short illness, his family said today. He was 89 years old. Donald Healey, designer of Austin-Healey sports cars in Britain, died last Wednesday after a short illness, his family said t
Hiram Bingham, a former diplomat and head of the Sportatron Company of America, died Wednesday at his home in Salem, Conn. He was 84 years old. Hiram Bingham, a former diplomat and head of the Sportatron Company of America, died Wednesday at his home in Salem, Conn. He was 84 
Irving Hochstadter, a chemical engineer who founded Hochstadter Laboratories Inc., died Jan. 8 at the Valley Nursing Home in Westwood, N.J., where he lived. He was 100 years old. Irving Hochstadter, a chemical engineer who founded Hochstadter Laboratories Inc., died Jan. 8 at 
Lakshmi Kant Jha, one of India's most distinguished economists and an architect of the country's recent economic liberalization, died of kidney failure today. He was 74 years old. Lakshmi Kant Jha, one of India's most distinguished economists and an architect of the country's 
Thomas A. Pappas, a prominent Republican who was Ambassador to Greece during the Eisenhower Administration, died at his home here after a long illness. He was 89 years old. Thomas A. Pappas, a prominent Republican who was Ambassador to Greece during the Eisenhower Administrati
Allen Churchill, a social historian who wrote sprightly books on subjects ranging from the bohemian culture of Greenwich Village to the unsolved disappearances of several famous missing persons, died of pancreatic cancer on Saturday at Bellevue Hospital Center. He was 76 years old and
Walton Jones, the oldest person ever given a temporary artificial heart, died today of an infection, doctors said. He was 60 years old. Mr. Jones' heart was replaced by the Jarvik-7 pump on Dec. 4 by Dr. William DeVries, the surgeon who has done four of the five permanent mechanical h
Frank V. Schwinn, who developed the independent dealership network for his family's bicycle company, died unexpectedly at home last Tuesday. He was 67 years old. Frank V. Schwinn, who developed the independent dealership network for his family's bicycle company, died unexpecte
Irving Hochstadter, a chemical engineer who founded Hochstadter Laboratories Inc., died Jan. 8 at the Valley Nursing Home in Westwood, N.J., where he lived. He was 100 years old. Irving Hochstadter, a chemical engineer who founded Hochstadter Laboratories Inc., died Jan. 8 at 
James F. Macandrew, a pioneer in educational broadcasting who helped build New York City's public radio and television systems, died of a heart attack Friday at Winthrop-University Hospital in Mineola, L.I. He was 82 years old and lived in Garden City, L.I. James F. Macandrew,
Judge Edward Weinfeld, one of the nation's most respected Federal judges, died of cancer at his home in Manhattan yesterday at the age of 86. Judge Edward Weinfeld, one of the nation's most respected Federal judges, died of cancer at his home in Manhattan yesterday at the age 
A memorial service for Leo Steiner, co-owner of the Carnegie Deli, will be held 12:30 P.M. Feb. 1 at the Sutton Place Synagogue at 225 East 51st Street. Mr. Steiner died of complications of a brain tumor Dec. 31 at Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 48 years old. A m
Percy Qoboza, an award-winning black journalist who was editor of several leading anti-apartheid publications, died today. He was 50 years old. Percy Qoboza, an award-winning black journalist who was editor of several leading anti-apartheid publications, died today. He was 50 
Andrija Artukovic, a former leader of the Nazi puppet state of Croatia who was extradited from the United States to Yugoslavia, died Saturday in a prison hospital in Zagreb, where he had been condemned to death for mass murder, the Yugoslav press agency announced yesterday. He was 88 
Friar Angelo de Mojana di Cologna, the Grand Master of the Sovereign Order of the Knights of Malta, died of a heart attack today at his home in Rome. He was 82 years old. Friar Angelo de Mojana di Cologna, the Grand Master of the Sovereign Order of the Knights of Malta, died o
David W. C. Clark, a New York lawyer implicated in the insider trading scandal that involved a columnist for The Wall Street Journal, died Saturday at his mother's home in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 38 years old. David W. C. Clark, a New York lawyer implicated in the insider
Edgar Williams Couper, a former Chancellor of the New York State Board of Regents, died of a heart attack Sunday at Lourdes Hospital in Binghamton, N.Y. He was 88 years old and lived in Binghamton. Edgar Williams Couper, a former Chancellor of the New York State Board of Regen
Joseph Conlon, a former general manager of the dyestuff chemical division of the GAF Corporation in New York City, died Jan. 11 at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia after a brief illness. He was 76 years old and had lived in West Chester, Pa., since his re
Mark Michtom, a former executive of the Ideal Toy Company, died of bladder cancer Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Medical Center. He was 59 years old and lived in Manhattan. Mark Michtom, a former executive of the Ideal Toy Company, died of bladder cancer Saturday at St. Luke
Walter L. Strauss, a writer, publisher and authority on Old Master drawings and prints, died of a heart attack last Thursday at Madison Avenue and 56th Street. He was 65 years old and lived in Scarborough, N.Y. Walter L. Strauss, a writer, publisher and authority on Old Master
William H. H. Wilkinson, a former administrator of the New York State Department of Labor, died of prostate cancer Jan. 10 at Beth Abraham Hospital in the Bronx. He was 84 years old and lived in Hartsdale, N.Y. William H. H. Wilkinson, a former administrator of the New York St
Andrew J. Dempsey, the president and chief executive officer of Times Mirror Magazines, died of lung cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 46 years old.  Late last year, Mr. Dempsey was instrumental in negotiating Times Mirror's $167.5 million acquisition of four magazines
Friar Angelo de Mojana di Cologna, the Grand Master of the Sovereign Order of the Knights of Malta, died of a heart attack Monday at his home in Rome. He was 82 years old. Friar Angelo de Mojana di Cologna, the Grand Master of the Sovereign Order of the Knights of Malta, died 
Brendan Sexton, a former director of the education department of the United Auto Workers union, died of lung disease Sunday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center. He was 77 years old and lived in Manhattan. Brendan Sexton, a former director of the education department of the
Dr. David Bernstein, a staff member of Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn for more than 40 years, died Friday at Maimonides after a short illness. He was 77 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Dr. David Bernstein, a staff member of Maimonides Medical Center in Brooklyn for mor
Jared French, a figural painter who used realist techniques to deal with metaphorical subject matter, died Friday in Rome, where he had lived for nearly 20 years. He was 82 years old and also had a home in Hartland, Vt. Jared French, a figural painter who used realist techniqu
Jean Mitry, a film historian and co-founder of the Cinematheque Francaise, died of cancer Monday. He was 83 years old. Jean Mitry, a film historian and co-founder of the Cinematheque Francaise, died of cancer Monday. He was 83 years old. Mr. Mitry produced dozens of ar
Samuel Nathan Regenstrief, an Austrian immigrant who founded one of the world's largest dishwashing machine companies and became a millionaire-philanthropist, died Sunday at his home in Connersville, Ind., near Indianapolis. He was 78 years old. Samuel Nathan Regenstrief, an A
Abdul Ghaffar Khan, a Moslem disciple of Mohandas K. Gandhi who opposed British rule in India and partition of the subcontinent, died yesterday in a hospital in Peshawar, Pakistan. He was 98 years old and had suffered a stroke six months ago. Abdul Ghaffar Khan, a Moslem disci
Al Hall, a jazz bassist believed to be the first black musician in a Broadway theater orchestra, died of lung cancer Monday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 72 years old and lived in Manhattan. Al Hall, a jazz bassist believed to be the first black musician in a Broadway theater 
George D. Clahr, a New York City ophthalmologist and expert in the use of soft contact lenses, died of cancer of the colon yesterday at his home in New Milford, Conn. He was 53 years old. George D. Clahr, a New York City ophthalmologist and expert in the use of soft contact le
George F. McGrath, New York City Commissioner of Correction in the Linday administration and an authority on penology, died yesterday at his home in Boston. He was 70 years old. George F. McGrath, New York City Commissioner of Correction in the Linday administration and an aut
Baron Philippe de Rothschild, a member of the Rothschild banking family, owner of Chateau Mouton-Rothschild in Bordeaux and a tireless champion of French wines, died at his home in Paris yesterday after a long illness. He was 85 years old. Baron Philippe de Rothschild, a membe
Yustin Sirutis, a former Golden Gloves heavyweight boxing champion and a coach for many years at the City College of New York, died Jan. 6 in Rincon, P.R., after a long illness. He was 79 years old and lived in Rincon. Yustin Sirutis, a former Golden Gloves heavyweight boxing 
Cary Elliott Odell, a movie art director and three-time Academy Award nominee, died of cancer Tuesday. He was 77 years old. Cary Elliott Odell, a movie art director and three-time Academy Award nominee, died of cancer Tuesday. He was 77 years old. Mr. Odell's career be
Chauncey Eskridge, once legal counsel for the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and who was with Dr. King when he was assassinated, died Monday. Mr. Eskridge was 70 years old. Chauncey Eskridge, once legal counsel for the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and who was with Dr. King
Irston Roberts Barnes, an economist and naturalist, died after a short illness Tuesday at his home in Groton, Conn. He was 83 years old. Mr. Barnes was an assistant professor of economics at Yale University from 1932 to 1941 and a professor of political economy at the graduate school 
J. Walter McClancy, a retired judge of the Family Court of New York City, died Jan. 15 at his home in Woodside, Queens. He was 94 years old. J. Walter McClancy, a retired judge of the Family Court of New York City, died Jan. 15 at his home in Woodside, Queens. He was 94 years 
John H. Mitchell, a former television executive, died of a heart attack in Los Angeles Tuesday. He was 66 years old. John H. Mitchell, a former television executive, died of a heart attack in Los Angeles Tuesday. He was 66 years old. Mr. Mitchell, who was born in New Y
Joseph H. Ream, a former executive vice president and director of the Columbia Broadcasting System, died of neurological complications from an aneurysm at the Mobile (Ala.) Infirmary Wednesday. He was 84 years old and lived in Fairhope, Ala. Joseph H. Ream, a former executive 
Kenneth G. Harper, who produced ''The Wiz'' on Broadway in 1975, died Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 48 years old. The cause of death was cancer, said his mother, Mildred Harper. Kenneth G. Harper, who produced ''The Wiz'' on Broadway in 1975, died Wednesday at his
Konstantin A. Andrianov, a member of the International Olympic Committee and the first Soviet representative to that organization, has died, the Soviet press agency Tass reported today. He was 78 years old. Konstantin A. Andrianov, a member of the International Olympic Committ
L. Maxell Peace, a former vice president at Marine Midland Bank, died of complications of AIDS Monday at New York University Medical Center. He was 35 years old and lived in Manhattan. L. Maxell Peace, a former vice president at Marine Midland Bank, died of complications of AI
Leland C. Wyman, a scholar in physiology and anthropology who was a leading authority on the culture and history of the Navajo Indians, died here Jan. 13. He was 90 years old and lived in Brookline, Mass. Leland C. Wyman, a scholar in physiology and anthropology who was a lead
Marvin Felix Camillo, the founder and director of the Family, a theater group composed primarily of former prison inmates, died last Saturday in La Rochelle, France, where he had been hospitalized since being injured in an automobile accident this month. He was 51 years old and lived 
Robert Todd, one of the few remaining World War I flying aces, died Wednesday of pneumonia at the Veterans Administration Center in La Jolla, hospital officials said. He was 90 years old. Robert Todd, one of the few remaining World War I flying aces, died Wednesday of pneumoni
Yevgeny Mravinsky, who became the chief conductor of the Leningrad Philharmonic Orchestra in 1938, has died of a heart attack, the Soviet press agency Tass reported. He was 81 years old. Tass did not say when or where he died. Yevgeny Mravinsky, who became the chief conductor 
Ben-Fleming Sessel, a retired executive vice president of the Irving Trust Company, a New York commercial bank, died of Alzheimer's disease Jan. 13 in the Hotel Seteais in Sintra, Portugal. He was 86 years old and lived in New Canaan, Conn. Ben-Fleming Sessel, a retired execut
John E. Bassett Sr., retired chairman of Bassett Furniture Industries Inc., died Thursday. He was 86 years old. John E. Bassett Sr., retired chairman of Bassett Furniture Industries Inc., died Thursday. He was 86 years old. Mr. Bassett's father, Charles C. Bassett, was
Michele Cantarella, a professor emeritus at Smith College and a leader of anti-Fascist Italian exiles during the rise of Mussolini, died of kidney failure Monday at Bay State Medical Center in Springfield, Mass. He was 88 years old and lived in Leeds, Mass. Michele Cantarella,
Parker W. Fennelly, who played Titus Moody, the cryptic New Englander, on the Fred Allen radio program in the 1940's and early 1950's, and who was later the television spokesman for Pepperidge Farm products, died yesterday at his home in Peekskill, N.Y. He was 96 years old.  Mr. Fenne
Edward (Ted) Majeski, head of the newspicture service at United Press International, died Thursday at his home here. He was 69 years old. Edward (Ted) Majeski, head of the newspicture service at United Press International, died Thursday at his home here. He was 69 years old.  
Thomas E. Barker, an award-winning composer of chamber works, died Jan. 12 at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 33 years old. Mr. Barker was being treated for bone cancer, according to his sister-in-law, Laura Smith. Thomas E. Barker, an award-winni
Werner Nachmann, president of the Jewish Council of West Germany, died Thursday of a heart attack. He was 62 years old. Mr. Nachmann, who was born here, fled the Nazi regime for France in 1938 and returned to West Germany in 1945 to rebuild his family's business. Werner Nachma
Dr. Zacharias Dische, professor emeritus of biochemistry at the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University, died Sunday at Englewood (N.J.) Hospital. He was 92 years old and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Zacharias Dische, professor emeritus of biochemistry at the Coll
Zev Vilnay, a geographer and author of an authoritative guidebook to Israel, died Thursday. He was 87 years old. His ''Israel Guide,'' published in 1955, went through 24 editions and was translated into many languages. Zev Vilnay, a geographer and author of an authoritative gu
Representative Dan Daniel, a 10-term Democratic Congressman from Virginia, died today after suffering a heart attack. He was 73 years old.  Mr. Daniel earlier this week said that poor health would prevent him from seeking re-election. Representative Dan Daniel, a 10-term Democ
James D. Theberge, a former United States Ambassador to Nicaragua and Chile, died of a heart attack Wednesday on a visit to Jamaica. He was 57 years old and had lived in Washington. James D. Theberge, a former United States Ambassador to Nicaragua and Chile, died of a heart at
Milton H. Adler, a former assistant attorney general in New York, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 years old. Milton H. Adler, a former assistant attorney general in New York, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 8
Nizar Jwaideh, director of public affairs for the Washington mission of the Arab League and editor of the magazine Arab Perspectives, died Wednesday of pancreatic cancer at George Washington University Hospital in Washington, D.C. He was 55 years old. Nizar Jwaideh, director o
Wallis Bleecker Dunckel, the president of Bankers Trust Company from 1960 to 1966, died Thursday at Danbury (Conn.) Hospital after a brief illness. He was 86 years old and lived in Easton, Conn. Wallis Bleecker Dunckel, the president of Bankers Trust Company from 1960 to 1966,
William Manee, a New York lawyer and real-estate investor, died of a heart attack Jan. 16 at Beth Israel Hospital in Boston. He was 91 years old and lived in Scarsdale, N.Y. William Manee, a New York lawyer and real-estate investor, died of a heart attack Jan. 16 at Beth Israe
Dr. Charles Glen King, a nutritionist who co-discovered vitamin C, died of heart failure yesterday at West Chester (Pa.) Hospital. He was 91 years old and lived in Kennett Square, Pa. Dr. Charles Glen King, a nutritionist who co-discovered vitamin C, died of heart failure yest
Paul J. Babbitt Sr., the father of former Gov. Bruce Babbitt, a Democratic Presidential candidate, died today. He was 89 years old. Paul J. Babbitt Sr., the father of former Gov. Bruce Babbitt, a Democratic Presidential candidate, died today. He was 89 years old. Mr. B
George Frederick Howe, a historian, author and teacher whose career spanned six decades, died of cancer Jan. 18 at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 86 years old and lived in Harrisville, N.H., and Washington. George Frederick Howe, a historian, author and t
Johnny Gee, who pitched for the Pittsburgh Pirates and the New York Giants in the 1940's and played basketball with the Syracuse Nationals, died Saturday. He was 72 years old. Johnny Gee, who pitched for the Pittsburgh Pirates and the New York Giants in the 1940's and played b
Thomas P. Hackett Jr., chief of psychiatry at Massachusetts General Hospital, died of a heart attack Saturday while horseback riding. He was 59 years old and lived in Newton, Mass. Thomas P. Hackett Jr., chief of psychiatry at Massachusetts General Hospital, died of a heart at
Anthony T. Courtney, a former intelligence chief whose political career was ruined by scandal when the K.G.B. released photographs of him with a Soviet tour guide in a Moscow hotel, died Sunday afer a short illness, his family said. He was 79 years old. Anthony T. Courtney, a 
The Rev. Charles W. Ranson, a former general secretary of the International Missionary Council, a forerunner of the World Council of Churches, died of a heart attack Saturday at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 84 years old and also had a home in Lakeville, Conn. The Rev.
A former president of the Westchester County Bar Association, stricken with cancer and a heart condition, shot and killed himself Monday while on the telephone with his doctor, the authorities said. A former president of the Westchester County Bar Association, stricken with ca
Lorenzo J. Greene, a retired professor at Lincoln University professor who was an authority on the history of blacks in America, died Sunday. He was 88. Lorenzo J. Greene, a retired professor at Lincoln University professor who was an authority on the history of blacks in Amer
Travers J. Bell Jr., the founder and owner of the only black-owned member firm of the New York Stock Exchange, died Monday, apparently from a heart attack, at his home in Manhattan. He was 46 years old. Travers J. Bell Jr., the founder and owner of the only black-owned member 
William F. Larkin, a lawyer and former member of the New York State Assembly, died of lung cancer Sunday at Cabrini Hospice of Cabrini Medical Center. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhattan. William F. Larkin, a lawyer and former member of the New York State Assembly, died
Carlos Rangel, an author and journalist and one of Latin America's most articulate conservative intellectuals, has died at age 58. Carlos Rangel, an author and journalist and one of Latin America's most articulate conservative intellectuals, has died at age 58. Mr. Ran
Hugh J. Schonfield, author of ''The Passover Plot'' and many other books about religion and the Bible, died Tuesday in London. He was 81 years old. Hugh J. Schonfield, author of ''The Passover Plot'' and many other books about religion and the Bible, died Tuesday in London. He
Joseph M. Lowry, who retired as senior vice president of the Ethyl Corporation in 1973, died Monday at St. Mary's Hospital in Richmond, Va., after a long illness. He was 79 years old and lived in Goochland, a Richmond suburb. Joseph M. Lowry, who retired as senior vice preside
M. David Henkle, a lawyer and former assistant vice president of Prentice-Hall Inc., the publishing company, died Tuesday at his home in Teaneck, N.J. He was 79 years old. M. David Henkle, a lawyer and former assistant vice president of Prentice-Hall Inc., the publishing compa
Rabbi Nathan Zuber, a Talmudic scholar and the spiritual leader of Beth David Synagogue in Roselle, N.J., for several decades, died of heart failure Saturday at Elizabeth (N.J.) General Hospital. He was 84 years old and lived in Roselle. Rabbi Nathan Zuber, a Talmudic scholar 
Tom Maloney, retired editor and publisher of U.S. Camera Annual, died of a heart attack Jan. 18 at his home in Cranbury, N.J. He was 83 years old. Tom Maloney, retired editor and publisher of U.S. Camera Annual, died of a heart attack Jan. 18 at his home in Cranbury, N.J. He w
W. Hawkins Ferry, an architectural historian and a well-known collector and patron of 20th-century art, died of cardiac arrest yesterday at his home in Grosse Pointe Shores, a suburb of Detroit. He was 74 years old, and had for some time suffered from a neurological disorder. 
Sports Minister Antonin Himl, a member of the Communist Party Central Committee, died of a stroke in Beijing on Wednesday while visiting China with a sports delegation. He was 54 years old. Sports Minister Antonin Himl, a member of the Communist Party Central Committee, died o
Charles E. Tennant, a lawyer specializing in zoning and land-use issues, died of lymphoma yesterday at New York Hospital, according to a hospital spokesman, Jed Golden. Mr. Tennant was 33 years old and lived in Manhattan. Charles E. Tennant, a lawyer specializing in zoning and
Dr. John D. Lewis, a professor of government at Oberlin College for 37 years, died of cardiac arrest Saturday at a nursing home in Oberlin, Ohio. He was 82 years old. Dr. John D. Lewis, a professor of government at Oberlin College for 37 years, died of cardiac arrest Saturday 
Klaus Fuchs, the German-born physicist who was imprisoned in the 1950's in Britain after being convicted of passing nuclear secrets to the Soviet Union, died yesterday, the East German press agency A.D.N. reported. He was 76 years old. Klaus Fuchs, the German-born physicist wh
Raymond Williams, a cultural historian and critic who championed the arts for the working class and taught at Cambridge and Oxford universities, died on Tuesday at his home here. He was 66 years old. Raymond Williams, a cultural historian and critic who championed the arts for
Robert K. Enders, chairman emeritus of the biology department at Swarthmore College, died Monday at his home in Swarthmore, Pa. He was 88 years old. Robert K. Enders, chairman emeritus of the biology department at Swarthmore College, died Monday at his home in Swarthmore, Pa. 
Roger DeKoven, an actor who appeared in roles as diverse as Edmund, in Erwin Piscator's modern staging of ''King Lear,'' and Florenz Ziegfeld Jr., in the Broadway musical ''Funny Girl,'' died of cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 81 years old. Roger DeKoven, an 
Harry Avrutin, former secretary of the New York City Central Labor Council, A.F.L.-C.I.O., died of cancer of the liver Saturday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 71 years old and lived in Union, N.J. Harry Avrutin, former secretary of the New York City Central Labor 
John A. (Jack) Williams, chairman of Merrill Lynch, Japan, died of kidney cancer Sunday at the clinical center of the National Institutes of Health in Bethesda, Md. He was 55 years old and lived in Tokyo and Manhattan. John A. (Jack) Williams, chairman of Merrill Lynch, Japan,
Milton J. Raisbeck, a retired cardiologist, died Tuesday at Children's Hospital in San Francisco. He was 99 years old. Milton J. Raisbeck, a retired cardiologist, died Tuesday at Children's Hospital in San Francisco. He was 99 years old. Dr. Raisbeck, who was born in B
Richard Downing Pope Sr., the flamboyant showman who built Cypress Gardens park and was credited with revitalzing Florida's tourist industry after World War II, died Thursday at his home here. He was 87 years old. Richard Downing Pope Sr., the flamboyant showman who built Cypr
Arthur J. Raporte, a former vice president in charge of real estate for the Loews Corporation, died of respiratory failure Wednesday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 70 years old. Arthur J. Raporte, a former vice president in charge of real estate for the Loews Corporation, die
Harry Reichenbaum, a lawyer who specialized in negligence and medical malpractice cases, died of a heart attack Monday at Jacobi Hospital in the Bronx. He was 63 years old and lived in Roslyn, L.I. Harry Reichenbaum, a lawyer who specialized in negligence and medical malpracti
James R. Killian Jr., the first Presidential assistant for science and technology, an architect of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and a president of Massachusetts Institute of Technology, died Friday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 83 years old. Jame
Dr. Jonah D. Kosovsky, an assistant attending physician in Mount Sinai Medical Center's department of medicine, died of cancer last Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 61 years old. Dr. Jonah D. Kosovsky, an assistant attending physician in Mount Sinai Medical Center's dep
