 Dr. A. McGehee Harvey, who developed the first research-based school of medicine in the United States at the Johns Hopkins Hospital and trained an army of medical school leaders there, died on May 8 in the hospital where he had taught. He was 86 and lived in Baltimore. The cause was
 Kenneth Joseph Lenihan, a New York research sociologist who helped refine the scientific methods used in criminology, died May 25 at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 69. The cause was a heart attack, his family said. Dr. Lenihan retired in 1995 as an asso
 Monroe K. Spears, a critic, teacher and poet, died on May 23 at the Southern Tennessee Medical Center in Winchester, Tenn. He was 82 and lived in Sewanee, Tenn. Mr. Spears, a prolific critic, wrote regularly for many periodicals, including The New York Review of Books. He was consid
 Dominick Corso, a New York Civil Court judge and former City Councilman, died May 23. He was 90 and lived in Brooklyn. Judge Corso won election to the City Council in 1960 and served on it for nine years, representing the Bushwick-East New York district. Among his responsibilities w
 Ernest Bloch, an authority on corporate finance who taught at New York University and wrote widely on economic and financial affairs, died on May 15 in Tisch Hospital at N.Y.U. Medical Center. Dr. Bloch, a former resident of lower Manhattan, was 77 and lived at Heritage Hills in Som
 Francis P. DeVerna, a theatrical union official who went on to become an expert in stage lighting, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Roslyn, N.Y. He was 70 and lived in Rockville Center, N.Y. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Mary. Mr. DeVerna began his career as
 Milton Hindus, a scholar of American and European literature and the last of Brandeis University's original faculty, died on Thursday when he collapsed outside the main entrance to the campus in Waltham, Mass. He was 81 and lived in Newton, Mass. Professor Hindus suffered a heart at
 Robert F. Young, a longtime president and publisher of Family Circle magazine who guided the publication through growth here and abroad, died after a short illness last Wednesday in Greensboro, N.C, where he lived. He was 78. Mr. Young joined Family Circle in 1968 as vice president 
 Leon Lianides, the demanding owner of the Coach House restaurant in Greenwich Village, died Monday at his home in Riverdale, the Bronx. He was 81. He had been in declining health since suffering a head injury in a car accident in 1991, his wife, Aphrodite, said yesterday. In
 Philip O'Connor, an incorrigible, flamboyant and decidedly self-absorbed British eccentric who turned a fulsomely frank account of his abject childhood and misspent youth into a rollicking literary sensation in 1958, died on Friday at his home near Uzes in southern France. He was 81 and the
 Roger B. Sammon, a former executive at chemical and plastics companies and a scholar of Napoleon's military strategies, died on Saturday in Huntsville, Ala. He was 75. He died of complications from heart disease, said his son, Richard. When he retired in 1983, Mr. Sammon was
 Willis Coburn Armstrong, a former Assistant Secretary of State for economic affairs, died on Sunday at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 86. The cause was cancer, the Arlington Funeral Home said. Mr. Armstrong, who was also an educator, was an Assistant Secretary in Washingt
 Joseph C. Harsch, a dashing newspaper, radio and television journalist and author who had a knack for being on hand when history was made, died on Wednesday at his home in Jamestown, R.I. He was 93. Mr. Harsch, an Ohio-born Christian Scientist, logged much mileage during his journal
 Mallalieu S. Woolfolk, a lawyer who gave legal and political assistance to prominent black elected officials, including David N. Dinkins, Percy E. Sutton and Charles B. Rangel, died on Saturday at Beth Israel Hospital in Passaic, N.J. He was 92 and lived in Teaneck, N.J. Dr. Woolfol
 Col. Oran K. Henderson, the highest-ranking officer to be tried as a consequence of the killings of Vietnamese civilians in My Lai in 1968, died on Tuesday at the Lebanon Veterans hospital in Lebanon, Pa. He was 77 and had pancreatic cancer. Colonel Henderson, a career officer, was 
 William Abrahams, a Harvard-bred poet who tried his hand at novels before finding a lasting literary niche as a distinguished book editor credited with almost single-handedly preserving the short story as a viable genre, died on Tuesday at his home in Hillsborough, Calif. He was 79 and had 
 Alfred Kazin, author, critic, teacher and New York intellectual, died yesterday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan on his 83d birthday. Over the last few years Mr. Kazin faced the slow progression of prostate cancer, and also suffered from bone cancer in his last months
 David G. Walsh, a journeyman stock promoter whose gold mining company, Bre-X Minerals, was at the center of a fraud that wiped out the holdings of investors in Canada and the United States, died on Thursday at Doctors' Hospital in Nassau, the Bahamas. He was 52 and had been in a com
 Sam Yorty, the blunt-talking, self-promoting Mayor of Los Angeles who took credit for building up the city yet denied any responsibility for the Watts riots in 1965, died today. He was 88. Mr. Yorty had suffered a stroke on May 24, and two days ago asked to be released from a hospit
 Ted Dunbar, a jazz guitarist who performed with some of the leading musicians of his day, died on May 29  at a hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 61 and lived in Kendall Park, N.J. The cause was complications of a stroke, said Ethel Wells, a friend. In the early 1960's, 
 Lucien E. Conein, one of the last great cold war spies, whose swashbuckling tales of war and death and sex, almost all of them true, form an enduring legend at the Central Intelligence Agency, died Wednesday of heart failure in Bethesda, Md. He was 79. He ran agents behind the Iron 
 Shirley Povich's sports column ran in The Washington Post on Friday, which was not unusual, since his columns have appeared in The Washington Post for 74 years, or since he began working there in 1924, at age 19. Mr. Povich's column Friday, headlined ''Recent Baseball Feats Require Footnote
 Stephen Yung Nien Tse, a retired senior executive of American International Group, an insurance company in New York, died on Wednesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 67. The cause was cancer of the head and neck, his family said. Mr. Tse retired in 1
 Georges E. Seligmann, a Manhattan dealer who sold works of art to major museums around the world, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 102. Dr. Seligmann, who was born and reared in Paris, was trained as a doctor. But just as he was about to set up his own practice, he c
 Lorne Welch, a crack British glider pilot and yachtsman who played parts in two of the most storied escapes by Allied prisoners during World War II, died on May 15 at his home in Farnham, England. He was 81. A prisoner of war with uncommon flair, Mr. Welch was being held at the Stal
 Samuel Jackson Lanahan, an authority on tax law, died on May 29, after suffering a pulmonary embolism at his vacation home in Dartmouth, England. He was 79 and lived in Trappe, Md. Mr. Lanahan was a founding partner, in 1954, of Clark & Lanahan, a law firm in Washington that merged 
 A. Arthur Gottlieb, a biologist and immunologist who formed his own biotechnology company, died on Sunday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 60 and lived in New Orleans. The cause of death was a blood clot that lodged in his lung after surgery, his family said.     
 Harold Segal, a Marine fighter pilot who shot down 12 Japanese planes in World War II, three of them in a single duel that ended with his being fished out of the Pacific Ocean by an American destroyer, died on Wednesday at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 77. In March 1944, more
 Gen. Sani Abacha, who died yesterday at 54, was the seventh Nigerian officer to come to power by force since the country gained independence from Britain in 1960. But even against this background, General Abacha established a distinctive record of brutal rule. Nigerian human rights 
 Agostino Cardinal Casaroli, second-in-command to Pope John Paul II during the most active and turbulent times of his papacy and the architect of reconciliation with the Communist world, died today in Rome. He was 83. The cause of death was an infection after minor surgery, according
 Dieter Roth, a prolific, notoriously irascible, reclusive and eccentric German-born artist-provocateur who built a formidable reputation in Europe but remained something of a mystery in America, in part because he permitted his work to be exhibited here even more rarely than there, died on 
 Marshall Green, who was the State Department's leading expert on East Asia and served as Ambassador to Indonesia during the violent uprising in the 1960's that brought President Suharto to power, died on Saturday. He was 82 and lived in Washington. His family said he suffered a hear
 Richard N. Yezzo, an administrator who rescued a bankrupt St. Clare's Hospital and Health Center in Manhattan by welcoming patients that few others wanted -- people with AIDS in the early years of the epidemic -- died on Friday at his home in New Rochelle. He was 46. The cause was a
 Tom Dent, a civil rights campaigner who went on to become a writer of prose and poetry, died on Saturday at a hospital in New Orleans. He was 66 and lived in New Orleans. He had had heart surgery recently, said Joan Rhodes, a family friend. Mr. Dent, a native of New Orleans,
 Michael L. Pollock, perhaps the nation's most respected expert on how much and how hard adults should exercise, died last Friday at age 61. He suffered a stroke that afternoon at the annual meeting of the American College of Sports Medicine in Orlando, Fla., and died that night, according t
 Sarkis Soultanian, who rose to become chairman and chief executive of a company he first joined as an office boy, died on June 5 at his home in Franklin Lakes, N.J., of complications from a heart attack. He was 57. The company, National Utility Service in Park Ridge, N.J., monitors 
 Sir David English, widely considered one of Britain's most astute journalists, who transformed the struggling Daily Mail into a highly influential tabloid and redefined Fleet Street standards for editing and reporting, died Wednesday at St. Thomas's Hospital in London. He was 67 and had suf
 Hammond Innes, the author of ''The Wreck of the Mary Deare'' and more than 30 other novels of adventure and suspense, died on Wednesday in Kersey, England. He was 84. A former artillery major and a yachtsman, Mr. Innes traveled the world in search of stories. Beginning in the late 1
 John N. Nassikas, who as the chairman of the Federal Power Commission from 1969 to 1975 began deregulation of the natural gas industry and the shift away from using natural gas to generate electricity, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was
 Leo Buscaglia, the bearded self-help author and cuddly television guru who preached love with such single-minded fervor that he seemed unable to stop until he had hugged everyone in sight, died yesterday at his home in Lake Tahoe, Nev. He was 74 and known variously as Dr. Love, the Love Mer
 Charles Disch, who dispensed strong bitter medicine and good-natured vitriol during more than 60 years as the Shelter Island druggist and resident curmudgeon, died on May 31 at a mainland nursing home in Greenport, N.Y. He was 96. As the longtime proprietor of Shelter Island's only 
 H. F. McCarty Jr., a Mississippi entrepreneur who transformed a feed and seed store into one of the nation's biggest poultry operations, died of heart failure on June 6 at his home in Magee, Miss., his son, John R. McCarty, said. He was 76. In addition to his business activities, Mr
 Joe Dixon, a clarinetist and saxophonist who played with many of the great jazz ensembles during a career that began in the 1930's and lasted about 50 years, died on May 28 at his home in Oceanside, N.Y. He was 81. Mr. Dixon, who was born in Lynn, Mass., began studying clarinet at a
 John H. Richardson, the Central Intelligence Agency station chief in Saigon in 1962 and 1963 who supported the Government of President Ngo Dinh Diem for a time and was recalled to Washington shortly before Diem was overthrown, died on June 1 in his home in Zapopan, a suburb of Guadalajara, 
 Richard D. Bodig, an economist who was also a singer and student of early music, died on May 26 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 75 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Joyce. Mr. Bodig served as economic adviser to the general coun
 Harold L. Stewart, a pathologist for 32 years at the National Institutes of Health and a clinical professor at Georgetown University, died on May 30. He was 98 and lived in Rockville, Md. Dr. Stewart, a native of Houtzdale, Pa., retired in 1969 as chief of pathology at the National 
 Jim Hearn, a right-handed pitcher who helped propel the New York Giants to victory in a dramatic 1951 National League pennant race with the Brooklyn Dodgers a year after his career was seemingly ending, died Wednesday at his winter home in Boca Grande, Fla. He was 77. Hearn, whose m
 Reg Smythe, the British cartoonist who invented the internationally popular character Andy Capp and drew  comic strips about him for more than four decades, died on Saturday  at his home in Hartlepool in northeastern England. He was 81. The cause was cancer, Reuters reported.       
 Rear Adm. Russell Randolph Waesche Jr., a retired Coast Guard commander and transportation executive in the Midwest, died on May 28 at his home in Leawood, Kan. He was 84. The cause was leukemia, his family said. Admiral Waesche was born in Thurmont, Md., the son of a future
 Eric Tabarly, the robust Frenchman known as the ''iron man'' for his daring and clever efforts at sailing across oceans single-handedly, was lost at sea late last Friday after falling overboard from his century-old sailboat, Pen Duick, near the coast of Wales. A national hero from t
 Lewis H. Young, a former editor in chief of Business Week who expanded the horizons of business reporting, died on Friday in Manhattan. He was 73 and lived in Ossining, N.Y. Mr. Young died of a heart attack as he was leaving his office at the Cahners Publishing Company, where he was
 Lucio Costa, the architect and urban planner whose vision of man living in harmony with his tropical surroundings carried Brazilian architecture into the modern age, died on Saturday at his home here. He was 96. Internationally, Mr. Costa was best known as the planner of Brasilia, t
 John Gutmann, a painter who left Germany in 1933 and reinvented himself as an optimistic photographic chronicler of Depression-era America, died on Friday at his home in San Francisco. He was 93. In the America of the 1930's, Mr. Gutmann found an exuberant car  culture, a dizzying a
 Rabbi Hillel A. Fine, an educator, expert in Semitic languages and, most recently, director of the New Orleans Hillel Foundation, died of a heart attack on May 25 in New York City. He was 77 and had lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan since his retirement in 1986. Rabbi Fine w
 Richard L. Rosenthal, who took control of a small troubled company called Citizens Utilities after World War II and built it into a powerhouse of profit that made millionaires of many investors who stuck with him until he retired in 1989, died on Saturday. He was 82 years old. His w
 Rear Adm. Vincent Patrick Healey, a retired antisubmarine specialist who as a young gunnery officer saw naval combat from the Philippines to Iwo Jima to Japan itself in World War II, died on May 30 at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 80 and lived in Arlington, Va.       
 Francis Lee, a combat cameraman who documented the D-Day invasion of Normandy in 1944 and was a member of an avant-garde film movement, died on May 29 at a  nursing home in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan. Mr. Lee was taken to New York from Sicily as a child and began to
 Jack Biblo, a bookish sort of man who spent a musty half century on Manhattan's Book Row as the founding proprietor of the Biblo & Tannen used, er antiquarian, bookstore on Fourth Avenue, then retired at 73 to open a smaller store around the corner from his home in Brooklyn Heights, died on
 Jan Gullberg, a Swedish surgeon and anesthesiologist whose fascination with mathematics and science in general led him to write two books whose explanations of rarefied subjects to the layman were widely praised, died on May 21 at the hospital where he worked, near his home in Nordfjordeid,
 Martin Stone, a longtime broadcasting executive and entertainment lawyer who was the producer of ''Howdy Doody'' and the founder of a suburban radio network, died on June 7 in Washington, where he was attending the graduation of a grandchild. He was 83 and lived in Pound Ridge, N.Y.        
 William Schwann, an organist, musicologist and publisher who started a record catalogue in 1949 that became an indispensable resource for browsers, collectors, musicians, critics and record company executives, died on June 7 at the Lahey Clinic in Burlington, Mass. He was 85. Since 
 Forrest Hunter Kirkpatrick, a retired educator, corporate executive and management consultant on personnel administration and industrial relations, died on May 31 at the Ohio Valley Medical Center in Wheeling, W. Va. He was 92 and lived in Wheeling. He had long associations with Bet
 John Joseph Cardinal Carberry, who was a canon lawyer active in the Roman Catholic Church's affairs and who led the Archdiocese of St. Louis for 11 years, died on Wednesday at St. Agnes Home in Kirkwood, Mo. He was 93. Cardinal Carberry was installed in 1968 by Pope Paul VI as Archb
 L. Edwin Smart, a former chairman and chief executive of Trans World Airlines, died June 1 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in New York. He was 74 and lived in New York. The cause of death was heart disease, said Jeanie M. Smart, his wife. Mr. Smart became chairman an
 Melvin L. Barnet, who was among several editors and reporters questioned by a Congressional committee investigating Communist affiliations in the news business in the 1950's and who was dismissed by The New York Times after invoking the Fifth Amendment, died on Wednesday at Long Island Coll
 Carlos Castaneda, whose best-selling explorations of mystical and pharmacological frontiers helped to define the psychological landscape of the 1960's, died two months ago just as privately and secretly as he had  lived, associates revealed this week. Befitting a man who made an esthetic ou
 Dick Gibson, a longtime jazz aficionado and the producer of what he called an annual jazz party in Colorado, died at the Red Rocks Health Center hospice in Denver on Wednesday. He was 72 and lived in Denver. The cause was complications from diabetes, said his son Robey. Mr. 
 Dr. Daniel I. Axelrod, a paleoecologist at the University of California at Davis who reconstructed the ancient landscapes of the West by examining plant fossils, died on June 2 at his home in Davis. He was 87. Dr. Axelrod reported how wet forests slowly turned into Nevada's deserts 
 Dominick Della Rocca, a Brooklyn businessman and community volunteer who rebuilt a network of what he called ''neighborhood mayors'' in and around New York to provide trips to the circus or to Shea Stadium for baseball games for handicapped young people, died June 11 at Loyola University Me
 Robert Leslie, a high school baseball coach who counseled against the use of smokeless tobacco in a video widely shown in the nation's high schools, died on Monday in Santa Rosa Memorial Hospital. He was 31 and lived in Cotati. Mr. Leslie had been suffering from cancer of the mouth,
 Victor Romagna, an outspoken force in America's Cup yacht racing for a quarter of a century, died on June 12 at his home in Annapolis, Md. He was 80. Mr. Romagna sailed on the crew of three successful America's Cup defense teams: the 12-Meter Columbia in 1958, Weatherly in 1962 and 
 Al Campanis, the Los Angeles Dodgers executive who touched off a furor -- and shattered his career -- by suggesting that blacks were unqualified for high-level baseball jobs, died at home yesterday of coronary artery disease. He was 81. When the first pitch of the 1987 season was th
 Alfred Palca, a blacklisted writer  whose film ''Go, Man, Go!,'' about the Harlem Globetrotters, became a classic among basketball fans, died on Thursday at Beth Israel Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was cancer, said his sister, Roz Leader.       
 Edward Eliscu, a lyricist who wrote the words for ''Without a Song,'' ''Orchids in the Moonlight'' and dozens of other popular songs, died on Thursday at his home in Newtown, Conn. He was 96. Mr. Eliscu was also a playwright, screenwriter and writer for television, but he was best k
 Frank Trippett, a writer, reporter and magazine editor, died on Thursday at the Sound Shore Medical Center in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 71 and a resident of Larchmont, N.Y. The cause was heart failure, his son, Robert, said. From 1961 to 1991, Mr. Trippett was an associate e
 Jafar Sharif-Emami, the last of Shah Mohammed Riza Pahlevi's Prime Ministers to make a political attempt to counter the Islamic fundamentalism sweeping Iran 20 years ago, died on June 16 at New York Hospital. He was 87 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Mr. Sharif-Emami,
 James G. Wallach, the chairman and chief executive of Central National-Gottesman Inc., a pulp, paper and newsprint marketing concern, died on Friday at his home in Scarsdale, N.Y. He was 55. The cause was a cerebral aneurysm, his family said. Mr. Wallach became president and
 Walter Gold, a songwriter and music producer, died on June 7 at Holy Name Hospital in Teaneck, N.J. He was 70. The cause was colitis, his wife, Fredda, said. Mr. Gold, who wrote songs as Wally Gold, was born in Brooklyn. After Navy service in World War II, he sang in a quart
 Charles Pierce Gabeler Jr., a former executive of a supposedly private airline that was really owned and operated by the Central Intelligence Agency, died on June 16 at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center in Perry Point, Md. He was 76 and lived in McLean, Va.. The cause was pneumoni
 David Duval Thomas, a principal architect of the country's air-traffic control and safety system, died on June 17 at Inova Fairfax Hospital in Northern Virginia. He was 85 and lived in Annandale, Va. Mr. Thomas, a pilot for more than 30 years, retired in 1970 as deputy administrator
 Ivo John Lederer, a refugee in the only group of European Jews given special passage to the United States by President Roosevelt during World War II, and who went on to became a Russian and Eastern European scholar and teach generations of future American leaders, died last Thursday at Calv
 Paul O'Dwyer, a spirited liberal voice in New York politics from his immigrant days in the Democratic clubhouse to his glory years as a fiery anti-Vietnam War insurgent, died Tuesday night at his home in Goshen, N.Y. He was 90. Mr. O'Dwyer had been in failing health from the effects
 Sheldon Gunsberg, a film producer and distributor who later headed the Walter Reade chain of movie theaters in New York, died last Thursday of a heart attack at his home in Manhattan. He was 78. Born in Jersey City, Mr. Gunsberg served in the United States Merchant Marine during Wor
 Michael F. Drinkhouse, who opened a small diner in Jersey City and ended up owning some of Manhattan's best-known restaurants, notably the Blue Ribbon and the Old Homestead, as well as a string of race horses and a collection of Impressionist and Post-Impressionist paintings, died on June 1
 Norman D. Waters, who owned an advertising agency bearing his name and who in 1941 produced the first fashion show broadcast on television, died Tuesday at Osborn Retirement Community in Rye, N.Y., his daughter, Elizabeth Waters Haron, said. He was 92. Mr. Waters was an early champi
 Peter T. Joseph, chairman and chief executive officer of Rosecliff Inc., a merchant banking concern, and chairman of the board of American Ballet Theater, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 47. The cause was cancer, said John Silberman, a family friend. Mr. Jose
 Charles Korvin, an actor who made a career playing gentleman thieves and philandering husbands, died on June 18 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 90 and had homes in Manhattan and Klosters, Switzerland. Mr. Korvin, whose original name was Geza Karpathi, was born in Piestan
 David Ayalon, a scholar of Muslim history who pioneered research on the Mameluke dynasties of Egypt and compiled what is considered the most authoritative Arabic-Hebrew dictionary, died in Jerusalem on Thursday. He was 84. The cause was cancer, acquaintances said. Born in Ha
 Lounes Matoub, a popular Algerian singer and Berber patriot who was kidnapped by Muslim militants in Algeria four years ago but was freed and had lived mostly in France since, was killed in an ambush near his hometown east of Algiers on Thursday. He was 42. News of his death, appare
 Mark H. Harrington, a television news executive who managed to get MSNBC, the 24-hour news cable station, up and operating in six months and who directed the CBS News coverage of major events like Presidential conventions and the Olympics, died at his home in Manhattan on Thursday. He was 5
 Alexander Pregel, a worldly Russian-born dealer in uranium and other radioactive elements, died on June 6 at Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 91 and lived in Sarasota. Mr. Pregel, working with his older brother, Boris, had a cosmopolitan  career in which roles were played 
 Emanuel Levenson, who shared his love of opera with schoolchildren across the country, died on June 9 at the University of Michigan Hospital in Ann Arbor. He was 81 and lived in Ypsilanti, Mich. Mr. Levenson, a graduate of Columbia University, studied piano with Joseph Adler and tau
 Harrel Gordon Tillman, a Methodist minister who also pursued careers in acting and broadcasting before he turned to the law and became the first black judge in Texas, died on June 19 at the hospice of Texas Medical Center in Houston. He was 73 and lived in Houston. The cause was mul
 Jacob Katz, an internationally known authority on the history of the Jewish people, died on May 20 in Hadassah Hospital in Jerusalem. He was 93. Professor Katz, who was born in Hungary, joined the faculty of Hebrew University, in Jerusalem, in 1950 and went on to hold its Bella and 
 Alioune Blondin Beye, a United Nations envoy on a diplomatic mission aimed at averting renewed bloodshed in Angola, was apparently killed on Friday night in the crash of a light plane near Abidjan, the capital of the Ivory Coast. He was 59 and was based in Lusaka, Zambia. The author
 Clancy Carlile, a novelist and screenwriter, died on June 4 at South Austin Hospital in Austin, Tex. He was 68 and lived in Austin. He had cancer, said Leonard Gardner, a friend. Mr. Carlile, whose original name was Clarence Lawson Carlile, wrote  four novels. ''Children of 
 Oliver E. Treyz, who helped make ABC's television network a formidable competitor to CBS and NBC in the 1950's and 60's, died June 14 at a retirement home in Englewood, N.J., from kidney failure caused by prostate cancer, his son James O. Treyz said. He was 80. As head of the Americ
 Peter Wyden, a journalist and author whose most recent book delved into his younger son's fight against schizophrenia, died Saturday evening at Danbury Hospital in Danbury, Conn. He was 74. The cause was a stroke and a subdural hematoma, or blood on the brain, according to a stateme
 Robert L. D. Davidson, president emeritus of Westminster College in Fulton, Mo., who built the Churchill Memorial and Library there in a historic church transplanted from London, died on June 20 in a car accident in Missouri. He was 89 and lived in Fulton. Winston Churchill delivere
 Roland E. Wolseley, a journalism teacher who wrote one of the first surveys of the black press, died at his home in Syracuse on May 31. He was 94. Mr. Wolseley began his career as a reporter and editor of newspapers in Reading, Pa. After receiving a master's degree at the Medill Sch
 True Delbert Morse, a former Agriculture Department Under Secretary and an architect of agricultural price support policy, died on June 3 at a retirement home in Sun City, Ariz. He was 102 years old. He served in the Agriculture Department during the Eisenhower Administration and wa
 Dr. Charles Rycroft, a British psychoanalyst who offered a generation of therapists new ways to interpret not just dreams but Freud's entire legacy, died May 24 in London, where he lived. He was 83. For three decades or more, Dr. Rycroft was the leading intellectual force in British
 John Malcolm Brinnin, a poet and literary biographer who witnessed and chronicled the alcoholic deterioration and death of Dylan Thomas,  died on Friday at his home in Key West, Fla. He was 81. He came to know many famous poets during the 1950's, when he was director of the Poetry S
 Maj. Gen. Marion E. Carl, one of the leading Marine air aces of World War II and a record-setting test pilot, was shot to death on Sunday night in a robbery at his home in Roseburg, Ore., the Douglas County Sheriff's Department said. He was 82. General Carl, who was credited with 18
