 The jazz guitarist Chuck Wayne, who took part in the beginnings of the be-bop movement in the 1940's, played with delicacy and musical wit, and instructed countless young guitarists in the mysteries of the music, died on Tuesday at his home in Jackson, N.J. He was 74. The cause was 
 Frank A. Kaufman, a Federal district judge in Baltimore who presided over many important cases and was a leader in the American Bar Association, died today at his home in Baltimore. He was 81. A family friend and former law partner, Shale Stiller, said the cause was a rare blood dis
 Mohammed Mahdi al-Jawahri, the most famous contemporary Iraqi poet in the Arab world, who was forced to flee his country as an opponent of the Baghdad regime, died in exile in Syria on Sunday. He was 97. The Arab News Agency of Syria said he died in a hospital in Damascus. He fled t
 Bao Dai, the last Emperor in a line that held the throne in Vietnam for a century and a half, died on Thursday in France, where he spent nearly half of his life in exile after abdicating in 1945. The French Defense Ministry, which made the announcement yesterday, said he died in a military 
 Kenneth W. Bilby, an author and journalist, died of leukemia in Dallas yesterday. He was 78. Born in Tucson, Ariz., Mr. Bilby  graduated from the University of Arizona. He worked at The New York Herald Tribune as a United Nations correspondent, an assistant city editor and a foreign
 The Russian pianist Sviatoslav Richter, one of the most acclaimed keyboard artists of the 20th century, died yesterday in a Moscow hospital. He was 82. The cause was a heart attack, the Russian Culture Ministry reported. Though he kept a commodious apartment in Moscow and a 
 J. David Jones, an airborne Balanchine who used the sky as his stage and helicopters as his corps de ballet, died on July 14 at his home in Redway, Calif. He was 61 and had been Hollywood's premier helicopter pilot and an accomplished aerial coordinator. His family said the cause wa
 Dr. Leo Stone, a past president of the New York Psychoanalytic Institute and New York Psychoanalytic Society and a teacher and author who guided his colleagues toward a more humanistic approach toward their patients, died on Tuesday. He was 93 and lived in Manhattan. Dr. Stone, who 
 William S. Burroughs, a renegade writer of the Beat Generation who stunned readers and inspired adoring cultists with his 1959 book ''Naked Lunch,'' died yesterday afternoon at Lawrence Memorial Hospital in Lawrence, Kan. He was 83. The cause of his death was a heart attack that he 
 Bennett A. Brown, a captain of Southern banking who navigated through the financial shoals of bad real estate loans and interstate mergers, died on Saturday morning at Emory University Hospital in Atlanta. He was 68. Lung cancer was diagnosed in Mr. Brown a year ago. He serv
 Bert Phillips, who retired in 1982 after 10 years as chairman and chief executive of the Clark Equipment Company, the maker of forklift trucks and vehicle parts, died July 15 at his summer home in Cassopolis, Mich. He was 78. The cause was myelodysplasia, a bone marrow disease, his son, Eri
 Chone Shmeruk, an authority on Yiddish, died on July 5 in Warsaw, his native city. He was 76 and taught Yiddish literature in Poland in recent years after retiring from a professorship in Israel. When his death was announced in Jerusalem by Hebrew University, the cause was not discl
 Egmont Sonderling, the founder and chief executive of a radio and television company bearing his name, died on July 22 at the Sylvester Comprehensive Cancer Center in Miami. Mr. Sonderling, a resident of Bal Harbour, Fla., was 91. Mr. Sonderling emigrated to the United States from G
 Fela, the Nigerian singer and band leader who combined pulsating Afro-beat rhythms and scathing pidgin English lyrics to goad Nigeria's leaders and denounce their authoritarian regimes, died on Saturday at his home in Lagos. He was 58 and had been Africa's most famous musician and his count
 Harold Lloyd Sheppard, who studied and wrote about the aging of America, particularly in the workplace, died on July 10 at St. Joseph's Hospital in Tampa, Fla. He was 75 and lived in Clearwater, Fla. The cause of death was heart failure, his family said. Dr. Sheppard was the
 Joseph Dickson Hinkle, a Boston lawyer who was long active in community affairs, died July 24 at his home on Beacon Hill. He was 54. The cause was cancer, said Elliot M. Surkin, a partner in the firm of Hill & Barlow, where Mr. Hinkle practiced corporate and tax law. Mr. Hin
 Robert J. Schwartz Jr., a banker who was among the first to promote derivatives as a financial instrument to help companies hedge against fluctuating currencies or interest rates, died July 15 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 50, and his family said the cause wa
 William S. Burroughs, a renegade writer of the Beat Generation who stunned readers and inspired adoring cultists with his 1959 book ''Naked Lunch,'' died on Saturday evening at Lawrence Memorial Hospital in Lawrence, Kan. He was 83. The cause of his death was a heart attack that he 
 Clarence M. Kelley, the square-jawed former police chief who headed the Federal Bureau of Investigation from 1973 to 1978, steering it away from its campaign against Communism, out of its Watergate-era miasma and into a new battle against white-collar and organized crime, died today at his 
 David A. Prager, a lawyer who became an outspoken and forceful advocate for urban architectural preservation and an influential figure in the arts in New York City, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84. Mr. Prager was passionate about the beauty of the city and about
 Eugene G. Fubini, a physicist and electronics engineer who was active in Allied efforts to hamstring Axis radar operations in Europe in World War II and became an Assistant Secretary of Defense in the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died yesterday at his son's home in Brookline, Mass. 
 Frank E. Smith, a moderate Mississippi Democrat who spent 12 years in Congress at a time when moderates of any stripe were an endangered species in Mississippi, died on Saturday at his home in Jackson. He was 79 and had served in the House from 1951 to 1962, when his consistent support of K
 Herb Friedwald, a jazz producer, jazz historian and lawyer whose interests ranged from the most traditional New Orleans music to the most abstract free-jazz, died on Thursday at his home in Brooklyn Heights. He was 62 years old. The cause was heart failure, said his son, the jazz cr
 Mario Pittoni, who served for 25 years as a justice of New York State Supreme Court, the first Democrat to be elected to that post on Long Island, died on Sunday at Mercy Hospital in Rockville Centre, N.Y. He was 90 and lived in Lynbrook, N.Y. Justice Pittoni, a former prosecutor an
 Michael J. Tully Jr., a Republican State Senator from Long Island who was instrumental in passing New York's ban on smoking in public buildings, died early yesterday at his home in Flower Hill. He was 64. The Nassau County police said he suffered a heart attack after returning home 
 Horace Bristol, a giant of photo-journalism, a man whose images of Depression-era despair in the United States, wartime heroism in the Pacific and postwar poverty and hope in rural Korea have been ranked with the great pictures of the century, died on Monday at a hospital in Ojai, Calif. A 
 Paul W. Williams, who served as a United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York in the 1950's and also as a Special Assistant Attorney General of New York, died on Monday at his home in North Plain Beach, Fla. He was 94. He died after a short illness, said Mary Forcel
 Don Steele, one of the pioneering disk jockeys of top 40 radio in the 60's, died on Tuesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 61. The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Shaune. Mr. Steele, better known as ''the Real'' Don Steele, became famous not for the songs he played
 Dr. Frank Folke Furstenberg, a Baltimore physician and an advocate of national health care legislation in the 1940's, died on Tuesday at his home. He was 92 and lived in Baltimore. Dr. Furstenberg was the director of the Sinai Hospital Medical Care Clinic in Baltimore and served on 
 Peter Ambler Carruthers, a physicist at the University of Arizona and former head of the theoretical division at the Los Alamos National Laboratory, died on Sunday at his home in Tucson, Ariz. He was 61. The cause was liver failure, the university said. Dr. Carruthers's inte
 Sidney Simon, a sculptor and a founder of the Skowhegan School of Painting and Sculpture in Maine, died on Monday at his summer home in Truro, Mass. He was 80 and also lived in Manhattan. The cause was congestive heart failure, his son Mark said. Mr. Simon's work, which has 
 Col. Albert F. Schoepper, the White House music consultant and leader of ''The President's Own'' Marine Band for 17 years until he retired in 1972, died on July 29 at Inova Alexandria Hospital in Virginia. He was 83 and lived in Arlington, Va. He had suffered a stroke, a band spokes
 John Brailsford Elliott, a former chairman of the National Data Corporation who was a leading collector of Chinese art, died on July 25 at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania. He lived in Princeton, N.J.,  and was 69. The cause of death was heart failure, his family said.
 Paul Rudolph, an architect whose chareer epitomized the turbulence that engulfed American modernism in the 1960's, died yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was mesothelioma, or asbestos cancer, according to Ernst Wagner, a close friend.       
 Saul Poliak, an innovator in industry trade shows and a major donor to his alma mater, Columbia University, died Aug. 2 at his home in West Redding, Conn. He was 92. Mr. Poliak's company, Clapp & Poliak, which he founded with Truman Clapp in 1929, was one of the first to manage trad
 Alexander Cordell, the author of the best-selling 1959 novel ''Rape of the Fair Country,'' about Welsh iron-workers and their struggle for union rights at the turn of the century, was found dead on July 9 near Llangollen, Denbighshire, in Wales, The Independent, the British newspaper, repor
 Herbert Katzki, an official of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee for six decades who helped salvage thousands of uprooted lives in Europe and the Middle East, died last Sunday at Lenox Hill Hospital after a fall. He was 89 and lived on Manhattan's East Side. Mr. Katzk
 Roy Herbert Steinberg, a neurophysiologist at the University of California at San Francisco who helped explain the structure and function of the retina, died on July 26 at his home in San Francisco. He was 61. The cause was multiple myeloma, a bone marrow cancer, his family said.   
 Herbert Jose de Souza, a Brazilian sociologist who became the figure most identified with fighting inequality, hunger and police brutality in his country, died Saturday night at his home in the Botafogo section of Rio. He was 60. The Brazilian radio reported the cause of death as li
 Peter Braestrup, a former war correspondent for The New York Times and The Washington Post who became an authority on the relationship between the press and the military, died yesterday at Penobscot Bay Medical Center in Maine, where he had been on vacation. He was 68 and lived in Washingto
 Robert E. Pike, who grew up in northern Vermont enchanted by the tales of the imposing, spiked-booted loggers who swaggered down the Connecticut River and camped on his uncle's farm, tousling his hair and feeding him sugar cookies from the cook tent before pushing off for the pulp mills dow
 Walter I. Farmer, who was awarded a high German medal last year for having protested, as an American Army captain in Germany in the months after World War II, his superiors' decision to ship artworks including paintings by Rembrandt and Rubens to the United States, died on Saturday at Chris
 William Lincer, the principal violist of the New York Philharmonic from 1943 to 1972, died on July 31 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 90 and lived in Manhattan. His wife, Mary, said the cause was an aneurysm. Mr. Lincer was born in Malverne, N.Y.
 Conlon Nancarrow, an expatriate American composer whose frustrations with the limitations of live performance technique led him to compose almost exclusively for mechanical player pianos, and who was widely regarded as one of the few truly visionary composers of the century, died on Sunday 
 Louis Blaise Inturrisi, a Rome-based travel and food writer who also taught writing, was found dead in his apartment in the city's Monteverdi section last week, the police said. He was 54. The authorities said they consider Mr. Inturrisi's death a homicide and are still investigatin
 Nicholas J. Hoff, professor emeritus of aeronautics and astronautics at Stanford University, who helped devise and develop the fragile aluminum skins of ever-faster aircraft from the 1940's into the supersonic age, died on Aug. 4 at his home on the Stanford campus. He was 91. An aer
 Peter Braestrup, a former war correspondent for The New York Times and The Washington Post who became an authority on the relationship between the press and the military, died on Sunday at Penobscot Bay Medical Center in Rockport, Me., where he had been on vacation. He was 68 and lived in W
 Rudolf Lewis Baer, a dermatologist who spent nearly 50 years on the faculty of the New York University School of Medicine, 20 as department chairman, died on July 31 at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 87. The cause was complications from a stroke, his family sai
 Norman B. Ture, an uncompromising advocate of supply-side economics and an architect of the 1981 tax cut that was one of the largest in the nation's history, died on Sunday at his home in Alexandria, Va. He was 74. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said a friend, Barry Rogstad.      
 Rex Barney, whose no-hitter for the Brooklyn Dodgers against the New York Giants in 1948 was the crowning point of a baseball career shackled by his inability to get the ball over the plate consistently, died yesterday at his home in Baltimore. He was 72. Barney, the Baltimore Oriol
 Roy Gerrard, an author and illustrator who charmed children with his bouncy rhymes and thumb-shaped characters acting out their adventures -- and misadventures -- in sumptuous period settings, died on Aug. 5 in his native England. He was 62 and lived in Stockport, Cheshire. The caus
 Dr. Reuben Abel, a writer on humanism and a professor emeritus of philosophy at the New School for Social Research in Manhattan, died on Friday at New Rochelle Hospital. He was 85 and lived in Larchmont, N.Y. After he received his Ph.D. from the New School in 1952, Dr. Abel taught f
 Emil (Bus) Mosbacher Jr., who skippered two winning teams in the America's Cup races and shepherded visiting diplomats through official Washington as the State Department's chief of protocol in the Nixon Administration, died yesterday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 75. The c
 Evan J. Kemp Jr., who had to take a Government job in 1964 because nobody else would hire a disabled  lawyer, died at a hospital near his home in Washington on Tuesday, satisfied that he had helped to make the world a bit more accepting of people like him. He was 60 and, as the chairman of 
 Carlton Moss, a filmmaker, writer, cultural scholar and social critic, died on Sunday at a hospital near his home in Los Angeles. He was 88. It is a reflection of the black experience in Hollywood that the man who became a revered inspiration to generations of black actors, scriptwr
 Jack Delano, one of the few surviving members of the group of photographers who fanned out throughout the United States in the 1930's and 40's on behalf of the New Deal's Farm Security Administration and produced what have become iconic images of the Great Depression, died on Tuesday at a h
 Donald I. Fine, a publisher who was known for nurturing the careers of such best-selling authors as Ken Follett, Andrew Vachss and Elmore Leonard, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 75. The cause was cancer, said his son, Stephen. In an era when publishing com
 Edmund Astley Prentis 3d, a principal of the international engineering company Spencer, White and Prentis Inc. of New York and a champion croquet player, died on Monday at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 73. His son Peter said the cause of death was congestive heart failure.  
 Martin Diskin, a professor of anthropology at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an authority on agrarian economies in Latin America, died on Aug. 3 in Mount Auburn hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 62 and lived in Lexington, Mass. He had leukemia, the M.I.T. news offic
 The Rev. Frederick Hill, who as the ninth rector of St. Michael's Episcopal Church breathed new life into what had been a moribund parish on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, died on Aug. 2 at his home in Goshen, N.Y. Father Hill, who retired as rector in 1992, was 67. The cause was
 Duke Zeibert, a wise-cracking, back-slapping restaurateur who for almost half a century ran the Washington establishment's favorite power-lunch spot, died today at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 86. He had been suffering from heart disease and cancer since closing the restaurant t
 Drummond Matthews, a geophysicist whose work provided a critical underpinning for the theory that the earth's crust consists of large rigid plates, died on July 20 in Taunton, England. He was 66 and lived in the nearby town of Porlock. The cause was a heart attack, said officials at
 Frank Bertino, the former teacher, football coach and athletic director at Riverdale Country School who ranks second in victories among high school coaches in New York State, died last Sunday at his home in Yorktown, N.Y. He was 77. The cause was heart failure, said Bob Clark, a clo
 Frederic A. C. Wardenburg 3d, a career Du Pont executive who interrupted his life as a staid businessman to jounce off across Europe behind advancing Allied troops on a top secret mission in the waning days of World War II, died on Aug. 10 at a nursing home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 92.  
 Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, the Pakistani singer whose thrilling voice carried Sufi devotional songs to the world, died yesterday in London. He was 48. Mr. Khan, who suffered from problems with his liver and his weight, came to London last week for medical and business reasons. He was ru
 Chih-Han Sah, a theoretical mathematician at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, died on July 22 at University Hospital in Stony Brook. He was 62 and lived in Setauket, N.Y. He suffered a brief illness, his family said. Among his peers, Dr. Sah was best known fo
 Moshe Ganchoff, a cantor and composer widely acknowledged as one of the last great exponents of the Odessa tradition of liturgical music, died last Monday at a hospital near his home in Brighton Beach, Brooklyn. He was 92. During an acclaimed career in which he served as cantor at a
 Nusrat Fateh Ali Khan, the Pakistani singer whose thrilling voice carried Sufi devotional songs to the world, died on Saturday in London. He was 48. Mr. Khan, who suffered from problems with his liver and his weight, came to London last week for medical and business reasons. He was 
 Plato Malozemoff, the former chairman and chief executive of the Newmont Mining Corporation, died Aug. 8 at Greenwich Hospital in Greenwich, Conn. He was 88 years old and lived in Greenwich. The cause of death was congestive heart failure, his son, Alexis, said. Mr. Malozemo
 Ray Heatherton, the television Merry Mailman for two decades, as well as a big-band singer and musical comedy star, died on Friday at the Actors' Fund Nursing and Retirement Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 88 and had lived there for four years. He had been a longtime resident of Rockville Ce
 William H. Jordy, one of the first historians to chronicle the rise of modern architecture in the United States, died on Aug. 10 at his home in Riverside, R.I. He was 79. The cause was heart failure while swimming in his pool, said Mardges Bacon, a former colleague at Brown Universi
 Fred C. Galda, a retired New Jersey Superior Court judge and former prosecutor and Mayor of Paramus, N.J., died on Thursday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 79 and a resident of Saddle River, N.J. He suffered a long illness, his family said. He was a key figure i
 Harris Gilbert, a New Jersey business executive and a longtime national leader with the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, died on Aug. 8 at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 74 and lived in Westfield, N.J. At his death, Mr. Gilbert was chairman of the National Outreach 
 James Starbuck, a ballet dancer who became a pioneering television choreographer and also worked on Broadway and in film musicals, died on Wednesday at his home in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 85. The cause was pancreatic cancer, said J. D. Kessler, who took care of Mr. Starbuck dur
 Legh Knowles, a trumpet player in the Glenn Miller Orchestra who went on to become chairman of Beaulieu Vineyard, one of California's most famous wineries, and a passionate spokesman for all California wines, died on Friday at a convalescent residence near his home in Napa, Calif. He was 78
 William Armistead Christian, a professor emeritus of religious studies at Yale University, died on Aug. 9 at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 92. Dr. Christian, who wrote about religious philosophy, joined the Yale faculty in 1951 as an associate professor. He was promoted to full p
 Akil Al-Jundi, a Harlem street tough who became a leading legal advocate for young criminals facing prison sentences, but only after he had served 15 years for murder and survived the bloody Attica prison takeover, died on Aug. 13 at New York Downtown Hospital in Manhattan. He was 56, and t
 Bruce Harley Yenawine, who had recently left the director's office of a Connecticut museum to take a similar position in Massachusetts, died Monday at the University of Kentucky Medical Center of injuries received in a car accident in Kentucky. A resident of Ivoryton, Conn., he was 47.     
 Burnum Burnum, a battler for the cause of the Aborigines, died on Sunday in his home in the Sydney suburb of Woronora. He was 61. He died of a heart attack aggravated by a history of diabetes, his family said. The tall, imposing Mr. Burnum Burnum brought a gift for showmansh
 Fabio Freyre, a member of the invasion force of Cuban exiles backed by the United States who tried to topple Fidel Castro at the Bay of Pigs in 1961, died on Sunday in his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 79 years old and had cancer, his family said. The invasion collapsed within 72 
 Leo Jaffe, well known for decades as an influential deal maker in Hollywood and as a philanthropist, died yesterday morning at his home in New York City after a long illness. He was 88 years old. In a world where executives often move from one studio to another, Mr. Jaffe was notewo
 Merril Eisenbud, an environmental scientist who was the first health and safety chief of the United States Atomic Energy Commission and the first head of New York City's Environmental Protection Agency, died on Friday at the Carolina Meadows retirement community in Chapel Hill, N.C. He was 
 William Humphrey, whose highly acclaimed first novel, ''Home From the Hill,'' and other books dealt with the play of small-town family life in northeast Texas, died yesterday at his home in Hudson, N.Y. He was 73. The cause was cancer, said Nick Lyons, a friend and one of his publis
 Norris Edwin Bradbury, the physicist who reluctantly followed J. Robert Oppenheimer as the director of the nation's first atomic weapons research center and then served longer in the job than anyone else, died on Wednesday at his home in Los Alamos, N.M. He was 88. Dr. Bradbury took
 Ray Hyman, a musician and inventor, died on Aug. 15 at his home in Bala Cynwyd, Pa. He was 86. Mr. Hyman was an accomplished saxophonist who performed with the Philadelphia Orchestra for nearly 60 years. He was one of the few musicians to have worked under the orchestra's three long
 Yuri Nikulin, a master comic and one of Russia's most loved actors, died today at a Moscow hospital. He was 75. Mr. Nikulin had been in critical condition since undergoing emergency heart surgery on Aug. 5 and died of heart failure. For more than 40 years, Mr. Nikulin entral
 Abe Newborn, a longtime theatrical agent, died on Aug. 12 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived in Manhattan. The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son, Sam. After founding the Baum-Newborn  agency with Marty Baum in 1948, Mr. Newborn represent
 Irving Cooperberg, a founder and the first president of the Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center in Greenwich Village, a hub of gay life in New York City, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 65. The cause was AIDS-related cancer, said Richard D. Burns, the center
 Misael Pastrana Borrero, the last of Colombia's National Front Presidents, who governed as part of a coalition between the two main political parties, died at a clinic here today. He was 74. A Conservative whose sons took up his political mantle, Mr. Pastrana was President from 1970
 Richard Friedman, a professor of psychiatry at the State University of New York at Stony Brook and a pioneer in the study of the mind's effects on physical health, died Tuesday of heart failure after giving a talk at the American Psychological Association meeting in Chicago. He was 49.     
 Richard Friedman, a professor of psychiatry at the State University of New York at Stony Brook and a pioneer in the study of the mind's effects on physical health, died Tuesday of heart failure after giving a talk at the American Psychological Association meeting in Chicago. He was 49.     
 William Cade, a decorated French Resistance fighter and later a travel executive, died on Aug. 8 in a hospital in Naas, Ireland. He was 75 and lived in Kildare, County Kildare. The cause was a stroke, his family said. He joined the Resistance in Nice, conducting tactical mis
 A. Gerdes Kuhbach, a corporate lawyer who had a long career with the New Haven Railroad followed by three years as executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, died on Tuesday at Overlook Hospital in Summit, N.J. He was 80 and lived in Chatham, N.J. His famil
 Charles A. Horsky, a lawyer and former Government official who helped redevelop the nation's capital during the Kennedy and Johnson Administrations, died Wednesday at Holy Cross Hospital in Silver Spring, Md. He was 87 and lived in Silver Spring. The cause was kidney failure, said h
 Frank A. Bartimo, a retired senior legal official at the Pentagon who helped shape its health care policies, died on Aug. 13 at his home in Spencer, Mass. He was 82 and had lived in Falls Church, Va., until three years ago. A native of Leominster, Mass., he graduated from Clark Univ
 The Rev. J. Carter Swaim, a former theology professor in Pittsburgh, an executive with the National Council of Churches in New York and former pastor of the Church of the Covenant on Manhattan's East Side, died on Aug. 7 at the Presbyterian Medical Center in Washington, Pa., where he lived.
 Robert Smith, a prolific author of books about sports, died on Aug. 4 while on a fishing trip in Coburn Gore, Me. He was 91 and lived in Lenox, Mass., and Irvington, N.Y. Mr. Smith's many books, among them six novels, included ''Baseball,'' ''Heroes of Baseball,'' ''Baseball in Amer
 Rolf Knie, a master elephant trainer who led Switzerland's foremost circus family for 50 years, died on Monday. He was 75. The cause of death was heart failure, said a Knie Circus spokesman, Hans Rathgeb. Mr. Knie, who was billed as the man who spoke to elephants, headed the
 Albert Haas, a specialist in heart-and-lung disease and the physical rehabilitation of the patient, died on Aug. 12 at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center of New York. A resident of Greenwich Village, he was 85. Dr. Haas was a retired professor of medicine at New York Universi
 John Paul Itta, an advertising executive who was as well known within the industry for his fanciful Christmas cards as for his multiple awards for creative campaigns, died Aug. 16 at University Hospital in Stony Brook, N.Y. The cause was acute myelogenous leukemia, according to Anthony F. M
 Mac Gache, a former publisher who popularized the tan and green volumes of Funk & Wagnalls encyclopedia sets with door-to-door canvassing and supermarket sales, puzzle contests and dishware prizes, died on Aug. 14 at his home in Bal Harbour, Fla. He was 93 and had been retired from publishi
 Ron Hoff, a former advertising executive, died on Aug. 18 at Brush Presbyterian Hospital in Chicago. Mr. Hoff, a resident of Chicago and Lake Geneva, Wis., was 71. He died after a medical procedure for heart disease, said Linda Hoff-Hagensick, a daughter. Mr. Hoff was an exe
 Buddy Hassett, a first baseman for the Brooklyn Dodgers, Boston Braves and Yankees who was known as a fine hitter and fielder, but was best remembered for his propensity to croon at the drop of a baseball hat, died on Saturday. He was 85. Hassett, who had bone cancer, died at Pascac
 Edgar F. Shannon Jr., a former president of the University of Virginia who inspired both cheers and scorn for his outspoken opposition to the war in Vietnam in the early 1970's, died on Sunday at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 79. The cause was cancer, Mr. Shannon's wife, E
 Johnny Byrne, a sound engineer and producer who was a fixture on New York's Irish music scene, died on Saturday at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan. He was 39. He died after falling from the fire escape of his East Village apartment on Aug. 3, said his sister, Bronwyn O'Donnell of Dub
 O. W. Riegel, a journalist who turned an interest in propaganda acquired in Europe between the world wars into a career as a scholar and expert on the subject, died on Saturday at Stonewall Jackson Hospital in Lexington, Va. He was 94 and lived in Glasgow, Va. He had suffered a stro
 Paul G. Gebhard, a lawyer who represented physicians organizations and is credited with having introduced the legal term ''informed consent'' in medical malpractice cases, died on Wednesday at his home in Chicago. He was 69. The cause of death was cancer, said his wife, Maria Svolos
 Abram Joseph Abeloff, a surgeon with Lenox Hill Hospital for more than 50 years and a former associate clinical professor of surgery at New York University, died on Aug. 15 at the hospital. He was 97 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Dr. Abeloff was an honorary board me
 Joseph Austin Phillips, a chief assistant prosecutor for Maurice H. Nadjari, the New York State special prosecutor who led an anti-corruption inquiry in the 1970's, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 65. The cause of death was heart disease, according to Edward J. Kir
 William C. Moog Jr., the inventor of a valve that revolutionized aircraft and missile flight control systems, died on Friday at his house in Stuart, Fla. He was 82. His health had been declining since last year, when he suffered a stroke, his family said. An inventor and entrepreneu
 Brandon Tartikoff, one of the most successful showmen in the history of network television, who brought to NBC such hit series as ''Hill Street Blues,'' ''The Cosby Show,'' ''Miami Vice'' and ''Cheers,'' died yesterday at U.C.L.A. Medical Center in Los Angeles. A resident of Los Angeles, he
 David Ross, a retired justice of the New York State Supreme Court and a colorful majority leader of the New York City Council in the 1960's, died on Monday at Montefiore Hospital in New York City. He was 76. The cause was leukemia, according to a statement released by the court.    
 Byron Gordon MacNabb, who directed field operations for the rocket system that launched the United States' space program and sent four astronauts into orbit, died on Monday. He was 87 and lived in Cheyenne, Wyo. Mr. MacNabb helped shepherd the program for the Atlas rocket from its e
 Clodomiro Almeyda Medina, an important leftist figure in Chile, died on Monday at his home in Santiago, Chile, after a long battle with colon cancer, his family said. He was 74. Mr. Almeyda held various Government positions, including Foreign Minister, Defense Minister and Vice Pres
 Because Bob Switzer fell off a loading dock as a teen-ager six decades ago, Allied troops were not accidentally bombed by their own planes during World War II, boxes of Tide detergent glow on supermarket shelves and black light is big at rock concerts. Mr. Switzer, who died on Aug. 
 Carl Jacobi, a short-story writer whose tales of the macabre and fantastic filled pulp magazines and books for six decades, died on Monday at a nursing home in suburban Minneapolis. He was 89. Mr. Jacobi sold his first story in 1928; four years later his work became a staple of Weir
 Jan Sejna, a former major general in the Czechoslovak Army who defected to the United States in 1968 and provided valuable intelligence on Communist military activities, died at his home in Bethesda, Md., on Saturday. He was 70. General Sejna fled to the United States after the libe
 John Cowdery Kendrew, a British molecular biochemist and 1962 Nobel laureate who decoded part of the mystery of life by revealing the detailed structure of a key protein, died last Saturday in Cambridge, England. He was 80. Dr. Kendrew started his quest at the end of World War II wh
 Emad Mohammed al-Fayed, known as Dodi, was killed in a car crash early this morning in Paris as he and Diana, the Princess of Wales, were fleeing paparazzi after dinner at the Ritz Hotel. Diana also died. Mr. al-Fayed, the eldest son of Mohammed al-Fayed, the owner of Harrods of Kni
 Thomas D. Perry Jr., manager of the Boston Symphony Orchestra from 1954 to 1973 and its executive director from 1973 until his retirement in 1978, died last Sunday at his home in West Stockbridge, Mass. He was 83. Mr. Perry joined the staff of the Boston Symphony as an assistant man
