Dr. A. Brad Truax, a physician active in advocating laws protecting people with AIDS from discrimination, died Tuesday of complications from the disease. He was 42 years old.  A former Navy flight surgeon, Dr. Truax was appointed in 1983 to the Mayor's Task Force on AIDS, which became
David Siegal, a labor leader in the culinary trades, died of complications of Parkinson's disease on Monday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 83 years old. David Siegal, a labor leader in the culinary trades, died of complications of Parkinson's disease on Monday at his home in 
Peter H. Morrison, a lawyer who was a prosecutor and, later, a defender of people accused of securities fraud, died of colon cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 53 years old. Peter H. Morrison, a lawyer who was a prosecutor and, later, a defender of people accuse
Charlie Rouse, a tenor saxophonist and one of jazz's great individualists, died of lung cancer on Wednesday afternoon at University Hospital in Seattle. He was 64 years old. Charlie Rouse, a tenor saxophonist and one of jazz's great individualists, died of lung cancer on Wedne
David Schaps, a retired men's clothing manufacturer, died of lung cancer Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 76 years old and lived in East Rockaway, L.I. David Schaps, a retired men's clothing manufacturer, died of lung cancer Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospita
Prof. Edward S. Deevey Jr., a biologist and ecologist, died of a heart attack Tuesday at Alachua General Hospital in Gainesville, Fla., where he lived. He was 73 years old. Prof. Edward S. Deevey Jr., a biologist and ecologist, died of a heart attack Tuesday at Alachua General
James R. Neely, a physiologist and researcher, died of a heart attack Tuesday at Geisinger Medical Center in Danville, Pa. He was 52 years old and lived in Danville. James R. Neely, a physiologist and researcher, died of a heart attack Tuesday at Geisinger Medical Center in Da
John M. Duggan, president of Washburn University in Topeka, died of pancreatic cancer Tuesday in a Topeka hospital. He was 60 years old. John M. Duggan, president of Washburn University in Topeka, died of pancreatic cancer Tuesday in a Topeka hospital. He was 60 years old.    
Judge Paul P. Rao Sr., an associate judge of the United States Court of International Trade, died of a heart attack Wednesday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 89 years old and lived in Manhattan. Judge Paul P. Rao Sr., an associate judge of the 
Nils Bejerot, a Swedish physician and psychiatrist who was a pioneer in the study of drug abuse in contemporary society, died of lymphoma on Tuesday at Karolinska Hospital in Stockholm. He was 67 years old and lived in Stockholm. Nils Bejerot, a Swedish physician and psychiatr
Alvin B. Lebar, a lawyer, died of a heart attack Wednesday at St. Peter's Medical Center in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 66 years old and lived in Perth Amboy, N.J. Alvin B. Lebar, a lawyer, died of a heart attack Wednesday at St. Peter's Medical Center in New Brunswick, N.J. He
Donald Edward Keoeoe, a retired Marine Corps major who espoused the belief that there were unidentified flying objects from outer space, died of pneumonia and cardiac arrest Tuesday at the Life Care Center in New Market, Va. He was 91 years old and lived in Luray, Va. Donald E
Johannes Steel, a newspaperman and radio commentator whose career was marked by controversy over his outspoken left-wing views and his often sensational political and economic predictions, died on Wednesday at his home in Newtown, Conn. He was 80 years old. Johannes Steel, a n
Joseph W. Fischbach, president of Fischbach-McCoach Associates, a management consulting company, died of lung cancer Nov. 24 at his home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 71 years old. Joseph W. Fischbach, president of Fischbach-McCoach Associates, a management consulting company, die
Wally Berger, the Boston Braves outfielder who hit 38 home runs as a rookie in 1930 to establish a major league record that stood for 57 years, died of a stroke Wednesday in Redondo Beach, Calif. He was 83 years old. Wally Berger, the Boston Braves outfielder who hit 38 home r
John Parke Young, an authority on the international monetary system and longtime advocate of a single world currency, died Tuesday at age 93. John Parke Young, an authority on the international monetary system and longtime advocate of a single world currency, died Tuesday at a
John Upton Terrell, the author of more than 40 books and a historian of the Old West, died Thursday of a heart attack. He was 87 years old. A Chicago native, Mr. Terrell spent time as a youth on his uncle's ranch in Montana. When he was a teen-ager, he ran away from home to become a c
Johnny Paychek, who once fought Joe Louis for the world heavyweight championship, died Saturday. He was 74 years old. Johnny Paychek, who once fought Joe Louis for the world heavyweight championship, died Saturday. He was 74 years old. Mr. Paychek began his boxing care
Mfanafuthi Makatini, a ranking member of the African National Congress and its former observer at the United Nations, died Saturday after a brief illness, the South African black nationalist organization announced. Mfanafuthi Makatini, a ranking member of the African National 
Arthur P. Veltman Jr., a Texas restaurateur and real estate developer, died Saturday at Baptist Medical Center, San Antonio. He was 52 years old and lived in San Antonio. He died of lymphatic cancer, said Dr. Luis Cisneros.  With his partner, Bob Buchanan, Mr. Veltman opened Kangaroo 
James Clair Shaw, a retired rear admiral and naval historian, died Sunday at his home in Bellows Falls, Vt. He was 74 years old and before a recent illness had been New England director of the Humane Society of the United States. James Clair Shaw, a retired rear admiral and na
John Maher, a former drug addict who gained national prominence by starting a successful drug and alcohol rehabilitation program in San Francisco, died in his sleep Friday at his mother's home in Manhattan. He was 48 years old and had suffered several heart attacks recently. J
Joseph C. Nugent Sr., a retired New York stockbroker and emeritus member of the board of trustees of Marymount Manhattan College, died Saturday at New York Hospital after a brief illness. He was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan. Joseph C. Nugent Sr., a retired New York stoc
Sir David Clive Crosbie Trench, a former Governor of Hong Kong, died Sunday at his home in Shillingstone, England. He was 73 years old. The cause of death was not announced. Sir David Clive Crosbie Trench, a former Governor of Hong Kong, died Sunday at his home in Shillingston
August Howard, founder of the American Polar Society and the editor of a newsletter for polar explorers and researchers, died of heart disease Sunday. He was 78 years old and lived in Rego Park, Queens. August Howard, founder of the American Polar Society and the editor of a n
Charles Saxon, a cartoonist whose elegant drawings deftly deflated the pomposities of the corporate board room and the suburban country club, died of heart failure yesterday at St. Joseph Medical Center in Stamford, Conn. He was 68 years old and lived in New Canaan, Conn. Char
George D. Shaw, the captain of the track and field team at Columbia University in 1953, whose school indoor long-jump and outdoor triple-jump records still stand, died Monday of a heart attack while jogging in Van Cortlandt Park, not far from his home in the Inwood section of Manhatta
Thornton F. Bradshaw, a leader in American business who became the last chairman of RCA and made his mark in broadcasting by helping to restore NBC to first place among the three major television networks, died yesterday in New York Hospital. He suffered a stroke Monday. He was 71 yea
William E. Potter, an engineer who was a governor of the Panama Canal Zone and a builder of Walt Disney World, died of heart failure Monday at the Orlando (Fla.) Regional Medical Center. He was 83 years old and lived in Orlando. William E. Potter, an engineer who was a governo
William Dunbar Griffith, a noted ballet teacher, died on Nov. 12 at the Cleveland Clinic. He was 60 years old. William Dunbar Griffith, a noted ballet teacher, died on Nov. 12 at the Cleveland Clinic. He was 60 years old. Mr. Griffith died of pneumonia, said the execut
Charles P. Buckley Jr., a lawyer who was active in Long Island affairs, died Monday at his home in Baldwin, L.I., after a long illness. He was 86 years old. Charles P. Buckley Jr., a lawyer who was active in Long Island affairs, died Monday at his home in Baldwin, L.I., after 
James Patrick Garvey, a former corporate vice president of Burlington Industries, died of cancer Tuesday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 77 years old and lived in Greenwich. James Patrick Garvey, a former corporate vice president of Burlington Industries, died of cancer 
James Ray, an actor in theater, television and films who appeared in productions of the New York Shakespeare Festival and the American Shakespeare Festival, died of a heart attack last Saturday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 57 years old. James Ray, an actor in theater, te
John H. Geisse, a World War I aviator and aeronautical inventor, died of heart failure Sunday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Indianaoplis. He was 96 years old and lived in Indianapolis. John H. Geisse, a World War I aviator and aeronautical inventor, died of heart failure Sunday
Roy Orbison, the singer and songwriter whose best work brought introspection and yearning to rock-and-roll, died of a heart attack Tuesday night while visiting his mother in Hendersonville, Tenn. He was 52 years old and lived in Malibu, Calif. Roy Orbison, the singer and songw
William Barry Leavens Jr., a retired business executive and inventor, died of cardiac arrest Tuesday at his home in West Orange, N.J. He was 84 years old. William Barry Leavens Jr., a retired business executive and inventor, died of cardiac arrest Tuesday at his home in West O
William Edwin Hill, an international management consultant, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 78 years old. William Edwin Hill, an international management consultant, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 78 ye
Christopher Connelly, who starred in the television series ''Peyton Place'' and ''Paper Moon,'' died Wednesday of cancer. He was 47 years old. Christopher Connelly, who starred in the television series ''Peyton Place'' and ''Paper Moon,'' died Wednesday of cancer. He was 47 ye
Edward J. Quinn, a retired banking executive, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Huntington, L.I. He was 77 years old. Edward J. Quinn, a retired banking executive, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Huntington, L.I. He was 77 years old. Mr. Quinn, who was born in 
Edward M. Benton, a lawyer and counsel to the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, died Wednesday at Mount Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan. Edward M. Benton, a lawyer and counsel to the Hebrew Immigrant Aid Society, d
Paul Heitner, one of Canada's leading contract-bridge players, died of heart failure early Thursday. He was 49 years old and lived in Brampton, Ontario. Paul Heitner, one of Canada's leading contract-bridge players, died of heart failure early Thursday. He was 49 years old and
Peter Langan, a London restaurateur who had been unconscious since he was burned in a fire at his home in October, died Wednesday night, St. Andrews Hospital at Billericay said. He was 47 years old. Peter Langan, a London restaurateur who had been unconscious since he was burn
Robert Newman, a writer, died of a brain tumor Wednesday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 79 years old and lived in Stonington, Conn. Robert Newman, a writer, died of a brain tumor Wednesday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 79 years old 
Terrence Lore Smith, an author of mystery novels, died Wednesday in a traffic accident. He was 46 years old and lived in Woodland Park, Colo. Terrence Lore Smith, an author of mystery novels, died Wednesday in a traffic accident. He was 46 years old and lived in Woodland Park,
Ulanhu, a former deputy chairman of the Chinese National People's Congress who fought for Mongolian rights during his long political career, died today, the official New China News Agency said. He was 82 years old. Ulanhu, a former deputy chairman of the Chinese National Peopl
Bedros Norehad, an editor and a leader of the Armenian community in Manhattan, died Tuesday in the Mary Manning Walsh Nursing Home in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan. Bedros Norehad, an editor and a leader of the Armenian community in
Charles H. D. Robbins, a writer and editor, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Valatie, N.Y., after a long illness. He was 84 years old and formerly lived in Manhattan. Charles H. D. Robbins, a writer and editor, died Wednesday at a nursing home in Valatie, N.Y., after a long
Dr. Harry J. Field, a New Jersey dentist for 61 years who was one of the earliest specialists in exodontia, the extraction of teeth, died of cardiac arrest Thursday at his home in South Orange, N.J. He was 92 years old. Dr. Harry J. Field, a New Jersey dentist for 61 years who
Henri Peyre, the Sterling Professor of French Emeritus at Yale University, a scholar, writer and teacher, died of heart failure yesterday at Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital. He was 87 years old and lived in Westport, Conn. Henri Peyre, the Sterling Professor of French Emeritus at Yal
James H. Meredith, a senior judge on the Federal District Court who supervised desegregation of the St. Louis public schools for nine years, died of complications of kidney disease Thursday at his home in St. Louis. He was 74 years old. James H. Meredith, a senior judge on the
Paxton Tays Dunn, a former Foreign Service officer who was an adviser on economic and social affairs to the United States mission to the United Nations, died of bone-marrow cancer Thursday at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 60 years old. Paxton Tays Dunn, a former Foreign S
Anthony Manuel Moos, a chemist who developed the fuel-cell system used in the Apollo space project, died Friday at a nursing home in Middletown, R.I. He was 75 years old and lived in Portsmouth, R.I. Anthony Manuel Moos, a chemist who developed the fuel-cell system used in the
Lou Boda, a sports broadcaster on radio and television for more than 35 years before he retired last July, died Friday night after a heart attack. He was 60 years old. Lou Boda, a sports broadcaster on radio and television for more than 35 years before he retired last July, di
Anthony Manuel Moos, a chemist who developed the fuel-cell system used in the Apollo space project, died Friday at a nursing home in Middletown, R.I. He was 75 years old and lived in Portsmouth, R.I. Anthony Manuel Moos, a chemist who developed the fuel-cell system used in the
John Canning, a managing editor of the New York Post since 1980, died suddenly yesterday while on vacation in Ixtapa, Mexico. He was 56 years old and lived in Guttenberg, N.J. John Canning, a managing editor of the New York Post since 1980, died suddenly yesterday while on vac
Lawrence Arthur Wien, lawyer, realtor and philanthropist who donated millions of dollars to education and the arts, died of prostate cancer Saturday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 83 years old and had additional homes in Manhattan and Palm Beach, Fla. Lawrence Arthur Wi
Richard Castellano, a character actor noted for his portrayals of Italian-Americans, died of a heart attack on Saturday at his home in North Bergen, N.J.. He was 55 years old. Richard Castellano, a character actor noted for his portrayals of Italian-Americans, died of a heart 
Anthony Provenzano, a reported organized-crime leader who was ousted a decade ago as the teamsters' boss of northern New Jersey, died of a heart attack yesterday in a hospital near a prison in Lompoc, Calif., where he was serving 20 years for racketeering. He was 71 years old.        
Donald E. Schwartz, a lawyer, author and professor of corporate and securities law at Georgetown University, died of cancer Saturday at George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 58 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md. Donald E. Schwartz, a lawyer, author and 
Earl Dodge Osborn, founder and director emeritus of the EDO Corporation, an aircraft manufacturer in College Point, Queens, died Sunday at his home in Manhattan after a brief illness. He was 95 years old. Earl Dodge Osborn, founder and director emeritus of the EDO Corporation,
Erwin S. Gelsey, a prominent Hollywood screenwriter whose credits included ''Flying Down to Rio,'' the 1933 hit musical that starred Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers, died yesterday in Beverly Hills, Calif. He was 88 years old. Erwin S. Gelsey, a prominent Hollywood screenwriter
James Roy Smothers Jr., a college administrator and director of educational services for the United Negro College Fund, died of cardiac arrest Friday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 68 years old and lived in Brooklyn. James Roy Smothers Jr., a 
Joseph Lawrence Reichler, a member of the sportswriters section of the Baseball Hall of Fame since 1980 and the editor of ''The Baseball Encyclopedia,'' died of cancer yesterday at his home in Roslyn Heights, L.I. He was 73 years old. Joseph Lawrence Reichler, a member of the 
Lewis R. Stewart, a former dentist whose patients included President Herbert Hoover and Supreme Court Justice John Harlan, died of a heart attack Dec. 2 at his home in Pinehurst, N.C. He was 90 years old. Lewis R. Stewart, a former dentist whose patients included President Her
Loudon Snowden Wainwright, a longtime columnist for Life magazine, a former assistant managing editor of Life and the author of ''The Great American Magazine,'' a history of Life, died of colon cancer yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63 years old. Loudon Snowden Wain
Judge Nagendra Singh of the International Court of Justice died Sunday of a heart attack, a court spokesman said. He was 74 years old. Judge Singh, an Indian, joined the World Court in 1973 and was its presiding judge between 1985 and February 1988. The court, based in The Hague, was 
Robert T. Wieringa, a business executive and former president of the Warner-Lambert Company, died, apparently of a heart attack, on Saturday at his home on Hilton Head Island, S.C. He was 65 years old. Robert T. Wieringa, a business executive and former president of the Warner
Vincent H. Rendich, an importer of men's clothing, died of a heart attack Sunday at the United Hospital Medical Center in Portchester, N.Y. He was 85 years old and lived in Rye, N.Y. Vincent H. Rendich, an importer of men's clothing, died of a heart attack Sunday at the United
Walther H. Feldmann, former president and chairman of the Worthington Corporation, a manufacturer of industrial equipment in Harrison, N.J., died yesterday of complications from a stroke at his home in La Jolla, Calif. He was 90 years old. Walther H. Feldmann, former president
Charles H. Sallee, the secretary-treasurer of the Amalgamated Clothing and Textile Workers Union, died Monday at Barnes Hospital in St. Louis, Mo., after a brief illness. He was 63 years old and lived in Manhattan and St. Louis. Charles H. Sallee, the secretary-treasurer of th
David T. Marvel Sr., a former corporate vice president of the Olin Corporation, died of cancer Sunday at Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 81 years old and lived in Lewes, Del. David T. Marvel Sr., a former corporate vice president of the Olin Corporati
Max Block, a nationally recognized accountant and former managing editor of The CPA Journal, died of heart failure Monday at the Del Rey Beach Community Hospital in Florida. He was 86 years old and lived in White Plains. Max Block, a nationally recognized accountant and former
The Rev. Norman Charles, a minister of the United Methodist Church and founder of the Theater of Renewal, a street ministry, died of complications of diabetes Dec. 7 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital. He was 53 years old and lived in Manhattan. The Rev. Norman Charles, a minist
Representative Bill Nichols, Democrat of Alabama, who led a Congressional investigation into prices paid by the Pentagon for spare parts, was pronounced dead at Capitol Hill Hospital today after suffering a heart attack in his office. He was 70 years old. Representative Bill N
The Rev. Dr. Donald R. Campion, a Jesuit priest, author and former editor of the national Catholic weekly magazine America, died of Parkinson's disease Sunday at the Murray-Weigel Hall Health Care Center at Fordham University. He was 67 years old and lived at Fordham. The Rev.
Thorkil Host, a major figure in the Danish shipping industry in World War II, died of heart failure Monday at his home in Rye, N.Y. He was 92 years old. Thorkil Host, a major figure in the Danish shipping industry in World War II, died of heart failure Monday at his home in Ry
Ulrich Finsterwalder, a widely known West German bridge designer, died Dec. 5 in a Munich hospital. He was 90 years old and lived in Munich. Ulrich Finsterwalder, a widely known West German bridge designer, died Dec. 5 in a Munich hospital. He was 90 years old and lived in Mun
Herbert (Toubo) Rhoad, a singer with the Persuasions, an a cappella group, died after a stroke last Thursday in Sacramento, Calif. He was 44 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Herbert (Toubo) Rhoad, a singer with the Persuasions, an a cappella group, died after a stroke last Thu
Lawrence Adler, an East European refugee who rose from office cleaner to become one of Australia's richest men, died on Tuesday. He was 57 years old. Lawrence Adler, an East European refugee who rose from office cleaner to become one of Australia's richest men, died on Tuesday
Lawrence Goldberger, the president of Garden State Brickface and Stucco, of Roselle, N.J., died yesterday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan after emergency surgery for an aneurysm. He was 53 years old and lived in Scotch Plains, N.J. Lawrence Goldberger, the presid
Perry Lieber, a publicity agent who was a longtime confidant of Howard R. Hughes, the reclusive billionaire, died here of cancer Monday. He was 83 years old. Perry Lieber, a publicity agent who was a longtime confidant of Howard R. Hughes, the reclusive billionaire, died here 
Former Senator Stuart Symington, a Missouri Democrat who twice sought the Democratic Presidential nomination and was the first Secretary of the Air Force, died early yesterday at his home in New Canaan. He was 87 years old and had lived in retirement there since 1978. Former S
William F. Soskin, a research psychologist who founded Project Community, a nationally recognized rehabilitation program for adolescent drug addicts at the University of California at Berkeley, died of lung cancer Dec. 2 at Stanford University Medical Center. He was 72 years old and l
Charles Schlein, a painter and sculptor, died of oral cancer at his home in Los Angeles on Dec. 6. He was 89 years old. Charles Schlein, a painter and sculptor, died of oral cancer at his home in Los Angeles on Dec. 6. He was 89 years old. Mr. Schlein's paintings refle
David Stech, a former associate art director of Life magazine, died of a heart attack Wednesday at his home in Cape May Point, N.J. He was 73 years old and also had a home in Armonk, N.Y. David Stech, a former associate art director of Life magazine, died of a heart attack Wed
Emanuel London, an advertising executive and an innovator in the field, died of anemia Tuesday at his home in South Orange, N.J. He was 95 years old. Emanuel London, an advertising executive and an innovator in the field, died of anemia Tuesday at his home in South Orange, N.J
George Mann Shellhase, an artist and illustrator in the 1940's, 50's and 60's, died Monday in a nursing home in Ocean Ridge, Fla. He was 93 years old. George Mann Shellhase, an artist and illustrator in the 1940's, 50's and 60's, died Monday in a nursing home in Ocean Ridge, F
Maj. Gen. Robert E. Urquhart, the British commander at the heroic but ill-fated Battle of Arnhem who tried to capture a bridge over the Rhine River, died Tuesday, his family said today. He was 87 years old. Maj. Gen. Robert E. Urquhart, the British commander at the heroic but 
Gerald T. Broderick, president and chief executive officer of Arnold & Company, a Boston advertising agency, died yesterday, apparently of a heart attack, at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 52 years old. Gerald T. Broderick, president and chief executive offic
John W. Heim, who developed a biological handbook while employed at a medical research laboratory at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, died here Wednesday. He was 85 years old. No cause of death was given. John W. Heim, who developed a biological handbook while employed at a me
Wiley A. Branton, the principal lawyer in the civil rights case that desegregated the public schools in Little Rock, Ark., in 1957, died of a heart attack Thursday at his home in Washington. He was 65 years old. Wiley A. Branton, the principal lawyer in the civil rights case t
Walter (Babe) Pratt, one of hockey's first scoring defensemen and a member of the sport's Hall of Fame, died of a heart attack he suffered Friday night while attending a National Hockey League game. He was 72 years old. Walter (Babe) Pratt, one of hockey's first scoring defens
Louis Busch Hager, a theatrical producer and member of the Anheuser Busch family, died of cancer of the esophagus Friday at his home in Cooperstown, N.Y. He was 58 years old and also had a home in Manhattan. Louis Busch Hager, a theatrical producer and member of the Anheuser B
Sylvester, the gay entertainer whose falsetto voice and drag costumes propelled him to international fame, at the height of the disco dance popularity, died Friday of complications of AIDS. He was 42 years old. Known as ''the Queen of Disco'' here in the late 1970's, Sylvester delight
Harold (Jerry) Hopper, who directed films and episodes of the TV programs ''Gunsmoke'' and ''Leave It To Beaver,'' died Saturday of heart failure. He was 81 years old. Harold (Jerry) Hopper, who directed films and episodes of the TV programs ''Gunsmoke'' and ''Leave It To Beav
Benjamin Shaw, financial backer and adviser to a host of fashion designers in the 1960's, died of a brain tumor Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90 years old. Benjamin Shaw, financial backer and adviser to a host of fashion designers in the 1960's, died of a brain tumor
Harry Heller, owner of a taxicab fleet, died of cancer Sunday at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 72 years old and lived in Manhattan. Harry Heller, owner of a taxicab fleet, died of cancer Sunday at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manh
J. Garvin Mecking, a New York antiques dealer for 30 years, died Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan after suffering a stroke five days earlier. He was 57 years old and lived in Manhattan. J. Garvin Mecking, a New York antiques dealer for 30 years, died Saturday at
Joseph Moon, a pianist and arranger, died of emphysema and heart disease on Friday at the Actors Fund Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 76 years old and lived in Manhattan. Joseph Moon, a pianist and arranger, died of emphysema and heart disease on Friday at the Actors Fund Home 
Robert Fink, a retired classics pro-fessor, died of pneumonia Saturday at a nursing home in Mount Vernon, Ohio. He was 83 years old and lived in Gambier, Ohio. Robert Fink, a retired classics pro-fessor, died of pneumonia Saturday at a nursing home in Mount Vernon, Ohio. He wa
Sidney Salomon III, one of the original owners of the National Hockey League's St. Louis Blues, died of cancer Sunday at his home in Tampa, Fla. He was 51 years old. Sidney Salomon III, one of the original owners of the National Hockey League's St. Louis Blues, died of cancer 
Sigfred L. Solem, a banker and former senior vice president of the Dime Savings Bank of New York, died of a heart attack Saturday at his home in East Williston, L.I. He was 67 years old. Sigfred L. Solem, a banker and former senior vice president of the Dime Savings Bank of Ne
Sydney Charles Rappaport, chairman of the department of dentistry at New York Medical College in Valhalla, N.Y., died Saturday at Lenox Hill Hospital after a brief illness. He was 69 years old and lived in Manhattan. Sydney Charles Rappaport, chairman of the department of dent
Dr. Carl Soule, former executive secretary of the United Methodist Office for the United Nations, died of cancer of the prostate Friday at his daughter's home in Fairfax Station, Va. He was 82 years old and lived in Lady Lake, Fla. Dr. Carl Soule, former executive secretary of
Edward H. Dodd Jr., a publisher and an author of books about the South Seas, died of prostate cancer Monday at his home in Putney, Vt. He was 83 years old. Edward H. Dodd Jr., a publisher and an author of books about the South Seas, died of prostate cancer Monday at his home i
Howard Borrah Kavelin, a former real-estate broker in New York and a member of the governing body of the Bahai religion, died of respiratory arrest Sunday at his home in Albuquerque, N.M. He was 82 years old. Howard Borrah Kavelin, a former real-estate broker in New York and a
John D. McCallum, a former syndicated sports columnist and the author of 35 books, died Saturday after a long illness. He was 64 years old. John D. McCallum, a former syndicated sports columnist and the author of 35 books, died Saturday after a long illness. He was 64 years ol
John Duda, who helped his family build one of the nation's largest agricultural empires, died Saturday after a long illness. He was 84 years old. John Duda, who helped his family build one of the nation's largest agricultural empires, died Saturday after a long illness. He was
John Mangan, a New York City Civil Court judge for 18 years before his retirement in 1973, died of a heart attack Dec. 14 at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 80 years old. John Mangan, a New York City Civil Court judge for 18 years before his retirement in 1973, died of a
Leonard J. Fliedner, an educator who was principal of Stuyvesant High School for 17 years until his retirement in 1973, died of complications from pneumonia Saturday at La Guardia Hospital in Queens. He was 88 years old and lived in Flushing, Queens. Leonard J. Fliedner, an ed
Max Robinson, a television correspondent who became the first black to anchor a network news broadcast, died of AIDS yesterday at Howard University Hospital in Washington. He was 49 years old and lived in Chicago. Max Robinson, a television correspondent who became the first b
Warren J. Donovan, chief investigator for the New York State special prosecutor for nursing homes, health and social services, died of cancer Monday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 63 years old and lived in Syosset, L.I. Warren J. Donovan, chief investigator for the N
Alphonse Ouimet, a former president of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation who helped introduce television to Canada 40 years ago, died of heart failure on Tuesday. He was 80 years old. Alphonse Ouimet, a former president of the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation who helped i
Curt Paul Richter, a retired professor of psychobiology at the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions who was a pioneer in the discovery and study of biorhythms, died yesterday at his home in Baltimore. He was 94 years old. Curt Paul Richter, a retired professor of psychobiology a
Dr. Isadore E. Gerber, a physician and clinical professor of medicine, died Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 85 years old. Dr. Isadore E. Gerber, a physician and clinical professor of medicine, died Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 85 years old. Dr. Gerbe
Emanuel Fritz, a forestry and conservation expert who helped to create California's state forest program, died last Thursday. He was 102 years old. Emanuel Fritz, a forestry and conservation expert who helped to create California's state forest program, died last Thursday. He 
James J. Mannix Sr., a real-estate developer, died of a heart attack Tuesday at his home in the Prospect Park section of Brooklyn. He was 75 years old and also had a home in Vero Beach, Fla. James J. Mannix Sr., a real-estate developer, died of a heart attack Tuesday at his ho
Merryle S. Rukeyser, a financial columnist and editor who lectured widely in the United States and abroad, died of heart failure yesterday at White Plains Hospital. He was 91 years old and lived in White Plains. Merryle S. Rukeyser, a financial columnist and editor who lecture
Nigel Olney, Britain's longest surviving heart transplant patient, died today almost nine years after his surgery. He was 44 years old. Nigel Olney, Britain's longest surviving heart transplant patient, died today almost nine years after his surgery. He was 44 years old.      
Robert Bernstein, the founder of the Island Concert Hall recital series on Long Island, died of heart failure Monday in Delray Beach, Fla., where he had a winter home. He was 69 years old and lived in Upper Brookville, L.I.. Robert Bernstein, the founder of the Island Concert 
Dr. Theodore S. Zimmerman, director of the division of experimental hemostasis at the Research Institute of Scripps Clinic in La Jolla, Calif., died of lung cancer Monday at Green Hospital of Scripps Clinic. He was 51 and lived in La Jolla. Dr. Theodore S. Zimmerman, director 
William B. Volet, a former government official and Democratic Party leader, died Tuesday when he was struck by a bus as he crossed 57th Street at Madison Avenue in Manhattan. He was 85 years old and lived in Manhattan. William B. Volet, a former government official and Democra
Bernard Cherrick, a vice president of Hebrew University of Jerusalem who served the university for 41 years, died yesterday in Jerusalem. He was 74 years old and lived in Jerusalem. Bernard Cherrick, a vice president of Hebrew University of Jerusalem who served the university 
Bob Steele, an actor who appeared in more than 150 motion pictures and as Trooper Duffy on the ''F Troop'' television series, died of heart failure on Thursday at St. Joseph Medical Center in Burbank. He was 82. Bob Steele, an actor who appeared in more than 150 motion picture
John E. Massengale 3d, a lawyer and partner in the Manhattan law firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison, died Wednesday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital after a long illness. He was 67 years old and lived in Darien, Conn. John E. Massengale 3d, a lawyer and partner in th
Joseph D. Ardleigh, former president of the Research Institute of America, died of spinal cancer at his home in Charlottesville, Va., on Wednesday. He was 74 years old and had been a resident of Greenwich, Conn., for many years. Joseph D. Ardleigh, former president of the Rese
Sidney P. Spalding, a retired Army major general who directed lend-lease shipments to the Soviet Union in World War II and later served as vice chairman of the Army-Navy Munitions Board, died of liver cancer Wednesday at the Reston Hospital Center in Virginia. He was 99 years old and 
Anthony R. Hamilton, chairman of Avnet, Inc., died of liver cancer on Thursday at St. John's Hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 64 years old and lived in Los Angeles. Anthony R. Hamilton, chairman of Avnet, Inc., died of liver cancer on Thursday at St. John's Hospital in 
E. C. Kip Finch, a lawyer who served in the Connecticut House of Representatives and who held several posts with Time Inc., died on Thursday at Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital after a long illness. He was 77 years old and lived in New Canaan. E. C. Kip Finch, a lawyer who served in t
George A. Brooks, a retired executive of the General Motors Corporation, died of heart failure yesterday at Lawrence Hospital in Bronxville, N.Y. He was 88 years old and lived in Scarsdale. George A. Brooks, a retired executive of the General Motors Corporation, died of heart 
Harry M. Bainbridge, international counsel with the law department of Pepsico Inc., was killed Wednesday in the crash of the Pan American World Airways plane in Scotland. He was 34 years old and lived in Montrose, N.Y. Harry M. Bainbridge, international counsel with the law de
Ivan Boldizsar, president of the Hungarian PEN Center and one of the first people from a Soviet bloc nation to receive an honorary degree in the United States, died Thursday in Budapest after a long illness. He was 76 years old. Ivan Boldizsar, president of the Hungarian PEN C
Martin B. C. Simpson, founder and president of the Martin Simpson & Company stock brokerage, was a victim of the Pan American World Airways crash in Scotland Wednesday. He was 52 years old and lived in Brooklyn. Martin B. C. Simpson, founder and president of the Martin Simpson
Nikolaas Tinbergen, a Dutch-born British zoologist who won the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1973, died after suffering a stroke at his home here Wednesday. He was 81 years old. Nikolaas Tinbergen, a Dutch-born British zoologist who won the Nobel Prize for Medicine in 1973, died
Richard A. Cawley, founder and president of the Rain Hill Group, Inc., a multinational investment concern based in New York, died in the crash of Pan American World Airways Flight 103 on Wednesday. He was 43 years old and lived in Manhattan. Richard A. Cawley, founder and pres
Sidney P. Spalding, a retired Army major general who directed lend-lease shipments to the Soviet Union in World War II and later served as vice chairman of the Army-Navy Munitions Board, died of liver cancer Wednesday at the Reston Hospital Center in Virginia. He was 99 years old and 
Willie Kamm, who made baseball history when his minor league contract was purchased in 1922 by the Chicago White Sox for the record amount of $100,000, died of Parkinson's disease Wednesday at Belmont Convalescent Hospital. He was 88 years old. Willie Kamm, who made baseball h
Dr. Irving Sigal, senior director of molecular biology at the Merck Sharp & Dohme Research Laboratories in Rahway, N.J., was killed in the crash of Pan American World Airways Flight 103 on Wednesday. He was 35 years old and lived in Pennington, N.J. Dr. Irving Sigal, senior di
John M. Crawford Jr., a prominent collector of Oriental art and a trustee of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died of cardiac arrest Wednesday at Mt. Sinai Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 75 years old and lived in Manhattan. John M. Crawford Jr., a prominent collector of Or
Morris J. Stein, a former New York City Councilman and Civil Court judge, died of cardiac arrest Friday at Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 83 years old. Mr. Stein, who kept homes in Pompano Beach, Fla., and Rockaway, N.J., served on the City Council from 1949 to 19
Noel Willman, the British actor-turned-director, best known in the United States for staging the Robert Bolt drama ''A Man for All Seasons,'' died of a heart attack on Saturday. He was 70 years old and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. Noel Willman, the British actor-
Theodore S. Amussen, an editor with book publishers for many years and later an editor in chief for the National Gallery of Art, died of a brain tumor on Wednesday at the Collingwood Nursing Home in Rockville, Md. He was 73 years old and lived in Washington. Theodore S. Amusse
Bertram B. Salwen, a professor of anthropology at New York University who specialized in urban and historical archaeology, died Sunday after suffering a heart attack at his home in Manhattan. He was 68 years old. Bertram B. Salwen, a professor of anthropology at New York Unive
Carlo Scorza, the last secretary of Italy's wartime Fascist Party, has died, family members said today. He was 91 years old. Carlo Scorza, the last secretary of Italy's wartime Fascist Party, has died, family members said today. He was 91 years old. The relatives said 
Jerome Prince, dean of the Brooklyn Law School from 1953 to 1971, died Saturday in his apartment in Greenwich Village. He was 81 years old. Jerome Prince, dean of the Brooklyn Law School from 1953 to 1971, died Saturday in his apartment in Greenwich Village. He was 81 years ol
Prof. John Ulric Nef, an economic historian associated with the University of Chicago for more than half a century and founder of an elite interdisciplinary graduate department died Sunday at his home in Washington after a long illness. He was 89 years old and had lived in Washington 
Lewis A. Swyer, the chairman of Saratoga Performing Arts Center and owner of a construction company that built area landmarks, died after a long illness Sunday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 70 years old. Lewis A. Swyer, the chairman of Saratoga Performing Arts Cent
Richard Weil Dammann, a lawyer and former director of Philip Morris Inc., died of gastric cancer yesterday at his house in Rye, N.Y. He was 77 years old. Richard Weil Dammann, a lawyer and former director of Philip Morris Inc., died of gastric cancer yesterday at his house in 
Anthony R. Gaeta, a former borough president of Staten Island, died of heart failure on Monday at Staten Island Hospital. He was 61 years old and lived on Staten Island. Anthony R. Gaeta, a former borough president of Staten Island, died of heart failure on Monday at Staten Is
Glenn McCarthy, whose flamboyant career helped define the Texas oilman to the world, died Monday at a Houston nursing home. He had turned 81 on Sunday. Glenn McCarthy, whose flamboyant career helped define the Texas oilman to the world, died Monday at a Houston nursing home. H
Hal Ashby, who won an Academy Award for his film editing and whose critical and popular successes as a director included ''Harold and Maude,'' ''Shampoo'' and ''Coming Home,'' died of liver and colon cancer at his home in Malibu, Calif., yesterday. He was 59 years old. Hal Ash
Harold Lax, a Long Island manufacturer who was active in Zionist causes, died of chronic heart disease while awaiting a heart transplant Monday at the Texas Heart Institute in Houston. He was 64 years old and lived in Old Westbury, L.I. Harold Lax, a Long Island manufacturer w
John Newton Thurber, a labor economist, died of cardio-respiratory arrest December 18 at Providence Hospital in Washington. He was 81 years old and lived in Washington. John Newton Thurber, a labor economist, died of cardio-respiratory arrest December 18 at Providence Hospital
Leon Freedman, a lawyer who specialized in workers' compensation cases, died Saturday at his home in Maitland, Fla. He was 83 years old and had lived for many years in Nanuet and Nyack, N.Y. Leon Freedman, a lawyer who specialized in workers' compensation cases, died Saturday 
Lewis A. Swyer, the chairman of the Saratoga Performing Arts Center and owner of a construction company that built some landmarks, died at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany on Sunday after a long illness. He was 70 years old. Lewis A. Swyer, the chairman of the Saratoga Performin
Massimo Mila, a music critic and historian who fought against the rise of Fascism, died of a heart attack Monday. He was 78 years old. Massimo Mila, a music critic and historian who fought against the rise of Fascism, died of a heart attack Monday. He was 78 years old.        
Nicholas M. Pette, a former justice of the Appellate Division of the State Supreme Court, Second Department, died of a bleeding ulcer Monday in St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 97 years old and lived in Manhattan. Nicholas M. Pette, a former justice of the Appellate
Norman W. Elson, a manager of New York movie theaters for more than 50 years, died Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 years old. Norman W. Elson, a manager of New York movie theaters for more than 50 years, died Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He
Tom William Scott, a retired Air Force brigadier general who oversaw long-range bombing of Communist forces in the Korean War, died of natural causes Thursday at his home in La Jolla. He was 86 years old. Tom William Scott, a retired Air Force brigadier general who oversaw lon
Adm. Alfred M. Pride, a pioneer of aircraft carrier operations who led major strikes against the Japanese in World War II, died of a heart attack in his sleep on Saturday at the home of his daughter in Arnold, Md., where he was visiting. He was 91 years old and lived in Arlington, Va.
Albert S. Roe, a professor emeritus of art history at Cornell University, died of a brain hemorrhage on Dec. 19 at Tomkins Community Hospital in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 74 years old and lived in Ithaca. Albert S. Roe, a professor emeritus of art history at Cornell University, died
Joseph Clark, an American Communist who resigned as foreign editor of The Daily Worker after crimes by Stalin were disclosed in 1956, died Tuesday after suffering a heart attack at his country house in South Egremont, Mass. He was 75 years old and also lived in Manhattan. Jose
S. Peter Dohanos, a scenic designer for film, television and theater, died of lung cancer Monday at his home in East Hampton, L.I. He was 57 years old. S. Peter Dohanos, a scenic designer for film, television and theater, died of lung cancer Monday at his home in East Hampton,
Seymour Kleinman, a senior partner at the Manhattan law firm of Golenbock & Barell and a noted philanthropist, died of pneumonia yesterday at Long Island Jewish Hospital. He was 70 years old and lived in Valley Stream, L.I. Seymour Kleinman, a senior partner at the Manhattan l
Charles Mercer, a novelist and former editor at G. P. Putnam's Sons, died Wednesday at his home in Edison, N.J. He was 71 years old. Mr. Mercer was the author of 17 novels, including ''Rachel Cade,'' a 1956 book about an American missionary in Africa, which sold more than three millio
Dr. Carl J. Johnson, a public health official who attacked the Federal Government over the potentially dangerous effects of nuclear weapons testing, died of complications from heart surgery yesterday at Lutheran Memorial Hospital in Lakewood, Colo. He was 59 years old and lived in Lak
Jess Oppenheimer, a radio and television producer, director and writer who helped create one of television's most successful situation comedies, ''I Love Lucy,'' died of heart failure on Tuesday after intestinal surgery at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. He was 75 years ol
Robert Kingsley, a recently retired California appeals court judge and former dean of the University of Southern California law school who opposed capital punishment through most of his career, died here Sunday. He was 85 years old. Robert Kingsley, a recently retired Californ
William Exton Jr., a management consultant who wrote, lectured and taught widely on business subjects, died Monday at Lehigh Valley Hospital in Allentown, Pa., after being injured in an automobile accident. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan and Millbrook, N.Y., where he opera
Collier Platt, a retired lawyer, died of a heart attack Thursday in the Syosset (L.I.) Community Hospital. He was 90 years old and lived in Laurel Hollow, L.I. Collier Platt, a retired lawyer, died of a heart attack Thursday in the Syosset (L.I.) Community Hospital. He was 90 
Elting Arnold, the first general counsel to the Inter-American Development Bank and a former assistant general counsel in the United States Treasury Department, died of cancer Wednesday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. He was 76 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. Elting A
Eugene Michael Gervasi, an author and former public relations director, died yesterday at University Hospital in Richmond, after a long illness. He was 51 years old and lived in Richmond. Eugene Michael Gervasi, an author and former public relations director, died yesterday at
Faber Birren, a color consultant who read and analyzed tastes in the hues deemed most suitable for one's surroundings, died yesterday at Stamford (Conn.) Hospital, a week after suffering a stroke. He was 88 years old and lived in Stamford. Faber Birren, a color consultant who 
Ira J. Hertan, a lawyer who was active in the Long Island Jewish community, died of lung cancer Wednesday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Medical Center. He was 58 years old and lived in Dix Hills, L.I. Ira J. Hertan, a lawyer who was active in the Long Island Jewish community, di
Isamu Noguchi, a versatile and prolific sculptor whose earthy stones and meditative gardens bridging East and West have become landmarks of 20th-century art, died of heart failure yesterday at the New York University Medical Center. He was 84 years old and had homes in Manhattan and o
John L. Summers, the squash and tennis coach at Massachusetts Institute of Technology from 1930 to 1957 and the first national professional squash champion, died Dec. 21 in Holliston, Mass. He was 95 years old. John L. Summers, the squash and tennis coach at Massachusetts Inst
Myron L. Boardman, a former book publisher and former executive director of the Foundation for Christian Living, died of bronchial pneumonia on Monday at the Bryn Mawr Hospital in Bryn Mawr, Pa., after a long illness. He was 74 years old and a resident of Gladwyne, Pa. Myron L
Thomas C. Blaisdell Jr., a former Assistant Secretary of Commerce who helped design the Marshall Plan to help revive Europe after World War II, died Tuesday in Berkeley, Calif. He was 93 years old and lived in Berkeley. Thomas C. Blaisdell Jr., a former Assistant Secretary of 
