 Danny Perasa, a nimble-witted leprechaun of a man who captivated radio listeners across the nation with goofy, slyly wise stories, most touchingly about his romance with the woman who became his wife, died on Friday at his home in Brooklyn. He was 67, and died in the arms of that wo
 William V. Musto, a former Union City mayor who was a charismatic and visionary force in New Jersey politics for decades, until he was convicted of racketeering and sent to federal prison, died on Monday at home in Union City. He was 88. The cause was complications of Alzheimer's di
 Arnold A. Rogow, an author and political scientist who trained as a psychoanalyst to gain insight into historical figures like Alexander Hamilton, died on Feb. 14 at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital in Manhattan. He was 81. The cause was complications of a stroke, his daughter
 Milton Katims, an American conductor and noted violist who played under Toscanini and led the Seattle Symphony for more than two decades, died on Monday in Shoreline, Wash., a suburb of Seattle. He was 96. The cause was heart failure, a spokeswoman for the Seattle Symphony said.    
 Owen Chamberlain, who shared a Nobel Prize for discovering the antiproton, opening a glimpse into the strange world of antimatter, whose mysteries tantalize scientists to this day, died Tuesday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 85. The cause was complications of Parkinson's dis
 Benjamin Matthews, an operatic bass-baritone who was a founder of the Opera Ebony company, died on Feb. 14 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital in Manhattan. He was 72. The cause was the effects of a stroke he had in early January, said Anthony Turner, the secretary-treasurer of the Ope
 Michael S. Joyce, who as steward of the Olin and Bradley foundations was an influential patron of leading conservative research and civic organizations, died on Feb. 24 at a hospice in Germantown, Wis. He was 63 and lived in West Bend, Wis. The cause was liver disease, said Frank Ca
 Roland L. Kohloff, principal timpanist of the New York Philharmonic for 32 years, who was known for his effortless grace on one of the orchestra's most exposed instruments, died on Feb. 24 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 71. The cause was cancer, said the Philharmonic's spo
 Henry M. Morris, the father of modern creationism, whose prolific writings sought scientific validation for a literal interpretation of the Bible and provided the intellectual underpinnings for attacks on evolution as an account of world history, died last Saturday in a hospital near San Di
 Peter Osgood, a star of English soccer in the late 1960's and early 70's, and a glamorous figure for the Chelsea club, died Wednesday after collapsing at a family funeral in Slough, near London. He was 59. Osgood's death was announced by Chelsea. The Guardian and The Daily Telegraph
 The Rev. Earl Stallings, a prominent Baptist pastor in Birmingham, Ala., who in 1963 risked the rejection of his own white congregation, and worse, by seating African-American worshipers among them at his Easter service and urging reconciliation amid the city's erupting racial antagonisms, 
 Walerian Borowczyk, an internationally known Surrealist filmmaker described variously by critics as a genius, a pornographer and a genius who also happened to be a pornographer, died on Feb. 3 in Paris, where he had resided since the late 1950's. He was 82. The cause was heart troub
 Frank Little, a tenor who sang at the Metropolitan Opera for five seasons but ultimately left the stage for a career as an arts administrator and educator, died on Feb. 22 at a palliative care center in Skokie, Ill. He was 69. He died of complications of cardiac arrest, said his son
 Harold Ostroff, a builder responsible for some of New York's largest nonprofit cooperative housing complexes, including Co-Op City in the Bronx, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 82 and died after a long illness, said Madelon Braun, his daughter. Mr. Ostroff 
 Dr. Seymour Furman, a cardiologist who devised a way to insert pacemakers into patients without performing surgery, died on Feb. 20 at the Jewish Home and Hospital in the Bronx. He was 74. The cause of death was complications of cardiovascular disease, his son Neil Furman said.     
 Eathon G. Hall Jr., an innovative curator in New York and New Jersey who became devoted to providing art and curatorial training to high school students in Newark, died on Feb. 18 while on vacation in São Paulo, Brazil. He was 40. His partner, Tim Merrell, said that Mr. Hall died a
 Dr. Francis M. Forster, a neurologist and university leader who helped treat President Dwight D. Eisenhower for his 1957 stroke, died on Feb. 23 at a hospital in Cincinnati. He was 94. The cause was heart failure, his family said. Dr. Forster, a dean of Georgetown's medical 
 Kirby Puckett, the Hall of Fame outfielder for the Minnesota Twins, acclaimed for his sunny personality and his passion for baseball, died yesterday at a hospital in Phoenix. He was 45. The cause was complications from a stroke he had Sunday at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz., the Twi
 Philip H. Coombs, who championed promoting education and American culture as tools of diplomacy during the Kennedy administration and organized the first State Department bureau to lead the effort, died on Feb. 15 in Chester, Conn. He was 90. The death was announced by his family.  
 Ali Farka Touré, the self-taught Malian guitarist and songwriter who merged West African traditions with the blues and carried his music to a worldwide audience, winning two Grammy Awards, died in his sleep on Monday at his farm in the village of Niafunke in northwestern Mali, the Ministry
 Gordon Parks, the photographer, filmmaker, writer and composer who used his prodigious, largely self-taught talents to chronicle the African-American experience and to retell his own personal history, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 93. His death was announced by Gen
 Richard Kuklinski, whose lust for publicity nearly matched the blood lust he displayed in claiming to have killed more than 100 people as a Mafia hit man, died on Sunday in the prison wing of St. Francis Hospital in Trenton. He was 70. In announcing his death to The Associated Press
 Robert J. Dryfoos, who played a critical role in the fight to save Radio City Music Hall from demolition and then represented the Upper East Side on the City Council for 11 years, died on March 2 at NewYork-Presbyterian Hospital/Weill Cornell Medical Center. He was 63. The cause was
 Rodney Strong, who left behind a career as a professional dancer to pioneer the mass production of fine wines in Sonoma County, died Sunday in Healdsburg, Calif. He was 78. The cause was complications of a stroke, said Michele Prinz, a spokeswoman for Rodney Strong Vineyards in Heal
 Tsegaye Gabre-Medhin, an acclaimed Ethiopian playwright who was also the country's poet laureate, died on Feb. 25 in Manhattan, where he had lived since 1998. He was 69. His death was announced by his family. Born in the small mountain town of Boda, near Ambo, Mr. Tsegaye be
 Garrett Scott, an independent filmmaker, died in Coronado, Calif., on March 2, two days before his documentary ''Occupation: Dreamland'' received an Independent Spirit Award at a ceremony in Santa Monica. He was 37. Mr. Scott died while swimming in a municipal pool where he had play
 John T. Kramer, a legal scholar and champion of civil rights who helped shape the nation's poverty laws , died on Wednesday at his home in New Orleans. He was 68. The cause was complications of diabetes, his wife, Sandra, said. Mr. Kramer began his career in public policy in
 Joseph Howard Gardner, a Manhattan real estate developer who had a knack for identifying emerging neighborhoods and transforming them into residential magnets by converting rundown buildings, died on March 1 at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. He was 78. The cause was melan
 John Profumo, whose highflying political career in Britain ended in a cold war scandal of sex and espionage that gave way to a lifetime of atonement, died about midnight on Thursday. He was 91. He had suffered a stroke two days earlier, according to Chelsea and Westminster Hospital 
 Willy Frank, a tireless promoter of New York wines who transformed Dr. Konstantin Frank Vinifera Wine Cellars into one of the Finger Lakes' best known and most respected wine producers, died on Tuesday in Naples, Fla., where he had gone on a business trip. He was 80 . The cause was 
 Slobodan Milosevic, the Communist leader whose embrace of Serbian nationalism set off almost a decade of Balkan warfare, was found dead early Saturday in his cell at the United Nations detention center in The Hague, where he had been since 2001. He was 64. Mr. Milosevic appeared to 
 Bernie Geoffrion, the Montreal Canadiens' Hall of Fame wing who popularized the slap shot, a weapon that changed the face of hockey and brought him the enduring nickname Boom Boom, died Saturday in Atlanta. He was 75. The cause was stomach cancer, said the Canadiens, who retired Geo
 Gilbert Y. Steiner, an author and authority on American welfare and family policies, and, for many years, a mainstay of the Brookings Institution, died March 1 at a hospice in Washington. He was 81 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md. His death was announced on the institution's Web site. 
 Dominic J. Baranello, an enduring power in Democratic Party affairs of Suffolk County and New York State since he played a big role in Hugh L. Carey's winning the governorship in 1974, died on Thursday in Smithtown, N.Y. He was 83 and lived in Blue Point, N.Y. The death was announce
 Andrall Edwin Pearson, a former president of PepsiCo who as an adviser after leaving the company helped engineer the spinoff of Pepsi's fast-food businesses -- KFC, Taco Bell and Pizza Hut -- died on Saturday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 80. The cause was a heart attack, a
 John M. Falotico, the detective who arrested David R. Berkowitz, the notorious ''Son of Sam'' killer, died on Saturday at his home in North Brunswick, N.J. He was 82. The cause was colon cancer, said his niece, Jennifer Falotico Taylor. Mr. Falotico's date with destiny came 
 Lennart Meri, the first president of Estonia in the post-Soviet era and an internationally recognized filmmaker, travel writer and translator, died yesterday in the capital, Tallinn. He was 76. The death was announced by the office of Estonia's current president, Arnold Ruutel, whos
 Bill Cardoso, a writer and an editor who might have been lost in the haze of the hip, offbeat, drug-tinged world of 70's journalism had he not come up with the perfect word to describe Hunter S. Thompson's roller-coaster prose -- ''gonzo'' -- died on Feb. 26 at his home in Kelseyville, Cali
 Dr. Joseph H. Burchenal, a New York oncologist and the winner of a prestigious Lasker Medical Research Award who did pioneering work with drug treatments for leukemia and other kinds of cancer, died on March 8 in an assisted-living center in Hanover, N.H. He was 93. The cause was he
 Robert C. Baker, an agricultural scientist who looked at chickens and envisioned chicken nuggets, not to mention chicken hotdogs, helping transform what is now a $29 billion poultry industry, died on Monday at his home in North Lansing, N.Y. He was 84. The cause was a heart attack, 
 Peter Halasz, a Hungarian-born avant-garde playwright, actor and director, who founded the Squat/Love Theater collective, an Off Off Broadway ensemble of the 1980's, died last Thursday at the home of a daughter in Brooklyn. He was 62 and lived in Budapest and Staten Island. The deat
 René Lasserre, one of the last of a group of renowned Parisian restaurateurs who came to prominence in the years after World War II but made their fame with the elegant cuisine of years past, died Wednesday at his home in Morsang-sur-Seine, south of Paris. He was 93. His death was 
 John Wilde, an American surrealist associated with the Magic Realist school of painting, whose fantastic, darkly humorous images brought him fame far beyond his native Wisconsin, died on March 9 at his home in Cooksville. He was 86. The cause was cancer, said his dealer, Tory Follia
 Ray Meyer, a Hall of Fame basketball coach at DePaul University who began his career by tutoring an awkward George Mikan, modern basketball's first superstar, and went on to win 724 games over 42 seasons, died yesterday at an assisted-living facility outside Chicago, said Scott Reed, the un
 G. William Miller, a businessman and investment banker who was chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and treasury secretary under President Jimmy Carter, died Friday night at his home in Washington. He was 81. The cause was idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a relatively rare hardening 
 John Reynolds Gardiner, an avowed nonreader throughout his childhood who became a best-selling children's book author, died on March 4 in Anaheim, Calif. He was 61 and lived in Huntington Beach, Calif. The cause was longtime complications of necrotizing pancreatitis, his wife, Glori
 Oleg Cassini, a son of impoverished Italian and Russian nobility who achieved fame and wealth as a fabulously successful couturier based in New York, designing clothes for some of the world's most glamorous women as well as middle-class shoppers, died on Friday on Long Island, where he had 
 Andrew Sherratt, a British archaeologist whose explorations of animal husbandry and other civilizing practices shed light on European prehistory, died Feb. 24 near his home in Witney, Oxfordshire. He was 59. The cause was heart failure, said a spokeswoman for the University of Sheff
 Bill Beutel, who helped bring about a sea change in the nature of local television news as the dapper and unruffled anchor of ''Eyewitness News'' at WABC-TV in New York for more than 30 years, died Saturday at his home in Pinehurst, N.C. He was 75. The cause was complications from a
 Dr. Lawrence M. Brass, a Yale neurologist and leader in the field of stroke research who played a major role in linking a common decongestant to a possible increased risk of strokes, died on March 8 at his home in Woodbridge, Conn. He was 49. The cause was lung cancer, his family sa
 Dr. E. Russell Alexander, an epidemiologist and public health official who helped curb deadly disease outbreaks and raised concerns about federal plans to thwart a potential swine flu epidemic in the 1970's, when a vaccine was linked to a neurological disorder, died on Feb. 26 at his home i
 G. William Miller, a businessman and investment banker who was chairman of the Federal Reserve Board and treasury secretary under President Jimmy Carter, died Friday night at his home in Washington. He was 81. The cause was idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis, a relatively rare hardening 
 Luna B. Leopold, an ecologist and author whose studies of American rivers provided new insights into their depth, velocity and movement patterns that proved to be fundamental to all rivers, died on Feb. 23 at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 90. His death was announced by the Uni
 O. Milton Gossett, a New York advertising executive who played a large role in the globalization of the industry in the 1980's, died on March 1 in Mount Kisco, N.Y. He was 80 and lived in South Salem, N.Y. The cause was a stroke, his daughter, Lorraine said. Mr. Gossett was 
 Donelson Hoopes, an authority on 19th- and 20th-century American paintings and a curator who helped restore the reputation of John Singer Sargent in the 1960's, died on Feb. 22 at a hospital in Bangor, Me. He was 73 and lived in Steuben, on the Maine coast. The cause was complicatio
 Joseph Bova, an actor whose roles ranged from Prince Dauntless the Drab in the original production of ''Once Upon a Mattress'' to Shakespeare's King Richard III, died on March 12 at the Actors' Fund retirement home in Englewood, N.J. He was 81. The cause was emphysema, said his wife
 Richard K. Root, a prominent American epidemiologist and medical educator, was reported killed on Sunday when a crocodile pulled him into a river while he was on a guided safari tour in Botswana, in southern Africa. He was 68 and lived in Seattle. Dr. Harvey M. Friedman, chief of in
 Charles Newman, an avant-garde novelist and critic who in 1964 turned a campus publication at Northwestern University into the prestigious literary magazine TriQuarterly and was its editor for more than a decade, died on March 15 in St. Louis. He was 67 and lived in St. Louis and Manhattan.
 James O. Freedman, a former president of Dartmouth College and the University of Iowa and a forceful voice against anti-Semitism and other forms of intolerance on college campuses, died yesterday at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 70. He died of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, his son, 
 Lumumba Carson, a hip-hop artist known as Professor X and a former member of the black nationalist rap collective X-Clan, died on Friday in Brooklyn. He was 49. His death was confirmed by Interfaith Medical Center. Though X-Clan never enjoyed the commercial success of its po
 Bernard Lacoste, who inherited the Lacoste fashion company from his father, the French tennis champion René Lacoste, and directed its international expansion into a billion-dollar company recognizable by its signature crocodile logo, died on Tuesday in a hospital in Paris. He was 74.      
 Gene Scott, who served tennis for a half-century as a world-ranked player, tournament director, player agent, author and, perhaps most significant, the founder, publisher, editor and iconoclastic columnist of Tennis Week magazine, died Monday in the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. He was 68
 Reinhold E. Rau, a taxidermist who spent three decades pursuing his dream of breeding an extinct zebra back into existence and nearly achieved it, died last month at his home in South Africa. He was in his mid-70's. His death was brought to the attention of The New York Times by D. 
 Anselmo Colzani, an operatic baritone whose dramatic sensibility helped make him a fixture at the Metropolitan Opera and other houses in the 1950's and 1960's, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Milan. He was 87. He died after a long illness, Marina Boagno, president of the Franco 
 Dr. James H. Schwartz, a neurobiologist at Columbia whose research helped explain the biochemical basis of learning and memory, died on March 13 at NewYork-Presbyterian/Columbia hospital in Manhattan. He was 73. The cause was complications of leukemia, his family said. Dr. S
 Paul A. Flaherty, a computer engineer who had the original idea for AltaVista, the first Internet search engine to make an encyclopedic effort to index the World Wide Web, died March 16 at his home in Belmont, Calif., near San Francisco. He was 42. His wife, Natasha Flaherty, said t
 Philip B. Kunhardt Jr., a former managing editor of Life magazine who later became known as a writer and producer of historical documentaries for television, died on Tuesday at his home in Chappaqua, N.Y. He was 78 and also lived in Hancock, Me. The cause was complications of pulmon
 Desmond T. Doss, who as an unarmed Army medic saved the lives of dozens of fellow soldiers under fire on Okinawa in World War II and became the first conscientious objector to receive the Medal of Honor, died Thursday at his home in Piedmont, Ala. He was 87. His death was announced by his w
 Pío Leyva, a songwriter and singer renowned in his native Cuba, who appeared in the film ''Buena Vista Social Club,'' died on Thursday in Havana. He was 88 and lived in Havana. The cause was a heart attack after a stroke he suffered on Sunday, his daughter, Rosalia, told Reuters.  
 Rolf Myller, an architect whose eclectic pursuits included writing children's books, puzzle books and guides to erotic games and Chinese food, died on Thursday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 79 and lived on the Upper East Side. The cause was Parkinson's disease, his fa
 Buck Owens, the maverick honky-tonk singer who scored a string of country hits that included ''Act Naturally'' and ''Waitin' in Your Welfare Line'' before steering country music to television as a co-host of the series ''Hee Haw,'' died on Saturday at his home in Bakersfield. He was 76.    
 Hans Wolfgang Singer, an economist who devoted his life to analyzing the causes and effects of poverty and helped create the World Food Program and the United Nations Development Program, died in his sleep on Feb. 26 in Brighton, England. He was 95. His death was announced by the Un
 Dr. Leo Lutwak, a biochemist and nutritionist who raised early concerns about health risks from the diet aid fen-phen while he was a medical officer for the Food and Drug Administration, died on Feb. 23 at a hospital in Maryland. He was 77 and lived in Silver Spring, Md. The cause w
 Leon Daniel, who covered a parade of major news events of the last half-century as an editor and correspondent for United Press International, died on March 19 in Glen Ellyn, Ill., where he moved last summer. He was 74. The cause was complications after angioplasty, said his daughte
 Richard Fleischer, a film director who never became a household name despite working with some of Hollywood's biggest stars on hits like ''20,000 Leagues Under the Sea,'' ''Tora! Tora! Tora!'' and ''Fantastic Voyage,'' died early Saturday at the Motion Picture and Television Country House a
 Dr. Robin Coombs, a British immunologist who in the 1940's invented a blood test that bears his name and a version of which is still widely used to diagnose some kinds of anemia and to prevent negative reactions to transfusions, died on Jan. 25, said the British Society for Immunology, a pr
 Lyn Nofziger, the cigar-chomping former newspaperman who served as spokesman and strategist for Ronald Reagan in Sacramento and Washington, died of cancer on Monday at his home in Falls Church, Va. He was 81. His death was announced by a family member, Carol Dahmen. Nancy Re
 Stanislaw Lem, a Polish science-fiction writer who, in novels like ''Solaris'' and ''His Master's Voice,'' contemplated man's place in the universe in sardonic and sometimes bleak terms, died yesterday in Krakow, Poland. He was 84. The cause was heart failure, his secretary, Wojciec
 Alfredo Silipigni, a conductor and specialist in lesser-known Italian operas who founded the New Jersey State Opera and ran it for four decades, died on Saturday in Livingston, N.J. He was 74 and lived in West Orange, N.J. The cause was complications of pneumonia, said Astera Argyri
 Caspar W. Weinberger, who held high positions under three Republican presidents and oversaw the biggest and costliest military buildup in peacetime history as Ronald Reagan's secretary of defense, died yesterday in Bangor, Me., after a brief illness. He was 88. Mr. Weinberger lived 
 Dan Curtis, a prolific television producer and director who was best known for shepherding two of the most ambitious mini-series ever made, ''The Winds of War,'' and ''War and Remembrance,'' onto ABC in the 1980's, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 78. The cause was brain cancer
 Ken Kaess, who as chief executive helped DDB Worldwide solidify its position as one of the world's leading advertising agencies by attracting major new clients and championing its digital operation even after the dot-com boom had faded, died on Monday at his home in Westport, Conn. He was 5
 Leslie MacMitchell, the United States' best young mile runner just before World War II and the first college undergraduate to win the Sullivan Award as the nation's outstanding amateur athlete, died March 21 in San Jose, Calif. He was 85. His wife, Jill MacMitchell, announced his de
 Nikki Sudden, a pioneer of the English rock avant-garde known for his velvet jackets and larger-than-life panache, died on Sunday, a day after performing at the Knitting Factory in Manhattan. He was 49. His record company, Secretly Canadian, announced his death on the company's Web 
 Dr. Robert W. Miller, an epidemiologist who led an American team that determined that even fetuses had suffered damage from the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, died on Feb. 23 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 84. The cause was colon cancer, said the National Cancer Inst
 Denis Twitchett, a scholar of imperial China best known for his role in conceiving and creating ''The Cambridge History of China,'' a monumental 15-volume study widely regarded as the most comprehensive history of China in the English language, died on Feb. 24 in Cambridge, England. He was 
 Eugene Landy, the psychotherapist who was variously called a savior and a snake oil salesman for his unorthodox, round-the-clock treatment of Brian Wilson, the famously dissolute leader of the Beach Boys, in the 1970's and 80's, died on March 22 in Honolulu. He was 71. The cause was
 Ian Hamilton Finlay, a Scottish poet and conceptual artist known for his neo-Classical-style sculptures inscribed with poetic texts as well as for his home and garden, an imaginative echo of ancient Rome in the Pentland Hills of Lanarkshire, died on Monday at a hospital in Edinburgh. He was
 John McGahern, whose stark depiction of love and despair in repressive rural Ireland made him one of his country's most acclaimed fiction writers, died yesterday in Dublin. He was 71. Mr. McGahern died of cancer at the Mater Private Hospital, where he had been admitted earlier in th
 Pierre Clostermann, an ace fighter pilot who flew for de Gaulle's Free French forces in World War II, engaging in fierce combat in the Battle of Britain and over Normandy on D-Day, died March 22 at his home in Montesquieu des Albères in southwestern France. He was 85. After the war
