
        Johnny Longden, the British-born jockey who rode 6,032 winners in a racing career that covered nearly 40 years, including a sweep of the 1943 Triple Crown aboard Count Fleet, died yesterday in Banning, Calif. It was his 96th birthday.
        He had been in failing health for several years and had a stroke last August. He had been bedridden at his home in Banning for four months.
        During a remarkably long career, most of it in Southern California, Longden established numerous landmarks as a jockey. Riding in the middle years of the 20th century, he won more races than any other jockey , a record that stood until Bill Shoemaker broke it in 1970. Longden not only won the Kentucky Derby as a rider (Count Fleet, 1943) but also as a trainer (Majestic Prince, 1969). And, along with his fellow riders Eddie Arcaro and Sammy Renick, he became one of the founders of the Jockeys Guild, which provided a measure of security and medical help to generations of riders who roamed from track to track as freelance workers with no insurance.
        Longden led the nation in races won or purse money earned five times and was named to thoroughbred racing's Hall of Fame in 1958.
        But his enduring fame rested on his exploits as the rider on John D. Hertz's Count Fleet, who in 1943 won the Kentucky Derby, the Preakness and the Belmont Stakes. Only 10 jockeys have swept all three races in the same year, with Arcaro winning the Triple Crown twice.
        ''To win the Triple Crown,'' Longden reflected in an interview with The New York Times when he was 90, ''you've got to have a special horse. You need speed and stamina and character, and the will to win. Count Fleet had the character, or personality. Whatever it was, he had it, breeding and the mind to win. He loved the people around him, especially Mrs. Hertz. Count Fleet was her pet, her baby.
        ''He would like to go to the lead and keep it, wire to wire. In the Derby, he was the leader every step of the way. In the Preakness, nobody wanted to run at him. In the Belmont, there were only three horses on the track, and he went straight to the lead, held it every step and won by 25 lengths.''
        John Eric Longden was born in Wakefield, England, on Feb. 14, 1907, and was a youngster when his parents booked passage for America on a new ocean liner, the Titanic. But they missed the boat, which sank on its maiden voyage after striking an iceberg in the Atlantic on April 15, 1912. His family settled in Canada, and Longden and his father worked in mines in Alberta until, at the age of 20, he decided to become a jockey.
        He won his first race aboard Hugo K. Asher in 1927 in Salt Lake City, when he was 20, and won his last aboard George Royal at Santa Anita in 1966, when he was 59. It was a smashing exit. Riding in the San Juan Capistrano Handicap, Longden brought his horse from far back in the pack up to seventh place after a mile, to fifth place on the far turn and then took dead aim on the leader, Plaque, at the head of the homestretch. Then it was Longden against Bobby Ussery in a gripping duel, which Longden won by a nose.
        When Longden won his 4,871st race in 1956 at Del Mar, he became the No. 1 jockey in the world in victories. His mount, Arrogate, was trained by his son Vance.
        After his riding career ended in 1966, Longden turned to training horses and met with uncommon success. Three years later he saddled Majestic Prince, who won the Kentucky Derby, giving Longden the distinction of being the only man to ride a Derby winner and to train one. Majestic Prince also won the Preakness but lost his bid for a Triple Crown in the Belmont.
        In his later years, Longden lived with his third wife, Sarah, in Banning, about 90 miles east of Los Angeles. In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Eric, and a daughter, Andrea.
        Longden's greatest moments in racing came when he was aboard Count Fleet. The horse raced only a year and five days but fashioned a reputation as one of the sport's greatest runners. In 21 starts -- all with Longden riding -- Count Fleet never finished out of the money: he won 16 times, ran second four times and third once. Count Fleet's curtain call came after the Belmont Stakes, during which he injured an ankle.
        ''He was the best horse I ever rode,'' Longden said. ''The best horse I ever saw. He could win at any distance, on any kind of track.''
      