
        Kid Gavilan, who came out of the Cuban sugar fields to become the world welterweight champion of the early 1950's, displaying a flashy style that featured his signature bolo punch, died Thursday at a hospital in Miami. He was 77.
        Gavilan, who lived in Hialeah, Fla., had a heart attack, The Miami Herald reported.
        One of the most crowd-pleasing boxers of the 1940's and 50's, Gavilan captured the welterweight title in a 15-round decision over Johnny Bratton in May 1951. He took the crown that Sugar Ray Robinson had vacated when he defeated Jake LaMotta for the middleweight championship.
        Gavilan made seven successful defenses of his title, defeating, among others, Carmen Basilio and Billy Graham, whom he outpointed twice. He was defeated twice by Robinson before winning his title.
        Fighting as a pro from 1943 to 1958, Gavilan had 107 victories (28 by knockout), 30 losses and 6 draws and was never knocked out. In 1990, he was among the first inductees in the International Boxing Hall of Fame.
        Gavilan won with flair, displaying a bolo punch -- part hook and part uppercut -- delivered out of an exaggerated windup that he said he developed cutting sugar cane with a machete in Cuba.
        Although he failed in a bid to take Bobo Olson's middleweight title, losing a 15-round decision at Chicago in April 1954, the contrast in styles was clear. ''Olson, the plodder, was the perfect foil for Gavilan, the flashy, attractive spray-puncher,'' Joseph C. Nichols wrote in The New York Times.
        Gavilan lost the welterweight title in a controversial unanimous decision won by Johnny Saxton in Philadelphia in October 1954.
        Nineteen of the 21 boxing reporters at ringside scored the fight in favor of Gavilan, who sobbed afterward in his dressing room, saying, ''I don't want nothing that I don't deserve, but I win at least nine rounds.'' The Cuban news media was outraged, and one newspaper, Diario Nacional, ran a five-column headline on Page 1 quoting Gavilan's manager, Angel Lopez, as saying, ''They Have Stolen the Fight.''
        Gavilan never fought for a title again. His last fight was in June 1958, when he lost a decision to Yama Bahama in Miami Beach.
        He was born Gerardo Gonzalez in Camaguey, Cuba, on Jan. 6, 1926. His name was changed to Kid Gavilan by his Cuban manager, Fernando Balido, in recognition of a grocery store the manager owned named El Gavilan, meaning the Hawk.
        Gavilan quit school to begin boxing at age 10 and fought at least 60 times as an amateur.
        He married several times but was estranged from his family, Rebekah Navarro, owner of the assisted-living facility where Gavilan resided, told The Herald.
        Gavilan fell on hard times after boxing. He went back to Cuba after Fidel Castro assumed power, and he later told The Chicago Tribune that he had preached there on the streets as a Jehovah's Witness and had been jailed numerous times. He returned to the United States in 1968. In the mid-1980's, he was selling sausages in Miami.
        He had long been in poor health. In 1991 he was found to have decreased memory function and disorientation.
        Gavilan was ever the fan favorite, and if he did not always fight at his best for an entire round, that was good enough for many.
        ''Gavilan will let go with a furious flurry, almost like a madman gone berserk,'' Arthur Daley wrote in The Times in 1954. ''Then he'll coast. Then, with a quick peek at the clock, he'll time his closing sprint just before the end of each round with the hope of convincing the ring officials that he's delivered that identical kind of fisticuffing for the entire three minutes.
        ''Even the least gullible of them sometimes find it difficult to disregard the psychological seed he's planted, especially in a close round.''
      