
        Dr. Landrum B. Shettles, an early developer of in vitro fertilization techniques who gained national attention as the author of ''How to Choose the Sex of Your Baby'' and as a central figure in a lawsuit over efforts to produce the first ''test tube baby,'' died on Feb. 6 in St. Petersburg, Fla. He was 93.
        Dr. Shettles, who taught obstetrics and gynecology at the College of Physicians and Surgeons of Columbia University, conducted some of the first experiments in fertilization of a human egg by a human sperm outside a woman's body.
        In the 1950's, he was able to carry an externally fertilized egg into the sixth day of cell division, the point at which an egg normally attaches to the lining of the uterus.
        In the late 1970's, he developed a technique for transplantation of a fertilized egg into a fallopian tube. Called gamete intrafallopian transfer, or GIFT, the technique is considered one of the significant developments in infertility research. It is used today for couples who have been unable to conceive using conventional in vitro fertilization techniques, which involve transplanting fertilized eggs into the uterus.
        Dr. Shettles was interested in more than just helping infertile couples conceive. He was also determined to develop a way for couples to select the sex of their child.
        In the 1960's, he became convinced by various experiments that the timing of conception within the menstrual cycle and the acidity or alkalinity of the female reproductive tract helped determine a baby's sex.
        He published his findings in medical journals and in a book, ''How to Choose the Sex of Your Baby,'' written with David M. Rorvik. Operating under the theory that male-chromosome sperm move faster and die sooner, while female-chromosome sperm move slower and live longer, the book lays out instructions on the timing of intercourse -- three days before ovulation for a girl, the day of ovulation for a boy -- and offers advice on sexual positions.
        The book has sold more than a million copies since its publication in 1970. Although his technique is treated with skepticism by some authorities, Dr. Shettles claimed a success rate of at least 75 percent.
        Dr. Shettles's career at Columbia ended shortly after an incident that led to a highly publicized lawsuit. In 1973, he agreed to help a Florida couple, Dr. John Del Zio and Doris Del Zio, become the first parents to have a child by in vitro fertilization.
        In an unusual procedure, a doctor at New York Hospital extracted eggs from Mrs. Del Zio and placed them in a vessel; Dr. Del Zio then took a taxi to Columbia-Presbyterian Hospital, giving the eggs and a vial of his semen to Dr. Shettles for incubation.
        Dr. Shettles's supervisor at Columbia-Presbyterian learned about the experiment almost immediately and had it destroyed. He also accused Dr. Shettles of ignoring acknowledged guidelines for human experiments and of acting in an unsafe and unethical manner. Dr. Shettles resigned soon after that.
        In 1978, the Del Zios sued Columbia-Presbyterian for $1.5 million, claiming that the supervisor's destruction of what they said was a fertilized egg had caused them physical and emotional damage. After a three-week trial -- which, by chance, coincided with the birth in England of the first ''test tube baby,'' Louise Brown -- the Del Zios were awarded damages of $50,000.
        Dr. Shettles left the college in 1973 to continue his research at Gifford Memorial Hospital in Randolph, Vt., where in 1979 he again made news by reporting that he had produced the first fertilized egg using cloned materials from male donors. He destroyed this experiment himself, explaining, ''I was only interested in seeing if I could get to this stage.''
        He continued to do active research until 2000, when he retired from Sunrise Hospital in Las Vegas and moved to St. Petersburg, Fla.
        Landrum Brewer Shettles was born in Pontotoc, Miss. After graduating from Mississippi College in 1933, he received a Ph.D. in biology and an M.D. from Johns Hopkins. He served in the Army Medical Corps from 1944 to 1946.
        His marriage to the former Priscilla Elinor Schmidt ended in divorce. He is survived by their children, Lana Callahan of St. Petersburg; Susan Charleston of Boston; Abbie, of Pittsfield, Mass.; Frances, of Baltimore; David, of Beaverton, Ore.; Harold, of Groton, Conn.; and Landrum Brewer Jr. of Manhattan. He is also survived by a sister, Mildred McCarver of Ecru, Miss., and 11 grandchildren.
      