
        James Thomas Flexner, a prolific and graceful writer on subjects from American art to steamboats to medicine, who achieved his greatest fame for prize-winning biographies of George Washington, died on Thursday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 95.
        He wrote a four-volume biography of Washington, winning both the National Book Award and a special Pulitzer citation for the final volume, ''Anguish and Farewell'' (Little, Brown, 1972). He then wrote a one-volume abridgment, ''Washington: the Indispensable Man'' (Little, Brown, 1974). Two television mini-series adapted from these works were broadcast in the mid-1980's.
        Mr. Flexner wrote a total of 26 books, all still in print. His first, ''Doctors on Horseback: Pioneers of American Medicine'' (Viking, 1937), included a portrait of his father, a pathologist who developed a cure for spinal meningitis. One of the last was a collection of poems he wrote in the 1920's.
        His books on American art, ''America's Old Masters'' (Doubleday, 1939), and a three-volume history of American painting (the first volume was published in 1947 and the last in 1962) helped establish the subject as an academic specialty.
        But his greatest impact was in demystifying Washington -- revealing his weaknesses as well as his strengths and, in Mr. Flexner's own words, moving beyond ''the marble image.'' A result was to make the first president even more appealing.
        Mr. Flexner's Washington, scrupulously researched from original sources, never chopped down a cherry tree but did have intriguingly flirtatious relationships outside his marriage that stopped just short of the bedroom. Most important, he refused the absolute power that was offered to him, which, as Mr. Flexner pointed out, other revolutionary leaders, from Napoleon to Lenin, did not.
        He portrayed a president not afraid to be a little unbuttoned, who enjoyed sipping Madeira, riding after hounds and relishing the latest gossip. Mr. Flexner related that Washington was perplexed by a French sculptor's decision to depict him in a toga.
        Writing in The New York Times in 1968, Thomas Lask said that Mr. Flexner ''brought the hero down from Olympus, if not to eye level, at least to where we can see him whole and see him plain.''
        Mr. Flexner was born in Manhattan on Jan. 13, 1908. His father, Simon Flexner, was director of research at Rockefeller University. Members of his mother's family, which had deep roots in Maryland, were among the founders of Bryn Mawr College.
        One of his mother's relatives had married the philosopher Bertrand Russell, and another had married Bernard Berenson, the art critic. One of her good friends was Roger Fry, the foremost English art critic of his day. At an early age, Mr. Flexner traveled to Europe and moved in this exalted circle.
        His earliest ambition was to deliver coal, because he envied the stunningly grubby appearance of the coal man who came to his house. When his mother broke the news that the visitor would have to wash when he returned home, the boy decided to be a writer, or so he said.
        There was one problem: he was dyslexic and had difficulty learning to read and write. But one day, as he recounted in his autobiography, ''Maverick's Progress'' (Fordham University Press, 1996), he was sitting on a bench in Central Park and staring at a copy of ''Peter Rabbit'' when he suddenly realized that he was reading it. He wrote that the achievement ''seemed to me so sensational that in my imagination the buildings rising along Fifth Avenue were leaning forward the better to see and admire.''
        Mr. Flexner attended the Lincoln School of the Teachers College of Columbia University, which his uncle Abraham Flexner helped found. He blossomed under the school's policy of rejecting rote learning and became adept at writing poetry. He wrote that he felt he had evolved from an ''ugly duckling into a swan.''
        He went on to Harvard, where he graduated magna cum laude. He then worked for The Herald Tribune, where the unpredictability of each day's assignment made him feel like ''a hero of romance.'' Next came a brief stint as executive secretary of the Noise Abatement Commission of New York City, where he learned that what was noise to one person was music to another.
        Mr. Flexner struggled to write novels, but finally found success writing about his father and other heroes of American medicine. The resulting ''Doctors on Horseback'' reads almost like fiction.
        But his reluctance to specialize and his lack of training in some of the fields he wrote about caused professionals to consider him guilty of ''heresy, presumption and insanity,'' he wrote in his autobiography.
        When, for instance, he turned to American painters for his second book, art historians dismissed him. He thought his history books were also poorly received by experts, despite his many good reviews. In The Times Book Review, for example, Henry F. Graff said ''The Traitor and the Spy: Benedict Arnold and John André'' (Harcourt, Brace, 1953) showed ''literary power and intensity'' and was ''a complete guide to the labyrinth of Arnold's intrigue.''
        Glenn Speer, writing in The Washington Post, found Mr. Flexner's claim of being an outsider overstated, given his great success. ''Why would such an accomplished man care about what others think?'' Mr. Speer asked.
        Mr. Flexner's wife, the former Beatrice Hudson, died in 1998. They had been married for 52 years. He is survived by their daughter, Helen, of Berkshire, England.
        From his boyhood memories of visiting burlesque theaters to his lifelong love affair with the New York Public Library, Mr. Flexner was thoroughly a New Yorker. For years a sofa at his club, the Century, had a plump little pillow hand-embroidered with the words, ''Jimmie Flexner Slept Here.''
        And so he had, four or five afternoons a week, for not more than 25 minutes.
      