
        Dr. Paul Meehl, a University of Minnesota psychologist whose writings on research methodology, mental illness and other topics influenced generations of researchers and psychotherapists, died on Friday at his home in Minneapolis. He was 83.
        The cause was chronic myelomonocytic leukemia, his colleagues said.
        The names of other American psychologists -- B. F. Skinner, for example -- might be more familiar to the public. But many experts say Dr. Meehl's influence within his field was equally profound.
        His writings are widely cited and prescribed reading for every graduate student. His insistence on precise thinking and scientific tough-mindedness made him a scourge to some and a role model to many others.
        In the early 1960's, when a vast majority of psychiatrists and psychologists believed that schizophrenia was caused by bad parenting, Dr. Meehl argued that the illness must have a strong genetic component, and discussed the subject in his 1962 presidential address to the American Psychological Association. Forty years later, the genetic basis of schizophrenia is widely accepted.
        In a 1954 book, ''Clinical Versus Statistical Prediction: A Theoretical Analysis and Review of the Evidence,'' Dr. Meehl, who retired in 1990 but continued to teach at the university until last year, enraged many colleagues by pointing out, in meticulous and ascerbic detail, why clinicians were not very good at predicting people's behavior.
        A far more reliable method, he argued, was to analyze the information gained from personality tests, psychiatric interviews and other sources using mathematical formulas. Dr. Meehl referred to the volume as ''my disturbing little book,'' and many clinical psychologists reacted accordingly.
        ''Essentially,'' said Dr. William Grove, director of the clinical science and psychopathology research program at Minnesota, ''he was saying that as far as predicting the prognosis of a mental disorder or predicting future recurrences, clinicians could be replaced by a clerk with a hand-cranked Monroe calculator.''
        ''But the data have largely borne him out,'' Dr. Grove said.
        Dr. Daniel Kahneman, a psychologist at Princeton who last year won the Nobel in economic science, cited Dr. Meehl's work as an influence on his own.
        ''What he did there was more than to show the limitations of clinical judgment,'' Dr. Kahneman said. ''He also showed that the subjective confidence that people have in their judgment is not necessarily a good indication of their accuracy.''
        Born in Minneapolis, Paul Everett Meehl received his bachelor's degree from the University of Minnesota in 1941 and his doctorate in 1945. He was trained as a psychoanalyst and kept a couch in his office.
        Dr. Meehl's effectiveness as a critic of sloppy thinking in psychology was aided by a conversational writing style and a knack for coining phrases. In a now-classic paper, ''Why I Do Not Attend Case Conferences,'' Dr. Meehl listed the logical sins routinely committed by psychologists when they gathered to discuss patients.
        One was the '' 'Me too' fallacy.'' In it, psychologists, upon hearing of a patient's odd behavior, insist that it is normal because ''anyone would do that.'' The ''Uncle George's pancakes fallacy'' is exemplified by the clinician who, told that a patient stored leftover pancakes in the attic, declares, ''Why, there is nothing so terrible about that -- I remember good old Uncle George from my childhood, he used to store pancakes in the attic.''
        Dr. Meehl was the author of one of the scales in the Minnesota Multiphasic Personality Inventory, one of the most widely used personality tests. In recent years, he played the central role in developing taxometrics, a field concerned with using mathematical formulas to determine the natural groupings of biological or psychological variables.
        He is survived by his wife, Leslie Jane Yonce; his daughter, Karen Enid Hill of Seattle; his son, Erik Rolf, of Hopkins, Minn.; and three grandsons. His first wife, Alyce Roworth Meehl, died in 1972.
      