
        Benyoussef Ben Khedda, an Algerian nationalist leader who announced his country's negotiated independence from France on July 3, 1962, but was quickly swept from power by the revolutionary forces he had helped unleash, died on Feb. 4 at his home in Algiers. He was 82.
        Mr. Ben Khedda first attracted international attention in August 1961 when he seized control of the Algerian provisional government in Tunis , from Ferhat Abbas, an early independence movement leader.
        His leadership was greeted with dismay in Paris, where his frequent trips to Communist China and behind the Iron Curtain had left him branded as a leftist. But Mr. Abbas, a 62-year-old, middle-class Francophile, had made three unsuccessful attempts to negotiate a settlement with France, and the more radical Mr. Ben Khedda was seen as a more effective leader.
        Mr. Ben Khedda resumed secret negotiations with Paris in October 1961, and the next year he agreed to the Evian Accords, which provided for a referendum on Algeria's independence.
        But Mr. Ben Khedda's triumph was short-lived. His own position as head of the centrist faction dominating the provisional government was weakened in March, when France released five more radical members whom it had captured, including Ahmed Ben Bella.
        Doctrinal differences quickly emerged, with Mr. Ben Bella calling in May for a foreign policy based on neutrality and anticolonialism.
        While most of the provisional government returned to Algiers at independence, Mr. Ben Bella went to Morocco, where he joined up with a former head of the Algerian revolutionary army, Col. Houari Boumediene, whom Mr. Ben Khedda had dismissed in an attempt to assert his authority over the armed forces.
        The two entered Algeria and established a rival power center at Tlemcen, leaving Mr. Ben Khedda isolated in Algiers, protected only by the city's local forces.
        In September, Colonel Boumediene's forces marched on Algiers under orders from Mr. Ben Bella to occupy it ''at any price.'' Fierce fighting ensued, and Mr. Ben Khedda stepped down to avoid further bloodshed. The powers of his provisional government were assumed by a new Constituent Assembly, which on Sept. 25 proclaimed the Algerian Republic, with Mr. Abbas as president and Mr. Ben Bella as prime minister.
        Benyoussef Ben Khedda was born on Feb. 23, 1920, at Berrouaghia, the son of a magistrate. He trained as a pharmacist, and at 20 he joined a clandestine group, the Party of the Algerian People.
        In 1943, he was imprisoned for opposing French efforts to recruit Algerian soldiers to fight against Germany. After World War II, he became general secretary of the Party of the Algerian People, but later broke with it and established a small independence movement of his own.
        Mr. Ben Khedda was not a founding member of the National Liberation Front, which in 1954 began the revolt that was to lead to independence. But he joined it and went underground after being imprisoned for protesting against France's policy of indiscriminate mass arrests.
        At a famous National Liberation Front meeting in the Soumann Valley in 1956, he teamed up with three of its leaders, Ramdane Abane, Belkacem Krim and Saad Dahlab. In the winter of that year, he and Mr. Abane helped start the armed uprising in the capital known as the Battle of Algiers, celebrated in the film of that name.
        When conditions became too hot, he fled Algeria and joined the provisional government in Tunis, serving as its representative in London before becoming minister of social affairs in 1958.
        In 1989, Mr. Ben Khedda attempted a political comeback when he started a moderate Islamic party called the Community, but it attracted little support, and he dissolved it in 1997.
      