
        Daniel Aaron, a refugee from Nazi Germany and an orphan who went on to become a founder of Comcast, the largest cable company in the country, died last Thursday in Philadelphia, where he lived. He was 77.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease, according to the company.
        In 1963, Mr. Aaron persuaded Ralph J. Roberts, a Philadelphia entrepreneur who had recently sold a men's wear business, to buy a small cable television system in Tupelo, Miss. As part of the deal, Mr. Aaron agreed to help run it, and over the next 30 years they built or acquired dozens of other cable systems around the country. Last fall, the company they started, Comcast, acquired AT&T Broadband to become the largest cable television service provider in the country.
        In 1990, speaking at a dinner for his retirement as vice chairman of Comcast in Philadelphia, Mr. Aaron described himself as something like the conscience of the operation. He pictured the young company as a car, with Mr. Roberts, the chairman, behind the wheel, Julian A. Brodsky, the principal fund-raiser, stepping on the gas, and Mr. Aaron himself with a foot on the brake.
        For a tenacious businessman, Mr. Aaron professed to unusually liberal political convictions, which some of his colleagues said bordered on socialist.
        He considered himself a friend of working people. When four or five lonely pickets were protesting outside of Comcast's headquarters in the middle of winter as part of a labor dispute, Mr. Aaron stunned his fellow executives by walking to a nearby coffee shop to buy them each a cup of coffee. (The dispute was settled amicably, the company said.)
        Mr. Aaron's strong cautious approach to business and liberal political impulses may have grown out of the painful circumstances of his youth. He was born in 1926 in Giessen, Germany, near Frankfurt, the son of a prominent lawyer and Social Democratic politician who was also a Jew. In 1937, when Mr. Aaron was 10 years old, his father was briefly imprisoned by Nazi authorities but narrowly managed to escape with the family shortly before Kristallnacht.
        The family emigrated to Kew Gardens, Queens, but starting anew proved too much for the parents. In 1939, when Mr. Aaron was at summer camp at 13, his mother committed suicide. Three weeks later, his father killed himself as well. In his memoirs, ''Take the Measure of the Man'' (Veritas Press, 2001), Mr. Aaron recalls that he never learned the means of their deaths. ''Perhaps I didn't really want to know.''
        In 1944, Mr. Aaron was not yet a citizen but old enough to be drafted, and he returned to Germany with the army, in time to witness the liberation of slave laborers.
        After the war, he attended Temple University, where he met his wife, Geraldine. She still lives in Philadelphia. Mr. Aaron is also survived by his younger brother, Frank Aaron of Dallas, as well as five children: Erika Aaron and Judson Aaron of Philadelphia; James Aaron of Dallas; Kenneth Aaron of Holland, Pa.; and Alison Aaron of Edison, N.J.
        Mr. Aaron started his career as a business journalist for the Evening Bulletin, a Philadelphia newspaper, which was where he first encountered the fledgling cable business. He wrote an article about Milton Schapp, founder of Jerrold Electronics, one of the first cable companies to deliver better TV reception. Mr. Aaron was impressed that Mr. Schapp employed an executive who had been physically handicapped by polio and ''made it work,'' as Mr. Aaron recalled in his memoir. Mr. Aaron signed on to the company the next year to handle public relations.
        When Mr. Schapp successfully ran for governor of Pennsylvania in 1961, Mr. Aaron struck out on his own. He became an informal broker selling cable systems, which introduced him to Mr. Roberts.
        In 1980, Mr. Aaron began feeling the onset of Parkinson's disease, which lead to his retirement a decade later. Brian L. Roberts, the son of Ralph Roberts and now president of Comcast, said that Mr. Aaron sought to fight the disease by taking up yoga and tap dancing. In 2000, Mr. Aaron founded the Dan Aaron Parkinson's Rehabilitation Center, to provide education, counseling and physical therapy to other people with the disease who are less able to afford it.
        Correction:  February 26, 2003, Wednesday  An obituary on Monday about Daniel Aaron, a founder of Comcast, the largest cable company in the United States, misspelled the surname of the founder of an earlier cable company, Jerrold Electronics, where Mr. Aaron once worked. He was Milton Shapp, not Schapp. The article also misstated the year Mr. Shapp first ran successfully for governor of Pennsylvania. It was 1970, not 1961.
      