
        Thomas Joseph Leonard, a former financial planner who founded virtual boot camps for personal and business coaches worldwide, died on Feb. 11 at his home in Phoenix. He was 47.
        The cause was a heart attack, said David R. Buck, his partner in one of the camps, CoachVille, which is based in Phoenix. Mr. Leonard was its chief executive.
        He was born in Oakland, Calif. He did not attend college, but, using courses available by mail, taught himself financial planning and gained the work experience required for professional certification by a national board.
        Starting as a financial planner in the 1980's, Mr. Leonard helped clients build their assets. He met with individuals and couples on a regular basis to review their situations, but it was the extraneous questions from his more successful clients that made him contemplate branching out.
        Mr. Buck recalled that Mr. Leonard's epiphany came when a wealthy couple asked him what color Mercedes they should buy, and he asked about their preferences and worked it out with them. Red it was. It occurred to him that people needed such assistance and he went into business to provide it.
        Within years he set up a firm that coached others wishing to learn how to provide such services. In 1992, he created Coach University, now Coach U, which trained thousands of coaches working in nearly 40 countries and was the first of many dot-coms devoted to the concept.
        He founded the International Coach Federation in Washington in 1994, an association of professional coaches with 120 chapters. After selling Coach U, he created CoachVille, which calls itself the largest network and trainer of coaches worldwide.
        Mr. Leonard was the author of six books. E-zines that he created claimed two million e-mail subscribers for whom he developed 28 curriculums for personal and professional development. His books currently in print are ''Working Wisdom: Top 10 Lists for Improving Your Business'' (Bard Press, 1998); and, with Byron Laursen, ''The Portable Coach'' (Scribner, 1998).
        Mr. Leonard is survived by his father, William, of Oakland; and a sister, Susie L. Weller, of Spokane, Wash.
      