
        Richard Edmund Lyng, a California businessman who became the secretary of agriculture in the Reagan administration, died on Saturday at his home in Modesto, Calif. He was 84.
        His death was announced in Washington by the current secretary, Ann M. Veneman, a Modesto native to whom Mr. Lyng had been a mentor and friend.
        A prominent Republican, former California director of agriculture and president of the American Meat Institute, Mr. Lyng was a champion of the farming economy.
        He defended its interests before Congress and this country's international trading partners. He dealt with a wide range of subjects like farm subsidies, food export-import policies, food stamps, school lunches and drought disasters.
        Born in San Francisco, Richard Lyng graduated cum laude from the University of Notre Dame in 1940, when he joined the family business, the Ed J. Lyng Company, in Modesto. His father started it as a seed and bean processing company, and he set out as a field representative, driving the back roads of Modesto County.
        He returned to it after Army service in World War II and was named president in 1949. The business thrived, and Mr. Lyng turned to politics in 1967 when he became deputy and then director of the California State Department of Agriculture.
        He held the position for two years in Ronald Reagan's first term as governor of California. From then on he held a succession of posts in which he influenced national agricultural politics and policy making.
        In 1969, the Nixon administration called him to Washington as assistant secretary of agriculture for consumer and marketing services, a position in which he oversaw the government's food programs.
        From 1973 to 1979, Mr. Lyng was president of the American Meat Institute, a powerful lobby for the country's meatpackers and processors.
        In 1981, President Reagan named him undersecretary of agriculture. He resigned in 1985 and worked as a principal in Lyng & Lesher, now Lesher & Russel, a Washington consulting firm.
        In 1986, in Mr. Reagan's second term, Mr. Lyng was appointed the 22nd secretary of agriculture when John R. Block's resignation left the Agriculture Department in turmoil. With his background in farming, Mr. Lyng differed from his predecessors, most of whom had been selected from the ranks of academic experts.
        His mission was to direct farm programs calling for less government involvement, a policy he, like Mr. Block, had supported all along. But Mr. Lyng's reputation for calm under pressure helped him stay the course until January 1989, when President George Bush brought in Clayton K. Yeutter as his successor.
        Mr. Lyng is survived by two daughters, Jeannette Robinson of Modesto and Marilyn O'Connell of Winterville Valley, N.H., and five grandchildren. His wife, Bethyl Ball Lyng, died in 2000. They had been married 56 years.
      