
        Jerome Hines, a bass whose performing career spanned six decades -- including 41 years as a mainstay of the Metropolitan Opera, where he had the longest career of any principal singer in the company's history -- died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 81 and lived in Scotch Plains, N.J.
        Mr. Hines was one of the great singers of his generation, revered not only for the timbral richness and flexibility of his voice but also for the care he took to research the historical and psychological aspects of the roles he sang. He projected an enormous cross-section of the repertory with authority, from Handel to Wagner.
        At the Met alone, he portrayed 45 characters in 39 works, including the title roles in Mussorgsky's ''Boris Godunov'' and Mozart's ''Don Giovanni,'' Ramfis in Verdi's ''Aida,'' Gremin in Tchaikovsky's ''Eugene Onegin,'' Colline in Puccini's ''Bohème,'' Méphistophélès in Gounod's ''Faust'' and several Wagner roles, including Gurnemanz in ''Parsifal,'' King Marke in ''Tristan und Isolde'' and Wotan in ''Das Rheingold'' and ''Die Walküre.'' All told, he gave 868 performances at the Met, and after his retirement in 1987 he continued to sing with regional opera companies, in recital and at benefit concerts, including several performances last year.
        At a height of 6 feet 6 inches and with an athletic build that he kept trim throughout his career, he towered over other singers on the stage. He was also a colorful character, even by operatic standards. In the mid-1950's, he became a born-again Christian, and made his faith the center of his life and work, noting in interviews that at the Met in those years, he was ''like a square peg in a round hole because of my beliefs.'' Perhaps to contrast with the repertory of scoundrels and pagan gods he so often portrayed, Mr. Hines composed an opera of his own, ''I Am the Way,'' about the life of Jesus, in which he sang the title role. The work was performed at the Metropolitan Opera House in 1968, and Mr. Hines sang it 93 times around the world, including a performance at the Bolshoi in Moscow.
        Mr. Hines was born in Hollywood on Nov. 8, 1921, and began his early studies there with Gennaro Curci while also studying chemistry, mathematics and physics at the University of California. Before his singing career took off, he worked briefly as a chemist, but after an appearance in ''H.M.S. Pinafore'' with a small California company in 1940 led to a debut at the San Francisco Opera (as Monterone in ''Rigoletto'') in 1941, he left chemistry behind. The impresario Sol Hurok became his manager, and persuaded him to change the spelling of his family name from Heinz to the Americanized Hines during the 1940's, to avoid any potential anti-German sentiment.
        In 1946 he made his Metropolitan Opera debut as the Officer in ''Boris Godunov,'' eventually moving to the role of Pimen and then to Boris, which he told interviewers was his favorite role. At the Met Mr. Hines held the record for performances of several roles, including Sarastro in Mozart's ''Zauberflöte'' (55) and Ramfis in ''Aida'' (104). He also established his European career in the early 1950's with celebrated performances of Nick Shadow in Stravinsky's ''Rake's Progress'' at Glyndebourne and in the title role of ''Don Giovanni'' in Munich. He made his debut at La Scala singing Handel in 1958, followed by performances at Bayreuth and at the Bolshoi, where he sang Boris in 1962.
        Mr. Hines was married to the soprano Lucia Evangelista from 1952 until her death in 2000. He is survived by four sons: John Heinz of Roselle Park, N.J.; David Hines of Lynn, Mass.; Andrew Hines of Macungie, Penn.; and Russell Ray Hines of Scotch Plains; and eight grandchildren.
        Mr. Hines made comparatively few recordings, but they capture the weight and color of his voice as well as something of his stage presence. These include a Beethoven Missa Solemnis with Arturo Toscanini, as well as performances in Verdi's ''Macbeth,'' Wagner's ''Lohengrin,'' Bartok's ''Bluebeard's Castle'' and Brahms's ''German Requiem.''
        He was also an author whose published works included six papers on mathematics and several books, including ''This Is My Story, This Is My Song'' (1968), ''Great Singers on Great Singing'' (1982) and ''The Four Voices of Man'' (1997).
      