
        Dr. John E. Fryer, a psychiatrist who electrified his colleagues by telling the 1972 convention of the American Psychiatric Association in a mask that he was a homosexual at a time homosexuality was classified as a mental illness, died on Feb. 21 in Philadelphia. He was 65.
        The cause was aspiration pneumonia, which he suffered after a degenerative lung disease, his sister Katherine F. Helmbock, said.
        No gay American psychiatrist had risked speaking publicly before Dr. Fryer's appearance. When Dr. Fryer, wearing a baggy suit, a rubbery mask and a huge wig and using a microphone that distorted his voice, spoke at the association's meeting in Dallas, it was a dramatic moment in the gay rights movement, and it helped change psychiatrists' attitude toward homosexuality.
        For 20 years after finding in 1952 that homosexuals were ''ill primarily in terms of society and of conformity with the prevailing social milieu,'' the psychiatric association included homosexuality in its Diagnostic and Statistical Manual, an official list of mental illnesses. Though the diagnosis was based on a departure from social norms, it stamped homosexuals as emotional deviants and lent medical authority to laws that made homosexual acts and even homosexuals' public gatherings illegal.
        The classification was attacked as early as 1964, when Dr. Franklin E. Kameny, an astronomer trained at Harvard who had been ostracized because of his sexuality, insisted on television that homosexuality was ''not a disease, a pathology, a sickness, a malfunction or a disorder of any sort.''
        Not until 1971, when Dr. Kameny seized the microphone in Washington, did gay protesters confront psychiatrists at their annual convention. As a result, gay advocates were invited to a panel with psychiatrists at the 1972 convention.
        Psychiatrists were not used to hearing from homosexuals who felt sane and normal. When Dr. Fryer slipped through a side curtain at the convention appearing as Dr. H. Anonymous and announcing, ''I am a homosexual, I am a psychiatrist,'' fellow therapists were riveted.
        More than 100 gay psychiatrists were at the convention, Dr. Fryer told the audience, ''and several of us feel that it is time that real flesh and blood stand up before you and ask to be listened to and understood, insofar as that is possible.''
        His remarks were reprinted last year in The Journal of Gay and Lesbian Psychotherapy.
        The risk of speaking was real. Dr. Fryer, then an untenured faculty member at Temple University, did not formally say he was the psychiatrist behind the mask until the association's annual meeting in Philadelphia 22 years later.
        ''I had been thrown out of a residency because I was gay,'' he wrote in 1985 in the bulletin of the Association of Gay and Lesbian Psychiatrists. ''I lost a job because I was gay. It had to be said. But I couldn't do it as me. I was not yet full time on the faculty.''
        In December 1973, after more protests and debate, the board of the psychiatric association voted to remove homosexuality from its list of mental disorders and to urge that ''homosexuals be given all protections now guaranteed other citizens.'' The members ratified the decision in April 1974.
        Dr. Fryer was born in Kentucky. He graduated from Transylvania College in Lexington, Ky. At the Temple University medical school, he became professor of psychiatry. Last year, on the 30th anniversary of his speech, he received a distinguished alumnus award from the Vanderbilt University Medical School and a distinguished service award from the Association of Gay and Lesbian Psychiatrists.
        He is survived by his sister.
      