
        Luis Marden, a writer and photographer who prowled the globe for National Geographic for 64 years, sometimes vanishing for months with little more than a pith helmet, quinine water and a medical kit, died on Monday in Arlington, Va. He was 90.
        Mr. Marden was one of the last of Geographic's old-time adventurers who trekked to the edges of exploration for material for long articles. He was the writer or photographer for 55 articles, contributed to five books and was a popular lecturer.
        An orchid and a sea flea were named after him. Long after Mr. Marden wrote an article, Mideastern monarchs and Mexican mule drivers inquired about him, Cathy Newman wrote in 2000 in Geographic.
        Some big contributions involved photography in difficult circumstances. Mr. Marden did more to introduce 35-millimeter color photos to the magazine than anyone else, Ms. Newman wrote. Before he showed up in 1934 with a lightweight Leica hanging from a neck strap, Geographic photographers carried 200 pounds of gear into the field.
        He introduced skeptical colleagues to Kodachrome, which gave richer, more vibrant colors and higher contrast than other film at the time and became standard for Geographic and many other magazines.
        He pioneered underwater photography in dives with Jacques-Yves Cousteau, developing ways to use filters and auxiliary lighting to enhance color.
        Mr. Marden's heart was in his larger-than-life adventures, often retracing the explorers' steps. He discovered the remains of Captain Bligh's Bounty, famed for the crew's mutiny, and retraced Columbus's voyage to the New World and theorized a landfall different from earlier conjectures.
        He and his wife, Ethel, his sole immediate survivor, lived in a house that Frank Lloyd Wright designed for them in McLean, Va.
        Annibale Luigi Paragallo was born on Jan. 25, 1913, in Chelsea, Mass. He did not go to college, but learned Egyptian hieroglyphics and five languages as a teenager. He went to work at a radio station in Boston, where he had a photography program. He changed his name to Luis Marden because the station manager told him that it was easier on the ears.
        After working as a freelance photographer for The Boston Herald, he took a job in the Geographic photo laboratory and quickly advanced. His first assignment as a reporter was in the Yucatán Peninsula. After sailing on a tramp steamer, he inched overland with a Model T Ford and then a mule and got the bends diving in a holy Mayan well.
        When he saw a rudder from the Bounty in a museum on Fiji, he pestered his editors to let him dive off Pitcairn Island in the South Pacific, where the piece had been recovered. He found the wreck in 1957.
        After his official retirement in 1976, Mr. Marden continued to write, contributing his last article in 1998. In 1980, he used Columbus's log and a different calibration of currents to come up with a new route for the explorer's first voyage, one that other researchers soon criticized.
        His zeal for excellence was reflected in not just buying the best bamboo fly rods, but also growing bamboo in his backyard, making his own -- and then writing a book about it.
        ''One lifetime isn't enough,'' Mr. Marden said. ''Just when you start to learn, it's time to go.''
        Wherever he went, he exhibited his own high style. When he learned to fly in the 30's, he wore a leather helmet, goggles and a silk scarf. When his colleagues took to casual dress, he stuck with tailored English suits, worn with cuff links made of nails from the Bounty.
      