
        Dr. Harold Amos, a microbiologist at the Harvard Medical School who campaigned for decades on behalf of minority scientists in higher education and was widely recognized for wielding his influence to open doors for other blacks, died on Feb. 26 in Boston. He was 84.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, his family said.
        Dr. Amos was the first black department chairman at the medical school, but even his hiring in 1954 as an instructor in the department of bacteriology and immunology was highly unusual, his colleagues said.
        ''He was the lone black person there at Harvard for a long time,'' said Dr. Alvin F. Poussaint, a professor of psychiatry at Harvard.
        Dr. Amos encouraged blacks and members of other underrepresented minorities interested in becoming scientists. He also encouraged universities to make a place for them. But perhaps most important, he urged students to consider going into teaching.
        Dr. Louis W. Sullivan, emeritus president of the Morehouse School of Medicine and a former health and human services secretary, recalled being a first-year medical student at Boston University and meeting Dr. Amos. ''For people like me,'' Dr. Sullivan said, ''he was very inspiring.''
        Dr. Amos was also known for his work in animal cell culture, bacterial metabolism and virology, specializing in cell metabolism, including its effects on gene expression. He also helped explain the workings of DNA and RNA.
        Harold Amos was born in Pennsauken, N.J. The second of nine children, he attended a two-room segregated schoolhouse, recalled Howard R. Amos, his younger brother. His father, a mail carrier, had left school in the ninth grade, but pushed his children to do better. Four earned college degrees, including Howard, a former deputy superintendent of schools in Philadelphia.
        In addition to Howard, of Pennsauken, survivors include four sisters, Iola Thomas and Margaret Johnson, both of Pennsauken; Joyce Hester of Toms River, N.J.; and Florine Williams of Lawnside, N.J.
        Dr. Amos received his bachelor's degree from Springfield College in Massachusetts, which he attended on scholarship.
        After serving in the Quartermaster Corps in World War II, he enrolled at Harvard and earned a master's degree and a doctorate. He began teaching at the medical school after two years at the Pasteur Institute on a Fulbright scholarship. He was chairman of his department from 1968 to 1971 and from 1975 to 1978. He took emeritus status in 1988.
        He helped form the Hinton-Wright Biomedical Society, an association for minority scientists in the Boston area. He also directed a program at the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation to increase minority faculty members at medical schools. He did similar work as a trustee of the Josiah Macy Jr. Foundation, a medical education philanthropy.
        At Harvard, Dr. Amos worked hard to recruit other minority professors, in part to take some of the pressure off him, Dr. Poussaint said. ''I don't want to be trotted out,'' he recalled hearing Dr. Amos say. ''Sometimes I'm trotted out every time someone's visiting.''
      