
        John Edwards, an illiterate former barman from the East End of London who was the artist Francis Bacon's closest friend in the last 16 years of his life and the sole heir to his paintings and properties, died on Tuesday in Bangkok. He was 53.
        The cause was lung cancer, lawyers for the estate said.
        Mr. Edwards, who was the model for at least 30 of Bacon's late portraits, met the painter in 1976 at the Colony Room, a drinking club in the Soho district of London that had long been popular with artists. Although the men were gay, Mr. Edwards always said that he had no sexual relationship with Bacon, who was 40 years his senior and at the time one of the most celebrated painters in Britain.
        ''Francis was a real, true father to me,'' Mr. Edwards told The Daily Telegraph of London in a rare interview a year ago. ''I was close to my own father. But Francis gave me all the guidance I needed, and we laughed a lot. And I think he liked me because I didn't want anything from him.''
        After Bacon's death in April 1992 at 82, Mr. Edwards was distraught to find himself the center of news media attention, friends said, and he moved briefly to Florida. In 1994 he settled in the Thai resort of Pattaya with his partner, Philip Mordue. London newspapers speculated today that Mr. Mordue, 43, was the likely beneficiary of Mr. Edwards's estate.
        The value of the estate that Bacon left to Mr. Edwards had a net worth of nearly $17 million. In 1999, however, the estate sued Marlborough U.K. and Marlborough International, which had long managed Bacon's affairs, charging that they had ''wrongfully exploited'' him. The suit was dropped early last year when both sides agreed to pay their own costs and Marlborough released all its documents about Bacon .
        In 1998 Mr. Edwards gave the contents of Bacon's famously disordered studio at 7 Reece Mews in South Kensington, London, to the Hugh Lane Gallery in Dublin, where it has been reconstructed down to the tiniest detail, including remnants of canvases that Bacon destroyed. The gift also included photographs, drawings, books, artists' material and furniture.
        Mr. Edwards, the son of an East End longshoreman, was born in 1950 within the sound of the bells of St. Mary le Bow Church, which made him a true Cockney. He had dyslexia and never learned to read or write. He was working in a pub in Wapping, a London neighborhood, when he met Bacon. The next day, Mr. Edwards recounted, he was invited to Bacon's studio and was surprised to discover that the artist had already sketched his portrait.
        ''Terrible mess, it was,'' Mr. Edwards later said of the studio. ''I remember the first time I saw it, I said to Francis, 'How can you work here?' But he said it was how he liked it. He couldn't be bothered to clear it up. All he wanted was to have the peace and quiet to paint.''
        The men soon became inseparable, with Bacon summoning Mr. Edwards to breakfast most days and having him accompany him on his frequent nighttime drinking and gambling binges. One of his jobs, Mr. Edwards later said, was to make sure that Bacon did not spend all his money. But, invited to keep Bacon company while he painted, Mr. Edwards also became a rare witness to the artist at work.
        ''When Francis painted, there was always a drama,'' he once recalled of the tortured forms that Bacon produced. ''It always seemed to me as if he was fighting with the canvas.''
        On occasions, Mr. Edwards was also recruited to destroy unsatisfactory works, sometimes by slashing them with a knife.
        In his interview with The Daily Telegraph, Mr. Edwards discussed the relationship further. ''We'd talk about everything,'' he said. ''He was a beautiful man; you'd be hypnotized by him. He'd talk to you and you'd just want him to talk more. Everything he talked about -- his posh mates, the people he knew in the art world -- it was all so clear.''
        As for his own appeal to Bacon, he offered an explanation: ''I think he felt very free with me because I was a bit different from most people he knew. I wasn't asking him about his painting or anything like that. Most people around Francis looked up to him and he didn't like that. I asked him once, 'What do you see in me?,' and he laughed and said, 'You're not boring like most people.' ''
        Brian Clarke, a London artist and the executor of the Bacon estate who was with Mr. Edwards when he died, told The Daily Telegraph last year that Mr. Edwards's attraction to Bacon was that he was always frank.
        ''John was the only person in London who treated Francis as an absolute equal,'' Mr. Clarke was quoted as saying. He added: ''John is a totally honest man. He would be very rude to Francis, which was a very enjoyable thing to see because nobody else had license to do that. He'd give it to him straight and Francis appreciated that. Even in the Colony Room, Francis was the king of Soho. But to John, he was just 'My Francis.' ''
      