
        Peter Smithson, an influential British architect and teacher who, with his wife, Alison, infused the pure formalism of modern design with a broader concern for the social environment, died on Monday at home in London. He was 79.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his son, Simon.
        ''The short, narrow street of the slum succeeds where spacious redevelopment frequently fails,'' the Smithsons wrote in 1953, defying the prevailing planning orthodoxy that called for isolated, slablike towers set discretely and distantly in perfectly ordered expanses of space. '' 'Belonging' is a basic emotional need -- its associations are of the simplest order,'' they wrote. ''From 'belonging' -- identity -- comes the enriching sense of neighborliness.''
        Neighborly is not a word one would use to describe the work of Le Corbusier and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, who both exerted a strong influence on the Smithsons. But it could be applied to the couple's Economist Building, completed in 1964 on St. James's Street in London.
        This project actually consists of three chamfer-cornered structures, the tallest being the 14-story headquarters for The Economist magazine. The buildings have crisp limestone piers framing broad windows and are grouped in an L-shaped elevated plaza.
        The Smithsons described this complex as a ''family of particularly English city scales'' in the first volume of their monograph, ''The Charged Void: Architecture'' (Monacelli Press, 2001). Mr. Smithson was working on the second volume before his death, his son said.
        ''Another sort of intermediary place is contributed to the city,'' the Smithsons wrote. ''Other movement patterns are made possible: the man in the street can chose to find his 'secret' way about his city.''
        Kenneth Frampton, an architectural historian at Columbia University, said yesterday that the Economist complex had stood the test of time. ''It's an incredibly successful contextual work in the way it relates to St. James's, the way it creates this small plaza, the way it is integrated into the small-scale fabric of the center of London, and yet, at the same time, is a modern building,'' he said.
        It is also one of the few significant projects by the Smithsons that was actually built. Their more enduring contribution was in the realm of ideas, as leaders of a group called Team 10, which emerged in 1956 from the International Congresses of Modern Architecture.
        ''The Smithsons' work was committed to the idea of the welfare state,'' Professor Frampton said, and to the goal of ''raising the level of general working-class culture more to a universal middle-class culture.''
        One expression of their philosophy was the ''street in the air'' -- exterior decks linking apartments in large housing complexes. The Smithsons envisioned these garden-lined decks as a place where private and public realms would mix in ''the same lively pattern as a true street or square -- nothing is lost and elevation is gained.''
        Paradoxically, however, it was a housing project that clouded their reputation. In East London, their vast Robin Hood Gardens of 1972 seems to epitomize the Brutalist style of architecture. ''Grim, cheerless and perpetually vandalized, it is now chiefly seen as an example of awful urban planning,'' The Economist said this week in what was otherwise a tribute to Mr. Smithson.
        Their Hunstanton Secondary Modern School in Norfolk, completed in 1954, owed much to Mies's design for the campus of the Illinois Institute of Technology in Chicago.
        But there was an important difference, said Dietrich Neumann, an architectural historian at Brown University. ''It was very consciously much less finished and much less refined,'' he said. ''You can see the ducts and pipes that make the building work. The water tank is turned into an icon.''
        In their unbuilt legacy, the Smithsons could count plans for the new Coventry Cathedral and the British Embassy in Brasilia.
        Alison Smithson died in 1993. Besides their son, they are survived by two daughters, Samantha and Soraya; and six grandchildren. The younger Mr. Smithson is an architect in the Richard Rogers Partnership, managing the expansion of Barajas International Airport in Madrid.
        ''Both my parents were very keen that I didn't do architecture because they thought it was too tough,'' he said. ''But you can't fight your genes.''
        Correction:  March 8, 2003, Saturday  A byline was omitted yesterday on the obituary of the British architect Peter Smithson. The writer was David W. Dunlap.
      