
        G. Stuart Keith, a champion bird-watcher who was a founder of the American Birding Association and who at one time had a good claim to having seen more birds than anyone else alive, died on Feb. 13 while on a bird-watching expedition to the Micronesian island of Chuuk, sometimes called Truk, in the Pacific Ocean. He was 71 and lived in Redding, Calif.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Sallyann, who was with him on the trip.
        She said his wish had always been to die on a bird-watching trip after seeing a bird he had never seen before. He got his way, having spotted the Caroline Islands ground dove, Gallicolumba kubaryi, for the first time the day before he died.
        In the 1970's, he was the first person to report seeing 4,000 different species, and the Guinness Book of Records then credited him with having spotted more different kinds of birds than anyone else in the world.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Keith was credited with having seen more than 6,500 different bird species, or about two-thirds of the roughly 9,000 species that, according the American Museum of Natural History, exist today. (Phoebe Snetsinger, who died in 1999, was later recognized by the association for having seen about 8,400 of them.)
        In 1968, Mr. Keith proposed to a dozen enthusiastic bird-watching friends that they form an association and exchange information about the numbers of birds they had spotted. This association eventually became the American Birding Association, as bird-watching was to be known from then on, and the association's magazine, which first appeared in 1969, was titled simply Birding.
        Mr. Keith became the association's first president in 1970 and was a member of its board until 1990.
        George Stuart Keith was born on Sept. 4, 1931, near Baldock in Hertfordshire, England. His mother took her four children to Canada during World War II. The family returned afterward, and Mr. Keith was educated at Marlborough College. After service with a British infantry regiment in Korea, he studied classics at Worcester College in Oxford.
        Although he had planned a career in finance, his love of ornithology caused him to tire of his work, and in 1958 he became a research associate in the ornithology department of the American Museum of Natural History in New York City.
        Mr. Keith devoted his life to birds, supporting himself by writing and lecturing and from a small inheritance. He was secretary, then president, of the International Council for Bird Preservation, United States Section, from 1965 to 1973. His bird watching expeditions took him all over the world.
        With John Gooders, he wrote ''The Collins Bird Guide,'' a survey of European birds, in 1980. That year he began his 22-year involvement with ''The Birds of Africa,'' in seven volumes, written with C. Hilary Fry and Emil K. Urban, although he did not live to see the final volume published.
        He also produced bird films and recordings of bird calls.
        In addition to his wife, the former Sallyann Burgess, whom he married in 1975, he is survived by a sister, Annabel Beretti of Edmonton, Canada; and two brothers, Anthony of Calgary and Peter of Ottawa.
        Mr. Keith was a true bird fanatic. Since 1991, he persisted in birding despite a number of serious ailments and several heart operations, visiting Kenya, New Zealand, Costa Rica, Ghana, Namibia, South Africa, Morocco and Spain.
        When he took up birding in his youth, the association recalled when it announced his death, his family did not expect him to live long once he bought his first car, because he swerved too often so that he could see a bird.
      