
        Peter Dimitroff Petroff, a NASA engineer and later an inventor whose enterprises developed heart-monitoring equipment and originated the digital wristwatch 30 years ago, died Feb. 27 at his home in Huntsville, Ala. He was 83.
        He had been in failing health since retiring last year as a consultant for the Huntsville-based Time Domain Corporation, a start-up involved in the development of ultra-wideband communications technology, his family said.
        Born in Brestovitsa, Bulgaria, Mr. Petroff arrived in Toronto in 1951 via wartime France and Germany. He graduated in electrical engineering at what is now Stuttgart University in 1947. He worked on arctic engineering and construction projects for the United States Air Force at Goose Bay, Labrador, and Thule, Greenland.
        He went to Indochina in 1956 for assignments in bridge and power-plant construction. Three years later, he sailed a 65-foot catamaran of his own design to Melbourne, Fla., where he joined the space projects carried out by a precursor of the Harris Corporation. He helped design systems for the early weather and communications satellites and organized the company's semiconductor division.
        Moving to Huntsville in 1963, Mr. Petroff was recruited by Wernher von Braun for work on the new Saturn rocket for the Apollo space program. In that period, his employers were the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, and Boeing and Northrop, its contractors.
        He went into business on his own in 1968, founding Care Electrics, a high-technology company that developed a wireless heart monitor for hospital use. The venture evolved into Electro/Data, which created the prototype of the digital watch.
        Marketed by the Hamilton Watch Company as the Pulsar, the odd-looking device sold for $2,100 in 1971. (Fifteen years later, it was not unusual for digital watches to be given away as favors during baseball games.)
        In 1975, Mr. Petroff and his sons founded ADS Environmental Services, a maker of computerized pollution monitoring equipment for the world market. He sold his interest in the company in 1995 but rejoined his sons as a consultant for Time Domain.
        He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Helen Philips Petroff; his sons, Alan, Ralph and Mark, all of Huntsville; two sisters, Venchi Kutchukova of Burgas, Bulgaria, and Dr. Radka Sidow of King of Prussia, Pa.; and 10 grandchildren.
      