
        Gilbert W. Beebe, an expert on radiation who had a crucial role in studies of survivors of the atomic bomb attacks on Japan and the accident at the Chernobyl nuclear power plant in Ukraine, died on March 3 in Washington. He was 90.
        As a member of the Atomic Bomb Casualty Commission, later called the Radiation Effects Research Foundation, at the National Academy of Sciences from 1958 to 1977, Dr. Beebe created studies of cancer rates among the 284,000 survivors in Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
        The research suggested that children were more likely than adults to develop radiation-induced cancer. Girls younger than 10 were found to be highly susceptible to breast cancer, which developed more than a decade after exposure. Women older than 40 appeared to be highly resistant to the disease. The study also documented a slight increase in leukemia, which reached its peak seven or eight years after the bombing.
        In 1977, after retiring at 65 from the National Academy of Sciences, Dr. Beebe joined the National Cancer Institute at the National Institutes of Health. At the institute, he organized and led investigations into the accident at Chernobyl in 1986 that examined the cancer rates of the 88,000 cleanup workers exposed to excessive radiation and of children in a fallout area 54 miles north in Belarus.
        Dr. Beebe, who graduated from Dartmouth and received a Ph.D. in sociology and statistics from Columbia, began his career in the Office of the Surgeon General of the Army in World War II. Immediately after the war, he helped organize and became director of the Medical Follow-up Agency at the National Academy of Sciences. The agency followed the lives of the 15 million people who had served in the armed forces, examining links between military service and disease. One study tracked soldiers who had survived bullet wounds to the heart.
        ''Dr. Beebe wrote flawless protocols for the scientific design of large-scale medical studies,'' a colleague at the National Cancer Institute, Dr. Robert W. Miller, said. Gilbert Wheeler Beebe was born on April 3, 1912, in Mahwah, N.J.
        Surviving are his wife of 68 years, Ruth, of Alexandria, Va.; four children, Christopher, of Alexandria; Brian, of Santa Barbara, Calif.; Beatrice, of New York; and Alfred, of Salisbury, Md.; and five grandchildren.
      