
        Gen. Wallace M. Greene Jr., who commanded the Marine Corps early in the Vietnam War, died last Saturday in Alexandria, Va. He was 95.
        General Greene was promoted to four-star rank and commandant of the corps in 1964, when American marines in Vietnam numbered only in the hundreds. But the buildup of United States combat units, as opposed to the military trainers who had long been advisers to South Vietnamese forces, began the next year, and by the time he retired at the end of 1967, the number of marines and sailors in the Amphibious Force there approached 100,000, about a fifth of all American personnel engaged in the war.
        Involvement in Vietnam was widely challenged by then in an America also torn by social and racial strife. But in public statements and Congressional testimony, General Greene joined calls for broadening already heavy air attacks on North Vietnam.
        General Greene left his stamp on the corps with an overhaul of its training and planning procedures. Advances that he outlined remain in today's manuals, among them those employing up-to-date guidance systems with which marines in the field spot targets and call in artillery or air support.
        Wallace Martin Greene Jr. was a native of Waterbury, Vt., and a descendant of the Revolutionary War general Nathanael Greene. He graduated from the United States Naval Academy in 1930 and spent the next 37 years in uniform.
        He took part in the invasion of the Marshall Islands in 1943 and was a staff officer in the Second Marine Division for the Saipan and Tinian operations, in the Northern Marianas, the following year. He was then attached to Marine headquarters in Washington and was promoted to full colonel as the officer in charge of the Atlantic Fleet's Marine training, in Virginia.
        There followed tours of duty at Pearl Harbor, at Quantico, Va., at the National War College and, as a newly minted brigadier general and assistant commander of the Second Division, at Camp Lejeune, N.C.
        In April 1956, six Marine recruits drowned on a disciplinary night march at Parris Island, S.C., and General Greene served as the senior officer in the resulting inquiry, which led to Brig. Gen. David M. Shoup's being named to the new post of inspector general for recruit training.
        General Greene then took command at Parris Island and later Camp Lejeune before returning to Washington, where he held operations, training and planning positions and served as chief of staff under General Shoup, whom he succeeded as commandant on Jan. 1, 1964.
        His wife, Vaughan Emory Greene, died in 2001 after 70 years of marriage. His survivors include a son, Lt. Col. Wallace Greene III, retired, of Arlington, and a daughter, Vaughan Greene of McLean, Va.
        When President John F. Kennedy nominated General Greene for commandant, the general showed himself to be a space-minded planner. He was thinking, he said at the White House, of using rockets to fly marines to combat. That way, he said, it might be possible to send a 1,200-marine battalion from Camp Lejeune to a trouble spot in Africa in 80 minutes, but not until the end of the 1970's.
      