
        John G. Dow, a staunchly liberal Democrat from the lower Hudson Valley who was one of the earliest Congressional opponents of the Vietnam War, died on Tuesday in Suffern, N.Y., near his home in Pomona. He was 97.
        In May 1965, four months after taking office as a freshman congressman from a rural and suburban district that then stretched from the New Jersey state line to the Catskills, Mr. Dow broke with President Lyndon B. Johnson and voted against a $700 million spending bill to finance the war. With that vote he joined a tiny group of House Democrats, most from districts far safer than his, who became the core of a growing antiwar movement in Congress.
        Defending his opposition, Mr. Dow said in 1966: ''The president's way is ambivalent -- negotiating and fighting. I'm on the negotiating side.'' But his votes against the war, and later against a bill to impose criminal penalties for desecrating the American flag, cost him support in Washington and at home.
        He was re-elected in 1966 despite the Democratic National Committee's refusal to give money to his campaign until its final days. But in 1968, with public sentiment running high both for and against the war, he lost by 5,795 votes to Martin B. McKneally of Newburgh, a conservative Republican and former national commander of the American Legion.
        Running in a long-shot race two years later, he defeated Mr. McKneally after the Internal Revenue Service revealed that it was investigating the Republican congressman for failing to file income tax returns. (Mr. McKneally later pleaded guilty to a misdemeanor charge.) In 1972, however, Mr. Dow was soundly beaten by Benjamin A. Gilman, another Republican.
        That defeat ended Mr. Dow's career in Congress, though he did not give up easily. He ran against Mr. Gilman again in 1974; then, after moving to Albany, ran in a primary in 1982 in an unsuccessful attempt to unseat a hawkish Democratic representative, Samuel S. Stratton. Finally, in 1990, after returning to Rockland County, he won the Democratic nomination at the age of 85. Once again, he lost to Mr. Gilman.
        John Goodchild Dow was born on May 6, 1905, in Manhattan and grew up in New Jersey. His family moved to Kennebunkport, Me., when he was in his teens, and he acquired a thick Down East accent that became a hallmark of his speaking style, along with a growling baritone and a penchant for oratorical flourish.
        After graduating from Harvard, he became a businessman and worked as a systems analyst for several companies in New York. Electoral politics was a sideline, seemingly hopeless for a Democrat in his overwhelmingly Republican village, Grand View-on-Hudson. He ran for office several times in the 1950's but never rose higher than chairman of the local zoning board.
        In 1964, Rockland County Democrats, looking for a sacrificial opponent for the nine-term Republican incumbent, Katharine St. George, called on Mr. Dow. He accepted the nomination and campaigned hard, crisscrossing the district in a 1954 DeSoto. He was swept into office in Mr. Johnson's landslide over Senator Barry Goldwater. ''No one was more surprised than John,'' recalled Harriet Cornell, later the Rockland County Democratic chairwoman.
        Mr. Dow's wife of 70 years, Harriet, died in 2001. He is survived by a son, Thomas, of Grand View-on-Hudson; two daughters, Diantha Schull of New York and Sophia Torres of Bogotá, Colombia; eight grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      