
        Al Gionfriddo, the Brooklyn Dodger outfielder who made one of baseball's most famous catches when he took a game-tying home run away from Joe DiMaggio at Yankee Stadium in the 1947 World Series, died on Friday in Solvang, Calif. He was 81.
        The cause was a heart attack, his wife, Sue, said.
        When the Dodgers and Yankees opened the '47 World Series, Gionfriddo was hardly a household name in Brooklyn. He was fast, but at 5 feet 6 inches and 165 pounds, he was unlikely to scare many pitchers. He had batted .177 that season in 37 games for the Dodgers after being obtained in May from the Pittsburgh Pirates.
        In Game 4 of the World Series, Gionfriddo stole second base as a pinch-runner with two out in the ninth inning. He then scored the tying run when Cookie Lavagetto's two-run double broke up Bill Bevens's no-hit bid and brought the Dodgers a 3-2 victory.
        In the sixth inning of Game 6, Gionfriddo was put in left field by Manager Burt Shotton for defensive purposes. He was the third Dodgers left fielder of the afternoon, having replaced Eddie Miksis, normally an infielder, who had experienced problems with the sun. Miksis, in turn, had replaced the starter in left, Gene Hermanski.
        The Yankees, leading the Series by three games to two, were trailing by 8-5 with two men on and two out in the sixth when DiMaggio came to bat against Joe Hatten.
        DiMaggio sent a drive to left-center field that was headed for the bullpen 415 feet from home plate.
        ''I put my head down and ran,'' Gionfriddo once recalled. ''I looked over my shoulder once and knew I was going in the right direction. When I got close to the fence, I looked over my left shoulder and then jumped practically at the same time and caught the ball over my shoulder. I turned in the air coming down and hit the fence with my butt. I caught it in the webbing.''
        DiMaggio was almost at second base when Gionfriddo made one of the greatest catches in World Series history. Usually averse to displaying emotion on the field, DiMaggio kicked at the dirt in frustration.
        The Dodgers won, 8-6, but the Yankees captured Game 7 to win the World Series. Gionfriddo received a hero's welcome afterward when 5,000 people greeted him in his native Dysart, Pa.
        Gionfriddo was sent to the Dodgers' Montreal farm club the following season. Like Bevens and Lavagetto, the other marquee figures in the 1947 World Series, he never played another major league game.
        Gionfriddo, who made his major debut with Pittsburgh in 1944, had a career batting average of .266.
        He later owned a restaurant in Goleta, Calif., and was a high school trainer and athletic equipment manager in Santa Barbara, Calif.
        In addition to his wife, Gionfriddo is survived by two sons, Gary, of Santa Barbara, and Ray, of Fresno, Calif.; two daughters, Susan Gionfriddo, of Woodbridge, N.J., and Alene Lincoln, of Attleboro, Mass.; three brothers, Paul and James, of Altoona, Pa., and Leo, of Dysart; a sister, Joan Rupnick, of Folsom, Pa.; 13 grandchildren; and 7 great-grandchildren.
        Gionfriddo relived his golden moment at old-timers' games at Yankee and Shea Stadiums and at autograph shows through the years. But amid the accolades, he remained bitter toward Branch Rickey, the Dodgers' general manager. Gionfriddo maintained that Rickey reneged on a promise to bring him back to the majors, leaving him 60 days short of qualifying for a pension.
        As Gionfriddo once put it, ''Baseball is a dog-eat-dog business.''
      