
        Dr. Elliott Jaques, a psychoanalyst, social scientist and management consultant who coined the phrase ''midlife crisis'' and urged companies to adopt hierarchies that reflected employees' abilities to handle long-range assignments, died on March 8 in Gloucester, Mass. He was 86.
        Dr. Jaques, who graduated from the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine and earned a Ph.D. in social relations at Harvard, began developing his management theory in 1952, when he was hired by the Glacier Metal Company in England to help improve worker involvement.
        A company supervisor asked him if it was significant that lower-level workers were paid by the hour while executives were paid an annual salary. The question ''was the finest gift I've ever been given,'' he told The New York Times in 1985. ''That's when I started examining the significance of time.''
        Dr. Jaques investigated what he called the ''time frame'' of the individual. He found that some workers are capable of planning and carrying out tasks that take three months to a year; those people, he said, are suited to the role of manager. A smaller group, capable of one- to two-year assignments, should serve as department leaders. General managers should be able to handle 2- to 5-year projects and division presidents 5- to 10-year strategies. Corporate chiefs should be able to think in terms of 10 to 20 years.
        Dr. Jaques, who contended that a person's time frame could change over a career, developed a process to test employees' capabilities and likelihood for progress. He also worked with companies to determine the types of judgment needed at different levels of management.
        His goal was to create organizational structures that allowed employees to work together effectively. While he was aware that quantifying worker capabilities raised social and ethical questions, he argued that his organizational structure made more sense than one layered with managers who had no real authority. ''The system we have now is much more crushing to the individual,'' he said.
        Dr. Jaques, whose clients included the United States Army and the Church of England, was a founding fellow of the Royal College of Psychiatry in Britain, a founding member of the Tavistock Institute of Human Relations and the founder of the social sciences department at Brunel University in London.
        In 1999, he established the Requisite Organization International Institute in Massachusetts, an educational and research group. The institute recently studied retirement practices in the United States. It looked at retired managers to determine their capabilities and the impact that their retirement had on their companies.
        Dr. Jaques wrote more than 20 books, including ''Requisite Organization'' (1996) and ''General Theory of Bureaucracy'' (1976). He and his wife, Kathryn Cason, wrote ''Human Capability'' (1994).
        Elliott Jaques was born on Jan. 18, 1917, in Toronto. He is survived by his wife; his daughters, Gemma Jaques, of London, and Rebecca Cason, of Arlington, Tex.; his son, Steven Cason, of Freeland, Md.; and three grandchildren.
        Dr. Jaques introduced the phrase ''midlife crisis'' in 1965 in a paper on the working patterns of creative geniuses. Examining the careers of a number of composers and artists, he found abrupt changes in style or declines in productivity around the age of 35. Gail Sheehy popularized the phrase 10 years later in her book ''Passages,'' giving Dr. Jaques credit in a footnote.
      