
        Edgar Russell Fiedler, a former assistant secretary of the Treasury who later had major jobs at the Conference Board, died on Saturday in Chapel Hill, N.C., where he lived in retirement. A former resident of Scarsdale, N.Y., Mr. Fiedler was 73.
        He suffered cardiac arrest playing golf and was pronounced dead at a hospital, the family said.
        Mr. Fiedler retired from the Conference Board, a business research organization in Manhattan, in 1996 as a vice president and economic counselor and remained a senior fellow and adviser at his death. He was assistant Treasury secretary for economic policy from 1971 to 1975 in the Nixon and Ford administrations.
        During his tenure, it often fell to him to interpret the government's indexes to the public through years of inflation, recession, price and wage controls, and an oil embargo. He also served on the government's Cost of Living Council.
        A native of Milwaukee, Mr. Fiedler was a 1951 graduate of the University of Wisconsin. He received an M.B.A., concentrating on statistics, at the University of Michigan in 1956, and a Ph.D. in economics from New York University in 1970.
        Before his government service, he worked in the 1950's and 1960's for Eastman Kodak in Rochester, and Doubleday & Company and the Bankers Trust Company in New York. In the 1980's, he was an adjunct professor of economics at the Columbia Graduate School of Business.
        He joined the Conference Board in 1975 as vice president for economic research and moved to the economic counselor's position in 1986. He edited the board's monthly publication, Economic Times, and contributed to its Business Cycle Indicators.
        From 1979 until 1993 he edited International Economic Scoreboard, which keeps track and analyzes the leading business indicators of 10 countries. He regularly wrote for the board's Across the Board magazine and other professional journals.
        He was a former president of the National Association of Business Economics, and a past chairman of the Conference of Business Economics and the National Economics Club's education foundation.
        Mr. Fiedler is survived by his wife of 46 years, Jessie Lichtfeldt Fiedler; a daughter, Carol Therien of Montreal; a son, William, of Chicago; and two grandchildren.
      