
        Alfred Eisenpreis, New York City's economic development administrator for two and a half years in the mid-1970's, died at Lenox Hill Hospital on Thursday. He was 78 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was not immediately disclosed, but he had been suffering from lymphoma.
        Dr. Eisenpreis was a vice president for marketing with the Allied Stores Corporation, a nationwide chain, when Mayor Abraham D. Beame appointed him to head the city's Economic Development Administration in January 1974.
        Mr. Beame said at the time that the appointment was ''an important part of a message I wish to convey to the business community,'' and ''I want business to know that this is a city where business interest and public interest can be brought together for everyone's benefit.''
        Dr. Eisenpreis, whose doctorate was in public policy from Union Institute, was also a member of the National Council for Urban Economic Development in 1975 and 1976.
        He resigned as economic development administrator in June 1976, while Mr. Beame went ahead with plans to revamp his administration's efforts to assist the city's drooping economy.
        Mr. Beame said at the time that he had not requested Dr. Eisenpreis's resignation. But other mayoral aides indicated that he had grown disappointed both with Dr. Eisenpreis's work as administrator and with City Hall's entire unsuccessful drive to halt the city's job losses, which by then totaled 645,100 from 1969.
        Over the years Dr. Eisenpreis held many posts in business and other fields. He was a member of the board and treasurer of Congregation Emanu-El of New York City.
        Born in Vienna, he moved to the United States in 1939. He received a bachelor's degree from St. Thomas College in Scranton, Pa., and master's degrees in political science, management and human resources from the New York School of Social Research. His marriage to Bettijane Long Eisenpreis ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his companion, Joan C. Schwartz; and his son, Steven, both of Manhattan.
      