
        Ian MacNaughton, a British director who helped a group of young comedians shape ''Monty Python's Flying Circus'' into a watershed of absurdist television comedy, died on Dec. 10 in Munich after being injured in a car crash, The Times of London reported. He was 76.
        A former actor, Mr. MacNaughton came to work with the Monty Python troupe after directing the ''Q5'' television series with Spike Milligan in 1969, when he distinguished himself by keeping a madcap sketch-comedy program under tight control.
        He directed all but 4 of the 45 episodes of ''Monty Python's Flying Circus'' from 1969 to 1972, as well as the group's first feature film, ''And Now for Something Completely Different,'' in 1971.
        He also directed two German versions of the show in 1971 and '72 and a short-lived revival of the series in 1974.
        Michael Palin, an original member of Monty Python, told The Times of London: ''In the early shows none of us were certain what shape or form 'Python' was going to take. We were learning as we went along, so it needed a special kind of director to control that. You needed indulgence, but also somebody who, at the end of the week, would say: 'Right, that's it, this is the show, now we have to put it on tape.' And Ian did that.''
        ''He appreciated the spirit of Python,'' Mr. Palin added. ''The subversiveness and a touch of anarchy struck a chord with him, and being a bit of a wild Scotsman, he loved the fact that we were trying to do something new.''
        He went on to more comedy series, working on ''Charley's Grants'' and ''Milligan In . . . '' in the early 1970's.
        Mr. MacNaughton was born in Glasgow and served in the Royal Marines during World War II, where he joined the Globe Players, the marines' amateur theater group.
        He acted throughout the 1950's and into the 1960's, appearing in stage productions in Scotland and in several films, in which he specialized in Scottish characters. He was Callum MacGregor in ''Rob Roy, the Highland Rogue'' (1953) and played a character named Haggis in the 1956 science-fiction picture ''X the Unknown,'' in which a remote Scottish research center leaks radiation onto the surrounding moor.
        He took a course on television directing in 1964 and worked on police dramas and light entertainment shows before getting the job on ''Q5.''
        After working with Monty Python, he worked on the series ''Rising Damp'' and four sequels to ''Q5'' in the late 70's. He also directed a short film, ''Le Petomane,'' in 1979, about Joseph Pujol, a cafe entertainer in turn-of-the-century France who made music out of flatulence.
        Since the mid-1970's Mr. MacNaughton lived in Germany with his wife Ike, and two children from a previous marriage. They, along with his first wife, Rita, all survive him.
        In Germany he worked in television and branched out into productions of opera and musicals. He was returning from a production near Innsbruck, Austria, when he had his accident.
      