
        Ward Cuff, an All-Pro back for the Giants in the early 1940's and one of the National Football League's leading place-kickers of his era, died Dec. 24 in Vallejo, Calif. He was 90.
        Playing with the Giants from 1937 to 1945, Cuff teamed up with the Hall of Famers Ken Strong, Mel Hein and Tuffy Leemans. He played on Giants teams that won the N.F.L. championship in 1938 and captured three Eastern Division titles.
        He played on both offense and defense and held or shared the league's single-season field-goal title four times.
        Cuff was the Giants' career scoring leader, with 319 points, when he was traded to the Cardinals after the 1945 season. He played one season for Chicago and one year for the Green Bay Packers before retiring.
        A native of Redwood Falls, Minn., Cuff was a fullback and blocking back for Marquette and played on the team that lost to Texas Christian and its star quarterback, Sammy Baugh, in the first Cotton Bowl game, in 1937. He was also the Marquette heavyweight boxing champion and its record-holder in the javelin.
        Cuff played mostly as a wingback on offense in Giants Coach Steve Owen's A formation, a variation of the single wing, and also played in the defensive backfield. He was All-Pro in 1941, 1943 and 1944.
        After his N.F.L. career, Cuff coached high school football in Green Bay, Wis., served as an assistant coach at Oregon State and worked for Boeing in industrial recreation and recruiting.
        He is survived by his wife, Doris; two daughters, Lee Ann Corbaley of North Fork, Calif., and Clarelee Gardner of Vallejo; five grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.
        While playing on defense, Cuff faced N.F.L. stars like Bears fullback Bronko Nagurski and Packers end Don Hutson.
        ''One time I played against Bronko Nagurski in the afternoon and then went down to the Garden and watched him wrestle for the world championship that night,'' Cuff told Newsday in 1986. ''I remember he came over to a couple of us at ringside before the match and said, 'This isn't going to be as tough as playing against you guys this afternoon.' ''
      