
        John S. Latsis, the last of a generation of extremely rich Greek shipowners and businessmen that included household names like Aristotle Onassis and Stavros Niarchos, died on April 17 in Athens. He was 92.
        The Latsis business empire included shipping, banks, oil refineries and construction companies. This year Forbes magazine rated him 101 among the world's richest people, with a fortune worth $5.4 billion.
        Unlike some of his fellow Greek billionaires, Mr. Latsis pursued neither publicity nor reckless living, keeping himself well away from the public eye. But he did court the powerful and the famous, making friends with kings, presidents, prime ministers and actors.
        John Spyridon Latsis was born Sept. 14, 1910, in the southwestern Greek fishing village of Katakolo. He began his working life as a laborer, deckhand and ship's captain. In 1938, he bought his first freighter and he owned a fleet of ships by the 1960's.
        He then diversified into construction and the oil business, specializing in projects in the Arab world. In 1969, he established Petrola, the first export-oriented oil refinery in Greece and set up another oil refinery in Saudi Arabia.
        Next, Mr. Latsis moved into banking and finance. In 1979, he bought the Deposit Bank in Geneva from the Onassis family. In 1989 he established the Private Bank and Trust Company in London.
        In 1999 Mr. Latsis handed over management of his business interests to his son Spiro, who survives him, along with his wife, Erietta Tsoukala, and two daughters, Marianna and Margarita.
        Prince Charles, the heir to the British throne, was one of Mr. Latsis's influential friends. He lent his yacht, the Alexandros, to the prince for a second honeymoon with Diana, Princess of Wales, in 1991, and last year Prince Charles borrowed the vessel again for an Aegean cruise with his companion, Camilla Parker-Bowles.
        The Latsis yacht has also been lent to former President George Bush and his family, as well as to Colin L. Powell, now secretary of state, and to the actor Marlon Brando.
        Mr. Latsis was a close friend of many members of the Saudi royal family. But he angered some Greeks by maintaining close ties with former King Constantine, who was deposed.
        In 1991, Mr. Latsis created a political storm in Britain when it was learned he had given the Conservative Party, then in power, a gift of $3 million.
        Mr. Latsis devoted some of his fortune to philanthropy, creating the Latsis Foundation, which financed many cultural works including a Greek translation of the Koran. He also made large donations to aid earthquake victims in Greece, Egypt and Armenia.
        In 1986, Mr. Latsis sent his 20,000-ton cruise ship, Marianna 9, to the south Greek city of Kalamata to serve as a floating home for more than 900 people left homeless by an earthquake there. He also donated $1.5 million to Prince Charles's charitable foundation, the Prince's Trust.
        Mr. Latsis maintained homes in Athens, Geneva and London but was careful not to advertise his wealth. The Guardian in Britain once described his London home, Bridgewater House, not far from Buckingham Palace, as ''almost absurdly accessible and a bit scruffy.''
      