
        The Rev. Eric Butterworth, whose pulpit was in Lincoln Center and whose message of personal renewal through changes in attitude made him a popular leader in the New Age spiritual movement, died on Thursday at Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. He was 86.
        His age, typically, was the subject of one of the clever verbal turnabouts he used to inspire people to see things differently. ''My age is none of my business,'' he liked to say, to underline the futility of worrying about the natural process of aging.
        A theologian, lecturer and author, he carried the message of the Unity church, a group rooted in liberal Protestantism that looks within to find Christ. He emphasized that people could change their lives by changing their thoughts. Over more than 40 years, he attracted many thousands of New Yorkers -- including rabbis, nuns and atheists -- to his weekly optimistic lectures.
        His lectures began at Town Hall in 1961, then moved to Carnegie Hall and finally to Avery Fisher Hall at Lincoln Center, where on Easter Sunday his wife, Olga, delivered the last sermon he wrote.
        He is also survived by his sons, Tom, of New Canaan, Conn.; Alan, of St. Louis; and Charles, of Baltimore; and eight grandchildren.
        His Easter message, as usual, was that people should grasp that the image of eternal life and resurrection already exists within them.
        Fire and brimstone were decidedly not Mr. Butterworth's style. He called sin ''self-inflicted nonsense.'' Forbes magazine in 1987 summarized his message thus: ''We alone have the power within us to solve our problems, relieve our anxieties and pain, heal our illnesses, improve our golf game or get a promotion.''
        It struck a chord. For years Mr. Butterworth drew public praise from celebrities, including Norman Vincent Peale, Maya Angelou and Oprah Winfrey, who seven weeks ago included one of his books -- ''Discover the Power Within You: A Guide to the Unexplored Depths Within'' (Harper & Row, 1968) -- on her list of the ''classics'' she will recommend in a new version of her book club.
        The last of Mr. Butterworth's 16 books was ''The Creative Life: 7 Keys to Your Inner Genius'' (Putnam/Tarcher, 2001), in which he urged people to open themselves to their own creativity, partly by establishing new habits like taking a 10-minute breather in the park.
        Wilfred Eric Butterworth was born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, on Sept. 12, 1916, and grew up in Southern California. His mother was also a Unity minister, and he was raised in the philosophies called New Thought metaphysics. This movement, involving ideas dating back to Emerson, sanctions many individual approaches to spiritual awareness. More recent followers of so-called New Age religious ideas have adopted older New Thought concepts.
        Mr. Butterworth attended California State University at Fresno and graduated from Capital University in Ohio, where he studied music. He graduated from Unity's ministerial school in Kansas City. During World War II, he was a lieutenant in the Army medical corps, also serving as a chaplain.
        In 1945, he became assistant minister of the Unity Temple in Kansas City, and two years later was pastor of a Unity congregation in Rockford, Ill. He then was a minister in Pittsburgh and Detroit, drawing 2,000 people to weekly services.
        He then moved to New York, where he did daily radio broadcasts in addition to his weekly lectures.
        To his large and varied audience, Mr. Butterworth was perhaps best known for his pithy, encouraging aphorisms. A standard: ''Attitudes are the forerunners of conditions.''
        Correction:  April 24, 2003, Thursday  An obituary of the popular New York preacher and theologian Eric Butterworth on Tuesday referred incorrectly to Oprah Winfrey's recommondation of his book ''Discover the Power Within You.'' Although she has recommended the book in the past, it will not be on a new version of her book list later this year, which will include only new fiction.
      