
        Norbert Anthony Schlei, a legal adviser in the Kennedy and Johnson White House who played major roles in the Cuban missile crisis and civil rights legislation, died on Thursday in Los Angeles. He was 73 and lived and practiced law in Santa Monica, Calif.
        The cause was complications of a heart attack, said his wife, Joan.
        Mr. Schlei was an assistant attorney general and chief of the Justice Department's Office of General Counsel from 1962 to 1966. He coordinated the legal groundwork for the Civil Rights Act and the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, and the Voting Rights Act and the Immigration Reform Act passed the next year.
        He also provided the legal underpinnings for President John F. Kennedy's order for a naval quarantine of Cuba after the discovery of Soviet missile deployment on the island.
        After leaving the federal government, Mr. Schlei ran for California secretary of state in 1966, but was buried in Ronald Reagan's landslide election as governor.
        But his legal career prospered, with lucrative clients like the Howard R. Hughes interests and Atlantic Richfield, and high-visibility ones like Egil Krogh Jr., an aide implicated in the Nixon White House scandals. His law practice branched into corporate dealings in land development and other businesses reaching into Hawaii, Asia and Europe.
        His fortunes turned in the 1990's with what he said was his offer to help Japanese clients redeem securities issued by their government in 1983. Federal prosecutors in Florida charged him with being an accessory to a billion-dollar scheme involving bogus bonds, and a jury in Tampa convicted him in 1995 of securities fraud and conspiracy. The judge sentenced him to five years in prison, but a federal appeals court vacated most of that judgment.
        Mr. Schlei denied all wrongdoing and was allowed to negotiate a settlement that reduced his offense to a misdemeanor and let him return to law practice.
        Mr. Schlei was born in Dayton, Ohio, and worked his way through Ohio State University, where he earned three varsity letters and a commission as a Navy ensign and graduated with honors in 1950. After military service, he received his law degree at Yale magna cum laude in 1956.
        He clerked for Justice John Marshall Harlan of the Supreme Court, in 1956 and 1957 and then practiced law in Los Angeles. In 1962, Kennedy chose him to become an assistant attorney general and put him in charge of the Office of the General Counsel.
        Mr. Schlei was considered one of the department's foremost intellects. He formulated the ''quarantine'' concept in the Cuban crisis and was a principal author of civil rights initiatives pushed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson and immigration reforms that abolished the nation-of-origin quota system.
        Twice divorced, Mr. Schlei is survived by his third wife, Joan Masson Schlei; three daughters, Kit Buczynski of Richmond, Mich., and Blake L. Schlei and Elizabeth Eldridge of Malibu, Calif.; three sons, William K., of Aix-en-Provence, France, Andrew M., of Los Angeles, and Bradford L., of Santa Monica; a brother, David, of Port Charlotte, Fla.; and four grandchildren.
        Mr. Schlei had barely set foot in the Justice Department when he was sent to Oxford, Miss., to overcome the University of Mississippi's refusal to enroll James H. Meredith, a black student. He advised President Kennedy on sending federal troops to disperse a mob and get Mr. Meredith admitted.
      