
        Bertram Ross, a leading member of the Martha Graham Dance Company for two decades and Graham's longtime dance partner, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 82 and lived in Manhattan.
        He had been suffering from Parkinson's syndrome for some years, but the immediate cause of death was pneumonia, said John Wallowitch, his partner of 34 years.
        Mr. Ross was considered one of America's most distinguished dancers. He was probably best known as the craggily handsome originator of roles in most of Graham's major works in the 1950's and 60's, among them St. Michael in ''Seraphic Dialogue,'' Agamemnon and Orestes in ''Clytemnestra,'' and Adam in ''Embattled Garden.'' He danced in the premieres of ''Canticle for Innocent Comedians'' and ''Acrobats of God.''
        He was often praised for his power, dignity and a theatrical expressiveness that never overwhelmed his characters. His aim as a performer, he once told Helen McGehee, a fellow Graham dancer, was simply to break everyone's heart.
        Mr. Ross was also a wickedly funny mimic, and his sly humor surfaced in comic, poignant solos he created for himself in the 1980's and that used words and movement to portray characters like Uncle Vanya, Stephen Foster and Raymond Duncan, Isadora Duncan's eccentric brother. He also had notable careers as a teacher, choreographer and cabaret singer.
        Mr. Ross was born in Brooklyn and first studied painting at the Art Students League. But he said that seeing performances by the Graham company made him dream of dancing. His father disapproved, and it took psychoanalysis to give him the courage to enroll, albeit nervously, in the Graham school.
        He joined the company in 1949 and first partnered Graham in 1953, playing Oedipus in ''Night Journey.'' He was named co-director of the company in 1966, serving first with Robert Cohan and later with Mary Hinkson, who were also both veteran dancers. Mr. Ross and Ms. Hinkson are widely credited with keeping the company and school going when Graham was seriously ill. But they resigned after Graham returned with a new young director, Ronald Protas, who soon became involved in artistic decisions. Mr. Ross left the company in 1973.
        Mr. Ross made his debut as a singer in 1975. He and Mr. Wallowitch, a prolific songwriter, pianist and popular cabaret performer, began a well-received act together in 1984 at the Ballroom in New York. The two performed in London and other American cities, and appeared at Danny's Skylight Room in Manhattan as recently as November.
        Mr. Ross choreographed for his own and other modern-dance companies. He also taught for many years at the Graham Center, the Mary Anthony Studio, Juilliard and New York University. He reconstructed several Graham dances in 1968 and coached the company for a one-night gala at City Center last year.
        He also created the dances for Gary Bonasorte's 1989 Broadway play, ''The Aunt,'' and played several lead roles in Amy Greenfield's 1990 film, ''Antigone.'' He and Mr. Wallowitch are the subjects of ''This Moment,'' a 1998 film documentary, and they performed together recently in a CD called ''Wallowitch & Ross.''
        In addition to Mr. Wallowitch, Mr. Ross is survived by a brother, David Prensky, of Palm Beach, Fla.
        Correction:  April 29, 2003, Tuesday  An obituary on Thursday about Bertram Ross, a longtime leading member of the Martha Graham Dance Company, misstated the length of his relationship with his surviving companion, John Wallowitch. It was 36 years, not 34.
      