
        Robert Blackburn, an artist who founded the influential Printmaking Workshop in New York, died on Monday at the Village Nursing Home in Manhattan. He was 82.
        Mr. Blackburn, whose parents were from Jamaica, grew up in Harlem during the Depression. He was introduced to printmaking in 1938 at the Harlem Community Art Center, which operated through the federal Works Progress Administration. His teachers and colleagues included Charles Alston, Romare Bearden, Jacob Lawrence and Augusta Savage. At the Art Students League in 1941 he studied lithography with Will Barnet, who confirmed his conviction that printmaking, though then out of fashion, was a primary art form worth focusing on as a career.
        In 1948 Mr. Blackburn established an early version of the Printmaking Workshop in his studio in the Chelsea section of Manhattan, organizing it as an informal cooperative where he and friends experimented with innovative lithographic techniques. He supported himself with teaching and printing jobs, spent a year and a half in Europe on a fellowship beginning in 1953, and in 1957 became the first master printer at Universal Limited Art Editions on Long Island.
        There he printed for an emerging generation of artists that included Larry Rivers, Helen Frankenthaler, Jasper Johns and Robert Rauschenberg. Many of those artists were coming to printmaking for the first time. Although Mr. Blackburn developed a reputation as a foremost American art lithographer, he left that job in 1963 to devote his energy to his own art, which had gradually shifted from figurative work to a highly colored abstraction, and to administering the Printmaking Workshop.
        The workshop, which existed for more than a half-century, assumed a catalytic role in the ''print boom'' of the 1960's, but never lost its communal flavor. There, for a nominal fee, anyone could walk in and use the presses, inks and papers. Mr. Blackburn and a series of assistants instructed fledgling printmakers in basic techniques and worked with experienced artists on complicated projects.
        From the beginning, Mr. Blackburn, who was African-American, intended to attract an interracial clientele to the workshop. Participants included Benny Andrews, Nell Blaine, Mel Edwards, Michi Itami, Lucio Pozzi, Faith Ringgold, Betye Saar, Juan Sanchez, Michelle Stuart, Ursula von Rydingsvard, Kay WalkingStick and William T. Williams.
        Mr. Blackburn taught at Brooklyn College, Cooper Union, New York University, the School of Visual Arts and at Columbia University, where he was on the faculty from 1970 to 1990. He received a John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation Fellowship in 1992 and a Lee Krasner Award from the Pollock-Krasner Foundation in 2000.
        The Printmaking Workshop became a nonprofit organization in 1971. But because of rising costs and Mr. Blackburn's temperamental indifference to financial matters, its existence was always precarious, and it had to move from West 17th Street to smaller quarters nearby. In 2001 Mr. Blackburn asked the Elizabeth Foundation for the Arts, a nonprofit based in Manhattan, to help provide a home for the workshop.
        ''Bob Blackburn was a lilies-of-the-fields man,'' said Jane Stephenson, executive director of the Elizabeth Foundation. ''If an artist needed money, he'd just give it to him.'' The foundation has a fund-raising campaign to permanently establish the Robert Blackburn Printmaking Workshop in the foundation's quarters at West 39th Street in Manhattan, and to acquire the workshop's archives of more than 12,000 prints, as well as Mr. Blackburn's papers, for the Library of Congress.
        Mr. Blackburn is survived by a sister, Gertrude Moore, of New York.
      