
        Dr. Charles Alderson Janeway Jr., a renowned immunobiologist at the Yale medical school often referred to as the father of the understanding of innate immunity, the human body's first line of defense against infection, died on April 12 at his home in New Haven. He was 60.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Dr. H. Kim Bottomly, also a professor of immunobiology at Yale.
        In 1989, in his opening lecture at the annual Cold Spring Harbor symposium on quantitative biology, Dr. Janeway made a groundbreaking presentation that helped give birth to the field of innate immunity. Although based entirely on theory, his speech accurately predicted the existence of special receptors on immune cells that trigger the body's response to infection by disease-causing organisms called pathogens.
        At the time, Dr. Janeway explained that T cells, which protect against pathogens, forming the body's adaptive immune response, must first be instructed to mount their defensive attack by the activation of specific receptors on immune cells that line the body's surface and recognize foreign microorganisms.
        Less than 10 years later, Dr. Janeway and a colleague, Dr. Ruslan Medzhitov, identified a toll-like receptor as the crucial component of innate immunity that orchestrates the series of responses intended to fight infection.
        They pointed out that a closely related receptor also exists in a wide range of other animals, plants and invertebrates, suggesting that innate immunity is an ancient system of natural defense common among a variety of multicellular organisms.
        ''Before this time, very little emphasis was placed on the immediate events that take place when a person is infected,'' said Dr. Richard Flavell, chairman of the immunobiology section at the Yale medical school. ''His discovery changed that and was even more remarkable because he predicted it years earlier.''
        Later in his career, Dr. Janeway worked on understanding the pathology behind autoimmune diseases, such as what causes lymphocytes to attack pancreatic cells in diabetes.
        Born in Boston in 1943, Charles Alderson Janeway earned his undergraduate and medical degrees from Harvard. He joined a long line of doctors in the Janeway family, including his grandfather, Theodore C. Janeway, who was the first full-time professor of medicine at the Johns Hopkins medical school.
        After several years of conducting immunology research at places like Uppsala University in Sweden, Cambridge University in England, and the National Institutes of Health, Dr. Janeway joined Yale's faculty in 1977. He became a professor of pathology in 1983, and five years later helped found the immunobiology section.
        Dr. Janeway wrote the leading textbook on immunology, ''Immunobiology: The Immune System in Health and Disease,'' now in its fifth edition. He also published more than 300 scientific papers.
        He was president of the American Association of Immunologists from 1997 to 1998 and won numerous awards, including the American Association of Immunologists Lifetime Achievement Award in 2001.
        In addition to his wife of 25 years, Dr. Janeway is survived by three daughters: Katherine, of Cambridge, Mass.; Hannah and Megan, both of New Haven; three sisters, Anne of Marlboro, Vt.; Elizabeth J. Gold of Toronto; and Barbara of Newfields, N.H.; three nephews and a niece; and a grandnephew and a grandniece.
      