
        Dr. Robert W. Wilkins, a researcher who helped establish the dangers of high blood pressure and introduced some of the first drug therapies to treat it, died at his home in Newburyport, Mass., on April 9. He was 96.
        Dr. Wilkins, who received the prestigious Albert Lasker Award in 1958 for his research, began his career at a time when high blood pressure was actually considered to be beneficial. It was thought that the condition was necessary to force blood through narrowed arteries, and that lowering blood pressure could result in a patient's death.
        Working at the Boston University School of Medicine, Dr. Wilkins began testing the extract of a plant called rauwolfia -- an ancient herbal treatment that doctors in India claimed could lower blood pressure -- as a treatment for hypertension. He published his positive findings in The New England Journal of Medicine in 1953.
        Four years later, he demonstrated the effectiveness of a new diuretic drug, chlorothiazide, in reducing high blood pressure. Diuretics are still one of the basic medications used to treat the condition.
        Also during the decade, Dr. Wilkins introduced the ''step care'' approach to lowering blood pressure, a method that employs a graduated combination of different classes of drugs. It, too, remains a standard treatment.
        As president of the American Heart Association in 1957 and 1958, he helped increase public attention to the dangers of hypertension during the decade when the mortality rate from coronary disease was at its peak.
        Robert Wallace Wilkins was born in Chattanooga, Tenn., in 1906. A graduate of the University of North Carolina, he received his medical degree from Harvard in 1933. He joined the faculty of Boston University's medical school in 1940 and served as the chairman of its department of medicine from 1960 until his retirement in 1972.
        Dr. Wilkins also contributed to the military effort during World War II, developing one of the first ''G-suits'' for use by fighter pilots. Designed to prevent pilots from blacking out under the increased force of gravity during combat maneuvers, the suits applied a tight grip around the legs to increase blood flow to the brain. He was honored by the Navy and the War Department in 1947 for outstanding contributions to the Office of Scientific Research and Development.
        Dr. Wilkins's wife, Margaret, died in 2000. He is survived by three children: Margaret Noel of Portland, Ore.; Mary Haslinger of Bloomfield, Conn., and Newburyport; and Robert Jr., of Yarmouthport, Mass.; a sister, Kate Woolley, of Baton Rouge, La.; and six grandchildren.
      