
        Ray Hicks, who lived on a remote mountain and became famous among folklorists by telling stories older than America about ghosts, witches and a trickster named Jack, died last Sunday at a nursing home in Boone, N.C. He was 80.
        The cause was prostate cancer, his wife, Rosa, said.
        Mr. Hicks spoke in a dialect scholars describe as Elizabethan, even Chaucerian. Yarns with roots in myths that gave rise to European fairy tales tumbled from his tongue. They had been passed seemingly intact through eight generations of his family, among the first white people in their nook of Appalachia.
        Mr. Hicks became perhaps the best-known traditional storyteller in the United States, said Jimmy Neil Smith, president of the International Story Center in Jonesborough, Tenn., where Mr. Hicks appeared yearly.
        In 1973 he was the first storyteller invited to the first National Storytelling Festival, which claimed the title because it seemed to be the only one. He was the only performer invited every year to the Jonesborough event. More than 200 such events are now held every year.
        Mr. Hicks would have been better known had he accepted invitations to appear on ''Tonight'' and other television shows, but he declined because ''I see'd what money done to others,'' he said in a 2001 interview with Carolinas magazine. He did spend a week in Washington in 1983 to receive a National Heritage Fellowship award from the National Endowment for the Arts. He claimed to have spent a day and a half walking in circles in the first revolving door he ever came across. ''We was glad to get home,'' Mrs. Hicks recalled.
        Home was the ramshackle wood-frame house Mr. Hicks's father built about 4,000 feet up Beech Mountain, near the Tennessee border in the high country of North Carolina.
        There is a rusting mailbox, an old car disintegrating in the weeds, rows of potato plants, vivid wildflowers and a fine view from the outhouse. Most important, there is a porch -- with a spittoon -- where stories can be spun. Streams of folklorists, filmmakers, students and professors went there to listen.
        Lenard Ray Hicks was born in the house on Aug. 29, 1922. His parents were subsistence farmers, and he was the only one of 10 children to pick up what he called ''the gift'' of telling the old stories in the ancient locution.
        His teacher was his paternal grandfather, John Benjamin Hicks. The stories had earlier come through Constance Harmon, Mrs. Hicks's great-great-grandfather and perhaps a distant relative of Mr. Hicks as well. The overall tradition began with English and Scotch-Irish pioneers, including some who arrived before the Revolution.
        Mr. Hicks was most renowned for his ''Jack Tales.'' These concern a poor mountain boy, an American cousin of the farm boy in ''Jack and the Beanstalk'' and ''Jack the Giant Killer.'' Jack outwits thieves, witches and ogres.
        Mr. Hicks's son Ted, who lives in the family house, is the only one of his five children who has learned the old stories. Other survivors are his son Leonard Monroe Hicks of Piney Flats, Tenn.; his daughters Dorothy Jean Odum of Gap Creek, Tenn.; Kathy Rose Tribble of Stoney Creek, Tenn.; and Juanita Elizabeth Simerly of Simerly Creek, Tenn.; and four grandchildren.
      