
        Mike Larrabee, who overcame injury and illness to become a double gold medalist in track at the 1964 Tokyo Olympics, when he was six weeks away from his 31st birthday, died last Tuesday at his home in Santa Maria, Calif. He was 69.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        At an age when many world-class track athletes savor triumphs of years past, Larrabee won the 400 meters in Tokyo and two days later ran on the United States squad that captured the 1,600-meter relay in world-record time.
        While at the University of Southern California, Larrabee had the flu when he ran the 400 in the 1956 Olympic trials, and he finished eighth. Running for the Southern California Striders club, he incurred a severe hamstring injury in 1957. Early in 1960, he ruptured an Achilles' tendon.
        In the spring of 1964, Larrabee was teaching math at a Los Angeles-area high school and hoping for another chance at the Olympics. While practicing karate with a student, he caught a blow that inflamed his pancreas.
        ''It was a blessing in disguise,'' Larrabee recalled after winning a gold medal. ''I had to tailor my eating.''
        Taking small amounts of food every few hours instead of regular meals, he felt better than ever. He won the 400 meters at the second of two 1964 Olympic trials in 44.9 seconds, equaling the world record.
        Larrabee had extra incentive when he lined up for the 400-meter race in Tokyo on Oct. 19, 1964, before 72,000 spectators.
        While on a track tour the previous summer, he overslept one morning in Warsaw, arrived at the stadium too late to warm up and was beaten in the 400 meters by Andrzej Badenski of Poland and Robbie Ian Brightwell of Britain. Brightwell was later quoted in a British paper as saying, ''I'm not afraid of Larrabee and I'll beat him in Tokyo where it counts.''
        Larrabee brought a clipping of the article to Tokyo and posted it at his room in the Olympic village.
        In the 400 meters, Larrabee overtook Wendell Mottley, a Yale graduate running for Trinidad and Tobago, winning by a tenth of a second in 45.1 seconds. Badenski was third and Brightwell finished fourth.
        ''Now I can throw that little piece of paper away,'' Larrabee said of Brightwell's bravado.
        Larrabee ran the second leg in the 1,600-meter relay on a squad with Ollan Cassell, Ulis Williams and Henry Carr that won in a world-record time of 3 minutes and seven-tenths of a second.
        Larrabee continued teaching in high school until 1968, when he joined his family's beer distributorship in Santa Maria.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret; a son, Michael, of Santa Maria; two daughters, Tracy Larrabee, of Santa Cruz, Calif., and Lisa Duncan, of Ojai, Calif.; a brother, Terry, of Santa Ynez, Calif.; a sister, Bonnie Willoughby, of Nipomo, Calif.; and three grandchildren.
        ''I never expected to run as long as I did,'' Larrabee told The Los Angeles Times in 1989. ''It just kind of happened. I always took it meet by meet and year by year.''
        When he triumphed at the Olympics, Larrabee kept his feet planted in his everyday world. He was asked in Tokyo if he had an Olympian message for his high school students. ''Yes,'' he said. ''Tell them I'll give them a test as soon as I get back.''
      