
        David Sievert Lavender, a Colorado rancher and miner who turned to writing 60 years ago and became one of the most prolific chroniclers of the American West, died on Saturday at his home in Ojai, Calif. He was 93.
        Mr. Lavender's first book was ''One Man's West'' (Doubleday, 1943), his own story as a rancher lured by the gold mines, and a prologue to his career.
        Until last year there were new titles and reissues, including ''Desoto, Coronado, Cabrillo'' (1992), ''Mother Earth, Father Sky: The Pueblo Indians of the American Southwest'' (1998), ''Snowbound: The Tragic Story of the Donner Party'' (1996), ''Let Me Be Free: The Nez Perce Tragedy'' (1999), ''The Way to the Western Sea: Lewis and Clark Across the Continent'' (2001) and ''Overland Migrations: Settlers to Oregon, California and Utah'' (2002).
        Mr. Lavender published nearly 40 books in all, including a handful for young readers, like ''Mike Maroney, Raider'' (1946), ''The Trail to Santa Fe'' (1958) and ''The Story of California'' (1969). About half of them remain in print.
        David Lavender was born in Telluride, Colo., and graduated from Princeton in 1931. He briefly attended Stanford Law School.
        The Depression prompted his adoptive father, Edgar Lavender, a stage line operator and rancher, to call David back to help salvage the ranching operation he had built near the Utah-Colorado border.
        Young David turned cowboy, but, newly wed and with a son to feed, he soon had to consider ''the vast affluence of five dollars a day in the gold mines.'' Still, with his stepfather's death in 1934, he lived on the remnant of his sizable cattle ranch until the bank repossessed it a year later.
        Mr. Lavender moved to Denver and worked for an advertising agency. He also started writing fiction for popular pulp magazines and for juvenile publications like Boys' Life.
        He moved to Ojai in 1939. His breakthrough came when The Saturday Evening Post bought three of his stories, and he went on to contribute to many other publications.
        From 1943 to 1970 he was on the faculty of the Thacher School, a preparatory boarding school in Ojai. After that he taught advanced-placement classes part time.
        He traveled widely in the West to research his subjects. He received two Guggenheim fellowships to study the fur trade and four medals from the Commonwealth Club of California for his histories of Colorado, the Pacific Northwest, early San Francisco, and the Lewis and Clark expedition.
        Mr. Lavender, who was widowed twice, is survived by his third wife, Muriel; a son, David G., also of Ojai; and five grandchildren.
      