
        Michael Wayne, the eldest son of the actor John Wayne and the producer of many of his father's films, died on Wednesday in Burbank, Calif. He was 68.
        The cause was heart failure after complications from lupus, said his publicist, Warren Cowan.
        Beginning with ''The Alamo'' in 1960, Mr. Wayne became involved in the growing Wayne family film enterprise. ''The Alamo'' was produced by John Wayne's Batjac Productions. John Wayne also directed the film and starred as Davy Crockett. Patrick Wayne, the younger brother of Michael Wayne who had already appeared in many of their father's films, played Capt. James Butler Bonham. Michael Wayne was associate producer.
        During the next 15 years Michael Wayne regularly produced his father's films, including ''McLintock!'' (1963), ''The Green Berets'' (1968), ''Big Jake'' (1971), ''Cahill U.S. Marshal'' (1973) and ''Brannigan'' (1975). John Wayne died in 1979.
        Born Michael Anthony Morrison in 1934 in Los Angeles (his father's given name was Marion Robert Morrison), Mr. Wayne became president of Batjac after his father's death. He was president of the John Wayne Foundation and chairman of the John Wayne Cancer Institute at St. John's Health Center in Santa Monica, Calif.
        Mr. Wayne graduated from the Loyola University of California in Los Angeles (now Loyola Marymount University), and served in the United States Air Force.
        He is survived by his wife, Gretchen; his mother, Josephine Wayne Nigg, of San Antonio; two brothers, Patrick and Ethan; three sisters, Melinda Wayne, Aissa Wayne and Marisa Wayne; five children, Alicia Wayne McFarlane, Teresa Wayne, Maria Wayne King, Josephine Wayne and Christopher Wayne; and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 19, 2003, Saturday  An obituary on April 4 about Michael Wayne, a son of John Wayne and the producer of several of his father's movies, misstated the middle name given to John Wayne at birth. He was Marion Michael Morrison, not Marion Robert.
      