
        M. Anthony Fisher, a senior partner at Fisher Brothers, one of the most prominent real estate firms in the city, died yesterday in a plane crash in Massachusetts that killed six of the seven people on board. He was 52.
        His wife, Anne Fisher, 41, the pilot and the copilot were also killed in the crash, which injured one of the Fishers' five young children, Tora, 13.
        Mr. Fisher was in charge of leasing and acquisitions at Fisher Brothers, a real estate dynasty that helped reshape the city's skyline. He worked mainly on financial acquisitions and was a general partner of FdG Associates, a $200 million buyout fund he established.
        The Fishers were on their way to visit Cushing Academy in Ashburnham, Mass., where Mr. Fisher was a trustee for 30 years and the president of the board for 16 years. Tora was hoping to attend the school, said Mr. Fisher's brother, Richard.
        Mr. Fisher, who was known as Tony, was also the chairman and chief executive officer of the Intrepid Museum Foundation, which operates the docked aircraft carrier Intrepid. The museum will be closed on Monday and Tuesday in his memory.
        Mr. Fisher was also a leader in a number of other nonprofit organizations, including the Fisher House Foundation, which provides homes where the families of injured military personnel may stay while their loved ones recover, and the Armed Forces Foundation, which provides college scholarships to military dependents.
        Martin Anthony Fisher was born on Jan. 20, 1951, in New York City. He graduated from Cushing Academy and Bentley College in Boston and did postgraduate work in finance at Fordham University. He spent his entire career at Fisher Brothers, Richard Fisher said.
        In addition to his daughter Tora and brother, Richard, he is survived by his mother, Emily Fisher Landau of Manhattan; another daughter, Miasha, and three sons, William, Noah and Cole, all of Manhattan; and a sister, Candia, of Greenwich, Conn.
        Correction:  April 8, 2003, Tuesday  An obituary on Sunday and in some late editions on Saturday about M. Anthony Fisher, a senior partner at the Fisher Brothers real estate firm in New York City, omitted two survivors. They are his brother Lester Fisher of Purchase, N.Y., and his sister Irma Fisher Mann of Boston.
      