
        Fred J. Cook, a freelance investigative reporter who wrote exposés of the F.B.I., the C.I.A. and American corporations and who was involved in a landmark Supreme Court case affirming the regulation that broadcasters must serve the public interest, died on April 4 at his home in Interlaken, N.J. He was 92.
        As a frequent contributor to The Nation, Mr. Cook wrote a series of articles in 1958 alleging abuses by the F.B.I., which he expanded into the book ''The F.B.I. Nobody Knows,'' published in 1964. Other collections based on his articles from The Nation were ''The Warfare State'' (1962), about the military-industrial complex, ''The Great Energy Scam'' (1983), about oil companies, and ''The Secret Rulers'' (1966), about organized crime.
        He also criticized the Warren Commission's conclusion that Lee Harvey Oswald had acted alone to assassinate President John F. Kennedy, and he argued that Alger Hiss had been unjustly accused of spying for the Russians.
        Mr. Cook wrote extensively about crime, poverty and urban ills for The New York Times Magazine and the Book Review. Earlier in his career, he was a reporter for The Asbury Park Press and The New York World-Telegram.
        It was one of his 45 books, ''Goldwater: Extremist on the Right,'' that led to the Supreme Court decision in what is known as the Red Lion case. After the book appeared in 1964, Mr. Cook was attacked by Billy James Hargis on his daily ''Christian Crusade'' radio broadcast.
        Mr. Cook claimed that he had been maligned, and argued that the F.C.C.'s ''fairness doctrine'' entitled him to free air time to respond to the allegations. WGCB in Red Lion, Pa., one of the stations that would have had to provide that time, then sued the F.C.C., arguing that the fairness doctrine violated its First Amendment rights.
        The Supreme Court ruled unanimously in 1969 that the fairness doctrine was constitutional, reasoning that the public's right to know the full range of views on important issues superseded a broadcaster's right to free speech.
        Six years later, Fred W. Friendly, the former president of CBS News and a professor at Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism, charged that Mr. Cook's action against broadcasters had been orchestrated by the Democratic National Committee and the Johnson administration to silence political opponents. Mr. Cook denied the accusation, maintaining that he had acted on his own.
        Fred James Cook was born in Point Pleasant, N.J., in 1911. He graduated from Rutgers University in 1932.
        His first wife, Julia, died in 1974 of a cerebral hemorrhage caused by an anticoagulant she was taking after heart surgery; Mr. Cook wrote about it in ''Julia's Story: The Tragedy of an Unnecessary Death.''
        Mr. Cook's second wife, Irene, died in 1992. He is survived by a son, Frederick P. Cook of Blairstown, N.J.; a daughter, Barbara Shibla of Ortley Beach, N.J.; and six grandchildren.
      