
        Christopher Fairfield Edley, president emeritus of the United Negro College Fund, who built upon its slogan, ''A mind is a terrible thing to waste,'' to raise more than $700 million to help aspiring students, died on Monday at his home in New Rochelle, N.Y. He was 75.
        The apparent cause was a heart attack, said his son, Christopher Jr., a Harvard law professor and a member of the United States Commission on Civil Rights.
        A Harvard-trained lawyer himself, the senior Mr. Edley rose to prominence as a prosecutor, law partner and civil rights lawyer in Philadelphia; an official in the Kennedy administration; and a program officer at the Ford Foundation. In 1973, he succeeded Vernon E. Jordan as president of the United Negro College Fund, which registered about $10 million in donations that year. It was created in 1944 to assist historically black institutions and students headed for them.
        Mr. Edley took office the year after the Advertising Council, a public service organization, coined the phrase that became the fund's durable signature. He used it to broaden the fund's influence through widely known advertising campaigns. He also set up a government affairs unit as a lobby for the fund's member colleges and universities.
        In 1979, he started the fund's annual telethon for education on national television, with the singer Lou Rawls as host. The telethon has raised more than $100 million.
        He also mounted two successful fund-raising campaigns. By 1991, when the fund's current president, William H. Gray III, succeeded him, Mr. Edley had overseen the flow of more than $550 million in direct aid to 41 private black colleges and universities and a thousand individual scholarships a year.
        The fund's biggest donation, a $50 million challenge grant, came in 1990 from Walter H. Annenberg, the publishing magnate, whom Mr. Edley had approached for a $20 million contribution. According to ''Legacy,'' a biography of Mr. Annenberg and his father, Moses, by Christopher Ogden, Mr. Annenberg told Mr. Edley that was ''too small -- we need a crusade.''
        Mr. Edley accepted the larger amount at a ceremony attended by President George Bush.
        Christopher Edley was born on Jan. 1, 1928, in Charleston, W.Va. His father, a cabinetmaker, and his mother were divorced, and she supported him as a domestic worker and a housekeeper at Randolph-Macon Women's College in Lynchburg, Va. He graduated magna cum laude from Howard University in 1949. He was among two or three black students at Harvard Law School when he received his law degree in 1953.
        After studying the demographics of American cities, he picked Philadelphia as a good place for a young African-American lawyer to start. In three years he became appeals chief in the district attorney's office. Then, as a law partner in the firm of Moore, Lightfoot & Edley, he was active on Philadelphia's Human Rights Commission.
        He worked for the United States Commission on Civil Rights and a predecessor of the federal Department of Housing and Urban Development before joining the Ford Foundation in 1963; he was its first black program officer. For the next 10 years he dealt with foundation support for public interest programs and racial justice and related civil rights matters at home and abroad.
        In addition to his son, Mr. Edley is survived by his wife of 52 years, Zaida Coles Edley; a daughter, Judith C. Edley of Hartford; a sister, Joyce Dean of Lynchburg; and three grandchildren.
      