
        George Kozmetsky, co-founder of the conglomerate Teledyne and a lifelong educator who used his work and philanthropy to bring industry and academia closer together, died last Wednesday in Austin, Tex. He was 85.
        The cause was a heart attack, his son, Gregory, said.
        Over the course of his life, Dr. Kozmetsky repeatedly moved between boardrooms and business schools. Known for 18-hour workdays that began at 4 a.m., Dr. Kozmetsky was active to the end, his son said, meeting with representatives from Mexico's government on the Friday before he died and holding conference calls from his apartment over the following few days.
        Teledyne, his best-known business venture, was started in 1960 as a $550,000 joint investment with Henry E. Singleton, a colleague from Litton Industries, then a small electronics company. With Dr. Kozmetsky as executive vice president, Teledyne grew into a conglomerate of some 130 companies, making everything from stereo speakers to airplane parts.
        After six years at Teledyne, Dr. Kozmetsky left to become dean of the business school at the University of Texas at Austin, a position he held for 16 years.
        His move from Teledyne to Texas, he said at the time, reflected his lifelong philosophy that the academic and business worlds needed to work in better concert. He envisioned ''a cross-breeding of engineering and the humanities to bring about the complete man -- the so-called Renaissance man that was the strength of the 16th century,'' he said in an interview.
        At about the same time, he and his wife, Ronya, established the RGK Foundation, which now has assets of about $103 million and has awarded $20 million over the last three years.
        Last month, the couple donated $6 million to set up a technology alliance between the University of Texas and Stanford University.
        Born in Seattle to Russian immigrant parents, Dr. Kozmetsky graduated from the University of Washington at the age of 20 and subsequently served in the Army Medical Corps during World War II. He then earned an M.B.A. and doctorate in commercial science from Harvard. His academic career included teaching positions at Harvard University and Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh.
        In 1952, he joined the Hughes Aircraft Company, where he spent three years before moving to Litton.
        At the University of Texas he also served as the executive associate for economic affairs. In 1977, Dr. Kozmetsky founded the IC2  Institute, a center for technology entrepreneurship and research.
        Over the years, more than 100 technology companies received Dr. Kozmetsky's assistance in their development, and he served on the boards of Dell, Gulf, Heizer and La Quinta, among others.
        In 1993, he was awarded the National Medal of Technology by President Bill Clinton.
        In addition to his son, Gregory, of Austin, and his wife of 59 years, Ronya, Dr. Kozmetsky is survived by his daughter, Nadya Scott of Santa Monica, Calif.; seven grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren. Another son, George, died in 1972.
        Gregory Kozmetsky said of his father: ''I think my dad always felt that, first and foremost, he was a teacher, and his legacy is his students across the world.''
        He added that his father would want those students to appreciate the connections between business and academia, technology and philanthropy. ''Everybody that he met automatically got his respect, and they had to work to lose it,'' Mr. Kozmetsky said. ''He honestly felt that the world could be a much better place if everybody could work together and listen.''
        Correction:  May 8, 2003, Thursday  An obituary headline yesterday about George Kozmetsky, co-founder of the Teledyne conglomerate, misstated his age. He was 85, not 89.
      