
        Olivier Long, a Swiss diplomat who helped keep the Western world moving toward freer trade in the 1970's despite protectionist pressures brought on by soaring oil prices, inflation and recession, died on March 19 in Geneva, according to the Web site of the World Trade Organization. He was 87.
        As director general of the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade from 1968 to 1980, Mr. Long helped to bring about the largest reductions in tariffs since World War II. GATT, an organization based in Geneva, was created in 1948 to oversee international trade.
        Mr. Long was the second director general of GATT, taking over from Eric Wyndham White, who had run the organization for the first 20 years of its existence. At first he was reluctant to take the job, since doing so meant giving up his post as Switzerland's ambassador to Britain and Malta, which he had accepted in 1967.
        Representatives of the leading industrial nations met at a 1973 summit meeting in Tokyo, setting off a six-year free-trade effort that became known as the Tokyo Round. These were difficult years for proponents of free trade. When oil prices quadrupled at the end of 1973 -- a consequence of actions by the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries -- the twin shocks of recession and inflation rippled through the world economy. National currencies became exceptionally unstable.
        Industries everywhere pleaded with their governments for protection against foreign competitors. Yet Mr. Long managed to hold the world's democratic industrial governments, as well as some 20 developing countries, to the free trade commitments they had made at the start of negotiations.
        Not only did many tariffs drop, the Tokyo Round also represented the most comprehensive effort until then to eliminate or control other sorts of trade barriers, like quotas and export subsidies.
        In 1995, at the conclusion of another trade-liberalizing exercise known as the Uruguay Round, GATT's role in governing world commerce was assumed by the World Trade Organization, a new and more powerful institution.
        Olivier Long was born at Petit-Veyrier, Switzerland, near Geneva, on Oct. 11, 1915. He was educated at the University of Paris and the University of Geneva, where he completed his doctorate in law. After military service in 1939-43, he joined the International Red Cross and traveled across wartime Europe, negotiating prisoner-of-war exchanges. After the war, he joined the Swiss federal government, and after service in Washington he began to work on trade issues.
        He had close personal ties with many leading French politicians, and as a result became an intermediary between Charles de Gaulle's government in Paris and the Algerian National Liberation Front. He helped set up the talks that led to the Evian agreements of 1962, which ended the Algerian war.
        Mr. Long returned to commercial diplomacy, playing a prominent role in negotiations that led to creation of the European Free Trade Association, a trading bloc set up in 1959 by seven European countries that did not wish to join the six-nation European Community, or Common Market.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Francine Roels, whom he married in 1946, and by two daughters and a son.
      