
        Geoffrey Bardon, the painter and teacher credited with inspiring Australian aborigines to depict their ancient culture in ways that could be shown and sold to the world, died Tuesday in Taree, a coastal town 235 miles north of here where he lived. He was 63.
        Family members said he had suffered from cancer for six months.
        Mr. Bardon encouraged tribal artists of the desert peoples of central Australia to transfer their vivid images of ancestral times from sand and rock drawings and body decoration to paintings in acrylics on hardboard and canvas, thus making them permanent and portable.
        This collaboration in the 1970's in Papunya, a remote settlement of 1,400 dispossessed aborigines, was the catalyst for the evolution of a thriving, Australia-wide indigenous art movement. The art has won international recognition and now commands high prices from leading galleries and private collectors and investors, many of them in the United States.
        When Mr. Bardon, a 30-year-old artist and elementary school teacher, was assigned in 1970 to Papunya, a government barracks for blacks 150 miles west of the railhead of Alice Springs in central Australia, it was, he wrote later, ''like a hidden place, unknown on maps, considered by officials as a problem place.''
        Papunya, established in 1960 as an official ''assimilation'' center for tribes forced from their traditional lands, was, wrote Mr. Bardon, ''a community in distress, oppressed by exile, a place of emotional loss and waste.''
        Learning the local language and winning the confidence of his pupils, and then their parents, he made it a cradle for the preservation and promotion of indigenous art.
        In interviews at a definitive exhibition of Papunya painting in Sydney two years ago, Mr. Bardon recalled asking his pupils to transfer images of the honey-ant, a tribal totem, from sand drawings to a school wall, using paints and brushes he donated.
        The children found the mural project too large for them, but elders came forward to complete it. Over the next two years Papunya artists produced 500 paintings, selling them through a cooperative organized by Mr. Bardon and owned by the painters.
        He noted the ''intensive level of intuitive concentration'' and ''a tremulous illusion'' in the styles of the painters, notably those of the Tjapaltjarri, Tjupurrula and Tjungurrayi families who later became the best known of the desert painters.
        Anthropologists had long studied Australia's past indigenous art. Mr. Bardon kindled its revival, particularly in depicting narratives of ''the Dreaming,'' a legendary era comparable to the creation and genesis stories in other beliefs.
        He left Papunya in 1972 but maintained close contact, writing books and making film documentaries about the artistic movement he helped create.
        At his death he had just completed a major book on his years at Papunya, which is to be published next year.
        He is survived by his wife, Dorn, and their sons, Michael and James.
      