
        John L. Petrarca, an architect who brought a modern sensibility to the old blocks of TriBeCa in Lower Manhattan, died last Friday at his home there. He was 51.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his wife, Sarah C. Bartlett.
        As a partner at Guenther Petrarca, he created his most distinctive work in a row of three houses on Reade Street, between Greenwich and Hudson Streets, and his own home on the same block. Finished in 2001, these were perhaps the first new single-family dwellings built in TriBeCa in more than a century.
        The monumental row houses evoke 19th-century loft buildings with red bricks, sweeping stone arches, multipane windows and cornices. Yet they are also clearly contemporary, with broad expanses of glass and exposed steel beams.
        Mr. Petrarca's home has a black steel facade of pencil-slender columns between bold spandrel panels, subtly and serenely recalling cast-iron buildings. The innovation continues within, as the house is heated and cooled by a geothermal system that draws on a 1,250-foot-deep well underneath.
        ''Since there's not yet a specific geothermal permit, we had to get a permit for an oil and gas well,'' Mr. Petrarca was quoted as saying in the current issue of Dwell magazine, which features his home.
        Mr. Petrarca also worked on the residential conversion of two office buildings: Franklin Tower, 90 Franklin Street, at Church Street, and Tower 270 at 270 Broadway, the former Arthur Levitt State Office Building, on the corner of Chambers Street, which was completed last year.
        Deeply involved in his neighborhood, Mr. Petrarca served on Community Board 1; campaigned for the relandscaping of Greenwich Street; documented proliferating rooftop additions for an unpublished book, ''Hidden TriBeCa''; and designed a new storefront for New York's Finest French Cleaners and Tailors, at 144 Reade Street, in which a yellow canopy seems to slide through the facade to form the ceiling within.
        After graduating from Carnegie Mellon University in 1974, Mr. Petrarca worked in Morocco and London before joining Gwathmey Siegel & Associates in New York in 1981. He founded Architecture Plus Furniture in 1984 and the Guenther Petrarca firm with Robin Guenther in 1991. Two years ago, he set up his own practice, Studio Petrarca, on the ground floor of his house.
        In addition to Ms. Bartlett, the Bloomberg professor of business journalism at Baruch College, he is survived by their children, Emilia and Ian; his mother, Velma, of West Vandergrift, Pa.; two brothers, Daniel, of Lafayette, Colo., and Carl, of Vandergrift, Pa.; and a sister, Mary Ann Greenlee, of New Kensington, Pa.
        Last month, according to his wife, the cancer had so weakened Mr. Petrarca that he decided to bring his affairs to a close. ''They took the sign 'Studio Petrarca' down at 5 o'clock on Friday night,'' Ms. Bartlett said, ''and at 11 o'clock he was gone.''
      