
        Noel Redding, who played bass behind Jimi Hendrix as one of the two Englishmen in the Jimi Hendrix Experience, was found dead on Monday at his home in Clonakilty, Ireland. He was 57.
        The cause was not yet known, said his manager, Ian Grant.
        Mr. Redding was recruited to join Hendrix's band in 1966 by Chas Chandler, the bassist of the Animals, who took Hendrix to England after discovering him in a New York club. At the time Mr. Redding was auditioning as a guitarist for the New Animals when Chandler offered him the job playing bass with Hendrix.
        Though trained as a guitarist, Mr. Redding had a bass style whose steady, unembellished lines stood in stark contrast to Hendrix's pyrotechnics and the jazzy drumming of Mitch Mitchell, and provided a solidity to the band's sound.
        He also had a look that was right, with a dandyish flair in dress and an untamed tuft of hair that complemented Hendrix's Afro.
        Mr. Redding played with Hendrix on some of the most revolutionary albums of the 1960's. ''Are You Experienced?,'' the debut album for both Hendrix and his group, was a No. 5 hit in 1967 and has become one of the pillars of rock guitar.
        The group made two more albums, ''Axis: Bold as Love'' and ''Electric Ladyland,'' but Mr. Redding grew tired of Hendrix's excesses and quit in 1969. Hendrix later formed the Band of Gypsys, though critics have long said that his best work was done with the Experience. He died in 1970.
        Mr. Redding had two bands of his own, Fat Mattress and the Noel Redding Band, which released two albums each in the late 60's and early 70's, though none sold well. He toured periodically and appeared over the years at many events in honor of Hendrix. He wrote a memoir, ''Are You Experienced?: The Inside Story of the Jimi Hendrix Experience,'' in 1991.
        Mr. Redding claimed that he sold his royalty rights in the early 1970's in an unfair contract and spent years trying to obtain what he considered his fair share, a battle that was continuing at the time of his death.
        He is survived by a brother, Anthony, and a sister, Vicki.
      