
        Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan, a philanthropist and environmentalist who served as United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees and was the uncle of Prince Karim Aga Khan IV, current leader of the 20 million Shiite Ismaili Muslims , died on May 12 in Boston, Mass. He was 70.
        He died in a hospital after a short illness, his office in Geneva announced. No cause of death was given.
        For nearly 40 years, Prince Sadruddin was closely associated with the work of the United Nations, specializing in disaster relief work. After three years as Deputy High Commissioner for Refugees, he became the High Commissioner in 1965 at 33, the youngest person ever to hold the position, and went on to be the longest-serving, remaining in office until 1977.
        He led the United Nations efforts to deal with the 10 million refugees created by the breakup of Pakistan and Bangladesh in 1971. He helped find homelands for the thousands of Vietnamese refugees fleeing their country in the 1970's, for the Asian victims of Idi Amin's dictatorship in Uganda and for the refugees created by the long Sudanese civil war.
        After giving up the High Commissioner's job, Prince Sadruddin continued to work for the United Nations, chiefly in the human rights and relief aid fields.
        From 1988 to 1990 he took charge of United Nations relief operations in Afghanistan, seeking to resettle Afghan refugees after the withdrawal of Soviet forces.
        From 1990 to 1991 he was United Nations relief coordinator for Iraq and Kuwait occupation of Kuwait and the subsequent gulf war.
        Prince Sadruddin was twice a serious candidate for the top United Nations job. In 1981, when Kurt Waldheim tried unsuccessfully for a third term as Secretary General, Prince Sadruddin drew more positive votes in the Security Council than anyone else, but was blocked when the Soviet Union, which thought him too pro-Western, cast a veto. He tried and failed again in 1991 after Javier Pérez de Cuéllar stepped down. Once again he was perceived as too pro-Western, and the job went to Boutros Boutros-Ghali of Egypt.
        During the latter years of his life Prince Sadruddin, who lived in the Chateau de Bellerive on the shores of Lake Geneva, turned his attention and his money to artistic and environmental causes.
        He created a particularly fine collection Islamic art, for which a new museum is now being constructed in Toronto. Through two organizations he created, the Bellerive Foundation and Alp Action, Prince Sadruddin was also actively engaged in environmental work, particularly the preservation of the Alps and the protection of rare birds.
        Prince Sadruddin Aga Khan was born in Paris on Jan. 17, 1933, younger son of the late Sir Sultan Mohammed Shah, the 48th hereditary Imam of the Ismaili Muslims and the third Aga Khan.
        Sir Sultan Mohammed Shah died in 1957. In his will, he passed over both Prince Sadruddin and his elder half brother, Prince Aly Khan, and named his grandson Prince Karim, then a student, to be 49th Imam and the fourth Aga Khan, saying the Ismailis needed a younger leader.
        After graduating from Harvard University in 1954, Prince Sadruddin did three years of post-graduate research at the Center for Middle Eastern Studies at Harvard.
        He then went to work for the United Nations Education, Scientific and Cultural Organization in Paris, where he organized the campaign to rescue the ancient Egyptian temples of Abu Simbel, Philae and Kalabsha and the Nubian Christian churches.
        Prince Sadruddin is survived by his wife, the former Catherine Aleya Sursock, as well as his nephews, the present Aga Khan, Prince Amyn Aga Khan, his niece Princess Yasmin Aga Khan Embiricos, and his stepsons, Alexandre, Marc and Nicolas Sursock.
      