
        Guy Mountfort, a British ornithologist, nature writer and advertising executive who helped to found the World Wildlife Fund, died on April 23 in Bournemouth on the southern coast of England. He was 97.
        In 1961, Mr. Mountfort created the World Wildlife Fund with three other distinguished British naturalists: Sir Julian Huxley, the zoologist; Peter Scott, a broadcaster and founder of Britain's Wildfowl and Wetlands Trust; and Max Nicholson, head of Britain's Nature Conservancy.
        The fund, based in Switzerland, had the goal of preserving endangered species and their habitats.
        With Mr. Mountfort as its first treasurer, it rapidly became one of the leading conservation groups in the world, raising large sums for its operations thanks in part to the efforts of Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, and Prince Bernard of the Netherlands, who both gave it their support from the beginning.
        In 1986 the organization changed its name to the World Wide Fund for Nature to reflect its broadening conservationist agenda, though its American and Canadian branches kept the old name. To end the confusion this caused, the organization changed its name again in 2001, becoming simply W.W.F.
        Mr. Mountfort's main personal contribution to the group's conservation campaign began in 1972, when he started a drive to halt the decline in the world's tiger population. The operation resulted in the creation of 17 tiger reserves across India, Nepal and Bangladesh.
        The preserves are credited with reversing the decline in the tiger population of Asia, which before World War II had been estimated at more than 100,000. In India alone, the number of Bengali tigers rose over 10 years from under 2,500 to more than 5,000, where it remains today.
        Guy Reginald Mountfort was born in London on Dec. 5, 1905. Poverty forced him to leave school at 16. He sold typewriters door to door, then worked in advertising. In World War II, he became a lieutenant colonel in the British Army. Afterward he joined Procter & Gamble and then moved to the advertising agency Mather & Crowther, becoming managing director of its London operations until retiring in 1966.
        A keen birdwatcher since boyhood, Mr. Mountfort published ''A Field Guide to the Birds of Britain and Europe'' (Collins), which became a classic handbook. He then traveled widely, to study wildlife and promote conservation in various parts of the world. Many of the trips produced further books.
        Several visits to the little-known Coto Donana wetlands in southern Spain in the 1950's resulted in the creation of national park there and a book called ''Portrait of a Wilderness'' (Hutchinson, 1958). Next came ''Portrait of a River'' (Hutchinson, 1962), an account of a Danube journey.
        Mr. Mountfort then visited Jordan, recording his experiences in ''Portrait of a Desert'' (Houghton, 1965).
        A trip to Pakistan to advise on setting up nature reserves produced ''The Vanishing Jungle'' (Collins, 1969) while his fight to preserve the tiger resulted in ''Saving the Tiger'' (David and Charles, 1973).
        Mr. Mountfort remained vice president of the W.W.F. in Britain until his death. He is survived by his wife, the former Joan Hartley Pink, whom he married in 1931, and two daughters.
      