
        Robert Stack, who won an Emmy and received an Oscar nomination in his 60-year career in films and television but was best remembered as the implacable, square-jawed Eliot Ness of the 1959 series ''The Untouchables,'' died on Wednesday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 84.
        Mr. Stack, who had radiation treatment for prostate cancer last year, was found dead by his wife, Rosemarie, who told The Associated Press the cause was heart failure.
        Like that of many actors of his generation, Mr. Stack had a career that was bisected by World War II. Before the war he was a supporting performer in lighter fare, perhaps best known for delivering the first screen kiss to the young Deanna Durbin in his debut, ''First Love,'' in 1939. He also played the Polish aviator whose affair with Carole Lombard provides the comic engine for Ernst Lubitsch's ''To Be or Not to Be'' (1942).
        But after three years in the service he had to struggle to regain his career footing, eventually emerging as a gritty, taciturn leading man in Budd Boetticher's ''Bullfighter and the Lady'' (1951), Sam Fuller's ''House of Bamboo'' (1955) and ''Bwana Devil'' (1952), the movie that started the decade's 3-D craze.
        He had one of his meatiest roles opposite John Wayne in ''The High and the Mighty'' (1954).
        In 1956 Mr. Stack received an Academy Award nomination for best supporting actor for his role in Douglas Sirk's ''Written on the Wind.''
        But as he recounted in his 1980 biography, ''Straight Shooting,'' his career stalled in the late 1950's, so he gave television a try. The result was ''The Untouchables.''
        Originally conceived as a two-part television movie about the real-life Ness and his G-men taking on Al Capone, ''The Untouchables,'' with its relentless theme music, staccato line readings and narration by Walter Winchell, proved so popular that it became a series and ran for four years. In 1960 Mr. Stack won an Emmy for the role, which had been turned down by both Van Johnson and Van Heflin.
        The series was controversial in its day, mostly for its florid violence, which went far beyond what audiences then expected. Some Italian-American groups also objected to being typecast as villains.
        ''No one thought it was going to be a series,'' Mr. Stack told The Washington Post in 1994. ''When you tell the same story every week, it seemed like a vendetta between Ness and the Italians.''
        Nevertheless, Mr. Stack made such an impression in the role that he had trouble getting away from it. As a result, much of his film work in the late 1960's was in forgettable projects overseas.
        He was one of the stars of the 1968 series ''Name of the Game,'' playing a retired F.B.I. agent editing a crusading anticrime magazine. He played a detective in the short-lived 1976 series ''Most Wanted,'' and then another detective in the 1981 series ''Strike Force.''
        His career was renewed in 1979 when Steven Spielberg cast him as Gen. Joe Stilwell in the comedy ''1941,'' and the following year when he was one of the actors whose screen personas were used for comic effect in the spoof ''Airplane!''
        Despite repeated offers, it was not until 1991 that Mr. Stack agreed to star in the television movie ''The Return of Eliot Ness.'' More recently, he was best known as the host and narrator of the long-running series ''Unsolved Mysteries.''
        Besides is wife, the former Rosemarie Bowe, a former actress, Mr. Stack is survived by two children, Elizabeth and Charles, both of Los Angeles.
        The second son of a well-to-do California family, Mr. Stack moved with his mother to Europe at 3 after she divorced his father. French and Italian were his first languages; he did not learn English until he was 7 and had returned to Southern California with his mother, who remarried his father in 1928.
        He played on the polo team at the University of Southern California, where he took some drama courses, and was a national champion skeet shooter, giving lessons in the sport to Hollywood stars.
        Clark Gable, a friend of Mr. Stack's family, was among those who urged the young man toward an acting career. Mr. Stack frequently told interviewers about the time Gable had spoken to him bluntly on the subject while the older actor was shooting ''Gone With the Wind'' and the younger one was preparing for his debut opposite Deanna Durbin.
        ''Look, kid,'' Gable told him, ''If you ever become a celebrity, use it to help people. And if you kick people around, I'm going to kick you.''
        As a result, Mr. Stack said, he always tried to maintain a self-deprecating attitude toward stardom.
      