
        Hadhrat Mirza Tahir Ahmad, spiritual leader of the Ahmadiyya Muslim Movement, a missionary movement that seeks to interpret Islamic doctrine in the light of the modern age, died on April 19 in London, where he had lived since fleeing Pakistan in 1984. He was 74.
        Hadhrat Mirza Tahir Ahmad was the fourth successor -- or khalifatul-masih (caliph of the Messiah) -- of Hadhrat Mirza Ghulam Ahmad, who founded the Ahmadiyya Muslim Association in Qadian, India, in 1889. After Indian independence in 1947, the headquarters of the faith were moved to Rabwah in Pakistan.
        An obituary in this space on May 7 misstated or misinterpreted some of the movement's principal tenets.
        Hadhrat Mirza Ghulam Ahmad is considered by followers to be the promised Messiah, one who does not bring any new law but reaffirms the existing law of the Koran. He preached that he had a divine mandate to bring God's teaching into harmony with the present-day world. He taught that Jesus swooned on the cross and escaped to India where he died at the age of 120. He understood the Muslim concept of jihad, or holy war, as a peaceful, not warlike, undertaking.
        In 1982 Hadhrat Mirza Tahir Ahmad was elected to succeed his older brother as spiritual leader of the Ahmadiyya Movement. The group estimates the number of its adherents to be as many as 180 million.
        Over the years, Muslim adversaries have opposed and sometimes persecuted the movement's followers. Rivals have asserted, for instance, that Ghulam Ahmad falsely claimed to be the last prophet, after Muhammad.
        The Ahmadiyya dispute these assertions, fed in part by contradictory historical accounts. The Ahmadiyya and independent scholars say that some standard reference works on this and related issues are outdated and erroneous.
        After becoming caliph, Hadhrat Mirza Tahir Ahmad began a campaign to attract more converts to his faith. This disturbed Pakistan's orthodox Muslim clergy, who prevailed on the government of Gen. Mohammad Zia ul-Haq to start persecuting the Ahmadiyya.
        Their mosques were desecrated and some followers were beaten to death in a campaign of repression that many Ahmadiyya felt was intended to distract Pakistanis from the country's domestic difficulties.
        In 1984 Hadhrat Mirza Tahir Ahmad fled to Britain in fear that the government planned to arrest him. Many of his followers also left the country, settling mainly in Britain, Germany and Canada.
        After reaching Britain, Hadhrat Mirza Tahir Ahmad moved into a southwest London mosque from which he directed the worldwide affairs of the community. He built mosques, hospitals and schools all over the world and at the time of his death was constructing one of Europe's largest mosques, in Morden, Surrey. He also founded the Muslim Television Ahmadiyya, a 24-hour religious network, sent by satellite to large areas of the world.
        Hadhrat Mirza Tahir Ahmad was born in Qadian on Dec. 18, 1928. He studied at Government College, Lahore, and at the School of African and Oriental Studies at London University. His wife, Asifa Begum, whom he married in 1957, died before him. He is survived by their four daughters.
        Correction
      