
        Al Bart, an all-American tackle on the Seven Blocks of Granite, Fordham University's famed football line of the 1930's, died last Sunday at a nursing home in Kettering, Ohio. He was 87.
        In the 1920's, Notre Dame had the Four Horsemen backfield and Illinois had the Galloping Ghost, Red Grange. In the 1930's, Fordham football produced a legend of its own.
        With Fordham's 1936 team on the way to an undefeated season, Tim Cohane, the university's sports information director, harkened back to a little-noticed newspaper clipping from 1930 that paid homage to that season's Fordham linemen. They were called the Seven Blocks of Granite. Cohane revived the nickname, and this time it endured.
        The 1936 Fordham linemen, playing offense and defense, were a fearsome bunch. Although an upset loss to New York University in the season finale spoiled an unbeaten year (Fordham finished at 5-1-2) and cost the team a Rose Bowl bid, Fordham shut out three opponents and yielded only 33 points.
        Known then as Al Babartsky, Bart shortened his name a decade later. He was the right tackle, and, by his recollection, the biggest man at 6 feet 1 inch and 220 pounds. He played alongside right guard Vince Lombardi, who became the best known of the Seven Blocks as coach of the Green Bay Packers. But Fordham's all-American center, Alex Wojciechowicz, was the most acclaimed player on the line.
        The other members were left end Leo Paquin, left tackle Ed Franco, left guard Nat Pierce and right end John Druze, known as Tarzan, who is now the line's only survivor.
        ''They went from one end of the field to the other, but they couldn't score,'' Bart told The Dayton Daily News in 1993, recalling the frustration of Fordham's opponents.
        Bart, a native of Shenandoah, Pa., was a senior on the 1937 Fordham team, receiving all-American mention that year. The team was 7-0-1 that season, shut out five opponents and was ranked third in the nation.
        Bart played four seasons for the Chicago Cardinals and three years for the Chicago Bears, both of the National Football League. He was later an assistant coach for the Chicago Rockets of the All-America Football Conference, under his former Fordham coach, Jim Crowley, then worked as an executive for many years with Fruehauf Trucking.
        He is survived by 2 sons, 5 daughters, 16 grandchildren and 6 great-grandchildren. His wife, Vera, died in 1983.
        Last spring, Bart returned to the Fordham campus and received an award from Wellington Mara, the Giants' co-owner and a Fordham contemporary. Bart was also scheduled to speak to the football players before an intrasquad game.
        ''He'd been waiting seven months; this meant a lot to him,'' Dave Clawson, the Fordham coach, told The Journal News of Westchester County then.
        But Bart suffered a heart attack while on campus and could not give his talk. In the speech he prepared, he had written: ''All I can tell you boys is that I wish I could turn back the clock and put on the pads and be one of you. Those were great years.''
      