
        David Otis Ives, who as head of the public broadcasting station WGBH-Boston helped build it into a national powerhouse for the Public Broadcasting Service, died on Friday in San Francisco, where he was on a family visit. He was 84 and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        He suffered a brief illness and died at a San Francisco hospital, WGBH announced.
        Mr. Ives's career with WGBH spanned 40 years, during which he was responsible for bringing programs like ''Nova,'' ''Masterpiece Theater'' and ''Mystery!'' to the home screen in prime time. In the 1960's and 1970's he was the station's enthusiastic on-air booster at fund-raising time.
        Mr. Ives was the executive who oversaw daytime how-to shows ranging from home restoration to Julia Child's cooking. An article in The New York Times in 1976 summed him up as a ''tough, dry Brahmin'' whose presence helped make ''WGBH crackle with creativity.''
        He joined the organization in 1960 as assistant general manager of the WGBH Educational Foundation, whose Boston station produced programming and offered it to other educational outlets. He was also director of development. From 1970 to 1984 he was president and chief executive officer of WGBH, which has both a radio station and a television channel, and until 2001 he remained vice chairman of the board of trustees and chairman of its executive committee.
        Under his guidance Boston vied for leadership with WNET-New York as star performers in the PBS firmament. He was vice chairman of the PBS managing board from 1974 to 1977, and a trustee and chairman of the executive committee of the Eastern Educational TV Network until 1992.
        Born in Salem, Mass., David Ives was educated at the Milton Academy and Harvard, where he received a B.A. in 1941 and an M.B.A. in 1943. He served as a lieutenant in the Navy for six years before he was sent to Hollywood to make training films for the Navy Department.
        He briefly wrote for The Salem Evening News before moving to The Wall Street Journal, where he worked until 1958 as a reporter and desk editor in New York, Detroit and Washington and, finally, as Boston bureau chief. For the next two years he wrote editorials for WBZ-TV-AM in Boston.
        As the man who approved major projects at WGBH, he became linked with enduring national favorites that were first shown in the United States on the station, including ''Nova,'' the scientific documentary series, first shown in 1970; the ''Masterpiece Theater'' (1970) and ''Mystery'' (1980) dramas -- often from Britain and adapted for broadcast here; and ''Frontline,'' a documentary series that examines current political and social issues. It was WGBH that first introduced America to the antics of ''Monty Python's Flying Circus.''
        WGBH also did its own productions, presenting Arthur Fiedler's Boston Pops and Boston Symphony concerts led by Seiji Ozawa. With Mr. Ives in charge, the station encouraged Julia Child to create successor shows to the 1962 classic ''French Chef.''
        There were Chinese and Italian kitchens as well, and ''Crockett's Victory Garden'' for viewers with green thumbs; ''This Old House'' for do-it-yourselfers; and exercise therapy to slim by.
        Mr. Ives kept alive the station's tie to its birthplace with community-minded series like ''La Plaza,'' a vehicle for Latino culture and concerns and ''Say Brother'' -- more recently ''Basic Black'' -- a long-running program focusing on African-Americans.
        For WGBH'S public radio listeners, there were programs like ''The Spider's Web'' and ''Morning Pro Musica.''
        Mr. Ives is survived by his second wife, Patricia Howard Ives; two sons, David, of Harvard, Mass., and Stephen, of Garrison, N.Y.; and five grandchildren. Also surviving are three stepsons, a stepdaughter and seven step-grandchidren.
        For WGBH's pledge drives, Mr. Ives went in front of the cameras as what Broadcasting magazine called ''public broadcasting's super salesman.'' He might sing, perform skits, demonstrate umbrellas, even ride an elephant for the cause.
        He turned the annual WGBH auction into an event involving 200 New England towns, with thousands of volunteers at the ready. His exhortations -- ''Bid, bid, bid!'' -- helped ring up more than $1 million a year for WGBH, the station said.
      