
        It was standing room only today as nearly a thousand people packed St. Joseph's Roman Catholic Church on Fifth Street this gentle spring morning. They had come to honor and bid farewell to, as Father Peter Colapietro said in his homily, ''the simple saloonkeeper's son, who always looked for the other guy'' and who became ''the New York giant who was a shooting star.''
        It was standing room only the way it was in the glory days at Madison Square Garden, in the late 1960's and early 1970's, when Dave DeBusschere and that wonderful, perfect mixture of intelligent, talented -- selfless may not be overstating it -- athletes made up the Knicks' championship teams. Some of those men, including Willis Reed, Walt Frazier, Earl Monroe and Bill Bradley, were now grim and moist-eyed pallbearers who carried DeBusschere's coffin into the high-vaulted church.
        Those Knick teams, as Bradley said shortly after in his remarks at the funeral, possessed the ''magic of life.'' He recalled the roaring crowds at the Garden and the precision of execution of the players and the ''chills of winning a championship.''
        And Mel Davis, from Brooklyn and St. John's, who joined the Knicks before the 1973-74 season, at the tail end of their sweet run, summed up the sense of the times, the connection between the Knicks and the rest of the city. DeBusschere, he said, was ''part of a special team, a special time in the history of the sport, and a special time in New York.'' He added, ''They took the town by storm, and we embraced them and never let go -- and they never left us.''
        DeBusschere, age 62, died last Wednesday of a heart attack, on his way to lunch in Lower Manhattan. His thick thatch of hair had gone gray and nearly white, but he was still physically imposing, at 6 feet 6 inches and seeming to be not much over his playing weight of 235 pounds. There had been no apparent symptoms of ill health.
        The pallbearers included Dave Bing, who played with DeBusschere in Detroit before DeBusschere was traded to the Knicks in December 1968; Billy Cunningham, who played with Philadelphia; John Havlicek, the Boston Celtics great; and Richie Guerin and Tom Hoover, who were Knicks predecessors. Behind them were DeBusschere's children, Michelle, Peter and Dennis, and his widow, Geri. As she came down the aisle, her lips were pursed, in an attempt to avoid tears.
        Bradley called her irrepressible. And Havlicek, in his remarks to the congregation, recalled that she did everything for Dave. ''She had to,'' he said, which drew a laugh. He told of the time that he and his wife, Beth, visited the DeBusscheres -- fierce rivals but now good friends -- at their Florida home and DeBusschere asked Havlicek, ''You know how to work this?''
        ''It was,'' Havlicek said, ''a thermostat. He wasn't the greatest handyman.''
        DeBusschere is the first star player from the championship teams of 1970 and 1973 (the Knicks also reached the N.B.A. finals in 1972) to die. The coach of those teams, the inimitable Red Holzman, died in November 1998. It was Holzman who kept yelling and preaching to his players to ''hit the open man.'' The quintessence of that directive was David Albert DeBusschere, the son of the Detroit saloonkeeper.
        As Frazier, among others, has said, DeBusschere was the ''final piece of the puzzle'' that turned a good team into a championship team. In his 12-year N.B.A. career, DeBusschere was an All-Star eight times, and in 1996 he was named one of the N.B.A.'s 50 greatest players. He was a rugged rebounder, a long-range shooter and a tenacious and indefatigable defender. He was also a born leader, and was even named player-coach of the Pistons when he was only 24.
        Teammates and opponents alike respected and even felt affection for him. ''The highest compliment you can pay a player is that he made his teammates better, and that he always played hard,'' Havlicek said. ''Dave did that as well or as good as anyone.''
        Such admiration was evident in the remarkable crowd drawn to his funeral. ''It looks like a basketball Who's Who,'' said Dolph Schayes, who was also named one of the N.B.A.'s 50 best. There was also David Stern, commissioner of the N.B.A.; Patrick Ewing, whom DeBusschere drafted first in 1985 when he was the Knicks' general manager; Dave Cowens; Oscar Robertson; Tiny Archibald; Archie Clark; Dick McGuire; Stu Jackson; Lou Carnesecca; Dave Checketts; Mike Riordan; Cal Ramsey; Rod Thorn; John Andariese; and from the current Knick team Coach Don Chaney and Charlie Ward.
        Bradley roomed on the road with DeBusschere for six years and from that point, the two maintained a close relationship. Bradley, standing at the lectern near the conclusion of the two-hour service, said he thought of DeBusschere as ''my big brother.''
        ''When I heard the news of his death,'' Bradley said, ''it was like a lightning bolt struck my heart.''
        ''He was the real thing,'' he added. ''He held nothing back.''
        The words seemed to catch in his throat for a moment. ''We'll miss you No. 22. May God grant you a peaceful journey.''
      