
        C. A. Tripp, a psychologist, therapist and sex researcher who wrote an influential book on homosexuality, died on Saturday at his home in Nyack, N.Y. He was 83.
        The cause was cancer, said Lewis Gannett, a friend and author, with whom he finished a book shortly before his death speculating that Lincoln was homosexual.
        In his earlier book, ''The Homosexual Matrix'' (McGraw-Hill, 1975), Dr. Tripp, who had trained with Dr. Alfred C. Kinsey, the pioneer sex researcher, tried to dispel many popular misconceptions about homosexuality, as well as to suggest new ideas about sexual attraction. Although the book's tone was scholarly, it sold nearly 500,000 copies.
        Newsweek's review said that Dr. Tripp's straightforward message was that ''homosexuality is best viewed as an alternative lifestyle and society benefits from tolerating it.''
        The magazine observed that the book might not have found a major publisher just a few years before, but that by 1975 it stood a chance of becoming a best seller ''among 'straights' and 'gays.' ''
        Larry Kramer, the author and AIDS activist, said in an interview that the book was the first from a ''reputable source'' that ''dared to openly speak of homosexuality as a healthy occurrence.''
        He continued, ''I remember reading it and saying, 'Wow, that's me,' and I'd never had that reaction before in reading a book about homosexuality.''
        Jonathan Ned Katz, who writes about the social history of homosexuality, said in an interview that before Dr. Tripp's book ''you could count on one hand the books on the subject that had any intellectual substance.''
        Dr. Tripp used captivating historical examples to support his arguments, from the ancient Jews to modern prisons. He noted, for example, that during World War II the Federal Bureau of Investigation operated a male bordello in New York City staffed with homosexual agents charged with extracting information from foreign sailors.
        Clarence Arthur Tripp was born on Oct. 4, 1919, in Denton, Tex. He studied photography at the Rochester Institute of Technology, served in the Navy until minor disabilities led to his discharge and worked for 20th Century Fox making propaganda films for the rest of the war, Mr. Gannett said.
        He worked in photography through the 1940's, but became increasingly interested in psychology, particularly the psychology of homosexuality. He became friendly with Theodor Reik, a protégé of Freud, and immersed himself in Freudian theory, Mr. Gannett said.
        In 1948, when Kinsey's ''Sexual Behavior in the Human Male'' was published, Dr. Tripp contacted Kinsey, visited his Institute for Sex Research in Bloomington, Ind., and worked with him until Dr. Kinsey's death in 1956. The collaboration transformed Dr. Tripp's thinking about homosexuality.
        At Kinsey's urging, he went back to school. In 1953, he received an undergraduate degree from the New School for Social Research, and in 1957, a doctorate in clinical psychology from New York University.
        Dr. Tripp maintained a private practice of psychology for years, and taught at the State University of New York, Downstate Medical Center, from 1955 to 1964.
        In recent years, Dr. Tripp has worked with Mr. Gannett to prepare a biography of Lincoln that published reports have suggested will disclose a series of homosexual encounters the president had. But Dr. Tripp, who finished the book two weeks before his death, has cautioned in interviews that no conclusions should be drawn until people read the book.
        Dr. Tripp is survived by his companion, Vacharin Prasertthai.
      