
        Charles Sternberg, a refugee from Nazi persecution in Czechoslovakia and France who went on to head the International Rescue Committee, the largest private American organization helping international refugees, died on Thursday in Forest Hills, Queens. He was 91.
        From 1965 to 1985, Mr. Sternberg, who was widely known as Carel, was executive director of the International Rescue Committee, a New York-based organization descended from the International Relief Association, which was originally set up in 1933 by Albert Einstein to assist refugees from Nazi Germany.
        In 1944, the International Relief Association merged with a similar organization, the Emergency Rescue Committee, to form the International Rescue Committee.
        In his 20 years with the committee, Mr. Sternberg presided over considerable growth in its operations. Its budget increased to $22.1 million in 1985 from $1.2 million in 1965. Last year the organization raised $157 million for refugee assistance.
        Under Mr. Sternberg, the group continued to provide humanitarian assistance to the steady flow of refugees from the Soviet bloc countries but also found its services increasingly in demand in other parts of the world.
        It assisted almost a million Cubans who fled after the Cuban revolution. It also helped hundreds of thousands of people displaced in Southeast Asia by the conflicts in Vietnam, Laos and Cambodia. In 1980 it was called on to help Pakistan cope with an influx of refugees from Afghanistan after the Soviet invasion and also began a relief program in Sudan for political refugees and famine victims from Ethiopia.
        Mr. Sternberg also started programs to aid refugees from Chile, Argentina, Haiti, Uganda and Angola.
        He drew contributions from individuals, corporations and foundations and increasingly from governments and international organizations like the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.
        Born Carel Sternberg on Nov. 25, 1911, in Prostejov, Moravia, which was then part of the Austrian empire, he studied law at Charles University in Prague before working for 20th Century Fox there. In 1938 Mr. Sternberg fled to France just before the Nazi takeover. After Paris fell, he bicycled south to Marseille, in Vichy-controlled France, where he spent nine months helping others escape on behalf of the International Relief Association. He fled to the United States himself in 1942.
        After joining the United States Army he worked for the rest of the war in the Czech-language section of its Office of European Economic Research. In 1946, he joined the newly created I.R.C., working first in Germany and then in New York.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Irma Kadmon, who also worked for the rescue committee; a sister, Ella Rosenheck of Bayside, Queens; a niece, Michelle Eisner of Hollis Hills, Queens; and a nephew, Doron Rosenheck of Plainview, N.Y.
      