
        Dr. William P. Longmire Jr., a surgeon who helped found the school of medicine at the University of California at Los Angeles, died on May 9 in his home in Los Angeles. He was 89.
        The cause was gastrointestinal cancer, officials at the American College of Surgeons said.
        In 1948, when he was 34, Dr. Longmire left Johns Hopkins University, where he had been a surgical resident and the school's first plastic surgery professor, to become U.C.L.A.'s first chairman of surgery. As detailed in his 1984 book ''Starting from Scratch,'' he persuaded other top young surgeons to join him at the fledgling medical program.
        In 1951, the medical school opened. In 2002, it was renamed the David Geffen School of Medicine after a $200 million gift from Mr. Geffen, a Hollywood executive.
        Dr. Longmire had already achieved some acclaim by the time he headed west from Baltimore.
        William Polk Longmire Jr. was born in Sapulpa, Okla. He graduated from the University of Oklahoma and Johns Hopkins Medical School and trained with Dr. Alfred Blalock, who developed several pioneering surgical techniques. As a resident, Dr. Longmire assisted on the first successful ''blue baby'' operation, performed on a year-old girl in 1944. The procedure is to correct a heart condition that deprives the blood of oxygen. The skin of babies with the condition skin turns blue.
        He was also one of the first to perform a surgical procedure to replace a damaged esophagus by connecting the mammary artery and vein to the small intestine. That procedure and one that involves the formation of a new stomach are now known as Longmire operations.
        For two years between medical school and residency, Dr. Longmire took over his ailing father's family medicine practice in his hometown.
        He was president of the American College of Surgeons in 1972.
        Dr. Longmire was author or co-author of more than 350 scientific articles and four books. He took emeritus status at U.C.L.A. in 1984.
        He is survived by his wife of 63 years, Sarah Jane Cornelius; two daughters, Gil Longmire of Los Angeles and Sarah Jane Longmire-Cook of Somerset, Ky.; and three grandchildren.
      