
        Hermann Anton Haus, an authority on optical communications who combined his knowledge of electrical engineering and quantum mechanics to advance technologies used in eye surgery, medical imaging and precision clocks, died on Wednesday in Lexington, Mass. He was 77.
        The cause was a heart attack at the end of his regular 15-mile bicycle ride home from the campus of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, university officials said. Dr. Haus had been on the faculty at M.I.T. for nearly 50 years.
        His work affected modern ultrafast instruments and fiber-optic communications, and his research focused on a generation of ultrashort laser pulses shorter than a billionth of a second.
        He and colleagues in the private sector helped make possible the rapid voice and data communications of fiber-optic undersea cables linking America, Europe and Asia, developing transmission methods, known as solitons, or solitary waves that can travel endless distances without distortion in their shape and speed.
        Hermann Haus was born to Austrian parents in Slovenia, then part of Yugoslavia. He left the country after World War II and eventually immigrated to the United States.
        He received a bachelor's degree from Union College in Schenectady, N.Y., in 1949, a master's from Rensselaer Polytechnic in 1951 and a doctorate from M.I.T. in 1954, the year he joined its faculty as an assistant professor. He rose to full professor in 1962.
        Dr. Haus was the principal investigator in the optics and quantum electronics group at the Research Laboratory of Electronics at M.I.T.
        On sabbaticals and as a visiting professor and researcher, he was a familiar figure on campuses in Vienna, Tokyo, Zurich and Berkeley, Calif.
        He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Engineering, and he received the National Medal of Science from President Bill Clinton in 1995, the year after the Optical Society of America gave him its highest award, the Frederic Ives Medal.
        He was the author of many papers and is the holder, sole or shared, of 19 patents in laser optics, solitons, semiconductors and related fields.
        Dr. Haus is survived by his wife of 50 years, Eleanor Laggis Haus; two sons, William, of Maui, Hawaii, and Stephen, of Honolulu; two daughters, Cristina Haus of Irvington, N.Y., and Mary Haus of Brooklyn; four grandchildren and two stepgrandchildren.
      