
        Sloan Wilson, the novelist who put ''The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit'' into the American lexicon in 1955, died on Sunday in Virginia. He was 83 and lived in Colonial Beach, Va.
        He had suffered from Alzheimer's disease, The Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Wilson had settled in Virginia in 1999 after a sailing visit, having previously lived in Florida for many years.
        Mr. Wilson struck a nerve much as David Riesman had five years earlier with ''The Lonely Crowd,'' which conjured an equally disturbing image and also coined an enduring phrase. Both books have remained must-reads in social studies and for literary excursions into American social history.
        Riesman, a highly influential sociologist then, produced a social scientist's diagnosis of an American condition. Mr. Wilson, by contrast, applied the eyes of a journalist to bring it to life in a best-selling classic of a novel about Tom and Betsy Rath, suburbanites.
        Married for 12 years, with time taken away by war and now with three small children, they fret in a tacky house in Westport, Conn., driven by contrary social aspirations and not enough money to enjoy any of it. The house needs repair, the children schooling, and the car is wheezing.
        ''Nothing seems to be much fun anymore; it's hard to be happy,'' Betsy says. ''The important thing,'' Tom counters, ''is to make money.'' He also figures that having served the country, he deserves something in return.
        They were the couple who grew up pampered, with Champagne tastes, into a world circumscribed by beer budgets. And Tom, hating to forgo all family life and a modicum of leisure, learns the usefulness of expedience and hypocrisy on the job in the corporate culture.
        Atlantic magazine called it ''one of the great artifacts of popular culture in the 50's.'' Orville Prescott, writing in The New York Times, greeted it as ''a good novel -- neat, smooth and reportorially exact in its account of the pressures, problems and tribal customs of the men in gray flannel suits, the ambitious commuters who are too young to be either successes or failures but whose time is running out.''
        A critic for Time magazine dismissed it as verging on ''upper-middle-class soap opera,'' where the author has something to say but pretty much sums it up in the title.
        The book, published by Simon & Schuster, was a natural for a hit movie, which was assured by the casting of Gregory Peck and Jennifer Jones as the Raths. Directed by Nunnally Johnson, its release in 1956 caused a sensation and acclaim as one of the finest films ever.
        The sum of Mr. Wilson's remaining oeuvre did not quite equal the success of his flannel-suited ex-soldier in a bind with his social-climbing wife. He stirred some controversy with ''A Summer Place'' (Simon & Schuster, 1958) with its open treatment of the sexual mores of the uptight 50's. (It was made into a film in 1959 with Troy Donahue and Sandra Dee.)
        There was a better reception for his autobiographical ''What Shall We Wear to This Party? The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit 20 Years Before and After'' (Arbor House, 1976). Reviewing it in The Times Book Review, the novelist Herbert Gold found it ''touching, charming and revelatory'' but ''marred mostly by a hastily sentimental running down at the end.''
        Sloan Wilson was born on May 8, 1920, in Westport, Conn., in circumstances not unlike the Raths'. He graduated from Harvard in 1942 and spent World War II at sea in the United States Coast Guard, becoming a lieutenant, an experience reflected in some of his books.
        He started a career at The Providence Journal in Rhode Island, and Time Inc. in New York. Pursuing an author's life, he worked for the National Citizens Commission for Public Schools from 1949 to 1952, and was an assistant professor of English and information director at the University of Buffalo, now part of the State University of New York, from 1952 to 1955. He put in stints at Parents magazine and The New York Herald-Tribune before becoming a freelance writer in 1958. In the 1980's he was distinguished writer in residence at Rollins College in Florida.
        His first published novel was ''Voyage to Somewhere'' (1947). An accomplished sailor for life, he returned to the sea with ''Ice Brothers'' (Arbor, 1979), telling of a young sailor in the Coast Guard, and ''Pacific Interlude'' (Arbor, 1982), set on a Coast Guard supply ship during the World War II invasion of the Philippines.
        His other books included ''A Sense of Values'' (Harper, 1960), ''Small Town'' (Arbor, 1978), and ''The Greatest Crime'' (Arbor, 1980). Another sequel, ''The Man in the Gray Flannel Suit II'' (Arbor, 1984) had a tepid reception, compared with its predecessor.
        Mr. Sloan's first marriage to Elise Pickhardt ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife of 40 years, Betty Stephens Sloan; three daughters, Lisa, Rebecca and Jessica Ruth; a son, David; a sister, Sherry; a brother, Jeff; and 10 grandchildren.
      