
        Almir Chediak, an arranger, producer, composer and publisher who was one of the most important behind-the-scenes figures in Brazilian popular music over the last 20 years, died late Sunday in a robbery attempt at his weekend home in the mountains north of here. He was 52 and lived in Rio.
        The police said Mr. Chediak was shot to death by robbers who broke into his country house thinking he had already returned to Rio and feared that he had recognized one of them. Two men have been arrested, one of whom was the caretaker of a neighboring house, but both accuse the other of having shot Mr. Chediak.
        Though not widely known to the public here or abroad, Mr. Chediak had a huge reputation among Brazilian musicians. Nearly every well-known artist to emerge here since the bossa nova movement of the 1950's and the tropicalista movement of the 1960's had called on Mr. Chediak to notate, organize or record their work or had studied music theory with him.
        Mr. Chediak was born into a Lebanese immigrant family here on June 21, 1950. He showed an early aptitude for music, starting guitar lessons at 7, working professionally as a guitar instructor by the time he was 17 and later scoring soundtracks for films and writing string and horn arrangements for recording sessions.
        But Mr. Chediak's most significant contribution to Brazilian popular music was introducing the precise transcription of the complete lyrics, melodies and harmonies of leading composers for publication in songbooks. The idea was born when Mr. Chediak was giving guitar lessons to the son of Caetano Veloso in the mid-1980's and found that Mr. Veloso was often at a loss to remember what chords he had played or the words he had sung on a particular song.
        ''I have never been one to pay much attention to that sort of thing, since I tend to write a song and move on,'' Mr. Veloso recalled in an interview late last year. ''But Almir was so dedicated, so intent on deciphering the proper chords and harmonies that he won me over and convinced me to work with him on a songbook.'' It included the definitive versions of nearly 200 of Mr. Veloso's songs.
        Later songbooks by other artists were often accompanied by CD's that had new and innovative versions of the songs performed by other leading names of Brazilian popular music. He produced those albums, and was widely praised for rescuing obscure songs and for persuading artists to record songs that were thought to be at odds with their usual styles or public images.
        ''To tell the truth, I consider Almir Chediak's work an act of patriotism because it has to do with the memory of Brazil,'' Antonio Carlos Jobim wrote in the introduction to his own songbook, published in 1991. Thanks to Mr. Chediak's efforts, he added, ''we can now sing and play the songs, with their proper harmonies whenever we want, and that is wonderful.''
        In all, Mr. Chediak edited 18 songbooks, featuring artists like Gilberto Gil, Chico Buarque, Djavan, Noel Rosa and Ary Barroso; he was completing another, with João Bosco, when he was killed.
        Mr. Gil is now minister of culture in the government that took office in January, and he paid tribute today to the importance of Mr. Chediak and his work.
        ''Almir provided the bridge between the poetic and the technical with mastery and dedication,'' Mr. Gil said in an official statement, adding that because of his efforts musical compositions ''will always be available for the use of future generations.''
        Mr. Chediak was also much sought after as a guitar teacher. His pupils included the singers Gal Costa, Nara Leao and Elba Ramalho as well as instrumentalists like Ricardo Silveira, Moraes Moreira and Ed Motta.
        Mr. Chediak published musical theory books that are widely used here. Two of his works, published in the 1980's, the Dictionary of Notated Chords and ''Methods of Harmony and Improvisation,'' have been influential in training the generation of young Brazilian musicians now entering their prime.
        When Mr. Chediak was buried at a cemetery here on Tuesday, dozens of singers and musicians sang songs that he had produced or notated and expressed hope that someone would carry on his work.
        Correction:  May 31, 2003, Saturday  A picture caption on Thursday with an obituary of the Brazilian musician and producer Almir Chediak reversed two identities. The composer Caetano Veloso was at the left and Mr. Chediak in the center. (The composer Djavan was at the right.)
      