
        Willard Goldsmith Rouse III, a scion of a family of builders who built his own niche with Liberty Property Trust of Malvern, Pa., a real estate business that includes some of the most visible peaks of the Philadelphia skyline, died on Tuesday at his home in Phoenixville, Pa. He was 60.
        The cause was lung cancer, the company announced.
        One of the country's 20 largest public real estate businesses, Liberty Property Trust has a portfolio that also covers an expanse of the Lehigh Valley, and properties as far away as California. As of the first of this year, it owned 652 properties, with more than 50 million square feet of industrial and office space.
        In May last year, Mr. Rouse commissioned the architect Robert A. M. Stern to design a $360 million, 746-foot-tall office building in Philadelphia called 1 Pennsylvania Plaza, planned to have 1.23 million square feet of rentable space; it is to be across the street from the Penn Center Suburban Station.
        Mr. Rouse's uncle was James W. Rouse, who, with Mr. Rouse's father, Willard II, defined the shopping mall as America knows it today and left the family's mark with developments like Faneuil Hall Marketplace in Boston and the South Street Seaport in Manhattan. James Rouse died in 1996 and Willard II died in 1970. Their enterprise continues today as the Rouse Company, based in Columbia, Md.
        Willard Rouse III came into his own in the 1970's when he founded Rouse & Associates, the predecessor to Liberty. He led it for 30 years until his illness forced his retirement as chief executive in January.
        The 60-story 1 Liberty Place, built by Rouse & Associates, is, at 947 feet, the most prominent skyscraper in Philadelphia, the first to win the city's permission to exceed the height of City Hall.
        He was also a civic leader in Philadelphia, serving as chairman of the Pennsylvania Convention Center Authority and the Regional Performing Arts Center. He directed the development of the city's modern convention center and the Kimmel Center for the Performing Arts, the new home of the Philadelphia Orchestra; he oversaw the opening of the center in December 2001.
        Willard Rouse III, a native of Baltimore, was a 1966 graduate of the University of Virginia, where he majored in English. He did occasional jobs at the Rouse Company but decided to start a career elsewhere.
        He was hired by the Great Southwest Corporation of Texas and worked in Dallas leasing speculative industrial buildings. In 1968 he joined the Bernguil Company of Los Angeles; while there he developed and marketed an industrial park in Gloucester County, N.J.
        That undertaking, which resulted in the Mid-Atlantic Industrial Park, also brought him to Philadelphia. He and three associates founded a development company in 1972, Rouse & Associates.
        The company reached out from southern New Jersey to the counties ringing Philadelphia, into the city's waterfront development, and on to Jacksonville, Fla. By 1990, it had holdings in Delaware; Harrisburg, Pa.; the Lehigh Valley; along the Eastern Seaboard; and in California. It reorganized into a real estate investment trust in 1994.
        Mr. Rouse is survived by his wife, Susannah Dennison Rouse; eight children; three sisters; a brother; and two granddaughters.
      