
        Geoffrey Bawa, a Sri Lankan architect whose striking blend of traditional Asian forms and contemporary international styles produced houses and public buildings in harmony with their Asian landscapes, died on Tuesday at his home in the capital, Colombo. He was 83.
        In 1998, a stroke left him paralyzed and unable to speak, but working from his home he continued to oversee projects being carried out by his associates in Sri Lanka and India.
        In a citation in 2001 honoring Mr. Bawa, the Aga Khan Foundation said: ''He has broken down the artificial segregation of inside and outside, building and landscape; he has drawn on tradition to create an architecture that is fitting to its place, and he has also used his vast knowledge of the modern world to create an architecture that is of its time.''
        As Sri Lanka, formerly Ceylon, emerged as an international tourist destination in the 1960's, Mr. Bawa designed a series of luxurious hotels that set a new standard for resorts in Asia, each one integrated into its unique location.
        Travelers who stay in hotels he designed never get the sense that they could be at any resort anywhere in the tropics. The neighborhood is always the dominant influence in a Bawa building. For example, from the approach to the Triton Hotel in Ahungalla, on Sri Lanka's west coast, a reflective pool shaded by coconut trees seems to flow across the lobby to meet another pool and the Indian Ocean beyond. The last thing the eye sees is the hotel itself.
        Mr. Bawa did not reject colonial influences of the Portuguese, British or Dutch if they stood up to architectural scrutiny. The Lighthouse, another seaside hotel at Galle, a colonial-era port on Sri Lanka's southwest tip, has a fortresslike air at ground level that reflects the Dutch-British fort that dominates the town.
        To build the Kandalama Hotel, a serpentine structure in central Sri Lanka clinging to a hillside near Dambulla, with its ancient Sinhalese Buddhist cave temples, workers used no heavy earthmoving equipment that would have disrupted the protected environment or sacred atmosphere. Boulders and streams were integrated into the building, which overlooks a lake.
        Mr. Bawa, who rode around Sri Lanka in a vintage Rolls-Royce and entertained elegantly, also designed houses that integrated the lush Sri Lankan environment into living space, freeing at least the elite who could afford his homes from the dense, often-claustrophobic bungalows of the British colonial era.
        In 1979, the Sri Lankan government gave him his largest assignment: to design a new Parliament building. The brooding structure, with copper-roofed pavilions following the traditional lines of precolonial temples and palaces, seems to float on a sheet of water created from marshland at Kotte, about five miles from central Colombo.
        In 1980, Mr. Bawa was commissioned to create a new university, Ruhunu, near Matara on the island's south coast. A prolific designer, he also produced plans for buildings at little or no cost for primary schools and for at least one orphanage.
        Geoffrey Bawa was born on July 23, 1919, in what was the British colony of Ceylon. His father was a lawyer whose ancestors were British and Sri Lankan Muslim, a community that considers itself an ethnic group as much as a religion. His mother's family was a mixture of German, Scot and Sinhalese, the island's majority. His parents had two sons. His older brother, Bevis, is dead. Geoffrey Bawa never married and leaves no immediate survivors.
        In 1938, Mr. Bawa went to Cambridge to study English, then entered legal training in London, where he was called to the bar in 1944. But after returning home, he grew bored with law. In 1946, two years before the country's independence, he took off on a long journey through East Asia, the United States and continental Europe. In Italy, he became fascinated with architecture and formal gardens.
        Several years later, he began a formal study of architecture in Colombo and London.
        In 1959, Mr. Bawa began an eight-year partnership with Ulrik Plesner, a Danish architect who introduced Scandinavian ideas to their work. After Mr. Plesner returned to Europe in 1967, Mr. Bawa's partner for the next 20 years was a Sri Lankan civil engineer, K. Poologasundram.
        Mr. Bawa's work also included leading Sri Lankan artists, among them the country's best known textile designer, Barbara Sansoni, and the sculptor and batik artist Ena de Silva.
      