
        Peter Lasko, director of the Courtauld Institute of Art in London from 1974 to 1985, died on May 19. He was 79 and lived in Norwich, England.
        Mr. Lasko, who was born in Berlin, arrived in Britain as a teenager in 1937. According to The Times of London, his affection for his adopted country was evident in a story he told about how, after the outbreak of World War II, the police informed him that on his 16th birthday he would become an enemy alien subject to internment. They did not consider him a danger, however, so he was merely required to be out at 7 a.m. every day when the police called for him.
        Mr. Lasko studied at the Courtauld Institute from 1946 to 1949. He became a British subject in 1948.
        In 1950, at age 26, he became an assistant keeper at the British Museum, overseeing the early Christian, Byzantine and medieval collections. He moved into the academic world when he became the founding dean of the School of Fine Art and Music at the University of East Anglia in Norwich in 1965, transforming that school into a leading center for teaching and research in art history.
        While at the university he wrote ''Ars Sacra,'' the volume on the arts of metalwork and ivory carving from the 9th to the 12th centuries that is part of the Pelican History of Art series. During his tenure at East Anglia he was also responsible for the Center for Visual Arts, which opened in a building designed by Norman Foster. The center was financed by Robert and Lisa Sainsbury, arts patrons and members of the family that began a large British supermarket chain. In addition to the $3 million center, the Sainsburys also gave the university their art collection, consisting of works ranging from paintings by Picasso and Francis Bacon to African art.
        When Mr. Lasko was appointed director of the Courtauld, which includes one of Britain's leading colleges of art history and a gallery that boasts a world-class collection of Impressionist and post-Impressionist art, he succeeded Anthony Blunt, who was discovered to have been a Soviet spy and who was stripped of his knighthood.
        Besides negotiating the financing for the institute's Witt and Conway Photographic Libraries from the Getty Trust in Los Angeles, Mr. Lasko's most important contribution to the Courtauld was its move from Portman Square to Somerset House, the 18th-century building on the Strand where it remains today.
        Mr. Lasko is survived by his wife, Gwendoline Joan Norman, and three daughters.
      