
        Mickie Most, a leading British pop record producer of the 1960's and 70's who recorded the Animals, Donovan, Herman's Hermits and others, died on Friday at his home in London. He was 64.
        The cause was cancer, said his friend and colleague Deke Arlon.
        Mr. Most emerged as an impresario in the days of the early British rock 'n' roll scene, a time when a producer's role commonly exceeded just supervising records.
        He discovered and promoted many of the biggest stars of the era and had an ear for unusual new sounds with hit potential, from the Animals' muscular R & B to the quasi-medieval folk balladry of Donovan and the bubble-gum sound of Herman's Hermits.
        Born Michael Peter Hayes in Aldershot, England, Mr. Most took his nickname when he was a singer in the group the Most Brothers in the late 50's, just as American rock 'n' roll was first taking hold among an excited and optimistic generation of young British musicians. The Most Brothers were a popular club attraction in the Soho district of London, and in a sojourn in South Africa during the early 60's Mr. Most scored several hits there with his group the Playboys, playing covers of American rock songs like ''Johnny B. Goode'' and ''Rave On.''
        When he returned to England he continued to work as a musician, but his business acumen and knack for promotion soon led him to producing. He discovered a raucous group from Newcastle called the Animals and recorded them immediately at his own expense, licensing the finished recordings to EMI.
        It was a highly unusual arrangement for the time and a gamble for Mr. Most, but it paid off. The group's second single, ''House of the Rising Sun,'' a dark, howling arrangement of a traditional American blues song, became one of the biggest hits of 1964, reaching No. 1 in both Britain and the United States, surpassing the Beatles.
        He found similar success with Herman's Hermits (''I'm Into Something Good''), the Nashville Teens (''Tobacco Road''), Donovan (''Sunshine Superman,'' ''Mellow Yellow,'') and others, and in 1969 he founded his own label, RAK.
        As rock 'n' roll got heavier and louder in the 70's, Mr. Most stuck to his faith in light fare.
        He recorded the glam group the Sweet, as well as Mud, Suzi Quatro and Hot Chocolate (''You Sexy Thing''), and made millions of pounds when he sold his back catalog to EMI in the late 1980's.
        His RAK studios has remained active.
        Mr. Most is survived by his wife, Christina, a son and two daughters, all of London.
      