
        John M. Fox, a founder and president of the Minute Maid Corporation, which developed frozen orange juice concentrate in the late 1940's and made it popular within a decade, died on Jan. 9 in Winter Park, Fla. He was 90 and lived in Winter Park.
        At the end of World War II, Mr. Fox and four other businessmen set up a small company called Florida Foods Inc., which made the first commercial batch of frozen orange concentrate using a vacuum technique he had seen employed in Boston during the war to dehydrate penicillin and food for the military.
        The original plan was to turn orange juice into a soluble powder, but this turned out to have an unpleasant taste. So instead, they reduced fresh juice to a thick concentrate, which proved far more drinkable when water was added. In 1947, the company changed its name to the Minute Maid Corporation.
        Mr. Fox hired the singer Bing Crosby as the company's first spokesman and went door to door in his neighborhood in Hingham, Mass., giving out samples. First-year sales totaled $374,501, but by 1955 sales reached $106.5 million.
        The company went public the next year, and built a headquarters in Orlando, Fla. After the company was sold to Coca-Cola in 1960, the headquarters were moved to Houston.
        An immigrant from Britain, Mr. Fox had a second career in the food business after the sale of Minute Maid, becoming president and chairman of the United Fruit Company from 1960 to 1970.
        At United Fruit, he discontinued the practice of shipping bananas on the stem, which resulted in heavy losses from bruising. Instead he had the fruit packed in specially designed cardboard boxes on the plantations and shipped directly to the distributors.
        He also expanded the idea of branding the company's bananas, already famous under the Chiquita Banana name, by putting a blue company sticker directly on the bananas and other fruit. Today the company is called Chiquita Brands International.
        Mr. Fox was president and chairman of H. P. Hood, a dairy products company in the Boston area, from 1970 until his retirement in 1978.
        John Michael Fox was born in Esher, England, on Dec. 26, 1912, and came to the United States in 1914, settling with his parents in Atlantic City. After graduating from Colgate University in 1934, he worked for I.B.M. and then with the National Research Corporation, a product research company in Boston that developed a vacuum technique for dehydrating substances, among many other inventions. The vacuum method became the basis of the technique Minute Maid used for turning orange juice into concentrate.
        Mr. Fox is survived by his wife, Floy; a daughter, Susan Castellini of Cincinnati; two sons, Stephen, of Peterborough, N.H., and Byron, of Mill Valley, Calif.; a sister, Nancy Burgess of Madison, Conn.; and 20 grandchildren, great-grandchildren and great-great-grandchildren.
      