
        Pierre Restany, an influential French art critic and curator, died in Paris on May 29. He was 72 and lived in Paris and Milan.
        The cause was heart failure, said Isabella Di Nunno, assistant to the editor of Domus magazine.
        Mr. Restany was best known as one of the founders and a tireless promoter of the European movement of the 1960's called the New Realism. Emphasizing found materials rather than representational imagery or formalist abstraction, the New Realism included artists like Yves Klein, who covered all kinds of objects with his signature ''International Klein Blue'' paint; Arman, who created accumulations of junk or store-bought objects; Christo, who wrapped found objects in fabric and rope; Jean Tinguely, who constructed absurd, self-destroying machines; and Daniel Spoerri, who made sculpture by gluing the remains of meals to dining tables.
        As a young art critic in 1955, Mr. Restany met Klein, and this encounter inspired his theory of an art that would be closer to real-life experience than Pop Art or Modernist abstraction. The New Realism was inaugurated in 1960 with exhibitions at Mr. Restany's own Gallery J. in Paris and with manifestoes by Mr. Restany announcing the advent of a new, socially relevant art in the Dada tradition.
        Pierre Restany was born in Amélie-les-Bains, France, on June 24, 1930. He grew up in Morocco and attended universities in France, Italy and Ireland. In 1963, he began writing regularly for Domus, the Italian magazine of art and architecture. In 1984, he helped found the Domus Academy in Milan, a post-graduate research institute for fashion and design. Beginning in 1985, he edited the Milan-based magazine D'Ars.
        Mr. Restany wrote many articles for European art magazines and many books, including the first monograph on Klein. During the last two decades he wrote extensively about issues relating to art and urban planning. He frequently participated in organizing large international exhibitions, including the Olympic Sculpture Park in Seoul in the late 1980's and, more recently, the 1999 Venice Biennale, as well as shows in Shanghai and Havana (both in 2000) and in Istanbul (2001). He served as president of the Palais de Tokyo contemporary art center in Paris since January 2002.
        Mr. Restany, who married four times, is survived by his wife, Josianne de Koch Restany.
      