
        George Trescher, a formidable fund-raiser who for more than three decades organized glittering celebrations and other special events for some of New York's top charities and companies, died yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital North in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived in the Murray Hill neighborhood of Manhattan.
        The cause was emphysema, said his sister, Susan Trescher, his only immediate survivor.
        Mr. Trescher founded his Manhattan company, George Trescher Associates, in 1972, after spending many years as a marketer with Life magazine and Sports Illustrated and later with the Metropolitan Museum of Art. At the museum he planned all the events for its 18-month centennial celebration, among other duties. When he left the museum to start his own company, he was the vice director for public affairs.
        At first he worked out of his Manhattan town house, but as his business expanded, he moved it to Lexington Avenue.
        It prospered and gained fame, even if it sometimes seemed hard to define. Liz Smith, the columnist, called Mr. Trescher ''Manhattan's most elegant P.R. man'' and wrote enthusiastically about the parties he gave, as did other journalists. But one of Mr. Trescher's assistants said: ''George Trescher Associates is not a public relations firm, nor are we 'party planners.' We are fund-raisers who work with organizations on fund-raising benefits.''
        Mr. Trescher told The New York Times in 1998 that he began working for charities after he concluded, as a young man in San Francisco, that he had ''the attention span of a demented fruit fly,'' which apparently convinced him that he was not qualified for most other kinds of employment. He certainly did not want to become a staid mining engineer as his father had, but he was thoughtful enough to earn a degree at the University of California at Berkeley.
        In college and after it, he displayed a knack for detail and order and often applied it to events that seemed spontaneous. He had a long association with Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and worked with her to improve the financial underpinnings of the Municipal Art Society. Her confidence in him was such that she asked him to arrange the details for the wedding of her daughter, Caroline. Later he presided over the arrangements for Mrs. Onassis's funeral.
        Some thought that he seemed to know everyone. In the spring of 2001, when he turned 75, he gave himself a lavish birthday party at the Knickerbocker Club. Ms. Smith attended it for Newsday and reported that she had spied ''a Rothschild, two Astors, a Vanderbilt, a Burden, a Love, two Peabodys, a Nesbit, an Isles, a Stutz, a Meehan, a Helhado, a Millikin, a McGill, the Ambassadors Rohatyn and Grunwald avec spouses, and someone named Smith.''
        With one notable exception, Mr. Trescher believed that any time was the right time to give a party, because if done properly, it was good for the spirit. The exception was the three-month period immediately after Sept. 11, 2001, when he said, ''It really did seem inappropriate to get togged out in black tie and ball gowns.''
        He recalled that World War II produced ''a really gay time'' in an America that felt safely removed from the warfare in Europe and the Pacific.
        Among the nonprofit organizations he worked for over the years were the Juilliard School, the Shakespeare Guild, the Animal Medical Center, New York Presbyterian-Cornell University Medical Center, the New York City Opera and Vassar College. Corporate clients included the New York Stock Exchange, The New Yorker, Time, Esquire and The New York Times.
        He also worked for individuals on occasion, including some who wanted to establish reputations for the level of charitable giving associated with people of great wealth. He told Enid Nemy of The Times in 1992 that it could take $500,000 to $750,000 to establish an unknown but ambitious couple in a single season.
        Mr. Trescher had an instinct for fund-raising and party-giving when he started out, but he picked up more wisdom over the years. For example, he thought that if a party was to be given by a well-known organization like Time magazine, at least a third of the people had to be recognizable to the arbiters of whether a party is successful or not.
        He also learned, he told The Times, never to expect his guests to dance on terrazzo floors. ''Five minutes after you start, you feel like you've been dancing on your knees,'' he said.
        In 1998, he was asked by a Times reporter how society had changed since he started fund-raising. He replied, ''They got more money and there are more of them, thank God.''
      