
        Wallace Terry, a journalist who covered the civil rights movement and the Vietnam War in the 1960's and compiled a best-selling oral history of black soldiers in Vietnam, died on May 29 in Reston, Va. He was 65.
        The cause was an inflammation of the blood vessels, said his sister-in-law, Gayle Jessup.
        Mr. Terry worked for The Washington Post and Time magazine, covering major news events at a time when few black journalists were doing so. In 1984 he published ''Bloods,'' an oral history of the Vietnam War from black veterans, and he later turned the accounts from the book into a one-man presentation, appearing at colleges and universities across the country.
        Mr. Terry was born in New York and raised in Indianapolis. As a boy, he printed a small neighborhood newspaper on a toy press, and he was an editor on his high school newspaper. At Brown University he became the first black editor of an Ivy League newspaper and was a member of Phi Beta Kappa.
        In 1957, while still a student, Mr. Terry tried to arrange an interview with Gov. Orval Faubus of Arkansas, who was trying to keep black students out of Little Rock's Central High School.
        Governor Faubus was in Providence, R.I., at the time to lobby President Dwight D. Eisenhower, and when Mr. Terry went to his hotel and demanded an interview, a photographer snapped a photograph of the encounter that was widely published.
        The encounter with the governor led to a reporting position at The Post, where Mr. Terry wrote a series on the Nation of Islam. He made his name for war reporting at Time beginning in 1964, and became the magazine's deputy bureau chief in Saigon.
        Mr. Terry was also an ordained minister in the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ).
        Mr. Terry taught for many years at Howard University and was on the board of trustees at Brown.
        He is survived by his wife, Janice, of Reston; two sons, David and Tai; a daughter, Lisa Terry; a sister; and two grandchildren.
      