
        Art Cooper, who in nearly 20 years as editor of GQ magazine helped to transform it into a showplace for literary journalism, died yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 65.
        Mr. Cooper died of complications from a stroke he suffered during lunch on Thursday at the Four Seasons, his favorite restaurant.
        Mr. Cooper turned GQ from a fairly small special-interest magazine with a focus on fashion into a much broader general-interest magazine. In the process, he published a number of leading writers, including David Halberstam, J. Anthony Lukas, Garry Wills, William Kennedy and Gore Vidal.
        Peter Mayle's columns in GQ about life in Provence eventually grew into his best-selling books, and Michael Kelly's coverage of the Persian Gulf war for the magazine became part of his award-winning book, ''Martyr's Day.''
        Mr. Cooper was known as a writer's editor who gave many talented writers the kind of assignments and compensation that led to ambitious magazine articles.
        ''Countless numbers of writers and editors owe their careers to Art,'' said Martin Beiser, who was his managing editor until several weeks ago. ''I think that was probably his greatest accomplishment.''
        Mr. Cooper was a fixture both in New York publishing and at the Four Seasons, where he could be found on most days talking with editors and writers about GQ long into the afternoon. He lost 55 pounds last year but continued to visit his favorite restaurant, although ordering with less gusto.
        His retirement was announced in February when it became clear to executives at the company that it was time for a younger person to run the magazine. He was replaced by Jim Nelson, his executive editor, in part because the magazine confronted new and ferocious competition in the form of the so-called lad magazines like Maxim, FHM and Stuff that feature bawdy humor and aspiring actresses posing in very little clothing.
        When the new type of men's magazines began to appear, Mr. Cooper was dismissive, but Maxim, in particular, has been a huge hit with young men, with an average circulation of more than 2.5 million for the last six months of 2002. At the same time, GQ had slightly more than 800,000 in total circulation.
        But in spite of the changing competitive situation, Mr. Cooper's long tenure at the company and close association with the Newhouse family ensured that his departure would be a friendly one.
        ''He was an editor with a feeling for both fashion and especially for the literary side of publishing,'' said S. I. Newhouse Jr., chairman of Condé Nast Publications, which owns the magazine. ''It started out as a trade magazine way back when. He made it into a phenomenon of publishing.''
        David Granger, the editor in chief of Esquire, worked for Mr. Cooper at GQ for five and a half years, eventually as executive editor.
        ''He took a fashion magazine and he grafted on all of these elements of a great general-interest magazine, and he turned it into a magazine that had to be reckoned with,'' Mr. Granger said. ''It was a strong voice in the culture, part of the national conversation.''
        In January, Mr. Cooper was inducted into the Hall of Fame of the American Society of Magazine Editors. ''During his tenure, Mr. Cooper has watched the very term GQ become a part of American culture,'' the society said, praising the magazine as ''a package of wit, wonderment and, above all, surprise.''
        Arthur Cooper was born on Oct. 15, 1937, in New York City. He graduated from Pennsylvania State University in 1959, and in 1964 went to work for The Harrisburg Patriot, in Pennsylvania, as a political reporter. He worked as a correspondent for Time magazine in 1966 and 1967, and he was an editor and cultural critic at Newsweek from 1967 to 1976, when he became the editor of Penthouse.
        From 1978 to 1983, he was the editor of Family Weekly, where he published work of James A. Michener, Arthur Schlesinger Jr. and Robert Coles. In 1983, he became GQ's third top editor since its founding in 1957.
        Mr. Cooper, who lived in Manhattan and New Fairfield, Conn., is survived by his wife, Amy Levin Cooper, the former editor in chief of Mademoiselle. At his retirement party, according to Mediaweek, he nodded to her and said, ''I give up this throne for the woman I love.''
        At his retirement, Condé Nast Publications presented him and his wife with around-the-world airline tickets, to help fuel his ambition to travel. They had not yet used them.
      