
        Donald T. Regan, the steel-willed financier who was Treasury secretary and, later, an uncommonly powerful chief of staff to President Ronald Reagan until his bitter departure in 1987, died yesterday in Virginia. He was 84 and lived in Williamsburg, Va.
        The cause was cancer, said a statement from Merrill Lynch, which he once ran.
        Mr. Regan went to Washington in 1981, after stepping down as chairman of Merrill Lynch, which he joined in 1946. He helped transform the firm into one of the largest and most innovative in the banking business.
        By the time he left, it was offering not just securities, but also consulting, real estate, credit cards, checking and other services it never had provided before.
        Variously described as blunt, engaging, mercurial and quick, Mr. Regan was for seven years one of the president's closest advisers on economics and other fields. In 1981, the year he became Treasury secretary, he helped shape the Economic Recovery Act, a sweeping tax cut, and later wrote a proposal to overhaul the tax system. That was enacted as the Tax Reform Act of 1986.
        A convert to Mr. Reagan's supply-side economics, the idea that tax cuts can promote investment and add employment, Mr. Regan was recognized as one of the president's favorites. After signing the 1981 tax cut, the president praised the help of ''a very fine salesman named Don Regan.''
        But in early 1985, he and the president's chief of staff, James A. Baker III, swapped positions, and Mr. Regan was thrust into an arena whose battles left lasting scars.
        Because of President Reagan's style of delegating authority, Mr. Regan was widely regarded as one of the most influential White House chiefs of staff. The post enabled him to determine much of what the president heard and saw day to day.
        The extent of that power, which he wielded absolutely, was sorely tested, and eroded, before the end of the Reagan presidency.
        First was a tumble in Mr. Reagan's popularity over the Iran-contra affair, followed by famously strained relations between Mr. Regan and the president's wife, Nancy Reagan, over managing the presidency.
        As the Iran-contra affair unfolded in 1986, the nation learned that some administration officials had illegally sold arms to Iran to try to win freedom for American hostages and that some of the money had been given to the contras, a rebel force in Nicaragua that was trying to oust the Marxist government of Daniel Ortega Saavedra.
        Mr. Regan sensed that the president had to recoup his losses through an aggressive counterattack to turn away attention from Iran-contra. Mrs. Reagan was concerned that her husband needed time to recover from surgery for abdominal cancer.
        As the convalescence period lengthened and reports of a paralyzed presidency dominated Washington, Mr. Regan became increasingly enraged. For her part, Mrs. Reagan became convinced that Mr. Regan was responsible for her husband's declining popularity and worked behind the scenes to have him fired.
        He was forced from office in 1987. Over the next two years, he and Mrs. Reagan published memoirs that included attacks on each other.
        Mr. Regan said he had discovered that Mrs. Reagan regularly consulted an astrologer from San Francisco about ''good days'' and ''bad days'' for certain presidential activities like trips, personal appearances and even surgery. Mr. Regan spelled that out in considerable detail in his book ''For the Record,'' published in 1988, a year after he left office. On numerous occasions, he wrote, the president was not available to travel because of advice given to Mrs. Reagan by the astrologer, Joan Quigley.
        In her book, ''My Turn,'' published in 1989, the former first lady wrote that Mr. Regan ''often acted as if he were the president,'' that he once threatened to dismiss the president's personal secretary, and that no one wanted to work with him because he was ''explosive and difficult to deal with.''
        She defended her faith in Mrs. Quigley, whom she said she consulted to help protect the president from further harm. She emphasized that she had consulted Mrs. Quigley only about scheduling and not on the substantive issues of state.
        At the time, Congress was investigating the funneling of the illicit money to the contras, particularly the role of members of the staff of the national security adviser.
        President Reagan insisted that he knew nothing about the diversion, and no one suggested that Mr. Regan, as chief of staff, had any knowledge about it, either.
        But the commission that looked into Iran-contra criticized Mr. Regan for not knowing what the national security staff was up to. Mr. Regan said he thought that the criticism was unjust and countered that the security staff was under the jurisdiction of the national security adviser, not the chief of staff.
        ''Does the bank president know whether a teller in the bank is fiddling around with the books?'' he asked, answering his own question with a firm, ''No.''
        But by February 1987, the clamor inside and outside the White House had become too great to ignore, and Mr. Regan left the West Wing.
        Donald Thomas Regan was born on Dec. 21, 1918, in Cambridge, Mass., the son of William F. and Kathleen Ahern Regan. His father was for a time in the Metropolitan Police in Boston and then was an officer with the New Haven Railroad. Donald Regan was educated at Cambridge Latin School, a public high school, and then at Harvard, from which he received his bachelor's in English in the class of 1940, the same class that produced John F. Kennedy. The two had just a nodding acquaintance.
        Mr. Regan entered the Harvard Law School, but in 1942 enlisted in the Marines as an officer candidate. He served in several South Pacific campaigns and left the Marines as a lieutenant colonel. Also in 1942, he married Ann G. Buchanan, who survives him. Also surviving are two daughters, Donna Lefeve of Alexandria, Va., and Diane Doniger of Santa Fe, N.M.; two sons, Donald Jr., of Sarasota, Fla., and Richard, of Denver; and nine grandchildren.
        Rather than return to law school after the war, he became a trainee at the investment firm that was later known as Merrill Lynch.
        He rose quickly through the ranks, working as an account executive in Washington, as manager of the office in Philadelphia and as an executive in sales promotion. In 1968, he became president of Merrill Lynch, the youngest person in the post. He was named chief executive in 1973.
        Mr. Regan was encouraged to seek public office by Treasury Secretary William J. Casey, who had been Mr. Reagan's campaign manager before becoming director of central intelligence. Mr. Casey suggested that Mr. Regan raise money for the Republican cause, which he did.
        Mr. Regan was nevertheless opposed by some of the president's more conservative supporters, because, although always a Republican, he had contributed money to some Democratic candidates and had earlier publicly supported the concept of wage and price controls.
        After Mr. Regan became Treasury secretary, his strongly held convictions and candor led to conflicts with administration officials, in particular the budget director, David A. Stockman, with whom he contended for the role of chief spokesman on economics.
        Mr. Regan's relationship with the president warmed, and he became the chief spokesman on the hotly debated issue of tax reduction, which the president strongly supported.
        ''I'm a free-market person,'' Mr. Regan said, endorsing one important policy, ''I believe in competition.'' He also strongly supported the president's desire to deregulate as much of the economy as possible.
        After Mr. Regan and Mr. Baker swapped jobs in Mr. Reagan's second term, some presidential aides complained that they no longer had access to the chief executive.
        ''The president no longer has advisers,'' said Edward J. Rollins, a political director in the Reagan White House. ''He has Don Regan, and Don Regan has advisers.''
        When the end of his government service arrived, Mr. Regan complained that the president had treated him ''like a shoe clerk'' and that he was angry that the name of his successor, Howard H. Baker Jr., had been announced before he had submitted his resignation.
        ''I read that I'm ruthless,'' he once told The New York Times. ''I'll have to let history reveal whether I'm ruthless or not.''
      