
        Winthrop Patterson Baker Jr., who went from trailblazing as a Westinghouse Broadcasting television executive to doing the same for deluxe bed-and-breakfasts in New England, died on Saturday at Norwalk Hospital in Connecticut. He was 71 and lived in Wilton, Conn.
        The cause was complications of pulmonary fibrosis, his family said.
        Mr. Baker, a native New Yorker who began in television in Louisiana, was president of the Westinghouse Broadcasting Company in New York in the 1970's. At his death, he operated antiques-embellished inns that offered expensive traditional comforts, especially at several boutique inns in Newport, R.I.
        Win Baker, who counted John Winthrop, the first governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, among his Mayflower forebears, was born in Manhattan. His father was a stockbroker, antiques dealer and amateur carpenter who left Wall Street during the Depression.
        The son grew up in New Orleans, graduated in 1953 with a degree in business administration from Louisiana State University and got a director's job at a New Orleans television station. He had managerial positions at stations in Baton Rouge and Lafayette, La.; Peoria, Ill.; Boston; Baltimore; Philadelphia; and Pittsburgh before being named president of Westinghouse Broadcasting in 1973.
        At the time, Westinghouse was an innovative national powerhouse in radio and television, vying for prominence with competing networks, sometimes in association with them, sometimes in fierce rivalries.
        At various stages of his career, Mr. Baker produced, directed and wrote hundreds of programs. He helped develop concepts that survive in today's feature-heavy news, all-talk and magazine formats. He foreshadowed them with ''PM Magazine'' in 1976. During his tenure, a Westinghouse station in Baltimore began a morning talk show with a young anchorwoman named Oprah Winfrey.
        He remained as Westinghouse president in New York until 1979 and retired from television in 1984 as president and general manager of WNEV-TV in Boston, now WHDH.
        With an inherited bent for restoration and things antique, he found a new career with Legendary Inns of Newport. He discovered and rescued the legacy of the Rhode Island artist and heiress Beatrice Turner by buying Cliffside, her home near Newport's Cliffwalk, in 1989. A nondescript bed-and-breakfast by then, under Mr. Baker it was revived with a blend of modern amenities and Victorian elegance, replete with the artist's self-portraits.
        He also bought and renovated the Adele Turner Inn in 2001 and the Abigail Stoneman Inn, which opened last summer. All of them have received praise from travel magazines, both for their lodgings and their top-ranked tea rooms.
        Mr. Baker is survived by his wife of 47 years, Elizabeth Allegret Baker; three sons, Winthrop P. III, of Newport, who succeeds him as president of Legendary Inns, John Adams, of San Francisco, and Michael K., of Needham, Mass.; and seven grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 16, 2003, Monday  An obituary on Thursday about Winthrop Patterson Baker Jr., former president of Westinghouse Broadcasting and proprietor of luxury New England bed-and-breakfasts, misstated the arrival date of a Massachusetts ancestor and misidentified the vessel. John Winthrop, the first governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, arrived in 1630 on the Arabella (or Arbella), not in 1620 on the Mayflower.
      