
        Henry Robin Ian Russell, the 14th Duke of Bedford, a diffident British aristocrat who despite ill health combined a lucrative business career in London with successful management of his enormous family seat at Woburn Abbey in Bedfordshire, died on Friday in London. He was 63.
        No cause of death was announced, but in 1988, when he was still Marquess of Tavistock, he had a severe stroke; he suffered a second stroke in 2000 but again recovered.
        According to the London Sunday Times's 2003 list of the richest people in Britain, the 14th duke, who inherited the title only last October, and his family are worth about $620 million. The title now passes to his eldest son, Andrew Ian Henry.
        As head of the house of Russell, which has played a significant role in British history over the last four centuries, the 14th Duke of Bedford traced his ancestry back to the Norman du Rosels, though it was under Henry VIII that the family rose to real wealth and power, acquiring among other possessions the buildings and lands of Woburn Abbey, originally founded by the Cistercian order; they rebuilt it as a vast stately home in the 18th century. It was his father, the 13th duke, who first turned it into a lucrative tourist attraction.
        The 14th duke was born on Jan. 21, 1940, at the Ritz Hotel in London, where his parents kept a suite. Educated at Le Rosey in Switzerland and at Harvard, where he never earned a degree, he led a shy, lonely and introspective youth, and through his life lacked his father's flair for publicity.
        He embarked on a financial career in London in 1970, joining the stockbroking firm of De Zoete & Bevan, where he became a partner in 1982. He was chairman of Cedar Investment Trust from 1973 to 1983 and a director of Trafalgar House from 1977 to 1991. He was chairman of Berkeley Govett (now London Pacific Group), as well as of TR Property Investment Trust and Berkeley Development Capital.
        In 1961, he married Henrietta Joan Tiarks, a society beauty from a banking family. In 1974 he took over the management of Woburn Abbey and its estates.
        As The Guardian of London recalled in the duke's obituary, his wife never concealed her dislike of Woburn, with its 75 rooms, 21 works by Canaletto in the dining room, a Sèvres dinner service that once belonged to Louis XV and a 13,000-acre estate. They tended to spend most of their time in a smaller house some miles away.
        But the duke continued to develop the tourist attraction, with its fun fair and safari park, adding a successful golf course and an antiques center with about 40 shops, ''in effect an entire leisure complex,'' as The Independent described it. His ambition, he was quoted as saying, was ''to be a good duke.''
        He helped save the Père David deer from extinction, The Times of London noted in its obituary. The species, descended from the Imperial Herd of China, now enjoys the largest breeding herd in the world at Woburn. He also organized open-air pop concerts on the grounds.
        But he had to abandon all these activities after his stroke in 1988, and in 1991 his wife published an account of his slow recovery from what he described as being ''95 percent dead,'' titled ''A Chance to Live.''
        Furious protests greeted his attempt in 1990 to sell a marble statue by Canova, ''The Three Graces,'' to the Getty Museum in California for almost $13 million. In the end, the piece was jointly acquired by the Victoria and Albert Museum in London and the National Gallery of Scotland, with help from the late Sir Paul Getty.
        The duke and his family were featured in a BBC documentary called ''Country House.''
        As The Independent emphasized in its obituary, the duke also loved horse racing and breeding, keeping brood mares at Woburn and in Kentucky and owning a horse stud in New Zealand.
        He is survived by his wife and three sons, Andrew Ian Henry, who took over the management of Woburn last year, Robin Loel Hastings and James Edward Herband.
      