
        Dr. R. Walter Schlesinger, a noted virologist who developed a vaccine for dengue fever with Dr. Albert B. Sabin and was a founding educator of what is now the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey, died on Jan. 11 in North Falmouth, Mass. He was 89 and a former resident of Falmouth and of Bound Brook, N.J.
        Dr. Schlesinger was named professor of microbiology, department chairman and assistant dean of Rutgers Medical School in New Brunswick in 1963, three years before the first students arrived. On his retirement as emeritus professor in 1980, the university trustees voted him the first to receive the formal title of distinguished professor.
        Early in his career, Dr. Schlesinger earned international recognition with his research on viral infections of the central nervous system. He concentrated on diseases like sleeping sickness and, particularly, dengue fever, a highly painful, debilitating tropical disease transmitted by mosquitoes.
        He began this work in 1940 as a researcher in bacteriology and pathology at the Rockefeller Institute. Called to serve in the Army Medical Corps in the Pacific, he met Dr. Sabin, a former institute staff member, in a uniformed unit assigned to study viral diseases.
        He collaborated with Dr. Sabin in finding a vaccine for dengue fever, which was striking American fighting men. He also joined Dr. Sabin in developing another vaccine against Japanese encephalitis virus that immunized American troops who were preparing to invade Japan.
        Dr. Schlesinger later researched influenza viruses and their neurological complications. He produced more than 100 scientific papers, including some written with Dr. Sabin, and was on various committees and task forces for the National Institutes of Health and the American Cancer Society, among others.
        Robert Walter Schlesinger was born in Hamburg, where he began his medical studies before leaving Germany for Switzerland. He received his M.D. at the University of Basel and came to the United States in 1938.
        He was at the Rockefeller Institute until 1946. He then worked at the University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine and in the division of infectious diseases at the Public Health Research Institute, then in New York and now in Newark as part of the University of Medicine and Dentistry.
        Before he, too, moved to New Jersey, he was a professor and chairman of microbiology at the St. Louis University School of Medicine from 1955 to 1963.
        Dr. Schlesinger is survived by his wife of 60 years, the former Adeline Sacks; a son, Robert E., of Madison, Wis.; a daughter, Ann Youmans of North Falmouth; and a brother, Haenner, of Hanover, N.H.
      