
        Howard David Samuel, a veteran A.F.L.-C.I.O. leader who served as a liaison with its industrial union components as well as with government and private organizations, died on Thursday in Washington. He was 78 and lived in Chevy Chase, Md.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Samuel, a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Dartmouth College, came to the fore as a rank-and-file organizer and leader of clothing workers in New York. He was a labor official in the Carter administration and from 1979 to 1992 was the president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s Industrial Union Department.
        The department is a semiautonomous alliance of more than 50 national and international unions. It acts on behalf of workers from industries likes steel and textile mills, canneries and automobile plants.
        After Lane Kirkland succeeded George Meany as president of the American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations in 1979, Mr. Samuel was a leader in organized labor's efforts to shore up its eroding base in a postindustrial era and spread its reach. He promoted the recruitment of women and minorities as grass-roots organizers and their advancement within the union hierarchy.
        He was a longtime campaigner for improved working conditions and take-home pay, and he sought to bolster labor's standing by forming alliances of mutual interest, dealing with businessmen, environmentalists and members of Congress.
        A native New Yorker, Mr. Samuel graduated in 1948 from Dartmouth after serving in the Army in World War II. He started as an organizer for the Amalgamated Clothing Workers of America, a forerunner of Unite, the Union of Needletrades, Industrial and Textile Employees.
        He became an assistant to the union president, Jacob S. Potofsky, in 1960, and a vice president in 1966 of what was then a union of 385,000 people. He conducted the union's political and legislative affairs.
        He was also a trustee and vice president of the New School for Social Research; executive director of the Sidney Hillman Foundation, which honors journalists and writers on social justice and public policy issues; a board member of the New York Urban Coalition; and a trustee of the Carnegie Corporation of New York.
        He also was active in Democratic politics in New York and in 1972 served as director of Labor for McGovern in the presidential campaign of George McGovern.
        Mr. Samuel was the union's vice president and director of public affairs in 1977 when President Jimmy Carter named him deputy under secretary of labor and chief of the department's Bureau of International Affairs. He was responsible for the administration's dealings with international labor affairs and organized labor abroad. He held the post until he was elected president of the Industrial Union Department in 1979.
        After Mr. Samuel retired in 1992, he was associated with a number of organizations, including Licit, the Labor/Industry Coalition for International Trade in Washington, of which he was executive director. He wrote two books on government, as well as book chapters and magazine articles.
        Mr. Samuel is survived by his wife of 54 years, Ruth Zamkin Samuel; three sons, Robert H., of Santa Fe, N.M., Donald F., of Atlanta, and William H., of Takoma Park, Md.; and 11 grandchildren.
        Mr. Samuel was a delegate to the Democratic National Convention in 1964 and 1976. He ran unsuccessfully in 1966 to be a delegate to the New York Constitutional Convention. Many voters confused him with his near-namesake Howard J. Samuels, a wealthy industrialist and perennial seeker of the party's nomination for governor, who also failed to win a seat.
      