
        George Axelrod, a writer whose sexually frank farces and feverishly witty satires of the 1950's and 60's heralded the more hedonistic and cynical pop-culture sensibility of later decades, died Saturday at his home in the hills overlooking Los Angeles. He was 81.
        His daughter, Nina Axelrod, told The Associated Press that he died in his sleep, apparently of heart failure.
        From Broadway comedies like ''The Seven Year Itch'' (1952), ''Will Success Spoil Rock Hunter?'' (1955) and ''Goodbye Charlie'' (1959) to adroit screen adaptations of William Inge's ''Bus Stop'' (1956), Truman Capote's ''Breakfast at Tiffany's'' (1961) and Richard Condon's ''Manchurian Candidate'' (1962), Mr. Axelrod was celebrated for a quirky, sophisticated sensibility that always seemed slightly ahead of the curve.
        Often, he paid the price in projects that failed to click with mainstream audiences in their initial release but grew in reputation as years passed.
        One of the two films he wrote and directed -- ''Lord Love a Duck,'' a dizzying satire of California lifestyles, high-school hypocrisies and about a hundred other things -- laid an egg at the box office in 1966 but has since become a cult favorite of young filmmakers and others with a taste for over-the-top wackiness.
        Also initially undervalued was ''The Manchurian Candidate,'' a Frank Sinatra thriller about assassination and cold war paranoia that is suffused with a vein of dark comedy that 1962 audiences did not fully appreciate. Only in 1987, when the film was resurrected for a special tribute at the New York Film Festival, did the story's prescience and loopy humor come into full relief.
        In 1988 the film was re-released in a few theaters to help publicize its debut on videocassette and became such an unexpected hit that it was rushed into dozens more theaters.
        ''The movie went from failure to classic without passing through success,'' said the typically self-deprecating Mr. Axelrod.
        In his 1971 memoirs, ''Where Am I Now When I Need Me?,'' Mr. Axelrod described a busy, exciting childhood in New York where he had little formal education but hung around Broadway theaters until someone finally gave him a job backstage.
        During World War II he served in the Army Signal Corps, then returned to New York, where in the late 40's and early 50's he wrote for radio and television and published a critically praised novel, ''Beggar's Choice.'' A 1942 marriage, to Gloria Washburn, ended in divorce in 1952. They had two sons.
        In 1948 he wrote the book for a musical revue called ''Small Wonder,'' but his real breakthrough came four years later with ''The Seven Year Itch.'' The comedy, about a man who takes advantage of his family's absence over a steamy Manhattan summer to have a bumbling affair with a sexy neighbor, won a Tony Award for its star, Tom Ewell, and seemed just the tonic for sophisticated postwar audiences.
        However, when the play was turned into a movie in 1955 by Billy Wilder, who shared screenwriting credit with Mr. Axelrod, the censors and studio executives would not allow the hero actually to consummate the affair. Instead, Mr. Ewell was depicted merely daydreaming a few steamy scenes. Mr. Axelrod frequently disavowed the finished film in later interviews.
        In the end, the movie became most famous for the moment when Marilyn Monroe, as the sexy neighbor, stands over a subway grating and giggles as the gust from a passing train lifts her skirt.
        Mr. Axelrod decided after his experience on the film to move from New York to Los Angeles, where he could more closely monitor the treatment of his scripts. He quickly became one of Hollywood's top writers.
        In 1956, he was nominated for two awards by the Writers Guild of America, for ''The Seven Year Itch'' and for ''Phffft!,'' a comedy starring Jack Lemmon and Judy Holliday as a divorced couple.
        He worked again with Monroe in ''Bus Stop'' (1956).
        Mr. Axelrod said that he battled fiercely with the director Blake Edwards over their 1961 adaptation of ''Breakfast at Tiffany's,'' but it earned Mr. Axelrod his only Academy Award nomination.
        He had one final Hollywood success in 1964 with ''How to Murder Your Wife,'' a comedy about a man wrongly accused of spousal homicide that starred Mr. Lemmon.
        After ''Lord Love a Duck,'' he tried once more to direct with ''The Secret Life of an American Wife'' in 1968, a box-office and critical dud.
        With his second wife, Joan, he had two children: Nina, an actress, and Jonathan, a writer and television producer. He is also survived by two sons from his first marriage, Peter and Steven; seven grandchildren; and a sister, Connie Burdick.
        Mr. Axelrod sought treatment in 1986 for the alcoholism that he had battled for much of his life.
        By the time the film festival honored him in 1987, many in Hollywood had pretty much forgotten him.
        ''I always wanted to get into the major leagues,'' Mr. Axelrod told the festival crowd that night, according to an Associated Press report. ''And I knew my secret: luck and timing. I had a small and narrow but very, very sharp talent, and inside it, I'm as good as it gets.''
        Correction:  June 25, 2003, Wednesday  Because of a production error, a photograph on Monday with an obituary of George Axelrod, a writer of plays and screenplays, was reproduced in mirror image. The clock should have appeared at the left of the typewriter.
        Correction:  July 12, 2003, Saturday  An obituary of the screenwriter and director George Axelrod on June 23 referred incorrectly to his 1971 book ''Where Am I Now When I Need Me?,'' which was cited as the source for a brief description of his childhood in New York. While its description of the main character as a stage-struck youth accurately reflected Mr. Axelrod's own experience, it is a novel, not a memoir.
      