
        Roger Neilson, the coach of eight National Hockey League teams and an assistant coach of four for more than a quarter-century, and one of the game's great innovators, died Saturday at his home in Peterborough, Ontario. He was 69.
        In 1999, Neilson was told he had multiple myeloma, cancer of the bone marrow, and in 2001 he learned he also had malignant melanoma, a skin cancer.
        Neilson was coach of the Rangers from 1989 to 1993, and he was an assistant with the Ottawa Senators the past three years. This season, as the effects of his illness became more apparent -- he became gaunt and lost his hair -- Neilson became a motivating force for the Senators. But he missed some playoff games, and the Senators lost to the Devils in seven games in the Eastern Conference finals.
        Neilson's contributions were recognized in November, when he was inducted into the Hockey Hall of Fame in the builders' category.
        His death was announced Saturday by Gary Bettman, the N.H.L. commissioner, 90 minutes into the league's draft in Nashville. ''We'll miss you, Roger,'' Bettman told the crowd at the Gaylord Entertainment Center.
        Although Neilson never played professional hockey -- he never advanced beyond the Junior B level in his native Ontario -- he often found ways to improve the quality of the game.
        He was the first to analyze hockey using videotape, earning him a nickname he disdained, Captain Video. He was the first to hire a full-time assistant coach and the first to use coaches' headsets. It was his idea that a referee signal the end to line changes when play stopped, making those changes fair for both teams.
        He knew the shortcomings of the rulebook. Once, when his junior team was trailing in the final minutes of a game and he had two men in the penalty box, he kept sending extra players on the ice. If he got away with it, good. If he did not, only two of his players could be in the penalty box at once, so his latest offenders would never serve penalty time. The rule was soon amended so the violation would result in a penalty shot.
        In an article in 2000 headlined ''The Man Who Changed the Game,'' The Sporting News recounted how he once sent his dog onto the ice to help teach his Peterborough junior team how to forecheck. As the story went:
        ''The dog stood in front of the net, the player stood with the puck behind the net, and as the player tried to come out, the dog cut off the angle and rushed the puck carrier, an old dog teaching new tricks.''
        Starting in 1977, he was the head coach, never for more than four seasons, of the Toronto Maple Leafs, the Buffalo Sabres, the Vancouver Canucks, the Los Angeles Kings, the Rangers, the Florida Panthers, the Philadelphia Flyers and the Senators. He was an assistant with Buffalo, the Chicago Blackhawks, the St. Louis Blues and Ottawa.
        Late in his second season with Toronto, he was fired by Harold Ballard, the club owner, who rehired him the next day because he could not find a new coach in time for the next game. Ballard suggested he wear a paper bag over his head so fans would not know who the coach was. Neilson declined to wear the bag but returned as coach.
        In April 2002, Ottawa made him the head coach for the last two games of the season so he could become the ninth in N.H.L. history to coach 1,000 games. His career record as a head coach was 460-381-159 during regular seasons, 51-58 in playoffs. He never won a Stanley Cup and had only one finalist, Vancouver in 1982.
        Roger Paul Neilson was born June 16, 1934, in Toronto and grew up there. After earning a degree in physical education from McMaster University, he spent 14 years as a high school gym teacher, coached youth hockey teams and managed minor league baseball. In later years, he ran an off-season hockey camp and coaches' clinic and set up an annual hockey camp in Israel.
        He never married.
        His lakeside home in Lakefield, Ontario, was often overrun by children and grandchildren of friends and former players, and in 1999 The New York Times called him ''the N.H.L.'s favorite bachelor uncle.''
      