
        Dr. Pascal P. Pirone, an expert on plant disease for the New York Botanical Garden, died on Jan. 11 in Lexington, Ky. He was 95.
        A horticulturist at the garden in the Bronx from 1947 to 1974, Dr. Pirone was responsible for keeping its indoor and outdoor plants in good health. His specialty was trees.
        Two of his books -- ''Diseases and Pests of Ornamental Plants'' and ''The Maintenance of Ornamental and Shade Trades'' -- have long been indispensable references for professionals, but Dr. Pirone was also well known among amateur gardeners.
        He taught adult courses at the botanical garden, wrote widely in magazines and elsewhere, and was a frequent guest on radio programs like the ''Garden Hot Line,'' a nationally syndicated program presented by Ralph Snodsmith.
        ''Any time I had him on, we had a lineup of calls eight deep,'' Mr. Snodsmith said.
        Dr. Pirone was also recruited frequently to help New York City, as well as many private clients, battle outbreaks of plant disease.
        After earning undergraduate and doctoral degrees from Cornell University, Dr. Pirone was a project leader for the United States Agriculture Department in the fight against Dutch elm disease, which nearly wiped out the American elm tree.
        ''Plants are living things,'' he wrote in an introduction to one of his books, ''and like all living things, are attacked by many kinds of diseases and pests. These we must combat if we would keep our plants in good health.''
        Dr. Pirone went to work at the botanical garden after teaching at Rutgers. He was credited with discovering several species of fungi and bacteria that can harm trees and plants. One fungus, Nectriella pironii, was named after him. (A friend who was a dahlia cultivator, Albert Parella, also named two flowers after Dr. Pirone and his wife: the Dr. P. P. Pirone and the Loretta Pirone.)
        Dr. Pirone also helped to develop techniques like foliar feeding, in which nutrients are applied directly to leaves, according to records at the garden.
        As the times changed, so did Dr. Pirone's approach to caring for trees and plants. Though he was an expert in pesticides, he took up other techniques as the dangers of chemicals became known.
        In 1972, when a new edition of one his books came out, he wrote: ''Twelve years have passed since I prepared the third edition of this book on tree maintenance. In that brief period, great changes have occurred in the field of arboriculture. The recent banning of the so-called miracle insecticide DDT in many states has made many Americans more keenly aware of the dangers involved in the promiscuous or careless use of many pesticides.''
        Pascal Pompey Pirone was born and raised in Mount Vernon, N.Y. He was a longtime resident of the Pelham Bay section of the Bronx before moving to Kentucky after retiring.
        Mrs. Pirone died in 1987, and a son, John, in 2001.
        Dr. Pirone is survived by a daughter, Mary Grace, of Sotogrande, Spain; two sons, Joseph, of Hancock, N.Y., and Thomas, of Lexington; and five grandchildren.
      