
        Basil Langton, a British-born actor, director and theater manager who had a long and successful career on both sides of the Atlantic, died on Thursday in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 91.
        In World War II Mr. Langton founded the Traveling Repertory Theater, which toured Britain, performing in bombed cities, munitions factories and army camps. The company's members included famous actors like Dame Sybil Thorndike, Margaret Leighton, Sir Lewis Casson, Paul Scofield and Eric Porter.
        But Mr. Langton's pacifism during the war damaged his relations with the British theater world, and after the war he moved permanently to the United States, where he pursued his career both on the stage and on television. Mr. Langton made Broadway appearances in plays including ''The Affair,'' ''Camelot'' and ''Soldiers.'' In 1948 he directed a production of ''The Devil's Disciple.''
        In 1951 he produced the first Shaw festival in America, at the Rice Playhouse on Martha's Vineyard and was a co-founder of the Empire State Music Festival. In 1957 he created a ''Poets and Playwrights'' series, at which writers and actors read poetry and plays at a public library.
        Mr. Langton was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship in 1959 to research Shaw's stagecraft and began recording the memories of those who had worked with Shaw on early productions of his works.
        In the 1960's Mr. Langton began photographing artists at work, including Henry Moore, David Hockney, Georgia O'Keeffe and Joan Miró. Some of his photos were exhibited at the Metropoltan Museum of Art in New York.
        Basil Langton was born in Bristol, England, on Jan. 9, 1912, and was taken as a baby to Canada, where he later worked in a bank and became an amateur actor. In 1933 he returned to England to study acting and dancing and in 1935 joined the Shakespeare Memorial Theater at Stratford-on-Avon.
        He appeared in many London productions and taught acting at St. Denis's London Theater Studio, where one of his pupils was Peter Ustinov.
        His first marriage, to the dancer Louise Soelberg, ended in divorce, as did his second to the actress Nancy Wickwire. He is survived by a daughter from his first marriage, Jessica L. Andrews of Tucson.
      