
        David Newman, the screenwriter who collaborated with the director Robert Benton on the groundbreaking crime-spree film ''Bonnie and Clyde,'' died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 66.
        The cause was a stroke, said Bobby Zarem, a family friend.
        When ''Bonnie and Clyde'' opened in August 1967, some reviewers were shocked by the seemingly farcical treatment of the two Depression-era bank robbers Clyde Barrow and Bonnie Parker (Warren Beatty and Faye Dunaway) as well as by the movie's violence and revved-up background music by the bluegrass team of Earl Scruggs and Lester Flatt.
        Writing in The New York Times, Bosley Crowther called it ''a cheap piece of bald-faced slapstick comedy that treats the hideous depredations of that sleazy, moronic pair as though they were as full of fun and frolic as the jazz-age cut-ups in 'Thoroughly Modern Millie.' '' Other commentators deplored what the film's violence might be doing to the youth of America.
        But the mass of viewers disagreed, forming lines around the block to see the movie and writing letters to say that its extreme violence accurately reflected American culture during both the Depression and the Vietnam-shadowed, racially conflicted 1960's. Pauline Kael, celebrating ''Bonnie and Clyde'' at length in The New Yorker magazine, called it a turning point in American cinema, particularly the writing.
        As Mr. Newman told an interviewer in 1998: ''Benton and I suddenly became hot. We were interviewed, there were articles, we won about 10 awards, were flown out to Hollywood and Warner signed us to a three-picture deal and everything was wonderful. I was launched into the movie business.''
        Mr. Newman collaborated with Mr. Benton on ''There Was a Crooked Man'' (1970) and with Mr. Benton, Peter Bogdanovich and Buck Henry on ''What's Up, Doc?'' (1972). Mr. Newman and his wife, Leslie, wrote the Superman trilogy, sharing credit with others including Mario Puzo. He wrote ''Men's Lives,'' an unproduced screenplay based on the book about Long Island fishermen by Peter Matthiessen.
        Mr. Newman was born on Feb. 4, 1937, in New York City, the younger son of Herman Newman, a clothing manufacturer, and Rose Spatz Newman, a bookkeeper. He attended the University of Michigan, earning a bachelor's degree in 1958 and a master's degree the next year. At the university he won two Avery Hopwood Awards, one for short stories and one for three plays.
        In June 1958 he married Leslie Harris England, who survives him. Also surviving are their children, Nathan and Catherine, and two grandchildren, and a brother, Martin, of Los Angeles.
        In 1960 he joined Esquire as an editor, where he and Mr. Benton created several features, among them the still-surviving Dubious Achievement Award, for which he coined the phrase, ''Why is this man laughing?'' The phrase accompanied a photograph of a mirthful Richard M. Nixon. The two also collaborated on a column, ''Man Talk,'' which ran from 1964 to 1974 in Mademoiselle magazine, and on ''Extremism: A Non Book'' (Viking, 1964).
        They also collaborated on ''It's a Bird, It's a Plane, It's Superman,'' a two-act play first produced on Broadway in 1966, and on a comic sketch, ''Will Answer All Sincere Replies,'' a parody on wife-swapping, for the erotic stage musical ''Oh! Calcutta!'' by Kenneth Tynan.
        But nothing he attempted quite lived up to ''Bonnie and Clyde,'' which was rated 27th on the list of 100 best American Films compiled in 1998 by the American Film Institute.
        Correction:  July 5, 2003, Saturday  Because of an editing error, an obituary of the screenwriter David Newman last Saturday misidentified Robert Benton's contribution to the film ''Bonnie and Clyde.'' He wrote the film with Mr. Newman; the director was Arthur Penn.
      