
        Dick Cusack, who in his middle age broke loose from an advertising career to work in the movies, as his five better-known children do, died on Monday at his home in Evanston, Ill. He was 77.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his son John said.
        Mr. Cusack's daughters, Susan, of Manhattan; Joan, of Chicago; and Ann, of Los Angeles; and his sons, William, of Los Angeles; and John, of Chicago and Los Angeles, all became actors and have been in movies.
        His wife, Nancy, said the children were inspired by their father's artistic and adventurous nature.
        Richard John Cusack, who is also survived by two grandsons, was born in Manhattan on Aug. 29, 1925. He served in the Army Air Force in World War II and then attended the College of the Holy Cross, where he played basketball with Bob Cousy and roomed with Philip F. Berrigan, the peace activist.
        His first job was writing speeches for General Electric, but he quit to go into advertising. later becoming creative director of Post, Keyes & Gardner in Chicago. He left advertising in 1970 to form his own film production company.
        ''Who cares if you brush your teeth with Colgate or Crest?'' his wife quoted him as saying. ''There are more important issues in life.''
        An educational film he made about abortion won an Emmy in 1971. He also began to write plays. The first was ''The Night They Shot Harry Lindsey With a 155-Millimeter Howitzer and Blamed It on Zebras.''
        Other plays included ''Punto'' and ''The Last Word of the Bluebird.'' He also appeared in small parts in about 20 movies, including ''The Fugitive'' and ''My Bodyguard.'' In 1995 ''The Jack Bull,'' a movie he wrote that starred his son John, was shown on HBO. In an interview with Lake magazine last year, Mr. Cusack said he had more movies in the works, including one featuring a Greek chorus of Mafia hit men. ''Healthy speculation is that none of them will be made,'' he said. ''I expect to fall over in a heap with a lily on my chest and no writing credits.''
        His son John said his father had been working on a screenplay about the psychic Edgar Cayce. John said he hoped to produce and star in it.
        ''We're going to try to complete it with Dad's help from the rafters,'' he said.
      