
        I. Bernard Cohen, a Newton scholar and Harvard educator whose life's work molded the history of physical science as an academic discipline in the United States, died on June 20 at his home in Waltham, Mass. He was 89.
        Dr. Cohen joined the Harvard faculty as an instructor in physics in 1942 and retired in 1984 as the Victor S. Thomas professor emeritus of the history of science. He taught adult classes in the Harvard Extension School and undergraduate seminars until three years ago and never ceased publishing; his latest book, relating the story of numbers, is on the way to the printer.
        His interests in the history of science ranged widely, though he was best known for his study of the work of Isaac Newton. He published about 20 books, starting in 1941 and including classics that remain in print and on college library shelves, and more than 150 articles, including an interview with Albert Einstein just before his death.
        In 1957, Dr. Cohen joined the quest to produce a comprehensive edition of Newton's most important work, the ''Principia Mathematica,'' that included not only its first three editions but also Newton's original manuscript from 1687 and the voluminous annotations and corrections that Newton made in his personal copies.
        That 900-page volume was published in 1972, a year after Dr. Cohen heralded it with his ''Introduction to Newton's 'Principia' '' (Harvard University Press, 1971). In it, he traced the genesis of Newton's masterwork and its later editions.
        Dr. Cohen then collaborated with Anne Miller Whitman, a Harvard-trained Latinist, to translate from Latin into English what actually had been the third, 1726 edition of Newton's original. It was published in 1999 by the University of California Press.
        Dr. Cohen made his debut as an author with ''Benjamin Franklin's Experiments'' (Harvard, 1941), which was the first scholarly, annotated edition of Franklin's writings on electricity. His doctoral adviser at Harvard decided that it should be his Ph.D. dissertation in 1947, rather than his intended dissertation.
        His intended dissertation instead became another book, ''Franklin and Newton: An Inquiry into Speculative Newtonian Experimental Science and Franklin's Work in Electricity as an Example Thereof'' (1956; revised edition, Harvard, 1973). Dr. Cohen eventually combined nine of his previously published Franklin papers, with some addenda, in ''Benjamin Franklin's Science'' (1990, Harvard).
        Bernard Cohen was born in the Far Rockaway section of New York City. He graduated from Columbia Grammar School and entered Harvard as a freshman in 1933 after sampling New York University, a veterinary medical college in Farmingdale, N.Y., and the Valley Forge Military Academy in Wayne, Pa.
        He received his bachelor of science degree and a Phi Beta Kappa key at Harvard in 1937 after concentrating on mathematics. He was among the first to enroll in Harvard's new Program in the History of Science and Learning when Dr. James B. Conant started it and the first, in 1947, to receive a Ph.D. in the history of science.
        During World War II he taught physics and mathematics to Navy personnel sent to the campus for crash courses. After the war, he taught the history of scientific ideas and practices to graduate students and undergraduates, eventually seeing the subject elevated into a separate department.
        His popular courses, like Nature and Growth of the Physical Sciences and Scientific Revolution, which he enlivened with physical and audiovisual demonstrations, were distilled in his book ''The Birth of a New Physics'' (1960, Doubleday; 1985 revised edition, Norton). In translation, its readership extended from Denmark to China and the Spanish-speaking world.
        ''Revolution in Science'' (Belknap, 1985) gave a panoramic view of the growth of scientific knowledge, narrating developments in science from the 17th through the 20th centuries.
        Dr. Cohen's first wife, Frances Davis Cohen, died in 1982. He is survived by his wife of 19 years, Susan Johnson; a daughter, Dr. Frances Cohen of Manhattan; a granddaughter; and two stepsons, David Johnson of St. Louis and Benjamin Johnson of Manhattan.
        Dr. Cohen's latest book, originally envisioned as ''The Fate of Mankind in a World of Numbers,'' is a history of numbers and their impact on society and culture. The manuscript was mailed to the publisher, W. W. Norton, the week before he died. Its new title: ''The Triumph of Numbers.''
      