
        Fielder Cook, an award-winning director of films and television dramas, died on June 20 in Charlotte, N.C. He was 80 and lived in Charlotte and San Francisco.
        The cause was a stroke, said his brother-in-law, John Germany.
        From the medium's earliest days, when dramas were performed live, Mr. Cook was one of television's most respected directors. He got his start in 1950 with ''Lux Video Theater'' and worked on ''Kraft Television Theater,'' ''Playhouse 90'' and ''The Kaiser Aluminum Hour.''
        An early success was ''Patterns,'' a Rod Serling story about the corporate world, which was broadcast by NBC in 1955. It starred Ed Begley and Everett Sloane, and won an Emmy for best teleplay. Mr. Serling and Mr. Cook remade ''Patterns'' as a feature film in 1956.
        During the 1960's Mr. Cook directed episodes of ''The Defenders'' and ''The 50-Minute Hour,'' won two Emmys as the director and producer of ''Brigadoon'' for ABC (1966) and worked on the feature films ''A Big Hand for the Little Lady,'' starring Jason Robards, Joanne Woodward and Henry Fonda (1966), and ''How to Save a Marriage (and Ruin Your Life),'' starring Dean Martin, Stella Stevens and Eli Wallach (1968).
        He won another Emmy Award for an adaptation of Arthur Miller's play ''The Price'' for NBC in 1971, and the same year made ''The Homecoming: A Christmas Story,'' which became the basis for the series ''The Waltons.''
        Among Mr. Cook's other television credits are a version of Maya Angelou's ''I Know Why the Caged Bird Sings'' in 1979 and ''Gauguin the Savage'' in 1980. His film work included an adaptation of Saul Bellow's ''Seize the Day'' with Robin Williams in 1986.
        James Fielder Cook was born in Atlanta. He graduated from Washington and Lee University in Lexington, Va., and was an officer in the Navy during World War II.
        Mr. Cook's marriage to Sally Chamberlain ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, Katherine Belle; his daughters, Rebecca Pitts of Suffern, N.Y., and Lindsey Roth of Dorset, England; a sister, Mary Ellen Germany of Tampa, Fla.; and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 3, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Monday about Fielder Cook, director of many films and television dramas, misstated his wife's maiden name and gave the name of a daughter incompletely. His wife was Katherine Belk, not Belle; the daughter uses the name Lindsey Cook Roth.
        Correction:  July 11, 2003, Friday  An obituary on June 30 about Fielder Cook, a director of films and television dramas, misspelled the surname of his first wife. She was Sally Chamberlin, not Chamberlain.
      