
        Anthony Dapolito, a baker whose battles for his community earned him the honorary title of mayor of Greenwich Village, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan, one day before his 83rd birthday.
        He had a stroke last year, but the cause of death was pneumonia, his wife, Frances, said. He lived on La Guardia Place just south of Washington Square Park, an urban oasis he had long championed, and a few blocks from his well-known bakery, Vesuvio.
        Mr. Dapolito and powerful allies like Eleanor Roosevelt and Jane Jacobs successfully fought to remove traffic from the park and stop a freeway planned for Lower Manhattan. But in more than half a century of membership on his community board, he waged day-in, day-out battles for parks and other amenities in the Village and adjoining communities that were at least as important as his earlier fights.
        In a highly politicized province of Manhattan, he rejected many urgings to seek public office. Instead, working mostly behind the scenes, he served as the unpaid chairman of Community Board 2 for terms that added up to 12 years and as chairman of the board's parks committee for many more.
        ''He was not a screamer, unlike many of his neighbors,'' said Henry J. Stern, the former parks commissioner, who worked with Mr. Dapolito for more than 40 years in various capacities. ''More important, he was a baker. He had a real living. So many community people today are activists or consultants, which are euphemisms for unemployed. Tony actually rode around in the morning delivering bread and rolls.''
        But he was far from the humble baker he liked to portray, easily navigating shark-infested political waters. He first cultivated Carmine G. De Sapio, the legendary political boss; then former Mayor Edward I. Koch, who began his political career by savaging Mr. De Sapio; and still later the younger Democrats opposed to Mr. Koch.
        In an interview with The New York Times last year, Mr. Koch called Mr. Dapolito ''the heart and soul of the Village'' and declared, ''He is our protector.''
        ''He was really a rather tiny man,'' Mr. Koch said in an interview Thursday, ''but he always seemed to be a giant.''
        Mr. Dapolito sold his bakery at 160 Prince Street earlier this year because of poor health, and it is now closed for remodeling. Under the new ownership, it will remain Vesuvio Bakery.
        Anthony Victor Dapolito was born on Houston Street on July 3, 1920. His parents, Nunzio and Jennie, both Neapolitan immigrants, opened the Vesuvio Bakery in 1920, shortly after Anthony was born. The eldest of five boys, he was the first to be given the chore of delivering bread. He drove a horse-drawn bread wagon; the family did not have a truck until 1937.
        In 1946, he married Frances, a local girl, and they had one child, Jennie, who still lives in Manhattan. Mr. Dapolito is also survived by his brother, Joseph, of Boynton Beach, Fla., and one grandson.
        Mr. Dapolito was elected to his community board shortly after the boards began in 1950, and his wife said he had wanted to live to become the first person to serve for 50 years on a community board. He served 52 and was chairman of his board's parks committee at his death.
        Ed Gold, a longtime member of Board 2, said that Vesuvio Bakery became a second meeting place for the community board, which represents the Village, the West Village, SoHo and parts of NoHo, Little Italy and Chinatown.
        Mr. Gold said that Mr. Dapolito was ''a modest guy'' except when it came to defending parks, of which he created or remodeled a half dozen.
        In 1968, when critics questioned the remodeling of Washington Square Park because derelicts and hippies were among its chief users, Mr. Dapolito rose in eloquent defense of the plans.
        ''The restoration can save the square,'' he said in an interview with The Times. ''If it is attractive enough -- and it will be beautiful, very beautiful -- then so many respectable people are going to come in they will crowd out the bums.''
        Mr. Koch recalled how Mr. Dapolito cleverly dealt with community opposition when he wanted to put up a statue, which by law must include the mayor's name on a plaque. Some board members so loathed Mr. Koch that they were willing to give up the statue because of the plaque.
        But Mr. Dapolito literally minimized the problem.
        ''My name is on there as mayor,'' Mr. Koch said. ''But very small.''
      