
        Moran Caplat, who for 36 years managed the Glyndebourne Opera Festival in Britain, helping to make the festival one of the pre-eminent musical events in Europe, died on June 19 at Tunbridge Wells in Kent. He was 86.
        Mr. Caplat started at Glyndebourne in 1945 as an assistant to Rudolf Bing, then the general manager, just as its owner and founder, John Christie, was trying to re-establish a festival he had founded at his country estate in 1934.
        The festival thrived, eventually becoming as famous for the elegance of its performances as it was for the lavish picnic suppers operagoers enjoyed on the lawns of Christie's East Sussex country house.
        In 1949, after Bing left to become head of the Metropolitan Opera, Mr. Caplat became general manager, a post later redesignated general administrator, which he held until he retired in 1981.
        He was responsible not only for the day-to-day running of the opera house, first under Christie and then under Christie's son, George, but also for helping to choose the singers. He toured Europe in search of talent during the winters.
        In 1951 Mr. Caplat raised money for a special Glyndebourne season as part of the Festival of Britain and persuaded Fritz Busch, who had been chief conductor before the war, to return to the festival he had left after a falling-out with the Christie family. He organized several appearances by the Glyndebourne company at the Edinburgh Festival, as well as a number of foreign tours.
        Particularly interested in set design, Mr. Caplat persuaded prominent British artists to work on Glyndebourne productions, including John Piper, Leslie Hurry and Osbert Lancaster.
        Moran Victor Hingston Caplat was born on Oct. 1, 1916. His father was a French architect who had settled in Kent; his mother was British.
        Intending to become an actor, Mr. Caplat attended the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art and appeared in prewar productions. An enthusiastic yachtsman, he joined the British Navy at the outbreak of war and commanded an old paddle steamer in the evacuation of British forces from Dunkirk.
        He then transferred to submarines, but was torpedoed by the Italian Navy in the Mediterranean and interned in Tuscany. In 1958 he published an autobiography, ''Dinghies to Divas.''
        He is survived by his wife, the former Diana Murray Downton, whom he married in 1943; a son, Marc, and two daughters, Dominique and Simone.
      