
        Robert M. Batscha, who worked to preserve, archive, study and permanently exhibit two of the more ephemeral modes of mass communication as the longtime president of the Museum of Television and Radio, died Friday in Manhattan. He was 58.
        The cause was cancer, said Diane Reed, the director of public relations for the museum.
        In his more than two decades as president of the museum, Dr. Batscha vastly expanded its collection, moved it to Midtown Manhattan, opened a branch in Beverly Hills and brought together industry leaders, stars and academics at seminars.
        Museum visitors can listen to Franklin D. Roosevelt's fireside chats or Orson Welles's ''War of the Worlds.'' They can watch tapes of the lunar landing, the Nixon-Kennedy debates, ''Beverly Hills, 90210'' or ''The Sopranos.'' And they can rerun famous commercials.
        Dr. Batscha long argued that television was worthy of study and that old programs, those that recorded history and those that highlighted the frivolous aspects of popular culture, were museum pieces. ''Criticizing TV is second only to watching TV as an American pastime,'' he said in 1992. ''Now, we want to give TV its day in the sun. It's a medium that has got to be recognized.''
        The museum was founded in 1975 by William S. Paley, the television pioneer and former chairman of CBS. It was originally the Museum of Broadcasting; the name was changed to the Museum of Television and Radio in 1991 so it could include programs transmitted by other means, including cable and satellite.
        Dr. Batscha, a political scientist by training, became the museum's president in 1981.
        Born in Rochester, N.Y., and raised in New York City, he graduated magna cum laude from Queens College and received a Ph.D. in political science from Columbia University. Before going to work at the museum, he was a senior consultant at the Organization of Economic Cooperation and Development in Paris.
        When he arrived at the museum, it occupied two floors in a converted office building and its catalog included about 5,000 titles. It now has 120,000 titles.
        Dr. Batscha became a prodigious fund-raiser, and he oversaw the museum's expansion on two coasts. In 1991, the museum moved into a tower at 25 West 52nd Street. In 1996, it copied its entire collection and opened a branch in Beverly Hills.
        The museum is financed by the radio and television industries, corporations, foundations, individuals and government agencies.
        The chairman of the museum's board of trustees, Frank A. Bennack Jr., said Dr. Batscha had expanded not only the museum's collection and display space, but also its mission. ''When you put it together, he was the architect of something that very faithfully carried out the mission envisioned by Mr. Paley, but clearly expanded on it,'' he said.
        Dr. Batscha is survived by a son, Eric, 21, of Manhattan, and by a former wife, Francine Sommer, also of Manhattan.
      