
        Buddy Ebsen, a gangly and personable Ziegfeld song-and-dance man in the late 1920's who gained lasting fame on television as Davy Crockett's sidekick, a hillbilly in Beverly Hills and an aging private eye, died on Sunday in Torrance, Calif. He was 95 and lived in nearby Palos Verdes.
        For nine seasons, starting in 1962, the lanky, 6-foot-3 Mr. Ebsen was the canny Jed Clampett, the patriarch of ''The Beverly Hillbillies.'' The show was initially ridiculed by many reviewers as the most abysmally lowbrow series in television history. But the slapstick exploits of Jed, Granny, Elly May and Jethro -- a cartoonlike backwoods family suddenly rolling in oil wealth -- proved a runaway hit, soaring to top place in the Nielsen ratings within five weeks of its debut. It remained among the 10 most popular shows through 1971.
        Then Mr. Ebsen became the protagonist of another successful CBS television series, ''Barnaby Jones,'' a laconic private investigator in late-and-getting-later middle age whose shrewdness was cloaked in nonchalance. The one-hour show began in early 1973 and ran continuously from 1974 to 1980 and many more seasons after that in reruns.
        Mr. Ebsen started his career in vaudeville and nightclubs, then advanced to the stage and films. In Hollywood he gained particular recognition in the 1930's with his flamboyant dancing and singing of ''At the Codfish Ball'' with Shirley Temple in ''Captain January'' and by gamely battling malaria in ''Yellow Jack.'' His other 30's film hits included ''Broadway Melody of 1936,'' ''Born to Dance,'' and ''The Girl of the Golden West.''
        He was originally signed to play the Scarecrow in the MGM classic ''The Wizard of Oz.'' But in a late casting switch, Ray Bolger pushed him out of the part, and Mr. Ebsen was recast as the Tin Woodman. After weeks of rehearsal, however, a severe allergy to the aluminum-based makeup forced him to relinquish that part to Jack Haley.
        In 1938 MGM offered him a seven-year contract, starting at $2,000 a week, but requiring him to give the studio absolute control over his career. The independent Mr. Ebsen rejected that provision. As a result MGM blackballed him throughout the industry and his film career went into eclipse for nearly 20 years, until Walt Disney hired him as a character actor in the mid-1950's to play Georgie Russell, the sidekick of Davy Crockett (portrayed by Fess Parker) on television and in films.
        Mr. Ebsen made it through his lean years by performing on the stage, mostly on the road. ''I probably enjoyed show business most when I was doing plays like 'The Male Animal' and 'Good Night, Ladies,' when people would lay down their money and laugh and you'd see them walk out happy,'' he said to The New York Post in 1965. ''By God, I'd feel honest. I could go home with a good taste in my mouth. You'd feel better, you'd feel more alive and like you were justifying your existence.''
        ''The one flaw in this,'' he said of ''The Beverly Hillbillies,'' even though the series enjoyed great popularity, ''is that you can't hear the people laughing.''
        Buddy Ebsen was named Christian Rudolph Ebsen Jr. at his birth on April 2, 1908, in Belleville, Ill. Ten years later his father, who owned a dancing school, moved the family to Orlando, Fla. Buddy took premedical courses at Rollins College and the University of Florida, but a collapse of the state's land boom forced him to leave school in 1928 and to pursue a career as a dancer in New York with his younger sister, Vilma. The pair won parts in the chorus of ''Whoopee'' and as featured dancers in ''Flying Colors'' and the ''Ziegfeld Follies of 1934'' and went on to success in Hollywood.
        In World War II, Mr. Ebsen served in the Coast Guard as the executive officer on the U.S.S. Pocatello, a submarine chaser in the North Pacific. In his free time he wrote sketches and staged variety shows and musicals. He met a fellow lieutenant, Nancy Wolcott, and they were married in 1945. They had four daughters and a son. He also had two daughters with his first wife, the former Ruth Cambridge. Both marriages ended in divorce. In 1985 he married Dorothy Knotts. According to a family statement, he is survived by his wife, his sister, six children and six grandchildren.
        Mr. Ebsen's later movie performances included Audrey Hepburn's poignant, abandoned husband in ''Breakfast at Tiffany's'' (1961) and a steely old cowpoke in ''Mail Order Bride'' (1964). He excelled in many television plays and wrote or partly wrote songs like ''Whispering Pines, and ''Squeezin' Polka.'' He also wrote plays that were performed in regional theaters.
        His television series ''Barnaby Jones'' had a deeply loyal following, including 30 New York business executives, aged 55 to 70, who met for lunch every Wednesday for years at a Rockefeller Center restaurant and later viewed the show's reruns together. A major reason for their loyalty, they agreed, was that Barnaby Jones was an old man doing a young man's job, inspiring them not to retire at 65.
        The performer savored life on his 36-acre ranch in the Santa Monica Mountains, was an expert sailor who skippered his 35-foot catamaran, Polynesian Concept, to victory in major races and had founded and headed a company that built oceangoing catamarans.
        Mr. Ebsen's long-running television series made him a multimillionaire, but in the 1980's he appeared regularly in a new adventure series, ''Matt Houston,'' as a former intelligence agent and uncle of the protagonist, a wealthy investigator. Asked in 1984 by United Press International why he had returned to the rigors of a weekly show, he replied: ''I'm used to getting up at dawn and going to the studio to be with my pals on the set. It's my lifestyle, and I wouldn't trade it for any other.''
      