
        Buddy Hackett, the roly-poly streetwise comedian from Brooklyn whose puckish, irrepressible clowning was a fixture on America's home screens in the 1950's and 60's, died on Monday at his beach house in Malibu, Calif. He was 78.
        The cause was not announced, pending a coroner's report, said his son, Sandy.
        Mr. Hackett's career spanned more than half a century in nightclubs, movies and on the stage. On television he was a frequent guest of Jack Paar, Arthur Godfrey and other talk-show hosts, whose audiences quickly became familiar with the antic -- sometimes brash -- routines and ad libs that he somehow managed to enunciate from the side of his mouth.
        Mr. Hackett was funny the minute he screwed up his face to speak, becoming part cherub, part devil, as required. So completely was he defined as a stand-up comic that it always seemed to surprise audiences and critics when he displayed solid acting talent in films and onstage.
        When he appeared on Broadway in ''Lunatics and Lovers,'' Sidney Kingsley's 1954 farce about New York lowlifes in a Times Square hotel, Brooks Atkinson, the theater critic of The New York Times, was enthusiastic, writing that his role was ''the best part Mr. Kingsley has written'' and that ''Mr. Hackett plays it with exuberance.''
        When Mr. Hackett appeared in the 1958 film version of Erskine Caldwell's novel ''God's Little Acre,'' portraying Pluto Swint, the lovelorn Georgia rustic, he won praise from Variety for bringing ''perception and depth and real acting to his role of ridicule and whimsy.''
        By 1964 Mr. Hackett's popularity was such that he could carry a Broadway show. A musical comedy, ''I Had a Ball,'' was savaged by critics but became a hit that season because everyone loved Mr. Hackett's performance as a Coney Island soothsayer.
        Buddy Hackett was originally Leonard Hacker, born on Aug. 31, 1924, one of two children of Philip and Anna Geller Hacker. His father was an upholsterer and part-time inventor who once designed a neat folding studio couch but failed to make any money out of it.
        Leonard attended Public School 103 and then went on to New Utrecht High School, where he was a notoriously poor student and, at 5 feet 6 inches and 200 pounds, a lineman on the football team. He also directed the class play ''What a Life'' and caught the show business bug.
        While still in high school, he toured the Borscht Belt, the Catskills resorts that were the great training ground for comedians. while his father repaired upholstery there.
        He got summer jobs as a waiter and a bellhop and later was considered talented enough to be hired as a ''tummler,'' a job that he apparently was born to have. A tummler, in Leo Rosten's description, was a ''noise-maker, fun-generator, hilarity-organizer and organized buffoon'' whose task was ''to guarantee, to the blasé (but insatiable) patrons of a summer resort that most dubious of vacation boons: 'never a dull moment!' ''
        Mr. Hackett served three years in the Army with an antiaircraft unit during World War II. On a furlough in 1945 he returned home and bought a ticket to see the musical ''Oklahoma!'' He decided then and there that if he ever got out of the Army, he would devote himself to show business.
        He returned to Brooklyn and studied method acting. ''I kept waiting for this guy Stanislavsky to show up,'' Mr. Hackett recalled. When they told him to behave as though he were an egg, he lay down on the floor. They asked him what he was doing. ''I'm a fried egg,'' he replied.
        His first job as a comedian was at the Pink Elephant, a club in Brooklyn. His salary was $40 for a week's work. He was not a success.
        In 1948 he met Frank Faske, who knew nothing about show business but had saved some money from his co-ownership of an automobile agency in Brooklyn. He thought he saw something likable and salable in Mr. Hackett, and so he became his agent. He got several nightclub owners to hire Mr. Hackett and even used his own money to buy material. But Mr. Hackett bombed wherever he went, and Mr. Faske came to the conclusion that Mr. Hackett was funny only when he wrote his own stuff.
        He had better luck in California, doing so well at Billy Gray's Band Box in Los Angeles that other club owners sought his services. His routine was always indelicate; one, involving an imitation of a Chinese waiter, was as funny as it was offensive and he kept it in his act for years.
        He got an invitation to play Las Vegas and he was so excited that he forgot to pick up his paycheck for a month. ''They thought I was nuts,'' he said.
        He returned East and played the Concord Hotel in the Catskills with considerable success. He would continue to play the Catskills until most of the big hotels there closed. In time he was a headliner in every major nightclub in the United States.
        He got into television in the 1950's, after Max Liebman saw him onstage in ''Lunatics and Lovers'' and produced two specials for him. He was the star of a sitcom, ''Stanley,'' which helped jump-start Carol Burnett's career, then he was the replacement for Art Carney on ''The Jackie Gleason Show'' during the 1958-59 season.
        In 1960 he returned to Broadway to appear in ''Viva Madison Avenue!,'' a comedy by George Panetta. The show flopped, but Mr. Hackett received favorable notices.
        His television credits included ''Murder, She Wrote,'' ''Quincy,'' ''The Big Valley'' and ''Get Smart.'' He also played Lou Costello opposite Harvey Korman's Bud Abbott in a special called ''Bud and Lou,'' which was broadcast in 1978. In 1983 ''Buddy Hackett -- Live and Uncensored,'' was shown on HBO.
        Besides his son, of Las Vegas, Mr. Hackett is survived by his wife, the former Sherry Cohen; two daughters, Ivy Miller of Denver and Lisa Hackett of Los Angeles; and two grandchildren.
        He began in movies as Donald O'Connor's co-star in ''Walking My Baby Back Home'' in 1953. Among his other movies were ''It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World.'' ''The Adventures of the Brothers Grimm'' and ''The Music Man.'' Although most of his more than 20 films were unrelievedly bad (''Muscle Beach Party'' and ''Millie Goes to Budapest''), critics invariably liked his work. A reviewer from The Christian Science Monitor saw fit to call him ''a rarity, a universal clown, rollicking close to the shadows in Pagliacci style.''
        As the years passed, Mr. Hackett would hear things like that, look into the mirror and say, ''Aha! I've outlived you.''
      