
        Vasil V. Bykov, the acclaimed Belarussian writer whose novels about the bitter truths of war roused the ire of Soviet leaders and won him the admiration of millions of his countrymen, died on June 22 in a clinic in Minsk. He was 79.
        The cause was stomach cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Bykov, called by some the Sakharov of Belarussian literature, drew as many as 50,000 people to Minsk's central streets for his funeral procession on June 25, said Ales Pashkevich, chairman of the Belarussian Writers Union.
        Mr. Bykov's wife and two sons survive him.
        He caused debate even in death. During his funeral, a Russian television reporter was expelled from Belarus for the way he characterized Mr. Bykov's struggles. And the writer's frequent criticism of the Belarussian president, Aleksandr G. Lukashenko, eventually forced him to flee the country. ''Bykov was to dictators like red flags are to bulls,'' said Rygor I. Borodulin, a writer and friend of Mr. Bykov's since 1950. ''He hated them. They pressured him. There were nasty reports on television and constant phone calls.''
        Mr. Bykov, whose fiction portrayed the brutal reality of soldiers' lives in World War II, died on the 62nd anniversary of the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union. A soldier himself, Mr. Bykov wrote about war in a manner devoid of the standard Soviet romance. He showed what drove deserters to leave, and why not all resistance fighters were heroes.
        ''He wrote truths about the war in Soviet times when very few were doing this,'' said Mr. Pashkevich by telephone from Minsk. ''He had big problems with the Soviet government. Publication of his books was delayed for a long time. Censors deleted many passages.''
        His most famous book, and the one that caused the most problems with the Soviet authorities, ''The Dead Do Not Feel Pain,'' was heavily edited by censors when it was first published in the mid-1970's. It was printed in full in Moscow, however, after the literary journal Novy Mir and its editor, Aleksandr Tvardovsky, took up his case.
        Later in life, Mr. Bykov took up another struggle, this time against the leader of Belarus, which became a separate country in 1991 with the collapse of the Soviet Union. Mr. Lukashenko was elected as the first president of Belarus in 1994. As he strengthened his grip on power, Mr. Bykov came under pressure and finally emigrated in 1998.
        Mr. Bykov never called himself a political exile. He spoke openly, however, about Mr. Lukashenko's government, which he frequently referred to as ''the regime.'' He objected to what he called Mr. Lukashenko's heavy-handedness with Belarussian society and contended that freedoms, hard-won during the struggles of the late 1980's and early 1990's, were being taken away. After he left Belarus, Mr. Bykov lived in Finland, then in Germany, and finally in the Czech Republic.
        During this period he wrote his dark, allegorical prophecies based on his vision of the future of his beloved Belarus.
        He did occasionally make trips to Belarus, but never stayed for long. Mr. Bykov was in Prague when he learned of his illness and he returned home to die, Mr. Pashkevich said. Mr. Bykov's memoir, ''The Long Road Home,'' was published in Belarussian shortly before his death.
        ''He said all his tragedies happened to him in his homeland,'' said Mr. Pashkevich. ''He wanted to be reunited with those tragedies, to meet them again in his homeland.''
      