
        Compay Segundo, the salty Cuban singer and guitarist who rose to global fame in his 90's as the eldest of the elder musical statesmen featured on the album and film ''Buena Vista Social Club,'' died on Sunday at his home in Havana, an official at his record company in Spain said. He was 95.
        Mr. Segundo was the most accomplished of the dozen or so Cuban musicians gathered in Havana in 1996 by the American producer Ry Cooder for a recording session meant to recapture the lost music of Havana's pre-Revolutionary nightclub scene, the golden age of an African-influenced style called son.
        ''Compay was what is left of the real son,'' Mr. Cooder said. ''He had the feeling of it, the essence.''
        Mr. Segundo was nearing 90 at the time of the ''Buena Vista'' sessions, but his rich and resonant baritone was undiluted, and his appearance in the film confirmed that his libido also remained intact. He bragged of being the father of five, and said with a mischievous grin that he was keen to sire a sixth.
        Born Máximo Francisco Repilado Muñoz, he got his stage name -- Cuban slang for second compadre -- from his specialty in low harmonies. But by the time of ''Buena Vista'' and his solo albums, Mr. Segundo was singing lead.
        The album and film of those sessions were both called ''Buena Vista Social Club.'' The album was released in 1997 by the British music company World Circuit, and distributed in the United States by Nonesuch; the film, directed by Wim Wenders, was released two years later. Both became worldwide hits and revitalized the careers of all the Cubans, most of whom had spent decades in menial jobs.
        Mr. Segundo had worked rolling cigars. Another, Ibrahim Ferrer, had been a shoeshiner.
        The ''Buena Vista'' album went on to sell over a million copies in the United States. It won a Grammy Award in 1998 for best tropical Latin album and sparked a franchise of solo albums. Mr. Segundo's solo discs have sold more than 2 million copies worldwide. But Mr. Segundo had already been the beneficiary of renewed interest in Cuban music.
        In the late 1980's he began playing with Eliades Ochoa, another member of the ''Buena Vista'' group, and in 1989 traveled to Washington with him to appear at a concert sponsored by the Smithsonian Institution.
        He began recording again after a 1994 trip to Spain, where he was seen by a small but excited group of record executives.
        ''One of our artists called us and said 'Listen, there's a Cuban guy playing in this tiny, tiny, tiny place in Madrid,' '' said Charlie Sanchez, the managing director of DRO EastWest, a division of Warner Music in Spain. ''We went there and it was great. We signed him and made six albums.''
        He was born in Siboney, on the eastern side of Cuba, and began playing music as a teenager. By 1929 he moved to Havana, where he joined the group Los Cuban Stars.
        With Lorenzo Hierrezuelo, Mr. Segundo formed the duo Los Compadres in 1949, which had great success throughout Latin America. The group disbanded in 1955, and Mr. Segundo's career continued quietly until his rediscovery in the 1990's.
        When his group Compay Segundo y Sus Muchachos played in a Havana club in 1997, a Cuban journalist reported that there were only two people in the audience. But when Mr. Cooder arrived in Cuba, he knew Mr. Segundo's music from records he bought in New York and, once he heard he was alive and well, sought him out for the ''Buena Vista'' sessions.
        ''You can't go back to the 1930's or 1940's,'' he said, ''But there is something Compay had on the artistic level. Of all the first generation of son players, Compay had it and he could just whip it out.''
      