
        John D. Gerhart, a specialist in African agriculture and land use for the Ford Foundation and president of the American University in Cairo until his retirement last year, died on Tuesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 59.
        The cause was cancer of the appendix, his wife, Gail, said.
        Mr. Gerhart's projects for the Ford Foundation in Africa varied from agricultural development to land reform in post-apartheid South Africa. As president of one of the leading English-language universities in the Arab world, he began building a new campus while walking a delicate path between Western-style academic freedom and fundamentalist Islam.
        As one of the Ford Foundation's longest-serving international experts, Dr. Gerhart found time to encourage traditional African arts through cultural exchanges and other means. He also became, for a time, the leading amateur birdwatcher in Africa, personally seeing and recording more than 4,700 varieties.
        Dr. Gerhart began a 29-year-career with the Ford Foundation in 1969, interrupting his work for a Ph.D. at Princeton University. His topic -- why corn farmers did or did not adopt new agricultural technology -- was among the earliest examinations of the so-called green revolution in Africa, said his wife, a political scientist who has published widely on African politics.
        In his years at the foundation, Dr. Gerhart worked on development issues in Kenya and Botswana and, in 1980, moved to Cairo as the organization's representative for North Africa and the Middle East. In 1985 he returned to New York as Ford's deputy vice president for developing countries, and oversaw 16 of the foundation's field offices. For the four years beginning in 1989, he was Ford's director for Africa and the Middle East. In 1993, he opened the foundation's office in South Africa, where he worked closely with the post-apartheid government.
        In 1998 he accepted the presidency of the American University in Cairo, a post he had turned down in the past, his wife said. The university has about 4,600 undergraduate students and 500 master's degree candidates, and was founded to provide an English-language education to Egyptians and other Arabs. English-speakers also come to the university to learn Arabic.
        Dr. Gerhart's biggest accomplishment was beginning the construction of a new campus east of Cairo at an estimated cost of $250 million, a project that had been discussed but delayed for years. He also equalized the salaries of locally hired and foreign faculty members, who had been paid more.
        When the government banned a book being shipped to the university, he acquiesced, saying the school was an Egyptian, not an American institution. But he spoke out strongly when Saad Eddin Ibrahim, a professor at the university and a human rights campaigner, was jailed by the Egyptian government.
        John Deuel Gerhart was born on July 21, 1943, in Abilene, Tex., the son of an Episcopal minister. As a boy, he was deeply interested in visits to Native American pueblos.
        He graduated from St. Stephens Episcopal School in Austin in 1961. As an undergraduate major in history and literature at Harvard, he took a year off to teach English, mathematics and geography in Tanzania, where he met his future wife, who was also teaching there.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his brother Harry, of Colorado Springs; his daughter, Leslie Katherine Gerhart, of Manhattan, and his son, Nathaniel Gillam Gerhart, of Berkeley, Calif.
      