
        Harold Lewis, a longtime dean of the Hunter College School of Social Work who helped it gain national recognition, died on Friday at his home on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. He was 83.
        As the second dean of the School of Social Work at Hunter, Dr. Lewis led it from 1970 to 1990 and played a central role in making it a leader in its field among public universities.
        The school, founded in 1953, moved into its current quarters on East 79th Street in 1964.
        In 1972, Dr. Lewis started the first doctoral program for a professional school in the CUNY system. He began the school's one-year residence program, through which workers in the field can add the master's degree in social work to their bachelor's degree.
        Dr. Lewis advanced the idea of allowing graduate students to pursue a second specialty in health or mental health, for example, in addition to their core studies of casework. The Hunter concept, known as Concentrations, was adopted by the National Council on Social Work Education as a model for other graduate schools of social work.
        Dr. Lewis was a founder and former co-editor of The Journal of Teaching in Social Work and sat on the editorial boards of several other professional periodicals. He wrote more than 100 papers and articles and a classic text, ''Intellectual Base of Social Work Practice: Tools for Thought in a Helping Profession'' (Haworth, 1982).
        He is survived by his wife of 61 years, Celia Schwartz Lewis; two daughters, Amy L. Reisch of Larkspur, Calif., and Beth Lewis of Philadelphia; and four grandchildren.
        Harold Lewis was born in Brooklyn and graduated from Brooklyn College in 1942. He served in Army intelligence in World War II and got a master's (1948) and a doctorate (1953) at the University of Pennsylvania School of Social Work.
        He began his academic career as an instructor at the University of Nebraska School of Social Work in 1950. He rose to professor back at the University of Pennsylvania, where he taught from 1951 to 1969. He was a fellow at the Center for Advanced Studies in Behavioral Sciences in Palo Alto, Calif., when his appointment at Hunter as a professor and dean of the School of Social Work was announced.
        The school's auditorium is named in his honor.
      