
        Elliot Norton, a theater critic in Boston for nearly 50 years whose reviews of Broadway-bound shows on tryout runs were carefully read by New York producers, died on Sunday in Fort Lauderdale, Fla., where he had lived since November. He was 100 and had been a longtime resident of Watertown, Mass.
        In a career that stretched from 1934 to 1982 -- from ''Porgy and Bess'' to ''Dreamgirls'' -- Mr. Norton was the leading critic in Boston, where New York producers sent unpolished shows before opening them on Broadway.
        A tall, dapper man who refused to speak to anyone during a performance, he reviewed more than 6,000 productions and often saw the same show twice: at the beginning of its Boston run and then two weeks or so later after the producers had made changes, many at Mr. Norton's suggestion.
        He also had a television talk show, ''Elliot Norton Reviews,'' on WGBH in Boston for 24 years beginning in 1958, where he would invite actors and playwrights to discuss the shows he had reviewed, often just days earlier.
        His review of Neil Simon's ''Odd Couple'' in 1965 was enthusiastically positive but complained about the play's dull ending. On his television show he remarked to Mr. Simon that he had missed the Pigeon sisters in the third act.
        Mr. Simon recalled the advice in his 1996 memoir ''Rewrites'': ''A light bulb did not go on above my head. It was a two-mile-long neon sign. Why hadn't I thought of that before? The Pigeon sisters, of course! I was out of the studio before Mr. Norton could say, 'Thank you, boys, and good luck with the play.' ''
        When Mr. Norton began his career, Boston had seven theaters, all owned by the Shubert Organization in New York, and the city was an important proving ground for new productions. In 1937 and 1938, for example, Mr. Norton saw John Gielgud in ''Hamlet,'' Mary Martin in ''Leave It to Me!'' and Thornton Wilder's ''Our Town.''
        Born William Elliot Norton in Boston, he began as a reporter at The Boston Post after his graduation from Harvard in 1926 and became the theater critic eight years later. After The Post folded in 1956, he wrote for The Boston Record American and The Boston Herald American, now The Boston Herald.
        He was awarded a special Tony Award for his writing in 1971, and since 1983 the Elliot Norton Awards have been given for theater achievement in Boston. The most recent ceremony was on May 19, two days after his 100th birthday.
        He is survived by a son, David A. Norton, of Fort Lauderdale; two daughters, Elizabeth N. Norton of Manhattan and Jane Norton Hardy of San Francisco; three grandchilren, and three great-grandchildren.
        Tactful but direct, Mr. Norton's criticism was prized for its sound judgment. The producer Alexander H. Cohen once said Mr. Norton had ''the soundest theatrical judgment of any critic writing anywhere on the road'' and added that his reviews ''saved at least half a dozen productions I'm familiar with.''
        Mr. Norton often wrote about the problems faced by a reviewer ''in the far-flung area known to Broadway as Out-of-Town,'' he wrote in 1949, ''a territory that includes 47 of the United States as well as the lost cities of Rochester, Albany and Buffalo.''
        The out-of-town critic, he said, often sees a radically different -- and generally inferior -- show than on Broadway, which puts a critic in a position of reviewing a first draft.
        In 2002, looking back on his career, he said, ''It was great because there was always something new to see and we got to see it first. But I sometimes resented the fact that Boston audiences were used as guinea pigs.''
      