
        Stanley H. Fuld, who was known for his concern for civil liberties during the 27 years he served on New York State's highest court, 6 of them as chief judge, died on Tuesday at his home in West Palm Beach, Fla. He was 99.
        In hearing more than 13,000 cases and writing more than 800 opinions on the New York State Court of Appeals, Judge Fuld built a reputation for meticulous legal language that often resonated far beyond his own state. Particularly interesting was his embrace of the rights of the accused despite his background as a hard-nosed prosecutor.
        ''He was at that cusp between an older style of looking at the law which was more protective of property rights and the more flexible people-oriented law we've had since World War II,'' said Jack. B. Weinstein, a Brooklyn federal judge who was Judge Fuld's clerk in 1949.
        Judge Fuld's steel-trap legal mind was particularly evident when he had to resolve conflicts between laws in different jurisdictions. In a 1963 case, the issue was whether a New York resident injured in a car accident in Canada could recover damages from the driver, who was also a New York resident. Though New York law permitted the recovery, Canadian law did not.
        The prevailing law at the time was that such damage suits were governed by the law where the accident occurred. In a pioneering decision, Judge Fuld permitted the woman to recover under New York law.
        Time magazine reported in 1971 that this precedent was cited in more than 60 scholarly articles and 200 court opinions.
        Judge Fuld's legal reasoning often included sophisticated dollops of history and sociology. Even his dissents were sometimes later carried into law. In 1951, for instance, the New York Court upheld the banning of an Italian film, ''The Miracle,'' on the ground that it was ''sacrilegious.''
        Judge Fuld dissented: ''What is orthodoxy? What sacrilegious? Whose orthodoxy, to whom sacrilegious?''
        Courts later abandoned such censorship. Some of his other dissents on issues like free speech, obscenity and literacy tests were made into law by the United States Supreme Court.
        Another dissent came in the late 1940's, when Judge Fuld wrote for three judges who believed that Metropolitan Life had discriminated against blacks by not allowing them to live in its Stuyvesant Town housing development in Manhattan. Judge Weinstein said that Judge Fuld's arguments, which were not convincing to four judges on his court, helped influence the Supreme Court's language in its monumental ruling against segregated schools in 1954.
        Judge Fuld said making distinctions based on ancestry was ''odious to a free people.''
        A mountain climber who once almost made it to the top of the Matterhorn, Judge Fuld had a sense of humor and a quick smile to go with it. One gag poked fun at his wide-ranging approach to the specific merits of individual cases. It was a small book in his office with the title, ''The Concurring Dissents of Judge Fuld: A Search for Consistency.'' Inside the jacket was a book in Japanese.
        Stanley Howells Fuld was born in Manhattan on Aug. 23, 1903. His Baltimore-born father was a proofreader for The New York Times.
        He grew up in the Bronx, and attended Tonwsend Harris High School, graduating in three years. He graduated cum laude from the College of the City of New York, where a lack of aptitude for mathematics had influenced him to switch from engineering to the law.
        In 1926, he graduated from Columbia Law School, where he was editor of the law review. In 1930, he married Florence Geringer, who died in 1975. He is survived by their daughters Judith Miller of Manhattan and Hermine Nessen of Manhattan and Aspen, six grandchildren and seven great-grandchildren.
        He is also survived by his current wife, Stella, and her sons, Myron Rapaport of Lake George, N.Y., and Robert Rapaport of Palm Beach, Fla.
        From 1926 to 1935, Mr. Fuld he practiced privately. In 1935, Thomas E. Dewey, special prosecutor of rackets in Manhattan and a schoolmate of Mr. Fuld's at Columbia, hired him as an investigator. His specialty was developing new theories to prosecute racketeers, including Charles Luciano, known as Lucky, and James J. Hines, the Tammany Hall district leader.
        In 1937, Mr. Dewey was elected Manhattan district attorney and appointed Mr. Fuld to head the Indictment Bureau. He boiled the lengthy forms down to two or three precise sentences.
        For the five years beginning in 1939, Mr. Fuld was chief of the Appeals Bureau. He argued about 200 appeals in the Court of Appeals.
        After Mr. Fuld spent two more years in private practice, Mr. Dewey, who by then was governor, appointed Mr. Fuld to the State Court of Appeals to fill a vacancy. At 42, he was the youngest judge to take the bench in the appeals court.
        After his appointment, Judge Fuld was elected to the court for a 14-year term in 1946 and again in 1960. He retired in 1973, when he reached the mandatory retirement age of 70. He then entered private practice for 18 years.
        Despite his career as a criminal prosecutor, Judge Fuld attained national eminence for his concern for the rights of defendants. He wrote strongly worded opinions against wiretapping, the so-called ''stop-and-frisk'' statute, free speech and a free press.
        In the case of Mark Fein, a rich executive from Park Avenue accused in 1964 of killing Ruby Markowitz, his bookmaker from Williamsburg, Brooklyn, Judge Fuld noted that the district attorney had withheld evidence. He wrote a minority opinion saying the conviction should be overturned.
        Judge Weinstein particularly remembered Judge Fuld's passion for precision, which often caused him to ask his clerks to write 30 or more drafts of opinions. He would continue his revisions even after the pages were printed.
        ''Eventually, it would be an absolute masterpiece of legal writing,'' Judge Weinstein said. ''But he drove me to distraction and tears.
      