
        Burns W. Roper, a leading pollster for four decades and the author of political polling's central question about the state of the nation, died on Monday at his home in Bourne, Mass., on Cape Cod. He was 77.
        The cause was lung cancer, said his son David.
        It was Mr. Roper, known as Bud, who first asked Americans if they thought ''things in this country are generally going in the right direction'' or had ''seriously gotten off on the wrong track.'' That question is now a staple of polling questionnaires, often coming first.
        Mr. Roper got into polling when he joined Elmo Roper & Associates, the New York-based company founded by his father in 1933. Bud arrived there after returning from World War II, in which, fresh from attendance at Yale, he had joined the Army Air Corps and flown 35 bombing missions over Europe. He would stay in touch with flying buddies the rest of his life.
        In time, Mr. Roper became chairman of the company. As a major figure in professional polling organizations like the American Association for Public Opinion Research, he helped write method and question-wording standards, which were made public so that polling results could better be judged.
        His career was bracketed by two polling controversies, each marked by his readiness to admit mistakes.
        The first was the failure of the Roper poll, like others, to anticipate President Harry S. Truman's election victory over Thomas E. Dewey in 1948. Mr. Roper and his father said they had erred by not seeing indications they should have noted that Truman was gaining fast in the last weeks of the campaign.
        Then, in 1993, a poll his organization did for the American Jewish Committee reported that 22 percent of Americans doubted that the Holocaust had ever happened. Mr. Roper attributed the figure to poor writing of the question. ''We should never have approved the question, and we certainly never should have written it,'' he said, because the wording ''thoroughly confused people.'' He praised pollsters who, posing the question in different words, found that as few as 2 percent of Americans doubted the Holocaust.
        ''He was absolutely mortified to have made the mistake,'' Mr. Roper's longtime friend Warren J. Mitofsky, himself a pollster, recalled last night.
        While working in New York, Mr. Roper would drive to the Roper Center at the University of Connecticut to teach in a master's program on public opinion research. He hired many of the graduates for his company, which is now based in Princeton, N.J., and known as RoperASW.
        Mr. Roper was a native of rural Creston, Iowa. He moved to Cape Cod after his retirement in 1994, serving there on the local zoning board. He would meet fellow airmen every Thursday for breakfast.
        Besides David, he is survived by two other sons, Bruce, of Columbia, Md., and Douglas, of Haddam, Conn., and a daughter, Candace Ryan of Lancaster, Pa.
      