
        John Schlesinger, the Academy-Award-winning director of ''Midnight Cowboy'' whose other films -- including ''Billy Liar,'' ''Sunday, Bloody Sunday'' and ''Darling'' -- often captured the plight of individuals grasping for life support in contemporary society, died yesterday in Palm Springs, Calif., where he lived. He was 77.
        The cause of death was not announced. Mr. Schlesinger had been in poor health after suffering a stroke in 2000, The Associated Press reported.
        More than many directors of his rank, Mr. Schlesinger was equally adept in dealing with American and British subjects. As an Englishman, he made his early reputation with three small, bold films in the 1960's, ''A Kind of Loving,'' ''Billy Liar'' and ''Darling.''
        During this period he was very much a leader of the British New Wave, but in contrast to the neorealism of Karel Reisz and others, his films left room for the dreams as well as the aspirations of the working class.
        The dreamers were exemplified by Billy Liar (Tom Courtenay) who created an illusory world called Ambrosia in which all things were possible. In an essay in The New York Times in 2000, A. O. Scott wrote that ''Billy Liar'' was ''one of the great movies of the 1960's,'' adding that ''in spite of its bitter edge,'' the film was ''pure Ambrosia.''
        Speaking about the themes in his movies, Mr. Schlesinger said his characters ''try to reach out and contact other humans'' and fall into ''a kind of compromise, making the best of a situation while retaining the safety valve of fantasy.'' He also said: ''I love the feeling of things underneath, of things not spelled out. In 'Darling,' under the guise of a smart woman is someone who never settled and always hoped that something better would come along.''
        The stories and screenplays for Mr. Schlesinger's films were written by celebrated authors (Keith Waterhouse, Willis Hall, Frederick Raphael, Waldo Salt, Penelope Gilliatt), but they were identifiably the work of the director: emphasizing character in a chiaroscuro with sometimes surprising depth.
        Mr. Schlesinger's films were beacons for actors, who gave some of their finest performances in his work: Mr. Courtenay, Julie Christie as the star model in ''Darling,'' Peter Finch as the homosexual doctor left by his lover in ''Sunday, Bloody Sunday,'' Dustin Hoffman as Ratso Rizzo, that abrasive and colorful denizen of New York streets in ''Midnight Cowboy.''
        The director's Hollywood phase began with ''Midnight Cowboy'' in 1969, in which Mr. Hoffman's Ratso and his cowboy companion (Jon Voight) discovered a kinship as outsiders in a rootless society. ''Midnight Cowboy'' won an Oscar as best picture and for Mr. Schlesinger as best director. His next film was ''Sunday, Bloody Sunday'' in 1971.
        With ''The Day of the Locust'' (1975), he attempted the monumental task of dramatizing Nathanael West's Dantesque vision of Hollywood. He followed that with the William Goldman thriller ''Marathon Man,'' starring Mr. Hoffman and Laurence Olivier, in a provocative matching of acting styles -- naturalistic American and classical British.
        Mr. Schlesinger was born in London in 1926. His father was a pediatrician who played the cello; his mother played the violin, their son, the piano. Although music continued to be a strong interest, as a young man he thought about becoming an architect.
        During World War II he served in the British Army and entertained his fellow soldiers with a magic act. His interest in magic, he said, ''may well have been the first glimmering of my ambition to translate images and illusions of life onto the screen.'' This was a period he later evoked in ''Yanks,'' a movie about American soldiers stationed in Britain during the war.
        After the war he studied English literature at Oxford University and joined the Oxford University Dramatic Society, where many other future actors and directors had their first theatrical training. He acted at Oxford and after graduation appeared on the stage and in several films. It was said that his experiences as an actor was helpful in enabling him to draw striking performances from others.
        He worked on documentaries for the BBC's Monitor program and then made his first film, ''Terminus,'' about a day in the life of London's Waterloo station. That led to directing features, beginning with ''A Kind of Loving'' in 1962, in which Alan Bates and June Ritchie played a couple trapped in their working-class life in Manchester.
        ''Billy Liar,'' his version of the Waterhouse-Hall play, added to his growing reputation, further certified by ''Darling.'' For her performance in the title role, Ms. Christie won an Academy Award as best actress as well as other prizes. The New York Film Critics named it the best movie of the year.
        With ''Far from the Madding Crowd,'' Mr. Schlesinger looked to the past and the Thomas Hardy novel in a film starring Mr. Bates, Ms. Christie, Mr. Finch and Terence Stamp. For his first Hollywood movie, ''Midnight Cowboy,'' Mr. Schlesinger shattered preconceptions. The film, in common with the original James Leo Herlihy novel, depicted a harsh urban landscape, filled with a far different madding crowd.
        Mr. Schlesinger continued his exploration of sexuality in ''Sunday Bloody Sunday,'' in which a doctor (Mr. Finch) and a divorced woman (Glenda Jackson) are both in love with a young sculptor (Murray Head). Speaking about the characters, Mr. Schlesinger said, ''Anyone who has ever had an unsatisfactory emotional relationship and doesn't know how to end it, anyone who wants to get out of something painful without hurting somebody else can identify with these people.'' He said that he identified with all three characters. Reviewing the movie in The Times, Vincent Canby said it was the director's ''wisest, least sentimental film, an almost perfect realization'' of the screenplay by Ms. Gilliatt.
        ''The Day of the Locust'' was not simply a film about Hollywood but an apocalyptical view of Western civilization. Mr. Schlesinger felt strongly that to reach the metaphor he needed to illuminate the specifics, and he worked closely with his designers to conjure the garishness of Hollywood of the 1930's. At all cost he wanted to avoid a nostalgic evocation and to focus on what he called ''the locust people -- West's people who look desperate, who come to California to die.'' In this search he enlisted extras from the street, mixing them as background with his stars Donald Sutherland and William Atherton.
        As a result, he transformed West's novel into an epic. It was, Mr. Canby said, ''like a DeMille version of 'The Ten Commandmants' in which everyone gets drowned crossing the Red Sea.''
        Although the critic David Thomson is harshly dismissive of the director's most acclaimed works, he is respectful of a pair of later Schlesinger films, both written for television by Alan Bennett (and later presented on the stage). These are ''An Englishman Abroad,'' in which Mr. Bates played the spy Guy Burgess in exile in Russia, and ''A Question of Attribution,'' in which James Fox played Anthony Blunt (in his role as aesthete rather than as a spy) in conversation with Prunella Scales imitating Queen Elizabeth II. Mr. Thomson called them ''crucial English comedies.''
        Mr. Schlesinger also directed plays (''Julius Caesar'' with John Gielgud at the National Theater in London, where he was an associate director) and operas, but throughout his career he remained dedicated to film. His other movies included ''Honky Tonk Freeway,'' ''The Falcon and the Snowman,'' ''Madame Sousatzka,'' ''Pacific Heights,'' ''The Innocent'' and ''Cold Comfort Farm.'' His last movie was ''The Next Best Thing'' (2000), with Madonna and Rupert Everett.
        He is survived by a brother, Roger, and a sister, Hilary, both of London, and by his companion, Michael Childers.
        Despite his many successes, he often found it difficult to get a project under way and that disappointment fueled his work with ''The Day of the Locust.'' As he said, ''Underneath the facade of promise is all the frustration. At the studio people dress to prepare for fantasy, but they're treated like commodities.'' And he added, ''Hollywood is an extraordinary kind of temporary place. Buildings disappear just like fortunes and reputations -- the instant dispensability of all of us working in movies!'' What survives, of course, are his movies.
      