
        Harold C. Schonberg, the ubiquitous and authoritative chief music critic of The New York Times from 1960 to 1980, whose reviews and essays influenced and chronicled vast changes in the world of opera and classical music, died yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan.
        Writing daily reviews and more contemplative Sunday pieces, Mr. Schonberg set the standard for critical evaluation and journalistic thoroughness. He wrote his reviews in a crisp, often staccato style that gave his evaluations unequivocal clarity and directness, attributes that earned him a Pulitzer Prize for criticism in 1971, the first for a music critic.
        However significant his opinions and endorsements, he viewed his role simply and directly. ''I write for myself -- not necessarily for readers, not for musicians,'' he said in a 1967 interview with Editor and Publisher. ''I'd be dead if I tried to please a particular audience. Criticism is only informed opinion. I write a piece that is a personal reaction based, hopefully, on a lot of years of study, background, scholarship and whatever intuition I have. It's not a critic's job to be right or wrong; it's his job to express an opinion in readable English.''
        Mr. Schonberg thrived on the pressures of a daily newspaper schedule. After a concert he would go to the offices of The Times to write, often leaving his wife or a friend waiting outside in his car with the guarantee that he would write his review and return within 45 minutes. Often, he made a game of racing his colleagues, coming into the office after they had started their reviews, casually checking his mail and smoking a cigarette and then starting and finishing his own notice while they were still at work. Rarely did his copy contain a typo or crossed-over thought.
        He couched his reviews in a taut style that contrasted sharply with the more leisurely Sunday columns in which he discussed broader musical topics, often provocatively. In one 1979 column, for example, he included the results of a private test in which he hoped to determine if it was possible to distinguish between male and female pianists. Mr. Schonberg had prepared a tape with two performances each (one by a man, one by a woman) of several works and had asked acquaintances to guess the sex of the player. The results, he wrote, were inconclusive, but the column, and a 1980 follow-up, drew an enormous number of letters and inspired classical radio disc jockeys across the country to present tests of their own.
        He also regularly addressed issues raised by readers, usually beginning such columns with a quotation from a reader's letter about anything from changes in concert programming, to whether halls should turn their lights down during Lieder recitals, to whether critics should follow scores during performances. In his responses, he would mix historical perspective and clear reasoning with undisguised personal opinion.
        ''An experienced score reader does not have his nose buried perpetually in the score,'' he wrote about his habit of taking scores to concerts. ''He turns pages more or less automatically, knowing exactly where the musician is going to be at any given point. He may not even look at the pages. But when something a bit unusual happens, there is the score to verify the point.''
        ''Dare I also say,'' Mr. Schonberg added, ''that some musicians can be so dull that following the score is an antidote against going to sleep? There are also scores and scores. Does a conductor use a corrupt version of a Haydn symphony or is he educated enough to encompass the latest findings? What Bruckner edition is he using?''
        But music was not the only subject on which Mr. Schonberg wrote with authority. A devoted and skilled chess player, he covered the Boris Spassky-Bobby Fischer championship match in Reykjavik, Iceland, during the summer of 1972. After Mr. Fischer defeated Mr. Spassky, Lothar Schmidt, a German grandmaster and a referee at the match, said that Mr. Schonberg's coverage was the most thorough of any journalist present. He also covered the championship match between Garry Kasparov and Anatoly Karpov in 1984, and he reviewed mysteries and thrillers for The New York Times Book Review from 1972 to 1995 under the pseudonym Newgate Callendar.
        Mr. Schonberg's concert reviews were cogently argued and informed by both practical musicianship -- he was a capable pianist -- and a passion for the intensely emotional music and interpretive style of the Romantic era and its extensions into the 20th century. His particular specialty was the piano. Few writers have approached his expertise in the instrument, its players and its literature. There was no question that his favorite pianist was Josef Hofmann, about whom he periodically found an opportunity to wax rhapsodic.
        ''Those who heard his piano playing can never forget the man's aristocracy, flowing line, sensuous sound, brilliant technique and, above all, feeling of spontaneity,'' he wrote in 1976 on the centenary of the pianist's birth. ''Hofmann, somehow, made every other pianist sound thick.''
        But if Hofmann was his benchmark, Mr. Schonberg wrote enthusiastically about pianists at nearly every point on the interpretive spectrum. He was especially fascinated by Russian pianists, partly because they tended to perform with dazzling power and technique, and partly because the isolation in which they worked for so many years before performing in the West had helped preserve a distinctive national style.
        He championed the work of Emil Gilels, Sviatoslav Richter, Lazar Berman and, in the late 1980's, the young Yevgeny Kissin. Among American pianists, he favored those who worked in the grand Romantic style, like Earl Wild, Jorge Bolet and Raymond Lowenthal. But he was also partial to gentler colorists like Guiomar Novaes and more Apollonian pianists like Artur Rubinstein and Rudolf Serkin.
        As fashions in both early and modern music veered toward what Mr. Schonberg regarded as a coldly rational approach, he continued to insist that musicians find a way to touch a listener's heart. Yet he was also critical of what he perceived as the interpretive excesses of musicians like Leonard Bernstein and Glenn Gould. His criticism of music he disliked could be harsh, and in a valedictory essay published at the time of his retirement as senior critic, he explained himself unrepentantly.
        ''I thought the serial-dominated music after the war was a hideously misbegotten creature sired by Caliban out of Hecate, and I had no hesitation in saying so,'' he wrote. ''Nor has it been proved that I was all wrong. Certain it is that the decades of serialism did nothing but alienate the public, creating a chasm between composer and audience.''
        Mr. Schonberg chronicled a time of great change in the music world. When he began, the musical season lasted about seven months, with little but Tanglewood and a handful of European festivals to cover during the summer. By the time he retired as senior critic, the season was year-round, and series like the Mostly Mozart Festival in New York and the Spoleto Festival U.S.A. in Charleston, S.C., and symphony and opera programs across the country, virtually ended the distinction between the season and the summer.
        At the same time, Mr. Schonberg covered the record world as it made the transition from 78 r.p.m. discs to LP's, and after his retirement, in his position as cultural correspondent for The Times, he reviewed compact discs as well. He was not always impressed with technological change. Visitors to his Riverside Drive apartment in recent years were likely to be treated to an afternoon of classic performances on 78's -- which he kept in pristine condition -- and a demonstration of how CD transfers of the same recordings often failed to capture the warmth and depth of the originals.
        Mr. Schonberg was married to Rosalyn Krokover, a dance critic for the Musical Courier, from 1942 until her death in 1973. In 1975 he married Helene Cornell, who died two months ago. He is survived by his sister, Edith Filosa, of Manhattan.
        Harold Charles Schonberg was born in Washington Heights on Nov. 29, 1915, and began studying the piano when he was 4 years old. One of his teachers -- and the one whom he regularly cited as an important influence -- was an aunt, Alice Frisca, who had studied with Leopold Godowsky and briefly pursued a professional performing career. Mr. Schonberg discovered early on that he had a superb musical memory that allowed him to remember pieces in great detail after a single hearing. By his own account, music was the stuff of his boyhood daydreams: when his teachers reprimanded him for not paying attention in class, it was because he was replaying his family's collection of records in his head.
        Mr. Schonberg regarded his first trip to the Metropolitan Opera, four days before his 12th birthday, as one of the crucial events of his childhood. The opera was Wagner's ''Meistersinger,'' and in March 1966, a month before the Met closed its last season at its old house at Broadway and 39th Street before moving to Lincoln Center, Mr. Schonberg devoted a Sunday column to his recollections of that evening 39 years earlier. Characteristically avoiding the first person, even in so personal a memoir, he described the column as ''a story of a boy and his first visit to the Metropolitan Opera.''
        ''So big! So beautiful! So much what his dreams had told him it would be!'' he wrote. ''He vaguely remembers other impressions. But the thing as fresh in his mind today as it was on Nov. 25, 1927, was the sound of that first C major chord when Artur Bodanzky brought down his baton.
        ''The chord rose to the dress circle, and he felt as though he could reach out, touch it, caress it. He had been to concerts before, but somehow, in this vast dark auditorium, there was a different feeling to the texture and even the organization of this chord. It sounded warm and cozy. It covered him like a blanket.''
        Mr. Schonberg later wrote that he set his sights on a career as a music critic that night. His first reviews were published in the Musical Advance in 1936, when he was still an undergraduate at Brooklyn College. He completed his bachelor's degree in 1937 and enrolled at the New York University graduate school, where he studied with the composer Marion Bauer and wrote a master's thesis on the musical and literary significance of Elizabethan songbooks. He also studied drawing at the Art Students League, and illustrated some of his early music articles with caricatures of performers and composers. In 1939, he became an associate editor and record critic for the American Music Lover, a monthly magazine that evolved into the American Record Guide.
        During World War II, Mr. Schonberg was a first lieutenant in the United States Army Airborne Signal Corps. He had hoped to enlist as a pilot, but was declared pastel-blind (he could distinguish colors but not shadings and subtleties) and was sent to London, where he was a code breaker and later a parachutist. He remained in the Army until 1946.
        After his return to New York, Mr. Schonberg became a music critic for The New York Sun, and became so fascinated with the workings of a daily newspaper that after two years as a critic he volunteered to also do legwork for the city desk, covering City Hall or the Bronx Zoo by day and concerts by night. He also contributed reviews to the Musical Courier, Musical Digest and Gramophone during the 1940's and 1950's.
        Mr. Schonberg joined the staff of The New York Times in 1950 and became record editor in 1955. Five years later, when Howard Taubman succeeded Brooks Atkinson as The Times's senior theater critic, Mr. Schonberg became senior music critic.
        One of his immediate and lasting innovations was establishing a code of conduct in which friendships with performers and composers were prohibited. ''I saw too much of that at the Herald-Tribune,'' he wrote, ''where most of the critics were composers and some of them jockeyed shamelessly to get their music played.'' In the 1967 interview with Editor and Publisher, he said: ''I refuse to believe that if a critic is friendly with a musician he can be impartial. If word gets around you are a friend of a musician, your opinion becomes suspect.''
        Mr. Schonberg kept his distance, which in one case was probably just as well. Michele Molese, who sang leading roles with the New York City Opera for nearly two decades, took offense when Mr. Schonberg wrote in The Times about some of his squeezed high notes. On Nov. 1, 1974, Mr. Molese struck back. He took a powerful high C in ''Un Ballo in Maschera,'' and after the applause died down, said to the audience, ''That pinched high C is for Mr. Schonberg.''
        Mr. Schonberg estimated that he wrote 1.3 million words during his two decades as senior critic. Some of his favorite columns were collected into a book, ''Facing the Music,'' in 1981. Also among Mr. Schonberg's 13 books are several that remain standard reference volumes. These include ''The Great Pianists'' (1963); ''The Great Conductors'' (1967); ''The Lives of the Great Composers'' (1970, revised 1997); ''The Glorious Ones,'' a study of virtuoso soloists (1985); and ''Horowitz: His Life and Music'' (1992).
        After his retirement as senior critic in 1980, Mr. Schonberg remained a cultural correspondent for The New York Times until 1985, and continued contributing record reviews and occasional interview pieces thereafter.
        During his career, Mr. Schonberg vigorously defended his opinions when musicians, readers or other critics disagreed, and he sometimes said that he enjoyed the arguments, ''so long as what I've written makes you think.'' At the same time, he always insisted that a critic's opinion, however forcefully held or fully supported by research, inevitably had a subjective element.
        ''Some critics profess to work according to a set of immutable esthetic and technical laws,'' he wrote in The Times on July 6, 1980. ''They are only fooling themselves. There are no immutable laws. There is only the critic himself: his background, his taste and intuition, his ideals, his literary ability. If style is the man, so is criticism, and his criticism always ends up a reflection of what he is.''
        Correction:  August 13, 2003, Wednesday  A picture caption in some copies on July 27 with an obituary of Harold C. Schonberg, former chief music critic of The New York Times, misidentified the man who played chess with him in Reykjavik, Iceland, at the time of the Spassky-Fischer championship match in 1972. The player was Dr. Frank Brady, who assisted Mr. Schonberg and provided coverage for other news organizations, not Bobby Fischer.
        Correction:  August 20, 2003, Wednesday  An obituary on July 27 about Harold C. Schonberg, former chief music critic of The New York Times, misspelled the surname of a pianist he championed. The pianist was Raymond Lewenthal, not Lowenthal.
      