
        Norman C. Rasmussen, a former professor of nuclear engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology who pioneered a technique for measuring risk at nuclear power plants, died on July 18 at a nursing home in Concord, Mass. He was 75.
        The cause was complications from Parkinson's disease, his son, Neil E. Rasmussen, said.
        In 1975 Dr. Rasmussen oversaw the production of a landmark report, the 21-volume Reactor Safety Study, sponsored by the Atomic Energy Commission, a precursor of the Nuclear Regulatory Commission. The report predicted that in power reactors in this country, a core damage accident would occur only once in every 20,000 years of operation, with one reactor running for one year counting as a year of operating experience.
        But after the partial meltdown of the Three Mile Island 2 reactor in Pennsylvania in 1979, when the nuclear industry in this country had fewer than 500 years of operating experience, a new study ordered by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission reassessed the risk and estimated it at one meltdown per 1,000 years of reactor operation.
        The commission disavowed some of the findings of the Rasmussen study. But it continued to embrace his technique, now known as probabilistic risk assessment, which involved drawing up a ''fault tree'' to trace how problems can spread through a plant when a piece of equipment fails. Among the problems with the Rasmussen study were that it overlooked some risks, like fires, and that it was based on reactor designs that did not include the Three Mile Island type.
        Dr. Rasmussen was a professor of nuclear engineering at M.I.T. from 1958 until 1994, and was in charge of the institute's nuclear engineering department from 1975 to 1981. In 1985, the government presented him with the Enrico Fermi Award for his ''pioneering contributions to nuclear energy in the development of probabilistic risk assessment techniques that have provided new insights and led to new developments in nuclear power plant safety.''
        Born in Harrisburg, Pa., Dr. Rasmussen served in the Navy from June 1945 to August 1946 and graduated from Gettysburg College in 1950. He received a Ph.D. in physics from M.I.T. in 1956.
        In addition to his son, of Concord, Mass., survivors include a daughter, Arlene R. Soule, of Littleton, N.H.; five brothers, Frederick, of Moorestown, N.J., Howard, of Charlotte, N.C., Holger, of Penn Valley, Calif., John, of Columbus, Ohio, and David, of Clarksville, Va.; and four grandchildren.
      