
        Marvin Bower, whose leadership of McKinsey & Company turned the business of selling management advice into a keystone of American corporate culture, died on Wednesday at his home in Delray Beach, Fla. He was 99.
        McKinsey was a small engineering and accounting firm in Chicago in the 1930's when Mr. Bower, abandoning his Cleveland law practice, went to work there. In the decades that followed, he helped McKinsey -- and through McKinsey the entire management consulting field -- to grow beyond the skepticism of those who called it a racket and into a serious and substantive industry.
        Today, McKinsey advises 100 of the world's 150 biggest companies. Business Week magazine in 1987 termed Mr. Bower and Edwin B. Booz, founder of Booz Allen Hamilton, the two people most responsible for the growth of management consulting after World War II.
        Jack Sweeney, editor in chief of Consulting Magazine, said business historians routinely hail Mr. Bower as ''the father of the consulting profession.''
        Mr. Bower has been credited with taking a fledgling industry and setting its course not only as to the kinds of services it could sell but also the standards it must uphold for its work to be respected.
        He displayed something of a passion for niceties. He insisted that McKinsey be called a firm, never a company. Jobs were engagements and the firm had a practice, not a business. Employees for many years were required to wear hats.
        Mr. Bower's approach, beginning with common sense, was supercharged with the input of the brightest graduates of Harvard Business School, whom he preferred to long-serving executives. McKinsey's business grew beyond giving advice on far-reaching corporate reorganizations to the likes of General Motors and General Electric, in time advising Germany on how to rebuild the economy after the fall of the Berlin Wall. A current assignment is advising United Airlines, which has filed for bankruptcy protection, on how best to restructure its service and fares to remain competitive.
        Mr. Bower stressed integrity. Consultants, he maintained, must always put the interests of a client ahead of McKinsey's own revenue. They were to do only work that was necessary and that they could do well.
        He had the title of managing director from 1950 to 1967, and stayed on for many more years. In 1993, at the last of a series of retirement dinners, a colleague, Jack Crowley, recalled a meeting in which the head of the client company bellowed argumentatively. Mr. Bower told the executive that his company's problem was its top leadership.
        ''There was deathly silence,'' Mr. Crowley said. ''It happened to be totally accurate. That was the end of our work with that client, but it didn't bother Marvin.''
        Mr. Bower was born in Cincinnati on Aug. 1, 1903, and grew up in Cleveland, where his family moved when he was a child. He went to public schools there and graduated from Brown University in 1925.
        At that time, he had no fixed idea of how he wanted to make a living. His father, who was deputy recorder of Cuyahoga County, persuaded him to study law.
        In 1927, he married the former Helen M. McLaughlin, who worked to help him through Harvard Law School and then Harvard Business School. She died in 1985, and Mr. Bower married Clothilde de Vèze Stewart three years later. She died in 1999, as did Mr. Bower's son Peter.
        After graduating from Harvard Business School in 1930, Mr. Bower was hired by the law firm of Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue in Cleveland. The firm assigned him to serve as secretary of a number of committees of the bondholders of troubled companies.
        ''No one asked why these companies failed -- or how much earning power the new bonds could support,'' Mr. Bower said in an interview with MBA magazine quoted in Investor's Business Daily in 2000.
        In 1933, he secured an interview with James O. McKinsey, a former University of Chicago professor who had started a firm of accountants and engineers in 1926. He liked Mr. Bower's ideas about a professional management firm and offered him a job.
        In 1937, when Mr. McKinsey died of pneumonia at 48, Mr. Bower and another senior partner, A. T. Kearney, disagreed over how to run the firm. Mr. Kearney kept the Chicago office and eventually named it after himself -- A. T. Kearney & Company. Mr. Bower named the New York firm for his departed partner.
        He persuaded his colleagues not to follow other consulting firms' lead in selling themselves to other companies or public shareholders. His strongest argument was made by example: he sold his own shares back to the firm at book value when he turned 60 -- far less than he could have received on the open market. In essence, Mr. Bower considered McKinsey too good to sell.
        ''Would the Vatican go public?'' asked Forbes magazine in an article about McKinsey in 1987. ''The First Marine Division?''
        Not that Mr. Bower did not embrace change. In the early 1960's, he recognized that offices had become less formal. So he showed up for work without a hat, becoming the first to break his own rule.
        Mr. Bower is survived by his sons Richard, of Bronxville, N.Y., and James, of Providence, R.I.; six grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.
      