
        Luther Henderson, a prolific arranger and conductor on Broadway whose deft touch in orchestrating jazz was prized by Duke Ellington, died on Tuesday at a hospice in Manhattan. He was 84 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, the theater director and actor Billie Allen.
        Mr. Henderson worked on more than 50 Broadway musicals, including ''Ain't Misbehavin','' ''Do Re Mi,'' ''Flower Drum Song,'' ''Play On!'' and the 1971 revival of ''No, No, Nanette.''
        He worked with Richard Rodgers, Jule Styne, Lena Horne and Ellington among others.
        For ''Jelly's Last Jam,'' a hit in 1992 for which he received a Tony nomination, he also took songs and musical fragments by Jelly Roll Morton and rearranged them into new songs. Morton's ''Salty Dog,'' for example, was transformed into ''That's How You Jazz.''
        ''Nobody knows how to classify me or the music when it comes to this musical,'' Mr. Henderson said in an interview with The New York Times in 1992. ''I call myself a G.P., a general practitioner.''
        His skill was in transforming the rhythm and texture of jazz written for small ensembles into the much larger -- but less flexible -- Broadway pit orchestra.
        The finesse and ease of his final product obscured the difficult cerebral work that went into it.
        ''The job lies in the deconstruction of the music to discover its basic anatomy,'' he said of his work on ''Jelly's Last Jam,'' ''and the subsequent reconstruction and redevelopment of the music to meet these demands, as well as to preserve the essence of the jazz from which it is sprung.''
        He also arranged the music of Fats Waller in ''Ain't Misbehavin','' which opened in 1978 and ran for almost four years.
        But his closest association was with Ellington, who first hired him in 1946 to orchestrate ''Beggar's Holiday,'' the only Ellington musical produced on Broadway.
        Mr. Henderson worked with Ellington and Billy Strayhorn frequently in the 1940's and 50's as their works became longer, bigger and more complex.
        ''He dubbed me his classical arm,'' Mr. Henderson said of Ellington in a 2000 interview in The Times. ''I had my Juilliard training. And he wanted me to legitimize him in this society we call classical musical. I didn't know that then. It's taken me 50 years to figure that out.''
        Born in Kansas City, Mo., Mr. Henderson moved with his family to Harlem when he was 4, and he went to school with Ellington's son, Mercer. He graduated from Juilliard in 1942 and was drafted into the United States Navy. He became an arranger for the Navy jazz band, which also included the trumpeter Clark Terry.
        Mr. Henderson also worked in television from the 1950's in to the 80's, on ''The Ed Sullivan Show'' and specials for Victor Borge, Carol Burnett, Andy Williams and Polly Bergen.
        He was the musical director for the 1982 television special ''Ain't Misbehavin','' for which he received an Emmy nomination.
        He was nominated twice for Tony Awards, for ''Jelly's Last Jam'' and ''Play On!'' Shortly before his death he was notified by the National Endowment for the Arts that he had been chosen for a Jazz Masters fellowship, which will be awarded posthumously in January.
        In 2000 he was honored at a Carnegie Hall concert with Sir Simon Rattle and the Orchestra of St. Luke's that featured his Ellington arrangements.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by two sons, Denson and Dr. Luther III, and a daughter, Melanie, all of Los Angeles; and two grandchildren and one great-grandchild. Three previous wives predeceased him.
        As an arranger, Mr. Henderson sometimes worked anonymously. After arranging music for one of Ellington's Carnegie Hall concerts, Mr. Henderson requested that his name be in the program.
        ''I wanted to be sure I got credit for what I'd done,'' he said. ''And Duke, he said to me: 'Yes, oh yes. Of course.' But when I went down to Carnegie Hall before the concert to see if my name was in the program, it was not. I had to have inserts printed up: 'Symphonic orchestrations by Luther Henderson.' I didn't like him for that. Which was very hard for me. Because I loved the Duke.''
        Correction:  August 21, 2003, Thursday  An obituary on Aug. 1 about Luther Henderson, an orchestrator and arranger who worked extensively with Duke Ellington, referred incorrectly to the musical ''Beggar's Holiday,'' which was orchestrated by Mr. Henderson. It was not the only Ellington musical produced on Broadway. (''Pousse-Cafe'' ran for three performances in 1966, and later productions, like ''Sophisticated Ladies,'' used mainly Ellington songs.)
      