
        Herman Schneider, the author of more than 80 books, mostly science books for children, died in Boston on Thursday. He was 98 and lived on Martha's Vineyard.
        Many of Mr. Schneider's books were written with his wife, Nina, including ''How Big is Big? From Stars to Atoms, a Yardstick for the Universe'' (W.R. Scott, 1946), ''Let's Look under the City: Water, Gas, Waste, Electricity, Telephone'' (W.R. Scott, 1950) and ''Science Fun with a Flashlight'' (McGraw, 1975).
        Among the books he wrote by himself were ''Everyday Machines and How They Work'' (Whittlesey House, 1950) and ''How Scientists Find Out'' (McGraw, 1976).
        With his brother, Leo, he wrote ''The Harper Dictionary of Science in Everyday Language'' (Harper and Rowe, 1988).
        Mr. Schneider wrote in The New York Times in 1964 that good science-experiment books for children had ''structure, organically related experiments and build up an understanding of science.'' He said that bad ones, which he suggested were all too common, were ''hodgepodges of science stunts.''
        A review of his and his wife's book ''Science Fun with Milk Cartons'' (Whittlesey, 1953) in The Times suggested that he did not totally rule out interesting stunts, provided they carried a strong educational message.
        ''A 12-year-old boy who helped guinea-pig this reviewer's copy spent two hours building a suspension bridge and was rewarded with the frank envy of his friends,'' Pat Clark wrote. ''We built a swing bridge and then watched several delighted adults take turns winding the hairpin handle on the pencil windlass.''
        Mr. Schneider was born in Poland, the son of a tailor. The family emigrated to New York, and he graduated from what is now the City College of the City University of New York, where he also earned a master's degree.
        He taught in the New York City school system for 20 years and then for 5 years was the system's science supervisor. He also taught at Bank Street College. He was a consultant on 52 filmstrips associated with the Health Science series published by University Films Inc.
        In 1978, his ''Laser Light'' (McGraw, 1976), was named the best science book for teenagers by the New York Academy of Sciences.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Schneider is survived by his brother, Leo, of North Salem, N.Y.; two daughters, Elizabeth, of Manhattan and Lucy Deem of Portland, Ore.; a son, Stephen, of Alderney in the Channel Islands; 11 grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren. Another son, Robert, died last month.
      