
        Dr. Peter Safar, an anesthesiologist who developed lifesaving cardiopulmonary resuscitation techniques that are widely used today, died on Sunday at his home in Pittsburgh. He was 79.
        The cause was cancer.
        Dr. Safar founded and led several institutions responsible for developing lifesaving techniques, but he is best known for combining mouth-to-mouth resuscitation with closed-chest cardiac compression to develop the technique that came to be known commonly as C.P.R.
        ''He was the father of C.P.R.,'' Dr. Vinay Nadkarni, chairman of the American Heart Association's Emergency Cardiovascular Care Committee, said last night.
        Dr. Safar emphasized the importance of teaching the technique to ''ordinary people,'' Dr. Nadkarni added. ''He would constantly try to get the public these techniques, because he knew that this would mean that a person might live.''
        In 1952, Dr. Safar began his career at the National Cancer Institute of Peru, where he helped found the academic anesthesiology department. He performed similar roles at the Baltimore City Hospital, now Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center, and the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center.
        He also founded and developed the International Resuscitation Research Center at the University of Pittsburgh, starting in 1979.
        The center conducts research involving the secondary injuries that occur after traumatic brain injury, cardiopulmonary arrest and severe hemorrhage.
        Under the leadership of Dr. Patrick Kochanek, who took over as director when Dr. Safar stepped down in 1994, the institute was renamed the Safar Center for Resuscitation Research.
        As a founding member of the American Heart Association's C.P.R. Committee and the National Research Council's Committee on Emergency Medical Services, Dr. Safar played an important role in the organization of emergency units and in establishing guidelines to set up such agencies.
        He also helped to set standards for ambulance design and equipment as well as for the training of emergency medical technicians and paramedics.
        Dr. Safar is also credited with pioneering work in assembling modern intensive care units while at Baltimore City Hospital.
        Peter Safar was born on April 12, 1924, in Vienna. A skin disorder allowed him to avoid service in the German army in World War II.
        He obtained his medical degree from the University of Vienna and came to the United States for a residency at Yale. As a fellow at the University of Pennsylvania, he received his anesthesiology training.
        He was a member of Physicians for Social Responsibility and the International Physicians for Prevention of Nuclear War as well as an adviser for Army and Navy casualty care research programs.
        ''Dr. Safar's work went beyond that of cardiopulmonary resuscitation,'' Dr. Nadkarni said. ''His later work dealt with lowering the body temperature of someone who has been resuscitated after suffering cardiac arrest to prevent brain damage.''
        His research in that field began with his role as a military adviser, when he conducted animal experiments at the Safar Center. That research led to early human trials.
        Research published last month in Circulation, the journal of the American Heart Association, confirmed the value of the practice of chilling the body of some heart-attack victims. The association endorsed the cooling of comatose patients whose hearts have been restarted so that they can be brought back to life slowly, suffering less brain damage.
        Dr. Safar is survived by his wife, Eva Safar; two sons, Philip, of Wenatchee, Wash., and Paul, of Eugene, Ore.; and five grandchildren.
      