
        Craig Kelly, who played a major role in making snowboarding a modern-day sport and then a recreational outlet, died on Monday in an avalanche that killed seven skiers and snowboarders near Revelstoke, British Columbia. He was 36 and lived in Nelson, British Columbia.
        He was among 21 people who had gone to ski the Durrand Glacier when a wall of snow about 100 feet wide and 330 feet long came down.
        Kelly, who grew up in Mount Vernon, Wash., won three overall and four freestyle titles in the world snowboarding championships and three United States Open titles.
        Snowboarding is essentially surfing on the snow while wearing soft boots.
        Snowboarding competition started in 1975, and Kelly turned professional at 18. It became a Winter Olympic sport in 1998, soon after he stopped competing.
        ''Craig played a huge role in making it a sport,'' said Jake Burton of Burlington, Vt., his main sponsor.
        Kelly also changed the nature of the sport. His overall world championships required competition in both freestyle (tricks up and down steep walls) and giant slalom (like the Alpine skiing variety).
        ''He took the sport from competition into freestyle only, and the whole industry basically followed him,'' Burton said. ''Then he took it to free riding, which isn't competition, and the industry followed him there. Now if you pick up a snowboarding magazine, you'll see 90 percent of it devoted to free riding rather than competition. He was restless, but he always seemed a step ahead.''
        Kelly was introduced to snowboarding in 1981. As his father, Pat Kelly, said: ''He had won several national titles on BMX bikes. His bike sponsor took him to a mountain to try an early snowboard that you steered with ropes, and he was hooked.''
        In addition to his father, Kelly is survived by his companion, Savina Findlay; their daughter, Olivia; his mother, Janet Hansen of Redmond, Wash.; two brothers, Brian of Bellingham, Wash., and Josh of Mount Vernon; and two sisters, Gilliam Kelly of Kent, Wash., and Jessica Hansen of Redmond.
        Kelly's income in recent years came largely from still and motion-picture projects involving snowboarding. That pleased him, he said last year, because the worst thing about competing around the world was ''unproductive downtime that makes me feel real silly for being away from my family.''
      