
        James Welch, a Great Plains Indian writer whose poetry and spare, understated prose explored the complex relationship between his origins and the world outside, which welcomed his work with critical praise and a measure of fame, died on Monday at his home in Missoula, Mont. He was 62.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said; he learned he had lung cancer in October.
        Mr. Welch grew up on an Indian reservation, determined to become a writer and put into words the stresses on a people left out of the American dream. He won wide notice, especially in Europe, with fiction based on real life, including ''Winter in the Blood'' (Harper, 1974) and ''The Death of Jim Loney'' (Harper, 1979), ''Fools Crow'' (Viking, 1986), and ''The Indian Lawyer'' (Norton, 1990). All remain in print.
        James Phillip (for Sousa) Welch was born to a Blackfoot father and Gros Ventre mother in Browning, Mont., hub of the Blackfeet Indian Reservation in Glacier County, not far from Glacier National Park. His great-grandfather played the cornet in John Philip Sousa's band but settled in Browning as an Indian agent, married to a Cherokee woman.
        Having composed some poetry in high school, Mr. Welch studied English literature at the University of Montana in Missoula, graduating in 1964. and pursuing further study in the university's master's program.
        His first book of poetry, ''Riding the Earthboy Forty'' (World Publishing, 1971), dealt with the landscape, people and history he grew up with. (It was reissued by Carnegie Mellon in 1995 and remains in print.)
        His later novels retained a poetic sensitivity, expressed with laconic clarity. ''Winter in the Blood'' and ''The Death of Jim Loney'' were set in his familiar haunts. ''Fools Crow'' told the story of a band of Blackfoot Indians in the Montana Territory of the 1870's.
        ''The Indian Lawyer'' reflected on the divide between the Native American and white cultures. ''The Heartsong of Charging Elk'' (Doubleday, 2000), his last book, had as its protagonist an Oglala man who as a child witnessed the Battle of Little Bighorn in 1876 and, shunning life on a reservation, joined Buffalo Bill's Wild West Show, touring Europe with dire consequences.
        Mr. Welch worked with the filmmaker Paul Stekler on a PBS documentary, ''Last Stand at Little Bighorn.'' That collaboration resulted in ''Killing Custer: The Battle of Little Bighorn and the Fate of the Plains Indians'' (Norton, 1994).
        He was a visiting professor at the University of Washington and Cornell University, served on the Montana State Board of Pardons and lectured across Europe, where his books, in translation, acquired a following. He was made a Chevalier of the Order of Arts and Letters in France.
        Mr. Welch is survived by his wife, Dr. Lois Monk Welch, a retired professor of comparative literature at the University of Montana; his father, James P. Welch Sr. of Great Falls, Mont.; and two brothers, Timothy R., of Billings, Mont., and G. Michael, of Chico, Calif.
        The author described himself as both an ''Indian writer'' and ''an Indian who writes,'' but when his first novel, ''Winter in the Blood,'' received a Page 1 review in The New York Times Book Review from the novelist Reynolds Price, he called it ''by no means an 'Indian novel.''' In language and emotion or character, he wrote, it was quickly understandable to all.
        ''Few books in any year,'' Mr. Price wrote, ''speak so unanswerably, make their own local terms so throughly ours.'' It did so, he added, through ''its young crusty dignity, its grand bare lines, its comedy and mystery, its clean pathfinding to the center of hearts.''
      