
        Mickey McDermott, who was known as much for his quick wit, blithe spirit and unfulfilled potential as for being the pitcher who led the Boston Red Sox in strikeouts from 1950 to 1952, died on Thursday. He was 74.
        McDermott died in a hospice in Phoenix. The cause of death was congestive heart failure and colon cancer, said Ira Silverman, a publicist for McDermott's recent memoir, ''A Funny Thing Happened on the Way to Cooperstown'' (Triumph Books).
        ''He told his wife that he was dying as a publicity stunt for the book,'' said Howard Eisenberg, a co-author of the book. In addition to his wife, Stevie, McDermott is survived by his brother, Billy; two former wives; four daughters; and a grandson.
        In June, McDermott cut short a book tour that began in Boston, where he threw out the first pitch before a game at Fenway Park. He returned home to Phoenix and was in and out of the hospital until his death.
        Born Maurice Joseph McDermott, he was a promising left-hander who was hailed as the next Lefty Grove when he signed with the Red Sox in 1948 at age 18.
        Despite winning 18 games in 1953, his career was curtailed by an elbow injury, late nights, smoking, drinking and, as he said to any and all who would listen, falling off bar stools.
        After years of hard living, McDermott was left with little cartilage in his knees and a pacemaker and a defibrillator to combat his heart ailments. His good humor helped him live with colon cancer.
        In 1991, he and one of his four wives, Betty, now deceased, won the Arizona Lottery. He said in his memoir that he had been looking for a sign to give up drinking: ''A $7 million lottery ticket, that seemed like a pretty good sign.''
        McDermott finished his baseball career with a record of 69-69 in 12 seasons with Boston, Washington, the Yankees, Kansas City, Detroit and the St. Louis Cardinals.
        He looked upon his career with no regrets and characteristic wryness.
        ''My reincarnation as a pitcher is doubtful,'' he wrote in the introduction to his memoir. ''I'm more likely to come back as a Mexican gardener. Or his donkey. So at age 74, maybe it's time to sit down, tune in to whatever brain cells I've got left, and figure out where I got lost on the road to the baseball Hall of Fame. Hey, maybe what I've got to say will help a couple of kids find their way into it.''
      