
        F.T. Prince, a South African poet whose work included ''Soldiers Bathing,'' one of the best-known poems inspired by World War II, died on Thursday in Southampton, England, where he had taught for years. He was 90.
        The first book-length collection of his poetry, ''Poems,'' was published in 1938 by the London publishing house Faber, through the support of T. S. Eliot, then an editor there.
        The poems in that book, The Daily Telegraph recalled in its obituary of Mr. Prince, had ''an extraordinary literary sophistication.''
        World War II began the year after the collection was published; during and after the war Mr. Prince spent six years in British Army intelligence in the Middle East, Italy and elsewhere.
        That experience inspired him to write ''Soldiers Bathing,'' which begins with these lines:
        The sea at evening moves across the sand.
        Under a reddening sky I watch the freedom of a band
        Of soldiers who belong to me. Stripped bare
        For bathing in the sea, they shout and run in the warm air;
        Their flesh, worn by the trade of war, revives
        And my mind towards the meaning of it strives.
        The poem was much loved and much anthologized, but critical reaction to his work was not unanimously favorable.
        Reviewing his book ''Collected Poems'' (1979) in The New York Times Book Review, a fellow poet, Donald Davie, wrote: ''Setting aside Eliot's 'Four Quartets,' F. T. Prince's 'Soldiers Bathing' is perhaps the finest poem in English to come out of World War II; and this is widely acknowledged. Why has he never since done anything so good?''
        But in 1982 Mr. Prince was given the E. M. Forster Award, a literary prize, by the American Academy of Arts and Letters.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Pauline Elizabeth Bush, and two daughters.
        After the war he taught for three decades at Southampton University in England, rising from lecturer in 1946 to professor in 1974, when he retired, having also served as dean of the university's arts faculty from 1962 to 1965.
        He kept on writing poetry. The second book-length collection of his poems, ''Soldiers Bathing and Other Poems,'' appeared in 1954 and included a long poem about Michelangelo's senescence along with a group of metaphysical love poems.
        Almost a decade passed before the appearance, in 1963, of the next book-length collection of Mr. Prince's poetry, ''Doors of Stone,'' which included selected poems from the earlier collections and poems about history.
        When he reached what many consider retirement age, he wrote a number of relatively long, inventive poems.
        Frank Templeton Prince was born in Kimberley in South Africa's Northern Cape province.
        He received a bachelor's degree from Oxford in 1934 and later attended Princeton on a graduate fellowship.
      