
        George Haimsohn, who co-wrote the book and lyrics for ''Dames at Sea,'' a musical that has leavened summer stock and college repertories ever since its Off Broadway debut in 1968, died on Jan. 17 in Manhattan. He was 77.
        He collapsed in front of his Greenwich Village home and was taken to St. Vincent's Hospital, where the cause was reported to be a massive aneurysm, said Peter Harvey, a friend and the show's set and costume designer.
        A low-budget spoof of the Busby Berkeley spectacles of yore, ''Dames at Sea'' started its long first run at the Bouwerie Lane Theater with a cast of unkowns. As an original trip down memory lane, conjuring up the lavishly staged, thinly plotted boy-meets-girl musicals of the 1930's, it launched Bernadette Peters into orbit. ''Dames at Sea'' had a New York revival in 1985 at the Lamb's Theater. Rather than having faded ''like wallpaper on last season's summer stock set,'' Mel Gussow wrote in The New York Times, it remained ''as fresh as it was in 1968 when it began its journey into popular musical mythology.''
        To this day it never seemed to be far from a stage. It had a three-month run last year at the Goodspeed Opera House in East Haddam, Conn. In November students mounted it at the University of Minnesota, and there have been hundreds of productions in various languages in Europe and in South Korea, in Korean.
        Mr. Haimsohn, who co-wrote it with Robin Miller, was born in St. Louis and served in the Navy in World War II. He graduated from the University of California at Berkeley, where he had his first poetry published in the student literary journal.
        A resident of Greenwich Village since 1952, he was a professional photographer known as Plato, designed mobiles and collages and wrote stories, advertisements and limericks as well as gay pornographic fiction under the pen name Alexander Goodman.
        He also wrote two other musicals, ''Now, Zing!'' and ''Johnny American.'' He wrote and illustrated three other books for college readers, ''The Portable Hamlet,'' ''The Bedside Faust'' and ''Inside Romeo and Juliet,'' published in the 1980's as Madcap Classics by Perigee/Putnam.
        Mr. Haimsohn is survived by a sister, Dolores Fox of Santa Clarita, Calif.
      