
        Gregory Hines, the genial, suave dancer, singer and actor who for many personified the art of classical tap in the 1980's and 90's, died late Saturday on his way to a hospital from his home in Los Angeles. He was 57.
        The cause was cancer, said Yvette Glover, a longtime friend and the mother of the tap-dancer Savion Glover, who frequently described Mr. Hines as a mentor.
        Mr. Hines began dancing professionally as a young child but went on to become an unusually successful crossover actor in theater, film and television. He won a Tony Award as best actor in a musical in 1992 for his portrayal of Jelly Roll Morton, the pioneering jazz composer, his fourth Tony nomination as a performer, and he was host, with Bernadette Peters, for the Tony Award ceremony last year. He appeared in major films, including Francis Ford Coppola's ''Cotton Club,'' and ''White Nights,'' with Mikhail Baryshnikov, in which Mr. Hines played an American defector to the Soviet Union. He had his own sitcom, ''The Gregory Hines Show,'' on CBS in 1997 and played recurring characters on ''Will & Grace'' on NBC and ''Lost at Home'' on ABC.
        Mr. Hines never forgot his dance origins, however, and was a tireless advocate for tap in America. In 1988 he lobbied successfully for the creation of a National Tap Dance Day, now celebrated in 40 cities in the United States and in eight other nations. In his acceptance speech in 1996 for an award given him by Career Transition for Dancers at its annual benefit gala, he berated the gala's organizers for not including tap on the program.
        ''Anyone who has watched his superb virtuosity over the years would notice how the dancer's weight-shifting style is now ornamented with a jaunty rhythmic filigree,'' Anna Kisselgoff, dance critic of The New York Times, wrote of Mr. Hines's guest performance in 1995 in a benefit for Eliot Feld's New Ballet School. ''Visual elegance, as always, yields to aural power. The complexity of sound grows in intensity and range.''
        Mr. Hines encouraged hosts of younger tap-dancers, including Mr. Glover, Dianne Walker, Ted Levy and Jane Goldberg, in their careers and frequently proclaimed the talents of the old-time stars. He was steeped in tap history from childhood. In his foreword to Rusty E. Frank's book, ''Tap!,'' Mr. Hines recalls an informal three-hour lesson in the history given him and his brother, Maurice, by the master dancer Bunny Briggs late one night as the two children lay in their bunk beds on a train speeding the three performers to an out-of-town show.
        Though he had had formal training in dance, Mr. Hines spoke often of the older stylists who influenced him in tap, an art that is largely handed down rather than taught. ''Gregory always thought of himself as a student with the old guys, Chuck Green, Jimmy Slyde, Buster Brown, Lon Chaney, all of the old hoofers, and Sammy Davis Jr.,'' Ms. Glover said. Ted Levy, one of Mr. Hines's protégés, described him as ''the Pied Piper of modern tap.''
        Born in New York, Mr. Hines began training in dance at 3 with Henry LeTang and made his professional debut two years later with his older brother, Maurice Jr., in an act called the Hines Kids (later the Hines Brothers and, when his father, Maurice Sr., joined the act in 1963, Hines, Hines and Dad). Gregory Hines left the act in 1973 and formed a rock band called Severance in Venice, Calif.
        It was not until he reached his late 30's, Mr. Hines said in ''Gregory Hines's Tap Dance in America,'' a 1989 program in the public-television series ''Great Performances,'' that he began to ''relax and reach true expression.'' It was around that time, in 1978, that he had his first Broadway success, starring in the musical ''Eubie,'' for which he received his first Tony nomination.
        He followed up that success with Tony-nominated performances in ''Comin' Uptown'' (1980) and ''Sophisticated Ladies'' (1981), and had featured roles in two films that year, playing a Roman slave in his film debut in Mel Brooks's ''History of the World -- Part I'' and a coroner in ''Wolfen,'' an allegorical mystery directed by Michael Wadleigh.
        Mr. Hines was generally more successful on Broadway, establishing himself as a first-rate actor with his portrayal of Morton, a chill, egocentric genius, in ''Jelly's Last Jam.'' (He also shared a Tony nomination for choreography for that show with Hope Clarke and Mr. Levy.) But Vincent Canby, then senior film critic for The Times, singled Mr. Hines out as a noteworthy performer in 1984, writing of his ''rare screen presence'' in ''The Cotton Club'' in a description that captures Mr. Hines's essence.
        ''He doesn't sneak up on you,'' Canby wrote. ''He's so laid back, so self-assured and so graceful, whether acting as an ambitious hoofer or tap-dancing, alone or in tandem with his brother, Maurice, that he forces YOU to sneak up on HIM. The vitality and comic intelligence that have made him a New York stage favorite in 'Eubie' and 'Sophisticated Ladies' translate easily to the screen.''
        In addition to ''White Nights'' (1985), Mr. Hines's films included ''Tap'' (1989), ''Eve of Destruction'' (1991) and ''The Tic Code'' (1998).
        Mr. Hines, who was black, said in a 1987 interview that he made a point of looking for roles written for white actors, preferring their greater scope and dynamics. His portrayal of Ben Stevenson, the single father of a young son, in ''The Gregory Hines Show'' drew on Mr. Hines's natural warmth and charm. In ''Will & Grace'' he played a tough boss who, like the character of Stevenson, made no reference to race.
        Mr. Hines's marriages to Patricia Panella and Pamela Koslow ended in divorce. In addition to his father and brother, he is survived by his fiancée, Negrita Jayde; a daughter, Daria Hines; a son, Zach; a stepdaughter, Jessica Koslow; and a grandson.
        In addition to his work on the dance and theater stage, in film and on television, Mr. Hines's wide-ranging career also included an appearance in an all-star industrial show for Apple Computer in 1997, directing films (including ''Bleeding Hearts'' and ''Red Sneakers''), making a 1987 album called ''Gregory Hines,'' and writing introductions for books like Constance Valis Hill's ''Brotherhood in Rhythm,'' a biography of the Nicholas Brothers, and ''Savion! My Life in Tap,'' a biography of Mr. Glover for children. Known as an elegant dresser, Mr. Hines was on a first-name basis with Giorgio Armani and once served as a runway model for the designer Yohji Yamamoto.
        But everything in his life was influenced by his dancing, Mr. Hines told Stephen Holden in a 1988 interview in The Times. ''Everything I do,'' he said, including ''my singing, my acting, my lovemaking, my being a parent.''
      