
        Saxon Riley, who led Lloyd's of London through a sweeping reorganization and helped it survive heavy losses in the World Trade Center attack in 2001, died on July 25. He was 64.
        Mr. Riley, who was known as Sax, collapsed on a golf course southwest of London where he was playing as a member of the Lloyd's team in an annual tournament, Lloyd's executives said.
        After more than a decade of financial turbulence, corporate and individual investors in Lloyd's approved a plan last September that had been championed by Mr. Riley, the chairman. The plan provided tighter management controls, shifted the organization to annual accounting from a system that stretched over three years and further limited the diminishing role of individual investors.
        Mr. Riley announced the proposed changes, which he said were needed to make Lloyd's more competitive, four months after the attack on the trade center. Lloyd's lost $8 billion, the largest single share of the $40 billion loss suffered by the insurance industry from that day.
        Even though Lloyd's said that two-thirds of the losses would be reimbursed by other insurance companies -- known as reinsurers -- corporate insurance customers, regulators, analysts and rating agencies questioned whether Lloyd's could survive. Lloyd's, a grouping of dozens of syndicates or individual companies that has always been willing to insure anything for the right price -- Betty Grable's legs, North Sea oil rigs and space ships -- was on the brink of collapse in the late 1980's and early 1990's and, after a brief recovery, had been losing money since 1997.
        Mr. Riley made repeated assurances that Lloyd's would pay its share. Beyond the magnitude of the losses, Lloyd's was also threatened by a regulatory requirement that it keep in trust in New York an amount of money equal to its expected claims without regard to anticipated reimbursements from reinsurers.
        After the attack, Lloyd's did not have the money suddenly needed to pay into the trust fund. The problem, Mr. Riley said, was short-term cash flow. He persuaded the regulators to extend the deadline for coming up with the money.
        Had there been a showdown, forcing Lloyd's out of business, its World Trade Center claims might never have been paid. Moreover, the failure of Lloyd's would have sharply reduced the availability of insurance, and prices, which skyrocketed after the attack, would have gone even higher, experts said. This spring, partly because of the higher prices and strong demand for coverage, Lloyd's reported its first profit in six years, $1.34 billion for 2002, up from a loss of $4.5 billion the previous year.
        Before Mr. Riley became chairman in early 2001, Lloyd's had been run by string of executives from London's establishment, often graduates of elite preparatory schools and Oxford and Cambridge. Mr. Riley, tall, heavy-set and blunt-spoken, left the American equivalent of public school at the age of 16 and began working at an insurance agency in Manchester, near West Didsbury, in the north of England, where he was born on Feb. 11, 1939.
        He worked his way up as a broker. In 1992, he became chief executive of the Sedgwick Group, England's biggest brokerage house. Six years later, he engineered its sale to Marsh & McLennan Companies of New York.
        Mr. Riley had just retired from the board of Marsh & McLennan in 2000 when Lloyd's asked him to become chairman. He had done business at Lloyd's as a broker for years and was serving part time as one of two deputy chairmen of Lloyd's governing council. He reluctantly agreed to serve for a year. He extended that until late last year. From the outset, recalled Michael E. Deeny, the chairman of the Association of Lloyd's Names, a group of individual investors, Mr. Riley ''said he didn't want the job; he said he was planning to take things easier.''
        Mr. Riley is survived by his wife, Wendy Staines, according to The Daily Telegraph in London. In 1965, he married Janice Green, who died in 1996, the newspaper said. Mr. Riley is also survived by two sons, Matthew and Adam, and a daughter, Victoria, Lloyd's said.
      