
        Billy Rogell, a leading shortstop of the 1930's who played on two pennant-winning teams with the Detroit Tigers, died Saturday at a hospital in Warren, Mich. Rogell, who lived in Sterling Heights, Mich., was 98.
        Playing in the major leagues for 14 seasons -- 3 with the Boston Red Sox, 10 with the Tigers and a final year with the Chicago Cubs -- Rogell was an outstanding fielder and a steady hitter. He teamed with the Hall of Fame second baseman Charlie Gehringer to form a superb double-play combination.
        Rogell played shortstop for the pennant-winning 1934 Tigers, who lost to the St. Louis Cardinals in the World Series, and the 1935 Detroit team that defeated the Cubs for the World Series championship.
        The 1934 Tigers featured an infield that drove in 462 runs. Hank Greenberg, the Hall of Fame first baseman, had 139 runs batted in, Gehringer had 127, Rogell had 100 and third baseman Marv Owen had 96.
        Rogell was particularly remembered for a bizarre incident in Game 4 of the 1934 World Series.
        Dizzy Dean, the Cardinals' colorful pitching star, was pinch-running at first base in the fourth inning, with Leo Durocher on third base and no one out, when a grounder was hit to Gehringer, who tossed to Rogell for a forceout. Dean, arriving at second base standing up, was hit in the forehead by Rogell's double-play relay to first base, the ball caroming into right field.
        Dean, knocked unconscious, was carried off the field, and the Tigers, with Rogell driving in four runs, rolled to a 10-4 victory. Dean quickly recovered and was the Cardinals' starter the next day. According to an often told but perhaps apocryphal tale, a newspaper headline that day read, ''X-Rays of Dean's Head Revealed Nothing.''
        Rogell, a native of Springfield, Ill., retired after the 1940 season with a career batting average of .267. He was elected to the Detroit City Council in 1941 and served for 38 years. On Sept. 27, 1999, he threw out the ceremonial first pitch at the final game at Tiger Stadium.
        He is survived by his second wife, Verna; a son, Robert, of Pacific Grove, Calif.; a stepson, Thomas Schlarman, of Clinton Township, Mich.; a brother, Ed, of Placentia, Calif.; and a sister, Dorothy Hawker, of Perrysburg, Ohio. His first marriage, to Dorothy Rogell, ended in divorce in 1974.
        Rogell, a combative type, showed limited remorse for having beaned Dean on the basepaths.
        ''It really bothered me,'' he told Curt Smith in ''America's Dizzy Dean.'' ''That poor sight being carried off the field.''
        But he added: ''Of course, it was Dizzy's fault. He threw up his head in the way intentionally. Even said so. He wanted to break up the double play. And to tell you the truth, I never saw the play because I was coming to the bag at an angle. I caught the ball and threw. Actually, if I'd have known his head was there, I would have thrown the ball harder.''
      