
        James F. Romano, a longtime curator at the Brooklyn Museum of Art who recently finished the reinstallation of the museum's famed Egyptian collection, died on Monday morning in Lynbrook, N.Y., when the car he was driving veered off the road and hit a metal fence. He was 56 and lived in the nearby town of East Rockaway.
        He was alone in the car, the Nassau County Police Department said.
        Mr. Romano, a scholar in the field of Egyptology, joined the museum's department of Egyptian, classical and Middle Eastern art in 1976 and was appointed curator in 1988. Earlier this year, he completed the second and final stage of the reinstallation, an ambitious undertaking that was more than a decade in the planning. (The first stage opened in 1993.)
        Mr. Romano was a specialist in the sculpture, reliefs and minor phases of Egyptian art of the 18th dynasty as well as of the Old Kingdom.
        One of Mr. Romano's most recent publications was ''In the Fullness of Time: Masterpieces of Egyptian Art from American Collections'' (2002), a catalog accompanying a show at the Hallie Ford Museum of Willamette University in Salem, Ore. He was also the author or co-author of articles in scholarly journals.
        Richard A. Fazzini, chairman of Mr. Romano's department at the museum, said that Mr. Romano did the first really detailed study of images of a deity known as Bes -- an important part of religious iconography in Pharaonic Egypt -- tracing how those images changed over time.
        James Frank Romano was born on April 12, 1947, in Far Rockaway, Queens, and grew up in nearby Hewlett. He graduated from State University of New York at Binghamton in 1969 and received M.A. and Ph.D degrees in ancient Near Eastern and Egyptian art and archaeology from the Institute of Fine Arts at New York University.
        Mr. Romano is survived by his wife, Diana Craig Patch, an assistant curator in the department of Egyptian art at the Metropolitan Museum; a daughter, Julia; and a son from a previous marriage, Michael James Romano White of Washington.
      