
        Allen Latham Jr., who spent most of his career as an industrial engineer but was best known for his innovations to blood-processing instruments, died Aug. 5 at his home in Jamaica Plain, Mass. He was 95.
        In the early 1950's, Mr. Latham, who was known as Jack, collaborated with Edwin J. Cohn, a professor of physical chemistry at Harvard, to perfect a device Dr. Cohn had invented that used centrifugal force to separate blood into its components: red blood cells, white blood cells, plasma and platelets. Mr. Latham grew up on a farm, said his daughter, Dr. Harriet Latham Robinson, so the design ''was like a milk separator.''
        Mr. Latham later developed a disposable version of the device, which became known as the Latham bowl, and other instruments that collected and separated blood and returned it to a patient. Dr. Howard Taswell, a retired pathologist who tested one of Mr. Latham's devices in the 1960's at the Mayo Clinic in Minnesota, said that Mr. Latham built the prototype in his basement. After the Mayo Clinic experimented with it, first on small animals and then on humans, Mr. Latham ''would modify the instrument to our needs,'' Dr. Taswell said.
        In 1971, Mr. Latham founded Haemonetics Corporation in Braintree, Mass., where he developed and marketed blood-processing devices.
        The blood-separation technology pioneered by Mr. Latham and his colleagues ''revolutionized transfusion methods,'' said C. Robert Valeri, director of the Naval Blood Research Laboratory in Boston. It has helped increase the efficiency of platelet donations and the ability to wash toxins from the blood. Doctors can ''collect components to transfuse, or the reverse, to take something out of a patient that is hurting them,'' said Dr. Ronald Gilcher, director of the Oklahoma Blood Institute in Oklahoma City.
        The Latham bowl also became a critical element of automated transfusion devices that allow doctors to clean and reuse a patient's own blood during surgery, reducing the risk of contamination and the demand on blood banks.
        Mr. Latham's interest in blood processing, said his daughter, emerged in the 1930's after he donated blood to a friend in a failed transfusion after an industrial accident. But he did not begin work in the field for about 20 years.
        One of his first jobs was working with his schoolmate Edwin Land in the development of polarization sheets at a company that became Polaroid, where Mr. Latham was later a director. In the 1940's he joined Arthur D. Little, an industrial research company, where his specialty was low-temperature refrigeration.
        Mr. Latham was born in Norwichtown, Conn., in 1908. He graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1930 and married Ruth Nichols in 1933. He is survived by his second wife, Charlotte; four children, Dr. Robinson, of Atlanta, W. Nichols, of Groveland, Mass., David W., of Harvard, Mass., and Thomas W., of Berkeley, Calif.; a sister, Emily Latham Cudworth of Chattanooga, Tenn.; 15 grandchildren; and 17 great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Latham helped make Haemonetics one of the largest suppliers of blood-processing instruments, but ''if I have any skills,'' he said in a 1972 interview, ''they lie in making things.''
      