
        John Higham, a cultural historian who examined the interplay of ethnic and national identity in the United States, died July 26 at his home in Baltimore. He was 82.
        The cause was a cerebral aneurysm, said Dorothy Ross, a history professor at Johns Hopkins University, where Dr. Higham was emeritus John Martin Vincent Professor.
        Dr. Higham called himself ''an old-fashioned historian'' in his university biography. He was known as an exponent of the notion of America as a melting pot when many of his contemporaries preferred to focus on the social history of particular racial and ethnic groups.
        His first book, ''Strangers in the Land: Patterns of American Nativism'' (Rutgers University Press, 1955) addressed the hostility native-born Americans showed toward immigrants outside the Anglo-Saxon fold.
        Mr. Higham's last book, ''Hanging Together: Unity and Diversity in American Culture'' (Yale, 2001) also focused on the broad mainstream of American culture, rather than the groups it may have been oppressing.
        George M. Fredrickson, writing in The New York Review of Books in 2002, applauded Dr. Higham's unwillingness to dismiss the culture created by ''elite white males.''
        Mr. Fredrickson wrote, ''Much of value has come from social and cultural history 'from the bottom up,' but it has deprived us of a unifying vision of the nation's past across the divides of gender, race, ethnicity and class.''
        John William Higham was born in Jamaica, Queens, on Oct. 26, 1920. He graduated from Johns Hopkins in 1941 and received a master's degree from Yale in 1942. In World War II, he was in the historical division of the Army Air Corps in Italy.
        He was an assistant editor of The American Mercury, the magazine founded by H. L. Mencken, for a year, then earned a doctorate at the University of Wisconsin in 1949.
        He taught at the University of California at Los Angeles, Rutgers, Columbia and the University of Michigan before returning to Johns Hopkins as John Martin Vincent Professor of History in 1971.
        In writing the American history section of ''History: Professional Scholarship in America'' (Johns Hopkins, 1965, 1983, 1989) Dr. Higham explored tensions between academic and popular history. He urged historians to relax their impersonal stance for one of moral engagement.
        He is survived by his wife of 55 years, Eileen; his daughters Margaret Higham of Winchester, Mass., and Constance Vidor of Manhattan; his sons Jay, of Sandy Hook, Conn., and Daniel, of Baltimore; and seven grandchildren.
        In his dissections of American culture, Dr. Higham often pondered national symbols. In 1983, he told U.S. News & World Report that the two great symbols of the 19th century were the covered wagon and the Statue of Liberty because ''they both mean opportunity grasped by moving on.''
      