
        Thomas W. Kellogg, an industrial designer who worked on the Avanti, a radically styled, powerful sports coupe that could not save its maker, Studebaker, from financial collapse, died on Thursday in Newport Beach, Calif. He was 71 and lived in Irvine, Calif.
        A daughter, Kris Machado, said Mr. Kellogg suffered several broken ribs two weeks ago when his car hit a center divider. He had also had congestive heart failure and lung disorders for years.
        The Studebaker-Packard Corporation was teetering on the brink of financial collapse when Sherwood Egbert became its president in 1961. He decided the company needed a hot, splashy car and hired Raymond Loewy, a giant among 20th-century designers, who had earlier worked for Studebaker and whose designs ranged from streamlined locomotives to the logos of Shell and Lucky Strike.
        Just 10 days after being hired, Mr. Loewy put together a team of three designers to work with him -- John Ebstein, Robert Andrews and Mr. Kellogg. Mr. Loewy, who died in 1986, rented a two-room bungalow near his own home in Palm Springs, Calif., for a design studio. In two weeks, they had produced a small-scale model of the Avanti, whose name comes from the Italian word for forward.
        A few weeks later, a full-scale model was completed. Studebaker's board ordered that the car be built as the company's answer to the Ford Thunderbird, with the provision that it be ready in one year. It was a great success when introduced at the New York Auto Show in April 1962.
        The car was a two-door, four-passenger coupe with a long hood, short trunk, an asymmetrical power bulge on the hood, virtually no chrome trim and no fins. The interior was inspired by aircraft flight decks, with numerous toggle switches on the console.
        The Avanti exhilarated sports car enthusiasts and was even exhibited as sculpture in art galleries, but it was not enough to save Studebaker. The company, which had stopped making Packard automobiles in the late 50's, closed its American Studebaker operations in 1963 and its last plant, in Canada, in 1966.
        But the car refused to fade away; a succession of small manufacturers have since made cars inspired by and sometimes named for the Avanti. Mr. Kellogg helped design some of them. There are also Avanti owners' groups, which invited Mr. Kellogg to speak.
        ''I've concluded that the car is cosmic,'' Mr. Kellogg said in an interview with The Associated Press in 2000. ''It has some sort of personality or spirit that keeps finding people to take it over and stroke it and keep it going.''
        Thomas William Kellogg was born in Monrovia, Calif., on March 31, 1932. He grew up on a farm in Illinois, with early memories of sitting on his father's lap and holding the steering wheel of the family car. At 15, he learned to drive in a Studebaker.
        He graduated from the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena in 1955. Mr. Loewy became aware of his work when he visited the school. Mr. Kellogg was totally unprepared for the master designer's call.
        ''At first he thought it was a joke,'' Ms. Machado said, ''but then he heard the French accent.''
        Mr. Kellogg is survived -- in addition to his daughter, who lives in Aliso Viejo, Calif. -- by his former wife, Greta, of Irvine; another daughter, Kara Kellogg of Irvine; his son Thomas Jr. of Irvine; his sisters Diane Lowe of Glendale, Calif., and Susan Farrel of Torrance, Calif; his brother, Garth, of Palm Desert, and four grandchildren.
        After the Avanti, Mr. Kellogg went on to work on designs for exteriors of Rolls-Royce, Porsche and recreational vehicles; dinnerware for Wedgwood; the interior design of the DC-10 aircraft for McDonnell Douglas; and the shuttle craft for the ''Star Trek'' television series.
        In the hospital room where he died, according to his daughter Ms. Machado, Mr. Kellogg remarked, ''This is a nicely designed room.''
      