
        W. Bernard Richland, who as corporation counsel of the City of New York was the city's chief lawyer during the fiscal crisis of the 1970's and was a principal framer of its periodic charter updates, died on Thursday at his home in Brooklyn Heights. He was 94.
        Mr. Richland's service as a legal expert in the public domain dated to the days of Judge Samuel Seabury, whose investigations into public corruption brought down Mayor Jimmy Walker. Most recently, he served as a special master in the litigation involving Vietnam War veterans who were exposed to Agent Orange.
        As corporation counsel from 1975 to 1977, he headed the city's Law Department when New York faced bankruptcy. Like other branches of its government, he wrote to the City Council in 1976, his office was ''decimated'' and ''on the brink of disaster.'' Under his guidance, the office nevertheless won an enduring victory for the city's threatened architectural landmarks. When the city decided to join the campaign to save Grand Central Terminal, it was up to him and his associates to fight the matter in the courts.
        At issue was a developer's plan to build a 53-story office tower atop Grand Central, a plan that the city argued would spoil that structure forever. The case was argued by one of Mr. Richland's associates, Nina Gershon, now a federal judge in Brooklyn, in the Appellate Division of State Supreme Court, which also upheld the city's landmark-preservation law. The decision was affirmed by the New York Court of Appeals and by the United States Supreme Court.
        Wilfred Bernard Richland was born in Liverpool, England, a son of Julius Richland, a tailor, seaman and adventurer. He came to New York at the age of 16, in 1925, and got a job as an office boy for Mr. Seabury.
        There, he advanced to clerk and eventually law associate. By studying on his own and taking classes at New York University, Judge Seabury's alma mater, from 1932 to 1936, he gained admission in 1937 to the bars of New York, the United States Supreme Court and lower federal courts.
        Mr. Richland stayed with Judge Seabury's investigation of the city's affairs until 1943, when he became an assistant corporation counsel for the city. He was chief of the opinions and legislation division until 1958.
        He then practiced law with private firms for 15 years, but served on Gov. W. Averell Harriman's State Commission on Home Rule in 1958 and as special counsel to Mayor Robert F. Wagner's Study of Housing and Urban Renewal in 1960. From 1960 to 1964, he also sat on the Commission on Home Rule of the State Office for Local Government.
        He became general counsel to the State Charter Revision Commission of 1973 to 1975 and then was named corporation counsel by Mayor Abraham D. Beame.
        Mr. Richland served on the Mayor's Commission on the Judiciary in the mid-1970's, and as a commissioner on the City Charter Revision panels of the late 1980's.
        He was an adjunct professor of local government law at N.Y.U. from 1978 to 1989, and from 1988 to 1996 was special master for appeals for the federal Agent Orange Administration, in United States District Court in Brooklyn.
        He wrote a book, ''You Can Beat City Hall'' (1980), and contributed to magazines, newspapers and law journals. He was a past member of the editorial board of The New York Law Journal.
        Mr. Richland was married in 1933 to Pauline Diamond, who died in 1993. He is survived by two daughters, Robin Silverton of Park Slope, Brooklyn, and Lisa Richland of Shelter Island, N.Y.; a sister, Gladys Sarony-Frye; his companion, Barbara Carroll Weiler; three grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      