
        Dana Merriam Raymond, a patent lawyer who won or achieved settlements in 21 lawsuits filed by the inventor of FM radio against companies that had denied him credit and compensation, died on Aug. 3 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 89.
        Mr. Raymond represented Edwin Howard Armstrong, an electrical engineer who invented the basic electronic circuits underlying modern radio, television and radar, including wideband frequency modulation, known as FM radio. Though Mr. Armstrong's breakthroughs are sometimes said to have exceeded Edison's, the Radio Corporation of America and its broadcasting subsidiary, the National Broadcasting Company, challenged his claim to having invented FM in a court case filed in 1948.
        The case was one factor that drove Mr. Armstrong to commit suicide in January 1954. The next January, Mr. Armstrong's estate, under the control of his wife, Marion, settled with RCA and NBC for a payment of $1 million.
        Mr. Raymond worked on that case as a young assistant to Alfred McCormack at the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore. Mr. Raymond left to join what was then Brumbaugh, Graves, Free & Donahue, which later became Brumbaugh, Graves, Donahue & Raymond. It merged into the firm of Baker Botts in 1997.
        Though they were then in different firms, Mr. Raymond and Mr. McCormack together prepared and filed suits on behalf of the Armstrong estate against 21 other companies that they contended had refused to give Mr. Armstrong proper credit for FM radio.
        Two years later, Mr. McCormack died. Mrs. Armstrong wanted Mr. Raymond to continue the battle. Cravath remained as co-counsel.
        According to a biography of Mr. Armstrong by Lawrence Lessing, ''Man of High Fidelity: Edwin Howard Armstrong,'' Mr. Raymond brought a strong background in scientific issues, particularly physics, to the case. Mr. Lessing described him as ''soft spoken and studious'' and ''a shrewd counselor.''
        Mr. Raymond's first priority, according to the book, was not to reveal how close to insolvency Mr. Armstrong had left his estate, knowing that this knowledge would weaken his position in any settlement talks.
        Second, he wanted to make a show of strength to bolster negotiations. He knew that the RCA settlement could be seen as ''a paternalistic gesture, designed to paper over a messy situation.''
        Though they could legally have asked for triple royalties on all FM apparatus manufactured and sold from 1940 to 1950, Mr. Raymond and Mrs. Armstrong decided that the smarter course of action was to pursue only reasonable claims based on the standard royalty paid by other companies that had acknowledged Mr. Armstrong's claims and paid him for licensing the technology. They settled with some smaller companies.
        The Emerson Radio and Phonograph Corporation decided to fight in court rather than settle. Mr. Raymond made a risky decision: he asked for a trial before a judge. The conventional legal wisdom was that an individual suing a large corporation should seek a jury trial.
        Catherine Flickinger, Mr. Raymond's daughter and a lawyer, said there were two reasons for asking for a judge. First, the science was difficult to understand. More important, the legal reasoning of a judge would set a precedent for the cases to come, while a jury verdict is considered a unique occurrence with scant future relevance.
        In September 1959, Judge Edmund L. Palmieri of Federal District Dourt in Manhattan found for Mr. Armstrong on all counts. An important factor was Mr. Raymond's argument that for all the years at issue, many other radio companies, including General Electric and Westinghouse, had settled and paid the same uniform royalties that Emerson was ultimately forced to pay.
        All but one of the remaining companies then settled, but Motorola demanded a separate trial. Mr. Raymond won in Federal District Court in Chicago in 1963 and on appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit in 1967. The Supreme Court declined to hear the case.
        Dana Merriam Raymond was born in Manhattan on July 28, 1914, and grew up in Berkeley, Calif. He graduated from the University of California at Berkeley and from Columbia Law School.
        He went to work for what is now Cravath, Swaine & Moore, and was drafted into the United States Army in 1940. He was commissioned as a lieutenant and assigned to the Royal Air Force in Scotland, where he worked on the top-secret development of radar.
        Mr. Raymond, a chess enthusiast, specialized in the law of patents and intellectual property. He represented Dr. Charles H. Townes, a Nobel Prize-winning physicist whose work helped lead to development of the laser.
        He was secretary of the Armstrong Memorial Research Foundation at Columbia, which is dedicated to continuing Mr. Armstrong's work, and was a fellow of the American College of Trial Lawyers.
        Mr. Raymond's wife, the former Josephine Sheehan, died in 2000. His survivors, in addition to his daughter Ms. Flickinger, who lives in Manhattan, include two sons, Peter, of Bronxville, and John, of San Francisco, also lawyers, and seven grandchildren.
      