
        Julius Ochs Adler Jr., a business executive and public relations consultant who ran a popular independent bookstore in Manhattan for 16 years, died on Monday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 78 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, said his son, Douglas.
        Early in his career, Mr. Adler was an executive of The New York Times, working in its advertising, circulation, mechanical and promotion departments until 1959.
        After several years as the principal owner of Colonial Lanes, a bowling alley on Staten Island, Mr. Adler became the first promotion director for the New York Mets, in 1962. Two years later, he joined the Thomas J. Deegan Company, public relations consultants, as a vice president.
        His clients included the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, the Kaiser Aluminum Corporation and Robert F. Kennedy's successful 1964 campaign for the United States Senate. He was the New York press secretary for Senator George S. McGovern's presidential campaign in 1972.
        Mr. Adler's first marriage, to Anne Ballard Freeman, ended in divorce. With his second wife, Deirdre Spencer Elliott, whom he married in 1974, Mr. Adler in 1976 founded the Canterbury Book Shop, on Lexington Avenue between 74th and 75th Streets. The store closed when the Adlers retired in 1992.
        Julius Ochs Adler Jr. was born in New York on Nov. 24, 1924. His father was Maj. Gen. Julius Ochs Adler, who was the president and publisher of The Chattanooga Times and the general manager of The New York Times from 1935 until his death in 1955, and his great-uncle was Adolph S. Ochs, patriarch of the family that has controlled The Times since 1896.
        Julius attended the Lawrenceville School and graduated in 1942 from the Culver Military Academy in Indiana. He enrolled at Princeton, but left after one semester to serve with the Eighth Air Force in Europe, flying bombing missions over Germany as a gunner on a B-17 Flying Fortress.
        Besides his second wife, Deirdre Spencer Adler, and his son, Douglas, a Washington resident, Mr. Adler is survived by two daughters, Anne A. Tarbell and Mary B. Malhotra, both of New York; two sisters, Barbara A. Katzander of New York and Nancy J. Adler of Beverly Hills; an aunt, Jean Steinhardt of Santa Barbara, Calif.; three stepdaughters, Diana Lidofsky of Providence, R.I., and Cynthia Elliott and Dorinda Elliott, both of New York; six grandchildren; one great-grandson; seven stepgrandchildren; and one step-great-grandson.
      