
        Arthur C. Helton, a New York lawyer and human rights activist who devoted most of his professional life to the help and protection of refugees, died in the bomb attack on the United Nations headquarters in Baghdad on Tuesday, the Council on Foreign Relations announced yesterday. He was 54.
        Mr. Helton, who was the director of peace and conflict studies at the council and senior fellow for refugee studies and preventive action, was visiting Baghdad to assess conditions in Iraq.
        When the bomb exploded, the council said, he was scheduled to meet with the top United Nations official there, Sergio Vieira de Mello, who was also killed in the blast.
        ''Arthur was one of our most respected senior fellows and a noted expert on refugee and humanitarian issues and international law,'' Richard N. Haass, the council's president, said in a statement. ''The world has lost a devoted and talented champion of the rights of the dispossessed.''
        Last year Mr. Helton published ''The Price of Indifference: Refugees and Humanitarian Action in the New Century'' (Oxford University Press), in which he analyzed responses to the refugee crises of the 1990's and made practical proposals for improving the treatment of people displaced by conflicts.
        The United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, wrote in commenting on the book: ''Mr. Helton not only asks important questions, but also makes ambitious policy recommendations. His book is a welcome contribution to the debate on humanitarian action and will undoubtedly help us to manage humanitarian challenges better in the future.''
        Mr. Helton began his work with refugees in 1982 when he joined the Lawyers Committee for Human Rights in New York to lead its Refugee Rights Program, devoted to helping win asylum in the United States for those fleeing political and religious persecution in their home countries.
        He created a much-replicated program under which lawyers from some of the most prestigious firms in the United States provided free help to poor refugees in their quest for asylum.
        During his first year at the Lawyers Committee, Mr. Helton secured the release of some 2,000 fugitives from Haiti held in Florida after convincing a federal judge that he would find volunteer lawyers to represent them at formal asylum hearings.
        ''He was one of the first people, if not the first, working at a human rights organization with an exclusive focus on refugee protection and the protection of displaced people,'' said Michael Posner, executive director of the Lawyers Committee. ''He was a major force in building concern for refugees, first in the United States and then he took that concern international.''
        Mr. Helton toured disaster areas to study and help refugees and other displaced people. He was a leading adviser to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees on refugee issues.
        He was an adjunct professor at Columbia University Law School where he taught immigration law. He also taught at New York University Law School and at the Central European University in Budapest.
        Arthur Cleveland Helton was born in St. Louis on Jan. 24, 1949. He graduated from Columbia College in 1971 and from New York University Law School in 1976. He is survived by his wife, the former Jacqueline Dean Gilbert of New York City. They were married in 1982.
      