
        HE was beaten by racists in Louisiana in 1965. He protested at segregated businesses in Ohio. Served as a leader of the Congress of Racial Equality, one of the leading civil rights groups in the 1960's. Worked in the trenches of antipoverty programs in the early 1970's.
        That was then. The other day, Alan Gartner sat in a cheerless downtown conference room, looking like the college professor he is in coat and tie and with hands clasped in front of him. In tones appropriate for an afternoon seminar, he patiently pored over the minutiae of municipal elections with words no angrier than ''disentangle'' and ''dispositive.''
        Well, Mr. Gartner did manage a ''heck'' and a ''hell'' as he took a grilling from the news media over the issue of the day for him and much of the New York political world. And it seems this old 60's lefty, despite appearances, could well be in the thick of a potential revolution through the seemingly banal Charter Revision Commission, where he is executive director.
        In an effort to diminish the power of political parties, the commission is likely to clear a proposal for the November ballot sometime this month to eliminate party primaries for mayor, City Council and other citywide offices. It would allow all voters, regardless of their party affiliation, to vote for any candidate in two rounds of nonpartisan elections each fall.
        Come to think it, maybe it does take a radical spirit to shepherd such a thing in this town. And while age and experience may have tempered the fire, Mr. Gartner still believes he is in the fight.
        ''The common denominator is that it is about social justice issues for me,'' said Mr. Gartner, 68, who as executive director of the commission has steered the research and staff putting together the proposal.
        In this case, he believes 1.3 million people who are not registered as Democrats are disenfranchised because they cannot vote in the Democratic primary, the one that matters in this overwhelmingly Democratic town.
        ''I was stunned by that number,'' Mr. Gartner said by way of explaining how he came to favor the proposal. ''It's a system that has closed a lot of people out.''
        The Democratic Party, to which Mr. Gartner has intermittently belonged, begs to differ, accusing the commission of rushing through a proposal with questionable necessity. They see it as a folly of Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, who appointed the commission and has long complained about the power of political bosses. Mr. Bloomberg switched his registration from Democrat to Republican to run for mayor in 2001.
        Mr. Gartner does have close ties to Mr. Bloomberg and speaks highly of him. He works in the administration as director of research under Deputy Mayor Dennis M. Walcott and was an education policy adviser to Mr. Bloomberg during the campaign, conducting ''tutorials with Alan,'' as Mr. Gartner put it.
        If the public does not recognize him, that's just fine. Mr. Gartner is the consummate behind-the-scenes player who comes across a bit awkward on camera but does much of the heavy lifting in obscure but important corners of government.
        He is a contrast to the glib and gregarious Frank Macchiarola, the president of St. Francis College in Brooklyn and the chairman of the commission.
        They go way back. They served on commissions in the 1990's that redrew the City Council districts and examined New York City's community school board elections. Mr. Gartner also was the director of special education for a time while Mr. Macchiarola was the schools chancellor in the late 1970's.
        HE is an inside outsider of sorts, descending from the Ivory Tower now and then to mix it up in the real world. He was an education scholar at the Graduate Center at the City University of New York, for instance, when Mr. Macchiarola made him director of special education while he was chancellor.
        Mr. Gartner arrived at Queens College in 1972 after several years of activism born from a progressive education. He attended Walden, a private high school in Manhattan, and went on to Antioch College in Yellow Springs, Ohio, before earning a master's degree at Harvard.
        While at Harvard, he became active in the Congress of Racial Equality, eventually rising to national community relations director and traveling to Bogalusa, La., in 1965, for a protest in which several demonstrators were beaten by segregationists. Mr. Gartner suffered cuts and bruises and broken glasses.
        He eventually left CORE over internal squabbling and worked in a number of antipoverty programs in Suffolk County and New York before landing a job at CUNY, where he earned a doctorate in urban education. Now divorced, he is the father of three grown children and lives in Battery Park City.
        Over the years he has written or edited more than 25 books, ranging from the academic, ''How to Individualize Learning,'' to the political, ''What Reagan Is Doing to Us.''
        His own politics lean heavily Democratic. He has been a registered Democrat for most of his life, but said he had changed his party affiliation to ''blank'' or independent from time to time, most recently when he was appointed to the Charter Revision Commission this year.
        But he is far from apolitical. On election night, he told Mr. Bloomberg he was about to do something he never imagined doing, vote for a Republican.
        But in the voting booth, Mr. Gartner had an out. ''I voted for him on the Independence Party line,'' he said.
        PUBLIC LIVES
      