
        John Coplans, a founder and former editor of Artforum magazine, whose career also encompassed phases as a painter, critic, curator, museum director and finally a photographer of discomfiting images of his own aging body, died yesterday at a Manhattan hospital. He was 83 and lived in Manhattan.
        An inquisitive man who seemed to be naturally, if at times charmingly tendentious, Mr. Coplans was born in London in 1920 and spent his childhood ricocheting with his family between London and South Africa. He emerged with a rebellious streak, developed in conflict with his mother and in concert with his father, a doctor who was knowledgeable about art and taught himself photography and sculpture.
        Mr. Coplans disliked school and educated himself largely through reading. After eight years abroad with the British Army he decided to become an artist and spent a decade in London, teaching art and making abstract paintings. By 1960 he had focused on contemporary American art and moved to San Francisco, where he shifted from painting and teaching painting to criticism and working as a curator.
        In 1962 he joined with Philip Leider and John Irwin, who were starting Artforum. It soon became the leading forum of American art criticism and a bastion of formalism.
        In 1965 he followed Artforum to Los Angeles and was a curator at the University of California and then at the Pasadena Art Museum (now the Norton Simon Museum), organizing exhibitions of newly prominent artists like Roy Lichtenstein, Andy Warhol and Donald Judd.
        In 1967 Mr. Coplans remained in Los Angeles while Mr. Leider moved Artforum to New York and plunged the magazine in the politically active New York art scene. In 1971, when Mr. Leider resigned and made Mr. Coplans editor, and during the next seven years, Mr. Coplans often stretched the magazine beyond contemporary art with articles on 19th-century photography. The magazine often seemed adrift and lost several prominent writers, including Rosalind Krauss and Annette Michelson.
        In 1978 Mr. Coplans became director of the Akron Art Institute (now the Akron Art Museum) and began taking his first self-portraits. He had a solo show in 1981 at the Daniel Wolf Gallery in New York, and showed his self-portraits for the first time at the Pace/MacGill Gallery in 1986. Both poignant and aggressive, those images included close-ups of his hands, feet, legs and torso, exposing expanses of sagging and wrinkled flesh, as well as startling details like flaking skin, split nails, flattened arches and anarchic hair. They combined elements of documentary photography and performance art, scrutinizing the body unforgivingly. They also transformed his body into abstract forms resembling strange animals, primitive art, colossal rocks or Henry Moore-like sculptures.
        Mr. Coplans had many exhibitions in the United States and Europe, including solo shows at the Art Institute of Chicago and the Museum of Modern Art. His work is owned by more than 60 museums.
        Mr. Coplans is survived by his wife, Amanda Means, a photographer whom he married in 1997; a son, Joseph, of Wheatridge, Colo.; a daughter, Barbara, of Leeds, England; and two grandchildren.
      