
        Msgr. Philip J. Murnion, whose work as a sociologist, organizer and adviser to parish and diocesan leaders made him a major behind-the-scenes influence in the Roman Catholic Church in the United States, died on Tuesday in the Bronx. He was 65.
        The cause was colon cancer, his family said.
        In 1983, after conducting several important sociological studies of priests and parish life, Monsignor Murnion founded the National Pastoral Life Center with support from the National Conference of Catholic Bishops.
        Located in New York City, the center has been a leading source of research, publications, consulting services, training workshops and conferences aimed at improving parish ministry and advising Catholic leaders.
        Monsignor Murnion also provided training and support for a network of directors of social action and community organizing from Catholic dioceses around the country.
        Describing his approach as ''decidedly centrist,'' in 1996 he worked with Cardinal Joseph Bernardin of Chicago to establish the Catholic Common Ground Initiative, a project aimed at combating the growing polarization between conservatives and liberals in the church.
        In 1992 and 1999, he published two groundbreaking studies of a new development within the Catholic Church in the United States: the tens of thousands of laypeople serving professionally as ministers in parishes and overseeing religious education, youth work, liturgical planning, sacramental preparation and other tasks.
        In these studies, conducted for the bishops' conference, he urged that these new lay pastoral ministers be incorporated more fully into church structures and decision making and not be treated simply as second-class substitutes for the declining numbers of priests and nuns.
        Monsignor Murnion, whose parents, William Edward Murnion and Frances Canavan Murnion, were immigrants from Northern Ireland, was born in 1938 in the Bronx. He won a scholarship to Regis High School, run by the Jesuits, and then entered St. Joseph's Seminary in Yonkers, where he received degrees in philosophy and theology.
        Ordained a priest in 1963, he was assigned to St. Thomas the Apostle parish in Harlem and immersed himself in civil rights activities as well as the organization of a neighborhood summer school program. In 1971, he received a Ph.D. in sociology from Columbia University, and he went on to found offices for pastoral research, African-American ministry and social development for the New York Archdiocese.
        Monsignor Murnion taught at Fordham University, Boston College and the University of Notre Dame.
        In Manhattan, he lived one block from the Bowery in a building that housed both the offices of the National Pastoral Life Center and the Holy Name Center for Homeless Men, where he regularly said Mass.
        He is survived by a sister, Rosemary Gerdes, of Middletown, N.J., and two brothers, John, of Manhattan, and William, of Bellvale, N.Y.
      