
        Archie C. Epps III, one of the first high-ranking black administrators at Harvard, died on Thursday in Boston. He was 66 and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        The cause was complications of cardiac surgery, Harvard announced. In 1995, Mr. Epps had double-bypass cardiac surgery and, months later, a kidney transplant.
        Mr. Epps was dean of students from 1971 to 1999. In addition to publishing the first handbook on race relations for Harvard, in 1992, he oversaw the formation of the Undergraduate Council and nurtured a 300 percent growth in participation in student organizations.
        A man who did not shrink from controversy, Mr. Epps criticized the college admissions office in the 1970's, saying it had let in too many unqualified black students.
        ''Harvard was promising these students an experience it could not deliver,'' he told The Boston Globe in 1999. ''And it had certain expectations of these students that they could not deliver either.''
        He also spoke out against racial segregation on campus and opposed the creation of a center for third-world students, like those at Yale and Stanford. Militant students sometimes condemned him as an archconservative, but he called himself an ''old-fashioned integrationist.''
        ''Archie represents an incongruous figure,'' Martin Kilson, a retired professor of government who was the first tenured black faculty member at Harvard, told The Globe. ''He brought Malcolm X to Harvard in the 1960's. Yet in many ways, he typifies the old-fashioned black college administrator with his gentlemanly ways. With Archie, what you see is not always what you get.''
        Clearly, in his jaunty bow tie and pinstriped suit, Mr. Epps was hard to classify.
        Mr. Epps was born on May 19, 1937, and grew up in Lake Charles, La. His father owned a dry-cleaning company, and the family lived a comfortable middle-class existence.
        He graduated from Talladega College in Alabama and received a bachelor of theology from the Harvard Divinity School. After working as conductor of the glee club and as a senior tutor, Mr. Epps was appointed assistant dean of students in 1963.
        He taught a seminar on the civil rights and black nationalist movements and brought James Baldwin and Ralph Ellison, as well as Malcolm X, to the campus as speakers. A fellowship named for him pays for a recently ordained seminarian to be an undergraduate chaplain under the auspices of Memorial Church, of which he was a verger.
        Mr. Epps experienced considerable change and tumult in his career. In 1969, protesters carried him out of University Hall. When some protesters returned for their 25th reunion, in 1994, they apologized.
        ''Gentlemen,'' Mr. Epps replied, ''while it is quite likely we can all forgive, I shall never forget.''
        In the 1980's, he published a study finding that minority students were ''separatist in orientation'' and ''isolated from the mainstream.'' The president of Harvard, Derek Bok, responded by endorsing a new foundation to promote diversity and affirmative action.
        Mr. Epps often had more personal effects. After a student committed suicide over one Christmas break, the Rev. Peter Gomes of Memorial Church in Cambridge said, Mr. Epps drew up a plan to make sure that lonely students were invited to parties over the holidays. Many were invited to Mr. Epps's house.
        Surviving are his wife, Valerie; two sons, Josiah and Caleb; and two brothers.
      