
        Cedric Price, one of the most influential British architects of the 20th century, died on Aug. 10. He was 68.
        The cause was a heart attack, possibly brought on by the record-breaking heat wave, said Barbara Jakobson, a close friend who lives in New York.
        Better known as an intellectual figure than as a practicing designer, Mr. Price was a charismatic force in the 1960's, when the hard-edged style of Brutalism began to lose its hold on the liberal imagination and the Pop Art sensibility of swinging London swept in to take its place.
        Mr. Price emerged as a link between two periods.
        Combining the socialist ideals of postwar Britain with the 60's spirit of fun, and making it seem as if that synthesis was possible and even obligatory, Mr. Price became a guru for many architects who went on to build reputations beyond his own.
        He was a visionary, with few built works to his credit. His realized projects include the 1961 London Zoo aviary, which he designed with Lord Snowdon and Frank Newby; and the Interaction Center in Kentish Town in London a decade later. But Mr. Price regarded as obsolete the notion that architecture resides in the creation of durable and fixed aesthetic objects. Rather, he championed an architecture of process: flexible, ephemeral, responsive to the changing needs of users and their times. These are qualities of the big city, not of architecture per se, and he applied them to the design of individual buildings.
        He adapted this strategy from the idea of the architectural megastructure, a concept that preoccupied many architects internationally in the late 1950's. Containing housing, shops, offices, schools and public spaces beneath one roof, the megastructure was essentially a new town. Mr. Price wanted to give it the mutability of old towns, though in formal appearance his designs anticipated what would later be called high tech.
        His best known work was an unbuilt project developed from 1961 to 1964, the Fun Palace.
        Conceived with Joan Littlewood, the British theater director, the Fun Palace combined elements of the open university, the performing arts center and the amusement park. Its metal framework descended from Joseph Paxton's Crystal Palace, designed in 1851 for the first government-sponsored world's fair in London.
        ''Tradition has it that the word 'fun' first entered the British megastructure argument as early as September 1962, though not on British soil,'' wrote the architectural historian Reyner Banham. ''As far as can be ascertained, the phrase 'fun palace' was coined, and applied to the project Cedric Price was designing for Joan Littlewood on the sidewalk in 42nd Street during a visit they paid to New York in that year.''
        Mr. Price's design, originally envisioned for East London, was at least as much fun as the events that would unfold within it. It featured an enormous crane that hovered just over the roofline, ready to shift walls, windows and floors into new positions as different events dictated. Floors could be raised or lowered with elevator equipment. The entire palace was a kind of ballet méchanique.
        The concept came to fruition a decade later, with Richard Rogers and Renzo Piano's design for the Georges Pompidou Center in Paris. Like the Fun Palace, the Pompidou Center was built from a high-tech kit of parts, a method that was replicated in countless student projects in the 1960's and early 1970's. Fueled in part by the student unrest of that period, young architects saw in high-tech design a flexible alternative to conventional construction.
        The British group Archigram was responsible for bringing Mr. Price's work to broad public attention. Though not a member of that group, he was a fellow at the Architectural Association's school in London, a hothouse for ambitious talents then. Like Mr. Price, the group's members were not active as builders, but their graphically striking publications developed some of the Price ideas into full-blown Pop Art expression.
        Pop-Up Parliament and the Potteries Thinkbelt, two unexecuted designs of the mid-60's, were also influential, demonstrating, like the Fun Palace, Mr. Price's belief that architecture should be subordinate to events. Government and education, respectively, were the subjects of these projects, which emphasized the provisional quality of spatial use and social organization. These designs have the critical, semisatirical stance now personified by Rem Koolhaas.
        Mr. Price regained the international spotlight in 1999 with a plan for the west side of Midtown Manhattan. Sponsored by the Canadian Center for Architecture as part of an invited competition, his conception called for the removal of buildings rather than the design of new ones. It argued for public space and was conceived as a giant lung, designed to draw fresh air from the Hudson River into the heart of town.
        Cedric John Price attended Cambridge University and the Architectural Association's school. He founded his practice in 1960; he closed it earlier this year. A bon vivant, teacher and irrepressible pied piper, Mr. Price was the real thing.
        He is survived by his partner, the actress Eleanor Bron.
      