
        Herbert R. Silverman, a prominent figure in the development of commercial finance, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91.
        He made his mark helping finance small businesses seeking to take part in the military procurement programs of World War II. Afterward, as a prime lender, he played a role in helping them prosper in the postwar economy.
        Mr. Silverman was an innovator in factoring, the practice of lending money to businesses and taking over their accounts receivable. An alternative to dealing with banks, factoring was considered a staid old-line business in the 1930's.
        With innovators like Mr. Silverman, it became an industry attuned to the changing ways business was done. He founded the Centaur Credit Corporation, a commercial finance company, which merged in 1945 with James Talcott Inc., one of the oldest factoring firms.
        Talcott grew into one of the largest commercial lenders in the world. Mr. Silverman became its executive vice president in 1956 and president in 1958. He was chairman and chief executive from 1961 to 1973 and retired as chairman of the executive committee of the Talcott National Corporation in 1975.
        Herbert Robert Silverman was born in Brooklyn and graduated from the New York University School of Business with a B.A. in 1935. He received a J.D. at St. Lawrence University in 1935. He was the founding president of the National Commercial Finance Conference from 1948 to 1952 and then chairman until 1958, and a past president of the National Conference of Commercial Receivable Companies.
        He was chairman of the finance committee of Helmsley-Spear Inc. from 1974 until 1990 and taught as an adjunct professor of finance at the N.Y.U. College of Business and Public Administration.
        He was a past president of the N.Y.U. Alumni Federation and founding president of the N.Y.U. Club. The university credited him as an early fund-raiser and supporter of its growth into a teaching and research institution with international recognition; it named a scholarship in his honor.
        Mr. Silverman is survived by a son, Henry R., of Manhattan, the chairman of the Cendant Corporation; a daughter, Karen Mayers, of Washington; a brother, Saul S., of Palm Beach, Fla.; five grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren. His first wife, Roslyn Moskowitz, died in 1965, after 32 years of marriage. In 1967, he married the actress Nadia Gray, who died in 1994.
      