
        Dr. Thomas B. Fitzpatrick, who wrote a landmark textbook on dermatology and helped develop a treatment for severe psoriasis that is now widely used for a variety of skin diseases, died last Saturday at his home in Lexington, Mass. He was 83.
        In 1971, he published Fitzpatrick's Dermatology in General Medicine. He also wrote a dozen books on dermatology and produced more than 250 original scientific articles.
        In 1973, he helped to develop a method of treating psoriasis patients through controlled exposure to ultraviolet radiation. The procedure is used worldwide to treat psoriasis and many other severe skin diseases like dermatitis and vitiligo.
        In the mid-1970's, he defined some early markers of melanoma, the most serious form of skin cancer. He described initial symptoms of the disease and encouraged early screening. More than 53,000 melanoma cases are diagnosed each year.
        About the same time, he began promoting the importance of sunscreens and carried out some of the first quantitative studies on their effectiveness. Those works helped lead to the sun protection factor ratings, commonly known as S.P.F. and listed on sunscreen bottles.
        Dr. Fitzpatrick was born in 1919 in Madison, Wis., and received his bachelor's degree from the University of Wisconsin, his medical degree from Harvard and a Ph.D. from the University of Minnesota.
        He is survived by his wife, Beatrice; three sons, Thomas B. Jr., of Carlisle, Mass., Scott, of Medford, Mass., and Brian, of Cambridge, Mass.; a daughter, Beatrice Fitzpatrick of Phoenix; and three grandchildren.
        Dr. Fitzpatrick was the chief of dermatology at the University of Oregon in the 1950's and later led Harvard's dermatology department while serving as chief of dermatology at Massachusetts General Hospital. Harvard named an endowed chair in his honor in 1982.
        In the late 1940's, he became one of the first to apply electron microscopy to studies of the skin, using it to help discover and name the basic subcellular structure that produces pigment, the melanosome.
      