
        David Jiranek, a theatrical producer who was a founder of a brochure display business and a champion for the young victims of Rwanda's ethnic violence, died Aug. 17 in a swimming accident while on vacation in North Hatley, Quebec, his family said. He was 45 and lived in Old Greenwich, Conn.
        Though he wanted to be a director, Mr. Jiranek was drawn to producing for pragmatic reasons, his brother-in-law, Joseph Hooper, said. He co-produced the New York premiere of David Mamet's play ''Edmond'' in 1982 and more recently was co-producer of ''Fool Moon'' and the blues revue ''It Ain't Nothing but the Blues.''
        It was also pragmatism that led Mr. Jiranek and a partner, David Weil, to conclude that theaters failed to advertise as effectively as they might. The two men thought brochures left in places where tourists gather would be one solution, and so they were drawn into a field that few people even know is a business -- the ubiquitous, mundane racks of brochures found in lobbies of hotels, theaters and virtually any other place where people pass by. In 1984 they formed CTM Brochure Display, which today has 8,500 racks in the United States and Canada. The two men sold the company in 2000.
        It was then that Mr. Jiranek read about the plight of orphans in Rwanda, and with time and money after the sale of CTM, he traveled to that country. There he visited the Imbabazi Orphanage, where, said a friend, Joanne McKinney, he was struck by ''the irrepressible optimism of children.'' Convinced the orphans could tell their own stories through photographs, he gave them cameras and taught them to use them. Their photographs have been displayed at Lincoln Center and can be seen at rwandaproject.org.
        Mr. Jiranek was a graduate of Principia Upper School in Elsah, Ill., and received a B.F.A from New York University.
        He is survived by his wife, Cricket Hooper Jiranek, two daughters, Harriet and Sailor, and his mother, Elaine Jiranek, all of Old Greenwich, Conn.; and four half-brothers, James Heald Jiranek of Wellsville, Pa., R. Todd Hoffman of North Berwick, Me., Robert H. Jiranek of Danville, Va., and Theodore Hoffman of Middletown, Md.
        Mr. Jiranek had planned to return to his dream of directing. He was the writer and director for ''Lysistrata,'' which is to open Oct. 24 at the Jean Cocteau Repertory in the East Village.
      