
        Sylvestre Randafison, a virtuoso of the valiha, considered the national instrument of Madagascar, and an ambassador of his country's music, died on July 12. He was 75.
        The news of his death was reported in The Independent of London and in various online music publications in conjunction with his funeral on Thursday.
        The valiha has a rippling, rolling, harplike tone and is traditionally made from a section of bamboo with strings arranged around it. It is considered a symbol of cultural unity on the island, which is in the Indian Ocean, and since primitive times has been considered a sign of peace.
        The strings are made from fibers painstakingly removed from the bamboo itself, although after the arrival of Europeans, unbraided bicycle brake cables were used.
        Mr. Randafison revived the use of the original bamboo and became known for the quality of the valihas he made. Unlike traditional instruments, the ones he made could be tuned to different keys.
        He also worked as a folklorist for the Madagascan Ministry of Cultural Affairs, making expeditions throughout Madagascar to collect more than 1,000 pieces of traditional music.
        But he was best known as a musician, performing traditional pieces with such virtuosity that he was sometimes compared to a classical musician in the Western sense. In the 1950's and 60's, his trio, Ny Antsaly, was the first traditional music group to tour extensively abroad.
        In 1993, Jon Pareles of The New York Times reviewed one of his performances in Manhattan. Mr. Randafison called his performance ''musique douce'' (''sweet music''), and Mr. Pareles said that it was.
        ''He finished his set with a rare public performance of sacred music, a dialogue with ancestors asking them to intercede with a supreme being,'' Mr. Pareles wrote. ''Mr. Randafison sat on a white cloth, started another tickling valiha pattern, and talked and sang a stylized dialogue, his voice taking on different characters as his fingers flew.''
        Randafison Benjamin Sylvestre was born in 1928, The Independent reported. His roots were in the rich musical culture of the Merina people.
        He achieved considerable notice when he appeared at the Welsh National Eistedfodd in 1962 and recorded for Vogue Records of France. He was also a soloist for other labels.
        Mr. Randafison is survived by his wife and six children.
      