
        Thomas Savage, whose spare novels of the American West, without six-shooters and gunsmoke, found wide acceptance in the 1940's and a whole new readership in his later years, died on July 25 in Virginia Beach, where he lived for the past six years. He was 88.
        When he published his first novel, ''The Pass'' (Doubleday, 1944), at age 29, Mr. Savage had been a wrangler, ranch hand, welder and railroad brakeman. The book told of ordinary people living in a mountain hamlet, the kind of workaday setting that informed much of his work.
        His second book, ''Lona Hanson'' (Simon & Schuster, 1948), revolved around a young woman who inherits a ranch and falls in love with a hired hand. Readers made a beeline to the stores when it became known that Columbia Pictures had bought the movie rights for $50,000.
        At the time, Mr. Savage was an instructor in English at Suffolk University in Boston and had just been turned down for a $500 loan he needed to buy furniture for his young family. His good fortune was duly recorded in the newspapers.
        The movie was never made, but Mr. Savage's career as a writer flourished, with 13 books in all. Three of them stood out in the revival of his popularity in recent years.
        ''The Power of the Dog'' (Little, Brown; 1967) takes place in the early-20th-century West. It features two brothers, one good, the other bad. Roger Sale, in The Hudson Review, called it ''the finest single book I know about the modern West.''
        Some 30 years later, an editor at Little, Brown had a similar reaction when she found it among the first editions her late grandmother had stored away. The editor, Emily Salkin, prompted Little, Brown to bring it back. ''The Power of the Dog'' was republished in 2001, followed by ''The Sheep Queen,'' originally titled ''I Heard My Sister Speak My Name.''
        Both remain in print, as does Mr. Savage's last novel, ''The Corner of Rife and Pacific,'' which follows a Montana family.
        Mr. Savage's wife, the former Elizabeth Fitzgerald, a novelist, died in 1989. He is survived by a son, Russell Y., of Fort Madison, Iowa; a daughter, Elizabeth S. Main of Virginia Beach; nine grandchildren; and eleven great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 26, 2003, Tuesday  An obituary yesterday about Thomas Savage, a novelist of the American West, omitted the last name of the Little, Brown editor who found some of his novels at her grandmother's house and helped bring some back into print. She is Emily Salkin Takoudes. The obituary also referred incorrectly to Mr. Savage's last novel, ''The Corner of Rife and Pacific.'' It is out of print.
      