
        John J. Rhodes, the former House Republican leader who swayed President Richard M. Nixon to resign in the Watergate scandal, died on Sunday night at his home in Mesa, Ariz. He was 86.
        The cause was cancer, his former press secretary, Jay Smith, said.
        Originally a staunch defender of Nixon, Mr. Rhodes became a central figure in the battle over Watergate when, as a prominent Republican, he publicly called for Nixon to consider resigning.
        Pushing for a thorough investigation of the break-in at the Democratic National Committee headquarters in the Watergate Hotel in Washington, Mr. Rhodes headed off efforts by Nixon's supporters to downgrade the impeachment effort into a vote of censure and to set a time limit on the Congressional inquiry into the role of the White House and the Nixon reelection campaign.
        After tape recordings came out on Aug. 5, 1974, showing that Nixon had discussed using the Central Intelligence Agency to sidetrack the Federal Bureau of Investigation inquiry on Watergate, Mr. Rhodes announced that he would vote for impeachment.
        He was one of three Republicans who met the president on Aug. 7 to inform him that his support in Congress had deteriorated and that he faced certain impeachment.
        The next day, Nixon resigned.
        Mr. Smith, who now runs a public relations firm in Virginia, said about Mr. Rhodes: ''He called that day the saddest day of his life.''
        Mr. Rhodes, whose father was a lumber dealer who became the state treasurer in Kansas, was born on Sept. 18, 1916, in Council Grove, Kan., a small farming community. After graduating from Kansas State University and the Harvard Law School, Mr. Rhodes married Mary Elizabeth Harvey, in 1942.
        Struck by the beauty of Arizona while they were stationed there in World War II, Mr. Rhodes and his wife settled in Mesa after he left the Army Air Corps. He opened a law practice and was later elected Arizona's first Republican House member, in 1952, the year of Dwight D. Eisenhower's Republican landslide.
        As a congressman, he attracted federal money to his home state by pushing for the Central Arizona Project, which channeled water from the Colorado River into the Arizona desert.
        Considered a conservative party loyalist, Mr. Rhodes worked his way up the ranks of the Republican House leadership to become minority leader, succeeding Gerald R. Ford after Mr. Ford was appointed vice president under Nixon in 1973, when Spiro T. Agnew was driven from that office.
        Mr. Rhodes had ambitions to be House speaker, but those hopes dimmed after a backlash against Watergate cost the Republicans 48 seats in the midterm election in 1974.
        Mr. Rhodes continued as Republican leader until 1980 and retired in 1982. In that time, he published ''The Futile System,'' in which he criticized Congress as a ''pitiful helpless giant, devoid of coordination or purpose.''
        Considered colorless by some but trustworthy by others, Mr. Rhodes was a master of parliamentary procedure and was noted for getting the House Republicans to vote as a bloc.
        George F. Will wrote in a newspaper column, ''One glance tells you that God had a congressman in mind when he made John Rhodes.''
        But Mr. Rhodes's appearance was so nondescript that he attracted attention when he changed his hairstyle from a military flattop to a slightly longer style more in line with the fashions of the 1970's.
        His civility was noted by Democrats. ''He was one of the old-time Republicans that were conservative but very wonderful toward his opposition,'' said the Rev. Robert F. Drinan, a Democratic congressman from Massachusetts from 1971 to 1981 who now teaches at the Georgetown University Law Center.
        Mr. Rhodes was a close friend and adviser of President Ford, praying with him on Wednesdays after he took office. Mr. Rhodes was also an avid golf player, though he often said his game was so bad that it could do nothing but improve.
        Surviving are his wife; 4 children, Thomas, James, Elizabeth Reich and John III, who also served four terms in Congress; and 12 grandchildren.
      