
        Dr. David B. Skinner, who presided over the merger of New York Hospital and Presbyterian Hospital and served as president until his retirement in 1999, died on Friday. He was 67.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said Myrna Manners, a hospital spokeswoman.
        Dr. Skinner became president and chief executive of the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in 1987, when the hospital was reeling from several highly publicized deaths that called its quality of care into question.
        In a 1984 case, a grand jury ruled that ''woefully'' inadequate care and repeated medical mistakes led to the death of 18-year-old Libby Zion, who was admitted with a high fever and died the next day.
        In 1987, the New York State Health Department charged that the hospital gave inadequate care to the artist Andy Warhol, who died there that year after gall bladder surgery.
        Also in 1987, a power failure that blacked out 20 percent of the huge Manhattan complex led to the death of a critically ill infant on a respirator.
        When Dr. Skinner arrived at the hospital, he estimated it was losing $1 million a week, but he helped improve its financial health through reducing average patient stays and creating other cost-cutting measures.
        While head of New York Hospital, he oversaw the construction of the Maurice R. and Corinne P. Greenberg Pavilion, an 850,000-square-foot building that extends over Franklin D. Roosevelt Drive. The pavilion opened in 1997, the year New York Hospital and Presbyterian Hospital merged. That year he was named vice chairman and chief executive of New York Presbyterian Hospital.
        He also directed the building of the New York-Presbyterian Healthcare System, a network of primary, specialty and long-term care centers in the metropolitan area.
        Throughout his career, he continued performing esophageal surgery. One of his patients, the composer John Barry, thanked Dr. Skinner in his acceptance speech after winning the Oscar for Best Original Score for ''Dances With Wolves'' in 1991.
        David Bernt Skinner was born on April 28, 1935, in Joliet, Ill., became an Eagle Scout, graduated from Franklin High School in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, and received his undergraduate degree from the University of Rochester. He graduated from Yale University School of Medicine in 1959.
        He completed his internship and surgical residency at Massachusetts General Hospital, and completed a surgical fellowship at Harvard Medical School. He then taught at the University of Texas Medical School in San Antonio, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, and the University of Chicago Pritzker School of Medicine, where he worked for 15 years before joining New York Hospital.
        He is survived by his wife of 46 years, May Elinor, known as Ellie, and their four daughters, Linda Callans of Merion Station, Pa.; Kristin of Manhattan; Carise of Moscow, Idaho; and Margaret of Charleston, S.C.
      