
        The Rt. Rev. John Melville Burgess, who was the first African-American to preside as bishop over an Episcopal diocese in the United States, died on Sunday in Vineyard Haven, Mass., where he had lived since 1989. He was 94.
        Bishop Burgess retired in 1975 as head of the Diocese of Massachusetts, a position he had held since 1970. As bishop, he supported the involvement of members of minorities in religious and social life and the involvement of his church in nonreligious realms.
        Early in his ministry, as a vicar in Ohio, he also directed a medical clinic and other nonreligious services, striving to extend the church's ministry to the whole person. He was also long concerned about the wellbeing of poor people in the cities.
        ''Bishop Burgess was a spokesperson for equal rights, for human rights, for justice and the word of God,'' said Leonard C. Alkins, the president of the N.A.A.C.P.'s Boston branch. ''He gave the encouragement to so many people of color to make that next step forward and not to be afraid. He was a beacon and a drum major for all people.''
        He was born in Grand Rapids, Mich., the son of a railroad dining car waiter.
        He received bachelor's and master's degrees in 1930 and 1931 from the University of Michigan and a bachelor's degree in divinity in 1934 from the Episcopal Theological School in Cambridge, Mass.
        Ordained in 1935, he went on to be Episcopal chaplain of Howard University in Washington from 1946 to 1956 and a canon at Washington Cathedral from 1951 to 1956.
        He was archdeacon of Boston's parishes and missions and superintendent of what became named the Episcopal City Mission there from 1956 to 1962.
        In 1961 he was elected a suffragan bishop, an assisting bishop, of the Episcopal Diocese of Massachussetts at a gathering of diocesan priests. He held the post from 1962 to 1969. In June 1969, he was elected to succeed the Rt. Rev. Anson Phelps Stokes Jr. as the Episcopal bishop of Massachusetts, which he did in the following year.
        After retiring as bishop, he taught students who were training for the ministry at the Berkeley Divinity School, an Episcopal seminary attached to Yale Divinity School, in New Haven. He was a professor of pastoral theology.
        Bishop Burgess is survived by his wife, the former Esther J. Taylor, whom he married in 1945; two daughters, Julia Burgess of Washington and Margaret B. Harrison of Boston; three grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      