
        Wilfred Thesiger, who was among the last of the great explorers lucky enough to have lived when the globe still had some uncharted corners, died on Sunday in England. He was 93 and had been living in a retirement home in Coulsdon, Surrey.
        Sir Wilfred was an insatiable traveler throughout his long life. He was also a man of private wealth and a romantic who seemed to hate the modern world and found nobility in privation.
        He was the first foreigner to cross the Empty Quarter of Saudi Arabia twice, once in 1946 and again in 1948, when that vast desert was one of the last unmapped regions of the earth. He became the first outsider to see the quicksands at Umm as-Samim.
        ''Arabian Sands,'' his account of those travels, first published in 1959, became an international best seller. It was also a declaration of love for the Bedouin Arabs, whose harsh way of life he had shared.
        ''Here in the desert I had found all that I asked: I knew that I should never find it again,'' he wrote.
        Sir Wilfred's books, often illustrated with his own photographs, were poetic and autobiographical in their approach, describing journeys as much into himself as into the world.
        Reviewing ''Arabian Sands'' for The New York Times, the British writer and critic Peter Quennel wrote that strictly speaking, Sir Wilfred discovered almost nothing on this journey. Even the mountains he traversed were shifting sand:
        ''We were faced'' Sir Wilfred wrote in his account of the closing stages of the march, ''by a range as high as, perhaps even higher than the range we had crossed the day before, but here the peaks were steeper and more pronounced, rising in many cases to great pinnacles, down which the flowing ridges swept like draperies. These sands, paler colored than those we had crossed, were very soft, cascading round our feet as the camels struggled up the slopes.''
        Mr. Quennel noted that this trip, like all of Sir Wilfred's, seemed to have been ''a journey in search of himself, in quest of self-realization and self-fulfillment.'' Sir Wilfred, he said, belonged to a class of English writer whose ''sense of poetry is apt to reach the surface when their footsteps strike a desert track.''
        His second book, ''Marsh Arabs,'' which appeared in 1964, told of the seven years he spent, from 1951 to 1958, among the Madan Arabs of the vast marshlands at the confluence of the Tigris and the Euphrates Rivers in southern Iraq.
        In earlier journeys, he had explored, at great risk, the Danakil country of the Afars of northern Ethiopia and discovered why the great Awash river, which traverses their lands, never reaches the sea.
        But in later life he watched disillusioned as the modern world caught up with the peoples he admired; as oil rigs and pipelines spread across the Empty Quarter and the Bedouin turned in their camels for Toyota Land Cruisers; as President Saddam Hussein drained the Iraqi marshes to clear out rebels.
        Although he spent the last part of his life in his native England, he made his later decades a personal act of rebellion against modernity, setting up home among the Samburu tribesmen of northern Kenya in Maralal, a desert shanty town.
        But he never learned their language, as he had learned Arabic, preferring instead to teach them English, even though this introduced them to the modern age he disdained.
        Sir Wilfred never married and left no immediate survivors.
        Wilfred Patrick Thesiger was born June 3, 1910, at the British Legation in Addis Ababa, where his father was the British minister at the court of the Emperor of Abyssinia, as Ethiopia was then called.
        His family returned to England only in 1919, and his early upbringing in Addis Ababa gave him a taste for exotic places and a respect for indigenous cultures.
        After his father's early death, he attended Eton and Magdalen College, Oxford. In 1930, while still at Oxford, he returned to Addis Ababa to attend Haile Selassie's coronation at the emperor's invitation.
        It was on this trip that Sir Wilfred first met and quarreled with the young novelist Evelyn Waugh, who took the coronation less seriously than he did. It was then, as well, that he decided to make the trip into Danakil country to find the end of the Awash river, which made his reputation as an explorer.
        In 1933, with financial help from the Royal Geographic Society and Magdalen College, Sir Wilfred entered Danakil territory, knowing that explorers on three previous expeditions had been killed. But he finally established that the Awash evaporated in the salt banks of Lake Abbé.
        In 1934, Sir Wilfred joined the Sudan Political Service, which then administered Sudan on behalf of Britain and Egypt. In World War II he joined the Sudan Defense Force and helped his friend the deposed Emperor Haile Selassie liberate Ethiopia from Italian occupation. He then joined Britain's elite Special Air Service, mounting hit-and-run raids behind German lines in North Africa.
        Sir Wilfred spent 1945 to 1950 traveling in Saudi Arabia, ostensibly searching for the breeding grounds of predatory locusts, but the exploration of the Empty Quarter, the Rub al-Khali, was his secret objective.
        An earlier British explorer, Bertram Thomas, had become the first foreigner to cross the Empty Quarter, in 1931, followed in 1932 by Harry St. John Bridger Philby, the father of the spy Kim Philby.
        Sir Wilfred made his first crossing in 1946 and 1947, traveling by camel with a small group of Bedouin and taking a circular route through the eastern part of the desert from Salalah, on the Arabian Sea coast, to Mughshin, Khaba and back to Boi.
        In 1948 he made his second crossing, traversing the western part of the desert from Manwakh to Sulaiyil, Laila and Abu Dhabi on the Persian Gulf. In addition he journeyed to Dhaufar and Hadramaut and to Oman and the Persian Gulf states.
        But by 1950 the Arabian peninsula was becoming closed to him, with the Saudi and Omani authorities blocking further travel. So in 1951 he moved to the marshlands of southern Iraq, where he lived intermittently for the next seven years among the local Arabs, administering medicine and even helping out in the ritual circumcision of their young men.
        In 1956 he was visited by the writer Gavin Maxwell, whose book ''A Reed Shaken by the Wind'' provides a portrait of Sir Wilfred's life there. Sir Wilfred also gave Mr. Maxwell the baby otter that inspired his subsequent best seller ''Ring of Bright Water.'' But when they met again later in Morocco, where Mr. Maxwell was writing his book ''Lords of the Atlas,'' they quarreled over a lunch bill and never spoke again.
        After Sir Wilfred left the Iraqi marshes in 1956, he headed for Kabul, Afghanistan, and mounted an expedition to Nuristan, an almost unknown part of the Hindu Kush.
        In the early 1960's he made took an extensive trip through Iran and revisited Nuristan. In 1966 he was invited back to Addis Ababa for the 25th anniversary of Haile Selassie's return.
        That year he spent six months in Yemen, traveling with the royalist forces and their European mercenary advisers, who were fighting a civil war against the leftist government. But Sir Wilfred did not take to the Yemenis, and his time there seemed to leave him disillusioned with the Arab world in general.
        He remained restless, however, and continued traveling until 1980 when, at the age of 70, he finally put down roots at Maralal, in Kenya, building himself a zinc-roofed cabin without electricity or running water, which he shared with an adopted Samburu family. He returned to England when he was in his late 80's.
      