
        John Shearman, a historian of Italian Renaissance art who advised on the restoration of Michelangelo's frescoes in the Sistine Chapel in the Vatican, died on Aug. 11 while on vacation near Lethbridge, Alberta. He was 72.
        He had a heart attack, his wife, Kathryn Bush, said.
        Dr. Shearman, who lived in Cambridge, Mass., was a leading expert on Raphael as well as on Italian Mannerism, the highly stylized form that began in the High Renaissance in the 1520's and lasted until the beginnings of the Baroque style around 1590.
        He was also known for his profound historical knowledge of the technical aspects of painting. In 2001 he identified an Andrea del Sarto altarpiece that had been lost for 350 years.
        But Dr. Shearman probably achieved the most fame for his discovery that the vault of the Sistine Chapel was cracked along its length in 1504, four years before Michelangelo began work on it. Because the old decoration -- incorporating stars and some geometrical shapes -- was ruined, a new ceiling was needed.
        ''That may be just one of the reasons why the pope commissioned Michelangelo,'' Walter Persegati, secretary general and treasurer of the Vatican Museums, said in an interview with The New York Times in 1985.
        Dr. Shearman, who served on the Pontifical Advisory Commission for the Restoration of the Sistine Chapel, argued strongly against those who opposed the restoration of a ceiling that had become virtually monochrome, a kind of bluish gray. These opponents worried that authenticity would be sacrificed for prettiness.
        In a chapter in the book ''The Sistine Chapel: A Glorious Restoration'' (Abrams, 1994), Dr. Shearman swept away the notion that Florentine painting, including Michelangelo's, was merely colored drawing. He said that Michelangelo used color to clarify, not decorate, and argued that rich, vibrant colors were needed so viewers could appreciate the complex painted images from their vantage point on the floor.
        ''It is agreeable, I think, to be rescued from unreality,'' Dr. Shearman wrote of the ceiling's new visibility.
        But he contended that the new colors were more than just useful. They were like Michelangelo's bouquet, he said.
        John Kinder Gowran Shearman was born to Charles E. G. Shearman, a brigadier in the British Army, and the former Evelyn White in Aldershot, England, on June 24, 1931. He attended private schools, and was inspired to study art history by the arts master at Felsted School.
        He earned undergraduate and doctoral degrees from the Courtauld Institute of Art, affiliated with the University of London. He also conducted research at the institute from 1957 to 1979, and was its deputy director from 1974 to 1978.
        In 1979 he moved to Princeton University as a professor of art history and the chairman of its art and archaeology department.
        He joined the Harvard faculty in 1987 as a fine arts professor and in 1989 he received the William Dorr Boardman Professorship. In 1994 he became the Charles Adams University Professor. He was chairman of the fine arts department from 1990 to 1993.
        His many books included ''Mannerism'' (Penguin, 1967), which The Independent of London said in its obituary ''confirmed his reputation as an international star of exceptional magnitude.''
        His last book, scheduled to be published in October by Biblioteca Hertziana in Rome and by the Yale University Press, is a series of documents on Raphael, assembled over decades. The Independent called the book Dr. Shearman's ''permanent monument.''
        In addition to his wife, who is a professor of art history at the University of Western Ontario, Dr. Shearman is survived by four children by his first wife, the former Jane Smith, who died in 1982. They are his daughters Juliet Kirk of Gran Canaria in the Canary Islands, Niccola Shearman of London and Sarah Laing of Dunbar, Scotland; and his son, Michael, of Richmond, Va. Dr. Shearman is also survived by five grandchildren.
        Correction:  August 30, 2003, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about John Shearman, an art expert who advised the Vatican on the restoration of the Sistine Chapel, misstated his wife's surname. She is Kathryn Brush, not Bush.
      