
        Frank MacDonald, Australia's oldest World War I veteran and its last surviving serviceman to have been cited for bravery in that war, died on Aug. 23 in Burnie, Tasmania. He was 107.
        Australia had been a commonwealth for just over a decade when it entered World War I, but its people still identified themselves mostly with their home states. When reports arrived of their countrymen in battle, particularly of their bravery in the campaign against Turkey at Gallipoli, Australians began to reflect on their common heritage, and so the sacrifices of that generation still resonate today.
        Mr. MacDonald's death was announced by Australia's veterans affairs minister, Danna Vale, and officials in Tasmania arranged a state funeral.
        Mr. MacDonald received the Military Medal for Gallantry at the battle of Ypres, Belgium, in October 1917, for repairing telegraph lines between his battalion headquarters and the trenches while under fire.
        He became a symbol of heroism for Australians, but when he first tried to enlist in the military, he was rejected.
        ''They wouldn't take me in 1914 because I had bad teeth,'' Mr. MacDonald told the Australian Broadcasting Corporation on Nov. 11, 2001, the 83rd anniversary of the World War I armistice. ''I had those out, got my new ones in November 1914, and they knocked me back again because you had to have your own grinders, top and bottom, double teeth, so I went off up to Queensland to cut sugar cane for a season.''
        By March 1916, when he sought to enlist once more, the war's carnage had created manpower needs that far outweighed Mr. MacDonald's dental woes.
        ''They didn't argue after that when I come back,'' he recalled. ''I didn't even have to take me coat off.''
        Mr. MacDonald served as a corporal in the all-Tasmanian 40th Battalion. Despite taking part in many battles in Belgium and France, he was never wounded, but he was gassed three times and suffered impaired hearing from the constant shelling.
        Even in his last years, he remembered horrific scenes, citing particularly the time he came upon scores of American dead in a riverbed during the battle of the Hindenburg Line.
        ''I should have been killed a dozen times, but I wasn't,'' Australian press reports quoted him as telling an interviewer a few years ago. ''I had 10 times as much luck as any man is entitled to.''
        After the war, Mr. MacDonald worked as a clerk, a real estate agent and a salesman, living in Sydney, Brisbane and Melbourne. He served with the Australian Army in an administrative role at Sydney during World War II.
        Mr. MacDonald's wife, Lillian, died in 1978. They had no children. After her death, Mr. MacDonald returned to his native Ulverstone, Tasmania, and lived with a great-niece.
        According to the Veterans Ministry, his death leaves six surviving Australians known to have served in World War I.
        Beyond facing the huge casualties, Mr. MacDonald experienced a few bright moments during his two years' service in the war. There was, for instance, a day in April 1918 when his unit entered a French town the Germans had abandoned.
        ''We were all keeping our heads down when we saw two of our own in full view pushing a pram down the road in full women's dress,'' he told an interviewer in 1998. ''They were drunk as lords and singing 'It's a Long Way to Tipperary' while shells were knocking the tops off buildings as they passed by.''
      