
        Donald H. Davidson, a philosopher whose complex but penetrating insights into topics like linguistic analysis and the nature of truth influenced a generation of thinkers, died on Aug. 31 in Berkeley, Calif. He was 86.
        Dr. Davidson made his mark with a battery of landmark essays over four decades, during which he held 20 lectureships and distinguished professorships at universities in the United States and abroad. He was a professor emeritus at the University of California at the time of his death.
        In a major theme of his thinking and writing, Dr. Davidson carried forward Wittgenstein's notion that social exchange is the basis of language and knowledge, a challenge to the long-dominant Cartesian idea that an individual mind could by itself know about the world.
        Thomas Nagel, a professor of law and philosophy at New York University, said Dr. Davidson's contention that communication with others defines reality provided a compelling answer to the famous statement by Descartes, ''I think, therefore I am.'' Dr. Nagel said this Cartesian claim had long vexed philosophers with ''the problem of the egocentric predicament,'' setting the stage for centuries of epistemological and metaphysical discussion.
        Dr. Davidson's answers, expressed almost entirely in short, crisp but intellectually dense papers rather than books, made him ''certainly one of the most important philosophers of the postwar period,'' Dr. Nagel said on Tuesday.
        Dr. Davidson was a student and intellectual disciple of W. V. Quine, considered one of the most influential philosophers of the 20th century for his theory of language, among other important insights.
        ''For my money, Davidson went way beyond Quine,'' the philosopher Richard Rorty said in an interview on Tuesday. ''Quine gave him liftoff, but he then developed Quine's stuff in extraordinarily original ways.''
        Referring to John Rawls, the political theorist and philosopher who died last year, Dr. Rorty, who teaches at Stanford, added, ''I don't think there's anybody else among American philosophers, after the deaths of Quine and Rawls, who gave him any competition.''
        Dr. Davidson coined terms to express complex ideas. One was ''triangulation.'' The triangle is formed of the individual, all other people and the nonhuman universe. Language and thought are created by the three interacting with each other.
        Another was ''anomalous monism,'' the notion that mind and body are different and that, contrary to much philosophical opinion, the mind cannot be reduced to physical processes.
        But Dr. Davidson used only as much jargon as he found necessary in a field where jargon is not uncommon, and he was known for a playful streak. When an interviewer asked him a contorted question involving anomalous monism and chocolate chip cookies, he had a prompt answer.
        ''Don't worry, John,'' he said in an interview with The Dualist, an undergraduate philosophical publication at Stanford. ''If I thought your picture was inconsistent with anomalous monism I'd give up anomalous monism, not chocolate chip cookies.''
        Donald Herbert Davidson was born on March 6, 1917, in Springfield, Mass., and spent his early boyhood bouncing from city to city as his father, an engineer, pursued various jobs. When he was 9 or 10, the family settled in Staten Island.
        He read Nietzsche and Kant in high school, when not making excellent model airplanes. He won a scholarship to Harvard, where the philosopher A. N. Whitehead regularly invited him to tea and took him under his wing. He began as an English major, then switched to comparative literature, and, finally, to classics and philosophy.
        He persuaded Harvard to let him put on ''The Birds'' by Aristophanes and played the lead, Peisthetairos, which meant memorizing 700 lines of Greek. His friend and classmate Leonard Bernstein, with whom he played four-handed piano, wrote an original score for the production.
        Having graduated from Harvard in 1939, Mr. Davidson drove to California with a girlfriend. He wrote some radio scripts for ''Big Town,'' starring Edward G. Robinson. Harvard wrote to offer him a graduate scholarship in philosophy.
        After two years of philosophy study, he was also accepted by Harvard Business School for simultaneous study there; he bought a bicycle to commute between the schools. He explained in an interview with Ernest Lepore, director of the Rutgers Center for Cognitive Science and author of more than 60 articles on Dr. Davidson, that he decided to study business despite being a ''fellow traveler'' with Communist friends.
        He joined the Navy and trained pilots to recognize enemy planes. After three and a half years in the Navy, he tried unsuccessfully to write a novel before returning to his philosophy studies and earning his doctorate in philosophy in 1949. He left business school.
        Dr. Davidson wrote his dissertation on Plato's ''Philebus,'' a dialogue between Socrates and Philebus, one of his many foils, a lengthy defense of the superiority of intellectual activity over physical pleasure.
        Dr. Davidson told Mr. Lepore that he thought Quine was perplexed over why he chose such an antiquated topic, but kept it to himself.
        Dr. Davidson's first teaching position was at Queens College, followed by permanent ones at Stanford, Princeton, Rockefeller University, the University of Chicago and Berkeley. His many honors included being elected president of the American Philosophical Association in 1985.
        He is survived by his third wife, Marcia Cavell, also a philosopher; his daughter, Elizabeth Davidson of Albany, Calif.; his sister, Jean Baldwin of Guilford, Conn.; and two grandchildren.
        Dr. Davidson climbed mountains, surfed and flew gliders, but his wife said his greatest adventure was chasing an idea.
        ''He didn't give a damn what other people thought about him,'' she said. ''He just took a problem that interested him. Each problem led into a large number of problems.''
      