
        Gen. Raymond G. Davis, who received the Medal of Honor for leading a storied rescue of fellow marines besieged by Chinese troops at the Chosin Reservoir during the Korean War, died on Wednesday in Conyers, Ga., outside Atlanta. He was 88 and lived in the nearby town of Stockbridge.
        General Davis, a combat veteran of three wars and the assistant commandant of the Marine Corps in the early 1970's, was among the United States' most highly decorated military officers. In 34 years of service, he received not only the Medal of Honor, the nation's highest award for valor, but also the Navy Cross, the Distinguished Service Medal, the Legion of Merit, the Silver Star, the Bronze Star and the Purple Heart.
        General Davis was renowned in the Marines for his heroics at a place that came to be called Frozen Chosin, where a fighting withdrawal resonates in the history of the corps much like the battle for Iwo Jima in World War II.
        Soon after the Korean War began in the summer of 1950, General Davis, a lieutenant colonel at the time, rushed to the front in command of a battalion he had hastily assembled at Camp Pendleton, Calif.
        In the first days of December, Chinese forces were threatening to annihilate American troops who had advanced far into North Korea, approaching the border with China.
        Colonel Davis's unit -- First Battalion, Seventh Marines, First Marine Division -- was given the enormously challenging task of rescuing marines who were trapped in deep snows astride a vital mountain pass.
        His men embarked on an eight-mile trek past surrounding enemy forces, climbing primitive, icy trails in temperatures as much as 30 degrees below zero. He was knocked to the ground when a shell fragment struck his helmet, and his clothing was pierced by enemy fire. But he fought forward with his battalion.
        The rescuers ultimately reached an isolated company of marines that had 80 or so men remaining, and secured a mountain opening called the Toktong Pass, enabling two regiments as well to move through it and escape.
        On the morning of Dec. 4, the marines arrived at their base camp in Hagaru-ri, the rescue mission completed. Three days later, Colonel Davis was named executive officer of the Seventh Marines, and he remained in Korea until June 1951. On Nov. 24, 1952, he received the Medal of Honor from President Harry S. Truman.
        Raymond Gilbert Davis was born on Jan. 13, 1915, in Fitzgerald, Ga. He graduated from Georgia Tech with a degree in chemical engineering, and was then commissioned a second lieutenant in the Marines.
        He commanded an antiaircraft machine-gun battery on Guadalcanal in 1942, then served as a battalion commander in the First Marine Division during the 1944 invasion of another Pacific island, Peleliu. He was wounded in the knee in that campaign but refused evacuation and led his men in an attack on Japanese forces, action that brought him the Navy Cross, his service's second-highest award for bravery.
        After his exploits in World War II and the Korean War, General Davis was back in combat during the Vietnam War, taking command of the Third Marine Division in 1968.
        In 1971, he attained four-star rank and was named the Marines' assistant commandant. He retired from military service a year later.
        He became an executive with the Georgia Chamber of Commerce, organized a land development company and served as chairman of the advisory board to the Korean War Veterans Memorial in Washington, which was dedicated in July 1995.
        Last September, General Davis was among a small group of Korean War veterans who visited the mountainous area at the western side of the Chosin Reservoir where he had led the rescue more than half a century before. The trip, arranged by the Defense Department, was the first since the war in which North Korea had allowed Americans to visit that site.
        General Davis is survived by his wife, Willa; two sons, Raymond Davis Jr. of Covington, Ga., and Gordon Miles Davis, who lives in Alabama; a daughter, Willa Kerr of Stockbridge; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      