
        Tibor Varga, a violinist, conductor and teacher who was famous in Europe for his interpretations of modern classical compositions, died on Thursday at his home in Grimisuat, Switzerland. He was 82.
        The cause was a heart attack, said his wife, Angelika Varga-Behrer.
        As a musician, Mr. Varga sought ''to transmit the message of the composer'' as accurately as possible, said Dr. Varga-Behrer, a musicologist.
        After Mr. Varga gave the European premiere of Schoenberg's Violin Concerto in 1951, she said, the composer praised his interpretation.
        On the Web site of the Tibor Varga International Violin Competition (www.concours-violon.ch/e/), a contest Mr. Varga established in 1967, Schoenberg is quoted as writing: ''Your performance resonates as if you had known the work for 25 years. Your whole interpretation is mature, expressive, marvelous. I can assure you that I have never heard a performance which so precisely reflected my intentions in every detail. I would like to be younger to write more music for you.''
        Mr. Varga was also known for his performances and recordings of Bartok, Berg, Nielsen and Shostakovitch, among the moderns, as well as the standard repertory of Beethoven, Brahms and Tchaikovsky.
        Tibor Varga was born on July 4, 1921, in Gyor, Hungary. At 6, he had his first public performance. At 10, he appeared for the first time as an orchestra soloist, playing Mendelssohn's Violin Concerto in E minor (Op. 64).
        He had already attracted the attention of Jeno Hubay, who arranged for his enrollment at the Franz Liszt Academy of Music in Budapest, where he studied with Hubay's assistant, Franz Gabriel, and Leo Weiner. When Hubay died in 1937, Mr. Varga was chosen to perform Hubay's Third Violin Concerto (Op. 99), under the direction of Ernst von Dohnanyi, at the memorial concert.
        Mr. Varga began his recording and international concert career as a teenager, and then during World War II studied philosophy at the University of Budapest.
        In 1947 he moved to England. In 1956 he resettled his family in Switzerland, largely because of the health problems of his son, Gilbert, now a well-known conductor.
        At the urging of the conductor Franco Ferrara, Mr. Varga took up conducting in the 1960's.
        He also took an active role in music education throughout his career. After World War II, he became a professor at the Academy of Music in Gyor. In 1949 he joined the Academy of Music in Detmold, Germany, taking a central role in creating the string department. He established a High School of Music in Sion, Switzerland, where he also founded the Summer Academy of Music.
        Last year Mr. Varga was appointed professor of violin at the University of Music and Performing Arts in Graz, Austria.
        His first wife, Judith, died about 10 years ago, said Dr. Varga-Behrer, who married Mr. Varga two years ago.
        In addition to his wife and son, he is survived by his daughter, Susan Rybicki, a violoncellist and teacher.
      