
        Amram Ducovny, who realized his dream of becoming a novelist at age 73, died on Aug. 23 in Paris, the city he had moved to so he could concentrate on writing in his retirement. He was 75.
        The cause was heart disease, said Mr. Ducovny's literary agent, Andrew Blauner.
        Mr. Ducovny's novel, ''Coney,'' was published in 2000 by Overlook Press and is set in the Coney Island of his youth in the 1930's. The novel ''is as satisfying and exhilarating as a ride on the Cyclone,'' Dana Kennedy wrote in The New York Times Book Review, adding that Mr. Ducovny was able ''to transport readers swiftly into the garish and seamy heart of Coney Island.''
        Though it was his first novel, ''Coney'' wasn't Mr. Ducovny's first book; he wrote nonfiction works, including ''David Ben-Gurion in His Own Words'' and several humor books. He was also the author of a play, ''The Trial of Lee Harvey Oswald,'' which had a brief Off Broadway run in 1967 and gave his 7-year-old son, David, now an actor, his first view of show business.
        Amram Ducovny supported himself by working in public relations, first for the American Jewish Committee in New York, and until his retirement for the Combined Jewish Philanthropies of Boston.
        He moved to Boston in 1977 to become director of public affairs for Brandeis University, and from 1978 to 1982 he was the vice president for public affairs at the university.
        Mr. Ducovny grew up ''a jazz fanatic'' on a block between Neptune and Mermaid Avenues in Coney Island and graduated from New Utrecht High School, his daughter, Laurie Duchovny, said.
        He received a B.A. from New York University.
        Mr. Ducovny said he had dropped the ''h'' in his last name to escape the sort of mispronunciations he suffered at the hands of sergeants while serving in the Army.
        His first marriage, to Margaret Duchovny, ended in divorce.
        Survivors, along with his son David Duchovny of Los Angeles and his daughter, Laurie, of New York, include another son, Daniel Ducovny, also of Los Angeles; his wife, Varda Ducovny of Paris; a stepson, Jonathan Sahula of Boston; and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  September 3, 2003, Wednesday  The obituary of the novelist Amram Ducovny yesterday referred incompletely to the variant spellings of his surname, which was originally Duchovny. Although he dropped the 'h,' Mr. Ducovny's son, the actor David Duchovny, uses the original spelling, as do the novelist's daughter, Laurie, and his first wife, Margaret.
        Correction:  September 18, 2003, Thursday  An obituary of the novelist and playwright Amram Ducovny on Sept. 2 misstated the authorship and production category of the play ''The Trial of Lee Harvey Oswald.'' Mr. Ducovny was the co-author with Leon Friedman, not the sole author. It was produced on Broadway, not off Broadway.
      