
        Benjamin Merrill Holt Jr., an early designer of geothermal power plants, died on Aug. 22 at his home in South Pasadena, Calif. He was 89.
        In 1961, Mr. Holt, who was known as Ben, started the Ben Holt Company, an engineering concern that designed oil refineries in California. The company's involvement in geothermal energy started in the early 1970's.
        Geothermal energy, which is drawn from deep below the earth's surface, can be used in power plants when wells are drilled down to reservoirs of heated groundwater.
        The hot water is used to generate electricity when the steam that it produces circulates through turbines, in a steam-turbine plant, or when heated water or steam heats a secondary liquid that runs through the turbine, in a binary plant.
        John Brugman, the director of technology at Bibb & Associates and one of the chemical engineers on Holt's design team starting in 1973, said that the Ben Holt Company was responsible for several advances in the design of geothermal energy plants. The company developed what is known as advanced binary cycles, which involves tailoring formulas for the secondary fluids that circulate through turbines. It also designed systems to clean geothermal steam.
        In 1983, the company designed and built the first air-cooled binary geothermal plant in the United States at Mammoth Lakes, Calif. It went on to design plants in Nevada, Utah and Texas, as well as the Philippines, Indonesia and Africa.
        It was purchased in 1993 by California Energy, an electricity generation and distribution company, and in 1997 was sold to Peter Kiewit Sons Inc., a construction company, which merged its operations with another subsidiary, Bibb & Associates. Ben Holt retired in 1998.
        He received a degree in chemistry from Stanford University in Palo Alto, Calif., in 1935 and a master's degree in chemical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1937.
        Mr. Holt is survived by his wife, Virginia Keim Holt; his son, Benjamin Holt III of Altadena, Calif.; two daughters, Rebecca Palmer of Los Altos, Calif., and Sara Holt Albert of Paris; and five grandchildren.
      