
        Warren Kremer, a cartoonist whose lush, rounded brush style defined the appearance of comic-book characters from Richie Rich to Casper the Friendly Ghost, died on July 24 in Glen Ridge, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Bloomfield, N.J.
        Along with Alfred Harvey, the publisher of Harvey Comics, and the editor Sid Jacobson, Mr. Kremer created popular children's characters including the ''poor little rich kid'' Richie Rich; Stumbo the Giant; and the baby devil beloved of boardwalk tattoo artists, Hot Stuff. Mr. Kremer was the top artist at Harvey Comics, where he worked for 35 years, and was one of the most prolific artists of comic-book covers.
        A cheery cross between Little Lord Fauntleroy and Barbara Hutton, Richie Rich made his debut as a backup feature in the first issue of the comic book Little Dot in September 1953. Mr. Kremer named the character for his own son Richard.
        Richie Rich soon proved to be the most popular character in the Harvey stable. Harvey Hits No. 3 was the first all-Richie Rich comic in November 1957, and he was given his own title in 1960. In 1994 the comic book was made into a movie starring Macaulay Culkin, who like the main character was cute, blond and wealthy beyond his years.
        Mr. Kremer also modified the original lugubrious-looking Casper the Friendly Ghost as he appeared in animated shorts by Famous Studios in the early 1940's, turning him into the more child-friendly, cherubic version known today.
        Born in the Bronx in 1921, Mr. Kremer graduated from the High School of Music and Art and the School of Industrial Arts in New York City. He was an illustrator for pulp magazines, then in the late 1940's joined Harvey, where he met his wife, Grace, who worked as a letterer. He is survived by his wife, Grace; two sons, Richard W. and Peter R.; two daughters, Maryanne Kremer-Ames and Suzanne Petrozzino; a sister, Anita Sudol; and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Kremer worked for Harvey's line of horror comics, including Black Cat and Tomb of Terror, for which he created one especially notorious cover of a bursting head in the early 1950's. Such horrific imagery helped lead to a Congressional investigation into comics by the Kefauver committee in 1954; Harvey subsequently pursued a wholesome image.
        The provenance of Richie Rich, like that of most successful comic characters, is disputed. The publisher, Mr. Harvey, often claimed he created Richie, but Mr. Kremer told Comic Book Artist Magazine last year: ''We should get some of the credit. We weren't getting the money, for sure!''
      