
        C. H. Sisson, a respected though not widely known British poet, translator and critic, who carefully avoided living the literary life, died on Friday at his home in the village of Langport in southwest England. He was 89.
        A professional civil servant, Mr. Sisson spent his life working in the Ministry of Labor, later the Department of Employment, rising to the unglamorous post of director of occupational safety and health.
        His first published work, which appeared in 1959, was a defense of British civil service traditions against those of Continental Europe and titled ''The Spirit of British Administration and Some European Comparisons.''
        A first collection of verse, ''The London Zoo,'' appeared in 1961 when he was nearly 50, but was poorly received. He began to acquire a reputation only with his second collection, ''In the Trojan Ditch,'' published in 1974, when he was 60.
        Charles Hubert Sisson was born on April 22, 1914, into a working-class family in Bristol. A scholarship took him to Bristol University and then to the University of Freiburg, in Germany, and the Sorbonne.
        Mr. Sisson described himself as a poet who had often resolved to give it up ''but never quite succeeded.'' He disliked the modern world, and the language of his verse is edgy and devoid of lyricism or romance.
        His best-known poem is probably a two-line epitaph:
        Here lies a civil servant. He was civil
        To everyone, and servant to the devil.
        In all, Mr. Sisson published about 20 volumes of poetry, including his collected poems in 1984 and ''God Bless Karl Marx,'' a collection of poems about old age, in 1987. He also translated Heine, Catullus, Lucretius, Virgil, La Fontaine and Dante.
        He wrote several critical works, including ''English Poetry 1900-1950: An Assessment'' (1971) and ''The Case of Walter Bagehot'' (1972).
        In 1937 Mr. Sisson married the former Nora Gilbertson, who died earlier this year. He is survived by their two daughters.
      