
        John Ritter, who played the lovably goofy closet heterosexual Jack Tripper in the television comedy series ''Three's Company,'' a smash hit in the 1970's, died on Thursday night in Burbank, Calif. He was 54.
        Mr. Ritter became ill on the set of ''8 Simple Rules for Dating My Teenage Daughter,'' his current series on ABC, and died at a local hospital, Susan Wilcox, his assistant, said in an interview with The Associated Press. The cause was an aortic dissection, a break in the main artery that carries blood from the heart, Ms. Wilcox said.
        In ''Three's Company,'' Mr. Ritter's character is the lucky man who shares an apartment with two beautiful women, Chrissy, played by Suzanne Somers, and Janet, played by Joyce DeWitt. A prudish landlord and his sex-starved wife have been told that Jack is gay, allowing the show to offer a weekly dose of innuendo and double meaning, but scant real sex.
        Critics decried it as everything from an empty-headed waste of time to a symptom of moral rot, but it quickly became one of the highest-rated programs in television history.
        Mr. Ritter won an Emmy and other awards for his performance on ''Three's Company,'' and many viewers and not a few critics acknowledged that he regularly rose above his material.
        He used the series, which ran from 1977 to 1984, to carve out an identity that led him to many other roles. He starred in two other sitcoms as well, ''Hooperman'' and ''Hearts Afire.'' He appeared in television movies, mini-series (including Stephen King's ''It'') and feature films (including ''Sling Blade'' and ''Tadpole'').
        He popped up on sitcoms like ''Ally McBeal,'' for which he was nominated for an Emmy. He received another Emmy nomination for his role as the voice of Clifford the Big Red Dog on the PBS animated series for children. In 2001, he won a Theater World Award for his Broadway performance with Henry Winkler in ''The Dinner Party.''
        ''He's the most natural actor I've seen since Jimmy Stewart,'' Peter Bogdanovich, the filmmaker, said in an interview with The New York Times in 1987.
        Johnathan Southworth Ritter was born in Burbank on Sept. 17, 1948. His father was the singing cowboy Tex Ritter, and his mother, Dorothy Fay, an actress, became the official greeter at the Grand Ole Opry in Nashville.
        ''John was always playing a part, even as a little boy,'' his mother said in an interview with TV Guide in 1978. ''When he played baseball he'd pretend that he was one of the Dodger stars, impersonating Don Drysdale or Maury Wills.''
        He was student body president at Hollywood High School but spent summers touring with his parents as his father made the rounds of the nation's fairgrounds and rodeos. When his parents settled in Nashville, he visited them and met many country music stars, including Johnny Cash, his favorite of the ones he encountered, according to Current Biography.
        At the University of Southern California, he switched from psychology to drama and studied with Nina Foch, the actress and drama coach. He later studied with Stella Adler and attended the Harvey Lembeck Comedy Workshop in Hollywood, where he became close friends with Robin Williams.
        His father, Tex, failed to interest him in the guitar and was at first against an acting career. ''Just don't get cocky,'' he advised. John heeded the advice.
        ''John's all about not taking life too seriously,'' his ''Three's Company'' co-star Ms. DeWitt said in an interview with People magazine in 2002. ''There were days we went home from rehearsal with our cheeks sore from laughing.''
        Mr. Ritter is survived by his wife, Amy Yasbeck, and their daughter, Stella, as well as by the three children from his first marriage, to Nancy Morgan: Jason, Carly and Tyler.
        John Ritter's star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame is next to his father's.
      