
        Frank L. O'Bannon, a folksy Democrat serving his second term as governor of Indiana, died yesterday at Northwestern Memorial Hospital in Chicago. He was 73.
        The cause was a stroke, which he had suffered last week in a hotel room in Chicago, where he had been attending a conference on Japanese-American trade, his office said.
        A Democrat, Mr. O'Bannon favored the death penalty and wanted stone tablets containing the Ten Commandments installed on the state Capitol grounds, a plan that was blocked by a federal judge in 2000.
        His political career began in 1970, when he succeeded his father in the State Senate. He represented his hometown of Corydon, in southern Indiana, for 18 years, 11 as the Democratic floor leader.
        He was elected lieutenant governor on a ticket with Evan Bayh in 1988. He ran for governor in 1996, when Mr. Bayh, barred by Indiana law from serving more than two four-year terms, was stepping down. Mr. O'Bannon defeated Stephen Goldsmith, the mayor of Indianapolis at the time, by 4 percentage points.
        When Mr. O'Bannon was sworn in, the economy was strong, and Indiana had amassed a $2 billion surplus. He oversaw a plan that cut taxes by $1 billion while providing more money for schools and universities.
        He was popular for his down-to-earth streak: among other things, he invited all of the state's fourth graders to his inauguration -- fourth graders in Indiana study the state's history -- and hundreds turned out. Even his opponent in 2000 -- Representative David McIntosh, a Republican who gave up his seat in the United States House of Representatives to challenge Mr. O'Bannon -- said he was personable.
        ''Everywhere I'd go, people would say that to me: 'How are you going to run against someone who is everyone's grandfather?' '' Mr. McIntosh said recently. ''And it was the truth. He was a congenial guy that everyone liked.''
        But after his second inauguration, the going got rough. The economy began sinking, and Indiana, where manufacturing was a mainstay, lost 120,000 jobs. Tax revenues were far lower than expected, and the governor's approval ratings dropped.
        ''As the state's economic fortunes began to turn downward, he became the person that people began to blame,'' said Robert Schmuhl, a professor of American studies at the University of Notre Dame in South Bend.
        Born on Jan. 30, 1930, in Louisville, Ky., Mr. O'Bannon graduated from Indiana University in 1952 and spent two years in the Air Force before going back to the university for a law degree. He received it in 1957, the year he married Judith Mae Asmus, whom he had met on a blind date as an undergraduate. She survives him, as do their three children, Jonathan O'Bannon, of Floyds Knobs, Ind.; Polly Zoeller, of New Albany, Ind.; and Jennifer O'Bannon, of Indianapolis; and five grandchildren.
        He began his career as a lawyer in Corydon. He also worked at his family's weekly newspaper, The Corydon Democrat.
        He covered local news, took photographs, even collated sections of the paper after they came off the press. He wrote The Democrat's editorial after John F. Kennedy was assassinated in 1963.
        Mr. O'Bannon was chairman of The Democrat's parent company, the O'Bannon Publishing Company, which owns two other weekly newspapers in Indiana. He still took photographs, though not for publication: he had a digital camera the size of a credit card and he pulled it out of a pocket at news events, including a recent balloon race and the trade conference in Chicago.
        Despite having been an elected official for not quite half his life, Mr. O'Bannon still seemed to view himself as an ordinary guy. Jackie Carpenter, the managing editor of The Democrat, remembered seeing him in July, in front of the paper's office, watering the plants.
        She also remembered how, on her first story as a new reporter some 20 years ago, she had to cover a civic meeting at which Mr. O'Bannon happened to be present. She was nervous, she recalled last week.
        ''But he came right up to me and put me right at ease,'' she said. ''With him, it all got right down to a personal level.''
      