
        Norman Panama, whose screenwriting and directing career stretched from 1930's radio sketches to 1970's satires of sexual liberation and who, with Melvin Frank, created one of Hollywood's most durable and celebrated comedy writing teams, died Jan. 13 at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 88.
        Among the writing team's most celebrated works were ''Road to Utopia'' (1945), widely regarded as the best of the Bob Hope-Bing Crosby road comedies and a deconstructionist classic from an era before the term had been coined; ''Mr. Blandings Builds His Dream House'' (1948), virtually a time capsule of America's postwar comic mood, with Cary Grant as an advertising executive moving to the suburbs; and ''White Christmas'' (1954), the holiday favorite with Crosby and Danny Kaye, which also had Norman Krasna as a co-writer.
        Their ''Utopia'' script earned the team an Oscar nomination, as did their scripts for ''Knock on Wood'' (1954), featuring Kaye as a discombobulated ventriloquist, and ''The Facts of Life'' (1960), a marital comedy starring Mr. Hope and Lucille Ball that was considered fairly risque in its day. They never won an Oscar, although Mr. Panama was given the Golden Laurel Award for lifetime achievement in 1984 by the Writers Guild of America.
        A theater enthusiast who wrote plays as a Chicago teenager and yearned for a life in entertainment, Mr. Panama did not act on these impulses until, as a political science major at the University of Chicago, he met Melvin Frank. Frank, who already had a novel under his belt, suggested that the pair spend a summer writing a play together, and a three-decade partnership was born.
        The play came to nothing, but they quickly realized a talent for the kind of sketch comedy that was popular on the radio and in the stage revues that were all that was left of vaudeville. They wrote several short pieces for the 1939 Shubert Revue, ''Keep Off the Grass,'' and were hired by Mr. Hope to write for his ''Pepsodent Hour'' on the radio.
        In the early 40's they were hired by Paramount Pictures and set to work writing scripts and original stories. Their first credit came for the story for ''My Favorite Blonde,'' a 1942 comedy starring Mr. Hope, their most frequent collaborator.
        During World War II Mr. Panama wrote for American Armed Forces radio, and after the war he and Frank were lured to MGM with the promise that they would be allowed to both co-write and co-direct their films. Their first effort, ''The Reformer and the Redhead'' (1950), was a mixed bag, but a follow-up, ''Strictly Dishonorable'' (1951), based on a play by Preston Sturges, was more in keeping with their early, imaginative dash.
        Shortly thereafter, the duo hooked up with their second most frequent collaborator, Danny Kaye, with whom they made the comedian's most enduring hit, ''The Court Jester'' (1955).
        In 1952 they made a rare foray into drama with ''Above and Beyond,'' starring Robert Taylor as the pilot of the plane that dropped the atomic bomb on Hiroshima in 1945.
        The pair both produced and wrote the book for the Broadway musical ''L'il Abner,'' which they brought to the big screen in 1959.
        In the 1960's, with tastes changing, they tried to keep pace, with mixed results. ''Facts of Life'' was their last major success together, and in 1966 they amicably ended their collaboration. Frank died in 1988.
        Mr. Panama continued to try to keep up with rapidly changing audience tastes, directing Dan Rowan and Dick Martin, hosts of television's ''Laugh-In,'' in a slapdash satire called ''The Maltese Bippy'' (1969). His last Hollywood feature was another marital sex comedy, ''I Will, I Will . . . for Now'' (1975), starring Elliott Gould and Diane Keaton.
        Mr. Panama's final film as a director was ''Barnaby and Me,'' which he made for Australian television in 1977. In 1984, however, a mystery that he wrote with Jerome Chodorov, ''A Talent for Murder,'' was produced for television starring Angela Lansbury and Laurence Olivier.
        He is survived by a son, Steven Panama, and a daughter, Kathleen Williams.
      