
        Jules Engel, an innovative animator and educator best known for choreographing dance sequences in the 1940 Disney animated feature ''Fantasia,'' died on Sept. 6 in Simi Valley, Calif. He was 94 and lived in Beverly Hills, Calif.
        Mr. Engel, who was adept in the high-art and mass-culture ends of animation, founded the program in experimental animation at CalArts in 1970. He was a founder of the UPA animation studio, where he helped develop popular cartoon characters, including the myopic, cantankerous Mr. Magoo.
        For ''Fantasia,'' he choreographed the sublimely over-the-top sequence of slinky alligators squiring plump, tutu-clad hippopotamuses in a ballet set to Ponchielli's ''Dance of the Hours'' from ''La Gioconda,'' as well as the eye-popping proto-psychedelia of dancing mushrooms in the ''Chinese Dance'' and the Cossack-tasseled thistles cavorting in the ''Russian Dance.''
        Known for his spirited treatment of movement and radical approach to color, as seen in the somber, chiaroscuro settings of Disney's ''Bambi'' (1942), Mr. Engel influenced a generation of animators as a teacher at CalArts for more than 30 years. His students have worked on features like ''Finding Nemo,'' ''Toy Story,'' ''The Lion King'' and ''The Nightmare Before Christmas.''
        Born in Budapest in 1909, Mr. Engel attributed his ability to express motion to his early love for the Ballet Russe. After working for Disney and serving in the Hal Roach Motion Picture Unit of the Army Air Corps during World War II, Mr. Engel helped start UPA, for United Productions of America, in 1944; there he adapted the palette of modern art to give the studio's cartoons a distinctive, sophisticated sensibility.
        In 1959 he left to help found another animation studio, Format Films, where he worked on the squeaky-voiced singing trio of Alvin and the Chipmunks and collaborated with talents including the author of the Dr. Seuss books, Theodor Seuss Geisel; the noted film-title artist Saul Bass; and the science-fiction writer Ray Bradbury.
        His abstract animated shorts are also highly regarded, as are his brightly colored, Kandinskyesque paintings and prints, which have been exhibited in museums, including the Whitney Museum of American Art and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art.
        He was married and widowed twice. There are no immediate survivors.
      