
        Dr. Donald L. Dahlsten, an insect biologist who fought California's pest problems with predatory insects as an alternative to chemical pesticides, died on Sept. 3 at a hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 69.
        The cause was skin cancer, said the University of California at Berkeley, where he taught for three decades.
        In the early 90's, Dr. Dahlsten helped protect the plant nurseries of California from blue gum psyllids, insects that breed rapidly and attack a species of decorative eucalyptus. He found one of the pest's natural enemies, a tiny Australian wasp, and released 6,400 of them in different areas of the state.
        Within a few years the wasps, which die off once the pests disappear, had destroyed the psyllid population, and farmers were able to forgo use of expensive pesticides. The process is commonly known as biological control.
        Three years ago, Dr. Dahlsten started a program to help rescue California's red gum eucalyptus trees from a psyllid attack using another species of Australian wasp. Though it is too early to determine whether the program has been successful, scientists have found that the wasp population is spreading as expected.
        He also studied other pests, like bark beetles and the mechanisms that parasites use to find their hosts.
        Born in Clay Center, Neb., Donald Lee Dahlsten earned his bachelor's degree from the University of California at Davis and his Ph.D. from Berkeley.
        He was the author or co-author of over 200 scientific publications, and in 1989 he edited ''Eradication of Exotic Pests: Analysis With Case Histories.''
        His first marriage, to Reva Laham, ended in divorce in 1964.
        Dr. Dahlsten is survived by his wife, Janet; his parents, Leonard and Shirley Dahlsten of Los Angeles; two daughters from his previous marriage, Dia Smith of Hollister, Calif., and Andrea Schwipper of Ramona, Calif.; two stepchildren, Michael Thurston of Auburn, Calif., and Karen Haymaker of Phoenix; a brother, David, of Los Angeles; and 10 grandchildren.
      