
        John Browning, a leading light in a pioneering older generation of American pianists of seemingly limitless promise, died on Sunday at his home in Sister Bay, Wis. He was 69.
        The cause was heart failure, said Shirley Kirshbaum, his publicist.
        Mr. Browning studied with Rosina Lhévinne at the Juilliard School, where he eventually found himself in the same class as Van Cliburn. Mr. Browning stole the spotlight in 1956 with a silver medal in the Queen Elisabeth International Music Competition in Brussels. But he and other pianists of his generation -- including Leon Fleisher, Malcolm Frager, Gary Graffman and Byron Janis -- were overshadowed when Mr. Cliburn won the gold medal at the Tchaikovsky Competition in Moscow in 1958, becoming not only a cultural but also a political hero, bearing an American standard in the cold war.
        For various reasons most of those pianists fell short of the heavy expectations laid on them. Mr. Cliburn has spent much of his life in seclusion. Mr. Fleisher, Mr. Graffman and Mr. Janis all developed physical ailments affecting their hands. Frager, who won the Queen Elisabeth competition in 1960, died in 1991 at 56 after a relatively quiet, scholarly career.
        Mr. Browning maintained an active solo career, if never quite at the most glamorous level, and with the name Cliburn dogging his own in many a review and article. Although he lacked nothing in bravura technique, his pianistic style was reserved, elegant and penetrating, more intellectual than overtly emotional yet eminently approachable. His tastes ranged back at least to Bach and Scarlatti, and he played harpsichord for his own enjoyment.
        Mr. Browning is survived by a sister, Elizabeth Witchey of Santa Rosa, Calif., two nephews and a niece. He was born to musical parents in Denver in 1933. Having studied piano from the age of 5, he appeared as a soloist with the Denver Symphony at 10.
        In 1945 his family moved to Los Angeles. He spent two years at Occidental College there. He began his studies at Juilliard in 1950. He won the Leventritt Competition in New York in 1955. (Mr. Cliburn had won the year before.) He made his professional orchestral debut with the New York Philharmonic in 1956, with Dimitri Mitropoulos conducting.
        In 1962 he gave the premiere of Samuel Barber's Pulitzer Prize-winning Piano Concerto, which was written for him, in connection with the opening of Lincoln Center. His second recording of the work, with Leonard Slatkin and the St. Louis Symphony in 1991 for RCA Victor, won a Grammy for best instrumental soloist with orchestra. Mr. Browning won a second Grammy in 1993 with a disc of Barber's solo works on MusicMasters. Despite the competition from Mr. Cliburn and others, Mr. Browning developed a busy career, giving some 100 concerts a season.
        He eased his schedule in the 1970's, explaining later that he had grown ragged from overwork. Over the last decade his career had something of a renaissance. He was to play 22 concerts this season, but he had begun canceling them because of back pains even before his final heart problems developed in November.
        His last performance was, by invitation, at the United States Supreme Court in May. His last public appearance was at the National Gallery in Washington in April.
        Mr. Browning liked to discuss the place of morality in musical performance. ''There are choices you make, such as whether you use a finger legato or the pedal to hold an inner voice, or how closely you follow the composer's phrasing indications,'' he told an interviewer a decade ago. ''You can cheat, but as I get older I cheat less.''
      