
        Theodore R. Kupferman, a former city councilman, Republican congressman from the Silk Stocking district and state appellate judge, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83.
        The cause was complications from urological surgery, his wife, Fran, said yesterday.
        He was known as the Great Dissenter of the appellate division's First Department, ''famous for his one-page dissents, usually written with a punchline,'' according to The New York Law Journal. In one case he wrote, ''It does not take Gertrude Stein to know that a contract is a contract is a contract.'' His dissents outnumbered his majority opinions, 625 to 165.
        Each year his former law clerks took him to lunch for his birthday, according to the law journal. They called themselves ''The Rough Writers'' in honor of Mr. Kupferman's namesake and hero, Theodore Roosevelt.
        After retiring in 1996, he represented Abe Hirschfeld, the New York real estate developer, millionaire and perennially aspiring politician, who was indicted by a Manhattan grand jury in 1998 in connection with a plot to kill his business partner.
        In 1998, he was hired by the Patrolmen's Benevolent Association to conduct an inquiry into its financial affairs, after it had been the subject of a two-year federal investigation.
        Theodore Roosevelt Kupferman was born on May 12, 1920, in New York City, to Samuel H. and Gertrude Kupferman. He graduated from DeWitt Clinton High School, the City College of New York and Columbia Law School.
        In the 1940's and 50's he worked in the legal departments of Warner Brothers Pictures, NBC Television and Cinerama Productions. He served as a law secretary in the appellate division of the New York State Supreme Court in 1948 and 1949. He was a counsel and legislative assistant to Stanley M. Isaacs, then the City Council minority leader, from 1958 to 1962, and served as an adjunct professor at New York Law School from 1959 to 1964, while starting his political career.
        He served on the City Council from 1962 to 1966, when he was elected to Congress to represent the Upper East Side, filling a vacancy left when John V. Lindsay became mayor of New York City, and remained in Congress until 1969, when he became a justice of New York's State Supreme Court. In 1971 he was appointed by the governor to be an Appellate Division justice, specializing in commercial cases.
        Justice Kupferman's first wife, the former Dorothee Hering, died in 1969. In addition to his wife, the former Fran Liner, he is survived by two children, Ted Jr. and Stephanie, both of Manhattan; a stepdaughter, Cynthia Valerio of Taos, N.M.; and two grandchildren.
      