
        Gen. Charles A. Gabriel, a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under President Ronald Reagan and the first fighter pilot to serve as chief of the Air Force, died on Sept. 4 at an assisted-living center in Arlington, Va. He was 75.
        The cause was Alzheimer's disease, said his son, Charles A. Gabriel Jr.
        Appointed to the Joint Chiefs in 1982, General Gabriel was part of a new generation of top commanders who entered the service after World War II and whose experience in Korea and Vietnam led them to take a cautious approach to the use of military power.
        ''Probably the most important lesson to come out of those wars, especially Vietnam,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1983, ''is that we never should fight a war that we don't intend to win.''
        A 1950 graduate of the United States Military Academy, he flew 100 combat missions in Korea, shooting down two MIG-15 fighters, and completed more than 150 missions in Vietnam. In the late 1970's, he was the deputy commander of American forces in South Korea. Immediately before being named Air Force chief of staff, he was commander of the United States Air Force in Europe and commander of NATO air forces in central Europe.
        As a member of the Joint Chiefs, he advised President Reagan in a period of greatly increased military spending on undertakings including the Strategic Defense Initiative, or ''Star Wars'' program. He also advised the president on the invasion of Grenada and the crisis after the bombing of the Marine barracks in Lebanon. He served until his retirement from the military in June 1986.
        Charles Alvin Gabriel was born on Jan. 21, 1928, in Lincolnton, N.C. In addition to his degree from West Point, he received a master of science in engineering management from George Washington University, in 1963.
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife, Dorothy; a daughter, Jane L. Gabriel; five grandchildren; a sister, Betty Ross; and three brothers, Paul, Steve and Shirley.
      