
        Marshall Jamison, the first producer for the 1960's satirical review ''That Was the Week That Was'' on American television, died Sept. 2 in Orlando, Fla., where he lived. He was 85.
        ''That Was the Week That Was,'' often known by the shorthand ''T.W.3,'' came to American television from Britain, where it had satirized the week's events. In the United States, the program was broadcast on NBC for two television seasons, beginning in 1964.
        Though some critics said the American child lacked the sharp teeth of its British parent, the show was controversial in the United States, and Mr. Jamison found himself part of that controversy when it was abruptly announced in June of 1964 that he was resigning as producer. He said then that he felt the network and the production company were wrong to try to make ''T.W.3'' into ''a popular, mass-appeal network show.''
        Mr. Jamison had come to television in the early 1950's from Broadway, where he had been a director and earlier an actor. From 1956 to 1958 he was executive producer of ''The U.S. Steel Hour,'' and he was co-producer with Leland Hayward of ''The Fabulous Fifties,'' which won an Emmy Award in 1960. He also produced the Breck ''Golden Showcase'' series and directed episodes of ''A World Apart'' for ABC, among other credits. In 1973 he went to work for the Nebraska Educational Television Network as a senior producer. Programs he produced or directed there include ''The Mark Twain Series'' and ''The Trial of Standing Bear.'' He retired from the network in 1990 and moved to Florida in 1992.
        George Marshall Shipman Jamison was born in Boston and studied at the New England Conservatory of Music and Yale University. He served in the United States Maritime Service from 1942 to 1946.
        He is survived by his wife of 53 years, Janet Rosa Jamison; four daughters, Patricia Sharpe of Great Barrington, Mass., Janeen Clark of Orlando, Janet Jamison of St. Charles, Ill., and Terri Jamison of Kansas City, Mo.; a son, Josh, of Torrington, Conn.; six grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      