
        José Maria Gironella, a Spanish author who won praise in the United States for his fiction set in Spain during its civil war, died on Friday at home in Arenys de Mar, near Barcelona. He was 85.
        Mr. Gironella fought in the Spanish Civil War on the side of Franco.
        Robert Payne of The Saturday Review once observed that Mr. Gironella ''was the most intelligent and sensitive apologist for Franco, the one man who could describe the Spanish Civil War from the Nationalist side with a sympathetic understanding of all the forces at work.''
        An English translation, by Harriet de Onis, of Mr. Gironella's two-volume novel ''The Cypresses Believe in God,'' was published in the United States in 1955. The book gives a sweeping view of Spain in the five years before the civil war, which began in 1936.
        In a review in The New York Times Book Review, Gerald Brenan, an expert on Spanish literature, called the work absorbing and remarkably objective. In its pages, he said, ''The sane and the moderate, caught helplessly in a dilemma they did not ask for, must throw in their lot with one violent party or another till mercifully the passions of the war submerge them and confirm their decision. It is this tragic unfolding of events which concerns this novel.''
        The book's point of view was Roman Catholic, and its American publisher, Alfred A. Knopf, won the 1955 Thomas More Association medal for ''the year's most distinguished contribution to Catholic publishing.''
        A spokeswoman for Planeta, which publishes Mr. Gironella's work in Spain, said ''The Cypresses Believe in God'' sold more than six million copies in Spanish.
        It is part of a trilogy that also includes the novels ''One Million Dead'' and ''Peace After War,'' which were published in English translations in the United States in 1963 and 1969, respectively.
        In the three novels, an appealingly domestic but often distinguished family in northeastern Spain serves as the focal point for the terrible events of that time.
        Reviewing ''One Million Dead,'' which is about the civil war, one critic said that the trilogy as a whole, ''now two-thirds finished, is at once so ambitious and so amply and passionately imagined that one can only read with awe and gratitude.'' ''Peace After War'' is set in the first postwar years.
        Writings by Mr. Gironella, whose style was blunt and realistic, also include travel books and essays.
        A native of the village of Darnius, in northeastern Spain, he was self-educated.
        He is survived by his wife, Magdalena Castanyer.
      