
        Simon V. Muzenda, a vice president of Zimbabwe and a longtime aide to President Robert G. Mugabe, died late Saturday, the nation's state-controlled television reported today. The announcement ended weeks of officially denied rumors that Mr. Muzenda, 80, was on hospital life support in Harare, Zimbabwe's capital.
        The government broadcast said Mr. Muzenda had died from a longstanding kidney ailment. Other reports said he had been in a hospital unit for patients with life-threatening heart problems.
        As recently as Sept. 5, the government had said that Mr. Muzenda was making ''a remarkable recovery.'' But in his broadcast remarks today, Mr. Mugabe said that hopes for Mr. Muzenda's recovery had dwindled since he sought treatment in China four months ago.
        Mr. Muzenda, a onetime teacher and carpenter often ridiculed for his lack of political skills, was nevertheless seen by most outsiders as Mr. Mugabe's closest adviser.
        His death was certain to revive speculation on Mr. Mugabe's health. Mr. Mugabe, 79, is variously reported to have sought medical treatment in Malaysia, Spain and Iran in recent months, but government officials have called those accounts fabrications by foreign enemies ''to deceive the people of Zimbabwe and cause despondency.''
        Mr. Mugabe said Mr. Muzenda ''is and shall always remain a great revolutionary leader.'' But many have disagreed: the European Union placed him last year on a list of Zimbabwean officials whose overseas assets were to be frozen and their foreign travel banned as punishment for the collapse of democratic rule in their country.
        With Mr. Mugabe, Mr. Muzenda was among the rebel leaders who secured Zimbabwe's independence from Britain in 1980, and he was founder of the ZANU-PF party, which has governed the country since. He served as foreign minister and deputy vice president before becoming one of the nation's two vice presidents in the mid-1980's.
        The remaining vice president, Joseph Msika, is also 80.
        In recent years, as Mr. Mugabe launched a crackdown on his political opponents and a campaign to seize the last of Zimbabwe's white-owned farms, Mr. Muzenda took on a role in redistributing the seized farmland. He was also regarded as a major player in perhaps the most important decision facing Zimbabwe: who will succeed Mr. Mugabe, who has come under growing international pressure to resign in the face of the nation's economic and political ruin.
        But Mr. Muzenda faded from public view in the last year as illness forced him into a largely ceremonial role. Zimbabwe's government-controlled press said today that Mr. Mugabe would conduct a state funeral for Mr. Muzenda later this week. It was unclear when a successor might be chosen.
      