
        Hugo Young, a leading columnist, political author and chairman of the Scott Trust, which owns The Guardian and The Observer, died Monday in London. He was 64.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        In a 30-year career of publishing his opinions, he established himself as an authoritative and scholarly voice of liberal politics in Britain, writing with an elegance people attributed to his devotion to the narrative historian Macaulay and a judiciousness stemming from early training in the law.
        Courtly and modest in person with a gentle if biting wit, Mr. Young in his columns could adopt combative tones of moral indignation that led admirers to describe him as magisterial, and detractors to disparage him as Olympian. His obituary in The Guardian said, ''When some malpractice or moral lapse had offended him, his columns read like judgments from the bench.''
        Mr. Young was born Oct. 13, 1938, in Sheffield, the son of a manufacturing executive who, as the lord lieutenant of South Yorkshire, was the queen's representative to the region in central England. Though his Guardian columns generally tracked with the newspaper's left-of-center views, Mr. Young never signed on to a pet Guardian cause, the abolition of the monarchy.
        A law graduate from Oxford, he began his newspaper career on The Yorkshire Post in Leeds in 1961 and then spent two years in the United States as a graduate student at Princeton and Congressional fellow in Washington.
        On his return to England in 1965, he joined The Sunday Times, where two years later he became the chief editorial writer.
        From 1973 to 1984, he was the paper's political editor, establishing the Sunday column that first made him well known. In his last years there, Mr. Young clashed with the new owner, Rupert Murdoch, and the newly installed editor, Andrew Neil, and objected to their mission to popularize the paper as one he thought cheapened it.
        He left for The Guardian in 1984, but not before writing a farewell column which Mr. Neil in his memoirs later called ''a barely coded attack on Murdoch.'' The column concluded, ''Today's Sunday Times may make profits, but it no longer makes waves.''
        He began a twice-weekly column at The Guardian and in 1989 published ''One of Us,'' an acclaimed political biography of Margaret Thatcher. That same year he took on the role of presiding over the Scott Trust, and in 1993, under his guidance, The Guardian, a Monday through Saturday paper, acquired The Observer, a Sunday paper.
        In recent years, he had become seized with the issue of Britain's role in Europe, and he faulted Prime Minister Tony Blair for not pressing ahead with a campaign to adopt the euro and end what he perceived as Britain's stubborn aloofness from the Continent. In 1998 he argued the case in another widely noted book, ''This Blessed Plot: Britain and Europe From Churchill to Blair.''
        Mr. Young professed a lifelong affection for the United States, and he reiterated it in columns about Britain's special relationship with America even as his writing became stingingly oppositional with the arrival of George W. Bush in the White House. At first, he was also enthusiastic about Mr. Blair, but he increasingly attacked him, accusing him of making Britain subservient to the United States.
        His illness caused him to take four months off from writing, but in March he resumed, with a reduced schedule of one column a week. His last columns were pugnacious and urgent as he cataloged his disappointment with Mr. Blair and his disdain for Mr. Bush.
        In July, he called on the prime minister to step down because of what he viewed as Mr. Blair's having abandoned Britain's bond with Europe in his decision to ally himself with Mr. Bush in Iraq.
        Mr. Young's final column, published Sept. 16, was headlined, ''Under Blair, Britain has ceased to be a sovereign state,'' and Mr. Young concluded darkly, ''At last we see the consequences of our country's abject thrall to the U.S.''
        Mr. Young was married twice, first to Helen Mason, also a journalist, who died in 1989, and in 1990, to Lucy Waring, an American artist. In addition to his wife, Mr. Young is survived by a son, Dominic, a London news executive; and three daughters, all of London: Cecily, a nurse; Emily, a film director; and Victoria, a journalist.
        Though he spent his entire career close to politics, Mr. Young believed in maintaining distance from the people he wrote about .
        ''I can think of no more than three politicians I've regarded as friends,'' he wrote in a column in June addressing the subject of what columnists are for. ''Such fastidiousness is not an advantage for a columnist. It cuts off some of the inside dope. But I think it keeps the water purer.''
        Correction:  October 6, 2003, Monday  An obituary on Sept. 24 about Hugo Young, a British political columnist and chairman of the trust that owns The Guardian and The Observer, referred imprecisely to a sentence published with his final column, in which he criticized Prime Minister Tony Blair. It was the editors' headline, not a passage from the column itself, that said, ''At last we see the consequences of our country's abject thrall to the U.S.''
      