
        Joseph M. Magliochetti, the chairman and chief executive of the Dana Corporation, a big auto parts company, died here Monday night. He was 61.
        The cause was complications from pancreatitis, the company, which is based in Toledo, Ohio, said in a statement. Mr. Magliochetti was hospitalized in Toledo on Sept. 6 and was later transferred to the University of Michigan Medical Center, suffering from an inflammation of the pancreas. He underwent surgery for the removal of a gallstone.
        Mr. Magliochetti was a well-known executive in the automobile industry and had been chief executive at Dana since 1999 and chairman since 2000. Known as Joe Mag, Mr. Magliochetti spent 37 years at Dana and was only the sixth chief executive since the company was founded in 1904, a year after the Ford Motor Company.
        Lately, however, Mr. Magliochetti was fighting a hostile takeover attempt for Dana started this summer by ArvinMeritor, a parts supplier based in Troy, Mich.
        Mr. Magliochetti had earlier rebuffed the chief executive of ArvinMeritor, Larry D. Yost, when he tried to discuss a friendly merger. Frustrated, Mr. Yost started a $2.2 billion tender offer for Dana's stock in July. The offer, which was set to expire in late August, was extended through Oct. 2. In his last public appearance, at a University of Michigan conference in Traverse City in August, Mr. Magliochetti dismissed the offer as ''totally inadequate.''
        Joseph Michael Magliochetti was born in 1942 in suburban Chicago, and attended the University of Illinois. He joined the Victor Manufacturing Company in 1966 as a management trainee. Dana acquired the company a year later. During his career, Mr. Magliochetti served as head of Dana's European operations, ran its North American business and became Dana's president in 1996.
        Mr. Magliochetti lived in Ottawa Hills, Ohio, blocks from Dana's headquarters. He is survived by his wife, Kathleen, who is known in automotive circles as Kathy Mag; three children, Amy, Joseph and Andrew; and a granddaughter.
        An avid sportsman, who invited industry analysts to join him on hunting and fishing trips, Mr. Magliochetti ranked No. 197 among the country's best chief executive golfers in a survey by Golf Digest magazine. He was a director at the BellSouth Corporation and the Cigna Corporation, and was elected in 2000 to the Automotive Hall of Fame in Dearborn, Mich.
      