
        Simcha Dinitz, the Israeli ambassador to the United States during the 1973 Arab-Israeli war, who played a crucial but disputed role in arranging an airlift of American military supplies to Israel, died yesterday at his home in Jerusalem. He was 74.
        The cause was a heart attack, The Associated Press reported.
        The war broke out shortly after Mr. Dinitz arrived in Washington, and he immediately began pressing for an American military aid effort, which the United States started a few days later.
        But his precise role in arranging the supplies became a matter of controversy in 1976 when an Israeli journalist, Matti Golan, published a book asserting that Secretary of State Henry A. Kissinger first delayed the arms, fearing to imperil relations with Moscow and provoke an Arab oil embargo.
        In ''The Secret Conversations of Henry Kissinger'' (Quadrangle/The New York Times Book Company), Mr. Golan wrote that Mr. Kissinger duped Mr. Dinitz into telling Israel the shipments were being delayed by the Pentagon. Only after the Soviet Union resupplied Egypt and Syria did the main American airlift get under way.
        Mr. Dinitz was born on June 23, 1929, in Tel Aviv. An interest in international relations led him to study first at the University of Cincinnati and then at the Georgetown University Foreign Service School and Graduate School before joining the Israeli foreign service.
        Mr. Dinitz served in Rome, at the United Nations and in Washington, becoming ambassador there in 1973. He held the post until 1978.
        He was elected to the Israeli Parliament in 1984 as a representative of the Labor Party.
        In 1987, Mr. Dinitz became chairman of the Jewish Agency, an organization that serves as a link between Jews in Israel and the rest of the world and helps Jewish immigrants to Israel.
        While at the University of Cincinnati, Mr. Dinitz married Vivian Kinsburg, who survives him. He is also survived by their three children, Dorit, Tamar and Michel.
        Editors' Note:  October 4, 2003, Saturday  An obituary on Sept. 24 about Simcha Dinitz, a former Israeli ambassador to the United States, described his role during the 1973 Arab-Israeli war, in particular his negotiations with Secretary of State Henry Kissinger in attempts to arrange an airlift of American military supplies.
        The article said Mr. Kissinger delayed the shipments for fear of provoking an Arab oil embargo and of prompting the Soviet Union to aid its Arab allies -- results that both occurred eventually. The article asserted that Mr. Dinitz had been duped by Mr. Kissinger into believing that the Pentagon was the cause of the delay, and it cited a 1976 book, ''The Secret Conversations of Henry Kissinger,'' by Matti Golan, an Israeli journalist, as the source of this analysis.
        The Times should have sought verification of that account.
        In recent years, fresh examinations of the Israeli-United States diplomacy in that period, including Mr. Kissinger's memoirs and ''Peace Process,'' by the former National Security Council official William Quandt, have painted a more complex picture. They report that Mr. Dinitz was not duped by the United States but in fact negotiated vigorously in the face of the American concerns.
        These more recent accounts also make it clear that the delay in shipments was caused initially by a feeling in the United States that Israel would not need the equipment, and then by difficulties in getting the airlift organized.
      