
        Herb Gardner, the award-winning playwright whose credits include ''A Thousand Clowns'' and ''I'm Not Rappaport,'' died last night at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 68.
        The cause was lung disease, said his wife, Barbara C. Sproul.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Gardner became known for writing ''appealingly about the gentle loonies and unrepentant misfits on the fringes of society,'' according to a 1992 article in The New York Times.
        His first play, ''A Thousand Clowns,'' opened on Broadway in 1962. It was nominated for a Tony Award and was made into a film in 1965. Jason Robards starred in both versions. Mr. Gardner's film adaptation of the play was nominated for an Academy Award.
        In 1971 he co-produced and co-wrote the film ''Who Is Harry Kellerman and Why Is He Saying All Those Terrible Things About Me?'' featuring Dustin Hoffman.
        ''I'm Not Rappaport,'' the story of an 81-year-old left-winger named Nat spends his days on a bench in Central Park with his foil, Midge, debuted in 1984 in Seattle, won a Tony Award in 1986 for best play. His autobiographical ''Conversations with My Father,'' which opened on Broadway with Judd Hirsch in 1992, was nominated for a Pulitzer Prize. In 1996 he wrote, directed and produced a film adaptation of ''I'm Not Rappaport,'' which starred Walter Matthau and Ossie Davis..
        Mr. Hirsch, who appeared in a Broadway revival of ''I'm Not Rappaport'' last year with Ben Vereen, told The Times last year that Mr. Gardner ''did not set out to preach here. What he has written, though, is what he himself feels about old people.''
        Herb Gardner was born in Brooklyn in 1934, and attended the High School of the Performing Arts, Carnegie Institute of Technology (which later became Carnegie-Mellon University) and Antioch College. At the beginning of his career he wrote a comic strip, ''The Nebbishes,'' which ran for eight years.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by his sons, Jake, 15, and Rafferty, 11.
        Correction:  September 26, 2003, Friday  An obituary of the playwright and screenwriter Herb Gardner in late editions yesterday added a word erroneously to the title of one of his movies. It was ''Who Is Harry Kellerman and Why Is He Saying Those Terrible Things About Me?'' -- not ''All Those Terrible Things.'' An expanded obituary appears today, on Page A22.
      