
        Herb Gardner, whose 1962 play ''A Thousand Clowns'' was the first of a string of Broadway successes in which his eccentric characters conveyed the whimsical charm and dark truths that grew out of the author's youth in New York, died on Wednesday at home in Manhattan. He was 68.
        The cause was lung disease, his wife, Barbara C. Sproul, said.
        ''A Thousand Clowns'' told the story of Murray Burns, who quit his job writing for a children's television show called ''Chuckles the Chipmunk'' the day a bartender asked him if he wanted an onion in his martini and he heard himself reply, ''Gosh 'n' gollies, you betcha.''
        It was an instant hit for the 27-year-old Mr. Gardner, who was named ''promising playwright of 1961-62'' by the New York Drama Critics. Howard Taubman, in his review in The New York Times, said Mr. Gardner ''can devise hilarious situations and comic lines that crackle with crispness and surprise.''
        His success at beguiling audiences with quirky, crusty -- and, in the opinion of some critics, almost aggressively lovable -- characters continued through the 2002 revival of his 1985 play ''I'm Not Rappaport.'' That play involved the mental peregrinations of two cantankerous octogenarians, a retired Jewish waiter who is white and a precariously employed apartment superintendent who is black.
        In between he perfected a recipe that mixed intriguing characters, usually with decidedly New York accents, and often absurd situations.
        In 1965 ''A Thousand Clowns'' appeared as a movie, with the screenplay written by Mr. Gardner, who received an Oscar nomination for best-adapted screenplay. The film starred Jason Robards, as had the Broadway production.
        In 1968 Mr. Gardner wrote ''The Goodbye People,'' which starred Milton Berle, who had been absent from Broadway for 25 years. It was about Max, an elderly cardiac patient who is supposed to be home in bed but is determined to resurrect his long-abandoned hot-dog emporium on Coney Island, Max's Original Hawaiian Ecstasies. The season, naturally, was winter.
        Mr. Berle called his part ''the meatiest role that's come along since Willy Loman.'' The show lasted seven performances.
        In 1985 ''I'm Not Rappaport'' was produced on Broadway. Though Frank Rich, writing in The Times, called it ''didactic and repetitive,'' the urban fairy tale of two old men conversing on a park bench resonated with audiences. In 1986 it won the Tony Award for best play, and Judd Hirsch won as best actor. Mr. Hirsch reprised his role in the 2002 revival.
        In 1992 Mr. Gardner scored another hit with ''Conversations With My Father,'' with Mr. Hirsch winning another Tony as best actor.
        Mr. Gardner also turned a short story he had written, ''Who Is Harry Kellerman and Why Is He Saying Those Terrible Things About Me?,'' into a movie starring Dustin Hoffman in 1971. In 1977 the movie of his 1974 Broadway show ''Thieves'' appeared. He wrote the screenplay, and Marlo Thomas starred.
        In 1984 he made his directorial debut with ''The Goodbye People,'' a movie starring Mr. Hirsch. In 1996 he wrote and directed a film version of ''I'm Not Rappaport,'' starring Walter Matthau and Ossie Davis.
        Herbert George Gardner was born in Brooklyn on Dec. 28, 1934. His father owned a bar on the Lower East Side that inspired many of his characters. ''I grew up with these people who lived at the tops of their voices,'' he told The Times in 1985.
        As a teenager he checked coats and sold orange drinks at the Cort and National Theaters, where, he said, he saw some plays as many as 140 times.
        He graduated from the High School for Performing Arts and attended what is now Carnegie Mellon University and Antioch College.
        To pay for his education Mr. Gardner took a job sculpturing dolls, walruses and nativity scenes for the Bliss Display Company. He said he was fired for making cross-eyed wise men.
        Before that happened, he said, he rebelled against all the cuteness and made a doll that just shrugged its shoulders and fell over. Bliss was unimpressed, but he began drawing a similar figure.
        The result was ''The Nebbishes,'' a cartoon strip that started in The Chicago Tribune and was syndicated in more than 60 newspapers. ''Nebbish'' is a Yiddish word meaning a hapless soul, and his bedraggled little figures always seemed a humorous -- and endearing -- step behind. When the 600 rode valiantly into the Valley of Death in one strip, it was a Nebbish who stayed behind to reason why.
        The Nebbishes transcended mere comics pages to adorn greeting cards, cocktail napkins -- everything white except surgeons' masks, in the phrase of one commentator. One drawing alone sold 750,000 copies. It consisted of a spiny, elongated man, slouched in a chair, his feet on a table, saying to another in the same position, ''Next week we've got to get organized.''
        Mr. Gardner retired the cartoon in 1960 to concentrate on writing. He had published a novel, ''A Piece of the Action'' (Simon & Schuster, 1958), and had completed several one-act plays.
        Mr. Gardner is survived by his wife and his sons, Jake and Rafferty.
        He had much in common with the self-conscious but bravely humorous characters he created. He said he wrote in loose-leaf notebooks so he could pretend he was a student doing homework. Otherwise, he said, he would be paralyzed by fear.
        When asked by a reporter for The Los Angeles Times in 1993 to describe the playwright's profession, he replied, ''How do you ask a kamikaze pilot if his work is going well?''
      