
        John Orrell, a historian whose intellectual detective work laid the groundwork for the 1997 re-creation of Shakespeare's original Globe Theater, died on Sept. 16 in Edmonton, Alberta. He was 68 and lived in Edmonton.
        The cause was melanoma, his wife, Wendy, said.
        The details -- from size to seating -- of what may be the world's most famous theater have long eluded historians, but Dr. Orrell brought new techniques, including mathematics, to the search. He was a rare sight, a Shakespearean scholar who carried a slide rule.
        Dr. Orrell's breakthrough was to use a famous 17th-century etching, ''The Long View of London,'' by the Bohemian artist Wenceslaus Hollar, and overlay it on a present-day map showing which 17th-century buildings survive.
        He then did trigonometric analyses of building proportions to determine the size of the Globe.
        Dr. Orrell added a disappointingly small amount of archaeological evidence, Shakespeare's own stage directions, a building contract for a similar theater, the writings of Italian theater architects and several other contemporaneous images, and came up with a description of the size and nature of the theater.
        The importance of the Globe in theatrical history is hard to overstate. Shakespeare made a personal cash contribution to the theater and helped plan it. Some of his greatest works -- among them ''Julius Caesar,'' ''Hamlet'' and ''Macbeth'' -- were written for it.
        The Globe was built in 1599, and in 1613 was destroyed by fire. A new Globe was built on the foundation. In 1642, Oliver Cromwell's Puritans shut down theaters, and the Globe was pulled to the ground two years later.
        It was the original Globe that enthusiasts, led by the filmmaker and actor Sam Wanamaker, tried to recreate. The reproduction, several hundred yards from the original site, is a 20-sided polygon that is 99 feet across.
        Dr. Orrell, sometimes called the project's historian and sometimes the chief academic adviser, joined other principal advisers, Richard Hosley and Glynne Wickham, to advise the architect, Theo Crosby. His design has become a working theater and a major tourist attraction.
        Dr. Orrell himself was a builder of some practical skill; when his wife asked for a shed in the backyard, he built what she called a temple, and he built his own house railings to Elizabethan standards, without any nails. He was thus more than able to work on construction details with Mr. Crosby and Peter McCurdy, the master carpenter.
        ''Not many scholars are able to get their stuff actually out there in physical form,'' said Barbara A. Mowat, director of academic programs at the Folger Shakespeare Library in Washington.
        She hastened to add that there is no certainty that Dr. Orrell's answers will ultimately prove to be the right ones. For example, an Australian scholar has looked at the original Hollar etching and calculated that the Globe Theater was actually 35 percent smaller than Dr. Orrell calculated.
        A British researcher has come up with almost exactly the same discrepancy by examining what may be original plans of other Elizabethan theaters.
        ''The evidence is fragmentary,'' Dr. Mowat said. ''People are always discovering slightly new things.''
        Referring to Dr. Orrell, she said, ''Everything he asserted was debated, always.''
        Dr. Orrell's own comments were circumspect. ''In a rather debatable and difficult kind of scholarship, I think we've done pretty well,'' he said in an interview with The Ottawa Citizen in 1997. ''I think we've achieved a fair degree of consensus.''
        John Overton Orrell was born on Dec. 31, 1934, in Maidstone, England. He attended local schools and entered the Royal Air Force, becoming a pilot and going to Moose Jaw, Saskatchewan, for training.
        He graduated from University College at Oxford and then taught English and earned his master's degree and doctorate at the University of Toronto.
        He spent the rest of his career in the English department at the University of Alberta, where he taught Shakespeare and did research on theaters.
        In 1974, he spent a yearlong sabbatical at Cambridge University and met Mr. Wanamaker, who was staging plays in a tent near the Globe site. Five years later, Mr. Wanamaker enlisted Dr. Orrell to write a book, ''The Quest for Shakespeare's Globe'' (Cambridge, 1983), which provided the first blueprint for the Globe's reincarnation.
        Another of Dr. Orrell's books was ''The Theaters of Inigo Jones and John Webb'' (Cambridge, 1985). A small indoor theater, based on a design by Jones, a 17th-century English architect, is part of the new Globe complex.
        In addition to his wife, the former Wendy Philips, Dr. Orrell is survived by a daughter, Katherine, of Edmonton; a son, David, of Seattle; and a grandson.
        For all his attention to the Globe's detail, Dr. Orrell acknowledged that one thing could not be reproduced. A substitute had to be found for the mixture of cow and goat hair originally added to the plaster; craftsmen discovered that cows are not as hairy as they were in the 16th century.
      