
        William C. Morris, who as vice president and director of library promotion at HarperCollins Children's Books is often credited with developing the modern marketing of children's books, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 74.
        The cause was cancer, said Catherine Balkin, now director of library promotion at HarperCollins.
        Mr. Morris often described himself as a simple middleman, but his approach revolutionized the way professionals who buy children's books in bulk, especially schools and libraries, relate to the producers of the books. For example, as the liaison between the publisher and the institutional world of schools and libraries, for decades Mr. Morris attended conventions where he organized exhibits and arranged for speakers. He sent review copies of non-textbooks out to teachers and other professionals. He worked closely with authors and illustrators arranging for the school visits and other public appearances that enhanced their sales.
        The professionals not only buy the books, they also give the prizes that translate into healthy bookstore sales. Mr. Morris's contributions were recognized in 1992, when he received the first Distinguished Service Award from the Association of Library Service to Children Division of the American Library Association, which administers the Newbery and Caldecott Medals.
        Mr. Morris was hired by Harper & Brothers in 1955 to sell both children's and adult books in the New York area. As a result of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, schools and libraries suddenly had large amounts of money to spend on books. In the same year Mr. Morris became head of the children's books' department of advertising and promotion. At that time, 75 percent or more of all children's books were sold to schools and libraries. There were no children's-only bookstores; children's books were typically sold in department stores.
        Mr. Morris, who was born and reared in Eagle Pass, Tex., graduated from Rice University and earned a master's degree in American literature from Duke University.
        His career linked him to the founding giants of American children's publishing, and Mr. Morris himself trained generations of marketers.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      