
        Sidney S. McMath, a two-term governor of Arkansas who earned a reputation as a racial progressive in the years leading to the civil rights movement, died on Saturday at his home in Little Rock. He was 91.
        Mr. McMath, the governor from 1949 to 1953, was one of the South's promising political figures during the years of reform after World War II. He was considered an up-and-coming figure in the national Democratic Party in the early 1950's. But his political career ended abruptly in a scandal over campaign funds that he attributed to the machinations of powerful enemies in the electric power industry.
        Mr. McMath plunged into politics on his return from World War II. As a Marine officer, he had taken part in one of the bloodier engagements of the war, the campaign for the Solomon Islands. He won a battlefield promotion to lieutenant colonel. He eventually was promoted to major general in the Marine Reserve.
        He combined his local reputation as a war hero with good looks and a dynamic style to win election as prosecuting attorney in his hometown, Hot Springs, one of the most corrupt cities in the nation at the time.
        He led a cleanup of the local government, which had protected illegal gambling and provided a haven for gangsters like Al Capone and Lucky Luciano. He was elected governor in 1948 at the age of 36.
        In his two terms, Mr. McMath paved more highways than any previous governor. Illustrating the transportation problem, he had to campaign on horseback in one area because the roads were too poor to accommodate a car.
        He helped open the Democratic Party to African-Americans and led a fight to abolish the state's whites-only primary. He was instrumental in admitting the first black applicant, Edith Irby, to the state's all-white medical school. He fought the white supremacist Dixiecrat movement led by Strom Thurmond in 1948 and helped to carry Arkansas for President Harry S. Truman in that year's election, a feat that endeared him to Mr. Truman and led to a lifelong friendship.
        Mr. McMath was defeated for a third two-year term after an investigation found evidence of influence peddling in highway construction and diversion of road contributions to his campaign fund. Three associates were indicted on bribery charges, but all were acquitted. For the rest of his life, Mr. McMath said the investigation was an effort at vengeance by his political enemies. For years, he had worked for public electric power in rural areas and had alienated the private power company that had dominated Arkansas politics for years. The investigative commission included a number of men with ties to that company.
        Mr. McMath made two unsuccessful attempts to revive his political career. He opposed Senator John L. McClellan in 1954 and narrowly lost. In 1962, he lost badly when he ran against an old friend who had become a political enemy, Gov. Orval E. Faubus, after Mr. Faubus became a favorite of segregationists.
        Mr. McMath became a trial lawyer in a firm run by prominent Democrats.
        Sidney Sanders McMath was born on June 14, 1912, in a log cabin on a south Arkansas farm to Hal Pierce McMath and Nettie Bell Sanders McMath. The family moved to Hot Springs when the son was 10.
        Mr. McMath was married three times. His first wife, Elaine Broughton McMath, died on their fifth wedding anniversary. His second wife, Sarah Anne Phillips McMath, died in 1994. In 1996 he married a Little Rock artist, Betty Dortch Russell.
        He is survived by his wife; three sons, Sandy, Phillip and Bruce McMath, all of Little Rock; and twin daughters, Melissa Hatfield of Little Rock and Patricia Bueter of Roland.
      