
        Lyle Bettger, a character actor who became one of the movies' most recognizable villains in the 1950's and 60's, died on Sept. 24 at the home of his son Lyle in Atascadero, Calif. He was 88 and lived in Paia, Hawaii.
        Mr. Bettger was best known for portraying ruthless types who were nonetheless imbued with sly charm in the westerns and film noir thrillers of the postwar era.
        In one of his earlier prominent films, the Oscar-winning ''Greatest Show on Earth'' (1952), he played alongside Charlton Heston as a pathological circus performer. Three years later, he joined Kirk Douglas and Burt Lancaster in ''Gunfight at the O.K. Corral,'' playing the outlaw Ike Clanton in the tale of Wyatt Earp and Doc Holliday's shootout at Tombstone in 1881.
        Mr. Bettger was born in Philadephia in 1915, the son of Franklin Bettger, a third baseman for the St. Louis Cardinals.
        After graduating from the American Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York, in 1937, he worked in theater. He found brief success on Broadway in the early 40's before getting his break when Paramount Pictures offered him a contract. It led to his film debut in ''No Man of Her Own'' (1950). Later that year, he had one of his first big roles, as a kidnapper in ''Union Station.''
        He appeared in more than 30 films and in several television series.
        On television, however, he could be the righteous hero -- for example, playing a criminal law expert fighting to free wrongly convicted prisoners in ''Court of Last Resort,'' a sister series to ''Perry Mason,'' and a grand jury investigator in ''Grand Jury''; both shows were from the late 50's.
        He made numerous guest appearances on ''Bonanza'' in the 1960's and on shows like ''Hawaii Five-O'' in the 1970's.
        In 1974, he moved to Paia, on the island of Maui, and retired from acting five years later.
        His wife of 56 years, Mary Rolfe, a radio and stage actress he met at the Academy of Dramatic Arts in the 30's, died in 1996.
        In addition to his son Lyle, Mr. Bettger is survived by another son, Frank, of Los Angeles; a daughter, Paula Newell of Maui; a sister, Lee Morgan of Marlton, N.J.; and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  October 25, 2003, Saturday  An obituary of the actor Lyle Bettger on Oct. 9 misstated the name used by his father as a third baseman for the St. Louis Cardinals. It was Frank Betcher, not Franklin Bettger; the family later changed the name to Bettger.
      