
        Joseph Wharton Lippincott Jr., the last president and chairman of the J. B. Lippincott Company as an independent Philadelphia publisher, died on Saturday in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 88.
        Mr. Lippincott, a scion of an old Philadelphia family, presided over a rapid expansion of the publishing house before it was acquired by what was then Harper & Row in 1978. He was a strong supporter of education and libraries in Pennsylvania.
        Born in Bethayres, Pa., he was a descendant of Joshua Ballinger Lippincott, whose family founded the company and had kept it in continuous operation since 1785.
        Another of his forebears was Joseph Wharton, founder of Swarthmore College and the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania.
        He joined the family business in 1937 after graduating from Princeton and worked in it for 41 years. He started in production and after Army service in World War II was production manager until 1958, when he started his rise to the top upon his father's retirement.
        The company produced schoolbooks and medical specialty publications along with books for general readers. He made it his business to visit schools and helped tailor textbooks to their needs in the changing world of the 1960's and 1970's. Under his leadership Lippincott expanded beyond the United States into Europe and Asia.
        He remained on the board until 1987, when Harper & Row became HarperCollins, part of Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation. Since then Lippincott merged into Lippincott Williams & Wilkins, a publisher of textbooks for doctors and other health professionals, and is now a division of Wolters Kluwer N.V. of Amsterdam, Europe's largest tax and legal publisher.
        Mr. Lippincott attended the annual meetings of the American Library Association to present the Joseph W. Lippincott Award to an outstanding librarian of the year. The award was begun by his father in 1937.
        He served in leadership positions at numerous public and college libraries, including the Free Library of Philadelphia and the Ludington Library in Bryn Mawr.
        Mr. Lippincott is survived by his wife of 52 years, Marie Louise Beck Lippincott; two daughters, Elizabeth L. Mather of Philadelphia and Jean L. Coady of Norristown, Pa.; a son, Joseph W. III, of Rosemont, Pa.; 10 grandchildren; and two great-granddaughters.
      