
        PETRA, that Jordanian ''rose-red city half as old as time,'' is a spectacular place where a narrow, dark ravine suddenly opens into a vista of massive temples with Hellenic columns and pediments carved into red sandstone cliffs. It was the capital of the Nabateans, whose sophisticated trading culture flourished from the first century B.C. to the third century A.D., then vanished.
        ''It's truly awe-inspiring,'' said Craig Morris, co-curator of a major exhibition at the American Museum of Natural History, ''Petra: Lost City of Stone,'' which is to open on Saturday. ''There are only five or six places this impressive in the world, and Petra is one of the top two.''
        A bit of a problem, really.
        ''That's one of the challenges of this exhibit,'' Dr. Morris said. ''It's a real battle to get the impressiveness of it. The scale is such that there is no gallery large enough.''
        The exhibit addresses this in two ways. One of the first objects to strike a visitor's eye is Frederic Edwin Church's huge 1874 painting ''El Khasne, Petra,'' of the building known as the Treasury framed in the walls of the entrance ravine. The second is a kind of triptych of movie screens, in which the camera slowly pans across the reddish cliffs and buildings in an effort to show their size and scale.
        (In fact, lots of people have seen Petra but probably don't realize it. Harrison Ford is chased through Petra in ''Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade.'')
        Tall and slim, with round horn-rimmed glasses, Dr. Morris may not be quite as combative as Indiana Jones, but he attacks ancient ruins with comparable zest.
        ''Archaeology is completely and totally in my blood,'' said Dr. Morris, 64, whose formal title at the museum is senior vice president and dean of science, curator, department of anthropology. His co-curator is Glenn Markoe of the Cincinnati Art Museum, which has one of the most extensive collections of Nabatean sculpture outside Jordan.
        On his first field trip as a young anthropology graduate student at the University of Chicago, Dr. Morris discovered that ''archaeological fieldwork was absolute paradise.''
        ''You get to work in the sun and dig things up,'' he said.
        He grew up in Kentucky and attended Vanderbilt University in Nashville, where he said he was ''interested in absolutely everything,'' graduating in 1961. He also took part in the early days of the civil rights movement with black students from nearby Fisk University. White students sat in the segregated back seats of city buses, blacks up front.
        ''The whole idea was to give the impression of an integrated bus,'' he recalled.
        AT Chicago, he came across the doctoral dissertation of John Victor Murra, ''The Economic Organization of the Inca State.'' He stayed up all night reading.
        Later, he went to Peru for a dig, where Dr. Murra himself picked him up in his old Buick and they went for a lunch of, he still remembers, ceviche, corn, sweet potatoes and piquante de pollo.
        ''You go to a country and you can either be taken by it or repelled,'' he said. ''Peru was truly love at first sight and I have a passion for excavating it.''
        Dr. Morris even keeps an apartment and car in Lima, ready for his excavations. He taught for seven years at Brandeis University and had just been granted tenure -- and spent six months renovating a cottage in Wellesley, Mass. -- when his dream job at the museum came open in 1975.
        ''My housewarming and my going-away party, that was the same event,'' he said.
        He has lived for years on Gay Street in Greenwich Village, where his next-door neighbor was the radical lawyer William Kunstler, who sometimes attracted unwanted attention.
        ''He was a great neighbor,'' Dr. Morris said. ''But once I got a rock through my window by mistake.''
        The Incas are Dr. Morris's specialty, and so it should be noted that he rates an ancient Incan city, Machu Picchu, above Petra. He has also made extensive excavations at another city, Huanuco Pampa, unearthing, as it were, evidence that beer occupied a fraternity-size role in Incan civilization.
        Like the Petra exhibit, his studies focus on the interrelationship among economics, religion and culture in shaping a civilization. The Nabateans, at their height, controlled the trade routes for incense, spice, cotton, silk and ivory between China and India to the east, and Egypt and Greece to the west. The emperor Trajan took Petra into the Roman Empire for three centuries beginning in A.D. 106. An earthquake wrecked the city in A.D. 363 and it never recovered.
        The Byzantine Empire ruled in the fifth and sixth centuries with enough vitality left to build several fine churches. But the city was eventually abandoned, only to be ''discovered'' in the mid-19th century by Westerners like Mr. Church and the British traveler David Roberts, whose lithographs hang on the walls of many Middle East hands.
        ''We're looking at the rise and fall of the Nabateans, how they went from a relatively nomadic people to a great trading people,'' Dr. Morris said, recalling a seminal course at Chicago that explored ''why civilizations arise, why in some places civilization flourishes and in others it doesn't, and how they all inevitably come to an end.''
        PUBLIC LIVES
      