
        Dr. Bertram N. Brockhouse, who shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1994 for his work developing a technique to measure the atomic structure of matter, died on Monday in Hamilton, Ontario. He was 85.
        An emeritus professor of physics at McMaster University in Hamilton, Dr. Brockhouse was honored for improving the understanding of the way neutrons bounce off atomic nuclei.
        The vibrations that result from this collision of neutrons and atomic matter allow scientists to determine the position of atoms in the material and the way they move inside it. This information can then be used to figure out, for example, how a particular material will behave under certain conditions.
        Dr. Brockhouse worked with simple materials like aluminum and steel. Today this technique is used to measure the atomic structure of high-temperature superconductors and magnetic resonance devices.
        His work is considered fundamental to the field known as neutron scattering, said Dr. Bruce Gaulin, who holds the Brockhouse chair in the physics of materials at McMaster. Scientists previously relied on radiation from devices like X-rays to explore the atomic structure of matter.
        Dr. Brockhouse used the neutron beams from nuclear reactors built for research at the Chalk River Laboratories in Ontario, Dr. Gaulin said.
        Parts of the device that Dr. Brockhouse built for his research, known as a triple-axis neutron spectrometer, are still in use at Chalk River, said Dr. Thomas Timusk, an emeritus professor of physics and astronomy at McMaster. It ''was almost the size of an automobile'' and had wheels, levers and three rotating arms, Dr. Timusk added.
        Dr. Brockhouse, who earned degrees from the University of British Columbia and the University of Toronto, was a researcher with Canada's Atomic Energy Project at Chalk River Laboratories from 1950 until 1962, when he became a professor of physics at McMaster.
        He shared his Nobel Prize with Dr. Clifford G. Shull, a former professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, who died in 2001.
        Dr. Shull did similar work, conducted independently, using neutron probes.
        Dr. Brockhouse was born in Lethbridge, Alberta.
        He is survived by his wife, Doris, six children and 10 grandchildren.
        Dr. Timusk, who shared an office with Dr. Brockhouse at McMaster after he had won the Nobel, said that Dr. Brockhouse ''used to joke that he didn't think his work was very important but had to change his mind when he got the award.''
      