
        Edward T. Breathitt Jr., a former Democratic governor of Kentucky who made civil rights his theme at a time when few politicians below the Mason-Dixon line would do so, died on Tuesday at the University of Kentucky Hospital in Lexington. He was 78 and lived in Lexington.
        He collapsed while giving a speech at a university event last Friday. Doctors said the cause was an abnormal heart rhythm, and Mr. Breathitt never awoke from a deep coma. But the exact cause of death has not been determined, said the university, whose board was headed by Mr. Breathitt through 1999.
        Mr. Breathitt, a fiscal conservative and social liberal, was governor from 1963 to 1967. He became known beyond Appalachia as the governor who took on the strip-mining industry and led Kentucky to approve antidiscrimination laws stronger than those passed in Washington.
        Edward Thompson Breathitt Jr., known as Ned, came from a distinguished family whose public service tradition dated from the antebellum era. Mr. Breathitt was born in Hopkinsville, Ky., and at 18 enlisted in the Army Air Forces, serving in World War II.
        He graduated in 1947 with a degree in business from the University of Kentucky, where he received his law degree in 1950. He practiced in Hopkinsville, was elected to the Kentucky Legislature the next year and gained wider name recognition in 1952 as president of the state's Young Democrats, backing Adlai E. Stevenson's presidential campaign in Kentucky.
        He served as state personnel commissioner, putting a merit system into effect, and sat on the governor's mental health and public service commissions. But he was still relatively unknown when he won the Democratic nomination for governor in 1963, soundly defeating A. B. Chandler, and then won a close race against the Republican candidate, Louie B. Nunn.
        Elected with the support of civil rights leaders, he built on the record of his predecessor and mentor, Gov. Bert T. Combs, who that year signed an executive order forbidding racial discrimination by state-licensed businesses.
        Governor Breathitt, who was close to President Lyndon B. Johnson, pressed a reluctant Legislature for a public-accommodations bill banning discrimination in all businesses. He lobbied Democratic governors to support civil rights legislation pending in Washington.
        He helped thwart efforts within the Southern Governors Conference to frustrate federal court rulings on school integration and helped deliver Kentucky to President Johnson in 1964. He worked toward relief of the depressed coal regions of Appalachia, for environmental conservation, controls on the strip mining of coal and abolition of the death penalty.
        In 1965, he championed a state civil rights bill outlawing racial discrimination in a broader range of employment and public accommodations than the federal law of 1964 did. The state bill was passed by a wide margin, and he signed it in January 1966.
        His final act in office was to tighten legislation to bar surface mining on mountainsides too steep to be restored.
        Mr. Breathitt could not succeed himself as the law stood then, and he left office in December 1967. He decided not to run for the United States Senate in 1971 but remained close to Kentucky politics.
        Mr. Breathitt worked in Washington as general counsel to the Southern Railway Company. He became a vice president and was the Washington lobbyist of what became the Norfolk Southern Corporation for 20 years. From 1992 until last year he was of counsel to the Lexington law firm of Wyatt, Tarrant & Combs, Kentucky's largest.
        Mr. Breathitt is survived by his second wife, Lucy Alexander Breathitt, a former social secretary to President Richard M. Nixon's wife, Pat; three daughters and a son from his previous marriage, Mary F. Breathitt of Lexington, Linda K. Breathitt of Washington, Susan B. Brickman of Dallas and Edward T. III, of India; and four grandchildren.
      