
        Lee Bailey, an expert on the stylish life well known for his writing, cooking and photography and his work as a designer of home furnishings, died yesterday at his apartment in Chelsea. He was 76 and lived in Manhattan and in Bridgehampton, N.Y.
        He had had a series of strokes, including one on Sunday, said Geraldine Stutz, a friend and the former longtime president and for a time a co-owner of Henri Bendel, the Manhattan specialty store, where Mr. Bailey had a food and accessories boutique that later moved to Saks Fifth Avenue.
        Well before Martha Stewart, Mr. Bailey produced attractive books about how to entertain that drew much of their appeal from making glamorous cooking and presentation seem accessible to the uninitiated. He wrote 18 books in all, including ''Lee Bailey's Country Weekends'' (1983), which was praised for its design and color photographs of country and beachside scenes.
        As with many of his books, ''Country Weekends'' also included practical and easily reproduced touches like using bunches of field flowers casually stuck in a pitcher to garnish the table.
        From 1983 to 1993, 12 of his books on food and entertaining were published, all with titles like ''Lee Bailey's City Food'' and ''Lee Bailey's Country Flowers.'' Other topics included good parties, country desserts, soup meals, Southern food and plantation houses, California wine-country cooking, tomatoes, and cooking for friends. Mr. Bailey was a native of Louisiana, and his appealing menus often recalled his Southern upbringing.
        His last book was ''Lee Bailey's 'The Way I Cook': A Collection of All My Recipes With More Than 90 New Favorites'' (1996, Clarkson Potter).
        He was also a columnist and contributing editor for Food and Wine magazine, and contributed to a variety of other publications, among them House and Garden, The Los Angeles Times, The New York Times and Australian Vogue.
        Mr. Bailey was born in Bunkie, La., on Nov. 15, 1926. After serving in the Army in 1945-46, he attended the Parsons School of Design, graduating in 1950. He taught at Tulane University for six years and later at Parsons. He owned the Lee Bailey Shop in New York City from 1974 to 1987 and for some years, beginning in 1970, he also owned a design business in New York City and operated a boutique in Southampton, N.Y.
        His own style of life included a penthouse with fruit trees and flowers on its terrace; a house on the East End of Long Island with formal gardens in geometrical shapes; and many, many dinner parties for friends like Nora Ephron, Elaine Stritch and Liz Smith.
        A cousin of Mr. Bailey's, Denise Gee, an editor of the magazine Coastal Living, is thought to be his only surviving relative. She and her husband and Ms. Stutz were among several visitors the night before he died.
      