
        John Hawkesworth, a British television writer and producer whose long-running nighttime soap opera, ''Upstairs, Downstairs,'' became an equally long-running hit on American public television in the 1970's, died on Sept. 30 in Leicester, England. He was 82.
        Mr. Hawkesworth produced and wrote early installments of ''Upstairs, Downstairs,'' which examined the lives of a well-to-do London family, the Bellamys (upstairs), and their servants (downstairs), from the Edwardian period through the 1920's and beyond.
        The series, suggested by the actresses Eileen Atkins and Jean Marsh (who went on to star as the parlormaid, Rose), ran on British independent television from 1971 to 1975, and on PBS's ''Masterpiece Theater'' from 1974 to 1977. Showing a microcosm of the British class structure and the economic and social changes that swept over it, the show won several Emmys for London Weekend Television in the early 1970's and won loyal followings on both sides of the Atlantic.
        Its success made the meticulous historical mini-series a staple of public television and helped pave the way for many similar projects on commercial networks and cable television.
        Earlier in his career, Mr. Hawkesworth was co-author, with Shelley Smith, of the screenplay for ''Tiger Bay.'' He also produced this 1959 film, in which Hayley Mills made her acting debut.
        John Stanley Hawkesworth was born ''upstairs'' himself, in London on Dec. 7, 1920. He was educated at the Rugby School and then, after some art study in Paris, at Oxford, where he studied English and history and received a bachelor's degree.
        Mr. Hawkesworth joined the Grenadier Guards in 1940, was commissioned an officer, served throughout the invasion of Normandy and left in 1946 with the rank of captain.
        Then, after a one-man show of paintings, he went to work in movies, first as the art director Vincent Korda's assistant on ''The Fallen Idol'' (1948).
        Mr. Hawkesworth then became a set designer on the film ''The Third Man'' (1949). He was also associate producer on J. Arthur Rank's melodramatic film ''Windom's Way'' (1957).
        ''Tiger Bay'' did very well at the box office but became the last of his movies after he had a disagreement with officials at the Rank Organization, the production company.
        Mr. Hawkesworth began to produce commercials for independent television, and he went on to produce a number of successful television series during the 1970's, of which ''Upstairs, Downstairs'' was the first.
        In 1975 he produced another series set in the London of the past, ''The Duchess of Duke Street,'' for the BBC. The first 15 episodes of that series were also shown on ''Masterpiece Theater,'' in 1978.
        His last project, in 1992, involved an adaptation of the book ''Mrs. 'Arris Goes to Paris'' (1958) by Paul Gallico.
        In retirement Mr. Hawkesworth spent much of his time painting and had several one-man shows of his watercolors.
        In 1943 he married Hyacinthe Gregson-Ellis, who survives him, along with a son.
      