
        William Goldberg, a leader of Manhattan's diamond district known both for dealing in some of the biggest diamonds sold in modern times and for trying to lift his industry's historic veil of secrecy, died Monday at his apartment in Manhattan. He was 77.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, Barry Berg, his son-in-law, said.
        Modern Jeweler magazine in 1990 said Mr. Goldberg was the first gem dealer to find fame while remaining part of 47th Street, as the diamond-littered blocklong stretch on the West Side is internationally known. A buzzing, cluttered bazaar of wholesalers, retailers and everybody in between, it lies between Fifth and Sixth Avenues.
        The magazine said that industry giants like Harry Winston and Lazare Kaplan either bypassed the street or rose above it. Mr. Goldberg not only stayed but also served three terms as president of the Diamond Dealers Club, where billions of dollars worth of diamonds are exchanged every year on the strength of a handshake and the Yiddish expression ''mazel und brucha,'' meaning luck and a blessing.
        ''He wields the greatest influence ever of any United States diamond dealer,'' the magazine said.
        In an interview Friday, Ronald Winston, chairman and managing director of the Harry Winston company, called Mr. Goldberg ''one of the great diamond dealers that we worked with.''
        Mr. Goldberg's voice was heard on matters from security on 47th Street to ''conflict diamonds'' in Africa, but his greatest fame came from quietly buying and selling some of the world's biggest and best gems -- and then, of course, talking vociferously about the deals to anybody who would listen.
        In the 1970's, there was the Queen of Holland diamond, part of a necklace once owned by an Indian maharajah. Mr. Goldberg found it in a Swiss bank vault and bought it, in an episode he described as ''right out of the movies'' in an interview with Newsday in 1991.
        Then there was the 353.9-carat rough diamond he picked off a conveyor belt at a South African diamond mine. It was cut into three flawless diamonds, including a 137-carat pear-shaped gem known as the Premier Rose, which sold in 1989 for $10 million, a price many believe was the most ever paid for a diamond, then or possibly ever.
        Mr. Goldberg was celebrated for the colors of his diamonds as well as for their size. The rarest are red, and he sold the largest flawless red diamond known, the 5.11-carat Red Shield. His famous Pumpkin gem was a vivid orange and had a finished weight of 5.54 carats. His personal favorites were the deep yellow gems known as canary diamonds.
        Laurence Graff, one of the world's largest diamond dealers, said in an interview that Mr. Goldberg was unusual because he would shave off more of the stone to improve the gem's appearance, even though a lighter stone fetched a lower price.
        ''He loved every stone he handled,'' Mr. Graff said.
        Mr. Goldberg was born Dec. 22, 1925, in Sheepshead Bay, Brooklyn, where his parents owned a candy store. His mother wanted him to become a rabbi, but paid the $250 fee for him to become an apprentice diamond cutter while he attended City College of New York.
        She and her husband had little time for their children because of their long hours at the candy shop. Mr. Goldberg said in an interview in 2000 on CNNfn, the cable financial channel, that this deprivation influenced him subconsciously to want to make other people smile, ''and that's when I got involved in trying to create the most beautiful smiling diamonds to make other people happy.''
        He was all thumbs as a cutter at Harry Winston, but solved this problem by forming a partnership with Irving Weiss, an expert cutter, in 1952. Mr. Weiss took care of the diamonds while Mr. Goldberg took care of buying and selling. His approach was unusual: he did not low-ball.
        ''Anybody can try to buy a $10,000 stone for $9,600,'' he said in a Modern Jeweler interview. ''The real feat is to pay $10,500 if you know you'll later regret not having bought it.''
        In 1978, he ran for president of the Diamond Dealers Club, proposing more security after the murder of a diamond broker the previous year, as well as greater openness on 47th Street, in keeping with its new prominence in a changing world economy.
        Using bold, untraditional means like sound trucks and leaflets, he beat the five-term incumbent, Stephen Korngold, 727 to 512. His three two-year terms were nonetheless rocky: members refused to endorse moving the headquarters to West 43rd Street, despite lower rent.
        A large man with a mane of flowing gray hair and a booming voice, Mr. Goldberg magnified his influence with his sense of humor. When arguing that the club needed better quarters to reflect the fact that 80 percent of the diamonds sold in the United States pass through 47th Street, he suggested that the old quarters smelled like herring.
        Mr. Goldberg is survived by his son, Saul, of Manhattan; his daughters, Deborah Berg of Englewood, N.J., and Eve Goldberg of Manhattan; eight grandchildren; and two sisters, Bea Kauder and Bernice Weiss, both of Queens.
        His penchant for largeness showed in an article in National Geographic last year. He was pondering what to name one of four gems cut from a 265.82-carat rough diamond.
        ''Maybe the Beluga,'' he mused, referring to the largest caviar eggs, ''because it's the best of the best.''
        Correction:  October 29, 2003, Wednesday  An obituary on Sunday about William Goldberg, a leader of New York's diamond district who dealt in large gems, omitted the name of his wife, who survives him. She is Lili Gordon Goldberg.
      