
        Former United States Representative James M. Hanley, a liberal Democrat who served eight terms in the House representing a district comprising Syracuse and upstate New York counties, died on Oct. 16 in Geddes, N.Y. He was 83.
        Mr. Hanley, who was a funeral director and owner of a funeral home, was first elected to Congress in 1964, in the landslide of Lyndon B. Johnson. In a dramatic upset, Mr. Hanley ousted a veteran Republican incumbent, R. Walter Riehlman.
        In the next 16 years, Mr. Hanley was often said to be in danger of losing his constituency, which had twice as many enrolled Republicans as enrolled Democrats. But he was re-elected to the House seven times, paving the way for Democrats in traditionally Republican central New York.
        In 1980, when he announced that he would not seek re-election, his 32nd District comprised Syracuse, half of Onondaga County, and all of Cortland, Madison and Chenango Counties. He said that 16 years was ''enough time to spend'' in Congress and that the time to leave any undertaking was ''when you are on top.''
        In his first term in Congress, Mr. Hanley wrote a successful amendment to the legislation that established Medicare. During President Johnson's administration, from 1963 to 1969, Mr. Hanley was an early supporter of Medicare, the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, the Head Start program and the ''war on poverty.''
        As part of Congress's Democratic majority, he became known for getting federal money passed to the 32nd District. Syracuse's federal building was constructed while he was in the House and was renamed, for him, after his retirement.
        Mr. Hanley said he did not approve of abortion, but he did not endorse a right-to-life amendment to the Constitution. He backed the Equal Rights Amendment in 1971, when it was an important part of the women's rights movement.
        When he stepped down, he was chairman of the House Subcommittee on Investigations and Oversight and the House Post Office and Civil Service Committee. He was one of only two representatives from New York State to hold full chairmanships of committees in the House at that time.
        Mr. Hanley said he was sorry that he was leaving office without seeing the creation of a federal program for renewed support of the United States Postal Service. After leaving the House, he was a consultant in Washington for a decade and then moved back to Syracuse.
        James Michael Hanley was born on July 19, 1920, in Syracuse. He graduated from St. Lucy's Academy in Syracuse and served in the Army during World War II.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Rita Ann Harrington, whom he married in 1950; a son, Peter; a daughter, Christine; four grandchildren and one great-grandson.
      