
        Garrett Hardin, an ecologist and author who warned of the dangers of overpopulation and whose concept of the ''tragedy of the commons'' brought attention to the damage that innocent actions by individuals can inflict on the environment, died at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif., on Sept. 14. He was 88.
        He and his wife, Jane, 81, committed suicide, said their son David.
        Dr. Hardin, who suffered from a heart disorder, and his wife, who had Lou Gehrig's disease, were members of End-of-Life Choices, formerly known as the Hemlock Society.
        An emeritus professor of biology and environmental studies at the University of California at Santa Barbara, Dr. Hardin introduced ''the tragedy of the commons'' in an essay published in 1968 in Science magazine. Examining the overgrazing of 19th-century community pastures, or commons, the article showed how depletion of a vital resource was brought about by those who continually increased the size of their herds out of self-interest.
        Dr. Hardin presented this case as a cautionary tale for a modern society that was abusing the environment. He also argued that human society had an inherently destructive relationship to nature and naturally overexploited common resources.
        His commons theory is frequently cited to support the notion of sustainable development, meshing economic growth and environmental protection, and has had an effect on numerous current issues, including the debate over global warming.
        Dr. Hardin confounded many of his supporters with many of his prescriptions for solving the problem of overpopulation.
        In a 1974 essay in BioScience magazine, ''Living on a Lifeboat,'' he argued against aid to famine victims in Ethiopia, explaining that sending food would only contribute to overpopulation, which he saw as the cause of the country's problems.
        Born in Dallas, Garrett James Hardin received a bachelor's degree in zoology from the University of Chicago and a doctorate in microbiology from Stanford. He joined the faculty of the University of California at Santa Barbara in 1946 and retired in 1978.
        The author of 27 books and more than 350 articles, he continued writing until recently, receiving the 1997 Panunzio Distinguished Emeriti Award from the University of California for his continued scholarly productivity.
        He is survived by two daughters, Hyla Fetler of Santa Barbara and Sharon Clausen of Laytonville, Calif.; two sons, Peter, of Pine Grove, Calif., and David, of Santa Barbara; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        Dr. Hardin, who contracted polio as a child and walked with the aid of crutches, saw his harsh message on overpopulation as a form of tough love. ''There's nothing more dangerous than a shallow-thinking compassionate person,'' he said in a 1987 interview with The New York Times. ''God, he can cause a lot of trouble.''
      