
        Jack Meador, a Texas hardware salesman who became a central figure in a scheme to sell medieval art treasures stolen from a German cathedral in World War II, died on May 25 in Sherman, Tex., unnoticed by the art world he had tried to deceive. He was 83.
        Mr. Meador's death was followed on July 4 by that of his sister, Jane Meador Cook, with whom he had hoped to gain millions of dollars for manuscripts and reliquaries that had once been kept at Quedlinburg cathedral, in central Germany. Ms. Cook died of cancer. She was 71 and lived in Mesquite, Tex.
        Reports of both deaths were published at the time by Clara Kelly Combs, owner and publisher of The Whitewright (Tex.) Sun, in the former cotton town where the Meadors grew up and later hid their loot.
        As Allied forces swept into Nazi Germany in May 1945, in the final days of World War II in Europe, Lt. Joe Tom Meador of the United States Army, the brother of Jack Meador and Jane Meador Cook, stole the art works from a cave outside Quedlinburg, where they had been placed for safekeeping during the war, and mailed them home to his mother in Whitewright.
        Over the years, Lieutenant Meador's friends recounted, he granted glimpses of the treasures as rewards for sexual favors. He died in 1980, whereupon his brother and sister, having no interest in medieval art apart from its monetary value, attempted to disguise the origin of the objects and sell them through the international art market. For years, their efforts were frustrated, but in 1989 they concluded a deal with the West German government in which they received $3 million (less legal fees) in exchange for relinquishing title to the objects and returning them to West Germany.
        Valued at $200 million or more, the collection included two ancient manuscripts, one of them written in gold ink, and a number of ornate reliquaries that were believed in medieval times to hold relics like a splinter of wood from Noah's Ark and a few drops of milk from the Virgin Mary.
        The treasures are part of the artworks kept for a millennium in the Schatzkammer, or Treasure Chamber, of the cathedral. In 1943, the objects were moved to a cave to shelter them from Allied bombing raids.
        After disclosures in The New York Times in June 1990 about the identity of the Quedlinburg thief and the likely whereabouts of the treasures, Carol K. Johnson, the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of Texas, started an international investigation. It was not until January 1996 that a grand jury indicted Jack, Jane and their lawyer, John Torigian, on charges of illegally conspiring to sell some of the treasures after knowing that they had been stolen. If convicted, they could have faced sentences of up to 10 years in jail and/or fines of up to $250,000.
        However, as the case was coming to trial in Sherman, a federal judge dismissed the charges on the technical ground that the federal prosecutor had collected evidence beyond the lawful time limit. That decision was upheld by the Fifth Circuit Court of Appeals in New Orleans, and with that the criminal prosecution came to an end.
        The Meadors finally agreed to pay the Internal Revenue Service $135,000 for profiting from the bargain with Germany. Legal experts and arts professionals said the payment was surprisingly low, since the government had been seeking $8.6 million in estate taxes, $2.1 million in penalties and more than $40 million in interest.
        Constance Lowenthal, director of the World Jewish Congress's Commission for Art Recovery, who followed the case closely, said that while she was disappointed by the mishandling of the case by the United States attorney and by the leniency of the tax court, she remained hopeful that the case would have a deterrent effect over all.
        ''The Meadors have had 10 years without peace,'' Ms. Lowenthal said, ''and although the criminal case against them failed on technical grounds they must now realize that selling their brother's loot was the wrong way to go.''
        Jack Meador is survived by his wife, Genevieve, of Whitewright; two sons, Joseph, of Checotah, Okla., and Jeffery, of Austin, Tex.; a daughter, Jill, of Whitewright; and 10 grandchildren.
        Jane Meador Cook is survived by two daughters, Elizabeth Cook Moss and Rebecca Kay Cook, both of Mesquite, and six grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 28, 2003, Friday  An obituary on Oct. 30 about Jack Meador and his sister Jane Meador Cook, both figures in a scheme to sell stolen medieval German artworks, misstated the title of Constance Lowenthal, who commented on their case. She is a former director of the Commission for Art Recovery, a unit of the World Jewish Congress, not the current director.
      