
        Rabbi Ephraim Oshry, whose interpretations of religious law helped sustain Lithuanian Jews during Nazi occupation and were buried in tin cans for retrieval and publication after the Holocaust, died on Sept. 28 at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 89.
        Rabbi Oshry was a young rabbinical scholar in Kaunas, the second-largest city in Lithuania, when the Nazis invaded on June 23, 1941.
        After the city's Jews were herded into the ghetto, the Nazis made him custodian of the warehouse where Jewish books were stored for a planned exhibit of ''artifacts of the extinct Jewish race.'' Rabbi Oshry used them to make interpretations of religious law, traditionally called responsa, to help people continue to live as Jews in seemingly impossible circumstances.
        Could a penniless widow remove gold from her murdered husband's teeth? Rabbi Oshry said no, because it would be a desecration of his corpse.
        Could one perform a Caesarean section on a dead woman? The rabbi said that ''when saving a life is involved,'' avoiding the desecration of the dead is of lower priority.
        But he determined that even to save his life, a Jew could not buy a Christian baptism certificate, and he said a Jew had no right to commit suicide.
        Rabbi Oshry did more than bring centuries of rabbinical precedent to his judgments on questions of observance. He held secret nightly worship services in various hideouts and helped people maintain Jewish practices, including continuing to bake matzos under the threat of death.
        Indeed, he saw the persistence of Jewish life as the highest kind of resistance against the Nazis. Many Jews might not survive, he said, but Judaism would.
        ''One resists with a gun,'' the rabbi said in an interview with The New York Times in 1975, ''another with his soul.''
        Rabbi Oshry's mother and two sisters died in the Holocaust. He is survived by his wife, Fraida; his daughters, Chana Weinstock of Brooklyn, Chaya Greenberg of Monsey, N.Y., and Leah Greenbaum of Brooklyn; his sons, Moshe, of Israel, Dov, of Brooklyn, Jacob, of Monsey, Zelig, of Brooklyn, Yisroel, of Brooklyn, and Yehuda, of Monsey; and 40 grandchildren and 8 great-grandchildren.
        After three and a half years of Nazi occupation, Soviet troops liberated the Jews in the ghetto of Kaunas. Rabbi Oshry took 65 children on a circuitous route to Rome, gathering more along the way. There he set up a yeshiva in a large villa donated by an Italian Jew. He moved to Montreal, where he set up another religious school, and finally to New York, where in 1952 he became rabbi of Beth Hamedrash Hagadol on the Lower East Side.
        At first, more than 1,000 people a day came to services at the synagogue, one of the city's oldest. Rabbi Mendel Greenbaum, who succeeds him as rabbi, said that congregants had dwindled as many aged and moved elsewhere but Rabbi Oshry worked tirelessly to keep the synagogue going.
        About 15 years ago, Rabbi Oshry established a yeshiva for gifted boys from 14 to 17 years old in Monsey, N.Y.
        Rabbi Oshry was born in August 1914 in the town of Kupishok, near the city of Ponevezh, in north central Lithuania. His father died when he was 11. He studied with legendary rabbis at the Slobodka yeshiva, which was widely known in the world of Jewish scholarship.
        During the occupation, he carefully recorded the questions of Lithuanian Jews as well as his responses, writing them on bits of paper torn from cement sacks he carried on forced labor and burying them in tin cans.
        He dug up the cans after he was freed and began writing out his notes when he reached Rome. He continued for years, taking care to cite the precise history of rabbinical opinion behind each decision.
        Such responsa have been part of the Jewish tradition for about a thousand years, with more than 250,000 decisions recorded. The Holocaust brought up many new and exceedingly difficult questions that many rabbis struggled to answer, though probably few with more personal experience than Rabbi Oshry.
        He ended up writing five volumes of questions and answers, which he published himself in five volumes, one at a time, in Hebrew. In 1971, Volume 2 won the National Jewish Book Award for best book on the Holocaust; in 1974, Volume 4 received the same honor. A book of excerpts in English was published by Judaica Press.
        Some questions had more relevance to life after the Holocaust. One young woman asked if she could have the number tattooed on her arm by the Nazis removed. Rabbi Oshry answered no, because it would erase a memory of the great crime, which was exactly what the evildoers wanted.
        The rabbi firmly believed that it was recorded memory that enabled the Jews to persist spiritually. In his book ''The Annihilation of Lithuanian Jewry,'' he referred to the sum of holy scripture as the Book and wrote:
        ''Jews were somehow able to part with everything that defined their place in life -- home, business, job -- but the one thing they could not part with was the Book.''
      