
        Lester Osterman, a Broadway theater producer and theater owner who won three Tony Awards for his productions of ''Da,'' ''The Shadow Box'' and ''A Moon for the Misbegotten,'' died on Tuesday at a hospital in Norwalk, Conn. He was 88.
        A successful Wall Street broker who did not discover an affinity for producing until his early 40's, Mr. Osterman made his Broadway debut in 1956 as a backer of ''Mr. Wonderful,'' the hit comedy with Sammy Davis Jr.
        It would be the first of about 75 Broadway productions Mr. Osterman would have a hand in as either producer or theater owner. At one time or another he owned or operated several Broadway houses, including the Eugene O'Neill, the Richard Rodgers and the Alvin (now called the Neil Simon).
        Emboldened by the success of ''Mr. Wonderful,'' Mr. Osterman quickly signed on as a producer of ''Candide,'' the musical adaptation of Voltaire's classic, which seemed to be a sure thing with the combined talents of Leonard Bernstein, who composed the music; Lillian Hellman, who wrote the book; and Tyrone Guthrie, who directed. A Tony nominee for best musical, ''Candide'' nonetheless folded in a little over two months, a valuable lesson for Mr. Osterman in the fickle fortunes of Broadway producing.
        Mr. Osterman stayed busy during the rest of the 1950's and 1960's, racking up credits on Broadway and in London, where he produced George Tabori's play ''Brouhaha,'' starring Peter Sellers. On Broadway Mr. Osterman mixed big success (the musical ''The Rothschilds'' in 1970) with less so (the 1960 production ''The Cool World,'' which closed after one performance).
        For Mr. Osterman 1964 was a particularly productive year, as he worked with the likes of Noël Coward (on the musical ''High Spirits'') and Carol Burnett, with whom he and the composer Jule Styne feuded on the musical ''Fade Out, Fade In.'' In one of Broadway's nastiest battles, Mr. Osterman and Mr. Styne accused Ms. Burnett of faking neck injuries and colds to avoid performing and eventually sued to guarantee her presence onstage. Ms. Burnett grudgingly returned to the show after a 13-week hiatus, but the show closed shortly after her return.
        Mr. Osterman's partner for many enterprises was the producer Richard Horner, who died in December at 82. Working with Mr. Horner, Mr. Osterman made an impressive showing at the Tony Awards in 1974, with O'Neill's ''Moon for the Misbegotten,'' starring Jason Robards and Colleen Dewhurst. That production is considered a Broadway classic and won a special Tony for its producers that year. Also that year, Mr. Osterman and Mr. Horner produced the American premieres of ''Sizwe Banzi Is Dead'' and ''The Island,'' apartheid dramas that introduced Broadway audiences to the work of the South African playwright Athol Fugard.
        Mr. Osterman won two more Tonys in 1977 and 1978 with ''The Shadow Box'' and ''Da,'' respectively. His output slowed in the 1980's. His final Broadway credit was in 1986, with a short-lived run of Emily Mann's ''Execution of Justice.''
        Mr. Osterman is survived by his wife, Marjorie K. Osterman, of Southport, Conn.; his son, Tom Osterman, of Stamford, Conn.; his daughter, Patricia Thackray, of Manhattan; six grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        Theater was not his only interest. A Brooklyn native, Mr. Osterman was an avid baseball fan who pitched in college, later owned two minor league ball clubs, and once considered buying the Brooklyn Dodgers.
        In a 1957 interview Mr. Osterman talked about his decision to turn away from the corporate life toward less stable theatrical enterprises. ''If you have an opportunity to point the direction in your life, if you have that kind of luck,'' he told The New York Post, ''you're crazy if you don't try it.''
        Correction:  February 1, 2003, Saturday  A picture yesterday with the obituary of the Broadway producer Lester Osterman was published in error. The subject was not identified. A picture of Mr. Osterman appears today, on Page B8.
        Correction:  February 1, 2003, Saturday
        Correction: Lester Osterman, Broadway Producer
        A picture yesterday with an obituary of Lester Osterman, a Broadway producer who died on Tuesday, was published in error. Mr. Osterman is shown above in an undated photo.
      