
        Dr. Paul Calabresi, a leader in developing and testing drugs to treat Hodgkin's lymphoma, breast cancer and prostate cancer, among other diseases, died Oct. 25 in Providence, R.I. He was 73.
        The cause was cancer of the tongue, his son Steven said.
        Dr. Calabresi, who lived in Barrington, R.I., served on presidential advisory panels and taught medicine at Yale and Brown Universities. He was an early advocate of combination chemotherapy and gained a reputation for his innovative approach to identifying potential drugs.
        While many cancer researchers focus on a particular type of cancer, Dr. Calabresi would start with a pharmaceutical compound that interested him and screen various kinds of tumors to find a suitable match, said Dr. Lloyd Alderson, a neuro-oncologist in Burlington, Mass., and a research collaborator of Dr. Calabresi's in the 1990's.
        ''He was often on the cutting edge in terms of looking for the newest agent and testing it,'' Dr. Alderson said.
        Paul Calabresi was born in Milan. His father, a cardiologist, and his mother, a literature professor, were anti-Fascists, and the family left Italy for the United States in 1939.
        Dr. Calabresi received his bachelor's and medical degrees from Yale. He taught at Yale until 1968, when he joined Brown as a professor of medical science. When Brown created a medical school, he was a founding faculty member. He served as physician in chief at nearby Roger Williams General Hospital and conducted research and had a clinical practice at Rhode Island Hospital.
        In 1991, President George Bush appointed Dr. Calabresi chairman of the National Cancer Advisory Board. Four years later, Dr. Calabresi was a member of President Bill Clinton's cancer panel, which studied the effect of managed care on cancer research, among other issues.
        He was also a member of the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences and an honorary lifetime member of the board of the American Cancer Society.
        In addition to his son Steven, of Brookline, Mass., he is survived by his wife of 49 years, the former Celia Treadway Gow; a daughter, Janice Calabresi Maggs of Arlington, Va.; another son, Peter, of Baltimore; eight grandchildren; and a brother, Guido, of Woodbridge, Conn.
      