
        Robert G. Bartle, a mathematician known for his authoritative texts on real analysis and other areas of advanced mathematics, died on Sept. 18 at his home in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 75.
        The cause was cancer, his son James said.
        His first book, ''The Elements of Real Analysis'' (1964) a popular mathematics text for graduate students, was published in two editions and translated into several languages, including Spanish, Portuguese and Arabic.
        He followed it in 1982 with ''Introduction to Real Analysis,'' which was intended to be accessible to a broader audience, particularly students in related fields like computer science and engineering, said Dr. Donald R. Sherbert, a colleague of Dr. Bartle's at the University of Illinois and a co-author.
        Now in its third edition, ''Introduction to Real Analysis'' has sold more than 40,000 copies, a rarity for advanced mathematics texts, Dr. Sherbert said.
        Beginning in 1976, Dr. Bartle served two years as executive editor of the international journal Mathematical Reviews. He returned to the post from 1986 to 1990.
        In the late 60's, he was managing editor of The Illinois Journal of Mathematics.
        Born in Kansas City, Mo., Robert Gardner Bartle earned his bachelor's degree from Swarthmore and his master's and doctorate from the University of Chicago. After graduate school he taught at Yale, where he was one of several mathematicians who helped write ''Linear Operators,'' a three-volume treatise that won the Steele Prize from the American Mathematical Society in 1981 and became a standard in its field, Dr. Sherbert said.
        In 1955, he joined the faculty at Illinois and remained there until 1990, when he moved to Eastern Michigan University in Ypsilanti, where he spent the rest of his career.
        His 1996 paper ''Return to the Riemann Integral'' earned one of the Mathematical Association of America's highest honors in 1997.
        His first marriage, to Doris Sponenberg Bartle, ended in divorce.
        In addition to his son James, who lives in Lawrence, Kan., he is survived by his second wife, Carolyn; another son, John, of Omaha; a sister, Mary Lou Bartle Hall of Fort Myers, Fla.; and five grandchildren.
      