
        William Swetland, a venerable character actor on Broadway and in regional theater who specialized in stalwart, older characters, died on Friday in Branford, Conn. He was 90.
        Tall and imposing, with a thick mane of hair and aquiline features, Mr. Swetland was one of the country's premier actors in regional theater. He was in the original company at the Long Wharf Theater in New Haven, which was founded in 1965, and was in more than 75 plays there into the 1990's.
        He also acted at the Hartford Stage Company and the McCarter Theater in Princeton, N.J. His Broadway credits include ''The National Health'' in 1974 and the revival of Eugene O'Neill's ''Ah, Wilderness!'' the following year with Geraldine Fitzgerald and Swoosie Kurtz.
        Both ''The National Health'' and ''Ah, Wilderness!'' were nominated for Tony Awards for the director, Arvin Brown, who was also the longtime artistic director of Long Wharf Theater.
        Mr. Swetland played older men of varying degrees of morality. He was a roguish father in ''The Philadelphia Story'' and Shaw's ''Major Barbara'' but was also the model avuncular parent in ''Ah, Wilderness!'' and a stern Union officer in the Civil War in ''Borak.''
        In a review in The New York Times of Paul Osborn's play ''On Borrowed Time'' at the Hartford Stage Company in 1982, Mel Gussow wrote: ''For many years, it has been clear, especially in his performances at the Long Wharf Theater, that Mr. Swetland is an unacknowledged hero of regional theater -- a quietly professional, reliable character actor who adds dimension to a play no matter how small his role.''
        Born William Swetland Jr. in Kalispell, Mont., his family moved to Oberlin, Ohio, when he was a young man.
        He began acting in Cleveland, and he was an actor and director at the Cleveland Playhouse for 10 years. He made his Broadway debut in ''Parnell'' in 1936. His appearances on television included a broadcast of ''Ah, Wilderness!'' on PBS in 1976 and ''The Jilting of Granny Weatherall'' in 1980.
        His marriage to Dorothy Bourne ended in divorce; he married Shirley Bryan, a fellow actor at the Cleveland Playhouse, in 1951. Both have died, as has a son, Gregory.
        Among his survivors are two sons, William III of Saco, Me., and Dudley, of Cleveland; and two stepsons, Brian Newpher of Newbury, Ohio, and Charles Richard Newpher, of Mexico.
      