
        Bobby Hatfield, whose wholesomely passionate tenor carried the upper harmonies of the pop-soul duo the Righteous Brothers, died on Wednesday in a hotel room in Kalamazoo, Mich. He was 63 and lived in Newport Beach, Calif.
        The cause was unknown, David Cohen, his manager, said. Mr. Hatfield's body was found in bed shortly before the Righteous Brothers were to perform at Western Michigan University, Mr. Cohen said.
        Mr. Hatfield and his partner in the Righteous Brothers, Bill Medley, were influenced by the intimate and expressive style of black soul singers, but unlike most previous white groups they sought to emulate the raw intensity of those singers. In hits like ''You've Lost That Lovin' Feelin','' ''Unchained Melody'' and ''(You're My) Soul and Inspiration,'' Mr. Medley and Mr. Hatfield channeled an emotional power that had rarely been heard in white pop.
        Robert Lee Hatfield was born in Beaver Dam, Wis., and grew up in Anaheim, Calif. He is survived by his wife Linda; his sons Robert Jr., Kalin and Dustin; and a daughter, Vallyn, all of Newport Beach.
        Mr. Hatfield attended Fullerton Junior College and Long Beach State University, both in California, and sang in groups that played at proms and fraternity dances. In 1962 Mr. Hatfield's group, the Variations, merged with Mr. Medley's, the Paramours. The men formed a duo later that year and reportedly took their name after a black fan exclaimed at one of their concerts, ''That was righteous, brothers.''
        Unlike Elvis Presley or Jerry Lee Lewis before them, the Righteous Brothers maintained a well-scrubbed image. ''Lovin' Feelin' '' was a No. 1 hit in 1965 and has become one of the most popular songs in radio history. A spokeswoman for BMI, the music-licensing organization, said that the song had been broadcast more than 10 million times in the United States. But ''Lovin' Feelin' '' was an unlikely hit. Before it was recorded, the Righteous Brothers had only minimal success; the group's biggest hit was ''Little Latin Lupe Lu,'' which was recorded for the Moonglow label in 1963 and reached No. 49 on the charts.
        Phil Spector signed the group to his Philles label in 1964 and wrote ''Lovin' Feelin' '' for them with his songwriting team of Barry Mann and Cynthia Weil. That hit was recorded with Mr. Spector's trademark ''wall of sound'' technique, with an abundance of instruments, including four acoustic guitars, three basses and three pianos. Mr. Medley sang the verses in a sonorous baritone and Mr. Hatfield joined in on the choruses with soaring harmonies.
        Worried that the song was too long to be played by D.J.'s, Mr. Spector listed a false running time on the record's label. Instead of its actual length of 3 minutes and 50 seconds, the last two digits were reversed, so the label read 3:05.
        The Righteous Brothers recorded several more hits with Mr. Spector, including ''Unchained Melody,'' ''Ebb Tide'' and ''Just Once in My Life,'' before signing a million-dollar contract with Verve Records. At Verve the group recorded another Mann-Weil song, ''(You're My) Soul and Inspiration,'' with Mr. Medley as producer fastidiously recreating Mr. Spector's wall of sound. It became a No. 1 hit in 1966. In the mid-60's the group was also a regular act on the weekly television show ''Shindig!''
        The group broke up in 1968 and for a short time Mr. Hatfield retained the name the Righteous Brothers on tour, with Jimmy Walker filling in for Mr. Medley.
        Mr. Hatfield and Mr. Medley reunited in 1974 and had a No. 3 hit with ''Rock and Roll Heaven,'' a tribute to dead rock stars. Mr. Medley retired in 1976, but the two reunited again in 1983. The group was inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland this year.
      