
        John Gleason, a lighting designer and teacher who developed new ways to use color in theatrical productions, died on Oct. 28. He was 62 and lived in Watsontown, Pa.
        The cause was heart failure, said Allen Lee Hughes, a colleague and friend.
        In his three decades as a designer, Mr. Gleason lighted hundreds of operas, plays and musicals. His numerous Broadway lighting credits include ''The Great White Hope''(1968), ''We Bombed in New Haven'' (1968), ''Lorelei''(1974) and ''Over Here!'' (1974). He lighted operas at the New York City Opera and the Juilliard School of Music. He also designed shows for the singer Diana Ross.
        Mr. Gleason was known for his use of rich and deep color. ''He could take the tone of someone like Tennessee Williams and translate it directly into color and light,'' said Jane Cox, a lighting designer and former student of Mr. Gleason.
        He developed a theory about ''how to use colors to shape things in a three-dimensional way on the stage,'' said Clifton Taylor, a lighting designer and former student of Mr. Gleason. ''He changed the way theater designers think about color.''
        Mr. Gleason worked as a resident lighting designer at the Mark Taper Forum, the Repertory Theater at Lincoln Center and the National Playwrights' Conference at the Eugene O'Neill Theater Center.
        Mr. Gleason also taught lighting design at the Tisch School of the Arts at New York University from 1972 until 1997 and was known for an annual lecture, open to all students and the public, in which he demonstrated his discoveries about color and light.
        John Gleason was born in Brooklyn in 1941 and graduated from Hunter College.
        He is survived by his partner, William M. Kradlak, of Watsontown, and a sister, Maryann DiBlasi of Queens.
        Mr. Gleason received much critical acclaim for his work, even when it was illuminating what critics called an otherwise flawed production. In Gleason's work had lighted the stage ''so cunningly and so persuasively that the remarks of the young couple who first come across it seem vapid echoes from some other and some less colorful planet.''
        Correction:  November 13, 2003, Thursday  Because of an editing error, an obituary of the Broadway lighting designer John Gleason on Saturday included a garbled passage. The second sentence of the last paragraph should have read: ''In a 1970 review of Sam Shepard's production of 'Operation Sidewinder,' Walter Kerr wrote in The New York Times that Mr. Gleason's work had lighted the stage 'so cunningly and so persuasively that the remarks of the young couple who first come across it seem vapid echoes from some other and some less colorful planet.' ''
      