
        Horace L. Woodring, an Army private who was chauffeuring the Cadillac limousine of Gen. George S. Patton through the German countryside when it crashed and caused the injuries that resulted in Patton's death, died last Sunday at a Detroit hospital. He was 77 and lived in White Lake, Mich.
        The cause was heart disease, said his daughter Jinger DeMent.
        On Dec. 9, 1945, Private Woodring was behind the wheel when a two-and-a-half-ton Army truck collided with the limousine. The general suffered a broken neck and was paralyzed from the neck down. He died on Dec. 21.
        The New York Times reported on Dec. 13 that an investigation had determined that Private Woodring and the truck driver, Pvt. Robert L. Thompson, had been guilty of carelessness. Neither was disciplined.
        Mr. Woodring recalled that Patton in his hospital bed asked him to drive to the airport to pick up his wife, and he said Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, the Allied commander, personally told him he was in no way responsible for the accident. He told The Oakland Press, ''I never question myself about the accident.''
        Driving Patton was clearly the highlight of Mr. Woodring's life. He had extended his enlistment for a year to drive for the general, and had talked to Patton about working for him after the general's retirement. The middle name of his only son is Patton, and he spoke frequently, for a fee, about his experiences with the general.
        Horace Lynn Woodring was born on Sept. 30, 1926, in Morganfield, Ky., and grew up on a dairy farm. Known as Woody to his friends, Mr. Woodring was a farm boy who grew up fast in Kentucky, driving stock cars, piloting stunt planes and lying about his age to get a job driving a gravel truck when he was 15.
        He again lied about his age to enlist in the Army and ended up in the Battle of the Bulge, where he suffered frostbite. As a result, he was deemed unfit for further infantry duty and sent to driving school and an assignment in the motor pool.
        A captain, tired of the bickering over who would drive the highest-ranking officers, decided to let the lowest-ranking driver have first pick of illustrious military passengers. Private Woodring could have picked Eisenhower but chose Patton instead.
        On Dec. 9, 1945, Patton was on his way to hunt pheasant near Mannheim with Gen. Hobart R. Gay. At a checkpoint a few miles from their destination, Patton looked back and saw a dog belonging to their hunting adviser in the trailing jeep.
        ''Woody, go and bring that dog inside the car,'' Patton said. ''He looks cold.''
        Private Woodring fetched the dog. Patton got out of his seat and climbed into the rear with General Gay. The dog sat up front.
        ''That simple act of kindness toward an animal ended the life of a national hero,'' Mr. Woodring wrote. Moments later Patton slammed against the partition separating the front and back seats and became the only passenger injured. The impact broke the general's neck.
        After his wartime service, Mr. Woodring returned to Kentucky and married. The family moved to Michigan in 1963. Mr. Woodring sold and dealt in cars, and loved going fast on his snowmobile.
        Besides his daughter Ms. DeMent, of Bonita Springs, Fla., Mr. Woodring is survived by his wife, the former Margaret Jerlene Adamson, and another daughter, Jeanne Weaver, of Williamston, Mich.; his son, John Patton Woodring of White Lake; his brother Curtis, of Lansing, Mich.; eight grandchildren; and one great-grandson.
      