
        Jack Clifton Grigg, an electrical engineer who helped guide the Navy into the age of nuclear propulsion and the country into the realm of commercial nuclear power, died on Nov. 1 at his home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 83.
        The cause was Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        Mr. Grigg worked directly for Adm. Hyman G. Rickover, who was the public face of the nuclear Navy and was often called its father. But it was lesser-known experts like Mr. Grigg who safely executed the concept.
        Mr. Grigg was in charge of drafting and installing instrumentation and control systems to make nuclear propulsion operational. His engineering team designed the profusion of levers and switches, panels and gauges, piping and wiring for the generators that powered the Nautilus and Seawolf submarines, the behemoths of the Nimitz carrier class, as well as electric plants on shore.
        He spent 36 years with the Navy and its Bureau of Ships, now the Naval Sea Systems Command, and retired in 1978 as chief of nuclear instrumentation and control.
        He accompanied Rickover to shipyards for a final inspection of electrical gear before commissioning the vessels. And he went back with him to the home ports of the rapidly growing nuclear fleet for periodic examinations of their power plants to forestall leaks or control failures at sea.
        Mr. Grigg was responsible for the electrical equipment of the Shippingport Atomic Power Station near Midland, Pa. The first commercial atomic reactor, it went into operation on May 23, 1958, when President Dwight D. Eisenhower tripped the circuit from 300 miles away in the Oval Office. The plant was operated by the Duquesne Light Company for the Department of Energy until October 1982, after which it was decommissioned and decontaminated.
        Jack Grigg was born and raised on a farm outside Tulia, Tex., and received a degree in electrical engineering from Texas Tech University in 1941. Initially employed by the Westinghouse Electric Corporation, he joined the Navy's Bureau of Ships in 1942, working with Rickover in makeshift quarters on the grounds of the Washington Monument.
        He worked in various positions designing control systems for naval vessels. In 1952 he transferred to the bureau's newly formed Nuclear Propulsion Division, in charge of design, procurement, installation and testing of all control systems for the Nautilus and the Seawolf.
        Supervising large staffs of engineers and scientists, Mr. Grigg also oversaw the assembly of such systems for land-based prototype reactor plants.
        After retiring from government service, he worked as a consultant for utilities, architectural and engineering firms and the Navy.
        Mr. Grigg is survived by his wife of 57 years, Magdalene Mayfield Grigg; two daughters, Jeanine Lee of Potomac, Md., and Eileen Grigg of Manhattan; and one grandson.
      