
        Robert J. Barnes, a makeup salesman who spent a quarter-century building Estée Lauder into one of the best-selling brands in cosmetics, died on Sunday at his home in Monarch Beach, Calif. He was 86.
        He had been suffering from lung cancer, said his son, John.
        Mr. Barnes joined the Estée Lauder Companies in 1964 as the West Coast sales manager for its flagship brand and rose to become president and chief executive of the biggest division, Estée Lauder U.S.A. He held those titles from 1981 until 1990, when the division's annual sales were estimated to be about $1 billion. He retired in 1991.
        Mr. Barnes, who started his career working on commission peddling the Dorothy Gray cosmetics line, specialized in obtaining and holding onto the best locations for Estée Lauder counters on the bustling main floors of department stores.
        Leonard A. Lauder, chairman of the Estée Lauder Companies, recalled his frustration in the early 1960's at being unable to dislodge the Dorothy Gray products from prime locations in California stores.
        ''I couldn't get their counters, and there was one reason for that: Bob Barnes,'' Mr. Lauder said in a phone interview yesterday. ''So, out of exasperation, I turned to our sales manager and said we have to hire him. He's the best there is.''
        Mr. Barnes, in a 1986 interview with The New York Times, said: ''Location and space, location and space. Retailers complain that that's all we talk about. It's because that's the bottom line.''
        A native of Kalamazoo, Mich., Mr. Barnes graduated from Northwestern University in 1939. During World War II, he served with the First Marine Division on Guadalcanal. He received the Navy and Marine Corps Medal for rescuing Army airmen from a downed aircraft, his son said.
        In addition to his son, of Westlake Village, Calif., Mr. Barnes is survived by his wife, Barbara; a daughter, Nancy Sampson, of Bakersfield, Calif.; a brother, Richard, of Dana Point, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
      