
        Stephen A. Benton, a pioneer in medical-imaging and fine-arts holography who invented the ''rainbow'' holograms now found on credit cards, died on Sunday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 61 and lived in nearby Lincoln, Mass.
        The cause was brain cancer, said the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he directed the Center for Advanced Visual Studies and was Allen professor of media arts and sciences at the M.I.T. Media Laboratory.
        Dr. Benton traced his enthusiasm for things optical to the day when, as an 11-year-old, he put on a pair of 3-D glasses to see the 1953 movie ''House of Wax.''
        ''There was a realism and a sense of excitement like nothing I had ever felt before,'' he recalled. ''Not only was I amazed, I determined then and there to figure out how it worked.''
        So lasting was the effect of that childhood experience that even many years later, having become a scientist, he remained convinced that 3-D television was just around the corner.
        Similar to photography, holography records lightwave patterns on film or glass, with converging laser beams evoking the third dimension. Dr. Benton invented the original rainbow hologram in 1968 when he was working as a senior scientist for the Polaroid Corporation in Cambridge, Mass. He also became a pioneer in natural-light holography as an artistic medium, and in addition his research advanced the holographic technology central to medical imaging devices like CT and M.R.I. scanners.
        Stephen Anthony Benton, a native of San Francisco, grew up in Santa Barbara, Calif., and graduated from M.I.T. in 1963 with a degree in electrical engineering. He became an associate of Prof. Harold Edgerton, a pioneer of strobe light technology, and began his career at Polaroid while still an undergraduate, working in the vision research laboratory of the company's founder, Edwin Land, inventor of instant photography.
        He received his M.S. in 1964 and Ph.D. in applied physics in 1968, both from Harvard. He was appointed an assistant professor there in 1968 and a professor at M.I.T. in 1985, when he left Polaroid after a stay of 24 years.
        Dr. Benton had already been a visiting professor since 1980 at M.I.T., where he helped form the university's Spatial Imaging Group in 1982. He headed M.I.T.'s program in media arts and sciences until 1994 and for the last seven years was director of advanced visual studies.
        Dr. Benton first saw a hologram in 1964. It was, he remembered, ''the most amazing thing I'd ever seen.''
        He said he thought of holography as an ''intersection of art, science and technology.'' His own art in laser photography was exhibited at the Museum of Holography on Mercer Street in Manhattan, where he was a curator. (The museum, thought to hold the largest such collection, went bankrupt in 1992; M.I.T. bought the entire collection of 1,500 holograms and moved it to Cambridge.)
        Dr. Benton's survivors include his wife of 39 years, Jean Lamphier Benton; a daughter, Julia; a son, James; and two brothers, Nicholas and Chris.
      