
        Dr. William W. Montgomery, a Harvard surgeon who originated many techniques that are now widely used in operations on the throat and the vocal cords, died on Nov. 7, at his home in Brookline, Mass. He was 80.
        He had been suffering from bladder cancer for more than a year, said his son Stuart.
        Dr. Montgomery, a professor at Harvard Medical School and a surgeon at the Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary in Boston, was the author of ''Surgery of the Upper Respiratory System,'' a primary textbook in the medical specialty that focuses on diseases and disorders of the ear, nose and throat.
        He operated on princes, dignitaries, actors and professional athletes. Among them was the actor Jack Klugman, known for his role as Oscar in ''The Odd Couple,'' who suffered from vocal cord paralysis. Dr. Montgomery restored Mr. Klugman's voice by using an implant of his own invention that holds the paralyzed cord in the closed position. This not only enables patients to regain speech but also closes the opening to the windpipe, protecting them from choking.
        ''He invented many techniques for making surgery more reliable, more predictable and easier,'' said Dr. Joseph B. Nadol Jr., a former student of Dr. Montgomery's, who is now chairman of otolaryngology at Harvard.
        Although he specialized in operations on the throat, especially during the latter part of his career, Dr. Montgomery made innovations in virtually every area of otolaryngology, including head and neck, ear and pediatric surgery, Dr. Nadol said.
        William Wayne Montgomery was born in Proctor, Vt. He developed the requisite manual dexterity for his future profession when, at age 10, he taught himself woodcarving. His creations include carved portraits of Abraham Lincoln, George Washington and Marilyn Monroe.
        After graduating from the University of Vermont Medical School and finishing an internship in surgery, Dr. Montgomery joined the Navy and operated in a traveling hospital unit in the Korean War. He was awarded a Purple Heart and a Bronze Star. In 1995, he published a book about his experience and his early life, ''The Mustache That Walks Like a Man.''
        After his military service, Dr. Montgomery completed a residency at Harvard and joined the faculty, remaining part of it for 47 years, until he retired in May of 2002.
        His survivors include his wife, Diane Montgomery; five sons, Lynn, Scott, Stuart, Leslie and Robert; a sister, Jane Montgomery; and seven grandchildren.
      