
        Laurence A. Tisch, the self-made New York billionaire who was hailed as a white knight for saving CBS Inc. from a hostile takeover and then reviled for diminishing what was once the nation's premier broadcasting network, died early yesterday at Tisch Hospital of the New York University Medical Center. He was 80. The cause was complications from gastric cancer, said his wife, Wilma, who is known as Billie.
        For much of his career, Mr. Tisch was known as a brilliant, contrarian investor who bought failing companies when their share prices were at low ebb and then turned them into profitable enterprises with much higher stock valuations.
        He and his brother, Preston Robert -- they were better known as Larry and Bob -- built up and controlled the Loews Corporation, a conglomerate of hotels, insurance, cigarette manufacturing, movie theaters, oil tankers and watchmaking that also was a vehicle for other investments. ''Larry is a brilliant financial analyst who doesn't let himself get misled by current fads, or, indeed by the crisis of the moment,'' said Martin Lipton, a corporate lawyer in a 1986 article on Mr. Tisch in The New York Times Magazine. ''Instead, he focuses on long-term outlooks and long-term values.''
        At that point, Mr. Tisch had a sterling reputation not only for his Midas touch, but also as a man who disdained the glitz and arrogance that so many other magnates embraced in the 1980's. He spent his leisure time with his family, in frequent discussions of Jewish traditions with Talmudic scholars, on the boards of leading cultural institutions in New York City and as a philanthropist. He was known as a political centrist who was the host of breakfasts for such opposites as Representative Charles B. Rangel, a liberal Democrat from Harlem, and the Rev. Pat Robertson, a television evangelist and conservative Republican from Virginia.
        ''Larry Tisch made an enormous contribution to the city, and he will be sorely missed. He represented what is best about New York, and his generosity will leave a legacy that we will all try to build on,'' said Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg in a statement.
        His credentials made Mr. Tisch the consensus candidate in 1986 to rescue CBS from an assortment of corporate raiders and from conservative politicians, led by Senator Jesse Helms, a North Carolina Republican, who accused the network of a liberal bias. Through Loews, Mr. Tisch bought a strong minority stake in CBS and was invited to join its board. Shortly, he was elevated to acting chairman and chief executive. ''My only desire is to keep CBS as a first-class, independent network,'' he told The Times Magazine. ''It's very important for the country.''
        But Mr. Tisch was soon blamed for selling off some of CBS's most valuable assets, failing to develop top-rated programs, dismissing too many employees and leaving the company far behind its main competitors in terms of audience and advertising revenues. Mr. Tisch defended his 10-year leadership of CBS by noting that its sale in 1995 to the Westinghouse Electric Corporation brought a windfall of profits to shareholders, including Loews, his family-controlled company, which ended up $1 billion richer.
        But a legion of critics faulted Mr. Tisch's performance. ''Is that the legacy he wants to leave, that he made a lot of money?'' Gerard R. Roche, an executive recruiter who often placed managers at the company, asked at the time. ''CBS is a disaster.'' Media spokesmen were even more scathing. ''He took an institution that was important in this country, and he strangled it,'' said Alex S. Jones, host of ''On the Media,'' a public radio program, in a 1995 interview in The Times.
        In the years after the sale of CBS, Mr. Tisch became increasingly involved in philanthropic efforts, especially on behalf of his alma mater, New York University. He also served as chairman of the university's board of trustees from 1978 to 1998 and helped raise almost $2 billion for the university, including more than $40 million from his own family's donations. But his sure financial instincts seemed to have abandoned him. Between 1996 and 2000, he lost about $2 billion of Loews' capital by betting heavily against the rising stock market.
        Laurence Alan Tisch was born on March 5, 1923, in Brooklyn. His father, Al Tisch, a former All-American basketball player at the City University of New York, owned a garment factory and two summer camps that his wife, Sadye, helped him run. Laurence graduated cum laude from New York University at 18, and a year later earned a master's degree in industrial management from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. After World War II service in the Office of Strategic Services, the intelligence agency that was the precursor of the Central Intelligence Agency, he enrolled at Harvard Law School, but dropped out after a year.
        Brothers in Business
        In 1946, Mr. Tisch's parents entrusted him with $125,000 to invest. He used the money to buy a lackluster New Jersey resort hotel that he found listed in the Business Opportunities section of The Times. His brother, Bob, joined him as a full partner in 1948, and over the next dozen years, the brothers acquired a dozen hotels in New York, New Jersey and Florida. There was a natural division of labor between the two siblings: Larry plotted overall financial strategy while Bob concentrated on management.
        In 1960, the brothers gained control of Loews, one of the larger movie-house chains in the country. What attracted Mr. Tisch to the company were its underlying real estate assets -- a business concept that many investors tended to overlook at the time. In 1961, the Tisch brothers knocked down the old Loews Lexington Theater and used the site to build the 800-room Summit Hotel. Several other unprofitable New York movie theaters in the Loews chain gave way to modern apartment buildings and a number of hotels, including the 50-story, 2,000-room Americana, which became the city's largest hotel when it opened in 1962.
        Mr. Tisch was just getting started. In 1968, he bought Lorillard, then the fifth-largest cigarette company in the United States. He shed its nontobacco interests to increase profit margins. In 1974, he acquired a controlling stake in the CAN Financial Corporation, a nearly bankrupt Chicago-based insurance company. Within a few years he transformed it into a company with $16.5 billion in assets and an A-plus credit rating. By 1980, Loews vaulted to more than $3 billion in annual revenues -- in contrast to $100 million a decade earlier -- from its 14 hotels, 67 movie theaters, insurance operations, shipping, Bulova watches, and popular cigarette brands including Kent, Newport and True. Typical of Mr. Tisch's financial strategy was a decision to buy five supertankers for $25 million in the early 1980's when the oil market was depressed. The investment had no risk because even if oil prices did not rise, the scrap value of each tanker was worth $5 million.
        Mr. Tisch did occasionally stumble. In 1971, Loews invested $40 million in the Franklin National Bank, which was sold to Michele Sindona, an Italian financier. The bank failed, and Mr. Sindona was convicted of looting its assets. Loews was sued by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation for breach of fiduciary duty and misuse of inside information. The company agreed to pay $1.2 million in an out-of-court settlement.
        Even as his fortune and reputation rose, Mr. Tisch's style of living remained little changed. He and his wife, the former Billie Stein, whom he married in 1948, lived in an unpretentious Fifth Avenue apartment. They spent weekends in a home in Rye, N.Y., close to properties owned by their four sons, Andrew, Dan, James and Tom.
        At one point, all but Tom worked with their father in his Fifth Avenue office, with ''spare furnishings and beige industrial carpeting reminiscent of a Howard Johnson's motor inn,'' according to a 1986 article in The Times Magazine. Surrounded by his sons, Mr. Tisch often invited a rabbi to his headquarters to discuss Bible passages and Talmudic interpretations. For relaxation at night, he played bridge, and on weekends, he played tennis with close friends and fellow investors.
        Fighting Off Takeover Bid
        This orderly, well-rounded and lucrative existence made a great change of direction because Mr. Tisch became drawn into a battle for control of CBS. In 1985, Ted Turner, the cable television entrepreneur, tried unsuccessfully to acquire CBS with a package of high-risk securities. Marvin Davis, a wealthy oilman and former owner of the 20th Century Fox film company, and Ivan F. Boesky, the stock speculator who later was convicted on insider-trading charges, also made takeover bids for the broadcast network. Meanwhile, Senator Helms was urging a politically conservative investment group to buy CBS and become ''Dan Rather's boss'' to end what the senator perceived as a liberal tone to the network's newscasts.
        To discourage a hostile takeover, CBS invited Mr. Tisch to play the role of a white knight and invest in the company. By mid-1986, Mr. Tisch, using Loews as his investment vehicle, acquired almost 25 percent of CBS for $750 million. ''We invited Mr. Tisch and Loews to take on a substantial share of the company because we felt having that kind of long-haul commitment from a person like him was in the interest of our shareholders and the country,'' William Lilley III, a CBS senior vice president, told Newsday at the time.
        Mr. Tisch joined the CBS board and soon locked horns with Thomas H. Wyman, the chairman and chief executive, over the latter's attempt to sell the network to the Coca-Cola Company without even informing the board of those negotiations. At a board meeting, Mr. Tisch argued that such a transaction would be a betrayal of shareholders because CBS stock was so undervalued, and he then challenged Mr. Wyman's authority to offer the company to potential suitors. Mr. Wyman resigned the next day. Mr. Tisch became acting chief executive, while William S. Paley, the legendary founder of CBS, came out of retirement to take up the post of acting chairman.
        Soon afterward, Van Gordon Sauter, the president of CBS News, also stepped down after being accused by Mr. Tisch of favoring audience ratings over quality in the news division. ''Whether the news loses money or makes money is secondary to what we put on the air,'' Mr. Tisch told The Times in 1986. And in a 1986 interview in The Wall Street Journal, he promised that the news division would ''get total support from me in every way -- financially, morally.''
        But within months, Mr. Tisch presided over the ouster of 230 out of 1,200 news employees and a $30 million reduction in the news division's budget -- ''the biggest single staff and budget cut in network news history,'' according to Business Week. Mr. Tisch then sold CBS's book publishing units to Harcourt Brace Jovanovich in 1986 for $500 million and CBS's magazines to Diamandis Communications for $650 million the next year. Also in 1987, he sold CBS Records -- the second-largest record company in the world at the time -- to the Sony Corporation of Japan for $2 billion.
        But Mr. Tisch was soon criticized within the industry and on Wall Street for not using this cash pile of more than $3 billion to diversify CBS. At CBS affiliate stations, some executives openly called for Mr. Tisch to relinquish his post of chief executive to someone with more experience in broadcasting. ''I heard your concerns and disappointments loud and clear,'' Mr. Tisch told representatives of affiliate stations at a 1988 meeting, Forbes magazine reported. ''I share your dissatisfactions.''
        After many years as the predominant network, CBS became mired in third place behind NBC and ABC in audience ratings and advertising revenues, and even trailed Rupert Murdoch's upstart Fox network in the 18-to-49 age group that is crucial to advertisers.
        While CBS briefly climbed back to the top ranking in 1993, it eventually fell again. After a decade at the helm, Mr. Tisch decided the time had come to sell CBS, the last remaining independent network.
        Selling the Network
        In 1995, the Westinghouse Electric Corporation agreed to pay $5.4 billion for CBS. Mr. Tisch pointed out that under his leadership, CBS stock had climbed at an annual rate of almost 15 percent. But critics asserted that the CBS share prices might have risen far more if the company had been managed for growth. As evidence, they pointed to the almost simultaneous sale of Capital Cities/ABC to the Walt Disney Company for $19 billion -- 3.5 times the price for CBS. A decade before, ABC's market value was $3.5 billion, compared with $2.8 billion for CBS. Even close friends of Mr. Tisch publicly faulted him for not understanding the broadcast business. John H. Gutfreund, the former chairman of Salomon Inc., contrasted him with Mr. Paley, the founder of CBS. ''Bill had a vision for the industry,'' Mr. Gutfreund told The Times in 1995. ''For Larry, it is a business.''
        In the years after he left CBS, Mr. Tisch appeared in the business press mainly because of his bearish positions on a stock market that rose throughout the 1990's. Betting steadily against the market, Mr. Tisch recorded some $2 billion in trading losses for Loews.
        Increasingly, he devoted himself to civic affairs and philanthropy. Over the years, he was a trustee of the Whitney Museum of Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the New York Public Library. He was also president of the United Jewish Appeal of New York and a director of the Legal Aid Society. He became a prolific fund-raiser for N.Y.U., helping to provide it with endowment and buildings.
        In addition to his wife, four sons and brother, Mr. Tisch is survived by fifteen grandchildren.
        Despite being a billionaire, Mr. Tisch continued his restrained style of living. ''Your standard of living doesn't change after the first million,'' he once said. ''I don't want to become possessed by my possessions.''
        Correction:  November 19, 2003, Wednesday  An obituary on Sunday about Laurence A. Tisch, the self-made New York billionaire who helped run the Loews conglomerate, misstated the name of a company controlled by Loews. It is CNA Financial, not CAN Financial.
      