
        Dr. Allan Fromme, a psychologist and writer known for his warmhearted, common-sense approach to life's day-to-day concerns in his many television and radio appearances, died on Thursday in Sarasota, Fla. He was 87.
        Dr. Fromme (pronounced FROE-mee), a native New Yorker, spent 50 years as a therapist in the city. He taught at City College of New York, Sarah Lawrence and Columbia, and he lectured often.
        But he was probably best known for his frequent broadcast appearances to offer advice, for his many articles in popular magazines and for his eight books.
        The book titles convey Dr. Fromme's approach. They include ''A B C of Child Care,''  ''Our Troubled Selves: A New and Positive Approach'' and ''The Book for Normal Neurotics.''
        In child rearing, he encouraged love and patience above all. But he said parents had to provide discipline, too.
        ''Our children are so lacking in experience, judgment and even ability,'' he wrote, ''that we have to domesticate them in order to live with them at all. We do this for our own good and their good, too.''
        Dr. Frederick Hauser, a fellow psychologist and a friend of Dr. Fromme's in Florida, said that while the books were part of the popular culture, they were rooted in science and grew out of Dr. Fromme's training at Columbia, where he received his doctorate.
        Still, his advice often veered from standard clinical fare. To fight boredom in marriage, he counseled husbands and wives to make changes in their routines, such as having lunch before breakfast one day.
        After graduating from Columbia, Dr. Fromme became chief psychologist at the Child Guidance Clinic at St. Luke's Hospital and then director of the mental hygiene clinic of the University Settlement House.
        Dr. Fromme moved to Sarasota in 1976. He is survived by his wife of 59 years, Babette Brandt Fromme of Sarasota; a daughter, Pamela Fromme Formato of Sarasota; a son, Steven, of Chapel Hill, N.C.; four grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
      