
        Leonard Karlin, who helped conceive, develop and run the George Polk Awards, one of journalism's highest honors, died on Friday at a hospice in the Bronx. He was 81 and lived in Great Neck, N.Y.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said Robert Spector, chairman of the Polk Awards, which are administered by Long Island University. They were established in 1949 and named for a CBS News correspondent slain the year before while covering a civil war in Greece.
        Dr. Spector, who is also chairman of Long Island University's humanities division and communications and performing arts division, said Mr. Karlin, along with Ted Kruglak, a university administrator and journalism professor, came up with the idea for the awards.
        Mr. Karlin was assistant to the university's president at the time, and went on to be the director of public relations for the university for 17 years. He saw the Polk Awards as a way of publicizing the university as well as honoring journalistic achievement.
        He served on the committee of 5 to 10 members that makes the final selections from candidates nominated by a larger committee of more than 100. He also wrote many of the citations.
        No Polk Awards were awarded in 1975 and 1976, and Professor Spector helped revive them when he arrived at the university in 1977. He said Mr. Karlin contributed greatly to the renewal of the awards.
        Mr. Karlin earned his bachelor's and master's degrees from Long Island University, where he was editor of the school newspaper. He remained on the Polk committee after leaving the university in 1967 to work for a publishing company.
        He was publisher of Careers magazine in the 1970's and 1980's and editor of Sports Inc., a magazine devoted to careers in sports management and marketing, in the late 1980's. In 1985, he wrote a book, ''The Guide to Careers in Sports.''
        Mr. Karlin is survived by his three daughters, all of whom kept his last name. They are Elisabeth, of Manhattan; Katherine, of Pittsburgh; and Susannah, of Long Beach, N.Y.
      