
        Eason Harris Leonard, a founding partner and longtime reigning impresario of the Manhattan architectural firm I. M. Pei & Partners, now Pei Cobb Freed & Partners, died last Thursday in Carmel, Calif., where he had retired in 1990. He was 83 and formerly lived in Tarrytown, N.Y.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        As the firm's managing partner for more than 30 years, Mr. Leonard was responsible for hiring and guiding the hundreds of architects who worked for the partners around the world. In that period, the firm carried out about 200 assignments in more than 100 places.
        Notable projects included the John F. Kennedy Presidential Library and the John Hancock Tower in Boston, Raffles City in Singapore, the Bank of China Tower in Hong Kong, the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center in New York, the United States Holocaust Museum in Washington, the East Wing of the National Gallery of Art in Washington, the Meyerson Symphony Center in Dallas, and the modernization of the Louvre in Paris.
        Mr. Leonard was born in El Reno, Okla., and graduated in 1943 with a degree in architecture from what is now Oklahoma State University. He served with the Army Corps of Engineers in World War II and then worked for various architects in New York, including William Lescaze.
        His association with I. M. Pei dated to the 1950's, when both were working for William Zeckendorf, the real estate magnate, in the architectural division of Webb & Knapp. The office, headed by Mr. Pei, had a team of spirited designers, with Mr. Leonard adding his construction-site know-how to the mix.
        Mr. Leonard, Mr. Pei and Henry N. Cobb formed I. M. Pei & Associates in the mid-1950's. It became I. M. Pei & Partners in 1966 -- with Mr. Leonard the sole managing partner and behind-the-scenes ring master; it has been Pei Cobb Freed since 1989.
        Mr. Leonard's first wife, Jeanne Mason Leonard, died in 1965. He is survived by his wife, Jeanne Burton Leonard; two sons, Bruce, of Atlanta, and Craig, of Seattle; a daughter, Polly Leonard Elkin of San Rafael, Calif.; two stepsons, Rich Bauchman and Chris Price, both of Dallas; and five grandchildren.
      