
        Dr. Arthur L. Colwin, part of a husband-and-wife team of biologists who helped uncover the complex process that takes place when a sperm cell and an egg cell merge to form a fertilized egg, died on Nov. 1 at his home in Key Biscayne, Fla.
        He was 92.
        In the 1950's, when he and his wife, Dr. Laura Hunter Colwin, were conducting research at Queens College, embryologists believed that sperm cells penetrated egg cells at fertilization.
        Using the recently invented electron microscope to study reproduction in marine worms called hydroides, the Colwins discovered that fertilization is actually a process of incorporation.
        They found that as the membranes of sperm and egg cells fuse and then part, the sperm nucleus and the egg cytoplasm are able to run together.
        The Colwins demonstrated the process in a step-by-step series of electron micrographs, which they presented at a symposium organized by the International Institute of Embryology in 1960.
        The work was published in June 1961 in The Journal of Biophysical and Biochemical Cytology, now The Journal of Cell Biology.
        ''They painstakingly made hundreds of images,'' said Dr. Marjorie M. Collier, a professor at Louisiana State University at Alexandria. ''You could almost make a flip book out of their photographs.''
        The Colwins confirmed their findings in other studies of invertebrates. Membrane fusion has also been found in every other animal studied, including mammals.
        Arthur Lentz Colwin was born in Sydney, Australia. As a small child, he moved to Canada with his family, and he received his B.S. and Ph.D. in biology from McGill University in Montreal.
        He became a United States citizen in 1942 and entered the Army Air Corps the next year, serving in the Pacific and winning a Bronze Star.
        Dr. Colwin joined the faculty of Queens College in 1940, retiring as professor emeritus in 1973. Colwin Hall at the college is named for him and his wife.
        The Colwins were also longtime researchers at the Marine Biological Laboratory in Woods Hole, Mass., where they had met in the late 1930's. They were later trustees there.
        Dr. Colwin is survived by his wife and two sisters, Sally Werfel of Seattle and Ruth Rogers of Las Vegas.
      