
        Joseph P. Williams, who as a Bank of America executive in the 1950's came up with a revolutionary forerunner of all national bank credit cards, died on Nov. 8 at his home in Atlantis, Fla. He was 88.
        National cards like the Diners Club card had allowed consumers to pay without cash, but the balance usually had to be paid in 30 days. And bank cards had granted credit, to be paid off over time, but they were limited to local areas.
        But Mr. Williams's card, BankAmericard, was the first to combine those ideas and the first to offer an instant loan by flashing a card to reach many wallets.
        If the entire balance was paid within the month, no interest was charged. But if the customer wanted to pay only part, charges were added. And many customers seized upon the chance for a paperless loan.
        Mr. Williams started and rode herd over the team that devised Bank of America's statewide distribution of the cards in 1958 in California, by far the biggest such plan ever tried. The card was licensed to banks in other states beginning in 1966. The administration was taken over by the many issuing banks in 1970, and the card was gradually renamed Visa in 1976 and 1977.
        Joseph Nocera, who wrote a book on the history of the credit card, ''A Piece of the Action: How the Middle Class Joined the Money Class'' (Simon & Schuster, 1994), called Mr. Williams ''the pioneer'' of the industry.
        Americans now charge more than $1 trillion on credit cards each year -- more than they spend in cash. The cards, widely accepted by merchants, let people roam the world with nothing but a piece of plastic, and enable them to obtain credit with a once-unimaginable ease.
        Credit cards developed slowly, with Flatbush National Bank in Brooklyn issuing one for local use as early as 1947, according to Lewis Mandell, who has written three books on the history of credit cards. By 1955, more than 100 banks offered credit card plans, but most larger banks were reluctant to enter the field, Mr. Mandell said.
        In 1950, Diners Club introduced a credit card, considered the first major travel and entertainment card. And in 1958 American Express and Carte Blanche entered the field.
        But the Bank of America's mailing of 60,000 BankAmericards to residents of Fresno, Calif., in 1958, followed months later by two million cards mailed to other California residents, in city after city, was the official dawn of the bank credit card. The new cards offered preapproved credit on a much wider scale than before.
        Mr. Williams was born in Newark and attended the University of Pennsylvania. After serving as an infantry officer in the Army in World War II, he drove to San Francisco to ask A. P. Giannini, Bank of America's founder, for a job. Mr. Williams admired Mr. Giannini's creative and aggressive approach to banking, said Mr. Nocera, who is editorial director of Fortune magazine.
        By mid-1957, Mr. Williams was a senior vice president of the bank and the leader of a research group assigned the task of creating products and approaches. The group developed the idea of a statewide credit card, but advised caution and a gradual approach.
        The initial credit limits were $300 to $500, Mr. Nocera said. The floor limits, below which merchants did not have to call for approval, were $25 to $100.
        The second city to be mailed the cards was Bakersfield, and within 15 months the entire state was blanketed.
        Mr. Williams resigned two months before the introduction ended, Mr. Nocera said.
        At the time, the credit cards were creating chaos, including merchant resentment and cardholder delinquencies, not to mention denunciations from the pulpit. The company lost $8.8 million in the 15 months of the introduction.
        Mr. Nocera said that former Bank of America executives told him that Mr. Williams was forced out, but he said that Mr. Williams insisted in a personal interview that this was not true. Whatever the case, Mr. Nocera said Mr. Williams became ''the fall guy'' for the initial problems with the cards.
        In the New York City newspaper strike of 1963, Mr. Williams published a newspaper, The New York Standard, which hired workers on strike against the major papers. It was printed for 90 days
        Mr. Williams is survived by his wife, Irene; a son, Joseph Jr., of Boca Raton, Fla.; two daughters, Carol Williams Boise of Somerset, N.J., and Diane Williams Murphy of Arlington, Va.; three grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Williams had a successful second act in the credit card business. In 1962, he formed a company, the Uni-Serve Corporation, to buy Chase Manhattan Bank's struggling credit card operation. Chase had begun issuing credit cards five months after the Bank of America's introduction in Fresno in 1958.
        Mr. Williams paid $9 million, the value of the company's unpaid billings, for the credit card service. In 1965, American Express bought Uni-Serve. Mr. Williams remained president of what was then a unit of American Express until 1966 and was chairman until 1968. Holders of that card, eventually called Unicard, were later sent BankAmericards or the new Visa cards.
      