
        William Butts Macomber Jr., a former government official and diplomat who in 1978 became the first full-time president of the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Wednesday at his home in Nantucket, Mass. He was 82.
        The cause was complications of Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        Mr. Macomber, a lawyer and a Republican, held State Department appointments under Presidents Eisenhower, Kennedy, Johnson, Nixon and Ford and served as ambassador to Jordan and Turkey. At the museum, he put into effect an ambitious master plan adopted by the trustees at the behest of his predecessor, C. Douglas Dillon, who then became chairman.
        The plan split the leadership of the museum in two, with a director responsible for artistic and curatorial matters and a newly salaried president in charge of administrative and financial matters. Mr. Macomber held that position until 1986, when he reached the Met's mandatory retirement age, 65, and moved from a home on Fifth Avenue to Nantucket.
        William Macomber was born in Rochester, N.Y., on March 28, 1921, and graduated from Yale in 1943. In World War II he served in the Marine Corps, assigned to the Office of Strategic Services.
        He parachuted twice into occupied France to work with the French Resistance, saw action in Burma and was discharged in 1946 as a first lieutenant.
        He received a master's degree from Yale in 1947 and a law degree from Harvard in 1949.
        He was a lecturer in government at Boston University and received another master's degree, from the University of Chicago in 1951. He then joined the Central Intelligence Agency, successor to the O.S.S., in Washington. Two years later, he moved to the State Department as a special assistant for intelligence.
        He was assistant secretary for Congressional relations from 1957 to 1962 and deputy under secretary for administration from 1969 to 1973. In that post, he earned a reputation for promoting women and minority employees into decision-making positions. He also made known his distaste for the practice of using ambassadorial appointments as political sinecures.
        Mr. Macomber was ambassador to Jordan from 1961 to 1964 and ambassador to Turkey from 1973 to 1977, an assignment reflected in his interest in the Ottoman era during his tenure at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        He left the State Department in December 1977. In 1983, he was among the American diplomatic veterans who founded the American Academy of Diplomacy in Washington to foster high standards in their profession.
        In retirement, he taught social studies and coached the football team at Nantucket High School.
        He was the author of ''The Angels' Game: A Handbook of Modern Diplomacy'' (Stein, 1975).
        Mr. Macomber is survived by his wife of 39 years, Phyllis Bernau Macomber; and a brother, John, of Washington.
        In 1971, as a State Department official, Mr. Macomber was called to testify on behalf of the government's effort to forestall publication of the Pentagon Papers. He warned of the irrevocable harm diplomatic disclosures might do.
        Years later, he amended that to say that although ''nothing is more important to me than the security of the United States, the First Amendment is, in another way, the security of the United States.''
        ''You can't save something and take the heart out of it,'' he said.
      