
        Arthur J. Olsen, a retired Foreign Service officer and former foreign correspondent for The New York Times, died on Friday at his home in Washington. He was 82.
        The cause was heart disease, his son-in-law, Gordon Matthews, said.
        Mr. Olsen covered West and East Germany and Eastern Europe for The Times at the height of the cold war. After leaving the Times in 1966, he was head of the Office of Public Affairs in the State Department Bureau of European Affairs for four years.
        In 1970, Secretary of State William P. Rogers named him as spokesman for the State Department, then withdrew the appointment. The withdrawal came after an objection by Sen. Barry Goldwater of Arizona, who took issue with news reports by Mr. Olsen in 1964 that Goldwater supporters in his campaign had contacts with German rightists.
        Two years later, Mr. Olsen found himself at the center of a political storm in Sweden where he was political counselor in the United States embassy. After the Swedish Prime Minister, Olof Palme, denounced the American bombing of North Vietnam by comparing it to Hitler's destruction of Lidice, Czechoslovakia, President Nixon declined to send a new ambassador to fill the open post. Mr. Olsen was elevated to the position of chargé d'affaires and was acting ambassador from December 1972 until April 1974.
        Mr. Olsen was born on Oct. 4, 1920, on a cattle ranch near Burns, Ore., and was reared in the San Francisco area. He graduated from Santa Clara University and Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism.
        In World War II, he was an officer in the Marine Corps. He worked for United Press International in Washington, New York, Latin America and the Caribbean.
        In early 1960, he reopened The Times's Warsaw bureau, which had been shut for a short time after the newspaper angered Poland's Communist leaders. He also reported from Czechoslovakia. Later, he was The Times's bureau chief in Bonn and Buenos Aires.
        Mr. Olsen is survived by his wife, the former Graciela Virginia Gamio; his son, Christopher, of York, Pa.; his daughter, Patricia Matthews, of Short Hills, N.J.; his brother, Bernard, of Walnut Creek, Calif., his sister, Mary Butler, of Billings, Mont., and two grandchildren.
      