
        Paul J. Haskins, an editor at The New York Times who earlier directed The Kansas City Times's Pulitzer Prize-winning coverage of a disastrous hotel walkway collapse in 1981, died on Sunday in Cancún, Mexico. He was 62.
        The cause was pneumonia and other complications of emphysema, his wife, Judith, said. Mr. Haskins lived on the part of the Caribbean coast of Mexico known as the Mayan Riviera.
        Paul Joseph Haskins was born in Livermore, Calif., on April 8, 1941, and moved to Kansas City in his early teens. He dropped out of high school at 15, and at 17 took a job as a telephone operator at The Kansas City Times, working his way up a succession of editorial jobs.
        He was the paper's special assignment editor when two suspended walkways bridging the atrium lobby in the Hyatt Regency Hotel in Kansas City collapsed, killing 114 people and injuring more than 200. For articles published in the jointly owned Kansas City Times and Kansas City Star (later merged into one paper with the name Star), Mr. Haskins's team of reporters worked with engineers and identified the structural flaws that caused the collapse.
        In 1982, Mr. Haskins joined The New York Times as a copy editor on the national desk, and in 1995 he became assistant national editor. He had been on leave because of health problems since 2000.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Haskins is survived by his children from his first marriage: Shelly Harrison, Lisa Moss and Paul Joseph Jr., all of Adrian, Mo., Theresa Leavitt of Elizabethtown, Ky., and Maria Balcom of Clayton, N.Y.. He is also survived by 11 grandchildren.
        Correction:  November 26, 2003, Wednesday  An obituary yesterday about Paul Haskins, an editor at The New York Times and earlier at The Kansas City Times, misstated his birthdate and the number of surviving grandchildren and omitted the maiden name of his wife. He was born on April 18, 1941, not April 8; he had 12 grandchildren, not 11; his wife is Judith Hyman Haskins.
      