
        W. Fred Turner, the lawyer chosen to represent Clarence Earl Gideon after the Supreme Court said in a landmark case that the indigent Mr. Gideon had the right to such representation, died on Sunday at home in Panama City, Fla. He was 81.
        Underlining the rationale for the Supreme Court ruling, Mr. Turner went on to win acquittal for Mr. Gideon, who was in prison after being convicted of breaking and entering.
        Mr. Turner said he had roles in more than 100 murder trials. But it was the Gideon trial in 1963 that entered the history books. It began when Mr. Gideon, a drifter in Florida, was charged with breaking into a pool room and taking coins and wine. Mr. Gideon, who complained that he had asked for a lawyer, was forced to represent himself because of a lack of money. He was found guilty and sent to prison.
        In January 1962, acting on his own behalf as prisoner No. 003826, Florida State Prison, he petitioned the United States Supreme Court by mail, writing in pencil to protest his innocence. The court agreed to hear his complaint.
        It appointed Abe Fortas, a lawyer at Arnold, Fortas & Porter in Washington, to plead the case, Gideon v. Wainwright. It was a major constitutional test of the right to counsel.
        After months of preparation, Mr. Fortas and an associate produced a brief and an oral argument that became known as models of legal craftsmanship. The court ruled unanimously that the Constitution required states to assure free counsel for the poor in every serious criminal case.
        Mr. Fortas asked that a lawyer in Florida be chosen to represent Mr. Gideon at his second trial on the original charges, duly ordered by the Florida Supreme Court. After Mr. Gideon rejected lawyers from the American Civil Liberties Union, the district court handed the task to Mr. Turner.
        An experienced advocate, Mr. Turner prepared for the trial as the confined Mr. Gideon could not. He deflated witness testimony, dismantled the accusations piece by piece and won a verdict of not guilty. Among other facets, the case hinged on the accusation that Mr. Gideon had carried away cases of drinks. That was contradicted by Mr. Turner's witness, a cabdriver who said Mr. Gideon had been empty-handed.
        Wilburn Fred Turner was born in Panama City. He served in the Army Air Forces in World War II and was commissioned a second lieutenant while in a bomber group in China. He graduated from the University of Florida in 1946 and its law school in 1948. Mr. Turner was a lawyer in Panama City and Lynn Haven until his election as a circuit judge in 1979. He was re-elected in 1985 and retired from the bench in 1991.
        Judge Turner's wife, Helen Jettone Wood Turner, died in 1997 after 52 years of marriage. Surviving are two daughters, Druscilla Wood Turner of Tallahassee, Fla., and Martha Turner Barton of Mooresville, N.C.; a son, Capt. W. Fred Turner Jr. of Plano, Tex.; and three grandsons.
      