
        Sadegh Khalkhali, the first leader of the Islamic Revolutionary Courts in Iran after the 1979 revolution, who ordered the execution of hundreds of people, died Wednesday. He was 77.
        Mr. Khalkhali had had Parkinson's disease for a long time, his publisher said. Mr. Khalkhali's son, Mohammad Givi Khalkhali, said his father had died after surgery, the Islamic Republic News Agency reported.
        Mr. Khalkhali frequently sentenced defendants to death in summary trials where he acted as both judge and prosecutor, without a jury or defense lawyers. During his six-month tenure, he executed people he labeled enemies of the revolution, ethnic rebels and drug smugglers. He was forced to resign after he issued death sentences for members of the royal family who were then in exile.
        He also served as a member of Parliament from the religious city of Qum for eight years, until 1991, when his credentials were rejected by the watchdog Guardian Council.
        In his autobiography, which was published in 2000, Mr. Khalkhali defended his conduct in the early days of the revolution and said he had the support and blessing of the founding father of the revolution, Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini.
        ''I killed over 500 criminals close to the royal family, hundreds of rebels of Kurdistan, Gonbad and Khuzestan regions, and many drug smugglers,'' he wrote. ''I feel no regret or guilt over the executions. Yet I think I killed little. There were many more who deserved to be killed but I could not get my hands on them.''
        In his book, he named 64 people he tried in one night at Refah School, in southern Tehran, all of whom were immediately executed on the roof of the school. He described the summary trials of prominent pro-shah politicians and accompanied his text with photographs of their dead bodies, including that of Prime Minister Amir Abbass Hoveyda.
        Mr. Khalkhali sided with reformist politicians after the election of President Mohammad Khatami in 1997 but he was never embraced by the movement. However, the speaker of Parliament, Mehdi Karoubi, also a reformist, in a statement he issued on Friday, praised the judge's performance in the early days of the revolution, the news agency reported.
      