
        Behram N. Kursunoglu, a physicist who founded and led the Center for Theoretical Studies, an influential research organization at the University of Miami that drew scientists from around the world, died on Oct. 25 in Coral Gables, Fla. He was 81.
        The cause of death was a heart attack.
        The center, which operated in Coral Gables from 1965 to 1992, when Dr. Kursunoglu retired, trained postdoctoral fellows and provided a forum for the scientists, who stayed for various lengths of time, to exchange ideas with their peers.
        Among them were 35 scientists who had already won Nobel Prizes or went on to win them, said Dr. Arnold Perlmutter, a retired Miami physics professor who helped run the center.
        One of the center's first visitors, the physicist J. Robert Oppenheimer, helped establish the academic reputation of the center and its conferences, known as Orbis Scientiae, Dr. Perlmutter said.
        Behram Kursunoglu was born in Caykara, Turkey. He was educated at the University of Ankara, the University of Edinburgh and Cambridge, where he earned his doctorate. While in Cambridge in the late 1940's, he entered into correspondence with Albert Einstein, whom Dr. Perlmutter described as Dr. Kursunoglu's hero.
        In 1953, when Dr. Kursunoglu was a fellow at Cornell, he visited Einstein at his home in Princeton, N.J. As he described it in The Miami Herald in 2002, the two men discussed their theories for about two hours.
        ''I remember he looked at me and said: 'Those are my ideas. What are your ideas?' '' Dr. Kursunoglu said. ''I said I had no ideas. But he never believed me.''
        His colleagues disputed that notion as well, Dr. Perlmutter said.
        In addition to his work at the center, Dr. Kursunoglu was known for his effort to tackle a longstanding goal for scientists, a unified field theory that would explain all the forces of nature. In later years, he also turned his attention to nuclear energy.
        Dr. Kursunoglu was the author or co-author of several books, among them ''Modern Quantum Theory'' and ''Reminiscences About a Great Physicist: Paul Adrien Maurice Dirac.''
        In the mid-1970's, he set up a second research center, the Global Foundation, and after his retirement he used it to continue holding Orbis Scientiae conferences.
        Dr. Kursunoglu is survived by his wife, the former Sevda Arif; two daughters, Dr. Sevil Kursunoglu of San Diego and Ayda Weiss of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; and a son, Dr. Ismet Kursunoglu of Manhattan Beach, Calif.
      