
        Dr. John A. Kenney Jr., a leading specialist in dermatological conditions afflicting African-Americans, died on Nov. 29 at his home in Washington. He was 89.
        The cause of death was heart failure, said his daughter Anne Kenney of Brooklyn.
        Dr. Kenney was one of the first black doctors to be formally trained in dermatology and developed the dermatology department of Howard University's College of Medicine into a major research center, said Dr. William E. Matory, a surgeon and the director of continuing medical education at the National Medical Association, an organization of black physicians.
        When Dr. Kenney began his medical career, many white doctors refused to see black patients. Even those who did were not necessarily experienced in treating skin conditions common among blacks, like shaving-associated dermatitis and vitiligo, a disorder that causes white skin blotches.
        Because of Dr. Kenney's prominence in the field, many colleagues referred to him as the dean of black dermatology.
        In pursuing a medical career, Dr. Kenney, who was born in Tuskegee, Ala., was following in a family tradition. His father, Dr. John A. Kenney Sr., was a prominent early member of the National Medical Association as well as the medical director and chief surgeon at Tuskegee Institute's general hospital and the personal doctor of the institute's founder, Booker T. Washington.
        His mother, Frieda Armstrong Kenney, was one of the first black women to graduate from Boston University.
        Dr. Kenney always wanted to be a doctor, according to a profile in the alumni magazine of Bates College in Lewiston, Me. ''I heard that when I was 3 or 4 years old, I was found 'operating' on my grandmother's leg with a frying pan,'' Dr. Kenney was quoted as saying.
        After studying chemistry and biology at Bates, he received his medical degree in 1945 from Howard University. He later received training in dermatology at the University of Pennsylvania and the University of Michigan and joined the staff at University Hospital in Cleveland.
        In 1961, he joined the faculty in the dermatology division at Howard and taught there for almost four decades.
        ''He was known nationally as a founder of the discipline known as ethnic dermatology, which is the study of skin diseases in nonwhite populations,'' said Dr. Rebat Halder, the chairman of the dermatology department at Howard. ''The manifestations, symptoms and treatments of many skin disorders are different in black populations, and his career was devoted to research and clinical efforts in those areas.''
        Dr. Kenney was a director of the American Academy of Dermatology, which in 1995 named him a master of dermatology, one of the field's highest honors. He was also a member of the American Dermatological Association, the Society for Investigative Dermatology and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
        In 1963, he became president of the National Medical Association and remained active in it for many years. He practiced medicine until he was 85.
        In addition to his daughter Anne, Dr. Kenney is survived by another daughter, Frances Kenney Moseley of Boston; a son, John III, of Washington; and a grandson. His wife of 57 years, Larcenia Ferne Wood Kenney, died three years ago.
      