
        Jeff Brown, a magazine editor and short-story writer who created Flat Stanley, the two-dimensional hero of an enduring series of children's books, died on Wednesday in Manhattan. He was 77 and lived on the Upper East Side.
        The cause was a heart attack he suffered while walking near his home, his family said.
        A native New Yorker, Mr. Brown had worked in Hollywood and as an editor and writer in New York before creating Flat Stanley, a hero for the youngest readers whose adventures, with illustrations by Tomi Ungerer, were first published in 1964.
        Flat Stanley became the star of a series of perpetually popular books. The latest, ''Stanley, Flat Again!,'' was published this year by HarperCollins Children's Books. (All together, Stanley's tales have sold nearly a million copies in the United States, HarperCollins said Thursday.)
        The character's life extended further, as schoolchildren mailed cut-outs of him to their friends. In translation, he traveled to France, Germany, Spain, Italy, Japan and Israel, among other places.
        Jeff Brown was born Richard Chester Brown. Originally a child actor, he became Jeff Brown because Actors Equity already had a Richard Brown as a member. A graduate of the Professional Children's School, he provided a child's voice in a radio drama and appeared onstage.
        In Hollywood he worked for the producer Samuel Goldwyn Jr. and was a story consultant at Paramount. Preferring to write himself, he sold fiction and articles to national magazines while working at The New Yorker, Life, The Saturday Evening Post, Esquire and finally at Warner Books, where he was a senior editor until 1980.
        The idea for Stanley came to him one night at bedtime when his sons J. C. and Tony were young and stalling for time. One asked what would happen if the big bulletin board on the wall were to fall on J. C., and Mr. Brown said he would most likely wake up flat. That led to speculation about what such a life might be like.
        After writing ''Flat Stanley, '' Mr. Brown went on to ''Stanley and the Magic Lamp,'' ''Stanley in Space,'' ''Stanley's Christmas Adventure,'' ''Invisible Stanley'' and finally ''Stanley, Flat Again!''
        Mr. Brown is survived by his wife of 15 years, Elisabeth Tobin Brown; their son, Duncan; his two sons from his previous marriage to Alisa Littell Storrow, Anthony R. Brown and Jeffrey C. Brown, both of Albuquerque; and a brother, Robert B. Brown of Manhattan.
      