
        Dr. An Tzu Yang, a mechanical engineer whose interpretation of a complex theory for studying motion aided scientists in fields like biomechanics and computer science, died on Nov. 21 in Woodland, Calif. He was 80.
        He suffered from a number of medical problems, said his wife, Linda Tsao Yang.
        Dr. Yang's doctoral dissertation, published while he was at Columbia University in the early 1960's, is often credited with modernizing the theory of screws that uses geometry to explain the forces acting on any solid object, like a car, as it moves through space.
        The theory was first developed around 1900 but had limited applications. Dr. Yang's dissertation helped make it accessible to a wider audience, opening the door, for example, to its use in biomechanics to help understand the motion of joints.
        ''He gave it more practical applications in robotics, computer science and mechanism design,'' said Dr. Bernard Roth, a professor of mechanical engineering at Stanford University who was a classmate of Dr. Yang's at Columbia. ''He didn't invent screw theory, but the way people use it now and write about it is because of his work. For certain problems in engineering today, it's very beautiful and elegant.''
        Just two years after the dissertation was published, Columbia, Yale and other schools began using it as a text for graduate courses in kinematics, the science of motion. Today, it is one of the most heavily cited papers in its field.
        Born in Shanghai in 1923, An Tzu Yang, known as Andy, fled the Japanese-occupied province in 1942 for the ancient city of Xian in northwest China, leaving behind his parents and siblings and traversing more than a thousand miles by foot, ox cart, mule and train.
        Living in a mud shack with no electricity, he earned his bachelor's degree from the Northwestern College of Engineering, a school for refugees in Xian.
        Dr. Yang immigrated to the United States in 1949 and earned a master's degree at Ohio State University and a doctorate at Columbia before joining the faculty at the University of California at Davis as an assistant professor in 1964.
        He retired in 1991.
        Throughout his career he won many awards and was a member of several scientific organizations, including the New York Academy of Sciences.
        He is survived by his wife of 50 years and two sons, Eton Y., of Davis, Calif., and Yuelin T., of Singapore.
      