
        Barry Morell, a tenor who sang leading roles for 21 years at the Metropolitan Opera as well as at other major international houses, died on Thursday at his home on Cape Cod. He was 75.
        The cause was esophageal cancer.
        In his first year with the Metropolitan Opera, Mr. Morell sang 7 leading roles in 22 performances, a record that, it was claimed at the time, was matched by only two other tenors, Enrico Caruso and Edward Johnson.
        A lirico spinto tenor, Mr. Morell had a particularly affinity for the operas of Puccini, appearing frequently as Pinkerton in ''Madama Butterfly,'' Cavaradossi in ''Tosca'' and Rodolfo in ''La Bohème.'' Jay S. Harrison, the music critic for The New York Herald Tribune at the time of Mr. Morell's debut, described his voice as ''a glorious instrument -- true, vibrant, splashed with silver.''
        Born in Manhasset, N.Y., Mr. Morell was supposed to take over the family textile business but showed a penchant for singing early on. At 17 he made his stage debut singing ''Ol' Man River'' at a benefit for the New York City Actors' Fund, on Broadway. That song is generally taken by a deep voice, and Mr. Morell indeed believed he was a baritone for many years, until, after an Army stint overseas and an 11-week bout with pleurisy, he found himself with almost no voice at all. Searching for a teacher to help him rectify this, Mr. Morell eventually met Giuseppe Danise, a noted pedagogue who had married his star pupil, the soprano Bidú Sayão. ''First of all, you are not a baritone; you are a tenor,'' Danise is supposed to have said. ''Now we shall see whether you can become a singer.''
        The answer was yes; after six years of study, Mr. Morell made his debut as Pinkerton in 1955 with what was then known as the New York City Center Opera Company. Two and a half years later the Met invited him to audition, and Rudolf Bing signed him up with the company, where his debut, in the same role, was in 1958.
        He married his first wife, Jane, a former model, in 1953, and his second wife, Joan, a former ballerina, in 1964. In 1968 he moved his wife and children to Rome, following the call of a growing international career. He appeared at Covent Garden, the Vienna Staatsoper, Berlin, Barcelona, and many other international houses, including the Rome Opera, where his debut as Cavaradossi was received with a 15-minute ovation.
        He also made several recordings for RCA and other labels, including solo albums of Donizetti and Verdi arias.
        Mr. Morell's last Met appearance was in 1979, once again as Pinkerton. In 1986 he retired from the stage for good. In addition to his wife, he is survived by his children, David, of Denver, N.Y., Kimberly Wickham of Margaretville, N.Y., Lee Adrian Morell of Dallas-Fort Worth, Tex., Kenlin Wilder-Busser of Boston and Susan Siegal of New Jersey; and five grandchildren.
      