
        Robert L. Bartley, who led the editorial page of The Wall Street Journal for three decades, championing the supply-side economics of the Reagan era and fashioning a showcase of conservative thought that became required reading for liberals and conservatives alike, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 66 and lived in Brooklyn.
        The cause was complications of cancer, said Brigitte Trafford, a spokeswoman for Dow Jones & Company, which owns The Journal.
        Writing both unsigned editorials and occasional bylined columns, Mr. Bartley argued repeatedly for tax cuts and a range of other economic incentives, as well as for a powerful national defense, a well-protected Israel and the Supreme Court nominations of such conservatives as Robert Bork and Clarence Thomas. In 1980, Mr. Bartley was awarded the Pulitzer Prize for editorial writing.
        In a sign of the esteem with which he and his page were held in conservative circles, Mr. Bartley was lauded at a retirement party at the St. Regis Hotel in Manhattan in November 2002 by three keynote speakers drawn from the loftiest ranks of the Republican Party: Henry A. Kissinger, the former secretary of state; Jack Kemp, the former vice-presidential nominee, and Theodore B. Olson, the United States solicitor general, who had argued before the Supreme Court on behalf of George W. Bush in the dispute over the 2000 presidential election.
        On Dec. 2, as it became clear that his death was near, Mr. Bartley received a phone call at his Brooklyn home from President Bush informing him that he was being given the Presidential Medal of Freedom. The citation said that as ''a champion of free markets, individual liberty and the values necessary for a free society,'' Mr. Bartley had ''helped shape the times in which we live.''
        Mr. Bartley, who held the title editor emeritus at his death and until recently wrote an occasional column, ''Thinking Things Over,'' would most likely not have received such an honor from Mr. Bush's predecessor.
        During the Clinton administration, Mr. Bartley turned The Journal's editorial page toward Mr. Clinton with the constant intensity of a white-hot spotlight, criticizing the Whitewater land deal, the president's dalliance with an intern and the ethical pedigree of the White House aides Mr. Clinton had taken with him from Arkansas, including Webster L. Hubbell (an associate attorney general) and Vincent W. Foster (a deputy White House counsel).
        A month after The Journal published an editorial in June 1993, under the headline, ''Who is Vince Foster?'', which criticized Mr. Foster and other administration lawyers from the Rose Law Firm in Little Rock, Mr. Foster's body was found in a northern Virginia park in an apparent suicide. A note found in his briefcase after his death said, among other things, that ''the WSJ editors lie without consequence.''
        Mr. Bartley later wrote: ''For my part, I can testify that getting tagged with blame for the Foster suicide powerfully focused my own attention on Whitewater.''
        For all the issues on which he held forth, Mr. Bartley was perhaps most influential in the area of economics. From the mid-1970's to the early 1980's, Mr. Bartley used his page to give voice to a small cadre of economists and writers, including Arthur B. Laffer, Jude Wanniski and Robert Mundell, who believed that tax cuts could stimulate the economy.
        Those ideas, which were partly hashed out in a series of late-night dinners in Lower Manhattan among a small group of economists that also included Mr. Bartley, later became grouped under the heading of supply-side economics, and formed a cornerstone of the economic policy of the Reagan administration.
        ''We all stand on the shoulders of someone else,'' said Dr. Laffer, who taught economics at the University of Chicago and advised both the Nixon and Reagan administrations. ''He was a major contributor to the whole process, the whole thinking.''
        Mr. Bartley wrote a book about that period, ''The Seven Fat Years: And How To Do It Again,'' first published in 1992 by Free Press.
        In a new introduction several years later, Mr. Bartley, who had no formal training as an economist, wrote of the 1980's: ''We entered the decade in a mood of malaise, engendered chiefly by a combination of inflation and stagflation that could not be cured or even explained by prevailing economic wisdom. That economic issue was resolved with surprising success and speed by a mix of tight monetary policy and incentive-directed tax cuts.''
        But as with so many positions that Mr. Bartley took, his detractors were many and vocal, with a legion of economists arguing that the effects of supply-side policy on the economy, as executed by the Reagan administration, were greatly exaggerated. The boom of the 1990's, which followed a tax increase by President Clinton that had been opposed by Mr. Bartley's page, provided additional ammunition to supply-side critics.
        ''I thought that what was written in The Wall Street Journal about supply-side economics was the triumph of faith over observation,'' said Robert M. Solow, a retired professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
        But Professor Solow adds that it says something about Mr. Bartley's desire for intellectual engagement that, at one point in the 1990's, Mr. Bartley offered him the opportunity to be an occasional contributor on The Journal's editorial page.
        Professor Solow turned Mr. Bartley down, he said, because he ''didn't want to be a token liberal'' in an ''extremely right-wing club.''
        Robert LeRoy Bartley was born on Oct. 12, 1937, in Marshall, Minn., and raised in Ames, Iowa. His father, Theodore, of Humboldt, Iowa, who survives him, was a veterinarian. His mother, the former Iva Mae Radach, was a homemaker.
        In addition to his father, Mr. Bartley is survived by his wife, Edith Lillie Bartley; three daughters: Elizabeth Bartley of Brooklyn, Susan Bartley of Los Angeles and Katherine Bartley of Princeton, N.J.; a brother, Dale Bartley of San Rafael, Calif.; and a sister, Phyllis Sutter of Portland, Oregon.
        Mr. Bartley received a bachelor's degree in journalism from Iowa State University and a master's degree in political science from the University of Wisconsin.
        He joined The Journal in 1962, serving initially as a staff reporter in the newspaper's bureaus in Chicago and Philadelphia before joining the editorial page staff in 1964. He became editor of the editorial page in 1972 and later was named editor of The Journal, a position in which he oversaw editorials, Op-Ed articles and arts and cultural criticism. He retired last year.
        Dorothy Rabinowitz, who was hired by Mr. Bartley more than a decade ago as a media critic and editorial page writer, said yesterday that among the things she would miss most about him was his laugh, which she described as a ''cackling, penetrating, roar.''
        Tension between the editorial and news-gathering sides of a newspaper is hardly unusual, given their contrasting missions. But it was particularly true at The Journal, where beat reporters would sometimes engage Mr. Bartley about how wrong they felt he was, or how hard his editorials were making it for them to be perceived by the outside world as writing objectively.
        Ms. Rabinowitz said that a less apparent aspect of his work at The Journal was his advocacy for the advancement of a number of women as writers and editors, including not only herself but also Susan Lee, Amity Shlaes and Melanie Kirkpatrick.
        Ms. Rabinowitz won a Pulitzer Prize in 2001 for a series of columns, including several that laid bare the damage done by false accusations of child abuse. It was a line of reporting, she said, that Mr. Bartley had embraced.
        At his retirement party, Mr. Bartley gave what he called a valedictory:
        ''What I think I've learned over three decades,'' he wrote, ''is that in this society, rationality wins out, progress happens, and problems do have solutions. This, I like to think, is what happens when a society incorporates the traditional editorial credo of my newspaper -- free markets and free people.
        ''In that kind of a society, my three decades as an editor testify, optimism pays.''
      