
        Rudolph A. Peterson, who was the chief executive of Bank of America in the 1960's and later ran the United Nations Development Program, died Dec. 2 at his home in Piedmont, Calif., his son-in-law, Stephen Bennett, said yesterday. He was 98.
        Mr. Peterson spent all of his 45 years in business as a lender. He began by making small loans to working people to buy appliances and cars during the Depression and ended up running the biggest bank in the country.
        He was born in Svenljunga, Sweden, in 1904 and emigrated to California as a child. After he graduated from the University of California at Berkeley, he began a career that took him to Mexico City, Chicago, Honolulu, and eventually, to the corner office in Bank of America's headquarters in San Francisco.
        He got his start with the Commercial Credit Corporation, a lending company that sent him to Mexico just before it went off the gold standard and suffered a drastic revaluation of its currency. After he succeeded in renegotiating all of his company's loans there, he was promoted to its headquarters in Chicago.
        He joined Bank of America in 1936 and spent two decades in California before leaving for six years with the Bank of Honolulu.
        He was president of the Bank of Honolulu when Bank of America lured him back in 1961, making him vice chairman. The bank named him president and chief executive in 1963, when it had $14 billion in assets and only about 20 foreign branches. When he retired at the end of 1969, its assets had nearly doubled and it had added about 80 branches overseas.
        ''Rudy Peterson had a vision for the way the world was going,'' said A. W. Clausen, who succeeded Mr. Peterson at Bank of America. ''He had a perception that the world was becoming increasingly interdependent. He was an internationalist first, last and always.''
        As soon as Mr. Peterson retired, President Nixon put him to work, appointing him chairman of a task force on international development. The Peterson commission recommended that the United States give aid to other countries not on its own but through multinational agencies like the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund.
        In 1972, he was appointed administrator of the United Nations Development Program, overseeing $1 billion in aid to developing countries. He held that position for three years.
        ''Development activities intrigue me with the possibilities for many areas of the world,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1972. ''We can do something about it, and we have the moral responsibility to do it. This is a real opportunity.''
        About a decade ago, Mr. Peterson pledged $1 million to the Haas School of Business at his alma mater, to sponsor the teaching of ethics, said David Vogel, a professor at Haas. The school used some of the money for a series of lectures on corporate responsibility by business leaders and government officials. The donation also provided seed money for the Center for Responsible Business, which the school created two years ago, Mr. Vogel said.
        ''Given his values and his role at the Bank of America, he believed it was important for students to understand the social and ethical responsibilities of being a good corporate citizen,'' Mr. Vogel said.
        Mr. Peterson's first wife, Patricia, died in 1960. He is survived by his second wife, Barbara, whom he married in 1962; a daughter, Linnea Bennett of La Selva Beach, Calif.; a son, R. Price Peterson of Boquete, Panama; three stepdaughters, Lorna and Margaret Lindsay of Pescadero, Calif., and Anne Lindsay of Snohomish, Wash.; and a stepson, Robert Lindsay of Visalia, Calif.
      