
        Ross R. Millhiser, the Philip Morris executive who enlisted a rugged cowboy image and innovative packaging to make Marlboro America's best-selling cigarette, died on Saturday in Richmond, Va. He was 83.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, his son, Ross Jr., said.
        Mr. Millhiser also positioned Virginia Slims as the cigarette of the liberated woman, and Merit, with its strong taste but low tar content, as the answer for a health-conscious smoker. Because of such strategies, Forbes magazine in 1978 called Mr. Millhiser ''a master of market segmentation.
        By the time Mr. Millhiser became the president of Philip Morris USA in 1966, Marlboro was the second-best-selling cigarette in the United States. It reached No. 1 in 1975, well after the Marlboro Man had become a ubiquitous cultural symbol.
        Philip Morris became the leading cigarette company in 1983. Mr. Millhiser later became vice chairman and a board member of the company, now part of the Altria Group.
        He was involved in decisions that included the marketing of cigarettes to women and to young people, which became controversial as the dangers of smoking elicited more scrutiny.
        Ross Randolph Millhiser was born in Richmond, Va., on March 10, 1920, and graduated from Yale. He began working for Philip Morris in 1941, starting as an oiler of cigarette machines. He enlisted in the Army in 1942 and was a German prisoner of war. He received the Bronze Star and Purple Heart, among other decorations. He returned to the company in 1945 after his military service.
        In the mid-1950's, when the first studies linking cigarette smoking to cancer were appearing, Mr. Millhiser was brand manager for Marlboro, which Philip Morris was trying to transform from a cigarette marketed to women into a new filtered product marketed to men.
        To reposition a brand advertised to women in the 1920's as being ''mild as May,'' Mr. Millhiser approved a flip-top box with an angular design and hired the Leo Burnett advertising agency of Chicago to produce an image that would appeal to men.
        A result was the Marlboro Man, which Esquire magazine in 1960 described as ''a lean, relaxed outdoorsman -- a cattle rancher, a Navy officer, a flier -- whose tattooed wrist suggested a romantic past, a man who had once worked with his hands, who knew the score, who merited respect.''
        Later, when the company was worried about young people dismissing Marlboro as their parents' brand, Mr. Millhiser came up with Marlboro Lights.
        ''The young people, they'll look at it and say, 'This is new,' '' Mr. Millhiser said in the Smithsonian oral history interview reported by The Washington Post in 1994.
        He also defended his company against accusations that its products were dangerous. Around 1983, Victor J. DeNoble, a Phillip Morris scientist, told of approaching Mr. Millhiser to warn about the growing evidence of the dangers of nicotine, according to an article in The Richmond Times-Dispatch in 1996.
        ''He said, 'Let me ask you one stinking question,' '' Mr. DeNoble told The Times-Dispatch. '' 'Why should I risk a billion-dollar business on rats pushing a lever to get nicotine?' ''
        Mr. Millhiser is survived by his brother, Kenneth, of Piedmont, Calif.; his children, Ross Jr. and Timothy, both of Manhattan; and Thomas and Mary Millhiser, both of Richmond; and eight grandchildren. His wife of more than 61 years, the former Eleanor Katharine McGue, died this year.
        Mr. Millhiser not only defended smoking against ever louder attacks, but in an article for Op-Ed pages of The New York Times in 1978, he championed its benefits, saying that cigarettes provided ''a certain sense of personal satisfaction, relaxation, and even pleasure.''
      