
        Heydar Aliyev, a former Soviet secret police general who for 30 years ruled his native Azerbaijan with an iron fist, first as its Communist leader, then as elected president after independence, died yesterday at a clinic in Cleveland, where he had been treated for congestive heart failure since early August. His death was confirmed by Tahir Taghi-Zadeh, a political counsellor at Azerbaijan's embassy in Washington, Reuters reported.
        Mr. Aliyev was 80.
        His authoritarian rule was characterized by contradictory trends. While it undoubtedly brought a measure of stability to Azerbaijan, political life remained turbulent, with frequent reports of coup and assassination attempts against Mr. Aliyev and equally frequent complaints by his opponents about electoral malpractice, human rights abuses and a muzzled press.
        Above all Mr. Aliyev failed to secure a lasting settlement to the long-simmering rebellion in the ethnic Armenian enclave of Nagorno-Karabakh, though in recent years the violence there has faded.
        In 1994 his government signed a major oil-exploration agreement with a consortium of foreign oil companies lead by British Petroleum, which brought a welcome injection of investment capital into the country.
        But little of the money trickled down to the largely impoverished population of about eight million. Oil production currently stands at only 315,000 barrels a day, although the consortium plans to raise this to 1.4 million by 2009. Living standards have declined since the end of Soviet rule, and in 2001, the World Bank estimated that the average Azeri earned just $650 a year.
        Outside the oil sector, a climate of widespread corruption, cronyism and administrative incompetence damaged economic prospects. Transparency International, an anticorruption watchdog, lists Azerbaijan as the seventh most corrupt nation of the 102 surveyed.
        An extravagant personality cult was another feature of Mr. Aliyev's rule. His portrait decorated towns and villages. Workers were bused to rallies in his honor. A star and a mountain were named after him. Three museums were built to record his accomplishments.
        He used the leverage of this personality cult to arrange for the election of his son, Ilham, who succeeded him as president in October, the first dynastic transfer of power in the former Soviet Union.
        In addition to Ilham, Mr. Aliyev is survived by a daughter and six grandchildren. His wife, Zarifa Aziz Aliyeva, died in 1985.
        Officially, Heydar Alirza Aliyev was born on May 10, 1923, in Nakhichevan, a strip of Azerbaijan territory separated from the rest of the country by Armenia. But opponents claimed he was older and was really born in Armenia.
        Mr. Aliyev joined the Azerbaijan K.G.B., or secret police, in 1944. Helped by friendships with Leonid I. Brezhnev, then a rising politician, and with the head of the K.G.B., Yuri V. Andropov, Mr. Aliyev rose to become a general in 1960 and vice chairman in 1964.
        By 1969 he had been promoted to first secretary of the Central Committee of the Ajerbaijan Communist Party, in effect the leader of the country.
        During the 1970's Mr. Aliyev also began to climb the Moscow power ladder, becoming a full member of the Central Committee of the Soviet Communist Party in 1971 and a candidate member of the Politburo in 1976. He supported the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1979 and was rewarded with several Orders of Lenin.
        In 1982 Mr. Aliyev became a full member of the Soviet Politburo and first deputy prime minister.
        He supported Mikhail S. Gorbachev's successful bid for the top Soviet job in 1985. But the two men fell out over Mr. Gorbachev's anticorruption drive, and in 1987 Mr. Aliyev was charged with dishonesty, ousted from the Politburo and removed as party leader in Azerbaijan.
        In 1990 Mr. Aliyev returned to Nakhichevan, where he remained highly popular because of the aid he had showered on the region while in office, and started the scramble back to power. He was quickly elected to the local parliament.
        Mr. Aliyev resigned from the Communist Party in 1991 when the Soviet Union collapsed and Azerbaijan achieved independence under the leadership of Ayaz Mutalibov.
        In 1992 Mr. Mutilabov was ousted after military reverses in Nagorno-Karabakh. But his successor, Yakub Mamedov, did no better and was also removed. Abulfaz Elchibey was then elected president but lasted no longer, allowing Mr. Aliyev to seize the presidency and then win popular endorsement in an election in 1993.
        Years of political turmoil followed, marked by attempted coups, constant friction between the government and the opposition, and tension with Armenia over Nagorno-Karabakh. A new constitution, approved in 1995, strengthened the president's powers and made Azeri the official language.
        In 1998 Mr. Aliyev was re-elected with an overwhelming majority, though most opposition parties boycotted the voting and the Council of Europe said it did not meet international standards.
      