
        Hans Hotter, whose stirring bass-baritone was a cornerstone of the German opera repertory of his generation, died at his home in Grünwald, Germany, near Munich, on Saturday, a few weeks before his 95th birthday.
        After suffering diabetes-related complications for the last few years, he died in his sleep, said Donald Arthur, who was collaborating with Mr. Hotter on his memoirs.
        For many, Mr. Hotter was the definitive Wotan, Hans Sachs and Flying Dutchman, roles he sang from Covent Garden to Bayreuth to New York, where he made his debut in 1950 as the Dutchman opposite Astrid Varnay. He sang in the world premieres of two operas by Richard Strauss, ''Friedenstag'' and ''Capriccio,'' and the dress rehearsal of a third, ''Die Liebe der Danae.'' The premiere itself was canceled because of the 1944 attempt on Hitler's life. Paul Hindemith tailored the title role of ''Mathis der Maler'' to him; he sang the opera in concert a year before its staged world premiere. Yet he himself always viewed opera as a beloved but flawed art and was proudest of his achievement as a lied singer.
        He took part in the historic recording of Wagner's Ring cycle led by Sir Georg Solti in the 1950's and 60's, the first Ring ever committed to record, but his own favorites among his recordings were cantatas and lieder: Bach's ''Ich Habe Genug,'' Schubert's song cycle ''Winterreise,'' or the same composer's ''Schwanengesang.'' ''In my heart, I'm a lied musician,'' he said in 1999. ''The association with Wotan was nature and destiny. But it was more an artistic than a personal success, even if you can't separate the two.''
        Born on Jan. 19, 1909, in the town of Offenbach, Mr. Hotter moved to Munich as a child and always considered Munich his hometown. He came to music only slowly, though, and initially studied organ, with an eye to training as a conductor, until his music teacher got him a hearing with Matthias Römer, a singer who had studied with the great tenor Jean de Reszke and sung Parsifal at Bayreuth. Römer was immediately convinced of the potential of Mr. Hotter's voice, but it took a lot of persuading to get the young man ''to leave music aside and become an opera singer,'' as Mr. Hotter later put it.
        Mr. Hotter got his first engagement at the theater in Troppau (now Opava, in the Czech Republic) when he was 21. From there he moved on to Breslau (now Wroclaw, Poland). He was already drawing attention. He was invited to audition in Berlin and wangled an audition with Clemens Krauss, then a conductor at the Vienna State Opera, who admired him but advised him to get more stage experience, saying ''I'll contact you when it's time.'' Mr. Hotter obliged and went on to work in the ensembles in Prague and Hamburg, until Krauss, who by then had moved to Munich, kept his promise. While in Hamburg Mr. Hotter met the actress Helga Fischer, whom he married in 1936.
        Stage experience was called for, since his vocal talent was not initially matched by his acting ability. ''I was handicapped by my long arms and legs,'' the singer, who was strikingly tall, later said. ''I looked like I was on stilts.''
        After Hitler came to power, Mr. Hotter considered emigration but, worried about repercussions to the family he would leave behind, remained in Germany through the war years. Although he continued to perform, he never joined the Nazi party and refused to appear at the 1940 Bayreuth festival, which was run by the devoted Hitler admirer Winifred Wagner.
        After the war Mr. Hotter was a key figure in Bayreuth's renaissance; in 1952 he began a 12-year association with the festival under the gifted and then-revolutionary director Wieland Wagner, Winifred's son. By then Mr. Hotter had already become a fixture at Covent Garden, where he made his debut in 1948, at a time when anti-German feeling was still strong enough that Wagner's operas were sung in English.
        He also enjoyed a 50-year relationship with the Vienna State Opera, where he continued to sing through the 1980's, and appeared in Paris, Buenos Aires, Amsterdam, Chicago and countless other venues. The only international house that failed to appreciate him was the Metropolitan Opera. Despite his success there as the Dutchman and in a dozen other roles, Rudolf Bing decreed, in 1954, that his voice was best suited to secondary roles.
        As his singing career began to wind down, Mr. Hotter turned to directing, including a Ring at Covent Garden with Solti, but his style was probably too conservative to sustain him on the more radical European scene. In the 1980's he continued to appear on stage as Schigolch in Berg's ''Lulu,'' in Vienna; the Sprecher in Mozart's ''Magic Flute'' at La Scala, and, from New York to Munich, the Sprecher in Schoenberg's ''Gurrelieder,'' which he performed memorably as late as the 1990's. Mr. Hotter also taught throughout his career, giving private lessons and master classes.
        His wife died in 1998. He is survived by his son, Peter Hotter, of Munich; a daughter, Gabriele Strauss (who is married to the grandson of the composer Richard Strauss), of Grünwald; two granddaughters; and several great-grandchildren.
        In his last phone call to Mr. Arthur, two days before he died, Mr. Hotter asked, ''Is there anything left to do on the English version of the book?'' Mr. Arthur replied that the manuscript was already at the publisher's. ''Good,'' Mr. Hotter said. ''Then I can rest.''
        Correction:  February 16, 2004, Monday  An obituary on Dec. 13 about the German bass-baritone Hans Hotter misstated the circumstances that led after World War II to the singing of operas in English at Covent Garden, including some that featured Mr. Hotter in Wagnerian roles. The switch was based not on anti-German feeling but on a desire to emphasize Covent Garden's role as a national company, its management said. The plan was discontinued because many singers either could not or would not sing in English. This correction was delayed by an editing lapse.
      