
        The Rev. Dr. Carl F. H. Henry, a theologian who helped move evangelical Christianity from the sidelines to a central place in American religion, died on Sunday in Watertown, Wis. He was 90.
        Dr. Henry's death was announced on Monday by Christianity Today, a magazine he once served as founding editor.
        In more than 40 books he wrote or edited, Dr. Henry laid out an intellectual defense both for a literal understanding of Scripture and for the imperative of spreading the faith.
        David Neff, the current editor of Christianity Today, said in an interview, ''If we see Billy Graham as the great public face and generous spirit of the evangelical movement, Carl Henry was the brains.''
        Dr. Henry helped start several of the institutional pillars of the evangelical movement: Fuller Theological Seminary, where he was the first acting dean, and the National Association of Evangelicals, in addition to Christianity Today.
        Carl Ferdinand Howard Henry was born in New York to a Roman Catholic mother and a Lutheran father, German immigrants who never ''worked at their religion,'' he said. At 20, Dr. Henry was editing The Smithtown Star on Long Island when a young evangelist took an interest in him.
        ''He told me about Christ as we drove around Long Island in my battered old Chevy,'' Dr. Henry said in an interview with The New York Times in 1966. ''I knelt in the back of that car and dedicated myself to Jesus Christ. Life has not been the same since.''
        He decided to attend Wheaton College in Illinois. He joined a stellar class that included Billy Graham and Richard C. Halverson, who later served 14 years as chaplain of the United States Senate. he also met Helga Bender, whom he married in 1940. He was ordained a Baptist minister and earned two doctorates, in theology from Northern Baptist Theological Seminary and in philosophy from Boston University.
        By the 1940's, fundamentalist Christianity was in retreat. Many fundamentalists were isolating themselves from society and focusing instead on building churches and families untarnished by mainstream culture. Though Dr. Henry held beliefs that was just as orthodox as theirs, he and some peers avoided calling themselves fundamentalists. He said he believed the term had become discredited, ''associated with a pugnacious temperament.'' Instead, they preferred the term ''neo-evangelical.''
        Dr. Henry came to prominence in 1947 with his book ''The Uneasy Conscience of Modern Fundamentalism.'' He argued that Christians needed to assert themselves, not withdraw, and to inspire others to turn to Christ not by coercion but by example.
        ''That was a turning point in the church,'' Charles W. Colson said in an interview. Mr. Colson, who was sent to prison for his role in the Watergate cover-up, went on to found Prison Fellowship Ministries.
        ''What he did was to reawaken the evangelical heritage of the 19th century, when Christians were engaged in great intellectual debates and had incredible social involvement,'' Mr. Colson said.
        From 1956 to 1968, Dr. Henry was editor of Christianity Today, a journal started by Mr. Graham as a conservative counterpoint to the more liberal magazine Christian Century.
        For the magazine's 10th anniversary, he and Mr. Graham convened the World Congress on Evangelism in Berlin, attended by 1,200 evangelists from around the world.
        In 1974, he began traveling abroad on behalf of World Vision International, a Christian relief and development organization. He taught at several universities and in 1983 completed a six-volume work, ''God, Revelation and Authority.''
        Dr. Henry is survived by his wife; his daughter, Carol Henry Bates; three sisters, Eleanor Schortemeyer, Isabella Elliott and Johanna Albert; and four grandchildren. His son, Representative Paul B. Henry, Republican of Michigan, died in 1993.
        In later years, Dr. Henry quietly criticized some of the same institutions he had helped establish for going too far to accommodate contemporary cultural and political trends.
        ''The clergy,'' he once said, ''have neither a divine mandate nor authority nor special competence to articulate particular programs of politico-economic action and when they pronounce their fallible ideas with presumptive piety they encourage public doubt about the church's possession of an authentic word of God in the theological and moral realm.''
      