
        Larry LeSueur, the CBS correspondent who reported from the rooftops of London during the blitz of World War II, went ashore in the first waves of the D-Day invasion and made the first radio broadcast to America telling of the Allied liberation of Paris, died on Wednesday at his home in Washington. He was 93.
        Mr. LeSueur was one of the last surviving members of the Murrow Boys, the legendary corps of CBS correspondents recruited by Edward R. Murrow to cover Europe during World War II. The group, which included Eric Sevareid, Charles Collingwood, Richard C. Hottelet and Howard K. Smith, set the standard for broadcast journalism in its time.
        Mr. LeSueur's reporting from the Russian front became the basis for a book, ''Twelve Months That Changed the World.'' He covered the United Nations in the late 1940's and 50's, winning a Peabody Award as moderator of the television program ''United Nations in Action.'' He was the host of the late-night television interview program ''Chronoscope.''
        Mr. LeSueur was among the CBS correspondents who interviewed frontline troops in Korea during Christmas week 1952 for Murrow's ''See It Now,'' a pioneering effort by television to look beyond the grand strategy and see warfare through the eyes of the ordinary soldier.
        He left CBS in 1963, then spent two decades with the Voice of America, an arm of the United States Information Agency, as a news analyst and White House correspondent.
        Mr. LeSueur's marriages to Joan Phelps and Priscilla Bruce ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, the former Dorothy Hawkins, who was a fashion editor at The New York Times; their daughter, Amy LeSueur Herrick of Washington; his daughter with Ms. Bruce, Lorna LeSueur Vliet of Morris Plains, N.J.; and three grandchildren.
        Lawrence Edward Lesueur (the S was not capitalized until he became a war correspondent) came from a family of newspapermen. His father, Wallace, had been a foreign correspondent for The New York Tribune and his grandfather published a small paper in Iowa.
        After graduating from New York University and working as a reporter in the New York bureau of the United Press, Mr. LeSueur was hired by Murrow in 1939. He reported from Belgium and France as German forces sent British troops fleeing to the beaches of Dunkirk and then, in the fall of 1940, he worked nightly alongside Murrow in London during the blitz, Germany's relentless incendiary bombing of England.
        Mr. LeSueur arrived in the Soviet Union in November 1941, when the German army was advancing on Moscow. The Russian authorities at first confined foreign reporters to Kuibyshev, a city several hundred miles away. When they allowed correspondents into Moscow in December, after the Nazis were repulsed at its gates, Mr. LeSueur described the battle's aftermath, in broadcasts and then in his book.
        He told of the moment when Russian troops he was accompanying 25 miles from Moscow had passed by the bodies of German soldiers lying in the snow. ''I watched the living soldiers pass by the dead at the roadside without a glance, and the dead scarcely looked human,'' he wrote in ''Twelve Months That Changed the World'' (Knopf, 1943). ''They resembled wax mannequins thrown from a show window, lying about in grotesque, inhuman postures, arms pointing toward the sky, legs frozen as though they were running. Their faces were bloodless, waxy white.''
        Mr. LeSueur may have been the first American radio correspondent to go ashore in the Normandy invasion of June 6, 1944, accompanying the United States Fourth Infantry Division at Utah Beach. But his cables recounting the first hours of D-Day were lost by Navy couriers en route to London. Soon afterward, he covered the fighting amid the Normandy hedgerows.
        Having watched the people of Cherbourg sing ''La Marseillaise'' and hail French Resistance fighters, Mr. LeSueur told his radio audience: ''The words of the great French anthem rang out over the town square, sung for the first time by liberated Frenchmen in the free capital of Normandy and sung with such a feeling of life and warmth as has not been heard in France for four years.''
        Mr. LeSueur entered Paris when the Free French forces liberated that city on Aug. 25, 1944. When he could not find a military censor to provide a clearance stamp for his reports at the Scribe Hotel, headquarters for the Allied press corps, he and several other correspondents went to a French underground radio station on the Rue de Grenelle. Broadcasting on its transmitter without a censor's clearance (he and others who defied the censor had their credentials suspended for 30 days by Allied military authorities), Mr. LeSueur provided Americans with the first radio account of the liberation.
        ''Paris is the happiest city in the world tonight,'' he reported. ''All Paris is dancing in the streets.''
      