
        Sol Leon, a talent broker who matched stars and shows with producers and audiences, becoming a backstage power beginning in the early years of television, died on Dec. 5 in Los Angeles, the William Morris Agency announced. A former resident of Scarsdale, N.Y., he was 90 and lived in Beverly Hills.
        Until two months ago, he worked on a reduced schedule as an executive vice president of William Morris and as personal agent for Dick Van Dyke, whom he helped establish as a sitcom star more than 40 years ago.
        ''He guided my career very well for many years,'' Mr. Van Dyke said by telephone on Thursday. ''He was one of the few in the business who was known as a man of his word, and I was proud to have been represented by him.'' Mr. Leon worked prominently, though anonymously, to help luminaries as diverse as Merv Griffin and Sam Levinson sell their personalities to producers. He was the actor's middleman for soap operas, variety shows, dramas and classic comedies, and he also put together entire shows.
        Born in Brooklyn, he graduated from Brooklyn Law School in 1937 and joined William Morris while awaiting admission to the bar. He started in the agency's mailroom in New York. He stayed, eventually becoming the chief of the New York television department and a member of the agency's executive board. He and his department joined William Morris corporate headquarters in Beverly Hills in 1975.
        Throughout his career he was associated with shows destined for Emmy Awards and a Who's Who of clients who brought those shows to life. Those he represented included Garry Moore, Joan Crawford, Dionne Warwick, Raymond Burr and Glen Campbell, the agency said, and he had also worked with the poet Carl Sandburg and the broadcast journalist Mike Wallace.
        Besides his work with Mr. Van Dyke and Mr. Griffin and their shows, he handled ''The Andy Griffith Show,'' ''The Sonny and Cher Comedy Hour,'' ''The Loretta Young Show,'' ''Gomer Pyle, U.S.M.C.'' and ''The Rifleman,'' among others.
        Mr. Leon's first wife, Lee Eichenbaum Leon, died in 2000. He is survived by his second wife, Yong S. Jones; his children, Steven of Beverly Hills and Susan of Larchmont, N.Y.; a sister, Madeleine Epstein of Toronto; and two grandchildren.
      