
        Lord Aberconway, once a major British industrialist who built the Queen Elizabeth 2 ocean liner and who in 1939 took part in a secret meeting with Hitler's close aide Hermann Göring, died on Tuesday in London. He was 89.
        The meeting with seven British industrialists, aimed at averting a world war, was publicly discussed only in 1999. It was termed by some a second Munich, in reference to the famous efforts there to appease Hitler before the war, but Lord Aberconway said this was a misinterpretation.
        As heir to the wealthy family that also built the Lusitania and the Queen Mary, Lord Aberconway ruled an industrial empire that included John Brown & Company, which owned, among other things, the Clydeside shipyard in Scotland. His other financial interests included mining, banking and insurance.
        It was as a result of his involvement in the shipbuilding company that he took part in the secret meeting with Göring. Charles Frederick Spencer, a director of John Brown, was approached by a Swedish businessman who knew Göring and wanted to stop the accelerating skid toward war.
        The future Lord Aberconway, then Charles McLaren and already a director of John Brown at 26, was one of the seven British industrialists Mr. Spencer invited to meet with the German on an island in the Baltic Sea.
        The meeting was mentioned during the Nuremberg trials, but had not provoked much discussion. Three years ago, however, Lord Aberconway gave 38 pages of his personal documents to Andrew Roberts, a historian. Mr. Roberts interpreted the documents as saying that the unofficial British delegation raised the possibility of meeting German demands on Poland in return for Germany not invading that country.
        Lord Aberconway contended that the businessmen's only purpose was to relay the official British policy that an invasion of Poland would lead to war. Mr. Roberts disagreed, saying Lord Aberconway's documents showed that the British delegation had proposed what ''amounted to a second Munich conference'' to appease the Nazis.
        Debate over the matter was extensively covered in the British press in the summer of 1999, with Lord Aberconway insisting in The Times of London that Mr. Roberts's interpretation was ''nonsense.''
        Charles Melville McLaren was born on April 16, 1913. The title of Lord Aberconway had first been given to his grandfather, a prominent Liberal member of Parliament, who came by his fortune through marriage. Charles was educated at Eton and Oxford and qualified as a lawyer at the Middle Temple in London.
        He served in the Royal Artillery in World War II, and on his father's death in 1953 became Lord Aberconway, as well as chairman of John Brown and English China Clays, a mining concern.
        By the 1960's, British shipbuilding had greatly declined because of Asian competition, among other factors. Lord Aberconway bid to build the Queen Elizabeth 2, even though he said he would surely lose money. He explained in an interview with The New York Times in 1961 that he bid only to protect the jobs of his skilled workers. The industry continued to decline, and the final stages of building the ship had to be done in conjunction with other companies.
        By the mid-1960's, Lord Aberconway offered to sell his family's famed shipyard to the British government for one pound, but was turned down. After finishing the Queen Elizabeth 2, John Brown never built another ocean liner, but its many other interests kept it going. In 1986, the company was sold.
        In later years, Lord Aberconway's greatest fame came from a passion for gardening. He was president of the Royal Horticultural Society for 23 years. He was known in England for his yearly proclamation that the annual Chelsea Flower Show was the best ever.
        At least once a month, he visited the world famous Bodnant Gardens at Conway in north Wales, which his great-grandfather, Henry Pochin, had built. Surveying the prize-winning rhododendrons he personally nurtured, he would stride around its 60 acres in his knickerbockers, preceded by his immaculately dressed butler and with his wife and his gardener at his side.
        Flower enthusiasts never forgot his remarks in 1947, when the government permitted gardeners to return to flower gardening after having been required to grow vegetables during the war.
        ''I am very fond of vegetables,'' Lord Aberconway said in his presidential address to the horticultural society, ''but I do not wish to share my flower garden with vegetables in the same way that, while I am very fond of bacon, I do not wish to share my house with a pig.''
        In 1941, he married Deirdre Knewstub, with whom he had a son and two daughters. They divorced in 1949 and he married Ann Lindsay Bullard, with whom he had a son. His survivors include his wife, their son and a stepdaughter, and the son and two daughters from his first marriage.
      