
        David S. Lewis, an aeronautical engineer who took the helm of the ailing General Dynamics Corporation, pushed it to profitability and retired after what was seen as mild official censure by the Navy for cost overruns, died on Monday in Charleston, S.C., his son David said. He was 86.
        Mr. Lewis epitomized the successful executive of a military contractor as he guided development of the Trident nuclear submarine and F-16 fighter and steered General Dynamics from a $6.9 million loss in 1970 to a profit of $381.7 million in 1984.
        But he retired the next year, making his announcement a day after the secretary of the Navy, John F. Lehman Jr., canceled two contracts and suspended the signing of two new ones because of what he termed ''pervasive'' business misconduct. Mr. Lehman rejected the recommendation of the Pentagon's inspector general to ban Mr. Lewis and two other top officials from working on military contracts.
        What was criticized by some as a minor penalty for a major mistake was explained at the time as an example of the Defense Department's distaste for challenging large military contractors, particularly during the Reagan administration's military buildup.
        Mr. Lewis emphasized in his announcement that he had planned to retire for some time anyway. The Justice Department dropped a three-year investigation into General Dynamics in 1987, in part because the Navy had acquiesced in the company's actions.
        While he was chairman and chief executive from early 1971 until 1985, General Dynamics designed or built Los Angeles-class fast attack submarines, Trident submarines, M1 Abrams tanks and the first ships built to transport liquefied natural gas. Under his leadership, the company won the Air Force's competition for a lightweight fighter with its F-16 Falcon.
        In 1975, in an indication of the return of General Dynamics from financial peril, it won what was called ''the arms deal of the century'' when the F-16 was chosen as the standard fighter of four NATO countries.
        David Sloan Lewis Jr. was born in North Augusta, S.C., on July 6, 1917, and grew up devouring aviation books and building model airplanes. He studied engineering at the University of South Carolina for three years, then transferred to the Georgia Institute of Technology, where he graduated in 1939 with a degree in aeronautical engineering.
        His first job, from 1939 to 1946, was with the Glenn L. Martin Company in Baltimore as an aerodynamicist. He worked on the performance and flight tests of many new aircraft, including the B-26 Marauder.
        In 1946, Mr. Lewis joined the McDonnell Aircraft Corporation in St. Louis as chief of aerodynamics. His projects included the F2H Banshee, one of the first Navy jet aircraft, and an Air Force strategic interceptor, the F-101 Voodoo.
        In 1956, he was chosen to develop a new kind of fighter, and, within two years, led the design of the F-4 Phantom II, an exceptionally successful plane. The first model set 16 speed, altitude and time-to-climb records, and the F-4 was the only plane to be flown by both the Navy Blue Angels and the Air Force Thunderbirds.
        He was also active in McDonnell's space division, leading the company's winning bid to build the Mercury and Gemini spacecraft. In 1962, he was named McDonnell's president and chief operating officer.
        When McDonnell merged with Douglas Aircraft in 1967, he became chairman of the Douglas Division and successfully accelerated the lagging production of DC-8 and DC-9 aircraft. He helped design and sell the DC-10, which became a workhorse of commercial air travel.
        In 1970, Mr. Lewis accepted the top job at General Dynamics on the condition that the company move its headquarters to St. Louis from New York. Six years after his retirement in 1985, the company's headquarters moved to the Washington area.
        Mr. Lewis is survived by his wife of 62 years, the former Dorothy Sharpe; his daughter, Susan Winslow, of Mount Pleasant, S.C.; his three sons, David III, of Chevy Chase, Md.; Robert, of Marietta, Ga.; and Andrew, of Gainesville, Ga.; 12 grandchildren; 6 great-grandchildren; and his brother, Jack, of Mount Pleasant, S.C.
        Mr. Lewis, who had the aura of a well-bred Southern gentleman, for many years owned an 8,500-acre plantation near Albany, Ga. For all his wealth and skill with the highest technology, he preferred to drive Ford Falcons or Dodge Darts.
      