
        Otto Graham, who led the Cleveland Browns to pro football supremacy in the decade after World War II and became one of the game's greatest quarterbacks, died yesterday at a hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 82.
        The cause was an aneurysm of the aorta, his son Duey said.
        Playing all of his 10 professional seasons with the Browns, Graham took the team to 10 championship games. His Browns won the All-America Football Conference championship in each of that league's four seasons (1946 to 1949), then moved to the National Football League and reached the title game for six straight seasons, capturing three championships.
        Graham was among the four quarterbacks -- Sammy Baugh, Joe Montana and Johnny Unitas were the others -- named to the all-N.F.L. 75th anniversary team. He passed for 174 touchdowns and 23,584 yards as a pro and holds the N.F.L. career record for average yards per passing attempt (8.63).
        He was an all-American in football and basketball at Northwestern, a pro and college football coach and a member of the Pro Football and College Football Halls of Fame.
        ''All good quarterbacks possess four qualities: leadership, a pure ability to throw a football accurately, a deep knowledge of the game and techniques perfected through hard work,'' Graham once said. ''As for throwing ability, I never realized until I started coaching what a God-given talent I had. I was surprised that everyone couldn't do what I did.''
        In his autobiography, ''PB,'' Paul Brown, who organized the Browns franchise and coached the team during its glory years, said simply, ''Otto Graham was the greatest player in the game's history.''
        The Browns lost only four games in their four seasons in the All-America Football Conference. Their offense featured Graham throwing to Dante Lavelli, Mac Speedie and Dub Jones, the running of fullback Marion Motley and an outstanding offensive line led by tackle and place-kicker Lou Groza.
        Joining the N.F.L. in 1950, the Browns proved themselves once more. They defeated the defending champion Philadelphia Eagles handily in their first N.F.L. game and went on to win the league championship with a dramatic 30-28 victory over the Los Angeles Rams. Graham threw four touchdown passes in the title game and set up Groza's 16-yard winning field goal with 28 seconds left on a frozen field at Cleveland's Municipal Stadium.
        The Browns lost in the title game to the Rams in 1951 and to the Detroit Lions in 1952 and 1953. They became champions once more in 1954, as Graham threw for three touchdowns and ran for three others in a 56-10 rout of the Lions.
        Graham planned to retire after that season, but a $25,000 contract, evidently the league's largest salary, brought him back for one more season. In his final game, he threw for two scores and ran for two others in the Browns' 38-14 championship victory over the Rams at Los Angeles.
        Retired as a player, Graham coached the college all-stars in their annual summer games against the N.F.L. champions. Taking a low-key approach to the game, he also served as football coach and athletic director at the Coast Guard Academy, which played a small-school schedule. Under his guidance, the academy produced its first undefeated, untied team in the 1963 regular season.
        After seven seasons at the Coast Guard Academy, Graham was persuaded to return to the N.F.L. by Edward Bennett Williams, the Washington lawyer who had taken control of the Redskins. Graham was their coach and general manager from 1966 to 1968, but his teams went 17-22-3 and he was replaced by Vince Lombardi, who had built the Green Bay Packers dynasty. Graham returned to the Coast Guard Academy, serving again as athletic director and, for a couple of seasons, as coach.
        Having had surgery for colorectal cancer -- the same disease that killed Lombardi -- he became a spokesman for cancer awareness programs after retiring from the Coast Guard Academy in 1985.
        Graham, who lived in Sarasota, is survived by his wife, Beverly; his sons Duey, of Waldoboro, Me., and David, of St. Petersburg, Fla.; a daughter, Sandra VanName, of Sarasota; a brother, Richard, of Naples, Fla.; 16 grandchildren; and 4 great-grandchildren.
        Otto Everett Graham Jr. was born in Waukegan, Ill., on Dec. 6, 1921, and starred in football and basketball at Waukegan High School.
        He received a basketball scholarship to Northwestern, but when aides to the football coach, Pappy Waldorf, saw him throwing a football in an intramural scrimmage as a freshman, he was recruited for the varsity.
        Playing tailback in the single wing, Graham finished third in the Heisman Trophy balloting in 1943, behind Notre Dame's Angelo Bertelli and Penn's Bob Odell. He was an all-American guard in basketball in 1943 and 1944.
        Graham was a naval aviation cadet in 1945 when Brown signed him as the first player he recruited for the Browns. When Brown was the head coach at Ohio State, Graham's Northwestern teams beat him twice.
        Before he won a league title with the Browns in 1946, Graham played on a championship team in pro basketball. He was on the Rochester Royals squad that won the National Basketball League title in 1946, with the future Basketball Hall of Famers Red Holzman and Bob Davies.
        With the Browns, Graham became a T-formation quarterback in the complex offense Brown devised.
        ''One thing I could do as well as any quarterback was throw accurately,'' Graham once said. ''I threw the ball hard enough to get it in there and soft enough to catch it.''
        But Brown usually sent in the plays, using the guards as messengers.
        ''It's hard to criticize a system that works so well,'' Graham said after his retirement. But he had not been entirely happy with that arrangement.
        ''The main fault I'd find with it,'' he said, ''was that Paul was sometimes a play or two behind what I myself would have called.''
      