
        Robert Lorne Stanfield, a onetime standard-bearer for Canada's conservatives who twice lost elections to become prime minister, died on Tuesday in Ottawa. He was 89.
        He died in a hospital after a long illness, Lowell Murray, a Canadian senator and longtime friend, told The Associated Press.
        An unassuming man, born into wealth and trained in the law, Mr. Stanfield had a distinguished political career in Nova Scotia, serving as premier in the 1950's and 1960's. He took the reins of the Progressive Conservative Party in 1967, and in 1972 lost a bid to become prime minister when the small New Democratic Party threw its support in Parliament to Pierre Elliott Trudeau and his Liberals.
        Mr. Stanfield was defeated by Mr. Trudeau again in 1974 elections, called after Mr. Trudeau lost a confidence vote in Parliament. He resigned as party leader in 1976 and gave up his seat in Parliament three years later. He was Canada's representative to the Middle East and North Africa in 1979 and 1980 and chairman of the Commonwealth Foundation from 1987 to 1991.
        Robert Stanfield was born in Truro, Nova Scotia. The family owned a knitwear business, founded by his grandfather and famous for its unshrinkable long johns, which saddled him with the nickname Underwear Man when he entered politics. He graduated from Dalhousie University in Halifax and from Harvard Law School in 1939.
        A physical condition kept him out of military service in World War II, but he worked as a lawyer for the government's Prices and Trades Board in Halifax.
        Once in private practice, he became the leader and the financial savior of the Progressive Conservative Party of Nova Scotia and was elected to the provincial legislature in 1949.
        As premier from 1956 to 1967, he ran a frugal administration that promoted industry and attracted new business with the help of a public corporation he formed, Industrial Estates Limited. Mr. Stanfield was credited with improving education and health care in the province, and his down-to-earth style repeatedly assured him majorities in the provincial legislature.
        His political performance on the national level proved less successful when he came to lead the opposition to Lester Pearson's frayed minority Liberal government in 1967. The Liberals took charge with Mr. Trudeau the next year, but they lost their parliamentary majority in elections in 1972. Mr. Trudeau remained prime minister over Mr. Stanfield only on the strength of the support of the New Democrats.
        After two successive losses, Mr. Stanfield became the man some Canadians, especially those within his own party ruefully called ''the best premier Canada never had.''
        Mr. Stanfield was married three times. His first wife, Joyce Frazee died in a car accident in 1954. They had four children -- Sarah, Robert, Judith and Miriam. His second wife, Mary Hall, died of cancer in 1977. He married Anne Henderson Austin in 1978. She and the four children survive, The Globe and Mail reported.
        As Mr. Stanfield approached the first of his hard-fought elections for the national leadership, a woman at a political meeting asked him why a wealthy man with a shining public record would even bother to run ''for a thankless job like prime minister of Canada?''
        ''Well,'' Mr. Stanfield replied in his calm, rather gravely voice, ''I guess you have to be a little crazy, ma'am. It helps a little.''
        Correction:  December 22, 2003, Monday  An obituary headline on Friday about Robert Stanfield, a former leader of Canada's Progressive Conservative party, misstated the number of times he lost elections to Pierre Trudeau, the Liberal Party leader. It was three. (Two losses were in attempts to become prime minister.)
        Correction:  December 25, 2003, Thursday  An obituary headline on Dec. 19 about Robert Stanfield, a former leader of Canada's Progressive Conservative party, misstated the number of times he lost elections to Pierre Trudeau, the Liberal Party leader, and a correction in this space on Monday misstated the nature of the elections. He lost to Mr. Trudeau three times, not two; in all three he had hoped to become prime minister.
      