
        Julian Hirsch, an electrical engineer and writer who was among the first to help a growing audience of audiophiles sort through the good, the bad and the indifferent in electronic sound equipment, died on Nov. 24 in the Bronx. He was 81 and lived in New Rochelle, N.Y.
        Starting in the 1950's Mr. Hirsch began to keep track of the hi-fi hobby as it bulged into a billion-dollar industry. By his own count he wrote about 4,000 laboratory test reports for various publications by the time he retired in 1998.
        About 2,400 of those were articles appearing in Stereo Review, a bible and buying guide for droves of audio fans. (Months after his retirement, it merged into Sound & Vision, a 400,000-circulation magazine that publishes 10 times a year.)
        Mr. Hirsch's monthly column in Stereo Review first appeared in 1961 when it was called Hi-Fi/Stereo Review. He titled it ''Technical Talk'' and used it to explain how he performed various measurements and what the results meant.
        He listed the specifications that a buyer should look for in a component and others that were chaff. At the same time, he sought to describe features not readily measurable and to address readers less technically inclined.
        It was his technical approach that at times drew disfavor from other experts, who asserted that he so admired each new line of speakers or amplifiers that he ignored the aesthetic quality of the sounds coming from them. It was, his critics said at the time, like judging a wine by chemical assays.
        Julian Hirsch warmed to the technology at 14 with amateur radio. He graduated from Cooper Union in 1943 and spent World War II in the Army Signal Corps. He then worked in the electronics industry on laboratory instruments for spectrum analysis.
        Having adopted hi-fi as a hobby in 1949, he and his engineering friends started testing products as the commercial audio industry caught on in the early 50's. They circulated a newsletter to spread the results, the Audio League Report, and eventually found 4,000 subscribers.
        The pressure of putting out the report while holding down full-time jobs prompted Mr. Hirsch and a colleague, Gladden Houck, to quit the Audio League in 1957 and form Hirsch-Houck Laboratories. There they tested stereo systems, turntables, receivers, speakers, woofers and the lot, leaving the write-ups to others.
        In 1960 Ziff-Davis Publishing asked him to test equipment for it exclusively. His first test report, ''Technical Talk,'' appeared in the fall of 1961 in Hi-Fi/Stereo.
        Mr. Hirsch is survived by his wife of 57 years, Ruth; a son, Steven, of Burlington, Vt.; a daughter, Barbara Harrison of Chappaqua, N.Y.; and two granddaughters.
        Correction:  December 10, 2003, Wednesday  An obituary on Dec. 3 about Julian Hirsch, an engineer who tested audio equipment for consumer magazines, referred imprecisely to his reports in the late 1950's, when he and Gladden Houck formed Hirsch-Houck Laboratories. Mr. Hirsch indeed wrote the lab reports personally.
        The article also misstated the number of subscribers to a newsletter founded by Mr. Hirsch, Mr. Houck and others and the manner in which they severed their ties to it. The Audio League Report had 5,000 subscribers, not 4,000. Mr. Hirsch and Mr. Houck dissolved it; they did not quit.
      