
        Aram J. Kevorkian, an American lawyer in Paris whose witty and opinionated newsletter on the spirit of French law served both corporate clients and devoted Francophiles on his mailing list, died Dec. 20 at the American Hospital in Neuilly. He was 74.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Kevorkian, who practiced in France for more than 40 years, started the newsletter in 1978. By last year, he wrote, he was sending ''The Kevorkian Newsletter'' about once a month to about 3,000 people in 72 countries.
        ''What prompted me to write the first newsletter was an inquiry from the house counsel of an American corporate client about a new French law on consumer warranties,'' he wrote in January 1998. ''On reading his letter I felt a pang of guilt, telling myself that it was I who should have taken the initiative to inform clients of this new statute. Thus, the newsletter began as an exercise in self-discipline.''
        Considered by many of his readers to be a sort of modern-day Montesquieu, Mr. Kevorkian filled his newsletter with observations like these: ''Many French laws never go into effect, whether because they require implementing decrees that are never issued, or because they are repealed or amended before they take effect, or simply because they are so silly that they are not applied.''
        ''French courts judge the criminal more than the crime, whereas American courts do the reverse,'' he explained in another newsletter. ''To the French, then, the confession is the prime focus of the whole process; if the accused confesses, expresses remorse and promises to behave in the future, the court gives him a light sentence; if he denies guilt, the court accuses him of bad faith and 'racks him up,' as we used to say.''
        Mr. Kevorkian was the son of refugees from Turkey who escaped the massacres of Armenians there in 1915, and often wrote about the tragedy in his newsletters. He visited Armenia in 1991 after it became independent, to give advice on a new constitution.
        He was born Dec. 31, 1928, in Philadelphia, where his parents, Karnig and Hripcimee, published a weekly Armenian-language newspaper.
        He spoke Armenian at home, attended Philadelphia public schools, and graduated from the University of Pennsylvania in 1950.
        After earning a J.D. degree from Harvard Law School in 1953, he spent a year in France on a Fulbright fellowship studying European law at the University of Strasbourg and met his wife, Geneviève Eve, in Paris. They married in France in 1957, two years after he joined the Army's Judge Advocate-General Corps, which stationed him in La Rochelle until his military discharge in 1957.
        From 1958 to 1961, he worked on Wall Street for the Dewey Ballantine law firm, but, he wrote, Mrs. Kevorkian did not take to life in New York City and so, in April of 1961, they left for France.
        In Paris, Mr. Kevorkian went to work at first for Coudert Frères, where one of his first clients was his fellow Armenian-American, William Saroyan, who had moved to France in 1959 so he would not have to pay American taxes on his income. Mr. Kevorkian eventually negotiated a settlement with the I.R.S. on Saroyan's past liabilities.
        Mr. Kevorkian set up his own law firm in 1966 as Kevorkian & Partners, advising international companies on business law.
        Besides his wife, his seven children -- Reynold, Stefan, Pascal, Aramine, Aram, and Anoush, all living in France, and Corinne of New York City -- 14 grandchildren, and one great-grandchild survive him.
      