
        Don Lamond, a swing band drummer who was a standout with Woody Herman in the late 1940's, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Orlando, Fla. He was 82 and lived in Orlando.
        The cause was a malignant brain tumor, said his wife, Terry Lamond, who sang and recorded with his band in the 1980's.
        Mr. Lamond joined Herman's Herd in 1945, replacing Dave Tough. He brought with him an original modern drum style of explosive vivacity, which became his trademark. When Herman's band broke up in late 1946, he freelanced with Charlie Parker but returned with Herman's Second Herd until it dissolved in 1949.
        After that he displayed remarkable versatility working in recording studios. He adapted to traditional jazz with Ruby Braff and Bob Crosby, to swing with Benny Goodman and Qunicy Jones, and to bop with the likes of Stan Getz and Zoot Sims, Marian McPartland and Johnny Smith.
        He also played with Sonny Stitt, the Sauter-Finnegan Orchestra, Dick Hyman, Johnny Guarnieri, Jack Teagarden and George Russell.
        In the late 1960's he was a member of George Wein's Newport Festival All-Stars. With Mr. Wein in Paris in 1969, he recorded with Braff, Red Norvo, and Stephane Grappelli and Joe Venuto.
        In the 1970's, Mr. Lamond made recordings with Maxine Sullivan and Bucky Pizzarelli.
        He led his own Big Swing Band, featuring Terry Lamond on vocals, from 1978 to 1981.
        Donald Douglas Lamond was born in Oklahoma City, grew up in Washington and studied at the Peabody Conservatory in Philadelphia.
        He made his professional debut wih Sonny Dunham in 1943 and developed his own style playing with the Boyd Raeburn Orchestra, an avant garde group that was something of a boot camp for young jazz talent, in 1944.
        In recent years, Ms. Lamond said, he accompanied various groups at festivals, most recently in Australia five years ago.
        In addition to his wife of 36 years, Mr. Lamond is survived by a son, Donald III, of Merritt Island, Fla.; two daughters, Cathy Ramstad of Seattle, and Marta Lamond of Brevard, N.C.; five grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 30, 2003, Tuesday  An obituary on Thursday about Don Lamond, a big-band drummer, misstated the site of the Peabody Conservatory, where he studied. It is in Baltimore, not Philadelphia.
      