
        Robert Ross, a retired advertising executive and author of historical suspense novels, died Tuesday in Hendersonville, N.C., where he had lived for the last 23 years, his family said. He was 85.
        Mr. Ross had worked for the Leo Burnett Company in Chicago and D'Arcy McManus Masius before they became worldwide conglomerates. At Burnett, he was among the people who, among other things, thought up the concept of Poppin' Fresh, the Pillsbury Doughboy.
        His work helped sell many products, including Campbell Soup and Kellogg cereals, in print, radio and television commercials. At Burnett and D'Arcy, he was involved in the nascent efforts of Fortune 500 companies to present a corporate identity to the buying public beyond the brand-named product.
        Robert Ross was born in Columbus, Ohio, the son of an advertising man who moved the family with his jobs. He graduated from high school in Queens and attended City College for a year before beginning to write advertising copy for a living for small agencies.
        He had his own agency, Robert Ross & Company, for a while. In 1952, he joined Tatham Laird in Chicago, which has since become part of the Havas Advertising conglomerate, based in Paris. He joined Leo Burnett in 1961 as a vice president.
        He worked for eight years as a creative director and close assistant to its founder and president, Leo Burnett. He also was active in the Chicago region and was a national director for the American Association of Advertising Agencies.
        Mr. Ross became senior vice president and creative director for the Chicago office of D'Arcy Advertising in 1969. (D'Arcy eventually became part of Bcom3 Group, acquired last year by Publicis Groupe of Paris, a bundling of agencies and the corporate parent of Burnett as well.)
        After retiring from D'Arcy in 1971, Mr. Ross went to live as a writer in Montserrat. He wrote novels of the James Bond genre, set in Renaissance Italy, including ''The Medici Guns'' and ''The Medici Emerald,'' both written with Martin Woodhouse.
        His last novel, ''The French Finish,'' won the Edgar Allan Poe Award for the best first mystery by a new writer in 1978. He moved to Hendersonville in 1980 and wrote a weekly column about anything and everything for The Times-News, a daily that served Henderson and neighboring counties.
        Mr. Ross is survived by his wife of 61 years, Ranette; and two sons, Eric M. of Crested Butte, Colo., and David L. of Manhattan.
      