
        Gerald Gutierrez, who won two consecutive Tony awards in 1995 and 1996 as best director for ''The Heiress'' and ''A Delicate Balance'' respectively, died suddenly at his home in Brooklyn. He was 53.
        The time of his death has not been determined. The cause was apparently respiratory failure as a result of the flu, said his brother, Nicholas, who found the body early yesterday morning.
        Mr. Gutierrez, who began his career Off Broadway and in regional theater, had become one of Broadway's most celebrated directors. ''The Heiress'' (by Ruth and Augustus Goetz) and ''A Delicate Balance'' (by Edward Albee), which were Lincoln Center Theater productions, were exemplars of his work. Each had an attention to detail in the performance and staging that was a Gutierrez hallmark.
        He was known for his fidelity to the author's text and for bringing out the best in actors like Cherry Jones in ''The Heiress,'' Rosemary Harris, George Grizzard and Elaine Stritch in ''A Delicate Balance.''
        André Bishop, artistic director of Lincoln Center Theater, and a close friend of Mr. Gutierrez, said yesterday, ''Of all the directors I know, he was one who combined a scrupulous sense of reality with enormous flair and style.''
        For Lincoln Center, he also staged ''Ivanov'' (starring Kevin Kline), ''Abe Lincoln in Illinois,'' ''The Most Happy Fella,'' ''Playboy of the West Indies,'' ''Northeast Local,'' ''Ring Round the Moon'' and, most recently, the revival of ''Dinner at Eight.'' He had been scheduled to direct a revival next season of Clifford Odets's ''Awake and Sing'' for the company. He was also to have directed ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof'' for the Tennessee Williams festival at the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington.
        Mr. Gutierrez was born in Brooklyn and lived there all his life. He went to Midwood High School and then to the State University of New York at Stony Brook and Juilliard, where he doubled as a pianist in the Juilliard preparatory division and as a director in the Juilliard drama division.
        After polishing his craft as an assistant director on road tours of the Acting Company, he directed at various theaters, including the McCarter Theater in Princeton, N.J., before finding a home at Playwrights Horizons. It was there that he began his creative collaboration with Mr. Bishop, who was then the artistic director.
        For Playwrights Horizons, he staged Mustapha Matura's ''Meetings,'' Jonathan Reynolds's ''Geniuses,'' Peter Parnell's ''Rise and Rise of Daniel Rocket'' and Wendy Wasserstein's ''Isn't It Romantic.''
        Each had comic touches that could be specifically attributed to the director. In ''Geniuses,'' a spoof of Francis Ford Coppola's movie ''Apocalypse Now,'' Mr. Gutierrez's direction was as crisp as celluloid, and the special effects bashed the stage with enough wind and rain to drown Ranchipur.
        He also directed David Mamet's ''Life in the Theater'' and, in 1992, ''The Most Happy Fella'' in the Lincoln Center production on Broadway. It was at that time that doctors discovered he had cancer. After surgery he returned to his active life in the theater.
        When he won his Tony for ''The Heiress,'' Mr. Gutierrez was accompanied to the nationally televised ceremony by his Yorkshire terrier Phyllis, whom he handed to a friend on the way to accept the award. The next year he took his 12-year-old nephew Andrew.
        Later, approaching 50, after his twin Tonys and a string of hits, he decided to alter his life drastically and give up the theater.
        ''The theater was everything to him,'' Mr. Bishop explained, ''but he fell out of love with it for a while.'' Long obsessed by courts and politics, he decided to go to law school, and was admitted to Yale University Law School. ''He was the oldest person there,'' Mr. Bishop said. ''He got through most of a year, found it difficult and realized how much he missed the theater. As he said, he staged one of his many comebacks.''
        In 2002, Mr. Gutierrez was back at Playwrights Horizons, where he directed Tom Donaghy's ''Boys and Girls'' and later that year staged a sumptuous production of ''Dinner at Eight'' at Lincoln Center. Law school was behind him.
        He is survived by his brother, who lives in Smithtown, N.Y.
        Mr. Gutierrez, Mr. Bishop and Ms. Wasserstein were the closest of friends and when Ms. Wasserstein gave birth to her daughter, Mr. Gutierrez was in the delivery room.
        ''He loved the theater in a way no one else I know has,'' Ms. Wasserstein said yesterday. ''His was a love of actors and of the history of theater.''
        He always looked back on his Juilliard education as an invaluable experience. Ms. Wasserstein said that when he liked a performance, he would say, ''Classically trained.''
        ''No one was funnier than Gerald,'' she said, ''but the humor was cloaking a real seriousness about the theater.''
      