
        Dr. Harold S. Ginsberg, a microbiologist whose research provided a foundation for the field of virology and expanded knowledge of infectious diseases, died on Feb. 2 in Woods Hole, Mass. He was 85.
        The cause was pneumonia.
        Dr. Ginsberg also headed the microbiology departments at Columbia and the University of Pennsylvania and conducted research for the National Institutes of Health.
        In the late 1950's, while on the faculty at Western Reserve University (now Case Western), Dr. Ginsberg demonstrated that atypical pneumonia and pharyngitis, respiratory illnesses common in children, and acute respiratory disease were infections caused by adenoviruses.
        He described how such viruses, found in the lump of lymph tissue at the back of the nose, also called the adenoid, often remained dormant before gradually becoming infectious.
        Adenoviruses, known to be particularly hardy, can survive long periods outside a host and are ubiquitous in humans and animals.
        Dr. Ginsberg showed how the virus invaded host cells and caused disease. His discovery led to the development of vaccines for infections and helped explain how some DNA tumor viruses initiated cancers.
        Later, he worked on characterizing adenoviral genes and proteins, allowing other scientists to use the viral agents to implant healthy genes in people with cystic fibrosis and other inherited diseases.
        ''He was one of the founding fathers of modern virology and microbiology,'' said Dr. Saul J. Silverstein, chairman of microbiology at Columbia's medical school and a former colleague of Dr. Ginsberg's.
        ''His contributions to the field were numerous,'' Dr. Silverstein said. ''His discoveries involving the genetics of adenoviruses paved the way for the development of gene therapy. He was certainly a giant in this field.''
        Dr. Ginsberg's first major discovery took place while he was a first lieutenant stationed at an Army hospital in England during World War II.
        Noticing a high occurrence of severe hepatitis in wounded soldiers who received blood transfusions, Dr. Ginsberg determined that the pooled plasma the hospital was giving its patients was causing hepatitis B.
        For his efforts, the Army gave him its Legion of Merit Award in 1945. His work is also considered a foundation for the discovery of hepatitis viruses.
        Harold Samuel Ginsberg was born in Daytona Beach, Fla. He received his undergraduate degree from Duke and his medical degree from Tulane.
        Upon finishing his military service, he became an associate at the Rockefeller Institute from 1946 to 1951 and then taught at Western Reserve for nine years before leaving to head the microbiology department at the University of Pennsylvania. He directed Columbia's microbiology department from 1973 to 1985.
        Dr. Ginsberg spent the latter part of his career at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases studying the simian AIDS virus, called S.I.V., to learn how it injures a host after infecting it.
        ''He moved on to research on the AIDS virus essentially because he had accomplished all he could with adenoviruses,'' said Dr. Robert Chanock, formerly chief of the infectious disease agency's laboratory.
        Dr. Ginsberg received numerous scientific awards and was a member of the National Academy of Sciences. A prolific writer, he was the author or co-author of several books, including a widely used microbiology text. He published more than 200 scientific papers.
        Dr. Ginsberg, who lived in Woods Hole and in Washington, is survived by his wife of 53 years, Marion Reibstein Ginsberg; two sons, Benjamin, of Washington, and Peter, of Chappaqua, N.Y.; two daughters, Ann of Westfield, N.J., and Jane of Denver; a brother, Joseph, of Daytona Beach; and eight grandchildren.
      