
        Werenfried van Straaten, a Dutch priest who provided clothes, medicine and food for Germans left destitute by war and who built a Christian charity that is active worldwide today, died on Jan. 31 in a hospital in Bad Soden, Germany. He was 90.
        The death was announced by Aid to the Church in Need at its headquarters in Königstein, near Frankfurt. As founder and elder statesman of the organization, he continued to serve it, most recently on a mission to Ukraine last year.
        His charity became a mainstay of Catholic churches and the faithful the war had left behind under Soviet rule. Currently it also supports Christians in the third world, on a budget of about $80 million yearly from nearly 700,000 donors in Europe and the United States.
        Philip Johannes Hendrik van Straaten was a son of two Dutch teachers, born in Mijdrecht, and raised as a Catholic. He studied literature at the University of Utrecht, but felt drawn to the priesthood and in 1934 sought to join the Capuchin Franciscans.
        Failing the medical tests for their rigorous life of poverty, he found his spiritual home at the Norbertine Abbey of Tongerlo, in Belgium. There, he was ordained and given the name Werenfried, meaning Warrior for Peace.
        He founded a journal for the order and wrote an article for the Christmas 1947 issue, ''No Room at the Inn,'' that set the course of his life. His topic was the 14 million homeless and starving people, mostly Germans, who had fled or were driven from their homes in Central and Eastern Europe to Germany under the Yalta and Potsdam Agreements.
        Father Werenfried's first appeal was to the people of Flanders but it echoed throughout Belgium and the Netherlands, regions that had recently suffered under German occupation. Yet, people responded to his call to forgive the defeated enemy, and ease the plight of refugees.
        Father Werenfried became known as the bacon priest, who scoured the countryside for donations of food and clothing and turned the monastery at Tongerlo into a vast warehouse. ''Chapel trucks'' carted the goods that were collected, and to this day the charity's headquarters, now at Königstein, remains a depot.
        The growing organization received Papal recognition once it turned to providing support for Christians and churches smarting under Soviet domination. Father Werenfried traveled throughout the West to raise awareness of this ''Church of Silence,'' along with material help and prayerbooks.
        He also ventured, sometimes clandestinely, into the Soviet sphere to meet with church leaders and judge the situation on the ground. He started a newsletter circulated in six languages around the world to document instances of persecution of churches and the faithful.
        Pope John XXIII asked Father Werenfried to extend his reach to Latin America. But his combative anti-Communism at times left him at odds with official Vatican policy, and led liberal church elements in England to stop donations, dismissing him as the ''last general of the cold war.''
        The collapse of Communism and particularly the ascension of the Polish-born Pope John Paul II, former Archbishop of Krakow, overcame that difficulty. With John Paul's support Aid to the Church in Need continued its drives to aid the needy and churches and monasteries in faraway places.
        Father Werenfried was also prominent in trying to build bridges to the Russian Orthodox Church and to end the schism in the Catholic Church of China. His organization contributes to 7,000 projects in more than 130 countries.
        Appearing before the crowd at the World Youth Day in Denver in 1993, John Paul II called on the Norbertine monk: ''Father Werenfried, fight on.''
      