
       Edward Steitz, an authority on the rules of basketball who helped introduce the 3-point shot to college and international competition, died yesterday morning at the Baystate Medical Center in Springfield, Mass., after suffering cardiac arrest at his home in East Longmeadow, Mass. Mr. Steitz, director of athletics emeritus at Springfield College, had served as grand marshal at the school's commencement on Sunday.
        Edward Steitz, an authority on the rules of basketball who helped introduce the 3-point shot to college and international competition, died yesterday morning at the Baystate Medical Center in Springfield, Mass., after suffering cardiac arrest at his home in East Longmeadow, Mass. Mr. Steitz, director of athletics emeritus at Springfield College, had served as grand marshal at the school's commencement on Sunday. He was 69 years old.
        The cause of death was not immediately revealed. Earlier this year, Mr. Steitz had been hospitalized for two weeks after suffering a severe attack of angina.
        Mr. Steitz, a native of Beacon, N.Y., was a graduate of Cornell and earned master's and doctoral degrees at Springfield. He taught at Springfield starting in 1948, coached men's basketball there from 1956 to 1966 and was the school's director of athletics for 33 years until his retirement last summer.
        In 1984, Mr. Steitz was elected to the Basketball Hall of Fame for his contributions to the game. He was one of the founders of the Hall, which is in Springfield, in 1959.
        He had been an editor for the National Collegiate Athletic Association basketball rules committee since 1968 and was an assistant editor before that.
        Believed in 3-Point Shot
        Mr. Steitz, who was also the United States representative to the international basketball rules committee, was involved in most of college basketball's major changes over the years, most notably the advent of the 45-second shot clock in 1986 and the introduction of the 3-point field goal in 1987.
        He viewed the 3-pointer, taken by collegians from a distance beyond 19 feet 9 inches, as the most important rule change since the elimination in 1937 of a center jump after every completed shot. The National Basketball Association adopted the 3-point shot in the 1979-80 season, using a distance of 23 feet 9 inches.
        ''It accomplished everything the rules committee wanted,'' Mr. Steitz said of the 3-pointer. ''The dunk is no longer basktball's home run; the 3-point shot is.''
        ''Wherever you traveled internationally, when people thought of U.S. basketball, they mentioned Dr. Steitz,'' said Joe O'Brien, the director of the Basketball Hall of Fame. ''He was an ambassador for the game, his university and the city of Springfield.''
        Mr. Steitz was a co-founder of the Amateur Basketball Association, now called USA Basketball, which is the governing body for all international amateur basketball in the United States, and was its president for 10 years.
        He was also a member of the United States Olympic Committee's executive committee, a longtime member of the N.C.A.A. executive committee and president of the Eastern College Athletic Association. He also wrote or edited 91 books and wrote more than 300 articles for magazines and professional journals.
        He is survived by his wife, June, two sons and a daughter.
      