
       The Rev. Henry C. Gregory 3d, for 17 years senior minister of Shiloh Baptist Church, Washington's historic activist church, died of cancer on Sunday at the Greenbriar, a resort in White Sulphur Springs, W.Va., where he was resting. He was 54 years old.  Mr. Gregory's sermons at Shiloh, nationally known for its program of pursuing social and political causes, were taped and broadcast on radio every
        The Rev. Henry C. Gregory 3d, for 17 years senior minister of Shiloh Baptist Church, Washington's historic activist church, died of cancer on Sunday at the Greenbriar, a resort in White Sulphur Springs, W.Va., where he was resting. He was 54 years old.  Mr. Gregory's sermons at Shiloh, nationally known for its program of pursuing social and political causes, were taped and broadcast on radio every Sunday.
        Mr. Gregory's political endorsement was highly valued. In his tenure, the church, at Ninth and P Streets in a bleak, boarded-up section of the city, provided a weekly forum and meeting place for the Rev. Jesse Jackson and the organizers of Operation PUSH.
        Reagans Visit Church
        In the 1960's the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. was among those who spoke from its pulpit. In 1983 President and Mrs. Ronald Reagan were hosts there for a night of spiritual and gospel music for the public television series ''In Performance at the White House.''
        In 1982 the church built a three-story $5.5 million Family Life Center. It was conceived by Mr. Gregory to foster healthier family relationships among black residents facing the hardships of inner-city life. Adjacent to the church, the center has basketball, racquetball and squash courts, a jogging tract, video games, a sauna and a Jacuzzi, and a 600-seat banquet hall.
        Mr. Gregory was a native New Yorker who grew up in West Virginia and graduated from Howard University in 1956. He earned master's degrees in divinity at Drew University and Harvard. He was ordained in Newark and was assistant dean of the chapel at Howard and pastor of churches in Fredericksburg, Va., and Richmond before going to Shiloh.
        Mr. Gregory is survived by his wife, the former Muriel E. Edwards; a daughter, Lisa Michelle; a son, Henry Clayton 4th; and his parents, Louise and the Rev. Henry C. Gregory Jr., all of Washington, and a sister, Lois Owens of Montclair, N.J.
      