
       Gordon M. Buehrig, an automobile designer who numbered among his creations the sporty low-slung Cord 810 that electrified visitors to the 1935 New York Auto Show, died of heart failure Monday at his home in Grosse Pointe, Mich. He was 85 years old.
        Gordon M. Buehrig, an automobile designer who numbered among his creations the sporty low-slung Cord 810 that electrified visitors to the 1935 New York Auto Show, died of heart failure Monday at his home in Grosse Pointe, Mich. He was 85 years old.
        In his long career Mr. Buehrig was associated with many specialty-car manufacturers and with both the Ford Motor Company and the General Motors Corporation. Born in Mason City, Iowa, he attended Bradley University briefly before taking a job as an apprentice at a small auto-body company in Wayne, Mich. He then worked for Packard, General Motors and Stutz, where he became chief body designer at 24 years old.
        A year later, in 1929, he was lured away by Duesenberg, where he designed half the company's prestigious line, including the ''Twenty Grand,'' a one-of-a-kind car that is now worth more than $1 million. The car originally sold for $20,000 after being exhibited at the 1933 World's Fair in Chicago, With the 1935 Auburn Speedster he helped salvage the Auburn company, which like Duesenberg was owned by E. L. Cord.
        Auto Captures Attention
        But it was the 1935 Cord, with its front-wheel drive, flip-top headlights, coffin-like nose and chassis into which riders stepped down, not up, that captured the most public attention when it was shown for the first time at the Auto Show in Grand Central Palace.
        In 1936 Mr. Buehrig switched to the Budd Company to head a new design studio. In World War II he joined Studebaker and worked on the radically different 1947 Studebaker with its bullet-shaped hood. By 1950 he was with Ford, where he designed the 1951 Vittoria, a hardtop coupe, and later the 1956 Lincoln Continental Mark II.
        He retired in 1965 and became an instructor at the Art Center College of Design in Pasadena, Calif. In the decade before his death he directed production of precision car models for the Franklin Mint.
        A fellow of the Society of Automotive Engineers, he was named in 1981 by the Society of Automotive Historians as one of the 30 most significant contributors to the development of motor cars. Last October he was inducted into the Automotive Hall of Fame.the Automotive Hall of Fame.
        Mr. Buehrig is survived by his wife, the former Kathryn Lundell; a daughter, Barbara Orlando of Manhattan,
        Correction:  January 27, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Wednesday about Gordon M. Buehrig, an automobile designer, misstated his birthplace. It was Mason City, Ill., not Iowa.
      