
       Frederick C. Mosher, a retired professor of government and foreign affairs at the University of Virginia and a former government administrator, died of emphysema on Monday at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 76 years old.
        Frederick C. Mosher, a retired professor of government and foreign affairs at the University of Virginia and a former government administrator, died of emphysema on Monday at his home in Charlottesville, Va. He was 76 years old.
        Professor Mosher, a specialist in budgeting and personnel administration, served as a consultant to several Government agencies and task forces and was editor in chief of Public Administration Review from 1951 to 1954.
        He was a graduate of Dartmouth College and received a master's degree from Syracuse University and a doctorate from Harvard. Early in his career, he served with the Tennessee Valley Authority, the Public Administration Clearing House and the Los Angeles Department of Civil Service.
        In World War II, he rose to major in the Army Air Forces. After the war, he was a personnel administrator in the United Nations Relief and Rehabilitation Agency and assistant director of foreign service planning at the State Department.
        In 1949, he joined the faculty at Syracuse. He moved to the University of Bologna, Italy, in 1957 and to the University of California at Berkeley in 1959. In 1968, he was named professer of government and foreign affairs at the Miller Center of Public Affairs at the University of Virginia. He retired in 1980 but continued at the center as a research scholar until his death.
        Among his books were ''Program Budgeting: Theory and Practice,'' published in 1954, and ''Democracy and the Public Service,'' published in 1968. He received, among other honors, the Maxwell School Public Service Award in 1968, the Louis Brownlow Memorial Book Prize in 1969 and the Dwight Waldo Award of the American Society of Public Administration in 1981.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Edith Kern; a daughter, Christine Thayer of Alexandria, Va.; two sons, David of Alexandria and James of San Francisco; a brother, Dr. William E. Mosher of Buffalo, and three grandchildren.
      