
       Gerald Fitzgerald, an associate editor of Opera News magazine since 1960 and a well-known figure in American opera, died of AIDS on Tuesday at New York Hospital. He was 57 years old.
        Gerald Fitzgerald, an associate editor of Opera News magazine since 1960 and a well-known figure in American opera, died of AIDS on Tuesday at New York Hospital. He was 57 years old.
        Mr. Fitzgerald also served as an associate editor of Ballet News during its seven-year existence, from 1979 to 1986. Like Opera News, Ballet News was published by the Metropolitan Opera Guild.
        His editorial capacity with the guild involved him in a wide variety of activities, most of them consisting of photographic documentation of the Met. But his most important project, on which he worked until very recently, was the two-volume revision of the Met annals, the first volume of which has just been published.
        Books and Slide Shows
        Mr. Fitzgerald served as picture consultant or editor for many opera books, among them ''The Golden Horseshoe,'' ''Callas,'' ''Celebration: The Metropolitan Opera,'' ''The Met: 100 Years of Grand Opera,'' ''Magnificence Onstage at the Met,'' ''The Stages of Menotti'' and ''Grandissimo Pavarotti.''
        He also produced slide shows and publications for a variety of guild functions, and intermission features for the ''Live From the Met'' telecasts starting in 1977.
        Gerald Norman Fitzgerald was born in Atlanta on Oct. 31, 1932. He grew up in Houston, where he developed an interest in opera. He came to New York City after high school, and began work in 1951 in the membership department of the Metropolitan Opera Guild.
        In 1956, he joined the staff of Opera News, becoming an assistant editor in 1959 and an associate editor the next year. Aside from his guild activities, he worked for several summers in the early 1960's for Gian Carlo Menotti's Festival of Two Worlds in Spoleto, Italy, editing program books and other publications.
        He is survived by a sister, Ione Fitzgerald Harrel of Houston.
      