
       Robert Sidney Amdursky, a lawyer, educator and specialist in public finance law, died of Hodgkin's disease on Tuesday at New York Hospital. He was 52 years old and lived in Harrison, N.Y.
        Robert Sidney Amdursky, a lawyer, educator and specialist in public finance law, died of Hodgkin's disease on Tuesday at New York Hospital. He was 52 years old and lived in Harrison, N.Y.
        Mr. Amdursky was a partner in the Manhattan law firm of Wilkie Farr & Gallagher and an adjunct professor at the New York University Law School. He was an aide and counselor to New York State committees and officials for more than 20 years, most recently as chairman of the New York State Moreland Act Commission to Investigate the Operation and Administration of the Returnable Container Act.
        He was born in Syracuse and graduated with honors from Cornell University in 1959 and from Harvard Law School in 1962. He served as a law clerk in the New York State Appellate Division in Rochester and in 1963 became a partner in the Oswego law firm of Amdursky & Amdursky.
        A Counsel to State Government
        Mr. Amdursky became associated with state government as counsel to the New York State Joint Legislative Committee on Housing and Urban Development in 1966 and then served as special counsel to the Republican majority leader in the New York State Senate from 1970 to 1979. He was deputy chairman of the state's Mortgage Finance Agency.
        He also served as a member of or adviser to many state commissions, including those dealing with the Urban Development Corporation and the revision of state and local financing laws.
        In 1972 he became a partner in the Manhattan law firm of Sykes, Galloway & Dikeman and in 1976 he joined Wilkie Farr & Gallagher.
        He taught law at Syracuse University and at the University of Buffalo in the 1960's and joined the faculty of New York University in 1981.
        Mr. Amdursky is survived by his wife, Audrey; two sons, Richard, of Manhattan, and Eric, of Harrison; his father, Leonard, and a sister, Jay Perlow, both of Syracuse, and a brother, Stanley Shenkman of Toronto.
      