
       Stephen Shadegg, a political campaign manager who was regarded as the alter ego of Senator Barry Goldwater in the Senator's unsuccessful quest for the Presidency in 1964, died after a long illness on April 16 at his home in Phoenix. He was 80 years old.
        Stephen Shadegg, a political campaign manager who was regarded as the alter ego of Senator Barry Goldwater in the Senator's unsuccessful quest for the Presidency in 1964, died after a long illness on April 16 at his home in Phoenix. He was 80 years old.
        Mr. Shadegg was active in politics for more than four decades and helped elect many influential figures to public office in Arizona. As Mr. Goldwater's campaign manager in 1952, he helped the former department-store executive upset Ernest McFarland, the Senate Democratic leader, to win the first of five terms in the Senate.
        In 1960 Mr. Shadegg was elected chairman of Arizona's Republican Party and for three years wrote a nationally syndicated newspaper column that carried Senator Goldwater's byline.
        In Mr. Goldwater's unsuccessful run for the Presidency against Lyndon B. Johnson in 1964, Mr. Shadegg served as Western regional director of the Goldwater forces. He was acknowledged as the person closest to the Senator in philosophy and as the craftsman of the Goldwater image as a staunch conservative.
        Mr. Shadegg had been a registered Democrat and once served as campaign manager for Senator Carl Hayden of Arizona, a Democrat who served more than 50 years in the Senate. In 1962, by then a Republican, Mr. Shadegg let Senator Goldwater persuade him to run in the Republican primary for the seat held by Senator Hayden.
        Mr. Shadegg lost to Evan Mecham, later Arizona's Governor, in a bitter contest in which Senator Goldwater was publicly neutral. Mr. Shadegg later said he had felt ''terribly let down'' by the Senator's stance.
        Mr. Shadegg, born in Minneapolis, was also a freelance writer who wrote more than 500 stories for detective magazines. After moving to Arizona in 1937 he wrote radio scripts and later spent two years in Hollywood writing scripts for RKO Pictures.
        But politics became his passion and he managed more than 40 campaigns for local, state and national offices.
        Mr. Shadegg's wife, the former Eugenia Kerr, died two years before him. He is survived by two sons, Stephen of Tucson and John of Phoenix; and two daughters, Cynthia Ackel of Tempe and Eugenia Johnson of Phoenix.
      