
       Vincent A. Carson, who managed all three major airports in the New York metropolitan area, died of cancer on Friday at his home in Livingston, N.J. He was 90 years old.
        Vincent A. Carson, who managed all three major airports in the New York metropolitan area, died of cancer on Friday at his home in Livingston, N.J. He was 90 years old.
        Mr. Carson, who was born in Newark, retired in 1971 as general manager of Newark Airport, where he began his career 44 years earlier while studying at the Newark College of Engineering and working for the city.
        He supervised the construction of the first hangars and runways at Newark under several airport managers. Then, in World War II, he was in charge of building and operating military air bases in North Africa and the China-Burma-India area, rising to lieutenant colonel.
        In 1948 he joined the New York Port Authority, which had taken over the management of the airports. He was general manager of La Guardia Airport until 1956, when he transferred to Idlewild Airport, now John F. Kennedy International, supervising reconstruction of the central terminal area.
        Rebuilding at Newark
        From 1963 until 1971, he supervised major rebuilding at Newark Airport as general manager there, as well as at Teterboro Airport, which the port agency took over.
        He was president of the American Association of Airport Executives in 1964, honored as the association's Airport Manager of the Year in 1968 and received the Port Authority's Distinguished Service Medal in 1969.
        Over the decades, Mr. Carson greeted five United States Presidents, as well as a score of foreign heads of state, including Queen Elizabeth II, Nikita S. Khrushchev and Fidel Castro.
        In the early days, he became acquainted with some of the people who later became legends in American aviation: Charles A. Lindbergh, Jimmy Doolittle, Amelia Earhart, Howard Hughes.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Rita Byrne; two sons, Vincent, of Albuquerque, N.M., and Dr. Peter, of Washington, and three grandchildren.
      