
       Frank M. Adams, the president of the Morrison Knudsen Company, and his wife, Novella, were killed on Sunday morning when a single-engine plane he was flying crashed near Naylor, Mo. Both were 64 years old and lived in Boise, Idaho, where Morrison Knudsen, one of the world's largest heavy-construction concerns, has its headquarters.
        Frank M. Adams, the president of the Morrison Knudsen Company, and his wife, Novella, were killed on Sunday morning when a single-engine plane he was flying crashed near Naylor, Mo. Both were 64 years old and lived in Boise, Idaho, where Morrison Knudsen, one of the world's largest heavy-construction concerns, has its headquarters.
        Witnesses told the Missouri Highway Patrol that the plane appeared to have lost its wings, according to The Associated Press. The Adamses were returning to Boise after visiting children in Tennessee. Mrs. Adams was the plane's only passenger.
        Mr. Adams joined Morrison Knudsen in 1988 as executive vice president and was made president last August. He had been with the Bendix Corporation and a successor, the aircraft systems division of the Allied-Signal Corporation, from 1969 to 1988, retiring as the division's president.
        His business career followed a 26-year career in the United States Navy, from which he retired as a captain in 1969 after having commanded two nuclear submarines and having held high administrative posts in the nuclear propulsion program initiated by Vice Adm. Hyman G. Rickover.
        Mr. Adams, a native of Memphis and a 1946 graduate of the Naval Academy, was awarded the Legion of Merit upon his retirement from the Navy.
        At Bendix he was director of engineering in the electrodynamics division and general manager of the communications division, supervising the production of aerospace and electronics components for the military services and for civilian markets.
        After being the vice president in charge of four Bendix aerospace and electronics divisions, he became president of the group when it became a division of Allied-Signal.
        Mr. Adams had worked for many years at Bendix with William M. Agee, who was ousted in 1982 as the company's chairman. In 1988 Mr. Agee was brought in by Morrison Knudsen as chairman and chief executive, and a year later he recruited Mr. Adams to serve as president and chief operating officer.
        Survivors include four sons, Capt. Clint Adams of Annapolis, Md., Monty of Decherd, Tenn., Robert of Sandy Spring, Md., and David of Clearwater, Fla.; a daughter, Harriette Graham of Chattanooga, Tenn.; a sister, Grace Maglsky of Circle, Mont., and 10 grandchildren.
      