
       Robert B. Meyner, who revitalized the Democratic Party in New Jersey and rose to national prominence during two terms as Governor in the 1950's and early 60's, died Sunday at his home in Captiva, Fla., after a long illness. He was 81 years old and had been in declining health since suffering a stroke in 1986.
        Robert B. Meyner, who revitalized the Democratic Party in New Jersey and rose to national prominence during two terms as Governor in the 1950's and early 60's, died Sunday at his home in Captiva, Fla., after a long illness. He was 81 years old and had been in declining health since suffering a stroke in 1986.
        Mr. Meyner was first elected Governor in 1953, a year after Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, a Republican, had swept the country in a landslide victory for the Presidency, and Mr. Meyner was re-elected in 1957 under the same circumstances. Midway in his first term he was already being mentioned as a possible Democratic Vice Presidential candidate and in his second term as a potential nominee for President.
        But he was named as neither, and despite his two successful terms as Governor, he was defeated in a comeback bid against William T. Cahill, a Republican, in 1969 by a half-million votes.
        Dim Prospects of Victory
        Mr. Meyner was 45 years old and had held only one elective office, one term as a State Senator, when he was selected by a group of influential New Jersey Democrats as the organization's candidate for Governor in 1953.
        As the candidate of a shattered and nearly bankrupt Democratic Party in a state that had not elected a Democrat to statewide office since 1940, the little-known candidate was given little chance.
        ''If I don't win,'' he said, ''at least the people of New Jersey will know how to pronounce my name'' (MY-ner).
        A gifted orator and tireless campaigner - he once gave 18 speeches in 12 hours in Hudson County - Mr. Meyner surprised even his backers when he was elected by 150,000 votes.
        Besides 18-hour days of campaigning, he was among the first to recognize the political power of television and sought out the cameras whenever possible.
        Sought as Party Orator
        He also deftly engendered scandal, disclosing that his Republican opponent in 1953, Paul T. Troast, a wealthy building contractor, had written to Gov. Thomas E. Dewey of New York urging clemency for a notorious labor racketeer, Joseph Fay, then in a New York prison.
        In office, Mr. Meyner's skill as an orator made him a mainstay on the Democratic circuit. He averaged 20 appearances a month in 1954 and only slightly fewer in 1955, some as far away as Florida and California.
        But he was equally tireless in Trenton, pushing his fiscally conservative legislative agenda through an overwhelmingly Republican Legislature and reorganizing the state government to make it more efficient. He insisted on a balanced budget and rigid law enforcement, developed programs for water and land management, and oversaw the completion of the New Jersey Turnpike in the mid-1950's.
        His Integrity Praised
        Former Gov. Brendan T. Byrne, who was Mr. Meyner's secretary from 1956 to 1958 and held the governorship from 1974 to 1982, said in a statement yesterday that Mr. Meyner ''took a boss-controlled Democratic Party and insisted on public integrity which remains the standard in New Jersey.''
        Mr. Meyner was no less averse to unearthing scandal while in office than he had been as a candidate. In 1954 he discovered widespread irregularities in the State Division of Employment Security and promptly suspended its director, former Gov. Harold G. Hoffman. When Mr. Hoffman died a few months later, Governor Meyner made public a confession left by the former Governor in which he admitted having embezzled $300,000 in state funds.
        Robert Baumle Meyner was born in Easton, Pa., on July 3, 1908, the son of Sophie and Gustave H. Meyner, a loom fixer in the silk industry. The family moved to New Jersey, and he attended public schools at Phillipsburg while also working as a newsboy, grocery clerk and silk weaver.
        He graduated from Lafayette College and, in 1933, from the Columbia University School of Law. He practiced law in Phillipsburg and served as a naval officer in World War II.
        Considered a most eligible bachelor - The Saturday Evening Post described him as ''The Glamorous Governor of New Jersey'' in 1957 - he married that year, while Governor, Helen Day Stevenson, who served as a member of the House of Representatives from New Jersey's 13th Congressional District from 1975 to 1979.
        She survives him, as does a brother, Gustave, of Vacaville, Calif.
        A memorial service will be held at 2 P.M. June 15 at St. Philip and St. James Roman Catholic Church, 426 South Main Street, Phillipsburg.
      