
       Hussein Onn, Prime Minister of Malaysia from 1976 to 1981, died at a California hospital after a second heart attack in six weeks. He was 68 years old.
        Hussein Onn, Prime Minister of Malaysia from 1976 to 1981, died at a California hospital after a second heart attack in six weeks. He was 68 years old.
        Mr. Hussein died Monday afternoon at Seton Medical Center in a suburb of San Francisco, where he had been hospitalized for several weeks, said a nursing supervisor.
        Mr. Hussein was admitted to the intensive care unit after suffering the second heart attack, his son-in-law, Yahya Awang, a heart surgeon, said.
        Dr. Yahya said the Malaysian Embassy in the United States was making arrangements for the body to be flown back to Malaysia, where an official funeral was planned.
        Elected to Parliament in '69
        Mr. Hussein was born Feb. 22, 1922, in Johore Bharu, at the tip of the Malay Peninsula across the causeway from Singapore. He was educated at an English primary school in Johore Bahru and at the Indian Military Academy at Dehra Dun. He studied law in London in the 1950's, enrolled in Lincoln's Inn and was admitted to the bar. After returning to Malaysia to practice law, he was elected to the Malaysian Parliament in 1969.
        Mr. Hussein was Malaysia's third Prime Minister. Mr. Hussein became Prime Minister after the death of Abdul Razak in 1976. Mr. Hussein was Mr. Razak's deputy and his brother-in-law.
        Mr. Hussein was a member of the United Malays National Organization Party, which has ruled the country since independence in a coalition with Chinese and Indian parties.
        He resigned after a heart bypass operation in 1981 because of his health.
        Selected His Successor
        Mr. Hussein selected the present Prime Minister, Mahathir Mohamad, to succeed him in July 1981. But the two broke with each other in 1987 and 1988 when Mr. Mahathir dismissed Malaysia's highest ranking judge, arrested 106 people and detained them without trial. Mr. Mahathir's actions resulted in formation of a rival party.
        But in the last 18 months, Mr. Mahathir and Mr. Hussein were said to have reconciled their differences and to have held regular consultations.
      