
       Juan Antonio, a dancer, choreographer and co-founder of the Louis Falco Dance Company, died of AIDS last Thursday at Doctors Hospital in Toronto, where he lived. He was 45 years old.
        Juan Antonio, a dancer, choreographer and co-founder of the Louis Falco Dance Company, died of AIDS last Thursday at Doctors Hospital in Toronto, where he lived. He was 45 years old.
        Mr. Antonio was a leading performer on the New York dance stage in the 1970's, principally with Mr. Falco's company. He was known for his lithe, feline attack, his easy authority on stage and his look of pleasure in the dancing. ''He was one of my most important collaborators,'' Mr. Falco said yesterday. ''The loss is great.''
        Mr. Antonio was born in Mexico City. He trained in New York at the American Ballet Theater School and the American Ballet Center. He made his professional debut at 18 with the Nuevo Teatro de la Danza Mexico and became a member of the Ballet Clasico de Mexico in 1964.
        In the United States, he danced with the companies of Pearl Lang, Anna Sokolow, Carmen de Lavallade and Glen Tetley. He also performed as a guest artist with the Jose Limon Dance Company and the Netherlands Dans Theater. In 1967, he helped to found the Falco company, becoming one of its stars and an associate director of the troupe. He also choreographed for the company, and for the Ballet Nacional de Espana.
        Mr. Antonio moved to Canada in 1983 to become balletmaster and co-director of Les Ballets Jazz de Montreal and director of the company's new school. He became one of the leading modern dance teachers in Toronto, where he founded a dance company called Confidanse in 1984. The company disbanded early this year. Mr. Antonio staged Mr. Tetley's ''Embrace Tiger, Return to Mountain'' this year for England's Ballet Rambert, and continued to choreograph up to his death.
        His companion was Charles Desjardins. He is survived by his mother, Ophelia, of Mexico City, and his father, Juan Antonio Jimenez, in Spain.
      