
       L. Nicholas Ruwe, a former United States Ambassador to Iceland and a Republican Party stalwart, died of cancer on Wednesday at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. He was 56 years old and lived in Washington.
        L. Nicholas Ruwe, a former United States Ambassador to Iceland and a Republican Party stalwart, died of cancer on Wednesday at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn. He was 56 years old and lived in Washington.
        Mr. Ruwe served as Ambassador to Iceland from 1985 to October 1989 and helped settle disputes involving shipping and whaling. He was also responsible for the operation of the 1986 summit meeting between President Ronald Reagan and Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the Soviet leader.
        Upon his departure, the Government of Iceland awarded Mr. Ruwe its highest honor, the Order of the Falcon, with a star and a cross.
        Aide to Presidents
        Mr. Ruwe (pronounced ROO-wee) was a senior staff member and a consultant to President Reagan's election campaigns. From 1980 to 1984, he was chief of staff in New York for former President Richard M. Nixon.
        He was assistant chief of protocol at the State Department from 1969 to 1975 and was responsible for the state funerals of former Presidents Harry S. Truman and Dwight D. Eisenhower.
        In 1975 he married Nancy Lammerding, then social secretary to President Gerald R. Ford and his wife, Betty, with the First Lady serving as the bride's matron of honor.
        Born in Detroit on Sept. 22, 1933, Mr. Ruwe graduated from Brown University in 1955 and from the University of Michigan's Graduate School of Business Administration in 1956.
        He was active in Republican politics, working on Presidential campaigns and on the campaigns of Senator John G. Tower and Representative John W. Goode in Texas in 1961, on Charles H. Percy's campaign for governor in Illinois in 1964 and on Spiro Agnew's Vice Presidential campaign in 1968.
        In addition to his wife, he leaves his father, Lester R. Ruwe, and a sister, Nanette Ruwe, both of Grosse Pointe, Mich.
      