
       William Scott, a British artist acclaimed for his still life paintings and drawings, died of Alzheimer's disease on Thursday at his home outside Bath in Somerset, England. He was 76 years old.
        William Scott, a British artist acclaimed for his still life paintings and drawings, died of Alzheimer's disease on Thursday at his home outside Bath in Somerset, England. He was 76 years old.
        Mr. Scott, whose emphasis on still life and the figure became increasingly abstract and austere, was Britain's chief representative at the Venice Biennale in 1958. In 1966, he was named a Commander of the British Empire.
        Mr. Scott ''is an artist of uncommon distinction, one of the best anywhere,'' the art critic Hilton Kramer said in The New York Times in 1973, adding that ''although he is not as well known in New York as his work warrants, his stature has long been recognized in European art circles.''
        Shapely Kitchen Utensils
        Mr. Scott's persistent paintings and drawings of still-life images of an elegant skillet, a shapely pitcher and other kitchen items were dismissed by some reviewers as too tranquil, but others praised them for great beauty as well as technical facility and aplomb.
        In 1975, Mr. Kramer described a Manhattan exhibition of the artist's drawings as ''a beautiful show'' that ''confirms Mr. Scott as one of the most accomplished artists of his generation.'' The critic offered this analysis of the artist's technique:
        ''Mr. Scott's visual language is tonal and linear - a language of subtle shifts of light and simplified silhouettes, of elusive shadows and irregular contours. It is the shape of an emotion that we see depicted rather than the shape of an object.''
        William George Scott was born of Scottish and Irish descent in Grennock, Scotland, on the Firth of Clyde and studied at the Belfast College of Art in Northern Ireland and the Royal Academy of Art in London. In World War II, he was a cartographer with the Royal Engineers.
        Admired Chardin and Braque
        On the eve of the war, he lived in Paris, where he developed a deep affinity for the still life tradition of Chardin and Georges Braque. His later work was also influenced by Jackson Pollock and Mark Rothko, but he remained a steadfast mediator between tradition and the radical vanguard.
        Survivors include his wife, Mary; two sons: Robert, an industrial designer, and James, a film maker, both of London; two sisters: Nancy Humphries of Ascot, England, and Mary Clure of Portadown, Northern Ireland; two brothers: Walter, of Toronto, and Alec, of Belfast, and five grandchildren.
      