
       Dr. Howard Ulfelder, a gynecologist and cancer specialist who helped discover the link between a rare form of vaginal cancer and a hormone medication some women took in early pregnancy, died of pneumonia on Sunday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 81 years old and lived in Lexington,
        Dr. Howard Ulfelder, a gynecologist and cancer specialist who helped discover the link between a rare form of vaginal cancer and a hormone medication some women took in early pregnancy, died of pneumonia on Sunday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 81 years old and lived in Lexington, Mass.
        In 1971, Dr. Ulfelder was one of three physicians at Massachusetts General Hospital who discovered the link between the cancer, adenocarcinoma, and the drug diethylstilbestrol, or DES, which was prescribed to prevent miscarriages. His collaborators were Dr. Arthur L. Herbst and Dr. David C. Poskaner.
        The hospital was able to reassure thousands of women whose mothers had taken the hormone that in its early stages the cancer was easily cured. The use of DES during pregnancy was later banned.
        Dr. Ulfelder, a 1936 graduate of Harvard Medical School, did his residency at Massachusetts General and spent his career on the staff there except for several years in the Army Medical Corps in World War II. He was chief of staff at Vincent Memorial Hospital of Massachusetts General from 1955 to 1976, and since 1973 had been deputy for cancer affairs to the hospital's director general. He was also a professor of gynecology at Harvard Medical School.
        He was a member of many medical societies and served on the Board of Governors of the American College of Surgeons. He was a founder and former president of the Society of Pelvic Surgeons and was co-author of ''Atlas of Pelvic Operations,'' a textbook used internationally.
        He is survived by his wife, Ethel; three sons, Howard Jr. of Chilmark, Mass., John of McLean, Va., and Thomas of Concord, Mass., and six grandchiildren.
      