
       Dr. Shephard Stone, who had distinguished careers in journalism, diplomacy and philanthropy, died of a heart attack on Friday while driving from his home in South Newfane, Vt., to a conference at Dartmouth College. He was 82 years old.
        Dr. Shephard Stone, who had distinguished careers in journalism, diplomacy and philanthropy, died of a heart attack on Friday while driving from his home in South Newfane, Vt., to a conference at Dartmouth College. He was 82 years old.
        Dr. Stone, who also had a home in Cambridge, Mass., retired two years ago as director of the Aspen Institute Berlin, an offshoot of the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies in Colorado. He had served in that capacity since 1974. The institutes are nonprofit groups that bring people together to explore a wide range of subjects.
        In an autobiographical sketch he wrote in 1967, Dr. Stone also described himself as ''an active lumberjack.''
        Developments in Germany
        German studies was a specialty of Dr. Stone. When he died late Friday morning near the town of White River Junction, Vt., he was on his way to a conference at Dartmouth on the recent tumultuous developments in Germany.
        Dr. Stone graduated from Dartmouth in 1929 with a history degree. He also earned a doctorate in history from the University of Berlin.
        Soon after, he joined The New York Times, where for the next 16 years -except for a wartime leave - he wrote about foreign affairs and was assistant Sunday editor. In 1939 he wrote a book, ''Shadow Over Europe -the Challenge of Nazi Germany.''
        From 1942 until 1946, Dr. Stone served in the Army in Europe.
        Worked for Ford Foundation
        Between 1949 and 1952, he was director of public affairs for the United States High Commission for Germany, one of the agencies responsible for overseeing postwar affairs there.
        Then, in 1953, Dr. Stone was named director of the Ford Foundation's international affairs program and adviser to the foundation's president on foreign affairs. He worked at the Foundation until 1968 and also served as a consultant to the United States Arms Control and Disarmament Agency.
        After leaving the foundation, he became president of the International Association for Cultural Freedom, a group working to promote freedom and human rights. In 1974, he joined the Aspen Institute Berlin. Since his retirement in 1988, he had been honorary chairman of the McCloy Scholars Program at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard.
        Dr. Stone is survived by his wife, the former Charlotte Hasenclever; a daughter, Margaret Stone Jennings of Arlington, Mass.; a sister, Lillian Cohen of Nashua, N.H., and a brother, Hermon Stone of Manhattan.
        Correction:  May 27, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary and a picture caption on May 6 about a journalist, diplomat and foundation executive rendered his name incorrectly. He was Shepard Stone.
      