
       Nat Sherman, the cigar merchant who started as a peddler on the streets of the Lower East Side, died of heart failure on Monday at Miami Heart Hospital in Miami Beach after a long bout with colon cancer. He was 86 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Miami Beach.
        Nat Sherman, the cigar merchant who started as a peddler on the streets of the Lower East Side, died of heart failure on Monday at Miami Heart Hospital in Miami Beach after a long bout with colon cancer. He was 86 years old and had homes in Manhattan and Miami Beach.
        Mr. Sherman gained a wide reputation as a wisecracking Broadway character, dining out every night in New York or Florida before his final illness. He was active until his death in running his tobacco shop on Fifth Avenue and the manufacturing and mail-order operations that sprang from it.
        He opened his first cigar store in 1930 at 1400 Broadway, near 38th Street, in the heart of the garment district, and stayed at that location for 48 years. Then, at age 74, he refused to pay a rent increase and signed a 20-year lease for space on Fifth Avenue at 55th Street, where the Nat Sherman store remains today.
        Mr. Sherman, who smoked cigars until his doctor ordered him to stop when he was 80, was the fourth of nine children born to Hungarian immigrants. Even as a small boy he had a knack for selling, and he peddled newspapers, chocolate bars - whatever he could get his hands on - to help his parents make ends meet. The family was so poor that one year they lived in 12 different tenement apartments, taking advantage of the month's free rent offered by landlords as an incentive.
        Helped Struggling Clothiers
        His first business other than peddling was as co-owner of a pool hall. But it was not until he opened his Broadway store and began importing Cuban cigars that he achieved real success.
        While in the garment district, he became one of its more colorful denizens, holding court and telling jokes to a stream of customers. He frequently helped struggling clothiers in the precarious garment business, staking them to down payments for rent or for sewing machines.
        A showman at heart and an ardent member of the Friars Club, Mr. Sherman would sing along with his favorite pianists at night spots A Hit With New Fathers He merchandised tobacco products as if they were showcase items. His trademark ''It's a Boy'' and ''It's a Girl'' cigars and cigarettes were an instant hit with proud new fathers. When a friend complained about no longer being allowed to smoke cigars on airplanes, Mr. Sherman produced a line of brown cigarettes for which he became famous.
        Over the years he made the transition from a retailer with a small mail-order operation to the leader of an integrated business with manufacturing, distributing and retailing divisions.
        Mr. Sherman's first wife, Lautia, died in 1965, and his older son, Barry, died in 1976. He is survived by his second wife, the former Betty Lewis; a son from his first marriage, Joel, of Leonia, N.J.; a brother, William, of Manhattan; two sisters, Edna Dreazen of Jacksonville, Fla., and Shirley Moscowitz of Manhattan, and five grandchildren.
      