
       Walker Percy, a Southern author who wrote about modern man's search for faith and love in a chaotic world in ''The Moviegoer'' and other novels, died yesterday at his home across Lake Pontchartrain from New Orleans. He would have been 75 years old on Monday.
        Walker Percy, a Southern author who wrote about modern man's search for faith and love in a chaotic world in ''The Moviegoer'' and other novels, died yesterday at his home across Lake Pontchartrain from New Orleans. He would have been 75 years old on Monday.
        Mr. Percy, who grew up in Alabama and Mississippi, said his favorite theme was ''the dislocation of man in the modern age.'' His six novels are set in the modern South, and all offer alienated upper-middle-class men as protagonists.
        ''The Moviegoer'' (1961), won a National Book Award for fiction. It was Mr. Percy's first published novel and remained his best-known work.
        Michiko Kakutani of The New York Times wrote in a 1987 review of his novel ''The Thanatos Syndrome'' that Mr. Percy was ''one of our most talented and original authors'' and that he was ''more of a philosophical novelist in the European tradition than a straightforward narrative storyteller.''
        Essays on Philosophy
        A complex, ruminative man, Mr. Percy lived and wrote for years in Covington, a small town in southeastern Louisiana. As a young man, he went north and earned a medical degree from Columbia University, but he did not make medicine or psychiatry his career. He became a Roman Catholic in 1946 and wrote essays on questions of philosophy and faith before becoming a writer of fiction.
        When ''The Moviegoer'' was published, it was acclaimed by literary arbiters. Lewis Gannett, Herbert Gold and Jean Stafford, the judges who chose it for the National Book Award, issued a statement praising it in these words:
        '' 'The Moviegoer,' an intimation rather than a statement of mortality and the inevitability of that condition, is a truthful novel with shocks of recognition and spasms of nostalgia for every - or nearly every - American. Mr. Percy, with compassion and without sentimentality or the mannerisms of the clinic, examines the delusions and hallucinations and the daydreams and the dreams that afflict those who abstain from the customary ways of making do.''
        In the years that followed, various aspects of his writing won praise. The critic and teacher Cleanth Brooks, Gray Professor Emeritus of Rhetoric at Yale University, wrote in 1989 in the journal Humanities that ''Walker Percy knows as much about how the people of the Deep South act and speak as anyone that I can think of.''
        ''He knows what is limited, narrow-minded and even grievously wrong in the social fabric of the Old South,'' he added.
        'Very Original Cast of Mind'
        In The Times Book Review in 1983, the novelist Francine du Plessix Gray called Mr. Percy ''our greatest Catholic novelist since Flannery O'Connor.'' And Robert Giroux, his editor for years at Farrar, Straus & Giroux, once called him a loner with ''a very original cast of mind,'' who was to a great extent ''unlike any other Southern writer.''
        Mr. Percy's distinctive way of thinking reflected his early shifts of interest. In 1966 he wrote: ''What began to interest me was not the physiological and pathological processes within man's body but the problem of man himself, the nature and destiny of man; specifically and more immediately, the predicament of man in a modern technological society.''
        He once said he turned to writing fiction after ''reading the French -writers like Sartre.''
        ''The American novelist tends to distinguish between reflections on our universal predicament and what can be told in fiction,'' he said, ''whereas the French see nothing wrong with writing novels that address what they consider the deepest philosophical issues.''
        As a novelist, Mr. Percy wrote from within the tradition of such European existentialists as Sartre and Kierkegaard, who focused on the question of the individual's relationship to God or the universe.
        Yet Mr. Percy cast his net more broadly. Ms. Kakutani wrote in The New York Times that in his novels as well as in his essays, ''behavioralist theory is contrasted with the author's own existential outlook, scientific positivism with a more old-fashioned brand of Christian humanism.''
        Fiction Born of Faith
        Among some critics, it was Mr. Percy's talents as a storyteller rather than as a philosopher that won him praise. Jonathan Yardley wrote in The New York Times Book Review in 1979 that what was extraordinary about Mr. Percy was ''not that he can claim to be a Christian existentialist philosopher-theologian of the first rank, but that he can bring all this heavy artillery to the typewriter and make good fiction out of it.''
        The psychiatrist and author Robert Coles wrote in his admiring 1978 book, ''Walker Percy: An American Search,'' that Mr. Percy believed ''in the obligation men and women have to assume responsiblity for their lives.'' ''That is to say, he believes that we are 'not pigs, nor angels,' '' he wrote. ''We are, he says, pilgrims - wayfarers on a journey.''
        And so the narrator of ''The Moviegoer,'' the film fan Binx Bolling, says: ''The search is what anyone would undertake if he were not sunk in the everydayness of his own life. To become aware of the possibility of the search is to be onto something. Not to be onto something is to be in despair.''
        Thomas Nagel, a professor of philosophy at New York University, wrote in The New York Review of Books that ''The Moviegoer'' offered a pure and precise ''description of that malady of extreme detachment from perception and action which allows the victim to make contact with reality only when he is first dislodged, with greater or less violence, from his accustomed perch.''
        Mr. Percy was good at other sorts of description and analysis, too. Joyce Carol Oates wrote in The New Republic that he had been ''wonderfully alive to the sounds and textures and odors of life.'' She said his novels were ''artistically and humanly rich, and beautifully crafted.''
        And the author and critic V. S. Pritchett wrote in The New York Review of Books that Mr. Percy was praiseworthy for ''moving about, catching the smell of locality, and for a laughing enjoyment between his bouts with desperation and loss.''
        'Satiric Dostoyevsky of the Bayou'
        Mr. Percy also built satire and symbolism into his fiction. The writer and editor Alfred Kazin once called him ''the satiric Dostoyevsky of the bayou.'' And Professor Brooks, in the Humanities article, wrote, ''Percy's language is the kind of instrument that any good satirist must have at hand.''
        Both the fictional superstructure and the messages in his novels were sometimes attacked by reviewers. Christopher Lehmann-Haupt wrote in The New York Times that in ''Lancelot'' the ''narrative voice is uneven and unconvincing.'' Writing in The Times Book Review, Richard Locke said the book included ranting, sermonizing and much blather.
        Yet both aspects of ''The Second Coming'' were praised in a front-page review in The Times Book Review by John Romano, an instructor of English at Columbia University. He declared it to be ''among recent novels, masterly and superior'' and, as a book of ideas, ''splendid and engrossing.'' It, too, was nominated for an American Book Award.
        Mr. Percy also set out his views and beliefs in two nonfiction books.
        Tragedies in Childhood
        Walker Percy was born May 28, 1916, in Birmingham, Ala., the son of Martha Susan Phinizy Percy and Leroy Pratt Percy, a lawyer.
        When Walker Percy was a boy, his father committed suicide, his mother was killed in an automobile accident, and he and two brothers moved to Greenville, Miss., to live with an older cousin, the Southern author William Alexander Percy, known for his collection of autobiographical essays, ''Lanterns on the Levee.'' He adopted the children.
        Walker Percy received a B.A. from the University of North Carolina in 1937 and his M.D. from the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1941, intending to become a psychiatrist.
        He became an intern at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan in 1942, but developed tuberculosis that year. He spent more than two years convalescing, in sanitariums in the Adirondacks and elsewhere, and read many works by Kierkegaard, French existentialists and Russian novelists.
        By 1943, he considered himself to be a writer, and after his health improved he went home to the South. An inheritance made it possible for him to spend years as a relatively unsung writer of critical and philosophical essays for magazines.
        He spent 10 years working on what he later called two failed novels that never made it into print. Then he set about working on ''The Moviegoer'' in the mid-1950's.
        Services will be tomorrow at St. Joseph's Abbey near Covington.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Bernice; two daughters, Mary Pratt and Ann Boyd, and four grandsons.
        The 8 Books, 6 of Them Fiction
        Walker Percy's first novel remained the best-known of his six fiction and two nonfiction works.
        The Moviegoer, 1961
        The Last Gentleman, 1966
        Love in the Ruins, 1971
        Lancelot, 1977
        The Second Coming, 1980
        The Thanatos Syndrome, 1987
        The Message in the Bottle, 1975
        Lost in the Cosmos, 1983
      