
       Jay Gorney, who wrote the music for ''Brother, Can You Spare a Dime?,'' one of the most enduring songs of the Depression, died yesterday at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in Manhattan. He was 93 years old.
        Jay Gorney, who wrote the music for ''Brother, Can You Spare a Dime?,'' one of the most enduring songs of the Depression, died yesterday at the Jewish Home and Hospital for the Aged in Manhattan. He was 93 years old.
        Mr. Gorney died of Parkinson's disease, his wife, Sondra, said.
        ''Brother, Can You Spare a Dime?,'' which has lyrics by E. Y. Harburg, was introduced in the 1932 Broadway revue ''Americana.'' Among Mr. Gorney's many other compositions are ''You're My Thrill,'' ''Ah, but Is It Love?'' ''Baby, Take a Bow'' and ''In Chichicastenango.''
        Mr. Gorney was born in Russia, and his family immigrated to the United States when he was 6 years old. He began his professional songwriting career in the 1920's, writing songs for Broadway revues. In addition to several Earl Carroll revues, the early shows to which he contributed songs included ''Sweetheart Time'' and ''Merry-Go-Round.''
        Career in Hollywood
        In 1933 he went to Hollywood, working first at Fox, then at Columbia. Shirley Temple and James Dunn introduced his song ''Baby, Take a Bow'' (lyrics by Lew Brown) in the 1934 film ''Stand Up and Cheer.'' Among the other movies to which he contributed songs were ''Jimmy and Sally,'' ''Moonlight and Pretzels,'' ''Wild Gold,'' ''Lottery Lover,'' ''Redheads on Parade,'' ''The Heat's On'' and ''Hey, Rookie.''
        Mr. Gorney's best-known collaborators, besides Harburg and Brown, included Henry Myers, Edward Eliscu, Sidney Clare, Howard Dietz and Jean and Walter Kerr, with whom he wrote the score for the 1949 Broadway show ''Touch and Go.''
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Karen Lynn Gorney of New York, and by two sons, Dr. Rod Gorney of Los Angeles and Dan Gorney of Athens.
      