
       John Summerskill, an educator who was president of San Francisco State College for two years when the campus was swept by political and social unrest in the 1960's, died yesterday at his home in Belle Mead, N.J. He was 65 years old. His family said he died of liver cancer.
        John Summerskill, an educator who was president of San Francisco State College for two years when the campus was swept by political and social unrest in the 1960's, died yesterday at his home in Belle Mead, N.J. He was 65 years old. His family said he died of liver cancer.
        Dr. Summerskill, a clinical psychologist, was a teacher and administrator at Cornell University for 15 years before being chosen in 1966 to head San Francisco State.
        At Cornell he conducted extensive research on student health and served as professor of medical administration and director of the university's Sloan Institute of Hospital Administration.
        In 1958 he was appointed vice president for student affairs at Cornell, and he subsequently reorganized student government in an effort to reduce growing conflicts between students and administration officials.
        Political Clashes With Reagan
        As president of San Francisco State, along with other educators and heads of state colleges and universities, he clashed with political leaders in California, including its Governor, Ronald Reagan.
        Dr. Summerskill, an early opponent of the United States role in the Vietnam War, was criticized for failing to control violent student demonstrations. Less than two years after becoming president of San Francisco State he was put on probation by the trustees of the state college system. In May 1968, with campus buildings occupied by a student sit-in, he resigned.
        Dr. Summersill's successor, Dr. Robert R. Smith, was succeeded by Samuel I. Hayakawa, the semantics professor who rose to national prominence by suppressing disorders on the campus and eventually became a United States Senator from California.
        From 1968 to 1971 Dr. Summerskill lived and worked abroad, serving as a Ford Foundation adviser at Haile Selassie University in Ethiopia before the Emperor, Selassie I, was dethroned. Dr. Summerskill later traveled through Africa, the Middle East and Asia for the Institute of Public Administration, examining the work of family-planning agencies financed by the Population Council.
        President of Athens College
        In 1971 Dr. Summerskill became a vice president of the Educational Testing Service in Princeton, N.J., with responsibility for operating the College Board programs.
        In 1979 he was named president of Athens College in Greece, a private institution. Beginning early in the 1980's, Dr. Summerskill and his wife, Miriam, returned each year to their farm in New Jersey to plant grapes to be used in making wine.
        In 1985 he resigned as president of Athens College to devote full time to his vineyard and winery. He was president of the New Jersey Wine Growers Association in 1989.
        Besides his wife he is survived by two daughters, Kyle, of Ithaca, N.Y., and Gail Cummins of Baltimore; a son, John, of New York; three stepsons, Richard Wright of Princeton, William Wright of New York and Robert Wright of Waterlooville, England; two stepdaughters, Helen Bodel of Watertown, Mass., and Wendy Wright of Athens, and nine grandchildren.
      