
       Dmitri Baltermants, a Soviet photographer best known for his pictures of the Soviet battlefield during World War II, died on June 11 in Moscow. He was 77 years old.
        Dmitri Baltermants, a Soviet photographer best known for his pictures of the Soviet battlefield during World War II, died on June 11 in Moscow. He was 77 years old.
        Mr. Baltermants had been hospitalized since May and died of a kidney infection, said Michael Brainerd, the director of the Citizen Exchange Council in New York and a friend of the photographer's family.
        Mr. Baltermants, who was born in 1912, taught himself photography as a young man and became a staff photographer for the Soviet Government newspaper Izvestia in 1937. During the war, he photographed for Izvestia and for the newspaper of the Soviet Army.
        Quality of Fighting
        His pictures, like those of the American photographer Robert Capa, focused as much on the pain and suffering caused by war as on the valiant struggle of combat. But he also captured the dynamic quality of fighting, as in a blurred image of infantrymen leaping across a trench during a charge.
        Among his most memorable images is a 1942 photograph of Soviet women grieving over the frozen bodies of Soviet soldiers. Titled ''Searching for the Loved Ones at Kerch,'' it is a friezelike arrangement of human figures, evocative gestures and a dark, looming sky.
        After the war, he joined the staff of Ogonyok, a Soviet picture magazine somewhat like Life magazine. He also became the official Soviet photographer for several diplomatic encounters, including the meeting of President Richard M. Nixon and the Soviet leader Leonid I. Brezhnev.
        In 1985, his pictures were included in an exhibition of photographs from World War II at the International Center of Photography in Manhattan. A book of his work, ''Dmitri Baltermants: Selected Photographs,'' was published in Moscow in 1977.
        Mr. Baltermants's wife, Antonina, died in 1986. He is survived by a daughter, Tatyana, and a grandson, Dmitri, both of Moscow.
      