
       Richard W. Millar, a major force in the development of Southern California's aerospace industry and former chairman of the Northrop Corporation, died Friday in a nursing home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 91 years old.
        Richard W. Millar, a major force in the development of Southern California's aerospace industry and former chairman of the Northrop Corporation, died Friday in a nursing home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 91 years old.
        Mr. Millar, trained as an investment banker, served on Northrop's board for 38 years, until his retirement in 1984, and as chairman from 1947 to 1949 and again from 1975 to 1976.
        He was a highly influential member of the board throughout his tenure, during which Northrop's annual earnings swelled from $26 million to $3.7 billion and its product base grew from propellor-driven military planes to sophisticated defense electronics and the most advanced aircraft, including the Stealth bomber.
        ''It can easily be said that no one had a greater role than Dick Millar in creating the business foundation of the Southern California aerospace industry,'' Thomas V. Jones, Northrop's current chairman, said yesterday.
        Mr. Jones credited Mr. Millar (pronounced mill-AR) with forging strong links in the early days of the aviation industry between the investment community and young aircraft companies, particulary Northrop, Douglas and Vultee. Mr. Millar served for a time as president of Vultee, which later became General Dynamics.
        A Quarter-Century Hiatus
        It was Northrop's problems during the Watergate era that led in 1975 to Mr. Millar's resuming the company's chairmanship, an office he had left a quarter-century before. The company was found to have made illegal campaign contributions of $476,000 in the United States from 1961 to 1972 and to have paid officials of foreign countries whose influence could sway the purchase of Northrop jets.
        Mr. Jones, who was then serving in his own first term as chairman, was forced to resign, and Mr. Millar took over at the age of 76. Mr. Jones returned after a year, however, and Mr. Millar stepped down to become vice chairman.
        Mr. Millar, born in Denver in 1899, graduated from the University of California in 1921 and served in the Army in World War I. After the war, he entered the investment banking field, serving as vice president of the Los Angeles office of Blair & Company, a New York securities and investment firm.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Catherine Armes of Pasadena; two sons, Richard William Jr. of Newport Beach, Calif., and Roger James of South Pasadena; six grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      