
       Roy Nutt, a pioneer in the computer software industry who was a developer of the computer language Fortran, died Thursday at his home in Seattle. He was 59 years old.
        Roy Nutt, a pioneer in the computer software industry who was a developer of the computer language Fortran, died Thursday at his home in Seattle. He was 59 years old.
        Mr. Nutt, who was a director of the Computer Sciences Corporation, died after a yearlong bout with cancer, a company spokesman said.
        Mr. Nutt co-founded Computer Sciences with Fletcher James, another computer expert, in 1959. The company, based in Segundo, Calif., is now the largest independent professional-services company in the industry.
        He had been chairman of the executive committee of Computer Sciences board of directors since 1972 and was vice president until 1988.
        Mr. Nutt, who was born in Marlborough, Mass., began his career in the computer industry in 1953 after graduating from Trinity College in Hartford with a degree in mathematics.
        He joined the United Aircraft Corporation, now the United Technologies Corporation, and became an expert in systems programming. He was part of a small team of programmers that developed Fortran, a language that is still widely used in science and engineering.
        At Computer Sciences he developed Fact, a commercial programming language that influenced the design of Cobol, the computer language used in most business applications.
        Mr. Nutt also had homes in Darien, Conn., and on Orcas Island, in Puget Sound in Washington State.
        He is survived by his wife, Ruth; a daughter, Sarah Papageorge of Leicester, Mass; three sons, Robert of Port Orchard, Wash., Micah of Palos Verde Estates, Calif., and Thomas of Santa Barbara, Calif., and two grandsons.
        Correction:  June 22, 1990, Friday, Late Edition - Final
        Because of an editing error, an obituary on Wednesday about Roy Nutt, a computer software executive, misidentified the man with whom he founded the Computer Sciences Corporation. He was Fletcher Jones, not Fletcher James.
      