
       Thomas Nyfenger, the principal flutist of the Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra and the New York Chamber Symphony of the 92d Street Y, died on June 12 at his home in Guilford, Conn. He was 53 years old. Sandra K. Wehner, Mr. Nyfenger's companion, said he committed suicide after a long hospitalization for chronic depression.
        Thomas Nyfenger, the principal flutist of the Mostly Mozart Festival Orchestra and the New York Chamber Symphony of the 92d Street Y, died on June 12 at his home in Guilford, Conn. He was 53 years old. Sandra K. Wehner, Mr. Nyfenger's companion, said he committed suicide after a long hospitalization for chronic depression.
        Mr. Nyfenger was born in Cleveland on Oct. 6, 1936, and studied flute and piano at the Cleveland Institute. He moved to New York in 1963 and quickly established his reputation as a freelance chamber player with a specialty in contemporary music. He was a member of the New York Woodwind Quintet from 1969 to 1980. Other groups he performed with regularly include the Aeolian Chamber Players, the Contemporary Chamber Ensemble, the Pro Arte Orchestra and the New York City Ballet Orchestra.
        A Frequent Guest Player
        Mr. Nyfenger was heard frequently in chamber music performances as a guest of the Guarneri String Quartet, the Composers String Quartet and other ensembles. He was highly regarded as a concerto soloist and as a recitalist. Reviewing Mr. Nyfenger's first New York solo recital in 1981, Bernard Holland wrote in The New York Times that ''Mr. Nyfenger is a thorough professional who programs intersting music and is not above having a good time while playing it.''
        Mr. Nyfenger was chairman of the wind department at the Yale School of Music and had been on the faculties of Rutgers University, Sarah Lawrence College, Vassar College, the Manhattan School of Music, the Mannes College of Music and the Oberlin College.
        Survivors include a son, Paul, and a daughter, Julie, both of Dumont, N.J.; his parents, Harry and Louise Nyfenger of Cleveland, and two sisters, Lois Ramirez of Cleveland, and Alice Chernesky of Dayton, Ohio.
      