
       Stephen H. Spurr, a noted forest ecologist who was president of the University of Texas in the early 1970's, died yesterday at Seton Hospital in Austin. He was 72 years old and lived in Austin.
        Stephen H. Spurr, a noted forest ecologist who was president of the University of Texas in the early 1970's, died yesterday at Seton Hospital in Austin. He was 72 years old and lived in Austin.
        His death followed a heart attack, the university said.
        Dr. Spurr wrote widely on forestry and was a former president of the Society of American Foresters, which in 1985 awarded him the Gifford Pinchot Medal for outstanding contributions to North American forestry.
        He was president of the University of Texas from 1971 to 1974, after spending 19 years as a teacher and administrator at the University of Michigan, where he became a vice president in 1969.
        Earlier he was an associate professor at the University of Minnesota for two years and a member of the faculty at Harvard University from 1940 to 1950.
        A Stormy Tenure
        Dr. Spurr's tenure at Texas was a stormy one. He clashed repeatedly with the university's Board of Regents and the chancellor, Charles A. LeMaistre. He was dismissed without explanation in September 1974 and contended, among other things, that he had angered the board by trying to recruit minority students, by shielding the student newspaper from censorship and by opposing campus construction projects favored by the regents.
        After his ouster, he continued as a professor in public affairs and botany until his retirement in 1983.
        Dr. Spurr, a native of Washington, was a graduate of the University of Florida and held master's and doctoral degrees in forest ecology from Yale.
        Inventor of Forestry Tools
        A former governor of the Nature Conservancy, Dr. Spurr was co-founder and a former president of Organization for Tropical Studies, a consortium of universities offering study programs in the tropics. He served on the President's Advisory Panel on Timber and the Environment.
        He wrote several books, including ''Forest Ecology,'' published in 1962, and was the founding editor of the journal Forest Science. In the 1940's he invented the parallax wedge and the multiscope, tools used in forestry.
        As chairman of the Council of Graduate Schools and the Graduate Record Examinations Board, Dr. Spurr was active in the formulation of higher-education policy.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Patricia Orton; a son, Daniel, of Newport, R.I.; a daughter, Jean, of San Francisco, and two grandchildren.
      