
       Louis A. Moskowitz, a banker and philanthropist, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Louis A. Moskowitz, a banker and philanthropist, died on Wednesday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 74 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Moskowitz, who was chairman of the executive commitees of the Republic New York Corporation and its subsidiary, the Republic National Bank of New York, died of a stroke, a bank spokesman said.
        Mr. Moskowitz was also the honorary chairman of the Republic Factors Corporation, which he had formed in 1977 at the behest of Edmond J. Safra, a Lebonese-born financier who controls Trade Development Bank Holdings of Luxembourg, which in turn controls Republic.
        Mr. Moskowitz, an authority on factoring, a procedure in which a manufacturer's accounts receivable are purchased at a discount, had previously served as president and chairman of the corporation and the bank.
        He stepped down as chairman of the corporation in 1983 and as chairman of the bank in 1986.
        Founder of Factoring Concern
        Before joining Republic in 1977, he had been a senior vice president in charge of factoring and finance at Chemical Bank. He was in factoring for most of his career, beginning in 1939, when he helped found Naitove Factors. He was serving as president of the L. F. Dommerich factoring company, which had merged with Naitove, when it was acquired by Chemical Bank in 1968. He had also been a senior partner with Kronish, Lieb, Shainswit, Weiner & Hellman, a Manhattan law firm.
        He was a supporter of the National Jewish Hospital in Denver and New York Hospital. Earlier this year the University of Michigan established a research professorship to honor him and his wife, Myrtle, who died in 1989.
        He is survived by a daughter, Ann Wechsler of Manhattan; a son, Eric, of Washington; a brother, George, of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 28, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Friday about Louis A. Moskowitz, an official of the Republic National Bank, misstated his background and the status of the bank's ownership. He was never a lawyer and had no affiliation with the firm of Kronish, Lieb, Shainswit, Weiner & Hellman. Edmond J. Safra no longer controls Trade Development Holdings of Luxembourg, which once controlled the bank. Mr. Safra now holds only 30 percent of Republic's stock, which is traded publicly.
      