
       I. H. (Hack) Miller, who brought the name Crock-Pot to millions of households, was killed in his home Friday, and a grandson was charged in the slaying, the police in Kansas City, Mo., reported yesterday. He was 83 years old.
        I. H. (Hack) Miller, who brought the name Crock-Pot to millions of households, was killed in his home Friday, and a grandson was charged in the slaying, the police in Kansas City, Mo., reported yesterday. He was 83 years old.
        Mr. Miller retired in 1986 as chairman and chief executive officer of the Rival Manufacturing Company of Kansas City, maker of housewares and appliances. He had led the company since 1962, when it went public.
        When Mr. Miller began, Rival made can openers, selling about $27 million of them a year. By the time he retired, the company was producing a wide range of household appliances with sales of more than $100 million.
        The company's best-known item was the Crock-Pot, an electric slow-cooker developed and introduced during his tenure. Toward the end of his leadership, the company began to look for a buyer, and, in January 1986, it announced that it had accepted a cash offer from an investment banking firm.
        The Kansas City police said yesterday that Mr. Miller had been bludgeoned with a brass lamp and was pronounced dead at his home. Sgt. Keith Francis told The Associated Press that Michael Miller, 21, had been visiting his grandfather for several days when they got into an argument. The elder Mr. Miller's wife, Evelyn, suffered minor injuries when she tried to intervene, the sergeant said.
        Yesterday, Michael Miller was charged in Jackson County Court with second-degree murder, without premeditation, and armed criminal action.
        Isidore Miller's survivors include his Mrs. Miller; a son, Alan T. Miller of Lawrence, Kan.; two daughters, Judith Miller Jones of Washington, and Louise M. Key of Camano Island, Wash.; a sister, Ray L. Miller of Mahopac, N.Y.; seven grandchildren and a great-grandaughter.
      