
       E. Clinton Towl, a founder and a former chief executive of the Grumman Corporation, died of cancer on Thursday at his home in Stuart, Fla. He was 84 years old.
        E. Clinton Towl, a founder and a former chief executive of the Grumman Corporation, died of cancer on Thursday at his home in Stuart, Fla. He was 84 years old.
        Mr. Towl was one of six people who founded the Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corporation in 1929 in a garage in Baldwin, L.I. Except for a few years on Wall Street with W. E. Burnett Company, Mr. Towl spent his entire career with Grumman, where his positions included bookkeeper and designer of truck bodies and chassis.
        Mr. Towl was an assistant treasurer, assistant corporate secretary and vice president until 1954, when he became vice president for administration. In 1960 he was elected president. He was chairman and chief executive from 1966 until retiring in 1975.
        Military and Aerospace Leader
        He also led subsidiaries like the Grumman Aerospace Corporation, the Grumman American Aviation Corporation, the Grumman Data Systems Corporation, the Grumman Ecosystems Corportion and the Montaulk Aero Corporation.
        Grumman became one of the largest military contractors and a leader in the aerospace industry. At its peak, it had more than 36,000 employes at plants in Bethpage, L.I.; Athens, N.Y., and Marathon, N.Y. It was the principal aircraft supplier for the Navy, producing Hellcats and Wildcats in World War II and later the sleek carrier-based F-14 Tomcat. The company also made aluminum boats, trailers, corporate jets and campers.
        The production of the F-14 almost led to bankruptcy. In 1972, Mr. Towl told a Congressional committee that the company was losing $2 million on each jet. The planes were costing the Navy $16.8 million each. Mr. Towl warned that the company would close unless the price was increased. The Navy refused to do so, but ordered additional planes. By 1975, Mr. Towl reported to stockholders that the company was delivering its 135th plane to the Navy and was making a profit on the F-14.
        Edwin Clinton Towl was born in Brooklyn. He was educated on Long Island and at Cornell University.
        Surviving are his wife, Mimi; a daughter, Sandra Corcoran of Ridgefield, Conn.; a son, F. Clinton, of Centerport, L.I.; a sister, Dorothy Gillies of Locust Valley, L.I.; a stepson, Armold R. Moyer 3d of Sebring, Fla., and five grandchildren.
      