
       Adm. Robert B. Carney, a retired Chief of Naval Operations and former commander in chief of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces in Southern Europe, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 95 years old.
        Adm. Robert B. Carney, a retired Chief of Naval Operations and former commander in chief of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization forces in Southern Europe, died on Monday at his home in Washington. He was 95 years old.
        He died of cardiac arrest, said his daughter, Betty Taussig of Annapolis, Md.
        Admiral Carney, a highly decorated veteran of combat in both world wars, served as Chief of Naval Operations from 1953 to 1955 under President Dwight D. Eisenhower. As a member of a newly appointed Joint Chiefs of Staff, his mission was to help reduce the cost of the military while increasing the combat readiness and effectiveness of the armed services.
        He was an outspoken advocate of a strong Navy and often warned that budget cuts and a reliance on air power to deter Soviet aggression were putting the nation at risk. His outspokenness may have cost him reappointment as Chief of Naval Operations, regarded as the highest post in the Navy's uniformed force; he retired in 1955.
        Coordinated European Forces
        As commander in chief of NATO forces from 1951 to 1953, he was in charge of the fleets of five countries and the armed forces of Italy, Greece and Turkey. He logged more than 90,000 miles of travel in the Mediterranean region, meeting with leaders of their armed forces to plan deployment strategies and to forge the diverse elements of sea, land and air power into a coordinated fighting force.
        In World War II his planning and execution of major naval operations in the Pacific earned him a score of medals and citations from the United States and 12 foreign countries.
        Just before the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor on Dec. 7, 1941, he helped organize a special force of planes and surface vessels to provide convoy escort to ships supplying the Allies in Europe. From September 1941 to April 1942, this special force escorted more than 2,600 ships across ocean shipping lanes with the loss of only 6 vessels. His coordination of the force and his contributions to antisubmarine warfare earned him the first of his four Distinguished Service Medals.
        As commander of the cruiser Denver, he earned the Legion of Merit and the Bronze Star for action in the Solomon Islands campaign.
        In 1943 he was promoted to rear admiral and joined Adm. William F. Halsey Jr., who was commander of the South Pacific Force, as his chief of staff. Noted as a naval tactician and strategist, Admiral Carney earned a second Distinguished Service Medal for planning and organizing the logistical support of Allied Forces in the Pacific. His tactics for operations of the United States Third Fleet in the Battle of Leyte Gulf in October 1944, in which a major portion of the Japanese fleet was destroyed, earned him the Navy Cross, an award second only to the Medal of Honor. He was later awarded two more Distinguished Service Medals.
        Promoted by Eisenhower
        After the war, he was promoted to vice admiral and served as Deputy Chief of Naval Operations and later assumed command of the Second Fleet. He was named an admiral in 1950 and became commander in chief of United States naval forces in the Eastern Atlantic and the Mediterranean. A few months later, President Eisenhower named him commander in chief of NATO forces in Southern Europe.
        Robert Bostwick Carney was born in Vallejo, Calif. on March 26, 1895. He was the son of a retired Navy officer and was appointed to the Naval Academy in 1912. Upon graduation in 1916, he was commissioned an ensign and was gunnery officer aboard the destroyer Fanning when it captured a German submarine in 1917.
        Between the wars, he served strictly as an officer in the black shoe Navy, the surface Navy, as opposed to the Navy's air and submarine branches, and held positions in the Navy Department and the office of the Secretary of the Navy. He helped coordinate the design and operation of motor torpedo boats and submarine chasers, units that played decisive roles in World War II.
        After he retired he served on the boards of a number of corporations, including Bath Iron Works, Bell Intercontinental, Fairchild Industries Inc. and Ryan Aeronautics and was a consultant to the Westinghouse Electric Company.
        He is survived by a daughter, Betty Taussig of Annapolis, Md., four grandchildren and eight great-grandchildren.
      