
       Robert N. Noyce, an inventor of a computer chip that revolutionized the electronics industry and gave rise to the high-technology era, died yesterday at Seton Medical Center in Austin, Tex., after suffering a heart attack at his home. He was 62 years old.
        Robert N. Noyce, an inventor of a computer chip that revolutionized the electronics industry and gave rise to the high-technology era, died yesterday at Seton Medical Center in Austin, Tex., after suffering a heart attack at his home. He was 62 years old.
        While Dr. Noyce's name never became widely known to the public, his work helped make possible products including personal computers, pocket calculators, programmable coffeemakers and microwave ovens and computerized flight plans for commercial and military aircraft.
        In many ways, Dr. Noyce was an embodiment of Silicon Valley, the area of Northern California that is home to a great many technological companies, many of them started by young entrepreneurs. While his research opened doors for many technical advances, Dr. Noyce also played a leading role in the commercialization of electronics and as an industry spokesman who frequently lobbied in Washington.
        The Door to Miniaturization
        Dr. Noyce, who once described his career as the result of a succession of dissatisfactions, developed a system of interconnecting transistors on a single silicon microchip, known as integrated circuitry. He was awarded a patent in 1959, and the technology, which could manage many times more information than was possible with existing transistors, quickly became the basis of the modern computer and permitted a miniaturization of electronics used in many products.
        Jack Kilby, a staff scientist at Texas Instruments Inc. who is now retired, is also recognized as an inventor of the integrated circuit, and holds patents as well. The two men worked independently.
        ''Bob Noyce was an instrumental figure in creating the semiconductor industry, which today is a $50 billion industry driving a $500 billion electronics industry,'' said Stan Victor, a spokesman for Texas Instruments. ''He will be missed.''
        'Mayor of Silicon Valley'
        In 1968, Dr. Noyce and an associate founded the Intel Corporation, which developed the microprocessor that is the heart of most personal computers, and helped start a number of other computer companies in Silicon Valley.
        ''He was considered the mayor of Silicon Valley,'' said Jim Jarrett, a spokesman for Intel. A founder of the Semiconductor Industry Association in 1975, Dr. Noyce was frequently in Washington to lobby on behalf of semiconductor manufacturers.
        At the time of his death, Dr. Noyce was the president and chief executive of Sematech Inc., a research consortium in Austin that was organized by 14 corporations in an attempt to help the American computer industry catch up with the Japanese in semiconductor manufacturing technology.
        Industry executives said finding a successor for him at Sematech would be difficult. ''He was clearly a person of stature who understood both the technical aspects of the business as well as the business itself,'' said Federico Faggin, who designed the microprocessor at Intel and is now president of Synaptics, a computer company in San Jose, Calif. ''It's a very big loss for Sematech and for the country, really. I don't think there is another one like him.''
        'A Legendary Figure'
        The chairman of Intel, Gordon E. Moore, said in a statement: ''The electronics industry lost a legendary figure today with Bob Noyce's sudden death. Bob's achievements put him in a class by himself: inventor of the integrated circuit, founder of two major American companies, and the first chief executive of Sematech.''
        Dr. Noyce remained a vice chairman of Intel even after he was named to a search committee looking for a leader for Sematech, which has a $200 million annual budget, half from the Department of Defense and half from industry. After the search process became embarrassingly long and failed to turn up anyone willing to take the post, Dr. Noyce agreed in 1988 to head the consortium, after initially saying he was too old.
        A spokesman for Sematech, Joe Stroop, said yesterday, ''Dr. Noyce was a strong advocate of restoring competitiveness to the U.S. industrial and education systems.'' In April, Dr. Noyce asked Sematech's board to begin searching for someone who would eventually replace him, Mr. Stroop said.
        An Iowa native who was the son of a Congregational minister, Dr. Noyce became fascinated by computers while at Grinnell College in Grinnell, Iowa, where he earned a bachelor's degree. He was a student of Grant O. Gale, who in 1948 was given one of the first transistors by one of its inventors, John Bardeen. Transistor in hand, Professor Gale taught one of the earliest courses in solid state physics to a class of 18 physics majors, one of whom was Mr. Noyce.
        In 1953, he received a doctorate in physics from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Later that year he took his first job as a research engineer at the Philco Corporation in Philadelphia. He left in 1956 for the Shockley Semiconductor Laboratory in Mountain View, Calif.
        A year later he had helped found the Fairchild Camera and Instruments Corporation's semiconductor division, leaving Shockley with a group of colleagues in what was to become a common pattern in Silicon Valley. While at Fairchild, Dr. Noyce invented a process for making integrated circuits that is still used.
        In 1968 he and Mr. Moore, another Fairchild scientist, founded Intel, which grew to become one of the nation's leading semiconductor companies and a pioneer in the development of memory chips and microprocessors.
        While the earliest silicon chips contained two transistors, current technology can etch 10 million transistors on a single chip. The capacity is expected to continue to grow and experts believe a microchip, generally the size of a fingernail, could contain a billion transistors by the turn of the century. Such advances help drive the cost of computing power downward.
        Dr. Noyce was awarded the National Medal of Science in 1979 by President Jimmy Carter and received the National Medal of Technology in 1987 from President Ronald Reagan. He held more than a dozen patents, in addition to the one for interconnecting circuitry. In 1983 he was inducted into the National Inventors Hall of Fame.
        Dr. Noyce is survived by his wife, Ann Bowers, of Austin; his mother, Harriet, of Berkeley, Calif.; three brothers, Donald of Berkeley, Gaylord of New Haven and Ralph of San Jose, Calif.; four children, William B. of Hollis, N.H., Pendred of Weston, Mass., Priscilla of Kenya, and Margaret of Kyle, Tex., and 12 grandchildren.
        Memorial arrangements are not yet final, Mr. Stroop of Sematech said.
      