
       Kemper Marley Sr., a millionaire Arizona rancher and liquor distributor whose name arose in the investigation of a newspaper reporter's death in a 1976 bombing, died on Monday at a beach home in La Jolla, Calif. He was 83 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. Mr. Marley, one of Arizona's wealthiest men, was the son of an early pioneer fami.
        Kemper Marley Sr., a millionaire Arizona rancher and liquor distributor whose name arose in the investigation of a newspaper reporter's death in a 1976 bombing, died on Monday at a beach home in La Jolla, Calif. He was 83 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. Mr. Marley, one of Arizona's wealthiest men, was the son of an early pioneer fami. . d delelededntntesestsn n cottonseed oil, produce, a liquor distributorship and cattle and sheep ranches. He also had holdings in Sonora, Mexico, and the Imperial Valley of California, and was a founder of the Farmers and Stockmen's Bank in Phoenix.
        In 1976 Don Bolles, an investigative reporter for The Arizona Republic who specialized in crime, was killed by a bomb concealed beneath his car. John Harvey Adamson, the only person whose conviction in the slaying has been upheld, said in court documents that he had been hired by Max Dunlap, a wealthy contractor who had been reared by Mr. Marley, to kill Mr. Bolles for writing articles damaging to Mr. Marley.
        Mr. Dunlap, along with James Robison, a former convict who Mr. Adamson said had detonated the bomb, were convicted of first-degree murder in November 1977. The convictions were overturned by the Arizona Supreme Court, which held that defense lawyers had not been given a significant opportunity to cross-examine Mr. Adamson. They were not retried.
        Marley Collected $15,000
        In a subsequent lawsuit against Investigative Reporters and Editors Inc.. an investigative group that was formed after Mr. Bolles's killing, a jury in Phoenix awarded Mr. Marley $15,000 for emotional distress resulting from a news article that was written about the slaying. The same jury found that the article, which linked Mr. Marley to figures in organized crime, had not libeled him and that his privacy had not been invaded.
        Mr. Marley was never charged in the case. In 1989, State Attorney General Bob Corbin said new leads indicated that Mr. Marley had no connection to the killing.
        Mr. Marley was a former member of the Arizona Highway Commission and the Arizona Racing Commission.
        Survivors include his wife, Ethel; a daughter, Joyce Marley Corrigan; a son, Kemper Marley Jr.; two sisters, and a stepbrother.
      