
       Lawrence Alloway, an English-born art critic, historian and curator who was one of the earliest European champions of postwar American art, died of cardiac arrest yesterday morning at his home in Manhattan. He was 63.
        Lawrence Alloway, an English-born art critic, historian and curator who was one of the earliest European champions of postwar American art, died of cardiac arrest yesterday morning at his home in Manhattan. He was 63.
        A lively and provocative writer, whose unpredictable tastes disturbed those who wanted critics to follow a developed line of thought, Mr. Alloway was art critic for The Nation from 1963 to 1971 and wrote widely for other publications. He produced at least half a dozen books, ranging from a monograph on the Pop artist Roy Lichtenstein to a study of violence in American films. From 1968 to 1981, he was professor of art history at the State University of New York at Stony Brook, L.I. There he was a co-founder, with the critic Donald Kuspit, of the magazine Art Criticism.
        While serving as director of the Institute of Contemporary Art in London from 1954 to 1957, Mr. Alloway became known for his well-organized shows and knowledgeable critiques of avant-garde artists, and as an enfant terrible for his cocky manner and sometimes arbitrary pronouncements.
        He is credited with coining the term Pop Art by abbreviating the phrase ''popular art,'' used to characterize the new work by younger artists that dealt with consumer images.
        In 1961 he settled in the United States with his wife, a painter known professionally as Sylvia Sleigh, and the next year he was appointed curator of the Guggenheim Museum. The job lasted until 1966, when Mr. Alloway clashed with Thomas Messer, then director of the museum, over the selections the Guggenheim had been invited to make for the United States exhibition at the Venice Biennale. After the Messer-Alloway controversy, the Smithsonian Institution, which at that time sponsored United States participation in the Biennale, withdrew the invitation.
        Mr. Alloway was born in Wimbledon, outside London, on Sept. 17, 1926, the son of a bookseller. He had tuberculosis as a child, and his formal education was sketchy. Later, he took art history classes at the University of London at night, but he never received a degree. Always interested in bringing art to wider audiences, he lectured on the subject to laborers who belonged to the Workers Education Association.
        In 1958 he was given a grant by the United States Government to study American art in this country. Three years later, he and his wife decided to make the United States their permanent home, and later they became American citizens. ''The art and literature produced here is closest to me, as is the society that produces it,'' he once told an interviewer.
        Besides his other books, two volumes of Mr. Alloway's collected essays have appeared: ''Topics in American Art Since 1945,'' published by Norton in 1975, and ''Network: Art in the Complex Present,'' published by University Microfilms Research Press in 1984. At his death, he was working on the catalogue for a forthcoming show of work by his wife.
        Because of a neurological disorder, Mr. Alloway used a wheelchair since 1981.
        He is survived by his wife.
      