
       Jerome K. Ohrbach, president of Ohrbach's apparel stores before the chain was sold to Europeans in 1962, died on Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 82 years old.
        Jerome K. Ohrbach, president of Ohrbach's apparel stores before the chain was sold to Europeans in 1962, died on Thursday at his home in Los Angeles. He was 82 years old.
        He had suffered from Parkinson's disease, said Solomon M. Kamm, a lawyer for his executor.
        Mr. Ohrbach was the son of Nathan M. Ohrbach, who opened his first store on Union Square in 1923. The son went to work for his father when he graduated from Cornell in 1929 and became president of Ohrbach's Inc. in 1948, a few months before the chain opened its first West Coast branch, on Wilshire Boulevard in Los Angeles. The chain was known for taking lower markups than other retailers and for selling copies of couture fashions, After Ohrbach's had been sold to the Brenninkmeyer family of the Netherlands, Mr. Ohrbach formed investment companies and worked on other ventures. The flagship store, which had moved to 34th Street, closed in 1987, and suburban branches in the New York metropolitan region were converted to the Steinbach chain.
        Mr. Ohrbach was instrumental in founding the Dreyfus Corporation and Weiss, Peck & Greer, investment houses in New York. He was the principal owner of the Factory, a discotheque that opened in 1967 in Los Angeles and whose backers included Sammy Davis Jr., Peter Lawford, Paul Newman and Pierre Salinger.
        Prominent in Sports
        Mr. Ohrbach was born in Brooklyn. He was prominent on the New York sports scene before moving to Los Angeles in the mid-50's. An accomplished golfer, he won several amateur tournaments and placed high in pro-am matches. In the heyday of track-and-field competition in New York before and after World War II, the Ohrbach Athletic Association sponsored one of the city's major teams.
        In 1950, Mr. Ohrbach was appointed to the city's Board of Higher Education. The next year it was learned that gamblers had rigged basketball games involving the City College ''Cinderella'' team, the only team ever to win the National Collegiate Athletic Association and National Invitation Tournament championships in the same year. Mr. Ohrbach was named to a three-member committee to study the effects of big-time sports on the city's public colleges.
        The committee recommended that all the public colleges cease playing in Madison Square Garden and other commercial arenas. The Board of Higher Education adopted the recommendation, and for many years teams of the city colleges were restricted to their own gymnasiums.
        Mr. Ohrbach was for many years a member of Cornell's University Council. In 1977 he was named a Presidential Councillor, the highest honor the university bestows. In 1983 he donated $1 million to restore Morrill Hall, the oldest land-grant building on the campus in Ithaca, N.Y.
        Surviving are four daughters, Suzan, of Canoga Park, Calif., Lisa, of Posillipo, Italy, Caryl, of Mill Valley, Calif., and Barbara Martin of London, and five grandchildren.
      