
       Frederick Mellinger, the founder of the Frederick's of Hollywood lingerie chain, died of pneumonia Saturday. He was 76.
        Frederick Mellinger, the founder of the Frederick's of Hollywood lingerie chain, died of pneumonia Saturday. He was 76.
        Mr. Mellinger said his success came because ''sex appeal is always in style.'' Born in the Lower East Side of New York City, Mr. Mellinger got his start when he lied about his age - then 14 - to get a clerical job at an ''intimate apparel'' firm, where he learned the art of mail-order merchandising.
        In 1946, Mr. Mellinger opened Frederick's Fifth Avenue in New York, a mail-order business selling products that his World War II Army friends told him their girlfriends would like. A year later Mr. Mellinger moved the store to the West Coast, where the bright purple Art Deco-style headquarters on Hollywood Boulevard became a landmark.
        The company went public in the 1970's and is traded on the American Stock Exchange. There are now 160 Frederick's stores, and sales topped $80 million last year, said Ellen Appel, a publicist who has worked for Frederick's.
        Enhancing 'the Good Parts'
        Mr. Mellinger was the guiding spirit of the company, designing brassieres with names like ''Rising Star'' and ''Cadillac,'' and learning French, Spanish and German to deal with European suppliers personally.
        ''He truly revolutionized lingerie in this country,'' Ms. Appel said. ''When other people were making traditional, white, boring lingerie, he was making very glamorous lingerie.''
        ''Our clothes cosmetize a woman's body,'' Mr. Mellinger said in an interview in 1983. ''They don't just cover the body, they take the good parts and enhance them.''
        These days, Madonna and other entertainers flaunt Frederick's-style lingerie during live performances.
        Change in Company's Image
        But in recent years some of Frederick's stock-in-trade came to seem dated and tacky, rather than risque. In 1984, the company suffered its first yearly loss, a $148,000 shortfall. Mr. Mellinger stepped down as chairman and chief executive and was replaced by George Townson, who set about changing Frederick's image.
        Private services were scheduled for Monday in Los Angeles. Mr. Mellinger is survived by his wife, Harriett, a son, a daughter and five grandchildren.
      