
       Joseph C. Bevis, a pioneer in the public opinion and market research industry, died of a cerebral hemorrhage on Tuesday at Martin Memorial Hospital in Stuart, Fla. He was 80 years old and lived in Stuart.
        Joseph C. Bevis, a pioneer in the public opinion and market research industry, died of a cerebral hemorrhage on Tuesday at Martin Memorial Hospital in Stuart, Fla. He was 80 years old and lived in Stuart.
        Mr. Bevis was an official of the Public Opinion Research Corporation of Princeton, N.J., for 30 years, beginning when the polling industry was in its infancy.
        He started with the company in 1940, two years after it was founded. He served as its vice president from 1945 to 1957, as president from 1957 to 1960 and as chairman and chief executive officer from 1960 until his retirement in 1970. He then became a director of the Roper Organization, another major market research concern.
        ''He was in market research from its early beginnings,'' said Harry O'Neill, vice chairman of the Roper Organization, who had worked with Mr. Bevis in Princeton. ''He was very well respected by his clients and by his colleagues.''
        In the mid-1960's, Mr. Bevis criticized the then-prevalent ruse of people posing as pollsters to sell their wares to unsuspecting customers.
        Radio Research in '32
        ''The public's willingness to participate in research is based largely on good will and appreciation of the importance of such efforts,'' he said in a 1964 interview. ''When surveys are misrepresented and the public is misled, obtaining the cooperation essential to effective research becomes increasingly difficult.''
        Mr. Bevis was a graduate of Northwestern University. He began his career in public opinion research in 1932 when he made one of the first telephone surveys of a radio audience. This was well before the industry got its unofficial start around 1938 when interviewers from Public Opinion Research noted responses of consumers to various products as they looked through a Sears Roebuck & Company catalogue.
        After two years with a hardware and farm implement store in Harrison, Ohio, where he was born on Jan. 16, 1910, Mr. Bevis went to work for the Federal Emergency Relief Administration in 1934 in its research division.
        He eventually became director of surveys for that agency and its successor organization, the Works Progress Administration, conducting research on segments of the population receiving relief payments. He left the Government in 1940 to begin work with Public Opinion Research. Under his leadership, the corporation expanded into international markets and in 1970 was sold to McGraw-Hill.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Betsy Ross; two sons, J. Ross. of Princeton Junction, N.J., and Col. James, of Irvine, Calif.; two daughters, Cheryl Crowl of Ridgefield, Conn., and Beverly Jean Bevis of Manhattan, and six grandchildren.
      