
       Dr. Henry I. Russek, a cardiologist who conducted early studies of the relationship of occupational and emotional stress to heart disease, died on May 30 at Shands Hospital in Gainesville, Fla. He was 78 years old and lived in Boca Raton, Fla.
        Dr. Henry I. Russek, a cardiologist who conducted early studies of the relationship of occupational and emotional stress to heart disease, died on May 30 at Shands Hospital in Gainesville, Fla. He was 78 years old and lived in Boca Raton, Fla.
        A daughter, Dr. Linda Russek, said the cause of death was pneumonia resulting from hepatitis.
        Dr. Russek was associated for many years with the United States Public Health Service Hospital on Staten Island, where his cardiovascular research in the 1950's and 60's produced evidence that stress was a major factor in causing coronary heart disease.
        A Divided Profession
        In a 1958 study, at a time when the medical profession was sharply divided over the extent to which stress predisposed a person to heart attacks, Dr. Russek reported that ''emotional stress of occupational origin appeared far more significant than a positive heredity, a prodigiously high fat diet, obesity, body build, tobacco consumption or exercise.''
        More recently, as part of a 35-year follow-up of a Harvard laboratory study involving 126 men who had been students there in the 1950's, Dr. Russek found that severe anxiety was significantly correlated with heart disease manifesting itself in middle life.
        Dr. Russek, who was born in Brooklyn, graduated from City College and received his medical degree from the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons at Edinburgh. He did postgraduate work with Dr. Paul Dudley White in Boston.
        At the Public Health Service Hospital during World War II, Dr. Russek found a way to re-use scarce penicillin in the treatment of endocarditis, the inflamation of the heart lining.
        Substances Combined
        In 1967, he demonstrated that angina pectoris, the constriction of blood flow to the heart, could be more effectively relieved by using drugs like nitroglycerin in combination with propranolol, which controls irregular heartbeats. Each of the subsances, when combined, canceled out the adverse effects of the other.
        Dr. Russek, who was in private practice on Staten Island for 30 years, moved to Boca Raton 13 years ago and continued to treat patients until his health deteriorated a few months ago. He wrote seven books and 300 scientific papers.
        Besides his daughter Linda, who lives in Boca Raton, he is survived by his wife, the former Elayne Corak; two other daughters, Shelley Russek of Boston and Karen Peshkin of Coral Springs, Fla., and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 14, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Friday about Dr. Henry I. Russek, a cardiologist, misstated the cause of his death. His daughter, Dr. Linda Russek, says he died of pneumonia complicated by candida hepatitis. She also says he stopped treating patients a few months ago to pursue other interests, not because of a deterioration in his health.
      