
       Dr. Milton J. E. Senn, a pioneering expert in child psychiatry, died of bladder cancer yesterday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 88 years old.
        Dr. Milton J. E. Senn, a pioneering expert in child psychiatry, died of bladder cancer yesterday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford, Conn. He was 88 years old.
        Dr. Senn, a pediatrician who became a psychoanalyst and child psychiatrist, was director of the Child Study Center at Yale University Medical School from 1948 to 1966 and was one of the first to bring the insights of psychiatry to bear on pediatrics.
        ''He was among the first to recognize that children's emotional needs were overlooked in their health care,'' said Dr. Albert J. Solnit, Sterling Professor of Pediatrics and Psychiatry at Yale, who followed Dr. Senn as director of the Child Study Center.
        Along with Dr. Benjamin M. Spock, a friend and contemporary, Dr. Senn is credited with humanizing the care of children in hospitals, Dr. Solnit said.
        Dr. Senn was chairman of the department of pediatrics at Yale Medical School from 1951 to 1964 and was Sterling Professor of Pediatrics and Psychiatry until his retirement in 1970.
        Born in 1902 in Milwaukee, he attended the University of Wisconsin, and earned his M.D. there in 1925. In 1928 he became a fellow in pediatrics at Washington University in St. Louis, where he stayed until 1933. He then became an associate professor of pediatrics at the Cornell University Medical College.
        Expanded Child Psychiatry Unit
        In 1937, he received a two-year fellowship in psychiatry from the Commonwealth Fund, which was active in promoting child guidance centers. The fellowship allowed him to become a psychoanalyst, and to study at the Philadelphia Clinic, an early child-guidance clinic.
        In 1939 he became a professor of pediatrics at Cornell University Medical College, and director of the Institute for Child Development at New York Hospital.
        Dr. Senn took over the Child Study Center at Yale in 1948. It had been led by Dr. Arnold Gesell, who did his landmark studies on normal development in children there before founding his own research institute.
        Under Dr. Senn's leadership, the Center became a full-fledged department of child psychiatry within the medical school, one of the few in the country. He emphasized interdisciplinary efforts, bringing together social workers, early childhood educators, child development specialists, and other nonmedical child specialists.
        ''He saw it as a place where pediatrics could collaborate with psychiatry, building in psychological considerations in children's health care,'' said Dr. Solnit.
        Dr. Senn is survived by a daughter, Rev. Corelyn Senn, of Cambridge, Mass., and two grandchildren, Katarina and Kristian Midelfort.
      