
       Sepp Ruschp, an Austrian-born skier who helped develop skiing in the United States as a recreational and competitive sport, died Friday at his home in Stowe, Vt. He was 81 years old.
        Sepp Ruschp, an Austrian-born skier who helped develop skiing in the United States as a recreational and competitive sport, died Friday at his home in Stowe, Vt. He was 81 years old.
        The Associated Press reported yesterday that Mr. Ruschp had died of a self-inflicted gunshot wound. Friends said that in recent months Mr. Ruschp had been gravely ill with Parkinson's disease, the news agency reported.
        Mr. Ruschp came to the United States in 1936 at the invitation of the Mount Mansfield Ski Club in Stowe to be a ski instructor and to coach at the University of Vermont and Norwich University. At that time, skiing was just beginning to attract interest in the United States, and Mr. Ruschp, a former member of Austria's national skiing team, seized on the opportunity to help develop the fledgling industry growing around the sport.
        Organized Ski School
        As president and general manager of the Mt. Mansfield Company, he was responsible for making Mt. Mansfield into a world renowned ski area and resort. He organized the Stowe Ski School, which operates on the Mt. Mansfield Company's ski complexes at Mount Mansfield and Spruce Peak. He retired from the company in 1978, but was chairman and chairman emeritus until his death.
        The Associated Press reported that Mr. Ruschp had been responsible for the first television coverage of the Winter Olympics, and that he had been one of the people who successfully lobbied to bring the 1960 Winter Olympics to Squaw Valley, Calif.
        Mr. Ruschp was elected to the United States Ski Hall of Fame in 1978. He was active in national and international ski organizations, serving as president of the National Ski Association of America and vice president of the Federation Internationale du Ski.
        Reared Near Alps
        Born in Linz, Austria, Mr. Ruschp was reared in the shadow of the Austrian Alps. He became a prominent ski competitor and once held the title of Upper Austrian National Combined Champion.
        Mr. Ruschp's wife of 49 years, Hermine Aisleitner, died in 1984. He is survived by his second wife, Helen Murray, whom he married in 1985; a son, Peter, of Stowe; a daughter, Christina, of Scottsdale, Ariz., and two grandchildren.
        A memorial service is planned in July at Mount Mansfield.
      