
       John Caples, a retired advertising executive who as a fledgling copywriter in 1926 wrote one of the most famous advertising headlines - ''They Laughed When I Sat Down at the Piano but When I Started to Play!'' - died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 90 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        John Caples, a retired advertising executive who as a fledgling copywriter in 1926 wrote one of the most famous advertising headlines - ''They Laughed When I Sat Down at the Piano but When I Started to Play!'' - died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 90 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Caples, who went on to became expert in direct-response advertising, wrote the headline and an accompanying text of several hundred words to solicit correspondence-course students for the U.S. School of Music. The ad was an instant success and inspired scores of imitations over the years that used ''They laughed when . . . '' as a lead-in.
        Mr. Caples had begun his advertising career the year before with the Ruthrauff & Ryan agency and, he later recalled, cut his teeth on ''ads for hair-growers, fat-reducers, dandruff-removers and books on mental healing and personal magnetism.''
        A year after his music-school ad Mr. Caples switched to Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, where he was to spend the rest of his career. He became a vice president in 1941 and retired as creative director in 1982 at the age of 82.
        An Advertising Pioneer
        Mr. Caples was credited with pioneering many aspects of advertising, including copy testing and extensive research. He was the author of several books, including ''Tested Advertising Methods,'' published in 1932; ''Advertising Ideas'' (1938) and ''Making Ads Pay'' (1957).
        He debunked humorous advertising copy, saying that ''only half the people in this country have a sense of humor, and clever ads seldom sell anything.'' He also advised copywriters to ''use words you would expect to find in a fifth-grade reader'' because ''the average American is approximately 13 years old mentally.''
        Mr. Caples, a native New Yorker, studied for a year at Columbia College, then entered the Navy and graduated from the Naval Academy in Annapolis in 1924. But like many of his classmates in the years immediately after ''the war to end all wars,'' he was advised by a shrunken Navy to look elsewhere for a career. He spent a year in the engineering department of the New York Telephone Company before going to work for Ruthrauff & Ryan.
        In World War II he was called back into the Navy and rose to the rank of commander, serving mostly in recruitment. In 1977 he was elected to the American Advertising Federation's Hall of Fame.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Dorothy Dickes.
      