
       Peter Throckmorton, an underwater archeologist who located and explored shipwrecks, died last Tuesday at his home in Newcastle, Me., at the age of 61. The family said he was found dead in bed of natural causes.
        Peter Throckmorton, an underwater archeologist who located and explored shipwrecks, died last Tuesday at his home in Newcastle, Me., at the age of 61. The family said he was found dead in bed of natural causes.
        Mr. Throckmorton was credited with finding and excavating the two oldest sunken ships on record. In 1975, leading a group that explored the Aegean Sea near the Greek island of Hydra, he found a cargo ship believed to have dated from the Bronze Age in 2500 B.C.
        In 1960, another Throckmorton expedition located a wreck dating from 1300 B.C. in the Mediterranean Sea off Cape Gelidonya in Turkey. Both wrecks yielded pottery, tools and other relics that gave scholars information about ship construction, navigational skills and trading habits of the period.
        ''From the Mediterranean to the Falkland Islands, Peter's vision led to the first true underwater archeology,'' George Bass, director of the Institute of Nautical Archeology at Texas A&M University, said yesterday.
        Expeditions Around the World
        Mr. Throckmorton pioneered scientific approaches to examining shipwrecks dating from the centuries before Christ to the late 19th century. He sailed around the world in dhows, tramp steamers and ships of all kinds, and led expeditions off the coasts of Florida, Cyprus and Italy in addition to the Aegean Sea and the Falklands.
        He was the author of several books, including ''The Lost Ships,'' published in 1964; ''Shipwrecks and Archeology: The Unharvested Sea'' (1970) and ''The Sea Remembers'' (1987). He also wrote extensively for The National Geographic Magazine and other journals and in 1964 wrote a children's book, ''Spiro and the Sponge Fleet'', about Greek fishermen.
        Mr. Throckmorton is survived by two daughters, Lucy and Paula, both of Cambridge, Mass.; a stepdaughter, Sarah Potok of Somerville, Mass., and a stepson, Mark Potok of Dallas.
      