
       James Edward Goslee 3d, a floral designer who planned decorations for some of the city's brightest social events, died on Monday at Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 39 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        James Edward Goslee 3d, a floral designer who planned decorations for some of the city's brightest social events, died on Monday at Beth Israel Medical Center. He was 39 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Goslee died from complications of AIDS, a family spokesman said.
        Mr. Goslee was the owner of the trend-setting flower shop Goslee & Company at Madison Avenue and 80th Street, where he designed floral arrangements for homes and parties in New York and elsewhere. He was in charge of decorations for a White House state dinner given by President and Mrs. Gerald R. Ford in honor of Queen Elizabeth II.
        Mr. Goslee expanded his business to include planning events for many cultural institutions, including the Museum of the City of New York, the Guggenheim Museum, and the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        Rearranged Furniture
        Mr. Goslee supplied his clients not only with flowers but with potpourri, bath oil, soap, candles and all manner of decorative accessories. He even rearranged their furniture.
        ''A good way to find the weaknesses in an arrangement is to study the room after a party,'' he said in a 1981 interview. ''If the chairs have been moved closer together, it's because they were too far apart for conversation.''
        Despite his interest in decor, Mr. Goslee insisted that he was not a decorator. ''Decorators live to see cushions plumped,'' he said. ''I'm happiest when they're all mushed down. If I have any expertise aside from flowers, it's in living comfortably.''
        Mr. Goslee was born in Lewes, Del., and attended the University of Delaware. He graduated from the Parsons School of Design and later studied architecture at the Pratt Institute.
        He is survived by his parents, James and Ellen Goslee of Georgetown and Bethany Beach, Del.; and two sisters, Nancy Power of Santa Monica, Calif., and Judith Dias of Bethlehem, Pa.
      