
       Otto Sturzenegger, chairman of the Ciba-Geigy Corporation, the United States subsidiary of the Swiss chemical company, died on Saturday at White Plains Hospital. He was 64 years old and lived in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.
        Otto Sturzenegger, chairman of the Ciba-Geigy Corporation, the United States subsidiary of the Swiss chemical company, died on Saturday at White Plains Hospital. He was 64 years old and lived in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.
        He died of liver cancer, a spokesman for the company said.
        Mr. Sturzenegger, who had worked for the J. R. Geigy Company in Switzerland and in the United States since 1952, had headed the merged concern since its inception in 1970. Ciba-Geigy, which produces agricultural chemicals, pharmaceuticals, dyes, plastics and vision products, had sales totaling $3.5 billion last year.
        Mr. Sturzenegger was born in Zurich, where he graduated from the Federal Institute of Technology. He had a master's and doctorate in chemistry from Oklahoma State University and was a graduate of the advanced-management program at the Harvard Graduate School of Business Administration.
        Named Chairman in '78
        After beginning as a production chemist, Mr. Sturzenegger was transferred here in 1954. Six years later he became assistant to the president of the American company. He became president of the manufacturing and engineering division in 1964 and president of the agricultural and chemical division in 1969.
        With the merger forming Ciba-Geigy, he became president and chief executive officer. In 1978 he became chairman. In 1986 he relinquished the title of chief executive officer and became a director of the parent, Ciba-Geigy Ltd., in Basel, Switzerland.
        Mr. Sturzenegger was a director of the NCNB Corporation and the I.B.M. World Trade Europe-Middle East-Africa Corporation. He was a governor of the Chemical Manufacturers Association and a director of the American Swiss Association.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Gerd Wold; two children, Thomas and Elsie Chantre, both of Zurich; two sisters, Theo Meyer of Regensdorf, Switzerland, and Claire Ericson of Rockford, Ill., and a grandson.
      