
       Valerian S. Rybar, the interior designer internationally known for creating opulent rooms and extravagant party designs, died Saturday at his Manhattan home. He was 71 years old.
        Valerian S. Rybar, the interior designer internationally known for creating opulent rooms and extravagant party designs, died Saturday at his Manhattan home. He was 71 years old.
        Mr. Rybar died of prostate cancer, his business partner, Jean-Francois Daigre, said.
        Mr. Rybar was known as the world's most expensive decorator. His clients included Guy and Marie-Helene de Rothschild, Nicholas and Genevieve DuPont, Antenor and Beatriz Patino, Samuel and Mitzi Newhouse, Pierre and Sao Schlumberger, Sir James Goldsmith, Christina Onassis and Stavros Niarchos.
        ''He combined taste and drama in a very unique way,'' Mrs. DuPont recalled. ''And unlike many designers, Valerian was versatile. He could go from the most lavish and elaborate schemes to something simple and clean-cut.''
        Mother-of-Pearl Panels
        Part of Mr. Rybar's appeal was his ability to bring glamour to his American clients and practicalities like clever storage, large bathrooms and washable fabrics to European households.
        Rather than being known for a particular style, Mr. Rybar's work was different depending on his client. He employed a host of artisans all over the world who did anything from paint Medieval tapestries on blank walls to create mother-of-pearl panels for a bathroom. He designed many of the furniture and rugs he used. He was meticulous about his choice of fabrics, using opulent materials like satins trimmed with gold thread.
        His own apartment - six rooms on Sutton Place - was pure theater. In his living room, for example, the curving walls were covered in red velvet. On top of stainless steel floors lay a silver-gray mink-tail rug. Decorations included a carved crystal bust of Ferdinando de Medici. His dressing room had three-dimensional walls of brown vinyl and steel stripes, mirrored alcoves and a banquette upholstered in handpainted ponyskin that could be used as an ironing board and a luggage rack.
        Spectacular European Parties
        Mirrors and steel were Rybar signatures. His bathroom walls and ceiling were mirrored and the washbasin and bathtub were of steel. ''The real luxury today,'' he once said, ''is not that one incredible piece of furniture. It's perfect cooking and grooming facilities and perfect storage.''
        Aileen Mele, the New York Post columnist who writes under the name of Suzy and whose apartment Mr. Rybar decorated, said, ''He had a smartness and a sense of chic that you don't find often.''
        Mr. Rybar and his partner, Mr. Daigre, created some of the most spectacular parties in Europe. He spent a year preparing for a ball for 1,000 people given by Mr. and Mrs. Antenor Patino at Quinta Patino, their 200-acre home in Portugal. ''The decorations were perfection and the whole evening like a dream,'' Mrs. Patino recalled. ''Valerian had a mind for details that was quite extraordinary.''
        He also had an imagination that left guests reeling. Rosemary Kanzler, a client for whom Mr. Rybar decorated a London duplex, a pied-a-terre in New York and a house in St. Moritz, recalled two parties he designed for her.
        ''Ten years ago, we gave a ball at Gunter Sachs Chalet, a club in St. Moritz,'' she said. ''Valerian put pyramids of red apples on every table and covered the chairs in a sheepskin wool. It had a wonderful, rustic look.'' Mr. Rybar also created an Oriental party for her in Greece. ''Valerian bought 150 cheap Iranian rugs to cover all the tables,'' she said. ''Then he built low sofas, heaped them with hundreds of pillows and placed Turkish lamps on all the tables.''
        Headdress Attracted Arden
        The decorator, who was born in Yugoslavia, began his career as a trainee at Lord & Taylor. Soon after he quit, he designed an elaborate headdress for the opera singer Jarmila Novotna to wear to a charity ball. Elizabeth Arden saw it and hired Mr. Rybar to help her with packaging and window designs.
        ''She took him under her wing,'' Mr. Daigre said. Mr. Rybar stayed at Arden for three years and designed some of the shop's interiors.
        From there he began working on party designs and was soon hired by some of his clients to help them with their homes. Mr. Daigre joined him in 1968, and their concern, Valerian Rybar & Daigre Design Corporation, had offices in New York and Paris.
        Mr. Rybar was also involved in projects like the lobby and restaurant of the Plaza Athenee Hotel in New York, the offices of a shipping company in Monte Carlo, the hotel at Las Hadas, and a resort owned by the Patino family in Mexico.
        There are no survivors.
      