
       Lord O'Neill, who was Northern Ireland's top official from 1963 to 1969, died yesterday at his home in southern England. He was 75 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed.
        Lord O'Neill, who was Northern Ireland's top official from 1963 to 1969, died yesterday at his home in southern England. He was 75 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed.
        Lord O'Neill's tenure in office immediately preceded the eruption of ''the troubles,'' as the sectarian violence in Northern Ireland is known. He said that his aim as the province's Prime Minister was to stop Ireland from ''tearing itself to pieces,'' and he worked hard to improve relations between Northern Ireland's Protestant majority and its Roman Catholic minority.
        He was regarded as the most liberal leader the Unionist Party had produced in its half a century and he made no effort to conceal his scorn for those who preached violence as a way to solve Ireland's problems.
        A direct, candid man who was educated at Eton and served as a captain in the Irish Guards, he referred to right-wing Protestant extremists as ''lunatics'' and issued this warning in 1968:
        ''We are on the brink of chaos. I am not a man given to extravagant language, but I must say to you this evening that our conduct over the coming days and weeks will decide our future.''
        Lord O'Neill remained aloof from the polarization of Irish politics and consistently emphasized moderation and a desire to heal old religious and political divisions. He offered important concessions to the Catholic minority in Ulster, such as the creation of an ombudsman to check on the fairness of Government administration. He also tried to end prejudice against Catholics in housing.
        Austin Currie, one of the founders of the civil rights campaign in Northern Ireland, once said of Lord O'Neill: ''I have given him credit for trying and I have given him credit for courage, but unfortunately, it was too little, too late.'' Other Catholics in Northern Ireland were less kind, accusing him of being largely ineffectual, criticizing him for ''whitewashing the pigsty'' and for moving too slowly. But a former Prime Minister of the Republic of Ireland, Jack Lynch, praised Mr. O'Neill as ''a man of courage and vision.''
        Lord O'Neill's approach to Irish problems greatly angered not only such people as the rightist preacher Ian Paisley, who campaigned to turn Mr. O'Neill out of office, but also those from the right wing in his own Unionist Party who thought he was too concilatory toward the Catholics. Their suspicions about him were heightened when, in 1965, he met with Sean Lemass, the Prime Minister of the Irish Republic. It was the first such meeting since the partitioning of Ireland 40 years before.
        Terence Marne O'Neill was born Sept. 10, 1914, the scion of one of Ireland's oldest families. He traced his ancestory to the kings who had ruled Ireland in the fourth century and to the Chichesters, founders of Belfast. His father, Arthur O'Neill, was the first member of the British Parliament to be killed in World War I. Both of Terence O'Neill's brothers were killed in action in World War II, and he himself was wounded in the Netherlands.
        Mr. O'Neill resigned in April 1969 and was given a life peerage in 1970.
        Survivors include his wife, Katharine Jean; a son, Patrick; and a daughter, Penelope Anne.
      