
       Eli Whitney Debevoise, a prominent New York lawyer who served in numerous government posts, died in his sleep early yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90 years old.
        Eli Whitney Debevoise, a prominent New York lawyer who served in numerous government posts, died in his sleep early yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 90 years old.
        Mr. Debevoise (pronounced DEH-beh-voyse), who was a co-founder of the law firm now known as Debevoise & Plimpton, handled both litigation and corporate law. The firm is among the largest in the United States with about 300 lawyers, and offices in New York, Washington, Los Angeles, Paris and London. Mr. Debevoise served as the firm's presiding partner until 1972, when he went into semi-retirement.
        Mr. Debevoise served as Deputy United States High Commissioner for Germany from 1951 to 1953, one of the top positions with the Allied Commission that administered Germany's affairs in the years immediately following World War II.
        In 1959, Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller named Mr. Debevoise chairman of the New York State Task Force on Youth and Juvenile Delinquency, which was mandated to carry out a six-point program that included developing work camps for troubled youngsters.
        'A Wonderful Resource'
        In accepting that position, Mr. Debevoise, a lanky six-footer who loved trout fishing and hiking in the mountains, spoke of the value that wilderness living might have for the youngsters. ''Developing a love of the great outdoors is a marvelous thing,'' he said. ''To me it has become a wonderful resource that I have drawn on all my life.''
        Born in Manhattan on Dec. 14, 1899, and named after his great-great grandfather, Eli Whitney, the inventor of the cotton gin, Mr. Debevoise graduated from the Hotchkiss School in Lakeville, Conn., in 1917. Shortly after graduation, he enlisted in the Army and eventually attained the rank of second lieutenant.
        Mr. Debevoise graduated from Yale University in 1921 and from the Harvard University Law School in 1925. He immediately entered practice in Manhattan in the office of his father and, later, was an associate in a firm headed by John W. Davis, the Democratic candidate for president in 1924.
        In 1931, with a total of $2,366 in their account, Mr. Debevoise and William E. Stevenson, both then 31, formed a partnership under the name Debevoise & Stevenson. The firm soon enjoyed success when it was named counsel to the trustee in the bankruptcy proceedings involving the collapsed empire of Ivar Kreuger, the ''Swedish Match King.'' Mr. Kreuger, head of the International Match Company, killed himself in February 1932, in what was a sensational end to his tangled and well-publicized financial affairs.
        A Hunt for Communists
        Later, Mr. Debevoise would play a leading role in the firm's representation of Alger Hiss during the former State Department official's two trials for perjury in the post-war hunt for Communists in government. In the early 1950's, Mr. Debevoise served as legal adviser for the Ford Motor Company as it became a public corporation.
        During World War II, Mr. Debevoise was chairman of the Alien Enemy Hearing Board in New York, which ruled on the eligibility of resident aliens to remain in the United States. From 1951 to 1953, besides serving as Deputy High Commissioner for Germany, he was general counsel to the Commission.
        Upon his return to the United States, Mr. Debevoise rejoined his firm and served in a variety of public and human rights posts. He was a member of the New York State Special Legislative Committee on Integrity and Ethical Standards in Government, chairman of the executive committee of Radio Free Europe, chairman of Governor Rockefeller's Committee to Review New York Laws and Procedures on Human Rights, vice president and chairman of the International Commission of Jurists and a member of the New York Citizens Committee on Reaportionment.
        He was also active in many charities, serving as president of the New York Association for the Blind, chairman of the Russell Sage Foundation, as a trustee of Rockefeller University and a trustee of the American Geographical Society.
        Mr. Debevoise's first marriage to the former Barbara Clay ended in divorce. He is survived by two children from that marriage, Elizabeth Ann Healy of Manhattan and Thomas M. Debevoise of Woodstock, Vt., as well as five grandchildren and six great-grandchildren. Mr. Debevoise's second wife, Agnes Holder Black Debevoise, died in 1989.
      