
       Robert B. McKay, a former dean of the New York University Law School who led the New York State commission that investigated the 1971 Attica prison uprising, died yesterday morning in Reno, where he was to address the National Judicial College. He was 70 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Robert B. McKay, a former dean of the New York University Law School who led the New York State commission that investigated the 1971 Attica prison uprising, died yesterday morning in Reno, where he was to address the National Judicial College. He was 70 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He apparently had a heart attack in his hotel room, John Sexton, the law school's current dean, reported.
        Professor McKay, an authority on constitutional law and on legislative reapportionment, was a lifelong scholar and an advocate in issues of public interest. He was particularly interested in improving the education of lawyers and promoting professional responsibility.
        He served on many governmental and professional commissions, but was most prominently in the public eye in 1971 and 1972, when he was chairman of the New York State Special Commission on Attica. It investigated the bloodiest uprising in American prison history, in which 32 inmates and 10 hostages were killed at the Attica prison in upstate New York, 39 of them in an assault by state police officers Sept. 13, 1971.
        Panel Criticized Rockefeller
        The panel, known as the McKay Commission, issued a report that was sharply critical of Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller for not personally going to the prison before ordering an armed assault on the rebellious inmates. The commission also criticized state prison authorities for not having plans to deal with riots and for not having nonlethal weapons on hand.
        Dean Sexton noted yesterday that Professor McKay had been unusually active throughout his career in a wide variety of causes.
        ''There are very few aspects of American law, from public service to private practice, that he did not touch in a positive way over the last three decades,'' Dean Sexton said. ''Although he retired as dean in 1975, he was still a vital member of the law school community, and was about to became an academic headmaster in a dormitory so he could keep in touch with the next generation of lawyers.''
        Conrad K. Harper, the president of the Association of the Bar of the City of New York, a post Professor McKay held from 1984 to 1986, said: ''He was an exemplar of our profession: compassionate, thoughtful, thorough and persuasive. When he died he was at work on one of his latest projects, heading our committee on minority-group members in the profession.''
        Led Law School Through Turmoil
        Later this summer, Professor McKay was preparing to go to the Aspen Institute for Humanistic Studies in Colorado, where he was a senior fellow and former director of its program on justice, society and the individual.
        Robert Budge McKay was born in Wichita, Kans., on Aug. 11, 1919. He received a bachelor's degree from the University of Kansas and a law degree from Yale. He joined the Army as a private three months before Pearl Harbor, served in the Philippines and rose to captain by the war's end.
        From 1947 to 1950 he was a lawyer in the Department of Justice and for the next three years taught law at Emory University in Atlanta. He joined the New York University law faculty as a professor in 1953 and from 1967 to 1975 was dean of the school.
        He was credited with providing strong leadership at a time when unrest was sweeping college campuses, and during his tenure N.Y.U. rose to high ranking among American law schools.
        Supported Free Legal Service
        He stepped down as dean in 1975 and for the next eight years devoted most of his academic energies to the Aspen Institute. But he continued to serve in public posts and to pursue a number of causes. He led a Bar Association committee that recommended mandatory continuing legal education for lawyers, and he was a strong proponent of requiring lawyers to perform ''pro bono'' - unpaid - services.
        He was a former board chairman of the New York Civil Liberties Union, a former president of the Legal Aid Society and a former chairman of the Citizens Union. From 1973 to 1980 he was vice chairman of the National News Council.
        Professor McKay was a member of the American Bar Association's board of governors and head of its commission on professional conduct. He was a past chairman of the association's section on legal education.
        He returned to New York University in 1983 to design and teach several courses, including professional responsibility and the search for new means of resolving legal disputes. He became professor emeritus of law last year.
        Professor McKay wrote more than 200 essays, monographs, and book chapters, including the 1965 book ''Reapportionment: The Law and Politics of Equal Representation.''
        His awards included the William Nelson Cromwell Medal of the New York County Lawyers Association in 1973, the Justice Award of the American Judicature Society in 1986, the Gold Medal of the Bar Association of the City of New York in 1987, and the Servant of Justice Award of the Legal Aid Society in March.
        Professor McKay's wife, the former Sara Warmack, whom he married in 1954, died in 1986. Surviving are two daughters, Kathryn Nichols of Columbia Falls, Mont., and Sara, of Manhattan, and a brother, John, who lives in Florida.
      