
       William James Burrud, a television producer and narrator of nature shows and travelogues, died Thursday at his home in Sunset Beach, Calif., after a heart attack. He was 65 years old.
        William James Burrud, a television producer and narrator of nature shows and travelogues, died Thursday at his home in Sunset Beach, Calif., after a heart attack. He was 65 years old.
        A spokeswoman for his production company, Valerie Beauchamps, said Mr. Burrud was stricken while swimming in the ocean and attempts to revive him failed.
        His series included the long-running ''Animal World,'' seen in prime time from 1968 to 1971 on all three major networks. It started as a 10-week summer replacement on NBC, went to CBS the next year and moved on to ABC before going into syndication.
        A native of Hollywood, Bill Burrud made his stage debut as an actor at the age of 8. Starting in 1935, he appeared in several motion pictures for Universal and Columbia Pictures.
        Served in the Navy
        After serving in the Navy in World War II and completing his education at the University of Southern California, he set up his own company, Bill Burrud Productions, in Los Angeles in the 1950's and sent his film crews to travel the world. He was a committed conservationist, and his films about a wide variety of animals struck a chord with an environmentally aware audience and were shown in more than 20 countries.
        His successful animal series began with ''The Great Red Apes,'' a two-part film about the vanishing orangutan set in the jungles of Borneo. Among his other projects were nature and travel shows like ''World of the Sea,'' ''Safari to Adventure,'' ''Wildlife Adventure,'' ''Islands in the Sun,'' ''Challenging Sea,'' ''Treasure,'' ''True Adventure,'' ''Vagabond,'' ''Wanderlust'' and ''Wonderful World of Women.''
        Two of his documentaries, ''New! Animal World'' and ''Animal Odyssey,'' are currently shown on the Discovery Channel on cable television. He also was to be the host for ''Sea Mammals,'' a new series on that channel, Among his specials for television was ''Where Did All the Animals Go?'' in 1974, which he made to raise money for a fund to fight poaching.
        Mr. Burrud's survivors include his second wife, the former Marlene Ann Dorman, and four sons, John, Bob, Gary and Tom.
      