
       Gen. George L. Mabry Jr., who won the Medal of Honor in World War II and later commanded American forces in the Panama Canal Zone, died Friday at Richland Memorial Hospital in Columbia, S.C. He was 72 years old and lived in Columbia.
        Gen. George L. Mabry Jr., who won the Medal of Honor in World War II and later commanded American forces in the Panama Canal Zone, died Friday at Richland Memorial Hospital in Columbia, S.C. He was 72 years old and lived in Columbia.
        General Mabry died of prostate cancer that spread to the lining of his heart, said a son, Lieut. Col. George L. Mabry 3d.
        General Mabry, who joined the Army after graduating from Presbyterian College in Clinton, S.C., in 1940, landed with the Fourth Infantry Division on Utah Beach in Normandy on D-Day, June 6, 1944.
        He was awarded the Medal of Honor for his actions during an attack on Nov. 20, 1944, in the Huertgen Forest near Schevenhutte, Germany. He was cited for clearing a path through a German minefield, capturing three German bunkers, killing three German soldiers and injuring another with his rifle butt. He captured nine other Germans. He served as a regimental commander of the 31st Infantry Regiment in Korea from 1954 to 1956, and later spent 10 years in the Panama Canal Zone, including four as commanding general.
        As the commander of American support troops in Vietnam in 1969, General Mabry ordered an investigation of eight Special Forces soldiers accused of murdering Thai Khac Chuyen, an American espionage agent suspected of also working for the Vietcong. The Army later dropped the charges against the Green Berets, saying that the Central Intelligence Agency had refused to let its personnel testify at their courts-martial.
        In addition to Lieutenant Colonel Mabry, who is stationed in Stuttgart, West Germany, General Mabry is survived by his wife, Eulena; a daughter, Abigail M. Ferrick of Columbia; a son, Benjamin, also of Columbia; a brother, Buford, of Sumter, S.C., and five grandchildren.
      