
       Francis Parkman, the first president of the National Association of Independent Schools and a former headmaster of St. Mark's School in Southborough, Mass., died Sunday at the North Hill Health Center in Needham, Mass., where he had lived for the last four years.
        Francis Parkman, the first president of the National Association of Independent Schools and a former headmaster of St. Mark's School in Southborough, Mass., died Sunday at the North Hill Health Center in Needham, Mass., where he had lived for the last four years.
        He was 92 years old and had previously lived in Chestnut Hill., Mass., and Seal Cove, Me. His family said Mr. Parkman probably died of pneumonia, though he was not known to have had a specific disease.
        In 1948 Mr. Parkman became executive secretary of the National Council of Independent Schools, a post he held until 1962 when the organization was succeeded by the National Association of Independent Schools, at which time he became the president. He retired after a year but continued to serve as a consultant and conducted a workshop for newly appointed heads of schools for several years.
        Mr. Parkman, a distant relative of the historian Francis Parkman, was born in Boston and was a graduate of St. Mark's and Harvard, where he was a member of Phi Beta Kappa. He enlisted in the Marine Corps in 1918 and was commissioned a second lieutenant a few days after World War I ended.
        He returned to Harvard as a history instructor and assistant dean in 1925 and received a doctorate in 1930. In that year he was named headmaster of St. Mark's. Shortly after the United States entered World War II he joined the Army Air Corps and rose to colonel while serving in England, France and Germany.
        Mr. Parkman's wife, the former Eleanor Bremer, died in 1979. Surviving are four sons, Henry, of Cleveland, Francis Jr., of Portland, Me., Theodore, of Newfields, N.H., and Samuel, of Manhattan; 16 grandchildren, and 15 great-grandchlidren.
      