
       Dr. Richard M. Overholt, a chest surgeon who began crusading against smoking in the early 1930's, died on Monday at New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston. He was 88 years old and lived in Dedham, Mass. His family said he died of liver cancer.
        Dr. Richard M. Overholt, a chest surgeon who began crusading against smoking in the early 1930's, died on Monday at New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston. He was 88 years old and lived in Dedham, Mass. His family said he died of liver cancer.
        Dr. Overholt, a former chief surgeon at the Lahey Clinic in Burlington, Mass., performed the first successful removal of a right lung on a cancer patient. But he said he had accomplished more to combat cancer outside the operating room than inside.
        In the early 1930's, while operating on tuberculosis patients, Dr. Overholt observed that the lungs of nonsmokers recovered faster than those of smokers. In 1934, addressing 300 doctors, he urged them to support measures to curb smoking.
        ''They actually laughed him off the floor,'' recalled a colleague at Overholt Cardio-Thoracic Associates, a clinic in Boston that Dr. Overholt founded in 1940. ''The air was blue with smoke.''
        'No One Would Listen'
        ''They thought I was crazy,'' Dr. Overholt once said. ''I could see so much evidence, and no one would listen to me.''
        He adopted a policy of refusing to treat patients unless they gave up smoking. He had to battle smoking in his own family; his wife, Polly, smoked for 18 years after they were married in 1933.
        ''This was a terrible issue with us,'' Mrs. Overholt said many years later. ''There would be long periods of silence. When we'd gotten to the point where I had to choose between Overholt and the Chesterfields, I went to a psychiatrist.''
        The psychiatrist spoke to Dr. Overholt and, after hearing his views on chronic bronchitis and lung cancer, told Mrs. Overholt: ''I was wrong. You do have a problem, and I will help you.''
        Dr. Overhold persuaded Deaconess Hospital to ban distribution of free cigarettes in 1961 and later to remove cigarette vending machines, make the cafeteria smoke-free and establish smoke-free floors for patients.
        He was modest about his surgical achievements but assertive about his advocacy of not smoking.
        To Save a Life
        ''I've helped more people by what I've done campaigning to prevent disease than by curing it,'' he said in 1984. ''One in 10 dies of lung disease. If you can convince 10 people to quit smoking, you've saved a life.''
        Dr. Overholt was born in Ashland, Neb., and received his medical degree from the University of Nebraska. He joined the Lahey Clinic in 1930 and opened a private practice in 1937. He taught at Tufts Medical School, the New England Baptist Hospital and Quincy City Hospital in Massachusetts.
        He was a past president of the Ameican College of Chest Surgeons and a founding member of Action on Smoking and Health, an antismoking organization. The Overholt Foundation, established in the 1930's, continues to finance research and patient care.
        Dr. Overholt is survived by his wife, the former Polly Powers; three daughters, Jane Goodman of Highland Park, N.J., Hollis Perry of Dedham and Ann Beckett of Dover, Mass.; a sister, Marion Parsons of Eugene, Ore.; five granddaughters, and a great-granddaughter.
      