
       Dr. Karl Augustus Menninger, one of the foremost practitioners and advocates of psychiatry in the United States, died yesterday at Stormont-Vail Regional Medical Center in Topeka, Kan. He was 96 years old and lived in Topeka.
        Dr. Karl Augustus Menninger, one of the foremost practitioners and advocates of psychiatry in the United States, died yesterday at Stormont-Vail Regional Medical Center in Topeka, Kan. He was 96 years old and lived in Topeka.
        Dr. Menninger was admitted to the hospital on June 12. His illness was diagnosed by the hospital at the time as abdominal cancer.
        An innovative and often controversial figure in mental health, Dr. Menninger (pronounced with a hard ''g'') helped found the Menninger Clinic and Foundation in Topeka that is now world famous. He was long considered the elder statesman and dean of American psychiatry.
        He was a crusader for many causes, including neglected and abused children, prisoners, American Indians and wildlife.
        A Father Figure, Without a Paddle One of the first physicians in the United States to receive psychoanalytic training, he held certificate No. 1 from the Chicago Psychoanalytic Institute. But his views sometimes ran counter to accepted Freudian wisdom.
        While Dr. Menninger emphasized creating a humane environment for patients to live in, Freud limited treatment to the therapy session itself.
        Dr. Menninger took it as an article of faith that psychiatric treatment, in the proper circumstances, was helpful for virtually every emotionally disturbed individual. Dr. Menninger felt that an absence of parental love accounted for much individual destructiveness and mental illness. He carried this concept into a study of crime, in which he contended that most crime was a stage of mental or emotional sickness and should be treated as such. He felt that imprisonment without such treatment was virtually useless in curbing antisocial behavior.
        With patients and in his books, Dr. Menninger conveyed the impression of being a father figure, but a benevolent rather than an authoritarian one. He seemed to hold out hope that the afflicted could learn to cope with themselves and surmount their problems.
        This, combined with his emphasis on society's role in emotional illness, gave him a wide reputation as a humanist. In the opinion of many colleagues, Dr. Menninger had the distinction of seeing patients as human beings with mistaken ideas about how to live and to treat them accordingly.
        The Clinic Began In a Farmhouse Dr. Menninger, with his father and brother, established their center of psychiatry in the 1920's. It was based on what was then a revolutionary concept.
        Previously, psychiatric treatment had been conducted one on one over a long period - perhaps five to seven years. The Menninger idea was to provide a ''total environment'' for its clinic patients in which there would be a family atmosphere, physical exercise and medical doctors from various disciplines who could give patients comprehensive care.
        The first clinic building was an old farmhouse with beds for 13 patients. Although the institution expanded to 39 buildings, set on two campuses totaling 430 acres, and to a staff of 900, the mixture of treatment and kindness persists as a therapeutic tool.
        The clinic also became a teaching center, drawing hundreds of would-be psychiatrists from around the world. Moreover, it was adopted as the model for scores of private and public psychiatric hospitals.
        Taking Psychiatry Beyond 'Lunatics' One of Dr. Menninger's accomplishments was explaining psychiatry to the public. Although the chief hypotheses of Freud were more than a quarter-century old when Dr. Menninger began to expound them, knowledge of them was confined to a small group of Americans. To the general public, the mentally ill or emotionally disturbed were often ''lunatics'' to be confined in insane asylums.
        Dr. Menninger had a hand in changing those conceptions through his papers, articles and books, some of which became best sellers. His success as an expounder was unintentional. His first book, ''The Human Mind,'' was written for medical students. But when it was published in 1930, it caught the attention of thousands of lay readers, to whom it explained psychiatry as a relatively uncomplicated method of helping the disturbed.
        His other major books, which also reached mass audiences, were ''Love Against Hate,'' (Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich, paperback, 1959) ''Man Against Himself,'' (Harcourt, Brace, Jovanovich, paperback, 1956) ''Whatever Became of Sin?'' (Bantam, paperback, 1988) and ''Crime of Punishment,'' (Penguin USA, 1968), which contributed to penal reforms in a number of states.
        From Topeka And Back Again The eldest of three sons of Dr. Charles Frederick Menninger, a country doctor, and the former Flora Knisely, Karl Menninger was born in Topeka on July 22, 1893. He was brought up to respect medicine and the teaching profession, for his father was a professor at Campbell University, a small college in Holton, Kan.
        Karl Menninger went to three colleges: Washburn, Indiana University and the University of Wisconsin, from which he received a bachelor's degree in 1914.
        He entered the Harvard Medical School, from which he graduated with honors in 1917. After his internship and service in the Naval Reserve in World War I, he returned to Boston to work under Dr. Ernest Southard at the Boston Psychopathic Hospital and to teach neuropathology at the Harvard Medical School. When Dr. Southard (''One of the greatest inspirations of my life,'' his pupil once said) died, Dr. Menninger returned to Topeka to practice in partnership with his father.
        Much earlier, in 1908, the elder Dr. Menninger had visited the fledgling Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minn., a pioneer center for the practice of group medicine. Returning home, he is reported to have said, ''I have been to the Mayos, and I have seen a great thing.'' Then, turning to his eldest and youngest sons, Karl and William, he told them, ''You boys are going to be doctors and we are going to have a clinic like that in Topeka.''
        In 1925, the Menningers opened their clinic on the outskirts of the city. To distinguish among the Menningers, the father was called Dr. C. F., and his sons, Dr. Karl and Dr. Will. It was Dr. C. F. who advanced the proposition that ''no patient is untreatable,'' although he himself remained a medical doctor, albeit one passionately interested in psychiatry.
        An Open Approach To Psychotherapy Although Dr. Karl liked to say that he was ''more Freudian than Freud,'' he was very elastic in his approach. He was the clinic's chief of staff for many years, while Dr. Will, before his death in 1966, was responsible for the clinic's organization. Dr. Karl often emphasized that in the treatment of patients there was no commitment to any one form of therapy. There was constant examination and re-examination of successes and failures, with Dr. Karl asking at staff conferences: ''What do we know? How can we be sure?''
        It was in this spirit that he was disinclined to classify patients on rigid diagnostic lines. Instead, he believed that virtually any emotional disturbance would yield to a loving, caring environment. Summing up these views a couple of years ago, Dr. Francis J. Braceland, a fellow psychiatrist, wrote that Karl Menninger saw ''patients not as bearers of bizarre diseases, but rather as human beings, somewhat isolated from their fellow men, harassed by faulty techniques of living and making awkward maneuvers to keep themselves emotionally intact.''
        In another divergence from Freud, who felt emotional illness chiefly resulted from conflicts in the mind, Dr. Menninger argued that such illness was often induced by society. ''It should be a help,'' he said over and over, ''for any people to be getting three square meals a day and to know that there is opportunity ahead -things to be done, land to be turned, things to build.'' But he never spoke of cures or panaceas, but rather of helping patients to find ''a caring environment'' in which to work out their potential for creativity.
        Although he disagreed with many Freudian precepts, Dr. Menninger was not especially interested in doctrinal disputes, so he maintained friendships with what he once called ''the Vatican,'' by which he meant organized psychoanalysis.
        Attending a congress of an international psychoanalytic group in Vienna in 1971, he was one of the few participants on intimate terms with Dr. Anna Freud, Freud's daughter. What drew them together was their common interest in child psychiatry, of which Anna Freud was a leading investigator.
        An Emphasis On Parental Love One of the basic points in Dr. Menninger's approach to emotional illness was the role of parents. ''It is much easier, more logical and more efficacious to help a child grow up with love and courage than it is to instill hope in a despondent soul,'' he said. ''What mother and father mean to them is more than psychiatrists can ever mean.''
        He thought the crucial shaping experiences of childhood were so important that he advocated that the best schoolteachers be ''promoted'' from instructing in the higher grades to teaching the lower ones because of their demonstrated ability to exert a strongly beneficial influence on children.
        Dr. Menninger's interests were as wide-ranging and as eclectic as his psychiatry. At one time he belonged to a number of sociology organizations, the American Indian Defense Association, the Kansas State Historical Society, the American League to Abolish Capital Punishment, the Planned Parenthood Federation and the Council on Freedom From Censorship.
        ''Nothing of human concern is really outside psychiatry,'' he remarked, ''so, in one sense, I have no hobbies; they are all part of my work.''
        And, in fact, in the later years of his life especially, Dr. Menninger liked to comment on many varieties of human concern. Often restless and excitable, sometimes explosive or epigrammatical, he usually sparkled in conversation. He could be particularly acerbic when talking about criminology, which he once taught along with mental hygiene and abnormal psychiatry at Washburn University of Topeka. He was scornful of those who saw punishment in itself as a crime deterrent, saying that prison rarely helped any inmate adjust to life.
        Some Conflicts At the Clinic Dr. Menninger's association with the clinic had its ups and downs. Whereas Dr. Will was calm and thoughtful, Dr. Karl was fiery, forgetful and sometimes rude. They often found it convenient for one to be off on a lecture tour while the other was working at the clinic. Shortly before Dr. Will's death, Dr. Karl moved to Chicago and only later returned to Topeka, where he was titular chairman of the Menninger Foundation.
        In recent years, he took little part in the foundation's daily activities. The foundation, formed in 1941, is the umbrella for all the clinic's work. It is headed by Dr. Roy W. Menninger, a son of Dr. Will. Dr. Roy Menninger's brothers are also connected with the clinic, as is Dr. Karl Menninger's son, Dr. Robert G. Menninger, who is a staff psychiatrist there. At his death, Dr. Karl Menninger was chairman of the trustees of the Menninger Foundation.
        Dr. Menninger's long role as a psychiatric educator led to the establishment of the Karl Menninger School of Psychiatry and Mental Health Sciences, a cooperative effort of the Menninger Clinic and Tokepa State Hospital. The school has trained about 2,000 psychiatrists, clinical social workers and other mental health professionals.
        In 1981 Dr. Menninger received the nation's highest civilian honor, the Medal of Freedom, from President Jimmy Carter.
        The most recent of his 13 books was a collection of his letters, ''The Selected Correspondence of Karl A. Menninger, 1919-1945'' (Yale University Press, 1989).
        A Critic of Society, As Cause of Misery In his last years, Dr. Karl became more critical of American society. Last November he spoke his mind to a convocation in New York, held to mark the 50th anniversary of the clinic, saying:
        ''Most of my life has been spent in treating persons one by one. But as I become increasingly aware of the extent of misery and hopelessness in our society, I think more of preventing unnecessary suffering at the source, before individuals take or are forced to take the wrong road.''
        Dr. Menninger married twice. His first wife was Grace Gaines, whom he married in 1916. They were divorced in 1941. The same year he married Jeanetta Lyle, who collaborated with him on ''Love Against Hate.''
        He is survived by his wife; their daughter, Rosemary, of Topeka; three children by his first marriage. Dr. Robert of Topeka, Martha Nichols of Cheyenne, Wyo., and Julia Gottesman of Sierra Madre, Calif.; a brother, Edwin, of Lillington, N.C., and nine grandchildren.
      