
       Dr. J.C.R. Licklider, an early computer scientist who was credited with pioneering work that established the basis for concepts like time sharing and resource sharing, died last Tuesday at Symmes Hospital in Arlington, Mass. He was 75 years old and lived in Arlington.
        Dr. J.C.R. Licklider, an early computer scientist who was credited with pioneering work that established the basis for concepts like time sharing and resource sharing, died last Tuesday at Symmes Hospital in Arlington, Mass. He was 75 years old and lived in Arlington.
        Dr. Licklider, who retired from the faculty of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1985, died of complications after an asthma attack, the unversity said.
        He was among the first to recognize that the potential of the computer could be improved by the user's ability to interact with it, and that the computer, beyond merely providing data, could help its users in thinking, understanding and making decisions.
        'Man-Computer Symbiosis'
        In a number of papers he published in the 1960's, Dr. Licklider outlined what he called the ''man-computer symbiosis,'' a means of improving the dialogue between humans and computers.
        He also made important contributions in the application of computers to libraries, introducing the concepts of digital computers and telecommunciations into the process of information storage and retrieval. In the mid-1980's he developed a system that made it possible to construct computer programs by drawing diagrams on a computer screen instead of writing numerical and symbolic expressions.
        Joseph C. R. Licklider (pronounced LICK-lyder) was born in St. Louis and held bachelor's and master's degrees from Washington University there and a doctorate in psychology from the University of Rochester.
        From 1943 to 1950 he was a lecturer at Harvard University and a researcher at its Psycho-Acoustics Laboratory, where he advanced theories of pitch perception and the intelligibility of speech. He moved to M. I. T. as an associate professor in 1950 and seven years later joined the engineering firm of Bolt Beranek & Newman as vice president in charge of research in psychoacoustics, engineering psychology and information systems. He was president of the Acoustical Society of America in 1958.
        Influential in Research Projects
        In 1962 Dr. Licklider joined the Defense Department's Advanced Research Projects Agency as director of information processing techniques and behavioral sciences. There he was instrumental in setting up large-scale research projects on experimental computer science at universities across the nation.
        The first of these was known as Project MAC at M. I. T., now the university's Laboratory for Computer Science, which Dr. Licklider directed from 1968 to 1970.
        Before he returned to M. I. T., where he became a professor of electrical engineering, he served as manager of information sciences, systems and applications at the Thomas J. Watson Research Center of International Business Machines. In 1974 and 1975 he took a year's leave from M. I. T. to direct the Information Processing Techniques Office in Washington.
        Last March Dr. Licklider received a $20,000 Common Wealth Award for Distinguished Service for his work in computer networking and interaction between humans and computers, from a humanitarian trust fund established in Delaware He is survived by his wife, the former Louise Carpenter; a son, Tracy, of Cambridge, Mass., a daughter, Linda Smith of Arlington, and two grandchildren.
      