
       Hippocrates G. Apostle, an emeritus professor of mathematics and philosophy at Grinnell College who specialized in the works of Aristotle, died on Wednesday at his home in Grinnell, Iowa. He was 80 years old. The college said he died of lung cancer.
        Hippocrates G. Apostle, an emeritus professor of mathematics and philosophy at Grinnell College who specialized in the works of Aristotle, died on Wednesday at his home in Grinnell, Iowa. He was 80 years old. The college said he died of lung cancer.
        Professor Apostle recently published a translation of Aristotle's ''Poetics,'' the ninth in a series he had been working on for nearly three decades. He had previously won recognition for his translations of Aristotle's ''Metaphysics,'' ''Physics,'' ''Categories and Propositions,'' ''Posterior Analytics,'' ''On the Soul,'' ''Nichomachean Ethics,'' and, with Lloyd Gerson, ''Selected Works'' and ''Politics,'' all published by Peripatetic Press. Two Grinnell professors, Elizabeth Dobbs and Morris Parslow, collaborated on the ''Poetics.''
        Professor Apostle was born in Tyrnavos, Greece, and came to New York City as a child. He earned bachelor's and master's degrees in mathematics at Columbia University. While studying philosophy at the University of Chicago he began a study of Aristotle that was to continue for the rest of his life.
        He earned a philosophy degree from Laval University in Quebec and master's and doctoral degrees in philosophy from Harvard University. He taught at West Virginia Wesleyan College, the University of Rochester, Amherst College and the University of Chicago before joining the faculty at Grinnell in 1948 as professor of mathematics and philosophy. He gave up his mathematics courses in 1968, continuing to teach philosophy until 1978, when he retired.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Margaret Grow, and three stepchildren, Stephen Grow of Kansas City, Mo., Susan Edenberg of Indianapolis and Thomas Grow of Marinette, Wis.
      