
       Herbert Nelson, an actor whose repertory ranged from Shakespeare to Broadway comedy to television drama and soap operas, died on Thursday at the Actors Fund of America Nursing Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 76 years old. A former resident of Leonia, N.J., he had lived in Venice, Calif., until last year.
        Herbert Nelson, an actor whose repertory ranged from Shakespeare to Broadway comedy to television drama and soap operas, died on Thursday at the Actors Fund of America Nursing Home in Englewood, N.J. He was 76 years old. A former resident of Leonia, N.J., he had lived in Venice, Calif., until last year.
        A native of Stillwater, Minn., Mr. Nelson began his 50-year career in the Midwest, playing in tents and in stock as well as at the University of Minnesota. Between 1937 and 1941, he did more than 30 different network radio shows, spending three years in Chicago before coming to New York in 1941 with ''The Guiding Light.''
        He made his Broadway debut in the Laura West and S. J. Perelman comedy ''The Night Before Christmas'' in April 1941. For the next four years, he served in the Signal Corps and then toured Europe with the Soldier Show Company of ''Golden Boy.''
        After the war, he spent four years as a member of the Barter Theater repertory company in Virginia. There, in 1946, he also helped inaugurate the Virginia State Theater in Abingdon, the country's first state-subsidized theater, with Noel Coward's ''Blithe Spirit.''
        Roles in Many Series
        Mr. Nelson appeared in the New York Shakespeare Festival under the direction of Joseph Papp. In 1964, he was seen in ''Othello'' as Brabantio, Desdemona's unhappy father.
        He had roles in many of the live television dramas of the 1950's, and was a leading man in an assortment of daytime series, including four years with Hal Holbrook in ''The Brighter Day.''
        His television credits also include ''The Honeymooners,'' ''The Bold Ones,'' ''The Waltons,'' ''Little House on the Prairie'' and ''Maude.''
        Mr. Nelson is survived by two daughters, Dawn, of Atlanta, and Erika Boras of Bergenfield, N.J.; two sons, DeWitt, of Manhattan, and Dustin, of Bemus Point, N.Y.; a brother, Arnold, of Ludington, Mich.; and seven grandchildren.
      