
       Dr. Ivan L. Bennett Jr., a former dean of the New York University School of Medicine and an adviser to President Lyndon B. Johnson, died on Saturday in Tokyo. He was 68 years old and lived in Bronxville, N.Y.
        Dr. Ivan L. Bennett Jr., a former dean of the New York University School of Medicine and an adviser to President Lyndon B. Johnson, died on Saturday in Tokyo. He was 68 years old and lived in Bronxville, N.Y.
        Dr. Saul J. Farber, the present N.Y.U. medical school dean, said Dr. Bennett died after suffering a stroke while touring the Far East on a project to make hepatitis vaccine available throughout the region.
        Dr. Farber called Dr. Bennett ''a foremost physician-citizen of the United States and the world.'' In addition to having been a ''brilliant administrator,'' Dr. Farber said, Dr. Bennett had ''advanced the progress of preventive medicine around the world.''
        Dr. Bennett was dean of the N.Y.U. medical school and provost of its medical center from 1969 until 1981, when he stepped aside to return to teaching and biomedical research.
        Acting University President
        He served as the university's acting president between the departure of John C. Sawhill in 1979 and the arrival of John Brademas in 1981. He remained the university's executive vice-president for health affairs.
        Ivan Loveridge Bennett Jr., was born in Washington, the eldest of three sons in a Southern Baptist family. His father was chief of chaplains in the Army, and he spent his boyhood shuttling between cities and continents and more than a dozen different schools. He graduated from Emory University and in 1946 from its medical school.
        He received a broad background in pathology and internal medicine over the next eight years at a number of hospitals and universities. In 1954, he joined the medical staff at Johns Hopkins University and became director of its pathology department four years later at the age of 36.
        Dr. Bennett soon was asked to get involved in government projects and to advise officials in his field of expertise. In 1966, he took a leave of absence to join the Office of Science and Technology, which advises the President, as deputy director and served in the waning weeks of the Johnson Administration as its acting director.
        Not a 'Caretaker'
        When he became acting president of N.Y.U., Dr. Bennett declared, ''I am not running a caretaker government.''
        He said he was following Mr. Sawhill's policies, but made one change Mr. Sawhill had resisted. With widespread approval from the faculty, he raised their retirement age from 65 to 70.
        He also inaugurated N.Y.U.'s autonomous Urban Studies Center, founded with a grant from the Charles H. Revson Foundation. Dr. Bennett called it the university's ''new commitment to urban life.''
        Dr. Bennett's survivors include his wife, the former Martha Rhodes; two daughters, Susan and Katherine; and two sons, Paul Bruce and Jeffrey Ivan.
      