
       John H. Fanning, a member of the National Labor Relations Board for a record 25 years and its chairman from 1977 to 1981, died Saturday at Georgetown University Hospital. He was 73 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        John H. Fanning, a member of the National Labor Relations Board for a record 25 years and its chairman from 1977 to 1981, died Saturday at Georgetown University Hospital. He was 73 years old and lived in Bethesda, Md.
        He died of kidney failure, a family spokesman said.
        From 1957 to 1982, in five terms, Mr. Fanning, a leading expert and major shaper of the nation's labor laws, took part in more than 25,000 decisions involving complaints of unfair labor practices.
        In uncommon bipartisanship, Mr. Fanning, a Democrat, was appointed to the board by President Dwight D. Eisenhower, a Republican, and reappointed by three Democrats, John F. Kennedy, Lyndon B. Johnson and Jimmy Carter, and a Republican, Richard M. Nixon. President Carter named Mr. Fanning the board's chairman.
        Respect for Opinions
        Mr. Fanning, a calm New England lawyer, was widely respected as holding knowledgeable opinions and not shying from being a lone dissenter. He was frequently criticized by business groups and conservatives who contended that his rulings consistently favored labor.
        In a 1977 interview, he said: ''I'm convinced that if a company has a union in its plant, the union was pretty much invited in by the actions of the company. People don't pay union dues if they are entirely happy. Many employers are now recognizing that if you are not greedy, you can keep a union out of your plant if you really want to. All you have to do is pay the prevailing wages or a little more.''
        Since 1982, when he retired from the labor board, Mr. Fanning was the Washington representative of Hinckley, Allen, Snyder & Comen, a law firm in Providence, R.I. He was also the counsel to the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers and a member of the State Department's Foreign Service Grievance Board.
        Study of Labor Relations
        John Harold Fanning was a native of Putnam, Conn., and a graduate of the Norwich (Conn.) Free Academy, who worked every vacation in textile mills. He earned a bachelor's degree at Providence College and a law degree at the Catholic University of America in Washington. From 1942 to 1957, he did legal work for the Labor, Army and Defense departments, where he was promoted to director of industrial relations.
        He established the John H. Fanning chair in labor relations at the Catholic University law school and the John H. Fanning Conference on Labor-Management Relations at Providence College. He was a member of the board of the Catholic Youth Organization in Washington.
        His wife of 40 years, Eloise Cooney Fanning, died in 1982.
        Surviving are three daughters, Mary Ellen Dunn, of Rockville, Md., Ann Gallagher, of Annandale, Md., and Gaele DeGross, of Bethesda; two sons, John Michael, of Elgin, Ill., and Stephen Thomas, of Barrington, R.I.; a sister, Bernice Burnes, of Albany; a brother, Raymond, of Willimantic, Conn., and 13 grandchildren.
      