
       Manuel Puig, the Argentine novelist whose work ''The Kiss of the Spider Woman'' was made into an award-winning film, died yesterday in Cuernavaca, Mexico. He was 57 years old.
        Manuel Puig, the Argentine novelist whose work ''The Kiss of the Spider Woman'' was made into an award-winning film, died yesterday in Cuernavaca, Mexico. He was 57 years old.
        His son, Javier Labrada, said his father died of a heart attack after gall bladder surgery.
        Mr. Puig was an experimental realist who searched for what he called ''a new form of popular litarature.''
        Literary critics found Mr. Puig, like William Faulkner, a master of occluded narrative. He liked to recount the ordinary melodramas of everyday life in novel ways. And he would often let his characters tell their own stories without comment, in a cinematic style.
        The Hollywood Influence
        The Hollywood films of the 1930's and 40's animated and empowered Mr. Puig's entire literary career. In his novels, he repeatedly fused details of ordinary lives with vivid images from films, both actual and imagined.
        In an interview in 1985, Mr. Puig recalled how movies had a liberating influence on his life. He observed that ''not everybody is born in a big country with access to other forms of culture, education.''
        ''There are many people who live in the sticks and have no means,'' he said. ''They are soaking in machismo, in a hostile environment. What do they do? They have no choice. ''The movies provided them, as they did me, an alternative. They help you to not go crazy. You see another way of life. It doesn't matter that the way of life shown by Hollywood was phony. It helped you hope.''
        His first novel, ''Betrayed by Rita Hayworth,'' published in 1971 by E. P. Dutton, was a critical success. It evoked the drama, pathos and humor of moviegoing as a way of life in the Argentine provinces.
        The book was somewhat biographical, in that it was essentially a story as told by Toto, a boy born in 1932 in the bleakest flatland pampas of the Argentine.
        Mr. Puig was himself born in 1932 in the small town of Vallegas, on the arid pampas far from Buenos Aires.
        Haunted by Frankenstein
        His mother was a confirmed moviegoer and introduced Manuel to this pastime when he was 3 years old. The first film he rememberd was ''The Bride of Frankenstein,'' which he said he expected to haunt him as long as he lived.
        In 1946, he went to Buenos Aires to attend an American boarding school. Four years later, he enrolled at the University of Buenos Aires, where he studied philosophy.
        He also studied English, French and Italian, for these were the languages spoken in the films he saw. At the age of 23 he traveled to Rome where he studied at an experimental film school, and worked on the special effects of the David O. Selznick film ''A Farewell to Arms.''
        Five years later, he returned to Argintina and started to write ''Betrayed by Rita Hayworth.'' It was panned by Argentine critics and had problems with censorship, but received favorable reviews in France and the United States.
        His second novel, ''Heartbreak Tango: A Serial,'' published by Dutton in 1973, conveys the sense of growing old pathetically and bitterly as the romantic illusions of youth fade.
        Peron Returns, He Leaves
        That same year, Juan Peron returned to power in Argentina and Mr. Puig went into self-imposed exile, with stays in Mexico, Brazil and the United States.
        Among his other novels were ''The Blood of Requited Love,'' ''The Buenos Aires Affair,'' and ''Eternal Curse on the Reader of These Pages.''
        ''The Kiss of the Spider Woman,'' published by Alfred A. Knopf in 1979, was made into a film in 1985 starring the William Hurt, whose performance won him an Academy Award, and Raul Julia. The novel is a running dialogue between two men in an Argentine prison cell, a Marxist student (Mr. Julia) and an apolitical homosexual (the role played by Mr. Hurt) who recounted plots of old romantic movies.
        The novel was also, less successfully, made into a musical written by Terrence McNally, with a score by John Kander and Fred Ebb, and directed by Harold Prince, which had a limited run as part of the New Musicals series in Purchase, N.Y.
        Mr. Puig had lived in Cuernavaca, 50 miles south of Mexico City, since last October. He is to be buried in a family plot in La Plata, Argentina.
        He is survived by his mother, Maria Elena de Puig, a brother, Carlos Puig, and two sons, Mr. Labrada and Agustin Garcia Gil, all of Cuernavaca.
      