
       Dr. Louis M. Hellman, a physician who as a Federal health official advocated public financing of birth control, abortion and voluntary sterilization for the poor, died Sunday at the George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 82 years old and lived in Hydes, Md.
        Dr. Louis M. Hellman, a physician who as a Federal health official advocated public financing of birth control, abortion and voluntary sterilization for the poor, died Sunday at the George Washington University Hospital in Washington. He was 82 years old and lived in Hydes, Md.
        The family said he died of the effects of Parkinson's disease.
        From 1970 to 1977, Dr. Hellman was Deputy Assistant Secretary for population affairs in the Department of Health, Education and Welfare, now Health and Human Services. In 1976 and 1977 he was also Administrator of the Health Services Administration.
        Even before he entered Government service, his strong advocacy of family planning got him into skirmishes with opponents of birth control, abortion and sterilization.
        Countering an Unwritten Ban
        In 1958, when he was chief of obstetrics and gynecology at Kings County Hospital in Brooklyn, he informed New York City's Health Commissioner, Dr. Morris A. Jacobs, that he intended to fit a diabetic patient for a contraceptive device.
        His action went counter to a long-accepted but never-stated ban on birth control counseling in municipal hospitals. As a result the ban was made public, and it was overturned several weeks later after protests by Planned Parenthood and other organizations.
        In 1973, when he was in charge of population affairs for the Federal Government, his office made plans to distribute a film advocating legal abortion to public schools and colleges. The plan was shelved by Caspar W. Weinberger, then Secretary of Health, Education and Welfare, when anti-abortion groups rose in opposition.
        Guidelines on Sterilization
        A sharp dispute arose that same year over a civil rights lawsuit in Montgomery, Ala., charging that two black girls, sisters aged 12 and 14, had been sterilized under a federally financed program without full knowledge of what was being done to them.
        The suit was dismissed, but the local agency was barred from further sterilizations. Dr. Hellman issued guidelines that required ''fully informed consent'' by minors or the mentally retarded before sterilization could be performed.
        He left Government service in 1977 to become medical director of the Population Reference Bureau, a nonprofit research organization. He retired in 1983.
        Dr. Hellman, born in St. Louis, was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Yale University and received his medical degree from Johns Hopkins. He served in the Navy Medical Corps in World War II, emerging as a lieutenant commander. He taught obstetrics at Johns Hopkins before joining Kings County Hospital in 1950 as head of obstetrics and gynecology. When the State University of New York established the Downstate Medical Center at Kings County in 1966, he became chairman of its department as well.
        Midwives' Advocate
        In the mid-1960's Dr. Hellman campaigned for wider use of registered nurses as midwives to compensate for a shortage of obstetricians. As chairman of the Food and Drug Administration's committee on obstetrics and gynecology in the late 60's, he issued reports on the safety of intrauterine devices and oral contraceptives.
        Dr. Hellman was the author of several textbooks on obstetrics and wrote extensively in scientific journals on fertility problems. He was president of the American Gynecological Society in 1974 and received the distinguished service award of the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology in 1976.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ernestine Crummel; a daughter, Ann Mullen of Sag Harbor, L.I.; a son, Michael of Lloyd Harbor, L.I.; four grandchildren, and a great-granddaughter.
      