
       Bruno Kreisky, who dominated Austria's public life as the nation's longest-serving Chancellor from 1970 to 1983, died yesterday at Lainz Hospital in Vienna. He was 79 years old.
        Bruno Kreisky, who dominated Austria's public life as the nation's longest-serving Chancellor from 1970 to 1983, died yesterday at Lainz Hospital in Vienna. He was 79 years old.
        Mr. Kreisky, who consolidated the neutral nation's prosperity and gave it a vigorous voice in international affairs, died of heart disease, hospital officials said.
        The former Chancellor, an urbane and pragmatic Socialist, was first elected to Parliament in 1956 and was Foreign Minister from 1959 to 1966. He was chairman of Austria's Social Democratic Party from 1967 to 1983 and its honorary chairman until 1987.
        He at times evoked criticism abroad, particularly from Israel for meeting with Yasir Arafat, the leader of the Palestine Liberation Organization, and with Col. Muammar el-Qaddafi, the Libyan leader. He defended the contacts as efforts to achieve an Israeli-Arab peace and called it hypocritical to trade with Libya while snubbing its leader.
        Mr. Kreisky, who won a majority in Parliament for the Socialists three consecutive times and who speedily fulfilled a pledge to resign if he lost that majority, was widely respected in Europe and overseas as a leading postwar Social Democrat.
        A Tribute From Brandt
        In a statement yesterday, Willy Brandt, a longtime friend and former Socialist Chancellor of West Germany, said that with Mr. Kreisky's death, ''Austria loses one of its most distinguished postwar politicans, European democracy one of its most convincing leading figures.''
        Franz Vranitzky, Austria's present Socialist Chancellor, said: ''We have lost one of the greatest Austrian politicians of this century. With his international reputation, he gave Austria a position in the world that far outstripped the size of our country.''
        Mr. Kreisky, who was widely popular among Austrians, stressed European detente and ''active neutrality'' for Austria while he negotitated an association agreement with the European Economic Community and made Vienna a leading center of international forums, including summit talks. He also accelerated Austria's policy of aiding Soviet Jews in migrating to Israel and elsewhere.
        More than 200,000 Jews from the Soviet Union passed through the Austrian capital in the 1970's and 1980's, according to Paul Hofmann, a former correspondent for The New York Times. In his book ''The Viennese: Splendor, Twilight and Exile,'' published in 1988 by Anchor Press/Doubleday, he offered the following conclusion: ''For many years the state of American-Soviet relations at any given time could be gauged from the volume of Jewish emigration flowing through Vienna.''
        A Jewish Agnostic
        Bruno Kreisky was born in Vienna on Jan. 22, 1911, to Irene Felix and Max Kreisky, a textile industrialist. The family was of Jewish descent, but the son later described himself as a religious agnostic.
        The young man attended schools in Vienna and, at the age of 15, joined the Socialist youth movement. The Social Democratic Party was outlawed in 1934, and in 1935 he was arrested and imprisoned for 18 months. On his release, he entered the University of Vienna and earned a doctor-of-laws degree.
        After the Nazi takeover, he was again arrested, in 1938, for political activities. He escaped to Sweden, where he spent the war years, working in a consumer sales cooperative and occasionally serving as a correspondent for Swedish newspapers and also as adviser on Austrian affairs for the Swedish Government. It was in Sweden that he met and married his wife, Vera Alice Fuerth.
        At war's end, Mr. Kreisky returned to Austria, joined the Foreign Service and was assigned to the legation in Stockholm for four years. In 1953, he became State Secretary for Foreign Affairs, and in the next two years was involved in negotiations that led to the restoration of Austrian independence under terms of maintaining a neutrality similar to that of Switzerland.
        Neutrality 'No Easy Escape'
        In 1959, he became the first Socialist to serve as Foreign Minister in a coalition government. He was deeply committed to making Austria's neutrality more than a simple avoidance of commitment.
        In 1960, he wrote: ''A policy of neutrality is by no means an easy escape from international responsibilities. The governments of neutral nations are called upon to cooperate, within the limitations imposed upon them by their status and size, in solving the great questions of our day.''
        Mr. Kreisky was a folksy, well-read, low-key man who kept his telephone number listed in the Vienna directory for many years after becoming the head of government.
        His durability led to the nickname ''Emperor Bruno.'' In insisting in 1980 that he would resign as Chancellor if it meant haggling within a coalition, he offered this explanation:
        ''To work in a coalition government is a terrible waste of time. A coalition government is mostly a government of confrontation. This is not my business.''
        A Period of Prosperity
        In 1973, responding to Israeli criticism of his evenhanded attitude toward Israel and Palestinian Arabs, he said he could see no other possible policy for Austria but ''equidistance between the Arab states and Israel.''
        During much of Mr. Kreisky's tenure, Austria prospered, with a moderate yearly inflation rate of about 5 percent, and close to full employment. Labor-management conflicts were quietly settled by negotiation and compromise.
        In foreign affairs, he once said, ''The Austrians' task is to win maximum trust in the West, and at the same time only evoke a minimum of mistrust in the East.''
        Mr. Kreisky's wife died last year. Survivors include a son, Peter, and a daughter, Susanne.
      