
       Morley R. Kare, director and president of the Monell Chemical Senses Center, a research group in Philadelphia devoted to studying taste and smell, died yesterday at his home in Narberth, Pa. He was 68 years old.
        Morley R. Kare, director and president of the Monell Chemical Senses Center, a research group in Philadelphia devoted to studying taste and smell, died yesterday at his home in Narberth, Pa. He was 68 years old.
        A spokesman for the family said Dr. Kare died of stomach cancer.
        At the Monell Center, which Dr. Kare founded in 1968, 50 scientists from disciplines like biology, nutrition and organic chemistry research the mechanisms of taste and smell.
        Originally financed by the Ambrose Monell Foundation in Manhattan, the center is now supported by grants from agencies like the National Institutes of Health and the National Science Foundation.
        At his death Dr. Kare was also a professor of physiology at the University of Pennsylvania. His research focused on the relationship of taste to nutrition, including ingestion, digestion and metabolism. He also wrote and lectured, and established a series of international conferences on topics relating to the chemical senses. He recently served on a task force to plan the program for the new National Institute on Deafness and Other Communication Disorders.
        He was a member of the American Institute of Nutrition, the Canadian and American Physiological Societies, the Society of Neuroscience and the executive committee of the Franklin Institute. He was also general chairman of the International Conference on Chemical Senses and Nutrition and a governor of the Academy of Sciences of Philadelphia.
        Born in Winnipeg, Manitoba, he received a bachelor's degree from the University of Manitoba, a master's from the University of British Columbia and a Ph.D. from Cornell University. In World War II he was a lieutenant in the Canadian Army.
        Before going to the University of Pennsylvania, he was a professor at North Carolina State University and Cornell.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Carol Abramson; a daughter, Susan Tannenbaum, and a son, Jordin, both of San Francisco; three sisters, Eleanor Roback of Vancouver, Vera Vogel of Calgary, Alberta, and Lovee Kliman of Jacksonville, Fla.; a brother, Samuel of Langley, British Columbia, and a grandson.
      