
       Herman Goldfarb, an insurance broker who worked undercover in an inquiry into organized crime in the New York garment industry in the early 70's and who later, while in the Federal witness-protection program, was tried for ordering the murder of a man who had threatened to reveal his identity, died on Sunday in San Diego.
        Herman Goldfarb, an insurance broker who worked undercover in an inquiry into organized crime in the New York garment industry in the early 70's and who later, while in the Federal witness-protection program, was tried for ordering the murder of a man who had threatened to reveal his identity, died on Sunday in San Diego. He was 68 years old and lived in Solana Beach, Calif.
        As Herman G. Martin, Mr. Goldfarb was convicted of murder in 1982. The conviction was overturned on appeal in 1987 because of misconduct by prosecutors. Mr. Goldfarb pleaded guilty to voluntary manslaughter last November and was freed in consideration of the four and a half years he had served in prison.
        Maintaining that he was innocent, Mr. Goldfarb said he made the plea bargain to avoid a retrial because his wife had recently died, he had undergone heart surgery, and he could not afford the legal expenses.
        ''I'm terminally ill,'' he said when the case was closed in January. ''My death is imminent. I don't want to die in a courtroom.'' $200,000 'Contract' on Life Mr. Goldfarb's original identity ended in October 1974, when his undercover role in a Federal-city inquiry of organized crime in the garment center became known. The investigation, Project Cleveland, resulted in 13 indictments, 3 guilty pleas, 1 conviction and, according to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, a $200,000 ''contract'' on Mr. Goldfarb's life.
        Mr. Goldfarb was born in Brooklyn. He became a successful insurance broker. He agreed in 1973 to be president of a trucking company set up by the Federal-City Joint Strike Force Against Organized Crime to penetrate racketeering in the garment district. Mr. Goldfarb was regarded as an ideal centerpiece for a ''sting'' because he had a criminal record, having served a sentence in state prison in 1959 for swindling a group of prominent lawyers in an insurance-selling scheme.
        Equipped with a recording device, Mr. Goldfarb opened an office for the trucking company and soon dealt with underworld figures. His information led to criminal cases, including some that did not directly involve racketeering among truckers.
        Conversations he recorded resulted in the successful prosecution of Anthony (Tony Pro) Provenzano, a teamsters' official from Union City, N.J., and an organized-crime figure, for conspiring to arrange a $300,000 kickback on a $2.3 million loan from a teamsters' pension fund for the Woodstock Hotel near Times Square. Mr. Provenzano was sentenced to four years in prison.
        Successful in San Diego
        Project Cleveland, originally planned to last five years, ended after 17 months amid a squabble between Federal and city officials and the disclosure of Mr. Goldfarb's cover. He was put into the witness-protection program and relocated to San Diego, where he again became a highly successful insurance executive.
        In 1982 he was convicted of coercing one of his employees to pistol whip a wealthy lawyer, Richard Crake, who, he contended, owed him $100,000. When the lawyer died of the injuries and the employee pleaded guilty, Mr. Goldfarb was indicted on a charge of second-degree murder. Convicted and sentenced to 16 years to life, he won the right to a new trial on appeal in 1987, when the California Supreme Court found that the prosecutor had intimidated witnesses by arresting the first defense witness. Mr. Goldfarb was released on bond and was not retried.
        Mr. Goldfarb's school-age son was relocated with the father and mother. The couple's three married daughters and their families were also relocated. There was no information on survivors.
      