
       Paul Wynne, a broadcast journalist whose on-the-air diary about AIDS made television history, died of AIDS today at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center here. He was 47 years old.
        Paul Wynne, a broadcast journalist whose on-the-air diary about AIDS made television history, died of AIDS today at the Veterans Affairs Medical Center here. He was 47 years old.
        Mr. Wynne, an entertainment reporter for three San Francisco television stations from 1972 to 1984, returned to the air in January 1990 with ''Paul Wynne's Journal,'' a firsthand account of his fears and triumphs as he moved toward death.
        Even in San Francisco, a city probably more sophisticated about AIDS than any other in the nation, the segment was stunning television, shocking for some viewers, inspiring for others and a ''reason to get up in the morning'' for its dying star.
        The diary won rave reviews from television critics in the area. And KGO-TV, the local ABC affiliate that broadcast the journal, received scores of telephone calls and letters, a vast majority praising the station for its courage and Mr. Wynne for putting a face on the dread disease.
        Taped From Hospital Bed
        While the diary was available to other stations across the country, only one other broadcast it: KCET-TV in Los Angeles, which showed 18 installments of the diary on a weekend in June when the Sixth International AIDS Conference was being held in San Francisco and gay men and women in the United States were celebrating Gay Pride Week.
        The series was taped from Mr. Wynne's hospital bed in recent weeks as his health deteriorated. The segments were often witty, but their subject matter changed as he became weaker.
        Early in the series Mr. Wynne said he would not surrender to the paraphernalia of advanced AIDS, including the cane or the walker, but in a later segment he acknowledged that he had moved ''into the wheelchair phase.''
        In another late segment, his face gaunt and his eyes hollow, Mr. Wynne told viewers, ''I'm very sick and I'm very weak; my life is very joyless and I'm very afraid.''
        Commentary on Entertainment
        Mr. Wynne was born in Shenandoah, Iowa, and grew up in Hillsboro, Ore. He received a bachelor's degree in theater from Willamette University in Salem, Ore., then served in the Army, where he began his journalism career at the armed forces television station in Fort Gordon, Ga.
        In 1979, after leaving the military, he moved to San Francisco, where he held a series of jobs at local television stations, most of them doing commentary about entertainment. In 1984, while working at KGO-TV, the station decided not to renew his contract. After that he received no offers for on-the-air work and was unemployed.
        In January, a former colleague at KGO carried Mr. Wynne's idea for an on-the-air diary to the station managers, who leaped at the chance to break new ground. The show was an immediate hit.
        Mr. Wynne is survived by his father, Harold Wynne of Lincoln City, Ore., and by two stepbrothers, Brad Wynne of Centreville, Va., and Greg Wynne of Westchester, Calif.
      