
       Dr. Tibor Ham, a physician and a member of the Hungarian resistance to the Nazis in World War II, who fled into exile after the Communist takeover in 1947, died on Saturday at his home in McLean, Va. He was 76 years old. A son, Eugene, said Dr. Ham died of prostate cancer.
        Dr. Tibor Ham, a physician and a member of the Hungarian resistance to the Nazis in World War II, who fled into exile after the Communist takeover in 1947, died on Saturday at his home in McLean, Va. He was 76 years old. A son, Eugene, said Dr. Ham died of prostate cancer.
        Dr. Ham was a leader of the Smallholders Party, which won a majority in Parliament in free elections in 1945. But two years later, he and other members of Parliament were arrested on charges of conspiring to overthrow the Government of Prime Minister Ferenc Nagy, who went into exile in May 1947 after the Communists, led by Matyas Rakosi, came to power with the help of Soviet forces.
        Dr. Ham and 45 other members of the Smallholders Party were put on trial by the Communists three months later. All except Dr. Ham were convicted. But he received word that he was to be rearrested, and he left the country with his wife and two sons.
        They made their way to Paris and, in 1951, to the United States, where Dr. Ham settled in the Washington area and resumed his practice of medicine. He was a founder of the Hungarian Committee, an exile group.
        Establishes Exile Group
        In 1956, after the uprising in Hungary was crushed by Soviet forces, he became president of the new American-Hungarian Cultural Center, which sought to preserve ties to the Hungarian people and to serve as a focus for exiles in the United States.
        Dr. Ham was born in Rakospalota, a suburb of Budapest, and attended the Piarist School before receiving his medical degree from the University of Budapest.
        In 1944, during the German occupation, he was a founding member of Teleki Pal, an anti-Nazi resistance group, several of whose members are now active in the new democratic Government in their country.
        Dr. Ham, who set up the Vienna Medical Clinic in Virginia in 1954, continued to practice until his final illness.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Margaret Diener; four sons - Andrew, of Tampa, Fla., Eugene, of Sherborn, Mass., and Christopher and Dr. Tibor Ham, both of Vienna, Va.; a daughter, Christina Hunter of Vienna, and eight grandchidren.
      