
       Giuseppe Zambonini, an architect and loft renovator who founded the Open Atelier of Design in Manhattan, died on Saturday at his home in Atlanta. He was 48 years old.  His death apparently resulted from a heart attack, a friend of the family said.
        Giuseppe Zambonini, an architect and loft renovator who founded the Open Atelier of Design in Manhattan, died on Saturday at his home in Atlanta. He was 48 years old.  His death apparently resulted from a heart attack, a friend of the family said.
        Mr. Zambonini headed the atelier, which combined a school and a manufacturing concern, from its founding in 1976 until 1988, when he closed it to move to Atlanta, where he was the director of the Georgia Institute of Technology's architecture school.
        The non-accredited atelier was founded as an act of rebellion against standard design education. Located first in TriBeCa and then in Chelsea, it taught architectural design, drawing, model making and construction. It had a wood-working shop to build much of the cabinetry Mr. Zambonini called for in lofts.
        A major innovation in lofts renovated by Mr. Zambonini were partial walls - partitions reminiscent of stage sets that did not reach the ceilings, letting light through the whole space.
        ''Whenever I renovate a loft, it is important that my design does not ignore the original architecture,'' Mr. Zambonini said in 1982. ''I don't want to transform a space into a totally new environment. These partial walls create a wonderful tension between the old space and the new design, so it is easy to tell exactly what was there before.''
        He was a native of Viterbo, Italy, and a graduate of the University of Venice, where he studied with Carlo Scarpa, the self-taught architect. Mr. Zambonini came to New York in 1972 and was, for three years, dean of the New York School of Interior Design. He also taught, or was a competition juror, at Yale, Columbia and the University of Pennsylvania.
        Surviving are his wife, Claudia; a daughter, Donata, also of Atlanta; two sisters, Franca Mazzaglia of Rome, and Pia Mazier of Milan, and a brother, Giovanni, of Verona.
      