
       Howard Duff, a character actor who played the tough private detective Sam Spade on radio in the 1940's and a colorful Southern sheriff, Titus Semple, on the television series ''Flamingo Road'' in the 1980's, died Sunday at his home. He was 76 years old.
        Howard Duff, a character actor who played the tough private detective Sam Spade on radio in the 1940's and a colorful Southern sheriff, Titus Semple, on the television series ''Flamingo Road'' in the 1980's, died Sunday at his home. He was 76 years old.
        Mr. Duff's wife, Judy, said authorities believe her husband suffered a heart attack.
        Mr. Duff had taken part in a telethon Saturday night to raise money for victims of the fire in Santa Barbara last month, which left hundreds homeless.
        Mr. Duff was born in Bremerton, Wash., on Aug. 24, 1913. He joined the Seattle Repertory Theater after his graduation from high school and appeared in a wide range of productions, including ''Private Lives,'' ''Waiting for Lefty'' and ''Volpone.'' He was attached to the Armed Forces Radio Service branch during World War II. After the war, he joined the Actor's Laboratory in Los Angeles.
        Crime Films at Start
        He made his movie debut in 1947 in ''Brute Force,'' directed by Jules Dassin and produced by Mark Hellinger. The following year he appeared in another Dassin-Hellinger film, ''The Naked City,'' a crime story set in New York City.
        He was a regular on such hit television series of the 1950's and 60's as ''Mr. Adams and Eve,'' ''Dante'' and ''Felony Squad.'' Among his later films were ''Kramer vs. Kramer,'' ''The Late Show'' and ''The Wedding.''
        In recent years, he was a guest on such shows as ''The Golden Girls,'' ''Midnight Caller,'' ''Knot's Landing'' and ''Murder, She Wrote.''
        In 1951 Mr. Duff married the actress Ida Lupino, with whom he had a daughter, Bridget. The marriage ended in divorce in 1973.
        In addition to his wife and daughter, he is survived by a brother, Doug.
      