
       Alain Chapel, regarded as one of the finest chefs in France, died yesterday while visiting friends in Avignon, France. He was 53 years old.
        Alain Chapel, regarded as one of the finest chefs in France, died yesterday while visiting friends in Avignon, France. He was 53 years old.
        The cause of death was a stroke, according to Yanou Collart, a family friend in Paris.
        Mr. Chapel, the owner and founder of the restaurant that bears his name in Mionnay, 12 miles from Lyons, had been attending the annual summer theater festival in Avignon. He was due to return yesterday afternoon to his restaurant, which usually reopened Tuesday nights after being closed all day Mondays.
        Mr. Chapel created a sensation in 1973 when he receiving the Michelin Guide's three-star rating, culminating a meteoric six-year rise from one star. He preserved that distinction, which is held by only 19 restaurants in France, and in the process transformed the small village of Mionnay into a culinary landmark on any serious gastronomic tour of France.
        Calves' Ears With Parsley
        Avid followers of Mr. Chapel made the pilgrimage to his flower-filled restaurant, housed in an old inn surrounding a lush garden. Among his best-known dishes were stuffed calves' ears with fried parsley and a truffle-stuffed chicken tightly enveloped in a pork bladder and cooked in a rich chicken broth.
        In The New York Times in 1977, Craig Claiborne described his ''gateau de foies blonds'' as ''his ultimate triumph'' and ''one of the absolute cooking glories of this generation.'' The dish is a silken, creamy, mousselike creation made with pureed chicken livers and beef marrow and served with a sauce combining lobster and cream.
        A meal at Mr. Chapel's restaurant was like a ''symphony,'' according to The Gault Millau Guide to France, with each course meriting undivided attention. Frequently meals consisted of as many as seven courses.
        Mr. Chapel was born in Lyons on Dec. 30, 1937, the son of a maitre d'hotel and his wife. The family moved to Mionnay at the outbreak of World War II, where they opened a small bistro, La Mere Charles. Mr. Chapel, who began his kitchen training at 15, took over the family bistro after his father's death and renamed it Alain Chapel in 1970. His mother, Eva, continued to work at the restaurant, helping to seat guests.
        Planned Florida Restaurant
        Mr. Chapel was a frequent visitor to the United States and had hoped to open a restaurant in Florida. He took issue with the notion that chefs in the United States were developing ''new American cooking.''
        ''You cannot talk about new cooking,'' Mr. Chapel, who was trained in classic French cuisine, said on a visit to the United States in 1985, ''because you must have tradition before you can have new cooking and there is no tradition here.''
        Mrs. Collart, the family friend in Paris, said it was unclear what would become of the restaurant.
        Besides his mother, Mr. Chapel is survived by his wife, Suzanne, and two sons, David and Romain.
      