
       John F. Connelly, chairman of the Crown Cork and Seal Company and head of the Connelly Foundation, a Philadelphia philanthropic organization, died Sunday at his home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 85 years old.
        John F. Connelly, chairman of the Crown Cork and Seal Company and head of the Connelly Foundation, a Philadelphia philanthropic organization, died Sunday at his home in Bryn Mawr, Pa. He was 85 years old.
        The family said Mr. Connelly died in his sleep.
        Through the family foundation, Mr. Connelly and his wife, Josephine, made charitable contributions over the years totaling more than $74 million, including major grants to Villanova, LaSalle and Thomas Jefferson universities, the University of Pennsylvania and the Roman Catholic archdioceses of Philadelphia, New York and Newark.
        A native of Philadelphia, Mr. Connelly left school at 15 to work as an office boy after the death of his father, a blacksmith. He worked for several packaging concerns and from 1940 to 1945 was vice president and sales manager of the Philadelphia plant of the Container Corporation of America.
        After starting his own box company, Connelly Containers, he gained control of Crown Cork in 1957. He held the chairmanship of the company, which makes cans, bottle caps and bottle-washing machinery, until his death.
        Mr. Connelly was a Knight of the Order of Malta and a Knight Grand Cross of the Holy Sepulcher. He was also designated a Gentleman of His Holiness, receiving the highest honor given a Catholic layman outside Vatican City. In 1980, he received the Americanism Award of the Philadelphia chapter of the Anti-Defamation League of B'nai B'rith.
        Mr. Connelly is survived by his wife of 52 years, the former Josephine O'Neill; four daughters, Josephine Mandeville of Larchmont, N.Y., Emily Riley of Villanova, Pa., Judith Delouvrier of New York and Christine Connelly of Columbus, N.J.; two sons, John Jr. of Ventnor, N.J., and Thomas of Gladwyne, Pa.; three sisters, Margaret Eberle, Sister Mary Henrietta and Sister Mary Rosamund, and a brother, Robert, all of Philadelphia.
      