
       Richard B. Bernstein, who pioneered a branch of science that studies details of the ultrafast processes that occur in chemical reactions, died in Helsinki, Finland, on Sunday. He was 66 years old.
        Richard B. Bernstein, who pioneered a branch of science that studies details of the ultrafast processes that occur in chemical reactions, died in Helsinki, Finland, on Sunday. He was 66 years old.
        A spokesman for the University of California at Los Angeles, where Dr. Bernstein was a professor, said he died of complications after a heart attack that he suffered in the Soviet Union while attending a Soviet-American conference on laser chemistry. He had been flown to Helsinki for treatment. Dr. Bernstein was among the scientists who devised techniques now commonly used in ''femtochemistry,'' the study of chemical events that occur in only about one-quadrillionth of a second, or femtosecond. These techniques permit scientists to record sequences of chemical ''snapshots'' that illuminate fine details of rapid, complex reactions.
        In 1955, Dr. Bernstein discovered a way to control the speed, direction and orientation of single molecules and atoms accelerated in beams. Apparatus that he designed made it possible to observe the chemical chain of events when molecules in such beams are made to approach each other, collide, exchange energy, break their electronic bonds, form new ones and finally separate into new products. Dr. Bernstein used very rapid laser pulses to control the molecules in chemical reactions and to measure the changes they underwent during their reactions.
        Femtosecond chemistry has become an essential tool in the study of the chemistry of engine fuel combustion, explosions and many other chemical processes.
        Honored by the President
        For developing the science of molecular beam scattering, Dr. Bernstein was awarded the National Medal of Science by President Bush last Oct. 18.
        After receiving his bachelor's degree in 1943 from Columbia University, he joined the Manhattan Project, the top-secret Government project that developed the atomic bomb. Working at Columbia, he helped separate uranium isotopes to produce the uranium-235 that was used for the bomb.
        After gaining his doctorate in chemistry from Columbia in 1948, Dr. Bernstein became one of the nation's leading educators in chemistry. He was chairman of Columbia's chemistry department and was a professor at the University of Texas, the University of Wisconsin and the Illinois Institute of Technology.
        Since 1983 Dr. Bernstein was a professor at the University of California at Los Angeles. His most recent work in femtochemistry was in collaboration with Ahmed H. Zewall of the California Institute of Technology. Dr. Bernstein also served as a senior vice president of the Occidental Research Corporation in Irvine, Calif.
        A colleague, Dr. Malcolm Nicol, professor of chemistry at U.C.L.A., called him an outstanding teacher who encouraged others, and added, ''He will be missed by everyone who knew him.''
        Among Dr. Bernstein's many awards, the most prestigious included the Robert A. Welch Award in Chemistry for 1988 and the American Chemical Society's Willard Gibbs Medal in 1989. He had been a member of the National Academy of Sciences since 1968 and a fellow of the American Physical Society and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
        Dr. Bernstein is survived by his wife, Norma; a son, Neil, of Madison, Wis.; three daughters, Minda of Montreal, Beth of Redondo Beach, Calif., and Julie, of Northridge, Calif., and four grandchildren.
      