
       Amos E. Neyhart, an expert on automobile safety who originated driver education programs in the United States in the 1930's, died on July 5 at the Fairways Nursing Home in State College, Pa. He was 91 years old.
        Amos E. Neyhart, an expert on automobile safety who originated driver education programs in the United States in the 1930's, died on July 5 at the Fairways Nursing Home in State College, Pa. He was 91 years old.
        Mr. Neyhart died of a stroke, said a family friend, Mary Neilly.
        In the early 1930's, using his 1929 Graham-Paige automobile, Mr. Neyhart (pronounced NIGH-hart) began a campaign for safe driving. He established the first course in driver education at State College High School in 1932, and taught the first teacher-preparation course in driver education four years later.
        In 1934 he wrote ''The Safe Operation of an Automoble,'' the first textbook on driver education. He taught courses on driving for people with disabilities, on the effect of alcohol and drugs on driving and, at the college level, on advanced driver education.
        Educated at Pennsylvania State
        Mr. Neyhart, a native of Williamsport, Pa., received a bachelor's degree and a master's degree from Pennsylvania State University and joined the faculty in 1929 as an assistant professor of industrial engineering. He was director of the university's Institute of Public Safety in Continuing Education until his retirement in 1964.
        From 1936 to 1938 he promoted driver education for the American Automobile Association, for which he remained a consultant until his death.
        He served on national traffic safety committees under Presidents Harry S. Truman, John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson, and was inducted into the Safety and Health Hall of Fame International in 1988.
        Mr. Neyhart is survived by his wife, the former Mary Helen Leinbach; a daughter, Winifred Felch of Idledale, Colo.; a son, Charles Neyhart of El Paso; five grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
      