
       Marc Haas, a philatelist and business executive, died on Sunday at his home in Burgenstock, Switzerland. He was 82 years old and also had a home in Manhattan.
        Marc Haas, a philatelist and business executive, died on Sunday at his home in Burgenstock, Switzerland. He was 82 years old and also had a home in Manhattan.
        He died of a heart attack, a business associate said.
        Mr. Haas was a 1929 graduate of Princeton University and was the founder and president of American Diversified Enterprises, a privately held conglomerate and venture capital company formed in 1955.
        Collected 3,500 Rare Stamps
        Mr. Haas's stamp collection included 3,500 rare stamps, as well as memorabilia signed by George Washington and Thomas Jefferson. The collection also had envelopes bearing the signatures of Abraham Lincoln and Robert E. Lee, who had franking privileges and mailed their letters free with their signatures affixed.
        The collection was sold in 1979 for $11 million.
        ''I feel like I've lost my children,'' Mr. Haas said at the time of the sale to a British company, Stanley Gibbons International of London.
        He said he was selling the collection because of advancing age - he was 71 at the time - and because he knew the collection was valuable.
        He continued collecting stamps of lesser value, and earlier this year he was elected an emeritus trustee of the Philatelic Foundation.
        Warden at St. Bartholomew's
        Mr. Haas, who was a Knight of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem, an English order, was also a vestryman at St. Bartholemew's Episcopal Church on Park Avenue for more than 25 years. He was senior warden at the landmark church during the protracted debate on whether to sell the church property, between 50th and 51st Streets, to a developer for $100 million. The proposed sale was contested by parishioners, and the case is still in the courts.
        During World War II Mr. Haas served as a dollar-a-year man in the Office of Defense Transportation.
        He was also a noted collector of antique furniture, china, silver and other objets d'art.
        He is survived by his wife, Helen Hotze Haas.
      