
       Walter James Lopp 2d, an investment banker and an innovator in corporate financing, died on Friday at his vacation home in Auribeau, France. Mr. Lopp, who also lived in Manhattan, was 51 years old.
        Walter James Lopp 2d, an investment banker and an innovator in corporate financing, died on Friday at his vacation home in Auribeau, France. Mr. Lopp, who also lived in Manhattan, was 51 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, a spokeswoman for his company said.
        Mr. Lopp, a founder of Financial Security Assurance, was well known in the finance industry for his inventiveness. He helped create municipal bond insurance and the concept of tax-exempt financing for pollution-control projects.
        He also developed the concept of having municipalities issue tax-exempt bonds to finance the purchase of single-family homes and the use of floating-rate tax-exempt financing.
        Mr. Lopp was a native of Kansas City, Mo., and a graduate of the University of Missouri. He earned a master's degree in busness administration from Columbia University and also studied at the London School of Economics and Political Science. He spent much of his early career with Blythe Eastman Dillon Securities, where he developed the tax-exempt pollution-control market.
        In 1973, he was a founder and general partner of the Municipal Insurers Service Corporation, managing agent for the Municipal Bond Insurance Association.
        Worked at E.F. Hutton
        From 1974 to 1985, he was an executive vice president with E.F. Hutton & Company. In 1974 he also founded and was a general partner in the S & B Insurance Services Company, the first brokerage to introduce financial guaranty transactions to the insurance industry by offering private insurance of commercial paper, intermediate-term notes, money-market funds and credit-card receivables.
        In 1985 Mr. Lopp was a founder of Financial Security Assurance, the first financial guaranty company to insure secure, structured corporate financings. It now insures a wide range of securities, including municipal bonds. The company has headquarters in Manhattan and offices in London, Sydney, Australia, and Los Angeles.
        Mr. Lopp was an adviser on water-pollution control to Presidents Lyndon B. Johnson and Richard M. Nixon.
        He is survived by his wife, Karin; two daughters, Kimberly and Ruth; two sons, James and Daniel, all of Rye, N.Y.; his mother, Dorothy, of White Plains, and two brothers, Ron, of Rye, and Carl, of Manhattan.
      