
       James Thomas Foley, a Federal judge for 40 years, died yesterday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 80 years old and lived in North Greenbush, N.Y.
        James Thomas Foley, a Federal judge for 40 years, died yesterday at St. Peter's Hospital in Albany. He was 80 years old and lived in North Greenbush, N.Y.
        He died of a stroke, a funeral home official said.
        Judge Foley was appointed to the Federal bench by President Harry S. Truman in 1949. He served as chief judge for the Federal District Court for the Northern District in Albany from 1963 to 1980 and became a senior judge when he turned 70 in 1980. He remained active on the bench, however, carrying a full work load until he had open heart surgery in July 1989. After he recovered in November, he returned to the bench and was again carrying a full work load when he was taken ill last month.
        From Seaman to Lieutenant
        Judge Foley, who was born in Troy, N.Y. on July 9, 1910, graduated from Fordham College in 1931 and received his legal training at Albany Law School. He had been in private practice from 1935 to 1942 and was secretary to State Supreme Court Justice William H. Murray until his appointment to the Federal bench. He served in the United States Navy during World War II in the European and Pacific theaters. He had enlisted as an apprentice seaman in 1942 and was a lieutenant when discharged in 1945.
        He served on many professional boards and committees.
        While on the bench, he participated in some celebrated cases, including arraignments of some of the reputed mob leaders arrested at the 1957 gangland convention at Apalachin, N.Y. He was also part of a three-judge panel that upheld a ban on national fraternities and sororities imposed by the State University of New York in 1954. And, in the late 1970's, he ordered that more women and minority-group members be added to the New York State Police.
        Last year, the Albany Courthouse was renamed the James T. Foley Federal Courthouse in honor of his long and distinguished career.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Eleanor M. Anthony, and a daughter, Mary Jude Foley of North Greenbush.
      