
       B. F. Skinner, who studied human and animal behavior in ingenious experiments and hoped that his findings would foster creativity and curtail repression, died Saturday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 86 years old and lived in Cambridge.
        B. F. Skinner, who studied human and animal behavior in ingenious experiments and hoped that his findings would foster creativity and curtail repression, died Saturday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 86 years old and lived in Cambridge.
        His daughter, Julie F. Vargas, said the psychologist had remained active to the end and died of complications arising from leukemia.
        In his research and his voluminous writings, including ''Walden Two'' and ''Beyond Freedom and Dignity,'' Dr. Skinner advanced the belief that individuals could understand themselves and build a better world only through systematic modification of their behavior according to scientific principles he promulgated.
        By becoming a behaviorist in the late 1920's, when the discipline was in its infancy, Dr. Skinner helped to shape behavioral psychology as both a laboratory science and a cogent philosophy.
        Over the course of his long career, he worked on projects as diverse as machines that teach, utopian communities, warheads guided by pigeons, temperature-controlled environments for infants and the education of the severely retarded. Some of these contributions earned him the reputation of a profound thinker, while others caused him to be seen as a cold manipulator of humanity whose ideas could have disastrous consequences if they fell into the wrong hands.
        ''All human beings are controlled,'' he once told an interviewer, ''but the ideal of behaviorism is to eliminate coercion, to apply controls by changing the environment in such a way as to reinforce the kind of behavior that benefits everyone.
        ''Fascism and other authoritarian political systems are capable of applying the new technology of behavior modification,'' he added, ''and the challenge to democratic society is to develop it first. The society that adopts the technology first will have the competitive edge, and if ours is not the first, we shall be in danger.''
        Because he denounced ''the mysterious world of the mind'' as ''an unwarranted and dangerous metaphor,'' Dr. Skinner became further suspect as a person who had no truck with moods and feelings as they are described by other psychologists or, for that matter, by ordinary people. In fact, he recognized and reveled in the whole range of human emotions, and wanted to explore them without resorting to mentalistic concepts like ''conscious'' and ''unconscious,'' or artificial distinctions between the ''mind'' and the ''brain.''
        States from joy to suffering, he maintained, were experienced as physical states of the body and made manifest in a person's behavior. Even thinking was a behavior, he said, no matter how difficult to observe and describe.
        He Kept Working After Retirement Though officially retired from his teaching duties at Harvard University since 1974, Dr. Skinner for years walked the two miles to his office in William James Hall every day, to lecture, direct graduate research, write and conduct experiments in which pigeons learned to act as if they were communicating with each other and being aware of themselves.
        By his own and others' reckoning, Dr. Skinner's most important achievement was his full explication of the theory of operant behavior. Briefly, it holds that any behavior, from a rat's pressing a bar to a human's composing a symphony, is selected and reinforced by certain positive consequences in the environment. In other words, new behavior that emerges accidentally as a combination of the individual's unique genetic and personal history may readily become established as a pattern by positive reinforcement. But if not reinforced, the new behavior tends to be ''extinguished.''
        Once established, a behavior may be sustained by a variety of different ''schedules of reinforcement,'' as Dr. Skinner described in his 1938 book ''The Behavior of Organisms.''
        These schedules ranged from ''fixed-ratio'' schedules, like the piecework rate of pay in industry, to ''variable-ratio'' schedules characteristic of all gambling devices and systems. In lotteries, Dr. Skinner was fond of pointing out as an example, the most inconsistent and infrequent positive reinforcement serves to maintain the behavior of buying lottery tickets.
        Reinforcement, In Both Directions Dr. Skinner defined a positive reinforcer as anything that strengthened a given behavior. A negative reinforcer strengthened the behavior that reduced or terminated it.
        Although positive and negative reinforcement have frequently been confused with the notions of reward and punishment, they are actually, as Dr. Skinner defined them, quite different.
        Dr. Skinner's was a world without punishment. Though punishment worked as a negative reinforcer, it served only to produce escape or avoidant behavior that might be even more undesirable than the behavior it was designed to punish. He considered punishment ineffective in training animals, teaching children or managing public offenders.
        Dr. Skinner also interpreted private events according to behaviorist lines of thought. He conceded a debt to Sigmund Freud for showing that behavior obeys certain laws and is the result of underlying causes, but he rejected Freud's ''mental apparatus'' as a complete fabrication. He chose instead to study the interaction of the individual with the environment.
        Widely used educational and psychotherapeutic applications of behavior modification grew out of his work.
        To teach people with learning disabilities through ''successive approximation,'' for example, a desired behavior like walking or dressing oneself was analyzed, broken down into its simplest components and each step reinforced until the individual had mastered the task.
        Dr. Skinner first demonstrated this technique with animals in 1937, after reading about an experiment in which chimpanzees earned poker chips to be spent on food and other treats. Dr. Skinner wanted to show that the same behavior could be elicited from a less-advanced animal.
        ''I decided to teach a rat to spend money,'' he wrote. ''Poker chips would be hard to handle, and I chose glass marbles instead. The rat was to release a marble from a rack by pulling a chain, pick the marble up, carry it across the cage, and drop it into a tube standing about two inches above the floor. I could not, of course, wait for this complex sequence to appear before reinforcing it. I had to construct it step by step through successive approximation, each step being something the rat would do at the time so that it could be reinforced.'' He named the rat Pliny the Elder.
        ''Pliny was awkward as he . . . walked across the cage with the marble in his paws,'' Dr. Skinner reported, ''but I could see no other difference between him and the chimpanzee. When not very hungry he would occasionally pull the chain to release marbles which he did not immediately spend, though I doubt whether he was 'hoarding money for its own sake.' ''
        Applying the principles of successive approximation and reinforcement to education, Dr. Skinner demonstrated how quickly students could learn to read with programmed instruction on teaching machines that reinforced correct responses. But the teaching machine never caught on.
        Imagining Things, And Making Them Born March 20, 1904, in Susquehanna, Pa., Dr. Skinner spent his childhood exploring the surrounding countryside with his younger brother, writing stories and poems and dreaming up elaborate plans for new inventions, like an endless source of energy from a water-powered perpetual-motion machine. Later, he would design all of the apparatus used in his animal experiments and build most of it himself.
        His initials stood for Burrhus, his mother's maiden name, and Frederic, but he was called Fred, and sometimes Red because of the color of his hair.
        He attended Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y., where he majored in English, wrote for the literary magazines and dreamed of becoming a novelist. But, despite encouraging words on his short stories from Robert Frost, Dr. Skinner discovered within a year of his graduation in 1926 that ''I had no reason to write anything; I had nothing to say.''
        All that changed, of course, when he chose a new career on the basis of reading several articles and books about an emerging theory called behaviorism. Though he lacked any formal background in psychology, his short stories had all paid careful attention to human behavior. And so he applied to Harvard in 1928, determined, he wrote, ''to become a scientific psychologist.''
        Harvard awarded him a master's degree in 1930 and a Ph.D. the next year. Grants from the National Research Council enabled Dr. Skinner to continue his experiments for two more years, at which time he was elected one of the first Junior Fellows of Harvard's Society of Fellows.
        In 1936, just before he started teaching at the University of Minnesota, he met Yvonne (Eve) Blue, whom he married after a brief engagement.
        ''It was Halloween,'' Dr. Skinner recalled of the weekend the couple suddenly decided to wed, ''and the only cakes available for the reception were decorated in orange and black. A local minister was found. Hearing that I was a psychologist, he asked whether we minded if he mentioned God during the ceremony, and we said we did not.''
        Dr. Skinner wrote his novel, ''Walden Two'' in the 1940's while he was chairman of the psychology department at Indiana University in Bloomington. The book sold poorly for several years but after appearing in paperback it attracted wide attention and has sold about one million copies and been translated into eight languages.
        Presented as fiction, ''Walden Two'' was really a social commentary. It described a visit to a behaviorally engineered community where jealousy, malaise and class struggle had been replaced by rewarding work and unlimited artistic expression.
        Some readers saw the book as consonant with the mistaken popular image of Dr. Skinner as a man who would sacrifice his own child to science by keeping her in a box designed for laboratory animals.
        ''People still write to me,'' Dr. Skinner noted with disbelief in an interview, ''to ask me if it's true that I raised my daughter in a cage.''
        In reality, the so-called Skinner box, an experimental environment for rats or pigeons, had nothing in common with the baby tender he designed for his second daughter. The latter was an enclosed crib with a thermostat, which kept the child warm without confining layers of clothing or blankets.
        Although magazine articles at the time implied that the child was left to fend for herself in the box - and perhaps even experimented upon there -Dr. Skinner said she spent no more time in it than other infants did in their cribs and playpens.
        In later years, Dr, Skinner, in an effort to maximize his productivity, designed his own environment in his home. He slept in his office, in a bright yellow plastic tank just large enough for a mattress, a television, some narrow shelves and controls. Each night he went to bed at 10 P.M., slept for three hours, then rolled out of bed to his nearby desk, where he worked for one hour. He then would return to bed for another three hours of sleep.
        Decided Preference For Pigeon Subjects He preferred pigeons to rats as subjects because they lived much longer. He began to work with them during World War II, when he designed a homing device for America's only guided missile. His idea was to condition pigeons in the nose cone to peck at the target image and steer the missile as it descended.
        The Government financed ''Project Pigeon,'' but as the birds performed in increasingly difficult circumstances, engineers and physicists working on the missile grew ever more skeptical. At its final presentation in Washington, the device was met with patronizing smiles and laughter. A Government official conceded that the apparatus was suitable for a wide range of visual targets, used no materials in short supply and could be put into production within 30 days, yet Dr. Skinner recalls that he and his colleagues were dismissed with the suggestion, ''Why don't you go out and get drunk?''
        Despite the dedication he showed to the project, Dr. Skinner hoped that the broad application of behaviorist principles in society would put an end to war.
        ''I am opposed to the military use of animals,'' he wrote years later. ''I am also opposed to the military use of men.''
        In 1947 Dr. Skinner was invited back to Harvard for one year as the William James lecturer. He returned permanently in 1948 as a professor.
        In 1980, in a debate staged by the American Psychological Association in Montreal, Hans J. Eysenck, the noted British psychologist, acknowledged that B. F. Skinner was one of the most widely misunderstood scientists and wondered aloud how he bore the strain.
        ''I find,'' Dr. Skinner replied evenly, ''that I need to be understood only three or four times a year.''
        In his free time, Dr. Skinner liked to lose himself in a good mystery story, read plays and other literature aloud with his wife, paint and enjoy music. Although he gave up the saxophone as a young man because it seemed at the time to be ''the wrong instrument for a psychologist,'' he continued to play the piano, clavichord and organ until well into his 70's.
        Mrs. Vargas, his daughter, said Dr. Skinner on Friday had received a lifetime achievement award in psychology from the American Psychological Association and gave a 15-minute address at its opening session in Boston concerning his work.
        Dr. Skinner is survived by his wife; two daughters, Mrs. Vargas, of Morgantown, W. Va., and Deborah Buzan of London, and two granddaughters, Kristine and Justine Vargas, who were raised in a commercial model of the Skinner baby tender.
        Mrs. Vargas said it was her father's wish that there be no funeral.
        Correction:  August 22, 1990, Wednesday, Late Edition - Final
        A listing of books by B. F. Skinner on Monday, with his obituary, misstated the date of ''Walden Two'' in some copies. It was published in 1948.
      