
       Stephen E. Smith, a financial analyst and political strategist in the Presidential campaign of his brother-in-law, John F. Kennedy, in 1960, died yesterday at his Manhattan home. He was 62 years old.
        Stephen E. Smith, a financial analyst and political strategist in the Presidential campaign of his brother-in-law, John F. Kennedy, in 1960, died yesterday at his Manhattan home. He was 62 years old.
        Mr. Smith died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said.
        Mr. Smith not only managed many of the Kennedy family's political campaigns, but ran several Kennedy businesses and served as an adviser in family financial matters. In 1956, he married Jean, the youngest of the Kennedy daughters.
        Mr. Smith's death was announced yesterday by Edward Martin, a spokesman for Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts.
        A Nimble Organizer
        ''For 34 years, from the day he married Jean, Steve was like a brother in our family,'' Mr. Kennedy said through his spokesman. ''He was the wisest adviser, the most skillful campaign manager, and the best friend that any of us ever had. There wouldn't have been a Camelot without Steve Smith.''
        Mr. Smith, was a nimble, behind-the-scenes political organizer, in the Presidential campaign of John, and later managed the Senate campaigns of Robert F. Kennedy and Edward.
        Mr. Smith was born at Bayport, L.I., on Sept. 24, 1927, and grew up in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn. He majored in history at Georgetown University, where he received his bachelor's degree in 1948. He served with the United States Air Force in 1951 and 1952 and became a first lieutenant.
        He joined his family's business, Cleary Brothers Inc., which operated tugs and barges on New York's upstate canals and in New York Harbor. He then headed the Park Agency Inc., in Manhattan, where he managed $300 million in Kennedy family investments.
        Controlled Spending
        When he joined the Kennedy's political efforts, he came with little political experience but with great expertise as a business manager. He raised money, controlled campaign spending and directed headquarters operations.
        Theodore H. White, in his book ''The Making of the President 1960,'' recalled a stategy session attended by Mr. Smith, who sat ''quietly'' and ''unobserved as usual.''
        Mr. White recalled that Mr. Smith arrived in Washington in January of 1959 to open, unannounced, the first Presidential headquarters of the Kennedy campaign. Mr. Smith, then 31, was described by Mr. White as ''slim, soft-spoken, absolutely discreet and business-trained'' and whose family was ''one of the foremost of New York waterfront families.''
        Mr. Smith was first the office manager in the Kennedy campaign headquarters, then logistics manager. Mr. White called him the ''unflustered administrative chief of all the impossibly complicated financial and personnel details of a campaign that eventually was to mobilize scores of thousands of volunteers and employees.''
        Mr. Smith is survived by his wife and four children, William, Stephen Jr., Amanda and Kym, all of whom live in Manhattan and were with him at his death.
        Mr. Martin said a funeral Mass is scheduled for 10 A.M. tomorrow at St. Thomas More's Church, 65 East 89th Street.
      