
       Luigi Cardinal Dadaglio, a Vatican diplomat who played a major role in liberalizing the Roman Catholic Church in Spain in the waning years of Franco's rule, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Rome at the age of 75. The Vatican said he died of a heart ailment.
        Luigi Cardinal Dadaglio, a Vatican diplomat who played a major role in liberalizing the Roman Catholic Church in Spain in the waning years of Franco's rule, died on Wednesday at a hospital in Rome at the age of 75. The Vatican said he died of a heart ailment.
        Cardinal Dadaglio was the Papal Nuncio to Spain from 1967 to 1980. He had previously served in Washington from 1950 to 1953 and carried out diplomatic missions to Canada, Australia, New Zealand and several Latin American countries.
        During his years in Spain, he had to deal with turbulence that shook the Catholic clergy as Franco kept a loose hold on power. Liberal and moderate bishops increasingly challenged the conservative hierarchy of the church, and at a crucial point in 1972 Monsignor Dadaglio threw his weight in favor of the reformers.
        After working behind the scenes for several months, he broke the nunciature's rule of public silence on such matters by delivering a strongly worded assertion of the Spanish church's right to speak out on public affairs and to criticize the Government.
        Protested Against Repression
        With the liberal bishops in firm control of the church's Episcopal Conference, confrontations continued, and in 1974, when a young Catalonian anarchist was put to death by garroting in spite of widespread protests, Monsignor Dadaglio flew to Rome to emphasize his distress at the Government's repressive actions.
        In 1979, four years after Franco's death and a year before the Nuncio moved to an assignment at the Vatican Curia, relations between the church and the Spanish Government were normalized with the signing of five accords.
        Cardinal Dadaglio was born in the Piedmont region of northern Italy and was ordained in 1937. He joined the Vatican Secretariat of State five years later. In Latin America he served tours in Haiti, the Dominican Republic, Colombia and Venezuela.
        Elevated to Cardinal by Pope John Paul II in 1985, he played a major role in organizing activities during the church's Marian Year in 1987 and 1988.
        His death brings the membership of the College of Cardinals to 145, 109 of whom are under 80, the age at which they become ineligible to take part in the election of a new Pope.
      