
       Harold Masursky, the former chief scientist of the United States Geological Survey's Center of Astrogeology and a leader in lunar and planetary exploration, died yesterday at his home in Flagstaff, Ariz. He was 66 years old.
        Harold Masursky, the former chief scientist of the United States Geological Survey's Center of Astrogeology and a leader in lunar and planetary exploration, died yesterday at his home in Flagstaff, Ariz. He was 66 years old.
        He died after a long illness associated with diabetes, said a spokesman for the center, at Flagstaff.
        In the 1980's, as the leading geologist on lunar and planetary missions, he had a major role in bringing the Magellan space project into being, a mission now under way for mapping the planet Venus.
        Dr. Stephen Saunders, the chief scientist for the Magellan project at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory in Pasadena, Calif., said Mr. Masursky's knowledge and friendship would be missed.
        In the 1970's, Mr. Masursky led the first team to map the planet Mars and took part in the search for life on that planet. These maps were used as guides in the selection of sites for landing the unmanned Viking spacecraft on Mars in the summer of 1976. In the 1960's, he was a leader in the lunar exploration program.
        Tools for Exploring Space
        ''Few individuals have had as widespread an effect on the U.S. planetary exploration program as he did,'' said Laurence Soderblom, a colleague of 20 years. Mr. Soderblom was the deputy team leader of the Voyager project to explore the outer solar system in the late 1970's and 1980's in which Mr. Masursky was a leading figure.
        As Mr. Masursky became expert at interpreting photographs of the Moon taken by unmanned spacecraft and applied the same expertise to Mars, he said of his work: ''We've done the same thing for Mars as the guys of the survey did for the American West. No one really knew what was out there, and so they went out and mapped the West. Those maps were the tools for exploring the West. These maps of ours are the tools for exploring Mars.''
        He joined the center in 1963 as chief scientist. Earlier he had been with the United States Geological Survey in Denver and Menlo Park, Calif. He retired last December.
        Winner of Numerous Awards
        Mr. Masursky won many awards in reconition of his efforts. Among them was the National Air and Space Museum Award for leadership and excellence in planetary exploration and several National Aeronautics and Space Administration awards for exceptional scientific achievement, the most recent in 1988.
        He belonged to a number of professional groups, including the Geological Society of America, the American Geophysical Union, the American Astronomical Society and the International Astronomical Union.
        Mr. Masursky was born in Fort Wayne, Ind., and graduated from Yale University.
        He is survived by his wife, Leslie Alexander; two daughters, Lisa Luth of Provo, Utah, and Danielle Masursky of Bound Brook, N.J.; two sons, Leo of Tucson, Ariz., and Noah of Pittsburgh, Pa.; three sisters, Charlotte Schuster of Houston, Tex., Rose Sandler of Bellevue, Wash., and Jane Levy of Lima, Ohio, and two grandchildren.
      