
       James W. Wine, a Protestant layman who played a major role in defusing anti-Catholic sentiment in the Presidential campaign of John F. Kennedy, died Thursday at his home in Linden, Va. He was 71 years old.
        James W. Wine, a Protestant layman who played a major role in defusing anti-Catholic sentiment in the Presidential campaign of John F. Kennedy, died Thursday at his home in Linden, Va. He was 71 years old.
        His family said he died of congestive heart failure.
        Mr. Wine was an elder in the Presbyterian Church and associate general counsel of the National Council of Churches in 1960 when he was enlisted to combat political problems, particularly in the South, that Mr. Kennedy faced because of his religion.
        As head of a community relations division in the Kennedy campaign, Mr. Wine had the job of dealing with questions about the candidate's position on the separation of church and state.
        On Sept. 12, after the Rev. Norman Vincent Peale and other leading Protestant clergymen had questioned the loyalty of any Roman Catholic candidate for President, Mr. Kennedy appeared before the Greater Houston Ministerial Association. In a statement written principally by Mr. Wine, he said, ''I believe in an America where the separation of church and state is absolute - where no Catholic prelate would tell the President, should he be Catholic, how to act and no Protestant minister would tell his parishioners for whom to vote.''
        On Nov. 8, Mr. Kennedy narrowly defeated Vice President Richard M. Nixon to become the first Catholic elected President.
        Six months later he appointed Mr. Wine to be Ambassador to Luxembourg. A year later Mr. Wine was transferred to the ambassador's post in the Ivory Coast, and in 1966, under President Lyndon B. Johnson, he was named a special assistant to Secretary of State Dean Rusk for refugee and migration affairs.
        Soldier and Politician
        Mr. Wine was born in Huntington, W.Va., and received a law degree from the University of Kentucky. He served in the Army infantry in World War II, rising to the rank of major and winning the Bronze Star.
        After the war he practiced law in Kentucky and served as a Pike County judge in 1949, as the United States Commissioner in the Eastern District of Kentucky in 1950-52 and as a circuit judge in 1956.
        In 1957 he was named vice president of Park College in Parkville, Mo. The next year he took his post with the National Council of Churches.
        He served on several delegations to international bodies engaged in treaty negotiations in the 1960's. He was appointed counsel to the International Bank in Washington in 1968, remaining there until 1981, when he returned to private law practice in Washington.
        Mr. Wine is survived by two sons, James and Charles, both of Linden; two daughters, Vi Sigler of Jeffersonville, Ind.; and Lisbeth Werner of Burke, Va., and six grandchildren.
      