
       Hal Draper, a scholar and writer on Marxism and socialism for 50 years, died of pneumonia Friday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 75 years old.
        Hal Draper, a scholar and writer on Marxism and socialism for 50 years, died of pneumonia Friday at his home in Berkeley, Calif. He was 75 years old.
        Mr. Draper, a Trotskyite who later termed himself an independent socialist, wrote full time after serving as a librarian and bibliographer for the University of California at Berkeley from 1960 to 1970. His works were credited with inspiring the nonviolent free speech movement there by Mario Savio and other leaders of the 1964-65 protests, which began a period of campus activism throughout the country.
        Mr. Draper, a veteran of student insurrection in the 1930's, recounted the later protests in ''Berkeley: The New Student Revolt'' (1965). A. H. Raskin of The New York Times called the author ''a master polemicist'' who lamented a disposition of many protest leaders to ''disaffiliate from society, rather than transform it.''
        His four-volume ''Karl Marx's Theory of Revolution'' (1975-85), was hailed in The New York Review of Books by Robert L. Heilbroner, professor of economics at the New School, as an ''extraordinarily stimulating work written in a fresh, open style which comes as a welcome relief after the turgidities of so much Marxist writing.''
        Other Political Books
        Other works by Mr. Draper were ''Introduction to Independent Socialism'' (1963 and 1970), ''The Dirt on California: Agribusiness and the University'' (with his wife Anne, 1968) and ''The Dictatorship of the Proletariat from Marx to Lenin'' (1987).
        Besides editing and contributing to other political books, Mr. Draper earned favorable reviews for his translation, ''The Complete Poems of Heinrich Heine: A Modern English Version'' (1982). He also explored science fiction comically in ''Ms Fnd in a Lbry: Or, the Day Civilization Collapsed'' (1982).
        Mr. Draper was a Brooklynite and a graduate of Boys High School who earned a bachelor's degree at Brooklyn College in 1934 and a master's degree at Berkeley in 1960. He taught in New York City high schools and was a shipyard worker in World War II.
        Mr. Draper was a national organizer and antiwar activist for the Young People's Socialist League in the 1930's and a founder and director of the Center for Socialist History in Berkeley in the 1980's.
        His wife, the former Anne Kracik, died in 1973. Surviving are a sister, Dorothy Rabkin, of Palm Beach, Fla., and two brothers, Theodore Draper, of Princeton, N.J., and Robert Draper, of Great Neck, L.I.
      