
       Roosevelt Watson, one of five black youths who won dismissal of murder charges in a widely publicized case in rural Dawson, Ga., in the mid-1970's, died Tuesday at his home in Albany, Ga. He was 34 years old.
        Roosevelt Watson, one of five black youths who won dismissal of murder charges in a widely publicized case in rural Dawson, Ga., in the mid-1970's, died Tuesday at his home in Albany, Ga. He was 34 years old.
        ''He died in his sleep, apparently of natural causes,'' said Millard Farmer, director of the Team Defense Project, an Atlanta organization that defended the youths, known as the Dawson Five.
        Mr. Watson was accused of firing the shot that killed a white patron in a holdup of a rural grocery store.
        Defense lawyers argued that Mr. Watson, who like the other defendants was functionally illiterate, had been coerced into confessing while wired to a lie detector with the implied threat that he would be electrocuted.
        A police officer on the Dawson force at the time of the murder and the principal witness in pretrial hearings, William Rucker, testified that he saw other threats and coercion as well used to obtain the confessions of Mr. Watson and the others.
        The decision in 1977 to drop the charges before the case went to trial was made after a ruling by Judge Walter I. Geer of Superior Court that prevented use of Mr. Watson's confession. ''The evidence taken as a whole showed that the statements were not freely, voluntarily and intelligently made,'' Judge Geer said.
        Because prosecutors had no murder weapon or other evidence, the suppression of Mr. Watson's confession in effect destroyed the state's case. No one else has ever been charged with the crime.
        The other defendants were James Jackson Jr.; his brother, Johnny B, Jackson; Henderson Watson, Roosevelt's older brother, and J. D. Davenport, a cousin of the Jacksons.
        The youths, who ranged in age from 19 to 24, said they were carrying water from a well half a mile away to the Watson home when the robbery and slaying occurred. Their defense lawyers argued that they were falsely accused to satisfy community demands that the killer be found.
        The case against the others rested largely on their statements that they had been with Mr. Watson on the morning of the slaying in January 1976. All later denied involvement and said their statements also had been coerced.
        Mr. Watson was born and grew up in Dawson, Ga. Until recently, he had been a maintainance worker at the Albany State School.
        He is survived by his mother, Fannie Lou Watson; two brothers, and six sisters.
      