
       Sergei Dovlatov, a leading Soviet emigre writer noted for the laconic irony and graceful irreverence of his stories about his homeland, died of heart failure yesterday at Coney Island Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 48 years old.
        Sergei Dovlatov, a leading Soviet emigre writer noted for the laconic irony and graceful irreverence of his stories about his homeland, died of heart failure yesterday at Coney Island Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 48 years old.
        Mr. Dovlatov, whose spare prose style was devoid of any emotional indulgence, emigrated to the United States in 1979 after being harassed by Soviet authorities. While publishing several books here, including ''The Invisible Book'' (Ardis), ''The Compromise'' (Alfred A. Knopf) and ''Ours'' (Weidenfeld and Nicholson), he also worked for Radio Liberty as a freelance script writer. His most recent work, ''The Suitcase'' (Grove Weidenfeld) will be published next month.
        ''He had a unique, clear, detached voice,'' said the writer Solomon Volkov, who was a friend. ''He was a descendant of Chekhov. His writing was never emotional or overtly political.''
        Mr. Dovlatov was born on Sept. 3, 1941, and grew up in Leningrad. His father was a theater director and his mother an actress, and he was raised in artistic circles. Before entering the university in Leningrad, he was employed briefly as a metal worker; after dropping out of the university, he was assigned to a military unit guarding Siberian state prison camps. His experiences at the camps were reflected in a collection of short stories called ''The Zone,'' published in 1985 by Alfred A. Knopf.
        'A Hard Road'
        In the late 1960's, he became a journalist, a mind-twisting profession in the pre-perestroika Soviet world. Reflecting on these experiences in ''The Compromise,'' the narrator says: ''Ten years of lies and dissembling. It's a hard road from the reported facts to the truth.'' And he observes wryly that the only solace may lie in vodka, for ''once you are drunk, the whole day is free.''
        In ''Ours,'' a series of vignettes of his family which, typically, compresses a four-generation saga into 130 pages, Mr. Dovlatov had some further considerations that seem to relate to his experience both as a journalist and a writer: ''I don't completely understand why an editor is really necessary. If a writer is good, it would seem an editor is not needed. If the writer is bad, no editor can save him. This has always seemed self-evident.''
        Mr. Dovlatov's attempts to publish his fiction in the Soviet Union met resistance from publishers, and he suffered increasing harassment from the authorities as his involvement in dissident literary circles grew. When he left, he carried only one suitcase, the contents of which inspire the reflections in his forthcoming novel.
        Although he was effectively forced out of his country, Mr. Dovlatov's stories are not bitter or harsh. Rather, they are marked by a sly humor that caught the desperate absurdity of a suffocating system. Since glasnost, his novels have been published in the Soviet Union and become extremely popular. In New York, his detached, ironic tone appealed to The New Yorker, which published several of his short stories.
        An active member of the Soviet emigre community., Mr. Dovlatov lived in Forest Hills, Queens. From 1980 to 1982 he edited The New American, a weekly magazine.
        He is survived by his wife, Elena, and two children, Katherine and Nicholas.
      