
       David Rose, a composer and conductor whose work in television, films and recordings won four Emmy awards, 22 Grammys and an Oscar nomination, died Thursday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Burbank, Calif. He was 80 years old and lived in Los Angeles.
        David Rose, a composer and conductor whose work in television, films and recordings won four Emmy awards, 22 Grammys and an Oscar nomination, died Thursday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Burbank, Calif. He was 80 years old and lived in Los Angeles.
        His publicist, Paul Marsh, said Mr. Rose had died of complications from heart disease.
        In a career that spanned 65 years, Mr. Rose had several long runs on radio and television. Among his best-known single compositions were the popular tune, ''The Stripper,'' and the theme music for the television series ''Bonanza.'' He was the musical director for the series for 14 years.
        He was the orchestra leader for ''The Red Skelton Show'' from its early days on radio through its 20 years on television.
        He was nominated for an Oscar for his music for the 1945 film ''The Wonder Man.'' His other motion-picture scores included ''Rich, Young and Pretty'' (1951), ''Port Afrique'' (1956) and ''Please Don't Eat the Daisies'' (1960).
        In all, Mr. Rose conducted and composed the music for more than 50 record albums, produced the scores for 36 films and wrote themes and background music for 24 television series.
        A Beginning in Chicago
        He was born in London and was brought to the United States when he was 4 years old. He began playing the piano in dance bands and then attended the Chicago College of Music.
        He began writing music while playing one-night stands with a Chicago orchestra. One night after the saxophone parts were found to be missing, he was asked by the orchestra leader to devise new ones. His fellow musicians liked what he produced and he soon became the band's regular arranger. Later, he joined Ted Fiorito's orchestra and was with NBC's staff orchestra in Chicago for eight years, four of them as arranger.
        He went to Hollywood in 1938 to take a job that later evaporated. Rather than return to Chicago, he turned out arrangements for films for singing stars, among them Dorothy Lamour, Don Ameche, Jeanette MacDonald and Martha Raye.
        He married Miss Raye, but the marriage did not last long. They were divorced in 1941, and shortly afterward he married Judy Garland, who was then 20 years old, 11 years his junior. That marriage lasted three years. The Mutual Radio Network hired him as musical director in 1938. In World War II, as a sergeant in the Army Air Forces, he composed music for ''Winged Victory,'' a benefit show brought to Broadway by Moss Hart in 1943, and it became a hit.
        After leaving military service, Mr. Rose quickly became one of the highest-paid composers in the country as well as one of the most prolific. In one week he wrote eight tunes for broadcast including ''Holiday for Strings,'' ''Manhattan Square Dance'' and ''One More Time.''
        Mr. Rose described his musical style as ''in-between,'' neither jazz nor classical, though he wrote in both idioms. A performance of his work, ''Waukegan Concerto,'' inspired by the comic violin playing of Jack Benny, was performed by an orchestra conducted by Leopold Stokowski at the Hollywood Bowl.
        Surviving Mr. Rose are his third wife, the former Betty Bigelow; two daughters, Melanie Rose and Angela White, both of Los Angeles, and three grandchildren.
      