
       Mario Pinto de Andrade, the father of Angolan nationalism and first president of the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola, which has governed Angola since independence in 1975, died in London today. He was 62 years old.
        Mario Pinto de Andrade, the father of Angolan nationalism and first president of the Popular Movement for the Liberation of Angola, which has governed Angola since independence in 1975, died in London today. He was 62 years old.
        A spokesman for University Hospital said Mr. de Andrade died of a long, chronic disease.
        A writer and historian, Mr. de Andrade was one of Angola's leading intellectuals, active in the country's struggle against Portuguese colonial rule and a critic of the single-party state that followed it.
        Born on Aug. 21, 1928, in Golungo-Alto, Angola, he studied in Portugal and published a book on poetry in the 1950's before starting his long exile in various African countries.
        Along with other Angolan nationalists in exile, he founded the leftist Popular Movement, and was elected its president in 1960.
        Formed Dissident Movement
        Four years later he gave up the leadership to Agostinho Neto, who later became Angola's first President, but remained active in the liberation movement and wrote books on sociology and literature.
        He grew increasingly disillusioned with the movement's authoritarian tendency in the years before Angola's 1975 independence and broke away in 1974 to form a dissident movement called the Active Revolt Front.
        He briefly returned to Luanda, the Angolan capital, in 1975 but chose self-exile in Guinea-Bissau, where he worked for the Government in posts including Commissioner of Culture. He later switched his base to Mozambique and traveled often to France, where at the Sorbonne he was writing a work on Angolan nationalism.
        Unlike his brother and fellow Popular Movement founder Joaquim, who remained in Angola to become a leading critic of the Government, Mr. de Andrade came to disdain political activism and considered his main contribution to Angolan nationalism his documentation of its history.
        ''He was a great Angolan intellectual, a man of culture and action, generous, idealistic, who always participated in Angola's liberation movement,'' said President Mario Soares of Portugal.
      