
       Max Gordon, an architect internationally known for his mastery of exhibition spaces, both public and private, died on Friday in London, where he lived. He was 59 years old.
        Max Gordon, an architect internationally known for his mastery of exhibition spaces, both public and private, died on Friday in London, where he lived. He was 59 years old.
        He died of cirrhosis of the liver, his brother David said.
        Between 1956 and 1981, Mr. Gordon was a partner in several distinguished architectural firms, both in New York and in London, and he was the architect of New Scotland Yard in London (1962-66), among other projects. But it was only after setting up on his own in 1981 as a designer and consultant for the display of artworks in metropolitan spaces that he came to worldwide notice and was in ever-increasing demand.
        In 1985 he took a disused and unpromising light-industrial structure on a side street in London and turned it into a gallery for the Saatchi collection of contemporary art. His limpid, unfussy and perfectly lighted spaces with their almost subliminal shifts of level provided an ideal setting for artworks of many kinds.
        The Architect of Choice for Art
        Though reticent, those spaces were self-evidently right. The art was at home, and so was the visitor. Before long Mr. Gordon was the architect of choice for museums, dealers' galleries and private collectors from Los Angeles, Chicago and New York to London, Madrid, Athens and Helsinki.
        Sometimes large public commissions resulted, like the 100,000 square feet of exhibition space that Mr. Gordon designed for the Queen Sofia Art Center in Madrid. Sometimes individual artists - in New York, Elizabeth Murray, Jennifer Bartlett, Richard Serra and Joel Shapiro - asked him to design their living spaces.
        Among the dealers who asked him to work for them were Paula Cooper, Brooke Alexander, Maeght-Lelong and Lorence-Monk in New York and Anthony d'Offay and Annely Juda in London. Mr. Gordon had no set formula, would have disdained to do ''another Gordon'' and in every case enlisted the client - much to their mutual enjoyment - as a participating partner. A recent major commission, not quite finished at his death, was for the home of the Chicago art collector Lewis Manilow and his wife, Susan.
        Cambridge, Then Harvard
        Max Gordon was born in Cape Town on June 10, 1931, the son of Shalom and Tanya Gordon. He graduated in 1952 from Christ's College, Cambridge. He studied at the Architectural Association in London and pursued urban studies at the Graduate School of Design at Harvard with Prof. Jose Luis Sert.
        From 1956 to 1962 he worked for the architectural firm of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill in New York and in particular with Gordon Bunshaft on 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza in lower Manhattan. Returning to London in 1962, he was a partner in Chapman, Taylor & Partners for seven years. From 1969 to 1981 he was with Louis de Soissons & Company in London, rising to senior partner.
        Mr. Gordon was a member from 1978 to 1985 of the trustees' committee on architecture and design at the Museum of Modern Art in New York and a member of its international council. In London he was a founding committee member of the Patrons of New Art at the Tate Gallery and a trustee of the Whitechapel Art Gallery Foundation.
        He is survived by his mother; a sister, Amy Raphael, and three brothers, David, Charles and Sidney, all of London.
      