
       Osel Tendzin, the first Westerner to lead an international Tibetan Buddhist sect, died Saturday, members of the religious group said today. He was 47 years old.
        Osel Tendzin, the first Westerner to lead an international Tibetan Buddhist sect, died Saturday, members of the religious group said today. He was 47 years old.
        Mr. Tendzin, who was born Thomas Rich in Passaic, N.J., died of an AIDS-related illness at Pacific Presbyterian Medical Center in San Francisco, said members of the Vajradhatu International Buddhist Church in Boulder, Colo.
        Mr. Tendzin, the church's regent, announced in December 1988 that he had AIDS, but he resisted calls from church members that he resign.
        'Different Versions of Reality'
        ''A lot of members had difficulty accepting that he was sick,'' said a church member who refused to give his name. ''It's been quite difficult for a lot of students of our church. There have been a lot of different versions of reality.''
        Vajradhatu, which has 3,000 to 5,000 followers in the United States, Canada and Europe, was founded in Boulder by Chogyam Trungpa Rinpoche, a Tibetan Buddhist who fled the Chinese invasion of Tibet and settled in Boulder.
        First Westerner Named Regent
        Mr. Tendzin met Mr. Trungpa Rinpoche in 1971 and became his top student, receiving the name Osel Tendzin, or ''radiant holder of the teachings.''
        In 1976, he was designated the church's next regent, becoming the first Westerner to achieve such a position in the Kagyu tradition, one of four schools of Tibetan Buddhist. The regent transmits the teachings of Buddha to Vajradhatu followers.
        In December 1988 it became known that Mr. Tendzin's companion had tested positive for the AIDS virus. At a meeting of several hundred Buddhists in Berkeley, Calif., later that month, Mr. Tendzin acknowledged that he had AIDS and may have infected others. Vajradhatu does not prohibit homosexuality or sex with more than one partner.
        Mr. Tendzin said he had known he was ill for several years but thought he could ''change the karma.''
        Church Torn
        ''Thinking that I had some extraordinary means of protection,'' he told the meeting, ''I went ahead with my business as if something would take care of it for me.''
        The issue tore apart the organization, with supporters insisting Mr. Tendzin should remain as head and critics arguing that he must resign because he had betrayed the trust of followers.
        He refused to resign and retained his title, but the church's board of directors took over leadership of the group. Board members were meeting this weekend at Karmecholing, a meditation center in Barnet, Vt.
      