
       Harold Thorkilsen, a leader in the agricultural cooperative movement who built Ocean Spray Cranberries from a small New England producer into a Fortune 500 concern, died Thursday at his home in Osterville, Mass. He was 64 years old.
        Harold Thorkilsen, a leader in the agricultural cooperative movement who built Ocean Spray Cranberries from a small New England producer into a Fortune 500 concern, died Thursday at his home in Osterville, Mass. He was 64 years old.
        His family said he died of brain tumors.
        Under Mr. Thorkilsen's 15-year leadership, beginning in 1972, Ocean Spray's sales climbed to $736 million from $27 million, and its profits increased tenfold. He had joined Ocean Spray in 1968 as vice president for operations and served as senior vice president for marketing before becoming president and chief executive officer. He retired in 1987.
        Mr. Thorkilsen forged an alliance between Ocean Spray and Sun-Diamond Growers of California, producer of Sunsweet prunes, that allowed the cooperatives to use each other's manufacturing plants to pack products, at greater savings and efficiency. Ocean Spray later created joint ventures with other cooperatives.
        Led Food Processors Group
        Mr. Thorkilsen was chairman of the National Food Processors Association, one of only two cooperative leaders to serve in that capacity in the last quarter century. He was a longtime board member of the National Council for Farmer Cooperatives.
        Before he joined Ocean Spray, Mr. Thorkilsen was president of American Safety Razor Products, a division of the Philip Morris Companies. He had previously held several management positions at the Colgate-Palmolive Company.
        In World War II he was a naval officer in the Atlantic and Pacific theaters. A native of Brooklyn, he held a degree in chemical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a master's degree in business administration from Columbia University.
        He is survived by two daughters, Karen, of Cambridge, Mass., and Amy Peabody of San Jose, Calif.; a son, Eric, of Chappaqua, N.Y.; two stepdaughters, Wendy Lyons of Hyannis, Mass., and Linda Brackett of Eugene, Ore.; two stepsons, Christian Brackett of Kingston, Mass., and Dana Brackett of Duxbury, Mass., and six grandchildren.
      