
       Dr. John K. Frost, a physician and researcher who specialized in early detection and diagnosis of lung cancer, died on Wednesday at the Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 68 years old and lived in Brooklandville, Md.
        Dr. John K. Frost, a physician and researcher who specialized in early detection and diagnosis of lung cancer, died on Wednesday at the Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore. He was 68 years old and lived in Brooklandville, Md.
        A spokesman for the Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, with which he had been associated since 1956, said Dr. Frost, a nonsmoker, had died of complications from lung cancer.
        For more than three decades Dr. Frost directed the Johns Hopkins School of Cytotechnology and its Postgraduate Institute for Pathologists, dealing with the branch of biology that studies the life history of cells and the changes in them that cause disease.
        In 1979 he received the highest honor of the International Academy of Cytology, the Goldblatt Award, which described him as ''the most prominent educator and teacher of cytopathology in the United States.''
        As director of a long-term study of lung cancer patients, Dr. Frost publicly opposed the American Cancer Society in 1980 when it recommended against annual X-ray screening for lung cancer in male cigarette smokers over the age of 40 and others at high risk. Preliminary findings of Dr. Frost's study had shown that such screening led to earlier detection of cancer. Today chest X-rays and other tests that his study advocated are widely performed.
        Dr. Frost, a native of Sioux Falls, S.D., was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of California at Berkeley and received his medical degree from the university's School of Medicine. He served in the Army from 1948 to 1953 in Hawaii and Korea, attaining the rank of lieutenant colonel.
        In 1959, as an assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology at Johns Hopkins, he was the founding head of the division of cytopathology, which he directed until last year. He was the author of nearly 350 scholarly articles, including the basic monograph in his field, ''The Cell in Health and Disease.''
        Dr. Frost is survived by his wife of 41 years, the former Moira Keane; five daughters, Moira Tamburello of Warrington, Pa., Dr. Rosanne Frost of Mantua, N.J., Noreen Frost of Towson, Md., Therese Kohler of Phoenix and Sheila Davis of Charlottesville, Va.; two sons, John Jr. of Charleston, S.C., and James, of Brooklandville; a sister, Ann Bose of Walnut Creek, Calif., and five grandchildren.
      