
       Donald L. Ranard, a longtime Foreign Service official who played a key role in uncovering the role of South Korean lobbyists in Washington in the mid-1970's, died on Saturday at Georgetown University Hospital. He was 73 years old and lived in Centreville, Va., and Romney, W. Va. Mr. Ranard's family said he died of leukemia.
        Donald L. Ranard, a longtime Foreign Service official who played a key role in uncovering the role of South Korean lobbyists in Washington in the mid-1970's, died on Saturday at Georgetown University Hospital. He was 73 years old and lived in Centreville, Va., and Romney, W. Va. Mr. Ranard's family said he died of leukemia.
        In 1976, more than a year after he retired as director of Korean affairs at the State Department, Mr. Ranard was persuaded to testify before a Congressional committee on his awareness in the early 1970's that the South Korean Central Intelligence Agency was providing funds to influence American politicians.
        His revelations prompted a major investigation that led to the indictment of Tongsun Park, a South Korean businessman who was a lavish entertainer of members of Congress and other legislators. In the end, Mr. Ranard felt that Federal prosecutors had swept the scandal under the rug; the indictment of Mr. Park was dropped, Korean Embassy officials were permitted to invoke diplomatic immunity and no action was taken against legislators whom he felt had been influenced.
        Studied Rights Issues
        Mr. Ranard was also outspoken in calling attention to human-rights violations in South Korea. In 1973, while heading the Korean desk at the State Department, he learned that Kim Dae Jung, the leader of the opposition in Seoul, had been kidnapped in Tokyo, taken to Osaka and was about to be bound, weighted and thrown into the ocean. Through diplomatic channels the State Department forestalled the execution plan.
        Explaining why he had remained publicly silent on his disclosures until well after his retirement, Mr. Ranard said: ''The Foreign Service has been my life. You are trained to work within the system. You write papers, argue your case, and whatever is decided you make the best of it. It is a disciplined, anonymous life.''
        But after several months of prodding by investigators of the House Subcommittee on International Organizations, he testified at hearings on reported human-rights violations in South Korea.
        Mr. Ranard was born in Taunton, Mass., and was a graduate of Brown. He spent 33 years in Government service, beginning as a political-science intern at the War Department before Pearl Harbor and transferring to the State Department in 1944. After serving in Tokyo and Malaysia he became political counselor to the American Embassy in Seoul in 1959.
        Director of Policy Center
        There he supported an ultimately successful student uprising against Syngman Rhee, the South Korean ruler, and later he urged the State Department, without success, to oppose a military coup engineered by Gen. Park Chung Hee against an elected Government.
        After he retired in 1974 Mr. Ranard remained active in foreign affairs as director of the Center for International Policy, a nonprofit research group. In 1985 he received the annual award of the North American Coalition for Human Rights.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Virginia Adams; two daughters, Patricia, of Manhattan and Amy, of Fairfax, Va.; three sons, Donald, of Arlington, Va., Andrew, of Tokyo and John, of Manhattan, and two grandsons.
      