
       John A. Gronvall, former chief medical director of the Department of Veterans Affairs in Washington, died Aug. 2. He was 59 years old.
        John A. Gronvall, former chief medical director of the Department of Veterans Affairs in Washington, died Aug. 2. He was 59 years old.
        Dr. Gronvall, who lived in Arlington, Va., died of a heart attack while on vacation with his family in Nags Head, N.C., a spokesman for the Department of Veterans Affairs said.
        He was a health care administrator, an educator and a clinician. As the V.A.'s medical director he administered the nation's largest health care system, which employs more than 200,000 medical personnel and provides health services to four million veterans annually.
        Dr. Gronvall joined the department in 1983, when it was still the Veterans Administration, first as deputy assistant chief medical director for academic affairs and later as deputy chief medical director. He was chief medical director from January 1987 to last April, when he was named Distinguished Physician of the V.A., the department's highest position in reserch and teaching.
        Honors and Organizations
        He was elected to the Institute of Medicine of the National Academy of Sciences and was a distinguished service member of the Association of American Medical Colleges. He was chairman of the association's executive council in 1978 and 1979. He also was chairman of the Liaison Committee on Medical Education, which accredits medical schools in the United States and Canada, in 1981 and 1982.
        Dr. Gronvall, who was born in Minneapolis and received his undergraduate and medical degrees from the University of Minnesota, began his career in academic medicine in 1960 at the University of Mississippi School of Medicine, where he became associate dean and associate director of the university's medical center.
        He joined the University of Michigan faculty as an associate dean in 1968 and was appointed dean of the medical school in 1971. He became a full professor in 1972.
        Dr. Gronvall is survived by his wife, the former Cynthia A. Doherty; two sons, Brad Gronvall, of Annandale, Va., and Paul Gronvall, of Canton, Mich., and a daughter, Jennifer Scott, of Arlington.
      