
       Corneliu Bogdan, the longtime Rumanian envoy to Washington who broke with the Ceausescu dictatorship and took a prominent place in the new revolutionary Government, died of a stroke yesterday in Bucharest, his family said. He was 68 years old.
        Corneliu Bogdan, the longtime Rumanian envoy to Washington who broke with the Ceausescu dictatorship and took a prominent place in the new revolutionary Government, died of a stroke yesterday in Bucharest, his family said. He was 68 years old.
        His death was reported in Washington by his daughter, Svetlana Hoge, who said she was notified by the Rumanian Foreign Ministry, where her father was Minister of State, the No. 2 position.
        Mr. Bogdan was regarded as Rumania's premier diplomat. He served as Ambassador to the United States from 1967 to 1978 and held senior posts at the Foreign Ministry in Bucharest until dropping from view in 1982.
        Fell Out of Favor
        By 1988, he was reported under house arrest as a potential opponent to a corrupt and faltering system. Before then, he was believed to have been the principal adviser on the United States to President Nicolae Ceaucescu, the dictator who was overthrown and executed in last month's uprising.
        Mr. Bogdan (his name is pronounced kor-NEHL-yoo bohg-DAHN) was posted in Washington at a time when American relations with Rumania were far better than Washington's ties to other Warsaw Pact countries. Mr. Bogdan was given much credit for cultivating the relations, along with commercial and cultural exchanges.
        He served as a liaison when Mr. Ceausescu sought a visit by President Richard M. Nixon, who arrived in Bucharest in August 1969 to the most enthusiastic welcome of Mr. Nixon's global tour. Mr. Ceausescu was seeking to shore up his country's position with the United States in the area of most-favored-nation trade status.
        Mr. Bogdan's affable presence in the United States served as an important instrument to Mr. Ceaucescu in his efforts to steer an independent course within the Soviet orbit. The Rumanian dictator became Washington's favorite maverick within the Warsaw Pact, despite his disastrous internal policies and the conditions that drove his people to a desperate struggle for freedom.
        Dismissed After a Dispute
        It is unclear just what final straw drove Mr. Bogdan to turn against the old regime. His dismissal from the Foreign Ministry, where he had been the director for Western Hemispheric affairs, came at a time when the Reagan Administration was angry with Mr. Ceausescu. At issue was a plan to impose a large education tax on those people allowed to leave Rumania. The tax reportedly was drawn up against the advice of the Foreign Ministry and over Mr. Bogdan's opposition.
        After his release from house arrest early last year, Mr. Bogdan made his second appearance in Washington, as a visiting scholar at the Smithsonian Institution's Wilson Center. He returned home in December and went into hiding. Rumania's state security police, the Securitate, were believed to have his name on a list of people to be shot.
        His survival assured him a highly visible place among the people trying to put together a government after Mr. Ceausescu's plunge for power, and he gained influence among those seeking to bring democracy to a country that has never known it.
        Mr. Bogdan counseled against witch hunts and revenge. ''There are some people who expressed their views and suffered, and some complied,'' he said last month. ''We have to remember that not everybody could be a hero.''
        'Step by Step'
        He urged that politics be kept separate from the Communist-dominated bureaucracy as it administers the country day by day, and that competence be the main criterion when choosing candidates for official posts.
        ''We have to build a new government step by step,'' he remarked.
        At a news conference last week, Mr. Bogdan said Rumania will honor its international commitments, ''especially those undertaken under the Warsaw Pact.'' And replying to a Soviet correspondent, he declared, ''Without Gorbachev, what is happening in Eastern Europe would not be possible.''
        In addition to Mrs. Hoge, his daughter, he is survived by his wife, Emilia, two other daughters, Ileana Popa of Bucharest and Olga Bogdan of Washington, D.C., and three granddaughters.
      