
       O. B. Hardison Jr., a professor of English at Georgetown University and former director of the Folger Shakespeare Library, died Sunday at the Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 61 years old and lived in Washington.
        O. B. Hardison Jr., a professor of English at Georgetown University and former director of the Folger Shakespeare Library, died Sunday at the Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 61 years old and lived in Washington.
        His daughter Agnes Hardison-Sanchez said he died of complications from cancer.
        Mr. Hardison wrote numerous books and articles, as well as poetry and book reviews. His scholarly concerns ranged from Renaissance literature to technology and change in modern society, the subject of his latest book, ''Disappearing Through the Skylight: Culture and Technology in the Twentieth Century'' (Viking, 1989).
        As director of the Folger Shakespeare Library in Washington from 1969 to 1983, Mr. Hardison made the research institution accessible to the public through a variety of programs while also increasing its book and manuscript collections.
        Founded Theater Group
        Within months of his arrival, he founded the Folger Theater Group, now the Shakespeare Theater at the Folger. He established two series of literary readings and introduced the Folger Consort, a group specializing in medieval and Renaissance music.
        He made the Folger a center for international scholarship and the home of the Shakespeare Quarterly, a journal of literary criticism. He also helped start the Folger's program for teaching Shakespeare in secondary schools.
        Mr. Hardison raised $8 million to expand and renovate the Folger in the early 1980's, which included the introduction of advanced temperature and humidity controls for its rare-books collection.
        In a statement, the Folger called Mr. Hardison a ''man of great vision and leadership'' and said that staff members ''continue to celebrate his tenure here with the programs he inspired.''
        A Scholarly Writer
        Among his books were ''Christian Rite and Christian Drama in the Middle Ages'' (Johns Hopkins University Press, 1965), ''Toward Freedom and Dignity: The Humanities and the Idea of Humanity'' (Johns Hopkins, 1972), ''Entering the Maze: Identity and Change in Modern Culture'' (Oxford Univeersity Press, 1982) and ''Prosody and Purpose in the English Renaissance'' (Johns Hopkins, 1989) He also wrote ''Lyrics and Elegies'' (Charles Scribner's Sons, 1958) and ''Pro Musica Antiqua'' (Louisiana State University Press, 1977), both works of poetry.
        Born in San Diego, he received B.A. and M.A. degrees from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1949 and 1950, respectively, and a Ph.D. from the University of Wisconsin in 1956.
        He taught at schools that included Princeton and the University of North Carolina, and he became University Professor of English at Georgetown in 1984.
        Mr. Hardison received scholastic and literary honors from more than 20 universities and societies. He received the Italian Government's Cavaliere Ufficiale in 1974 and the Order of the British Empire in 1983.
        He is survived by his wife, Marifrancis Fitzgibbon; a brother, Dr. William G. Hardison of La Jolla, Calif.; four daughters: Charity Moschopolous of Washington, Sarah O'Connor of Staunton, Va., Laura Willumsen of Wheeling, W. Va., and Mrs. Hardison-Sanchez of New York, and two sons, Matthew, of Fairfax, Va., and Osborne, of Santa Cruz, Calif.
        A memorial service is to be held on Aug. 24 ay 2 P.M. at Dalgren Chapel at Georgetown University
      