
       Gen. Lemuel C. Shepherd Jr., a former Commandant of the Marine Corps and a decorated veteran of both World Wars and the Korean War, died Monday at his home in San Diego. He was 94 years old.
        Gen. Lemuel C. Shepherd Jr., a former Commandant of the Marine Corps and a decorated veteran of both World Wars and the Korean War, died Monday at his home in San Diego. He was 94 years old.
        His family said he died of bone cancer.
        General Shepherd was Commandant from 1952 until 1955 and was the first head of the Marines to serve as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
        In a military career that began in 1917 and ended 42 years later, he received more than 60 decorations and was twice awarded the Legion of Merit.
        In the last land battle of World War II he led the Sixth Marine Division to victory in Okinawa. In June 1945, after nearly three months of combat, the ''Sterling Sixth'' captured Naha, the Pacific island's capital and the largest city occupied by the Marines in the war. At war's end, General Shepherd accepted the surrender of Japanese forces in Tsingtao, China, which became a major American naval base until the Communists overran the area in 1949.
        General Shepherd had taken command of the Ninth Marine Division as a colonel in March 1942, three months after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. Promoted to brigadier general, he commanded the First Marine Division in the attack on Guam in July 1944.
        Service in World War I
        A native of Norfolk, Va., General Shepherd graduated a year early from the Virginia Military Institute so he could volunteer for the Marines when the United States entered World War I in the spring of 1917. He sailed for France less than a month after reporting for duty.
        He was twice wounded in the Battle of Belleau Wood in 1918 and was wounded a third time in the Meuse-Argonne offensive. He was awarded the Navy Cross, the Army Distinguished Service Cross and the French Croix de Guerre for gallantry at Belleau Wood.
        He was a junior aide to President Warren G. Harding in the early 1920's and served with the Marines in the occupation of Haiti in the early 1930's.
        When the Korean War broke out in 1950, he was a lieutenant general commanding all Marine forces in the Pacific. He retired in January 1956, shortly after his term as Marine Commandant, but was recalled to active duty two months later and finally retired in 1959.
        General Shepherd lived in Warrenton, Va., until he moved to San Diego in 1968. His wife, the former Virginia Tunstall Driver, whom he married in 1922, died last November.
        He leaves two sons, Col. Lemuel C. Shepherd 3d of San Diego and Wilson Shepherd of Coronado, Calif.; a daughter, Virginia Ord of Nantucket, Mass.; two sisters, Edith Brooke of Norfolk and Virginia Ferguson of Bronxville, N.Y.; seven grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      