
       Taylor Garrison Belcher, former United States Ambassador to Cyprus and Peru, died on Monday at Peekskill (N.Y.) Community Hospital. He was 70 years old and lived in Garrison, N.Y.
        Taylor Garrison Belcher, former United States Ambassador to Cyprus and Peru, died on Monday at Peekskill (N.Y.) Community Hospital. He was 70 years old and lived in Garrison, N.Y.
        Mr. Belcher died of cancer, a spokesman for the family said.
        After a long career with the State Department, Mr. Belcher was appointed Ambassador to Cyprus by President Lyndon B. Johnson. He had been stationed there since 1960 and was given the department's Distingushed Service Award for his peace-keeping abilities. In 1969, he was appointed Ambassador to Peru by President Richard M. Nixon.
        Mr. Belcher retired in 1974 and returned to Garrison's Landing, where family members had been original residents of the settlement of Garrison-on-Hudson and had operated ferry boats between Garrison's Landing and West Point.
        Community Leader
        Mr. Belcher was active in community affairs. He was a director of the Putnam County Historical Society, a trustee and chairman of the Alice and Hamilton Fish Library, a trustee of the Malcolm Gordon School, president of the Garrison Station Plaza and the Garrison's Landing Association and former chairman of the Heritage Task Force for the Hudson Valley.
        He was a native New Yorker and a graduate of Brown University, where he received a degree in international trade and finance in 1941. He served in the Navy during World War II as an officer on the battleship Alabama.
        At the end of the war, he joined the State Department and was assigned variously to Mexico City, Glasgow and Washington. He was deputy director for West Coast Latin American republics. From 1961 to 1964 he was director of the Office of West Coast Affairs in the Bureau of Inter-American Affairs.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Edith Anthony; two sons, Anthony, of Anderson, S.C., and Taylor 3d, of Manhattan, and four grandchildren.
        A memorial service will be held on Aug. 21 at 11 A.M. at St. Philip's Episcopal Church in Garrison.
      