
       Howard O. McMahon, a scientist, inventor and former president of Arthur D. Little Inc., the international management and technology consulting concern, died Sunday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 75 years old and lived in Cambridge.
        Howard O. McMahon, a scientist, inventor and former president of Arthur D. Little Inc., the international management and technology consulting concern, died Sunday at Mount Auburn Hospital in Cambridge, Mass. He was 75 years old and lived in Cambridge.
        The cause of death was heart disease, a spokeswoman for the consulting concern said.
        Dr. McMahon joined Arthur D. Little in Cambridge in 1943 as a research associate and became president in 1964, succeeding Gen. James M. Gavin.
        Dr. McMahon was active in research into low-temperature physics and chemistry. In 1951 he received the Edward Longstreth Medal of the Franklin Institute for co-developing the Collins Helium Crystat, a device for liquefying helium gas at a temperature of minus 452 degrees Fahrenheit.
        Invented a Christmas Candle
        He was honored in 1952 by the American Ceramics Society, which gave him the Frank Forrest Award for his work in thermal radiation. In 1979, he received the Samuel C. Collins Award from the Cryogenic Engineering Conference.
        Dr. McMahon graduated from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he also earned a doctorate in physical chemistry and physics. Among his numerous patents was one he obtained as an undergraduate, when he developed what became a widely used bubbling candle for Christmas trees. Needing money to continue college, he sold his invention to a neon sign company in Canada for $100.
        He served as science director for Arthur D. Little from 1952 to 1956 and then became vice president and head of the advanced research and development division. After becoming president in 1964, he was a leading organizer of programs at the American Academy for the Advancement of Science that were intended to bring together scientists, students and the public to discuss social and political issues related to science.
        Advocate of 'Social Audits'
        By 1971, he was advocating self-imposed ''social audits'' by corporations to determine their accountability to their employees, customers and the community at large. He noted at the time that the growth of the consumer movement and a rising concern over pollution had already led a number of companies to assess the social impact of their products and services.
        Dr. McMahon retired from Arthur D. Little in 1977 and founded the Helix Technology Corporation, a manufacturer of cryogenic refrigeration systems in Waltham, Mass. He served on its board until his death.
        He is survived by a son, Thomas, of Wellesley, Mass.; two daughters, Jean Humez of Somerville, Mass., and Nancy Swanborn of Duxbury, Mass., and three grandchildren.
      