
       Harry (Cookie) Lavagetto, the popular Dodger infielder best recalled for his ninth-inning double that spoiled a no-hitter for the Yankee pitcher Bill Bevens in the 1947 World Series, died in his sleep Friday morning at his home in Orinda, Calif.
        Harry (Cookie) Lavagetto, the popular Dodger infielder best recalled for his ninth-inning double that spoiled a no-hitter for the Yankee pitcher Bill Bevens in the 1947 World Series, died in his sleep Friday morning at his home in Orinda, Calif.
        He was 77 years old and had been in robust health, according to his wife, Mary, who said an autopsy was being performed to determine the cause of death.
        In a major league career that covered 10 seasons over 14 years (he broke in with the Pittsburgh Pirates in 1935, was sold to the Dodgers in 1937 and missed four seasons in the Navy during World War II), Lavagetto batted .269, accumulated 947 hits, knocked in 489 runs and played in two World Series.
        But to a generation of Dodger fans his entire career was mere prelude for his next-to-last major league at bat. As no Brooklyn fan over the age of 50 needs to be reminded, it happened in Ebbets Field on Oct. 3, 1947, in the bottom of the ninth inning of Game 4 of the World Series.
        The Yankees, who led the Series two games to one, had a 2-1 lead in the game, and Bevens, a right-hander with an intimidating fastball, was just one out from making baseball history by becoming the first to man to pitch a no-hitter in a World Series.
        It was Lavagetto, though, who made the history and Bevens who became a footnote. After getting the leadoff batter in the ninth man on a long fly, Bevens, who had given up eight walks going into the inning, walked Carl Furillo, who was replaced by Al Gionfriddo as a pinch-runner. After Bevens got the second out on a pop foul and faced Pete Reiser, Gionfriddo stole second on a 2-1 pitch, putting the tying run in scoring position and prompting the Yankee manager, Bucky Harris, to order Bevens to walk Reiser.
        The Dodger manager, Burt Shotton, then sent in Eddie Miksis to run for Reiser, who had hurt his ankle the day before, and called on Lavagetto to bat for Eddie Stanky.
        At End of Career
        It was a curious choice. Lavagetto, who was 34 years old and clearly at the end of his career, had batted only 69 times during the season and had only one extra base hit to show for it. He swung at the first pitch and missed. Dodger fans moaned, for the last time that day.
        Bevens's next pitch came in high and outside and entered history the same way, following a trajectory just inside the right-field line that took it to the wall well over the head of the Yankee outfielder Tommy Henrich, who misjudged the bounce. The ball caromed off the heel of his glove and dribbled away as Gionfriddo and Miksis sped around the bases. By the time the relay throw reached the plate, both runners had scored and the game was over, a 3-2 Dodger victory.
        The double that spolied the no-hitter, won the game and tied the Series, was Lavagetto's last. In his next, and final, major league plate appearance, he popped out in the seventh inning of Game 7, which the Yankees won to capture the Series.
        He continued his career in baseball as a coach and manager, piloting the Washington Senators to four lackluster seasons, from 1957 to 1960, and the Minnesota Twins during part of the 1961 season.
        He became a coach with the original Mets in 1962, and was expected to replace Casey Stengel as manager in 1966 when a false diagnosis of lung cancer and related operation led him to seek a medical shift to the Giants in San Francisco, near his family home in Oakland. He retired in 1967.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two brothers and two sons, Michael, known as Brother Xaivar of the Christian Brothers, and Ernest.
      