
       Dr. William Bosworth Castle, an eminent hematologist who discovered the cause of pernicious anemia, died Thursday at New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston. He was 92 years old and lived in Brookline, Mass.
        Dr. William Bosworth Castle, an eminent hematologist who discovered the cause of pernicious anemia, died Thursday at New England Deaconess Hospital in Boston. He was 92 years old and lived in Brookline, Mass.
        He died of heart failure after long treatment at home for a cardiac ailment, said his wife, Louise.
        As a clinician, professor at the Harvard University Medical School and investigator, Dr. Castle contributed significantly to research into a number of blood disorders, including sickle cell disease.
        But his leading achievement was the discovery half a century ago that pernicious anemia, a progressive decrease in the number of the blood's red corpuscles, results from a deficiency in the body's digestive system and that the disease could be treated by dietary therapy. This in turn led to the identification of vitamin B12, which rendered the previously fatal disorder nearly harmless.
        Dr. Castle's discovery illustrated for the first time the connection between the digestive system and the bone marrow, where red blood cells are produced.
        It developed from experiments he carried out at Harvard in the late 1920's and early 1930's in which he found that deficiency diseases, like pernicious anemia, beriberi or pellagra may result either from a diet lacking some essential substances or from the digestive system itself. In pernicious anemia, he found, the deficiency was in a digestive tract that does not react properly with food.
        Dr. Castle's investigative work in pernicious anemia evolved from a liver treatment discovered by Dr. George Minot, a Noble Prize winner with whom Dr. Castle was associated for 25 years at the Thorndike Memorial Laboratory of Boston City Hospital.
        For his early work, Dr. Castle was awarded the William Procter Jr. International Award for distinguished service in science in 1935 and the Walter Reed Medal of the American Society of Tropical Medicine in 1939. Among his later honors were the Mead Johnson Company Award in 1950 for research on vitamin B complex, the Joseph Goldberger Award from the American Medical Association and Nutrition Foundation in 1966, and the Meritorious Service Award of the Veterans Administration in 1972.
        A native of Cambridge, Mass., he received his medical degree from Harvard in 1921. After an internship at Massachusetts General Hospital, he was appointed assistant in physiology at the Harvard School of Public Health in 1923. He became a professor of medicine in 1938 and served as chairman of the department of medicine from 1936 to 1948. In 1957, he was named the first George Richards Minot Professor of Medicine at Harvard.
        After almost 50 years with the Harvard University Medical School and hospitals in the Boston area, he was named by the Veterans Administration to be its first Distinguished Physician.
        Dr. Castle was a Master of the American College of Physicians, a Senior Member of the American Federation for Clinical Research, and a former president of the American Society of Clinical Investigation. He was also an honorary fellow of the Royal College of Physicians in London, the Royal College of Physicians and Surgeons in Canada, the Royal Australasian College of Physicians and the Royal College of Physicians in Edinburgh.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, William Rogers Castle of West Newbury, Mass.; a daughter, Ann Castle Morris of Falmouth, Mass., and two grandchildren.
      