
       Hedley Donovan, a former editor in chief of Time Inc. who is credited with greatly enhancing the journalistic stature of Time magazine, died yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 76 years old and lived in Manhattan and Sands Point, L.I.
        Hedley Donovan, a former editor in chief of Time Inc. who is credited with greatly enhancing the journalistic stature of Time magazine, died yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan after a long illness. He was 76 years old and lived in Manhattan and Sands Point, L.I.
        He died of an acute infection that complicated a chronic lung condition, the hospital said.
        As editor in chief for 15 years beginning in 1964, Mr. Donovan was responsible for the content of all Time Inc. publications, including Time, Life, Fortune, Sports Illustrated, Money, and People.
        He retired as editor in chief in 1979 and served one year as a senior adviser to President Jimmy Carter.
        Hand-Picked by Luce
        Henry Luce, Time Inc.'s founder and first editor in chief, hand-picked the quiet-spoken Mr. Donovan to be his successor. Mr. Donovan used the opportunity to redirect Time from often-polemical coverage that reflected Mr. Luce's very conservative views on foreign affairs to more balanced reporting. For instance, while Mr. Luce had used the magazines to advance his hawkish stance on Vietnam, under Mr. Donovan the war was covered as a news story with far less ideological bias.
        Mr. Donovan also installed what became known as the ''Donovan Charter,'' which made the editor in chief answerable only to the company's board of directors and codified the tradition under Mr. Luce of separating news and business operations. The effect was to grant the managing editors of all Time Inc. magazines a sense of independence from business considerations, which became a hallmark of the company's management style.
        ''He was a man of extraordinary and quite apparent integrity,'' said Richard M. Clurman, who was chief of correspondents under both Mr. Donovan and Mr. Luce and is now preparing a book on the merger this year between Time Inc. and Warner Communications Inc., a move that created Time Warner Inc.
        Built on a Vision
        Mr. Donovan also presided over a highly successful period of building on Mr. Luce's original vision in which Money and People magazines were created, Fortune went from monthly to twice-monthly publication and Life was revived as a monthly after ceasing publication as a weekly.
        Mr. Luce's decision to make Mr. Donovan his successor was perplexing to many outside the company because he was so unlike the hyperbolic, impatient, charismatic Mr. Luce.
        ''I'm not a very fiery fellow,'' Mr. Donovan wrote in his autobiographical book, ''Right Places, Right Times: Forty Years In Journalism Not Counting My Paper Route,'' which was published last year by Henry Holt & Company.
        Henry A. Grunwald, who was made managing editor of Time by Mr. Donovan and later succeeded him as editor in chief, charaterized Mr. Donovan's manner as ''massive calm.''
        Indeed, at the company his somber manner earned him the nickname ''Deadly Hedley.''
        'A Kind of Anchor'
        But it was his resolute, sometimes stubborn character that attracted Mr. Luce, along with his studious, thoughtful mind.
        ''Luce thought of him as a kind of anchor,'' Mr. Clurman said.
        In an interview yesterday, Mr. Grunwald said Mr. Donovan was very reserved and ''not a stem-winding speaker,'' he was nevertheless ''a man of overarching intellect.''
        ''Some thought he was too calm,'' Mr. Grunwald said, ''but having worked for him, I appreciated that calm.''
        To some, Mr. Donovan's imposing 6-foot-1 height and powerful build gave him the appearance of an athlete. At Mr. Luce's death in 1967, many people outside the company regarded Mr. Donovan as an enigmatic figure who had yet to put a personal stamp on the magazines.
        Changed News Reporting
        But Osborn Elliott, then editor in chief of Newsweek, said Mr. Donovan earned the industry's respect by changing the way Time reported the news.
        ''He did bring a balance and straightness and integrity to the operation that was needed,'' Mr. Elliott said.
        A major element of the change was the appointment of Mr. Grunwald as Time's managing editor.
        Mr. Grunwald described the Time he inherited as ''rather stridently conservative on some issues, especially Vietnam,'' and sometimes ''quite snide.'' He said Mr. Donovan wanted the magazine to be ''more toward the middle.''
        Jason McManus, Time Warner's editor in chief and Mr. Grunwald's successor, said in a statement yesterday that Mr. Donovan brought ''great integrity and a sense of citizenship to everything he did.''
        Born in Minnesota
        Mr. Donovan was born May 24, 1914, in Brainerd, Minn., where his father was a mining engineer. He grew up in Minneapolis and in 1934 graduated magna cum laude from the University of Minnesota, where he was a member of Phi Beta Kappa.
        He took a second degree in 1936 as a Rhodes Scholar at Hertford College at Oxford University.
        Mr. Donovan joined Fortune magazine in 1945 as a writer after spending five years as a reporter at The Washington Post and three years as a naval officer during World War II.
        In 1953, Mr. Luce made him managing editor of Fortune, and six years later Mr. Luce designated him to be his heir apparent, though he did not take the editor in chief spot until Mr. Luce retired in 1964.
        Worked With the Chairman
        During most of the succeeding years, Mr. Donovan worked in close and harmonious partnership with Andrew Heiskell, Time Inc.'s chairman, who headed the business operation.
        In 1985, Harper & Row published his book, ''Roosevelt to Reagan: A Reporter's Encounters with Nine Presidents.''
        Mr. Donovan's wife, Dorothy, died in 1978. He is survived by three children: Peter, of Darien, Conn.; Mark, of Manhattan, and Helen, of Newton, Mass., and a sister, Elizabeth Edmonds of Wilmette, Ill. He had two grandchildren.
        A memorial service is scheduled for 10:30 A.M. Thursday at the Congregational Church of Manhasset, L.I..
      