
       Dr. Leonid Tarassuk, an expert on arms and armor at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and his wife, the former Nina Rostovzova, died in an automobile accident on Tuesday in the village of Quimper in the Brittany section of France, officials of the museum reported.
        Dr. Leonid Tarassuk, an expert on arms and armor at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and his wife, the former Nina Rostovzova, died in an automobile accident on Tuesday in the village of Quimper in the Brittany section of France, officials of the museum reported.
        Dr. Tarassuk was 64 years old, and his wife was 52. They lived in Manhattan.
        The couple were visiting museums on the Continent. No details on the accident were available.
        Dr. Tarassuk lived most of his life in Leningrad and was in the Soviet Army from 1944 to 1946. He joined the staff of the Hermitage Museum in Leningrad in 1952, but from 1959 to 1962 he was imprisoned for what were called anti-Soviet activities, because of comments he made in a private residence that was bugged. After his release, he earned a Ph.D. from Leningrad University in 1965 and returned to the Hermitage Museum, where he was made senior research associate and curator of European and American arms and armor in 1967.
        Moved to U.S. in 1973
        In 1972 he applied for a visa to leave the Soviet Union and was dismissed from his position. After a year, he and his family were allowed to leave. They moved to the United States in 1973 and two years later he joined the staff of the Metropolitan Museum. In 1986 he was named senior research associate.
        His wife was trained as a conservator at the Soviet Academy of Arts and had worked as a restorer of paintings at the Hermitage from 1951 until she, too, was dismissed. She gave private language classes after coming to the United States and in July joined the Metropolitan, performing conservation work.
        They are survived by a daughter, Irina, and a son, Ilya, both of Manhattan.
      