
       Steve Condos, who won widespread acclaim as a tap-dance virtuoso in recent years after a lifelong career in films and vaudeville, died shortly after performing at the Lyons International Dance Biennial in France tonight. Mr. Condos was 71 years old and lived in Hollywood, Fla.
        Steve Condos, who won widespread acclaim as a tap-dance virtuoso in recent years after a lifelong career in films and vaudeville, died shortly after performing at the Lyons International Dance Biennial in France tonight. Mr. Condos was 71 years old and lived in Hollywood, Fla.
        Guy Darmet, the artistic director of the festival, which is paying tribute to American dance over the next three weeks, said Mr. Condos had finished a solo at the Maurice Ravel auditorium here and was in his dressing room when he suffered a heart attack.
        Mr. Condos's wife, Lorraine, was in the theater during the show, which continued as scheduled with other major American tap stars such as the Nicholas Brothers and Savion Glover. All had performed in a gala for the biennial festival on Friday night. The first two performances were sold out and Sunday night's performance, the third, was added to meet public demand.
        Vaudeville at Age 14
        Mr. Condos started his career in vaudeville at the age of 14 as part of the Condos Brothers, with his brother Nick. But it was his artistry as a tap soloist - especially his experiments with percussive rhythms - that amazed a younger generation of critics and dancers who discovered him during tap's comeback in the last two decades.
        Salli Ann Kriegsman, who is the director of the Dance Program at the National Endowment for the Arts and is attending the festival, singled out Mr. Condos's ''obsession with rhythm, the most golden sound.''
        ''Steve Condos was the purest dance percussionist I've heard,'' said Sally Sommer, an American who has written extensively on tap dancing and who served as a consultant on the gala here. Referring to Mr. Condos's very special style in which he shifted his weight while seemingly rooted in place, Ms. Sommer added: ''All he cared about was the music of his feet. The upper body meant nothing to him. His feet told the story. He stayed in one place and he took you all over the world. He always said, 'Rhythm is the spice of life.' ''
        The extraordinary nuances of Mr. Condos's style won him a standing ovation at a historic tap contest at Carnegie Hall in New York a year ago. At Friday's performance in Lyons, he placed a microphone on the stage so as, he said, ''not to take any chances.'' The crystal-clear sound of his dancing, which grew in cumulative complexity, was nonetheless obvious to all. At the end he joined the other dancers in a shimmy.
        Louis Armstrong's Influence
        Mr. Condos was a child in Philadelphia when Louis Armstrong appeared at the Standard Theater across the street from a restaurant owned by Mr. Condos's father. On Sunday, Mr. Condos was delighted to see a picture of Mr. Armstrong, whose beat had always influenced him, he said. On Saturday, he noted that much of his training had come from another brother, Frank.
        The Condos Brothers performed together for 13 years. Mr. Condos made 20 films including ''Pin Up Girl'' and ''Moon Over Miami'' with Betty Grable and ''Happy Landing'' with Sonja Henie. Mr. Condos, who was one of the few top-level white tap performers, appeared in the 1988 ''Tap,'' which starred black dancers like Gregory Hines and Sammy Davis Jr. He also performed with the drummer Buddy Rich at the Apollo Theater in New York when both were young. He quickly learned to achieve a rhythmic rapport with many musicians. He was featured with Woody Herman's band.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Condos is survived by a stepson, Daniel Richard Chapman, a stepdaughter, Diane Reynolds; a daughter, Jennifer; a son, Danny; and three sisters, Ann Condos, Joan Clayton and Eve Faso.
      