
       The Rev. Dr. Edward Nason West, the retired Canon Sacrist of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, where he was master of ceremonies for more than 40 years, died of pulmonary failure on Wednesday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        The Rev. Dr. Edward Nason West, the retired Canon Sacrist of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, where he was master of ceremonies for more than 40 years, died of pulmonary failure on Wednesday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Canon West - the title canon indicates a priest affiliated with a cathedral - was a theologian, an author, an internationally known iconographer and an expert in the design of church furnishings.
        He was also a leading authority on liturgical celebrations and as Canon Sacrist was in charge of preparations for all services at St. John the Divine. Dressed in a black cassock, black cape and black skullcap, he often officiated at elaborate ceremonies at the huge Gothic cathedral, using a silver-tipped oak staff to orchestrate pageants with thousands of participants.
        Among the notable events he organized at the Episcopal cathedral, on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, were the funerals of Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia, Duke Ellington, Dag Hammarskjold and George Balanchine, as well as visits by the Queen Mother of Britain, the Dalai Lama, and Vasken I, Catholicos of All Armenians.
        Authority on Liturgical Art
        He was also an authority on liturgical art and designed and painted the iconostasis, or altar screens, of the Serbian Orthodox Cathedral of St. Sava in Manhattan. He also created the official emblem of the worldwide Anglican Communion, designed the coat of arms for the Diocese of Albany, as well as Episcopal rings, stained glass windows, altar frontals, processional crosses and religious vestments.
        Born in Boston, he graduated from Boston University in 1931. He was ordained a deacon in 1934 following his graduation from the General Theological Seminary and was ordained a priest in 1935. He served as curate and later as rector of Trinity Church in Ossining, N.Y., from 1934 to 1941 and was then named the Sacrist at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine.
        He was named Canon Sacrist in 1943 and sub dean of the cathedral in 1966. As sub dean, he was head of the cathedral when the dean was absent or, as was often the case, when the position was unfilled.
        Retired as Canon
        He was an ardent preacher and often presided at functions at the cathedral, such as the Wednesday night Lenten meditations. He retired in 1981 as canon and sub dean but continued as master of ceremonies.
        He was the author of several books, including ''The History of the Cross,'' ''Meditations on the Gospel of St. John'' and ''Things I Always Thought I Knew.''
        He served with many religious organizations and was a trustee of St. Vladimir's Orthodox Theological Seminary and of St. Peter's School. He had been named an Officer of the Order of the British Empire; an Officer of the Order of Orange-Nassau by the Netherlands; a Chevalier of the Legion of Honor by France, and a Knight Commander of the Royal Order of St. Sava, Yugoslavia.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      