
       Carl M. Marcy, who served as chief of staff of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee for almost 20 years, died Wednesday at Anne Arundel General Hospital in Annapolis, Md. He was 77 years old and lived in Annapolis.
        Carl M. Marcy, who served as chief of staff of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee for almost 20 years, died Wednesday at Anne Arundel General Hospital in Annapolis, Md. He was 77 years old and lived in Annapolis.
        His wife, Mildred, said he died of a stroke.
        Mr. Marcy joined the staff of the Senate panel in 1950 and was named its chief five years later. He retired in 1974 after serving under five committee chairmen from both major political parties.
        A graduate of Columbia University with a law degree and a Ph.D. in international law, Mr. Marcy was an instructor of law at Columbia from 1935 to 1942. He entered Government service in 1942 as an officer in the State Department and served as legal adviser and legislative counsel for the department until 1950, when he was appointed as a staff consultant. In 1963 he was awarded the Rockefeller Public Service Award for his knowledge of foreign affairs.
        ''Much of the basic foreign policy legislation of this country bears his imprint,'' the citation stated. ''His work with the committee from 1950 to the present, under changing administrations, has won for him the respect of the many senators he served, and his value in clarifying issues and in presenting courses of action for the committee has been widely recognized.''
        In 1963 he and his wife were awarded fellowships by the Institute of Current World Affairs and went on a yearlong trip around the world to study the effects of United States foreign policy.
        After his retirement, Mr. Marcy practiced law in Washington and served as co-director of the American Committee on East-West Accords. President Nixon appointed him to the General Advisory Committee on Arms Control and Disarmament.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Eric of Washington, and three sisters, Helen Marcy of Bend, Ore., Bernice Yost of Portland, Ore., and Carol Vernon of Seaside, Ore.
      