
       George Houston Bass, a professor of theater arts and African-American studies at Brown University and the literary executor and trustee of the Langston Hughes estate, died on Tuesday at Miriam Hospital in Providence, R.I. He was 52 years old and lived in Cranston, R.I. He died after a heart attack, his wife, Ramona, said.
        George Houston Bass, a professor of theater arts and African-American studies at Brown University and the literary executor and trustee of the Langston Hughes estate, died on Tuesday at Miriam Hospital in Providence, R.I. He was 52 years old and lived in Cranston, R.I. He died after a heart attack, his wife, Ramona, said. Mr. Bass produced, directed and wrote plays. Some were produced in the New York area, others were staged by the Rites and Reason Theater at Brown. He founded the theater in 1970 and said his purpose was ''the development of a dramatic theory rooted in the cultural strategies, folk sensibilities and traditions of Afro-American people.''
        From 1959 to 1964, Mr. Bass was the secretary and literary assistant to the poet and writer Langston Hughes. After Mr. Hughes's death in 1967, Mr. Bass became the Hughes estate's literary executor. He founded the Langston Hughes Society in 1981 and a year later the Langston Hughes Review.
        In addition to receiving a Fulbright Fellowship and awards from the Rockefeller, Whitney and Ford Foundations, Mr. Bass was cited by Brown's class of 1986 as one of five great teachers at the university. In 1967, the Yale School of Drama's directing program staged George Bass Day, with a festival of his one-act plays. He also received the Harlem Cultural Council Award in 1969 and had been a National Endowment for the Arts panelist and a vice president of the Rhode Island Council on the Arts.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two sons, Kwame and Khari; his daughter, Iyana; his mother, M. D. Bass of Nashville; two brothers, James and Charles, of Nashville, and two sisters, Vernice, of Nashville, and Anne, of Miami.
      