
       J. F. Gates Clarke, an entomologist and research associate at the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of Natural History, died Monday at his home in Hyattsville, Md. He was 85 years old.
        J. F. Gates Clarke, an entomologist and research associate at the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of Natural History, died Monday at his home in Hyattsville, Md. He was 85 years old.
        A Smithsonian spokesman said he died of heart failure.
        Dr. Clarke, an authority on moths, joined the Smithsonian staff as a curator, and was instrumental in developing a collection of more than 30 million insects for the museum's department of entomology.
        He was chairman of the department from 1963 to 1965 and senior entomologist from 1965 to 1975. From 1976 until his death he worked as a research associate at the museum.
        Studied Moths of the Pacific
        His investigations of how moths and other insects colonize island chains in the Pacific Ocean took him on voyages to Borneo, Ceylon, Tahiti and the Marquesa Islands. The specimens he brought back formed one of the world's finest collections of Pacific moths.
        ''I love the Pacific Islands,'' he once said. ''I wish I had another 100 years to collect there. There are 7,000 islands in the Pacific, and even if I visited one a day it would take me more than 19 years to get to all of them.''
        Dr. Clarke, who was born in Victoria, British Columbia, was a graduate of Washington State University, earning a pharmaceutical chemist degree in 1926, a bachelor's degree in zoology in 1930 and a master's degree in entomology in 1931. He taught biology at Washington State from 1931 to 1935.
        After starting work on his doctorate at Cornell University in 1935 he joined the Department of Agriculture in Washington as an entomologist.
        He wrote more than 100 research papers and a popular illustrated guide, ''A Golden Book of Butterflies,'' published by Golden Press in 1963. His last major publication was a study of moths of the Marquesa Islands in 1986.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Nancy duPre; two children from a former marriage: a son, J. F. Gates Clarke Jr. of Wilmington, Del., and a daughter, Carol Lewis of Frederick, Md.; five grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
      