
       Robert Rodale, an exponent of organic farming and the head of a publishing empire whose magazines dealt with subjects like garening, health and fitness, died yesterday in an automobile accident in Moscow. He was 60 years old and lived in Emmaus, Pa.
        Robert Rodale, an exponent of organic farming and the head of a publishing empire whose magazines dealt with subjects like garening, health and fitness, died yesterday in an automobile accident in Moscow. He was 60 years old and lived in Emmaus, Pa.
        A spokeswoman for his company, Rodale Press, said from its headquarters in Emmaus that Mr. Rodale was being driven to the Moscow airport with Yevgeni Gringaut, his partner in a publishing venture, when the wreck occurred. Both men, along with the driver of the car and an interpreter, were killed.
        The spokeswoman, Kae Tienstra, said preliminary word was the car was struck head-on by a bus that had swerved into oncoming traffic.
        Mr. Rodale was in the Soviet Union to establish a Russian-language edition of The New Farmer, one of several publications of Rodale Press devoted to an approach in farming that reduces reliance on chemicals.
        An Array of Magazines
        The Rodale Press was founded in 1942 by J. I. Rodale, Mr. Rodale's father. The son joined the business in 1949 and built it into an internationally known publishing concern whose magazines included Prevention, Organic Gardening, Runner's World, Backpacker, Bicycling, Men's Health and American Woodworker.
        At his death Mr. Rodale was chairman and chief executive of Rodale Press. He devoted much of his time in recent years to the Rodale Institute, a nonprofit organization seeking to use existing resources to make agriculture more profitable and biologically sound.
        Rodale Press grew out of the ideas of J. I. Rodale, who grew up in New York City but became passionately devoted to the science of agriculture. He was working as an auditor for the Internal Revenue Service in Pittsburgh in the late 1930's when he read about organic-farming research in Britain. He bought an abandoned farm in Emmaus to experiment with organic practices and soon he developed his doctrine of regenerative agriculture, which seeks to save and rebuild soil worn out by conventional farming.
        The following year the elder Rodale began Organic Gardening & Farming, his first major publishing venture. Prevention magazine was started in 1950 and New Farm followed a few years later.
        Runner's World and the other publications dealing with recreational topics were mainly the creations of Robert Rodale, taking advantage of the boom in participant sports in the 1970's and 1980's.
        Sophisticated Marketing
        Rodale Press became known for its sophisticated direct-marketing techniques that promote not only subscriptions to the magazines but the sale of books published by the concern.
        While most publishers seek out the young and affluent, Rodale has had great success pursuing middle-aged and older readers. Although the company has sought in recent years to broaden its base among younger readers, the majority of Prevention's copies go to subscribers over 50 years of age.
        Mr. Rodale traveled around the globe seeking ideas for his publications. In 1973, in China, he chanced upon a book on ear acupuncture. Against the advice of colleagues he had it translated and published in the United States. It went through several printings.
        In recent years he has returned to China seeking to persuade agriculture officials to reverse their quest for chemically aided farming and to return to ancient organic methods.
        Mr. Rodale also conceived the Prevention Index, an annual survey conducted by the Louis Harris polling organization that tracks changes in the preventive health behavior of Americans.
        Although the Rodale family became wealthy from its publishing ventures, Mr. Rodale, who was born in New York and attended Lehigh University before joining his father in publishing, continued to live in a modest brick house surrounded by gardens. At the Rodale Institute, a 305-acre experimental farm in Maxatawny, Pa., a staff of agronomists develops farming techniques that have attained worldwide use.
        Mr. Rodale is survived by his wife, the former Ardath Harter; his mother, Anna; three daughters, Heidi and Maria Rodale and Heather Stoneback; a son, Anthony, and seven grandchildren, all residents of Emmaus; and two sisters, Nina Houghton of Wye, Md., and Ruth Spira of Coopersburg, Pa.
      