
       Gerhard Schroder, a former Foreign Minister of West Germany and a co-founder of the Christian Democratic Union that has been in power for much of the post-World War II period, died of heart failure on Sunday at his home on the North Sea island of Sylt, his family said. He was 79 years old.
        Gerhard Schroder, a former Foreign Minister of West Germany and a co-founder of the Christian Democratic Union that has been in power for much of the post-World War II period, died of heart failure on Sunday at his home on the North Sea island of Sylt, his family said. He was 79 years old.
        Mr. Schroder was one of the last surviving members of the early postwar Government headed by Chancellor Konrad Adenauer. He served as Foreign Minister from 1961 to 1966 and at other times held the Interior and Defense portfolios in the Cabinet.
        He remained influential in his party until the mid-1970's when, as chairman of the parliamentary committee on foreign affairs, he met in 1974 with the Palestinian leader, Yasir Arafat, in Damascus without notifying his colleagues in advance. He held onto his seat in Parliament until he retired from politics in 1980.
        Mr. Schroder was born in Saarbruken and grew up in southwestern Germany, where his father was a railroad official in the civil service. He studied at the Universities of Konigsberg, Edinburgh, Berlin and Bonn, receiving a doctor of laws degree in 1933, the year Hitler came to power.
        Joined Nazi Party
        He joined the Nazi party that year, explaining later that it was the only way a young lawyer could get ahead at the time. In 1938, however, he joined a confessional branch of the German Protestant Church that opposed the Nazis. He left the party for good in 1941 when he married Brigitte Landsberg, who came from a partly Jewish family in Berlin.
        He joined the Army in 1939, at the outbreak of war and served for six years as an enlisted man, rising to corporal and winding up in a British prisoner-of-war camp. At the war's end he entered the civil service of North Rhine Province and worked with the British military Govenment. Later he opened a law office in Dusseldorf and helped reorganize the coal and steel industry of West Germany.
        Elected to Parliament at its inception in 1949, Mr. Schroder rose quickly in Christian Democratic circles and by 1952 was the party's deputy floor leader. He developed a reputation as a shrewd, pragmatic, businesslike politician and held key Cabinet posts under three successive chancellors.
        A man of sharp tongue and tough demeanor, Mr. Schroder failed to win many friends outside his own party. But even his opponents conceded that he had a first-rate political mind.
        Dressed in British Manner
        Mr. Schroder dressed immaculately in the British manner and spoke fluent English, leading to his being characterized by some critics as an Anglophile. He was an early advocate of admitting Britain to the Common Market.
        When the Christian Democrats were out of power in the 1970's, Mr. Schroder annoyed his associates by advocating closer ties with Eastern European nations, particularly the Soviet Union and Poland - a stance closer to that of Willy Brandt and his Social Democratic Government. He also supported close cooperation with the United States over the years.
        He was never able to achieve any office higher than Foreign Minister, losing out to Kurt Kiesinger in an attempt to succeed Ludwig Erhard as Chancellor in 1966, and failing by only six votes to win the German presidency in 1973.
        Mr. Schroder is survived by his wife, the former Brigitte Landsberg, whom he married in 1941, and by two daughters, Christina and Antina, and a son, Jan.
      