
       Werner Janssen, the first American-born conductor to lead the New York Philharmonic and later an active film composer and champion of contemporary music on the West Coast, died on Wednesday at the Stony Brook (L.I.) University Hospital. He was 91 years old.
        Werner Janssen, the first American-born conductor to lead the New York Philharmonic and later an active film composer and champion of contemporary music on the West Coast, died on Wednesday at the Stony Brook (L.I.) University Hospital. He was 91 years old.
        Mr. Janssen was born in New York, and attended Dartmouth College and the New England Conservatory of Music. He studied conducting in Europe with Felix Weingartner and Hermann Scherchen and composition with Ottorino Respighi. In the 1920's, he also played piano in New York cabarets and contributed numbers for the Ziegfeld Follies and other revues.
        His international career blossomed when he conducted an all-Sibelius concert in Finland in 1934, winning glowing praise from the composer. He made many appearances as guest conductor in Europe and the United States, and later in 1934 was invited to lead the New York Philharmonic.
        Moved to Los Angeles
        From 1937 to 1939, Mr. Janssen was music director of the Baltimore Symphony, but thereafter he shifted his base to Los Angeles. He composed scores for many films, including ''Blockade'' and ''The General Dies at Dawn.''
        He led his own Janssen Symphony in Los Angeles from 1940 to 1952, and was chief conductor of the Utah Symphony, the Portland (Ore.) Symphony and the San Diego Philharmonic. He also made numerous recordings of venturesome 20th-century repertory.
        He is survived by his wife, Christina Heintzmann Janssen of Stony Brook; a son, Werner Janssen Jr. of New York; two daughters, Alice Krelle of Lake Tahoe, Nev., and Jennifer Janssen of Stony Brook; two sisters, Dorothy Szlapka and Alice Knipe, both of New York; four grandchildren, and eight great-grandchildren.
      