
       Donald F. Cawley, who was called an ''innovator'' and ''an enormously able professional'' when he was appointed as the 30th Commissioner of the New York City Police Department in 1973, died yesterday at his home in Massapequa, L.I.
        Donald F. Cawley, who was called an ''innovator'' and ''an enormously able professional'' when he was appointed as the 30th Commissioner of the New York City Police Department in 1973, died yesterday at his home in Massapequa, L.I.
        He was 61 years old and died of cancer, his son, Donald, said.
        He was 43 when he was appointed Commissioner, the youngest person to head the department, which had about 20,000 officers at the time.
        Shortly after he was sworn in by Mayor John V. Lindsay, Commissioner Cawley announced a master plan for the department that included anticorruption measures and the addition of more minority officers.
        Proudest of Recruiting Minorities
        His son said yesterday that Mr. Cawley believed his greatest accomplishment was opening the ranks to more female, black and Hispanic officers.
        He was instrumental in getting legislation passed to eliminate height requirements for officers and to eliminate culturally biased questions from police Civil Service examinations. He also persuaded the City Council to pass legislation raising the age limit for entering officers to 35 from 29, in order to bring in more mature officers.
        Commissioner Cawley established performance standards to prod officers to make more arrests and issue more traffic tickets. He sent detectives into precincts, making them responsible for the first time to precinct commanders. And he ordered 1,000 members of the detective force out on patrol.
        He advocated heavy fines instead of dismissals for veteran police officers found guilty in departmental trials of accepting minor gratuities, and helped push through construction of new police precinct station houses in Manhattan and Queens.
        Retired as Commissioner in 1974
        Donald Francis Cawley was born in Woodside, Queens, on Sept. 14, 1929. He thought of becoming an engineer but money ran out and he dropped out of Polytechnic Institute in Brooklyn. He joined the Police Department in 1951 and spent eight years working in Brooklyn and Queens.
        In 1959, he rose to the rank of sergeant and in 1961 began working in the First Deputy Commissioner's office. He remained there as he rose to lieutenant, captain and in 1966, deputy inspector. In 1971 he was appointed as an inspector and about nine months later was made chief of patrol. On May 14, 1973, he was sworn in as Commissioner.
        He was a graduate of the John Jay College of Criminal Justice.
        He retired from the department in January 1974, as Mayor Abraham D. Beame took office, to accept a post with Chemical Bank. In 1981, he became a senior vice president at the New York Clearing House Association.
        Besides his son Donald of West Hartford, Conn., he is survived by his wife, the former Jane Deitz; another son, James, of Summit, N.J.; three daughters, Debra Walden of Hauppauge, L.I., and Jayne Cawley and Patricia Fabia, both of Massapequa; his mother, Beatrice, of Staten Island; two brothers, Kenneth, of Wantagh, L.I., and Gerold, of Farmingdale, L.I.; two sisters, Beatrice O'Rourke of Staten Island, and Eileen Sloane of New Providence, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      