
       Harold E. (Doc) Edgerton, professor emeritus of electrical measurements at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, whose invention of the electronic flash expanded the scope of photography, died yesterday after a heart attack at the institute faculty club, where he was having lunch. He was 86 years old and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        Harold E. (Doc) Edgerton, professor emeritus of electrical measurements at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, whose invention of the electronic flash expanded the scope of photography, died yesterday after a heart attack at the institute faculty club, where he was having lunch. He was 86 years old and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        Mr. Edgerton, who taught for 40 years at the institute, was an avid inventor and amateur photographer. In 1931 he developed a repeatable short-duration electronic flash, or stroboscopic light, that revealed motion in segments never before seen by the human eye.
        To popularize his invention, he took action-stopping images of athletes, animals and machines. Many of these, including a 1964 color photograph of a bullet piercing a playing card, combine a scientific purpose with a surprising artistic beauty.
        At first a novelty, electronic flash is now built into most cameras and is used regularly by both professional and amateur photographers. The strobe light has become an important tool in science and industry.
        Work in Ocean Research
        Mr. Edgerton also invented many sonar and underwater photographic devices for ocean research. He worked closely with the oceanographer Jacques-Yves Cousteau beginning in 1953. In 1973 he helped find the remains of the Civil War ironclad Monitor, which sank in a storm off Cape Hatteras. In 1976, he participated in an unsuccessful expedition to locate and photograph the Loch Ness monster in Scotland.
        Harold Eugene Edgerton was born on April 6, 1903, in Fremont, Neb. As a boy he learned photography from an uncle, and at age 15 he bought his first camera. His frustration over underexposing his first roll of indoor pictures spurred him to think about the possibilities of flash photography.
        But his major interest was electricity, and in 1925 he received a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from the University of Nebraska. The next year he entered M.I.T., where he would remain as a student and teacher for more than 50 years. He received an M.S. in electrical engineering from the school in 1927 and a doctorate in 1931.
        While a graduate student he built his first flash tube, using vaporized mercury. But he soon switched to a tube filled with xenon gas, which remains the standard electronic flash tube component. In partnership with Kenneth J. Germeshausen and Herbert E. Grier, two former students, he went on to perfect his invention and to explore its uses both in and out of the laboratory.
        Recording Sequential Moments
        Mr. Edgerton's electronic flash was both extremely short (as little as a millionth of a second) and repeatable. As a result, it could be used to record nearly instantaneous events as well as sequential moments. It was put to its first practical use in the study of electric motors and other revolving machinery. But Mr. Edgerton's inquiring mind sought much broader applications.
        In 1934, he had a football player kick a football under controlled laboratory conditions. The resulting photograph showed the football compressed nearly in half. Mr. Edgerton also photographed the moment of ball contact in baseball, tennis and golf. Because of the quality of his demonstration pictures and his tireless enthusiasm, the electronic flash became an integral part of sports photography before World War II.
        During the war, Mr. Edgerton was a technical representative for the Army Air Forces and perfected a flash technique for aerial-night reconnaissance. Planes equipped with his devices photographed the coast of Normandy immediately before D-day and were also used in Italy and the Far East.
        After the war he formed a company, E.G.&G., to expand the commercial potential of his invention. With his partners, he developed a camera to photograph early nuclear-bomb tests. He also began a long involvement with underwater research, designing undersea flash units, specialized sonar devices and other equipment.
        Surreal Effects on Film
        He continued to pursue experimental photography in his lab, freezing the action of birds, bats and bullets. He also used multiple flash techniques to depict the complete motion of golf swings and twirling batons. These pictures appealed not only to scientific journals but also to museums and popular magazines.
        In part because of their startling, often surreal effects, his photographs have been featured in exhibitions at the Museum of Modern Art and the Boston Museum of Science among others.
        Mr. Edgerton's colorful public presence and indefatigable curiosity often placed him in the public eye, no more so than in 1976 when he joined a search for the Loch Ness monster. The expedition, co-sponsored by The New York Times, used Edgerton-designed sonar scanners and underwater cameras but did not find a monster.
        Mr. Edgerton published four books: ''Flash! Seeing the Unseen by Ultra High-Speed Photography'' (1939, with James R. Killian Jr.), ''Electronic Flash, Strobe'' (1970), ''Moments of Vision'' (1979, with Mr. Killian) and ''Sonar Images'' (1986). A collection of his photographs, ''Stopping Time,'' was published in 1987 by Harry N. Abrams.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Esther May Garrett; a daughter, Mary L. Dixon, of Hickory, N.C.; a son, Robert, of Pontiac, Mich., and two sisters, Margaret Robinson of Sarasota, Fla., and Mary Ellen Pogue of Chevy Chase, Md.
      