
       Gen. Xu Xiangqian, a scion of a landowner's family who joined the Communist underground in the 1920's and came to be one of China's most venerable military leaders, died this morning. He was 88 years old.
        Gen. Xu Xiangqian, a scion of a landowner's family who joined the Communist underground in the 1920's and came to be one of China's most venerable military leaders, died this morning. He was 88 years old.
        General Xu resigned from the Communist Party's Politburo in 1985 and in recent years was ailing and apparently uninvolved in decision-making. The official New China News Agency reported his death this evening, attributing it to an unnamed illness.
        ''His life was a glorious one,'' the Communist Party Central Committee declared tonight in an official obituary. The New China News Agency added, ''Xu was an outstanding Communist, a great proletarian revolutionary, a strategist and one of the founders of the Chinese People's Liberation Army.''
        After the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949, General Xu was named Chief of Staff of the army, and he later served as Defense Minister as well. In 1955, he was named one of 10 Marshals of the People's Republic, and his death leaves only one Marshal still alive: Gen. Nie Rongzhen, who is 91 and in failing health.
        A Military Career Begins
        General Xu was born in 1901 in northern China's Shanxi Province. His father was a landowner who had passed the Qing Dynasty's imperial examinations, but he spurned a career on the land. Instead, he left without his parents' consent to join the first class at the Huangpu Academy, a military-training school in Guangzhou that produced some of the greatest leaders of both the Chinese Nationalists and the Communists.
        He joined the Communist Party in 1927 and shortly afterward was a leader of the failed Guangzhou uprising. With other Communist leaders, he participated in the Long March, the epic journey from a besieged base in southeastern China to the remote highlands of northwestern China in 1934-35. But soon his patron, Zhang Guotao, was purged and General Xu himself was subjected to self-criticisms and given a relatively low position.
        In the late 30's, General Xu set up revolutionary bases to harass Japanese occupation forces, and in the 40's he led troops that inflicted heavy casualties on the Chinese Nationalists in the latter stages of the Chinese civil war. As the war came to a close, General Xu commanded the troops that captured the city of Taiyuan, the capital of his native province.
        A Fall, and Rise
        While nominally the army Chief of Staff under the new Communist Government, General Xu was in poor health and was not able to perform his full duties. During the Cultural Revolution, which began in 1966, he was criticized and stripped of office, apparently partly because of conflicts with Defense Minister Lin Biao.
        But Lin Biao attempted a coup against Chairman Mao Zedong in 1971, and following his death General Xu returned to power starting in the later stages of the Cultural Revolution. Beginning in 1978 he was named Deputy Prime Minister and Defense Minister, and in 1982 he added the title of Vice Chairman of the Central Military Commission.
        General Xu retired from most of his positions as part of a shakeup in 1985. He was married to Huang Jie, his second wife, but it is not known if she is still alive. He had children, but nothing is known of them except that one daughter once worked for a military hospital.
      