
       Lewis B. Maytag, an heir to the home appliance fortune who shunned the family business for a career in flying and became chief executive of National Airlines for 18 years, died on Sunday at Penrose Hospital in Colorado Springs. He was 64 years old.
        Lewis B. Maytag, an heir to the home appliance fortune who shunned the family business for a career in flying and became chief executive of National Airlines for 18 years, died on Sunday at Penrose Hospital in Colorado Springs. He was 64 years old.
        He died of prostate cancer, according to a spokesman for Pan American World Airways, which acquired National in 1980.
        Mr. Maytag was a grandson of the founder of the Maytag Company of Newton, Iowa, now a division of the Maytag Corporation. But he chose to become an airplane pilot, started an air-refueling business in the early 1950's and bought a controlling interest in National in 1962.
        Mr. Maytag immediately set out to build a new image for the airline, equipping the aging National fleet with Boeing 727's and McDonnell Douglas DC-8 jets and commissioning the fashion designer Oleg Cassini to create stylish uniforms for the airline's stewardesses.
        'Fly-Me' Advertising
        He also ordered the ''Fly-Me'' advertising campaign in 1971, which bestowed on National planes the first names of its stewardesses. Feminist organizations protested and nightclub comedians poked fun at the idea, but it gained wide publicity.
        Mr. Maytag revamped the airline's management, and worked ceaselessly on behalf of the airline industry. But he had turbulent relations with unions, and was able to show a profit after one of the frequent strikes against National only because other airlines agreed to share the losses.
        For all his promotional efforts in behalf of National and the airline industry, Mr. Maytag shunned publicity. When he helped thwart a would-be hijacker on a flight from London to Miami, he insisted on crediting others.
        Bidding War With Lorenzo
        Mr. Maytag, who was known as Bud, was born in Rochester, Minn., and attended Colorado College. He founded Maytag Aircraft, which specialized in refueling military planes, in Colorado Springs in the early 1950's. He bought a controlling interest in Frontier Airlines in 1958. Four years later he took over National.
        In 1978 Frank Lorenzo, then chairman of the Texas Air Corporation, sought to gain control of National, but Mr. Maytag resisted. A bidding war among Texas Air, Eastern Airlines and Pan American ensued, in which National's stock rose from about $20 to $50 a share, the price that Pan Am eventually paid.
        Mr. Maytag made a profit of $14 million on the sale. Hours after it became final in January 1980, he declined to continue working for the merged entity, received a reported $1.4 million to terminate his contract and retired from the airline industry.
        Mr. Maytag, who lived in Colorado Springs, is survived by his wife, the former Helene Vass; a son, Louis Maytag 3d; three daughters, Marquita Main and Lucretia and Alison Maytag; a sister, Catherine Edborg, and a brother, David.
      