
       Vladimir Ussachevsky, who composed the first piece of electronic music heard in concert in the United States and who went on to lead the pioneering Columbia-Princeton Electronic Music Center, died of a brain tumor yesterday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 78 years old.
        Vladimir Ussachevsky, who composed the first piece of electronic music heard in concert in the United States and who went on to lead the pioneering Columbia-Princeton Electronic Music Center, died of a brain tumor yesterday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 78 years old.
        Mr. Ussachevsky studied traditional composition and worked all his mature life in what he once called a ''pseudo-Romantic Russian style,'' with an emphasis on choral music derived from the Russian Orthodox Church.
        But he was best known for his electronic composition and for his leadership in the institutionalization of this musical genre. Mr. Ussachevsky began composing directly onto magnetic tape in 1951, and the results of that early work were first heard the next year at a Composers' Forum concert at McMillin Theater (now the Kathryn Bache Miller Theater) of Columbia University.
        The New York Times review of that concert said in part: ''Mr. Ussachevsky also played an experimental tape recording of unusual sonorities devised by himself which, if seeming a little remote from the purposes of composing, amused his listeners greatly.''
        Mr. Ussachevsky continued composing electronic music throughout the 1950's, often in collaboration with his fellow Columbia composer Otto Luening. (The two wrote separate sections that were then linked, rather than working together on the same material.) He remained open to all approaches to the medium, refusing to be locked in polemically to any one method or style.
        Music Center Is Begun
        In 1957, Mr. Ussachevsky began work at the Bell Laboratories in Murray Hill, N.J., which became a center for collaboration by scientists and artists throughout the 1960's. In 1959, along with Mr. Luening and the composers Milton Babbitt and Roger Sessions, he founded the Columbia-Princeton center, now called the Columbia University Electronic Music Center. In addition to his many electronic, instrumental and choral works, he composed music for plays, films and television.
        Mr. Ussachevsky was born in Hailar, Manchuria, in 1911, the son of a Russian career army officer who had participated in the Russian-Japanese War. He studied piano with his mother, moved to the United States in 1931 and earned his B.A. from Pomona College in Claremont, Calif. At the Eastman School of Music in Rochester, he studied composition with Bernard Rogers and Howard Hanson, receiving his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees there.
        Mr. Ussachevsky taught at Columbia from 1947 until his retirement in 1980. In 1970 he began an association with the University of Utah, which he maintained until his death. A member of the National Institute of Arts and Letters, he was awarded honorary doctorates by Pomona and the University of Utah.
        Mr. Ussachevsky's wife, Elizabeth Denison Kray, died in 1987.
      