
       John A. Danaher, a former United States Senator from Connecticut and a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia for 15 years, died on Saturday at a convalescent home in West Hartford, Conn. He was 91 years old and lived in West Hartford.
        John A. Danaher, a former United States Senator from Connecticut and a judge on the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia for 15 years, died on Saturday at a convalescent home in West Hartford, Conn. He was 91 years old and lived in West Hartford.
        He died of complications stemming from a broken hip, a spokesman for the family said.
        Judge Danaher, a Republican, served in the Senate from 1939 to 1945. He was appointed to the Court of Appeals by President Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1954 and served until 1969, when he became a senior circuit judge. He retired in 1980.  Praised by Burger On learning of his death, former Chief Justice Warren E. Burger said: ''John Danaher was one of the ablest judges that I ever sat with or encountered. His service to the nation in the Senate and on the court was a legacy to his family and friends.''
        Between his service in the Senate and on the court, Judge Danaher practiced law in Washington and worked as a Republican Party fund-raiser and lobbyist.
        He was born in Meriden, Conn., and graduated from Yale University and the Yale Law School. After being admitted to the bar, he joined White & Case in New York. He was an assistant United States attorney until his election in 1933 as Secretary of State in Connecticut.
        In 1938 he was elected to the Senate. Then 39, he was the youngest person to serve from Connecticut, a record that stood until Lowell P. Weicker's election in 1976.
        Opposed Lend-Lease
        As a member of the Senate Judiciary Committee, he was an outspoken opponent of President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Lend-Lease Program, which supplied war materials to Britain in the early years of World War II; Senator Danaher regarded the program as unconstitutional. After the attack on Pearl Harbor, when the United States entered the war, he became an active supporter of efforts to defeat the Axis powers.
        In 1944 he was defeated for re-election by Brien McMahon, a Democrat. He returned to private practice, forming the law firm of Danaher, Fahey & Poole in Washington. In 1951 his old friend, President Harry S. Truman, appointed him to the Presidential Commission on Internal Security and Individual Rights.
        Judge Danaher is survived by his wife, the former Dorothy King; two sons, John A. Jr., of Groton, Conn., and Robert C., of West Hartford; a daughter, Jeanne Lennhoff of West Hartford; 13 grandchildren and 15 great-grandchildren.
      