
       Edmund G. Love, a writer whose book ''Subways Are for Sleeping'' was the basis for the Broadway musical of the same name, died Thursday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Flint, Mich. He was 78 years old.
        Edmund G. Love, a writer whose book ''Subways Are for Sleeping'' was the basis for the Broadway musical of the same name, died Thursday at St. Joseph's Hospital in Flint, Mich. He was 78 years old.
        His wife, Anna, said he had died after a heart attack at their home.
        Mr. Love wrote 20 books, and his work appeared in many anthologies and textbooks on writing.
        ''Subways Are for Sleeping'' (1957) was based on Mr. Love's experiences in sleeping on New York City subway trains when he could not afford lodging. Reading like a handbook for the homeless, it was ''a humorous, pathetic and extremely interesting excursion into ways of life as strange to most gainfully employed citizens as those of Papuan head-hunters,'' Orville Prescott wrote in his review in The New York Times.
        The Depression and War
        Mr. Love's book ''Hanging On'' was the story of how his family survived the Depression in Flint. It was later used in classes on American history at the University of Michigan, where he had earned a bachelor's and a master's degree. Another of his books, ''The Situation in Flushing'' (1965), concerned a boy's love of trains in the early 1900's.
        After Army service in World War II, Mr. Love headed the team that wrote military histories of the war in the Pacific. He then turned to freelance writing. His book ''War Is a Private Affair (1959) was called ''the finest book of its kind since 'Tales of the South Pacific' '' by Charles Poore in a review for The Times.
        As a reaction to leaner days, Mr. Love dined in more restaurants than most food critics do. Beginning in 1952, he systematically ate his way through a large number of the restaurants listed in the Manhattan Yellow Pages, from ABC Carol Downtown Health Foods to Zorba.
        'Pretty Awful Places'
        ''Sometimes you end up in some pretty awful places,'' he recalled in an interview in 1973. ''When I started I asked a cop in Penn Station for a recommendation. He told me to look in the Yellow Pages. I did and picked A La Fourchette, the first one on the list. I had such a good dinner, I tried the same thing the next week.'' Twelve years and $18,000 later, he said he had sampled 1,750 of the 5,595 restaurants listed. ''I don't monkey with one-arm joints or luncheonettes,'' he explained.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son from a previous marriage, Nicholas Gregory Love of Nashville, and four grandchildren.
      