
       Seymour H. Knox, a banker, internationally known art patron and first chairman of the New York State Council on the Arts, died yesterday at his home in Buffalo. He was 92 years old.
        Seymour H. Knox, a banker, internationally known art patron and first chairman of the New York State Council on the Arts, died yesterday at his home in Buffalo. He was 92 years old.
        Over the years, Mr. Knox, who was known as ''the dean of American art patrons,'' gave more than 700 works of art - most of them in the contemporary field - to the Albright-Knox Art Gallery in Buffalo. In 1961, the gallery's name was changed from the Albright Art Gallery to the Albright-Knox in recognition of the Knox family's contribution toward building a new addition. At his death, Mr. Knox was honorary chairman of the board of the Buffalo Fine Arts Academy, which operates the gallery.
        Mr. Knox was a director of several prominent corporations, among them the Marine Midland Bank, F. W. Woolworth Company, the New York Central Railroad, the Penn Central Railroad and the American Steamship Company. He was chairman of the Marine Midland Trust Company of Western New York from 1943 to 1970 and was chairman emeritus at his death. In his younger days, he was also a well-known polo and squash racquets player.
        Family Active in Art
        Mr. Knox - nicknamed Shorty because of his height - was born in Buffalo on Sept. 1, 1898, to one of the city's leading families. In 1888 his father had opened the first of a chain of variety stores, S. H. Knox & Company. The chain grew rapidly, and in 1912 the elder Knox merged it with an enterprise run by a cousin, F. W. Woolworth. The new venture became the F. W. Woolworth chain of 5-and-10-cent stores.
        The younger Knox attended Hotchkiss Preparatory School and graduated from Yale in 1920. His interest in the visual arts followed that of his parents, who were active in the Buffalo Fine Arts Academy, and he joined the board in 1925. In 1939 he and his family donated money to establish a room of contemporary art at the gallery in memory of his mother, Grace Millard Knox, enabling the gallery to buy important works by Picasso, Matisse, Miro, Mondrian, Beckmann and Braque.
        In the 1950's, with the advice of Gordon M. Smith, then director of the Albright Gallery, he began buying for the gallery the works, then still modestly priced, of the Abstract Expressionist painters, including Willem de Kooning, Arshile Gorky, Mark Rothko, Hans Hofmann and Robert Motherwell. The Albright was the first museum in the world to buy works by Clyfford Still and mounted two important Still shows. In 1964 Mr. Still met Mr. Knox at an airport cafeteria in Washington to announce the artist's gift to the gallery of 31 Still paintings.
        Artists represented by major Knox gifts to the gallery also include Jasper Johns, Frank Stella, Alexander Calder, Roy Lichtenstein, Andy Warhol, Robert Rauschenberg, Louise Nevelson, Anthony Caro, Henry Moore, Sonia Delaunay and Helen Frankenthaler.
        In the 1960's, Mr. Knox helped organize two festivals in Buffalo that brought critics and audiences from around the world to see new developments in the visual and performing arts. As chairman of the New York State Council on the Arts from 1960 to 1975, he commissioned an important report in 1975 that was intended to make the council more effective as it grew and served more constituencies. In 1986, at a White House ceremony, Mr. Knox was awarded a National Medal of Art by President Ronald Reagan for his contributions to the arts in Buffalo and the nation.
        Mr. Knox's wife, Helen Northrup Knox, died in 1971. He is survived by two sons, Seymour H. Knox 3d of Buffalo and Northrup Rand Knox of East Aurora, N.Y.; six grandchildren, and seven great-grandchildren.
      