
       Lawrence F. O'Brien Jr., the Democratic Party strategist who organized the successful senatorial and Presidential campaigns of John F. Kennedy, died yesterday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 73 years old. His family said he died from complications of cancer.
        Lawrence F. O'Brien Jr., the Democratic Party strategist who organized the successful senatorial and Presidential campaigns of John F. Kennedy, died yesterday at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 73 years old. His family said he died from complications of cancer.
        Mr. O'Brien was twice named chairman of the Democratic National Committee and while he was chairman the committee's offices in the Watergate office and apartment complex in Washington were burglarized, resulting in scandals that led to President Richard M. Nixon's resignation on Aug. 9, 1974, as the House prepared to act on three articles of impeachment against the President.
        Mr. O'Brien, who served as the Congressional liaison representative for President Kennedy and President Lyndon B. Johnson, had a varied career in politics, government and business and was widely admired for his organizing talents. He served as Postmaster General in the Johnson Administration, and put into motion a plan to modernize the postal system, making it a quasi-private corporation.
        From 1975 to 1984, he was the commissioner of the National Basketball Association, and under his leadership the league made financial and rule changes that provided stability in an era of uncertainty.
        Of Eggheads and Winners
        Noted for his savvy, no-nonsense approach to winning elections, Mr. O'Brien disdained ''windmill-tilting amateurs'' who failed to see that elections were not won by those who insisted on always taking the high road.
        ''The eggheads want the candidate to win on his own terms - to defy the party and interest groups,'' he said in an interview in 1988. ''The egghead thinks it's worthwhile to be defeated. I think it's worthwhile to be elected.''
        Mr. O'Brien was born into politics. His father and mother were immigrants from County Cork, Ireland, who settled in Springfield, Mass.
        ''My father ran into bigotry,'' Mr. O'Brien said. ''It made him a strong Democrat. It was a place for him to go. He wasn't wanted elsewhere, and he became a Democratic Party fighter in a Republican stronghold.''
        Early Exposure to Politics
        Lawrence Francis O'Brien Jr. was born on July 7, 1917, in the Roland Hotel, a boardinghouse and restaurant that was one of his father's properties.
        The Roland's kitchen became the informal Democratic headquarters in western Massachusetts, and Larry O'Brien grew up on close terms with politicians like James Michael Curley, the flamboyant Mayor of Boston, and David I. Walsh, the first Irish-American elected to the United States Senate from Massachusetts.
        ''My father would say, 'All right, now we'll get the signatures,' '' Mr. O'Brien recalled years later. ''It was organizational politics, signatures on petitions, door-to-door canvassing. He was a great one for planning - all the things I wound up being involved in myself.''
        In 1942 Mr. O'Brien received a bachelor of law degree from Northeastern University, but he had no designs on a career in law. Instead, he stumped the state with his father, a party committeeman, building up valuable contacts with ward leaders.
        Elected as Union Leader
        At the age of 22, while he was a bartender at his father's restaurant, Mr. O'Brien won his first and only elective office, as president of the Hotel and Restaurant Employees Union. Soon afterward he was drafted into the Army but because his poor vision barred him from combat duty, he spent the war at Camp Edwards, Mass.
        He was discharged in 1945, shortly after his marriage to Elva Brassard of Springfield. They had one son, Lawrence Francis O'Brien 3d.
        Mr. O'Brien ran his first political campaign for Foster Furcolo, an old friend from Springfield who had been best man at Mr. O'Brien's wedding, and was seeking a Congressional seat in 1946. Mr. Furcolo narrowly lost that race, but he was elected in 1948 and took his campaign manager to Washington as his administrative assistant.
        In 1952 Kennedy, then a Congressman from Boston, persuaded Mr. O'Brien to help in his campaign to unseat Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, Republican of Massachusetts.
        'The O'Brien Manual'
        Mr. O'Brien tackled the job with zest, and in the process perfected his own formula for political organization. He recruited 340 local political amateurs, calling them ''Kennedy secretaries'' so as not to offend entrenched party leaders, and charged them with working neighborhood to neighborhood for Kennedy's campaign.
        He gave them ''The O'Brien Manual,'' a 68-page handbook stressing the importance of voter registration, mobilization of women as volunteers, telephone canvassing and intensive press relations. He also encouraged the secretaries to organize teas around the state; Kennedy's popular mother and sisters went to those receptions and shook hands for hours.
        Despite the Eisenhower landslide of 1952, Kennedy defeated Senator Lodge by 70,000 votes. In 1958 Mr. O'Brien's smooth-running organization helped Kennedy win re-election by 874,608 votes, a record for Massachusetts.
        When Kennedy decided to run for the Democratic Presidential nomination in 1960 he again turned to Mr. O'Brien, who established Kennedy headquarters and recruited volunteers nationwide. Kennedy won all seven of the state primaries he entered and, with Mr. O'Brien's guidance, won a first-ballot victory at the Democratic National Convention in Los Angeles. In November 1960, Kennedy, with Johnson as his running mate, went on to a narrow victory over the Republican ticket led by Mr. Nixon.
        A Vital Link to Congress
        As Kennedy's special assistant for Congressional relations, Mr. O'Brien was a crucial bridge between the White House and Congress, helping Kennedy's New Frontier programs became law. He did so with persuasion, patience, arm-twisting and an occasional favor.
        After Kennedy was assassinated in Dallas on Nov. 22, 1963, President Johnson persuaded Mr. O'Brien to stay on. He also served as a leading political adviser to Johnson in the 1964 election, which Johnson won with a plurality of 16 million votes.
        As the President became preoccupied with the Vietnam War, Mr. O'Brien was given the authority to negotiate substantial changes in the Administration's stalled legislation. In 1965 he won approval of 84 of the 87 major bills proposed by the White House, and in 1966 he won approval of 97 of 113 measures proposed.
        Among the bills passed in Mr. O'Brien's tenure as White House liaison officer were those creating the Peace Corps and the Alliance for Progress, Medicare, the model cities program, the Civil Rights Act of 1964, related voting rights legislation, a nuclear test ban treaty and increased aid to education.
        Mr. O'Brien sought to leave Government service in 1965, but Johnson persuaded him to stay in Congressional liaison and also to serve as his Postmaster General. In that post Mr. O'Brien attacked the longstanding problems of inefficiency and mismanagement in the postal system.
        'A Race With Catastrophe'
        In 1967 he told the House Appropriations Committee that the system was ''in a race with catastrophe.'' He proposed replacing the Post Office Department with a nonprofit governmental corporation managed by professionals. His recommendations were not approved by Congress until two years later, but in the interim he put in motion a postal mechanization program.
        In 1968 Mr. O'Brien resigned to coordinate Senator Robert F. Kennedy's campaign for the Democratic Presidential nomination. But in June 1968, after the Senator was assassinated, Mr. O'Brien returned to Springfield ''with nothing to do and nothing I wanted to do.''
        He was soon persuaded to become campaign director for Senator Hubert H. Humphrey, who won the Presidential nomination and installed Mr. O'Brien as the Democratic national chairman. But the party was going through some bad times, starting with the tumultuous and divisive convention in Chicago. Mr. Nixon narrowly defeated Mr. Humphrey in the 1968 election.
        Mr. O'Brien served briefly as president of the Wall Street brokerage of McDonnell & Company, then set up his own public relations and management consultant firm, O'Brien Associates. In 1970 he again became the Democratic national chairman and oversaw sweeping changes in the selection of delegates, the reorganization of the committee's staff and the recruitment of communications experts as volunteer consultants.
        The Watergate Burglary
        As President Nixon's re-election campaign neared, his Committee for the Re-election of the President viewed Mr. O'Brien as ''the Democrats' most professional political operator,'' and arranged three separate audits of his tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service.
        His offices at the Watergate complex were secretly wiretapped by agents of the re-election committee. When they returned on June 17, 1972, to replace their listening devices they were discovered by a watchman and arrested, setting off the chain of investigations, Congressional hearings, indictments and trials that led to Mr. Nixon's resignation in 1974.
        After the Democratic ticket's defeat in 1972, Mr. O'Brien returned to O'Brien Associates and worked on his 1974 autobiography, ''No Final Victories: A Life in Politics from John F. Kennedy to Watergate,'' in which he recommended the public financing of all Federal elections.
        In 1975, as commissioner of the National Basketball Association, he set about mitigating internal and legal disputes plaguing the league. In 1976 he persuaded the team owners to let drafted players become free agents after two years.
        Later he conducted the negotiations that led reluctant N.B.A. owners to accept a merger with the American Basketball Association, in which the four top A.B.A. teams, in exchange for a cash payment, joined the N.B.A.
        Mr. O'Brien was commissioner of the N.B.A. at a time when players' demands for higher alaries, coupled with widespread drug abuse, threatened the existance of the league. He initiated a cap on players' salaries in order to stabilize the league financially and began the most comprehensive drug and alcohol abuse policy in professional sports. He is also credited with improving competition and with introducing the three-point shot.
        After he resigned as commissioner in 1984 he served as president of the Basketball Hall of Fame in Springfield.
        Mr. O'Brien, who lived in New York City after leaving politics, is survived by his wife, their son, Lawrence, who lives in Washington; a sister, Mary Placzek of Wilbraham, Mass., and two grandsons.
      