
       John Grady, the director of music for St. Patrick's Cathedral and an organist there and at the Metropolitan Opera, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 56 years old.
        John Grady, the director of music for St. Patrick's Cathedral and an organist there and at the Metropolitan Opera, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 56 years old.
        Mr. Grady died of a heart attack in his sleep, David Callahan, the executor of his estate, said.
        Mr. Grady became St. Patrick's musical director in 1970, the fifth since the cathedral was dedicated in 1870. He had been organist there since 1965, the year he became organist at the Met.
        Mr. Grady had been musical director at the Church of the Holy Family, also known as the Parish Church of the United Nations. In 1965, during Pope Paul VI's visit to the United Nations, Mr. Grady organized the choral and orchestral program for a papal meeting with representatives of other major faiths at the Holy Family Church.
        Emphasized Classical Music
        He traveled extensively in Europe giving concerts, including several appearances at Notre-Dame Cathedral in Paris and at Westminster Cathedral in London.
        Mr. Grady hewed to the line of classical music at St. Patrick's.
        ''I am not a musical snob,'' he said in an interview at the time of his appointment. ''We don't have an indigenous folk tradition in the church. We have to borrow it from the Tennessee hills. I don't find music like that inadmissible, but the judgment of it must be qualitative. This cathedral is an exemplar, and I think it must have a great degree of excellence in any facet.''
        A native of Great Neck, L.I., Mr. Grady began his career at the age of 10 as a member of the choir of the Church of the Blessed Sacrament in Manhattan. He became assistant organist at the Church of St. Ignatius Loyola and on his graduation from Fordham University in 1957 studied organ with Virgil Fox and piano with Eric Zardo.
        He attended the Graduate School of Music at Columbia University and studied under Bernard Wagenaar at the Juilliard School. As director of music at WFUV, Fordham University's radio station, he initiated live broadcasts from areas of the city.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      