
       David W. MacEachron, who retired last year as president of the Japan Society after leading the nonprofit group for 15 years, died of colon cancer on Saturday at his home in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 66 years old.
        David W. MacEachron, who retired last year as president of the Japan Society after leading the nonprofit group for 15 years, died of colon cancer on Saturday at his home in Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y. He was 66 years old.
        Mr. MacEachron was successively executive director and president of the organization, which advances understanding between the United States and Japan. Despite his worsening illness, he remained an active adviser to the society's board at Japan House, at 333 East 47th Street.
        He was a staunch advocate of liberalized trade, of close American-Japanese economic cooperation, and of the nations' joint repudiation of any effort to achieve dual dominance of other economies. He stressed the latter belief in his recently completed autobiography, which, his son, Daniel, said, he wrote for his family and friends.
        Mr. MacEachron (pronounced Mac-KEK-ron) increased the Japan Society's endowment by about $20 million and its role as the main conduit for American awareness of Japanese culture, economics and politics with film festivals, stage performances, art exhibits and conferences.
        Served in the Navy
        David Wells MacEachron was born in Grinnell, Iowa, to parents who had been Congregational missionaries in China. He grew up in Oberlin, Ohio, and Des Moines, and earned a bachelor's degree in philosophy at Yale. He also earned a master's degree in public administration and a doctorate in economics from Harvard. In World War II, he served in the Navy's Pacific Fleet on a submarine assigned primarily to rescuing downed American pilots.
        After the war, his assignments included stints in Paris for the Marshall Plan, in Washington for the Bureau of the Budget and in New York where, from 1962 to 1974, he was successively program director and vice president of the Council on Foreign Relations. In later years, he was increasingly concerned about ecological dangers and overpopulation.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Frances DePuydt, the Mayor of Hastings-on-Hudson for nearly eight years; his son, Daniel N., of New Canaan, Conn.; two daughters, Susan Patrick of Manhattan, and Laura O'Callaghan of Baltimore; two brothers, Lendrum, of St. Paul, and John, of Glendale, Calif., and two granddaughters.
        A memorial service will be held at the Japan Society on Thursday at 4:30 P.M.
      