
       Lord Caradon, a former chief British representative at the United Nations who earlier helped six colonies gain independence, died Wednesday in a nursing home in Plymouth, England. The cause of his death, at the age of 82, was not disclosed.
        Hugh Mackintosh Foot was born in Plymouth on Oct. 8, 1907. His father was Isaac Foot, a Liberal Party leader and the Secretary of Mines in the coalition Government headed by Ramsay MacDonald in the early 1930's.
        Two of his brothers, Dingle and Michael, were Labor members of Parliament who also served on the boards of leading London pubications, Dingle on the Sunday newspaper Observer and Michael on the weekly magazine Tribune. The brothers were known as ''The Three Left Feet.''
        Cromwell Their Hero
        ''We were proud to be nonconformists and Roundheads,'' Lord Caradon once wrote of his family. ''Oliver Cromwell was our hero and John Milton our poet.'''
        He often quoted the following words of Milton to counteract what he regarded as a dangerous empire-weary cynicism in Britain: ''Let not England forget her precedence in teaching the nations how to live.''
        Young Hugh became the only member of his family to choose Cambridge over Oxford, and he earned an honors degree in history and law there. He was president of the students' organization, the Cambridge Union, in 1929, and in 1960 he was elected an honorary fellow of St. John's College.
        In the Colonial Service, he served successively in Palestine, Trans-Jordan, Cyrenaica (now eastern Libya), Cyprus, Jamaica and Nigeria. He was knighted by King George VI in 1951.
        Lord Caradon was Governor and Commander in Chief in Cyprus from 1957 to 1960 and was credited with bringing the rival Greek and Turkish leaders together to forge an independent republic. A citation from the British Government hailed his ''wisdom, courage and humanity, and his unwearying efforts in negotiations.''
        Resigns U.N. Post
        His association with the United Nations began in 1961, when he was appointed Britain's representative to the Trusteeship Council. He resigned a year later in what was regarded as major criticism of London's failure to intervene against Rhodesia's repression of black nationalists.
        In 1962 he was appointed an adviser to the United Nations Special Fund for economic development of newly independent countries, and a member of the United Nations group that investigated South Africa's policy of apartheid and reported critically on it.
        In 1964 Britain made him a life peer, and he became London's representative at the United Nations for six years, until the Conservatives regained power in the 1970 elections. In later years, he was an adviser to the United Nations Development Program and a visiting fellow at Princeton, Harvard and Georgetown Universities.
        Lord Caradon was a solidly built man who had been a noted horseman and rower. His 1964 memoirs were titled ''A Start in Freedom.''
        In an interview, he said he never smiled when journalists were nearby. ''You never know when there may be a stray photographer around and, in a newspaper alongside a headline saying '100,000 people dead,' there is a picture of you smiling all over your face.''
        Lord Caradon married Florence Sylvia Tod in 1936. She died in 1985. Surviving are three sons and a daughter.
      