
       Alan John Percivale Taylor, the iconoclastic British historian whose more than two dozen books infuriated professional academic historians and delighted a large public, died yesterday at a nursing home in Finchley, North London. He was 84 years old and had been suffering for some time from Parkinson's disease.
        He was abruptly dismissed as a lecturer at Oxford University in 1962. The assumption was that his views and methods simply did not sit well with a large number of his colleagues; his role as popularizer was viewed with disdain in the British Academy.
        Best-Known Book Drew Fire
        ''These criticisms that I popularize history - if it were true I'd be delighted,'' Mr. Taylor said in a 1976 interview. ''My books don't sell well on the whole, and in fact the greatest seller of all is a long introduction to the Communist Manifesto that I wrote for Penguin. So I bless the name of Marx every day for the royalties.''
        After the publication in 1961 of his best-known book, ''The Origins of the Second World War,'' Mr. Taylor was sharply, unsparingly attacked by another distinguished British historian, Hugh Trevor-Roper, who in the view of many critics demolished the book's argument in just about every respect. Mr. Taylor's controversial thesis was that Hitler had not been solely responsible for the war, a view widely at variance with standard interpretations.
        ''The general moral of this book, so far as it has one, is that Great Britain and France dithered between resistance and appeasement, and so helped to make war more likely,'' Mr. Taylor wrote in the American edition of the book. ''American policy did the same.''
        Mr. Taylor stated that ''in principle and doctrine Hitler was no more wicked and unscrupulous than many other contemporary statemen.''
        'Flawed From Top to Bottom'
        The overall thesis of ''The Origins of the Second World War'' was that Hitler was, in essence, an opportunist. His goal was to make Germany a great world power but, with no clear plan how to do it, he changed with circumstances, stumbling into a war that was in large part brought on by that dithering ''between resistance and appeasement'' that Mr. Taylor saw as the essence of Allied policy.
        The British historian A. L. Rowse, in a review for The New York Times, speculated at the time that Mr. Taylor's interpretation might have stemmed as much from a desire to ''affront, to shock'' as from a desire to seek the truth. The book, Mr. Rowse said, is ''flawed from top to bottom and offers an exemplary instance of how history should not be written.''
        But Mr. Taylor, defending his work, said that he when he had begun his research he had believed in the standard interpretation regarding the origins of the war, that ''Hitler had planned it all.'' He was forced to change this view as his research progressed, he said.
        ''Some critics were shocked by this and attributed to me all kinds of wickendess - apologizing for Hitler or justifying the later appeasement of Soviet Russia,'' Mr. Taylor wrote. ''I had no such aims. My historian's conscience simply carried me to an unexpected direction.''
        Many Contentious Opinions
        Mr. Taylor, an unabashed leftist and believer in socialism, shocked on other occasions as well.
        ''We've never seen the experiment seriously tried of a socialist economy run in a democratic country,'' he told an interviewer in 1976.
        Among other controversial opinions was his advocacy of withdrawing British troops from Northern Ireland, arguing that ''there is already a civil war, there is already killing every day, and it's by no means certain that British withdrawal would make it worse.
        ''What is certain,'' he said, ''is that as long as the British stay, no solution will be found.''
        In yet another controversial move, when Anthony Blunt, the art historian exposed in 1979 as a Soviet spy, was forced to resign from the British Academy, Mr. Taylor resigned in protest, saying that Mr. Blunt had been the target of a witchhunt.
        ''It's none of our business, as a group of scholars, to consider matters of this sort,'' Mr. Taylor said in an interview in 1980. ''The academy's only concern should be his scholarly credentials, which are unaffected by all this.''
        History as Literature
        Despite the controversies that surrounded his career, Mr. Taylor will no doubt be remembered for his capacities as a student of the past, a man whose mastery of enormous amounts of data, detail and telling as well as colorful fact, combined with a confident, eloquent writing style, gave his books the stuff of literature.
        In his ''Oxford History of England,'' for example, Mr. Taylor recalls that King George V's trousers ''were creased at the sides, not front to back.'' One reviewer, John Clive, gently questioned whether ''balanced historical judgment is not at times sacrificed on the altar of wit.''
        But Mr. Clive appreciated such witticisms as Mr. Taylor's observation that Foreign Secretary Ernest Bevin ''objected to ideas only when others had them'' or that the interwar lamentations about the decline of civilization stemmed from the shortage of domestic servants, which meant that the men now had to help with the washing up.
        Inclinations Passed From Parents
        Born on March 25, 1906, in Southport, Lancashire, Mr. Taylor was the son of a cotton manufacturer who prided himself on his socialist beliefs and his nonconformism, inclinations that the young Mr. Taylor seemed to inherit.
        He described himself as ''always a loner, a solitary child, out of step in all sorts of ways, rarely influenced by others and learning by the painful process of trial and error.''
        When he was 10, his mother, who was a pacifist, removed him from the local public school, objecting to the existence there of an army officers' training corps. She transferred Mr. Taylor to a Quaker boarding school. He went to Oxford in 1924 as a scholarship student. He immediately joined the Labor Club and during the general strikes of May 1926 took an active stand in support of striking workers. He graduated in 1927 with first class honors in modern history.
        Headed Beaverbrook Library
        Mr. Taylor spent two years in Vienna studying diplomatic history and working in the diplomatic archives. He returned to England in 1930 and began lecturing at Manchester University that year, continuing as a lecturer in international history at Oxford and at Cambridge, where he was in charge of the famed Beaverbrook Library. His first book, ''The Italian Problem in European Diplomacy, 1847-1849,'' was published in 1934.
        Many more books and hundreds of articles followed, among them: ''The Habsburg Monarchy 1815-1918: A History of the Austrian Empire,'' ''The Course of German History: A Survey of the Development of Germany Since 1815,'' ''Bismarck: The Man and the Statesman'' and, perhaps most important, ''The Struggle for Mastery in Europe, 1848-1918.'' He wrote an affectionate, personal biography of Lord Beaverbrook, the British press lord, in 1972 and an autobiography, ''A Personal History,'' in 1983.
        During these years, he was also a columnist for the Manchester Guardian and for Lord Beaverbook's Sunday Express.
        Mr. Taylor was married three times, the first two marriages ending in divorce. He had six children, all of whom survive. He lived the last years of his life in what one interviewer in 1983 described as a modest Victorian home in London, until, in his last days, suffering from Parkinson's disease, he moved to the nursing home where he died.
      