
       Dr. Robert L. Custer, a psychiatrist who in 1974 established the nation's first clinic for treatment of compulsive gambling, died Tuesday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 63 years old.
        Dr. Custer was widely recognized as a pioneer in helping compulsive gamblers. At a time when out-of-control gambling was widely considered to be merely aberrant behavior, he came to regard it as a disease that should be treated as such.
        ''We're dealing with a behavior disorder,'' Dr. Custer said not long after the 1974 opening of his clinic, which he set up at a Veterans Administration hospital in Brecksville, Ohio. ''The key to the problem is psychological addiction. It's what I call the pain-avoidance mechanism.''
        Gambling to Escape Pain
        Dr. Custer rejected the Freudian theory held by many psychoanalysts that people gambled compulsively as a substitute for sex. Addicts gamble excessively, he believed, not for pleasure or self-punishment, but to escape pain.
        When recreational bettors go to the race track, he said, including himself in that category, they go to enjoy themselves. ''It's a social thing,.'' he said. ''But the compulsive gambler usually goes alone. He's isolated. He's doing it to relieve some kind of psychic pain. Whether he wins or loses, just being in action relieves the pain.''
        In 1980, largely through Dr. Custer's efforts, the American Psychiatric Association classified compulsive gambling as a psychological disorder. Three years later he organized Taylor Manor, a psychiatric center in Ellicott City, Md., to treat it.
        Patients at the center receive individual counseling and attend weekly group therapy sessions and meetings of Gamblers Anonymous. Staff psychiatrists, psychologists and social workers help the patient arrange a plan to repay gambling debts. Then they address the roots of the compulsion, which Dr. Custer found usually had little to do with money, but more with an inordinate fear of dying and a consequent need to ''stay alive,'' as bettors typically put it when a brief streak of success keeps them from going broke.
        Active Until Final Illness
        Dr. Custer, who was born in Midland, Pa., was a graduate of Ohio State University and received his medical degree from Western Reserve University in Cleveland. After practicing general medicine for a decade, he took psychiatric training at the University of Missouri.
        He joined the Veterans Administration in 1968, serving at the Brecksville V.A. Hospital until 1974, when he moved to Washington and became director of patient treatment services for mental health. He retired in 1986 but continued in private practice until his final illness. In 1987, he established a treatment program for pathological gamblers at Charter Hospital in Las Vegas, Nev.
        In addition to his wife, the former Lillian Scheeff, Dr. Custer is survived by two brothers, Claude, of Ravenna, Ohio, and M. A. Custer of La Jolla, Calif.
      