
       Samuel Kanyon Doe, whose death was reported yesterday, was a 28-year-old master sergeant in the Liberian National Guard in 1980 when he seized power by storming the executive mansion in Monrovia at the head of a band of noncommissioned officers, His coup d'etat, he declared, marked the triumph of the masses over the descendants of freed American slaves who founded the independent West
        Promotes Himself to General
        Mr. Doe's coup came after riots, bloodshed and looting touched off by the Tolbert Government's planned price increases in 1979.
        After seizing power, Mr. Doe promoted himself to general and became Commander in Chief and Chairman of a People's Redemption Council.
        General Doe restored civilian government after being voted President in October 1985 in what opponents denounced as a rigged election. He defeated a coup attempt that November and took the oath of office on Jan. 6, 1986.
        Amid the charges of human rights abuses and corruption, Mr. Doe maintained a good relationship with the Reagan Administration, which maintained that he was steering Liberia toward demoracy. Liberia was the largest per capita recipient of United States aid in the sub-Sahara from 1980 to 1985, after which Congress, responding to reports of mismanagement and misappropriation, began to steadily slash aid levels.
        In August 1982, Mr. Doe paid a state visit to Washington. During the Rose Garden welcome, President Reagan introduced him to the press as ''Chairman Moe.''
        Mr. Doe was born May 6, 1951, in Tuzon in Grand Gedeh County in eastern Liberia. He stayed in Tuzon until his graduation from elementary school in 1967, when he left for Zwedru, the county seat, to attend a Baptist high school. But he dropped out and two years later at the age of 18 enlisted in the army.
        A Diploma 'With Honors'
        After basic training, he resumed his high-school education and also trained at the Defense Ministry's Radio and Communications School in Monrovia, graduating in 1971. According to an official sketch, he received his diploma ''with honors.''
        Other postings had him oversee the Central Prison, the Post Stockade and the Military Arsenal in Monrovia. He later commanded a troop detachment in Grand Cape Mount County.
        According to press reports, he gained a reputation as a skilled sharpshooter and hand-to-hand fighter. He was promoted from private to corporal and first sergeant within two days in 1975. He underwent training at a camp in Liberia run by the United States Special Forces, or Green Berets, in 1979, and became a master sergeant the same year.
        Associates described him then as ambitious and basically apolitical. They also reported that he chafed under a system that for the most part maintained the officer corps as a preserve of the privileged Americo-Liberians, as the descendants of freed slaves are known.
        Although some Liberians saw Sergeant Doe as a front man for leaders of the People's Progressive Party, a rival of President Tolbert's True Whig Party, most experts on the country saw his coup as a spontaneous action.
        President Doe's leisure interest was soccer. He and his wife, Nancy, had four children.
      