
       Paul Magriel, an art collector, connoisseur and former tour guide at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84 years old. He died of a heart attack, a spokesman for the family said. Mr. Magriel was educated at Columbia University, and in his early years became involved with the dance world.
        Paul Magriel, an art collector, connoisseur and former tour guide at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 84 years old. He died of a heart attack, a spokesman for the family said. Mr. Magriel was educated at Columbia University, and in his early years became involved with the dance world. He was librarian at the American School of Ballet and was later curator of the dance archives at the Museum of Modern Art.
        He was an editor of ''Dance Index,'' a magazine started in 1942 dedicated to providing a historical and critical basis for judging dance. He was editor of many books on the subect, including ''Chronicles of the American Dance,'' ''Nijinsky,'' ''Isadora Duncan'' and ''Pavlova.''
        His collecting interests were wide ranging and included sports in art, American still life, numismatics, watercolors, drawings and sculpture. His collections were exhibited in more than 84 American museums and galleries.
        He was considered an authority on Italian Renaissance bronzes, and he had an impressive collection of watercolors and pastels, particularly those of 19th-century painters, including Sargent, Chase and John LaFarge.
        A Booklet Guide
        He was a constant presence at the Metropolitan Museum of Art. Recently, with a co-author, John T. Spike, he wrote ''A Connoisseur's Guide to the Met,'' a booklet that gives information on four one-hour tours that present the visitor with 100 art objects - ''the very best that the Met has to offer,'' the guide says.
        His theory was that the museum, with its collections of more than three million works, is too large and distracting for the average visitor, hence the tour guide.
        ''Don't walk,'' he wrote to those taking the tour. ''Run to the next item. That's what I do: it keeps the blood pumping, and it cuts out distractions. While taking these tours, do not stop to look around. That's for other days.'' He is survived by two sons, Paul, of Manhattan, and Nicholas, of London; a brother, Charles, of Springfield, Mass., and two sisters.
      