
       Dr. John Bowlby, the British psychiatrist whose work on the bond between mother and child profoundly influenced psychotherapy and child psychology, died Sept. 2 at his vacation home on the Isle of Skye. He was 83 years old.
        Dr. John Bowlby, the British psychiatrist whose work on the bond between mother and child profoundly influenced psychotherapy and child psychology, died Sept. 2 at his vacation home on the Isle of Skye. He was 83 years old.
        Dr. Bowlby died of a stroke, said a grandson, Richard Bowlby.
        One of the most influential forces in child psychiatry and psychology, Dr. Bowlby challenged basic tenets of psychoanalysis and pioneered methods of investigating the emotional life of children. His central focus was on what has come to be called ''attachment theory'' and the emotional impact on the child when the maternal bond is disrupted.
        In arguing the case for the crucial nature of a warm, intimate and continuous relationship between mother and infant, Dr. Bowlby prompted public policy that a ''bad'' home is better for a child than a ''good'' institution. His work also inadvertently bred guilt in many working mothers, who misconstrued his message. Dr. Bowlby felt a mother's absence during the day was not a problem if there was satisfactory care in her absence.
        Problems From Separation
        In his major work, a three-volume exploration of the bond between the mother and child, Dr. Bowlby argued that the origins of many emotional problems in later life were a result of children's being separated as toddlers from their mothers, with no adequate substitute.
        The problems such separation could lead to, he said, included depression, ''anxious attachment'' or clinginess in relationships, chronic delinquency, and pathological mourning.
        ''John Bowlby was a giant,'' said Dr. Albert Solnit, former director of the Child Studies Center at the Yale University Medical School. ''He was one of the most fertile, incisive thinkers about children of our century.''
        ''His influence is enormous and growing,'' said Elsa First, a psychoanalyst at New York University. ''Attachment theory has become more and more central over the last 10 years in psychological theory and in psychotherapy.''
        Edward John Mostyn Bowlby was born Feb. 26, 1907, the son of a surgeon. He grew up in a time when many children lived with a succession of nannies, often seeing their own parents only at tea time, until they reached the age when they were sent away to boarding school.
        Dr. Bowlby attended Dartmouth Royal Naval College and Trinity College, Cambridge, where he majored in natural sciences and psychology. His medical training was at University College Medical School in London. During World War II, he served in the British army as a psychiatrist.
        For most of his career, from 1946 on, Dr. Bowlby was on the staff at the Tavistock Clinic and the Tavistock Institute of Human Relations. He was director of the department of child psychiatry there until 1968, and he remained as a senior research fellow and teacher after retiring in 1972. While in medical school, at the age of 22, he went into psychoanalysis with Joan Riviere, a colleague of the noted psychoanalyst Melanie Klein, who later became his supervisor for a year.
        A Lasting Emotional Legacy
        His first work in psychiatry, at the Maudsley Hospital in London, was with adults. But in the 1930's he began to focus on children, and he turned to the theme that was to dominate his life's work, the lasting emotional legacy of childhood separations and losses.
        In 1950, Dr. Bowlby became a consultant to the World Health Organization, studying children who had been orphaned, institutionalized or otherwise separated from their parents. The resulting 1951 book, ''Maternal Child Care and Child Health,'' condemned the prevailing practice of hospitals and other children's institutions in depriving children there of contact with a consistent figure who could serve as a mother substitute. The failure to provide a mothering figure, he said, would leave the chlidren unable to love.
        A popular version of research he did for the World Health Organization, the book, published in 1953 as ''Child Care and the Growth of Love,'' became a best seller. But Dr. Bowlby's most influential work was the the trilogy ''Attachment and Loss.'' The first volume, ''Attachment,'' was published in 1969; the second, ''Separation,'' was published in 1973, and the third, ''Loss,'' in 1980.
        A re-thinking of psychoanalytic theory, ''Attachment and Loss'' saw the bond between mother and child as instinctive, like the urge to mate in adulthood. And Dr. Bowlby saw emotional problems in later life as arising from actual childhood events, like being deprived of mothering, rather than from unconscious fantasies.
        Clash With Anna Freud
        In another radical break with the prevailing psychoanalytic methods and theories of his day, Dr. Bowlby turned to the study of animal behavior and to theories about how information flows between people in formulating his ideas about the mother-infant bond. Instead of relying on adult memories to reconstruct the major events of childhood, Dr. Bowlby's studies made direct observations of mothers and children.
        His first volume was attacked by many leading psychoanalysts at the time, including the analyst Anna Freud, who charged him with oversimplifying and misinterpreting Freudian theory. But in recent years data supporting Dr. Bowlby's theories, and changing theories in psychoanalysis, have brought increasing importance to his work.
        Productive to the end, Dr. Bowlby published ''A Secure Base,'' in 1988, published in the United States by Basic Books,) in which he explored the specifics of giving children a steady, loving home environment, and such issues as what constitutes adequate child care. ''Charles Darwin: A New Biography,'' published this year in Britain, argues that Darwin's repeated illnesses resulted from losses in childhood.
        Dr. Bowlby, who was buried on the Isle of Skye, is survived by two sons, Robert and Richard, who live in London, and two daughters, Pia Duran of London, and Mary Gatling, who lives in Salisbury Wiltshire, and seven grandchildren.
      