
       Richard Hoffman Wels, a lawyer who was influential in the reform of New York State's divorce laws, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 76 years old.  Mr. Wels, an expert on family law, helped to modernize the state's matrimonial laws. For nearly 40 years, he was a leader of the New York State Bar Association and the American Bar
        Richard Hoffman Wels, a lawyer who was influential in the reform of New York State's divorce laws, died on Thursday at his home in Manhattan. He was 76 years old.  Mr. Wels, an expert on family law, helped to modernize the state's matrimonial laws. For nearly 40 years, he was a leader of the New York State Bar Association and the American Bar Association.
        He was financial officer of the American Bar Association, a council member of its family law section and chairman of the New York State Bar Association's family law section. He was also a governor and fellow of the American Academy of Matrimonial Lawyers.
        Mr. Wels was one of the authors of the United States courts-martial reform law, enacted by Congress as the Uniform Code of Military Justice, and of the law giving self-government and American citizenship to the people of Guam. He was special counsel to the Congressional Commission on Naval Affairs.
        Assistant to Attorney General
        From 1937 to 1938, he was Special District Attorney in Manhattan. In 1938, he was appointed to the staff of the general counsel of the Securities and Exchange Commission. From 1941 to 1942, he was special assistant to the Attorney General of the United States and to the United States Attorney for the Eastern District of New York.
        Mr. Wels served on a number of boards, including those of the William Alanson White Institute of Psychiatry, Daytop Village, the Bleuler Psychotherapy Center and the New York State School of Psychiatry. He was also vice chairman and director of the American Parents Committee.
        During World War II, he was an Army lieutenant serving in the Pacific.
        He was a native New Yorker and graduated from Cornell University in 1933 and from Harvard Law School in 1936.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Marguerite Samet; two daughters, Susan Hagerman and Amy Udelson, both of San Francisco, and two granddaughters.
      