
       Robert Sivard, a painter and illustrator whose sprightly canvases range from urban street scenes to the lives of famous painters and literary figures, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 75 years old.
        Robert Sivard, a painter and illustrator whose sprightly canvases range from urban street scenes to the lives of famous painters and literary figures, died of a heart attack yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 75 years old.
        Mr. Sivard, who retired in 1970 as art director for the United States Information Agency, was born in New York City on Dec. 7, 1914. He was a graduate of the Pratt Institute, where he was trained as a commercial illustrator. From 1950 to 1954, he was based in Paris as chief of visual information for the Marshall Plan, and after returning to Washington, became director of exhibits for the information agency. He organized a number of international shows promoting American art and technology, including the American National Exhibition in 1959 in Moscow, where Richard M. Nixon and Nikita S. Khrushchev held what became known as the ''kitchen debate.''
        Biennale Liaison
        During the period when the information agency sponsored United States participation in the international art biennales held in Venice and Sao Paulo, Brazil, Mr. Sivard served as liaison between the agency and the various museums chosen to organize the United States contribution, and helped design the exhibitions.
        Mr. Sivard's first show of his own work was held at the Galerie Craven in Paris in 1953, and, starting in 1955, he exhibited regularly at the Midtown Galleries in New York. His last show there was in 1984. His work is in the collections of the Butler Institute of American Art in Youngstown, Ohio; the New Jersey State Museum in Trenton; the Flint Institute of Art in Flint, Mich., and I.B.M.
        Surviving are his wife, Ruth Leger Sivard, and a son, James, both of Washington; a daughter, Susan, of New York City, and a brother, Walter, of Charlotte, N.C.
      