
       Samuel S. Stratton, a former Congressman who represented the Albany and Schenectady area for 30 years and was a longtime member of the House Armed Services Committee, died on Thursday at Shady Grove Hospital in Gaithersburg, Md. He was 73 years old and had lived for the last year in the Manor Care nursing home in Potomac,
        Samuel S. Stratton, a former Congressman who represented the Albany and Schenectady area for 30 years and was a longtime member of the House Armed Services Committee, died on Thursday at Shady Grove Hospital in Gaithersburg, Md. He was 73 years old and had lived for the last year in the Manor Care nursing home in Potomac, Md.
        Mr. Stratton, who suffered a stroke a year ago, died of a heart attack shortly after arriving at the hospital, said Robert Mott, his son-in-law.
        A Democrat whose hawkish views often put him at odds with his party, Mr. Stratton devoted his Congressional career to strengthening the nation's defense system. He strongly supported the American war effort in Vietnam and proposed increased spending for new weapons systems like the B-1 bomber, the MX missile and the neutron bomb.
        First Elected in 1958
        He was the third-most senior Democrat on the Armed Services Committee when he announced in 1988 that his failing health prevented him from running for a 16th term.
        He was first elected to the House in 1958, becoming the only Democrat in 42 years to be sent to Congress from what was then the 32d Congressional District in the Albany-Schenectady-Troy area.
        Despite several redistrictings in a predominantly Republican area, he was returned to Congress with ease every two years and became dean of the New York delegation in January 1979. At his retirement, Mr. Stratton represented the 23d District.
        He began his political career as a city councilman in Schenectady, and was elected mayor by 282 votes in 1955. He fulfilled a campaign promise to clean up the city by leading a police raid on a gambling den in the shadow of City Hall.
        Mr. Stratton supplemented his meager mayoral income as an announcer and newscaster for several local radio and television stations. He also appeared on early television as the character ''Sagebrush Sam,'' who dressed as a cowboy and played a harmonica.
        Shift in Political Focus
        In 1962, he tried to shift his focus to statewide politics by seeking the gubernatorial nomination. But party leaders gave the nod to Robert M. Morgenthau, then the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York and now the Manhattan District Attorney.
        In 1964, Mr. Stratton sought to become a Democratic candidate for the United States Senate. But his effort failed when Robert F. Kennedy entered the fray and defeated him on the first ballot at the Democratic State Convention.
        ''When Bobby Kennedy decided he was a New Yorker, that was the end of my campaign,'' Mr. Stratton said years later.
        Mr. Stratton was born in Yonkers and attended school in Rochester and Schenectady. He graduated from the University of Rochester and held master's degrees in philosophy from Haverford College and Harvard University.
        He was commissioned as an ensign in the Naval Reserve in 1942 and served in the South Pacific during World War II as a naval combat intelligence officer on the staff of Gen. Douglas MacArthur. He was twice awarded the Bronze Star and retired from the Naval Reserve at the rank of captain.
        He is survived by his wife, Joan; three daughters, Lisa Gonzalez of San Mateo, Calif., Debra Stratton Mott of Springfield, Va., and Kim Petrie of Aspen, Colo., and two sons, Kevin, of Vienna, Va., and Brian, of Clifton Park, N.Y.
      