
       Robert K. Greenleaf, a management consultant who helped develop a humanistic philosophy for business people, died Saturday at his home in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 86 years old and had suffered a series of strokes, his daughter, Madeline Jaynes, said.
        Robert K. Greenleaf, a management consultant who helped develop a humanistic philosophy for business people, died Saturday at his home in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 86 years old and had suffered a series of strokes, his daughter, Madeline Jaynes, said.
        Mr. Greenleaf was the former director of management research for the Ameri ican Telephone and Telegraph Company and was described as ''the conscience of A.T.&T.'' He retired in 1964. While at the company he developed humanistic courses of studies for management personnel that sought to stimulate thought and action toward building a better, more caring society.
        He also lectured widely at universities, foundations and churches and served as a consultant to the Ford Foundation, the R. K. Mellon Foundation, the Lilly Foundation and the American Federation for Management Research.
        After retiring, he founded the Center for Applied Ethics Inc., now the Robert K. Greenleaf Center, in Indanapolis.
        Mr. Greenleaf wrote extensively on the topic of servant-leadership, a theme that deals with the reality of power in everyday life - its legitimacy, the ethical restraints upon it and the beneficial results that can be attained through the appropriate use of power. He also developed a program to help trustees of foundations to seek out leadership potential in small organizations and encourage its development.
        He joined the Ohio Bell Telephone Company in 1926 after attending Carleton College in Minnesota. In 1929 he was made head of the department of operations and engineering at A.T.&T. in New York, and in 1941 became head of the management development section.
        In addition to his daughter, Madeline Jaynes, of Savannah, Ga., he is survived by another daughter, Elizabeth Greenleaf of New Haven; a son, Newcomb, of Yonkers; and seven grandchildren.
      