
       Douglas Edwards, who in 1948 became network television's first anchorman, died yesterday in Sarasota, Fla., where he lived. He was 73 years old.
        Douglas Edwards, who in 1948 became network television's first anchorman, died yesterday in Sarasota, Fla., where he lived. He was 73 years old.
        Mr. Edwards, who worked for CBS from 1942 until 1988, suffered from cancer, said Roy Brunett, a spokesman for the network.
        He began his career at the age of 15 as a ''junior'' announcer on a makeshift radio station in Alabama and covered the closing days of World War II with Edward R. Murrow in London.
        Upon retiring after 56 years in broadcasting, Mr. Edwards reflected on his career in an article he wrote for The New York Times. ''I virtually grew up in broadcasting,'' he said. ''As a kid, I listened to a crystal set in a place called Silver City, N.M.
        ''What an experience that was, transfixed by broadcasts I could bring in from faraway places.'' Not too long after, the voice of a youthful Mr. Edwards would itself be coming over the airwaves.
        'Old-Fashioned Journalist'
        ''Doug Edwards was an old-fashioned journalist of the best kind - always diligent and always fair,'' Charles Kuralt, anchor of the CBS News program ''Sunday Morning,'' said yesterday. Mr. Kuralt had been a writer for Mr. Edwards on the first television network news program, which went on the air in 1948. ''He helped establish the credibility of news on the air,'' Mr. Kuralt said.
        Mr. Edwards was born on July 14, 1917, in Ada, Okla. Fifteen years later, after his family had moved to Troy, Ala., he became what he called the ''junior'' announcer on a 100-watt radio station that a group of older friends put together with rubber bands.
        ''The station was over the firehouse, next door to the Methodist church, and I was assigned to announce the selections played by the church organist,'' he said.
        Mr. Edwards attended the University of Alabama, Emory University and the University of Georgia, combining his studies with work at various radio stations. In the 1930's, he worked for radio station WXYZ in Detroit, along with another up-and-coming broadcaster, Mike Wallace.
        The Nightly News
        He already had 10 years of broadcast experience when he joined CBS in 1942. Toward the end of World War II, he was assigned to CBS's London staff, where he worked with Murrow.
        Three years later, in 1948, he joined Murrow and Quincy Howe in the acclaimed CBS radio coverage of the 1948 Presidential conventions. ''Afterward, CBS asked me to go into television, and I did it with some fear and trepidation, not because I was nervous about being on television - I had done quite a bit of it - but because radio was the power,'' he recalled.
        It was Frank Stanton, then president of CBS, who chose Mr. Edwards to anchor ''Douglas Edwards with the News,'' television's first nightly network news program. Mr. Edwards held the job for 14 years and was succeeded by Walter Cronkite.
        Among the many people he would interview were Winston Churchill, Eleanor Roosevelt and John F. Kennedy. And he was one of the first television reporters to work on location, providing an on-the-scene report when Puerto Rican nationalists shot five congressmen in the House of Representatives in 1954 and an exclusive eyewitness account of the sinking of the Italian liner Andrea Doria in 1956. That year, he won the George Foster Peabody Award for ''best television news.''
        Mr. Edwards is survived by his wife, May, of Sarasota; two daughters, Lynn Hendricks of Kennebunk, Me., and Donna Edwards of Cape Canaveral, Fla.; a son, Robert, of Lyme, Ct.; two stepsons, Stephen Dunbar of Haddonfield, N.J., and Scott Dunbar of Marblehead, Mass., and four grandchildren.
      