
       Le Duc Tho, the chief North Vietnamese negotiator at the Paris talks that led to the 1973 Vietnam cease-fire agreement and the withdrawal of the last American troops from Vietnam, died yesterday at Army Hospital 108 in Hanoi, the press attache of the Vietnam's United Nations mission, Le Dong, said yesterday.
        Le Duc Tho, the chief North Vietnamese negotiator at the Paris talks that led to the 1973 Vietnam cease-fire agreement and the withdrawal of the last American troops from Vietnam, died yesterday at Army Hospital 108 in Hanoi, the press attache of the Vietnam's United Nations mission, Le Dong, said yesterday. Mr. Tho was 79 years old.
        The spokesman said the mission had received information that Mr. Tho had died of a serious illness, but he did not elaborate.
        A Japanese news agency, Kyodo, in a dispatch from Hanoi quoted by The Associated Press, said Mr. Tho died of cancer of the throat and had been hospitalized in Vietnam since his return in April from medical treatment in Paris.
        Mr. Tho, a hard-line Communist, was a member of Hanoi's Communist Party Politburo from 1955 to 1986, when he resigned in a party reshuffle, having risen to be one of the three most powerful Vietnamese leaders. He still influenced Vietnamese politics afterward. The spokesman at the United Nations mission said Mr. Tho was an adviser to the party's Central Committee at the time of his death.
        Long and Secret Talks
        Beginning in 1969, Mr. Tho held recurrent secret negotiating sessions in Paris with Henry A. Kissinger, then national security adviser to President Richard M. Nixon. The two men initialed the armistice accord on Jan. 23, 1973, after working out its terms, and President Nixon called it ''an agreement to end the war and bring peace with honor.''
        Mr. Tho and Mr. Kissinger were jointly awarded the 1973 Nobel Peace Prize for that work, though fighting between Vietnamese forces continued. Mr. Tho, the first Asian chosen for the honor, refused it, saying that ''peace has not yet been established.''
        An expert on South Vietnam, he was later sent there from from Hanoi to oversee the final, victorious Communist offensive in 1975 that brought the fall of the Saigon Government and the merging of North and South Vietnam into a single Communist-ruled state. Since then, peace has prevailed in Vietnam, though many Vietnamese have fled or tried to flee.
        Robert Shaplen, an American expert on Asia who interviewed Mr. Tho in 1984 in Hanoi, reported that he also directed the initial invasion of Cambodia by Vietnam in 1978.
        A Truce That Did Not Last
        The 1973 agreement, made possible by concessions from both Hanoi and Washington, provided for an in-place cease-fire, with North Vietnamese troops staying where they were in the south and Hanoi acknowledging Gen. Nguyen Van Thieu's role as the South Vietnamese President, pending elections.
        In the meantime, Mr. Thieu's Government was to preside over the parts of South Vietnam held by the South Vietnamese Army, and Vietnamese Communists were to govern those areas where they held sway.
        Other provisions of the accord included the prompt withdrawal of the 23,700-member American force in South Vietnam. Washington had cut it back, from a level of 540,000 at the end of 1968, under the policy known as the Vietnamization of the war.
        The final American pullout was duly executed, but no armistice took hold on the South Vietnamese battlegrounds. As the months passed, fighting continued between the two Vietnamese sides, with each blaming the other. Further talks between Mr. Tho and Mr. Kissinger in 1973 proved fruitless.
        Own and Historians' Verdicts
        Recalling the talks and the fall of Saigon in 1975, Mr. Tho said in 1985 on American television that the Communist side had ''wrested total victory.'' But Mr. Kissinger, in a 1982 book, ''Years of Upheaval,'' said that at Paris the American side had ''forced a tenuous compromise.''
        Summarizing the secret negotiations, he wrote that Mr. Tho ''stonewalled ingeniously for three years. And when the occasion to settle had been imposed'' by military defeats suffered by North Vietnam in 1972, ''he did so with flexibility and speed.''
        Other appraisals have varied. Stanley Karnow, another expert on Asia, wrote in his 1983 book ''Vietnam: A History'' that dissension in the United States gave Mr. Tho an inherent advantage over Mr. Kissinger. ''With tolerance for the war dwindling in the United States, Kissinger could not negotiate forever,'' Mr. Karnow observed, while ''the North Vietnamese, untrammeled by domestic dissidence, were prepared to talk endlessly.''
        And Mr. Shaplen contended in a 1986 book, ''Bitter Victory,'' that Mr. Tho had ''craftily outnegotiated Kissinger and, by ultimately gaining permission for North Vietnamese troops to remain in South Vietnam after the Americans withdrew, in effect set the stage for Hanoi's final stunning victory.''
        A Pseudonym
        The name Le Duc Tho (pronounced lay dook toe) is a pseudonym that Mr. Tho is said to have assumed decades earlier in his political career. An aura of ideological vehemence still clung to him at Paris: Mr. Kissinger, in ''Years of Upheaval,'' described him as a ''dour, dedicated revolutionary.''
        Mr. Tho cut a somber figure during their talks, in his habitual black Mao suit. But he was capable of merry laughter when relaxing.
        He spurred mixed feelings in Mr. Kissinger, who wrote that his adversary's ''subtlety, his acumen, his iron self-discipline,'' were admirable, and ''in all the years of negotiation with me he never lost his poise; he never made a mistake.''
        ''As a professional Leninist he despised the bourgeois values of compromise I put forward,'' Mr. Kissinger observed, ''and the effrontery of his deceptions inside and ouside the conference room could be enraging.''
        Mr. Kissinger has also complained that Mr. Tho ''would drop cryptic remarks'' to American correspondents ''who would then criticize their Government for not seizing the opportunity for peace.'' He has contended that, at the time, the North Vietnamese ''were working on psychology even more than they were working on a military solution.'' Declaration by L.B.J.  It was when President Lyndon B. Johnson decided to stop the American bombing of Vietnam north of the 20th Parallel, and said he was not a candidate for re-election in 1968, that Hanoi accepted his earlier proposal of talks toward an accommodation on Vietnam.
        At the Paris negotiations, which got under way later that year, another North Vietnamese Communist leader, Xuan Thuy, was the country's permament representative. But members of its delegation paid obvious deference to Mr. Tho, whom Hanoi chose to be its head negotiator.
        Public negotiating sessions went on and on, but proved fruitless. Meanwhile, the secret talks between Mr. Kissinger and Mr. Tho were held in villas in and around the French capital. Their existence was kept secret until Mr. Nixon disclosed them in January, 1972, in a speech criticizing Hanoi for what he termed delaying tactics.
        The war heated up, and Mr. Tho and Mr. Kissinger went back to talking, again in secret. A breakthrough was achieved in October, resulting in a nine-point draft agreement.
        But Mr. Nixon asked for more meetings to firm up its terms and to meet objections from the Saigon Government. Talks were resumed but broke down in mid-December.
        Mr. Nixon then ordered B-52 bombing raids in the areas of Hanoi and Haiphong. They were halted after 11 days, the talks began again, and the agreement was signed after being initialed.
        Mr. Tho bore other large responsibilities through much of his long political career, which began when he was a teen-ager and included helping found the Indochinese Communist Party in 1929, while France ruled Vietnam.
        He went on to become a party executive in the south and the senior official there of the Vietminh organization, which fought French rule in the French Indochina War, lasting from 1946 to 1954.
        Mr. Tho also had high-level responsibilities for Communist policies and operations in South Vietnam in later years. He was assigned to oversee the Communist rebel activities that began against the independent Government of South Vietnam in 1957. During 1974, he favored caution in the planning of what proved to be the final phase of the Communist war against South Vietnamese and American forces.
        From Middle-Class Background
        Mr. Tho was born on Oct. 10, 1911, Mr. Le Dong, the press attache, said. He was born to a middle-class family in what became North Vietnam.
        A childhood friend said his name at birth was Phan Dinh Khai. After attending French-run schools, he became a minor postal official and also helped fellow Communists stir up riots.
        Seized by the authorities, he spent several years in prison. During this and a subsequent time behind behind bars, his comrades included numerous Vietnamese Communist leaders.
        Mr. Tho was set free in 1936 and then engaged in what an official North Vietnamese biographical sketch later called ''semi-open activities,'' becoming a regional Communist press and propaganda chief. It was in 1939 that he was jailed again. By some accounts he escaped, but the official account said he was released, in 1944. He then rose in the Communist Party leadership.
        Vietnamese uprisings against the French began in 1945, and the sketch said Mr. Tho became deputy secretary of the central office of the party in southern Vietnam. He went on to become the senior Vietminh official there.
        Division of Vietnam
        The French Indochina war led to the defeat and withdrawal of the French, and Vietnam was provisionally divided into what became the independent North and South Vietnamese states.
        The sketch of Mr. Tho said that in 1955, he went back to the North and joined the Politburo.
        At the time of the cease-fire agreement it was said that Mr. Tho had been married twice, but little else was known about his personal life. His several immediate relatives included a brother, Dinh Duc Thien, who retired as a major general in the North Vietnamese Army.
        Mr. Dong, the press attache, said a tribute-paying service for Mr. Tho would be held at 8 A.M. Tuesday in the Ba Dinh conference hall in Hanoi, and a memorial and funeral service would be held Wednesday morning, also in that conference hall. Burial will will be in the Mai Dich cemetery on the outskirts of the capital.
      