
       Samuel M. Brownell, a one-time Nebraska high school teacher who became the United States Commissioner of Education in the 1950's and later served as Superintendent of Schools in Detroit, died Friday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 90 years old and lived in New Haven.
        Samuel M. Brownell, a one-time Nebraska high school teacher who became the United States Commissioner of Education in the 1950's and later served as Superintendent of Schools in Detroit, died Friday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 90 years old and lived in New Haven.
        He died of heart failure, said his son, Richard Brownell.
        Dr. Brownell, a brother of former Attorney General Herbert Brownell and a professor emeritus of educational administration at Yale University, retired in 1972 after a 50-year career as a teacher, school administrator, government official and advocate for American education.
        The son and grandson of teachers, Dr. Brownell was a Yale professor and president of the New Haven State Teachers College in 1953 when he was named United States Commissioner of Education in President Dwight D. Eisenhower's first term.
        While enrollments were soaring at schools across the nation as a result of the ''baby boom,'' Dr. Brownell argued strenuously for a rapid expansion of American education at all levels, and warned that tens of thousands of new schools, classrooms and teachers would be needed. He also began studies and programs to fight illiteracy and a rising dropout rate, prodded Congress and state legislatures to provide more money for education and was an advocate of higher salaries and better working conditions for teachers.
        Reorganized Agency
        Dr. Brownell was also credited with helping to reorganize his agency, the United States Office of Education, as part of the new Department of Health, Education and Welfare, setting up branches for educational research and the administration of grants.
        In 1954, when the Supreme Court outlawed segregation in public schools, Dr. Brownell urged acceptance of the ruling and helped devise plans to assist troubled school districts achieve racial integration.
        Dr. Brownell resigned in 1956 to become Detroit's superintendent of schools and took on the staggering problems of a system in disarray, with a 50 percent high school dropout rate, racial divisions over desegregation efforts and inadequate classrooms.
        In his 10 years in Detroit, Dr. Brownell introduced new systems of hiring and promotion that opened top administrative jobs to blacks, recruited hundreds of teachers and upset many teachers and parents with programs that challenged tradition.
        He also began a $100 million school construction program that put up 53 new schools, doubled foreign-language instruction and introduced programs to improve reading scores and other skills.
        Dr. Brownell left Detroit in 1966 to return to Yale. The author of hundreds of articles and two books, he also was a visiting lecturer at many colleges and universities and led American delegtions to education conferences in Europe and South America.
        Samuel Miller Brownell was born in Peru, Neb., on April 3, 1900. He received a bachelor's degree in education from the University of Nebraska in 1921. After two years of teaching, he earned master's and doctoral degrees at Yale.
        He served as superintendent of schools in Grosse Pointe, Mich., from 1927 to 1938, when he became a professor of educational administration at Yale. In 1947, he also became president of New Haven State Teachers' College.
        Dr. Brownell is survived by his wife, the former Esther Delzell; a son, Richard of Livingston, N.J.; three daughters, Dorothy Templeton of Villanova, Pa., Jane Cheek of Branford, Conn., and Ruth Green of Ann Arbor, Mich.; two brothers, Herbert of New York City and Philip of Ashville, N.C.; three sisters, Mary Helm of Manhattan, Kan., Gertrude Randol of Scarsdale, N.Y., and Louise Trow of Ann Arbor; nine grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
        A memorial service will be held next Sunday at 2:30 P.M., at the Church of the Redeemer in New Haven.
      