
       Hans Namuth, a photographer and film maker best known for his portraits of American artists, died on Saturday in East Hampton, L.I. He was 75 years old and lived in New York City and Water Mill, L.I.
        Hans Namuth, a photographer and film maker best known for his portraits of American artists, died on Saturday in East Hampton, L.I. He was 75 years old and lived in New York City and Water Mill, L.I.
        He died of injuries suffered in a car accident, said his daughter, Tessa Papademetriou. She said he was returning from a showing of his most recent film, ''Jasper Johns: Take an Object,'' at the Guild Hall Museum in East Hampton on Saturday, when his car collided with another vehicle.
        Never easily categorized as an artist, Mr. Namuth's work ranged from photojournalistic pictures of the Spanish Civil War to portraits of Guatemalan Indians living in Todos Santos, a remote hill town. But by far his most widely exhibited and reproduced photographs depict postwar American painters and sculptors, especially those who formed an artists' colony on the eastern end of Long Island.
        His Pictures of Pollock
        Mr. Namuth's pictures constitute a virtual pantheon of the major figures of the New York School of painting, including Willem and Elaine de Kooning, Helen Frankenthaler, Franz Kline, Robert Motherwell, Mark Rothko and Jackson Pollock. He also photographed Jasper Johns, Larry Rivers, Robert Rauschenberg and other artists of a slightly later generation, but it is clear that his sympathies lay with the Abstract Expressionists and with Pollock in particular.
        The public image of Pollock as a brooding, volatile flinger of paint is in large part derived from Mr. Namuth's films and photographs of him, so much so that it is possible to say the two men's careers will forever be intertwined. Without Pollock, Mr. Namuth might never have achieved recognition as the unsurpassed chronicler of American art's most towering era. Without Mr. Namuth, Pollock's personality and working methods might not have become inseparable from his reputation.
        Born in Essen, Germany, on March 17, 1915, Mr. Namuth trained as an actor but fled his homeland in 1933, soon after Hitler came to power. He lived in Paris and traveled widely throughout Europe; his collaboration with Georg Reisner in documenting the Spanish Civil War resulted in his first published photographs, some of which appeared in Life.
        In 1941, Mr. Namuth came to New York, where he spent the rest of his life as a freelance photographer and film maker. After studying at the New School for Social Research with the photographer Josef Breitenbach and the art director Alexey Brodovitch, he began to photograph artists at work. His pictures of Pollock, taken in 1950, were the first to show an ''action painter'' in action; published in Art News in 1951, they revealed to a curious art world that the painter actually dripped and threw his paint onto a canvas spread on the floor.
        Portraits of Balance
        At the same time, Mr. Namuth also made films of Pollock at work, including a 1951 collaboration with Paul Falkenberg, ''Jackson Pollock,'' in which the artist flings his paint onto a pane of glass positioned above the camera.
        Mr. Namuth's best portraits possess a deceptively simple balance between intimacy and formality. While he became friends with many of those he photographed, which allowed him to show his subjects at their most relaxed, his pictures never give the impression that he intruded on their privacy.
        ''Delving into other people's lives and souls can be an indiscretion,'' he wrote in 1981. ''Just as friendships form during a photographic session, so - rarely - can a disturbing event take place.'' He cited two of his portraits, of Mr. de Kooning and Edward Hopper, ''which make me pause each time I see them.
        '' 'Why can't you leave me alone,' they seem to say.''
        Despite this concern, the photographer was able to capture a broad range of emotions in his subjects' faces, from Rauschenberg's outgoing freneticism to Rothko's self-absorption. Many of his pictures suggest a kinship with the German photographer August Sander.
        His Work in Guatemala
        In addition to photographing personalities and architecture for such magazines as Life, Look, Harper's Bazaar and Time, Mr. Namuth made several trips over the span of 25 years to Guatemala to make portraits. These pictures were gathered together in 1989 in the book ''Los Todos Santeros.''
        Other books by Mr. Namuth include ''Fifty-Two Artists'' (1973), ''Pollock Painting'' (1980), ''Artists 1950-1981: A Personal View'' (1981) and ''Twenty-Five Artists'' (1982).
        His photographs have been shown at the Museum of Modern Art, the Corcoran Gallery in Washington, the Parrish Gallery in Southampton, L.I., and the Leo Castelli Gallery in New York, as well as in Europe. An exhibition of his pictures opened yesterday at the Springs Art Gallery on Long Island.
        Mr. Namuth's films, made with Mr. Falkenberg, include ''Willem de Kooning, the Painter'' (1964), ''Josef Albers: Homage to the Square'' (1969), ''Louis H. Kahn, Architect'' (1974) and ''Alfred Stieglitz, Photographer'' (1982).
        In addition to his daughter, who lives in New York City, Mr. Namuth is survived by his sister, Margret Rutkowski, of Quebec; a son, Peter, of New York City, and two grandchildren. His wife, Carmen, died in 1985.
      