
       Arthur Kennedy, who appeared in more than 70 Hollywood films and won a Tony Award on Broadway for creating the role of Biff in Arthur Miller's ''Death of a Salesman,'' died of a brain tumor on Friday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford. He was 75 years old.
        Arthur Kennedy, who appeared in more than 70 Hollywood films and won a Tony Award on Broadway for creating the role of Biff in Arthur Miller's ''Death of a Salesman,'' died of a brain tumor on Friday at the Connecticut Hospice in Branford. He was 75 years old.
        Mr. Kennedy, an actor who projected an exceptional honesty and naturalness on stage, was in the original casts of several of Mr. Miller's plays in the late 1940's and early 1950's, giving memorable performances in ''All My Sons,'' ''The Crucible'' and ''Death of a Salesman,'' for which he won a Tony in 1949.
        After his debut in the movies in 1940, Mr. Kennedy became a seemingly ubiquitous man for all parts , appearing in films like ''Lawrence of Arabia,'' ''Elmer Gantry'' and dozens of westerns like ''Rancho Notorious.'' He received Academy Award nominations for ''Bright Victory,'' ''Trial,'' ''Peyton Place,'' ''Champion'' and ''Some Came Running.''
        Although Mr. Kennedy won many parts in westerns as a feisty straight shooter, he said in a recent interview that his most memorable roles were playing Hollywood's full complement of villains.
        Recent Renewed Interest
        The movie critic David Thomson described Mr. Kennedy as ''one of the subtlest American supporting actors, never more so than when revealing the malice or weakness in an ostensibly friendly man.''
        In recent years, Mr. Kennedy began making movies again after a 10-year hiatus from the screen during which he battled thyroid cancer and eye disease. His revival as a screen actor came at a time when his previous work received growing attention, not only for his performance as a journalist in the recut version of ''Lawrence of Arabia'' but also for the revival of his westerns on cable television.
        His last film, ''Grandpa,'' was completed four months ago, only days before he became ill, and will be released this spring. It followed ''Signs of Life,'' a fable about a day in the life of a mythical fishing town in Maine, which was released last April.
        John Arthur Kennedy was born in Worcester, Mass., on Feb. 17, 1914, the son of a dentist. He studied drama at the Carnegie Institute of Technology and moved to New York during the depths of the Depression. He joined a classical-repertory company in 1936 and appeared in several Shaekespearean productions.
        Appeared With Bogart
        In 1938, Mr. Kennedy married Mary Cheffrey, a former actress, in New York City. They had two children, Terence, born in 1943, and Laurie, born in 1945.
        In 1940, Mr. Kennedy moved to Hollywood after being invited to play James Cagney's younger brother in ''City for Conquest'' and signed a contract with Warner Brothers after completing the film. Before joining the armed forces in 1943, he made six films, including ''High Sierra,'' in which he played Red, the budding gangster, co-starring with Humphrey Bogart.
        Mr. Kennedy returned to Broadway in 1947 to act in the first of four Arthur Miller plays that would be among his greatest triumphs on stage. In ''All My Sons,'' he portrayed a man who returns from war to find his father exposed as a war profiteer. In 1949, ''Death of a Salesman'' opened at New York's Morosco Theater, with Mr. Kennedy playing Biff, the oldest son and most bitter disappointment of the play's central charatcer, Willie Loman. The critical accolades Mr. Kennedy received for both plays established him as a major American stage actor.
        He later starred in two more Arthur Miller works, ''The Crucible'' in 1953 and ''The Price'' in 1968.
        In 1960, he appeared on Broadway with Sir Laurence Olivier as the title character in ''Becket,'' after Anthony Quinn dropped out of the role of King Henry II and Sir Laurence switched parts.
        Mr. Kennedy, whose wife died in 1975, is survived by his daughter, Laurie Kennedy, an actress, of Manhattan.
      