
       Daniel Guilet, a violinist who was concertmaster of the NBC Symphony Orchestra under Arturo Toscanini and a founding member of the Beaux Arts Trio, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91 years old.
        Daniel Guilet, a violinist who was concertmaster of the NBC Symphony Orchestra under Arturo Toscanini and a founding member of the Beaux Arts Trio, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 91 years old.
        His daughter, Helene Guilet Smith, said he died of a cerebral hemorrhage.
        Mr. Guilet held an important position in the orchestral and chamber-music life of New York City from the early 1940's until his retirement from performing in 1969. His Guilet Quartet, with which he performed from 1942 through the early 1950's, was a polished ensemble that was especially well regarded in Romantic and 20th-century works.
        Mr. Guilet was born in Rostov, Russia, on Jan. 10, 1899, but his family moved to Paris when he was 6 months old. He studied with Georges Enesco and Guillaume Remy at the Paris Conservatoire. Early in his career he was a member of the Calvet String Quartet, but he also performed as a soloist and toured France with the composer Maurice Ravel as his accompanist.
        In 1941, Mr. Guilet came to the United States and quickly established his career as a chamber-music player with the Guilet String Quartet. He joined Toscanini's NBC Symphony Orchestra in 1944 and became its concertmaster in 1951. He retained that position when the orchestra reorganized as the Symphony of the Air after Toscanini's retirement in 1954.
        Trio's Debut in 1955
        Mr. Guilet also performed as a soloist and made recordings. In 1954, he formed a trio with one of his recording partners, the pianist Menahem Pressler, and the cellist Bernard Greenhouse. The group made its debut as the Beaux Arts Trio at Tanglewood in 1955. It remains the most prominent trio in the chamber-music world.
        ''Daniel was the center of the trio,'' Mr. Greenhouse recalled in a 1979 interview. ''It was his idea. I knew him very well, and Menahem knew him, although Menahem and I didn't know each other. When he brought us together, it was to play some Mozart, just to make music and have some fun. He didn't say anything about forming a trio, but I think he had it in the back of his mind. We got along together well, and that's how it started.''
        Mr. Guilet performed and recorded with the Beaux Arts Trio until 1969, when he retired from performing. After 1969, he held teaching posts at Indiana University, the Manhattan School of Music, the Royal Conservatory of Music in Montreal, Oklahoma University and Baylor University in Waco, Tex.
        In addition to his daughter, Mr. Guilet is survived by two grandchildren, Daniel and Alanna Smith of Manhattan.
      