
       Thomas Franklin Brigance, a sportswear and swimwear designer for four decades, died on Sunday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 77 years old.
        Thomas Franklin Brigance, a sportswear and swimwear designer for four decades, died on Sunday in his Manhattan apartment. He was 77 years old.
        The cause of death was not announced, but he had suffered strokes in recent years, Felice Maier, a friend and neighbor, said.
        The designer, known professionally as Brigance, initially won acclaim for his beach outfits, which he feminized with ruffles and frills and made sophisticated with fabrics like gray flannel and black velvet. The Duchess of Windsor was one of his earliest admirers, buying half a dozen outfits from his first beachwear collection in 1939.
        He later designed coats, suits and evening wear, but found his metier in sportswear. And although he trained as a couturier in Paris and sold sketches to French and English designers, whatever he designed was quintessentially American.
        He was an in-house designer for Lord & Taylor before and after World War II, and won many honors in the 1950's, including the Coty American Fashion Critics Award.
        Close Observation
        As early as 1939, he expressed the belief that clothes should be highly functional as well as feminine. He liked to observe women in their daily lives to determine their fashion needs. ''The secret of a woman being well dressed,'' he said in a 1960 interview, ''lies in her being appropriately dressed for her way of life.''
        In the 1960's and 70's, he concentrated mainly on swimwear, designing for Sinclair, Water Clothes and Gabar. He retired in the late 1970's after a two-year stint with Gabar, whose owner, Gabriel Colasante, said this week that a Brigance-designed skirted swimsuit is still one of his company's best-selling styles. ''It sells no matter what print I do it in,'' he said.
        Mr. Brigance was born in Waco, Tex., to a French father and an English mother. After junior college, he moved to New York to study at the Parsons School of Design and the National Academy of Art. He later studied at the Sorbonne in Paris. During World War II, he served in the United States Air Force in the South Pacific.
        He is survived by two sisters, Mary and Hanna Brigance, both of Dallas, and several cousins.
      