
       Thomas Murton, an outspoken advocate of prison reform who attracted national attention in 1968 when he accused Arkansas trusties and guards of abusing convicts, died on Oct. 10 at the Veterans Afffairs Medical Center in Oklahoma City. He was 62 years old.
        Thomas Murton, an outspoken advocate of prison reform who attracted national attention in 1968 when he accused Arkansas trusties and guards of abusing convicts, died on Oct. 10 at the Veterans Afffairs Medical Center in Oklahoma City. He was 62 years old.
        Friends said Mr. Murton, who lived in Deer Creek, Okla., died of cancer.
        He was superintendent of the 1,300-inmate Cummins State Prison Farm in Arkansas in 1968 when an inmate, asserting that trusties and guards had beaten and shot prisoners, led the authorities to a grave in a remote area of the farm where three bodies were found.
        Mr. Murton said as many as 200 inmates were buried on the grounds of the prison, 75 miles southeast of Little Rock . State police investigators and a forensic anthropologist said the bodies were from an old, well-known grave for paupers. No additional bodies were dug up but Mr. Murton never accepted the investigators' finding.
        Inspired the Film 'Brubaker'
        Winthrop A. Rockefeller, then Governor of Arkansas, had hired Mr. Murton less than a year earlier as the state's first professional penologist, in the hope that he could improve a troubled correctional system. The Governor dismissed Mr. Murton two months after the bodies were found, saying the superintendent had made ''a sideshow'' of the issue.
        Mr. Murton's career inspired the 1980 film ''Brubaker,'' starring Robert Redford.
        Mr. Murton's ideas on prison reform included treating prisoners with respect, abolishing corporal punishment, providing better food and rooting out extortion and other rackets among the inmates.
        Vehemently opposed to the death penalty, he dismantled the electric chair at Cummins. He also opposed life sentences.
        ''When you sentence a man to life in prison, with no chance of getting out, he's going to die one day at a time because he knows he's doomed to walk the halls of purgatory for as long as he's alive,'' he once told an interviewer.
        Role in Alaska's Penal System
        Mr. Murton was teaching penology at Southern Illinois University when he was hired by Governor Rockefeller. Mr. Murton had helped establish a penal system in Alaska after it attained statehood in 1959.
        After his dismissal from the Arkansas system he found it difficult to get work in other prison systems, and said he had been blackballed. He enrolled at the University of California at Berkeley, where he received a master's degree and a doctoral degree in criminology.
        Before his career in penology, Mr. Murton had earned a bachelor's degree in animal husbandry at Oklahoma.
        He taught at the Univeristy of Minnesota from 1971 to 1979. In 1980 he returned to farming, raising wheat and ducks on his mother's farm in Deer Creek.
        He wrote two books on penal reform, ''Accomplices to the Crime: The Arkansas Prison Scandal,'' published in 1970 by Grove Press, and ''The Dilemma of Prison Reform,'' published in 1982 by Irvington Publications.
        Mr. Murton is survived by his mother, Bessie Stevens of Enid, Okla.; his father, E. T. Murton of Escondido, Calif.; three daughters, Marquita and Teresa Murton and Melanie Sandstrom, all of Anchorage, and a son, Mark, of West Point, N.Y.
      