
       Fred Lloyd Hartley, who joined the small Union Oil Company in 1939 as a maintenance worker and built it into the multibillion-dollar Unocal Corporation while at the helm for a quarter of a century, died Friday at his home in a Los Angeles suburb. He was 73 years old.
        Fred Lloyd Hartley, who joined the small Union Oil Company in 1939 as a maintenance worker and built it into the multibillion-dollar Unocal Corporation while at the helm for a quarter of a century, died Friday at his home in a Los Angeles suburb. He was 73 years old.
        A company spokesman, Michael Thacher, said he died in Palos Verdes Estates after a long illness.
        Mr. Hartley became president and chief executive of Unocal in 1964 and chairman 10 years later. He retired as chief executive in 1988 and as chairman in 1989. He then became the company's first chairman emeritus and was still a corporate director when he died.
        His successor as chairman, Richard J. Stegemeier, called Mr. Hartley a ''creative engineer, an executive of vision and a man of great integrity.''
        Man of Strong Feelings
        Gruff, outspoken and iron-willed, Mr. Hartley had to contend with a large oil spill off the coast of Santa Barbara, Calif., in 1968 and fought a costly battle to fend off a takeover by T. Boone Pickens in 1985.
        During the rash of American industrial mergers that began in 1984, he scorned investment bankers and analysts for emphasizing short-term gains rather than long-range growth. It was emphasis on the latter, he noted, that had made Unocal the 12th-ranking oil company in the nation.
        A native of Vancouver, British Columbia, Mr. Hartley was trained as a chemical engineer. He immigrated to California in 1939 with $25 in his pocket and went to work at the Union Oil refinery in San Francisco. By the mid-1950's, he was head of research and, with a flair for chemical engineering, pushed the company into the then-unproven technology of geothermal power and refining oil from crushed shale.
        As president, he expanded Unocal's operations to the North Sea, South Korea and Thailand, and the company's Union 76 gasoline stations dotted the landscape of the western United States. In industry circles, Mr. Hartley's name was a synonym for the company's.
        Mr. Hartley's approaches were often unconventional. He made Unocal a pioneer in the marketing of premium-leaded gasoline and built the largest network of highway truck stops in the nation.
        He liked to play the organ and cruise in his 50-foot power boat, named ''My Way.'' His battle with Mr. Pickens took on highly personal aspects of mutual dislike. Among Mr. Hartley's other aversions were posing for photgraphs during the rare interviews he granted and, while still in charge of Unocal, answering questions about his plans for retirement. His usual response was a barked ''none of your business.''
        Mr. Hartley is survived by his wife, Peggy; a daughter, Marnie Gruen; and a son, Fred L. Hartley Jr.
      