
        Tom Carvel, the former chairman of the Carvel chain of 700 ice-cream stores, whose gravel-voiced narration on television and radio commercials for his products made him familiar to millions, was found dead yesterday morning at his home in Pine Plains, N.Y. He was 84 years old and also lived in Ardsley, N.Y. and Atlantis, Fla.
        Mr. Carvel apparently died in his sleep, but Dr. Robert J. Athans, his physician, said the cause of death was not immediately known. Mr. Carvel had played golf on Saturday at the All-American Sports City, a golf club he owned in Dutchess County, and gone out to dinner before going to sleep, associates said.
        Mr. Carvel, who was brought to the United States as a child from his native Greece, was 28 years old when in 1934 he borrowed $15 from his future wife, loaded a battered truck with ice cream and started a business that, 55 years later, he would sell to an international investment company, Investcorp, for more than $80 million.
        The Yonkers-based Carvel Corporation, with most of its stores on the East Coast but with a growing number of outlets in other parts of the country and abroad, bore Mr. Carvel's indelible personal stamp from its founding until its sale last November.  Patents and Trademarks
        Mr. Carvel was a test driver for Studebaker automobiles in the mid-1920's when his garage-style tinkering produced the first machine to turn out soft ice cream, which became known as frozen custard. His invention was the first of more than 300 patents, copyrights and trademarks that he initiated.
        He began by selling the machine to store owners, who had so much trouble operating it that many of them defaulted on loans he had extended to them for the purchase. He decided instead to start people in business, teach them to use the machine and charge them a royalty on sales. The Carvel Corporation took root, pioneering multi-flavored soft ice cream and using its owner's advertising methods.
        By 1955, when he put his own voice on television and radio as chief spokesman for his company, he had gained a reputation as a tough businessman who rode herd on his franchisees, refusing to let them start dealer organizations and forcing them to buy everything from cones to napkins from Carvel at prices they considered inflated.
        A group of franchise holders sued the corporation on the ground that it was illegally restricting their products, prices and sources of supply. But Carvel beat the franchisees in court and won a $10.5 million judgment against the plaintiffs' lawyers for provoking the litigation.  'Golden-Gone-to-Gravel'
        "Sure they call me strict when I try to control them," he said of the franchisees years later. "But poison one child and 50 years of business goes down the drain."
        On the air Mr. Carvel's voice, once described as "golden-gone-to-gravel" and a carbon copy of the actor Andy Devine's rasp, asked the public to "please visit your local Carvel store."
        Critics said he butchered diction and syntax and turned a 60-second commercial into a miniature comedy of errors that drove elocution teachers to distraction. But the commercials, which he narrated without a script and never edited for flubs, sold ice cream like no other tool.
        Advertising historians agree that it was Mr. Carvel who paved the way for corporate chiefs like Lee Iacocca of Chrysler, and Sy Syms, the clothier, to make their own pitches on television and radio.  'People Who Look Like Us'
        "The professionals ridicule my commercials, but who cares?" Mr. Carvel said a few years ago. "You can have a six-foot-tall, handsome announcer with a perfect voice, perfect diction, perfect grammar. But very few ice-cream buyers look like that. Our commericals are for the people who look like us, talk like us and sound like us."
        Thomas Andreas Carvelas was born in 1906 in Athanassos, Greece, to a father who brought his family a few years later to a farm in Stratford, Conn., where Tom and his six brothers and sisters raised chickens in coops they built themselves. As a teen-ager he set out to be a Dixieland drummer, and 50 years later still kept a drum set in the Yonkers studio where he filmed his ice-cream commercials without using an advertising agency.
        While the ice-cream business was by far his most important venture, Mr. Carvel had extensive real-estate holdings in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut and Florida.
        Mr. Carvel is survived by his wife, the former Agnes Stewart, whom he married 53 years ago; and a brother, Bruce, of Cranbury, N. J..
      