
        Dr. William Dock, a cardiologist whose views of medical treatment were sometimes at odds with accepted practice, died on Wednesday on Guadaloupe, where he had lived for the last year. He was 91 years old and had lived for the previous decade in Paris.
        Dr. Dock, who was associated for many years with the Downstate Medical Center and other Brooklyn institutions during a long career, frequently took iconoclastic positions. In the mid-1930's he questioned the then common practice of prolonged bed rest for hospital patients, and in the mid-1940's he warned that high-fat diets could lead to clogged arteries. He created a stir in 1961 when he chided fellow physicians for shunning the use of alcoholic beverages for therapeutic purposes.
        One of his contributions to medical education he called Sutton's Law, after the bank robber Willie Sutton who, when asked why he always robbed banks, replied, "That's where the money is." Mysterious Ailment Diagnosed
        Dr. Dock recalled the reply when, as a professor of medicine at what is now Downstate, he was visiting the Yale Medical School in New Haven and found doctors there puzzled by a mysterious liver ailment in a young girl from Puerto Rico.
        Taking note of where she had lived, Dr. Dock suspected that she was afflicted with schistosomiasis, a parasitic disease common in Puerto Rico. Instead of the usual diagnostic routine of expensive blood tests and special X-rays that might have pointed to bad liver function in the patient but still not have pinpointed the cause, he recommended that a small sample of liver tissue be taken for examination.
        The biopsy disclosed no abnormalities in the liver, but a medical student who examined the tissue detected the tiny eggs of a schistosome parasite, confirming Dr. Dock's diagnosis. Thus was written Sutton's Law, which tells diagnosticians to use the single test most likely to bear fruit before undertaking a series of routine examinations that may do little more than produce red herrings. Ambulance Driver During War
        Dr. Dock was born in Ann Arbor, Mich., and was a graduate of Washington University and Rush Medical College in Chicago. He interrupted his studies to volunteer as an ambulance driver in France in World War I and was awarded the Croix de Guerre.
        Although he had not intended to teach, he joined the department of medicine at the Stanford University School of Medicine while practicing in San Francisco and became head of the school's department of pathology in 1936. After taking a similar post at Cornell Medical College, he served as an Army major in World War II.
        After the war he became head of the department of medicine at the Long Island College of Medicine, now Downstate. He retired from teaching in 1963 but continued as chief of medical service at Brooklyn Veterans Hospital until 1969 and chief of the cardiology laboratory at the Lutheran Medical Center, retiring in 1979.
        Dr. Dock is survived by two sons, Christopher, of Guadaloupe, and George 3d, of Portland, Ore., and four grandchildren.
      