
        Lester Cowan, an independent film producer in the 1930's and 40's whose credits ranged from comedies and gangster movies to dramas about World War II, died in his sleep on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 83 years old.
        He apparently died of a heart attack, his family said.
        In 1935, Mr. Cowan, who had been executive director of the motion picture academy, became production supervisor of John Ford's 1935 film "The Whole Town's Talking," which starred Edward G. Robinson and Jean Arthur. Four years later, he produced the first of his own films, the W. C. Fields comedy "You Can't Cheat an Honest Man." The next year, he produced "My Little Chickadee" with Fields and Mae West.  Of Serious Matters
        On the dramatic side he produced "Ladies in Retirement" (1941), directed by Charles Vidor and starring Ida Lupino, Louis Hayward and Elsa Lanchester. His war films included "Commandos Strike at Dawn" with Paul Muni (1942), "Tomorrow the World" with Fredric March and Betty Field (1944) and "The Story of G.I. Joe" with Robert Mitchum and Burgess Meredith (1945).
        Mr. Cowan, who was born in Mansfield, Ohio, was a student at Stanford University in the late 1920's when he went to Hollywood for a look at the film industry. He was hired by the motion picture academy in 1928, wrote a book on the advent of talkies and helped to start the annual Academy Awards.
        After World War II, Mr. Cowan produced the musical "One Touch of Venus" (1948) and followed with "Love Happy" in 1950 and "Main Street to Broadway" in 1953.  Organizing a Research Council
        In 1929, at the behest of the academy, he originated a lecture series for the University of Southern California: it was the first college course in film studies. He also organized the film industry's research council, which developed such technical standards as the size and shape of the screen image and which hired George Gallup to undertake the first audience research.
        In 1962, Mr. Cowan went to Moscow to begin the first Soviet-American co-production arrangement. Work was begun on filming "Meeting at a Far Mountain," from a novel published simultaneously in the United States and the Soviet Union, but the project foundered.
        Mr. Cowan is survived by his wife, Ann Ronell; two brothers, Robert, of San Francisco, and Bernard, of Los Angeles, and a sister, Alice Richmond of Palm Springs, Calif.
      