
       Michel Leiris, a French anthropologist and Surrealist writer who attracted international attention by chronicling his own obsessions and fears, died Sunday in Saint-Hilaire, southwest of Paris. He was 89 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. Born in Paris in 1901, he was educated both at the Sorbonne and at the Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes Scientifiques et Religieuses.
        Michel Leiris, a French anthropologist and Surrealist writer who attracted international attention by chronicling his own obsessions and fears, died Sunday in Saint-Hilaire, southwest of Paris. He was 89 years old. The cause of death was not disclosed. Born in Paris in 1901, he was educated both at the Sorbonne and at the Ecole Pratique des Hautes Etudes Scientifiques et Religieuses. At the age of 25 he published his first work, a collection of poems. During this same period he wrote ''Aurora,'' a novel that dealt with his preoccupation with aging and death and his fear of loving and living.
        A Surrealist in the 20's
        In the 1920's, he was a frequent contributor to The Surrealist Revolution, the journal of the Surrealist movement. But he broke with the movement at the end of the decade and undertook anthropological research in central Africa as a member of the Dakar-Djibouti expedition in 1931. His travel record, ''Phantom Africa,'' was published in 1934. It combined his interest in poetry with stream-of-consciousness and ethnological analysis.
        In the early 1930's, he also wrote ''Manhood,'' which was published in 1939. Although initially unsuccessful, it attracted considerable attention after World War II. ''Manhood'' told of Mr. Leiris's feelings of inadequacy, his sexual fantasies, his hypochondria, and what he saw as his physical ugliness and his cowardice.
        Writing as a Bullfight
        In ''The Autobiographer as Torero,'' which was originally written as a prefatory essay to ''Manhood'' but became popular in its own right, Mr. Leiris compared the process of writing to a bullfight and likened the writer to a matador. He admitted that he had an obsessive desire to make literature ''into an act, a drama by which I insist on incurring, positively, a risk - as if this risk were the necessary condition for my self-realization as a man.''
        Among his other works were the studies ''Race and Culture'' in 1951 and ''Contacts With the Civilizations in Martinique and in Guadeloupe'' in 1955, both for Unesco, and ''Nights as Day, Days as Night'' in 1988.
        Other writings included ''Picasso and the Human Comedy'' (1955), ''Fibrilles'' (1966); ''African Art'' (1968) and ''Francis Bacon'' (1983).
        Well known and highly respected in France, Mr. Leiris avoided public attention in his later years and refused to accept the National Grand Prize of Letters in 1980. He said he did not want to be a topic for the media.
        No information on survivors or funeral arrangements was available yesterday.
      