
        Louis Althusser, a French Communist philosopher who was a prominent critic of French and Soviet Communism in the 1970's, died Monday of heart failure in a geriatric center outside Paris. He was 72 years old.
        Mr. Althusser had taught for many years at the prestigious Ecole Normale Superieure in Paris and was himself one of its graduates.
        In 1976, The New York Times reported that Mr. Althusser had "delivered the most far-reaching, vehement attack on Soviet society, as well as the Soviet Communist Party, ever remembered from a leading Communist in good standing."
        The subjects of his writings ranged from contemporary Communism back to Montesquieu. Mr. Althusser's career ended suddenly late in 1980 when he strangled his wife, the former Helene Rytmann, a sociologist, in their Paris apartment.  Confesses to Killing Wife
        He immediately confessed to the killing. The Paris police said he had a history of manic-depression, and a homicide charge against him was dismissed on the ground of insanity by a Paris court in 1981. After entering a psychiatric  spital, he remained institutionalized until 1984 and spent his final years in professional and political eclipse.
        Agence France-Presse described Mr. Althusser yesterday as "an intelligence broken by a personal drama."
        In the preface of a new book on Soviet science by Dominique Lecourt, Mr. Althusser denounced Stalinism as a huge mistake and contended that even after two decades "Soviet leaders still refuse to apply Marxist analysis to this gigantic error, which they have buried, along with its millions of victims, in the silence of the state."  Communist 'Deviations' Noted
        Earlier, he wrote that the Communist movement had been adversely affected for 40 years by what he called a deviation in the realm of economics: a stress on production instead of on egalitarianism, and on the police-state mechanisms employed to maintain production.
        Mr. Althusser also publicly criticized various aspects of French Communism, notably the French party's abandoning "the dictatorship of the proletariat" as a goal.
        He called that abandonment a deviation toward the right that would blur the Communists' identity.
        Louis Althusser was born Oct. 16, 1918, at Birmandreis on the outskirts of Algiers. Called to active military duty while still a student, he spent five years as a prisoner in Germany during World War II.
        He joined the French Communist Party in 1948. In the same year, he began his more than three decades on the faculty of the Ecole Normale.
        He became known for his analysis of Marx. Le Monde said yesterday that he had brought to his studies of Marx "an unequaled precision and intelligence."
      