
        Thomas Williams, an award-winning novelist and an English professor at the University of New Hampshire, died on Tuesday at Wentworth-Douglass Hospital in Dover, N.H. He was 63 years old and lived in Durham, N.H.
        He died of lung cancer, said a spokesman for the Pelczar Funeral Home in Newmarket, N.H.
        Mr. Williams published eight novels and a collection of short stories over three decades beginning in 1955.
        In 1975 he won a National Book Award for "The Hair of Harold Roux," published by Random House. Like several of his other novels, it was set in the fictional town of Leah, N.H., which Mr. Williams elegized in a manner that made it his own Spoon River.
        In this and in other books, Mr. Williams won praise as a writer who, in the words of Orville Prescott, a New York Times critic, "manipulates the English language with love and with controlled power."
        Mr. Prescott went on to call Mr. Williams "a marvelously exact observer of the natural world, of the behavior of men and animals, and of the shape and surface and significance of things." 'A Fiction of Action'
        Such prose did not always please critics. Christopher Lehmann-Haupt, also of The Times, wrote in a review of "Harold Roux" that Mr. Williams "seems to have succumbed to the anxieties and malaise that afflict so many writers in our times."
        But the reviewer found the central figure in the novel, a teacher and writer named Aaron Benham, "the most interesting character that Mr. Williams has yet created," one who "shows us how the man of inaction transmutes his paralysis into a fiction of action."
        Mr. Williams's other novels included "Ceremony of Love" (1955), "Town Burning" (1959), "The Night of Trees" (1961), "Whipple's Castle" (1969), "The Followed Man" (1978) and "The Moon Pinnace" (1986). His collection of stories, "A High New House," was published in 1963. Among other prizes, he received the Roos/Atkins Literary Award in 1963.
        Mr. Williams was born in Duluth, Minn., spent his adolescence in Manhattan and served in the Army in World War II. He received bachelor's and master's degrees from the University of New Hampshire, and he did postgraduate study in Paris and at the University of Iowa.
        He joined the New Hampshire faculty in 1958 and taught there until last spring, when illness forced him to retire.
        Mr. Williams is survived by his wife, the former Elizabeth Blood; a son, Peter, of Boulder, Colo.; a daughter, Ann Williams of Newmarket, and two brothers, John and Dan, both of California.
      