
       Edward F. Kook, the founder and longtime president of the Century Lighting Company, which brightened more than 1,000 Broadway plays, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. His death, at the age of 87, was caused by a heart attack, a family spokesman said.
        Edward F. Kook, the founder and longtime president of the Century Lighting Company, which brightened more than 1,000 Broadway plays, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. His death, at the age of 87, was caused by a heart attack, a family spokesman said.
        Mr. Kook (pronounced cook) was a major behind-the-scenes theater figure for 40 years. He received a 1952 Tony award and the 1962 Kelcey Allen Award for long and devoted service to the theater. He founded and managed Century Lighting in Manhattan, from 1929 to 1968, personally supervising the design, manufacture and popularization of many innovations in lighting instruments, effects and controls in theaters, opera houses and television studios in the United States, Canada, Europe and South America. He sold the company in 1964 to the Progress Manufacturing Company of Philadelphia, which renamed it the Lighting Corporation of America, but he stayed on to aid the transition.
        George C. Izenouer, a leading inventor of lighting systems, worked closely with Mr. Kook for 44 years in developing increasingly sophisticated devices. He said yesterday, from his home in Connecticut, ''I was the inventor and engineer, and he was the entrepreneur who made it all possible.''
        Hours Cut to Seconds
        A major breakthrough was their installation of the first electronic lighting control system in a professional theater in New York, at the Vivian Beaumont Theater in Lincoln Center in the mid-1960's. With the system, hours of rehearsal time formerly required for recording a given lighting cut were reduced to seconds.
        Mr. Kook also helped design a portable, 1,000-seat theater that can be set up on a town green, or in a park or a vacant lot in three days by unskilled labor supervised by a few specialists. The fully equipped theater, built of Fiberglas, is transported by plane or truck.
        Mr. Kook was a former president of the United States Institute for Theater Technology, a longtime vice chairman of the Board of Standards and Planning for the Living Theater of the Greater New York Chapter of ANTA and the founder and president of the Arts of the Theater Foundation, which has given annual awards to new playwrights.
        He also was the author of a textbook, ''Images in Light for the Living Theater,'' published in 1963 under a grant from the Ford Founation.
        'Loves Theater as an Art'
        Edward Frankel Kook, a stocky, ebullient man, was born in Manhattan on March 5, 1903, and was graduated from the High School of Commerce and Pace Institute in New York.
        Many associates lauded him for often helping them in every aspect of writing, designing and producing shows. In 1962, the playwright Arthur Miller hailed him for having ''encouraged the unknown with money and advice, and without creating the publicity for his efforts which patronage of the arts usually seeks.''
        ''He actually loves theater as an art and as prophecy,'' Mr. Miller said.
        The set designer Jo Mielziner offered this tribute to Mr. Kook in 1962: ''Your sense of guidance to fellow artists has been tremendous. It is regrettable that so much of your work has had to be anonymous, for your name belongs on the credit line of many a production.''
        Surviving are Mr. Kook's wife, Hilda; a sister, Jean Winkler of Phoenix; two grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
        A funeral service is to be held today at 10:30 A.M. at Rodeph Sholom, 7 West 83d Street.
      