
       Peter Cookson, an actor, producer and writer known for his 1947 stage portrayal of Morris Townsend, the philandering fortune hunter in ''The Heiress,'' died of bone cancer on Saturday at his home in Southfield, Mass. He was 76 years old and also lived in Manhattan.
        Peter Cookson, an actor, producer and writer known for his 1947 stage portrayal of Morris Townsend, the philandering fortune hunter in ''The Heiress,'' died of bone cancer on Saturday at his home in Southfield, Mass. He was 76 years old and also lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Cookson was a well-known figure in the world of New York theater in the 1940's and 50's, when he appeared in a number of plays on and Off Broadway and produced still more. He often worked with his second wife, the actress Beatrice Straight.
        Born on a Houseboat
        He was born on a houseboat on the Willamette River in Oregon on May 8, 1913. He spent his early years in California, and, after winning a scholarship to the Pasadena Playhouse, a school for actors, worked in smaller roles before finding his way to New York for ''The Heiress.''
        In ''The Heiress,'' based on the novel ''Washington Square'' by Henry James, Mr. Cookson earned high praises for his portrayal of the philandering fortune hunter who rebuffs a woman of modest means. After the play closed, he married Miss Straight, his co-star.
        In 1950, Mr. Cookson turned to producing, with a production of ''The Innocents,'' based on James's ''Turn of the Screw.'' The production starred his wife and was lauded for its subtlety and style.
        His Singing Debut
        In 1953, Mr. Cookson made his professional singing debut as the male lead in ''Can-Can,'' a musical by Cole Porter and Abe Burrows. In interviews at the time, he said he was astonished at being given the part, as he had not sung for an audience since high school.
        In recent years, Mr. Cookson turned to writing, publishing a novel, ''Henderson's Head,'' and a play, ''Pigeons.''
        Mr. Cookson is survived by his wife; three sons: Gary, Tony and Peter Jr., all of New York; a daughter, Brooksie Jane Copland, also of New York, and five grandchildren.
      