
        Major (Mule) Holley, one of the greatest bassists in jazz, died Thursday at the home of a friend in Maplewood, N.J. He was 66 years old.
        He died of a heart attack, said his brother Oscar, of Detroit.
        Mr. Holley was a large man with a large sound. His bass playing, rooted in the era before be-bop, had a hard-driving forward motion. His tone, firm and leathery, filled up the sound of an ensemble, and he was the favorite bassist of many musicians, including Al Cohn and Zoot Sims, with whom he worked regularly. His sense of time was impeccable, and a band with Mr. Holley working in a rhythm section was guaranteed to swing gracefully. He was known as a magisterial blues player who could turn a solo blues improvisation into a masterpiece.
        Mr. Holley was also an affable performer who regularly worked at festivals, including Dick Gibson's annual jazz party in Boulder, Colo., and the JVC Jazz Festival in New York City. Singing was one of his many talents; Mr. Holley would also sing along while he bowed, in the style of the bassist Slam Stewart. An Early Start
        Mr. Holley, whose full name was Major Quincy Holley Jr., was born in Detroit to a musical family. He started playing violin, piano and tuba at the age of 7, and he graduated from Cass Technical High School in Detroit. His schoolmates included the vibraharpist Milt Jackson and the trumpeter Howard McGee. Mr. Holley took up the bass in the Navy, where he played tuba with the marching band and bass with the dance band. By 1950, he had performed with the be-bop saxophonists Dexter Gordon, Wardell Grey and Charlie Parker; the singer Ella Fitzgerald, and the pianist Oscar Peterson.
        Mr. Holley spent the 1950's working in London as a studio musician for BBC televison, and he toured South America with the Woody Herman Orchestra. In the 1960's he worked regularly in studios, recorded with Kenny Burrell and performed with Coleman Hawkins, Bucky Pizzarelli, Benny Goodman and Duke Ellington, among others. He also spent three years teaching at Berklee College of Music in Boston. In the 1970's and 80's, Mr. Holley was constantly in demand for club and festival work; he performed around New York and internationally.
        Mr. Holley is survived by two other brothers, Harold, of Detroit, and Melvin, of Lansing, Mich., and five sisters: Ethel Bray of Columbus, Ohio; Sophia L. Ellis, Mary Laws and Thelma Mason, all of Detroit, and Jessie L. Reeder of Oberlin, Ohio.
      