
        Xavier Cugat, the popular Spanish-born bandleader who introduced many Latin American rhythms to North American audiences, died of heart failure yesterday at the Quiron Clinic in Barcelona, Spain, his doctors said in a statement issued there. He was 90 years old.
        Mr. Cugat popularized the rumba in North America and paved the way for other bandleaders who played in Latin styles ranging from traditional dance music to jazz adaptations.
        Mr. Cugat was known for his showmanship, dressing his musicians in bright red jackets and leading them while wearing huge South American hats and serapes or cradling a chihuahua in his arms. He also surrounded himself with beautiful women, several of whom he married.
        A concert violinist and a professional caricaturist before he started his dance band, Mr. Cugat also dabbled in film making. When sound motion pictures were first made, he spent $35,000 in 1928 to produce one in Spanish. He did not find out until he had completed the film that there were not yet any sound projectors in Latin America.
        Mr. Cugat's first appearance on the screen was in a short film, "Cugat and His Gigolos," a title that referred not to his band but to eight Latin-American male dancers who, with starlets as partners, demonstrated the tango to audiences at the Coconut Grove in Los Angeles, where Mr. Cugat's band was playing.  Success at Waldorf-Astoria
        Mr. Cugat's band moved to New York in 1933 to open the new Starlight Roof of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel. In 16 years he rose from relief band at $500 a week to be the hotel's highest-paid band at $7,000 a week plus a percentage of the cover charges.
        The United States was discovering the rumba in the early 1930's, and Mr. Cugat rose on the tide of this interest. In 1934, his band appeared on a weekly three-hour Saturday night network radio program, "Let's Dance," which also featured a band formed earlier that year by Benny Goodman.
        Although he led an unusually successful rumba band, Mr. Cugat did not break through to a popularity comparable to that of American dance bands like Glenn Miller's and Benny Goodman's until 1941, when the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers banned its music from the air after a dispute with the networks over fees.
        While other orchestras were reduced to broadcasting "Jeannie With the Light Brown Hair" and other songs in the public domain, Mr. Cugat drew on a library of more than 500 non-Ascap Latin tunes. As a result, he was signed to one of the most popular radio programs featuring dance bands, "The Camel Caravan," which brought him a national following. Films With Esther Williams
        This led to a long series of motion pictures in which he appeared frequently with Esther Williams and her outsized swimming pools in, among others, "Neptune's Daughter," "Bathing Beauty," "This Time for Keeps" and "On an Island With You."
        A slight man with a thin mustache and a bald head that he covered with a toupee after he began to gain notice as a band leader, Francisco de Asis Javier Cugat Mingall de Brue y Deulofeo was born in the town of Tirona, in Catalonia, on Jan. 1, 1900.
        When he was 2, the family moved from Spain to Cuba. His career as a musician started in Havana when a neighbor, a violin maker, gave him a miniature violin.  Early Radio Violinist
        In 1917 Mr. Cugat became one of the first violinists to be heard on radio when he broadcast a recital on WDY from the Victor Talking Machine Company in Camden, N.J.
        He undertook a concert career, both in Europe and in the United States, including two Carnegie Hall recitals, but he met with so little critical encouragement that in the mid-1920's he joined Vincent Lopez's dance orchestra at the Casa Lopez in New York. After a year with Mr. Lopez, he moved to Los Angeles, where he tried his luck once more in a recital, again with a discouraging response.
        Since childhood, Mr. Cugat had been interested in drawing caricatures, and this interest led to his meeting his first wife.
        After his musical failure in Los Angeles, Mr. Cugat turned to caricature for a living and got a job with The Los Angeles Times. Assigned to do a caricature of Dolores Del Rio, the film star, Mr. Cugat was overwhelmed by his model's beauty and found out, only after he had completed his picture, that he had drawn Miss Del Rio's stand-in, Carmen Castillo.
        He and Miss Castillo were married in 1929. At her urging, he formed a seven-piece dance band in which he played violin and she sang.
        During the 1930's and 40's, the Cugat band included several singers who became well-known through their work with Mr. Cugat, notably Lina Romay, Desi Arnaz and Miguelito Valdes. In the 50's, his featured singer was Abbe Lane, his third wife. She had been preceded as Mrs. Cugat by Lorraine Allen and was followed by Charo, a singer and guitarist with whom Mr. Cugat frequently appeared on television talk shows in the 60's and 70's.
        In addition to his wife, Charo, Mr. Cugat is survived by a brother, Enric, who lives in California.
      