
        Maurice B. Hexter, a leader in social work for more than half a century before he retired in 1967 as executive vice president of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York, died in his sleep yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 99 years old.
        In addition to raising funds for Jewish causes in the United States, Dr. Hexter served for several years in the 1930's as an official of the Jewish Agency for Palestine.
        He also gained note as a sculptor relatively late in life, taking up the art as a pasttime when he was 59 years old. He produced many pieces in marble that were exhibited and two that won national awards. A Social Worker Since 1915
        Dr. Hexter's association with the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, now merged with the United Jewish Appeal, dated from 1938, when he returned from many years abroad on behalf of the Jewish Agency. He retired officially from the federation in 1967 at the age of 75 but continued as an executive consultant to the organization until his death.
        Dr. Hexter, who was born in Cincinnati, was a 1912 graduate of the University of Cincinnati and received a doctorate from Harvard in social work. He began his career in social work in 1915 as executive director of the Milwaukee Federation of Jewish Charities and later served in similar positions in Cincinnati and in Boston, where he also taught social ethics at Harvard and at Simmons College.
        In 1929, Dr. Hexter moved to Jerusalem to administer the Palestine Emergency Fund, which collected $2.5 million worldwide to rebuild homes destroyed during rioting between Arabs and Jews. He stayed on as an executive member of the Jewish Agency and in 1935 was put in charge of the agency's colonization project. Helped Expand Services
        He returned to the United States in 1938 to join the staff of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies and three years later was made an executive vice president, a post he shared with the late Joseph Willen until they both retired in 1967.
        Dr. Hexter guided the allocation of nearly half a billion dollars in contributions to support the federation's network of health and welfare agencies. He played a major role in expanding communal planning and services and in leading the federation's expansion into foster-child care, medical staffing in hospitals and improved services for the aged.
        He was a major participant in founding schools for social work at Brandeis University in Boston and at Hunter College and Yeshiva University in New York City. In 1974 Hunter established an annual Hexter Award for outstanding contributions to social-work education and practice. He was named to various panels overseeing the work of New York's public welfare system.
        In 1950, Dr. Hexter's daughter, Marjorie, returned home with a clay figure from a summer course in sculpturing. The father was fascinated and began to sculpture in clay and other media. In 1979 he won two gold medals at the National Sculpture Show.
        Dr. Hexter's wife, the former Marguerite Mock, whom he married in 1920, died in 1978. He is survived by a daughter, Marjorie Cohen of Manhattan, two grandchildren and a great-grandson.
      