
       Wallace Edward Carroll, an industrialist who last year made the largest private donation to Boston College in its history, died Saturday at his home in Lake Forest, Ill. He was 82 years old and also had homes on Martha's Vineyard and in Palm Beach, Fla.
        Wallace Edward Carroll, an industrialist who last year made the largest private donation to Boston College in its history, died Saturday at his home in Lake Forest, Ill. He was 82 years old and also had homes on Martha's Vineyard and in Palm Beach, Fla.
        Mr. Carroll, a native of Massachusetts, suffered a stroke earlier this year, said a college spokesman, Michael Seele.
        The bequest to Boston College, from which he graduated in 1928, was $10 million. The Jesuit college renamed its school of management after Mr. Carroll.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Carroll was chairman and chief executive of Katy Industries, a Chicago-based conglomerate. Until recently, he was also chairman of CRL Inc., a family-owned conglomerate based in Des Plaines, Ill.
        Mr. Carroll, the son of a blacksmith, worked as a switchboard operator, bricklayer's helper and railroad section hand to put himself through college. He also pursued graduate studies at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Harvard, Northwestern and New York universities.
        He moved to Chicago in 1940 and went into the metals and machinery business, which prospered in World War II. In 1970 he established the Katy conglomerate, which now consists of more than 43 companies and divisions.
        Mr. Carroll, a former trustee of Boston College and De Paul University, received honorary doctor of laws degrees from both institutions. He also was a former president of the National Machine Tool Builders Association.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Lelia Holden; three sons, Wallace E. Jr. of Franktown, Colo., and Denis H. and Barry J., both of Lake Forest; a daughter, Lelia C. Johnson of Denver, and 18 grandchildren.
      