
        Nobutaka Shikanai, the founder of one of Japan's largest media conglomerates and the creator of its most famous art museum, died Sunday of liver failure, his company, the Fujisankei Communications Group, said today. He was 78 years old.
        Mr. Shikanai was one of a handful of entrepreneurs who built huge business empires from the ruins of Japan after World War II. But unlike Akio Morita of Sony or Soichiro Honda of the Honda Motor Company, Mr. Shikanai gained his business success not from technology and marketing but from politics, and he remained a powerful conservative voice in Japan until his death.
        He was also never far from controversy. His career began as a central figure in Japanese efforts to confront Communist-run labor unions, which he helped to virtually destroy.
        And last year, just before he turned full control of his $5 billion communications group over to his son-in-law -- including Japan's largest privately run television network and a newspaper with 2.2 million circulation, Sankei Shimbun -- Mr. Shikanai stared down criticism over his payment of $2 million to former President Ronald Reagan and his wife, Nancy, for an eight-day visit to Japan.  Art Collector on a Giant Scale
        Mr. Shikanai devoted much of the last two decades to the arts. In 1969, he opened the giant Hakone Open-Air Museum in the mountains just below Mount Fuji, west of Tokyo, and filled it with with the works of Henry Moore, Rodin, Calder, Picasso and other artists and sculptors. On the grounds of the museum, visited by millions of Japanese and foreigners every year, he built a separate museum to house his huge collection of Picasso's works, everything from paintings to pottery.
        Mr. Shikanai was born on Hokkaido, Japan's northernmost island, on Nov. 17, 1911. He graduated from Waseda University in Tokyo in 1936, just as the military was beginning to assassinate Japanese political leaders and plunge the country into war. He served as a pay officer in the Japanese military.
        Soon after the war ended, he helped form the Japan Federation of Employers' Associations, known as the Nikkeiren. He quickly became an intimate of older business leaders and used the organization to help break the labor unions.
        In the early 1950's, the business establishment rewarded him with the Nippon Broadcasting System, a radio network that became the cornerstone of what is now Fujisankei Communications. Soon afterward, he began Fuji Television, now Japan's most-popular private network. Though it is often criticized as low-brow, the television network gave him the financial strength to absorb Sankei Shimbun, a newspaper that had been losing money heavily to the three other huge national dailies in Japan, Asahi Shimbun, Mainichi Shimbun and Yomiuri Shimbun.  Friends on the Right
        Mr. Shikanai used his paper as a pulpit for his conservative views, and he found many allies in the leadership of the right wing of Japan's governing Liberal Democratic Party. Though the newspaper reportedly still loses money -- Fujisankei is privately held and does not disclose such information -- its financial condition is stabilizing, and it became the first newspaper in Japan to make effective use of color printing.
        He had intended for the empire to be taken over by his only son, but the son died suddenly in 1987. So he turned instead to his son-in-law, an investment banker who took the family name of Shikanai, a relatively common practice in Japan when there is no heir apparent for a major business.
        Hiroaki Shikanai quickly pushed the conglomerate into overseas ventures, and Fujisankei's presence is now felt outside Japan. It owns a major stake in Britain's Virgin Music Groups and has begun to distribute its news shows on cable television in the United States. Tributes to Himself
        Never lacking self-confidence, Mr. Shikanai commissioned giant busts of himself, which occupy prominent positions at Fujisankei's offices. But his biggest memorial is the Open-Air Museum, created long before Japanese collectors began to spend hundreds of millions of dollars acquiring Western art. He commissioned many of the works in that museum and built a second, the Utsukushi-ga-hara Open-Air Museum to display the works of young artists and experimental works.
        Two years ago, as chairman of the Japan Art Association, Mr. Shikanai created the Praemium Imperiale awards, which he said were intended as a Japanese equivalent of the Nobel Prizes. They are awarded for painting, sculputure, architecture, music and theater or film. Mr. Reagan presided over the first awards ceremony during his much-publicized visit last year. The second set of prizes was awarded on Oct. 23, days before Mr. Shikanai's death.
        A private funeral service for Mr. Shikanai was held today in Tokyo, and a public memorial service will be held at a later date.
      