
       William T. Kirby, who served as vice chairman and chairman of the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, died Monday at West Bend, Wis., apparently of a heart attack. He was 79 years old and lived in Chicago.
        William T. Kirby, who served as vice chairman and chairman of the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation, died Monday at West Bend, Wis., apparently of a heart attack. He was 79 years old and lived in Chicago.
        Mr. Kirby had undergone open-heart surgery last December.
        He was vice chairman of the foundation at the time of his death but had served as chairman from 1988 to May of this year. He had also been a director of the foundation since 1970.
        Mr. Kirby had been Mr. MacArthur's lawyer for 25 years and helped him and his wife set up their foundation, which became active in 1978, after Mr. MacArthur's death. It gives grants to individuals and organizations working in such causes as peace, conservation and health and was financed with the bulk of an estate left by Mr. MacArthur, a billionaire with real estate ventures, interests in oil and textiles, and with the Bankers Life and Casualty Company, a Chicago-based insurance company.
        Using an initial portfolio of $800 million, the foundation quickly became one of the most active organizations of its kind in the world. Its portfolio is now valued at more than $3 billion.
        Mr. Kirby was born in Chicago and reared in Waukegan, Ill. He received both his undergraduate and legal training at the University of Notre Dame in the early 1930's. He served as an officer with the Army Corps of Engineers in World War II. In 1949, he became an Assistant Attorney General for Illinois and served for four years.
        From 1965 through 1980, he was a partner in the Chicago law firm of Hubachek, Kelly, Rauch & Kirby. He retired to work full time for the foundation.
        Among his major interests at the foundation were public television and providing support for independent film makers.
        Survivors include his son, James; three daughters, Catherine Legier, Mary and Judy; a sister, and four granddaughters.
      