
       Stefano Casiraghi, the husband of Princess Caroline of Monaco, was killed yesterday when his speedboat flipped during a race on the French Riviera. He was 30 years old.
        Stefano Casiraghi, the husband of Princess Caroline of Monaco, was killed yesterday when his speedboat flipped during a race on the French Riviera. He was 30 years old.
        Mr. Casiraghi, an Italian financier, was defending his World Offshore Championship title in a race off St-Jean-Cap-Ferrat, near Monaco, when his 42-foot catamaran struck a wave at more than 90 miles an hour and flipped over.
        Mr. Casiraghi and his co-pilot, Patrice Innocenti, were pulled from the water by emergency crews and taken to Princess Grace Hospital in Monte Carlo. Mr. Casiraghi was pronounced dead and Mr. Innocenti was treated for unspecified injuries.
        Princess Caroline, who was in Paris when she learned of her husband's death, left immediately for Monaco.
        The accident was the second fatal one to befall a member of Princess Caroline's family in eight years. Her mother, Princess Grace, was killed in an automobile crash while driving near Monte Carlo in 1982.
        Active in Family Enterprises
        Mr. Casiraghi's father, the son of a railroad gatekeeper, built a fortune in apparel manufacturing, construction and oil during Italy's post-World War II industrial expansion. Stefano Casiraghi, a native of Milan who studied economics at the University of Bocconi but left before receiving a degree, was active in the family's real estate and retail export enterprises. At his death he was chairman of Cogefar France, the French subsidiary of an Italian construction company owned by Fiat. He also had a majority interest in Engeco, a major real-estate developer in Monaco.
        Speedboat racing was a passion with Mr. Casiraghi, who began competing in 1984 and had won 12 of 80 races, including last year's world championship held off Atlantic City, N.J.
        He married Princess Caroline in 1983, after she was divorced from Philippe Junot, a French real-estate man to whom she had been married for two years.
        In addition to Princess Caroline, Mr. Casiraghi is survived by their two sons, Andrea and Pierre; their daughter, Charlotte; his parents, and two brothers and a sister.
      