
       Patrick White, the Australian novelist who won the 1973 Nobel Prize in Literature and international acclaim as a harsh but authentic voice of his homeland, died at his residence near Sydney yesterday after an illness of several weeks. He was 78 years old.
        Patrick White, the Australian novelist who won the 1973 Nobel Prize in Literature and international acclaim as a harsh but authentic voice of his homeland, died at his residence near Sydney yesterday after an illness of several weeks. He was 78 years old.
        The cause of his death was not announced.
        The author of more than a dozen novels, as well as short stories, poetry, several plays and an autobiography, Mr. White drew unflattering portraits of Australia and was vastly more popular in the United States and England than among his countrymen.
        But he was the first writer with Australian roots to be widely read abroad and the only Australian writer ever selected for the Nobel Prize. He won it for a range of his work, including, ''The Eye of the Storm,'' a tale of the last days of an elderly dowager whose greedy relatives gather to await her demise.
        Greene and Nabokov on List
        The Swedish Academy, selecting Mr. White from a list that included Graham Greene, Vladimir Nabokov and Andre Malraux, called his work ''an epic and psychological narrative art which has introduced a new continent into literature.'' It said he had ''given the continent of Australia an authentic voice that carries across the world.''
        The international literary reputation of Mr. White, whose first novel, ''Happy Valley,'' won the Australian Literature Society's gold medal in 1939, was secured in 1955 with the appearance of ''The Tree of Man,'' the story of a farmer and his wife struggling to find a future in Australia's outback. ''The Tree of Man'' and most of Mr. White's other major works have been published in the United States by Penguin.
        His best-known novels were ''Voss'' (1957), ''Riders in the Chariot'' (1962), ''A Fringe of Leaves'' (1976) and ''The Twyborn Affair'' (1979). His plays included ''Big Toys'' (1977), ''Signal Driver'' (1982) and ''Netherwood'' (1983). His autobiography, ''Flaws in the Glass,'' was published in 1981.
        In his examination of Australia and its people and history, Mr. White, many critics said, seemed to be addressing something far more universal: modern man's loneliness, isolation and emptiness. He often used mystical symbolism and a hypnotic style to convey the suffering of his characters, and various critics compared him to James Joyce, D. H. Lawrence, Ernest Hemingway and Herman Melville.
        Origins and Burden
        Referring to his relationship with his homeland in a rare interview a few years ago, Mr. White said: ''It's the country of my origins - that, I think, is what matters in the end, whether one likes it or not. Certainly, I had to experience the outside world and would have felt deprived if I didn't have that behind me. But it's from the Australian earth, Australian air, that I derive my literary, my spiritual, sustenance. Even at its most hateful, Australia is necessary to me.''
        A tall, craggy, uncompromising man with deep-set dark eyes, Mr. White, who once called the British royal family ''goons'' and was a scathing critic of Australia's policies toward its aborigines, was the fourth-generation son of Australian sheep ranchers.
        Born in London on May 28, 1912, on one of his parents' periodic trips to Britain, he spent most of his boyhood in Australia, but returned to England to study languages at Cambridge University and joined the Royal Air Force in World War II, serving as an intelligence officer in the Middle East. He returned to Sydney after the war and resumed writing.
        As part of his protest against Australia's treatment of aborigines, Mr. White had no work published or performed in 1988 during Australia's celebrations of the 200th anniversary of white settlement.
        Mr. White never married. For the last 45 years, he lived with a male companion, Manoly Lascaris. Pearsond(Penguin)
      