
       Dr. H. L. Ginsberg, a biblical scholar and an authority on ancient Ugaritic literature, died on Thursday at Cabrini Hospital. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. H. L. Ginsberg, a biblical scholar and an authority on ancient Ugaritic literature, died on Thursday at Cabrini Hospital. He was 87 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        He died of a heart attack, said a spokeswoman for the Jewish Theological Seminary, where he had been the Sabato Morais Professor of Biblical History and Literature since 1941.
        Dr. Ginsberg, a renowned scholar and author, was an expert on Ugaritic literature - texts written in an extinct Northern Semitic language closely related to Hebrew. The literature takes its name from cuneiform inscriptions dating to 1500 B.C. that were found in ruins of the ancient city of Ugarit in Syria.
        A Lecturer at Seminary
        He was also a member of a team of Jewish biblical scholars whose translations in 1962 of traditional texts that had been preserved by Masoretic scribes indicated that Moses and the Israelites had escaped by crossing a marshy area at the northern end of the Gulf of Suez, an area called the Sea of Reeds, and not at the Red Sea at the southern end.
        Harold Louis Ginsberg, who was born in Montreal, earned a Ph.D. at the University of London in 1930 and a few years later became a lecturer at the Jewish Theological Seminary in Manhattan.
        He was the author of many books, including ''The Ugarit Texts,'' ''The Legend of King Keret,'' ''Studies in Daniel'' and ''Studies in Koheleth.'' He was also editor in chief of the translations of the Prophets prepared under the auspices of the Jewish Publication Society of America in 1972 and was part of a team of scholars who spent 25 years translating ancient Hebrew texts into modern English. That effort resulted in the publication in 1982 of the ''Kethubim,'' or ''The Writings,'' which include the books of Psalms, Proverbs, Job, the Song of Songs and nine others.
        He was also editor for the Bible of the Encyclopedia Judaica and spent five years helping to make the Hebrew Scriptures available in Braille. His most recent work was ''The Israelian Heritage of Judaism,'' published in 1982 as part of a series by the seminary.
        Dr. Ginsberg was a member of many professional organizations, including the American Academy for Jewish Research and the American Friends of the Israel Exploration Society. He served as counselor of the Society of Biblical Literature and Exegesis and was a member of its editorial committee from 1941 to 1949. He was also an honorary member of the Academy of the Hebrew Language.
        He is survived by a sister, Harriet Gray of Montreal.
      