
       Alexis B. Tatistcheff, an economist and language expert who served as an interpreter for the State Department, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86 years old.
        Alexis B. Tatistcheff, an economist and language expert who served as an interpreter for the State Department, died on Monday at his home in Manhattan. He was 86 years old.
        He died of heart failure, his son, Peter, said.
        Mr. Tatistcheff, who was born in Berlin, where his father served in the Russian Embassy, was educated at the Ecole des Travaux Publiques in Paris and came to the United States in 1926.
        He was chief statistician at the Commodity Exchange and in 1941 was named principal economist in the Federal Bureau of Research and Statistics in the Office of Production Management, later known as the War Production Board.
        His linguistic abilities - he was fluent in French, Russian and English - came to the attention of the State Department, and in 1945 he served as an interpreter at the United Nations Conference in San Francisco.
        Helped Marshall in London
        He was named assistant chief of the division of language service for the State Department and was an interpreter with Secretary of State George C. Marshall at the London Conferences in 1947. Then he joined the Merrill Lynch investment concern as manager of its hide and rubber department, but after a year he left to become a consultant to the State Department.
        In 1975 he was chief interpreter and adviser to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration in negotiations for a joint Soviet-United States space flight. For his work with NASA, he received the Government's Public Service Award.
        From 1976 to 1979, he was an interpreter for the United States delegations at the Strategic Arms Limitation Treaty talks in Helsinki and Geneva. He retired in 1979. Mr. Tatistcheff is survived by his wife, the former Princess Agrippine Troubetzkoy; three sons, Boris, of Boise, Idaho; Peter, of Manhattan, and Michael, of Northfield, Mass; a daughter, Marsha Morrow of Herndon, Va., and seven grandchildren.
      