
       Arthur H. Schwartz, a lawyer who prosecuted mobsters and bootleggers during Prohibition and who later became a top New York State Republican official, died on Monday at Dobbs Ferry (N.Y.) Community Hospital. He was 86 years old and lived in Dobbs Ferry.
        Arthur H. Schwartz, a lawyer who prosecuted mobsters and bootleggers during Prohibition and who later became a top New York State Republican official, died on Monday at Dobbs Ferry (N.Y.) Community Hospital. He was 86 years old and lived in Dobbs Ferry.
        He died of congestive heart failure, his family said.
        Mr. Schwartz was a longtime counsel to the Republican State Committee and from 1974 to 1976 was chairman of the State Board of Elections. He served briefly in 1952 as a State Supreme Court justice.
        His most striking moment in the public eye was as a young Federal prosecutor in the late 1920's and early '30's. After graduating at the top of his class at Columbia Law School in 1926, he passed up an offer to become law secretary to Justice Harlan F. Stone of the United States Supreme Court and instead chose to become an assistant United States attorney in Manhattan.
        Ties to Dewey
        He quickly moved into Prohibition enforcement and by 1931 was chief of the bootlegging division in the Southern District of New York. In 1931, in his most celebrated case, he won conviction of Jack (Legs) Diamond, boss of the bootleg liquor and beer trade in upstate Greene County, on charges of conspiracy and violation of the Volstead Act. Four months later, the mobster was killed as he slept in an Albany rooming house only hours after a jury in Troy had acquitted him of kidnapping charges.
        Mr. Schwartz's seven years as a Federal prosecutor were the beginning of a close association with Thomas E. Dewey, the acting United States Attorney who was on his way to fame as a racket-busting Manhattan District Attorney, Governor of New York and Presidential candidate.
        Mr. Schwartz was the New York manager of Mr. Dewey's unsuccessful Presidential bid in 1944, and he was appointed to several commissions and boards during the Dewey governorship. He was also a Republican member of many state bipartisan study commissions over the decades. He practiced law in Manhattan from 1935 until he retired six years ago.
        Mr. Schwartz, who was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, won a scholarship to Columbia College and went on to its law school, where he was editor in chief of the law review.
        His first wife, the former Dorothy Blaine, died in 1956. He is survived by his second wife, the former Betty Spare; two daughters, Anne Toft of Fort Lee, N.J., and Lois, of Manhattan, and three grandchildren.
      