
       Horace C. Stoneham, the longtime owner of the baseball Giants who moved the club from New York to San Francisco in 1958, died in a nursing home in Scottsdale, Ariz., Sunday. He was 86 years old.
        Horace C. Stoneham, the longtime owner of the baseball Giants who moved the club from New York to San Francisco in 1958, died in a nursing home in Scottsdale, Ariz., Sunday. He was 86 years old.
        Mr. Stoneham, who spent the last 13 years of his life in retirement near the Giants' spring-training complex, was one of the last of the true baseball entrepreneurs, those with no additional business interests. He sold the Giants in 1976 after serving as their principal owner and president for 40 years.
        Horace Charles Stoneham knew both the ecstacies of victory and profit and the agonies of defeat and financial failure.
        His teams won National League pennants in New York in 1936, 1937, 1951 and 1954 and also led the league in 1962 while playing in San Francisco. The 1954 team, managed by Leo Durocher and inspirationally paced by Willie Mays, swept the Cleveland Indians in four games to give Mr. Stoneham his only triumph in a World Series.
        West With the Dodgers
        But there were also many bleak years on the field and at the box office for the franchise. In 1957, attendance at the Polo Grounds sank so low that Mr. Stoneham joined Walter O'Malley and his Brooklyn Dodgers in a stunning two-team jump to the West Coast for the 1958 season, continuing in San Francisco and Los Angeles the famed rivalry between the clubs.
        The Giants prospered for 10 years in San Francisco, averaging 1.5 million fans despite cold weather and high wind at Candlestick Park, which is situated on a point of land that juts into San Francisco Bay.
        But Mr. Stoneham's prosperity began to ebb when Charles O. Finley moved his A's from Kansas City to Oakland in 1968 and began to cut into the fan market. Attendance at Giants games dropped steadily until 1974, when the club attracted only 519,991, the lowest attendance in the major leagues and the lowest ever for a Giant team.
        Sold Off Stars
        In May 1975, Mr. Stoneham - who had kept the club solvent by selling such stars as Mays, Juan Marichal, Willie McCovey and Bobby Bonds -announced his intention to sell the franchise.
        He had become president of the Giants on Jan. 15, 1936, after the death of his father, Charles A. Stoneham. The elder Mr. Stoneham had seen to it that his son had a thorough education in baseball. He sold tickets, helped the grounds crew and learned all the complex administration of the front office.
        When he took over as president just short of his 33d birthday, Mr. Stoneham became the youngest chief executive in major league history.
        He was educated at the Hun, Loyola and Pawling Schools and entered Fordham, but left quickly to go West and work in a copper mine in California before returning to devote the rest of his life to baseball.
        He was known throughout his ownership of the Giants as a dedicated executive, vitally concerned with the details of running the team and passionately concerned with the fortunes of the club. His few detractors often charged that most of his managers were cronies that he easily manipulated when he chose to dictate strategy or changes in personnel.
        Mr. Stoneham was heartbroken when Manager Leo Durocher convinced him to trade Sid Gordon and Willard Marshall to Boston for Alvin Dark and Eddie Stanky after the 1949 season. But the new second-base combination was to play a vital part in the winning of the 1951 pennant, climaxed by Bobby Thomson's dramatic home run in the final game of a playoff against the Dogers.
        Sentimental About Players
        Again he was disconsolate over the trade of Thomson for Johnny Antonelli of the Milwaukee Braves in 1954, but the left-handed pitcher won 21 games as the Giants finished first and went on to victory in the World Series.
        He was known throughout baseball as a fun-loving and lusty-living man, prone to great sentimentality over his players. He was one of the last of the old breed of owners who were personally concerned with every detail of club business.
        Mr. Stoneman is survived by his wife, Valleda; a son, Charles of San Francisco; a daughter, Mary Rupert of Holsboro, Calif.; a sister, Mary Aufderhar of New Jersey, and five grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
        Correction:  January 11, 1990, Thursday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on Tuesday about Horace Stoneham, the baseball owner who moved the Giants to the West Coast, misidentified his daughter. She is Valleda Rupert.
      