
       Robert Francis Murphy, a professor of anthropology at Columbia University, died on Monday at his home in Leonia, N.J. He was 66 years old.
        Robert Francis Murphy, a professor of anthropology at Columbia University, died on Monday at his home in Leonia, N.J. He was 66 years old.
        He died of heart failure, his wife, Yolanda, said.
        Dr. Murphy became paralyzed from a spinal tumor 15 years ago but continued to teach and to study the social relations of the handicapped.
        He began his career in the early 1950's studying indigenous cultures in Brazil, Nigeria and the United States, but he shifted his focus in the mid-1970's when he developed the tumor that left him a quadriplegic.
        His study of the Mundurucu Indians in the Brazilian Amazon led to a book, ''Women of the Forest,'' which he wrote with his wife. He also studied the Shoshone and Bannock Indians of Idaho and Wyoming and the Tuareg people of Niger and Nigeria.
        Tribute to the Disabled
        He wrote several other books, including a textbook, ''An Overture to Social Anthropology,'' and ''The Dialectics of Social Life.''
        A 1954 Ph.D. graduate of Columbia University, Dr. Murphy chronicled his physical decline in his book ''Body Silent,'' published in 1987 by Henry Holt & Company.
        ''I am an ethnographer, a sojourner in strange places,'' Dr. Murphy said in 1988 when ''Body Silent'' earned himColumbia's Lionel Trilling Award for an outstanding book by a faculty member. ''I realized that no one with my training had described exactly what it is like to live inside such a body as mine. I felt I owed it to all disabled people to try to make some anthropological sense of it all.''
        He had joined the faculty at Columbia in 1963 after teaching at the University of Illinois and at the University of California at Berkeley. He was chairman of Columbia's department of anthropology from 1969 to 1972.
        Ovations for His Course
        Colleagues said that Dr. Murphy was an excellent teacher who lectured without notes and often received a standing ovation at the end of a course. He led the drive to install chair lifts, ramps and other aids for the handicapped at the university.
        Dr. Murphy was a member of many professional organizations, including the American Anthropological Association and the American Ethnological Society.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a daughter, Pamela, of Brooklyn, and a son, Robert Jr., of Leonia.
      