
       Joe Robbie, the owner of the National Football League's Miami Dolphins since their inception in 1965, died Sunday. He was 73 years old.
        Joe Robbie, the owner of the National Football League's Miami Dolphins since their inception in 1965, died Sunday. He was 73 years old.
        Mr. Robbie died at a Miami-area hospital. The cause of death was not immediately reported.
        Mr. Robbie was a trial lawyer when he became involved in football, securing the Dolphins' franchise in the old American Football League.
        Two years ago, he moved the team from the Orange Bowl to his privately-financed Joe Robbie Stadium, a $115 million structure. The Super Bowl was played there last January.
        When Mr. Robbie first announced plans to build the stadium in 1984, he was greeted with skepticism. But he put up all his possessions - including the Dolphins' franchise - as collateral to assure completion of construction.
        ''This is just my perverse nature,'' he said. ''I'll have everything paid for by 2016.''
        In 1970, Mr. Robbie hired Don Shula as coach. Shula had taken the Baltimore Colts to two N.F.L. championship games and, in his first season, he improved the Dolphins' record from 3-10-1 to 10-4. Two years later, the team compiled a 17-0 record - still the best in league history - to give Miami its first N.F.L. championship.
        The Dolphins repeated as N.F.L. champions in 1973. They have won five American Conference titles and have pro football's best record since 1970.
        ''Nobody wanted to win more than Joe Robbie did,'' Mr. Shula said Sunday night. ''When you think back on Joe Robbie, you think about the good times, the Super Bowl years.''
        Late last year, Mr. Robbie announced the establishment of a living trust for the franchise that he said insured family ownership for at least the next generation.
        Mr. Robbie brought spring training baseball and international soccer to his new stadium. He was active in the efforts to bring the 1994 World Cup to the United States and was at one time the majority owner of the American Soccer League's Fort Lauderdale Strikers.
        Mr. Robbie was born July 7, 1916, in Sisseton, S.D. He attended Northern State Teachers College in Aberdeen and the University of South Dakota Law School.
        He interrupted his studies to join the Navy and saw combat in the Pacific during World War II. He was awarded the Bronze Star.
        Mr. Robbie, a Democrat, served in the South Dakota Legislature. He ran unsuccessfully for Governor of South Dakota. He later lived in Minnesota and moved from Minneapolis to Miami after the birth of the Dolphins.
        Three of Mr. Robbie's 11 children work for the Dolphins. J. Michael Robbie is executive vice president-general manager, Timothy J. Robbie is vice president-public affairs and Daniel T. Robbie is director of sales and promotions. Mr. Robbie's widow, Elizabeth, is vice president of the team.
      