
       Evangelos Averoff, a former Foreign Minister and former Defense Minister of Greece and a leading conservative politician, died of a heart attack in Apolloneion Hospital in Athens yesterday, an official at the Greek Mission to the United Nations said. He was 79 years old.
        Evangelos Averoff, a former Foreign Minister and former Defense Minister of Greece and a leading conservative politician, died of a heart attack in Apolloneion Hospital in Athens yesterday, an official at the Greek Mission to the United Nations said. He was 79 years old.
        At the time of his death, Mr. Averoff was honorary president of the New Democracy Party and a member-at-large of Parliament. He had suffered from a heart ailment for several years and went to the hospital 10 days ago.
        A man of strong pro-Western and anti-Communist views, Mr. Averoff was a close confidant of former Prime Minister and President Constantine Caramanlis, and at one time was considered his possible successor.
        It was Mr. Averoff, known in Greece as ''the bridge maker,'' who persuaded the military junta to recall Mr. Caramanlis from exile in 1974 and restore democracy.
        Elected to Parliament in 1946
        He was first elected to Parliament in 1946 and achieved cabinet rank at the age of 39, serving as Foreign Minister from 1956 to 1963, under Prime Minister Caramanlis. In the seven-year military dictatorship, he opposed the junta but remained in Greece in an effort to win over centrist military elements.
        After the fall of the junta, he served as Minister of Defense in Prime Minister Caramanlis's Governments from 1974 to 1980. In this post, he was instrumental in Greece's return to the military wing of the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Greece had left the alliance's military wing in 1974 to protest the Turkish invasion of Cyprus.
        When the Panhellenic Socialist Movement of Andreas Papandreou was voted into power in 1981, Mr. Averoff relinquished his post in the Defense Ministry. He assumed the leadership of the New Democracy Party from 1981 to 1984.
        Author of Several Novels
        He used to describe himself as ''a farmer, politician and playwright,'' and was the author of several novels and historical works and an avid agriculturist.
        Born on April 17, 1910, in Trikkala, Thessaly, he attended public school in Athens and graduated summa cum laude from the School of Political, Legal and Economic Sciences at the University of Lausanne in Switzerland.
        He is survived by his wife, Diamantina, and two daughters, Natalie and Tatiana.
      