
        Jack Sterling, whose wake-up radio program was on WCBS in New York for 18 years, died Wednesday at his home in Stuart, Fla. He was 75 years old.
        He died of lung cancer, his wife, Trish, said.
        The "Jack Sterling Show," broadcast Monday to Saturday from 1948 to 1966, was noted for its relaxed chatter, joking, storytelling, interviews, features on news and sports and tips on fishing sites.
        The show was one of the last radio programs to offer live music -- by a quintet occasionally joined by the host's drumming. Mr. Sterling succeeded Arthur Godfrey in the local show when that humorist joined the CBS network.
        Mr. Sterling, a six-footer with a trim mustache and contagious laugh, described his style this way: "It isn't pleasant for most people to get up early in the morning, so we use the undersell, quiet approach."
        On television, Mr. Sterling was the ringmaster on a children's circus show, "Big Top," a Saturday program broadcast live from Philadelphia for seven years. He wrote two books, "So Early in the Morning" and "The Sterling Cookbook," which distilled experiences from a favorite hobby.
        Mr. Sterling was born in Baltimore on June 24, 1915, to Jack Sexton and Edna Cable, veteran performers in vaudeville, showboats and stock companies. The son began acting at the age of 2, appearing as Little Willie in "East Lynne."
        He appeared in vintage hits and worked up a minstrel routine. At age 24, he turned to radio, working for stations in Peoria and Quincy, Ill.; St. Louis; Bridgeport, Conn., and Chicago. He worked for CBS and its affiliates for 25 years and retired in 1979.
        Surviving, in addition to his wife, are eight daughters: Jane Traeger, of Port Smith, Ark.; Marsha Bagg, of Sherman, Ill.; Beth, of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.; Linda and Catherine, of Norwalk, Conn.; Nancy and Patricia, of Manhattan, and Susan, of Brooklyn, N.Y.; two stepsons, Kevin Ringston, of Delaware, and Christopher Ringston, of Ridgefield, Conn.; two stepdaughters, Kelly Spine, of Rochester, and Colleen Hankin, of Stuart, Fla.; a sister, Elizabeth Mosley, of San Antonio, and nine grandchildren.
      