
       John L. Clive, a Harvard professor of history who won a National Book Award in 1974 for his biography of Thomas Babington Macaulay, the 19th-century Scottish historian, died Sunday while being driven to his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 65 years old.
        John L. Clive, a Harvard professor of history who won a National Book Award in 1974 for his biography of Thomas Babington Macaulay, the 19th-century Scottish historian, died Sunday while being driven to his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 65 years old.
        The cause of death was not known yesterday.
        ''Macaulay: The Shaping of a Historian,'' published by Knopf in 1973, won Professor Clive critical praise for examining the personality as well as the accomplishments of his subject. That study won the book award in the history category; it was also nominated as a biography.
        On Monday the National Book Critics Circle chose Professor Clive's latest book, ''Not by Fact Alone: Essays on the Writing and Reading of History,'' also published by Knopf, as one of five nominees for its 1990 award for distinguished criticism.
        Working on a Book
        Professor Clive gave his final lecture to a Harvard class on Dec. 19. He went on leave of absence to work on another book before his scheduled retirement next June, which was to have ended a career spanning four decades at the university.
        Among his other honors were the Robert Livingston Schuyler Prize awarded by the American Historical Association, which he won in 1976. He was a Fellow of the Royal Historical Society and of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Bernard Bailyn, the Adams University Professor at Harvard and director of its Charles Warren Center for Studies in American History, characterized Professor Clive yesterday as ''subtle, penetrating and witty, and he wrote like an angel.''
        A World of Interests
        ''He was a great essayist whose interests and sympathies were as broad and humane as the historians he wrote about,'' Profesor Bailyn said.
        Another Harvard scholar, Oscar Handlin, the Carl M. Loeb University Professor emeritus, said Professor Clive was ''a devoted teacher and conscientious scholar with friends in every part of the world.''
        Born in Berlin, Professor Clive attended college in England, came to the United States in 1940 and served in the Army in World War II, rising to second lieutenant.
        He was a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of the University of North Carolina and received master's and doctoral degrees from Harvard, where he began teaching in 1948. He left to join the University of Chicago faculty in 1960 but returned to Harvard five years later. Since 1979 he had been the William R. Kenan Jr. Professor of History and Literature.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      