
       Lord Gardiner, who as Lord Chancellor, or head of the judiciary, from 1964 to 1970 presided over the abolition of the death penalty in Britain, died on Sunday, his family said. He was 89 years old.
        Lord Gardiner, who as Lord Chancellor, or head of the judiciary, from 1964 to 1970 presided over the abolition of the death penalty in Britain, died on Sunday, his family said. He was 89 years old.
        Lord Gardiner, target of an abortive bomb attack by the Irish Republican Army in 1981, died at his home in north London. No cause of death was given.
        The Lord Chancellor is a Cabinet member, the country's chief legal officer and Speaker of the House of Lords, Parliament's unelected upper chamber.
        As Lord Chancellor in Harold Wilson's Labor Party Government, Lord Gardiner presided over legal innovations like the creation of the post of ombudsman, a state-appointed official to investigate complaints by citizens against Government departments; the establishment of the Family Division of the High Court, and the creation of the Law Commission to keep the law under review. He also initiated moves for overhauling day-to-day working of the courts.
        A champion of human rights, he was joint chairman of the National Campaign for the Abolition of Capital Punishment. Capital punishment was abolished by Parliament in 1969 except for high treason and piracy with violence.
        The son of a wealthy director of shipping companies, Gerald Gardiner was educated at Harrow and at Oxford University, and became a lawyer in 1925. He was made a King's Counsel, or senior advocate, in 1948.
        In 1960, he appeared for Penguin Books, which had been charged with obscenity for publishing D. H. Lawrence's novel ''Lady Chatterley's Lover.'' Although written in 1928, the unexpurgated version of the book was banned because of its sexually explicit passages. But the jury in 1960 cleared Penguin of obscenity, giving the go-ahead for the book's full publication in Britain.
        The trial's outcome was hailed as a major event leading to the introduction of more liberal attitudes in Britain in the 1960's.
        Lord Gardiner was made a life peer in 1963.
        In 1973, he became the chancellor of the Open University, a nonresidential university founded in 1969. Students need no formal qualifications to join and teaching is carried out by correspondence courses and special television and radio programs.
        In 1981, he was target of an I.R.A. bomb attack during a hunger strike by jailed guerrillas in Northern Ireland demanding to be treated as political prisoners. Bobby Sands and nine others died in the hunger strike, but the British Government refused to yield.
        Lord Gardiner married his first wife, Lesly Trounson, in 1925. She died in 1966. They had one daughter.
        In 1970, he married Muriel Box, a film producer and writer, who survives him.
      