
        Feng Youlan, China's leading contemporary philosopher, died on Monday, the New China News Agency said today. He was 94 years old.
        Professor Feng is best known for his two-volume "History of Chinese Philosophy" and for a series of books that developed his philosophical system, which combined elements of Chinese philosophy, particularly neo-Confucianism, with Western ideas.
        In the fall of 1982, Professor Feng, who received his Ph.D. from Columbia University in 1923, returned to receive an honorary Doctor of Letters. Professor Feng, whose name is often spelled Fung Yu-lan, studied with John Dewey and Frederick J. E. Woodbridge at Columbia before returning to China, where he taught primarily at Qinghua University and at Peking University.
        At the Columbia ceremony, Wing-tsit Chan, another scholar of Chinese philosophy, said he thought Professor Feng deserved acclaim because "at a time when Chinese intellectuals saw little value in the Chinese tradition, Professor Feng upheld it."
        "Since the New Culture Movement of 1917, 'new thinkers' in China had rejected Chinese thought as unworthy and decadent," Professor Chan said. "Anything that is good must be Western. But Dr. Feng took Chinese thought seriously and he wrote a scholarly history to show it." "
        But Professor Feng's excursions in philosophy caused problems after the Communist takeover in 1949. Professor Feng searched for positive aspects in the old order, but some Marxists thought there were no redeeming features in that order. Born Into Landlord Family
        Professor Feng was born into a landlord family on Dec. 4, 1895, in Tanghe, Honan Province. In 1910 he went to the provincial capital, Kaifeng, to study and later won a scholarship to study in Shanghai at the China Academy.
        Throughout these years he was exposed to the nationalistic and revolutionary ideas then sweeping China. When he began his studies at Peking University in 1915, it was with the intention of studying Western philosophy, but he was sidetracked into Chinese philosophy when the professor who was to teach the Western philosophy courses died. After graduation in 1918, he edited a biweekly paper in Kaifeng until receiving another scholarship to study at Columbia beginning in 1919.
        When he again was in the United States in 1947, this time as a visiting professor, friends told him he would be better off not returning home because of the civil war in his country and the probability of a Communist victory. But there was no question in his mind that his future was in China, not in the United States.
        In 1950 he wrote to Mao Zedong and said he was "unwilling to be a remnant of a bygone age in a time of greatness." Mao welcomed the initiative. Joined Agrarian Revolution
        Later that year, Professor Feng went to a village and took part in the agrarian revolution that was destroying the power of landlords -- and in some cases the landlords themselves -- in the countryside.
        "The prestige of the Chinese Communist Party was very high in the 50's, not only politically but, what is more important, also morally," he said at the Columbia ceremony.
        In the 1950's he continued to turn out scholarly books and articles, but much of his research involved reinterpreting his earlier works in the light of Marxism-Leninism. Professor Feng's major book, the two-volume "History of Chinese Philosophy," first published in 1931 and later translated into English, has remained the standard general history of Chinese philosophy. He also wrote a "Short History of Chinese Philosophy" and about a dozen other major books plus scores of articles.
        In the early 1950's, Professor Feng's ideas were widely criticized. His Chinese critics said his views were traditional Confucian views presented in Marxist garb. It was, he said, "rather warm for a time." He was criticized through the late 1950's and into the 60's.
        During the Cultural Revolution, beginning in 1966, he was reportedly harassed repeatedly, but he was later reluctant to discuss that period. Conditions Improve Under Deng
        After Deng Xiaoping's rise to power in 1978, Professor Feng said in 1982, conditions "improved gradually." He said that he was able to pursue his philosophical research without interference and that this was also true for other intellectuals he knew.
        But the question of why he so staunchly defended his decision to remain in China and to reinterpret -- in public at least -- his views in accordance with Marxism puzzled many.
        In the 1920's Professor Feng wrote in his "Philosophy of Life" that he felt socialism was superior to capitalism, saying, "The relative superiority of the socialist system is due precisely to its ability to obtain a greater measure of 'harmony.' "
        In his address at Columbia in 1982, he said, "The present should embrace all of the best of the past."
      