
        William Howard Beasley 3d, former chairman and chief executive officer of Lone Star Technologies, the steel and environment-equipment company based in Dallas, died Thursday at Baylor Hospital in Dallas. Mr. Beasley, a Dallas resident, was 44 years old.
        A company spokeswoman, Judith A. Murrell, said he died of lymphoma-related pneumonia. The illness had forced him to step down as corporate head last year, but he remained president and chief executive of Beasley Enterprises, a family business of private investments.
        Mr. Beasley helped in the development of safe herbicides at Lone Star.
        A native of Dallas, he was an honors graduate of Duke University. He earned an M.B.A. degree and a doctorate in finance, management and law at the University of Texas in Austin, where he was a faculty member from 1968 to 1971.
        Worked in Nixon Administration
        He then joined the Nixon Administration, working in the Treasury Department. While there, he became involved in the bailouts of the Lockheed Corporation and Conrail. From 1973 to 1975, he served as director of the Republican staff of the Senate Committees on banking, housing and urban affairs.
        Mr. Beasley joined the corporate world in 1975 as special assistant to Ben W. Heineman, the head of Northwest Industries. Between 1978 and 1981, he was vice chairman and then president and chief executive of Velicol Chemical Corporation, a Northwest subsidiary.
        In 1985, Northwest Industries spun off the Lone Star Steel Company, the country's market leader in welded steel pipe, to shareholders, and Mr. Beasley became its chairman. At the time, Lone Star was suffering from a severe slump in the oil and gas business.
        Mr. Beasley shrank the company, which in 1988 reported its first profit in six years. Now a subsidiary of Lone Star Technologies, the steelmaker nevertheless filed for court-supervised reorganization under Federal bankruptcy statutes in mid-1989.
        Mr. Beasley is survived by his wife, the former Jean Childers; two sons, William Howard 4th and Scott C.; a daughter, Elizabeth Anne; his parents, Doris Ann and William Howard Beasley Jr. of Dallas, and two sisters, Sharman Beasley of Dallas and Elizabeth Beasley of Houston.
      