
        John Atlee Kouwenhoven, a former Barnard College English professor and author of many works about American arts and society, died on Saturday at Greenrange, a community-care center in Manchester, Vt. He was 80 years old.
        He died of heart failure, his son, Gerrit, said.
        Mr. Kouwenhoven began his academic career in the late 1930's, teaching English at Columbia College and Bennington College. He became an editor at Harper's magazine in 1941, an affiliation he maintained for 13 years. In 1946, he joined the faculty at Barnard, where he taught writing, American literature and American studies until his retirement in 1975. He was also chairman of the college's English department.
        Mr. Kouwenhoven's many books about American art, architecture and popular culture included "Adventures of America, 1857-1900" (1938), "Made in America: The Arts in Modern Civilization" (1948), "The Beer Can by the Highway" (1961), and "Half a Truth is Better than None" (1982). He also studied New York City history, writing "The Columbia Historical Portrait of New York," a comprehensive pictorial work published to mark the city's tricentennial in 1953.  Involved in History Projects
        He was the co-editor of the "New York Guide Book" (1964), and served on the editorial board of the journal New York History. He also contributed many articles to professional journals and popular magazines, was a co-author of five books on American culture and a co-editor of "When Women Look at Men," a compilation of American women's writings about men.
        During his years at Barnard, Mr. Kouwenhoven was involved in many history projects with business, television and museums. He was an adviser to the Children's Television Workshop and created an archives for the New York investment bank, Brown Brothers Harriman & Company.
        Mr. Kouwenhoven retired to a home that he had built in Pawlet, Vt., where he was involved with local historical societies and the Vermont Arts Council.
        He is survived by his wife, Joan, and his son, Gerrit, both of Rupert, Vt.; his sister, Catherine Patten, of Ames, Iowa, and two grandchildren.
      