
        Harry Weinberg, an entrepreneur from Baltimore who became a billionnaire through investments in real estate, mass transit and other ventures, died Sunday in Honolulu, where he had lived since 1968. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Weinberg died at the Queen's Medical Center after an eight-year battle with bone cancer, his family said.
        He immigrated to the United States with his family when he was still a boy. He left school at age 12, worked in his father's automotive repair shop, became a newsboy and, barely out of his teen-age years, began engaging in business deals that brought him enormous wealth.
        He left virtually all his fortune to a family charitable trust to benefit the poor. The gift is estimated to be worth $900 million to $1 billion.  Success in Transit
        Mr. Weinberg made a specialty of sensing an opportunity in businesses that others had given up on. He was particularly successful in the transit field, acquiring control of privately owned municipal transit companies in Baltimore, Scranton, Pa., Dallas, New York and Honolulu, and in real estate, notably in Hawaii.
        He led a group that took over the Fifth Avenue Coach Corporation, a bus line in New York, in early 1962, when it was in desperate financial straits. He immediately demanded a doubling of the fare to 20 cents, fired a score of senior employees and precipitated a strike by the line's unionized workers. The city seized the line. Mr. Weinberg, who was ousted in a dispute with his management associates a year later, eventually realized a profit when a settlement was made for the seizure.
        A decade earlier he had first visited Hawaii and quickly realized that the advent of jet transport would put the islands within easy reach of middle-class people from the United States mainland and the rest of the world. For a bargain price, he acquired island properties that are today worth hundreds of millions of dollars.
        Mr. Weinberg was born in Galicia, then part of the Austro-Hungarian Empire, in 1908. Four years later his father, having come to the United States and settled in Baltimore, sent for the rest of the family. Young Harry, along with his four brothers and sisters, worked in the father's automotive repair shop and learned the rudiments of business. Early Business Start
        A brother, William, recalled yesterday that Harry was a pugnacious boy and spent virtually all his six years of schooling in disciplinary classes. He then went on his own, and by his 20's he was investing in real estate. During the Depression he bought financially troubled properties in Baltimore and held onto them until the tide turned.
        By the time World War II began, he was on his way to becoming a millionaire. Typical of his business acumen was his purchase of a huge store of autmobile tires in 1941, not long before the United States entered the war. He retreaded the tires and sold them for a good profit when tires became scarce because of war demands.
        In 1948, at theage of 40, he retired but quickly became bored and went back into business. He bought bonds in the Baltimore Transit Company, which operated the city's trolley cars and buses, and later sold them at a large profit, beginning his lucrative career in transit.
        A husky man with a quick manner and a gravelly voice, he frequently expressed himself in a jumble of words that resembled the vocal meanderings of Casey Stengel. But all who knew him found him to have a keen, incisive mind only barely disguised by his rough demeanor. Long Workdays
        He customarily rose at 5:30 A.M. and his business day often lasted until midnight. He had no avocations, said his son, Morton, who was left nothing in his father's will.
        "His business was his life," the son said. "He didn't waste his time doing other things."
        The Harry and Jeanette Weinberg Foundation will receive all his fortune except for $3 million left to grandchildren. It will become one of the 12 largest charitable trusts in the United States when Mr. Weinberg's will is probated. His brother William said that a third to half of the trust's expenditures will be in Baltimore.
        The trust's charter provides that 25 percent of its disbursements each year go to charities predominantly benefiting the Jewish needy, 25 percent to charities serving predominantly the gentile needy, and the remaining 50 percent to charities serving the needy regardless of race, religion or creed.
        On his last pilgrimage to Israel, a nation he contributed to since its birth in 1948, Mr. Weinberg visited several nursing homes in Tel Aviv and was surprised to find that they were not air-conditioned. He sat down and wrote a check for $1 million to pay for cooling all nursing homes in Israel.
        Mr. Weinberg's wife, the former Jeanette Gutman, whom he married in 1932, died last year. Besides his son, who lives in Los Angeles, and his brother William, a resident of Baltimore, he is survived by two other brothers, David and Nathan, and a sister, Betty Fine, all of Baltimore; four grandchildren, and one great-grandchild.
      