
        Dr. Erich Heller, a noted scholar and writer on German philosophers and literary figures of the last three centuries and a professor emeritus of the humanities at Northwestern University, died on Monday at a retirement home in Evanston, Ill. He was 79 years old.
        He died of emphysema, his brother, Paul, said.
        In books, articles and lectures, Dr. Heller applied insights of the German historical, philosophical and literary traditions to the struggle of 20th-century mankind to find meaning and salvation in a progressively de-spiritualized world. He sought to reach both specialists and laymen in evoking themes from a pantheon of theorists: Goethe, Schopenhauer, Nietzsche, Spengler, Mann, Kafka, and the poets Rainer Maria Rilke and William Butler Yeats.
        Reviewing the professor's "Disinherited Mind," William Barrett, an associate editor of The Partisan Review, wrote in The New York Times on Oct. 11, 1953, that its passionate thinking was only "one reason why these essays, far from being dry-as-dust abstractions, are thoroughly alive." A third, enlarged edition was published by Harcourt in 1975. Praise for Kafka Study
        In The Times on Oct. 12, 1975, William Phillips, also an editor of the Partisan Review, hailed Dr. Heller's "Franz Kafka," published by Viking in 1974, as "in the best scholarly and humanist tradition" and "one of the more enlightened Kafka studies of recent years."
        Many of the professor's dozen-odd books were published in both English and German. Among them were "The Hazard of Modern Poetry," 1953; "Thomas Mann: The Ironic German," 1979; "The Artist's Journey into the Interior and Other Essays," 1965; "The Poet's Self and the Poem," 1976, and "In the Age of Prose," 1984. The University of Chicago Press published his most recent book, "The Importance of Nietzsche," in 1988.
        Dr. Heller was born into a middle-class family in Komotau, Bohemia, on March 27, 1911. At the age of 24 he earned a doctoral degree in law with honors at Charles University in Prague. Soon after, the Nazis swept across Central Europe and sent most of his relatives to concentration camps and death. He barely managed to flee to England.
        He earned a Ph.D. at Cambridge University and taught at the University of London, Cambridge and the University of Wales. He taught at several American universities from 1953 to 1960, when he joined the faculty of Northwestern, where he was the Avalon Professor of the Humanities from 1968 until he retired in 1979. Taught After Retirement
        Even in retirement, Dr. Heller taught one or two courses each term without additional pay to keep his scholarship fresh and meaningful to students. Several colleagues recalled yesterday that he was revered by many students and remained, despite failing health, a guiding spirit for them and many associates.
        Dr. Heller's awards include a Gold Medal from the Goethe Institute in Munich and a Great Cross of Merit from the West German Government.
        He is survived by his brother, Dr. Paul Heller, also of Evanston.
      