
        Sir Humphrey Gibbs, who as British Governor of Rhodesia vigorously opposed the white Government's declaration of independence in 1965, died on Monday, his family said Tuesday. He was 87 years old.
        Sir Humphrey died of complications from influenza, family members said.
        Sir Humphrey, born in London, settled in the British colony of Rhodesia, now Zimbabwe, as a farmer in 1928.
        Appointed Governor by Queen Elizabeth II in 1959, he served for 10 years, the last four as a recluse in Government House in Salisbury, now Harare, after he tried unsuccessfully to dismiss the Cabinet of Prime Minister Ian D. Smith over the independence rebellion against Britain. Sir Humphrey steadfastly supported Britain's contention that the 1965 declaration to entrench white rule was illegal.  Feared Retribution
        Mr. Smith retaliated by appointing his own representative to the Queen, ordered the press to stop referring to Sir Humphrey as Governor and cut off electricity, water and telephones to Government House. But Mr. Smith did not eject the defiant Governor, evidently fearing retribution from Britain if the rebellion failed.
        The Cabinet, meanwhile, continued to pledge loyalty to the British monarch until 1969, when it decided to proclaim Rhodesia a republic.
        Sir Humphrey resigned his post, returned briefly to a hero's welcome in Britain and then retired to his 6,500-acre farm in Rhodesia.  Honored at Independence
        The man named by Mr. Smith as Sir Humphrey's successor, Clifford Dupont, moved into Government House but was never recognized by the British Government. Lord Soames was sent to Rhodesia as Governor in 1979 to oversee the transition after the Rhodesian Government agreed to majority rule,
        Sir Humphrey was a guest of honor when Robert Mugabe led Rhodesia to independence as Zimbabwe in 1980 after a seven-year guerrilla war.
        Funeral arrangements were incomplete and a list of survivors was not immediately available.
      