
        Rodrigo Moynihan, a painter and teacher and a co-editor of Art and Literature: An International Review, died Tuesday in London after a long illness. He was 80 years old.
        Mr. Moynihan became known in the 1930's as a pioneer of English abstract painting. He later became an associate member of the Euston Road School in London and excelled as a painter of still lifes that were remarkable for their dignity of touch and tone.
        He was in the British Army from 1940 to 1943 and was appointed an official war artist after being injured.  His unsparing though compassionate account of army life in its gloomier aspects was lightened by a memorable portrait (done in the line of duty) of a young woman soldier.
        After the war, he taught at the Royal College of Art, where he was professor of painting from 1948 to 1957. He was much in demand for portraits (notably of Princess Elizabeth, the future Queen, in 1946, and of Prime Minister Clement Attlee in 1947).  Large-Scale Portraits
        Mr. Moynihan also rose to the challenge of the large-scale group portrait in "Teaching Staff of the Painting School, Royal College of Art" (1947-52) and the larger "Editors of Penguin Books." As documents of postwar English life, they have a permanent value.
        In 1957, when he was clearly destined for the topmost ranks of the British establishment, he decided to put his private self above his public self and resigned from both the Royal College of Art and the Royal Academy, of which he had been made a full member in 1954. He left England and lived and worked in Paris, Provence, New York and Canada.
        With his second wife, the painter Anne Dunn, and with the American poet John Ashbery and Sonia Orwell, he edited the quarterly review Art and Literature from 1964 to 1968. It drew with notable discernment on contributors in England, France and the United States.
        Neither in London nor in New York was there an immediate welcome for the radical abstract idioms that he explored after his break with English officialdom. But in 1971 he began to paint large-scale still lifes of whatever happened to be lying around in his studio. Neither set up nor "arranged," these were subjects, taken at random, that he endowed with a paradoxical monumentality. Celebrated Sitters
        Later in the 1970's he also returned to portrait painting, and before long had a whole new reputation in that field. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, the novelist Anthony Powell, the painters Francis Bacon, William Coldstream and Lawrence Gowing and the economist F. A. Hayek were among his sitters in London.
        In 1978 he had a retrospective exhibition at the Royal Academy in London, which re-elected him to membership in 1979. From 1980 his work was shown to general admiration at the Robert Miller Gallery in New York. His 80th birthday, three weeks ago, was marked by ceremonies both at the Royal Academy and at the Tate Gallery.
        Rodrigo Moynihan was born in Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Canary Islands, on Oct. 17, 1910. He was the son of Herbert James Moynihan, a fruit broker, and Maria de la Puerta.
        In 1918, his family moved to London and then to Madison, Wis., where he attended high school. Incipient literary ambitions were abandoned during the winter of 1927-28, which he spent in Rome. Painting came first with him thereafter, and in September 1928 he enrolled at the Slade School of Fine Art in London.
        In 1931 he married Elinor Bellingham-Smith, later to become a distinguished painter of landscape. In 1960 he married Anne Dunn, who survives him, as do two sons, John and Daniel.
      