
       Drew Middleton, who covered World War II and postwar Europe for The New York Times and later served as the newspaper's military correspondent, died quietly in his sleep Wednesday night at his apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 76 years old.
        Drew Middleton, who covered World War II and postwar Europe for The New York Times and later served as the newspaper's military correspondent, died quietly in his sleep Wednesday night at his apartment on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 76 years old.
        The cause of his death was not immediately known, but he had suffered a severe heart attack three years ago and had been in somewhat frail health since then, although he continued to write newspaper columns until his death.
        Moving from sports writing to combat reporting at the outset of World War II, Mr. Middleton spent nearly half a century chronicling what he called ''the huge, changing, kaleidoscopic world of international affairs.''
        He covered Allied forces in North Africa and on several European fronts, reported on peace conferences and war-crimes tribunals at the end of the conflict, and followed postwar diplomacy from both sides of a divided Europe and at the United Nations.
        He then returned to coverage of military affairs and was noted most recently for his analyses of fighting in the Middle East and the Falkland Islands.
        Met 'Heroes and Rogues'
        After stepping down as military correspondent, he wrote a twice-weekly column and occasional additional articles for the Special Features division of The Times Company.
        Down the decades, he also wrote or or was co-author of more than a dozen books and lectured extensively.
        Mr. Middleton once wrote that his career had led him to encounter, ''in all stages of sobriety and sanity, presidents and prime ministers, monarchs and mountebanks, heroes and rogues.''
        Some encounters were inspiring. In his memoirs he described hearing Winston Churchill being ''brutally frank about the situation in the Far East and the Middle East'' at a bleak moment in World War II. But then, Mr. Middleton recalled, ''As I rose to go, he said: 'Do not be downcast. My experience is that the spirit of free men can overcome all.' ''
        Mr. Middleton's reportage was nourished by his fascination, decade after decade, at world events. ''I watched at first hand the greatest military drama of this century, the defeat at grievous cost of Hitler and Nazi Germany,'' he observed in his 1973 memoirs, ''Where Has Last July Gone?''
        His reporting was nourished, too, by special affection for some people, notably the British.
        ''Like most Americans, I had been brought up on the myth that all Englishmen are aloof, monosyllabic, cold to strangers,'' he wrote. But he reported that ''the myth was banished'' on his first night in London in 1939, at a pub off Oxford Street, where he found people arguing about sports.
        Early Career
        Drew Middleton was born Oct. 14, 1913, in New York, the son of Elmer Thomas Middleton and the former Jean Drew. He spoke often and proudly of his Drew connection, which linked him to one of America's greatest theatrical clans, including John Drew Barrymore.
        The young man attended public schools in New York and Orange, N.J., and was graduated from Syracuse University.
        He worked as a sports writer and general reporter for The Poughkeepsie Eagle News and The Poughkeepsie Evening Star in 1936 and 1937 and then joined The Associated Press in New York, which transferred him to its London bureau to cover sports in 1939. But after Germany invaded Poland that year, he began writing about the war.
        It was in London that Mr. Middleton joined The New York Times, in September 1942, after covering the unsuccessful Allied raid on the French port of Dieppe. But he was soon back at the front.
        On Oct. 24, 1942, he and other war correspondents went aboard a United States Navy transport vessel that steamed out of a British port. On the first night at sea, a colonel announced, ''Gentlemen, the Allies are going to open a second front.'' It was in North Africa. Several days later, afer harassment from the Luftwaffe, came American and British landings on the Algerian coast.
        ''We clambered down the net into the landing craft - men from Indiana, Wyoming, Arizona, New York and Georgia,'' he wrote in the Times Magazine. ''They spoke as softly and confidently as their ancestors might have done years ago at Saratoga or Gettysburg.''
        A Silent Battlefield
        Later, Mr. Middleton wrote about a visit to a battlefield in Tunisia where Allied soldiers had fallen, saying:
        ''You can follow the path of those soldiers through the wheat as you could follow the path of Pickett's charge through the summer wheat at Gettysburg. History was made here only yesterday, but today only the wind blows over the rich grass and ruffles the wheat. And there is silence in the graveyards so far from home.''
        In Algiers in 1943, he called on Gen. Dwight D. Eisenhower, who voiced confidence about beating the Germans, saying, ''We have got them now.''
        Mr. Middleton wrote about the Allied invasion of Normandy in June 1944. And after returning there 40 years later, he reported in The Times that ''in the little stone villages and farmhouses, gratitude and affection'' for Americans still ''ran strong and deep.''
        In April, 1945, it fell to him to report, from Paris, that American and Soviet troops had met in Central Europe. ''Two armies of plain men who had marched and fought from the blood-splashed beaches of Normandy and the shattered streets of Stalingrad have met on the Elbe River in the heart of Germany,'' his dispatch began, ''splitting the Third Reich and sealing the doom of the German Army, whose tread shook the world only three short years ago.''
        On the Front Line
        By the end of the war, Mr. Middleton had accompanied American and British forces not only to France, North Africa and Sicily but to Belgium and Germany as well. In October 1944, when troops of the United States Army's First Division advanced into the German city of Aachen, 77 miles east of Brussels, he went with them and was on hand for bitter fighting.
        Describing the battle, Mr. Middleton wrote: ''Machine-gun fire swept the street. Bullets hit the walls of our house and whispered as they ricocheted. This was hard, blind fighting in narrow backyards, or in steep staircases where men met unexpectedly, threw a grenade, or lunged with a bayonet.''
        On Oct. 27, the Germans surrendered Aachen. It was the first important German city to be captured by the Americans. On that afternoon, Mr. Middleton watched German civilian refugees, the first he had seen, trudging away -''haggard men and women, pushing wheelbarrows, pulling small carts.''
        ''One should be compassionate,'' he wrote, but added, ''Compassion is difficult when you think of the roads of France and Belgium black with frightened, tired people, the gray faces of Londoners leaving their shelters to start another day's work, the Arab woman holding her dead baby after the German fighters had been over.''
        Mr. Middleton also managed much mellow bonhomie in that hectic era and later, but he was sometimes gruff. When he was assigned to be The Times's correspondent in Moscow in 1946, his colleague, James Reston, observed: ''Moscow will be good for his temper. It will teach him patience or kill him.''
        In 1947, he moved on to Germany, where he remained until 1953 and was struck by the dislocations of postwar life. Early in his tenure there, he covered the Soviet blockade of Berlin.
        At the end of his time in Germany, Mr. Middleton contended, in an article in The Times Sunday Magazine, that ''the task of the United States'' was to bring about the reunification of East and West Germany ''without endangering democracy in Germany.''
        Yet during that assignment in Germany, Mr. Middleton was also in some ways a perennial skeptic. As he wrote later, in his memoirs, he found Konrad Adenauer, the first West German Chancellor, ''an impressive figure, easy to respect, hard to like.''
        A Love for London
        Late in 1953, Mr. Middleton took up his duties as chief correspondent in London, a post he held until 1963. Those years in London, he said, were the happiest of his life abroad. He fitted in so smoothly that he was invited to Buckingham Palace for tea, and his colleagues sometimes referred to him with a smile as Sir Drew.
        His way of speaking still recalled his New York boyhood, but he had suits made in London, he kept a handkerchief tucked into his sleeve in the manner of some Britons, and he loved British-style club life.
        In those years, Mr. Middleton and his lieutenants in The Times's London bureau chronicled what he sometimes called, as he titled a chapter in his memoirs, ''Britain in the Soft Twilight of Empire'' - that is, Britain adjusting to the dismemberment of its overseas possessions.
        He relished the pageantry and hullaballoo of British elections, fretted at what he saw as excessive self-criticism among his beloved Britons, and savored life in their capital, which he found majestic, even in that era ''of decaying power.''
        From London, he went to serve as Times bureau chief in Paris, at the United Nations and in Brussels. Returning to the United States, he became The Times's Manhattan-based military correspondent from 1970 until his retirement in 1984.
        A World of Contacts
        In that assignment, Mr. Middleton crisscrossed the United States and the world - sizing up armies, bases, weapons, conflicts and policies in the field -and also maintaining an extraordinary range of personal contacts in the fields of intelligence and military affairs.
        He was often in Washington. He went repeatedly to West Point to lecture. He was sought out by military and intelligence personnel of many ranks and nations when they passed through Manhattan. He heeded and noted what enlisted personnel and non-coms had to say - as he had, long before, in the din of battle at Dieppe and Aachen.
        Over the years, he wrote about myriad aspects of the martial world. His dispatches ranged from periodic assessments of NATO and of the readiness of American forces to analyses of military developments overseas, such as the insurgency in Afghanistan, that were difficult or impossible for American journalists to cover on the spot.
        Often, to provide the underpinning for his columns, he went to the scene of the action, and he dug hard for fresh information.
        Arriving in Saigon one afternoon during the Vietnam war, for example, he walked into a short-handed Times bureau and offered to take on the humblest of chores, writing the routine story based on the daily American communique.
        During major conflicts, he wrote day-to-day analyses, making tireless use of the telephone to sound out military experts and informants.
        Covering Falkland War
        When Argentina invaded the British-owned Falkland Islands in the South Atlantic on April 2, 1982, he was on his way to London within 48 hours. The British captains and ensigns he had known in World War II were now generals and admirals. Every evening he would meet them at his beloved Savoy Hotel or at one of London's clubs, and every morning he would stride into the office with valuable insights into the distant combat.
        In one dispatch, he emphasized an underlying weakness in the Argentine armed forces.
        ''Argentina's most urgent military problem,'' he wrote, ''is the acquisition of more advanced weapons from the Western European powers that have sold arms to the country's military establishment for 15 years but that have now imposed an embargo on such sales to Argentina.'' Within weeks, events showed that the Argentines were unable to correct the problem.
        Among the books Mr. Middleton wrote were ''The Struggle for Germany'' (1949), ''These Are the British'' (1957), ''The Atlantic Community'' (1965) and ''Submarine'' (1976).
        Appraising Mr. Middleton's 1983 book ''Crossroads of Modern Warfare,'' in The Times Book Review, Russell F. Weigley, a Temple University military historian, lauded his thoughtfulness and noted that Mr. Middleton admired ''flexible military tacticians.''
        Decorations and Clubs
        Mr. Middleton was an honorary Commander of the Order of the British Empire, and his other decorations included the United States Medal of Freedom. His clubs included the Brook and the Century in Manhattan, the Beefsteak and the Garrick in London, and the Travellers in Paris.
        In 1981 he was elected an honorary life member of the Garrick Club, which was founded in 1831. Its secretary, Martin Harvey, said yesterday that Mr. Middleton was almost certainly the only United States citizen to be so honored in the club's history.
        Mr. Middleton is survived by his wife, the former Estelle Mansel-Edwards, and a daughter, Judith.
        His remains are to be cremated. There will be no funeral service, but a memorial service is to be held in Manhattan, at a time and place to be announced.
      