
        Harold A. Stevens, the first black to sit on New York State's highest court and a former State Assemblyman, died on Friday at his home in Harlem. He was 83 years old.
        Justice Stevens died of a heart attack and was pronounced dead at Harlem Hospital, said a friend and fellow jurist, Justice E. Leo Milonas.
        Justice Stevens represented the 13th Assembly District in Albany from 1947 to 1950. He resigned from the Assembly after his election to the Court of General Sessions, his first judicial position.
        In 1955, he was appointed Justice of the State Supreme Court by Gov. W. Averell Harriman. He was subsequently elected for a 14-year term.  First Black in Judicial Posts
        In 1958, he was named Associate Justice of the Appellate Division of the New York Supreme Court. In 1969, he was appointed Presiding Justice of the Appellate Division's First Department, where he helped supervise a reorganization of the court system and was the guiding force behind a program to build new courthouses.
        He was named to the highest court, the State Court of Appeals, in 1974 as an interim appointment. The next year he was redesignated Presiding Justice of the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court. He retired in 1977.
        He was the first black to hold each of these positions.
        As a judge, Justice Stevens created "sentencing panels" to review cases to avoid sentencing disparities that often reflected differences in race and economic status. He also directed a procedure to mediate medical malpractice cases and ease court crowding.  'No Voice of Protest'
        Harold Arnoldus Stevens was born in 1907 on a 1,000-acre farm owned by his father on John's Island, S.C. Justice Stevens graduated from Benedict College in Columbia, S.C. and obtained his law degreee from Boston College in 1936. In a 1958 interview, he said he had decided to become a lawyer after a 1926 incident in which a black woman and her two brothers, accused of killing a sheriff, were dragged from the county jail in Aiken, S.C., towed through town behind a car, shot and mutilated.
        "There was no voice of protest raised," he said. "Then I was inspired to study law because it was our best bet to eliminate things like this."
        A convert to Roman Catholicism, he received the Papal Pro Ecclesia et Pontifice medal in 1954 from Pope Pius XII for his interracial work.
        He also served as special counsel to President Roosevelt's Committee on Fair Employment Practices, and was credited with forcing a hearing on efforts by Southern railroads and white engineers to oust black firefighters from their long-held jobs.
        A World War II veteran, he received many awards and honorary law degrees, including one from the University of South Carolina in 1988. The school expelled his grandfather in the 1890's after a segregationist Governor, Wade Hampton, decided that no black would graduate from college in his state, said Justice Milonas.
        Justice Stevens is survived by his wife, the former Ella C. Myers; a brother, John Stevens of New York City, and several nieces and nephews.
      