
        Harold Anthony Caccia, a British diplomat who served as Ambassador to Washington from 1956 to 1961, died Oct. 31 at his home in Builth Wells in Wales. He was 84 years old.
        The Foreign Office in London, which reported his death over the weekend, did not give the cause.
        Then Sir Harold Caccia, he was sent to Washington to repair relations badly damaged by the Suez crisis of 1956. The breakdown in mutual confidence arose when Britain and France joined an Israeli invasion of Egypt and sent military forces to capture the Suez Canal, which had been nationalized by President Gamal Abdel Nasser of Egypt.
        Restored Ties
        In the years that followed, he was instrumental in restoring and nurturing the "special relationship" between London and Washington.
        A former colleague and Ambassador to Belgium, Sir Roderick Barclay, noted in an obituary in The Independent of London that Lord Caccia -- he was made a baron at the time of his retirement in 1965 -- had gone to the United States to face a storm of criticism but was able to calm the atmosphere. The Daily Telegraph said he did so with the skilled exercise of "discreet diplomacy."
        Lord Caccia of Abernant, a life peer, left Washington to become Permanent Under Secretary of State and Head of the Diplomatic Service in the Foreign Office. After he retired from that post, he served as provost of Eton College, a position in which he ran run day-to-day operations of his old school through 1977. He also held directorships in a number of large corporations.
        The Caccias belonged to an old Tuscan family. His forebears came to Britain in the early 19th century as "political emigres," and he was born on Dec. 21, 1905, in Pachmarhi, India, the son of an official serving under British colonial rule. In 1918, his father, Anthony, was Secretary of the Supreme War Council at Versailles.
        Numerous Assignments
        Harold Caccia was educated at Eton and at Trinity College, Oxford. He entered the diplomatic service in 1929 and was posted to the Chinese capital and then to Athens and London where, in 1936, he became assistant private secretary to Anthony Eden.
        He was back in Athens early in World War II, but then was attached to the staff of Harold Macmillan, Britain's man at Allied headquarters in North Africa. The Greek civil war once again saw him in that country, and by 1945 his services earned him recognition on the Birthday Honors List. He was knighted in 1950.
        Lord Caccia advanced through a number of posts and was first High Commissioner and then Ambassador to Austria from 1950 to 1954. At the time of his appointment to Washington, he held the position of Deputy Under Secretary in the Foreign Office.
      