
        David A. Morse, a former acting United States Labor Secretary who later, as director general of the International Labor Organization, accepted the Nobel Peace Prize for that United Nations affiliate, died yesterday morning at New York Hospital. He was 83 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Morse died after a long illness that followed a heart attack, a family friend, Joan Strauss, said.
        It was in December 1969 that Mr. Morse -- a lanky, elegant man with deep-set eyes and thick eyebrows -- went to Stockholm to accept the Nobel Prize awarded to the International Labor Organization, which advocated an eight-hour day as early as 1919, brought appropriate technology to hundreds of thousands of poor farmers around the world and served as an international rallying point in the fight for child labor laws, maternity leave, workers' compensation and industrial safety regulations.
        The international organization was the only one born of the Treaty of Versailles after World War I that would survive, and it became incorporated into the United Nations.  Creed of Impartiality
        In 1970, shortly after accepting the Nobel Prize, Mr. Morse resigned after 22 years as the organization's director general. He then formed a law partnership in New York City, Surrey & Morse, which was later merged into the law firm Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue. Mr. Morse served as a senior partner in that firm until his death.
        During his 22 years with the International Labor Organization, Mr. Morse had to reconcile the divergent philosophies and policies of the dozens of member nations, urging them toward the organization's stated goals of promoting world peace, prosperity and social justice.
        He brought to that task what he called his creed of impartiality -- "but not the sort that leads you to lose your own sense of principle," Mr. Morse said in 1957, just before he was about to be re-elected to his second term as director general. That re-election was made possible by a special vote of the organization, which then had 79 members, to change its rules to allow him to succeed himself.
        David Abner Morse was born on May 31, 1907, and was educated in the public schools of Somerville, N.J. He graduated from Rutgers University in 1929 and from the Harvard University Law School in 1932.  New Labor Structures
        After graduating from Harvard, Mr. Morse was recruited into the New Deal as a lawyer in the Interior Department. Over the next nine years, he served as an impartial arbitrator for the milk industry and the cleaning and dyeing industries, as chief counsel of the Petroleum Labor Policy Board in the Interior Department and as regional attorney for the National Labor Relations Board in the New York metropolitan region.
        Shortly after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, Mr. Morse joined the Army. He served as a captain in North Africa and in Italy. After Italy's capitulation, he became chief of the labor division of the Allied Military Government there. In that post, he drafted the plan for replacing Italy's Fascist corporate syndicate system with a democratic labor structure.
        Later, Captain Morse was transferred to England, where he was promoted to major in 1944, became chief of the labor section of the United States Group Control Council for Germany,and was then promoted to lieutenant colonel and acting director of labor for the Military Government Group.
        In September 1945, Mr. Morse returned to the United States. After his discharge from the Army, he was named general counsel of the National Labor Relations Board. Then, on July 1, 1946, President Harry S. Truman named him Assistant Labor Secretary. He later became Undersecretary and, early in 1948, on the death Secretary Lewis B. Schwellenbach, Mr. Morse was appointed acting Labor Secretary.  African Delegates' Support
        In June 1948, Mr. Morse was named chief of the United States delegation to the International Labor Organization. It was during the 105th meeting of the organization's board in San Francisco that month that Mr. Morse was elected director general. He was unanimously re-elected to new terms in that post in May 1957, March 1962 and February 1967. When he eventually resigned, he told a reporter that he was especially proud of the fact that when he first considered resigning, it was African delegates to the organization who urged him to stay on.
        Among Mr. Morse's awards were the United States Legion of Merit, the French Legion of Honor, the Order of Merit of the Republic of Italy, the Order of Merit of Labor of Brazil and the Human Rights Award of the International League for Human Rights.
        Mr. Morse is survived by his wife, Mildred. Mrs. Morse is a granddaughter of Oscar S. Straus, who was Commerce and Labor Secretary in the Administration of President Theodore Roosevelt. The couple, who married 53 years ago, had no children.
      