
        Alex Aidekman, retired chairman of Supermarkets General Corporation, operator of the Pathmark chain and other retail enterprises, died yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital in Newark. He was 76 years old and lived in Short Hills, N.J.
        The specific cause of his death was not made public, but a family spokesman said he had been diagnosed in 1975 as having Parkinson's disease.
        Mr. Aidekman was born to an immigrant couple from Russia on a dairy farm in Maplewood, N.J. He began his career in the food business when he was 18 years old, running a roadside fruit and vegetable stand in Irvington, N.J. with his brothers, Ben and Sam. Co-Founded Shop-Rite
        After service in World War II as a supply officer for the Army Medical Corps in France and Germany, he opened a supermarket in Union, N.J. He was a co-founder of Wakefern Food Corporation a cooperative of grocery-store owners trading under the name Shop-Rite.
        In 1959 he and two partners formed Supermarkets Operating Company, now Supermarkets General, which he served as chairman until he retired in 1986. Besides the Pathmark supermarket and drug chains,the company operates Rickel Home Centers and the Purity Supreme and Heartland supermarkets.
        Mr. Aidekman was active in Jewish community affairs, serving as a leader of the United Jewish Appeal's Food Industry Council and a trustee of the Jewish Community Foundation of MetroWest. Among his family philanthropic endeavors are the Aidekman Research Center for Molecular and Behavioral Neuroscience at Rutgers University, an arts center at Tufts University and a research professorship in neurology at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Shirley Fishman; two sons, Gary, of Madison, N.J., and Kenneth, of Short Hills; two brothers, Ben, of West Allenhurst, N.J., and Sam, of Verona, N.J.; two sisters, Betty Goody of West Orange, N.J., and Esther Goldberg of Millburn, N.J., and four grandchildren.
      