
       Arnaud d'Usseau, a playwright and screenplay writer, died of complications after surgery for stomach cancer on Monday at his Manhattan home. He was 73 years old.
        Arnaud d'Usseau, a playwright and screenplay writer, died of complications after surgery for stomach cancer on Monday at his Manhattan home. He was 73 years old.
        Mr. d'Usseau with James Gow wrote ''Tomorrow the World,'' a 1943 play about a German boy adopted by an American couple who try to overcome his Nazi indoctrination. The play was adapted for the screen by Ring Lardner Jr. in 1944, with Skippy Homeier repeating his role as the boy.
        The two writers also collaborated on ''Deep Are the Roots,'' a 1945 drama about a black Army officer who returns to the South after World War II, becomes the head of a school and falls in love with the daughter of a retired Senator.
        'Lashes Out at Racial Inequality'
        In a review in The New York Times, Lewis Nichols described the play as ''a plea for the understanding and final settlement through justice'' for a national problem. The review said the play was flawed but ''good theater.'' When the play was revived Off Broadway in 1960, Howard Taubman of The New York Times wrote, ''It lashes out at racial inequality with undiminished fury.''
        Mr. d'Usseau and Mr. Gow also wrote a comedy, ''The Legend of Sarah'' (1950). In 1953, Mr. d'Usseau teamed up with Dorothy Parker on ''Ladies of the Corridor,'' a play about lonely women in a residential hotel.
        Mr. d'Usseau, the son of a screenplay writer, Leon d'Usseau, began writing movie scripts in the 1930's. His films include ''One Crowded Night,'' ''Lady Scarface,'' ''The Man Who Wouldn't Die,'' ''Repent at Leisure,'' ''Who Is Hope Schuyler?'' and ''Just Off Broadway.''
        Blacklisted in Hollywood
        In 1953, during hearings by the Senate Permanent Subcommittee on Investigations, Mr. d'Usseau clashed with Senator Joseph McCarthy. Mr. d'Usseau declined to answer the Senator's questions, citing his constitutional privilege.
        Mr. d'Usseau was blacklisted by Hollywood studios. He moved to Europe, living in France and Spain, and wrote for Hollywood using pseudonyms.
        His most recent play, ''Bledsoe,'' about an American novelist in Rome, was scheduled to open on Broadway last spring, but has yet to be produced.
        Mr. d'Usseau also taught writing at New York University and at the School of Visual Arts in New York City.
        He is survived by his wife, Marie-Christine; a son, Emmanuel; a daughter, Guadalupe, of Paris, and three brothers, Leon, Loring and Andre, all of Los Angeles.
      