
        Norman Cousins, who was editor in chief of The Saturday Review for more than 30 years, died Friday at the University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center after collapsing at a hotel in Westwood. He was 75 years old.
        He died of full cardiac arrest, said an official at U.C.L.A., where Mr. Cousins was an adjunct professor in the department of psychiatry and biobehavioral science.
        He had joined The Saturday Review of Literature, as the young magazine was then known, in 1940. He became editor in 1942, and made the magazine a compendium of reportage, essays and criticism about current events, education, science, travel, the arts and other topics. He remained as editor until 1971 and returned to run it again, from 1973 to 1977, before retiring. In that time the magazine's circulation grew from 20,000 to a high of 600,000.
        After his retirement, his fame spread with the publication of his best-selling book "Anatomy of an Illness: As Perceived by the Patient" (Norton, 1979), which presented his contention that a patient's attitude can combat a grave illness. He buttressed that argument by citing his own experience in overcoming a life-threatening form of arthritis.  Rapport With Readers
        In that book, which was the basis of a television movie, he also contended that Americans were oversensitive to pain and were "becoming a nation of pill-grabbers and hypochondriacs, escalating the slightest ache into a searing ordeal."
        As an editor, Mr. Cousins' great strength was his deep and lasting rapport with hundreds of thousands of prosperous, educated middle- and upper-middle-brow people around the country, many of them in college towns. They were rather similar to Mr. Cousins himself: they liked to read, and they were interested in the same subjects.
        Early in his career, Mr. Cousins lectured all over the country.
        "That made it apparent to me that there was a new breed in America," he said, "people who were business executives, or in science, say, who were interested in ideas but not interested in intellectual cliques or literary gossip. I recognized that this was one of the most exciting intellectual developments of our times -- but its manifestations hadn't been acted upon by those in the world of communications."
        He said he had the same tastes as this "new breed," and accordingly, in his decades of building up The Saturday Review, "I just put out a magazine to please myself." Disagreements With New Owners
        Mr. Cousins, a Columbia University graduate who had been an education writer, felt such kinship with his readers as editor of The Saturday Review that he once said, "What emerges from my mailbag each day is the sense that I'm not just dealing with customers but with members of the family."
        Yet he left the magazine in 1971 because of disagreements with its new owners, Nicholas H. Charney and John J. Veronis, who had bought it from Norton Simon Inc. He later called his resignation "the low point of my life."
        The new owners split the magazine into four specialized monthlies while Mr. Cousins went off and in 1972 founded a biweekly magazine, World, which called itself "a review of ideas, the arts and the human condition." He was its editor for one year, and its circulation grew to more than 150,000. Built a New Biweekly
        Mr. Charney and Mr. Veronis invited Mr. Cousins back in 1973 to create a new biweekly magazine, similar to the old Saturday Review, out of the ruins of their four magazines, which went bankrupt that April. Later that year, his dramatic comeback was underscored when the Magazine Publishers Association named him publisher of the year.
        Having returned as owner and editor, Mr. Cousins combined the remnants of the monthlies with World and stayed on from 1973 to 1977 editing the new biweekly. It concentrated largely on science and education and was called Saturday Review/World in 1973 and 1974, and Saturday Review thereafter. In 1978 he was chairman of its board of editors, before becoming editor emeritus.
        Over the years, as a writer and an editor, Mr. Cousins was a champion of nuclear controls, the United Nations and world government, among other causes, and was also a social critic. So strong was his interest in nuclear issues that he helped to arrange for victims of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima -- the "Hiroshima Maidens" -- to come to the United States for medical treatment. He adopted one of them, a daughter.  Vitality Abounded
        Under his energetic direction, Saturday Review also inveighed against pollution, cigarette advertising, violence in the performing arts and a variety of other targets. Some critics, unimpressed, derided what they called its superficiality and such characteristics as its continual praise of the United Nations.
        Mr. Cousins, a boyish-looking man with much vitality, was also an energetic photographer and lecturer. Late in his career, he took up the the adjunct professorship at U.C.L.A. and moved to Southern California from Connecticut, living in Beverly Hills for more than a decade.
        He served as president of United World Federalists, chairman of the board of National Educational Television and co-chairman of the Citizens Committee for a Nuclear Test Ban Treaty.
        He also became involved in the business side of the magazine industry. Everette L. De Golyer, the wealthy oil geologist who had owned The Saturday Review since 1942, transferred its ownership to Mr. Cousins before his own death in 1958.
        Mr. Cousins then retained a controlling interest and passed out the rest of the stock to other Saturday Review staff members. But before long the magazine was sold to the McCall Corporation, which made Mr. Cousins a director and gave him senior editorial posts, and which was itself taken over by Norton Simon Inc. in 1971. After its comeback in the 1970's, the magazine suspended publication in 1982, was revived briefly and then ceased again in 1986.  Studied to Be a Teacher
        Norman Cousins was born in Union City, N.J., on June 24, 1915, the son of Samuel Cousins and Sara Miller Cousins. After attending public schools, he studied at Teachers College of Columbia University and was an education writer at The New York Evening Post in 1934 and 1935.
        In 1935 he joined the staff of Current History magazine, where he served as book critic, literary editor and managing editor. He left for The Saturday Review in 1940.
        During World War II, he was a member of the editorial board of the Office of War Information's Overseas Bureau and edited U.S.A., a government journal that was sent overseas.
        In 1945, soon after the atomic bomb fell on Hiroshima, he contended in an editorial, "There is one way and only one way to achieve effective control of destructive atomic energy, and that is through centralized world government."
        He wrote or edited more than two dozen books, from "The Good Inheritance: the Democratic Chance" (1942) to "Present Tense: An American Editor's Odyssey" (1967), "The Celebration of Life" (1974), "The Healing Heart: Antidotes to Panic and Helplessness" (Norton, 1983) and "The Pathology of Power" (Norton, 1987).
        In his last book, "Head First: The Biology of Hope" (Dutton, 1989), which became a best-seller, he wrote of emotions' effect on the body's resistance to disease, an area of research that took up most of his years at U.C.L.A. In his last years he also a play, "Whisper in the Mind," with Jerome Lawrence and Robert E. Lee, about curing patients through "biological magnetism."
        This year Mr. Cousins received several awards, including the Albert Schweitzer Prize for Humanitarianism and the Japan Niwano Peace Prize.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ellen Kopf, of Beverly Hills; five daughters, Andrea Cousins of Amherst, Mass; Candis Kerns of Oakland, Calif.; Amy Cousins and Sarah K. Shapiro of Jerusalem, and Shigeko Sasamori of Los Angeles; eight grandchildren and one great-grandchild.
      