
        Thomas LeVal Moore, an interior and architectural designer, died on Sunday at his home in Manhattan. He was 69 years old.
        He died of cancer, his son, Thomas B. Moore of Hong Kong, said.
        An invitation by Lawrence White to establish an interior-design department for the architectural firm of McKim, Meade & White after World War II led Mr. Moore to a series of important institutional commissions.
        Among them was a design for the restoration of the historic Percy Pyne mansion at 680 Park Avenue, at 68th Street, when the building passed from the Soviet delegation to the United Nations to the Americas Society, and the redesign of the Edward Pratt House, the headquarters of the Council on Foreign Relations, at 58 East 68th Street.
        Other commissions included the interior design for the Museum of History and Technology at the Smithsonian Institution, libraries for Bowdoin College and Lehigh University, the alumni center at Amherst College and the dining hall at Vassar College. He also did work for the Bethlehem Steel Corporation, including the corporate headquarters in Bethlehem, Pa., and the Seagram Building in Manhattan. A Home of One's Own
        His architectural design work ranged from a palace in Riyadh, Saudi Arabia, to 14 houses at Saltaire on Fire Island, L.I., including the William Johnstone house, an example of the quiet beauty of a Japanese country house, and one for his own family.
        In 1981, he established his own company, Thomas L. Moore Design Associates in Manhattan. Most recently, he completed the designs for a Chicago town house and a log cabin complex in Montana.
        He was a member of the American Society of Interior Designers and a trustee of the New York School for the Deaf.
        He was born in Zanesville, Ohio, and was a graduate of the Parsons School of Design. During World War II, he was an ambulance driver in India for the American Field Service.
        In addition to his son Thomas, he is survived by his wife, the former Nonnie Eilers, and another son, Peter J. M. Moore of Manhattan.
        A memorial service is to be held at 11 A.M. on Jan. 5 at the Brick Presbyterian Church, Park Avenue at 91st Street.
      