
        Paul Tortelier, a French cellist known for his elegant, passionate playing and for his political idealism, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at Villarceaux, France, near Paris, the news agency Reuters reported. He was 76 years old and lived in Nice.
        Mr. Tortelier spent most of his long career in Europe, where he was a professor at the Paris Conservatory, a busy soloist and an author. His master classes for the British Broadcasting Corporation attracted wide attention in 1964. Among his more notable pupils was the cellist Jacqueline du Pre. Mr. Tortelier, on the other hand, was busy in the United States both at the beginning and at the end of his musical life. In 1937, Serge Koussevitzky engaged him as a cellist for the Boston Symphony. From Boston he began an American solo career, including a 1938 Town Hall recital with the pianist Leonard Shure.
        A year later, Mr. Tortelier returned to France and remained. After a successful American tour in 1954, his career here dwindled, and by the time Lorin Maazel invited him again in the 1960's, the Vietnam War was in full swing. Mr. Tortelier, whose sensitivity to world politics was developed by his father in childhood, disagreed with America's stance on the war and refused the invitation. Winning a Prize at 16
        Early in the 1980's Mr. Tortelier returned to concerts in the United States, and after a 35-year absence he played in New York again a year ago. His last New York appearance was in February when he was a soloist with Bruno Weill and the New York Chamber Symphony. Writing in The New York Times, James R. Oestreich noted that Mr. Tortelier "showed no concern for fashionable notions of proper period practice" but that "his playing was on the whole so eloquent that it swept those considerations aside."
        Paul Tortelier was born in Paris in 1914 and won a first prize at the Paris Conservatory at the age of 16. His debut came a year later at the Concerts Lamoureux. His international career had perhaps its biggest catalyst in 1947, when Sir Thomas Beecham invited him to play "Don Quixote" for a Richard Strauss festival in London. He was the author of "How I Play, How I Teach," published in 1975.
        Mr. Tortelier's father was a cabinetmaker and a Marxist and engaged him in political debate at a young age. The cellist acted out his beliefs, retreating temporarily from musical life in 1955 to spend a year on an kibbutz in Israel even though he was not himself Jewish. Political idealism also affected his own compositions, which in their populist style bore such titles as "The Great Flag" (written for the United Nations) and "May Music Save Peace" performed at last February's concert.
        Mr. Tortelier married one of his pupils, Maud Martin, in 1946. They had three children, all professional musicians.
        He is survived by his wife, two daughters, Maria de la Pau and Pomona, and a son, Yan Pascal.
      