
        Gert Schiff, an art historian, critic, lecturer and professor at the Institute of Fine Arts of New York University, died on Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 63 years old.
        He died of lymphoma, said a close friend, Sybao Cheng-Wilson.
        A specialist in the Romantic movement, particularly the work of Henry Fuseli and William Blake, Mr. Schiff was also very much involved with 20th-century art. In 1983, he organized for the Guggenheim Museum the first show devoted entirely to the work of Picasso's later years, now widely acclaimed but at the time considered inferior to that of the artist's earlier periods. He also organized a major show of artworks by William Blake, with a book-length catalogue, that ran at the National Museum of Western Art in Tokyo from September through November.
        In 1959, he published a two-volume study in German of the work of the Swiss-born painter Fuseli that is soon to be issued in an English-language translation in the United States.
        Mr. Schiff had held dual appointments on the faculties of Washington Square College of New York University and the Institute of Fine Arts since 1965. In 1974, he joined the Institute as a full-time staff member, with the rank of professor of fine arts.
        Among other subjects, Professor Schiff taught English and German painting of the 19th century and Central European baroque painting and sculpture. "He broadened our intellectual horizons by forcing us to look at old favorites in a new way, and helped us search out completely unknown and forgotten corners of the history of art," said Prof. Edward Sullivan, chairman of the department of fine arts at New York University, a friend and former student of Mr. Schiff.
        Born in Oldenburg, Germany, on Dec. 24, 1926, to a lawyer and his wife, Maria Martinsen, an actress, Mr. Schiff graduated from the Humanistic Gymnasium there in 1943. During military service toward the end of World War II, he was captured by the French and spent a year in a prisoner of war camp.
        After his release in 1945, he studied law, psychology and graphology, gradually turning toward art history and archeology. He entered Cologne University in 1952 and earned a Ph.D. in art history 10 years later. While a research fellow at the Swiss Institute for Art History in Zurich, he wrote on art and literature for various Swiss and German journals.
        At his death he was Avalon Foundation Professor in the Humanities at the Institute of Fine Arts.
        Mr. Schiff is survived by his mother, who lives in Oldenburg.
      