
        Michael Oakeshott, an iconoclastic British political scientist who was widely embraced by Conservatives though he rejected any ideological label, died on Dec. 13 in the cottage in Dorset, England, where he had lived since he retired in 1969. He was 89 years old.
        "I am a member of no political party," he once said. "I vote -- if I have to vote -- for the party which is likely to do the least harm. To that extent, I am a Tory."
        Although he was an academic for most of his adult life, teaching history at Cambridge University in the 1930's and 40's and political science at the London School of Economics in the 50's and 60's, Mr. Oakeshott was influential in Britain's politics through his writings and teaching.
        In his years at Cambridge, he established solidly conservative credentials with books on the thinking of Thomas Hobbes and other philosophers. But in 1936, he produced a tome, "A Guide to the Classics," addressed not to academia but to devotees of horse racing. In the Leftists' House
        In 1950, his appointment to the professorial chair at the London School of Economics that had been occupied by Harold Laski, a noted leftist, startled the academic world. The school, called "a breeder of radicals" by Tories, had been founded by Sidney Webb and other Fabian Socialists and had been the domain of such leftist stalwarts as Bertrand Russell, Clement Attlee and Philip Noel-Baker.
        Mr. Oakeshott nevertheless found a home at the school and continued to be regarded a guru of the right wing in Britain. He wrote "Rationalism and Politics," published in 1972, "On Human Conduct" (1975) and "Essays on Learning and Teaching" (1989).
        Politics, he said, is the art of combating recurrent tyrannies. The state, he maintained, does not exist to provide wealth and well-being for its citizens.
        Mr. Oakeshott was born in Chelmsfield, Kent, and was a graduate of Goville and Caius College, Cambridge. In World War II he enlisted in the Army and served for five years in a unit whose mission was to penetrate close to enemy positions to report on whether artillery fire was hitting its targets.
        After the war, he returned to academic life and continued to teach until 1969, when he retired to live in a tiny cottage in the village of Swanage in Dorset. In his last book, "The Voice of Liberal Learning," published last year, he argued against setting down general rules for political conduct.
        His wife, the former Esther O'Neill, survives.
      