
        Gershom G. Schocken, an influential Israeli journalist who was the editor and publisher of the daily newspaper Haaretz for half a century, died on Saturday at Shiba Medical Center outside Tel Aviv, where he lived. He was 78 years old.
        He died of cancer of the liver, a family spokesman said.
        Mr. Schocken, who left Germany with his family when Hitler seized power in 1933, was noted for a fiercely independent spirit. He championed a free, uncensored press, a liberalized, mixed economy and civil rights for both Jews and Arabs.
        His newspaper at times opposed virtually every Israeli Government for decades. The independent Hebrew-language daily generally refrained from endorsing political candidates and parties, was usually linked with the liberal, educated middle class and tended toward dovishness on security issues.
        Mr. Schocken repeatedly, and fruitlessly, urged Israelis to adopt a constitution, opposed religious conformism among Jews and battled what he considered to be violations of human rights in the occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip.
        The journalist flirted briefly with politics as a founder of the Progressive Party, which was dominated by German Jewish intellectuals. He represented the party in Parliament from 1955 until 1959, when he quit politics.
        In 1983, Mr. Schocken was named International Editor of the Year by the American-based World Press Review, which compiles articles from around the globe each month, for his newpaper's "excellence in coverage of Israel's invasion of Lebanon in 1982."
        Amos Elon, an Israeli writer who started his career with Mr. Schocken, said yesterday, "He believed fiercely in a press independent of governments." He was a man of great dedication, professionalism and culture who fought for "liberalizing Israel's economy" and opposed "monopoly of power," said Mr. Elon, who was reached in Jerusalem by telephone.
        Mr. Schocken came to believe "in the last five years that Israel must make peace with the Palestinians and those whom the Palestinians consider their representatives and that occupation of the Gaza Strip and the West Bank is a corrupting influence for Israel," Mr. Elon said.
        Alfred Gottschalk, president of the Hebrew Union College, said yesterday by telephone from Cincinnati that Mr. Schocken was "a dedicated patron of scholarship who created a great newspaper with an international perspective and who was courageous in a continuing struggle against censorship."
        Gershom Gustav Schocken was born in Zwickau, Germany, on Sept. 29, 1912. He studied economics at the University of Heidelberg and later at the London School of Economics. After the family moved to British-controlled Palestine in 1933, his father, Salman, a businessman and publisher, bought the Tel Aviv newpaper Haaretz.
        The son soon became its editor and publisher, building Haaretz into a major national voice and leading it until his death. He also headed the Schocken Group, composed of a second daily and 13 regional weeklies throughout Israel.
        The rest of his family soon settled in the United States, where his father founded Schocken Books. The publishing house, owned and operated by the family, brought Franz Kafka and other Jewish authors into American bookstores. It was bought by Random House in 1987.
        Surviving Mr. Schocken are his wife; a daughter, Rachel Edelman of Tel Aviv; two sons, Amos of Tel Aviv and Hillel of Jerusalem, and eight grandchildren.
      