
        Herbert Salzman, a business executive and merchant banker who served four Presidents in the field of international economics, died yesterday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 74 years old and had homes on the East Side of Manhattan and in Westport, Conn., and Klosters, Switzerland.
        He died of leukemia, his family said.
        Mr. Salzman, who had careers in business, government and banking, also served in 1983 as a New York City commissioner who advised on foreign business in New York City. After that he was a general partner in Bradford Ventures Ltd., a merchant bank that invests in promising companies.
        Born to Russian immigrant parents in Brooklyn, Mr. Salzman attended public schools there and, in 1934, the Reali School of Haifa, Palestine. He graduated cum laude from Yale College in 1938 and also took an advanced management program at Columbia University in 1954.  Joined Father's Company
        Out of Yale, he joined the Standard Bag Corporation, founded by his father, William S. In World War II he enlisted in the Navy as an ensign. He was a lieutenant commander when he returned to civilian life in 1946.
        A vice president of Standard Bag from 1938 until he became president in 1959, he was instrumental in the company's strong growth. When Mr. Salzman turned 50, he sold the company and went into Government service.
        President Lyndon B. Johnson made him assistant administrator for the Agency for International Development in 1966, and the following spring he was put in charge of the agency's new private resources division. That office was created to channel private initiative and capital into projects in poor countries.
        Mr. Salzman's division handled an investment guarantee program, forerunner of the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. A quasi-public body underwritten by Congress, its purpose was to offer American money to third-world nations for economic development while insuring the investment against the risks of political upheaval and expropriation.  Worked With Javits
        One promoter of the program was Senator Jacob K. Javits, a member of the Senate Foreign Affairs Committee, and Mr. Salzman worked closely with him in shaping the corporation. The agency was created by legislation and was to have begun operations on July 1, 1970, but Senator Javits jousted with President Richard M. Nixon over who should run it.
        Mr. Javits warned the Senate that unless Mr. Salzman was nominated, rather than President Nixon's favorite, the Senator would block funds for the corporation indefinitely. A compromise was reached at the end of the year when Mr. Nixon submitted a new list of 12 directors, with Mr. Salzman as executive vice president.
        Mr. Salzman, who was reappointed by President Gerald R. Ford, remained with the corporation until 1976. The following year President Jimmy Carter sent him to Paris as the United States representative to the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, a post he held until 1981.  Held New York City Post
        Mayor Edward I. Koch, as part of an overhaul of his Office for Economic Development, named Mr. Salzman Commissioner of the Office of International Business Development in 1983. He began the job on March 15 but resigned in July.
        At the time he informed the Mayor's office that he considered his mission accomplished by having gauged the extent to which foreigners were doing business in the city and setting forth the ways of keeping them and attracting more.
        Over the years Mr. Salzman served on many governmental and private bodies, including trusteeships at the Studio Theater, the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington and Harvard's Center for International Affairs.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Rita Fredricks; two sons, Anthony David and Jeffrey Jonathan; a sister, Sally Pepper, and two grandchildren, all of Manhattan.
      