
        Carlos R. Goez, the founder of the Pomander Book Shop -- a kind of informal Upper West Side salon that drew literary giants, earnest scholars and neighborhood eccentrics -- died of tuberculosis on Sunday at his home in Greenwich Village. He was 51 years old.
        Mr. Goez had been at St. Vincent's Hospital and Medical Center until Dec. 17, when he asked to be discharged, said Timothy Mawson, his first partner at Pomander.
        A native of Colombia, Mr. Goez studied at Columbia University, worked in hotels in Manhattan and London and taught at the Riverdale Country School in the Bronx and the Trinity School on the Upper West Side.
        In 1975, he opened a bookstore at 252 West 95th Street, naming it for the nearby Pomander Walk, where he then lived. He sold second-hand volumes in fine condition and also sponsored readings. The earliest inventory was based largely on his own collection, including British and American literature, comparative religion and philosophy, which were always among Pomander's strong suits. Mending or Cleaning Books
        The tiny store soon attracted a large following, counting among its patrons writers such as Eric Bentley, Susan Sontag, Adrienne Rich and Robert Payne, as well as moviegoers from the Thalia Theater nearby. In 1979, Mr. Mawson was succeeded as partner by William Hamilton.
        Most often, Mr. Goez could be found at the back of the shop, meticulously mending or cleaning books. From that post, he would make knowledgeable recommendations, laced with trenchant commentary on politics and the passing scene.
        He sold the store in 1986 to Suzanne Zavrian, who continues the business at West End Avenue and 107th Street. After two years in Colombia, Mr. Goez returned to New York in 1988, but failing health prevented him from resuming his book dealing.
        He is survived by his mother, Carmen Andrade, of Medellin, Colombia; a brother, Ramon, of Medellin, and three sisters, Ophelia La Polla, of St. Charles, Ill.; Clara Orrego of Medellin and another whose name could not be learned yesterday.
      