
        James H. Wakelin, a physicist, oceanographer and businessman who was the first Assistant Secretary of the Navy for Research and Development from 1959 to 1964, died Friday at his home in Washington.
        Dr. Wakelin's death, at the age of 79, resulted from prostate cancer, a family spokesman said.
        While serving as Assistant Navy Secretary, Dr. Wakelin furthered oceanography research as chairman of a Government interagency panel and head of United States delegations to international conferences in Copenhagen and Paris. In the Navy in World War II, he helped establish the Office of Naval Research while advancing to rank of lieutenant commander.
        Dr. Wakelin led President Richard M. Nixon's task force on oceanography in 1969 and then served for two years as Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Science and Technology. For decades, he was a trustee of the National Geographic Society and a member of its committee on research and exploration.
        He was a former board chairman of the Oceanic Foundation in Honolulu, former honorary president of the Marine Technology Society, a member of advisory panels for many universities and a dedicated sailor.
        James Henry Wakelin Jr. was born on May 6, 1911, in Holyoke, Mass., where he attended public schools. He earned a bachelor's degree at Dartmouth College, a master's degree in physics at Cambridge University and a doctorate in physics at Yale University.
        Among his business posts, Dr. Wakelin was a physicist with the B. F. Goodrich Company in Akron, Ohio; research director of the Textile Research Institute in Princeton, N.J.; advisory board chairman of the Teledyne-Ryan Aerospace Company of San Diego, and president and board chairman of the Research Analysis Corporation of McLean, Va. He received awards from the Navy, the Navy League of the United States, Dartmouth and Yale.
        Surviving are his wife, Carol; three sons, James 3d of Rumson, N.J., Alan of Sagamore Hills, Ohio, and David of Cape Elizabeth, Me.; a stepdaughter, Lynn Nicholas of Washington; a stepson, William G. Holman Jr. of Manhattan, and 12 grandchildren.
      