
        Foy D. Kohler, the diplomat whose tour as the United States Ambassador in Moscow was only weeks old when the Cuban missile crisis began, died on Sunday at a hosital in Jupiter, Fla. He was 82 years old and lived in Juno Beach, Fla.
        The hospital said only that he had died after a long illness.
        Mr. Kohler, a Soviet specialist and former director of the Voice of America, was Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs when President John F. Kennedy sent him to Moscow in the summer of 1962. At that time, Mr. Kennedy and the Soviet leader, Nikita S. Khrushchev, were once again seeking to steer past the shoals of the Cold War.
        On Oct. 16, 1962, Mr. Khrushchev received the new Ambassador for a businesslike review of long-festering disputes between East and West, particularly disarmament and the divided city of Berlin. Mr. Khrushchev indicated to Mr. Kohler that he was ready for another visit to see President Kennedy, and the trip was expected to come in a month or two.  Outraged Letter From Kennedy
        But on Oct. 23, Mr. Kohler was summoned to the Foreign Ministry to receive a 2,500-word letter, the response to an address by Mr. Kennedy the night before on television. The President, convinced that the Soviet Union had placed offensive missiles in Cuba, had ordered the Navy to head off Soviet ships bound there. He threatened a full-scale attack on the Soviet Union if missiles from Cuba were to strike the United States. The Soviets told Washington through Mr. Kohler that the naval quarantine risked nuclear war.
        In the days that followed, the Ambassador was a conduit in the mostly backstage diplomacy that allowed Mr. Khrushchev to climb down from his public position and recall the missiles. And Mr. Kennedy gave assurances that Cuba was safe from attack.
        Mr. Kohler left Moscow in 1966 to become Deputy Under Secretary of State for Political Affairs. He retired the following year but spent another decade teaching at the University of Miami's Graduate Center for Advanced Foreign Studies.
        Foy David Kohler was born on Feb. 15, 1908, in Oakwood, Ohio. A Phi Beta Kappa student at Toledo University and Ohio State University, he joined the Foreign Service in 1931. His first consular postings were took him to Windsor, Ontario, Bucharest, Belgrade and Athens.  Succession of Assignments
        He spent some years in Washington in the State Department and, by 1944, was assistant chief of the division of Near Eastern Affairs. Then came London, the birth of the United Nations in San Francisco, studies at the National War College, and his first stints in Stalin's Moscow as, successively, First Secretary, Counselor and Minister in 1948-49.
        Mr. Kohler took charge of Voice of America broadcasts in 1949. In 1959, he was named as Assistant Secretary of State for European Affairs.
        He was the author of several books on the Soviet Union and how to deal with the Russians.
        Mr. Kohler is survived by his wife, the former Phyllis Penn.
      