
        The Rev. Roswell P. Barnes, a pioneer ecumenist and former chief of the United States conference of the World Council of Churches, died on Friday at Doylestown Hospital in Doylestown, Pa., where he lived. He was 89 years old.
        His death resulted from a heart attack after a bout of nearly 30 years with heart disease, said his daughter, Margaret Lehrecke.
        Mr. Barnes, a Presbyterian, was a foremost church statesman and member of a dedicated generation of Christian ecumenical architects that brought the world organization of Protestant and Eastern Orthodox churches to life.
        He aided the ecumenical movement from his student years, rising to associate general secretary of both the Federal Council of Churches from 1940 to 1950 and its successor, the National Council of Churches, from 1954 to 1958, when he was appointed executive secretary of the World Council's United States conference until a heart ailment forced him to retire in 1964.  Talent for Shaping Compromises
        Mr. Barnes, an imposing, scholarly cleric with a persuasive, pastoral manner, was admired by associates as a wise behind-the-scenes strategist with a talent for shaping divergent theological views into compromises.
        In announcing his retirement because of illness, the 62-year-old minister exhorted the council's delegates to foster experiments in Christian cooperation "independent of ecclesiastical control" and to maintain "a pioneer spirit in the church." Future eccumenical progress, he suggested then, would be achieved more by day-to-day living and service rather than by matters of faith and theology.
        In his farewell address, on April 22,1964, he told 200 delegates of the World Council's United States conference meeting in Buck Hill Falls, Pa., that the nation's moral prestige had declined because it had used its scientific expertise for mass destruction in two world wars, and that profound questions were being raised about its values. Then he posed the following questions:
        "Why, with our high standards of living, are we so unhappy? Why so many suicides among youth? Why the juvenile-gang warfare? Why the high divorce rate? Why do so many people seek escape from life in alcoholism and narcotics addiction if life is so good? We profess to respect human beings, yet we have a major national problem in trying to achieve equal rights for people of a minority race."  A Family of Ministers
        Roswell Parkhurst Barnes was born in Council Bluffs, Iowa, on July 10, 1901, into a Calvinist family with generations of Presbyterian ministers. He earned bachelor's and master's degrees in English at Lafayette College, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, and a bachelor's divinity degree at the Union Theological Seminary in Manhattan. He was later awarded honorary doctorates by Lafayette and Cedar Crest College.
        After his ordination, he taught English at Blair Academy in Blairstown, N.J., and was the associate pastor of the Park Avenue Presbyterian Church at 85th Street in Manhattan and then pastor of the University Heights Presbyterian Church in the northwest Bronx until 1937, when he accepted his first post with the ecumenical movement. He wrote many articles and two books, "A Christian Imperative" (1941) and "Under Orders" (1961).
        His wife, Helen, died in 1987. Surviving, besides his daughter, who lives in Tappan, N.Y., are a son, Roswell P. Barnes Jr. of Newton, Mass., six grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      