
        Herman Levin, the producer of some of Broadway's greatest hits, including "My Fair Lady" and "Gentlemen Prefer Blondes," died yesterday at New York Hospital in Manhattan. He was 83 years old.
        He died of a stroke, his daughter, Gabrielle Kraft, said.
        Before he became a producer, Mr. Levin was a bureaucrat. With a law degree, he entered the administration of Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia in the mid-1930's and rose through the ranks to become director of the Bureau of Licenses in the Welfare Department.
        When he was 39 years old, he gave up his career with the city to team up with the actor Melvyn Douglas to produce "Call Me Mister," a revue about returning World War II veterans that Lewis Nichols of The New York Times called "one of the cheerful musicals of the year."  Building a Reputation
        After producing revivals of Shakespeare's "Richard III" and Jean Paul Sartre's "No Exit," Mr. Levin produced the hit that was to establish his reputation and fortune.
        "I had never heard of Herman or his then-partner, Oliver Smith," Anita Loos wrote in 1960. "Suddenly they appeared out of nowhere with the idea of making a musical out of my book, 'Gentlemen Prefer Blondes.' "
        Miss Loos wrote that, while she was initially unenthusiatic about the idea, by the time rehearsals began, "I realized it would be one of the brightest phases of my career." It was also one of the highlights of American musical theater and the start of Carol Channing's career.
        Mr. Levin's legal background proved useful when he began tortuous negotiations with the estate of George Bernard Shaw for the musical-theater rights to his play "Pygmalion." In 1956, "My Fair Lady" by Alan Jay Lerner and Frederick Loewe opened and went on to become one of Broadway's longest running and most lauded musicals. 'The Great White Hope'
        In 1968, Mr. Levin produced "The Great White Hope," a biographical portrayal of the fame and persecution of the great black boxer Jack Johnson. In an unusual contractual agreement, Mr. Levin placed the name of the star, James Earl Jones, above the name of Howard Sackler's play, a departure from standard procedure involving an actor appearing for the first time on Broadway.
        Mr. Levin attended the Universities of Pennsylvania and Missouri without graduating, and received a degree from St. John's University Law School in Brooklyn.
        Mr. Levin was married and divorced three times. His only survivor is his daughter, Gabrielle Kraft, a mystery writer from Portland, Ore.
      