
        David Saperstein, a corporate lawyer who helped put together the Securities Exchange Commission and then fought questionable market practices as one of its top officials, died on Friday at Palisades General Hospital in North Bergen, N.J. He was 89 years old and lived in Weehawken.
        Taking office at the height of the country's economic crisis, President Franklin D. Roosevelt demanded prompt action. The job to regulate the banks and stock exchanges fell to the Senate Committee on Banking and Currency and its counsel, Ferdinand Pecora, named as his assistant, Mr. Saperstein, a young lawyer with experience in banking cases and municipal corporations.
        The committee set out to write the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 that created the commission. Mr. Saperstein helped draft the legislation and was at the center of the hearings and investigations that occupied the Senators in 1933.
        Mr. Saperstein's role for the Senate committee grew as the committee stepped up its inquiries into banking and stock market dealings. He supervised the committee staff members in collecting information until he joined the S.E.C. in 1934 as its trading and exchange division director.  Watched Trading Activities
        On Oct. 1 of that year, the S.E.C. took full control of the securities markets. To put bite into S.E.C. regulations, Mr. Pecora chose Mr. Saperstein for the broad knowledge he had gained of the stock exchanges and their ways. Mr. Saperstein's division was charged with watching trading activities on the markets nationwide. His interpretations of S.E.C. rules and regulations deeply affected those activities.
        By 1935, Mr. Saperstein posted a "rogues' gallery" of some 30,000 names to weed out fake stock salesmen and get-rich-quick promoters accused of preying on unwitting clients during the boom days. His division examined applications for registration as securities traders and held hearings on those suspected of shady practices.
        It also drafted the rules for over-the-counter markets and, in general, was a linchpin of the S.E.C. apparatus.
        In 1937, Mr. Saperstein was prominently mentioned as a candidate for Commissioner. But he said consideration for his family convinced him to leave Government service, and he returned to private practice.
        He continued as a corporate lawyer until he retired in 1982 from what was then the firm of Silver, Saperstein, Barnett & Solomon in Manhattan.
        Mr. Saperstein is survived by his wife, the former Louise Lederer; a daughter, Sue Bernstein of Torrance, Calif.; a son, Roy, of Harbor City, Calif.; a sister, Shirley Weinstein of Chicago; six grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      