
        Hubert T. Delany, a justice in the New York City Domestic Relations Court from 1942 to 1955 and an early civil rights advocate, died on Friday at Presbyterian Hospital in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 89 years old.
        He died of heart disease, his son, Dr. Harry M. Delany, said.
        Justice Delany, a Republican, was appointed to family court by Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia after serving for five years as an assistant United States Attorney in the criminal division and as a member of New York City's Tax Commission for eight years.
        Admirers praised the judge for understanding, independence and humanity in his rulings on delicate family issues, but detractors assailed some decisions as too permissive and liberal. Wagner Denied Reappointment
        In 1955, Mayor Robert F. Wagner, a Democrat, denied him reappointment for what the Mayor called his reportedly "left-wing views." Mr. Wagner declined to elaborate, except to say that he was not challenging the judge's patriotism. An article in The New York Times said that Mr. Delany had been rejected because he was accused of links with left-wing and pro-Communist groups.
        A Times editorial supporting his reappointment said in part: "As far as we are aware, Mr. Delany has been offered no chance to disprove or to answer these allegations. Furthermore, his performance as a judge has received high praise from groups best fitted to know, including the Association of the Bar of the City of New York."
        The former justice attributed the Mayor's action to his speaking out for civil rights and against second-class citizenship. Many public figures and other newspapers defended his rulings and his appeals for wider civil rights and liberties for blacks and other minorities. In later decades, he was appointed to lead many New York State and city panels battling for improved and integrated housing, education and health benefits.
        Mr. Delany had been a longtime board member of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and its Legal Defense and Educational Fund, the National Urban League, the 135th Street branch of the Y.M.C.A., Talladega College in Alabama, the Episcopal Diocese of New York and the alumni association of City College. He had a private law practice for many years. Son of Former Slave
        Hubert Thomas Delany was born in Raleigh, N.C. His father, Henry B. Delany, was a former slave who became a suffragan bishop of the Episcopal Church; his mother, Nanny J. Delany, was a longtime teacher in St. Augustine's College in Raleigh, where he received his early education.
        He graduated from the City College of New York in 1923 and New York University Law School in 1926. During his schooling, he worked at tobacco farms in Connecticut, as a redcap at Pennsylvania Station and as a teacher in Harlem elementary schools.
        In 1929, Mr. Delany ran for a House seat from Manhattan's 21st District, which included much of Harlem and Washington Heights. He was trounced, but he struck up an abiding friendship with Mr. La Guardia.
        Surviving, besides his son, who lives in Mount Vernon, N.Y., are his wife, Willetta; a daughter, Dr. Madelon Stent of the Bronx; three sisters, Sadie and Bessie, both of Mount Vernon, and Laura Murrell of Oakland, Calif.; a brother, Henry, of Mount Vernon; six grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren.
      