
        Vladimir Dedijer, a World War II Partisan fighter best known as the biographer of Yugoslavia's Communist leader, Tito, died on Nov. 30 in Rhinebeck, N.Y. He was 76 years old.
        His biography, "Tito Speaks," was published in 1953, five years after Stalin expelled Yugoslavia from the Soviet bloc. More than any other work, the Dedijer book, subsequently translated into 36 languages, explained the evolution of Yugoslavia's independent brand of Communism, unique at the time, and its charismatic leader.
        But Mr. Dedijer, a journalist before and after the war, was, in the spirit of his Serbian ancestors, an independent thinker himself. "It is hard to be a Serb," he said more than three decades ago, "But how beautiful!"
        Although partial to socialist ideas for most of his adult life, he was the sole member of the Communist Party to side in 1954 with Milovan Djilas when Mr. Djilas was deposed by Tito for criticizing a "New Class" of party bureaucrats and advocating the rule of law in socialism.
        On Tito's Staff
        Subsequently, Mr. Djilas was jailed. Mr. Dedijer received a suspended prison sentence of six months, but from then onhe was considered a dissident in the country that had become the first dissident nation in the Communist movement.
        Mr. Dedijer had come to know Tito in 1939 when the Communist Party was still an illegal underground organization, and he concealed Tito several times in his Belgrade home. After the Communists started their Partisan war against German and Italian occupiers in June 1941, he joined Tito's staff.
        As a political commissar with the rank of lieutenant colonel, Mr. Dedijer experienced the suffering and pain of wartime directly. His first wife, Olga, a medical student who had become a Partisan surgeon, died at his side during the battle of Sutjeska Canyon in Bosnia in 1943 after her shoulder was blown away. He himself was wounded then and on two other occasions by German fire. Shrapnel may have been the cause of blindness in one eye, his doctors said. He came to this country recently for treatment of the other eye and was at Dutchess County Hospital when he died.
        Tito made available some of his personal archives for Mr. Dedijer's first book and more for his subsequent writing. But other documents of the longtime Communist leader remained under lock and key, and it was only last year that Yugoslav journalists began to unearth materials showing Tito in a much more negative light than Mr. Dedijer had. Altogether he wrote about a dozen books.  An Interest in Human Rights
        His other lifelong interest was human rights. As a Yugoslav delegate to the United Nations, he helped draft the human rights convention at the end of the war. More recently he focused on the crime of genocide, a cause that led him to accept chairmanship in the 1960's of the so-called Russell Tribunal, named for Bertrand Russell, the British philosopher. Meeting in Sweden, the unofficial tribunal charged the United States in 1967 with having committed war crimes in Indochina.
        Called Vlado by friends and family, Mr. Dedijer was born on Feb. 4, 1914, in Belgrade, the son of a university professor and a social worker. He studied law at Belgrade University.
        He is survived by his wife, Vera; two daughters, Bojana and Milica Dedijer; a son, Marko; a brother, Stevan, and four grandchildren. He will e buried, as he wished, next to two sons who died, Borivoje and Branimir, in Ljubljana, capital of the Yugoslav republic of Slovenia.
      