
        Eric Larrabee, a magazine editor, author, arts administrator, teacher and champion of the arts, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 68 years old.
        He died of prostate cancer, his wife, Eleanor, said.
        An effective public speaker, Mr. Larrabee memorably dramatized the importance of the arts in a widely quoted address in 1974 in which he paraphrased the author Rachel Carson in asking his audience to imagine a "silent spring of the arts."
        Speaking at the Memorial Art Gallery in Rochester, Mr. Larrabee, then the executive director of the New York State Council on the Arts, said:
        "Think first of the ultimate nightmare, of the world in which no songs were sung, in which joy was forbidden, in which a gray drabness was made compulsory -- the world, in effect, of Orwell's 'Nineteen Eighty-Four,' no theaters, no symphonies, no operas, no museums, and also no dancers, no painters, no poets, no one to teach us how to be human." Imaginary Memos
        Also characteristic of the eloquent and often playful manner in which he sought to promote interest in the arts were a series of imaginary memos he wrote from historical figures addressed to contemporary figures while serving as editor of Horizon magazine in the early 1960's.
        In one such article, entitled "Memorandum From Julius Caesar to Robert Moses," which appeared in the March 1959 issue, the Roman ruler announced to the master of New York's parks, streets and public places, "I banned wheeled vehicles from the center of the city." Caesar then suggested that Mr. Moses could make New York more habitable by doing likewise, making the necessary exceptions for "carts carrying holy wine and other necessities."
        Eric Larrabee was born on March 6, 1922, in Melrose, Mass., the son of a professor of philosophy at Union College in Schenectady, N.Y. From Harvard to the Army
        In 1943, he graduated cum laude from Harvard, where he had been an editor of The Harvard Lampoon and a member of the Signet Society.
        Commissioned a second lieutenant in the Army, Mr. Larrabee became a military intelligence specialist and was awarded the Bronze Star medal for his service in Europe.
        After the war, he served as an associate editor of Harper's Magazine from 1946 to 1958; executive editor and later managing editor of American Heritage from 1958 to 1962; and managing editor of Horizon from 1962 to 1963.
        His emphasis during these years, former colleagues said, was on broadening subject matter while preserving scholarly standards.
        After trying his hand at book publishing for a few years, Mr. Larrabee shifted to education with his appointment as a professor of architecture and environmental subjects at the State University at Buffalo in 1967. He later taught at Columbia University and Sarah Lawrence College, and served as dean of the Pratt Institute's School of Art and Design.  A Troubled Term
        His term as executive director of the New York State Council on the Arts from 1970 to 1977 was troubled.
        Although he presided over the agency during a period when its annual budget soared from about $2 million to nearly $35 million, Mr. Larrabee came under attack in the fall of 1974 for the council's delays in disbursing grants to arts organizations. His critics accused him of administrative inefficiency.
        Mr. Larrabee attributed the delays to new legislative restrictions. He refused, he said, to accept what he called the "formula feeding" provisions of a new appropriations act, and he resisted a requirement in the legislation that a list of "primary organizations" be compiled to receive half of the appropriation.
        In May 1977, Gov. Hugh L. Carey asked for Mr. Larrabee's resignation.
        One longtime council member, Dorothy Rodgers, wife of the composer Richard Rodgers, said at the time that Mr. Larrabee was "maybe not the best administrator, but a good spokesman for the council and a hard and dedicated worker."  Worked on Many Books
        In 1977, Mr. Larrabee became president of the National Research Center of the Arts, an affiliate of Louis Harris & Associates that conducted studies in culture and the arts.
        Mr. Larrabee was the author of three books, a co-author of one and the editor or co-editor of four more, as well as the author of numerous articles for national magazines.
        He told Robert Cowley, an editor with whom he worked at American Heritage, that once, when he was casting about for a literary project, Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr. had suggested that he write "the World War II equivalent of 'Lee's Lieutenants,' " referring to the classic Civil War study by Douglas Southall Freeman.
        Mr. Larrabee said he had taken the suggestion to heart. "I read for 30 years and wrote for three and a half," he remarked. The result, in 1987, was "Commander in Chief: Franklin Delano Roosevelt, His Lieutenants and Their War" (Harper & Row), a 723-page treatise that the British military writer John Keegan described in The New York Times Book Review as "the most comprehensive collective portrait of the American war leadership to date."
        Later, the book won the Francis Parkman prize of the Society of American Historians.
        Mr. Larrabee is survived by his wife, the former Eleanor Barrows Doermann.
      