
        Stuart Berg Flexner, an editor, author and lexicographer, died Monday at the Greenwich Hospital in Connecticut. He was 62 and lived in Greenwich.
        Eugene Ehrlich, a friend and co-editor, said Mr. Flexner died of bone cancer.
        From 1980 until he retired in 1989, Mr. Flexner was editor in chief of the reference department at Random House. In that capacity he was the editor of the second edition of the unabridged Random House Dictionary of the English Language, a 2,478-page work that involved 340 lexicographers and consultants over nine years.
        In addition, Mr. Flexner was the co-author with Harold Wentworth of The Dictionary of American Slang (1960), the author of "I Hear America Talking" (1976) and "Listening to America" (1982), and the chief lexicographer of The Oxford American Dictionary (1980). In reviewing "I Hear America Talking" in The New York Times, William Safire called it "a masterpiece of cultural history, excitingly laid out and illustrated, that slams home the point that spoken English, especially the words considered non-standard by lexicographers, is the wellspring of American expression."
        On the other hand, some critics thought Mr. Flexner did not hold to rigorous enough standards of usage. In his review in The New York Times Book Review of the second edition of the unabridged Random House Dictionary of the English Language, William Arrowsmith, a professor of classics at Boston University, complained that the dictionary tended to be permissive toward sloppy, vulgar and imprecise usage. "If present usage is increasingly barbarous," Professor Arrowsmith asked, "why should this barbarism be embalmed and hailed by lexicographers?"
        Born in Jacksonville, Ill., on March 22, 1928, Mr. Flexner grew up in Louisville, Ky., and graduated from the University of Louisville with a bachelor's and a master's degree. He also attended Cornell University from 1950 to 1952. Before joining Random House in 1964, he was the managing editor of the Macmillan college division.
        Mr. Flexner was a senior editor of The Random House Dictionary of the English Language, Unabridged Edition (1966). He was the managing editor of the first edition of The Random House College Dictionary (1968) and the editor in chief of The Random House School Dictionary (1970). In 1972 he left the company in 1972 to write books and lecture on the language, and he became a founding member of the Hudson Group, an organization of writers, editors and lexicographers in Pleasantville, N.Y.
        When Mr. Flexner returned to Random House in 1979, he did so to work on the second edition of The Random House Dictionary of the English Language. When Jess Stein retired as editor in chief in 1982, M. Flexner succeeded him. The revision was published in 1987.
        He is survived by his wife, Doris Hurcomb Flexner; a daughter, Jennifer Leigh Flexner, and a son, Geoffrey Stuart Flexner, all of Greenwich; his mother, Gertrude Berg Flexner, and a sister, Rosa Lee Fleischaker, both of Louisville.
        The funeral will be private, but friends will gather at the Hyatt Regency Hotel in Greenwich at 1 P.M. Saturday.
      