
        Edward Binns, a character actor whose roles ranged from playing a television detective to portraying classical figures, died on Tuesday in Brewster, N.Y. He was 74 years old.
        He died of a heart attack while his wife, the actress Elizabeth Franz, was driving to their home in Warren, Conn., from Manhattan, a family spokesman said.
        Mr. Binns, a forceful actor with a gravelly voice, created dozens of authoritative and working-class characters during 40 years. On Broadway, he was a dedicated Army officer in "Command Decision" in 1947, and he also had featured roles in "The Detective Story," "Caligula" and "Ghosts." Over the years, he also starred in many plays in regional theaters.  As a Detective
        On television, he appeared in hundreds of live plays in the 1950's. He also starred in the police series "Brenner" as a seasoned detective guiding his rookie son on the mean streets of New York. The series ran from 1959 to 1964. He was in many episodes of "The Defenders" and in the series "The Doctors and the Nurses" and "It Takes a Thief."
        In films, Mr. Binns was the every man type of juror, alternately sympathetic and prejudiced, in 1957 in "12 Angry Men," Reginald Rose's landmark drama of a murder trial. Other films included "Teresa" (1951), "Compulsion" (1959), "North by Northwest" (1959), "Fail Safe" (1964), "Patton" (1970) and "The Verdict" (1982).
        The actor was born in Philadelphia on Sept. 12, 1916. He graduated from the Westtown School in West Chester, Pa., and Pennsylvania State University. With Voice-Over Commercials
        He learned his craft in the Cleveland Playhouse and at the Actors Studio. In later years, besides acting and teaching, he did many narrations and voice-over commercials for such sponsors as Amtrak and the United Way.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by three daughters, Nancy, of Warren, Judy, of Orlando, Fla., and Bridgett Banham of Spain; a brother, John, of Lively, Pa., and five granddaughters.
      