
        Howard A. Schneiderman, an expert in transforming plants through genetic alteration and who led the Monsanto Company to invest millions of dollars in the industrialization of this technology, died Wednesday at Barnes Hospital in St. Louis. He was 63 years old and lived in Clayton, Mo.
        He died of complications associated with leukemia, a spokesman for Monsanto said.
        Dr. Schneiderman was chief scientist and senior vice president of research and develoment at Monsanto, the country's fifth largest chemical producer, based in St. Louis. A scientist of enormous energy, he played a major role in setting the company's course for the 21st century.
        Dr. Schneiderman helped to persuade Monsanto to use the profits from the older chemical agricultural technology to support research and development in the new technology of mixing genes from different species to develop new crops, veterinary drugs and other products.  'A Major Figure in Science'
        Guiding the company's investments of nearly $1 billion over the last decade, Dr. Schneiderman developed Monsanto's Life Sciences Research Center for Biotechnology Research in Chesterfield, Mo. He also initiated successful research collaborations with several universities, including Washington University in St. Louis and Oxford in England.
        "Dr. Schneiderman held central roles in both the arena of academic research and in the industrial sector," said Frank Press, president of the National Academy of Sciences. "He knew that American industry needed to be competitive and the government policies necessary to achieve the goal. He was a major figure in American science."
        Through genetic engineering, Dr. Schneiderman said, the chromosomes of plants and animals could be manipulated to produce even greater profits for the company. Dr. Schneiderman said the transition was inevitable because the new technology was based on an unlimited resource common to every living organism: genes.
        In pushing Monsanto ahead of its competitors, he made the company a magnet for those skeptical of the approach. The critics held that gene splicing represented a potentially dangerous technology with its own hazards to people and the environment that is still not thoroughly understood by scientists or government regulators.
        Contending that the critics overstated the case, Dr. Schneiderman said that the biotechnological approach was less dangerous than the use of toxic chemicals and drugs in food production. Dean at California University
        Dr. Schneiderman joined Monsanto in 1979 as an advisory director to the company's board and a director of Searle, Monsanto's pharmaceutical subsidiary. Earlier he had been associated with the University of California at Irvine, where he was dean of the school of biological sciences and director of the center for pathobiology. There he conducted research in developmental biology and genetics, including growth control, congenital malformations and cancer.
        He was a member of the National Academy of Sciences, the American Accademy of Arts and Sciences and the Council of the Government-University-Industry Research Roundtable of the National Academy of Sciences.
        He was a director of several organizations, among them the Institute of International Development and Education in Agriculture and Life Science in Beltsville, Md.; the International Society of Developmental Biologists in Helsinki, Finland; the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution in Massachusetts, and the Carnegie Institution of Washington.
        He was the recipient of the Founder's Memorial Award from the Entomological Society of America and, earlier this year, he received the Gregor Mendel Gold Medal from the Czechoslovakian Academy of Science for his work in genetic research.
        Reared in New York, he was a graduate of Swarthmore College and received a master's degree in zoology and a doctorate in physiology from Harvard University, and held seven honorary degrees.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Audrey MacLeod; a daughter, Anne, of Ithaca, N.Y., and a son, John, of Newport Beach, Calif.
      