
        Tunku Abdul Rahman, the gregarious noble who led in the founding of Malaysia and who was for 13 years its first Prime Minister after it became independent from Britain in 1957, died yesterday in General Hospital in Kuala Lumpur. He was 87 years old.
        The Tunku, or prince in Malay, as he was called, had heart and kidney problems, the Government said. He went into a coma on Wednesday.
        As he wished, the Tunku will be buried in accordance with Muslim rites at the Langgar Royal Mausoleum in his birthplace of Alor Star, a Malaysian state. The chief secretary to the Government, Ahmad Sarji Abdul Hamid, said the Tunku would be given a full state funeral. A national holiday was declared yesterday.
        The Tunku was the seventh son of Prince Abdul Rahman Ibni, a sultan who ruled for 61 years in Kedah, a northern principality. His mother was Makche Menjelara, who was half Burmese and half Siamese. She was a daughter of Luang Mira, a chieftan of the Siamese Shan states. Law Student in England
        The Tunku's ancestors ruled a jungle dynasty that continued unbroken through 9 Hindu rajahs and 20 Muslim sultans. But in his student days, there were questions about his ability and predisposition to lead.
        He was unspectacular as a law student in England. He did not gain admittance to the bar there until he was 47 years old. When he made it, he broke the solemnity of the Inner Temple London Law School when he said, "I must be the only student to be admitted to the bar on his silver jubilee."
        Until he returned to his homeland to begin a life of public service, he was known for his interest in poker, golf, soccer, tennis and a red sports car, not as the leader who would have the patience and skill to try to lead the ethnic Malays, most of them Muslim, and the Chinese, most of them Confucian-Buddhist, in a Government that would be at best unwieldy and at worst fraught with violence.
        Yet, he was able to walk the line between the two religions and won the trust of both. He became a success symbol for Chinese-Malay political cooperation and was known for his self-effacing wit and ability to move audiences with simply spoken common sense. In his tenure he was consistently pro-Western and anti-Communist.  Out of Retirement
        The intensity of his desire to see Malaysia succeed was such that in 1969, after violence had erupted between the Malays and Chinese, leaving hundreds dead, he wept uncontrollably on national radio. He retired from public life the next year and lamented over the years that Malaysia had not turned out to be all that he had hoped for.
        But he remained vitally interested in his country. In 1988, in poor health and after having been out of office 18 years, he came out of retirement to criticize the policies of a successor as Prime Minister, Mahathir Mohamad. Despite his confinement to a wheelchair, Prince Abdul Rahman insisted that he be taken all around the nation he had once led, speaking against Mr. Mahathir and for his rivals.
        Prince Abdul Rahman was unsuccessful. Mr. Mahathir won election last October. But his National Front Coalition suffered losses in Kelantan and Sabah, and two cabinet ministers lost their seats.
        Growing up, the Tunku was given the training that befit his background, with lessons of Malay in the morning and English in the afternoon. He entered St. Catherine's College at Cambridge University and received his baccalaureate in 1925. He returned home, but his brother Tunku Ibrahim, then the Regent of Kedah, sent him back to England to study law.
        The Tunku was unable to complete his law studies before World War II. When the war in the Pacific started, he was a district officer in Kedah. He returned to London after the war and was admitted to the bar in 1949.
        He returned to his homeland just as a new federation of the Malay states was starting. He became interested in politics, with an aim to create an alliance between two rivals, the United Malays National Organization and the Malayan Chinese Association. Prince Abdul Rahman was instrumental in negotiating Malaya's independence, and by August 1957 was clearly the most powerful unifying force in the country.
        He was married three times and had a son and three daughters, all adopted.
      