
        Deane Chandler Davis, a two-term Governor of Vermont and an insurance executive, died Saturday at Central Vermont Hospital in Berlin. A resident of Montpelier, he turned 90 years old last month.
        Mr. Davis died of complications after gall bladder surgery, the hospital reported. Active to the end in yet another career, as a writer, he was hospitalized Nov. 19.
        Mr. Davis won the governorship in 1968, when Gov. Philip H. Hoff chose not to run for a third term. Deemed a conservative, he soon became embroiled in a well-publicized quarrel with his own Lieutenant Governor, Thomas L. Hayes.
        Mr. Hayes, in the tradition of Vermont's liberal Republicanism, challenged Mr. Davis's priorities and the Governor's support for the Nixon Administration's Vietnam policy. By 1970, Mr. Hayes announced his own candidacy for the Republican nomination for Governor, and Mr. Davis turned to the Legislature with proposals he hoped would give him a strong platform.  Criteria for Builders
        The heart of his program became Act 250, a sweeping law on land use that turned Vermont into the envy of environmentalists across the nation. Like neighboring states, Vermont was under pressure from housing developments. Law 250 subjected them to 10 criteria applied by a state commission, including things as specific as water pollution and as general as "economic impact."
        Mr. Davis, then the country's oldest governor, also won more money for education, welfare and health care, penalties for the polluters of rivers and lakes, open state primaries, a liberalized divorce law and far-reaching revisions of state government. With his program in place, he easily defeated Mr. Hayes in the Republican primary and turned back a Democratic challenge in November.
        In 1972, he decided against seeking a third term and left office at the end of the year.
        An affable man with a thin mustache, Mr. Davis then turned to writing books on life in Vermont, including his memoirs, which are scheduled to be published in the spring.  Legislator, Prosecutor, Judge
        Mr. Davis was born in East Barre, Vt., the scion of a farming family. He graduated from Boston University Law School in 1922, became a Barre City Councilman the next year and went on to serve as a city and state attorney and Superior Court judge.
        In 1940, he joined the Montpelier office of National Life Insurance Company, one of the country's larger underwriters, as general counsel. He became president in 1950 and was chairman when he was elected Governor in 1968. He also was a past president of the Life Insurance Association of America and board chairman of the Institute of Life Insurance.
        Mr. Davis's first wife, the former Corinne Eastman, died in 1951. The following year he married Marjorie Smith Conzelman, who survives.
      