
        Boris Kochno, whose artistic direction in major companies and scenarios for Serge Diaghilev, George Balanchine and Roland Petit made him the creative spirit behind much of 20th-century ballet, died in Paris early Sunday morning. He was 86 years old and lived in Paris.
        Mr. Kochno, who had been in failing health, died after a fall on Saturday, Helene Sadovska, a friend, said yesterday by telephone from Paris.
        From the moment he met Diaghilev, the famed founder of the Ballets Russes, in Paris on Feb. 27, 1921, Mr. Kochno's fate was sealed. As Diaghilev's secretary, the Moscow-born son of a colonel in the hussars became ballet's most active idea man.
        He wrote the scenarios for some of the most experimental works in the Diaghilev repertory in the 1920's, including many of Balanchine's early ballets. "Prodigal Son," on which he and Balanchine collaborated in 1929, is still performed by the New York City Ballet and by companies throughout the world.
        The Joffrey Ballet, in a rare revival, also performs the 1932 "Cotillon," a Balanchine-Kochno collaboration for the Ballets Russes de Monte Carlo, which was founded after Diaghilev's death in 1929. A Dedicated Collaborator
        How much Balanchine, as a young choreographer, relied upon Mr. Kochno's concepts and organizational skills is recalled in a current exhibition at the New York Public Library at Lincoln Center. The show, "Les Ballets 1933," traces the short life of the avant-garde company of that name that Balanchine and Mr. Kochno founded in 1933. One of the works from that repertory commissioned by Mr. Kochno -- "The Seven Deadly Sins," by Bertolt Brecht and Kurt Weill -- was restaged by Balanchine in 1958 at the City Ballet.
        This type of artistic collaboration in the troupe, which brought in painters like Pavel Tchelitchew and Andre Derain and commissioned scores from contemporary composers like Henri Sauguet and Darius Milhaud, was typical of Mr. Kochno's artistic direction. Ever loyal to Diaghilev, he considered ballet to be a collaboration. "First came the idea, then the music, and then the work of the choreographer and designer," he reaffirmed in an interview in 1985.
        In 1945, Mr. Kochno -- with Christian Berard, the French painter who was his longtime collaborator and friend -- formed Les Ballets des Champs-Elysees, which brought Mr. Petit, a young French choreographer, to international attention. "Les Forains," a ballet for which Mr. Kochno wrote the book and which led to the troupe's founding, introduced the 13-year-old Violette Verdy, who later became one of the City Ballet's ballerinas. Leslie Caron, at the age of 16, made her debut in the same company in 1948.
        Mr. Kochno was born on Jan. 16, 1904, and was educated at the Imperial Lycee in Moscow. He emigrated to Paris in 1920, and in 1922 he wrote the text for Diaghilev's premiere of Stravinsky's chamber opera, "Mavra." In the same troupe he wrote the book for ballets by Bronislava Nijinska("Les Facheux"), Leonide Massine ("Les Matelots" and "Ode," among others) as well as Balanchine ("La Chatte," "Le Bal" and others). Later, he invited Balanchine and Serge Lifar to choreograph for C. B. Cochran's 1930 Revue in London.
        After Les Ballets 1933, Mr. Kochno returned to the Ballets Russes de Monte Carlo, where he advised the management until 1937 and then was involved in organizing the American-backed Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo. After the war, he headed the Ballets des Champs Elysees through 1951. He wrote "Le Ballet" in 1954 and other books, including a recent study of Berard.
        He is survived by a nephew in Paris.
      