
        George Peter Stavropoulos, the fashion designer who was known for his handling of chiffon, died of cancer yesterday at the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 70 years old and had been suffering from lung cancer for some time, said his wife, the former Nancy Angelakos.
        Mr. Stavropoulos made dresses for customers like Lady Bird Johnson, Elizabeth Taylor, Barbra Streisand and Maria Callas, and also sold ready-to-wear through such stores as Martha and Bonwit Teller. His clothes were known for their echoes of ancient Greek statues and were often preferred in white to emphasize their classic look.
        There was nothing typical about Mr. Stavropoulos's career in fashion. He was born in Tripolis, Greece, the seventh of nine children. His father ran a tobacco-processing business.
        Interested in painting and sketching at an early age, he made a ball gown for a sister when he was a teen-ager that he put together with safety pins. It was so successful he decided that sculpting in cloth was an honorable profession. He learned his trade from books and by studying classic costumes in museums, making his debut as a costume designer for plays and the ballet. First Store in Athens
        In 1949, Mr. Stavropoulos opened Nikis B, a small custom salon in Athens, hired the best seamstresses and plied them with questions so he could learn his trade. In a few months he was deluged with customers, both Greek and foreign.
        After marriage -- his wife worked for the United States Embassy in Greece -- he moved to New York. Unable to find a job with an established designer, he went into business for himself with two seamstresses. As soon as the collection of 25 pieces was finished, it was stolen and he had to make everything again. Support From Customers
        His first success was with private customers like Yveta Graf, Isabelle Leeds and Livia Weintraub, who boasted of wearing his dresses for years and who insisted they never went out of fashion. He made the dress Evangeline Gouletas wore when she married Hugh L. Carey, the Governor of New York at the time.
        Highly individual, he refused to copy French designs when he was working in Athens. He often said that if he did not like a customer, he would not sell to her.
        Though he made daytime and cocktail clothes, he was best known for his floating evening dresses, sometimes made of layers of different-colored chiffon. He usually included rustling taffeta, printed organza and fluid crepe clothes, but his most popular dresses were always his chiffons. Most floated gently around the body and none were audaciously bare.
        Many styles had panels designed to flow gracefully around the body or to be draped like a scarf over the head. The dresses were planned to be worn with or without chiffon sashes. He said he made clothes for "ladies," and his fans said they always felt comfortable in his dresses.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Stavropoulos is survived by a son, Peter George, of Manhattan, and four sisters and three brothers, all of Athens. The sisters are Eugenia Zuzulas, Margaret Apostolides and Maria and Angelique Stavropoulos. His brothers are Aristedes, Epaminondas and Emmanuel.
      