
        Irving Riese, a real-estate developer who specialized in recycling failing restaurant chains into trendy fast-food operations, died on Saturday at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, L.I. He was 71 years old and lived in Great Neck, L.I.
        Mr. Riese was stricken on a Great Neck street after accompanying his brother, Murray, on a customary Saturday morning walk. Taken to the hospital, he was revived briefly but died, apparently of a heart attack.
        Over the years the Riese brothers acquired a number of venerable restaurant businesses that had been household names, including Childs, Longchamps, Schrafft's, Chock Full o' Nuts and Mayflower Doughnuts. They reincarnated the businesses under such titles as Calico Kitchen, T.G.I. Friday, Ma Bell, Bagel Factory, Brew Burger and BOSS.
        Their umbrella operation, including more than 300 eating places in the New York area and 100 others nationwide, typically embraces franchise outlets clustered two or three abreast of the Kentucky Fried Chicken, Roy Rogers, Godfather's Pizza and Nathan's Famous chains.
        "We got the idea of treating restaurant properties as theaters," Murray Riese said yesterday. "When a show closes you don't tear down the theater. You look for a new attraction."
        Irving Riese was born in Harlem and was a graduate of DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx. In 1940 he and his brother bought a luncheonette on 40th Street near Madison Avenue for $500, which they later sold for $38,000, and embarked on a career that has included ownership of more than 5,000 restaurants at one time or another.
        The Rieses acquired the Childs chain in 1960. They needed $1 million to buy it, Murray Riese said, but their bank had limited such a loan to $500,000. The brothers split into two entities, borrowed $500,000 each and within six months had made enough from the business to pay off the mortgage.
        In recent years they pioneered the "vertical" restaurant, a building that might contain a franchise Dunkin' Donuts in the basement, a Houlihan's or El Torito on the main floor, additional seating on the third floor and a kitchen above.
        The brothers' promotional penchant sometimes landed them in hot water. Only a few days ago New York City authorities filed suit to force the removal of gaudy plastic banners advertising $2.99 chicken fajitas from Riese outlets on Fifth Avenue in midtown in violation of zoning restrictions.
        Besides his brother, who lives in Great Neck, Mr. Riese is survived by his wife, the former Sylvia Inglehart; two daughters, Ellen Grimes of Manhattan and Judy Zipp of Great Neck, and two grandchildren.
      