
        Norman Cousins, who was editor in chief of the Saturday Review for more than 30 years, died yesterday at the University of California at Los Angeles Medical Center after collapsing at a hotel in Westwood. He was 75 years old.
        He died of full cardiac arrest, said an official at U.C.L.A., where Mr. Cousins was an adjunct professor in the department of psychiatry and biobehavioral science.
        He had joined the Saturday Review of Literature, as the weekly magazine was known in its early years, in 1940, when its circulation was about 20,000. He became chief editor in 1942, and made the magazine a compendium of reportage, essays and criticism about current events, education, science, travel, the arts and other topics. He remained as editor until 1971, while its circulation grew to more than 600,000, and returned to run it again, from 1973 to 1977, before retiring.
        After retiring, he became well known for his best-selling book, "Anatomy of an Illness: As Perceived by the Patient" (1979), which presented his contention that a patient's attitude can combat a grave illness. He buttressed that argument by citing his own experience in overcoming a serious illness, a life-threatening form of arthritis.  Rapport With Readers
        In that book, which was the basis of a television movie, he also contended that Americans were oversensitive to pain and were "becoming a nation of pill-grabbers and hypochondriacs, escalating the slightest ache into a searing ordeal."
        As an editor, Mr. Cousins' great strength magazine analysts said, was his deep and lasting rapport with hundreds of thousands of prosperous, educated middle- and upper-middle-brow people around the country, many of them in college towns. They were rather similar to Mr. Cousins himself: They liked to read, and they were interested in the same subjects.
        Early in his career, Mr. Cousins lectured all over the country.
        "That made it apparent to me that there was a new breed in America," he said, "people who were business executives, or in science, say, who were interested in ideas but not interested in intellectual cliques or literary gossip. I recognized that this was one of the most exciting intellectual developments of our times -- but its manifestations hadn't been acted upon by those in the world of communications."
        He said he had the same tastes as this "new breed" and, accordingly, in his decades of building up the Saturday Review, "I just put out a magazine to please myself." Disagreements With New Owners
        Mr. Cousins, a Columbia University alumnus who had been an education writer, felt such kinship with his readers as editor of Saturday Review that, as he once said, "What emerges from my mailbag each day is the sense that I'm not just dealing with customers but with members of the family."
        Yet he left Saturday Review in 1971 because of disagreements with its new owners, Nicholas H. Charney and John J. Veronis, who had bought it from Norton Simon Inc. He later called his resignation "the low point of my life."
        The new owners split the magazine into four specialized monthlies while Mr. Cousins went off and, in 1972, founded a biweekly magazine, World, which called itself "a review of ideas, the arts and the human condition." He was its editor for one year, and its circulation grew to more than 150,000. Publisher of the Year
        Mr. Charney and Mr. Veronis invited Mr. Cousins back in 1973 to create a new biweekly magazine, similar to the old Saturday Review, out of the ruins of their four magazines, which went bankrupt that April. Later that year, his dramatic comeback was underscored when the Magazine Publishers Association named him publisher of the year.
        Having returned as owner and editor, Mr. Cousins combined the remnants of the monthlies with World and stayed on from 1973 to 1977 editing the new biweekly. It concentrated largely on science and education and was called Saturday Review/ World in 1973 and 1974, and Saturday Review thereafter. In 1978 he was chairman of its board of editors, before becoming editor emeritus.
        Over the years, as a writer and an editor, Mr. Cousins was a champion of nuclear controls, the United Nations, world government and other causes, and was also a social critic. So strong was his interest in nuclear issues that he helped to arrange for victims of the atomic bombing of Hiroshima -- the "Hiroshima Maidens" -- to come to the United States for medical treatment.
        Under his energetic direction, Saturday Review also inveighed against pollution, cigarette advertising, violence in the performing arts and a variety of other targets. Some critics, unimpressed, derided what they called its superficiality and such characteristics as its continual praise of the United Nations.
        Mr. Cousins, a boyish-looking man with much vitality, was also an energetic photographer and lecturer. Late in his career, he took up the the adjunct professorship at the University of California at Los Angeles, and moved to that area from Connecticut, living in Beverly Hills for more than a decade.
        In addition, he was active in a variety of organizations, having served as president of United World Federalists, chairman of the board of National Educational Television and co-chairman of the Citizens Committee for a Nuclear Test Ban Treaty. Involved in Business Side
        He also became involved in the business side of the magazine industry. The wealthy oil geologist Everette L. De Golyer, who had owned the Saturday Review since 1942, transferred its ownership to Mr. Cousins before his own death in 1958.
        Mr. Cousins then retained a controlling interest and passed out the rest of the stock to other Saturday Review staff members. But before long the magazine was sold to the McCall Corporation, which made Mr. Cousins a director and gave him senior editorial posts, and which was itself taken over by Norton Simon Inc. in 1971. Born in Union City, N.J.
        Mr. Cousin's birthplace was, like the residences of many of Saturday Review's readers, a city that was not a metropolis: Union City, N.J. He was born June 24, 1915, the son of Samuel Cousins and Sara Miller Cousins.
        After attending public schools, he studied at Teachers College of Columbia University and was an education writer at The New York Evening Post in 1934 and 1935.
        In 1935 he joined the staff of Current History magazine, where he served as book critic, literary editor and managing editor and remained until 1940, when he joined the Saturday Review of Literature, acquiring the position of chief editor in 1942.
        During World War II he was a member of the editorial board of the Office of War Information's Overseas Bureau and edited U.S.A., a government journal that was sent overseas. World Government Advocate
        In 1945, soon after the atomic bomb fell on Hiroshima, he contended in an editorial, "There is one way and only one way to achieve effective control of destructive atomic energy, and that is through centralized world government."
        He was the author or editor of more than a dozen books, ranging from his first, "The Good Inheritance: the Democratic Chance" (1942), to "Present Tense: an American Editor's Odyssey" (1967), "The Celebration of Life" (1974) and "The Healing Heart: Antidotes to Panic and Helplessness" (1983).
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ellen Kopf, of Beverly Hills and five daughters.
      