
        D. J. DePree, the founder and longtime head of Herman Miller Inc., an office-furniture manufacturing concern noted for its design leadership and labor relations methods, died Monday at the Fountain View Retirement Village in Holland, Mich. He was 99 years old.
        Until last spring, when he moved to Fountain View because of failing health, Dirk Jan DePree had spent his entire life in nearby Zeeland, 20 miles southwest of Grand Rapids on the eastern shore of Lake Michigan, where he was born July 31, 1891.
        In 1923, with financial assistance from his father-in-law, Herman Miller, Mr. DePree bought the Star Furniture Company, where he was general manager, and renamed it for his backer.
        For half a century Mr. DePree operated what became a family business. During the Depression he gambled by producing innovative furniture designed by Gilbert Rohde, one of small group of artisans who broke from traditional styling. Modular Systems
        The gamble paid off, and by 1945 Mr. DePree had phased out Herman Miller's traditional furniture to concentrate on designs by Mr. Rohde, Charles Eames, Alexander Girard, George Nelson and Robert Propst, all of whose work ran counter to the prevailing designs.
        Mr. DePree was responsible for milestones like the "House of Tomorrow" at the 1934 Chicago World's Fair and innovations in the 1940's and 50's, including the modular wall storage system, the molded plywood chair, the molded plastic chair and stacking chairs.
        After World War II the business also shifted from predominantly residential to office furniture and systems. In 1965 Herman Miller introduced the Action Office, a panel system for open office environments that markedly changed the way millions of people work.
        Herman Miller designs have been exhibited around the world and installed permanently in institutions like the Museum of Modern Art and the Whitney Museum in New York, the Smithsonian in Washington, the Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn, Mich., and the London Design Museum. In 1985 Mr. Eames was named the most influential designer of the 20th century by the World Design Congress. Sharing Decisions
        Mr. DePree, and later his sons, Hugh and Max, who succeeded him as chief executives at Herman Miller, were proponents of participative management, in which employees share in decision-making and profits.
        The system, introduced in 1950, organizes work teams, caucuses and councils that extend from top management to the lowest-level employees. Workers are encouraged to challenge their superiors' decisions and to take initiative in proposing new methods.
        Mr. DePree was general manager at Herman Miller until 1949, when he became president. He retired as chairman in 1971.
        His wife, the former Nellie Miller, died in 1982. He is survived by his sons Hugh and Max, who live in Zeeland and are respectively president emeritus and chairman of Herman Miller; two daughters, Merle Schaap of Lansing, Mich., and Betty Van Kley of Zeeland; 21 grandchildren and 40 great-grandchildren.
      