
       Jack C. Massey, a onetime pharmacist from Georgia who became a venture capitalist and headed Kentucky Fried Chicken and the Hospital Corporation of America, died of viral pneumonia yesterday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 85 years old and had lived in Nashville for half a century, wintering in Palm
        Jack C. Massey, a onetime pharmacist from Georgia who became a venture capitalist and headed Kentucky Fried Chicken and the Hospital Corporation of America, died of viral pneumonia yesterday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 85 years old and had lived in Nashville for half a century, wintering in Palm Beach.
        Mr. Massey began his business career as a delivery boy for his uncle's drugstore in Tennille, Ga., where he was born. He received a pharmacist's license when he was 19 years old and bought his first drugstore when he was 25. He built the store into a chain and sold it six years later to become a purveyor of surgical supplies to hospitals and doctors.
        In 1961 Mr. Massey sold the surgical supply business to a subsidiary of the Brunswick Corporation for $1 million, with the goal of retiring to Florida. But he became bored with retirement, and in his mid-50's began looking for a new business challenge. He settled on the Kentucky Fried Chicken Company.
        Fried Chicken Success Story
        He and John Y. Brown Jr., a lawyer who later became Governor of Kentucky, bought Kentucky Fried Chicken in 1964 from Harland Sanders, the honorary colonel who had founded the chain, and embarked on a vigorous expansion program. By 1971, when they sold it to the Heublein Corporation, Kentucky Fried Chicken, now a unit of Pepsico Inc., had 3,500 franchises grossing more than $700 million annually.
        In 1968, Mr. Massey founded the Hospital Corporation of America, a management concern, with three longtime Nashville friends. In a decade it became the country's largest owner and operator of hospitals; Mr. Massey left active management of the company in 1978.
        Again he did not retire. Less than a year later he went back into the fast-food business, acquiring Winner's Corporation, one of the country's largest franchisees of Wendy's International hamburger outlets. When his new acquisition, now called the Volunteer Capital Corporation, had its shares listed on the New York Stock Exchange, Mr. Massey became the first entrepreneur to have taken three separate ventures - Kentucky Fried Chicken and the Hospital Corporation were the others - onto the New York stock list.
        Over the years Mr. Massey was instrumental in starting and financing many businesses, making public offerings of the shares of more than a dozen private companies and providing capital for three dozen others that remained private. He continued to manage his own venture capital firm, the Massey Investment Company, until his death.
        Had Fun Accomplishing
        Of his appetite for financial adventure, Mr. Massey once said: ''Lots of people have more than I do, but not many have as much fun. The fun is in the accomplishing.''
        A founder of Baptist Hospital in Nashville, now one of the South's largest medical centers, Mr. Massey was a trustee for 20 years and its chairman for 12. He contributed to many educational and cultural institutions. Belmont College in Nashville established the Jack C. Massey Graduate School of Business in his name.
        Mr. Massey's first wife, the former Elizabeth Polak, died in 1969. He is survived by his second wife, the former Alyne Queener; a daughter, Barbara Clark of Nashville, and three grandchlidren.
      