
       Herman Wilson, president of the Cooperative Assistance Fund, died on Thursday at a Washington hospital of complications from a fall at his home in the capital on Nov. 27. He was 54 years old.
        Herman Wilson, president of the Cooperative Assistance Fund, died on Thursday at a Washington hospital of complications from a fall at his home in the capital on Nov. 27. He was 54 years old.
        Mr. Wilson, a tax lawyer, led the Washington-based fund from 1978 until his death. The private investment concern was established in 1968 by a group of foundations to make investments in minority and low-income communities. He guided its efforts to funnel flexible capital to minority and other ventures in impoverished communities.
        Earlier in his career, Mr. Wilson was managing director of the fund and senior vice president of Opportunity Funding Corporation, another nonprofit organization. He served voluntarily as chairman of the Minority Business Opportunity Commission in Washington for 10 years.
        In the Administration of President Jimmy Carter, he was a Deputy Assistant Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. Before that he was chief counsel of the Lawyers' Committee for Civil Rights Under Law in Jackson, Miss., and deputy director for field operations of the National Advisory Commission on Civil Disorder, popularly known as the Kerner Commission, which examined race relations.
        Began as Trial Lawyer
        From 1968 to 1970 Mr. Wilson was vice president of Mary Holmes College in Jackson, Miss., and chief executive of the Community Education Extension in Jackson. He began his career as a trial lawyer with the tax division of the Department of Justice.
        He was born in Tyler, Tex., and completed undergraduate studies at Lincoln University in Pennsylvania, he went to Harvard Law School.
        He is survived by four children: Rickey Wilson of Columbus, Ohio; Kerriann Pringle of Dallas; Jan Wilson of Jersey City, and Andrew Gray Wilson of Washington. He also leaves a brother, Andrew Wilson of Louisville, Ky.; a sister, Claudette Reminique of Barksdale Air Force Base, La., and three grandchildren. Mr. Wilson's companion for many years was Rosalind Gray, the mother of Andrew Gray Wilson.
      