
       Keith Haring, an artist whose graphic talents made him one of the stars of the youthful 1980's art scene and whose images could be found as often on T-shirts as in museums, died of AIDS yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 31 years old.
        Keith Haring, an artist whose graphic talents made him one of the stars of the youthful 1980's art scene and whose images could be found as often on T-shirts as in museums, died of AIDS yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 31 years old.
        During his brief but meteoric career, Mr. Haring invented a cartoonish universe inhabited by crawling children, barking dogs and dancing figures, all set in motion by staccatolike lines. This universe was first mapped in the New York City subway system, where the young artist, still a student at the School of Visual Arts, was inspired by what he considered the beauty and immediacy of graffiti.
        But Mr. Haring was a graffiti artist with a difference. Instead of painting subway cars, he drew with white chalk on the black paper pasted on unused advertising spaces, working in a distinctive style that became widely known before anyone knew the artist's identity.
        From these beginnings emerged a style of illustration that became known throughout the world and a mode of distribution that largely circumvented the traditional art gallery system. Mr. Haring said he was committed to being accessible. Not only were his images widely considered irresistible and the morality tales they told easy to comprehend, but his work, at least in the beginning, was also easy to own.
        In Behalf of Causes
        As his art became better known and was shown in galleries and museums throughout the world, his prices rose to as much as $350,000 for a canvas. He also became active in behalf of a number of political and social causes, particularly ones relating to AIDS.
        Many critics dismissed his work as a form of commercial art, but Mr. Haring frequently asserted that he spanned the worlds of high and low art. Among his best-known images were the ''Radiant Child,'' a crawling infant surrounded by rays of light, and the ''Barking Dog,'' an alligatorlike creature that looked as if it had emerged from an Aztec hieroglyphic.
        ''He was one of the most astonishingly unique talents of recent times,'' said Tony Shafrazi, at whose gallery Mr. Haring had exhibited since 1981. ''In a short time after he arrived in New York at age 20, he practically took over Manhattan with his subway drawings, which were an instant series of signs and pictograms that everybody became familiar with.''
        Mr. Haring was born on May 4, 1958 in Kutztown, Pa., and lived in Pittsburgh briefly before coming to New York in 1978 to study painting at the School of Visual Arts. He quickly found the city's ever-present subway graffiti more interesting than art in museums or galleries.
        'Tuneful Celebration'
        Despite arrests for criminal mischief, Mr. Haring continued to create his subway graffiti during the early 1980's. When a collection of photographs of these works was published in 1984, the art historian Henry Geldzahler called them ''a tuneful celebration of urban commonality.''
        A prominent figure in New York's highly visible downtown art community, Mr. Haring socialized with artists and rock musicians like Andy Warhol, Roy Lichtenstein, Kenny Scharf, Madonna, Yoko Ono and Boy George. His art also adorned discotheques like the Palladium in Manhattan, MTV set decorations, a backdrop for a 1985 hunger-relief concert in Philadelphia, walls on the Lower East Side and props for various modern-dance works. His prodigious and far-flung works could also be seen in such disparate settings as Australian museums, Brazilian fishermen's houses and a Swiss department store.
        By the mid-1980's, Mr. Haring was also doing oil and acrylic paintings, as well as wall sculptures and free-standing constructions. He had 42 one-man exhibitions, and was represented in group shows like the 1983 Sao Paulo Bienal, the 1984 Venice Biennale and exhibitions at the Hirshhorn Museum in Washington and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art. His works are also in the permanent collections of museums like the Stedelijk in Amsterdam, the Whitney in New York and the Beaubourg at the Pompidou Center in Paris.
        Mr. Haring was also known for his huge public murals, including a 1985 mural of the Ten Commandments for the Musee d'Art Contemporain de Bordeaux, in France, and a 300-foot painting of a chain of red and black figures on the Berlin Wall, made in 1986. Mr. Haring did murals for Children's Hospital in Washington and Necker Children's Hospital in Paris. He also created posters for the anti-apartheid movement and AIDS-related causes, increasingly making use of apocalyptic imagery.
        Question of 'Commercialism'
        Criticism of Mr. Haring as the embodiment of art world commercialism and hype reached a peak in 1986 when he opened the Pop Shop, a store in the SoHo district of Manhattan that sells T-shirts, toys, posters and other objects with reproductions of his art. He also created advertising images for Absolut vodka and Swatch watches.
        When once questioned about the ''commercialism'' of his work, Mr. Haring said: ''I could earn more money if I just painted a few things and jacked up the price. My shop is an extension of what I was doing in the subway stations, breaking down the barriers between high and low art.''
        Mr. Haring is survived by his parents, Allen and Joan Haring, of Kutztown, and three sisters, Kay Haring, of Shillington, Pa.; Karen Delong, of Topton, Pa., and Kristen Haring, of Kutztown.
      