
       Erik Rhodes, a stage, screen and television actor best remembered for his characterization of continental gigolos in Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers musicals of the 1930's, died of complications following pneumonia on Saturday at the Four Seasons Nursing Center in Oklahoma City. He was 84 years old and lived in Oklahoma
        Erik Rhodes, a stage, screen and television actor best remembered for his characterization of continental gigolos in Fred Astaire-Ginger Rogers musicals of the 1930's, died of complications following pneumonia on Saturday at the Four Seasons Nursing Center in Oklahoma City. He was 84 years old and lived in Oklahoma City.
        Mr. Rhodes created the role of Rudolfo Tonetti, the suave co-respondent in the 1933 Broadway production of ''The Gay Divorce.'' He took the role to London and then to Hollywood where the play became the film, ''The Gay Divorcee.''
        In the next Astaire-Rogers picture, ''Top Hat,'' he was again a passionate Latin, Alberto Berdini. By the time ''Top Hat'' appeared in 1935 he had become one of Hollywood's busier supporting actors, with roles in ''Charlie Chan in Paris'' and ''A Night at the Ritz.''
        Among his later films were ''Two in the Dark'' and ''Second Wife'' in 1936, ''Woman Chases Man'' and ''Beg, Borrow or Steal'' in 1937 and ''On Your Toes'' in 1939.
        An Eight-Line Part in 1928
        Mr. Rhodes was born Earnest Sharpe in Oklahoma City and graduated from the Univerity of Oklahoma. He won a scholarship to study acting in New York, and in 1928 landed his first Broadway role, an eight-line part in ''A Most Immoral Lady.''
        An accomplished baritone, he next appeared in ''The First Little Show.'' The Astaire-Rogers musicals quickly followed.
        In World War II he served in intelligence in the Army Air Forces. In the early days of television he was featured with Gloria Swanson in a variety show called ''Wonder Boy,'' after which he returned to Broadway as a Parisian boulevardier in the long run of Cole Porter's ''Can-Can.''
        His wife, the former Emmala Dunbar, died in 1984. There are no immediate survivors.
        ERIK RHODES DIES
      