
       H. Chapman Rose, a Cleveland lawyer who became an Under Secretary of the Treasury in the Eisenhower Administration and later a personal adviser to President Richard M. Nixon in the Watergate crisis, died of emphysema Saturday at Sibley Hospital in Washington. He was 83 years old and lived in Washington.
        H. Chapman Rose, a Cleveland lawyer who became an Under Secretary of the Treasury in the Eisenhower Administration and later a personal adviser to President Richard M. Nixon in the Watergate crisis, died of emphysema Saturday at Sibley Hospital in Washington. He was 83 years old and lived in Washington.
        Mr. Rose was born in Columbus, Ohio, and graduated from the Hotchkiss School; Princeton University, where he was chairman of The Daily Princetonian, and Harvard Law School.
        In 1931 and 1932 he served as the last law clerk for Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes. In 1932 he started work with the Cleveland law firm Tolles, Hogsett & Ginn, a predecessor to Jones, Day, Cockley & Reavis.
        In World War II he served on the legal staff of Gen. Lucius D. Clay and retired with the rank of colonel.
        After the war, he returned to Jones, Day, Cockley & Reavis and opened the firm's Washington office. In 1953, he was named an Assistant Secretary of the Treasury in the Eisenhower Administration. He was subsequently named Under Secretary of the Treasury. In 1956 he resigned to return to his legal practice.
        Close to Nixon
        In the next two decades, he was a director of the Cleveland Trust Company and Consolidated Natural Gas Company, and was heavily involved in civic and professional organizations. He was a trustee of the Cleveland Area Heart Association, life trustee of the Cleveland Orchestra and a president of the Cleveland Bar Association.
        In the 1970's, Mr. Rose became a trusted adviser and a large campaign contributor to President Nixon, whom he had met when Mr. Nixon was Vice President. In 1973 he briefly counseled the President on the Watergate crisis. In 1974, before a Congressional tax committee, he defended Mr. Nixon's $576,000 tax deduction for the donation of his Vice-Presidential papers.
        After overseeing the merger of his law firm's Washington office with Pogue & Neale in 1983, he served as national managing partner. By the time he retired in 1983, Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue had 17 offices worldwide.
        He is survived by his wife of 52 years, Katherine Cast Rose; a son, Jonathan Chapman Rose, and a grandson.
      