
       Francis Keppel, a former United States Commissioner of Education who was a strong proponent of programs to improve learning opportunities for poor children, died of cancer Monday at Harvard University's Stillman Infirmary in Cambridge, Mass. He was 73 years old and lived in Cambridge.
        Francis Keppel, a former United States Commissioner of Education who was a strong proponent of programs to improve learning opportunities for poor children, died of cancer Monday at Harvard University's Stillman Infirmary in Cambridge, Mass. He was 73 years old and lived in Cambridge.
        Mr. Keppel, a former sculptor who preferred the name Frank and who never bothered to acquire more than a bachelor's degree in a doctorate-conscious profession, was dean of the Harvard Graduate School of Education for 14 years before he was appointed to the country's highest educational post by President John F. Kennedy in 1962.
        For the next four years, into the Administration of Lyndon B. Johnson, he pursued a policy of encouraging the myriad school districts throughout the country to introduce programs aimed at improving the education of children most in need.
        He led the drive for passage of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, which focused resources on classroom assistance for poor children. He was also closely involved in enforcement of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 as it dealt with equal access to education, and he created the National Assessment of Educational Progress.
        Director of Aspen Institute
        Mr. Keppel continued to shape educational policy until his death as the longtime director, since 1974, of the education policy program of the Aspen Institute and as an adviser to libraries, art centers, the World Bank and the governments of many developing countries around the world.
        Mr. Keppel was born into the academic world on Manhattan's Morningside Heights in a house provided to his father, Frederick P. Keppel, who was then dean of Columbia College and later became president of the Carnegie Corporation. He grew up in Montrose, N.Y., where several Columbia faculty members had summer cottages that later became year-round residences.
        He studied at Harvard, where he majored in English literature and was elected to Phi Beta Kappa upon his graduation in 1938. He interrupted his academic studies and enrolled at the American Academy in Rome, hoping to determine whether he could become an accomplished sculptor.
        A year later, after deciding that he could never become a first-rate sculptor, he returned to Harvard as assistant dean of freshmen. In the early years of World War II he was secretary of the Joint Army and Navy Committee on Welfare and Recreation before enlisting in the Army and rising from private to first lieutenant.
        Pioneer Influence at Harvard
        In 1948, at the age of 32, Mr. Keppel was appointed dean of Harvard's Graduate School of Education, where he sponsored experimental programs in team teaching, programmed learning, the use of television in education and curriculum reform. He was also a leader in devising Harvard's Master of Arts in Teaching Program, which gave outstanding liberal arts graduates a year of study in education and an extended internship to improve the caliber of those who chose to become public school teachers.
        After he left government service in 1966, Mr. Keppel became chairman of the General Learning Corporation, a joint venture of General Electric and Time Inc. He also participated in a number of educational review boards, including the Fleischmann and Rockefeller Coammissions dealing with education in New York State.
        In 1967 Mr. Keppel was appointed vice chairman of New York City's Board of Higher Education, which supervises the City University. From 1967 to 1973 he was an Overseer of Harvard, and he remained a senior lecturer there until his death.
        He leaves his wife, the former Edith Sawin; two daughters, Edith Drury of Waterbury Center, Vt., and Susan Keller of Winchester, Mass.; a brother, Charles, of Montrose, N.Y., and four grandchildren.
      