
       Gabriel Katzka, a theater, film and television producer, died of a heart attack on Monday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 59 years old.
        Gabriel Katzka, a theater, film and television producer, died of a heart attack on Monday at his home on the Upper East Side. He was 59 years old.
        In 1984 Mr. Katzka created and produced the Emmy Award-winning television mini-series ''Ellis Island,'' adapted from the novel by Fred Mustard Stewart.
        Interested in show business from boyhood, Mr. Katzka began working in production in his early 20's. He was associated with Alexander H. Cohen in at least 10 theatrical presentations, among them ''An Evening with Nichols and May,'' ''Beyond the Fringe,'' ''Baker Street,'' ''Hamlet'' starring Richard Burton, ''Anna Christie'' starring Liv Ullmann and ''Comedians,'' directed by Mike Nichols.
        With Gus Berne and Saint Subber, Mr. Katzka produced the hit comedy ''Barefoot in the Park,'' as well as ''Things That Go Bump in the Night'' and ''Hughie.''
        Active in Films
        In films, Mr. Katkza was involved in the production of ''Kelly's Heroes'' (1970), ''Sleuth'' (1972), ''The Taking of Pelham One Two Three'' (1974), ''Who'll Stop the Rain?'' (1978), ''Meteor'' (1979), ''The Lords of Discipline'' (1983) and ''The Falcon and the Snowman'' (1985). Until recently he served as president of the Vista Organization, a film and television production company.
        Born in Brooklyn, Mr. Katzka grew up in Manhattan and attended Columbia Grammar School. He graduated from Kenyon College in Gambier, Ohio. His early interest in the theater was spurred by his father, Emil Katzka, a trial lawyer who had a financial stake in several hit Broadway productions.
        A large man with a substantial sense of humor and an outgoing personality, Mr. Katzka once - at a lunch with the producer Walter Wanger and the writer Ben Hecht - talked Mr. Hecht into selling him and Mr. Wanger the movie rights to his book, ''Gaily, Gaily,'' for $10. Mr. Hecht signed the contract on a menu. But the two never picked up on the deal, and the rights were eventually resold.
        Mr. Katzka's survivors include his wife, Carol Ward Dudley Katzka; a son, Edward Dudley Katzka, and a sister, Benji K. Green, of Woodland Hills, Calif.
        A funeral service is to be held on Thursday at 6 P.M. at the Frank E. Campbell Funeral Chapel, 1076 Madison Avenue, at 81st Street.
      