
       The Rev. Dr. James Iley McCord, the former president of Princeton Theological Seminary and founder of its Center for Theological Inquiry, died of complications of Parkinson's disease on Monday at the Princeton Medical Center. He was 70 years old and lived in Princeton.
        The Rev. Dr. James Iley McCord, the former president of Princeton Theological Seminary and founder of its Center for Theological Inquiry, died of complications of Parkinson's disease on Monday at the Princeton Medical Center. He was 70 years old and lived in Princeton.
        Dr. McCord headed Princeton Theological Seminary from 1959 to 1983. During that time he increased its endowment to $150 million from $11 million, supervised the building of housing for faculty and students and more than doubled the enrollment.
        In 1986 he was awarded the $250,000 Templeton Prize for Progress in Religion for his work as an educator, particularly for the founding of the Center for Theological Inquiry. The center, modeled on the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, seeks links between science and religion by inviting a handful of scholars to spend up to three years on theological research and discussion. Dr. McCord was named chancellor of the center in 1983 and retired in 1989.
        He was a leader in the world ecumenical movement and as president of the World Alliance of Reformed Churches, worked to unite Reformed and Congregational Churches around the world. He was also chairman of the Consultation on Church Union, a group trying to unite 10 Protestant denominations.
        Preached Around the World
        Dr. McCord was ordained a Presbyterian minister in 1942, shortly after graduating from Austin Presbyterian Theological Seminary in Texas. He served as pastor of Westminster Church in Manchester, N. H. and of the University Presbyterian Church in Austin and as dean and professor of systematic theology at Austin Presbyterian Seminary.
        He headed many committees of both the National and World Council of Churches and lectured and preached around the world. He was awarded honorary degrees from colleges and universities in Switzerland, Canada, Great Britain, Hungary, Romania and the United States.
        He is survived by a son, Vincent, of Santiago, Chile; two daughters, Alison Zimmerman of Cincinnati and Marcia Verville of Washington; a sister, Helen Williams of Meridian, Miss., and eight grandchildren.
      