
       Henry Baker, a New York real-estate broker for more than 75 years and believed to be the oldest active broker in the field in the United States, died of pneumonia yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 99 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Henry Baker, a New York real-estate broker for more than 75 years and believed to be the oldest active broker in the field in the United States, died of pneumonia yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. He was 99 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Baker would have celebrated his 100th birthday on Feb. 28. On that evening more than 1,000 prominent members of the industry from all parts of the United States were to have honored him at a dinner in the Plaza Hotel.
        Known for his encyclopedic knowledge of the real-estate market, the slim, athletic Mr. Baker customarily went to the offices of the Edward S. Gordon Company in the Pan Am Building five days a week at 8 A.M. and left for home at 4 P.M. He had joined the Gordon organization, one of the city's larger realty concerns, in 1978 after working 67 years in his father's and his own brokerage business.
        A vice president at Gordon, he was working on commercial property deals, his specialty, until he was stricken Jan. 9.
        Involved in Big Transactions
        Over the decades, Mr. Baker was involved in many large transactions in the New York metropolitan area, including the 1968 sale of the original General Motors Building, on Broadway at 57th Street, to an investor for more than $10 million. He was twice the broker in the sale of an office building at 565 Fifth Avenue, at 46th Street -for $3 million in 1953 and $25 million in 1984.
        In the last five years he assembled the land for two new Madison Avenue office buildings, at 54th and 56th Streets. He also assembled in his career many plots in the theater district for playhouses and hotels.
        Mr. Baker, who was born in Manhattan and was a 1911 graduate of Columbia College, went to work for his father, H.D. Baker, then a leading Manhattan real-estate broker, and remained in the family business until his father died in 1952. He continued as an independent broker for 26 years before joining the Gordon concern at the age of 88.
        A sports enthusiast from childhood, Mr. Baker was an ardent skier and served as an official at the 1924 Winter Olympics at Lake Placid, N.Y., and the 1948 Olympics in St. Moritz, Switzerland. At tennis he won many club tournaments, including the senior doubles title at the National Realty Club tournament in 1988. Until recently he played squash regularly at the City Athletic Club in Manhattan.
        One Major Illness
        Mr. Baker reported having only one major illness in his life. Two decades ago, when he was 79, he collapsed after an all-day tennis tournament in Westchester County, where he had a home, and spent six months in a wheelchair.
        ''I was cured by acupuncture,'' he later recalled, and shortly returned to vigorous exercise. Until he was stricken three weeks ago, he rose each weekday at 6 A.M. and did calisthenics before leaving for the Gordon offices. At the day's end, he said, he would return to his apartment on Park Avenue, shower and take a nap or read before having ''two or three Scotches and then a simple dinner'' with his wife, either at home or out.
        Mr. Baker had met his wife, the former Pat Rosen, at Lake Placid in 1927 while the two were on vacation. The two were married eight years later, when Mr. Baker was 45 and she was 28. They celebrated their 55th anniversary on Jan. 25, and Mrs. Baker survives him.
      