
       Norbert Schimmel, a collector of antiquities who gave an important group of ancient Egyptian reliefs to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1985, died of pneumonia on Friday at his home in Longboat Key, Fla. He was 85 years old, and had lived for many years in Great Neck, L.I.
        Norbert Schimmel, a collector of antiquities who gave an important group of ancient Egyptian reliefs to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in 1985, died of pneumonia on Friday at his home in Longboat Key, Fla. He was 85 years old, and had lived for many years in Great Neck, L.I.
        Mr. Schimmel, who also backed major archeological excavations in the Middle East, was known in the antiquities field as a discerning collector possessed of a keen eye, who did not rely on curators for confirmation of his tastes. In some 35 years, he developed what is today considered one of the world's outstanding private collections of Mediterranean antiquities.
        He exhibited his holdings at museums throughout the world, and donated objects to many of them. In 1975, 300 works from his collection were shown at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, ranging in time over more than 6,000 years and covering Egyptian, Greek, Roman, Etruscan and Near Eastern cultures.
        'He Did It Without Fanfare'
        ''As a collector he was an inspiration to the antiquities field, in the sense that he quietly and devotedly promoted the appreciation of ancient art through sage collecting and through the generosity he manifested to several collections throughout the country,'' said Maxwell L. Anderson, the director of the Emory University Museum of Art and Archeology in Atlanta. ''And he did it without fanfare or desire for recognition.''
        Mr. Schimmel's gift of 25 limestone relief blocks from the Amarna period in ancient Egypt are in a specially designed gallery in the Metropolitan's Egyptian department. He was a trustee of the museum for many years, serving on the board's acquisition committee until he resigned last year.
        Always modest about his collecting, Mr. Schimmel once told an interviewer that he had unwittingly acquired fakes several times. He was dashed, he said, when a museum curator told him that one of his first purchases, a glass inlay work he thought was a masterpiece, was a forgery. In 1964, he returned two bronze objects to the Greek Government because they turned out to have been stolen from a small museum in Sparta. ''Show me the collector who doesn't get taken,'' he said.
        An Interest in History
        Mr. Schimmel was born in Berlin in 1904 and came to the United States in 1938, where he prospered as a manufacturer of engraving machinery. As a young man he collected contemporary prints, but an interest in history stirred his feeling for ancient art, he said. He began to acquire objects in 1949, soon developing a feel for what was genuine.
        ''Ancient craftsmen made all objects for use,'' he said. ''When I pick up a vase in which the handles are too close to the body to properly accommodate my hands, I know something is wrong.''
        In a collecting field made difficult by export sanctions of countries seeking to preserve their ancient patrimonies, Mr. Schimmel persevered. ''Collectors are born, not made, possessed of an enthusiasm that borders on madness,'' he said. ''But you also have to have luck. The fun of this field is that you pursue an object for quite some time before you're able to get it.''
        In 1960, Mr. Schimmel established the Schimmel Foundation, which has supported libraries and such projects as self-help programs and student charities throughout the United States. In 1981, he sold his business, the New Hermes Engraving Machine Corporation in New York, the world's largest maker of portable engraving machines, and moved to Florida. His wife, the former Evelyn Horowitz, died in 1983.
        Mr. Schimmel is survived by a son, Stephen, of Long Beach, Calif.; a sister, Betty Baronowitz, of New York City, and a brother, Julius, of Roslyn, L.I.
      