
       Victor Lasky, a columnist and author whose outspoken anti-Communist views were the main focus of his writing and lecturing, died of abdominal cancer yesterday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 72 years old and lived in Washington.
        Victor Lasky, a columnist and author whose outspoken anti-Communist views were the main focus of his writing and lecturing, died of abdominal cancer yesterday at Georgetown University Hospital in Washington. He was 72 years old and lived in Washington.
        After World War II Mr. Lasky, a longtime journalist, became a specialist in writing about the growing conflict between the Communist and capitalist worlds. In his books, he sounded warnings against what he perceived to be subversion of American institutions by Communist agents.
        In recent years he lectured and wrote extensively for Accuracy in Media, a conservative group that has accused many leading news organizations of failing to report objectively and of having a liberal bias.
        Mr. Lasky, who was born in Liberty, N.Y., and grew up in Manhattan, was a 1940 graduate of Brooklyn College. He started in journalism as a copy boy for The New York Journal-American and was soon hired as a reporter by The Chicago Sun.
        Years as War Correspondent
        He joined the Army in 1942 and covered the war in Europe as a correspondent for the Army newspaper Stars and Stripes. After the war, he joined the staff of The New York World-Telegram, where he assisted Frederick Woltman in writing a series on Communist infiltration in this country that won a Pulitzer Prize in 1947.
        His coverage of the trial of Alger Hiss, a former State Department official convicted of perjury for denying that he had been a Soviet agent, led Mr. Lasky, with Ralph de Toledano, to write ''Seeds of Treason,'' which became a best-seller.
        He was a founder and the first vice president of the Council Against Communist Aggression, which was organized to lobby for United States resistance to North Korea after the 1950 attack on South Korea that began the Korean conflict.
        In the early 1950's Mr. Lasky became a screenwriter for Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer and wrote ''The Hoaxters,'' which was nominated for an Academy Award. From 1956 to 1960 he handled public relations for Radio Liberty.
        A Syndicated Column
        For nearly two decades beginning in 1962 he wrote a syndicated newspaper column, ''Say It Straight,'' for the North American Newspaper Alliance.
        Among his books were ''J. F. K., the Man and the Myth,'' published in 1963; ''Robert F. Kennedy, the Myth and the Man'' (1968) and ''It Didn't Start with Watergate'' (1977), in which he sought to show that Democrats as well as Republicans practiced ''dirty tricks'' like those exposed in the Administration of Richard M. Nixon. His last book was an attack on Henry Ford 2d, the auto magnate, titled ''Never Complain, Never Explain'' (1981).
        Mr. Lasky is survived by his wife, the former Patricia Pratt, and two sisters, Lee Frankel of Glendale, Queens, and Millie Sayles of Brooklyn.
      