
       Johnnie Ray, a singer whose emotionally uninhibited hit recordings in the early 1950's anticipated the rock-and-roll era, died of liver failure yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 63 years old.
        Johnnie Ray, a singer whose emotionally uninhibited hit recordings in the early 1950's anticipated the rock-and-roll era, died of liver failure yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 63 years old.
        Mr. Ray, who had entered Cedars-Sinai Medical Center on Feb. 16 and had been in a coma for several days, died at 4 P.M., said a hospital spokesman, Ron Wise.
        ''His family and friends were with him at the time of his death,'' Mr. Wise said.  Mr. Ray, whose performing style earned him the nickname ''Mr. Emotion,'' created a sensation late in 1951 with a two-sided-hit that reached No. 1 on the pop charts. The record, ''Cry'' backed by ''The Little White Cloud That Cried,'' sold more than two million copies.
        Overnight, Mr. Ray became a teen-age idol whose popularity at its peak was comparable to the hysteria generated by Frank Sinatra and Elvis Presley, though in Mr. Ray's case, the glory was fleeting.
        Mr. Ray's singing style, which was iconoclastic in an era dominated by polite crooners, had much in common with rhythm-and-blues shouting. In a typical performance he would sing in full voice, breaking up the syllables of a song to accentuate the rhythms and sometimes simulating sobs. His mannerisms earned him ridicule as well as popularity, and he was a favorite subject of impersonators.
        Worked in Nightclubs
        Mr. Ray was born in Dallas, Ore., and grew up in Portland. A childhood accident left him partly deaf. As a young man he worked as a singer and pianist in nightclubs in Los Angeles and in the Middle West. While working at the Flame, an interracial Detroit club, he met the rhythm-and-blues singer LaVerne Baker and her manager, who helped him find his style.
        He was discovered by Robin Seymour, a Detroit disk jockey. His first hit was released on Okeh Records, a blues and jazz-oriented subsidiary of Columbia Records.
        After his initial success with ''Cry,'' Mr. Ray enjoyed a series of hits, none of them quite as popular as his breakthrough recording. They included ''Please, Mr. Sun,'' ''(Here Am I) Broken Hearted,'' ''What's the Use,'' ''Walkin' My Baby Back Home,'' ''All of Me,'' ''Somebody Stole My Gal,'' ''Just Walking in the Rain'' and ''You Don't Owe Me a Thing.''
        Although he had no major hits after 1957, he continued to enjoy a successful international career as a nightclub singer. He appeared in the 1954 movie ''There's No Business Like Show Business.''
        Mr. Ray married Marilyn Morrison in 1952, but the marriage lasted only two years. He is survived by his sister, Elma Money, and several nieces and nephews.
      