
       Vincent Teresa, a colorful, obese New England crime figure of the 1950's and 60's who became a Federal informer and later was a co-author of two books about his underworld experiences, died of kidney failure Wednesday in Seattle, The Associated Press reported. He was 61 years old.
        Vincent Teresa, a colorful, obese New England crime figure of the 1950's and 60's who became a Federal informer and later was a co-author of two books about his underworld experiences, died of kidney failure Wednesday in Seattle, The Associated Press reported. He was 61 years old.
        Law-enforcement officials long identified Mr. Teresa as a lieutenant of Raymond Patriarca, the top Mafia boss in New England.
        Mr. Teresa, while admitting a long career as a swindler and thief, publicly denied he was an organized-crime insider. But in the early 1970's he agreed to be a Federal witness against several mob figures, including Meyer Lansky.
        In exchange for that testimony, he received a 15-year reduction of a 20-year prison sentence on a stolen-securities conviction.
        Gambling Junkets
        In 1971, Mr. Teresa told a Senate investigating committee that in a life of crime that began when he was 15 he had bilked ''suckers'' of several million dollars. One of his most lucrative operations, he said, was organizing gambling junkets to London, Las Vegas and the Caribbean, where he would augment his fees by using loaded dice to mulct his rich clients.
        After testifying at several trials of underworld figures, Mr. Teresa was relocated to the West Coast by the Government and given a new identity under the name Charles Cantino. He then helped write two books, ''My Life in the Mafia,'' published in 1973, and ''Wiseguys,'' published in 1978.
        In 1977 he was invited to Australia to give evidence to a citizens' committee that was fighting drugs and gambling. But he was deported when he arrived because in applying for a visa he had declared he had no criminal record.
      