
       Former President Sandro Pertini, whose open manner and common touch made him one of Italy's most beloved leaders, died in his sleep Saturday night at his apartment by the Trevi Fountain. Mr. Pertini, who was 93 years old, reportedly had not been well since he hit his head in a household accident this month.
        Former President Sandro Pertini, whose open manner and common touch made him one of Italy's most beloved leaders, died in his sleep Saturday night at his apartment by the Trevi Fountain. Mr. Pertini, who was 93 years old, reportedly had not been well since he hit his head in a household accident this month.
        A Socialist who spent many years in prison under Mussolini for his anti-Fascist activities, Mr. Pertini was 81 when he became President in 1978.
        Italy was demoralized then, scarred by urban terrorism, economic difficulties and corruption scandals. The pipe-smoking Mr. Pertini, independent of spirit and unassailably honest, was viewed by the dominant political parties as a compromise candidate who might help restore lost credibility to the Government.
        In the opinion of virtually all political commentators, he did just that during a seven-year term that ended in 1985.
        An Unusual Politician
        As a rule, Italian presidents exercise little of the power at their disposal, and Mr. Pertini was no exception except on occasion. Nevertheless, he presided over Italy's transformation into a country that, while hardly free of corruption, had managed to leave terrorism largely behind and emerge as an economic force to be reckoned with.
        He also carried out his duties with dignity, wit and a homey touch that contrasted sharply with the stilted -some would say pompous - manner of many Italian politicians. Mr. Pertini won hearts by personally greeting thousands of schoolchildren who toured the presidential palace. He sometimes had lunch with workers, and he clearly shared the enthusiasm of the Italian Everyman when he cheered the national soccer team to victory in the 1982 World Cup finals.
        ''Above all, Pertini missed no opportunity to lash out at the foibles and the more serious shortcomings of 'la classe politica,' '' as Italians call professional politicians, Joseph LaPalombara wrote in ''Democracy Italian Style,'' a study of Italian politics. ''This ploy was a sure winner. Millions of Italians who do the same thing, but less authoritatively, could reach a sublime identification with this man who symbolized for them a level of public morality that everyone else seemed to lack.''
        An indication of the mark that he left were the large crowds of Italians, some in tears, who went today to the Trevi Fountain and the apartment that Mr. Pertini shared with his wife, Carla, 30 years his junior. This morning, the present Italian president, Francesco Cossiga, paid a condolence call, and later praised his predecessor as ''a proud and just man'' who ''battled with great determination against dictatorship, against abuse of power, against contempt for the rights of the weak.''
        Message From the Pope
        In a message of condolence, Pope John Paul II recalled his close friendship with the Socialist leader, and said he was ''a man dedicated to the struggle for freedom and democracy.''
        Alessandro Pertini - he went by the nickname Sandro for at least the last 60 years - was born on Sept. 25, 1896, to a well-to-do family in Stella, near the city of Savona on the Italian Riviera. He studied political science and law, served as an army lieutenant in World War I, and in 1918 joined the Socialist Party.
        Fiercely opposed to Mussolini and the rise of his Fascists to power in 1922, he was first arrested in 1925 for issuing publications that attacked ''the barbarous Fascist domination.'' That earned him an eight-month prison sentence for ''inciting to class hatred and insulting the Senate,'' but in 1926 he and several companions managed to escape and flee to France in a fishing boat.
        He worked as a taxi driver in Paris and as a bricklayer in Nice - where he was twice prosecuted for his role in political disturbances - and then returned to Italy in 1929 to join the anti-Fascist underground. But he was again arrested and imprisoned, this time for 11 years in connection with a failed attempt to assassinate Mussolini.
        Mother Is Reproached
        At one point, Mr. Pertini's mother wrote to the authorities pleading for a pardon for her son on the ground of poor health, but he dissociated himself from the request, which he called ''deeply humiliating.'' He was so bitter that he wrote a reproaching letter to his mother in which he said that for him, she was dead. Mother and son were later reconciled, however.
        After 10 years in prison, he was released, but he was re-arrested in 1943 and sentenced to death by the Nazis who occupied Italy. In early 1944 he escaped once more and joined the anti-Nazi underground, a period in which he met Carla Voltolina, a fellow resistance fighter whom he later married. The couple had no children. Soon after World War II, Mr. Pertini won the first of many terms in the Chamber of Deputies, Parliament's lower house, and from 1968 to 1975 he served as that body's president. He had hoped to be elected President of Italy in 1971, but lost to Giovanni Leone, a Christian Democrat. In 1978, Mr. Leone resigned amid corruption charges, and after 15 ballots in Parliament, Mr. Pertini reached his goal.
      