
       Henry Fairlie, an expatriate British author and journalist who wrote about the American political scene, died of heart failure Sunday at George Washington University Medical Center in Washington. He was 66 years old and lived in Washington.
        Henry Fairlie, an expatriate British author and journalist who wrote about the American political scene, died of heart failure Sunday at George Washington University Medical Center in Washington. He was 66 years old and lived in Washington.
        Mr. Fairlie, who was a contributing editor of The New Republic, was born in London. He wrote for The Observer, The Times of London and other British publications before moving to the United States in 1966. Thereafter, he wrote mostly for American publications, including The Washington Post, The New York Times, The New Yorker, Harper's and The Atlantic.
        Among his books were ''The Life of Politics'' (1969), ''The Kennedy Promise'' (1973), ''The Spoiled Child of the Western World: the Miscarriage of the American Idea in Our Time'' (1976), ''The Parties: Republicans and Democrats in This Century'' (1978), and ''The Seven Deadly Sins Today'' (1978).
        ''He was independent-minded,'' Hendrik Hertzberg, editor of The New Republic, said yesterday, ''which made it hard for him to maintain a relationship with any publication.'' The longest relationship, Mr. Hertzberg said, was probably at The New Republic, where he was ''a fixture'' for many years.
        ''He claimed to be a true conservative, but it always looked a lot to me like liberalism,'' Mr. Hertzberg said, adding: ''He was known as a curmudgeon, but that does not do him justice, because he had a big heart. He was an American patriot and a British patriot and a Scottish patriot - all these patriotisms co-existed quite comfortably in his bosom.''
        Disliked Power-Wealth Link
        In an interview last April in The Washingtonian, Mr. Fairlie said he liked the freedom and informality of America but not ''the connection between power, wealth and glamour that now exists in Washington.'' Recalling his attraction to America's ''sense of space and of social reform,'' he said: ''I came here on the day after the Selma march was turned back by Bull Connor. Everyone said the big story was in the South, so I headed south by Greyhound bus.'' The trip took him two and a half months, he said, ''because I got off very often.''
        Mr. Fairlie received a degree from Corpus Christi College at Oxford University in 1945. He was a feature writer for The Observer and then an editorial writer for The Times before turning to freelance writing in 1954.
        Surviving are his daughters Charlotte, of Danville, Ky., and Emma O'Grady of Dorset, England; a son, Simon, of Salisbury, England, and five grandchildren.
      