
       Samuel R. Mozes, a city planner for more than a quarter-century and a figure in international Jewish affairs, died of a heart attack last Wednesday at his home in East Hampton, L.I. He was 66 years old.
        Samuel R. Mozes, a city planner for more than a quarter-century and a figure in international Jewish affairs, died of a heart attack last Wednesday at his home in East Hampton, L.I. He was 66 years old.
        Mr. Mozes was director of the Bureau of Urban Affairs in the New York State Division of Housing and Community Renewal from 1959 to 1975. Before that he was a planner and supervisor in the New York City Department of City Planning for seven years.
        He was instrumental in developing the state's 1960 Model Housing Code for cities, towns and villages, which has become a prototype for other cities. He also administered the comprehensive rezoning of Staten Island and planned the federally sponsored Upper West Side urban renewal project in Manhattan.
        Born in Warsaw, Mr. Mozes and his family fled from the Nazis in 1939, arriving in the United States in 1941 after stays in Lithuania and Japan.
        Edited Planning Publications
        From 1941 to 1951 he was associate editor of the Overseas News Agency, the American subsidiary of the Jewish Telegraphic Agency. He was executive director of the World Gathering of Holocaust Survivors in Israel in 1981 and in Washington in 1984.
        As an urban planner, Mr. Mozes wrote extensively on the subject and was editor of the New York Planning Review from 1958 to 1976. He also edited Interplan, a publication of the American Planning Association, and was an editor and technical adviser to the United Nations Center for Human Settlements, for which he wrote a handbook, ''Physical Planning Standards for Human Settlements.''
        He received a bachelor's degree in architecture and a master's degree in planning and housing from the Columbia School of Architecture and a doctorate in environmental science from Columbia Pacific University. In recent years he was a professor of urban studies at Long Island University and lectured at the Columbia School of Architecture.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Janine Schlahet; two sons, Alan and Daniel, both of Manhattan, and a sister, Danka Rawitz of Rehovot, Israel.
      