
       Mel Lewis, the jazz drummer and orchestra leader, died of melanoma Friday evening at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 60 years old.
        Mel Lewis, the jazz drummer and orchestra leader, died of melanoma Friday evening at Cabrini Hospice in Manhattan. He was 60 years old.
        In 1965 Mr. Lewis, widely considered one of the great jazz drummers, and the trumpeter Thad Jones formed the Thad Jones-Mel Lewis Big Band, which played on Monday nights at the Village Vanguard for 23 years, and made many recordings.
        Mr. Lewis, whose real name was Melvin Sokoloff, began his career working with dance bands in his hometown of Buffalo at the age of 14. By 1948 he was part of some of the better dance bands in jazz, including the Boyd Raeburn Orchestra and the bands of Alvino Ray, Tex Beneke and Ray Anthony.
        Hired the Best
        Mr. Lewis, who always kept a dance sensibility in his playing, joined the Stan Kenton Orchestra in 1954 and immediately became known in the jazz community as a drummer who understood the nuances of working with a big band; he made the often-cumbersome Kenton orchestra swing.
        ''When I play, I'm thinking all the time,'' Mr. Lewis told The New York Times last year. ''I'm thinking about the music, trying to hear everything that goes on around me. With a big band, I'm listening to the inner parts, hearing what everyone is playing so I can help them, push them on, or if they're having problems, guide them out of it.''
        In 1957 Mr. Lewis moved to Los Angeles and worked with the big band leaders Terry Gibbs and Gerald Wilson along with the pianist Hampton Hawes and the trombonist Frank Rosolino. By the early 1960's, after touring with Dizzy Gillespie and Benny Goodman, Mr. Lewis returned to New York.
        The Thad Jones-Mel Lewis band not only hired the best arrangers, among them Bob Brookmeyer and Bill Holman, but also had some of New York's best soloists, including Hank Jones, Jimmy Knepper, Jon Faddis, Benny Powell, Dick Oatts and Joe Lovano.
        Kept Recording Schedule
        ''Mel was not only a great drummer but a great educator as well,'' said Gary Giddins, the jazz critic for The Village Voice and artistic director of the American Jazz Orchestra. ''Mel virtually kept the big-band tradition alive in New York.''
        For the last four years, Mr. Lewis worked with the American Jazz Orchestra and maintained a steady recording schedule. Last October he was honored by the orchestra, which played many of the arrangements written with him in mind by Gerry Mulligan, Al Cohn and others.
        Mr. Lewis, who played until three weeks before his death, said in the interview last year: ''I love any kind of music. When I play, I'm ecstatic. There isn't a better feeling in the world than swinging or playing a good arrangement. When I'm playing along, when guys are soloing, I'll cry. The beauty of the music goes right into me.''
        Mr. Lewis is survived by his wife, Doris Sokoloff; two daughters, Lori Lowell of Tarrytown, N.Y., and Donna Bauman of Ossining, N.Y.; three sisters, Elaine Sokoloff of Lakewood, Calif., Dena Calloway of North Hollywood, Calif., and Lois Samson of Thousand Palms, Calif., and a brother, Lewis Sokoloff of San Francisco, and two grandchildren.
      