
       Richard Wilson, the Oglala Sioux tribal president who was a principal target of dissident Indians who occupied Wounded Knee, S.D., for 71 days in 1973, died of complications from an enlarged heart and kidney failure Thursday at a hospital in Rapid City. He was 55 years old.  The occupation of Wounded Knee, the historic village within the Pine Ridge Reservation, resulted in gunfights between the dissidents and Federal forces, with dozens of injuries and two Indians' deaths.
        Richard Wilson, the Oglala Sioux tribal president who was a principal target of dissident Indians who occupied Wounded Knee, S.D., for 71 days in 1973, died of complications from an enlarged heart and kidney failure Thursday at a hospital in Rapid City. He was 55 years old.  The occupation of Wounded Knee, the historic village within the Pine Ridge Reservation, resulted in gunfights between the dissidents and Federal forces, with dozens of injuries and two Indians' deaths. The dissidents surrendered after the Government had agreed to pull back armored personnel carriers from roadblocks that had been set up in response to the siege.
        It was the dissidents' perception of Mr. Wilson's leadership as head of the Oglala Sioux Tribal Council, as well as their view of the Federal Government's Indian policies, that led to the occupation. The 300 occupiers charged that he was dictatorial and corrupt and that Mr. Wilson's administration was too cozy with the Government.
        Deep Tribal Division
        Central to the standoff were deep tribal divisions. On one side were the occupiers, members of the American Indian Movement who were the generally poor Sioux who favored a return to more traditional Indian self-government.
        On the other were Indians of mixed blook, like Mr. Wilson, who had assimilated to some degree with the culture outside the reservation and had been elected to lead the tribe.
        While critics said Mr. Wilson was too close to whites and had snubbed his ancient culture, he also had Indian supporters who saw in him an official striving repeatedly for conciliation.
        Wounded Knee was chosen as the site of the occupation because of its significance to the Sioux. There, in December 1890, in the last battle of the Indian Wars, Federal troops killed nearly 300 men, women and children of the tribe in the Wounded Knee Massacre.
        In 1974, more than a year after the dissidents' surrender, with tensions between the two Indian factions still running high, Mr. Wilson was elected to a second term as tribal president. At the time of his death, he was trying to re-enter tribal politics after an absence of more than a decade: he was to be a candidate to head the council in a primary next week.
        Mr. Wilson was a native of the Pine Ridge Reservation and was a plumber by trade. He is survived by his wife, Mary, a brother and 10 children.
      