
       Ewart Guinier, a trade unionist and political candidate who became the first chairman of Harvard University's Department of Afro-American Studies, died of Alzheimer's disease Sunday in the Veterans' Hospital in Bedford, Mass. He was 79 years old and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        Ewart Guinier, a trade unionist and political candidate who became the first chairman of Harvard University's Department of Afro-American Studies, died of Alzheimer's disease Sunday in the Veterans' Hospital in Bedford, Mass. He was 79 years old and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        Mr. Guinier linked his intellectual prowess with what he once called ''my fight for a democratic America.'' This commitment to social equality and justice led him into a life of many facets.
        Sterling Stuckey, professor of history at the University of California at Riverside, today called Mr. Guinier a source of inspiration for black intellectuals across the nation.
        The last phase of his working life was at Harvard. He assumed his position there, a full professorship, in 1969, after the university, in response to the demands of black students, established the Department of Afro-American Studies. After his retirement in 1980, he became professor emeritus.
        Born in Panama of Jamaican parents, Mr. Guinier attended high school in Boston. In 1929 he entered Harvard College as a freshman; he was the only black student in the college.
        Because of his color, Mr. Guinier said, he was barred from the dormitories, was denied financial aid because he had failed to send his picture with his application, and was spoken to inside and outside of class by only one person.
        After two years he dropped out. He completed studies for a bachelor's degree at the City College of New York and received a master's degree from Columbia University and a law degree from New York University.
        In politics, Mr. Guinier, who lived in New York City before he returned to Cambridge, was the first black to receive a party's nomination for the Manhattan Borough presidency. As the American Labor Party's candidate for the office in 1949, he received 96,890 votes, or 16 percent of the total cast.
        Directed Program at Columbia
        As a trade unionist in the 1940's Mr. Guinier became the international secretary for the United Public Workers of America.
        Before returning to Harvard, he was associate director of the Urban Center at Columbia University, which was established in 1968 to help Columbia contribute to programs and organizations in Harlem and Morningside Heights.
        Mr. Guinier served in the Pacific theater with the Army in World War II.
        He is survived by his wife, Genii Guinier of Cambridge; four daughters, Chlotilde Stenson, Sary Guinier and Marie Guinier, all of New York, and Lani Guinier of Philadelphia; four sisters, Marjorie Clarke and Joyce deJorna of Brooklyn, Blondell Burgess of Queens, and Muriel Twinn of Toronto; a brother, Roy French of Brooklyn, and three grandchildren.
      