
       Nat Wartels, who built the Crown publishing empire and then sold it to Random House in 1988, died of pneumonia yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 88 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Nat Wartels, who built the Crown publishing empire and then sold it to Random House in 1988, died of pneumonia yesterday at Beth Israel Hospital. He was 88 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Even before the Random House purchase, he was widely believed to be the richest person in book publishing. Mr. Wartels, the chairman of Crown Publishers Inc.,made much of his fortune in the remainder business, that is, by buying publishers' surplus books for as little as 5 or 10 cents each and then selling them to bookstores for their bargain bins or remainder tables.
        Mr. Wartels would not disclose the amount of his personal wealth, but in 1981 he acknowledged that Crown's revenues made it one of the three or four largest publishers in the United States. Crown was just one part of his empire, which also included the Outlet Book Company, still the nation's leading remainder house; Publishers Central Bureau, the direct-mail company, and the Living Language record courses. Until the sale to Random House, Mr. Wartels was the controlling stockholder in each of those companies and divisions.
        ''He went out with his boots on,'' said Alan Mirken, former president of Crown and a nephew of Mr. Wartels. ''The Friday before he went to the hospital, he had been in his office, as usual, and the next day he was out at Aqueduct race track.''
        A Frugal Bettor
        Mr. Wartels, a bachelor who lived in a midtown hotel, often went to the race track on weekends, but he rarely wagered more than a couple of dollars on a race. He was equally frugal in betting on gin rummy or golf, his other passions.
        The white-haired Mr. Wartels enjoyed several distinctions among his colleagues and competitors. For years, he worked behind a desk that was legendary for its clutter of books, manuscripts and correspondence, any item of which, Crown employees said, he could find in a moment. And he also personally signed each check, however small.
        When a Crown vice president read in a British newspaper that Henry Ford 2d signed only checks in excess of $300 million, he sent the article to a friend with the note, ''Show this to Nat, and maybe we can get him not to sign anything under $5.''
        He also never left the office without reading each day's sales orders. Some nights he would be the only one there when a bookseller in the West would telephone, so Mr. Wartels would dutifully - and happily - take the order.
        When he sold his company to Random House, his routine changed. ''But he learned to read the computer printouts, and still looked over the larger orders,'' Mr. Mirken said.
        Grew Up in Manhattan
        Nathan Wartels was born in Manhattan on Jan. 19, 1902. After graduating from Columbia University, he earned a degree from the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania.
        He entered the remainder business in 1933, and, with a partner, Robert Simon, began publishing books in 1936 under the Crown name. Crown long avoided fiction as too risky, but in 1978, with the publication of ''Scruples'' by Judith Krantz, it began regularly publishing fiction, promoting its titles by using the marketing muscle it had developed in its other businesses.
        Its publication of ''Princess Daisy'' by Ms. Krantz brought a record $3.2 million in paperback rights, although its biggest-selling novel was Jean Auel's ''Mammouth Hunters,'' which Mr. Mirken said had sold 1.3 million hard-cover copies since 1985.
        Mr. Wartels is survived by two nephews, Mr. Merkin of Roslyn, L.I., and David Wartels of Manhattan, and by two nieces, Marilyn Cohen of Roslyn and Joan H. Strausberg of Manhattan.
        There is to be a funeral service today at 1 P.M. at Riverside Memorial Chapel, 180 West 76th Street.
      