
       Rabbi Samson Raphael Weiss, a leader of Orthodox Jewry in the United States and a staunch advocate of Jewish education, died on Tuesday at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 79 years old and lived in Jerusalem.
        Rabbi Samson Raphael Weiss, a leader of Orthodox Jewry in the United States and a staunch advocate of Jewish education, died on Tuesday at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 79 years old and lived in Jerusalem.
        In 1945, Rabbi Weiss founded the Young Israel Institute for Jewish Studies in Manhattan and was its dean until 1956. Under his leadership, the institute developed into the largest adult Jewish school in the United States.
        From 1947 to 1956, he was also national director of the National Council of Young Israel. He was then named executive vice president of the Union of Orthodox Jewish Congregations in America, a post he held until 1972, when he moved to Israel.
        Rabbi Weiss was chairman of the department of Judaic studies at Touro College in Manhattan, returning to New York each spring to conduct seminars on Jewish thought. In Israel he was chairman of the Jerusalem Institute for Talmudic Research.
        Studied in Europe
        Rabbi Weiss was born in Emden, Germany, and studied at universities in Europe. He was ordained in 1934 and received a Ph.D. from the University of Dorpat in Estonia in 1938.
        He was dean of the Hebrew department at Jewish Teachers College in Wurzburg, Germany, before coming to the United States in 1938. He taught at the Rabbinical Academy Ner Israel in Baltimore from 1938 to 1940 and was dean of Beth Yehuda Talmudical Academy in Detroit from 1940 to 1944, when he came to New York to organize Torah Umesorah, a national organization dedicated to the establishment of Hebrew day schools.
        Rabbi Weiss is survived by a son, Rabbi Yisroel Meir Weiss of Jerusalem; three daughters, Miriam Dissen of Israel, Yetta Zelikovitz of Queens and Devorah Kitevits of Brooklyn, and two sisters, Ruth Goodman and Kate Firestone, both of Israel.
      