
       Alan J. Perlis, an educator and a leader in the development of computer science, died of a heart attack Wednesday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 67 years old and lived in Woodbridge, Conn.
        Alan J. Perlis, an educator and a leader in the development of computer science, died of a heart attack Wednesday at Yale-New Haven Hospital. He was 67 years old and lived in Woodbridge, Conn.
        Dr. Perlis was a noted scholar and researcher in computer programming language design. He had been Eugene Higgins Professor of Computer Science at Yale University since 1971 and played a leading role in developing the university's computer science department.
        For the 1976-1977 school year and from 1978 to 1980, he served as chairman of the department, and in 1987 he was acting chairman. He developed new computer courses at the graduate and undergraduate levels.
        Extensive Computer Research
        From 1956 until he joined the faculty at Yale, Dr. Perlis taught at the Carnegie Institute of Technology, now Carnegie-Mellon University. He was chairman of the mathematics department and director of the computation center.
        He founded the graduate department of computer science at Carnegie Tech and helped develop algebraic language compilers and assemblers that converted programming instructions into computer operations.
        Before that, he was a mathematics professor and director of the computer science center at Purdue University, where he developed that institution's digital computer laboratory.
        A 1950 graduate of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology with a Ph.D in mathematics, Dr. Perlis was a research mathematician at M.I.T. and served as an adviser to the Multi-Machine Computing Laboratory at the Aberdeen Proving Ground in Maryland.
        Honored for His Work
        He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of Engineering. In 1966 he received the A.M. Turing Prize from the Association of Computing Machinery for his research and scholarship in the field. He also received honorary degrees from Davis and Elkins College, Purdue University, Waterloo University and Sacred Heart University.
        During World War II Dr. Perlis was a first lieutenant in the Army Air Force in Europe.
        He is survived by his wife, Sydelle; a daughter, Andrea, of Mountain View, Calif; two sons, Mark, of Washington, and Robert, of Bethesda, Md.; a sister, Dorothy Rothbart of Pittsburgh; a brother, Harold, of Queens, and two grandchildren.
      