
       David Stivender, the chorus master of the Metropolitan Opera since 1973 and a member of the company's conducting staff since 1978, died of congestive heart failure yesterday at Prresbyterian University Hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 56 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        David Stivender, the chorus master of the Metropolitan Opera since 1973 and a member of the company's conducting staff since 1978, died of congestive heart failure yesterday at Prresbyterian University Hospital in Pittsburgh. He was 56 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Stivender's responsibilities included preparing the Met chorus for its full season of performances - typically two dozen operas a season - as well as selecting singers from the 300 or so who auditioned for him every year. He was widely credited with having raised the level of choral performance at the Met in recent years, an accomplishment that he felt was a crucial component in the company's ability to maintain a consistent level of quality.
        ''People go to the Met for the big, beautiful voices, but there aren't that many around,'' Mr. Stivender told an interviewer for The New York Times in 1986. ''So what Jim Levine and I have done is to insure that even if the center of the picture isn't always what everybody would like it to be, at least the frame - the chorus and the orchestra - is. There will always be something to listen to.''
        Memorized Opera Scores
        David Stivender was born in Milwaukee on Sept. 6, 1933, and began his musical studies with the piano when he was 12 years old. He became interested in opera at about the same time. By the time he enrolled at Northwestern University as a composition student, he had committed to memory several dozen opera scores.
        In 1957, he joined the Opera Arts Workshop in Atlanta and in 1960 he became an assistant conductor at the Lyric Opera of Chicago. He held the Chicago post for five years, and spent the summers of 1963 and 1964 conducting at the Festival of Two Worlds in Spoleto, Italy.
        In 1962, while still on the Lyric Opera staff, Mr. Stivender began working as an assistant to Kurt Adler at the Metropolitan. When Mr. Adler retired in 1973, several members of the Met chorus put forth Mr. Stivender's name as a potential replacement - a suggestion supported heartily by James Levine, the Met's artistic director.
        ''In the years since David started his work,'' Mr. Levine told Opera News last year, ''the chorus has become one of the best in the world.''
        Conducted Much Verdi
        After five years of directing the chorus behind the scenes, Mr. Stivender made his podium debut at the Met in 1978, conducting Verdi's ''Trovatore.'' The following year, he conducted Verdi's ''Aida'' and ''Rigoletto'' at the Met. He also led Met productions of the ''Cavalleria Rusticana''-''I Pagliacci'' double bill, Verdi's ''Don Carlo'' and Mozart's ''Idomeneo.''
        Mr. Stivender was the author of ''Mascagni'' (1988), a book based on the composer's dictated memoirs and other writings, presented in the form of an autobiography.
        He is survived by his mother, Frances, of Cincinnati; two brothers, Robert, of Cincinnati, and Frank, of Goshen, Ohio, and two sisters, Dorothy Fenner of Las Vegas, Nev., and Doris Van Loan of Glade Park, Colo.
      