
       Milton A. Gordon, a financier and early producer of television features and series, died of a heart attack yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Milton A. Gordon, a financier and early producer of television features and series, died of a heart attack yesterday at New York Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        In 1953, Mr. Gordon and a Hollywood producer, Edward Small, invested $125,000 each to form Television Programs of America to produce and distribute films for the new market. Mr. Gordon had been with Walter E. Heller & Company, the corporate-finance house in Chicago, where he devised ways to raise capital for film production and was instrumental in the reorganization of United Artists in 1952.
        Telvision Programs of America developed the instantly successful ''Lassie'' series, which it sold for $3 million. But the company kept the distribution rights. Among its other series were ''Private Secretary,'' ''The New Adventures of Charlie Chan'' and ''Tugboat Annie.''
        In 1958, Mr. Small sold his share of the company to Mr. Gordon for $2 million. A year later, Mr. Gordon sold the company to British interests for $13 million.
        After pursuing other investments, Mr. Gordon, bought the major interest in the Wall Street brokerage firm of Halle & Stieglitz in 1969. The firm was founded in the 1890's. In 1970, Mr. Gordon became president and chief executive and changed the firm's direction, to corporate finance. Among his major acquisitions was a manufacturer of automotive and aerospace equipment, Irvin Industries, in 1979.
        Mr. Gordon was born in Chicago. He graduated from the University of Chicago and its law school. Mr. Gordon joined Walter Heller in 1945 and began his association with the film industy, where he was also a director of Paramount Pictures.
        Mr. Gordon's wife, Elinor, died in 1974. Surviving are a daughter, Leslie Glass of Manhattan; a son, Stephen, of Dubois, Wyo.; a brother, Marvin, of Winnetka, Ill., and four grandchildren.
      