
       Friends, colleagues and dance fans filled the Joyce Theater yesterday afternoon to pay tribute to Ian (Ernie) Horvath, producing director for the Jose Limon Dance Foundation, founder of the Cleveland Ballet, and a former soloist with the Joffrey Ballet and American Ballet Theater. Mr. Horvath, who was 46, died of AIDS on Jan.
        Friends, colleagues and dance fans filled the Joyce Theater yesterday afternoon to pay tribute to Ian (Ernie) Horvath, producing director for the Jose Limon Dance Foundation, founder of the Cleveland Ballet, and a former soloist with the Joffrey Ballet and American Ballet Theater. Mr. Horvath, who was 46, died of AIDS on Jan. 5.
        Speakers remembered Mr. Horvath for his love of dance and for his ebullience. ''For me, Ernie will always be the Mouseketeer he once was,'' said Philip Semark, executive director of the Santa Fe Opera, referring to Mr. Horvath's childhood career as an alternate performer on television's ''Mickey Mouse Club.'' ''He was really at heart a mischievous kid trying to be an adult,'' Mr. Semark said.
        Cora Cahan, the executive director of the Feld Ballet and vice president of the Joyce Theater, announced the establishment of the Ernie, an annual award to be given by Dance U.S.A., the national dance service organization, to an individual ''who exemplifies Ernie's passion for dance.''
        The tribute, produced by Rodger-Max Barrow, Mr. Horvath's companion of six years, in consultation with Mr. Horvath during the last week of his life, included performances by the Limon Dance Company of ''Laura's Women'' and ''No Dominion,'' the first and last ballets Mr. Horvath choreographed, and the last movement of Jose Limon's ''There Is a Time.'' There were also solos by Cynthia Gregory, principal dancer with Ballet Theater, and Christopher Gillis, principal dancer with the Paul Taylor Dance Company; comments by Richard LeBlond, an arts consultant, and Rick Reynolds, managing director of the Limon company, and music by Berlioz, Bartok and Stravinsky.
        ''This Dance, Then Goodbye,'' a tribute filmed by WJW-TV in Cleveland, was shown. Mr. Horvath, who performed on Broadway and served as a consultant to several dance organizations, appeared in it, talking wryly of his early training in dance and performing ''Passing By,'' a solo choreographed for him by Dennis Nahat, with whom he founded the Cleveland Ballet. Mr. Horvath was also seen in an excerpt from a segment on AIDS from the ''Eye on Dance'' television series. the illness. And he was shown as a young dancer in an excerpt from Gerald Arpino's ''Incubus,'' filmed in 1965.
      