
       Michael J. Livesey, a cameraman whose work was seen and widely admired on network and public television programs, died of cancer of the liver and the pancreas on Sunday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 61 years old and lived in Ridgewood.
        Michael J. Livesey, a cameraman whose work was seen and widely admired on network and public television programs, died of cancer of the liver and the pancreas on Sunday at Valley Hospital in Ridgewood, N.J. He was 61 years old and lived in Ridgewood.
        Mr. Livesey worked primarily in documentary television. From 1969 to 1979 he was chief cameraman on ''Camera Three,'' a critically acclaimed Sunday morning program on the arts produced for CBS by Channel 2 in New York. He was noted for his photographing of artwork and buildings; in 1978, a two-part program on the Pompidou Center in Paris won a Peabody Award. Two documentaries filmed by him, ''The Women of Rikers Island'' and ''Before the Mountain Was Moved,'' about Mount Rushmore, were nominated for Academy Awards.
        Worked on Cronkite Series
        Mr. Livesey also was a cameraman on the Walter Cronkite series, ''The 20th Century'' and produced segments for ''60 Minutes,'' on CBS, ''20/20,'' on ABC, and other news and cultural programs. In the 1950's and 60's, Mr. Livesey worked as an experimental film maker. From 1960 through 1975 he filmed documentaries of the United States Presidents for the United States Information Agency and worked in commercial film as well.
        For the Public Broadcasting Service, Mr. Livesey produced profiles of Mario Lanza, Irving Berlin, Lawrence Welk and the musical-theater teams of Richard Rodgers and Oscar Hammerstein 2d, and Alan Jay Lerner and Frederick Loewe. ''Music by Richard Rodgers,'' which was produced last year, is to be shown this week by PBS.
        Mr. Livesey, who was born in London, is survived by his wife, Theresa, and children Jeffrey, Jack and Tara Livesey and Jennifer Livesey Annand, all of Ridgewood. He is also survived by his mother, Eileen Livesey, of London, and a sister, Jill Flanagan, of Pretoria, South Africa.
      