
       Elmer L. Hann, an American shipbuilding executive who was instrumental in rebuilding Japan's industry after World War II, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at Kuakini Medical Center in Honolulu. He was 89 years old.
        Elmer L. Hann, an American shipbuilding executive who was instrumental in rebuilding Japan's industry after World War II, died of a heart attack on Tuesday at Kuakini Medical Center in Honolulu. He was 89 years old.
        Mr. Hann, who lived in Honolulu, introduced the Japanese to pioneering methods of welding that had been developed by Daniel K. Ludwig, the founder of National Bulk Carriers Inc., which became one of the world's largest shipbuilding concerns. Mr. Hann retired in 1980 as vice president in charge of Far Eastern operations for National Bulk Carriers.
        In 1951 he was sent to Japan to manage the shipyard at Kure, where he taught Japanese workers the construction methods that enabled the American shipbuilding industry to turn out Liberty and Victory ships in such numbers in the last three years of the war that they were credited with a major role in defeating Germany and Japan.
        During the war Mr. Hann was general superintendent of production at the Kaiser shipyard on Swan Island, Ore. There he trained unskilled men and women to master a simplified welding method in 10 days, instead of the two to three months normally required to learn welding.
        Cargo Ships and Tankers
        When the war ended there was a glut of ships, unneeded for postwar commerce. Kaiser closed its wartime yards and Mr. Hann joined National Bulk Carriers, which continued to build ships at its Welding Shipyard in Norfolk, Va.
        In Japan, Mr. Hann was soon turning out cargo ships and tankers at a rapid rate. By 1958, when Japan displaced Britain as the world's largest shipbuilding nation, the Kure yard was completing ships in five months, from keel-laying to launching.
        Mr. Hann, who was born in Needles, Calif., went to work in shipbuilding when he was a teen-ager. When the American shipbuilding industry was called upon in 1942 to replace ships sunk by the Axis powers, Mr. Hann was in Kaiser's middle management. He rose quickly to take charge of production at Swan Island.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Mieko Tsuda; a son, Masaki, of Hiroshima, and two brothers, George, of Honolulu and Ed, of San Diego.
      