
       Harold R. Medina, a Federal judge for more than three decades, who achieved lasting fame for his handling of the trial of 11 Communist leaders in the 1940's, died in his sleep on Wednesday at Pascack Valley Hospital in Westwood, N.J., where he was admitted on Monday with a slight fever, his grandson Standish Forde Medina Jr.
        Harold R. Medina, a Federal judge for more than three decades, who achieved lasting fame for his handling of the trial of 11 Communist leaders in the 1940's, died in his sleep on Wednesday at Pascack Valley Hospital in Westwood, N.J., where he was admitted on Monday with a slight fever, his grandson Standish Forde Medina Jr. said. Judge Medina was 102 years old.  Judge Medina, who retired from the bench at the age of 92, lived at the Valley Nursing Home in Westwood. He had made his home for many years in Westhampton, L.I. He also maintained an apartment in Manhattan.
        He became a judge of the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York in 1947 and was promoted to the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit in 1951.
        At his death he was the oldest Federal judge and the oldest alumnus of Princeton University.
        A watershed in his life came on July 1, 1947. At the age of 59 and at a time in life when most men are experiencing diminishing pressure, Harold Raymond Medina, a lawyer in private practice, accepted an assignment that would cut his annual income by 85 percent, subject his performance to intense national scrutiny and project him into the circle reserved for famous men. He became a Federal judge in the Southern District of New York.
        'The Best Thing'
        ''I've made plenty of money,'' the new judge declared at the time. ''Now I'd like to do something for my country. I guess the best thing I have to contribute is law.'' He was making $100,000 a year as a lawyer; as a judge, he would earn $15,000.
        He came to the job with stunning credentials. Born in Brooklyn in 1888, Mr. Medina graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Princeton in 1909. In 1912, he graduated from Columbia Law School, the winner of the Ordronneaux Prize for the third-year student with the best scholastic standing throughout law school.
        A year earlier, he had passed his New York State bar examination, married Ethel Forde Hillyer of East Orange, N.J., and landed a job as a law clerk for $8 a week. He was also engaged, that last year in law school, in revising the legal definitions in the New International Encyclopedia, and in tutoring fellow students.
        ''I just worked like a dog at this,'' Mr. Medina once said, ''and then I got a good idea.'' What he did was offer a cram course for students who were about to take the state bar examination. ''Of all the nerve,'' he later remarked.
        Coached 39,788 Students
        Mr. Medina started with four students. By 1940, when he retired from giving the course, he had coached 39,788 students, each of whom had paid $35 for the session. ''Medina,'' a contemporary of his once said, ''has turned out more lawyers than most law schools.''
        The course was not Mr. Medina's only sideline. He also taught as a member of the Columbia Law School faculty from 1915 until 1940. And in that time he managed to write law books while he built his own practice.
        There were a lot of interviewers flocking about Mr. Medina in 1949. He had by then been a Federal judge for two years and he had just finished presiding over a nine-month trial that had exhilarated him, exhausted him and made him famous. The defendants were 11 Communist leaders charged under the so-called Smith Act with conspiracy to teach and advocate the overthrow of the Federal Government by force.
        The trial was marked by disruption, confusion and unendurable delay as five defense attorneys scolded Judge Medina, shouted at him, shook their fingers at him, mocked him and generally ignored accepted courtroom decorum. Throughout the trial the judge patiently rocked back and forth in a huge, thronelike red leather chair.
        Meeting the Deadline
        ''You scratched your head and pulled your ear,'' Harry Sacher, one of the defense lawyerscharged at one point, trying to prove the gesture was intended to ''negate'' a defense argument.
        ''You've called me corrupt and everything else you could think up,'' Judge Medina replied. ''I want you gentlemen to understand that when I scratch my head I'm just plain scratching my head.''
        Every day at 11:20 A.M. and 3:20 P.M. another defense lawyer accused the judge of lying. The specificity piqued Mr. Medina's curiosity. ''What does the time element mean?'' he asked.
        ''That is the deadline,'' the lawyer replied, ''for the morning and afternoon editions'' of the local newspapers.
        ''You have a terrible mind to make an accusation of that kind,'' the judge said, ''but you will not goad me into making any statements which will create errors in this courtroom.''
        Finally, after five million words of testimony, the trial ended in convictions of the 11 Communists, and sentences for contempt of court, ranging up to six months, for the five defense lawyers.
        The United States Supreme Court upheld the convictions in a notable 6-to-2 decision in June 1951. And in March 1952, by a 5-to-3 vote, it sustained the contempt convictions of the lawyers. But Justices Felix Frankfurter, William O. Douglas and Hugo L. Black, in dissents, were critical of Judge Medina.
        Medina Chided
        Justice Frankfurter found that he had ''acted as the prosecuting witness; he thought of himself as such; his self-concern pervades the record.''
        After the trial Judge Medina found, to his discomfort and embarrassment, that he had become something of a national hero, largely because conservative elements of the public and the press were holding him up as a champion of anti-Communism.
        ''I wasn't anti-Communist or anti-anything else,'' he once said, insisting that he had tried only to be fair in the face of repeated provocation.
        A 'Textbook' Opinion
        In 1951, Judge Medina succeeded Learned Hand, who retired from the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. In that job he was assigned an antitrust case against 17 leading investment banking concerns that took two and a half years to resolve. The judge dismissed the case with a 420-page opinion that became a textbook on investment banking.
        Judge Medina retired, in the loosest sense of the word, in 1958 at the age of 70, but he continued to occupy the bench as ''senior'' judge. In this role, he handed down opinions of all kinds. One invalidated a technical income tax regulation. Another was a whimsical recital of numerous errors by the trial judge in a case involving the poisoning of a Vermont farmer's cows.
        Other opinions broke new ground and established new doctrines, expecially in cases involving admiralty, patent or criminal law, or arbitration and legal procedure.
        In the 1960's and 1970's, Judge Medina was recognized as a champion of free speech and a free press, speaking all over the country on his beliefs, rendering favorable opinions in press-related cases, and serving on committees that produced long works on the subject.
        In 1973, he was quoted as saying the most important event of his life occurred on June 6, 1911, the day he married Miss Hillyer. She died after suffering a stroke in the 60th year of their marriage.
        Sons Emulated Father
        The couple had two sons, Standish and Harold Jr. Like their father, both children graduated from Princeton University and Columbia Law School.
        The family divided its time between an apartment on the East Side of Manhattan and a 55-acre estate in Westhampton, L.I. Until 1938, the Medina country home was called ''To Windward.'' That year, a hurricane destroyed most of the structures on the property.
        The main house had to be rebuilt, as well as two houses for the sons, a boathouse, numerous outbuildings and a remodeled library for the judge and his 15,000 volumes of Greek, Latin and French literature. The place was then rechristened ''Still to Windward.''
        In the quiet there, the judge, a Latin scholar, could most often be found poring over odes by Horace, a poet he admired with unbounded enthusiasm. He was at his desk in the United States Court House on Foley Square from 10:30 A.M. until 4:30 P.M. at least five days a week, and sometimes seven.
        ''Learned Hand was a great mentor for me,'' he once recalled. ''He sat on the court until the day he died. He was in his 90th year. I love the work, and as long as I'm able to do it, I'm going to keep it up.'' And he did so, until he retired in 1980.
        He is survived by his two sons, Harold, of Delray Beach, Fla., a retired partner in the Manhattan-based law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore, and Standish, of Morristown, N.J., a trusts and estates lawyer with an office in Manhattan; 6 grandchildren and 10 great-grandchildren.
        A funeral service is to be held at 4 P.M. Sunday at St. Mark's Episcopal Church in Westhampton Beach. Burial will be private.
      