
       Samuel H. Friedman, who was twice the Socialist Party's candidate for Vice President, died on Saturday after a bout with pneumonia. He was 93 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Samuel H. Friedman, who was twice the Socialist Party's candidate for Vice President, died on Saturday after a bout with pneumonia. He was 93 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Friedman, who was long active in New York politics and labor unions, had earned his living mostly in journalism and public relations before retiring 30 years ago.
        He had been an editor for Women's Wear Daily, a high school social science teacher and a fund raiser for the United Jewish Appeal. But it was into the small Socialist Party and the journals The New Leader and The Call that Mr. Friedman poured more of his passion, his wife, Mary Friedman, said.
        A dozen years after Eugene V. Debs led the Socialists in their last significant bid for the Presidency in 1920 and the party went into decline, Mr. Friedman became an almost annual candidate for office. In the 1940's he ran successively for state senator, city comptroller, lieutenant governor, City Council president and comptroller again. He never won.
        National Ticket in '52 and '56
        In 1948, after winning 140,260 votes in a sixth try at the White House, the Socialist Party leader Norman Thomas pleaded with the party to stop expending energy on political campaigns.
        He was ignored. In 1952, a national party congress unanimously nominated Mr. Friedman to join its Presidential candidate, Darlington Hoopes. They polled 20,203 votes. In 1956, the same ticket won 2,044 votes.
        Mr. Friedman, his wife said, was not deterred by the frequent unpopularity of his convictions. ''He just believed in what he believed in, no matter who went along with him or whatever trouble he might get in,'' she said.
        In 1917, while he was a senior at City College and editor of The College Mercury, he was suspended for writing editorials defending pacifism among college men.
        In 1949, while he was the New York City chairman of the party, Mr. Friedman was arrested for disorderly conduct after carrying an argument from a hall where he was speaking outside onto 104th Street and Broadway. A crowd of 300 gathered, blocking traffic. The police explained that Mr. Friedman was taken away for speaking too loud, prompting one supporter to wonder in a letter to the editor of The New York Times, ''How loud can a Socialist legally speak?''
        Civil Rights Arrests
        Mr. Friedman continued to get arrested into his 60's, when he joined frequently in protests for civil rights. In 1964, he was jailed with six others, including a young New York man named Michael Schwerner, after a sit-in to demand more jobs for blacks and Puerto Ricans in city building projects.
        Mrs. Friedman said her husband had planned to join Mr. Schwerner in Mississippi that summer for a campaign to register blacks to vote. But Mr. Friedman had grown increasingly interested in the Middle East and traveled instead to Egypt, she said. Mr. Schwerner and two other civil rights workers were killed soon after in Philadelphia, Miss.
        During a march to the Capitol in Albany in March 1964, Mr. Friedman remarked to an interviewer: ''You know, I can't even remember how many times I've run for office in that place. I was never elected to anything. Forty years and I'm still marching outside of it in the snow and cold.''
        When the Socialists became the Social Democrats, U.S.A. in 1972, the articulate, white-haired Mr. Friedman led a minority in dissent, claiming the loss of party tradition.
        Mr. Friedman was hospitalized for pneumonia on March 1, and moved last Thursday to the Workmen's Circle Home for the Aged in the Bronx, where he died.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a sister, Elizabeth Singer of Tel Aviv.
      