
       Moses Shapiro, retired chairman and chief executive of the General Instrument Corporation, died of complications after surgery yesterday at Presbyterian Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived in Bellport, L.I.
        Moses Shapiro, retired chairman and chief executive of the General Instrument Corporation, died of complications after surgery yesterday at Presbyterian Hospital. He was 79 years old and lived in Bellport, L.I.
        Mr. Shapiro served for more than two decades in high executive posts for the electronics manufacturing concern before his retirement in 1977. He continued to serve as a director of General Instrument and retained a consulting role until his death.
        Earlier in his career he was a lawyer and labor-management arbitrator, and over the years he was on the boards of several businesses including most recently the Welbilt Corporation, of which he was chairman of the executive committee, and Toys R Us.
        Mr. Shapiro, a native of Manhattan, attended Fordham and received a law degree from St. Lawrence University. In the 1930's and 40's he was an industrial relations consultant, mediator and arbitrator and was named impartial chairman for several national industries and their labor unions. In World War II he was a member of the War Labor Board.
        In 1953 Mr. Shapiro abandoned his practice of labor law and became executive vice president of one of his client companies, the Automatic Manufacturing Company, a maker of transformers used in radios. Two years later Automatic merged with General Instrument, another of his former clients and he became executive vice president of the surviving concern. He became president of General Instrument in 1960, vice chairman in 1968 and chairman in 1969.
        Mr. Shapiro is survived by his wife, the former Barbara Ann Hewson; two sons, Robert, of Chicago, and William, of Manhattan; a daughter, Susan Marritt of Los Angeles; a sister, Ann Harris of West Palm Beach, Fla., and five grandchildren.
      