
       Lord Rothschild, a scientist and member of the famous banking family who was linked to one of Britain's most well-known spy scandals, died Tuesday. He was 79 years old.
        Lord Rothschild, a scientist and member of the famous banking family who was linked to one of Britain's most well-known spy scandals, died Tuesday. He was 79 years old.
        His wife, Lady Rothschild, who did not disclose the cause of death or other details, said in a statement issued today that the funeral would be private and that a memorial serice would be held later.
        Nathaniel Mayer Victor Rothschild was educated at Harrow and at Trinity College in Cambridge, where he was an outstanding biophysicist.
        He succeeded his uncle as the third Baron Rothschild in 1937. He took his seat in the House of Lords, the unelected upper chamber of Parliament, as a member of the Labor Party.
        At Cambridge in the 1930's he joined the exclusive debating society known as the Apostles, which included Guy Burgess, Donald Maclean, Kim Philby and Anthony Blunt, who were later exposed as agents for the Soviet Union.
        Cleared by Thatcher
        In 1986 some Members of Parliament called for investigations into whether Lord Rothschild had also been a Soviet spy. Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher dismissed the speculation, and Lord Rothschild strongly denied the allegations.
        At the start of World War II, Lord Rothschild joined M.I.5, Britain's domestic intelligence agency, where he became a senior officer. Later, he recalled, when he realized his Jewish descent would condemn him to a concentration camp if the Nazis took over, he stole a death capsule from his employers.
        In 1944 he was awarded the George Medal after defusing explosives hidden in a case of Spanish onions in a ship's hold. In keeping with his style, he carried out the operation with a set of jeweler's screwdrivers given to him by Cartier.
        A Jazz Pianist
        He was awarded an honorary degree from Tel Aviv University for ''the advancement of science, education and the economy of Israel'' in 1971. It was followed in 1975 by an honorary degree from Jerusalem's Hebrew university.
        Lord Rothschild was also a sportsman, a jazz pianist and a zoologist.
        In 1970, Prime Minister Edward Heath appointed Lord Rothschild to head a review of all British Government departments. Mr. Heath later publicly rebuked Lord Rothschild for his outspoken views on the gloomy state of Britain's economy.
        Lord Rothschild spent 20 years as an executive with the Shell Oil Company. After just two months working in the family bank he said he found the job ''dull,'' but he remained a director of N. M. Rothschild & Sons and was chairman from 1975-76.
        Besides his wife, the former Teresa Mayor, Lord Rothschild is survived by their son, James, and their two daughters, Emma and Victoria.
        He is also survived by three children from his first marriage, a son, Jacob, and two daughters, Sarah and Miranda. His eldest child, Jacob, is the heir to his title.
      