
       Michael H. Prendergast, a former chairman of the New York State Democratic Committee and a former State Director of Public Safety, died of complications from Parkinson's disease on Tuesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was 76 years old and lived in Haverstraw, N.Y.
        Michael H. Prendergast, a former chairman of the New York State Democratic Committee and a former State Director of Public Safety, died of complications from Parkinson's disease on Tuesday at Good Samaritan Hospital in Suffern, N.Y. He was 76 years old and lived in Haverstraw, N.Y.
        Mr. Prendergast was a power in Democratic politics at the state and national levels in the mid-1950's. He led the New York delegation at Democratic national conventions that chose Adlai E. Stevenson and John F. Kennedy as Presidential nominees. And he helped to elevate the party into a statewide institution in New York by making inroads in upstate Republican strongholds.
        He served as state chairman from July 1955 until March 1962, when he was ousted by forces led by Mayor Robert F. Wagner of New York City, who had just been re-elected.
        Shifts in Support
        He had sided with Carmine G. De Sapio, the Tammany Hall leader, and had opposed the Mayor's bid for a third term. He denied Mr. Wagner the party's renomination by backing State Comptroller Arthur Levitt in the Democratic primary as the organization candidate. After Mr. Wagner won the primary, Mr. Prendergast threw his support behind City Comptroller Lawrence Gerosa, who was running as an independent.
        Mr. Prendergast's downfall also involved national politics. A few months after Mr. Kennedy was elected President in 1960, moves were made to oust him as party chairman.
        Although Mr. Prendergast and the New York State Democratic organization had worked for Mr. Kennedy's election, Kennedy forces had been angered by Mr. Prendergast's early support for Lyndon B. Johnson, by New York's delay in supporting the Kennedy candidacy and by snubs of Kennedy stalwarts in the campaign's closing days.
        After his ouster as state chairman, Mr. Prendergast formed a public relations concern and worked as a lobbyist in Albany. In 1972, he was appointed to the New York State Commission on Cable Television. He retired in 1979.
        Doorbells and Errands
        Born on Sept. 23, 1913, in Grassy Point, N.Y., Michael Henaghan Prendergast was educated in a local parochial school and at Haverstraw High School. Before he was old enough to vote, he was ringing doorbells in Rockland County and running errands on election nights. By the time he was 21, he was a Democratic town committeeman, following in the footseps of his father, who was a Democratic leader of Grassy Point.
        After graduating from high school, Mr. Prendergast worked as a salesman, then as a typist in the Democratic national headquarters in Washington. He then became a reporter for The Rockland County Times. For a time he served with the Palisades Interstate Park police and as a member of the Rockland County police force.
        In 1943, he became director of probation for Rockland County and, with the exception of a brief tour of duty in the Army that was curtailed by a back injury, he held that post until 1945. He then joined the executive staff of War Relief Services of the National Catholic Welfare Conference, where he remained for 10 years.
        Appointed by Harriman
        He was rising in the Rockland County Democratic organization, meanwhile, and eventually was elected county chairman. Under his leadership, Rockland County Democrats won a majority on the five-member County Board of Supervisors in the 1950 election for the first time in 25 years. Early in 1954 he attended a private dinner for Averell Harriman, who was looking for support for his candidacy for governor. He agreed to help Mr. Harriman, toured the state for him and served as his floor manager at the 1954 state convention.
        When Mr. Harriman won the gubernatorial election, Mr. Prendergast was appointed State Director of Public Safety. He was elected Democratic state chairman in July 1955 and was re-elected in 1956, 1958 and 1960.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Virginia Reynolds; two daughters, Maureen Woodward of Stony Point, N.Y., and Patsy Prendergast of Haverstraw; two sons, Michael, of Haverstraw, and James, of Valley Cottage, N.Y.; a brother, Paul, of Hobe Sound, Fla., and two grandchildren.
      