
       An Wang, the founder of Wang Laboratories and the inventor of a doughnut-shaped ring of iron that served as the core of computer memory until the microchip came along, died of cancer yesterday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 70 years old.
        An Wang, the founder of Wang Laboratories and the inventor of a doughnut-shaped ring of iron that served as the core of computer memory until the microchip came along, died of cancer yesterday at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. He was 70 years old.
        Dr. Wang, the holder of 40 patents and 23 honorary degrees, built up Wang Laboratories from a one-man electrical fixtures store on top of a Boston garage into one of the world's major computer manufacturers. The initial investment was $600.
        Dr. Wang had battled cancer of the esophagus for more than a year and re-entered the hospital earlier this month.
        Helped Massachusetts Revival
        He was one of only 69 members of the National Inventors Hall of Fame. ''One of the pioneering giants of the computer industry has left us,'' said Richard W. Miller, the company's president. ''Dr. Wang's legacy is a life distinguished both as inventor and entrepreneur and as a good and decent man.''
        Wang Laboratories, in Lowell, Mass., was vital to the ''Massachusetts Miracle'' of the early 1980's, when high-technology industries brought new life to the state's aging factory towns.
        ''I don't know how many countless thousands of thousands of people owe a debt of gratitude for what he did,'' Gov. Michael S. Dukakis once said of Dr. Wang.
        In recent years, Wang Laboratories has stumbled. It lost more than $400 million in 1989, sold some operations and brought in an outsider to replace Dr. Wang's son Frederick, who resigned in August as president of the company.
        In 1984, Dr. Wang and his family owned about 55 percent of the company stock, and Forbes magazine, estimating his worth at $1.6 billion, ranked him as the fifth richest American. The slim, shy inventor, usually wearing a well-tailored suit and a bow tie, was generous with his wealth. $4 Million to Save a Theater When, in the early 1980's, the roof of Boston's Performing Arts Center was literally falling, Dr. Wang, with little discussion, pledged $4 million to save the theater. It was only one of a series of such philanthropic actions.
        Among his other major contributions and actions were gifts totaling $4 million to Harvard University, a $1 million donation to Wellesley College, creation of the $6 million Wang Institute of Graduate Studies for software engineers and China scholars, and construction of a $15 million factory in Boston's Chinatown that provided jobs for 300 inner city residents.
        Construction of the Chinatown plant completed a cycle in Dr. Wang's life. His tiny first factory was set up nearby over a garage in Boston's South End. Earnings that first year were $15,000. The earnings grew by an average of 40 percent a year and, by 1984, reached $2 billion, making the company No. 227 on Fortune magazine's list of the 500 largest companies.
        Son of an English Teacher
        An Wang was born in Shanghai in 1920, one of five children. His father was an English teacher at a private elementary school.
        When he was only 16, he entered Shanghai's Chiao Tung University, the reputed M.I.T. of China, began his studies in electrical engineering.
        He emigrated to the United States in 1945 and, within three years, had earned a doctorate in physics from Harvard. He once said it was Harvard that ''introduced me to computers and let me in on the very early stage of their development.'' In 1948, at 28, Dr. Wang invented the computer memory core, and in 1951 he founded his company.
        In his autobiography, ''Lessons,'' published in 1986, Dr. Wang described how he eventually sold his patent for the memory core to International Business Machines, but only after an episode he presents as corporate thuggery.
        While negotiating the price with I.B.M., he wrote, his patent was challenged by another inventor. And although the claim later proved insubstantial, and the Patent Office ruled in Dr. Wang's favor on 15 of 16 counts, the uncertainty weakened his bargaining position and drove his price down. The other inventor died soon after, but Dr. Wang said he heard from the man's family that I.B.M. had put him up to challenging him.
        Wang Laboratories' fortunes began to blossom off in 1964 when Dr. Wang introduced a desktop calculator and began developing office computers, now the mainstay of the company. Until 1985, when the entire computer industry fell into a slump, Wang remained one of its stars.
        A Presence in American Offices
        With a string of highly successful calculators and word-processing systems developed by Dr. Wang, the company became an almost ubiquitous presence in the American office, selling its goods to more than 80 percent of the nation's 2,000 largest companies.
        In recent years, the Wang company has been battered by steep losses, product delays, layoffs and an exodus of top-level executives. In 1986, Dr. Wang relinquished day-to-day superivision of the company and named Frederick Wang president.
        Unlike the word-processing systems that fueled Wang's growth during the 1970's, its line of minicomputers has put the company in direct competition with I.B.M., the Digital Equipment Corporation and other giants at a time when the industry is continuing to contract.
        Last August, the company announced a fourth-quarter loss of $374.7 million and said it was restructuring its operations to focus on specific markets and a new technology - image processing. At the same time, Dr. Wang eased his son out of the presidency, and, a few weeks later, named Mr. Miller to the post.
        In November, declaring that computers no longer represented a boom industry, Mr. Miller announced that Wang would undergo a ''fundamental reordering'' and cut 2,000 more workers from its payroll. Part of the company's change, Mr. Miller said, would place greater emphasis on software and other computer applications.
        Besides his son, Frederick, Dr. Wang is survived by his wife, Lorraine; another son, Courtney, and a daughter, Juliette.
      