
       Robert L. McDonald, an award-winning film maker who became the chief of the Perry Ellis design house after its founder's death, died of AIDS last night at his home in Manhattan. He was 45 years old.
        Robert L. McDonald, an award-winning film maker who became the chief of the Perry Ellis design house after its founder's death, died of AIDS last night at his home in Manhattan. He was 45 years old.
        Mr. McDonald said there were great similarities between his film career and his subsequent Seventh Avenue one. In both he had to encourage creative people and yet meet the requirements of hard-nosed financial people.
        He was executive producer of two films nominated for Academy Awards and received other honors for films created for use in school study programs. He began his film work in 1970 by traveling around the world for the Learning Corporation of America, seeking films appropriate for use in schools.
        Later as the company's vice president in charge of production, he began developing his own dramatic films, using actors and creative directors, which were entertaining as well as instructive. They were broadcast by television stations and used in classrooms.
        The Academy Awards nominations were for two short films, ''It's So Nice to Have a Wolf Around the House'' in 1978 and ''Split Cherry Tree'' in 1982. ''All Summer and a Day,'' received a Golden Eagle award in 1982.
        Held Design Company Together
        In 1986, at the request of his longtime friend, the fashion designer Perry Ellis, Mr. McDonald became president and later chairman of Perry Ellis International after the designer's death. He was responsible for overseeing the licensing, design and marketing of clothing, accessories and other products worldwide. He is credited with holding the company together after the death of its founder.
        Before his film career he worked as an aide to Pierre Elliott Trudeau, then Canada's Minister of Justice, and earlier was media coordinator for Expo '70 in Montreal.
        Mr. McDonald was born in Toronto, where he graduated from the University of Toronto. He received a master's degree in film studies from the University of California at Los Angeles.
        He is survived by his mother, Margaret Carroll McDonald, of Toronto; a sister, Betsy Drake of Morristown, N.J., and a brother, W. Scott McDonald of Bermuda.
      