
       Dr. Klaus E. Knorr, professor emeritus of public affairs at Princeton University and the director of its Center of International Studies from 1960 to 1968, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 78 years old.
        Dr. Klaus E. Knorr, professor emeritus of public affairs at Princeton University and the director of its Center of International Studies from 1960 to 1968, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 78 years old.
        Dr. Knorr, a German-born economist and political scientist, wrote many books developing a thesis that the nuclear age had necessitated a global ascendance of diplomatic and economic policies over military options. The volumes included ''On the Uses of Military Power in the Nuclear Age'' (Princeton University Press, 1966), ''Military Power and Potential'' (Lexington Books, 1970) and ''Power and Wealth: The Political Economy of International Power'' (Basic Books, 1973).
        In mid-1968, while the Johnson Administration was continuing to accelerate American military involvement in South Vietnam, Dr. Knorr and three associates at the Princeton center wrote a detailed proposal for the withdrawal of American and North Vietnamese forces, the introduction of an international peacekeeping force and the formation of a neutral Saigon government. The war continued for seven more years.
        Klaus Eugene Knorr was born on May 16, 1911, in Essen, Germany, and earned a law degree at the University of Tubingen. He resisted increasing pressure to join the Nazi party and immigrated to the United States in 1937.
        He earned a Ph.D. at the University of Chicago in 1941. He then taught economics at Stanford University and international economics and political science, first at Yale and then at Princeton. He taught at Princeton for 28 years, edited the journal, World Politics, for a decade and was the Tod Professor of Public Affairs from 1964 until he retired in 1979.
        Over the years, Dr. Knorr was a consultant to the Department of State, the Department of Defense and the Central Intelligence Agency and was awarded the Government's National Intelligence Distinguished Service Medal.
        Surviving are his wife, Marianne; two daughters, Monica, of Washington, and Jean, of Alexandria, Va.; a son, Nicholas, of Glencoe, Ill., and four grandchildren.
      