
       Frank X. Graves Jr., the longtime Mayor of Paterson, N.J., and also a State Senator for many years, died after a heart attack yesterday morning at his home in the Lakeview section of the city. He was 66 years old.
        Frank X. Graves Jr., the longtime Mayor of Paterson, N.J., and also a State Senator for many years, died after a heart attack yesterday morning at his home in the Lakeview section of the city. He was 66 years old.
        Mr. Graves was stricken shortly before 10:30 A.M. and was taken to St. Joseph's Hospital, where he was pronounced dead at 11:15.
        One of the most forceful personalities in city and state politics, Mr. Graves was in the habit of rising early seven days a week to drive through Paterson's neighborhoods in his black sedan. It was equipped with police, fire and public-works radios and a cellular telephone.
        Immediate Action Demanded
        When he spotted a problem - a littered street, perhaps, or graffiti on a monument - he would use one of his two-way radios to demand immediate action from the appropriate municipal agency. He kept a child's doll and a softball in the car, which he gave to children at fire and accident scenes to calm them.
        In his first administration, from 1961 to 1966, Mr. Graves personally led police raids, unleashed dogs on rioters and ordered the arrest of the poet Allen Ginsberg, a Paterson native, for saying at a poetry reading that he had just smoked marijuana at the Passaic Falls.
        A few years ago, incensed at lagging tax collections, Mr. Graves began telephoning delinquent taxpayers, offering to send a police car to pick up ''my taxes.'' He ordered the arrest of a property owner who paid a $50,000 assessment with a bad check.
        From 1974 through 1978 he was the City Council President. In 1982 he was again elected Mayor and was re-elected in 1986. In 1977 he was also elected to the Senate, where he become chairman of the Committee on Law and Public Safety and served until his death.
        A Law-and-Order Lawmaker
        In Trenton he was a sponsor of tough state law-and-order measures including, in 1981, the Graves Act, which requires a minimum three-year prison term for anyone convicted of using a gun in the commission of a crime.
        Mr. Graves's relations with minority residents in his often racially troubled city had been strained, but in his latest administration he appointed blackndnd Hispac c people and wenen to canenet jobs and named black and Hispanic judges.
        Mr. Graves was born in Paterson. His father owned a prosperous vending-machine company and was also the police reporter for The Paterson News. The son attended the University of Virginia before enlisting in the Army in World War II. As a corporal in a tank unit in the European Theater, he was disabled by shrapnel in his legs.
        He returned home with a wife, Ethel, a nurse who had cared for him in a hospital. After attending William Paterson College, he began his political career as a Paterson Alderman.
        He was a Passaic County Freeholder from 1955 to 1960 and then won two consecutive three-year terms as Mayor of Paterson, the maximum permitted under city's old form of government.
        Mr. Graves is survived by his wife, the former Ethel Kirsop; three daughters, Linda DeJesus of Paterson, Karole, also of Paterson, and Nancy, of Normandy Beach, N.J.; a sister, Dorothy, of Margate, Fla., and two granddaughters.
      