
       Edward Cristy Welsh, an educator and economist who played a leading role in developing the nation's space program, died of a stroke on Sunday at the Charter House nursing home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 81 years old and had lived at the nursing home for two years.
        Edward Cristy Welsh, an educator and economist who played a leading role in developing the nation's space program, died of a stroke on Sunday at the Charter House nursing home in Silver Spring, Md. He was 81 years old and had lived at the nursing home for two years.
        Mr. Welsh was the executive secretary of the National Aeronautics and Space Council, a White House advisory group, from 1961 until his retirement in 1969. He then remained active as a consultant to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.
        As chief staff officer of the space council, Mr. Welsh was principal adviser to the White House and was a strong advocate of increased spending to overcome the early Soviet lead in space. He also helped draft legislation creating the Communications Satellite Corporation.
        Earlier, as a legislative aide to Senator Stuart Symington, Democrat of Missouri, he helped draft the legislation that created NASA and the space council in 1958.
        An Aide to MacArthur
        He began his government service in 1937 as an economist with the National Resources Committee and moved to the Temporary National Economic Committee in 1940. In 1942 he became head of the Office of Price Administration's regional office in Cleveland and in 1945 became director of price operations for the agency in Washington.
        In 1947 Gen. Douglas MacArthur summoned him to become chief of the antitrust division at Occupation headquarters in Japan. There he broke up the major cartels and reorganized Japan's largest companies.
        He returned to Washington in 1950 and served as assistant to Mr. Symington, then as chairman of the National Security Resources Board and later chairman of the Reconstruction Finance Corporation. After Mr. Symington was elected to the Senate, Mr. Welsh served as his legislative aide from 1953 until 1961, when he was appointed by President John F. Kennedy to head the Space Council.
        Born on March 20, 1909, in Long Valley, N.J., Mr. Welsh earned a Ph.D. in economics in 1940 from Ohio State University, where he taught for eight years.
        He is survived by two sisters, Eleanor Jones of Chambersburg, Pa., and Dorothy Vernon of Dunedin, Fla.
      