
       William Thomas Scott, assistant to the president of the United Federation of Teachers and a former deputy city comptroller who played an important role in rescuing the city from its fiscal crisis in the 1970's, died of a heart attack on Monday at a friend's house in Tarpon Springs, Fla. He was 71 years old.
        William Thomas Scott, assistant to the president of the United Federation of Teachers and a former deputy city comptroller who played an important role in rescuing the city from its fiscal crisis in the 1970's, died of a heart attack on Monday at a friend's house in Tarpon Springs, Fla. He was 71 years old.
        Mr. Scott was stricken while on vacation with his wife, the former Elizabeth Ryan. The couple lived on Staten Island.
        As assistant to the president of the teachers' union - Sandra Feldman, and her predecessor, Albert Shanker -Mr. Scott was the financial architect of contract settlements. Mr. Shanker had hired him away from the city comptroller's office in 1976.
        'An Invaluable Role'
        Harrison J. Goldin, the former City Comptroller, said yesterday that Mr. Scott was the first person he hired after being elected. ''He played an invaluable role in the fiscal crisis,'' Mr. Goldin recalled. ''He represented the comptroller's office and the city in dealing with the various parties whose concurrence was necessary to construct a plan to rescue the city.''
        Mr. Goldin assigned Mr. Scott to bring the city's public employee unions into the rescue plan through their purchase of Municipal Assistance Corporation bonds. Mr. Scott turned to the teachers' union and to the Teachers Retirement System, which finances the pensions of U.F.T. members. The system invested heavily in Municipal Assistance Corporation bonds, prompting other unions to follow suit.
        Mr. Scott was born in Brooklyn and attended New York City schools. The Depression was in full swing when he graduated from high school, and he went to work in 1938 as a clerk at the Teachers Retirement System. He rose to become its executive director before joining the comptroller's office.
        In 1984, the City University of New York gave Mr. Scott the Chancellor's Medal for contributing to education.
        Besides his wife, he is survived by a son, James J., and a daughter, Genevieve, both of Staten Island; a brother, James M., of Woodhaven, Queens, and a grandson.
      