
       Judge Inzer B. Wyatt, a senior judge in the Federal District Court in Manhattan, died of pneumonia and heart failure Wednesday at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Judge Inzer B. Wyatt, a senior judge in the Federal District Court in Manhattan, died of pneumonia and heart failure Wednesday at the New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center in Manhattan. He was 82 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        President John F. Kennedy appointed Judge Wyatt to the Federal bench in the Southern District of New York in 1962. The judge took senior status in 1977 when he reached the retirement age of 70. At his death, he was in charge of seven cases.
        During his career Judge Wyatt presided over several important cases, including the 1969 bribery-conspiracy trial of Roy M. Cohn, who had served as chief counsel to Senator Joseph R. McCarthy in 1953 and 1954. Mr. Cohn was charged with bribing a city appraiser and with extorting stock from the president of the Fifth Avenue Coach Lines.
        In his charge, Judge Wyatt told the jurors that ''it seems clear that your verdict depends on the determination of the credibility of the witnesses.'' Mr. Cohn and two co-defendants were acquitted.
        In 1972, Judge Wyatt imposed a $10,000 fine on Louis E. Wolfson, the financier, who ended a six-year case by pleading no contest to filing a false corporate financial statement. $8 Million Drug Refunds Ordered Later that year Judge Wyatt ordered some of the nation's leading pharmaceutical companies to pay $8 million in refunds to 36,000 customers who had been overcharged on antibiotics from 1954 to 1956.
        In 1974 the judge presided over the trial of Representative Frank J. Brasco, a Brookyn Democrat accused of conspiracy to obtain payoffs to help a truck company headed by a reputed Mafia member. That case ended in a mistrial when the jury failed to reach a verdict.
        Born in Huntsville, Ala., Judge Wyatt graduated from the University of Alabama in 1924 and in 1927 received his law degree from Harvard University. He joined the Manhattan law firm of Sullivan & Cromwell after graduation and was made a partner in 1940. He resigned in 1942 to join the Judge Advocate General's Corps as a captain during World War II.
        He was assigned to military intelligence in Italy, Britain and North Africa during the war. Later he served in the China-Burma-India Theater as a special security representative. He rejoined Sullivan & Cromwell in 1946, but from 1953 to 1960 was a special assistant to the Attorney General, hearing cases involving conscientious objectors.
        Judge Wyatt is survived by his wife, the former Hope Johnston.
      