
       Dr. Harold G. Scheie, a pioneer in several ophthalmological techniques who founded the Scheie Eye Institute of Philadelphia, died in his sleep yesterday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 80 years old and had long been ill with cancer.
        Dr. Harold G. Scheie, a pioneer in several ophthalmological techniques who founded the Scheie Eye Institute of Philadelphia, died in his sleep yesterday at his home in Philadelphia. He was 80 years old and had long been ill with cancer.
        He was the chairman emeritus of the department of ophthalmology at the Medical School of the University of Pennsylvania, In a career in eye care that spanned 55 years, Dr. Scheie (pronounced shay) was responsible for developing several important surgical techniques, including the treatment of congenital cataracts and glaucoma. He first described in detail a rare inherited metabolic disease, now called Scheie's syndrome, that can cloud the cornea. In 1933 while he was still an intern, he worked with Dr. George Gammon to devise a diagnostic test for myasthenia gravis.
        Many present-day ophthalmological instruments and procedures bear his name, including the Scheie test for tonic, or contracting, pupil and the Scheie procedure used in glaucoma filtration surgery.
        Dr. Scheie was born in Brookings, S.D., and received his early education in a one-room schoolhouse on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation in North Dakota, where his family moved to farm under the Homestead Act.
        Left Army as a General
        He received his bachelor's and medical degrees from the University of Minnesota and interned at the Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, beginning an association with the university that lasted the rest of his life.
        After earning a doctorate in ophthalmology at the university's School of Medicine, he entered private practice.
        In World War II he served at the United States Army's 20th General Hospital in the jungle on the India-Burma border. There he saved the sight of Earl Mountbatten, one of many famous patients whom Dr. Scheie treated. He left the Army as a brigadier general and was awarded the Legion of Merit and made a member of the Order of the British Empire.
        After the war he returned to teach at Pennsylvania, eventually becoming the William F. Norris and George E. deSchweinitz Professor of Ophthalmology in the School of Medicine and, in 1964, the chairman of the department, a post he held until retirement in 1977.
        Dr. Scheie never charged several groups of patients: the poor, members of the clergy, the military and, surprisingly to some, the rich. His theory was that wealthy patients would return his gift with financial support to enable him to build a unit for total eye care.
        He obtained that support and in 1972 opened the Scheie Eye Institute, housing the university's ophthalmology department, at the Presbyterian Medical Center in Philadelphia.
        He was the only three-time recipient of the Lucien Howe Medal, considered the highest American award for distinguished service to ophthalmology.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Mary Ann Tallman; a son, Eric, of Berkeley, Calif., and a daughter, Nancy, of Somerville, N.J.
      