
       Nahum N. Glatzer, a scholar, an editor and the author of many works on literature and Jewish philosophy, died on Tuesday after several days in a coma in Tucson, Ariz., where he was spending the winter. He was 86 years old and lived in Watertown, Mass.
        Nahum N. Glatzer, a scholar, an editor and the author of many works on literature and Jewish philosophy, died on Tuesday after several days in a coma in Tucson, Ariz., where he was spending the winter. He was 86 years old and lived in Watertown, Mass.
        Professor Glatzer was the philosopher Martin Buber's successor as lecturer on Jewish religious history and ethics at the University of Frankfurt. He was the author of some 260 books and articles on subjects ranging from Franz Kafka to Jewish prayer. A founder of Schocken Books in Germany, he remained an editor at the publishing company after it moved to the United States because of Nazi persecution.
        He edited several English translations of Kafka's works as well as books by Buber, S. Y. Agnon, the Israeli Nobel Prize laureate, and the philosopher Franz Rosenzweig. He began teaching at Brandeis in 1950 and was chairman of the department of Near Eastern and Judaic studies for 11 years. He moved to Boston University in 1973 and was a professor in the religion department.
        Editor of Kafka Collections
        Professor Glatzer was born in Lemberg, Austria, on March 25, 1903, and received his Ph.D. from the University of Frankfurt in 1931. In 1933, the year Hitler came to power, Professor Glatzer and his wife, the former Anne Stiebel, fled to Palestine, where he taught literature in Haifa. They moved to the United States in 1938.
        Professor Glatzer edited several collections of works by Kafka, including ''The Complete Stories'' and ''Parables and Paradoxes.''
        Among his many works are ''The Tannaite View of History,'' ''History of the Talmudic Age,'' ''Franz Rosenzweig's Life and Thought,'' ''The Beginnings of Post-Biblical Judaism'' and ''The Dimensions of Job.'' He was a member of the editorial board of the Jewish Publication Society and was on the board of the Leo Baeck Institute. He was a Guggenheim Fellow in 1959-60 and received honorary degrees from Brandeis, the University of Southern California and the University of Florida.
        Professor Glatzer is survived by his wife; a son, Daniel Franz Glatzer of Honolulu; a daughter, Judith Wechsler of Brookline, Mass., and two granddaughters.
        The funeral will be at 1 P.M. today at Temple Emunah in Lexington, Mass.
      