
       Arthur J. Goldberg, who rose from humble beginnings in Chicago to become Secretary of Labor, an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court and then United States representative to the United Nations, was found dead yesterday morning in his apartment in Washington. He was 81 years old.
        Arthur J. Goldberg, who rose from humble beginnings in Chicago to become Secretary of Labor, an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court and then United States representative to the United Nations, was found dead yesterday morning in his apartment in Washington. He was 81 years old.
        Dr. Michael Newman, Mr. Goldberg's physician, said the former Justice died late Thursday or early Friday of cardiac arrest from coronary artery disease. A maid found his body lying on a sofa.
        Prof. Alan M. Dershowitz of Harvard Law School, who clerked for Justice Goldberg and was a longtime associate, said Mr. Goldberg had been active until his death on project to form a committee to monitor human rights developments in Eastern Europe and China.
        Turning Point in Life
        Associate Justice William J. Brennan, a fellow liberal who served with Justice Goldberg, said yesterday: ''The nation suffered a grevous loss in the death of Justice Goldberg. He served his nation brillantly as Secretary of Labor, Ambassador to the United Nations and Justice of the Supreme Court. Another great contribution was his work as a lawyer in bringing together the major labor organizations of the country.''
        Warren E. Burger, the retired Chief Justice of the United States, said, ''As a Justice of the Supreme Court, he was a balanced and thoughtful jurist.''
        A wrenching decision that was a turning point in his life occurred in 1965, when Mr. Goldberg gave up his lifetime appointment to the Supreme Court at President Lyndon B. Johnson's urging to assume the U.N. post. It was a decision he later said he regretted.
        On the one hand, as Mr. Goldberg said years later, he believed that as U.N. representative he could reverse the Johnson Administration's Vietnam policy and bring about peace negotiations. On the other hand, it meant giving up a judicial position in which Mr. Goldberg's admirers believed he would have made a greater mark on American history.
        ''In all candor,'' Mr. Goldberg said on the day he was named to the United Nations post, ''I would rather the President had not asked me to undertake this duty.''
        Mr. Dershowitz said the Justice had told him, ''Although I would love nothing more than to live out my years on the Supreme Court, America has been too good to me for me to turn down its President.''
        Three years later he resigned, citing frustrations and disappointments, including ''the limitations of the scope of my office'' in regard to getting the United Nations involved in a Vietnam peace effort.
        In 1970 Mr. Goldberg entered the race for Governor of New York as the Liberal-Democratic candidate, but he was soundly defeated by the Republican incumbent, Nelson A. Rockefeller.
        Mr. Goldberg was an owlish, unimposing figure with remarkable energy and legal, judicial and negotiating skills. Johnson praised him in his memoirs as ''a skilled arbiter and a fair-minded man.''
        It was in 1961 that the Chicago-born lawyer, then general counsel of the United Steelworkers of America, was named Secretary of Labor by President John F. Kennedy. In 1962, Kennedy named him to the Supreme Court.
        A Mover in Historic Merger
        The self-made son of an immigrant carter, Mr. Goldberg did much, as a union lawyer, to bring about the historic merger in 1955 of the American Federation of Labor and the Congress of Industrial Organizations.
        His legal work plunged him repeatedly into important decisions involving labor and management. Admirers recalled him as the leading labor lawyer of that day. When he was named general counsel of the Congress of Industrial Organizations in 1948, he became the chief of the staff of lawyers working for its vast membership.
        He was involved on behalf of labor in various court cases testing the Taft-Hartley Labor Act, which empowered the Government to obtain an 80-day injunction against strikes that endangered national health or safety. He was also the victor in an important 1949 court ruling affirming that pension issues were a proper subject for collective bargaining.
        After the A.F.L.-C.I.O. was formed, he became the main figure to draft rules on ethics. In 1959, he represented the steelworkers in negotiations during a strike that lasted more than 100 days and that led to a contract that was widely seen as a major gain for labor.
        As Labor Secretary, Mr. Goldberg was energetic in striving to settle labor disputes. He played a role in the Kennedy Administration's celebrated confrontation with the steel industry. Early in 1962 he helped bring about a noninflationary settlement between the steelworkers and the industry. He prodded the two sides by warning that a strike could seriously upset the nation's economy.
        But 10 days later the United States Steel Corporation decided on a price increase, angering Mr. Goldberg and Kennedy. Other steel concerns followed suit. Then, with Mr. Goldberg working behind the scenes, the Administration successfully applied pressure to get steel executives to back down on the price rise. He met with Roger M. Blough, chairman of U.S. Steel, on a day when another steel company revoked its own price increase, and soon U.S. Steel also yielded.
        Afterward, on the Supreme Court, Mr. Goldberg quickly became influential as an innovative judicial thinker whose arrival, to replace the more conservative Felix Frankfurter, tilted the Court toward liberal activism.
        Authorities have offered different explanations of why Johnson chose Mr. Goldberg for the U.N. The President emphasized his desire to name a distinguished public figure to the post previously held by Adlai E. Stevenson. Others noted Johnson's wish to name his friend Abe Fortas to the Court. Mr Fortas was named to the seat after Mr. Goldberg stepped down.
        A Reluctant Farewell
        Mr. Goldberg said he was reluctant to leave the judiciary for the uncertain world of diplomacy. In making the shift, he became one of the few Supreme Court Justices to quit for reasons other than retirement. Professor Dershowitz said Johnson strongly appealed to Mr. Goldberg's patriotism. ''My President has told me that I can save American soldiers' lives'' by helping to work out a Vietnam peace arrangement, the Justice told his former clerk.
        He did make a contribution, largely through dextrous negotiations with Soviet diplomats. But he achieved far less than he had hoped, which was to have a major role in ending the Vietnam War.
        After he left the United Nations, he served as president of the American Jewish Committee, the nationwide human rights organization, in 1968 and 1969, and became a member of the Manhattan law firm of Paul, Weiss, Goldberg, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison.
        In 1970, after opinion polls suggested that he would be a strong candidate, he entered the race for Governor of New York. But he proved to be a lackluster campaigner and he was easily defeated by Mr. Rockefeller, a long-entrenched power in state politics.
        In 1971, Mr. Goldberg returned to Washington, where he resumed his career. He was called in on international arbitration cases and served in 1977 and 1978 in the Carter Administration as a United States Ambassador-at-large.
        In that role he was chairman of the United States delegation to a follow-up conference, in 1977 in Belgrade, on the 1975 Helsinki agreements on human rights. At the 35-nation gathering, he voiced vigorous criticism of Eastern bloc nations on human rights.
        That advocacy echoed the lusty assertiveness of his early years, as Labor Secretary, when the Federal Government played an interventionist role in some labor-management matters. Mr. Goldberg felt the Government had an obligation to affirm the importance to the nation of resolving crucial labor-management contract talks with implications for the state of the economy.
        With Kennedy's support he acted on his own conviction that the Government itself should be vigorous in trying to settle labor-management conflicts that jeopardize national interests.
        Early in his tenure as Labor Secretary, he helped resolve a New York harbor tugboat strike. He also intervened, and became a successful arbitrator, in a dispute between the Metropolitan Opera and orchestra members.
        The arrival of Mr. Goldberg - a liberal, though not a rigid one - on the Supreme Court, then led by Earl Warren, proved to be a watershed. It led, in the opinion of most constitutional experts at the time, to a change in the course of the Court's rulings.
        While Frankfurter was still on the Court, he was the leader of a five-Justice majority that favored judicial restraint, including respect for states' rights and deference to Capitol Hill.
        But as an Associate Justice Mr. Goldberg became a member of a group, usually constituting a cohesive majority of the nine Justices, that extended the Court's writ into what had been deemed the spheres of the states or of Congress. This majority group was often termed activist or liberal.
        As a Justice, Mr. Goldberg was also innovative. In 1964, in perhaps his most notable opinion, he wrote for the Court's majority in the case of Escobedo v. Illinois, striking down a conviction in a murder case in which the defendant had been denied the right to confer with his lawyer after his arrest.
        Similar decisions ensued, and so did reappraisals of much of the nation's criminal justice system. Many police executives and prosecutors complained that the rulings had placed excessive restrictions on them.
        Despite Mr. Goldberg's misgivings about leaving the Court for the United Nations, he had some successes as the United States representative there. Some admirers felt his most significant achievement was his role in drafting Security Council Resolution 242, which was passed in November 1967 after the Middle East war that year.
        The resolution calls for ''a just and lasting peace in the Middle East,'' including ''withdrawal of Israeli armed forces from territories of recent conflict'' and respect for the right of ''every state in the area to live in peace within secure and recognized boundaries.'' The measure has been a cornerstone ever since in diplomatic efforts to bring peace to the Middle East.
        But he did not succeed in getting the United Nations involved in an attempt to bring about an acceptable end to the confrontation in Vietnam. In addition, behind the scenes, Mr. Goldberg had grave differences with Johnson over Vietnam policies.
        Exit From Vietnam
        But Mr. Goldberg did figure modestly in the history of how the United States came to get out of Vietnam. In mid-March 1968, a time when, as Mr. Johnson put it in his book ''The Vantage Point,'' ''our total situation in Vietnam was under comprehensive review,'' Mr. Goldberg sent Johnson a memorandum. It suggested that the United States stop ''the aerial and naval bombardment of North Vietnam for the limited time necessary to determine whether Hanoi will negotiate in good faith'' in peace talks.
        ''I read the memo carefully,'' Johnson wrote. ''Goldberg made a strong case for a total bombing halt, but not strong enough. I could not take the risk of such a move at that time. I continued to believe that the North Vietnamese would interpret it as a clear sign of weakness - an indication that we wanted to stop fighting and come home.''
        On March 20, 1968, Mr. Goldberg pressed his proposal at a meeting with Johnson and Presidential advisers. He did so at a time when there was much talk within the Administration of how to foster Vietnam peace talks. His suggestion was not acted on at the time, but 11 days later Johnson announced an unconditional and sweeping, but less than total, cutback in the bombing. Talks between the United States and North Vietnam ensued in Paris, and Johnson eventually stopped all bombing of the north.
        Blind Horse and Wagon
        The roles that Mr. Goldberg played in Presidential policy making and international affairs were remote from the world of his boyhood. Arthur Joseph Goldberg's was born Aug. 8, 1908, in Chicago, the youngest of eight children of Joseph and Rebecca Goldberg, both of whom were born in Russia. The elder Mr. Goldberg, a former peddler, owned a blind horse and a wagon and delivered produce to hotels.
        After studying at Crane Junior College and De Paul University, Arthur Goldberg entered Northwestern University Law School, graduating at the head of its class of 1929 and earning a doctorate, summa cum laude, in 1930.
        He went on to practice labor law in Chicago until 1948, with time out for war service from 1942 to 1944, serving with with the Office of Strategic Services and as an Army officer.
        From 1948 to 1961, Mr. Goldberg was the Washington-based general counsel of the United Steelworkers and was active in negotiations toward settling major strikes in the steel industry.
        He was also general counsel of the Congress of Industrial Organizations from 1948 to 1955 and in that capacity worked toward its merger with the American Federation of Labor, He was special counsel to the industrial union department of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. from 1955 until 1961.
        Mr. Goldberg was married in 1931 to Dorothy Kurgans. She died in 1988.
        He is survived by a daughter, Barbara Cramer of Chicago; a son, Robert, of Anchorage, and six grandchildren.
        Funeral arrangements are incomplete, but Ralph DeStefano, director of Gawler's Funeral Home, said Mr. Goldberg would be buried in Arlington National Cemetery.
      