
       Ben Hill Griffin Jr., a major figure in the Florida citrus industry, died yesterday at his home in Avon Park, Fla., after a long illness. He was 79 years old.
        Ben Hill Griffin Jr., a major figure in the Florida citrus industry, died yesterday at his home in Avon Park, Fla., after a long illness. He was 79 years old.
        Mr. Griffin was chairman and president of Ben Hill Griffin, Inc., one of the largest citrus producers in Florida, with 10,000 acres of citrus groves and 85,000 acres of ranch and timberland in central Florida, where Avon Park is situated.
        He was also chief executive and a major stockholder of Alico, Inc., a publicly held company that controls more than 175,000 acres of citrus groves, grazing land, oil and mineral deposits and timber. From 1958 to 1981 he was also a major producer of orange juice concentrate, including Orange Nip, his regional brand.
        He became a millionaire in 1962 when his groves escaped a freeze that destroyed more than a million orange trees and caused the price of concentrate to jump to 65 cents a pound from 25 cents.
        Over the years Mr. Griffin's interests also included a fruit-packing house, a canned-juice operation, a bank, a car dealership, a fertilizer plant, a country club and a 15,000-acre ranch with about 25,000 cattle. Forbes magazine listed him among its 400 richest Americans, citing him in 1989 as 261st, with estimated assets of $390 million.
        ''It doesn't affect my ego a damn bit,'' he said in a 1982 interview when asked about being on the Forbes list. ''There are people who would give $10,000 to get on that list. I wouldn't give 2 cents. I wouldn't give 1 cent.''
        Started With 10 Acres
        Mr. Griffin began his business empire in 1933, after studying agriculture at the University of Florida. His father gave him 10 acres of orange groves as a wedding present. Through hard work, business acumen and the seizing of opportunities, he became one of the five largest growers in Florida.
        One opportunity came in 1958 when the Justice Department, acting in an antitrust case, ordered Minute Maid to divest itself of some holdings in the orange juice industry. Mr. Griffin agreed to buy a juice processing plant for $1 million, if Minute Maid financed the deal and added a packinghouse.
        He was a major benefactor of the University of Florida, endowing a chair of agricultural economic marketing and establishing a citrus research and education center. The university named the stadium at its athletic field in his honor.
        He was also a member of the major citrus industry organizations.
        A conservative Democrat, Mr. Griffin served in the Florida Legislature for 12 years, 8 in the House and 4 in the Senate. In 1974 he ran unsuccessfully for Governor.
        He is survived by his wife, Eleanor; a son, Ben Hill Griffin 3d of Frostproof, Fla.; four daughters, Harriett Harris of Bartow, Fla., Sarah Jane Alexander and Lucy Anne Collier, both of Frostproof, and Francie Milligan of Marseilles, France; a stepdaughter, Julie Chapman of Avon Park; a sister, Naomi Drane of Sebring, Fla.; 16 grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      