
       Elmer T. Klassen, a former United States Postmaster General who rose from messenger to president of the American Can Corporation, died of congestive heart failure on Tuesday at a nursing home in Palm Harbor, Fla. He was 81 years old and lived in Palm Harbor.
        Elmer T. Klassen, a former United States Postmaster General who rose from messenger to president of the American Can Corporation, died of congestive heart failure on Tuesday at a nursing home in Palm Harbor, Fla. He was 81 years old and lived in Palm Harbor.
        In 1971 Mr. Klassen became the first Postmaster General named by the Postal Service's Board of Governors, rather than the President, under new Federal legislation. He became the 60th Postmaster General on Jan. 1, 1972, serving until 1975, when he retired and moved to Palm Harbor. From 1969 to 1971, he had been Deputy Postmaster General.
        Major Role in Reorganization
        Mr. Klassen played a major role in shaping the Postal Reoganization Act of 1970, which took the Post Office Department from under the control of a Cabinet-level officer and made it an independent agency in the executive branch.
        He was instrumental in negotiating a contract between the United States Postal Service and the representatives of seven postal unions, with about 600,000 members, in July 1971.
        At the time of his retirement, the Postal Service was under criticism by members of Congress and others because of financial and organizational problems and higher rates. Mr. Klassen came in for his share of the criticism, in particular from Jack Anderson, the syndicated newspaper columnist, who took issue over contracts awarded by the Postal Service.
        Mr. Klassen was replaced by Benjamin F. Bailar, the Deputy Postmaster General.
        Started as a Messenger
        Mr. Klassen was born in Hillsboro, Kan., and raised in California.
        He began his career at American Can in 1925 as a messenger in the San Francisco plant. Forty years later, on April 28, 1965, he became president of the $1 billion company, which later became the Primerica Corporation.
        Mr. Klassen never attended college; his only formal education beyond high school was advanced management training at Harvard in 1954.
        ''He got his education on the job through many varied associations with people and by applying himself hard to all the tasks he was given,'' a colleague once said. ''He always had a tremendous capacity to concentrate, and he liked to think a problem through until he could see nothing more in it.''
        In 1968, at the age of 59, Mr. Klassen unexpectedly resigned his $170,000-a-year job as president of American Can, saying he was quitting because of ''variance with the chairman's approach.''
        The next year he became Deputy Postmaster General.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Marie Callahan, and two grandchildren.
      