
       Baghwan Shree Rajneesh, the Indian guru who attracted thousands of followers at his Oregon commune in the early 1980's before being deported from the United States, died yesterday of heart disease at his commune in Poona, in southern India, members of his entourage there told reporters. He was 58 years old.
        Baghwan Shree Rajneesh, the Indian guru who attracted thousands of followers at his Oregon commune in the early 1980's before being deported from the United States, died yesterday of heart disease at his commune in Poona, in southern India, members of his entourage there told reporters. He was 58 years old.
        The guru, who moved to India permanently in 1986, was deported from the United States in 1985 after pleading guilty to violations of the immigration law. Previously, numerous charges of wrongdoing had been made against him and his leading disciples.
        In the four years he spent in central Oregon before being deported. Bhagwan was known for his sumptuous style of living and for his eclectic doctrines, including free love and Eastern religious tenets. The name Bhagwan by which the guru was known in the United States is an honorific word that means ''god'' in Hindi.
        His American commune, a 64,229-acre ranch bought by his followers, was called Rajneeshpuram. Thousands of devotees lived in the commune with him. He owned scores of gem-studded Rolex watches and, by one count, as many as 85 Rolls Royce automobiles.
        A Private Security Force
        The commune's buildings eventually included a 160-room hotel, a shopping mall and a meeting hall that covered 2.2 acres, and the commune's thoroughfares were patrolled by a private security force.
        His followers, called Rajneeshees, took over the town of Antelope near the commune and gave it a new name, Rajneesh. Charges of voter fraud arose after the Rajneeshees brought in thousands of homeless people.
        Residents of the area who opposed the Rajneeshees contended that the action was an attempt to exploit state voting laws to win political control of Wasco County, which included the commune and Antelope.
        In 1985 Bhagwan's chief assistant, Ma Anand Sheela, quit the commune, remarking cryptically that being ''God's secretary is not easy.'' Ms. Sheela was later sentenced to four and a half years in prison after pleading guilty to charges of attempted murder, assault, arson, electronic eavesdropping, immigration fraud and conspiracy.
        Because of good behavior she was released from prison in 1988 and deported to West Germany. She later said she had pleaded guilty to protect Bhagwan.
        Fleet of Cars Sold Off
        In recent years Bhagwan turned against free love because of concern about AIDS. In 1988 he began using a Buddhist honorific, Osho, whose literal meaning is ''on whom the heavens shower flowers.''
        Bhagwan's fleet of Rolls-Royces was sold off after his departure from the United States, and his debt-ridden Oregon ranch became a ghost town.
        The property was put up for sale, but bill collectors blocked any transaction. An insurance company eventually foreclosed on it, but no buyer came forward and it remains unoccupied. Antelope regained its original name.
        Bhagwan was born in 1931 in a small town in what later became the state of Madhya Pradesh in central India, the author Frances FitzGerald reported in her book ''Cities on a Hill.'' The book, a work of history and reportage about utopian communities in the United States, was published by Simon & Schuster in 1986.
        A Teacher and Lecturer
        Ms. FitzGerald said in the book that Bhagwan's name at birth was Chandra Mohan Jain and that he came from a merchant family whose members believed in Jainism, a Hindu religion resembling Buddhism that emphasizes asceticism and reverence for all living things.
        Ms. FitzGerald also said he acquired the nickname Raj or Rajneesh, earned a master's degree in philosophy and was a teacher and lecturer before becoming a religious man with spiritual disciples. He founded an ashram, or religious community, with seven followers in Poona.
        His followers in the United States said in 1981 that about 10,000 followers lived at the Poona center at that time. They also said there were about 400 other centers and 200,000 followers elsewhere in the world.
        Bhagwan left India in June 1981 and came to the United States on a tourist visa. His mother, Saraswatabai Jain, followed him to the United States. He was then seen in a white Rolls-Royce in Montclair, N.J., where some of his followers lived. He was believed to have moved to Oregon in the fall of 1981.
        No information about his survivors was immediately available.
      