
       Ron Wolin, an antiwar advocate who brought a class-action lawsuit in the 1960's that allowed the distribution of political and religious leaflets in bus terminals and other transportation centers and that led to the right to solicit contributions in such centers, died on Sunday at Cabrini Hospital.
        Ron Wolin, an antiwar advocate who brought a class-action lawsuit in the 1960's that allowed the distribution of political and religious leaflets in bus terminals and other transportation centers and that led to the right to solicit contributions in such centers, died on Sunday at Cabrini Hospital. He was 55 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        His companion, Avis Lang, said he died of pneumonia resulting from lymphoma.
        Mr. Wolin was the lead plaintiff in a United States Supreme Court case argued by the American Civil Liberties Union against the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. The Court ruled that handing out literature denouncing the war in Vietnam and discussing the issue with people passing through the terminal constituted an expression of free speech in a public place.
        The decision applied only to publicly owned centers, not to terminals owned by railroads or bus companies. But later litigation extended political and religious expression and solicitation to virtually all transportation terminals and shopping centers in the country.
        The case was cited in recent court actions that have established the right to beg in transportation and similar centers.
        Mr. Wolin was the executive director of the Cartoonists Guild from 1969 to 1983. He was not a cartoonist but had developed a wide acquaintance among artists through his organizing efforts in the antiwar movement.
        Ms. Lang said that in recent years, Mr. Wolin had been active in asserting patients' rights to receive nontraditional treatment for diseases like cancer.
        Mr. Wolin is survived by his parents, Harry and Bobbi, of North Miami Beach, Fla., and a sister, Joan Strauss of Oyster Bay, L.I.
        Correction:  March 24, 1990, Saturday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary on March 10 about Ron Wolin, an antiwar advocate who brought a successful lawsuit to permit the distribution of political and religious leaflets in publicly owned transportation terminals, misstated later decisions on the issue. Unlike transportation terminals, privately owned shopping centers in New York and nearly all other states are still permitted to limit leaflet distribution and solicitation.
      