
       Greville Wynne, who spied on the Soviet Union for Britain in the cold war and who spent 18 months in a Moscow prison after being caught, died of throat cancer on Wednesday, hospital officials said today. He was 71 years old.
        Greville Wynne, who spied on the Soviet Union for Britain in the cold war and who spent 18 months in a Moscow prison after being caught, died of throat cancer on Wednesday, hospital officials said today. He was 71 years old.
        Mr. Wynne died at Cromwell Hospital in London, the British domestic news agency Press Association reported, quoting unidentified close friends. A hospital spokesman, Tony Prescott, said he was admitted with ''a well-known pre-existing condition.'' He would not elaborate.
        The wealthy businessman, who described his exploits in two memoirs -''The Man From Moscow'' and ''The Man From Odessa'' - worked for the M.I.6 British intelligence service. He said he acted as the intermediary for Col. Oleg Penkovsky, a senior Soviet military intelligence officer who passed Moscow secrets to M.I.6 and the C.I.A.
        Trips to East Bloc Countries
        Mr. Wynne set up his own business as an exporter of industrial engineering products in 1950. It involved a lot of foreign travel, including trips to Soviet bloc countries, and thus provided ideal cover for spying.
        He was arrested on a business trip to Budapest in November 1962 and taken to the Soviet Union. He was put on trial in Moscow on May 1963 for spying and jailed for eight years.
        Colonel Penkovsky, who was tried with him, was sentenced to death for treason. But he reportedly committed suicide in a Soviet labor camp.
        Mr. Wynne served 18 months in Lubyanka Prison in Moscow. But he was freed in 1964 in exchange for Conon Molody, a Soviet spy who called himself Gordon Lonsdale in Britain.
        Details of Espionage
        After his release, Mr. Wynne disclosed details about his espionage career. British officials have never officially commented on his accounts.
        He said he first joined the British security services in 1938 and worked for them in World War II. He began working for M.I.6 in 1960, making contact with Colonel Penkovsky.
        In his memoirs, Mr. Wynne disclosed further details of his spying activities.
        He described Colonel Penkovsky as possibly the West's most valuable agent. He said Colonel Penkovsky provided him the names and photographs of about 300 East bloc intelligence agents, details of Soviet missile sites and an analysis of Soviet military manpower and weapon production.
        Severe Beatings by Soviets
        He said the double agent also told him that Nikita S. Khrushchev, the Soviet leader in the 1950's and early 1960's, had allowed important guidance equipment to be sent with Soviet missiles being installed in Cuba.
        The affair developed into the 1962 Cuban missile crisis.
        Mr. Wynne said he was subjected to severe beatings and psychological pressure by the Soviet K.G.B. But he said his training with the M.I.6 was even worse.
        He said he was motivated by patriotism and a dislike of the Soviet system.
        After his release from prison, he prospered as a property developer.
        He was married twice. His first wife, Sheila, was present throughout his Moscow trial but divorced him after his release. They had one son.
        His second wife, whom he married in 1970, was Herma van Buren, his secretary and interpreter, who spoke eight languages. They separated several years ago.
        Funeral arrangements are incomplete.
      