
       Martial Singher, a French baritone who became a leading American operatic and concert artist and later a noted teacher, died of heart disease on Saturday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 85 years old.
        Martial Singher, a French baritone who became a leading American operatic and concert artist and later a noted teacher, died of heart disease on Saturday at his home in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 85 years old.
        Mr. Singher (pronounced sang GAIR) made his Metropolitan Opera debut in 1943 after 11 seasons with the Paris Opera and many guest appearances in Europe and South America. In more than 100 opera roles and in recitals with leading orchestras, he eschewed showmanship and histrionics and stressed smoothness, subtlety and clarity. He was particularly celebrated for the lean, elegant phrasing of his native French repertory.
        His celebrated performances included Golaud in ''Pelleas et Melisande,'' the count and title role in ''Le Nozze di Figaro,'' all four baritone roles in ''Les Contes d'Hoffmann,'' Lescaut in ''Manon,'' Gounod's Mercutio, Wolfram in ''Tannhauser' and Amfortas in ''Parsifal.''
        The baritone remained with the Met until 1959, when a severe heart disorder forced him to shift to teaching. He taught at the Mannes College of Music in Manhattan, the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia, and, as director of the voice and opera department, the Music Academy of the West in Santa Barbara (1962 to 1981), where he also produced operas. He was also an artist in residence at University of California at Santa Barbara.
        A Debut in 'Hoffmann'
        Of his Met debut as Dapertutto in ''Les Contes d'Hoffmann,'' Virgil Thomson in The New York Herald Tribune reported Mr. Singher ''gave a stage performance of incomparable elegance and did a piece of singing that for perfection of vocal style had not been equaled since Kirsten Flagstad went away.''
        Several weeks later at the Met Mr. Singher sang his first Pelleas. Mr. Thomson found him ''the glory of the evening, vocally impeccable and dramatically superb.'' Olin Downes of The New York Times hailed the baritone as ''a fine and experienced artist, an authoritative actor, one firmly grounded in the traditions of his language and stage action and a potent element of the occasion.''
        Mr. Singher appraised his voice in a 1981 interview as having ''an odd range, not much top but a good low register, down to an F.'' He alternately sang tenor and baritone roles in the same opera as well as some bass roles. Essentially, he remarked with characteristic modesty, ''it was a matter of being able to color the voice appropriately for each challenge.
        ''My voice was of average quality, but it was versatile and capable of projecting character, I think.''
        Born in Basque Region
        Martial Jean-Paul Singher was born on Aug. 14, 1904, in France's Basque region, the son of a civil engineer. He was a boy soprano in a church choir in Biarritz and studied there and in Bayonne, Dax and Paris in preparation for a teaching career.
        However, he began singing in concerts, decided on a musical career and gained admission to the Paris Conservatory, where he won several major prizes. He made his debut at the Paris Opera in 1930 and soon became a principal baritone with the company.
        At the start of World War II in 1939, he was rejected for military service and, after the fall of France, he and his wife, Eta Busch, the daughter of Fritz Busch, a noted conductor, made their way to the United States by way of South America. Ill health and immigration problems delayed his Metropolitan Opera debut for two years, until Dec. 10, 1943.
        Decades later, Mr. Singher interrupted his teaching to write a book, ''An Interpretative Guide in Operatic Arias: A Handbook for Singers, Coaches, Teachers and Students'' (Pennsylvania State University Press). The 1983 volume provided the dramatic and musical context of 151 noted arias from 66 operas, giving detailed advice about interpretating them. Among other honors, he was made a chevalier of the French Legion of Honor in 1959 and promoted to officer in 1982.
        Surviving, besides his wife, are three sons, Michel, a conductor and vocal coach, of Brooklyn, Peter, of Hollywood, Calif., and Philip, of Oxnard, Calif., and two grandchildren.
      