
       Gene Klein, the former owner of the San Diego Chargers of the National Football League and later a successful owner of thoroughbred race horses, died after apparently suffering a heart attack yesterday morning in California. He was 69 years old and had been in failing health for some time.
        Gene Klein, the former owner of the San Diego Chargers of the National Football League and later a successful owner of thoroughbred race horses, died after apparently suffering a heart attack yesterday morning in California. He was 69 years old and had been in failing health for some time.
        Mr. Klein was rushed by ambulance from his home in Santo Rancho Fe to Scripps Memorial Hospital in La Jolla, but efforts to revive him failed and he was pronounced dead. His wife, Joyce, was at his side. An autopy has been planned.
        Mr. Klein bought the Chargers in 1966 from Barron Hilton and sold the team for about $80 million in 1984, saying pro football had become too stressful.
        Mr. Klein had suffered two earlier heart attacks, the first while he was on the witness stand testifying in a phase of the Oakland Raiders' antitrust case against the N.F.L. in May 1981, and a year later while walking near his home in San Diego.
        ''The world of sports will miss Gene greatly,'' said Alex Spanos, who bought the Chargers from Klein. ''He was highly successful in all his endeavors.''
        'He Will Be Missed'
        ''He made a great contribution to the league, not only in San Diego, but on the television committee, where he was a visionary,'' said Paul Tagliabue, the commissioner of the N.F.L. from the league meetings in Orlando, Fla. ''He was a valuable and valued owner and he will be missed.''
        Mr. Klein had a long-standing feud with Al Davis, the managing general partner of the Raiders. In 1986, Mr. Klein sued Mr. Davis for malicious prosecution, claiming Mr. Davis had caused him distress and helped bring on the first heart attack by naming him as an individual defendant in the anti-trust suit that Mr. Davis won before moving his team to Los Angeles. Mr. Klein won a $10 million judgment from Mr. Davis, but the figure was later reduced by the judge and then reversed altogether on appeal.
        After leaving pro football, Mr. Klein devoted himself to thoroughbred racing with D. Wayne Lukas training his horses. Mr. Klein's greatest equine triumph came when Winning Colors, a filly, captured the 1988 Kentucky Derby. His horses won seven Breeders' Cup races and he collected 11 Eclipse awards. He estimated that his horses won more than 300 races and $25 million in the six and a half years in which he was active in the sport. Asked if he had made a profit in racing, he said, ''I think so, if I discount what my wife has bet.''
        Never Won a Super Bowl
        ''We were very fortunate in having a great race horse, especially a filly, win,'' he said. ''I never won a Super Bowl, so I can't relate to it. One of 28 teams is going to win the Super Bowl every year. But only one of 50,000 foals can win the Kentucky Derby and the odds are pretty big.''
        Mr. Klein sold his 114-horse stable last November for $29.6 million.
        A native of New York, Mr. Klein served as a bomber pilot during World War II and went into the automobile business after his discharge. He became the Western states distributor for Volvo automobiles and in 1961 became head of a company later known as National General Corporation, a conglomerate that was involved in publishing and motion picture distribution. When Mr. Klein negotiated the sale of National General in 1973, it had $1.2 billion in assets.
        Mr. Klein is survived by his wife, a son, Michael, and a daughter, Randee.
      