
       George Costakis, a Russian-born Greek art collector who owned what is considered the largest private collection of Soviet avant-garde art, died of heart failure on Friday in Athens. He was 77 years old.
        George Costakis, a Russian-born Greek art collector who owned what is considered the largest private collection of Soviet avant-garde art, died of heart failure on Friday in Athens. He was 77 years old.
        Mr. Costakis lived a remarkably charmed life in Moscow for 65 years as a Greek citizen. He defied Soviet politics and official esthetics to amass a collection of thousands of paintings, sculptures and other artworks by early 20th-century artists including Marc Chagall, Kasimir Malevich, Wassily Kandinsky, Vladimir Tatlin, Aleksandr Rodchenko, Lyubov Popova, Olga Rozanova and El Lissitzky. After Mr. Costakis gave 80 percent of his paintings to the Tretyakov Gallery in Moscow in 1977, Soviet authorities permitted him to take about 1,200 artworks out of the country the next year, when he and his family moved to Greece.
        Mr. Costakis was born in 1912 in Moscow to Greek parents. In his early 20's, he began collecting Russian silver, porcelain and 16th- and 17th-century Dutch paintings while working in the Greek Embassy. Despite the dangers of the Stalin era, he remained in Moscow, taking a job in 1943 in the Canadian Embassy, where he worked until 1977.
        Mr. Costakis's interest in Russian Modernism - a style that was scorned by Stalinist proponents of Socialist Realism - began in 1946, when he was shown a painting by the abstract artist Olga Rozanova. ''I brought it home to my flat, with the silver, the carpets and so forth, and I realized that I had lived until then with closed windows,'' he said in a 1981 interview.
        An Archeological Excavation
        Mr. Costakis then embarked on a 30-year quest to acquire and preserve Abstract, Constructivist, Cubist and Supremacist art that had been relegated to obscurity. He tracked down several artists, including Rodchenko and Varvara Stepanova, and scoured the country in what he once called his private archeological excavation of avant-garde art.
        He was often able to buy for $100 paintings that were officially banned and are now worth millions of dollars. By the 1960's, his collection had become famous in the Soviet Union and abroad, and he occasionally lent works for small Soviet exhibitions.
        After burglaries and a fire at his Moscow apartment and country dacha, Mr. Costakis decided to leave the Soviet Union in 1977. Under an agreement with the Soviet Government, the Tretyakov received the bulk of his immensely valuable collection.
        A Show at the Guggenheim
        In Athens, Mr. Costakis took up painting himself and began lending works for exhibitions at museums throughout the world. The most prominent of these was a 1981 show of 275 works at the Guggenheim Museum in New York called ''Art of the Avant-Garde in Russia: Selections from the George Costakis Collection.'' A catalogue of his collection was also published that year by Harry N. Abrams.
        Some paintings from his collection have been sold in recent years. An auction of 22 works owned by Mr. Costakis is expected to bring $8 million on April 4 at Sotheby's in London.
        Mr. Costakis is survived by his wife, Zinaida, of Athens; two daughters, Aleki, of Athens, and Natasha, of Moscow, and a son, Alexander, of Athens.
      