
       Michael Stewart, who as British Foreign Secretary in the late 1960's became involved in efforts to end the Vietnam War, died on Saturday in London. He was 83 years old.
        Michael Stewart, who as British Foreign Secretary in the late 1960's became involved in efforts to end the Vietnam War, died on Saturday in London. He was 83 years old.
        Baron Stewart of Fulham, as he became known after being made a life peer in 1979, lived in London and died in Charing Cross Hospital after a brief illness, a spokesman for the hospital said.
        A longtime Labor member of Parliament, he was Foreign Secretary under Prime Minister Harold Wilson in 1965-66 and again from 1968 to 1970.
        Late in 1965, Mr. Stewart went to Moscow on a widely heralded but fruitless effort to ending the Vietnam War. A quiet man known for lucid argument, he spoke to the Soviet people over the heads of their leaders on Soviet television, urging ''arrangements whereby both North and South Vietnam could be left in peace, assured they would not be attacked by each other or anyone else.''
        Complex View of U.S. Role
        Mr. Stewart pursued a controversial twofold policy on the war in Vietnam. He supported the American involvement there, and was attacked by Labor Party leftists who called the Wilson Government too favorably disposed toward the United States.
        But Mr. Stewart and the Government also withstood pressure, from Conservatives in Britain and from Americans, to commit military units to support United States troops in Vietnam.
        Britain and the Soviet Union had a special standing on Vietnam matters, having been co-chairmen of the Geneva Conference in 1954 that ended the French Indochina war and set up the separate nations of North and South Vietnam.
        Mr. Stewart's long career in public service also included stints as Education Minister in 1964 and 1965 and Economics Minister in 1966 and 1967. He was a Labor member of Parliament for 34 years representing the Fulham area of London. He then became a life peer and moved to the House of Lords.
        Oxford, the Army, Parliament
        Robert Michael Maitland Stewart was born on Nov. 6, 1906 in London. He joined the Labor Party as a teen-ager and studied at Oxford, where he received an honors degree in philosophy, politics and economics.
        After teaching school and rising to captain in the British Army Educational Corps in World War II, he was elected to Parliament in 1945, and in the next 20 years came to be considered one of the best debaters on the Labor Party benches in the House of Commons.
        In 1941, Mr. Stewart married Mary Elizabeth Henderson Birkinshaw, who was long active in the Fabian Society, a Socialist group, and as a hospital governor and a magistrate. She was made a life peer in her own right, as Baroness Stewart of Alvechurch, in 1974, and died in 1984.
        The Stewarts had no children.
      