
       Dr. Harold T. Fuerst, who retired in 1967 as Assistant Commissioner for Preventable and Chronic Diseases after 27 years in the New York City Health Department, died on Friday at New York Hospital after a brief illness. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Dr. Harold T. Fuerst, who retired in 1967 as Assistant Commissioner for Preventable and Chronic Diseases after 27 years in the New York City Health Department, died on Friday at New York Hospital after a brief illness. He was 80 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        As head of the department's Bureau of Preventable Diseases, he led an agency often engaged in detective work to track down the sources of anything from food poisoning to typhoid fever to possible rabies.
        In one case, about 2,000 people became sick in 1967 after attending seven different catered affairs, all in different hotels. By the day's end, the bureau's experts had found the culprit: salmonella in frozen eggs used to make artificial ice cream. Two warehouses and the ice cream maker were closed down for the cleanup.
        Dr. Fuerst also helped to tighten the department's codes to prevent contaminated blood from reaching operating rooms for transfusions without drying up much-needed supplies.
        After leaving the department, he was professor of preventive medicine at New York Medical College, where he reached emeritus status in 1980.
        A School Physician
        A native of Manhattan, Dr. Fuerst received a medical degree from Jefferson Medical College of Thomas Jefferson University in Philadelphia and spent his internship and residence at Philadelphia General Hospital.
        He joined the city's Health Department in 1940 as a school physician. His civilian career was interrupted in World War II, when he served as a major in the Army Medical Corps.
        Dr. Fuerst worked as an epidemiologist before becoming chief in 1955 of the Division of Epidemiology and Diagnosis in the Bureau of Preventable Diseases. He was named director of the Bureau of Preventable Diseases in 1960 and became assistant commissioner in 1964.
        At the time, he held teaching posts at New York Medical College and New York University Graduate School of Medicine. He also taught epidemiology at Columbia University from 1960 to 1967.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Edith Wiener; a daughter, Barbara Beaman of Weston, Conn.; a sister, Elaine Dodge of Harrisburg, Pa., and a granddaughter.
        A service is to be held at 1:30 P.M. tomorrow at the Riverside Memorial Chapel, at 76th Street and Amsterdam Avenue.
      