
       Edward H. Winter, who sued a Cincinnati hospital for acting against his instructions by resuscitating him after he had a heart attack, died Saturday at a nursing home in suburban Cheviot, Ohio. He was 84 years old.
        Edward H. Winter, who sued a Cincinnati hospital for acting against his instructions by resuscitating him after he had a heart attack, died Saturday at a nursing home in suburban Cheviot, Ohio. He was 84 years old.
        Just over two years ago, Mr. Winter, a retired furniture refinisher who lived in the Westwood section of Cincinnati, watched his wife of 55 years die a slow and agonizing death after she had been revived with an electric shock. It left her brain-damaged. He himself would probably have died of a heart attack in May 1988 if a nurse at St. Francis-St. George Hospital had not revived him in the same manner.
        Two days later, he suffered a stroke and became partly paralyzed and largely bedridden. He then filed a lawsuit accusing the hospital of wrongfully saving his life. He asserted that he had given specific instructions to each of his three daughters and his physician that he preferred to be allowed to die rather than suffer his wife's fate.
        His Lawyer Is Confident
        His suit said he did so in fear that his condition might worsen after he collapsed with chest pains and was treated in the coronary unit.
        Speaking of the suit, Mr. Winter's lawyer, William C. Knapp of Cincinnati, said yesterday, ''I fully expect it to go forward.'' But he added that the decision would be up to Mr. Winter's family.
        In the suit, Mr. Winter charged that except for the hospital's action he could have died in dignity. By his death his medical bills had mounted to $100,000, nearly depleting his life savings.
        The hospital denied his charges of negligence and battery and has moved to dismiss the case in the Hamilton County Court of Common Pleas. The hospital argues that Mr. Winter was the victim of an act of God over which it had no control.
        Mr. Winter's daughters are Lynn Kroger and Joan Muenchen of Cincinnati and Ann Wessel of Syracuse. He also leaves 16 grandchildren.
      