
       Herbert Wehner, a leading member of West Germany's Social Democratic Party who was once described as an ''oratorical volcano'' and ''a boulder in the desert of German politics,'' died on Friday at his home in Bad Godesberg, a suburb of Bonn. He was 83 years old.
        Herbert Wehner, a leading member of West Germany's Social Democratic Party who was once described as an ''oratorical volcano'' and ''a boulder in the desert of German politics,'' died on Friday at his home in Bad Godesberg, a suburb of Bonn. He was 83 years old.
        Mr. Wehner had been seriously ill for several years, suffering from diabetes, Alzheimer's disease and sclerosis, according to a spokesman for the Social Democratic Party, Eduard Heussen.
        Mr. Wehner, a militant Communist in the Nazi period, joined the Social Democrats after World War II, rising to become the party's vice chairman. He was in the West German Parliament for 33 years, finally stepping down in 1983.
        Mr. Wehner has been credited with steering the Social Democratic Party to power in Bonn in 1969. In the 1970's, he did much of the spadework that led to West Germany's normalization of relations with the Soviet Union, Poland and East Germany. And as Minister of Intra-German Relations and later as Social Democratic parliamentary whip, he labored behind the scenes to help countless East Germans join relatives in West Germany.
        Retired in 1983
        Hans-Jochen Vogel, chairman of the Social Democrats, said his party had ''lost one of its extraodinary fighters, who served his people and his party as only a few in his generation did.''
        Chancellor Helmut Kohl, leader of the rival Christian Democrats, said: ''Herbert Wehner never avoided political conflict. He wounded and suffered wounds. But he won respect and recognition beyond party boundaries.''
        After his retirement in 1983, Mr. Wehner received numerous accolades. The Government in Warsaw awarded him Poland's highest decoration for a foreigner in recognition of his work at reconciliation of Poles and West Germans. The German Trade Union Federation gave him its highest award for ''contributing to conditions that have made working people into economic citizens instead of economic vassals.''
        Mr. Wehner was born in Dresden on July 11, 1906, the son of a shoemaker and a seamstress. After attending high school in Dresden, Mr. Wehner studied to become a salesman. He later turned to journalism, serving as editor of several leftist publications.
        Joined Communists in 1927
        In 1927, Mr. Wehner joined the German Communist Party, and by the early 1930's he had become a member of the Central Committee.
        After taking part in anti-Nazi resistance activities, Mr. Wehner fled Germany in 1935 and did not return until 1946. He spent the intervening period in various countries, including Belgium, the Netherlands, Czechoslovakia, France, the Soviet Union and Sweden.
        In Moscow, Mr. Wehner served for a time as an official in the Cominform Executive Committee. In 1941, he was sent to Stockholm to find German Communists who had collaborated with the Gestapo. In 1942, he received a one-year jail sentence for interfering with Sweden's neutrality.
        While serving that sentence, Mr. Wehner decided to leave the Communist Party and was later formally exiled.
        Editor of Party Newspaper
        In 1946, Mr. Wehner left Sweden, where he had worked as a scientific assistant, and returned to West Germany. He joined the Social Democratic Party and became editor of a party newspaper in Hamburg. He was elected to the Bundestag in 1949.
        Mr. Wehner became famous for his fiery, yet finely crafted speeches in Parliament and for his determination to maintain a dialogue with East Germany and the other nations in the Soviet bloc.
        He is survived by his third wife, Greta, whom he married in 1983, and a stepson, Jens-Peter Burmester. Greta is the daughter of Mr. Wehner's second wife, Charlotte, who died in 1979.
        Greta, who had been Mr. Wehner's assistant, took care of him when he fell ill.
        Correction:  January 28, 1990, Sunday, Late Edition - Final
        An obituary and its headline last Sunday about a leading member of the Social Democratic Party in West Germany misidentified him in some editions. He was Herbert Wehner.
      