
       Raymond Parker, an abstract painter, died of prostate cancer on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Raymond Parker, an abstract painter, died of prostate cancer on Saturday at St. Vincent's Hospital. He was 67 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Parker belonged to the generation of painters that set out to react against Abstract Expressionism yet also to build upon it. He aimed for abstractions that would be rigorous yet relaxed, ambitious yet with an airiness and ease.
        In the late 1950's and early 60's his shapes had something of the assertiveness of those of Jules Olitski and Kenneth Noland, but his color was warmer than theirs - more European - and his shapes more intuitive and enigmatic. His paintings are known for their understated, restrained yet at times almost hedonistic sensuality.
        ''His use of color really added something to New York painting with its sharpness, clarity and power,'' said William C. Agee, a historian of American art who is organizing a Parker retrospective that will open in September at the Hunter College Art Gallery. ''His color comes out of Matisse, but he extends and intensifies it. He'll take a red and play it out into a pink in a way that comes out of Matisse's 'Jazz.' The aura of color in his late work is unrelenting.''
        A Teacher at Hunter
        Mr. Parker was born in Beresford, S.D., in 1922. He was a radio officer in the Merchant Marine during World War II and participated in the invasion of Normandy.
        After the war he attended the University of Iowa, where he received a B.A. and an M.F.A. When he moved to New York in 1951, he was already an abstract painter.
        He taught at Hunter College from 1955 until his retirement last year.
        Mr. Parker exhibited with the Kootz, Fischbach, Betty Cunningham and Susan Caldwell Galleries in New York City. He was given solo exhibitions at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum in 1961, at the San Francisco Museum of Modern art in 1967 and at the Phillips Collection in Washington in 1979.
        His work is in the collections of the Museum of Modern Art, the Guggenheim Museum and the Whitney Museum of American Art, as well as the National Gallery of Art in Washington and the Tate Gallery in London.
        Mr. Parker is survived by his wife, Denise; two daughters, Kate and Caroline, both of New York, and two sisters, Patricia Lloyd of Chicago and Leota Atkins of Sierra Madre, Calif.
      