
       Lawson P. Ramage, a retired vice admiral who served in the Pacific in World War II and was one of the Navy's most decorated submariners, died of cancer on Monday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 81 years old.
        Lawson P. Ramage, a retired vice admiral who served in the Pacific in World War II and was one of the Navy's most decorated submariners, died of cancer on Monday at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 81 years old.
        Admiral Ramage, a 1931 graduate of the United States Naval Academy at Annapolis, retired in 1969 as the commander of the Navy's Military Sea Transportation Service, then the oceangoing transport branch of the armed forces. But most of his Navy service was with submarines.
        He won the Medal of Honor after a submarine he commanded, the U.S.S. Parche, attacked a heavily escorted Japanese convoy in the South China Sea off Taiwan on July 31, 1944, sinking two enemy vessels and damaging several others.
        The Parche's crew received a Presidential Unit Citation, and President Franklin D. Roosevelt personally presented Admiral Ramage, then a commander, and six other Army and Navy heroes with the Medal of Honor on Jan. 10, 1945.
        Navy Cross and Silver Star
        In June 1942, as commander of the submarine Trout, he won the Navy Cross for valor in action at Midway, Truk, the Solomons and in the South China Sea. The Trout's crew was also awarded a Presidential citation.
        Admiral Ramage, a native of Monroe Bridge, Mass., was stationed at Pearl Harbor when the Japanese attacked on Dec. 7, 1941. He served aboard the U.S.S. Grenadine from April to June 1942, and was awarded the Silver Star Medal ''for conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity'' as navigator on patrol in enemy-controlled waters.
        After being commissioned as an ensign at Annapolis in 1931, he spent the next four years on several ships before taking submarine training and serving as executive officer on the U.S.S. Sands.
        Led Search for the Thresher
        After the war Admiral Ramage served in various submarine commands. In April 1963, as deputy commander of submarine forces in the Atlantic Fleet, he led the search operation for the atomic submarine Thresher, which sank in the Atlantic 220 miles east of Boston while making deep-dive tests, with the loss of 129 lives. Admiral Ramage was an expert witness in the ensuing Navy inquiry.
        He was promoted to vice admiral later that year, became deputy chief of naval operations and became commander of the Military Sea Transportation Service in 1967.
        Admiral Ramage's survivors include his wife of 55 years, the former Barbara Alice Pine; two sons, James, of Southboro, Mass., and Alfred, of Winthrop, Mass.; two daughters, Joan Mitchell of Washington, and Virginia Ross of Silver Spring, Md.; two brothers, Donald, of Oceanside, Calif., and John, of Rome, N.Y.; eight grandchildren, and a great-grandson.
        A funeral service will be held at Arlington National Cemetery at 2 P.M. Friday.
      