
       George Horne, who for more than 40 years covered the waterfront of New York, the world's busiest port, for The New York Times, died of congestive heart failure yesterday in Ardmore, Okla. He was 87 years old and lived in Ardmore.
        George Horne, who for more than 40 years covered the waterfront of New York, the world's busiest port, for The New York Times, died of congestive heart failure yesterday in Ardmore, Okla. He was 87 years old and lived in Ardmore.
        Mr. Horne's surveillance of New York Harbor as ship news reporter, maritime editor and transportation news editor, from 1928 until he retired in 1970, coincided with the last decades that ships and shipping were a daily subject for the general press. Most daily newspapers had ship news departments, and reporters were dispatched down the bay to interview arrivals - presidents, kings, socialites, movie stars, boxing champions, judges and gangsters inbound aboard the liners, people whose prominence assured them of space in all next editions.
        New York was the American anchorage for the finest, the biggest and the most luxurious ships afloat, and Mr. Horne wrote about them all, the Normandie, the Ile de France,the Queen Mary and the Queen Elizabeth, the United States and others that landed and picked up cargoes of celebrities who in those days had no other way to cross the Atlantic.
        Although the airplane had drained away most of this glamorous passenger trade by the mid-1950's, the port itself remained a source of prime importance to New York City's economy. Covering ship news meant not only interviews but also stories on waterfront strikes that could cripple the region, reports on waterfront crime that mulcted longshoremen of income and shippers of cargo, and the endless treasure of feature stories on ships, barges, tugboats and the individualistic people who made them work.
        Started on Morning Telegraph
        Mr. Horne, a Texan reared in Oklahoma, took to the harbor and the shipping industry as smoothly as a hull being launched in a millpond. He attended Columbia University, wrote a shipping column for The Morning Telegraph, moved on to The New York American on the same beat and in 1927 joined The Times. There, a year later, he was assigned to work with the legendary T. Walter Williams, the ship news editor known as Skipper Williams, a reporter who covered the news both straightforwardly and, when news was at slack tide, fancifully, with stories, duly printed, about made-up characters returned from improbable places with clearly unbelievable yarns.
        When Mr. Williams died in the early 1940's, Mr. Horne succeeded him as ship news editor. Although wartime secrecy blotted out the normal ship news, Mr. Horne was assigned to cover invasions in the South Pacific. Both before and after the war, he was known as a graceful writer who could frame a ship's maiden voyage arrival in poetic prose or could lament the last voyage of a liner in words that accorded an unwonted humanness to an aged vessel.
        From 1960 to 1968, Mr. Horne headed the transportation news department, an amalgam of ship, air and automobile industries coverage. When he retired, it was with the title he most relished, maritime editor.
        He is survived by his wife of 60 years, the former Carolyn Mather, a Scottish actress whom he first met while covering the arrival of an incoming liner in New York, and two brothers, Dr. Malcolm Horne, of Ardmore and Sam Horne of Washington.
      