
       Richard G. Stein, an architect whose ideas on energy conservation have been influential in the design of buildings for two decades, died from a fractured skull at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Tarrytown, N.Y., yesterday. He was 73 years old and lived in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.
        Richard G. Stein, an architect whose ideas on energy conservation have been influential in the design of buildings for two decades, died from a fractured skull at Phelps Memorial Hospital in Tarrytown, N.Y., yesterday. He was 73 years old and lived in Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.
        Mr. Stein fell on a stairway at the Croton-Harmon Metro-North railroad station on Friday on his way to his office in Manhattan. He did not regain consciousness before his death.
        He had been chairman of the Croton Planning Board for two years. He was a fellow of the American Institute of Architects and was president of its New York chapter in 1975 and 1976.
        Mr. Stein devoted much of his career to studying energy use in architectural design. In the oil crisis of mid-1970's, Mr. Stein pointed out that 40 percent of all energy consumed in the United States goes to buildings for creating the building materials, constructing the building and maintaining it.
        The Cost of Isolation
        ''The energy used to make a building is about 16 times the energy it costs to operate it for a year,'' he said. ''So if you hold onto an existing building instead of replacing it, you are 16 years ahead to start.''
        In his 1978 book, ''Architecture and Energy,'' Mr. Stein maintained that society could no longer afford ''isolated sculptural entities.'' He called for new architectural values to lower enegry consumption with greater use of natural materials, closer integration of buildings to one another and greater variation of design to suit local conditions.
        He estimated that careful choices of materials and building types could cut energy used in construction by 20 percent. To erect a building in concrete, he said, requires only 60 percent as much manufacturing energy as to build it in steel - ''and wood, of course, requires much less still.''
        His views took him out of the mainstream of orthodox modern architecture's emphasis on glass-and-steel structures and aligned him with those architects who called for a revison not only of design standards but also of building codes, choice of development sites and social demands that contribute to energy waste.
        'A Humane, Honest Way'
        Paul Goldberger, the architecture critic of The New York Times, said of Mr. Stein's approach, ''In this age, when we are besieged with arrogant, egocentric designers on the one hand and anti-design energy zealots on the other, his search for a humane, honest way of building is a refreshing one.''
        Mr. Stein was born in Chicago, attended Cooper Union and received his Bachelor of Architecture degree from New York University and his master's from Harvard. He studied under and worked for Walter Gropius and Marcel Breuer.
        He served in the Army Corps of Engineers in World War II and moved to New York to practice at the war's end. He was a principal with the firm of Kats, Waisman, Blumenkranz, Stein, Weber from 1946 to 1960, and had headed his own firm, the Stein Partnership, since 1961.
        Among the projects he designed or planned were the Wyltwyck School for Boys in Yorktown Heights, N.Y., Sugarloaf Village in Kingfield, Me., the Manhattan Children's Treatment Center on Wards Island in the East River and several schools and other public facilities in New York.
        At his death Mr. Stein was working on the design of the Women's Rights National Historical Park in Seneca Falls, N.Y., for the National Park Service.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Ethel Levy; a son, Carl, of Manhattan, a partner in his father's firm; a sister, Edna, of Manhattan, and a granddaughter, Jesse.
      