
       Francis W. H. Adams, a lawyer, a leader in New York City's Reform Democratic movement and a former New York City Police Commissioner, died of heart failure yesterday at Devon Manor, a convalescent home in Devon, Pa. He was 85 years old and also had an apartment in Manhattan.
        Francis W. H. Adams, a lawyer, a leader in New York City's Reform Democratic movement and a former New York City Police Commissioner, died of heart failure yesterday at Devon Manor, a convalescent home in Devon, Pa. He was 85 years old and also had an apartment in Manhattan.
        Mr. Adams was Police Commissioner under Mayor Robert F. Wagner from January 1954 to July 1955. He was also a member of the New York City Board of Education from 1957 to 1961. In both positions he was known as a battler against corruption.
        As Police Commissioner he tried to streamline procedures to put more officers on patrol. He abolished desk jobs at Police Headquarters, eliminated units like the glee club and the police band and initiated Operation Efficiency, a unit to keep an eye on officers as they walked their beats.
        He dubbed his wood-paneled office ''the Victorian foxhole'' and issued pronouncements that he would root out corruption ''if I have to emasculate the entire department.''
        On the Board of Education, he attacked unsafe conditions and called for investigations of top leaders of the school system.
        Served When Called
        Mr. Adams was in and out of private law practice, serving in public office when called upon and involving himself in Democratic politics. He retired about 20 years ago.
        Born in Mount Vernon, N.Y., on June 26, 1904, Francis William Holbrook Adams grew up in Saddle River, N.J., and rode a horse to school in Ho-Ho-Kus about a mile and a half away. He graduated from Williams College in 1925 and went to Fordham Law School, working his way through as a clerk with O'Brien, Boardman, Memhard, Fox and Early. On graduation in 1928 he joined the firm.
        He made his debut in public life in 1934 as an assistant United States attorney for the Southern District of New York. He became chief assistant the same year and a year later he began a 10-month stint as United States Attorney. He was then named a Special Assistant to the Attorney General and investigated the burning of the cruise ship Morro Castle off Asbury Park, N.J., on Sept. 8, 1934, in which 134 people died.
        In 1937, he returned to private practice with the firm of Satterlee, Warfield & Stephens in Manhattan. During World War II, he was a public member of the National Defense Mediation Board and was later selected as an arbitrator by the War Labor Board. He served as a member of the American delegation to the Allied Reparations Commission in Moscow in 1945 and was asked to become the city's 24th Police Commissioner by Mayor-elect Wagner at the end of 1953.
        'I Am My Own Boss'
        A lifelong Democrat, he had helped in Mr. Wagner's campaign, but he took the job only after he was assured by the Mayor-elect that there would be no interference - political or administrative - with his running of the 20,000-member police force.
        ''I'm not a politician,'' he said in an interview at the time. ''I regard this job as a privilege and a responsibility. I am my own boss.''
        By the time he retired in July 1955, he had added 2,000 officers to the force and reported a 13 percent reduction in major crimes during his 19-month tenure.
        In 1957 he was called back into public life to become a member of the Board of Education. Here too, he took an active role, stating that he was shocked at conditions in the schools and calling for an investigation of the Superintendent. He also urged the fingerprinting of all candidates for teaching positions.
        He later became embroiled in Reform Democratic politics and served as chairman of the advisory council of the Committee for Democratic Voters. In 1964, he was named to a panel investigating the assassination of President John F. Kennedy and later that year was an early opponent of the candidacy of Robert F. Kennedy as Senator from New York. In 1970, he left the Democratic Party to announce his support for a fourth term for the Republican Governor, Nelson A. Rockefeller.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Katherine Quinn; two daughters, Judith A. Clifford of Radnor, Pa., and Joyce Adams of Dayton, Ohio; a sister, Martha Tobin of Villanova, Pa., and eight grandchildren.
      