
       Frank J. Lausche, an independent-minded Democrat who had been , Mayor of Cleveland, Governor of Ohio, and a two-term United States Senator, died yesterday at the Slovene Home for the Aging in Cleveland. He was 94 years old.
        Frank J. Lausche, an independent-minded Democrat who had been , Mayor of Cleveland, Governor of Ohio, and a two-term United States Senator, died yesterday at the Slovene Home for the Aging in Cleveland. He was 94 years old.
        Nominally a Democrat, he was philosophically a staunch conservative and was a good vote-getter, Over the years, he made some political capital with his antagonism toward organized labor, but in the end, that and his open disdain for the Democratic Party organization finished his political career in 1968 at age 72.
        A tall, rugged man with bushy hair, Mr. Lausche could be a charmer and spell-binder on the stump. Ignoring political issues, his oratory fixed on simple American virtues as he perceived them, exhorting citizens to cast their ballots with the nation in mind. ''Listen to the voice of of the Americans who fell on the battlefield,'' he would exlaim. ''Cast selfishness aside and vote for the good of your state and country.''
        In that spirit, he focused on national concerns in the Senate and refused to do the routine favors party officials at home expected from elected representatives in the Congress.
        Mr. Lausche was born on Nov. 14, 1895, in Cleveland, one of 10 children of Slovene immigrants. His parents, of modest means, were leaders in the local Slovene community, but his father died when he was 13. The boy then worked as a lamplighter and sold newspapers while in preparatory school.
        Leaves Baseball for Law
        He played baseball in the minor leagues before joining the Army in 1918. He earned a commission and after World War I spurned baseball in favor of the law.
        Mr. Lausche received a degree from the John Marshall School of Law, which he attended at night. He gained admission to the bar in 1920.
        In 1931, when Ohio Democrats were going through one of their bitter divisions, Mr. Lausche backed the winning side and won an appointment as a municipal judge. Known as a crusader against gambling, he was elected Mayor of Cleveland in 1941 with a record 71 percent of the vote.
        But Mr. Lausche soon parted company with the party leadership. Through two terms as Mayor and five as Ohio's Governor, he gained a reputation for being clean and independent, cautious and frugal. His conservative program of low taxes and budget surpluses brought him both the friendship of many Republicans and the dislike of liberals.
        He served one term as Governor in 1945-46 and four more terms from 1949 to 1956, when he won election to the Senate.
        Senator Lausche was the author in 1967 of the first bill to try to impose a uniform Federal strip mining regulatory system to replace the varied and mostly ineffective controls then in force in the coal-mining states. But the controversial legislation languished on Capitol Hill until well after his retirement.
        Supporter of Kennedy
        A surprise backer of John F. Kennedy, Mr. Lausche then opposed many policies of the Democratic Administration, including aid to education, foreign aid, medical care for the aged under Social Security, and civil rights legislation.
        Senator Lausche was defeated in his final campaign for the Senate, losing the Democratic primary in 1968. He was defeated by a former member of the House, John J. Gilligan, who ran with strong labor support. Ohio Democrats, too, had taken a gamble on rejecting the seasoned Senator in Mr. Gilligan's favor, hoping this might unify a badly divided party.
        But Mr. Gilligan was defeated in a hard-fought race by Ohio's Attorney General, William B. Saxbe, a Republican.
        For many years, Mr. Lausche's performance in Washington got him low ratings from the unions, and his conservatism, also did not sit well with some other groups, like Americans for Democratic Action, while the conservative Americans for Constitutional Action rated him highly, for a Democrat.
        Mr. Lausche once again showed his independence when he endorsed Richard M. Nixon for a second term as President in 1972, saying the national security and popular welfare required it. He discounted Mr. Nixon's opponent, Senator George McGovern, as ''indecisive and inconsistent.'' He had also supported Mr. Nixon in 1968.
        He is survived by a sister, Josephine Lausche Welf of Cleveland.
      