
       Albert Salmi, an actor who made a career of portraying cowboys in television westerns like ''Gunsmoke,'' and his wife, Roberta, were found shot to death in an apparent murder-suicide, the police said today.
        Albert Salmi, an actor who made a career of portraying cowboys in television westerns like ''Gunsmoke,'' and his wife, Roberta, were found shot to death in an apparent murder-suicide, the police said today.
        Mr. Salmi apparently shot his wifeand then killed himself, said a police spokesman, Lieut. Robert Van Leuven. Mr. Salmi was 62 years old; his wife was 55.
        A friend who had gone to check on Mrs. Salmi on Monday night peered through a window and saw her body, the police said. Officers forced their way into the house and found her dead on the kitchen floor. Mr. Salmi's body was found in an upstairs den. The police also found two guns that they believe were used late Saturday night or early Sunday.
        The police said that the couple had been separated and that Mrs. Salmi had been living in the house alone.
        In 'Bus Stop' on Broadway
        Mr. Salmi had roles in several Broadway plays, at least 20 feature films and more than 150 television dramas.
        His portrayal of Bo Decker, a blustering cowboy who courts a nightclub singer played by Kim Stanley in the 1955 Broadway production of William Inge's play ''Bus Stop,'' earned him several major awards.
        The previous year, Mr. Salmi had received good notices for his performance as a restless young Westerner in the Broadway production of ''The Rainmaker,'' by N. Richard Nash. His other stage appearances included ''End as a Man,'' ''Good Woman of Setzuan'' and ''Howie.''
        Brought Up in Bay Ridge
        Among his films were ''The Deserter,'' ''Something Big'' and ''The Flim Flam Man.''
        A New Yorker of Finnish descent, Mr. Salmi grew up in the Bay Ridge section of Brooklyn and attended Haaren High School in Manhattan, where he studied aviation mechanics. He was an alumnus of the Actors Studio.
        Mr. Salmi sought out western character roles and played them with gusto on television shows like ''Gunsmoke,'' ''Wagon Train,'' ''Bonanza'' and ''Have Gun Will Travel.''
      