
       Vice Adm. Gordon McLintock, who served as Superintendent of the United States Merchant Marine Academy from 1948 to 1970, died of bone cancer on Monday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 87 years old.
        Vice Adm. Gordon McLintock, who served as Superintendent of the United States Merchant Marine Academy from 1948 to 1970, died of bone cancer on Monday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 87 years old.
        Admiral McLintock commanded the academy, in Kings Point, L.I., which had been established in 1943 to train officers for the United States merchant marine during the years when, along with the other service academies, it became an accredited institution offering four-year degrees to its graduates and placing most of them in professional positions at sea.
        He was born into a seagoing family in Dysart, Scotland. One of his grandfathers owned a fleet of sailing vessels in the Mediterranean and the other led one of the world's largest shipyards.
        He first went to sea at the age of 3 aboard a liner on which his father was an officer. In 1918, he graduated from the Sevenoaks School in England, which was founded in the 15th century, and became a cadet in the British Merchant Navy.
        The Youngest Commander
        When his father moved the family to New York two years later he got the job of quartermaster on the Lewis Luckenbach, then the largest cargo vessel in the world. In 1927, at the age of 24, he beame master of a tanker of the Pan American Petroleum and Transport Company and was believed to be the youngest member of the merchant marine in command of an oceangoing vessel.
        In 1930 Admiral McLintock was appointed a steamship inspector by the Department of Commerce, and he remained in Federal service for the rest of his career. Before World War II he supervised the licensing of merchant marine officers and during the war he was chief inspection officer for the War Shipping Administration with parallel duties for the Untied States Maritime Commission. In 1948 he became the fourth superintendent of the Merchant Marine Academy.
        Admiral McLintock represented the United States at several international conferences and from 1947 to 1949 was president of the American Institute of Navigation.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Muriel Thoms Bristow; two stepdaughters, Elinor Schillberg and Allison Bristow, and a stepson, John Bristow, all of Winnipeg, Manitoba, and two step-grandsons.
      