
       Trumbull Higgins, a military historian and an author, died of a heart attack yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital. He was 70 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Trumbull Higgins, a military historian and an author, died of a heart attack yesterday at St. Luke's Hospital. He was 70 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Higgins, who once described himself as ''a specialist in military fiasco,'' was a professor of history at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice and wrote numerous books on military history, concentrating on strategy and policy decisions during World War II, the Korean War and the Bay of Pigs invasion.
        His latest book, ''The Perfect Failure,'' published in 1987 by W. W. Norton & Company, is a case study of the ill-fated Bay of Pigs operation. He concluded that President John F. Kennedy inherited a half-baked plan for the invasion of Cuba, which was prepared by the Central Intelligence Agency under President Dwight D. Eisenhower.
        Among his earlier works was ''Winston Churchill and the Second Front,'' published in 1957 by Oxford University Press. It was a study of the Allied decision to invade North Africa in 1942, rather than to make an early direct assault on Nazi forces across the English Channel. He termed Churchill's war policies ''unrealistic and near-disastrous.''
        Turned to Korean Conflict
        After writing several books on most phases of World War II, Mr. Higgins turned his attention to the Korean conflict in, ''Korea and the Fall of MacArthur: A Precis in Limited War,'' published in 1960 by Oxford.
        Mr. Higgins viewed the Korean conflict in terms of the disagreements between American policymakers over strategy. On the one side was Gen. Douglas MacArthur, who wanted to blockade and bomb China; on the other was President Harry S. Truman and the Joint Chiefs of Staff, who feared bringing war on China.
        Mr. Higgins was a life-long resident of Manhattan. He graduated from Princeton in 1941 and earned his doctorate in history there in 1951. He lectured often at the National War College in Washington.
        He is survived by his wife, Barbara Guest; a son, Jonathan of Santa Cruz, Calif.; a step-daughter, Hadley Haden-Guest of Manhattan, and two sisters, Faith McCurdy of Cold Spring Harbor, L.I., and Anita Salembier of Oyster Bay, L.I.
      