
       Frederick Charles Shrady, a sculptor best known for his works on religious themes, died of cancer on Saturday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Easton, Conn.
        Frederick Charles Shrady, a sculptor best known for his works on religious themes, died of cancer on Saturday at Greenwich (Conn.) Hospital. He was 82 years old and lived in Easton, Conn.
        Mr. Shrady's art included the 28-foot ''Peter, Fisher of Men,'' depicting the saint casting a net, which was installed in the plaza of Fordham University's Lincoln Center campus in 1969, and the green bronze figure of Mother Elizabeth Seton, the first American-born saint, that has been standing in the Mother Seton Shrine at St. Patrick's Cathedral since it was consecrated by Terence Cardinal Cooke in 1975.
        In 1982, John Paul II became the first Pope to ask an American to create a work of art for the Vatican Gardens when he commissioned Mr. Shrady to do a 12-foot marble statue of ''Our Lady of Fatima.'' Another of Mr. Shrady's public sculptures is in the Washington headquarters of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.
        Owned Edna Ferber Estate
        Mr. Shrady's work is represented in the collections of the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Vatican Museum, among others.
        The artist worked in a barn-turned-studio on a 140-acre estate originally built in 1941 for the novelist Edna Ferber and bought by Mr. Shrady in 1959. His family reported that when he was taken to the hospital a week ago the artist was working on a bust of Gerard Manley Hopkins, the 19th-century English poet and Jesuit priest.
        Mr. Shrady was born in East View, N.Y., the son of the sculptor Henry Merwin Moore, creator of the Grant Memorial in Washington.
        He was a 1928 graduate of the Choate School and studied at the Art Students League and Oxford University before moving to Paris in 1931 to paint. He exhibited in France and had his first American show in 1939 in New York.
        During World War II, Mr. Shrady served in the Army as a liaison officer to the Free French forces and later in the Monuments and Fine Arts Unit in Vienna, helping to retrieve looted works of art after the war.
        Convert to Catholicism
        He converted to Roman Catholicism in 1948, after which his work often turned to spiritual subjects, although he continued to create secular pieces.
        Mr. Shrady is survived by his wife, the former Maria Likar-Waltersdorff; their two sons: Alexander, of Bethlehem, Pa., and Nicholas, of Barcelona; four daughters: Maria Theresa von Waldow of Bonn; Marie Antoinette Joyce of Southington, Conn.; Marie Louise Smith of Manhattan, and Maria Christina Shrady of Duluth, Minn.; a son by a previous marriage, Henry Merwin Shrady of Manhattan, and 14 grandchildren.
        A funeral mass celebrated by John Cardinal O'Connor is planned for 10 A.M. on Wednesday in the Lady Chapel of St. Patrick's Cathedral.
      