
       Michael Shawn, a director and choreographer, died of complications from AIDS on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 45 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Michael Shawn, a director and choreographer, died of complications from AIDS on Saturday at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan. He was 45 years old and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Shawn learned that he was infected with the AIDS virus in late 1987, shortly before he became the choreographer for the 1988 Broadway musical ''Legs Diamond.'' He was dismissed from the show and sued the producers for $2.75 million in 1989, charging that he had been discriminated against because of AIDS. The case was settled out of court earlier this year.
        Mr. Shawn, who was born in Springfield, Ill., began studying dance when he was 6 and decided to make a career in the theater by the time he was 12, his mother said. After high school, he came to New York to pursue a career as a dancer.
        Appeared on Broadway
        He first appeared on Broadway in the musical ''Golden Rainbow'' and later danced in ''Promises, Promises'' and ''Golden Boy.'' He then decided he wanted to be a director and choreographer.
        In his 27-year career, his Broadway credits as a choreographer included ''Oh, Brother'' and ''Onward Victoria.'' Off-Broadway he staged ''Options'' at the Circle Repertory Theater and Peter Link's ''The River'' at the Promenade Theater.
        In 1986 he created dances for the George Abbott production of ''Damn Yankees'' at the Paper Mill Playhouse in New Jersey and for ''South Pacific'' in Westbury, L.I. He taught dance for more than 20 years in New York.
        In the last year, Mr. Shawn choreographed a production of ''My Fair Lady'' for a tour in Japan and another musical, ''Deutschland Lied,'' which appeared in Germany.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Rotella; his mother, Bonnie Henry of St. Louis; two brothers, John and Chris, of St. Louis, and two sisters, Mildred Disko and Kathryn Marquart, also of St. Louis.
      