
       Tilford E. Dudley, a labor lawyer who served in President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal era, who clashed with President Lyndon B. Johnson over the Vietnam War and who continued to help social causes in the 1980's, died Thursday at the family home in Bellingham, Wash. He was 82 years old.
        Tilford E. Dudley, a labor lawyer who served in President Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal era, who clashed with President Lyndon B. Johnson over the Vietnam War and who continued to help social causes in the 1980's, died Thursday at the family home in Bellingham, Wash. He was 82 years old.
        Mr. Dudley achieved prominence for his work as a trial examiner for the National Labor Relations Board in the late 1930's and as a union official from the 1940's to the late 1960's. But his advocacy work began even before he was graduated from Harvard Law School when, as a second-year student in 1930, he championed the case of 20 Widener Library scrubwomen dismissed by the university.
        After graduating from law school, Mr. Dudley practiced law in Aurora, Ill., for three years before coming to Washington to work for Roosevelt. From 1934 to 1944 he held five positions in the Roosevelt Administration.
        His most controversial post was that of a trial examiner with the National Labor Relations Board. He issued findings on charges of unfair labor practices in cases that involved the Ford Motor Company, Fansteel and The New York Times. #25-Year Labor Career In 1938 he found that Ford had refused to engage in collective bargaining and ordered the company to reinstate 192 workers who had engaged in a strike. Two years later, he ordered the reinstatement of three Times employees he said had been punished for union activities.
        When he left the Government in 1944, Mr. Dudley went to work for the United Packinghouse Workers of America and for the political action committee of the Congress of Industrial Organizations. He was involved in organized labor for the next 25 years, first with the C.I.O. and, after its merger with the American Federation of Labor, as head of the joint federation's speakers bureau.
        In 1954 he joined with a group of prominent Protestants, headed by the Rev. Reinhold Niebuhr, in denouncing the investigations of Senator Joseph McCarthy.
        In 1968, as head of the Democratic Party in the District of Columbia, Mr. Dudley spoke out against the Vietnam War and refused to support President Johnson. He moved to Bellingham in November after becoming too ill to live by himself.
        Mr. Dudley, who had been married to the late Martha Fairchild Ward, is survived by two daughters, Donica Ward Dudley of Davis, Calif., and Martha Fairchild Dudley of Augusta, Mont.; a son, Gerric Ward Dudley of Bellingham; two sisters, Dorothy Ann Zentmeyer of Riverside, Calif., and Esther Elizabeth Swern of Hinsdale, Ill., and five grandchildren.
      