
       Edward E. Carlson, former chief executive of UAL Inc., the hotel and airline holding company, died of cancer on Tuesday at Virginia Mason Hospital in Seattle. He was 78 years old and lived in Seattle.
        Edward E. Carlson, former chief executive of UAL Inc., the hotel and airline holding company, died of cancer on Tuesday at Virginia Mason Hospital in Seattle. He was 78 years old and lived in Seattle.
        Mr. Carlson joined UAL in 1970 as United Airlines merged with the Western International Hotels chain, now known as Westin Hotels. He became president of Western International in 1961 and in 1971 became president of UAL and its main subsidiary, United Airlines. He became chairman and chief executive in 1975.
        He retired as chief executive in 1979 and as chairman in 1982. He remained a director and chairman of the executive committee. He retired in 1983.
        His appointment to head the airline came as a shock to many in the industry. Until his appointment as chief executive of United he had spent his entire working career in the hotel industry.
        Overcoming $40 Million Losses
        Mr. Carlson took over a company that was top-heavy with management and flying planes that were virtually empty. United had record losses of $40 million in 1970, but Mr. Carlson brought them under control by dividing the carrier into three divisions, eliminating unprofitable flights and cutting personnel by 10 percent.
        He also canceled orders for some planes and deferred delivery on others, and reduced or eliminated discount fares. And he was helped by a Government-approved 9 percent fare increase.
        ''We have made substantial progress in reducing our costs in an effort to create a company which has what I call, a lean and hungry, strong aggressive posture,'' he said in a 1971 interview.
        The company later reported losses of only $5 million for 1971, and then earnings and profits began to mount. By the beginning of 1974, the company had restored dividend payments for the first time since 1970. UAL's earnings for 1974 amounted to $86.4 million. After Mr. Carlson's move from the presidency, an escalation of fuel costs and a lessening of domestic air travel forced the company into the loss column again.
        Legacies of a World's Fair
        Edward Elmer Carlson was born in Tacoma, Wash., in 1911. He began his working life as a part-time bellboy in 1929 at the Benjamin Franklin Hotel in Seattle while he was attending the University of Washington. In 1936, He became manager of the President Hotel in Mount. Vernon, Wash., and in 1937 he was made manager of the Rainier Club in Seattle, where he remained until 1942.
        In 1946, after serving in the Navy, he joined Western International Hotels Inc., as an assistant to the president, becoming executive vice president in 1953 and president of the chain in 1961.
        He served as president of the successful 1962 World's Fair in Seattle. The Civic Center there, with its Eye of the Needle restaurant on top of the 500-foot Space Needle, the $10 million Pacific Science Center, a 1.2-mile monorail and dozens of other buildings - all these are legacies of that fair.
        Hotel and Bank Links
        Mr. Carlson was also president of the Pacific Science Center Foundation, president of the American Hotel and Motel Association, director of the Seattle-First National Bank, a trustee of the Virginia Mason Hospital and a trustee of the Seattle Symphony Orchestra. His honors included the Horatio Alger Award in 1975.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Nell Hinckley Cox; a son, Eugene, of Washington; a daughter, Jane Williams, of Seattle, and three grandchildren.
      