
       Arthur B. Singer, a naturalist and painter whose watercolors of birds of the 50 states were affixed to letters mailed by hundreds of thousands of Americans in the 1980's, died of cancer of the esophagus yesterday at his home in Jericho, L.I. He was 72 years old.
        Arthur B. Singer, a naturalist and painter whose watercolors of birds of the 50 states were affixed to letters mailed by hundreds of thousands of Americans in the 1980's, died of cancer of the esophagus yesterday at his home in Jericho, L.I. He was 72 years old.
        His paintings of the state birds are probably the most widely known of his works because they appeared on United States postage stamps featuring the birds and flowers of the 50 states, which were issued by the United States Postal Service in 1982. The stamp series is believed to have been the largest-selling special issue in the history of United States postage.
        Mr. Singer's first subjects were the neighborhood tabby cats and the more ferocious felines he saw during family outings to the Bronx Zoo, which, along with the American Museum of Natural History, were favorite haunts throughout his life. He later illustrated a book called ''Cats'' (Golden Press, 1973).
        His raw talent for sketching wildlife was sharpened at Cooper Union Art School, from which he received the Augustus St. Gaudens Medal in 1962 after 750 of his bird paintings appeared in the book, ''Birds of the World.'' The book, which depicted more than 700 bird species in about 300 illustrations, sold more than half a million copies and was the first of many books Mr. Singer illustrated. Golden Press issued a new edition in 1983.
        Honored by Audubon Society
        For three years after his graduation from Cooper Union in 1939, Mr. Singer worked as a printer and in an advertising agency before joining the Army.
        After World War II he returned to the advertising business as an illustrator and designer, but assignments by Sports Illustrated for several wildlife features, followed by a commission to do 11 pages of color illustrations for the bird section of World Book Encyclopedia, established him as a modern Audubon. He received the Hal Borland Award from the National Audubon Society in 1985 on the 200th anniversary of Audubon's birth.
        His youngest son, Alan, who lives in Brooklyn, painted the wildflowers that appeared on the 1982 postage stamps. Mr. Singer's first wife, Judy Singer, who is deceased, illustrated a book about plants from bulbs, and his oldest son, Paul, also a New York City resident, is a graphic designer and printmaker.
        Although he devoted his life to studying birds, the introspective artist had a passion for jazz, and friends recall his forays into Harlem in the 1930's to hear the best jazz musicians and learn the latest dances. He made friends of Duke Ellington and Cab Calloway, who was illustrated by a 15-year-old Mr. Singer with a portrait entirely made up of calligraphy that used the name of every piece in the musician's repertory.
        Besides his sons, Mr. Singer is survived by his second wife, Dale Singer of Jericho, and two grandchildren.
      