
       Ronald E. Evans, the Apollo 17 astronaut who exclaimed ''Hot diggety dog!'' upon taking his first steps in space in December 1972, died of a heart attack in his sleep on Saturday at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 56 years old.
        Ronald E. Evans, the Apollo 17 astronaut who exclaimed ''Hot diggety dog!'' upon taking his first steps in space in December 1972, died of a heart attack in his sleep on Saturday at his home in Scottsdale, Ariz. He was 56 years old.
        Shortly before that mission, the outspoken Commander Evans, who piloted the command ship America in the last space mission in the Apollo series, had publicly accused the Nixon Administration of supporting the space program ''by talk but not by action'' and called politicians who did not support space exploration ''kooks.''
        He began as an astronaut in 1966 and was a member of the backup crews for Apollo 14 and the joint Soviet-American space flight in 1975. He had never flown in space before the Apollo 17 mission in 1972. The three-man mission collected samples from the Moon's surface and set up a network of scientific instruments there.
        A Most Proficient Pilot
        He spent 47 minutes outside the command ship America, suspended between the Moon and Earth, collecting used film from cameras and an ultraviolet spectrometer. The experience caused his heart rate nearly to double, to 140 beats a minute.
        He was considered one of the most proficient pilots in the astronaut corps. He had honed his skills in more than 100 combat missions in the Vietnam War. He went to war aboard the aircraft carrier Ticonderoga, the ship that recovered the Apollo 17 crew from the Pacific after its splashdown on Dec. 19, 1972.
        He joined the Reserve Officer Training Program at the University of Kansas, where he received a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering in 1956. He received a master's degree in aeronautical engineering from the Navy's Postgraduate School in 1964 and became an astronaut in 1966.
        After 21 years as a Navy officer, Mr. Evans left the astronaut program in 1977 to join the Western American Energy Corporation in Scottsdale.
        Survivors include his wife, Janet, of Scottsdale; his mother, Marie, of Osage City, Kan.; a brother, Jay, of Olathe, Kan.; a son, Jon, of Austin, Tex.; a daughter, Jaime Harner, of Scottsdale, and six grandchildren.
      