
       Ryan White, the Indiana teen-ager who put the face of a child on AIDS and served as a leader for gaining greater understanding and compassion for those with the deadly disease, died today. He was 18 years old.
        Ryan White, the Indiana teen-ager who put the face of a child on AIDS and served as a leader for gaining greater understanding and compassion for those with the deadly disease, died today. He was 18 years old.
        Ryan, a hemophiliac who contracted the virus through a blood transfusion, died of complications of AIDS in Riley Hospital for Children, said Dr. Martin Kleiman, the youth's physician. He would not elaborate. Ryan entered the hospital on March 29 suffering from a respiratory infection.
        His mother, his grandparents and the singer Elton John were with him when he died, Dr. Kleiman said.
        Ryan's struggle to be accepted in a public school forced Central Indiana to grapple with difficult issues raised by the disease. Around the nation, the attendant publicity helped pierce myths about AIDS, helping health experts and educators emphasize that it is not transmitted by casual contact, that it affects people from many walks of life and that although always fatal, the infection leaves many people able to continue normal lives for years.
        Won Fight to Attend School
        Ryan White became a household name in 1985, when as a 14-year-old he began his successful fight to attend the public school in Kokomo that had banned him amid a clamor of fearful students and their parents. For months, he had been forced to get his seventh-grade class lessons through a telephone hook-up at home.
        After he prevailed in court, the boy was taunted at school by other children who wrote obscenities on his locker and shouted insults as he passed in the halls. Vandals broke windows of the family's house and slashed their car's tires. When his mother, Jeanne White, went to the grocery store, cashiers would throw down her change to avoid touching her hands.
        The family moved in 1987 to Cicero, a farming town about 20 miles from Kokomo and 40 miles north of Indianapolis. There he was generally accepted and treated as just another student at Hamilton Heights High School. He was halfway through his senior year when his health began failing, Wish 'to Be a Regular Kid'
        The young man, who often said he only wanted to be treated like an ordinary teen-ager, had a date for the senior prom, and friends said he was looking forward to the dance.
        ''When he first came, a lot of people were really scared,'' said Brad Letsinger, a high school senior who was one of Mr. White's best friends. ''But Ryan helped all of us to understand. He didn't want people to feel sorry for him. He hated that. He just wanted to be a regular kid.''
        AIDS was still a rather new disease when the Superintendent of the Kokomo school system banned Ryan from classes in 1984.
        At the time, fear of AIDS, which is most commonly spread through shared use of intravenous needles and sexual contact, often led to discrimination, and not just in small towns in Indiana.
        When the Whites moved to Cicero, the school board sponsored several conferences and discussions about the disease. People were urged to be guided by common sense and compassion.
        Seen as Deterrent to Bigotry
        Advocates of AIDS education said Ryan White served as a deterrent to bigotry throughout the nation.
        ''After seeing a person like Ryan White - such a fine and loving and gentle person - it was hard for people to justify discrimination against people who suffer from this terrible disease,'' said Thomas Brandt, the spokesman for the National Commission on AIDS.
        Officials at Riley Hospital had been deluged with telephone calls from people who sent support to the White family. Among the callers were Vice President Dan Quayle, Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and scores of prominent actors, musicians, writers and athletes.
        President Bush, who planted a tree in Indianapolis this month in Ryan's honor, said in a statement today, ''Ryan's death reaffirms that we as a people must pledge to continue the fight, his fight against this dreaded disease.''
        Today Donald Trump and the singer Michael Jackson, who is from Indiana, called on the family at its home.
        Mr. John spent several days in the hospital with the family, and arranged for music to be piped into Ryan's room.
        'Pulling for Him'
        In Cicero, people had spent the last week listening to the latest news reports and hoping he would somehow get better.
        ''Everybody has been pulling for him,'' said Jeff Null, a 28-year-old brick mason, who was talking about Ryan recently with the other customers in the Hoosier Family Cafe. ''We all just wanted him to get better and come home.''
        Ryan lived with his mother and 16-year-old sister, Andrea, near Morse Lake in this town of about 2,500. Ryan's mother and his father, Wayne, are divorced. Mr. White visited Ryan in the hospital last week.
        Most people knew Ryan by his red Mustang convertible, a gift from Mr. Jackson. He belonged to the Booster Club at school, excelled in his classes and liked to frequent the Dairy Queen and the Taco Bell. He was also a voracious reader of automotive magazines.
        Life of Celebrity
        But he was not quite a typical teen- ager in Indiana. He lived the life of a celebrity, a life that he often said he would exchange in an instant for his health. He had recently visited former President Ronald Reagan and Nancy Reagan. He went to Los Angeles last month to attend the Academy Awards. It was a few days later, during a television talk show, that he began to have difficulty swallowing and returned to Indiana.
        He was aware of the gravity of his condition before being sedated at Riley Hospital. His mother had discussed the use of a ventilator, and Ryan decided to use the life-support system.
        ''If anybody knows Ryan, if he had a chance to get better, he would want to go for it,'' his mother said last week.
        Time and Education
        With their sharply different reactions toward Ryan White, the towns of Kokomo and Cicero have often been cast in terms of good and bad. It was not quite that simple.
        Not everyone in Kokomo opposed Ryan White's attendance at school. Indeed, for every parent who pulled a child out of school in protest, there were 20 who did not. Nor was everyone in Cicero pleased to welcome a boy with AIDS. The difference was time and education about the disease.
        Moving to Cicero after finishing the eighth grade, even Ryan at first seemed somewhat skeptical about his welcome. Friends said he stayed to himself initially, but finally saw that people wanted to include him.
        Many parents in Cicero talked to their children about AIDS, explaining how it was transmitted and why Ryan did not endanger them.
        Peggy Lockwood, a grocery store manager, said she and her husband, Jerry, a janitor, had a long talk with their daughters and told them: ''You don't have to be afraid. Go up and talk to Ryan. He's a nice boy. There's nothing to worry about.''
        A funeral is planned for Wednesday, but details have not been made public. Gov. Evan Bayh orderd the flags at the Statehouse flown at half staff Wednesday in Ryan's honor.
      