
       Dr. Howard D. Abramowitz, a sociology professor who in the 1950's sued to overturn an Army policy of giving draftees less than honorable discharges because of their political activities before induction, died of lung cancer yesterday at his home in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 59 years old.
        Dr. Howard D. Abramowitz, a sociology professor who in the 1950's sued to overturn an Army policy of giving draftees less than honorable discharges because of their political activities before induction, died of lung cancer yesterday at his home in Pittsfield, Mass. He was 59 years old.
        Dr. Abramowitz, who received his doctorate from New York University, taught sociology at Skidmore College for the last 26 years and worked in the peace movement. Before that, he did research for the International Ladies Garment Workers Union and for the Institute of Industrial Relations at N.Y.U.
        Dr. Abramowitz was drafted in 1951, won a Silver Star in Korea and was given a certificate of honorable separation when he was released from active duty in 1953. As required by the selective service laws of the time, he went into the Enlisted Reserve. Two years later, however, the Army accused him of having been a member of the Communist Party in 1948 and 1949 and in late 1955 dropped him from the Reserve as a security risk and gave him an undesirable discharge.
        He brought suit, and in 1958, the United States Supreme Court ruled that a discharge had to be based on a soldier's military service record. The Army upgraded Dr. Abramowitz's discharge, and that of his co-plaintiff, John Henry Harmon 3d, to honorable and ordered a review of the discharges of 720 other former soldiers.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Barbara Joslyn; a daughter Karen Kinbar of Manhattan; a son, Adam, of Albany; his mother, Rose, of Brooklyn; two brothers, Zigmund, of Ramat-Aviv, Israel, and Maurice, of Ardsley, N.Y.; a stepson Nicholas Joslyn of Pittsfield, and a stepdaughter, Amy Joslyn of Hempstead, L.I.
      