
       John Henry Faulk, a Southern humorist and raconteur whose successful libel suit against Aware Inc. in 1962 broke the stranglehold of McCarthy-era blacklisters on the entertainment industry, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 76 years old.
        John Henry Faulk, a Southern humorist and raconteur whose successful libel suit against Aware Inc. in 1962 broke the stranglehold of McCarthy-era blacklisters on the entertainment industry, died of cancer yesterday at his home in Austin, Tex. He was 76 years old.
        In 1949 Mr. Faulk was the host of a radio program in Paterson, N.J., when a CBS executive, who had heard him tell one of his country tales at a party, invited Mr. Faulk to create a radio program for the network. The show, ''Johnny's Front Porch,'' featured stories based on characters he had met on his travels through the South. Soon Mr. Faulk, who extended the ingratiating folk philosophers' tradition of Will Rogers, was seen regularly on game shows and other television shows and became an unlikely, if willing, fixture on the New York social circuit.
        Lawsuit Against Aware
        Aware was formed in 1953 to ''combat the Communist conspiracy in entertainment communications.'' The group published the names of entertainment-industry figures suspected of having Communist ties in pamphlets that were distributed to advertising agencies, network executives and others. Those named found themselves banned - always without explanation - from employment in the industry.
        In 1955 the prominent CBS News correspondent Charles Collingwood, Mr. Faulk and several other entertainers ran for office in the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists on an anti-blacklist slate. Mr. Faulk was among 27 on the slate who won seats on the 35-member board. In February 1956 he was listed in an Aware pamphlet, in part because he had once attended a dinner at the United Nations for Andrei A. Gromyko, the Soviet foreign minister. Two months later, Libby's Frozen Foods withdrew its sponsorship of ''Johnny's Front Porch.'' The following September, CBS dismissed him, saying his ratings were poor.
        In an extraordinary step, Mr. Faulk sued Aware and two of its founders, hiring Louis Nizer to plead his side. The case took six years to go to trial. During that time Mr. Faulk, unable to find employment as an entertainer, returned to Austin to run a small advertising firm with his first wife, and deliver commentaries on a local radio station.
        The highly publicized trial began in the spring of 1962 and ran for 11 weeks. On June 28 the jury awarded Mr. Faulk a record $3.5 million. A few weeks later, Mr. Faulk returned to CBS for a week as a guest on the game show ''To Tell the Truth,'' whose host, Bud Collyer, had been an outspoken anti-Communist and one of the union board members defeated by Mr. Faulk and his colleagues seven years earlier.
        Because Aware was virtually insolvent by the end of the trial, Mr. Faulk personally received only about $75,000 of the libel award. Though he was seen occasionally on the other networks, he never again worked regularly for CBS. But in October 1975, the network broadcast ''Fear on Trial,'' an acclaimed dramatization of the story featuring William Devane as Mr. Faulk and George C. Scott as Mr. Nizer. Mr. Faulk was a consultant to the project, which was based on his memoir of the case, also titled ''Fear on Trial.''
        'Hee Haw' and the Constitution
        Mr. Faulk later became a regular contributor to the country-style music-and-comedy television show ''Hee Haw.'' In recent years he frequently lectured at colleges and universities on the Constitution. He wrote and performed a one-man show, ''Pear Orchard,'' featuring the characters whose long, tall tales he loved to spin. The show was recently filmed by Bill Moyers and Studs Terkel for the Public Broadcasting Service and is to be shown this spring.
        Mr. Faulk, the son of an independent Texas judge, held a master's degree in folklore from the University of Texas, served in the Red Cross and the Army in World War II. His friends, who included Edward R. Murrow, Walter Cronkite and many other prominent journalists, regarded him for the strength of his convictions, for his outspokenness against injustice and on behalf of First Amendment freedoms, and for his self-effacing high spirits.
        Norman Lear, the television producer who founded the First Amendment advocacy group People for the American Way, and who was a longtime friend, said of Mr. Faulk, ''His was the most eloquent voice we had on the First Amendment and the Bill of Rights.''
        While others, including Mr. Nizer, called him a hero for his stand against Aware, Mr. Faulk never thought of himself as one.
        A glimpse of his character was reflected in a letter published in The New York Times in 1953, in which he responded to an admiring editorial about the mockingbird.
        ''The mockingbird, as far as I am concerned, has no peer as a singer, and for that I love him dearly,'' Mr. Faulk wrote. ''However, he also sets a record of a very different sort - namely, he is one of the most independent and cantankerous fellows in the feathered world. . . . As a songster he is seemingly from heavenly climes - as an ill-tempered neighbor, he is surely from the opposite regions.''
        Mr. Faulk is survived by his third wife, Elizabeth; two sons, Frank Dobie Faulk of Toronto and John Henry III (Yohan) of Austin; three daughters, Cynthia Ryland of Austin, Dr. Johanna Faulk of Winnipeg, Manitoba, and Evelyn Faulk of Toronto. He is also survived by his brother, Hamilton, of Georgetown, Tex., and three sisters, Martha Stansbury, Mary Faulk Koock and Texana Conn, all of Austin.
      