
       Dr. Robert H. Felix, a psychiatrist who was the first director of the National Institute of Mental Health, died of complications of Parkinson's disease on Saturday at his home in Sun City, Ariz. He was 85 years old.
        Dr. Robert H. Felix, a psychiatrist who was the first director of the National Institute of Mental Health, died of complications of Parkinson's disease on Saturday at his home in Sun City, Ariz. He was 85 years old.
        Dr. Felix, an authority on alcoholism and drug addiction, was also a former dean of the medical school at St. Louis University, president of the American Psychiatric Association in 1960-61 and a member of the World Health Organization's advisory panel on mental health from 1952 to 1978.
        Robert Hanna Felix was born on May 29, 1904, in Downs, Kan. He graduated from the University of Colorado Medical School in 1930 and completed his residency at the Colorado Psychopathic Hospital. He earned a master of public health degree at Johns Hopkins University.
        Prison Work, Then Military
        Dr. Felix joined the Federal Public Health Service in 1933 as a psychiatrist and later became clinical director of two correction institutions, the Medical Center for Federal Prisoners in Springfield, Mo., and the Federal narcotics treatment center at Lexington, Ky.
        In the early years of World War II he was a military psychiatrist and senior health officer at the United States Coast Guard Academy in New London, Conn.
        He returned to the Public Health Service in 1944 as assistant chief of the hospital division and was chief of the mental hygiene division until 1949.
        In that five-year period he helped develop the Mental Health Act of 1946, part of which created the National Institute of Mental Health, one of the research institutes of the National Institutes of Health.
        St. Louis University Post
        He was appointed director of the mental health institute in 1949 and held the post until he retired from government service in 1964.
        After retiring, from Dr. Felix was a professor of psychiatry and dean of the medical school at St. Louis University for 10 years, and from 1975 to 1985 he was research director of the Scottish Rite Psychophrenic Research Program in Lexington, Mass. He moved to Arizona in 1986.
        Dr. Felix was given the Rockefeller Public Service Award in 1961 and won awards for distinguished service of the American Public Health Association and the American Psychiatric Association.
        He was a member of numerous professional organizations and served on the editorial boards of The Psychiatric Bulletin, The American Journal of Psychiatry and The Quarterly Journal of Studies of Alcohol.
        He is survived by his wife, Esther; a daughter, Katherine Hoenigman of Berea, Ohio, and two grandchildren.
      