
       Hal F. Davis, a retired advertising executive and an expert on jazz, died on Sunday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 73 years old. Mr. Davis retired in 1978 as president of Grey & Davis Inc., an advertising agency in Manhattan. Before that he was vice president for radio and television at Grey Advertising and was later assistant to the president and assistant to the chairman there.
        Hal F. Davis, a retired advertising executive and an expert on jazz, died on Sunday at his home in Sarasota, Fla. He was 73 years old. Mr. Davis retired in 1978 as president of Grey & Davis Inc., an advertising agency in Manhattan. Before that he was vice president for radio and television at Grey Advertising and was later assistant to the president and assistant to the chairman there. He was named president of Grey Advertising's subsidiary, Grey Public Relations, in 1969 and a year later formed his own affiliated advertising agency, Grey & Davis Inc.
        He began his public relations career in the late 1930's in the publicity department of the Columbia Broadcasting System. He later was director of publicity for Columbia Records and in 1941 formed his own public relations firm, Davis-Lieber Associates, to handle musical talent, like the Benny Goodman Orchestra and other top bands of the era.
        He served in the Navy in World War II and afterward joined the Manhattan advertising firm of Kenyon & Eckhardt.
        Managed Goodman Tour
        His interest in jazz was constant. He managed Benny Goodman's tour of Asia in 1956, the band's trip to the Brussels World's Fair in 1958 and its State Department-sponsored tour of the Soviet Union in 1962.
        Mr. Davis, who was born in New York City and graduated from DeWitt Clinton High School, played the accordion and, as a teen-ager, had his own band.
        In retirement, he was the founder and president of the Jazz Club of Sarasota, an organization that he started in 1980 with a few neighbors and grew into a 1,500-member group that sponsors annual jazz festivals and concerts.
        Several weeks ago, he relinquished the post of president of the Jazz Club but remained on as its artistic director. He was devoting his energies to the forthcoming national convention of the American Federation of Jazz Societies and the 11th Sarasota Jazz Festival, scheduled for next April. He was also the founding president of the Sarasota County Arts Council and served on the board of the Professional Alliance for the Performing Arts.
        He is survived by his wife, Evelyn; two sons, Kenneth, of Boston and Richard, of Alexandria, Va.; a daughter, Marcy, of Manhattan; a sister, Lee Schanbam of Middletown, N.J., and three grandchildren.
      