
       William E. Bufalino Sr., a lawyer and associate of the former teamster leader James R. Hoffa, died of leukemia on Saturday at Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 72 years old.
        William E. Bufalino Sr., a lawyer and associate of the former teamster leader James R. Hoffa, died of leukemia on Saturday at Holy Cross Hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 72 years old.
        Mr. Bufalino represented the International Brotherhood of Teamsters and Mr. Hoffa personally for a quarter of a century, helping the union and Mr. Hoffa to fight charges of racketeering in the 1950's and 1960's. He defended the union and Mr. Hoffa in seven trials, winning verdicts for his clients five times. Mr. Hoffa, who eventually went to Federal prison for jury tampering, disappeared in 1975 and is thought to have been murdered.
        Mr. Bufalino was himself a teamster official, serving for two decades as president of Local 985, the Detroit-area ''jukebox local'' that was portrayed before a Senate investigation as little more than a collection agency for gangster-dominated operators collecting money from jukeboxes.
        In 1971, when Mr. Hoffa was completing his five-year sentence for jury tampering, Mr. Bufalino broke with him, saying later that he had concluded that the teamster leader had used other people for his own gain.
        Castro Assassination Plot
        After Mr. Hoffa's disappearance from a parking lot in a Detroit suburb, Mr. Bufalino said he believed the union leader had been involved in an effort by the Central Intelligence Agency to arrange for American members of the Mafia to assassinate Fidel Castro, the Cuban President. Under Mr. Bufalino's theory, Mr. Hoffa was killed to prevent him from disclosing anything about the alleged plot.
        Mr. Bufalino, who retired in 1982, spent many years rebutting assertions that he was part of the underworld. He denied that he had defended any member of the Mafia, and filed suits against Senator John L. McClellan, an Arkansas Democrat who was chairman of a Senate investigating committee in the 1950's, and Robert F. Kennedy, the committee chief counsel who later became Attorney General, saying they had damaged his reputation by depicting him as a member of organized crime. The suits were unsuccessful.
        Mr. Bufalino was born in Pittston, Pa., one of nine children in a coal miner's family. He studied for the Roman Catholic priesthood for two years but switched to a career in law and received a degree from the Dickinson School of Law in 1942.
        After World War II, in which he served as a lieutenant in the Army's Judge Advocate General Corps, he entered private law practice and in 1947 began his association with the teamsters.
        Mr. Bufalino, who lived in St. Clair Shores, Mich., and Pompano Beach, Fla., is survived by his wife, the former Marie Antoinette Meli; a son, William Jr., and four daughters, Louise Blake, Grace Ritter, Toni DeClaire and Fran Arent, all of the Detroit area. He is also survived by 12 grandchildren and a great-grandchild.
      