
       Harland Clement Forbes, a retired chief executive of the Consolidated Edison Company of New York, died of pneumonia yesterday at Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 92 years old and had lived in Sarasota since moving there from Manhasset, L.I., in 1965.
        Harland Clement Forbes, a retired chief executive of the Consolidated Edison Company of New York, died of pneumonia yesterday at Memorial Hospital in Sarasota, Fla. He was 92 years old and had lived in Sarasota since moving there from Manhasset, L.I., in 1965.
        Mr. Forbes spent 41 years with Con Edison, joining the company in 1924, when it was the New York Edison Company, as an assistant to the chief electrical engineer. In 1932, he was named systems engineer.
        As systems engineer and later as vice president, Mr. Forbes was chiefly responsible for the coordination of Con Edison's gas, electric and steam engineering.
        After World War II, he directed a $530 million expansion program in which the company created new plants and improved existing ones.
        He was named president in 1955 and chairman in 1957. He retired in December 1965.
        Two Major Power Failures
        Mr. Forbes remained with the utility as a consultant on two major projects with which he had been associated - a planned reservoir for powering hydro-electric generators at Storm King Mountain and the importation of huge amounts of electricity from Labrador. Both projects were later abandoned. Mr. Forbes was in charge during two major power failures in the 1960's. In 1961, a blackout left five square miles in New York City without electricity. In the other, a power failure that began in upstate New York cut power to most of the Eastern Seaboard for 13 hours in November 1965. The failure, which occurred just before Mr. Forbes retired, led to criticism of the utility for not removing itself from the regional power grid during a critical 10-minute period before the blackout hit New York City.
        Mr. Forbes, who was born in Colebrook, N.H., in 1898, earned a bachelor's degree from the University of New Hampshire and a master's degree from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he was an electrical engineering instructor. He then joined the design and testing staff of the Western Electric Company.
        He is survived by his wife, Elizabeth; two sons, Howard, of Dallas, and Barton, of Cumberland Foreside, Me.; six grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      