
       Antoine Vitez, an actor, director and teacher who capped a distinguished theatrical career by becoming chief administrator of the Comedie Francaise, died of a brain hemorrhage on Monday. He was 59 years old.
        Antoine Vitez, an actor, director and teacher who capped a distinguished theatrical career by becoming chief administrator of the Comedie Francaise, died of a brain hemorrhage on Monday. He was 59 years old.
        Mr. Vitez had long been considered a major figure in contemporary French cultural life. France's Culture Minister, Jack Lang, said ''a master of the theater has left us.'' President Francois Mitterrand recalled that ''theater was for him a field where the games of society were played out.''
        Actors at the Comedie Francaise learned of his death during a performance of Shakespeare's ''As You Like It'' last night. They completed the performance and then stood tearfully before the audience to pay homage to Mr. Vitez with a moment of silence.
        Catherine Samie, a prominent actress who is in the cast of ''As You Like It,'' has been named temporary administrator of the company, which was founded by Louis XIV in 1680 and is considered the heart of French classical theater.
        Modernized the Repertory
        Mr. Vitez had taken over as administrator of the Comedie Francaise only two years ago, on the death of Jean Le Poulain, but is nonetheless credited with modernizing the company's repertory.
        Under his direction, the Comedie Francaise presented Jean-Paul Sartre's ''Huis-Clos'' (''No Exit'') and Bertolt Brecht's ''Life of Galileo.'' He was quoted as saying that he liked to teach his actors and students ''irrespect toward what Brecht called the terrorism of the classics.''
        Mr. Vitez, whose father was a photographer, was born in Paris on Dec. 20, 1930. He embarked on an acting career in Marseilles at the age of 19. In the early 60's, while continuing on stage, he worked as personal secretary to Louis Aragon, the French surrealist poet and novelist.
        But when he took up directing at the age of 36, it came to dominate his energies, and he staged more than 60 productions during his career. He specialized in Moliere, Racine, Claudel and Victor Hugo, but he also sought out works by such contemporary authors as Rene Kalisky and Pierre Guyotat.
        Also Worked in Opera
        Fluent in Russian and Italian, he staged productions of Moliere's ''Tartuffe'' in Russian at Moscow's Theater of Satire and of Marivaux's ''Triumph of Love'' in Italian at the Teatro Piccolo in Milan. He also delved into opera, staging ''Pelleas et Melisande'' at La Scala in Milan and Verdi's ''Macbeth'' at the Paris Opera.
        To several generations of actors and directors who studied under him, though, Mr. Vitez may best be remembered as a teacher. He directed the Theatre National de Chaillot with Mr. Lang from 1972 to 74, and in 1972 he also founded the Theatre des Quartiers d'Ivry, an experimental theater in a working-class suburb of Paris.
        Between 1968 and 1981, when he returned as director of the Chaillot and created its theater school, Mr. Vitez also taught at the Conservatoire National d'Art Dramatique. Described by one critic as ''a magician of words'' and ''a lover of semiotics,'' he would prod his students into deep analysis of the meaning of texts.
        Mr. Vitez was for several years a member of the French Communist Party, but he resigned to protest the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in 1980. He was named by the Government in June 1988 to administer the Comedie Francaise.
        He is survived by his wife and two daughters, Jeanne and Marie.
      