
       Sammy Davis Jr., the versatile song and dance man who died of throat cancer on Wednesday, was eulogized today as ''an American original'' who overcame repeated hardships to carve a unique place for himself in the world of entertainment.
        Sammy Davis Jr., the versatile song and dance man who died of throat cancer on Wednesday, was eulogized today as ''an American original'' who overcame repeated hardships to carve a unique place for himself in the world of entertainment.
        ''He's not the last of a kind,'' said the Rev. Jesse Jackson at his funeral service, addressing a hall filled with some of Hollywood's most familiar faces. ''There was no Sammy before Sammy. Sammy was the only of a kind.''
        The 1,200 mourners inside the Hall of Liberty at Forest Lawn Memorial Park and several hundred listening over a loudspeaker in the sunshine outside heard the dancer Gregory Hines describe Mr. Davis as his idol, a singer and dancer who brought a magic to the stage that transformed the lives of those who saw him.
        Many in the hall were in tears during the nondenominational memorial service as they listened to a recording of Mr. Davis singing his signature song, ''I've Got to Be Me.''
        Surrounded by Friends
        With his family in the front rows of the hall, where his bronze coffin was surrounded by flowers, ferns and ficus plants, were his friends in what was known as the ''rat pack'' in the years when John F. Kennedy was President: Frank Sinatra, Dean Martin and Shirley MacLaine.
        Jerry Lewis was there along with Wayne Newton, Stevie Wonder, Robert Goulet, Janet Leigh, Liza Minnelli and Cecily Tyson.
        The hall seemed to be almost a film set on which members of the audience were played by a mix of performers brought together by their connections with Mr. Davis: Milton Berle, Carroll O'Connor, Angie Dickinson, Little Richard, Dionne Warwick and Robert Culp.
        The California State Assembly Speaker, Willie Brown, a longtime friend of Mr. Davis, said the family had received messages of condolence from President Bush, Gov. George Deukmejian of California and Mayor Tom Bradley of Los Angeles, as well as from George Burns and Joey Bishop.
        Lights to Be Darkenede
        Mr. Jackson, in delivering the eulogy, said that the exterior lights and marquees along the nightclub strip in Las Vegas would be darkened for 10 minutes tonight in Mr. Davis's memory. On Hollywood Boulevard, he said, tap dancers were celebrating Mr. Davis's memory by dancing around his memorial star on the sidewalk.
        Mr. Hines spoke movingly and at length about his first and last meetings with Mr. Davis: first around 1956 when Mr. Hines was a boy of 10 and the last a few weeks ago when Mr. Davis was so ill he could no longer talk. Speaking, he pointed out, for a generation of performers, Mr. Hines said that ever since that first backstage meeting at the Apollo Theater in Harlem he had tried to model himself after Mr. Davis. The two men later made a film together called ''Tap.''
        Converted to Judaism
        Rabbi Allen Freehling, who officiated at the service, called Mr. Davis ''the ultimate entertainer'' and said, ''he was a constant and enthusiastic presence'' in the lives of his contemporaries. Mr. Davis, whose family was Baptist, converted to Judaism in the 1950's.
        Mr. Davis's widow, Altovise, said, ''How lucky we were to have Sammy in our lives and how dearly I will miss him.''
        A friend, Lerone Bennett, described Mr. Davis as an American original and called him ''the last exponent of a dying art'' who stood bravely on an empty stage.
        A motorcade of several hundred cars later drove to the Forest Lawn Cemetery, for Mr. Davis's burial.
      