
        Tanaquil Le Clercq, one of the greatest of American ballerinas, who was George Balanchine's ideal muse and Jerome Robbins's happiest inspiration at the New York City Ballet in the 1940's and 1950's, died yesterday at New York Hospital. She was 71 and had homes in Manhattan; Weston, Conn.; and Windermere, Fla.
        The cause was pneumonia, a spokesman for the New York City Ballet said.
        In a tragic end to her performing career, the still-young ballerina contracted paralytic polio in 1956 while she was at the peak of her powers. At the time she was also married to Balanchine, his fourth wife. Her luminously elegant style, the freshness of her long-legged wit and her mysterious dramatic perfume had attracted an adoring public. The dance world went into shock.
        Yet although she remained paralyzed below the waist, Ms. Le Clercq became a teacher at Dance Theater of Harlem, wrote two books and frequently attended dance performances. In 1998, City Ballet opened its 50th-anniversary season with a tribute to her as a charter member of the company and to her legendary status within it. Ms. Le Clercq acknowledged a tumultuous ovation at the New York State Theater from her wheelchair as Peter Martins, the company's artistic director, presented her with a bouquet.
        The tribute included films of her performances and interviews. Robbins, who cast her as the sensuous girl in his ''Afternoon of a Faun,'' summed up her range. ''Tanny,'' he said, ''could do anything.''
        With an elongated physique that she used with refinement or humor (Balanchine once cast her as a dragonfly), she epitomized the modernized look in classical dancing that Balanchine was promoting in the United States in the 1940's. As the first City Ballet ballerina personally trained since childhood by Balanchine, she was naturally identified with his major works and the roles he created for her in them. These ballets included ''Symphonie Concertante,'' ''Symphony in C,'' ''Bourree Fantasque,'' ''Western Symphony'' and ''La Valse,'' in which her doomed heroine danced herself to death with chilling fervor.
        Nonetheless, she was equally unforgettable in the Robbins ballets and as the stunning white-faced allegorical figure of Sacred Love wafted high above the ground by a male retinue in ''Illuminations,'' which the British choreographer Fredrick Ashton choreographed for City Ballet in 1950. In 1949, she was also willing to experiment in Merce Cunningham's works in Europe.
        Ms. Le Clercq was one of those singular dancers whose dramatic projection and brilliant technique could appeal simultaneously to a broad audience and a cultlike following of artists and writers.
        She was born in Paris on Oct. 2, 1929. Her mother, Edith Whittemore, was American, and her father, Jacques Le Clercq, was a French poet and writer. Their daughter was named after an Etruscan queen and was 3 when the family moved to New York.
        At 7, Ms. Le Clercq began studying with Mikhail Mordkin, the former star of the Bolshoi Ballet. In October 1941, she won a scholarship competition at the School of American Ballet, founded in 1934 by Balanchine, Lincoln Kirstein and others. Ms. Le Clercq also attended the French Lycee and the King-Coit School.
        Although Balanchine and Kirstein had no permanent ballet company at this time, Balanchine cast her in 1945 in a student performance of ''Symphonie Concertante,'' a ballet to Mozart. After Kirstein and Balanchine founded Ballet Society in 1946, the precursor to City Ballet, she recreated her role as the second ballerina opposite Maria Tallchief, whom Balanchine had married in 1946.
        As a 15-year-old in 1944, Ms. Le Clercq had also appeared in ''Resurgence,'' a short piece Balanchine created for a benefit for the March of Dimes. Balanchine portrayed an evil character, Polio, who caused Ms. Le Clercq to look paralyzed.
        Balanchine would later refer to the event as an omen of the polio attack suffered by Ms. Le Clercq while she and Balanchine were on tour with City Ballet in Copenhagen. Her misfortune affected many deeply. Robbins wrote her every day during the first year of her illness.
        Balanchine returned to choreography in 1957. But even in 1959, B. H. Haggin, a critic who was especially devoted to the ballerina, wrote that for some spectators, there was ''an aching feeling of loss over the absence of Le Clercq from the works in which they had watched the development of her extraordinary powers as a dancer and as a stage personality.''
        Particularly amazing was that Ms. Le Clercq affected so many in a professional career that lasted only 10 years. She was not the only dancer who served as a muse to Balanchine or with whom he had a relationship. After his first wife, Tamara Geva, left him, he lived with the ballerina Alexandra Danilova and subsequently married Vera Zorina and Ms. Tallchief. He married Ms. Le Clercq in 1952, and they were divorced in 1969. There are no immediate survivors.
        Ms. Le Clercq created 32 roles for Ballet Society and City Ballet. She danced the dynamic ''Choleric'' variation in the 1946 premiere of Balanchine's ''Four Temperaments.'' In 1949 she appeared in two pieces by Merce Cunningham (''Games and Trio'' and ''Amores'') in a Paris studio.
        Kirstein saw her as ''the epitome of Balanchine's lyrically athletic American criterion.'' Repeatedly, she combined French elegance with American energy, as was obvious in her dance-hall girl in ''Western Symphony,'' which Balanchine set to cowpoke tunes in 1954. Strutting on toe and her needle-sharp long legs, she exhibited flair and flounce; vulgarity was anathema to her dancing.
        Her work was colored, above all, by a mysterious individuality. Others succeeded her in ''La Valse,'' a neo-romantic work by Balanchine to Ravel. But few could exemplify her pathos and fragility as she threw her head back and plunged a hand into a long black glove.
        In some ballets, she was irreplaceable. In ''The Concert'' (1956), Robbins's big comic hit, she was a daffy heroine who struck a serious note with a long introspective solo. Robbins dropped the solo after Ms. Le Clercq stopped dancing.
      