
        Anne Ball, a retailing executive who helped impart a stylish image to some of the country's most elite clothing stores, died on Jan. 19 in Manhattan. She was 52 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause of death was liver cancer, said her husband, Frank Ball.
        With taste described as avant-garde yet refined, Ms. Ball held merchandising and consultant positions at Neiman Marcus, Barneys New York and Saks Fifth Avenue. Most recently, she was overseeing the expansion of Seibu, a Japanese department store chain that is opening six stores in Tokyo.
        In 1986, Ms. Ball and her husband formed the retail management company Ball Group Inc. Together they developed a branch of the French retailer Printemps in Denver in the late 1980's. Known for an urbane look and chic clothes, Printemps did not catch on in Denver, and the store eventually closed.
        The couple also helped create a more modernistic image for Stanley Korshak in Dallas, one of the country's best-known specialty clothing stores.
        Ms. Ball's work with Printemps did catch the eye of Gene Pressman, the former co-chairman of Barneys New York, who hired her to direct merchandising in stores that Barneys was opening across the United States.
        Simon Doonan, creative director at Barneys New York, credited Ms. Ball with introducing conceptual designers like Azzedine Alaia into Barneys stores outside Manhattan and helping to reaffirm the chain's image as a daring retailer.
        Ms. Ball left Barneys before it  reorganized and closed many of the stores she helped conceive.
        The daughter of an Army colonel, Ms. Ball was born Anne Carter in Osaka, Japan, in 1948. She traveled extensively in her youth before returning to the United States and marrying Frank Ball at the age of 16 in 1965. She graduated from North Texas State University in 1970.
        In 1991 she was named president of the designer clothing line Anne Klein Collection; while working there, she earned a master's degree in literary criticism from New York University.
        In addition to her husband, Ms. Ball is survived by her mother, Lillian Harwell Carter of Pulaski, Tenn.; a sister, Paige Carter Garner of Nashville; and a daughter, Jayne Denison Ball of the Marshall Islands.
      