
        Sarah Tomerlin Lee, whose career in fashion, advertising, retailing and interior design spanned more than six decades, until her retirement three years ago, died on April 15 at her home in Manhattan. She was 90.
        Mrs. Lee, an imposing woman who was rarely seen without her pearls, came to New York in 1936 and quickly rose to prominence in the fashion world. Her experience writing advertising copy for a store her father managed in Utica, N.Y., paved the way for a job in the advertising department at Bonwit Teller, then a fashionable Fifth Avenue store.
        For about 30 years, she shuttled between the advertising world, where she worked with Helena Rubenstein, Elizabeth Arden and Leona Helmsley, and magazine editing, where she became a colleague of major fashion figures, including Diana Vreeland and Carmel Snow. She was an editor at Vogue Magazine and then managing editor at Harper's Bazaar.
        In 1960, she became a vice president of Lord & Taylor, in charge of advertising, promotion, display and public relations, and in 1965 she was named editor of House Beautiful, where she remained until 1971.
        She met her husband, Tom Lee, in 1937 when she joined Bonwit Teller, where he was then display director. They were married a year later, and shortly after Mr. Lee left to start Tom Lee Ltd., a design company.
        Mrs. Lee's career changed direction after the death of her husband in an automobile accident in 1971. She initially joined his firm to complete his contracts but stayed to carry on and expand the business, which concentrated on large interior design projects for hotels.
        Under her leadership, the firm worked on the interior design of 40 hotels and inns in the United States, including the Helmsley Palace in Manhattan, the Willard in Washington and the Bellevue in Philadelphia. Other hotel commissions ranged from Canada to Australia.
        From 1993 to 1997, she was head of the interior design division of the architectural firm of Beyer Blinder Belle, which restored Ellis Island and Grand Central Station.
        Sarah Tomerlin was born on Aug. 18, 1910, in Union City, Tenn. She graduated from Randolph-Macon Women's College. Her survivors include two sons, Todd Granville Lee, of Boston, and Charles Tomerlin Lee, of Greenwich, Conn.; four grandchildren; and one great-grandchild.
        On behalf of the Fashion Institute of Technology, Mrs. Lee edited ''American Fashion: The Life and Times of Adrian, Mainbocher, McCardell, Norell, Trigère,'' a compilation of midcentury American clothing designers, published by The New York Times in 1975.
        She was also president of the Fashion Group from 1960 to 1963 and was for a time president of the Decorators Club. She was a trustee of the New York School of Interior Design and a founder of the New York Landmarks Conservancy. In 1990 she was named a designer of distinction by the American Society of Interior Designers.
      