
        Dr. Anne Anastasi, whose influence is felt by every student who takes a psychology course and by anyone who fills in the answers on a standardized test intended to measure achievement, intelligence, aptitude, personality or creativity, died on May 4 at her home in Manhattan. She was 92.
        Dr. Anastasi, a former professor at Fordham University who remained professionally active until shortly before her death, was known as the ''test guru.''' Her 1954 text, ''Psychological Testing,'' is still required reading in undergraduate and graduate psychology courses and is considered a virtual bible for the field.
        The book, an encyclopedic review of how tests are constructed, validated and interpreted, received wide acclaim for its lucidity and depth of analysis. It is in its seventh printing and has been translated into nine languages.
        ''Every psychologist has heard of Anastasi,'' said Dr. Mary Procidano, chairwoman of the psychology department at Fordham. ''She really defined the field.''
        Dr. Anastasi took a special interest in the question of whether tests could be created that were free of cultural bias, Dr. Procidano and other colleagues said. In the 1960's and 70's, While some in the field championed so-called ''culture fair'' tests, Dr. Anastasi argued that the claim that tests could be entirely unbiased was a fallacy.
        In addition to her contributions to testing, Dr. Anastasi was renowned for her studies of individual and group differences and the interplay of biology and environment in shaping personality and intellectual development.
        Dr. Robert Perloff, the distinguished service professor emeritus of psychology and business administration at the University of Pittsburgh, said that Dr. Anastasi, who wrote more than 150 scholarly books, monographs and articles, brought to the issue a balanced, deeply rational perspective and an insistence on solid science.
        She also played a significant role, Dr. Perloff said, in applying psychology to real-world situations, both through areas like industrial psychology and consumer psychology and in the clinical consulting room.
        ''Many academic psychologists would look down their noses at practitioners,'' Dr. Perloff said. ''She never did that.''
        Born on Dec. 19, 1908, in Manhattan, Anne Anastasi was schooled at home until she was 9. Her mother was the office manager at Il Progresso, the Italian newspaper. Her father died when she was 1.
        As a teenager, she was fascinated with mathematics and embarked on a self-education program, teaching herself, among other things, spherical trigonometry.
        After two years at Rhodes Preparatory School in Manhattan, a school attended mostly by adults wishing to pursue college degrees, she was accepted at the age of 15 by Barnard College, where she majored in psychology and received a bachelor's degree in 1928.
        Two years later, she completed a doctoral degree in psychology from Columbia. She was influenced, she wrote in an autobiography, by the teaching of Harry Hollingworth, for many years chairman of the psychology department at Barnard, and by the writings of Charles Spearman, an English psychologist and statistician who developed the ''two-factor'' theory of intelligence.
        At Columbia, she also met her future husband, John Porter Foley Jr., an industrial psychologist. They were married in 1933.
        In 1930, Dr. Anastasi was hired as an instructor of psychology at Barnard, and she remained there until 1939, when she became chairwoman of the psychology department at Queens College of the City University of New York. In 1947, she joined the faculty at Fordham, and was promoted to full professor in 1951.
        Dr. Anastasi's interests ranged widely, her colleagues and friends said, and she was constantly thinking about human behavior and the ways in which it could be examined. In a series of studies, she investigated creativity in elementary and high school students.
        ''She collected drawings, poetry and everything else,'' said Dr. Marvin Reznikoff, a close friend and emeritus professor of psychology at Fordham.
        She was also known for a certain indifference to the more practical aspects of daily life. Once, Dr. Procidano said, she heard a shriek coming from Dr. Anastasi's office. Running to see what was wrong, she found Dr. Anastasi trying to pry a plug out of an electrical outlet by using a metal letter opener.
        ''Did you get a shock?'' Dr. Procidano asked.
        ''How fascinating,'' Dr. Anastasi replied, letter opener in hand. ''How did you know it was a shock?''
        In 1987, President Ronald Reagan presented Dr. Anastasi with a National Medal of Science, the nation's highest award for scientific achievement. Other psychologists who had received the award included B. F. Skinner and Harry Harlow.
        Dr. Anastasi was also active in the professional organizations of her discipline. In 1972, she became the third woman to be elected president of the American Psychological Association. Among numerous other awards, she received the American Psychological Foundation's gold medal for lifetime achievement in 1984.
        No immediate family members survive her.
      