
        Carol Bernstein Ferry, who with her first and second husbands gave millions of dollars of inherited wealth to support causes like the Black Panthers, prisoners' rights and opposition to the Vietnam War, took her own life early Saturday morning at a retirement home in Rye, N.Y. She was 76.
        After a lifetime of using money to make political points, Ms. Ferry made her final argument, for legalized euthanasia, by lying down as loved ones looked on and taking an overdose of sleeping pills. Last June, doctors told her that she was terminally ill. She had a tumor in her abdomen and failing lungs.
        ''My decision has been arrived at after many years of contemplation, not quickly or casually,'' she wrote in a letter. ''I hope it will help others to feel all right about preferring a peaceful, benign path into death.''
        At the height of her influence, she and her first husband, Daniel Bernstein, became known in leftist circles as the place to go for ''the loot,'' as she called it. For many years, she scoured the morning mail weighing requests for money for political causes. Sometimes she sent money without being asked. She visited many prisons, including Sing Sing, where for years she taught reading to inmates.
        David McReynolds of the War Resisters League said her generosity was unconditional. ''They never attached a single thread to the money,'' he said.
        Carol Underwood was born in Syracuse on July 29, 1924. She lived in Auburn, N.Y., until her parents divorced when she was 4. She grew up in Portland, Maine, and graduated from Wells College in Aurora, N.Y.
        In 1946, she moved to Manhattan to work as a secretary, copy editor and proofreader for McGraw-Hill and other publishers. She met Mr. Bernstein, a stockbroker with Loeb Rhoades, and they were married in 1953.
        While he was recuperating from knee surgery at their Scarsdale, N.Y., home in 1956, Mr. Bernstein decided to work as an independent stockbroker. He considered himself a liberal and had earlier helped set up the National Scholarship Fund and Service for Negro Students, working with Jim Robinson, a Harlem minister.
        According to a daughter, Katharine Bernstein of Brattleboro, Vt., she had not initially been leftist but became increasingly persuaded by her husband's increasingly leftist opinions.
        In 1960, he suggested an Easter family vacation to Cuba. His wife at first demurred. ''Would you have gone before the revolution?'' he asked.
        She said yes and agreed to go. The couple returned so enthusiastic about Fidel Castro's revolution that most of Mr. Bernstein's brokerage clients dropped him.
        Their political sensibilities moved ever leftward. Mr. Bernstein bought full-page advertisements in The New York Times to protest the Vietnam War.
        One of their philanthropic vehicles was the DJB Foundation, which Mr. Bernstein created in 1948 to hold his father's inheritance. At first, it was relatively inactive, as Mr. Bernstein funneled money out of pocket to causes that were not tax deductible.
        With Mr. Bernstein's death from leukemia in 1970 at 51, the foundation received $6 million of his wealth. It then became more active.
        Vincent McGee, who in 1972 had just left federal prison after serving time for resisting the draft, asked for money to go to Hanoi to bring back some prisoners of war.
        She responded by mail: ''Dear Vinny: Here's a check for $3,000. I am glad to send it. There are three things about this money business: asking, saying 'no,' or saying 'yes.' The first two are hard, but the third is easy when the purpose is good and the funds are there.''
        Mr. McGee went on to work for DJB and then other foundations.
        In 1973, she married Wilbur H. Ferry, a foundation employee who wrote books on the problems of a capitalist society. The couple spent DJB's money by May 1975, as planned, and then gave from their personal funds. He died in 1995, and Ms. Ferry continued the mission.
        In addition to her daughter, Ms. Ferry is survived by a son, John Bernstein of Guilford, Vt.; four stepchildren, Dennie LaTourelle of Carpenteria, Calif., Fay Bisno of Norwich, Vt., Robin Ferry of Salt Spring Island, British Columbia, and Lucien Ferry of Blue Sea Lake, Quebec; and a brother, Arthur Underwood of Denver.
      