
        PATTI SMITH appears quietly inside Caffe Dante in Greenwich Village, her gray-streaked hair dripping wet and stringy around her long, angular face from the Sunday morning downpour. She isn't carrying an umbrella. And her soaked appearance isn't on her mind at this early hour.
        The godmother of punk, Ms. Smith, is apologizing profusely, for the second time, for her no-show at the coffeehouse a couple of days earlier. She was in bed with a migraine. She keeps saying that she isn't a flake, really, even though it isn't necessary. As a rock iconoclast, she has been called a lot of things, but flaky is not one of them.
        ''I very seldom, in all the years that I have been performing, even missed a performance,'' she says over a cappuccino, in a slow, gravelly voice. ''I somehow manage to pull myself together. I think it's my way of saying 'the show must go on.' ''
        At 54, Ms. Smith is still easily recognizable as the androgynous waif with the defiant stare photographed by Robert Mapplethorpe, her soul mate and former boyfriend, on the cover of her 1975 debut album, ''Horses.'' She slips behind a table, wearing large dark sunglasses. She says her eyes need a moment to adjust to the cafe's lighting. Her band returned at 3:30 a.m. from a concert in Poughkeepsie, N.Y. ''It was a great show,'' she says.
        She wears a baggy black blazer over a white T-shirt and cuffed blue jeans. A silver Coptic cross from Ethiopia dangles from her long neck. She is intriguing to look at; skinny and graceful. She has penetrating gray eyes. One wanders lazily, a birth defect.
        She has walked from her town house in Lower Manhattan. (She doesn't want its exact location revealed.) She shares it with her 28-year-old companion, Oliver Ray, a guitarist in her band, and her daughter, Jesse Paris, 14, and son, Jackson, 19, from her 1980 marriage to the former MC5 guitarist Fred (Sonic) Smith, who died in 1994.
        Ms. Smith is quieter than you might expect for someone who can be so volcanic on stage, and gently disarming. And she is decidedly unstarry, though she ranks among the most influential figures in rock 'n' roll.
        She has never sold many albums. Her only big hit was the 1978 collaboration with Bruce Springsteen, ''Because the Night.'' Yet people who aren't even enthralled with her music respond to her rawness and passion, her intellectual curiosity.
        ''I sort of straddle this interesting position,'' she says with a laugh. ''My band and I are struggling in an underground band but I seem to get a lot of attention. I don't know how the hell else to put it.''
        Ms. Smith is easy to talk to. This morning, she is going on enthusiastically about William Blake, the British Romantic poet and artist. She and Mr. Ray are paying homage to Blake on Thursday with music and poems at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, as an adjunct to the museum's current exhibition of his work.
        When she was a child, Ms. Smith says, her love of art and poetry were inspired by reading an illustrated volume of Blake's poetry, ''Songs of Innocence and Experience.'' She totally relates to the nonconformist Blake, who died in 1827.
        ''My music fits in probably about as much as William Blake's work fit in in his time,'' she says. ''I don't necessarily foresee myself being able to permeate our present culture, but if I keep doing my work, it will be there for people who seek it and need it. So, I will continue my work as long as I think I have something to say.''
        MS. SMITH grew up in a blue-collar family in South Jersey, the eldest of four children. Her mother was a Jehovah's Witness who worked as a waitress, and her father, who died in 1999, was a factory worker. Raised as a Jehovah's Witness, Ms. Smith broke away from the religion as an adolescent when she was told there was no room for art in Christ's Kingdom.
        She began performing in the early 1970's at CBGB, the club on the Bowery that was the cradle of punk rock. Then, in the 1980's, she essentially checked out of the music business for 16 years when she moved with her husband to his hometown, Detroit, became a homemaker and started a family. ''Raising children is one of the hardest tasks there is,'' she says.
        With her latest album, ''Gung Ho,'' being well received, she gets a bit peeved at all the talk of her comeback. The album is her eighth.
        ''If one is an artist, one is an artist within. You take what you are with you. I didn't come back, because I never went anywhere. As an artist, I stayed true to myself and true to my work.''
        In Caffe Dante, Ms. Smith is standing. It is Father's Day, and a candle is to be lit by her daughter in remembrance. Her husband's death in 1994 was followed a month later by that of her brother Todd, who died of a stroke.
        Despite her losses, Ms. Smith is upbeat as she briskly strides home in the rain. ''Life is the best thing we have.''
        Her town house is still silent. Up one flight of stairs, she walks into a disheveled workroom filled with piles of books and ragtag furniture. Her drawings are hanging there. Ms. Smith crouches, pointing and explaining how she is trying through her delicate pencil work to capture the Resurrection of Christ.
        She then moves into a cluttered little study where she has a whole set of Blake's work to read. ''It's like reading the Bible. I'm going to eventually read it from beginning to end.''
        Now, if you want to see this rocker light up, just tell her how very Blakean she seems.
        PUBLIC LIVES
      