
        Arlene Francis, the actress and jaunty, good-natured television personality who was a fixture on ''What's My Line?'' for 25 years, died on Thursday at a hospital in San Francisco. She was 93.
        Ms. Francis dispensed upbeat charm and humor on the show, which made her a national star. She wore stylish evening dresses and exchanged lighthearted banter with other panelists, who played a form of 20 questions, interrogating guests about their professions.
        The actress, along with Dorothy Kilgallen and Bennett Cerf, appeared on the show for 15 years, with John Daly as the genial moderator. Steve Allen and Fred Allen also were panelists for a brief period in the 1950's. After the original ''What's My Line?'' ended its run in 1967, the show was revived as a syndicated series the next year. Ms. Francis was the new show's only panelist from the old one, and it had a new host, Walter Bruner.
        Ms. Francis also had a top-rated daily radio interview program, ''The Arlene Francis Show,'' on WOR in New York from 1960 to 1984. She spoke to guests from all walks of life, opening the run with Rock Hudson. Among others she interviewed were Frank Sinatra and the baseball player Curt Flood.
        She was known for her pleasant interviewing style. Her radio producer, Jean Bach, recalled suggesting that Ms. Francis ask Barry Goldwater about gun control. Oh, no, that might ruffle his feathers, Ms. Francis replied. ''I used to call her jokingly America's sweetheart, because she didn't want to offend anybody,'' Ms. Bach said.
        Her style was breezy. ''She was a very good actress and convinced the interviewee that she really cared,'' Ms. Bach said.
        Soon after the radio program was canceled, Ms. Francis began showing signs of Alzheimer's disease, Ms. Bach said. She left New York six years ago and went to live in a retirement home in San Francisco to be closer to her son.
        Ms. Francis also was a pioneer of morning television, appearing as the host of NBC's ''Home'' newsmagazine in the 1950's.
        She also appeared in movies, including roles in ''All My Sons'' (1948), ''One, Two, Three'' (1961) and ''The Thrill of It All'' (1963).
        Her first love was the stage, where her Broadway credits included ''All That Glitters'' (1938), ''The Walking Gentleman'' (1942), ''The Overtons'' (1945) and ''The Little Blue Light'' (1951), in which she appeared with Melvyn Douglas, Burgess Meredith and her husband, Martin Gabel.
        But television overtook her theater career. In a 1988 interview with Newsday, Ms. Francis said she somehow let the theater go. ''I don't know quite why,'' she said. ''Television took over with such strength. I was working in every phase of it, and I thought, 'Maybe I ought to do this for a little while,' and I was caught up in it.''
        But she said she had no regrets.
        ''I got so much pleasure out of 'What's My Line?' There were no rehearsals. You'd just sit there and be yourself and do the best you could,'' she said.
        Ms. Francis was born Arlene Francis Kazanjian on Oct. 20, 1907, in Boston, the daughter of an Armenian immigrant. After a first marriage ended in divorce, she married Mr. Gabel, who died in 1986. She is survived by their son, Peter.
      