
        Yvonne Dionne, a member of the first recorded set of quintuplets to survive more than a few days, died on Saturday morning in a Montreal hospital. She was 67.
        She died of cancer, said Carlo Tarini, a family spokesman.
        When they were born in 1934 to an already large, poor farm family in Callander, in Ontario, Yvonne, Emilie, Marie, Cecile and Annette together weighed 13 and a half pounds on an old potato scale.
        They developed from a single egg before the days of fertility treatments, and became instantly famous, seemingly a cheery miracle in the midst of the Great Depression.
        But, isolated from playmates and their own parents, they did not share that cheer. Quintland, the residence-cum-sideshow where paying visitors could view them three times a day through one-way glass, outstripped Niagara Falls as a Canadian tourist attraction.
        The Canadian ''Little Women'' brought an estimated $500 million to Ontario over the nearly 20 years they lived there.
        They met the Queen of England, christened warships and graced the cover of Life magazine, but when Yvonne first left home at 19, Mr. Tarini recalled her saying, she could not tell the difference between a nickel and a dime.
        ''Multiple births should not be confused with entertainment, nor should they be an opportunity to sell products,'' she and her two surviving quintuplets wrote in an open letter to the parents of the McCaughey septuplets that was published in Time magazine in 1997. ''Our lives have been ruined by the exploitation we suffered.''
        The first inkling of their profit potential came shortly after their birth when their father, Oliva, signed a contract to display them at the Chicago World's Fair. Public outrage ensued, and the government took the ''quints'' from their parents' care. At Quintland, the doctor who delivered them, Allan Dafoe, became their primary caretaker.
        But that did not protect them from becoming a sideshow. The Dionne sisters appeared in advertisements for everything from Puretest Cod Liver Oil to Lysol and Palmolive. Because the rights to their image had been sold, they said later, their parents were not allowed to photograph them and visits from Oliva and their mother, Elzier, were discouraged.
        Meanwhile, Dr. Dafoe became one of the world's most celebrated doctors, writing newspaper columns on the quints' daily schedule and even about the pebbles in Callander, which were said to enhance fertility. In 1936 the quints appeared in their first of several movies, ''The Country Doctor,'' based on the life of Dr. Dafoe.
        Even their exploitation, seemingly, was exploited, in books like ''The Dionne Legend: Quintuplets in Captivity.'' In 1965, the sisters published their own plaintive memoirs: ''We Were Five: the Dionne Quintuplets' Story.'' In 1998, they sued the government for the separation from their parents and won $4 million.
        After a custody battle, their father regained custody of them from the state when they were nearly 10 years old. But in a second book, ''Family Secrets: the Dionne Quintuplets' Autobiography,'' published in 1994, the three surviving quintuplets said that he had sexually abused them, an accusation that their other siblings denied.
        The sisters, raised Roman Catholic, were in and out of convents, both as students and initiates. At 20, Emilie died of suffocation during an epileptic seizure.
        At 21, the remaining sisters each got $250,000 from a trust fund of their childhood earnings, and shortly afterward they took a determined stab at normalcy, moving into an apartment in Montreal and thus beginning a long estrangement from their parents.
        Three of the sisters eventually married and had children, later divorcing. Marie, who had been hospitalized for nervous depression and had placed her two daughters in foster care, died in 1970 of a blood clot. Yvonne is survived by Annette and Cecile Dionne and five of eight other siblings.
        Yvonne Dionne, considered the most artistic of the sisters, made several attempts to join a convent before settling in St. Bruno in the home of her sister, Annette. She became a librarian and lobbied the government on behalf of the Duplessis Orphans, children, many of whom were born out of wedlock, who were placed in psychiatric wards in the 1950's, Mr. Tarini said.
        She also traveled to Europe and India.
        Cecile Dionne once called Yvonne ''the most reserved and perhaps the most individual of us.''
      