
        Modjadji V, the last of a line of rain queens and the only woman who was a tribal ruler in modern-day southern Africa, died on Thursday in a clinic in Petersburg, South Africa. She was 64.
        Although modern meteorology and politics have robbed the mysterious Modjadjis of the awe that once protected their tiny tribe, the Lobedu, her death created a succession crisis. Her 20-year-old granddaughter, Makhaele, who was to have succeeded her as Modjadji VI, died on Monday. Makhaele's mother died years ago.
        The queen died of renal and heart failure, according to the Pietersburg Medi-Clinic. The cause of the younger woman's death has been given only as ''a short illness.''
        A spokesman said the family was upset that the world had been notified before succession could be discussed or funeral arrangements made. Although Modjadji V refused to discuss ceremonial secrets, a 1937 anthropological text says the queens' decaying bodies were stored for weeks and water poured over them to create a rain-making potion. The earliest Modjadjis were never seen and were said to be immortal.
        For generations, the Lobedu were left unmolested by more powerful neighbors, the Zulu and Swazi, for fear of their queens' power over the rains. In times of drought, caravans of gifts were sent up to their village, also called Modjadji, in the Drakensberg Mountains. The high valley around the village is sort of a climatic anomaly: set on dry slopes above a drier plain, it squeezes enough rain from the clouds blown off the Indian Ocean to grow bananas. The nearby Modjadji Forest is full of rare cycads, fern-like trees that date to the time of the dinosaurs.
        Anthropological texts say the line of Modjadjis started in 1800, when Mugodo, a chief of the Dzugudini tribe, had a vision that he must marry his daughter and found a female dynasty. Oral tradition is grander: it says the Lobedu come from ancient Ethiopia and built the stone fortress of Great Zimbabwe.
        Officially, no Modjadji marries a man; like African kings, they take several spouses, but bear children by secret consorts.
        The queen, a spokesman said, is both a secular and religious leader, and is ''mother, father and child -- three persons in one.''
        Although she was visited by leaders of African Christian sects, Modjadji V was not Christian. ''I am baptized by my own god,'' she said in an interview.
        Four years ago, Modjadji said no one any longer asked her to make rain; young people, she complained, had lost touch with religion. That created financial problems. Her office demanded cash gifts of about $50 for interviews, and she was not shy about counting the money herself before saying a word. She owned a leopard-skin cloak that had been in the family for five generations but could be found sitting barefoot on the mud stoop of her thatched reception hut.
        Although she had asked the provincial government to encourage tourism to her village, she had little patience with visitors and is still famous for having kept President Nelson Mandela waiting.
        He was not the first political visitor. White presidents paid obeisance even in the days when blacks could not vote. F. W. de Klerk visited her when he was president, and his predecessor, P. W. Botha, visited her mother. Zanele Mbeki, wife of President Thabo Mbeki, is expected to attend her funeral on Sunday.
        Unseasonable rains hit Johannesburg on Thursday and continued this evening.
        Correction:  July 13, 2001, Friday  An obituary on June 30 about Modjadji V, a rain queen and tribal ruler in South Africa, misidentified the member of her family who died a few days before she did. It was her daughter, Mmakheala, not her granddaughter, Makobo.
      