
        Maria Chabot, who in the 1930's began the popular Indian markets on the Plaza in Santa Fe, N.M., and later became a close associate of the painter Georgia O'Keeffe, died on Monday in an Albuquerque hospital. She was 87.
        Her goal was to be a writer, but her varied life included long periods  as a rancher, as well as acting as general contractor for the house O'Keeffe built on a hilltop in Abiquiu, N.M., which in 1998 was designated a national monument. She took the well-known picture of O'Keeffe on the back of a motorcycle titled ''Women Who Rode Away.''
        The Saturday markets for Indian crafts eventually became a daily event, and today they draw more than two million people a year, spending millions on pottery, jewelry and other items made by Indians. But when the markets began in the Depression, the Indians were lucky to get a few dollars for pieces that now reside in museums.
        The Indians lacked cars and pickup trucks to get to the market, so one of Ms. Chabot's first initiatives was to rent school buses, she said in an interview with The Santa Fe New Mexican in 1996. After the first Indian market, eight of the vendors told her they were using their earnings to install running water in their homes.
        Ms. Chabot began the markets in her capacity as executive secretary of the New Mexico Association of Indian Affairs, an advocacy group, with the goal of bringing broader awareness of the artfulness of Indian crafts. At first, the endeavor faced  intense opposition from local businesses.
        Later, she helped Indians market their works more broadly by working for the Federal Indian Arts and Crafts Board, setting up cooperative marketing enterprises on reservations throughout the West.
        She noticed that many people felt good about paying higher prices for Indian arts. ''Maybe it's guilt for what we did to them,'' she said in an  interview with CNN in 1994.
        Ms. Chabot's paternal grandfather was the English ambassador to Mexico in the Mexican Revolution in 1910. His family, including Ms. Chabot's father, fled Mexico City, traveling by horse-drawn wagon. The family settled in San Antonio, where she was born in September 1913.
        After graduating from high school at 15, she took a job as a copywriter. She then visited Mexico City to study Spanish and archaeology, making friends there with some New Mexicans. She moved to Santa Fe in 1931 at 18, according to John S. Hart, a neighbor and friend.
        In her 20's, she made her way to the East Coast, took a freighter to Europe and spent two years traveling and working in France. She studied art and picked grapes in the vineyards of Provence.
        After returning to Santa Fe, she took a job with the federal Works Progress Administration, the Depression-era project to find work for artists and writers. The agency provided her with a Model T Ford and a Brownie camera. Her assignment was to photograph and document Native American and Spanish Colonial arts and crafts.
        She met Mary Cabot Wheelwright, the well-known collector of Indian artifacts, when she photographed Ms. Wheelwright's extensive collection. Ms. Wheelwright's collection of Navajo art is now housed in the Wheelwright Museum of the American Indian in Santa Fe.
        For 20 years, Ms. Chabot managed Ms. Wheelwright's ranch at Alcalde, N.M. She hired the labor, supervised the cattle herd and oversaw the care of 1,500 fruit trees. She was president of the local irrigation association, an unheard-of post for a woman at the time, and adjudicated heated disputes over irrigation ditches.
        Ms. Wheelwright eventually deeded the ranch to Ms. Chabot, who sold it in the 1960's to move to Albuquerque to care for her elderly mother.
        In 1936, Ms. Chabot was named head of the Indian advocacy group. Her idea for the weekly fairs stemmed from visits to Mexico, where she saw that the Indians seemed better off than those north of the border. ''The difference was New Mexico's American Indians did not have a market for their goods and the Indians in Mexico did,'' she said in an interview with The New Mexican in 1996.
        Part of her job was visiting pueblos, Indian villages, to encourage women, especially potters, to participate. One was Maria Martinez, the legendary potter of the San Idelfonso pueblo.
        After her work with the Indians, Ms. Chabot was introduced to Georgia O'Keeffe by Ms. Wheelwright, beginning a friendship that endured until O'Keeffe's death in 1986.
        She spent summers from 1941 through 1944 at O'Keeffe's house on the Ghost Ranch, 125 miles north of Albuquerque. Though her goal was to write, she spent most of her time managing activities at the ranch.
        She often accompanied O'Keeffe on the camping trips throughout northern New Mexico on which the artist created many of her paintings. Among them is one called ''Maria Goes to a Party.''
        In 1946, Ms. Chabot agreed to manage the rebuilding of an adobe hacienda on a hilltop in Abiquiu, 48 miles northwest of Santa Fe. She supervised the building crew and participated in design decisions for what became O'Keeffe's winter home.
        ''I had never found anything as romantic as this beat-up building, a ruin really,'' Ms. Chabot said in an interview with The Albuquerque Journal in 1999 when the house was dedicated as a national landmark. ''It took six months just to get the pigs out of the house.''
        She was married for six months in 1961 to Dana K. Bailey, a radio astronomer for the Los Alamos National Laboratory. ''We were much better as friends than as husband and wife,'' she told Mr. Hart, her neighbor.
        She has no immediate survivors. A book of the hundreds of letters exchanged between her and O'Keeffe, with commentary, will be published posthumously, Mr. Hart said.
        He said that Ms. Chabot was often astounded about the mistaken judgments of outsiders. One author said about how much the two women enjoyed riding horses. Ms. Chabot told her friend that she had never seen  O'Keeffe on a horse.
        In 1996, when she was named a ''Living Treasure'' of Santa Fe, Ms. Chabot was asked about her wide experiences. ''You just live your life,'' she said, ''you don't try to do anything.''
      