
        Grace Borgenicht Brandt, a longtime New York art dealer, died Thursday in Manhattan. She was 86  and had homes in Manhattan and Watermill, N.Y.
        Ms. Borgenicht was a tall woman whose carriage and general equanimity were almost queenly. She saw herself as both a friend and protector of artists, and with her third husband, the painter Will Brandt, whom she married in 1960, she oversaw a busy social scene in both her Manhattan and Long Island homes.
        She began her gallery in the early 1950's as one of a handful of New York art dealers to represent living American artists when most American collectors were buying European art. Although she would eventually show several European artists, she remained most strongly identified with a stylistically varied group of American artists, most of whom she represented for several decades, most prominently Milton Avery, but also Ilya Bolotowsky, Jimmy Ernst, Wolf Kahn, Gabor Peterdi, Leonard Baskin, Edward Corbett and Ralston Crawford.
        Ms. Borgenicht was born Grace Lubell in New York City on Jan. 25 1915, and attended the Calhoun School. She became interested in art at an early age and enrolled in the New College at Columbia University, where the experimental program enabled her to study in Paris, in the studio of the painter André L'Hote, in 1934. Returning to New York, she studied printmaking at Stanley William Hayter's Atelier 17 and earned a master's degree in art education from Columbia. In 1938 she married Jack Borgenicht, a dress manufacturer. The marriage ended in divorce, as did a subsequent one to Norman Sachs Jr.
        She entered the New York art world as a painter, with her first solo show at the Laurel Gallery on East 57th Street in 1947. She soon became a key backer of its owner, Chris Ritter, helping to publish a series of print portfolios, starting with one of five etchings by Avery. In 1950 Ritter decided to close Laurel, and the artists Ernst and Peterdi, whom he also represented, urged Ms. Borgenicht to open a gallery on her own. The Grace Borgenicht Gallery opened on 57th Street in May 1951, with a show of Ernst's work.
        Ms. Borgenicht held her first Avery exhibition the following October, represented the artist until his death in 1965 and then represented his estate until 1995, when she closed her gallery. She devoted more than 30 exhibitions to his work. During the early 1950's she also represented Gertrude Greene, José de Rivera, Adja Yunkers, James Brooks and Roy Gussow. In 1956, she moved to 1018 Madison Avenue and in 1981 to 724 Fifth Avenue. She continued to paint into the 1950's, was included in the 1954 Whitney Annual and had a solo show at the Martha Jackson Gallery in 1955.
        In late 1954, she began an association with Margarete Schultz, the widow of the publisher and dealer Karl Heinz Schultz. Ms. Schultz organized an impressive series of exhibitions of works by the German Expressionists as well as Max Ernst, Wols and Jean Arp. Through her, the gallery represented the estate of Max Beckmann during the 1980's and early 1990's, organizing seven shows in 12 years.
        During the 1980's and 90's, the Borgenicht Gallery gave first solo shows to young artists like Mark Tansey, Michael Zwack, Mark Innerst and Jane Rosen; began to represent Janet Fish; and held several shows of the work of Stuart Davis and Charles Biederman, American artists from earlier generations.
        In addition to her husband, Ms. Borgenicht is survived by her sister, Shirley Black Cash of Scottsdale, Ariz., and Westport, Conn.; three daughters from her first marriage, Jan Schwartz of Los Gatos, Calif., Berta B. Kerr of Wilmington, Del., and Lois Borgenicht of Baltimore; a stepdaughter, Isabella Brandt Johansen of New York City; seven grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      