
        Aveline Kushi, who taught and promoted macrobiotic cooking and helped found one of the nation's first natural food stores, died of cancer on July 3 in Brookline, Mass. She was 78 and lived in Brookline and Becket, Mass.
        A macrobiotic diet emphasizes whole grains and fresh vegetables and generally avoids meat, dairy products and processed foods. The theory of macrobiotics is that such a diet provides physical balance that  leads to greater psychological and spiritual balance.
        Ms. Kushi and her husband, Michio, also taught that entire societies could become disharmonious and aggressive from eating meat and processed foods, undermining world peace. But many doctors and nutritionists warn that a strict macrobiotic diet can be nutritionally deficient.
        Christine Akbar, a spokeswoman for the Kushi family, told The Associated Press that Ms. Kushi had traditional radiation therapy after learning she had cervical cancer nine years ago. When the cancer spread to her bones, she was told that no conventional treatments were available. Ms. Akbar said Ms. Kushi then relied on acupuncture and Asian medicines. The cancer went into remission for several years, Ms. Akbar said.
        Ms. Kushi was born Tomoko Yokoyama on Feb. 27, 1923, in the small mountain town of Yokota in the Izumo area of Japan. She taught in elementary school during World War II, but resigned to work for peace as a member of the World Government Association, run by George Ohsawa, who is considered the father of the macrobiotic movement. Mr. Ohsawa changed her name to Aveline.
        She came to the United States in 1951 to attend a meeting of students who supported world government. She stayed to study at the University of Illinois and Columbia University. She married Mr. Kushi in 1954.
        Mr. Kushi had also been a student of Mr. Ohsawa and shared Ms. Kushi's enthusiasm for macrobiotics. In her autobiography, ''Aveline: the Life and Dream of the Woman Behind Macrobiotics Today'' (Japan Publications, 1988), Ms. Kushi wrote that she and her husband discovered ''there was almost no good food'' in the United States.
        ''We would have to make wonderful food available to everybody ourselves,'' she wrote.
        In the early 1960's, the Kushis moved from New York to Boston, where they formed discussion groups on health and world peace. Encouraged by the interest there, Ms. Kushi opened Erewhon, a food store in Brookline named for a utopian novel by the British writer Samuel Butler. It was one of the first stores billed as a natural food store.
        Ms. Kushi taught cooking and wrote cookbooks, helping to popularize Japanese ingredients like miso, soy sauce and tofu among Americans. Her cookbooks included ''Aveline Kushi's Complete Guide to Macrobiotic Cooking for Health, Harmony and Peace'' (Warner Books, 1985) and ''The Changing Seasons Cookbook'' (Avery Publications, 1987).
        Her views were firm. At a class in Amherst, Mass., she was asked if a touch of garlic was permissible, The New York Times reported in 1980. ''Garlic is strong,'' she said. ''It makes one angry. Garlic causes fights.''
        The couple founded organizations to promote macrobiotics, including the Kushi Foundation, the Kushi Institute and One Peaceful World.
        Ms. Kushi is survived by her husband; four sons, Phiya, of Becket, Larry, of New York City, Norio, of Asheville, N.C., and Hisao, of Santa Monica, Calif.; four sisters, Miyako Okada of Tokyo; Atsumi Mimura of Hiroshima, Junko Asano of Japan, and Yoko Kendall of Worthington, Mass.; three brothers, Makota Yokoyama of Japan, Kyuu Yokoyama of Spring Valley, N.Y., and Masaru Yokoyama of Dallas; and 13 grandchildren.
      