
        Joan Bove, who helped make hair coloring respectable in the 1930's by introducing stylists in America to a product called Clairol that she and her husband discovered in Paris, died Saturday at Stamford Hospital in Stamford, Conn. She was 99 and lived in Manhattan.
        In 1931, she and her husband, Lawrence M. Gelb, a manufacturer of chemical products, traveled to France in search of new business opportunities and came upon a small company, Mury, that was producing a new kind of hair-coloring preparation called Clairol.
        Unlike other hair dyes of the day, which coated the hair and produced a painted-on look, Clairol penetrated hair shafts, producing softer, more natural-looking results. The product also had a foamy shampoo base and mild oils that cleaned and conditioned hair, and it was thicker than other hair color preparations, which tended to dribble.
        Joan Gelb, a striking woman known for her keen interest in fashion, quickly realized that Clairol could potentially improve the self-image of older American women.
        '' 'Middle-aged' was not in the vocabulary of French women,'' a 1982 Clairol company history quoted her as saying. ''They were at the height of their attractiveness and desirability when they reached 45.''
        The couple bought $200 worth of Clairol and returned home to try it out at Abraham & Straus, the Brooklyn department store. The store's hairdressers responded with enthusiasm, and their endorsement brought in orders from other salons. The two started the Clairol company, with Mrs. Gelb as president, and set up offices at 1600 Broadway.
        But there was a major hurdle. Many American women colored their hair, but few would admit it, because it was considered vulgar. The service was done in fully enclosed booths, and some salons had a separate entrance for customers getting their hair dyed.
        To promote the discovery -- the Gelbs called it a tint, referred to the process as hair coloring and avoided using the word ''dye'' -- the couple traveled throughout the country lecturing, giving demonstrations, talking with beauty editors and instructing hairdressers on how to use the product. The well-groomed Mrs. Gelb adopted the pseudonym Joan Clair to make her sales pitch.
        ''In the early days,'' said her son, Richard L. Gelb, ''the way you got people to look with favor on hair color was through the beauty salons. You had to convince women that if you colored your hair, you weren't a woman of the night.''
        Mrs. Gelb scored a major coup when she persuaded her friend Antoine, the Paris hairdresser whose clients included Greta Garbo and Claudette Colbert, to color several wigs with Clairol and place them in Saks Fifth Avenue's windows.
        By the end of its third year, the company had revenues of $400,000;  revenues had more than doubled by 1938. But the Gelbs, who were still importing the product from Mury, worried about the possibility of a wartime blockade. The formula was in the hands of a German chemist, who sold it to the American company for $25,000.
        By 1940, the Gelbs were divorced. Lawrence Gelb remained active in the company, retiring as chairman before his death in 1980; Mrs. Gelb's involvement with Clairol ceased after the divorce. Instead, she split her time between a horse farm in Almenêches, in the Normandy region of France, and a home in Wellington, Fla., near Palm Beach, her son said.
        She was married and divorced three times. Her third husband, Emilio Bove, an executive with Alitalia, died before her.
        In addition to Richard Gelb, chairman emeritus of Bristol-Myers Squibb, which acquired Clairol in 1959, and a former director of The New York Times Company, Mrs. Bove is survived by a second son, Bruce, a former Bristol-Myers executive, director of the United States Information Agency and American ambassador to Belgium; eight grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
        In her later years, Mrs. Bove, a brunette, began lightening her hair.  She never let it go gray, Richard Gelb said.
        ''Right until almost the end, she was still coloring her hair,'' he said. ''She was a loyal customer.''
      