
        Frances R. Horwich, the amiable educator who engaged millions of preschoolers as the host of the pioneering children's program ''Ding Dong School'' in the 1950's, died yesterday. She was 93.
        Ringing an old-fashioned school bell to start the show, she would look into the camera, warmly wish a good morning and ask, ''How are you today?'' She paused so that toddlers at home, watching a somewhat matronly figure in swept-back hair and wearing a wool jacket, could answer. And they often did, thanks to her kindly, conversational style.
        Then, ''Miss Frances'' would tell stories or demonstrate activities, like making pipe-cleaner figures or clay models. She used inexpensive, familiar toys and interspersed her presentation with unobtrusive lessons:
        ''Ask your mother where to play with it,'' for a homemade musical instrument.
        ''Be sure your sleeves are rolled up,'' for a messier project.
        The half-hour show ended with a five-minute summation of the material.
        ''Ding Dong School'' began on a Chicago station, WNBQ, in 1952. It was so popular that after six weeks, NBC picked up the program, and soon it was seen in at least 36 cities, with viewership reaching three million. The program was broadcast live at 10 a.m. on weekdays for four years, going to WNET in New York in 1959.
        ''Ding Dong School,'' directed and produced by Reinald Werrenrath Jr., was one of a series of high-quality, innovative broadcasts by WNBQ that became its own of golden age of television, said Jeff Kisseloff, a television historian.
        Unlike many of the children's show hosts of the period, Ms. Horwich ''actually taught kids things,'' Mr. Kisseloff said. And rather than the ''high-tech, dazzly stuff'' of today, ''it was her sitting in front of a piano or a drawing table,'' he said.
        ''The intent was to educate the kids plainly and straightforwardly,'' he said. ''The fact was that it worked. You didn't need all the bells and whistles to keep kids watching.''
        Its daily competitors at the time were ''Captain Kangaroo'' on CBS and ''Mickey Mouse Theater'' on ABC. A few years later, the successors to ''Ding Dong School'' appeared: ''Sesame Street'' and ''Mr. Rogers' Neighborhood.''
        In her era, a far simpler time when there was no Cartoon Network or hip, irony-tinged children's programs, Ms. Horwich won acclaim. She received a George Foster Peabody award in 1953.
        ''She imbues in the youngsters a sense of friendliness, confidence and faith that is truly magical television,'' The New York Times television critic, Jack Gould, wrote that year. ''She is a teacher, yes, but she is also a very genuine friend of the tots who sit entranced before the receivers.''
        When she began promoting the products of sponsors, however, Mr. Gould called the step ''heartbreaking.''
        ''The program is too important in too many homes to be allowed to go astray through regrettable short-sightedness,'' he wrote.
        In interviews, Ms. Horwich seemed better at saying what children's programming should not be.
        ''I don't think a television program should make a child's life complicated,'' she said in a 1955 interview. ''It should not get him into trouble with his parents. Sometimes very innocently a television program teaches a child a trick that is not socially acceptable and, therefore, gets him into trouble. It is not socially acceptable to throw a pie at someone or to fill someone's hat with water,'' she added, perhaps a not-so-subtle jab at Bozo the Clown.
        She also deplored the violence of Westerns and crime programs, though added that normal children could handle it.
        What television should do is appeal to their interests, open ''new doors and windows'' of enlightenment and help children learn to be resourceful, Ms. Horwich said.
        Frances Rappaport was born in Ottawa, Ohio, on July 16, 1908, and received a bachelor's degree from the University of Chicago in 1929. She earned her doctorate in education from Northwestern University in 1942.
        In 1931, she married Harvey L. Horwich, who was later a technical consultant to the United States Air Force. Mr. Horwich died in the early 1970's. The couple had no children.
        For more than two decades before first ringing the ''Ding Dong'' bell, Ms. Horwich worked in education. She taught first grade, supervised nursery schools in Chicago, was a principal, and held professorships in education at the University of North Carolina and Roosevelt College in Chicago.
        But her biggest class was filled with the millions of children in America's living rooms born just a few years after World War II.
        ''Our little school gives them a sense of belonging,'' she said.
      