
        Dr. Bernice L. Neugarten, an authority on aging who identified a growing trend among older people to pursue more active lives and introduced the concept of the young-old and the old-old, died on July 22 at her home in Chicago. She was 85.
        When Dr. Neugarten began her research on aging at the University of Chicago in the 1940's, she discovered little scientific literature in the field, but many stereotypes, which she proceeded to shatter.
        ''A set of stereotypes has grown up that older persons are sick, poor, enfeebled, isolated and desolated,'' she wrote much later, in 1975, in an article for The New York Times.
        Arguing against such ideas, she pointed to a steadily declining retirement age and explained that people 55 and older were quitting work, once they were financially secure, to seek more healthful and more active lives. A new generation of older people, whom she called the young-old, could be distinguished from the middle-aged primarily by retirement and from the old-old by vigor and social involvement, she wrote.
        Dr. Bertram Cohler, director of Chicago's psychology department, said: ''While much of her work focused on the second half of life, she viewed older lives in terms of both earlier life experiences and social context, which led to her interest in emphasizing that social policy must be based in terms of need, not age.  Her contributions were important in defining the study of adult lives.''
        Dr. Neugarten's work showed that instead of retiring and stagnating, older people had become more likely to move from the suburbs back to the city in search of opportunities, self-enhancement and more education.
        Older people should not be seen as the expendables of society but instead as the social contributors as well as the self-fulfilled, she wrote in The Times. ''They may become the first age group that on a large scale creates new service roles and gives service to the community without direct financial remuneration.''
        In her later work, she wrote of an increasing antagonism toward older people for occupying ''a growing number of power positions,'' and she urged fellow social scientists to explore ways to avoid such resentment.
        Dr. Neugarten completed her bachelor's degree at the University of Chicago in 1936 and received her doctorate there in 1943. Before joining the Chicago faculty in 1953, she took 10 years off to start a family.
        Then the university asked her to teach a course on aging -- one of the first at the university level -- and to work on a study of middle-aged and older people in the Midwest. In 1958, she became director of Chicago's graduate training program in aging.
        She wrote many papers and books about adult development and the relations between age groups, including the widely recognized ''Personality in Middle and Late Life,'' published in 1964.
        In 1971, Dr. Neugarten was named to the Technical Committee on Research and Demonstration for the White House Conference on Aging. She was also a member of the National Advisory Council of the National Institute on Aging and helped organize the 1982 White House Conference on Aging.
        She was an emeritus professor of behavioral science at the University of Chicago's Center on Aging, Health and Society.
        She received several awards from the American Psychological Association, including its annual Gold Medal Award for life contributions.
        Her husband, Fritz Neugarten, died in 1990. She is survived by a brother, Jack Levin of Omaha; a daughter, Dail Neugarten of Denver; a son, Jerrold, of Hannacroix, N.Y.; and three grandchildren.
      