
        Laura Foreman, the director of dance at the New School University and a visual artist, writer and teacher, died on June 15 in Manhattan. She was 64 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, said her companion, Richard Keene.
        Ms. Foreman came to New York in the mid-1960's after receiving a degree in dance from the University of Wisconsin at Madison. She directed the dance program at the New School, long the center of her dance activities, from the late 1960's until her death.
        Her Foreman Dance Theater and Composers' and Choreographers' Theater were in residence at the school. There Ms. Foreman provided much needed exposure for new and avant-garde choreographers and dancers in several dance and music series, among them Choreoconcerts and Critiques. She and her company also performed regularly into the 1970's at the Cubiculo and the American Theater Lab.
        One of Ms. Foreman's best-known pieces was her 1981 ''Wallwork,'' created with her husband, the composer John Watts, a frequent collaborator who died in 1982. A conceptual event, it existed only in advertising posters and on a telephone reservations number, which grew very busy when a sold-out sign was slapped on the posters. Ms. Foreman also worked in film and video, winning awards for her ''TimeCoded Woman I, II, III.''
        After Mr. Watts's death, she concentrated on art and writing. She began to exhibit sculptures in the early 1980's, becoming most famous for her 1990 ''Birdhouse as Metaphor,'' a show at the Souyun Yi Gallery in SoHo. The New Yorker described the sculptures as ''serious ruminations on the housing crisis, homelessness and personal entrapment.'' Many were eventually installed in neighborhood gardens in Manhattan.
        Ms. Foreman's short stories were published in journals, including Confrontation and Lamia. Her stories were collected in a book, ''Close Encounters,'' published in 1997 by Outloud Books. She was also a co-founder and member of Artists and Scientists in Collaboration.
        In addition to Mr. Keene, she is survived by her mother, Gladys Foreman of Los Angeles.
      