
        Asoka Roy, a nurse-midwife who used the skills she learned abroad to help establish the field as a profession in the United States, died on June 22 in Valhalla, N.Y. She was 85.
        Ms. Roy left India, where she was born, in 1955. She earned her nurse-midwife license in New York in 1967, at a time when American women were beginning to seek midwifery services. In 1968, she became the first director of Beth Israel Medical Center's midwifery program, which was one of the first of its kind.
        She delivered more than 5,500 babies. ''Midwife Roy addressed each client as if this mother-to-be was a sacred individual on a nine-month journey to deliver a miracle,'' said Dorothea Lang, a former president of the American College of Nurse-Midwives.
        In a 1983 article in The New York Times, Ms. Roy explained her approach this way: ''I consider that the woman delivers the baby, not a midwife or obstetrician.''
        The daughter of a high-ranking civil servant, Ms. Roy was born in India on Dec. 10, 1915, one of 11 children. Though she did not have to work to support herself, she decided to become a midwife after learning about deficiencies in maternity care in her country.
        Her first midwifery job took her to a New Delhi hospital that registered up to 60 births a day. She became fully trained in the British method of midwifery, eventually earning a master's degree at the All India Institute of Hygiene and Public Health in Calcutta.
        She also trained in Europe, earning a midwife's teaching certificate at the Royal College of Midwives in London. Unlike some midwives, she welcomed technology as a valuable complement to the traditional skills she practiced; in Stockholm, for example, she studied a vacuum-extraction delivery method.
        In 1959, Ms. Roy immigrated to New York City. After she earned bachelor's and master's degrees from New York University, she worked with Dr. George Blinick to found the midwifery program at Beth Israel. Serving as its director until 1983, Ms. Roy taught midwifery and instructed medical students from Yale University. She also lectured internationally and drafted the curriculum of a course to train foreign midwives for practice in the United States.
        Survivors include two sisters, Dipti Sisodia and Salma Zahiruddin, both of Kingston, N.Y.; and two brothers, Rustum, of State College, Pa., and Prodipto, of India.
        Because of Ms. Roy's experiences in India, she was ''totally calm'' about things like home births that made others nervous, said Ina May Gaskin, president of the Midwives Alliance of North America.
        Ms. Roy explained in a 1996 interview in Midwifery Today magazine how she could remain so unperturbed. ''In America you have the best backup for your births,'' she was quoted as saying. ''I was scared when I was two or three days away from a hospital by cart.''
      