
        Caroline R. Jones, who broke race and sex barriers in advertising to become one of the most prominent black women among agency executives, died on June 28 at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. She was 59 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was cancer, friends said.
        The résumé of Ms. Jones, a copywriter, was dotted with firsts, because in many instances her promotion at an agency made her the first black woman to hold a post. She worked for large Madison Avenue shops and founded or helped found several agencies that specialized in advertising aimed at blacks and other minorities. Over the years, her clients included American Express, Anheuser-Busch, McDonald's, Prudential, Toys ''R'' Us and the Postal Service. In many cases, the clients were making their initial forays into marketing to black consumers through her and her agencies.
        She was born Caroline Robinson, in Benton Harbor, Mich., the third of 10 children and the eldest daughter. She graduated from the University of Michigan with a bachelor's degree in English and science. She began her advertising career in 1963 in New York as a secretary and copywriter trainee at J. Walter Thompson. She rose to creative director. In 1968, she helped form Zebra Associates, unusual for that era because it was a full-service agency with black principals. In the 1970's and 80's, she alternated between general market agencies like Kenyon & Eckhardt (now part of the Bozell Group) and Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn (now BBDO) and black-owned agencies. She helped found the Black Creative Group and Mingo, Jones, Guilmenot, later Mingo-Jones Advertising and now the Chisholm-Mingo Group.
        At Mingo-Jones, Ms. Jones was executive vice president and creative director, working on campaigns like ''We do chicken right'' for Kentucky Fried Chicken, which the company used not just for black consumers but for the general market. She left in 1986 to open her own agency, Creative Resources Management, and later operated shops under the names Caroline Jones Advertising and Caroline Jones Inc., where she was president at the time of her death.
        Ms. Jones had also been a member of the New York State Banking Board and the advisory committee of the Women's Bank of New York. For many years, she was a moderator and host of radio and television programs under the titles ''Focus on the Black Woman'' and ''In the Black: Keys to Success.''
        Ms. Jones is survived by a son, Anthony R. Jones of Manhattan, and seven siblings: Betty Bowman, Brenda Taylor and Renee Williams of Benton Harbor; David Robinson of Indianapolis; Dinah Robinson of Los Angeles; Kimberly Robinson of New York; and Patricia Robinson of Chicago.
      