
        Elizabeth Yates, a writer whose books, many of them for children, were more than enough to fill a library shelf, died on Sunday at a hospice in Concord, N.H. A resident of Peterborough, N.H., she was 95.
        Ms. Yates published her first book in 1938 and wrote more than 50 others into the mid-1990's. Many remain in print, including one that has taught young readers about black history in New England for half a century.
        First published in 1950, ''Amos Fortune, Free Man'' traced the story of an adolescent African prince sold into slavery and brought to this country. Ms. Yates became aware of him when she happened upon his grave in a New Hampshire cemetery.
        Intrigued by the inscription, she painstakingly researched his life and found how he, a complex man with a deep sense of honor, bought his freedom and built a home, a family and his own successful business as a skilled weaver and tanner. Like 25 other books by her, it was illustrated by her friend, the British artist Nora Unwin. It won the 1951 Newbery Medal and was translated into several foreign languages, as were some of her other books.
        She also wrote an autobiographical trilogy and biographies of some strong-willed people. Among the latter was ''Prudence Crandall'' (Aladdin, 1955), about a teacher who defied Connecticut law in 1833 when she opened a private girls' school that accepted black and white pupils as equals.
        Elizabeth Yates was born in Buffalo and went to school there and in Mamaroneck, N.Y. Living in Europe in the 1930's she started writing travel articles for American newspapers, including The Christian Science Monitor and The New York Times.
        Back in this country she helped organize writers' conferences and lectured at Christian Writers and Editors Conferences in Green Lake, Wis.
        She was active as an environmentalist. One of her books, ''The Road Through Sandwich Notch'' (Greene, 1972; reprinted 1984) helped to discourage development of that part of the White Mountains and to turn it into a national forest. She donated her Peterborough home, along with 45 acres of land, to the State of New Hampshire and the Society for the Protection of New Hampshire Forests.
        Her husband, William McGreal, died in 1963.
      