
        Henrietta Milstein, who bought a clothing factory in Burlington, N.J., with her husband, Monroe, and helped to build it into a chain of retail stores, died yesterday at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital. She was 72.
        The cause was ovarian cancer, said Mr. Milstein, who is president and chief executive of the chain, Burlington Coat Factory.
        Mrs. Milstein was born on June 9, 1929, in Vienna. When Mrs. Milstein was 10, she boarded a ship to New York with her mother and younger brother to escape Nazi persecution. She studied retailing at New York University, and earned a master's degree in library science and education from C. W. Post College on Long Island.
        Mrs. Milstein worked as a homemaker until 1966, when she became a librarian at an elementary school in Long Beach, N.Y.
        In 1972, Mrs. Milstein advised her husband to buy a former coat factory outlet in Burlington. But, Mr. Milstein's father, a Russian immigrant who began wholesaling coats in 1924, urged him to avoid retail and refused to give them money to buy it. Mrs. Milstein offered her savings from the school job to cover most of the $75,000 down payment, and Mr. Milstein bought the business.
        Mrs. Milstein continued as a librarian until 1973, helping her husband with the business on weekends. Then she began working full time as a general manager.
        In 1974, Mrs. Milstein expanded the business to include children's clothing. In 1982, the Milsteins sublet store space to an outside seller of juvenile furniture. The enterprise inspired Mrs. Milstein to add a department for baby furniture and accessories, now known as Baby Depot.
        The business, which went public in 1983, later added a men's division as well as linen and sportswear divisions. There are now about 300 Burlington Coat factory stores.
        Mrs. Milstein served as vice president of children's wear and juvenile products from 1974 to 1997. She then retired but continued to serve on the company's board.
        Mrs. Milstein established a fellowship for medical research at Columbia Presbyterian Hospital.
        In addition to her husband, who lives in Princeton, N.J., Mrs. Milstein is survived by three sons, Lazer, of Monsey, N.Y.; and Andrew and Steven, of Princeton.
      