
        Kim Stanley, whose infrequent but luminous stage portraits brought her to the edge of greatness, but who ultimately shrank from the pressures of performance and stardom, died yesterday at a hospital in Santa Fe, N.M. She was 76 and lived in Santa Fe.
        She died after a prolonged illness, said her daughter Rachel Ryder Zahn.
        In plays like William Inge's ''Picnic,'' Horton Foote's ''Traveling Lady'' and, especially, Inge's ''Bus Stop,'' Ms. Stanley captivated Broadway audiences and dazzled the critics in roles that ranged from a gauche young tomboy to a gallant abandoned wife to a well-traveled wisecracking nightclub singer.
        She seemed able to take on almost any part and make it come convincingly alive. In the 1955 ''Bus Stop,'' she played Cherie, a worn-at-the-edges nightclub singer -- she calls herself a chanteuse -- who finds herself sitting out a snowstorm in a Kansas diner with her fellow bus passengers, one of whom is a swaggering cowboy. Their sparring not only won laughs, but also touched the heart.
        Ms. Stanley, who later admitted to being tone deaf, even managed a deftly comic rendition of ''That Old Black Magic.'' Brooks Atkinson, in The New York Times, summed up her work as superb and called it a ''glowing performance that is full of amusing detail -- cheap, ignorant, bewildered, but also radiant with personality.''
        Ms. Stanley had already won accolades two years earlier as the hoydenish teenager Millie Owens in ''Picnic.'' Then, cast as Georgette Thomas, a young mother whose husband has deserted her in Mr. Foote's 1954 drama ''The Traveling Lady,'' Ms. Stanley so dominated the stage that she was given star billing two days after the play's premiere.
        There were more good reviews for her stage work in the years that followed. She appeared in ''A Clearing in the Woods,'' ''A Touch of the Poet,'' ''Cheri,'' ''A Far Country'' and ''The Three Sisters,'' among other plays, but nothing came close to her success in ''Bus Stop'' except her performance in the 1958 film ''The Goddess,'' one of her rare forays into Hollywood.
        In that film Ms. Stanley won praise as a glamorous actress whose life is emotionally barren, managing to project glamour even though she was quick to concede she was no celluloid siren. She soon decided she did not much like acting for the cameras. The fragmented nature of movie making frustrated her. It was, she said, like ''shooting pool in the dark.''
        Kim Stanley, whose original name was Patricia Reid, was born on Feb. 11, 1925, in Tularosa, N.M. Her parents were divorced when she was a young girl, and she and her three brothers were raised by her mother, an interior decorator who moved the family from New Mexico to Texas. Often lonely as a child, she wrote poetry and dreamed of becoming an artist or, at the very least, the local May Queen. She acted in school plays, attended the University of New Mexico and eventually graduated with a degree in psychology from the University of Texas.
        Her acting experiences in school had kindled a spark, she later said, but she was still thinking of pursuing a graduate degree and perhaps a career in medicine. Then she was approached by a director of the Pasadena Playhouse, who by chance had seen her perform in a college production and offered her a scholarship. She stayed at the California theater only a year, but it was enough to change the course of her life. The compass pointed toward Broadway.
        After a season of walk-ons with a stock company in Louisville, Ky., where she'd gone at the urging of a friend who was working there, she boarded a Greyhound bus for New York. After a few fruitless months of making the rounds, talking to agents and trying to see producers, she turned to modeling dresses and then worked as a waitress at a hotel. She also went through a brief marriage to another aspiring actor, Bruce Hall.
        The Off Broadway theater was in its infancy, but Ms. Stanley (she had taken her maternal grandmother's maiden name some years before) took an unpaid job with a Greenwich Village group called the Interplayers and lived off the money she had earned as a model. She met other promising newcomers, among them Gene Saks, Sidney Lumet and Michael V. Gazzo (later to write ''A Hatful of Rain'') and soon found herself in a new group called Off Broadway Inc.
        She joined the Actors Studio, where she met and worked with the Studio's guru, Lee Strasberg, and later described him as the person ''who made it possible for the whole world to open up for me.'' Method acting, she said, was the key to becoming ''as free as possible.''
        In 1949 she put her training to work at the Cherry Lane Theater in Greenwich Village, acting opposite Anthony Franciosa in Gertrude Stein's ''Yes Is for a Very Young Man,'' a production that drew good reviews and calls from theatrical agents. More good notices followed her next appearance, as St. Joan at the Equity Library Theater, and when the producer Kermit Bloomgarden called to invite her to replace Julie Harris in Lillian Hellman's ''Montserrat,'' she made the leap to Broadway.
        Ms. Stanley married for the second time in 1949, to another actor, Curt Conway, with whom she had a son, Jamison, and a daughter, Lisa, and soon found herself torn between the conflicting demands of family and career. Performance pressures also began to take their toll, and even after her shining success in ''Bus Stop,'' stories began to circulate about her profound malaise each night at curtain time. By 1957 she had been though another divorce and remarriage, this time to the actor and director Alfred Ryder, by whom she had another daughter, Rachel. Her children survive her, along with a brother, Justin, and three grandchildren.
        By the end of the 50's there were other signs of trouble. In 1958 she appeared with Helen Hayes and the British actor Eric Portman in ''A Touch of the Poet'' by Eugene O'Neill. Atkinson hailed Ms. Stanley and Ms. Hayes as ''the two finest actresses of their respective generations.'' Nevertheless, after opening night Ms. Stanley missed a number of performances. It was no secret by then that she and Portman were not on speaking terms, and it was no great surprise when Ms. Stanley abruptly left the play, blaming Portman for slapping her in one scene with what she said was excessive enthusiasm. Portman in turn declared, ''I don't go bashing people in the face,'' but Ms. Stanley was gone for good.
        Such conflicts aside, she was still working at perfecting her art. ''To keep it fresh, I try to begin all over again in each performance,'' she told an interviewer. In 1959 she played a middle-aged woman in love with a handsome 19-year-old (Horst Buchholz) in ''Cherie,'' adapted by Anita Loos from two novels by Colette and set in France in the years just before and after World War I. Atkinson found her performance ''magnetic and illuminating.'' Two years later, in Henry Denker's semi-documentary 1961 play ''A Far Country,'' directed by her husband, Alfred Ryder, Ms. Stanley won praise as a young woman afflicted by hysterical paralysis who is helped by the pioneering work of Sigmund Freud.
        In 1964 Ms. Stanley returned to the source of her first inspiration as an actress and appeared as Masha in an  Actors Studio Theater production of Chekhov's ''Three Sisters,'' directed by her old mentor, Lee Strasberg, and co-starring Geraldine Page and Shirley Knight. It was to be Ms. Stanley's last appearance on the New York stage.
        The same year, in the British film thriller ''Seance on a Wet Afternoon,'' her portrayal of a sinister London medium who, with her compliant husband (Richard Attenborough), schemes to kidnap a child, won her rave reviews and an Oscar nomination as best actress. Writing in The Times, Bosley Crowther described Ms. Stanley's portrait of the woman as ''a humble, cloying shrew -- an insidiously diabolic creature, and yet a pitiful victim.'' She did not win an Oscar, although the New York Film Critics gave her their best actress award. Moviegoers were not to see her again for 18 years.
        In little more than a decade she had established herself as one of Broadway's most brilliant actresses although, oddly, she never won a Tony Award. She had a number of television appearances to her credit, appearing in various dramatic series and winning an Emmy in 1963 for her work in a ''Ben Casey'' episode about mercy killing. But there were only the two Hollywood films, ''The Goddess'' and ''Seance.'' And for a long while that was the sum of her career: brilliant but all too brief. She returned to her native New Mexico, put aside the stresses of performing, did some teaching in Santa Fe and nursed her ambition to have her own ensemble of actors.
        By 1979, however, she was back in New York as artistic director of a troupe of actors in a small theater in SoHo. ''I want to be involved with the great plays,'' she told an interviewer, and admitted that she missed acting and intended to act again. For one thing, she said, ''before I get too old, I'd like to do Hedda Gabler,'' and, she added, she wanted to make ''a serious film about Virginia Woolf.''
        As it turned out, she did neither, but she did return to films in 1982 in ''Frances,'' in which she played the ambitious, devouring mother of the actress Frances Farmer (Jessica Lange). Her performance brought her a second Oscar nomination, this time for best supporting actress. The next year, she had a small part as a barnstorming pilot in ''The Right Stuff.'' And she returned to television in 1984, winning her second Emmy in the role of Big Mama in a PBS production of Tennessee Williams's ''Cat on a Hot Tin Roof,'' with Ms. Lange and Tommy Lee Jones.
        There the story ended. Ms. Stanley spent her last years quietly, back in New Mexico. ''You can't be good in the theater unless you've immersed yourself in the marvelous detective story of the human spirit,'' she once told an interviewer. ''But it's difficult, terribly difficult.''
        In her case the mystery remained unsolved. She had, in effect, achieved her childhood dream of becoming the May Queen, but chose to leave the parade before its end.
        Correction:  August 27, 2001, Monday  An obituary of the actress Kim Stanley on Tuesday misstated the surname of her son and misidentified his father. The son changed his name to Jamison Clift from Conway in the 1980's. His father was William Brooks Clift Jr., not Ms. Stanley's second husband, Curt Conway.
        The obituary also omitted a film credit for Ms. Stanley. The Actors Studio production of ''The Three Sisters'' in which she played Masha was videotaped in 1965 and transferred to film and released in 1977.
      