
        Kathleen Freeman, the veteran character actress whose salty comic talents were most recently on display in the current Broadway musical ''The Full Monty,'' died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital. She was 78.
        The cause was lung cancer, said Michael Hartman, a publicist for the show.
        Ms. Freeman, who had been suffering from the disease for a year, fell ill over the weekend, but only after finishing a two-performance day on Saturday. Her death was announced to the cast yesterday before last evening's performance.
        The daughter of a husband-and-wife vaudeville team, Ms. Freeman was literally born into show business, growing up on the song-and-dance circuit. She did her bit to help the act -- she took to the stage for the first time at the age of 2 -- but the family business eventually failed.
        Ms. Freeman, however, had already caught the acting bug, a condition that only grew worse when she got a bit part in a play while attending the University of California at Los Angeles to study music. ''A terrible thing happened,'' she said. ''I got a laugh.''
        It was to be the first of many. With a jowly face, quizzical eyes and an almost perpetually furrowed brow, Ms. Freeman soon established herself as a nimble character actress, turning her talent for deadpan into a lengthy career.
        In the years between her first screen credit (a one-line part in the 1948 noir film, ''The Naked City'') to her last (as the old woman in this year's ''Shrek''), Ms. Freeman would indelibly mark dozens of films in a variety of small but memorable roles.
        In ''Singin' in the Rain'' (1952), she was Phoebe Dinsmore, the frustrated vocal coach to a squeaky-voiced bombshell played by Jean Hagen. In  ''North to Alaska'' (1960), Ms. Freeman played a drunken Swedish prospector who lambasts a stunned John Wayne. And in a more recent turn she was the avenging nun, Sister Mary Stigmata, opposite John Belushi and Dan Aykroyd in ''The Blues Brothers'' (1980).
        Perhaps her best-known comic partnership was with Jerry Lewis, with whom she tangled in eight films, including ''The Nutty Professor'' and ''The Ladies' Man.'' She and Mr. Lewis shared a love, she said, ''for clowns and crazy people.''
        Generations of television audiences also knew Ms. Freeman's elastic mug. She was a regular on numerous 1960's sitcoms, including ''The Beverly Hillbillies,'' playing Flo Shafer, one of the bumpkins' many nemeses; and ''Hogan's Heroes,'' as Frau Linkmeier, the great love of Colonel Klink.
        While she belonged to two prominent Los Angeles theater companies, the Circle and Players Ring Theaters, in the 1940's, Ms. Freeman's Broadway debut did not come until 1978 in Georges Feydeau's ''13 Rue de l'Amour,'' with Louis Jourdan. There, she played Madame Spritzer, a downwardly mobile countess.
        It was a performance that Walter Kerr, the theater critic for The New York Times, said exemplified Ms. Freeman's talent for subtle, savage comedy. ''Even in midflight,'' he wrote, ''she has the patience to sit on a line, to isolate it, and nail it to the floor.''
        Though she toured with several other productions, she only returned to Broadway last fall in ''The Full Monty,'' playing Jeanette Burmeister, a tough-talking, tough-loving pianist. Her entrance, lurching up from behind a piano at the end of Act I, was typically one of the biggest ovations of the night.
        In June that performance was recognized with a Tony nomination, an honor she described as ''a hoot.'' She didn't win, but she said she didn't care.
        In a interview in January, Ms. Freeman described how she felt about her career and life.
        ''I think,'' she said, ''I'm a living example of the fact that you don't have to be in every inch of a film or play to be important to it.''
      