
        Diana Golden Brosnihan, who lost a leg to cancer at 12, won a gold medal in disabled skiing at the 1988 Calgary Olympics and played a key role in public appreciation of disabled athletes, died Saturday at a hospital in Providence, R.I. She was 38.
        Her cancer returned in 1992 and again in 1997.
        ''I like to live each day like an adventure,'' she once said.
        She did that so well that Sports Illustrated once wrote that she was ''most likely to be remembered as the woman who, perhaps more than any other athlete, brought crossover credibility to the disabled sports movement.''
        She was inducted into the Women's Sports Foundation International Hall of Fame in 1997. The citation read, ''She persuaded the ski world to treat all athletes the same, regardless of ability or, in her case, disability.'' She was also inducted into the National Ski Hall of Fame that year.
        Brosnihan, who grew up in Lincoln, Mass., outside Boston, learned to ski at 5. At 12, she developed bone cancer in her right leg, resulting in amputation above the knee. When she awakened after surgery, her first words were, ''Will I still be able to ski?'' Six months later, she was skiing.
        As a high school sophomore, she discovered that she could jog on crutches. In her junior year, the high school ski coach asked her to join the team. She did, and a year later she won the downhill in the world handicapped championships.
        ''If you had ever told me that I would make being an athlete my profession, I would have laughed at you, and my family would have laughed at you,'' she once said. ''It was not even a dream.'' But it became a reality. It also became an albatross, and from 1982 to 1985, she took two and a half years off from skiing.
        ''It gave me time to find my identity apart from my skiing so that when I came back to skiing it was something I wanted to do for me and not because I needed that image from other people,'' she said.
        She used one ski and two outriggers (forearm crutches with ski tips attached). Later, never using an artificial leg, she abandoned the outriggers in favor of regular ski poles so she could go faster.
        She rejoined the national disabled team and persuaded potential corporate sponsors to support the team as they would any other. She persuaded the United States Ski Association to allow disabled skiers to compete in national championships against able-bodied skiers.
        That open-competition policy became known as the Golden Rule, and she took advantage of it. She might finish last, 20 seconds behind a renowned skier like Tamara McKinney, but said she would come closer next time. She often did.
        Against other disabled skiers, her success was overwhelming. From 1986 to 1990, she won 10 world and 19 United States championships. In the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary, when disabled skiing was a demonstration sport, she won the gold medal in the giant slalom. The United States Olympic Committee voted her the female skier of the year, ahead of able-bodied skiers.
        In 1991, the Women's Sports Foundation gave her the Flo Hyman award, which had previously gone to Martina Navratilova, Evelyn Ashford, Jackie Joyner-Kersee and Chris Evert.
        That year, she retired (for the last time) from competition and took up rock climbing and mountaineering. Then the cancer returned, leading to bilateral mastectomies, the loss of her uterus and an attempted suicide. Again, she turned herself around, climbed Mount Rainier and continued as a motivational speaker.
        In 1997, the cancer returned again and spread to her spine, pelvis and lungs. She stopped giving motivational speeches, saying she could not be upbeat anymore and could not force a smile.
        At Dartmouth, where she received a degree in English literature in 1984, she casually met Steve Brosnihan, who became a freelance cartoonist for New England newspapers. They met again in 1996 and were married in August 1997 between her chemotherapy sessions.
        She is survived by her husband, of Bristol, R.I., her mother, a brother and a sister.
        To the end, Brosnihan fought for dignified treatment and perceptions of the disabled. ''You think about women,'' she said, ''and people used to pat us on the back and say: 'Isn't that sweet? She's competing.' Now they don't do that anymore. It's the same with the disabled. People treat us with dignity.
        ''To me it has to do with the dignity of each person. Each person is worthy of respect, so it's a matter of if I choose to live with that dignity myself.
        ''Sometimes, stereotypes make me laugh. Like when people introduce you as courageous. Often, I've heard it on television, 'We're talking with a girl today who had cancer when she was 12, beat the odds and now she skis.' I say: 'Now wait a minute. I don't just ski. I'm the best in the world and I train my heart and soul out for this and I ski 150 days and I work out in the weight room, and to me courageous doesn't imply any of that.'
        ''Athletes don't want to be courageous. They want to be good.''
        In 1988, she skied on screen for three minutes in a feature-length movie, ''Escape to Ski.'' Warren Miller, who made the film, became an instant fan.
        ''After you're with her for a few minutes, you totally forget her handicap,'' he said. ''She has her act together, and it's not an act.''
      