
        Jane Greer, whose dolorous but luminous dark eyes and world-weary beauty made her the ideal femme fatale opposite Robert Mitchum in ''Out of the Past'' and ''The Big Steal,'' film noir classics of the 1940's, died Friday in Los Angeles.  She was 76.
        The cause was complications of cancer, her son Alex Lasker said.  When ''Out of the Past'' was remade 37 years later as ''Against All Odds,'' she came out of semi-retirement to play the mother of the character she had originally played in 1947.
        She was never a big star, at least not by the standards of her day, and she was mostly relegated to melodramas. But when a later generation of movie buffs became attracted to Hollywood's black-and-white twisty yarns of the 1940's, they were quite taken by Miss Greer, whose face was best viewed through cigarette smoke in a bar.
        In ''Out of the Past,'' she appears with both Mitchum and Kirk Douglas, who plays the heavy, Mitchum's former employer. Mitchum is trying to forget about his shabby past but is recruited by his old boss and ordered to Mexico to find Miss Greer.
        The movie's crosses and double- crosses were nowhere nearly as opaque as those of ''The Maltese Falcon,'' but when Bosley Crowther reviewed it for The New York Times, he wrote that its 97 minutes of back stabbing and double-dealing were such that they had to be ''reckoned by logarithmic tables.''
        Bettejane Greer was born on Sept. 9, 1924, in Washington. She started her show business career as a big band singer. During World War II, when she was about 19, her mother, who worked for the War Department, saw to it that Jane was one of three young women selected to model uniforms for the new Women's Army Corps.
        Howard Hughes, the movie maker with a legendary affinity for beautiful women, saw her photograph and signed her to a personal contract. He made it clear that he didn't want her to marry anyone.
        ''I found him rather endearing, like a child,''Miss Greer said of Hughes in one interview. ''His idea was to go to the amusement park,'' she said, adding, ''He won a large collection of Kewpie dolls for me.''
        The photograph of Miss Greer in a WAC uniform was published in Life magazine, where it attracted the attention of Rudy Vallee, the crooner.  He called Life and tried unsuccessfully to get her address.
        He found it anyhow, and proposed after a whirlwind courtship. Miss Greer accepted. The marriage lasted from 1943 to 1945. Miss Greer dropped the ''Bette'' from her name, and since she didn't think that Mr. Hughes had been using her to her best advantage at R.K.O., bought back her contract for $7,572, payable at $25 a week. When she was almost paid up, she asked Mr. Hughes to forgive the last $50. He refused.
        She married Edward Lasker in 1947, the same year she made ''Out of the Past'' and ''They Won't Believe Me,'' with Robert Young and Susan Hayward; they were later divorced.
        Among her other movies were ''I Married a Communist'' (1949) with Paul Lukas and Robert Ryan; ''Somebody Loves Me'' (1952), ''Down Among the Sheltering Palms'' (1952) and ''Run for the Sun'' (1956) with Richard Widmark and Trevor Howard, all made at MGM.
        In 1957, she also appeared with James Cagney in ''Man of a Thousand Faces,'' the story of Lon Chaney, the silent star. After ''Billie,'' which she made in 1965 with Patty Duke and Jim Backus, she made few movies.
        In addition to her son Alex, she is survived by two other sons, Lawrence and Steve; a twin brother, Don, and two grandchildren. Her companion, Frank London, an acting coach, died in January.
        Years later, when one of her sons told her that she was ''Queen of Film Noir,'' she told him she really didn't know what film noir was.
      