
        Elizabeth Bliss Parkinson Cobb, a vital and effective presence at the Museum of Modern Art in New York for nearly 70 years, died on Aug. 24 in Hightstown, N.J. She was 93 and lived in Hightstown.
        Best known as Eliza Parkinson, Ms. Cobb was a niece of Lillie Bliss, one of the museum's founders, and a stepdaughter of the museum's first president, A. Conger Goodyear.
        After being invited in her early 20's by Nelson Rockefeller to be a member of the museum's fledgling Junior Advisory Committee, she soon began to seek out and enlist energetic young people, many of whom were to be part of a new generation of informed and active supporters of the museum.
        Agnes Gund, president of the museum, said on Monday, ''Though she was not herself able to collect on the scale of either her aunt or her stepfather, she came to feel so deeply for the museum's collections in all their variety that she regarded every one of them as her own.''
        Each aspect of the museum's encyclopedic activity fascinated her. She also took pride in adventurous outposts, like the Celeste Bartos Film Preservation Center in Hamlin, Pa., which saves the Modern's movie collection from decay.
        In 1939, Eliza Parkinson was appointed a trustee of the museum. Thereafter, except for service with the Red Cross during World War II, she served on the board uninterruptedly. She was president of the museum from 1965 to 1968, was vice-chairwoman from 1968 to 1993, and was named a life trustee in 1993.
        As chairwoman of the building committee from 1968 to 1977, she was instrumental in decisions on how to expand the premises. ''Eliza cared so strongly for the history and for the memory of the museum,'' Ms. Gund said, ''that she could not bear to think of its being divided into two separate branches in New York. She loved every stone in those buildings and every leaf in its garden.''
        Eliza Parkinson was also a prime mover in the museum's international council, which in effect gave the museum worldwide status. She was credited with an almost ambassadorial gift for diplomacy. Chairwoman of the council's membership committee in its early days, she later served as its vice chairwoman and, from 1957 to 1966, as its president. Those were the years in which postwar American painting first came to widespread international notice.
        They were also the years in which the museum came to be ranked as the father and grandfather of modern-art museums the world over. Had it not been for the pivotal shows the Modern sent to Australia, Ms. Gund said, Jackson Pollock's ''Blue Poles'' might not be in the National Gallery in Canberra today.
        Ms. Cobb's first husband, John Parkinson Jr., died in 1973. Her second husband, Henry Ives Cobb, died in 1999.
        She is survived by a son, John Parkinson III, who was appointed a trustee of the museum in 1976 and is its treasurer; a daughter, the pianist Zaidee Parkinson; five grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      