
        Frieda Pushnik, who used being born without limbs to achieve a remunerative career, not to mention a quirky celebrity, by appearing in Ripley's and Barnum's sideshows as the ''Armless and Legless Wonder,'' died of bladder cancer on Dec. 24 at her home in Costa Mesa, Calif. She was 77.
        ''At least they didn't call me brainless,'' she said with the wit that -- when combined with demonstrations of skills including writing, typing and sewing -- carried her sideshow performances beyond peculiarity to a lesson in adaptation and determination.
        When asked in a CBS television interview in 1998 whether she thought it was all right to be stared at, she snapped back, ''If you're paid for it, yeah.''
        And she was paid, and then some. Sideshows in the middle years of the last century were popular, and by far their best-paid performers were people with intriguing deformities.
        ''She was fabulously in the right place at the right time,'' said James Taylor, publisher of the magazine Shocked and Amazed, which is devoted to sideshows.
        But Miss Pushnik also personified what Dick Zigun, the impresario of the sideshow tribute Coney Island U.S.A., calls ''the hot-button issue of sideshows,'' the showcasing of people with physical abnormalities. Mr. Zigun's show at Coney Island features what are known as working acts, meaning normal-seeming people who have learned to do freakish things. One of his stars, for instance, drives a nail through his tongue.
        But Mr. Zigun defends displaying those who are known in the sideshow business as freaks. ''What's the alternative?'' he asked. ''To have a politically correct society where people would be hidden away, living on welfare?''
        Robert Bogdan, a sociologist at Syracuse University who wrote the 1998 book ''Freak Show: Presenting Human Oddities for Amusement and Profit,'' said that Miss Pushnik came along during the transition between the old it's-all-right-to-stare attitude and a newer view that people with deformities should be looked at, if at all, as medical case studies.
        ''She and her mother conducted themselves in a dignified way at a time questions about this as a proper practice were beginning to be raised,'' Mr. Bogdan said in an interview.
        Frieda Katherine Pushnik was born on Feb. 10, 1923, in Conemaugh, Pa. Her brother William, her only survivor, said her condition resulted from a botched appendectomy on her pregnant mother, which severed her arms and legs while she was in the womb. He said the family never considered suing for malpractice, but from the perspective of this more litigious time, speculated on what a successful suit might have meant.
        For one thing, Mr. Pushnik said, the poor family might have afforded a wheelchair instead of putting wobbly wheels on a high chair. For another, Frieda could have had a more normal childhood. ''She would never have had to go to the World's Fair or anything like that,'' Mr. Pushnik said.
        But he said that Frieda never talked about her limblessness, even as a young girl. ''She accepted it as a matter of fact,'' he said.
        In a 1966 interview, Miss Pushnik told The Orange County Register that she had never resented her condition. ''I never said, 'Why me?' That would be a wasted emotion. You can ruin your life like that,'' she said.
        From the beginning, her mother insisted she do as much as possible for herself. By holding things between one small stump of an arm and her chin, she could feed herself, sew and crochet. Her brother remembers her going sledding, and laughing uproariously when she fell off. She also received an award for penmanship.
        In 1933, Robert L. Ripley, creator of ''Ripley's Believe It or Not!,'' heard of her and visited. He put a cartoon of her in his nationally syndicated feature, calling her ''little half girl'' and misspelling her name as Freda. He then asked her to appear at the World's Fair in Chicago in 1933.
        With her mother and sister accompanying her, as they did throughout her performing career, the 9-year-old girl joined a man who lifted weights with his eyelids and a 4-year-old girl with four legs and three arms in what Mr. Ripley had named his Odditorium.
        In the 1996 interview, she described her opening spiel. ''I'd say, 'I'm Frieda Pushnik, I'm 9 years old and I attend public school,' '' she said. ''Then I'd do a demonstration -- how I'd type and write and sew.''
        She repeated the five-minute show many times each hour through what was often a 16-hour day, with her mother hovering nearby. In six years of touring most of the nation's major expositions, including the New York World's Fair in 1939, she was seen by millions.
        ''She was a big attraction,'' said Edward Meyer, archivist at the Ripley headquarters in Orlando. ''Well known, well photographed, made major appearances, as opposed to hicky little fairs.''
        Then the mother and daughter returned home to Pennsylvania, but they soon received a call from the Ringling Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Circus. She joined the circus's sideshow, which was in a tent pitched near the big tent's entrance and cost extra. Other attractions included giants, midgets, Siamese twins and a tattooed man who had decorated even the inside of his ears.
        ''I was a star,'' Miss Pushnik said of her circus years, which lasted from 1943 to 1955 with a two-year break in the early 1950's.
        In 1944, when the Big Top caught fire in Hartford, killing 167 people, a performer in the circus's minstrel show rushed on stage, grabbed her chair and carried her to safety.
        In the early 1960's, she, her mother, her sister and her brother-in-law decided to move to Orange County, Calif., where Mr. Pushnik had settled. Miss Pushnik never talked in detail about money, saying only that she ''managed.'' But her tasteful furnishings reflected her success in saving and investing her sideshow income. She liked to cruise the South Coast Plaza mall in her Jaguar, as she named her wheelchair in honor of its fake jaguar-skin upholstery.
        She decorated her house with her own oil paintings, and she enjoyed entertaining. Guests who had earlier expressed interest in watching her eat would realize only after she was finished that she had been so natural they failed to notice how she did it, her brother said.
        The truth seems to be that she would have been pleased to discuss just about anything. ''What are they going to learn if they just stare?'' she once asked. ''They should come ask me.''
      