
        Alix Williamson, a classical music publicist who helped promote and shape the careers of legendary musicians from Lotte Lehmann to the Trapp Family Singers, died on Sunday at her home in New York. She was 85.
        Ms. Williamson built brand names for many artists and organizations, from André Watts and Frederica von Stade at the start of their careers to Richard Tucker at the end of his. Her involvement with her clients extended far beyond promotion. .
        It was she who suggested to the Baroness Maria von Trapp that she write a book about her family's experiences. The resulting book inspired the Rodgers and Hammerstein musical ''The Sound of Music.''
        She also acted as impresario for the Juilliard String Quartet and the Waverly Consort in their Alice Tully Hall series.
        Born in New York City on April 6, 1916, Ms. Williamson graduated from Hunter College and worked as a reporter for The New York Journal-American before entering public relations as an account executive at Constance Hope Associates.
        She continued to write throughout her life, ghost-writing a range of books, including a sentimental novel, and writing ''Mother Is Minnie,'' a biography of Minnie Guggenheimer, founder of the Lewisohn Stadium concerts in Manhattan, under her own name in 1960.
        In her half-century as a publicist, she represented artists and organizations including Lauritz Melchior, Lily Pons, Ezio Pinza, Astrid Varnay, Jennie Tourel, Helen Traubel, Rosalyn Tureck, Grace Bumbry and the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, from its inception. She occasionally promoted artists represented by her husband, Joseph A. Lippman, an artists' manager with the Herbert Barrett agency.
        At the time of her death she was writing her memoirs and continuing to work on a few accounts. One was Vincent la Selva and the New York Grand Opera, which recently completed a complete cycle of Verdi's operas in Central Park, an achievement for which Ms. Williamson helped get them a citation in the  Guinness Book of World Records.
        She is survived by a daughter, Victoria McKee of London, and two grandchildren.
      