
        THERE is no saying no to Caroline H. Newhouse. But you wouldn't know it upon meeting the matriarch of the Newhouse  family in the formal sitting room of her Park Avenue apartment. She sits on a plush sofa, a well-coiffed little woman of 91, ever so sweet, so demure.
        But don't let her fool you. This is one tough lady.
        Just ask the many wealthy relatives whom she has ordered to fan out into the philanthropic world, assigning them to various boards and charities, even making her pitch at the family Thanksgiving dinner. (She waits until cocktails are over.)
        Mrs. Newhouse is an aunt of  S. I. Newhouse Jr., the multibillionaire chairman of Condé Nast Publications. She is the widow of Theodore Newhouse, one of three brothers who founded one of the nation's biggest communications conglomerates. She has become the grande dame of charities in her family.
        There was that time when Mrs. Newhouse, as an original board member of the New York City Opera, informed sorrowful board members that she planned on retiring, but she told them, rather drily, not to worry. She'd find them another Newhouse. She called up her nephew Mark Newhouse, who later became the opera board's president.
        ''She didn't really offer it,'' the nephew says.  ''She pretty much told me.''
        Mrs. Newhouse also put the bite on her niece  Caroline Diamond Harrison, noting pointedly that Mrs. Harrison's sister Alison Diamond Levasseur is on the junior committee of the New York City Opera, and that she too should have something to do. Mrs. Newhouse nabbed her niece for her pet charity, Career Transition for Dancers, a nonprofit group that finds new skills for retiring dancers.
        ''There's no denying it,'' Mrs. Harrison says. ''She always comes out with things going the way she wants them to go.''
        But in Mrs. Newhouse's apartment, her steely determination is not immediately apparent. She is a bit nervous, extending her hand in a sitting room surrounded by bronze sculptures of her own creation and artwork that includes a Renoir here, a little Rubens over there. Dressed in a salmon-colored pantsuit, she makes small talk about the weather, her failing eyesight. Her fingers drip with serious diamonds, and large South Sea pearls are draped around her neck. A uniformed servant materializes to offer refreshments.
        MRS. NEWHOUSE is not keen to draw attention to herself or her philanthropic efforts. ''I don't like to talk about myself,'' she mutters. But her red-painted lips curl into a sly smile and she chuckles, confirming how she has indeed parceled out charity assignments to family members. ''Oh yes, they always say yes,'' she boasts. ''They all make time when I ask them to do something.''
        As she rises to give a tour of her artwork, Mrs. Newhouse moves with fragile steps through the foyer with the marble checkerboard floor and into her small library. She pats the seat beside her on a sofa, coaxing up her gray Persian cat, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart, with luminescent orange eyes. ''Come, sweetheart, don't be bashful. Come here, Wolfie.''
        She speaks with an accent still strong from her native Germany, which she left at 23. She has an Old World modesty, too. It takes her closest friend, Alexander J. Dubé, to loosen her up. Mr. Dubé, the executive director of Career Transition for Dancers, bounds into the room, jiggling coins that he found on the floor. They glance at each other conspiratorially. More money for the organization.
        ''Go find some more,'' she says, holding open her palm.
        Mrs. Newhouse has been particularly adroit at roping family members into involvement with Career Transition for Dancers, which has served more than 2,000 dancers since it began in 1985.
        ''She makes them work,'' says  Mr. Dubé, 62, who met Mrs. Newhouse and her husband 26 years ago. ''She'll call them up and say, 'Why haven't you sold any tables for the gala?' or call them up and say, 'I want you to be my co-chair.' She goes after them, and no one says no to Aunt Caroline.''
        Si Newhouse Jr.'s Condé Nast is a major underwriter of the organization's annual fund-raising gala in October. Another nephew, Jonathan Newhouse, and his wife, Ronnie Cooke Newhouse, have flown in from London, where they live, to be chairman and chairwoman of the benefits.
        Mrs. Newhouse has donated $1 million to establish a permanent home and created a scholarship fund that has given away more than $1 million. She never studied dance herself, but often used dancers as models. She says they taught her much about their short careers, facing retirement on average around 30, or when they are injured. ''They're lost, because when you are a dancer you have no time to do anything else but dance,'' she says.
        Mrs. Newhouse retired from sculpturing in her mid-70's. She began studying the arts in Germany. She was one of three children raised by her mother after her father, a military officer, was killed in World War I. She says she inherited her spirit of giving from her mother.
        She met her future husband at a New Hampshire resort. When he told her he sold newspapers, she thought he owned a kiosk or hawked newspapers as a street vendor. They married a  year later, in 1956.
        Mrs. Newhouse thinks she and the Newhouse family are a good match. ''They are so warm and giving, and they respect me because I am the oldest. I am the matriarch.''
        Still, she won't let them off the hook when it comes to her charities.
        ''They have never said no to me yet.''
        PUBLIC LIVES
      