
        Dame Dorothy Tutin, one of the most versatile and admired of British actresses, died on Monday in London, where she lived. She was 71.
        She had been suffering from leukemia, said her agent, Michael Whitehall.
        During her long and rich career, Ms. Tutin played almost all of Shakespeare's leading female roles, from Ophelia and Juliet to Portia and Lady Macbeth. She also did a full range of plays by Chekhov, Ibsen and Strindberg, played Sally Bowles in the London production of ''I Am a Camera,'' and acted in plays by John Osborne and Harold Pinter.
        In her roles, she projected a quiet elegance, whether she was playing queens, which she often did, or commoners. Although she was petite (5 foot 3), she could be majestic, a commanding presence with a distinctive mellifluous voice. For her performances, she won a mantel-full of awards. Last year she was made a dame, joining Judi Dench, Maggie Smith and other actresses of equal stature.
        Her theatrical breakthrough came in 1953 when she played the painfully neurotic wife in Graham Greene's first play, ''The Living Room.'' Writing about her, Kenneth Tynan said ''Miss Tutin's performance is masterly: the very nakedness of acting. In her greatest sorrow she blazes like a diamond in a mine.'' On various stages -- at the Royal Shakespeare Company, the Royal Court, the National Theater and on the West End -- she continued to blaze for the rest of the 20th century.
        She was born in London. As a young woman, she studied music, but was unsure about a career until her father suggested that she apply to the Royal Academy of Dramatic Art. Although she failed her first audition, she was soon accepted. After making her professional debut in ''The Thistle and the Rose'' in 1949, she joined the Bristol Old Vic. Her work at the Old Vic in London led to her first movie role as Cecily opposite Michael Redgrave in the 1952 film of ''The Importance of Being Earnest.''
        Although she later played Polly Peachum in Laurence Olivier's film of ''The Beggar's Opera'' and was in ''The Shooting Party'' with James Mason and John Gielgud, most of her acting was in the theater.
        In the 1950's, after ''The Living Room,'' she played, among other roles, Sally Bowles, Joan of Arc in ''The Lark,'' Archie Rice's daughter (opposite Olivier) in ''The Entertainer,'' and a panoply of Shakespearean characters at Stratford-on-Avon. An actress of unquenchable modesty, she once said, ''Shakespeare is so rich and complex that you know perfectly well you can never do it well enough . . . but it's good to play something beyond you in every way.''
        In 1963 she came to Broadway in the Shakespeare anthology ''The Hollow Crown.'' Two years later she scored a London success as Queen Victoria in ''Portrait of a Queen.'' In 1968 she and her husband Derek Waring (as Prince Albert) brought the play to Broadway.
        She is survived by her husband, their daughter, Amanda, and son,  Nicholas, both of whom are actors.
        Frequently, she diversified her career by undertaking contemporary roles, in 1971 playing the wife in the original London production of Harold Pinter's ''Old Times.'' Reviewing the play, Harold Clurman said that all three actors, Vivien Merchant, Ms. Tutin and Colin Blakely ''not only express the play but seem to contain it in its incisiveness, its own kind of elegance and its brilliant mystery.''
        Later she acted in a revival of ''A Kind of Alaska'' by Mr. Pinter and in the premiere production of his ''Party Time.'' She also starred opposite John Wood in Tom Stoppard's adaptation of Arthur Schnitzler's ''Undiscovered Country'' at Britain's National Theater. In 1989 she played the actress Desiree in a revival of ''A Little Night Music.''
        Throughout her life, she remained devoted to the stage. Explaining that commitment and her desire to be challenged, she said, ''The marvelous thing about the theater is that it happens that night and it dies every night with you and the next morning it's all to be done again. I hate anything permanent.''
      