
        Nora Sayre, a film critic and essayist best known for her commentary on the cultural effects of the cold war -- died yesterday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. She was 68 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause of death was emphysema, said Mary Sayre Haverstock, her cousin.
        As the child of parents who knew both the New York and Hollywood writing scenes, Ms. Sayre witnessed firsthand the struggles of writers in the crosswinds of America's anti-Communist fervor, which she later insisted both preceded and continued long after the era of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy's red-hunting in the early 1950's. In ''Running Time: Films of the Cold War'' (1982, Dial Press), her second book, she analyzed the effect of this fervor on Hollywood movie-making in the 1950's.
        In her next book, ''Previous Convictions: A Journey Through the 1950's'' (1995, Rutgers University Press), she dug deeper into the period. ''The readiness to challenge and then contradict official wisdom was supposed to be an American tradition,'' she wrote, ''but that kind of autonomy was rare in the 1950's, and I was fortunate to come of age among people who took their independence for granted.''
        Reviewing ''Previous Convictions,'' David Caute, a historian of anti-Communism, described Ms. Sayre as ''an essayist whose light touch masks the formidable weight of her judgments'' and whose ''natural province is not so much history as people's consciousness.'' He continued, ''Her fault is sometimes to seek out complications which may not be there -- as in her accounts of former Communists who still feel they were right to be wrong -- but this flaw is no doubt reinforced by her affection for individuals she meets and her refusal to accept any aspect of American cold war ideology.''
        Nora Clemens Sayre was born on Sept. 20, 1932, in Hamilton, Bermuda, the only child of Joel Sayre, a staff writer and war correspondent for The New Yorker and occasional Hollywood screenwriter -- he wrote ''Annie Oakley'' (1935) for Barbara Stanwyck and was a co-writer on ''Gunga Din'' (1939) -- and Gertrude (Lynahan) Sayre, a reporter for The New York World. Ms. Sayre attended the Putney School, in Vermont, graduating in 1950, and Radcliffe College, where, as she later described herself, she was apolitical and hung out with the aesthetes and actors who founded the Poets' Theater in Cambridge, and where she graduated cum laude in 1954.
        ''Like a lot of my generation, I grew up with no politics at all,'' she told Brian Close, a student at the Columbia Journalism School, in a recent interview. ''I didn't even read the newspaper. Mine was a rather liberated family. But it was a very square time. Even the freest spirts were cautious. Clearly life was safer and easier if you had no politics.''
        In 1955, the year after her graduation from Radcliffe, she took off for Europe with an eye to ''blotting out,'' she later reported, her parents' unhappy marriage and her mother's suicidal depressions. In London, wafted by her parents' literary connections, she met the likes of Arthur Koestler, his lover the novelist Elizabeth Jane Howard (future wife of Kingsley Amis), James Thurber, A. J. Liebling, Walker Evans, Cyril Connolly, Henry Green, Graham Greene and Charlie and Oona Chaplin. She also met members of the American community in exile -- targets of Hollywood blacklisting and the United States' anti-communist campaign -- which was centered around Frognal, the house of Donald Ogden Stewart and Ella Winter, his Australian-born wife.
        It was in England that she became more politically aware -- ''they may have more of a vigorous opposition than we do,'' she told Mr. Close -- and realized she was ''somewhat of a lefty.'' As she reports in her recently published memoir of that time, ''On the Wing: A Young American Abroad'' (2001, Counterpoint), she was often considered fair game by sexually avaricious older writers.
        Under the tutelage of the literary critic John Davenport, she began to write for publication. As she recalled in ''On the Wing,'' ''He would arrive for an unscheduled lunch in my Bourne Street basement, bringing bacon and frozen string beans and books and imperatives: 'Why don't you eat this, read this, write about that.' Soon these editorial sessions were part of my London week: he read my pieces before I submitted them -- plucking out passages that needed polishing but never suggesting any words of his own'' and ''instilling a horror of clichés.''
        She landed a job writing book reviews for The New Statesman. ''I don't want to give too much credit to the Brits because I am no Anglophile,'' she told Mr. Close, ''but they give a writer so much more freedom, especially then.'' Ms. Sayre eventually returned to the United States in the early 1960's. She had been through a brief, unsuccessful marriage to Robert Neild, a former Royal Air Force pilot, a lecturer in economics at Cambridge and a rising figure in the Labor Party.
        Ms. Sayre served as New York correspondent for the New Statesman from 1965 until 1970. Her first book, a collection of pieces titled ''Sixties Going on Seventies'' (Rutgers University Press) -- which covered everything from student strikes and yippies to the 1972 Democratic and Republican Conventions  -- led to her employment at The New York Times in 1973 when her book was recommended to Arthur Gelb, then managing editor of the paper, as deserving of a review. Mr. Gelb was inspired by it to appoint her movie reviewer for The Times.
        She left The Times in 1975 and for the next seven years worked as a freelancer, writing for The New York Times Book Review, The Nation, The Progressive and Esquire, among other publications, and winning a Guggenheim fellowship, 1975-76, and a National Endowment for the Arts grant, 1978. ''I managed for those seven years to break even with no other income at all,'' she told Mr. Close. ''I was able to travel. I was able to go to the dentist.'' She added: ''Freelancer has become a very offensive term. Ten years ago it was legitimate. Maybe. Now it's just another word for 'unemployed.' ''
        In 1981 she became a visiting lecturer in Columbia University's writing program. Over the course of her career she also served as a lecturer and instructor in various writing workshops, including as a participant in the visiting authors program of the Woodrow Wilson National Fellowship Foundation, the lecture series at the Museum of Modern Art, and at the Museum of Television and Radio. She was writer in residence for a semester at James Thurber House in Columbus, Ohio, and a frequent resident at Yaddo, the artists' colony in Saratoga Springs, N.Y.
        She is survived by her cousin, of Oberlin, Ohio.
        Ms. Sayre was proud of having covered every presidential political convention from the time she returned to this country, and she continued to work eight hours a day up until the time she entered the hospital. Living in a New York City apartment bought for her by friends, partly to help her out and partly as an investment, she wrote drafts on yellow legal pads -- ''like Richard Nixon,'' she told Mr. Close. ''It isn't all writing,'' she explained. ''Some of it is rewriting or looking at things with a critical eye. It is very easy to fill eight hours this way.''
        She described herself to Mr. Close as ''of a certain age.'' She added: ''It isn't vanity, dear, but unfortunately writers are downgraded in our earnings, based on our age. They think we become less capable of grasping things.''
      