
        Ethel Redner Scull, who with her husband, Robert, achieved fame and social status in the 1960's by building one of the first major collections of Pop and Minimal art and becoming the subject of an Andy Warhol portrait, died on Monday at a retirement home in Manhattan. She was 79.
        The cause was a heart attack followed by a stroke, her son Jonathan said.
        Once an ardent partygoer and a devoted fashion buff, Mrs. Scull lived with her husband in an art-filled apartment on upper Fifth Avenue and wore creations by designers like Halston, Adolfo and Yves St. Laurent. But after the Skulls divorced in 1975, she had to curtail her way of life, eventually moving to a small one-bedroom East Side apartment.
        Her parting with Scull, a taxi tycoon, after a 30-year marriage, involved her in more than a decade of litigation with him and with his estate; he died in 1986 at 70. One of her major grievances, she said, was that although she had fully participated in their art purchases, her husband tried to take sole credit for them.
        After they parted in 1974, she told an interviewer in 1986, she could not get access to 35 paintings he had earlier put in storage when their apartment was being redecorated. And she had ''not enough for a sea urchin to live on,'' she said.
        In the litigation she went after what she said was rightly hers: half the paintings, property and money that the couple had acquired. In 1985 a State Supreme Court justice finally awarded her a 35 percent share in Scull's art holdings, including $2.5 million worth of paintings and more than $1 million in cash from paintings sold since 1973.
        Both sides met at a warehouse to divide the works in 1986. By the flip of a coin, Mrs. Scull won one of the most important, Jasper Johns's 1959 ''Out the Window.'' Later that year she sold it at auction for $3.63 million, then the highest amount paid for a work by a living artist. Calling its departure devastating, Ms. Scull said, ''I'm losing the Johns because I need money to live on.''
        But prolonged physical therapy for a back injury and a penchant for spending, her son said, gradually ate up the money and her alimony. Meanwhile her active social life ground to a halt. ''When you're not giving parties and not having the big shots of the world over, you're not invited,'' she said. ''And if your name is not in the columns, you fade away from the scene.''
        Besides Jonathan, of Manhattan, Mrs. Scull is survived by two other sons, Adam, of Miami Beach, and Stephen Paul, of Los Angeles; a sister, Lillian Kaplan of New York and Florida; and two grandchildren.
        Ethel Redner was born in the Bronx in 1921. Her father, Ben Redner, owned a taxicab company, and she led a privileged life. A tall, striking woman with a mane of tawny hair, she met her future husband, when she was 23.
        At the time she was studying advertising art at the Parsons School of Design, which she described as ''more of a finishing school then.'' In 1944, after a five-month courtship, she married Scull, who had dropped out of high school during the Depression and had an up-and-down career as a freelance illustrator and industrial designer.
        At first the couple lived in a small apartment near the Museum of Modern Art, and Mrs. Scull studied at the Art Students League, where she painted realist canvases.
        When her father retired, he gave shares in the business to his three sons-in-law. Within a few years Scull had built up his share into a fleet of 130 cabs with 400 drivers. By that time the couple lived in a house in Great Neck, N.Y., bought for them by Mrs. Scull's father. But the couple were culturally and socially ambitious and soon began looking for a larger theater than suburbia.
        At Mrs. Scull's prompting, they found it in Manhattan, where, with the rise of Abstract Expressionism, the art world was beginning to generate glamor and profits. At first the Sculls collected Abstract Expressionists but in the early 1960's discovered a world of newer, younger artists like Warhol, Robert Morris, Mark di Suvero and Larry Poons.
        In 1965 they auctioned off part of their Abstract Expressionist collection and used the money to start the Robert and Ethel Scull Foundation for the encouragement of unknown artists. It commissioned environmental works from aspirants like Walter de Maria and Michael Heizer and gave artists stipends, bought them food and clothes and paid for their materials.
        Mr. Scull also backed the Green Gallery, a showplace for innovative art founded by Richard Bellamy, for the five years of its existence.
        Their patronage established the Sculls, at first considered upstarts in the art world, as big-time players. Giving lavish parties themselves, they soon were celebrities.
        Gossip and art writers sought them out, and Mrs. Scull regularly made the fashion pages. In 1963 Warhol did her portrait, ''Ethel Scull 36 Times,'' comprising 36 silk-screen images made from snapshots taken in a Times Square photo booth. The couple was cast in plaster by the sculptor George Segal, with Mrs. Scull wearing a Courrèges dress. They established a base in East Hampton, N.Y., then the art world's summer summit.
        But in 1973, when they auctioned 50 works by up-and-coming artists for $2.2 million, at the time a record for contemporary American art, they were castigated by some artists and critics, among them Robert Rauschenberg, because they had acquired the art so cheaply. Mr. Rauschenberg accused the Sculls of infidelity and the auction house of encouraging profiteering.
        Later, asked by an interviewer about accusations that he and his wife bought art for investment and for social climbing, Mr. Scull replied: ''It's all true. I'd rather use art to climb than anything else.''
      