
        Ida Russ Schwartz, one of three sisters who with their father, Joel Russ, sliced smoked salmon, pickled herrings and weighed out caviar at Russ & Daughters, their renowned appetizer store on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, died on Aug. 24 in Pembroke Pines, Fla. She was 86.
        With her older sister, Hattie Gold, and her younger sister, Anne Federman, Mrs. Schwartz grew up working in the business begun as a pushcart in 1914 by their father.
        Eventually moving into a shop at the present location at 179 East Houston Street, the Russ family developed an enviable reputation for the finest smoked fish, cheeses, olives, salads, dried mushrooms and sweets, the nonmeat delicacies known as appetizers among Eastern European Jews.
        Ida Russ was born in New York.  Mrs. Federman said that their father, an immigrant from Russia, was a demanding taskmaster, and the entire family worked in the store, often after school and always on the busiest holidays and crowded Sundays.
        As a reward, about 50 years ago, Mrs. Federman recalls, they had a big celebration, and Mr. Russ, who had no sons, announced that his daughters would be partners, a progressive decision in those days.
        Mrs. Schwartz met her first husband, Max Pulvers, through work, and he, like the husbands of the other sisters, joined the business. They were divorced before his death.
        The feistiest of the sisters, Mrs. Schwartz was often at odds with her father as to how the business should be run, and finally left to open her own successful store, popularly known as Ida's, in Massapequa, N.Y. There she prepared many of the salads herself. Tiring of the long hours, Mrs. Schwartz became an antiques dealer and proved to have as sharp an eye for porcelain and glass as she did for smoked whitefish.
        A few years ago, she retired to Florida, as did her sisters, who survive her.
        Mrs. Schwartz is also survived by a daughter, Lorraine Commanday of Charlottesville, Va., and a son, Martin Russ Pulvers of Mountainview, Calif. Her second husband, Louis Schwartz, died before her.
        The family tradition continues at Russ & Daughters, with Mrs. Federman's son Mark, his wife, Maria, and their daughter, Niki, owning and operating the store.
      