
        Kate Born Schaeffer, a longtime partner with her husband at Schaeffer Galleries in Manhattan, which became known for selling art by old masters to museums and collectors, died on Dec. 20 at her home in Manhattan. She was 102.
        For three decades Mrs. Schaeffer and her husband, Dr. Hanns Schaeffer, ran the New York Schaeffer Galleries, which was founded in 1936 and has been at 983 Park Avenue in Manhattan for more than 50 years. They also contributed some artworks to museums.
        Dr. Schaeffer died in the early 1960's and Mrs. Schaeffer became the owner and president of Schaeffer Galleries until her death. Schaeffer Galleries is now owned and directed by the Schaeffers' daughter, Cornelia Bessie, who had been its vice president.
        James J. Rorimer, the director of the Metropolitan Museum of Art from 1955 to 1967, observed in 1961: ''The Schaeffers are among the most serious, knowledgeable and helpful art dealers who are enabling American museums to grow for the benefit of our public. They are friends who share unstintingly in helping curators, directors and trustees to choose with care the works of art which redound to the credit of their museums.''
        The paintings and drawings that passed through the Schaeffers' hands included, among many others, Botticelli's ''Madonna and Child with Singing Angels,'' now held by the Staatliche Museen in Berlin; a Cranach in the William Rockhill Nelson Gallery of Art in Kansas City, Mo.; Correggio's ''Salvator Mundi'' in the National Gallery of Art in Washington; Rubens's ''Cleopatra'' at the Detroit Institute of Arts; a Frans Hals at the Mauritshuis in The Hague; numerous Rembrandts, including ''Young Man With a Sword'' in the North Carolina Museum of Art in Raleigh; and da Vinci's ''Bear Walking'' and a Jean-Antoine Watteau, both at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        Gilbert S. Edelson, the administrative vice president of the Art Dealers Association of America, which is based in Manhattan, said the Schaeffers ''were knowledgeable, they were articulate, they had all the qualities that make truly distinguished dealers.''
        Mrs. Schaeffer, whose maiden name was Born, was born in Germany and studied singing in various European capitals. She was a lieder and opera singer in Germany for a few years before she married Dr. Schaeffer, who was also born in Germany, not long after World War I ended. Later, gallery work became her main activity.
        Her husband opened an art gallery in 1921 in Berlin and later operated galleries in London and San Francisco. Those galleries were also each named Schaeffer Galleries. All had closed before Schaeffer Galleries in Manhattan was founded, after the Schaeffers had moved to the United States permanently.
        Mrs. Schaeffer is survived by her daughter, Cornelia Bessie of Lyme, Conn.
      