
        Barbara Matera, a costumer who for five decades dressed the casts of the New York City Ballet, the Metropolitan Opera, movies and more than 100 Broadway shows, died on Thursday at the New York University Medical Center in New York. She was 72 and had homes in Manhattan and Athens, N.Y.
        The cause was a cerebral hemorrhage, said her husband, Arthur.
        Long considered an exemplar of her craft, Ms. Matera took the sketches of designers and breathed life into them, creating costumes the legendary showman David Merrick once called the best he had ever seen on Broadway. Barbara Matera Ltd., the shop she founded in 1968 with her husband, produced the costumes seen in the current Broadway productions of ''Beauty and the Beast,''  ''Aida,''  ''The Lion King,''  ''Kiss Me, Kate,''  ''42nd Street'' and the forthcoming ''Mamma Mia.''
        Born Barbara Gray in Kent, England, Ms. Matera began her career in the costume shops of the Adelphi Players, Covent Garden, the Ballet Romberg, Stratford-on-Avon and the Old Vic. She moved to the United States in 1960.
        Here, she became the archetypal costumer in the worlds of opera, ballet, theater and film, collaborating with the designers Irene Sharaff, her mentor; Theoni V. Aldredge; Patricia Zipprodt; Tony Walton; Julie Taymor; William Ivey Long; Freddy Wittop; and Desmond Healy.
        Armed with bolts of fabric, she would enter her workroom and begin her magic, draping and fitting her clients in a way that accentuated their assets and diminished their flaws. Always, her work had something secret and special: beneath a crinoline or a tutu, for instance, she would tuck a tiny silk rosebud.
        As the costumer for the American Ballet Theater, Ms. Matera outfitted the soloists and corps of ''Swan Lake,''  ''Othello,''  ''Snow Maiden,''  ''Theme and Variations'' and ''Gaieté Parisienne.'' For the New York City Ballet, she not only constructed and refurbished costumes, but designed them for productions including ''Sinfonia Mistica,''  ''Tanspiel,''  ''Five,'' and ''Baroque Variations.''
        She also dressed the dance companies of Paul Taylor, David Parsons, Lar Lubovitch and Eliot Feld, and the San Francisco and Houston Ballets.
        But it was her work on more than 100 Broadway plays and musicals for which Ms. Matera was perhaps most acclaimed, particularly the original 1972 production of ''Follies,'' whose lavish costumes won their designer, Florence Klotz, a Tony Award and increased the adulation of Merrick. Later, she would make the costumes for his ''42nd Street.''
        Ms. Matera's Broadway credits include ''A Chorus Line,''  ''A Little Night Music,''  ''La Cage aux Folles,''  ''Dreamgirls,''  ''Sunday in the Park With George,''  ''Sugar Babies,''  ''Nine,''  ''City of Angels,''  ''Angels in America,''  ''Into the Woods,''  ''Grand Hotel,''  ''Crazy for You,''  ''Sunset Boulevard'' and the recent revival of ''Annie Get Your Gun.''
        Among her film credits are ''The Great Gatsby,''  ''Death on the Nile,''
        ''The Age of Innocence,''  ''The Addams Family,''  ''Moonstruck'' and  ''Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom.''
        But her work was not limited to show business. She outfitted performers as disparate as Dame Joan Sutherland and Mick Jagger. She also made the purple crystal-encrusted gown that Hillary Rodham Clinton wore at her husband's first presidential inauguration.
        Ms. Matera's work was the subject of a 1996 exhibition at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts titled ''Inside and Out: The Costumes of Barbara Matera.''
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by a sister, Pauline Ritchie-Fallon, of Lymington, England.
      