
        Jane Dudley, a prominent dancer in Martha Graham's company in the 1930's and 40's who was also one of early modern dance's social-protest choreographers and a leading teacher in the United States and Britain, died on Wednesday in London. She was 89.
        Ms. Dudley had lived in London since 1970, when she started to teach at the London Contemporary Dance School, founded by the Graham patron Robin Howard to further modern dance in Britain.
        One of the most influential teachers of early Graham technique, she was director of contemporary dance studies at the London school until 1991, retiring from it in 1998. Although suffering from an arthritic hip and virtually crippled in her last years, she continued to choreograph. She appeared in ''Dancing Inside,'' a recent film about her work that was shown last year at the Dance on Camera festival at Lincoln Center.
        Tall and powerful in her movement, with remarkably expressive long arms, Ms. Dudley was initially identified with the roles she created in some of Martha Graham's signature works. In the 1940 ''Letter to the World,'' Graham's lyrical but fierce  meditation on Emily Dickinson and her poetry, Ms. Dudley was the Ancestress, a symbol of death and of the Puritan heritage.
        Ms. Graham's Emily figure was nurtured in Ms. Dudley's arms, but the same arms also separated the heroine and her lover later with amazingly powerful swings. John Martin in The New York Times reviewed Ms. Dudley in the same role in 1953. ''She is mother, conscience, death, negation, tender care,'' he wrote, ''and she manages with great eloquence, to be both cruel and compassionate.''
        None of that force seemed lost in 1970 when Ms. Dudley returned as the Ancestress in a guest appearance with the Graham troupe at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. The same season featured a revival of ''Death and Entrances,'' in which Graham, Ms. Dudley and Sophie Maslow had personified the Brontë sisters in 1943.
        Ms. Dudley's 1938 signature piece, ''Harmonica Breakdown,'' was in a different vein. Graham often commented on political and social issues, including the Depression and the Spanish Civil War. Ms. Dudley, however, belonged to a more politically radical wing of modern dance.
        She was a founder in l942 of the New Dance Group (an outgrowth of the earlier Workers' Dance League), which openly proclaimed the left-wing sympathies of its dancers and choreographers. Many of their dances were topical social-protest pieces. This was also true of many but not all works that Ms. Dudley, Ms. Maslow and William Bales created for a small troupe, the Dudley-Maslow-Bales Trio, from 1942 to 1954.
        Early pieces by Ms. Dudley bore titles like ''In the Life of a Worker,'' ''Songs of Protest,'' ''Under the Swastika'' and ''Women of Spain.'' But ''The Lonely Ones'' in 1946 was based on the cartoons of William Steig.
        When Ms. Dudley set ''Harmonica Breakdown'' to the music of Sonny Terry on the harmonica and Brownie McGhee on the washboard in 1938, it was seen originally as a solo of despair in the Dust Bowl era. She later described the repeated shuffle she performed in this solo as ''the effort that just living might seem to mean to black people.'' Revived in recent years to the acclaim of modern-dance troupes in the United States and Europe, the solo now appears vivid but more universal.
        Ms. Dudley was born on April 3, 1912 in New York City, where she attended the Walden School and started dance lessons at 6 with Ruth Doing. She attended the University of North Carolina. She studied dance in New York with Hanya Holm and performed with her company before joining the Graham troupe in 1935.
        She remained a member until 1944, but later appeared as a guest artist with the company. She taught as an assistant to Graham at the Neighborhood Playhouse and at the Graham school from 1938 to 1958. Later her students in London and at the New Dance Group knew her to be a exacting and uncompromising teacher.
        Ms. Dudley was divorced from Leo Hurwitz, a filmmaker. She is survived by her son, Tom Hurwitz, of New York, and three grandchildren.
      