
        Catherine G. Fabricant, an early proponent of the theory that herpes infections can lay the groundwork for a common form of heart disease, died Sept. 13 at a nursing home in Ithaca, N.Y. She was 81.
        The cause of death was kidney failure, her family said.
        The theory that some strains of herpes, as well as other viruses, play a role in atherosclerosis -- the life-threatening condition in which the arteries clog with plaque, reducing blood flow -- has not been confirmed.  But several studies have lent support to it, and it is the focus of many current research projects.
        ''It is clearly a hot area right now,'' said Dr. Sidney C. Smith, a professor of medicine at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and the chief science officer for the American Heart Association.
        The notion received a cooler response in the late 1970's, when Mrs. Fabricant, a researcher at Cornell University, began making a case for it along with a few other scientists.
        Mrs. Fabricant had several strikes against her. She was a woman, still a rarity among researchers at the time; she had never quite finished her doctorate (she put it aside to raise her children); and when she published her first findings, the wisdom taking hold was that atherosclerosis was simply the result of high cholesterol. It probably did not help that she did her work not in the field of human sciences but at Cornell's veterinary school.
        ''People with little or no knowledge of virology did not want to give up pet theories,'' she said in a Cornell newsletter in 1997. ''Especially not to a veterinary medical researcher, and especially not to a woman.''
        Although she was not the first researcher to suggest a link between infection and blocked arteries -- the theory was first proposed in the early 20th century -- she was among the first to provide evidence for it in the lab.
        Mrs. Fabricant's interest began in the late 1960's, associates said, when she discovered that a herpes virus was linked to urinary obstruction in cats. She later determined that the blockage was formed by cholesterol and, aware of cholesterol's role in heart disease, wondered if herpes was playing a role in that disease. Herpes takes many forms, infecting large numbers of people but often causing no discernible health problems.
        In the 1970's, working with her husband, Dr. Julius Fabricant, a microbiologist and bird disease expert at Cornell, Mrs. Fabricant began using chickens to test her theory. She infected one group with an avian herpes virus, while giving an uninfected group a diet high in cholesterol.
        Within a year, she reported, she had found clear evidence of a herpes link. The chickens that were infected had a much higher rate of lesions in their heart arteries, and the lesions resembled those seen in human heart disease, she said.
        Later studies by others found that cytomegalovirus, a herpes-related virus, is found in the fatty plaque of heart disease patients. Other studies have found similar links.
        Even if herpes is definitively established as a factor in heart disease, experts say, it would not mean that cholesterol levels play no role or that people should stop paying attention to their diets. Among the infected chickens Mrs. Fabricant studied, those given high-cholesterol diets had more blockages. Many experts believe that heart disease results from a complex interplay among infection, inherited traits, diet and other factors.
        Catherine Grenci Fabricant was born Sept. 24, 1919, in Davoli, Italy. Her family moved soon after to Rochester, where she grew up. In addition to her husband, she is survived by a daughter, Barbara L. Fabricant of New Albany, Ind.; a son, Daniel, of Melrose, Mass.; and two sisters, Carmella Arico of Rochester and Sue Ciulla of Phoenix.
        Mrs. Fabricant retired about 15 years ago, and she never achieved an academic rank higher than acting assistant professor. But many of her peers did not realize this.
        ''When we went to meetings,'' her husband recalled, ''practically everybody called her 'doctor' because, I guess, they assumed that nobody else could have done that sort of thing.''
      