
        Pauline Kael, who expressed her passion for movies in jaunty, jazzy prose as the longtime film critic for The New Yorker, died yesterday at her home in Great Barrington, Mass. She was 82.
        Ms. Kael was probably the most influential film critic of her time. She reviewed movies for The New Yorker from 1968 to 1979, and again, after working briefly in the film industry, from 1980 until 1991. Earlier, she was a film critic for Life magazine in 1965, for McCall's in 1965 and 1966 and for The New Republic in 1966 and 1967.
        Enchanting her fans and infuriating her foes, rarely dull and often sharp and funny, with an intellectualism that reflected her background as a student of philosophy, Ms. Kael was never anything but outspoken.
        Whether dismissing auteur theory, reviewing Robert Altman's ''Nashville'' (1975) before it was finished, questioning the extent of Orson Welles's contribution to ''Citizen Kane'' (1941) or proclaiming Bernardo Bertolucci's ''Last Tango in Paris'' (1973) as a cultural event comparable to the 1913 premiere of Stravinsky's ''Sacre du Printemps,'' Ms. Kael was always provocative. Her seductive writing style bred a legion of acolytes, known as Paulettes.
        The critic Louis Menand wrote in The New York Review of Books in March 1995: ''Kael was the most brilliantly ad hoc critic of her time, and she made it possible to care about movies without feeling pompous or giddy by showing that what comes first in everyone's experience of a movie isn't the form or the idea but the sensation, and that this is just as true for moviegoers who have been taught to intellectualize their responses to art as it is for everyone else.''
        By the time she retired, Mr. Menand observed, she had produced a generation of inferior imitators. ''The manner of appreciation she invented has become the standard manner of popular culture criticism in America,'' he wrote.
        Assessing her impact in a 1998 interview, Ms. Kael said: ''I think my influence was largely in style, not substance. Other critics sound like me because my writing has influenced them. They've rarely agreed with me about movies.''
        At the same time, she deflected the question of whether her criticism had had any effect on films and filmmakers. ''I'd rather not say,'' she answered. ''If I say yes, I'm an egotist, and if I say no, I've wasted my life. Although I've been told I have influenced some people to become directors. Unfortunately, most of them are lousy.''
        Overpraising or overdamning was Ms. Kael's way, and she left no doubt about her favorites: actors like Marlon Brando, Nicolas Cage, Sean Connery, Robert Duvall, Morgan Freeman, Tom Hanks, Tommy Lee Jones, Paul Newman, Nick Nolte, Al Pacino, John Travolta, Denzel Washington and Bruce Willis, and actresses like Joan Cusack, Diane Keaton, Anjelica Huston, Jessica Lange, Michelle Pfeiffer, Sigourney Weaver and Debra Winger.
        She championed films of the 1970's, like Francis Ford Coppola's ''Godfather'' (1972) and ''Godfather, Part II'' (1974); Martin Scorsese's ''Mean Streets'' (1973) and ''Taxi Driver'' (1976); Hal Ashby's ''Shampoo'' (1975); and Mr. Altman's ''McCabe and Mrs. Miller'' (1971) and ''M*A*S*H'' (1970). She also liked the sensual violence of directors like Sam Peckinpah, whose films included ''The Wild Bunch'' (1969) and ''Straw Dogs'' (1971), and Brian De Palma, whose works include ''Carrie'' (1976) and ''Casualties of War'' (1989).
        ''You know, they talk about the golden age of the cinema as if it took place in the late 30's or in the 40's,'' she said in 1989. ''There was nothing personal and exciting in most of those movies. They were machine tooled. They were a lot of fun. But except for Preston Sturges and a few flukey individualists, they just didn't have the personal voice of the movies of the 70's.''
        As a writer whose heyday spanned the years from ''Bonnie and Clyde'' (1967) to ''Awakenings'' (1990), ''Sleeping With the Enemy'' (1991) and ''L.A. Story'' (1991), Ms. Kael could mingle references to literary lions like Saul Bellow, Jean Genet and Norman Mailer with demotic condemnations like loony, sleazo, junk and bummer.
        In a 1968 review in The New York Times of ''Kiss Kiss Bang Bang,'' a collection of Ms. Kael's reviews and articles, Eliot Fremont-Smith called her ''the most quotable critic writing; but what is important and bracing is that she relates movies to other experiences, to ideas and attitudes, to ambition, books, money, other movies, to politics and the evolving culture, to moods of the audience, to our sense of ourselves -- to what movies do to us, the acute and self-scrutinizing awareness of which is always at the core of her judgment.''
        Reviewing ''The Sound of Music'' (1965) in treacle-curdling prose that reportedly prompted McCall's to dismiss her, Ms. Kael asked, ''Wasn't there perhaps one little Von Trapp who didn't want to sing his head off or who screamed that he wouldn't act out little glockenspiel routines for Papa's party guests, or who got nervous and threw up if he had to get out on a stage?''
        Writing about Kevin Costner in ''Dances With Wolves'' (1990), she said he had ''feathers in his hair and feathers in his head.'' Writing about Robert De Niro in ''Awakenings,'' she said, ''It's in the quiet moments that he's particularly bad.'' She also said that that film contained ''another of Robin Williams's benevolent-eunuch roles.''
        At her peak, she lauded popular movies like Steven Spielberg's ''Jaws'' (1975) and Philip Kaufman's ''Invasion of the Body Snatchers'' (1978) and became more of a supporter of the auteur theory. But in time, Ms. Kael, who attracted notice early in her career by attacking critics like Bosley Crowther of The Times and Andrew Sarris of The Village Voice, came under fire for predictability and dogmatism.
        It was inevitable that she should be the object of criticism herself. George Lucas named the villainous General Kael in ''Willow'' (1988) for her, and in a celebrated onslaught in The New York Review of Books in 1980, the writer Renata Adler declared Ms. Kael's work ''piece by piece, line by line, without interruption, worthless.''
        Ms. Adler, a former film critic for The Times, wrote that Ms. Kael's recent work ''falls somewhere between huckster copy and ideological pamphleteering,'' and that ''mistaking lack of civility for vitality, she substitutes for argument a protracted, obsessional invective.''
        Assessing her own work, Ms. Kael said: ''I try not to be rough on small films. Generally, when I'm really rough, it's on something that I know is going to be a big hit, and that everybody is going to go for it, and I think it's an atrocity -- that's fair game. I'm interested in discovering talent, and in trying to explain why I think someone is talented. I'm more interested in that than I am in panning.''
        Over the years, Ms. Kael's reviews and essays were assembled in a series of books whose double-entendre titles suggested the intimacy of her love affair with movies (she preferred the word ''movies'' to ''film'' or ''cinema''). Among them were ''I Lost It at the Movies'' (1965); ''Kiss Kiss Bang Bang'' (1968); ''Going Steady'' (1970); ''Deeper Into Movies'' (1973), a 1974 National Book Award winner; ''Reeling'' (1976); ''When the Lights Go Down'' (1980); ''Hooked'' (1989); ''Movie Love'' (1991); and ''For Keeps'' (1994).
        When the last was published, she said in the introduction: ''I'm frequently asked why I don't write my memoirs. I think I have.''
        Central to her approach to criticism was her belief that the popular appeal of movies was rooted in trash. In her essay ''Trash, Art and the Movies,'' reprinted in ''Going Steady,'' Ms. Kael wrote: ''Movies took their impetus not from the desiccated, imitation European high culture, but from the peep show, the Wild West show, the music hall, the comic strip -- from what was coarse and common.''
        She went on to say: ''If we've grown up at the movies, we know that good work is not continuous with the academic, respectable tradition but with glimpses of something good in trash, but we want the subversive gesture carried to the domain of discovery. Trash has given us an appetite for art.''
        Ms. Kael's appetite for the movies began in childhood. The fifth child and third daughter of immigrants from Poland, Isaac Paul Kael and the former Judith Friedman, she was born in Petaluma, Calif., on June 19, 1919. She described her father as a gentleman farmer and a moviegoer, and her own trips to see films began early.
        Among the favorites she recalled were comedies in the late 1920's that starred Bebe Daniels as a wisecracking flapper; ''Million Dollar Legs'' (1932), with W. C. Fields; and the Marx Brothers's ''Monkey Business'' (1931) and ''Duck Soup'' (1933).
        For a time the Kaels lived on their Sonoma County farm, which they lost in the Depression. Ms. Kael was 8 when her family moved to San Francisco.
        ''A bookish girl from a bookish family'' is the way she once described herself. Blue-eyed, brown-haired, five feet tall and weighing a bit more than 100 pounds, she said: ''I had trouble dating because I often disagreed about the quality of a movie. One boy was so upset at my laughing at 'Kentucky Moonshine,' a Ritz Brothers movie, that we never went to a movie again.''
        In 1936 she enrolled in the University of California at Berkeley, where she majored in philosophy. Despite expectations that she would proceed to law school or teaching, she went to New York with a friend, the poet Robert Horan, for about three years.
        When she returned to the Bay Area, she led a bohemian life, tried her hand at writing plays and helped make experimental films. Married and divorced three times, she supported herself and her daughter, Gina James, by writing advertising copy, clerking in a bookstore and working as a cook, a seamstress and a textbook writer.
        Ms. Kael never wrote movie criticism until she was 35 and, she said, ''I never made a living at this until I was in my 40's.'' Her career at The New Yorker did not begin until she was nearly 50.
        The turning point in her life came, as in a Hollywood script, when she was discovered in a coffee shop in the Bay Area in 1953. She was arguing about a movie with a friend when the editor of City Lights magazine asked them each to review Chaplin's ''Limelight.'' The friend turned in nothing. Ms. Kael's review called the film ''slimelight,'' and a career was born.
        Soon Ms. Kael was being published in magazines like Sight and Sound and Partisan Review, and her provocative criticism was being broadcast weekly on KPFA, Berkeley's listener-supported radio station. The radio criticism led to an offer to manage an art theater, which she turned into a two-screen house, the Berkeley Cinema Guild Theaters.
        ''I made the displays, wrote the program and cleaned the chewing gum off the seats,'' she said. She revived W. C. Fields, Mae West and Busby Berkeley films and Welles's ''Touch of Evil'' (1958) and showed Ingmar Bergman films before they became staples of art houses elsewhere. ''It was exciting turning up things and drawing an audience to see them,'' she said.
        The feisty, funny reviews that she wrote for the programs enhanced her reputation, and she began lecturing on film at universities in San Francisco and Los Angeles.
        She was 46 when her essays in Partisan Review led to an offer to publish her first book, ''I Lost It at the Movies,'' a collection of her articles and broadcasts, which became a best seller. In it she praised movies like Jean Renoir's ''Grand Illusion'' (1937), Vittorio de Sica's ''Shoeshine'' (1946) and Martin Ritt's ''Hud'' (1963). She attacked other critics, poked fun at materialistic movie magnates and derided the pretensions of Alain Resnais's ''Last Year at Marienbad'' (1961), calling it ''the snow job in the ice palace.''
        Assignments from magazines began to flow in, and in 1965, Ms. Kael, her daughter and Ms. Kael's two basenjis (dogs that, interestingly, cannot bark) moved to New York.
        In 1968, in response to an offer from  William Shawn, the editor of The New Yorker, who was willing to let her write whatever she wanted and at length, Ms. Kael began to review movies for the magazine. Until 1979, she reviewed weekly from September through March, and Penelope Gilliatt reviewed for the other half of the year.
        Ms. Kael's first review for The New Yorker was virtually the only rave that ''Bonnie and Clyde'' received in New York, but it compelled other critics to reconsider their assessments.
        At 59, Ms. Kael left The New Yorker for Hollywood. She briefly worked as a production executive for Warren Beatty. After that job ended over what were described as ''artistic differences,'' Paramount Pictures put her under contract as a consultant and scout for several months before she returned to The New Yorker in 1980.
        Ms. Gilliatt had departed, and Ms. Kael began writing every two weeks, commuting to New York from a Victorian home on four and a half acres in Massachusetts that she bought for $37,000 in 1970. In New York, she stayed in a hotel for four days and saw two movies nightly. Back home at night, she wrote. Her daughter, an artist, lived nearby with her family.
        She is survived by her daughter, Ms. James, of Great Barrington, and a grandson, William Friedman, also of Great Barrington, and two sisters, Anne Wallach and Rose Makower, both of Berkeley.
        Ms. Kael was reputed never to see a film more than once, yet she seemed to remember everything, from lighting and costumes to writing, sound, direction and performances.
        In 1991, at 71, after 22 years at The New Yorker, Ms. Kael retired from regular reviewing.
        Looking back on her impassioned love affair with movies, she once said, ''I was a film critic the way somebody might write poetry, for fun or love.''
      