
        Helen Coley Nauts, who devoted her life to championing the once-neglected cancer-treatment discoveries of her father and founded a cancer institute, died at home last Tuesday in Manhattan. She was 93.
        Mrs. Nauts was the daughter of Dr. William B. Coley, a surgeon and cancer specialist who, trying to help seriously ill patients for whom he had been able to do nothing, hit on the idea of injecting them with a mixture of live bacteria. The goal was to goad the body into producing its own defenses against cancer.
        Dr. Coley, who practiced at what became the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, recorded many cures with bacteria injection, but his successes were not easily replicated and could not be explained. The method came to be dismissed by much of the medical establishment as unproven, even quackery, and was eventually overshadowed by radiation and chemotherapy.
        After her father died in 1936, Mrs. Nauts, who was at home raising two daughters, decided to go through his papers to write his biography. As she did, she came across many records of seriously ill cancer patients who, after being injected with what are still referred to as ''Coley's toxins,'' appeared to have recovered.
        Convinced that medicine was overlooking a powerful tool -- and, perhaps more important, her associates say, incensed at the aspersions the medical establishment had cast on her father and his work -- Mrs. Nauts embarked on a crusade. In 1953, she established the Cancer Research Institute, which now has an annual budget of $14 million and provides support for scientists around the world. She eventually succeeded in returning her father's work to the attention of oncologists.
        ''She was inflamed,'' said Dr. Lloyd J. Old, an immunotherapy expert at Sloan-Kettering and a longtime friend. ''She was absolutely inflamed by a grand idea.''
        Dr. Coley is now often described as the founder of modern immunotherapy, a major cancer treatment. Although Coley's toxins are rarely used, his discoveries of the late 19th century are credited with helping researchers develop more modern therapies. And Mrs. Nauts has received many awards for her work.
        The theory that the body's defenses can be brought to bear in the fight against disease was not new when William Coley began putting them into practice. The concept dates to antiquity. But Dr. Coley was one of the first to use bacteria to fight cancer systematically and, at least by the medical standards of his day, methodically.
        He got the idea after learning of a cancer patient with a sometimes fatal skin infection, not uncommon among surgery patients then. The patient survived the infection but his cancer had fared less well; it seemed to have disappeared. After finding similar cases in the records, Dr. Coley set out to develop a cancer vaccine made from bacteria.
        Despite his successes and initially positive reactions from colleagues, Dr. Coley was never able to win broad support for his treatment and, according to a 1984 article in Science magazine, died a disappointed man.
        Helen Lancaster Coley, his daughter with his wife, the former Alice Lancaster, was born Sept. 2, 1907, in Sharon, Conn., and was raised in New York City. She attended the Brearley School in Manhattan and Miss Porter's in Farmington, Conn., then studied landscape architecture for a time at Columbia. But she came from a milieu and a time in which she was not expected to pursue a career. Her husband, William Boone Nauts, who died about a decade ago, was a banker, and Mrs. Nauts raised her children, did volunteer work and some landscape design.
        All that changed after her father's death, when she began poring over 15,000 letters and other records stored in a barn in Sharon. Dr. Coley had been a clinician, not a researcher, and the task of giving order to the papers was monumental.
        About two years later, Mrs. Nauts went to the medical director of Dr. Coley's hospital and said she thought that her father's work deserved reappraisal. Her best course of action, she was told, was to put together 100 or so case histories; she eventually produced 1,000, along the way educating herself about cancer. She was so precise that cancer researchers today still examine the monographs she published for clues about the disease, Dr. Old said.
        In an interview with Science, Mrs. Nauts described a meeting with a Mount Sinai Hospital bacteriologist, Dr. Gregory Shwartzman, with whom her father had corresponded.
        ''I had read Shwartzman's book on the reaction of tumors to bacteria, and had prepared 13 pages of questions based on it,'' Mrs. Nauts recalled. ''During the interview, I took 80 pages of notes. Shwartzman couldn't believe anyone could be that thorough. But because I had no medical education, I had to be that way.''
        In the years that followed, Mrs. Nauts wrote thousands of letters to doctors and patients who had used her husband's methods, seeking specifics about their cases. Her efforts were not always welcomed by the medical establishment.
        ''At times the response to her could be described as vitriolic,'' said Dr. Alan M. Houghton, chairman of immunotherapy at Sloan-Kettering. But Mrs. Nauts was unyielding, and as the field of immunotherapy grew, researchers recognized the value of Dr. Coley's once-ignored work.
        Even some admirers say she may have lost perspective at times. And family members -- Mrs. Nauts is survived by two daughters, Phyllis Lancaster Nauts of Cornwall, Conn., and New York, and Nancy Nauts Dobbs of the British Virgin Islands and Bali, Indonesia -- said her crusade could be hard on her family.
        ''We felt she spent much too much time,'' Mrs. Dobbs said. ''I remember once saying to her, 'Mommy, let's play.' And she said, 'I can't play, because people are dying when I'm not working.' ''
      