
        Alice Stewart Trillin -- an educator, film producer and author also known as the muse of her husband, the humorist Calvin Trillin -- died on Tuesday evening at New York Presbyterian Hospital. She was 63.
        The cause of death was heart failure resulting from radiation damage to her heart when she was treated for lung cancer in 1976, her husband said.
        She was what Sarah Lyall in a 1994 interview in The New York Times described as ''muse, cheerleader, literary interpreter, straight person and buster of bubbles,'' often appearing as a character in her husband's books. She also became an activist who wrote authoritatively about the life of cancer patients.
        Because of her earlier illness, which she said was caused by her parents' heavy smoking during her childhood, she became interested in the relationship of cancer patients and doctors. In 1981 she published an article in The New England Journal of Medicine, ''Of Dragons and Garden Peas: A Cancer Patient Talks to Doctors,'' which is still used in medical schools.
        In 1996 she published a book, ''Dear Bruno,'' based on a letter she had sent to a 12-year-old who had cancer. Last January she wrote a much-discussed article for The New Yorker, ''Betting Your Life,'' dealing with the way patients make medical decisions.
        Alice Stewart was born on May 8, 1938, in Portchester, N.Y., the only child of Dorothy and James Stewart, a businessman and inventor specializing in the coin changers of vending machines.
        She attended public school in Harrison, N.Y.; Wellesley College, where she earned B.A. in 1960, and Yale University, where she earned an M.A. in English in 1961. She taught English at Hofstra University and the City University of New York.
        In the mid-1960's, she helped design a pioneering writing curriculum for the Open Admissions Program at City College, and she later became writing program specialist at the City University's instructional resource center. Her interest in curriculum design led consulting work for WNET/Thirteen when the television stations was looking for new approaches to educational programming.
        In 1981 she formed Learning Designs, a company that produced award-winning educational television series like ''Behind the Scenes,'' starring the comedians Penn and Teller designed to teach 10-to-12-year-olds about the creative process in the visual and performing arts.
        In 1965 she married Mr. Trillin and began to appear as the voice of occasionally deflating reason in his autobiographical writings, particularly his three books about food called ''The Tummy Trilogy'' -- ''American Fried,'' ''Alice, Let's Eat'' and ''Third Helpings'' -- as well as in ''Travels With Alice'' and ''Family Man.''
        Ms. Trillin was on the faculty at New York Medical College, and a board member of The Hole in the Wall Gang Fund, which supports camps for children with cancer and blood diseases.
        In addition to her husband, she is survived by two daughters, Abigail, of San Francisco, and Sarah, of Los Angeles.
      