
        Dorothy McGuire, who came to Hollywood from Broadway to repeat her 1941 stage success in the title role in ''Claudia,'' and went on to have a long and distinguished film career playing sensitive, intelligent and steadfast women, died yesterday in Santa Monica, Calif. She was 83.
        Miss McGuire broke her leg three weeks ago and then developed arrhythmia, said her daughter, Mary Hackett Swope.
        Miss McGuire is perhaps best remembered for her portrayal of Katie Nolan, the mother in the 1945 film of Betty Smith's novel ''A Tree Grows in Brooklyn.'' Dealing with the hardships of tenement life in Williamsburg, the film marked Elia Kazan's directorial debut in Hollywood. It also starred James Dunn, who won an Oscar as best supporting actor for his performance as Miss McGuire's doomed husband; Peggy Ann Garner, who received a special Oscar for her role as their daughter Francie; Joan Blondell; and Lloyd Nolan.
        The following year, Miss McGuire gave what Leonard Maltin and other critics called ''an unforgettable performance'' in Robert Siodmak's ''Spiral Staircase,'' playing a mute  servant menaced in a strange household that might be harboring a psychopathic killer.
        In 1947 Mr. Kazan summoned her again, this time to play opposite Gregory Peck in Moss Hart's adaption of ''Gentlemen's Agreement,'' Laura Z. Hobson's novel about anti-Semitism. The film earned an Academy Award for best picture, and Mr. Kazan received his first Oscar as best director. Celeste Holm won an Oscar as best supporting actress for the film, and Miss McGuire was nominated for best actress but lost to Loretta Young in ''The Farmer's Daughter.''
        Another signature role that showcased Miss McGuire's ability to project simplicity, warmth and forbearance was that of the wife of Jess Birdwell (Gary Cooper) and the mother of Josh Birdwell (Anthony Perkins) in ''Friendly Persuasion,'' William Wyler's 1956 film about a Quaker family living in southern Indiana during the Civil War.
        Miss McGuire remained strongly interested in the stage long after she established herself as a movie actress. In the mid-1940's, she, Mr. Peck, Jennifer Jones, Joseph Cotten, Mel Ferrer and other actors formed  the La Jolla Players, a repertory company in California. Over the years, she also appeared in several stage productions in New York, including an adaptation of Sherwood Anderson's ''Winesburg, Ohio'' in 1958 and Tennessee Williams's ''Night of the Iguana'' in 1976. Walter Kerr, reviewing ''The Night of the Iguana'' for The New York Times, said Miss McGuire played the role of the spinster ''with great charm and intelligence.''
        Dorothy Hackett McGuire was born on June 14, 1918, in Omaha, Neb., the daughter of Thomas Johnson McGuire, a lawyer, and Isabelle Flaherty McGuire. She showed an early talent for the stage and began to act in the Omaha Little Theater.  Her parents' marriage failed, and after her father's death when she was 14, she was sent to a convent school in Indianapolis, where she pursued her interest in acting and played the role of the Virgin Mary in one production. (Years later, she was cast again as the Virgin Mary in George Stevens's 1965 film, ''The Greatest Story Ever Told.'') After leaving the convent school, she went to Pine Manor Junior College in Wellesley, Mass., where she was president of the Mimes and Masks drama club.
        Graduating from Pine Manor at 19, she came to New York, determined to work as an actress while supporting herself as a model. If anyone asked what she liked to do in her spare time, she would say that she enjoyed Edna St. Vincent Millay's poetry and Debussy's music.
        In 1938 she got a break of sorts, when she was selected to be Martha Scott's understudy in Thornton Wilder's hit play ''Our Town.'' When Miss Scott went to Hollywood, Miss McGuire took over the role. She did well, but the critics had already seen the play, and her efforts went largely unnoticed, except by her fellow actors. In the late 1930's she played in the road company of ''My Dear Children'' (a vehicle for John Barrymore) and appeared with Benny Goodman, Louis Armstrong and Maxine Sullavan in ''Swingin' the Dream,'' a musical version of Shakespeare's ''Midsummer Night's Dream'' that flopped.
        But in 1941 she heard that the producer John Golden and the author Rose Franken were looking for someone to play the title role in ''Claudia,'' Miss Franken's play  about a child-wife. Miss Franken and Mr. Golden had already auditioned  and rejected 208 actresses for the role, made familiar by Miss Franken's 2 novellas and 22 short stories about the character.
        Miss McGuire was so intimidated by the prospect of auditioning for the role that she almost didn't try out. She knew that she tended to be rather mechanical when she read lines for the first time and didn't think Miss Franken would approve of her. But Miss Franken saw through the stiffness of the audition and concluded that Miss McGuire would be perfect for the part.
        She was right; the production was a great success. Writing in The Times, Brooks Atkinson said that although Miss McGuire was ''a little inexperienced as an actress, she is personally genuine; the charm she radiates across the play is not merely a theater mannerism.''
        Miss McGuire's appearance in ''Claudia'' earned her a special award from the Drama League for the best performance in 1941 by a young actor. She went on tour with the play in June 1942 and a year later arrived in Hollywood to recreate the role on film with Robert Young as her husband, David. ''Claudia'' was a hit, and so was its sequel, ''Claudia and David,'' in which Claudia becomes a mother.
        The next two decades proved to be especially productive for Miss McGuire. Among her films were ''The Enchanted Cottage'' (1945), in which she and Young starred again, and  ''Till the End of Time'' (1946), in which she played a war widow, and Robert Mitchum and Guy Madison portrayed veterans trying to cope with civilian life. In 1950 she toured with the La Jolla Players in Tennessee Williams's ''Summer and Smoke,'' and also starred with Burt Lancaster and Edmund Gwenn in ''Mister 880,'' a charming movie about a small-time counterfeiter.
        In 1951 she returned to Broadway to appear opposite the young Richard Burton in ''Legend of Lovers,''  Kitty Black's adaptation of a play by  Jean Anouilh. Although critics liked Miss McGuire, they did not approve of the production, and it closed after only 22 performances.
        Her other films included ''Invitation'' (1952), ''Three Coins in the Fountain'' (1954), ''Trial'' (1955), ''A Summer Place'' (1959) and William Inge's ''Dark At the Top of the Stairs'' (1960). During this period she also acted in television, especially for the Hallmark Theater.
        She also had roles in the films ''Mother Didn't Tell Me'' (1950), ''I Want You'' (1951), ''Callaway Went Thataway'' (1951), ''Make Haste to Live'' (1953), ''This Earth Is Mine'' (1959), ''The Remarkable Mr. Pennypacker'' (1959), ''Swiss Family Robinson'' (1960) and ''Flight of the Doves'' (1971). She was a voice actor in ''Jonathan Livingston Seagull'' (1973).
        Miss McGuire was married to John Swope, a photographer and producer who died in 1979. Miss McGuire is survived by her daughter and a son, Mark Swope.
        After her husband's death, she accepted fewer roles. But she did appear in a Los Angeles production of Lillian Hellman's ''Another Part of the Forest'' in 1982 and in Phil Penningroth's ''Ghost Dancing,'' a 1983 television movie in which she played a frail, eccentric widowed farmer  who dynamites a reservoir in a battle over water.
        Reviewing it in The Times, John O'Connor said that Miss McGuire was ''an actress whose presence has been unfailingly elegant'' and that she gave ''a performance of powerful dignity.'' It was praise she was used to hearing.
      