
        Kay Teer Crawford, whose sympathy for high school girls who did not make the cheerleading squad in her Texas hometown led her to start one of the first of the drill teams, died on Aug. 29 at her home in Redondo Beach, Calif. She was 88.
        Her son Kim said the reason earlier reports of her death listed her as 83 was that she had lopped five years off her age when she was 75 to increase her employment opportunities. Almost until her death, she actively promoted drill teams not just as entertainment but as a sport.
        Mrs. Crawford, a cheerleader herself, came up with the concept of having sequined young women prancing about at sporting events around the time Gussie Nell Davis had the same idea with her Flaming Flashes in Greenville, Tex. Miss Davis went on to form the celebrated Kilgore Rangerettes of Kilgore College in Kilgore, Tex.
        A Kilgore College history reports that Miss Davis began the Greenville troupe in 1928, two years before Mrs. Crawford started the Sergeanettes at Edinburg High School in Edinburg, Tex. But Janet Mar, Mrs. Crawford's personal assistant, insists that her boss was first with the inimitable combination of high-spirited marching, dancing and kicking that became an American tradition.
        Whatever the chronology, Mrs. Crawford's contribution to the world of drill teams looms large. She brought the idea from Texas to Southern California, where she spent many years adding show-business glamour to plain old Texas strutting. She provided drill teams for 10 Super Bowls, 4 Rose Bowls and 7 Pro Bowls, and at the 1984 Los Angeles Olympics, she put 1,268 drill team members through their lively paces.
        Two years later, at the rededication of the Statue of Liberty, she fielded a team almost that large, including all-stars from every state. The next year, she helped orchestrate a celebration surrounding a mass by Pope John Paul II at Dodger Stadium in Los Angeles.
        David Wolper, who produced the Olympic and Statue of Liberty shows, said: ''Kay recruited, trained and prepared thousands of young drill team girls for the events, and when Kay trained them, they were perfect. We have lost a real champion.''
        Kay Waweehie Teer, whose mother was half-Cherokee and half-Comanche, was born on a farm near Granger, Tex., on Aug. 16, 1914. Her father moved off the farm to become the sheriff of Hidalgo County, Tex., where he made his wife and only child deputies so they could travel with him over the vast territory on official business.
        He died shortly after moving to Edinburg to take a different law enforcement job. Mrs. Crawford and her mother then squatted in a succession of vacant houses, stealing from gardens to eat. Eventually, they moved in with relatives.
        Mrs. Crawford won a coveted cheerleader position, but hated facing the envy and resentment of the 90 girls who did not make it. Inspired by the marching of Reserve Officer Training Corps cadets at a nearby junior college, she asked her principal to start what she at first called a spirit group, something that all the girls could join the next year. Her idea was accepted, and the Sergeanettes took the field in the fall of 1930.
        ''All of the women were included,'' Ms. Mar said. ''Nobody got left out.''
        Mrs. Crawford then worked her way through what is now Pan American University, where she earned an associate's degree, while cleaning toilets for money and wearing damaged clothing to make ends meet. She earned a bachelor's degree from Baylor University and a master's degree from the University of Texas, writing a thesis titled, ''The Educational Value of Drill Teams in the High School Curriculum.''
        She took her drill team idea to El Centro High School in El Centro, Calif., and from there to San Diego High School and Santa Monica High School. She added props, from canes to matador capes, and persuaded a friend in the fabric business to develop nylon pompoms as a more versatile substitute for paper ones.
        She then taught physical education and coached drill teams at Santa Monica College, whose president, Richard Moore, said, ''With her batons, hats and costumes, she established college pride, no matter what the prowess of the athletic crew.''
        Mrs. Crawford coached cheerleaders for the University of Southern California, the University of California at Los Angeles, the Los Angeles Rams of the National Football League and the Los Angeles Express of the defunct United States Football League.
        She opened a drill team summer camp, started an international competition for drill teams, founded and edited a magazine on the subject of drill teams, and wrote what some consider the definitive textbook on the subject.
        Her husband, James H. Crawford, died several years ago after 54 years of marriage. A teetotaler, Mrs. Crawford met him while she was volunteering to greet returning veterans at a bar; he was the one wearing a marine uniform while drinking a glass of milk, their son Kim said.
        Mrs. Crawford is survived by Kim, who lives in Dana Point, Calif.; another son, Jay, of Rolling Hills Estates, Calif.; a daughter, Jan Crawford of Torrance, Calif.; nine grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
        Mrs. Crawford did not achieve her loftiest ambition. She had been heartily campaigning to make drill team competitions an Olympic sport.
      