
        Gloria Foster, the distinguished stage actress who portrayed generations of African-American characters in plays like ''In White America'' and ''Having Our Say,'' died on Saturday at her home in Manhattan. She was 64.
        The cause was diabetes, said Clarence Williams 3rd, her former husband.
        Born in Chicago and reared by her grandmother, Ms. Foster studied at the Goodman Theater School of Drama and made her professional debut in the County Theater at the University of Chicago.
        In 1963 she moved to New York and walked into an open audition for Martin B. Duberman's ''In White America,'' a dramatic overview of the black American experience from life aboard 18th-century slave ships to the 20th-century crusade for civil rights.
        Soft-spoken and polite and with a Mona Lisa smile, Ms. Foster won her role over dozens of seasoned New York actresses. She soon found herself onstage at the Sheridan Square Theater in Greenwich Village, portraying no fewer than 27 characters.
        It was a performance that won her ample attention from New York critics and producers. Writing in The New York Times, Howard Taubman called Ms. Foster ''the most moving of all'' the actors in the play. He later wrote that she ''shook New York'' in that role. In particular he cited her portrayal of the teenage black girl who was the first to integrate Central High in Little Rock, Ark. Life magazine also singled out the scene, and later published a two-page spread on Ms. Foster. She won an Obie Award for that performance, one of three she would receive.
        Judith Rutherford James, who produced ''In White America,'' soon cast Ms. Foster again, in 1965, this time as Medea at the Martinique Theater on West 32nd Street, an Off Broadway house that has since vanished. That performance won Ms. Foster another Obie in addition to a Theater World Award, and officially established her as a formidable classical actress.
        In later decades, Ms. Foster took on a range of classical roles, including Titania and Hippolyta in ''A Midsummer Night's Dream,'' Andromache in ''The Trojan Women'' and the mother in ''Blood Wedding.'' Many of these productions were produced under the auspices of the New York Shakespeare Festival, whose longtime producer, Joseph Papp, also cast Ms. Foster as modern-day characters, including Miss Molly Hoffenburg in Bill Gunn's ''Forbidden City,'' for which she won a third Obie in 1989.
        Perhaps more than awards, however, Ms. Foster's career was notable for the directorial talent that sought her out, including Andrei Serban, who chose her for his Clytemnestra in ''Agamemnon,'' in a 1977 production at the Delacorte Theater in Central Park, and Joseph Chaikin, who cast her as the central character in ''Trespassing,'' in 1982.
        Ms. Foster also worked in film and television, playing a supporting role in the movie ''Nothing but a Man'' (1964). Younger hipster audiences were later introduced to Ms. Foster in the 1999 hit ''The Matrix,'' in which she played the Oracle, a mystical seer who sends the movie's hero (played by Keanu Reeves) on his reality-bending mission.
        Though familiar Off Broadway, Ms. Foster became famous on Broadway in 1995 as Sadie Delany, the gracious 103-year-old whose story, and that of her more vinegary 101-year-old sister, Bessie, was told in Emily Mann's ''Having Our Say.''
        The play, based on the sisters' best-selling memoir, opened at the Booth Theater to near-unanimous good reviews, including stellar notices for Ms. Foster and her co-star, Mary Alice. So seamless were the performances that audience members standing at the stage door often mistook the two actresses for the actual centenarians, offering to help Ms. Foster and Ms. Alice navigate the sidewalk.
        In 1999 Ms. Foster made her last appearance, in a revival of ''A Raisin in the Sun,'' alongside Ruben Santiago-Hudson, at the Williamstown Theater Festival in Massachusetts. Again, as she had throughout her career, Ms. Foster turned her natural reserve into a strength as Lena Younger, the matriarch at the play's center. The mother is the last to leave the stage, a moment that was tailor-made for Ms. Foster's quiet power.
        No immediate family members survive.
      