
        Elaine Dannheisser, a longtime collector of contemporary art who gave most of her collection to the Museum of Modern Art, died on Sunday night at her home in Manhattan. She was 77 and had homes in Manhattan and East Hampton.
        Her death was announced by a spokeswoman for the Modern, who said that she had died in her sleep.
        During the 1980's in particular, Mrs. Dannheisser was a fixture on the international art circuit who rarely missed an exhibition, art fair or auction. She was famous for her malapropisms, consistently referring to the Reina Sofia, a prominent museum of modern art in Madrid, as the Sophia Loren and once telling a friend that she did not approve of ''unanimous sex.''
        Mrs. Dannheisser considered her holdings ''a living collection'' and continually sold off and bought new works, often after pursuing them a great while. Although her taste tended to follow existing trends, she became increasingly drawn to what she called ''tough'' art as her self-education as a collector continued.
        Elaine Fansling was born in Brooklyn in 1923. Her father was a florist, and her mother was a painter who frequently took her daughter to museums. She studied painting at the Art Students League, began working as an illustrator and continued to paint until her interest in collecting took over.
        In 1953, she married Werner Dannheisser, a refugee from Nazi Germany and an owner of a successful engraving company who dabbled in collecting. With her drive and his money, the couple progressed from modern to contemporary, buying works by Picasso, Leger and Rouault, and then Dubuffet, Rothko, Rauschenberg and Agnes Martin. She often said she wished she could have lived in Paris when Gertrude Stein did, but gradually realized that she could be equally involved with the art of her own time.
        Mr. Dannheisser sold his business in 1981, just as the East Village art scene was taking off and contemporary-art collecting became a very competitive sport. Mrs. Dannheisser bought a building on Duane Street in TriBeCa for the display of the collection and, with an allowance from her husband, began actively purchasing works by neo-Expressionist and graffiti artists.
        In the mid-1980's, she decided these works were not demanding enough. She sold many of them and, with the profits, became one of the first collectors to buy the work of emerging artists like Robert Gober, Jeff Koons and Felix Gonzalez-Torres, and, later, Matthew Barney. The collection became international in scope and more Minimalist, Conceptualist and installationist in orientation, with most artists represented by at least two, and sometimes as many as 10, works.
        Unlike many collectors of contemporary art, she did not seek out friendships with artists, saying that knowing them could cloud her judgment. One of her few artist friends was Jim Hodges, who worked as caretaker and preparator at her Duane Street building in return for free studio space in the building's basement.
        Mrs. Dannheisser's involvement with museums also had phases. She served on the boards of the New Museum of Contemporary Art and the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum before settling on the Modern.
        She joined the Modern's painting and sculpture committee in 1990. In 1996 she became a trustee at the Modern and also gave the museum 75 works by 28 artists, one of the largest gifts in its history. Among other things, it included works by Mr. Gober, Mr. Koons and Gonzalez-Torres as well as Bruce Nauman, Sigmar Polke, Richard Serra, Cindy Sherman, Thomas Struth and Joseph Beuys.
        In the 1990's, Mrs. Dannheisser's collection had quite a bit of competition from her avid interest in bridge, but she continued to buy, and to sell, art until her death.
        Her husband died in 1992, and there are no immediate survivors. A spokeswoman for the Museum of Modern Art said yesterday that Mrs. Dannheisser bequeathed additional works by Willem de Kooning, Richard Prince, Cady Noland and Ashley Bickerton to the Modern, along with a cash gift of $2 million. All her other assets will go to establishing the Elaine Dannheisser Foundation.
        Correction:  November 9, 2001, Friday  An obituary of the art collector Elaine Dannheisser on Oct. 30 misstated her maiden name. It was Hanfling, not Fansling.
      