
        Beatrice S. Burstein, who was one of the first women to serve as a justice of the State Supreme Court and who used her position to promote social activism, died on Saturday at her home in Lawrence, on Long Island. She was 85.
        In a judicial career that spanned 30 years, Justice Burstein served on three different courts in Nassau County, outspokenly voicing her liberal opinions and acting as an advocate for the rights of children and prisoners at a time when the courts and county politics were dominated by conservatives.
        Justice Burstein helped set up the first outpatient drug treatment center in Nassau County, visited detention centers unannounced to check on conditions, and pushed for the establishment of the first school at the Nassau jail.
        As the wife of a prominent lawyer and the mother of six, including former Judge Karen S. Burstein, a former candidate for state attorney general, Justice Burstein belonged to what one federal judge called ''the first legal family of Nassau County.''
        In addition to Karen Burstein, Justice Burstein is survived by her daughters Ellen, Patricia and Jessica, all of New York; two sons, John, of Camden, Me., and Judd, of Westport, Conn.; a sister, Helen Deutsch of Deerfield Beach, Fla.; and two grandsons.
        Justice Burstein was born on May 18, 1915, in Brooklyn. Her parents, Joseph and Tillie Sobel, were immigrants from what is now Poland. She attended New Utrecht High School in Brooklyn and New York University. While at college, she also took piano classes at the Juilliard School of Music on a scholarship. She earned her law degree from St. John's University and passed the New York State Bar exam in 1940.
        While in law school, she met her future husband, Herbert Burstein. They married in 1937, and Justice Burstein became an associate at her husband's law firm when she finished law school. In 1958, she became a founding partner in the firm of Burstein & Agata, where she specialized in family law.
        Justice Burstein was the first woman to be appointed to the New York State Commission of Correction, on which she served from 1955 to 1961. She also served on President John F. Kennedy's Commission on Juvenile Delinquency at the United Nations in 1961.
        A Democrat, she was elected in 1962 with bipartisan support to District Court in Nassau County. Six years later, she was elected to Family Court. In 1972, she took a seat on the State Supreme Court in Nassau County, serving for the next 19 years, with the maximum of three post-retirement extensions.
        Justice Burstein became a role model for judges seeking to extend their influence outside of the courtroom. She pushed to have psychiatric evaluations and probation reports completed more swiftly. She tried to visit every detention facility in her county, and in 1970, pushed for and succeeded in ending the solitary confinement of children.
        She retired as a judge at the age of 76, but remained active in the legal system, serving as a judicial hearing officer for the state appellate division until last year.
        ''She was really one of the first feminists to make a legal and judicial career in the metropolitan area,'' said Justice Jack B. Weinstein, a senior federal judge with the United States District Court in the Eastern District of New York. ''She retained a youthful interest and concern for society as it was evolving rather than as it was theoretically viewed by some court members.''
      