
        Jacqueline T. Babbin, a television producer who won an Emmy Award for ''Sybil,'' a 1976 TV drama, died on Oct. 6 at her home in Kent, Conn. She was 80.
        The cause was cancer, said Shirley E. Herz, her longtime friend and former publicist.
        Ms. Babbin produced dozens of shows, but it was ''Sybil,'' the story of a woman whose harrowing childhood provoked multiple personality disorder, that earned an Emmy Award for outstanding drama or comedy special. The NBC show, which won a Peabody Award as well, received four Emmys, including one for Sally Field, who had the title role.
        Ms. Babbin's career spanned nearly five decades and took her from producing for the theater to doing so for films and television.
        She was born in Manhattan on July 26, 1921, and graduated from Smith College in 1941. After several years  working on Broadway productions, including ''A Streetcar Named Desire,'' she rose through the television ranks and became one of the first women head producers. She, in turn, hired many other women.
        She produced several network television series, including ''Armstrong Circle Theater'' and ''DuPont Show of the Week.'' She also produced live television adaptations of ''The Human Voice'' (starring Ingrid Bergman), ''The Philadelphia Story,'' ''Miracle on 34th Street,'' ''The Bells of St. Mary's'' and ''The Scarlet Pimpernel.''
        In 1968, Ms. Babbin established her own production company, Clovis. Under that banner, she produced CBS's ''Children's Hour'' in 1969 and won a Peabody Award for ''J.T.,'' one of its installments. Ms. Babbin also produced CBS's ''Beacon Hill,'' a short-lived but critically acclaimed 1975 series about a rich Boston family and its servants that resembled the British series ''Upstairs, Downstairs.''
        Soon after ''Beacon Hill,'' Ms. Babbin became vice president of novels and mini-series at ABC. She produced ''All My Children'' from 1982 to 1986 and ''Loving'' from 1990 until her retirement a year later.
        During her retirement she published two mystery novels, ''Prime Time Corpse'' (which was later renamed ''Bloody Special'') and ''Bloody Soaps.'' She was working on her third book, ''Bloody Networks,'' at her death.
        Ms. Babbin's marriage in the late 1940's to Alan Shayne, a former president of Warner Brothers Television, ended in divorce. No immediate family members survive.
      