
        Ruth Goetz, a playwright who collaborated with her husband, Augustus Goetz, on ''The Heiress'' and other plays, died Friday at Englewood Hospital in New Jersey. She was 93 and had been living in the Actors' Fund Home in Englewood.
        ''The Heiress,'' an adaptation of the Henry James novel ''Washington Square,'' brought the Goetzes great success when it opened on Broadway in 1947. They also wrote the screenplay for the 1949 film version directed by William Wyler. The play was revived in 1995 by Lincoln Center Theater and received Tony Awards for best revival and for Cherry Jones as best actress.
        Through her work with the Dramatists Guild and the Young Playwrights Festival, Mrs. Goetz became known as a mentor and encourager of young playwrights. ''Ruth would go anywhere to see a play and was always searching out new writers,'' John Guare said this week. ''She was also a wonderful keeper of the record of our times and knew who was what and when.'' Sinclair Lewis, H. L. Mencken, Dorothy Parker and George S. Kaufman were among her many friends.
        She was born in Philadelphia in 1908 and had her first indoctrination into theater from her father, Philip Goodman, a theatrical producer. At the beginning of her career, she was a story editor and costume designer. After she and Mr. Goetz were married in 1931, they began writing plays together. Their first, ''Franklin Street,'' written with Arthur Sheekman and based on Mr. Goodman's autobiography, closed out of town.
        Their next, ''One-Man Show,'' which had a brief run on Broadway in 1945, was set in the world of art dealers and was about the relationship between a father and daughter.
        Searching for a subject, Mrs. Goetz suggested to her husband that they dramatize ''Washington Square,'' about a domineering father and his painfully shy daughter. After the couple finished the play, a producer persuaded them to contrive a happy ending, in which the daughter, Catherine, reconciles with her faithless suitor. The play, then named ''Washington Square,'' was a failure in Boston.
        The Goetzes rewrote it, restoring their original ending. With Jed Harris as the director, the play was recast with Basil Rathbone as the father and Wendy Hiller as the daughter. When ''The Heiress'' opened on Broadway, Brooks Atkinson wrote a harsh review in The New York Times, saying that the James ''story cannot be dramatized.''
        ''We hadn't put the novel onstage,'' Mrs. Goetz said years later. ''It was a different story -- the daughter's finding herself through her tragedy.'' Other reviews were favorable, and the play became a Broadway hit, running for 410 performances.
        Soon it was an international success both on the stage and on the screen, and, Mrs. Goetz said, ''it gave James, long in his grave, the best seller he never had.'' The movie version starred Ralph Richardson, Olivia de Havilland and Montgomery Clift (as Catherine's suitor). For her performance, Ms. de Havilland won an Academy Award as best actress. The play has been revived frequently, and in 1974 it was transformed into an opera.
        The Goetzes followed ''The Heiress'' with their adaptation of ''The Immoralist'' by André Gide, which opened on Broadway in 1954. In his review in The Times, Mr. Atkinson said, ''Magnificently acted by a company led by Geraldine Page and Louis Jourdan, 'The Immoralist' is an admirable piece of work that retains the integrity of Gide and does credit to the taste of the Goetzes.'' In the play, James Dean made his Broadway debut in a small role as a native houseboy.
        Together, the Goetzes wrote the screenplay for, among other movies, ''Carrie'' (1952, adapted from Theodore Dreiser's ''Sister Carrie'' and starring Laurence Olivier) and ''Stage Struck'' (1957). ''The Hidden River,'' adapted from a Storm Jamison novel, starring Robert Preston, was their last Broadway collaboration. It, too, was in 1957, the year that Mr. Goetz died.
        On her own, Mrs. Goetz wrote ''Sweet Love Remember'd,'' a play about her husband. During the first week of the tryout, the star, Margaret Sullavan, died, and the play closed in New Haven. Mrs. Goetz later adapted ''L'Amour Fou'' by André Roussin into ''Madly in Love.''
        She is survived by her daughter, Judy Goetz Sanger, a poet, and a granddaughter, Katie Firth, an actress. Both live in Manhattan.
        Speaking about the art of playwriting, Mrs. Goetz said, ''Dramatization is imagination made palpable, or visible, or understandable -- instantly.'' It is, she said, ''the imaginer's highest moment.''
      