
        Polly Rowles, an experienced character actress in theater and film whose most famous role was as Inspector No. 12 in a series of television commercials for Hanes underwear, died on Oct. 7 at a nursing home in Concord, N.H. She was 87.
        Mary Elizabeth Rowles, as she was named at her birth in Philadelphia, had an acting career that covered six decades. After graduating from the Carnegie Institute of Technology in Pittsburgh, she moved to Hollywood and signed with Universal Studios. She appeared in the 1930's in the films ''Love Letters of a Star,'' ''Wings Over Honolulu'' and ''Springtime in the Rockies,'' with Gene Autry.
        She made her Broadway debut in 1938 as Calpurnia in Orson Welles's production of Shakespeare's ''Julius Caesar.'' For the next several decades she kept a busy acting schedule, appearing in ''Time Out for Ginger''; ''Richard III,'' with Richard Whorf; the Richard Rodgers musical ''No Strings''; and many others. She played Vera Charles in ''Auntie Mame'' at the Broadhurst Theater for 637 performances, beginning in October 1956, and acted in a London production of ''Dark Eyes'' in 1948.
        Ms. Rowles also appeared in many television programs in the late 40's and 50's, including ''Alfred Hitchcock Presents,'' ''The Naked City'' and ''Jamie,'' and in later years, ''The Defenders,'' ''Somerset'' and ''The Nurses.'' At the end of her career, in the mid-80's, she returned to film, appearing in ''Power'' and Alan Alda's ''Sweet Liberty.''
        Ms. Rowles developed a reputation  for portraying snappy, sardonic older women, appearing in plays like ''Best Laid Plans,'' ''40 Carats'' and ''Steaming,'' a British comedy about women at a steam bath. Ms. Rowles played the only character who did not disrobe.
        Her talent for toughness and sarcasm served her well in a series of commercials for Hanes during the 80's. She played Inspector No. 12, a stern quality-control monitor whose catch phrase was, ''They don't say Hanes until I say Hanes.'' She appeared in at least 10 ads throughout the decade, beginning in 1980, and was an enthusiastic spokeswoman for the company, a Hanes representative said, at trade conventions and at Hanes factories. It became her best-known role.
        She is survived by her daughter, Constance Heath, of Concord, and a cousin, Constance Anderson, of Philadelphia.
      