
        Lady Jean Rankin, who held an archaic job as a Woman of the Bedchamber to Queen Elizabeth, the Queen Mother, for more than 40 years, died in Edinburgh on Oct. 3. She was 96.
        A kind of lady-in-waiting, a Woman of the Bedchamber attends to a queen's personal tasks, answers the majority of her correspondence and attends less formal functions with her.
        The higher-ranking Ladies of the Bedchamber, usually the wives of earls, go to formal events with the queen, taking care of her umbrellas and gloves and so forth, according to Jerrold M. Packard in ''The Queen and Her Court: A Guide to the British Monarchy Today.''
        Both groups are called ladies-in-waiting, usually work for two weeks at a time on a rotating basis and are unpaid except for essential expenses. They serve ''because they are personal friends of the queen, or for the honor and kudos the work undoubtedly brings,'' Alan Hamilton wrote in ''The Royal Handbook.''
        Lady Jean, who was appointed a Woman of the Bedchamber in 1947, was only five years younger than the Queen Mother and was the last of her ladies-in-waiting to have been almost of the same generation. She accompanied the queen on tours to Paris in 1951, Norway in 1953, the United States and Canada in 1954 and Australia in 1958.
        Lady Jean called the Queen Mother ''an easy boss to work for'' and was by her side when she had surgery, as well as when such nasty details as money had to be addressed on shopping expeditions.
        The Times of London noted that Lady Jean was a close friend of Princess Margaret, and ''played a pivotal role during her fraught relationship with Group Captain Peter Townsend, acting as a go-between and counselor, especially during the sad period after the princess decided to call off their engagement.''
        She continued to serve until 1982, when she became an Extra Woman of the Bedchamber. Until 1994, when she moved to a nursing home in Edinburgh, she continued to serve the Queen Mother from time to time, mainly accompanying her to private dinner parties.
        She became something of a celebrity in her own right. The Times wrote: ''She was unflappable, conscientious, but at the same time witty and charming, with a sense of fun to match that of her boss. They suited each other down to the ground.''
        Jean Margaret Florence Dalrymple was born in Oxenfoord Castle, Midlothian, on Aug. 15, 1905. Her father, the 12th Earl of Stair, owned a 75,000-acre estate. She spent her youth living in two family castles and in London. She was educated entirely by governesses.
        When she was 18, she joined the editorial staff of Queen magazine, a weekly periodical. The Times observed that this was considered ''a fairly racy thing to do.''
        The Daily Telegraph reported that in 1931 she met Niall Rankin, a wildlife photographer, and they soon announced that they intended to marry. Lord Stair was unwilling to bless the union because Mr. Rankin had never met his own father, due to his parents' separation. Moreover, he had no money.
        So Mr. Rankin finally made the acquaintance of his father, Sir Reginald Rankin. The elder Mr. Rankin was so taken with Miss Dalrymple that he promised to leave his son all his money, The Telegraph said.
        They were engaged in July 1931, and Sir Reginald died in September, leaving them a small fortune. The couple married a month later. Mr. Rankin built a reputation as a wildlife photographer and ornithologist and in 1935 received the Wild Life Photography Award of the Year from Hermann Göring.
        In 1937, they bought an estate of 1,900 acres on the Isle of Mull. The property came with a 320-acre chain of inhabited islands. They planted rhododendrons and azaleas and bred geese, which Lady Jean continued to raise after Mr. Rankin's death in 1965. The property became a wildlife sanctuary in 1994.
        Lady Jean is survived by her son Ian. Another son, Alick, died of cancer in 1999.
        During World War II, Lady Jean worked in the Child Recovery Bureau of the Women's Voluntary Service finding homes for orphans, while her husband performed secret missions as a soldier in China. The couple's London home was destroyed by a bomb.
        After her appointment in 1947, Lady Jean was in the royal court for three or four two-week periods a year. She spent much of her time farming on the Isle of Mull.
        Her legacy was as a footnote to royal events. Elizabeth Longford in ''The Queen Mother'' recorded her remark about the convenience of the Royal Yacht for a traveling queen, as well as telling of the time she and the queen were thrown to the floor of their touring car in Tasmania when the car stopped suddenly.
        The New York Times reported in November 1954 that the Queen Mother, whose daughter's coronation had taken place a year earlier, stopped by a day-care center during a visit to New York. She tried to quiet a crying child by offering him some macaroni and cheese.
        He was comforted only when Lady Jean picked him up and held him in her arms.
      