
        Eileen Shanahan, a reporter for The New York Times who broke ground in the male-dominated world of economic news and later a news executive at other papers, died here today. She was 77.
        She had been suffering from heart problems and rheumatoid arthritis, her daughter Mary Beth Waits said.
        In 1971, The Washington Post reported an incident involving Ms. Shanahan and Maurice Stans, then head of the Department of Commerce, which Ms. Shanahan covered as a leading economic reporter for The Times. Mr. Stans had invited Ms. Shanahan to a reporters' lunch and, when she arrived, she found that the men who worked her beat were not there and that all the other reporters at the lunch were women.
        ''Is this a ladies' luncheon?'' The Post quoted her as having asked loudly. Told that it was, she said: ''Then, in that case, I can't stay. I hope you will tell the secretary my reason for leaving. I consider it insulting to lump all women reporters together in a separate class.''
        In addition to her work at The Times, from 1962 to 1977, Ms. Shanahan was an assistant managing editor at The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette and The Washington Star, and she was a reporter for The United Press, the Research Institute of America and The Journal of Commerce.
        She was a speechwriter for the Treasury Department in the Kennedy administration and assistant secretary for public affairs in the Health, Education and Welfare Department under Jimmy Carter.
        Ms. Shanahan left The Times in anger in 1977 after she found that, although she was regarded as one of the leading reporters in the Washington bureau, her salary ranked halfway down the list, according to an account by a Times colleague, Nan Robertson. Every reporter who was paid more was a man.
        In her book ''The Girls in the Balcony: Women, Men and The New York Times'' (Random House, 1992),  Ms. Robertson described Ms. Shanahan's reaction.
        Ms. Shanahan said: ''I had always assumed that I was the victim of a degree of salary discrimination, probably on the unjust rationale that I didn't need the money because I had a husband with a good job.''
        ''But in my darkest hour,'' she continued, ''I never imagined that my pay would place me in the lower half of the bureau's reporters.''
        During this period, a group of women at The Times filed a discrimination suit against the newspaper. Ms. Shanahan was one of the original plaintiffs, but she had left the paper by the time it was settled in 1978. The Times paid $350,000 to settle the lawsuit and agreed to place significant numbers of women in all levels in every department. Later, efforts were made to equalize men's and women's salaries.
        Ms. Shanahan was single-minded on the trail of a story and had a reputation for being sharp-tongued  with officials. ''She yelled at bureaucrats who were uncooperative,'' said Richard E. Mooney, who covered economics with her at The Times. A 1966 profile in Forbes magazine, headlined ''Eileen, the Giant Killer,'' described how she decided to write groundbreaking articles about abuses in the mutual fund industry.
        She said that she had gotten the idea after noticing the way mutual fund companies entertained their regulators at a convention of the state commissioners who help to regulate the securities markets.
        ''I'm not easily shocked,'' she told Forbes. ''I've been in Washington all my life. I was a Washington correspondent for The Journal of Commerce and a tax information officer for Douglas Dillon before I joined The Times. I've seen lobbyists entertain. I tell you this was shocking. They smelled up the hotel. I said to myself, If they feel they have to entertain the commissioners in this way to protect themselves against regulation, there must be something wrong.''
        Ms. Shanahan grew up in Washington and received a bachelor's degree  from George Washington University in 1944. While in college, where she studied political science, she worked one summer as a clerk at The Washington Post. There, she met another George Washington student, John V. Waits Jr., whom she married in 1944. He died in 1995.
        In addition to Ms. Waits, of Silver Spring, Md., Ms. Shanahan is survived by another daughter, Kathleen Waits of Tulsa, Okla.; a sister, Dr. Kathleen Shanahan Cohen of Teaneck, N.J.; and three grandchildren.
        Mary Beth Waits related a technique her mother suggested she follow. ''If you're going in to a meeting with some man who you think is going to try to intimidate you,'' she had said, ''go in chewing gum. He may think you're crude, but he sure won't think you're intimidated.''
      