
        Linda Eder Jamieson Storrow, a former actress, magazine executive and official New York City greeter for the State of New York who was  host for 13 years of a radio program  celebrating those she called ''splendid seniors,'' died at her Manhattan apartment on Jan. 6. She was 90.
        The program, called ''Looking Forward'' for its final seven years from 1991 to 1998, when it was broadcast on WYNE in New York, took up  topics from affordable housing to octogenarian sex to tap-dancing in one's 90's. For its first six years, it was called ''What Keeps Us Going'' and was broadcast starting in 1985 by In Touch Networks.
        Linda Eder was born in Manhattan on Dec. 11, 1910. Her father was a lawyer whose family owned a large sugar mill in Cali, Colombia, where she spent part of her youth. At the Lincoln School, she developed a passion for acting. She made a bargain with her father that she would attend Skidmore College for one year if she could then leave school to become an actress. She became part of the company of Walter Hampton, a prominent Shakespearean actor, and also had a small part in the Broadway production of ''Cynara,'' which opened in 1931, before her father strongly discouraged her from acting because she might be taking jobs from poor people.
        In 1940, she married Francis A. Jamieson, a journalist who won a Pulitzer Prize in 1933 for his coverage of the kidnapping of the Lindbergh baby.
        When Mr. Jamieson worked as an aide to Nelson Rockefeller in the State Department, she returned to acting for a year, playing a villainess in a radio soap opera broadcast in Washington. As Mr. Jamieson went on to play a prominent role in Mr. Rockefeller's campaign for governor in 1958, she taught reading and acting to poor children as a volunteer. Mr. Jamieson died in 1960. Governor Rockefeller appointed her the state's official greeter of foreign dignitaries in New York City.
        In 1962, she married James J. Storrow III, who became publisher of The Nation magazine in 1967. In 1973, he named her associate publisher. She also wrote articles and served as its United Nations observer.
        The Storrows turned the magazine over to its next publisher, Hamilton Fish III, in January 1978. Mr. Storrow died in 1984.
        She is survived by her daughters, Margot Witty of Manhattan and Frances Jamieson Unger of Silver Spring, Md.; two stepdaughters, Joan-Ellen Jamieson Zucker of Oak Ridge, Tenn., and Margaret Storrow of Brookline, Mass; three stepsons, Gerald Storrow of Somerville, Mass., Peter Storrow of the Isle of Lewis, Scotland, and James Storrow of Stormville, N.Y.; seven grandchildren; seven great-grandchildren; and one great-great-grandson.
      