
        Barbara Tropp, an innovative San Francisco chef, restaurateur and author of books about cooking, died on Oct. 26 at her apartment in San Francisco. She was 53 and had a second home in the Napa Valley.
        The cause was ovarian cancer, The San Francisco Chronicle reported.
        Ms. Tropp, a former Princeton student of Chinese and Chinese culture,  became a leading chef of the new American cuisine who liked to combine French and Chinese culinary concepts.
        She delighted in serving the unexpected at her celebrated San Francisco restaurant, China Moon. For example, in 1988, when Asian influence on American cooking was felt most strongly on the West Coast but was spreading throughout the nation, Ms. Tropp served a Chinese pizzette, using Chinese scallion bread as the base. Atop the bread she placed coriander-flavored pork sausage and stir-fried wild mushrooms.
        She wrote and taught about cooking as well as serving as chef at the restaurant for a decade. She sold it in 1996 because of poor health.
        Her ''China Moon Cookbook'' (1992, Workman) was one of the first books that successfully brought together Chinese and European-American mainstream cooking.
        The book won an award from the International Association of Culinary Professionals.
        Ms. Tropp's other book was ''The Modern Art of Chinese Cooking: Techniques and Recipes'' (1982, Morrow).
        Ms. Tropp grew up in Springfield, N.J., and became interested in China in high school. She graduated from Barnard College and received a master's degree in Chinese literature and art from Princeton. Then she learned about Chinese cooking as a student of poetic structure at the National University in Taiwan.
        There ''classic Chinese with refined taste taught me how to eat and how to live,'' she told Craig Claiborne of The New York Times in a 1981 interview. She returned to the United States to work toward a Princeton doctorate in Chinese poetry and, she recalled, ''I had to learn to cook the food I had gotten used to eating in Taiwan.'' So she did.
        Mr. Claiborne wrote that she ''speaks and writes fluent Mandarin, and this has given her a fine grasp of the meaning of Chinese cooking and menu terms.'' He said he had asked her why one of her dishes was ''called strange flavor eggplant, and she explained that it came from the word, 'guai,' which in Chinese poetry and art criticism can mean odd or weird.''
        Last month she received the President's Award of the organization Women Chefs and Restaurateurs, of which she had been a founder.
        Surviving are her husband, Bart Rhoades; two stepsons, Andrew and Matthew Rhoades; a stepdaughter, Elizabeth Rhoades; and a sister,  Nhumey Tropp.
      