
        Peggy Mount, for many years the fearsome battle-ax of British stage and screen with a voice to make henpecked husbands tremble, died on Tuesday at a London nursing home for actors. She was 85.
        Although best known for her bullying, harridan roles, Ms. Mount was also successful in classical theater with much praised performances as the nurse to Judi Dench's Juliet in Franco Zeffirelli's memorable Old Vic production of ''Romeo and Juliet'' in 1960 and in the title role of Brecht's ''Mother Courage'' at the Birmingham Repertory Theater in 1977.
        She also made movies with major stars like Peter Sellers in ''The Naked Truth'' (1957) and Alec Guinness and Gina Lollobrigida in ''Hotel Paradiso'' (1966).
        In the three years she played Emma Hornett, the iron-fisted, foghorn-voiced prospective mother-in-law in the 1955 West End farce ''Sailor Beware'' and in the subsequent film, Ms. Mount first made her name. One critic wrote of her performance in ''Sailor Beware'' that  ''with her hair scrapped up from her neck in a tight roll of curls, she is more intimidating than a fixed bayonet -- and with a voice to match.''
        In 1971 she said, ''I'm not Lady Macbeth and never had any yearnings to be.''
        Margaret Rose Mount was born on May 2, 1916, at Southend on Sea, the Essex seaside resort. Her childhood was unhappy. Her father died when she was 9, and she did not get along well with her mother.
        The family's poverty forced her to leave school at 14 and work as a secretary. She discovered theater through the drama society at her church and studied acting privately.
        She never married and left no immediate survivors.
        She began her acting career in 1944 in repertory theater in the north of England and traveled all over the country until the success of ''Sailor Beware'' established her reputation.
        She played similar dragon roles as Ada in a popular British television series called ''The Larkins'' in 1958 and in a similar series titled ''George and the Dragon'' in 1966. Later television credits included ''You're Only Young Twice'' and an appearance as a formidable Sister of Mercy in the ''Inspector Morse'' series.
        During the rest of her career she continued to mix comedy with serious drama in London or on tour and the stage with films. In the 1970's she was a member of the National Theater Company, winning plaudits for her appearances in ''Il Campiello'' by Goldoni and Ben Travers's ''Plunder.''
        From 1983 to 1985 she acted with the Royal Shakespeare Company in several plays, including ''The Dillon,'' ''Measure for Measure'' and a revival of the school farce ''The Happiest Days of Your Life.''
        She was awarded the Order of the British Empire in 1996.
        She ended her career in 1998 when she lost her sight during a performance of Chekhov's ''Uncle Vanya.''
        ''The audience had no idea,'' she said. ''But the word soon got out, and I lost my nerve. Not working is my greatest regret. It was always my wish to die working.''
      