
        Rachel Gurney, the British actress best known to American audiences as the elegant Lady Marjorie Bellamy on the popular 1970's serialized drama ''Upstairs, Downstairs,'' has died, according The Daily Telegraph of London. She was 81.
        With fine features and a delicate stiff upper lip, Ms. Gurney was a natural for the role of Lady Marjorie, the wealthy Edwardian matriarch at the heart of the show, which chronicled three decades in the lives of an upper-class British family (upstairs) and their servants (down). Produced by London Weekend Television, the series was imported to the United States in 1973 as part of the Public Broadcasting Service's ''Masterpiece Theater,'' and instantly became one of most popular shows on public television.
        Ms. Gurney's character proved particularly popular with viewers, who regularly sent fan mail addressed to her -- or her character -- to the show's fictional address, 165 Eaton Place, London. After two seasons with the show, however, Ms. Gurney left the program in a dramatic finale, as Lady Marjorie sailed to America -- almost -- on the maiden voyage of the Titanic.
        Ms. Gurney's career proved considerably more bouyant. She was born in Eton, where her father was a housemaster at the school and where she was raised among the all-male student body. Her mother was a concert pianist, and Ms. Gurney soon found herself drawn to the arts, taking classes at the Webber Douglas Academy of Dramatic Art and later gravitating to London's West End.
        For years before ''Upstairs, Downstairs,'' Ms. Gurney found steady work in the theater, playing modern and classical roles, including a 1955 turn as Portia in ''The Merchant of Venice'' and a 1965 run of ''A Winter's Tale,'' in which she played Hermione alongside John Gielgud. She also performed in several roles on television series for the BBC, though none as popular as Lady Marjorie.
        It was only after she left ''Upstairs, Downstairs'' that Ms. Gurney was seen on the stage in New York, making her American stage debut in 1977 in a production of George Bernard Shaw's ''You Never Can Tell.'' She appeared on Broadway three times, including in ''The Dresser'' in 1981 and in ''Breaking the Code,'' with Derek Jacobi, in 1987. She would work with Sir Derek a year later in a trumpted production of ''Richard II'' in London.
        She was married briefly, but divorced in 1950. She is survived by a daughter, according to The Telegraph.
        For an actress so associated with highbrow entertainments, Ms. Gurney's true personality was considerably more humble. She claimed to hate opening nights -- ''I'm always awful'' -- and initially declined the role that ended up defining her career.
        ''I'm not a heavyweight actor,'' she said in a 1981 interview. ''I don't crave great classic roles. I crave a part with a lot of laughs.''
      