
        Mildred Rubenstein Newman, a New York psychologist whose vastly popular books helped meet an American yearning for emotional self-help and self-betterment in the 1970's, died Tuesday at her home on the Upper East Side. She was 81.
        The cause was a pulmonary embolism, her family said.
        She and her husband, Dr. Bernard Berkowitz, a psychologist and psychiatrist, wrote ''How to Be Your Best Friend'' (Random House, 1973). A slender volume of practical advice simply expressed, it sold in the millions and remains in print at Ballantine.
        The couple had their practice for many years in Greenwich Village, but more recently at their East Side residence. Their clientele included enough figures from the arts and entertainment for Miss Newman to be referred to as a therapist of the stars.
        When their book came out, it carried endorsements on the back cover from Nora Ephron, Anthony Perkins, Rex Reed and Neil Simon. The couple followed up its success with ''How to Be Awake and Alive'' (Random House, 1975) and ''How to Take Charge of Your Life'' (Harcourt, Brace, 1977).
        A native New Yorker, Miss Newman graduated in 1940 from Hunter College, where she received a master's degree in psychology in 1943. She completed an analytic training program at the National Psychological Association for Psychoanalysis in Manhattan before going into practice.
        In addition to her husband, Miss Newman is survived by a daughter, Sandy Newman, and a son, Dr. Neal Newman, both of Columbus, Ohio; a stepson, Bob Berkowitz, of Manhattan; a brother, Martin Rubenstein, of East Hampton, N.Y.; a sister, Ruth Hinkes, of West Palm Beach, Fla.; and five grandchildren.
        ''We feel that our books should be an emotional experience,'' Miss Newman wrote, when ''How to Take Charge of Your Life'' first appeared, ''that they can be picked up at different times in a reader's life, and that they will be both energizing and comforting in times of crisis.''
        Correction:  November 13, 2001, Tuesday  An obituary on Friday about Mildred Newman, a New York psychotherapist and author, misstated the title of a best-selling book of which she was co-author. It was ''How to Be Your Own Best Friend,'' not ''How to Be Your Best Friend.''
      