
        G. E. M. Anscombe, a British moral and analytic philosopher as well as one of Wittgenstein's literary executors, died on Jan. 5 in Cambridge, England. She was 81 and had chronic heart disease, said her husband, Peter Geach.
        Gertrude Elizabeth Margaret Anscombe -- known by her initials or as Elizabeth -- was a dry, fresh and formidable thinker, one of the foremost philosophers of mind, language, ethics and action. She fused Wittgenstein's philosophy of language and Aristotle's philosophy of ethics, framing an original theory of action.
        Her work was tightly linked with Wittgenstein's. She was Wittgenstein's student and friend during World War II.
        In 1951, when Wittgenstein died, Miss Anscombe, along with Wittgenstein's two other executors, Rush Rhees and G.H. von Wright, began the task of getting his work into print. (''Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus,'' which came out in 1921, was Wittgenstein's only book published in his lifetime.)
        Miss Anscombe translated Wittgenstein's ''Philosophical Investigations'' from German into English, and had it published in 1953. Her translation of his work called ''Remarks on the Foundations of Mathematics'' came out in 1956. With Mr. von Wright, she assembled little bits of Wittgenstein's writings that had been cut up and stuffed in a box, and published them under the title ''Zettel'' (''Snippets'') in 1967.
        Miss Anscombe and Mr. von Wright also put together ''Notebooks, 1914-1916.'' Editions of Wittgenstein's ''On Certainty,'' ''Remarks on Colour'' and ''Remarks on the Philosophy of Psychology'' followed.
        In 1959, Miss Anscombe wrote ''An Introduction to Wittgenstein's ''Tractatus,'' which traced his work to Gottlob Frege and Bertrand Russell. The book is viewed as a classic by philosophers.
        A. J. Ayer, in his book ''Wittgenstein,'' wrote, ''I can think of no one but Elizabeth Anscombe who has made an original contribution to philosophy on the basis of Wittgenstein's teaching.'' In 1980, Miss Anscombe even inherited Wittgenstein's former position, the chair of philosophy at Cambridge University.
        Wittgenstein was not her sole influence. She also wrote about Plato. And in the field of ethics, Miss Anscombe looked especially to Aristotle. Like Aristotle, she believed that ethics must be tied to the idea of what it means to flourish as a human being. Mr. Geach, her husband and sometime collaborator, a professor of philosophy at the University of Birmingham and University of Leeds, put it this way: ''She thought that a theory of ethics without a theory of mind was bound to be bogus.''
        In 1957 she wrote ''Intention,'' a blend of Aristotle's and Wittgenstein's philosophy, linking ethical ideas and behavior to a theory of intention and action. The philosopher Donald Davidson recently called the work ''the most important treatment of action since Aristotle.'' Her husband said that may have been an overstatement.
        The next year she wrote an influential essay on morality, ''Modern Moral Philosophy,'' which was later published in her three-volume ''Collected Philosophical Papers'' (1981). In that essay, as Cora Diamond, a professor at the University of Virginia, explained, Miss Anscombe argued that the concepts of moral obligation and moral beauty were legalistic and should be abandoned. Right and wrong actions, Miss Anscombe said, cannot be determined by their consequences but rather are absolutes. She recommended Aristotle's concept of virtue instead.
        In 1940, Miss Anscombe converted to Catholicism, and many of her writings reflected her moral and religious stance. In a 1939 pamphlet, ''The Justice of the Present War Examined,'' she had argued that Britain was entering an unjust war.
        In ''Mr. Truman's Degree,'' she fought Oxford's decision to give an honorary degree to Harry S. Truman, accusing him of murdering innocents in the bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki.
        She condemned contraception in a pamphlet called ''Contraception and Chastity'' (1975), saying ''you might as well accept any sexual goings-on, if you accept contraceptive intercourse.''
        In 1957, in an anti-Cartesian paper called ''The First Person,'' she said that ''I'' does not refer to anything.  And in 1985 she resurrected St. Anselm's 900-year-old argument for the existence of God.
        G. E. M. Anscombe was born March 18, 1919, the daughter of Allen Wells Anscombe and Gertrude Elizabeth Thomas Anscombe. One of her two brothers was killed in the war. His twin, Thomas, survives Miss Anscombe. She was educated at Sydenham School and St. Hugh's College, Oxford.
        At Newnham College, Cambridge, she was a research student from 1941 to 1944. That was where she first met Wittgenstein. She taught at Somerville College, Oxford, from 1946 to 1970. From 1970 to 1986, she was a professor of philosophy at Cambridge. She became a fellow of the British Academy in 1967 and an honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Miss Anscombe and her husband were a well-known philosophical duo. They met while studying Catholic doctrine at Blackfriars College, Oxford. They were married in 1941 and had seven children, all of whom survive her: three sons (John, Charles and More) and four daughters (Barbara, Mary, Jennifer and Tamsin). Miss Anscombe and Mr. Geach also produced a book together, ''Three Philosophers''; he wrote on Aquinas and Frege, she on Aristotle.
        Miss Anscombe, who did not like to be called Mrs. Geach, smoked cigars, wore trousers when they were considered improper for women and was said sometimes to eat beans from a tin can while lecturing.
        Her philosophy was bold and noncomplacent too. In the Times Literary Supplement, the critic Mary Tiles wrote, ''Anscombe's willingness to question what many have taken for granted . . . can induce a feeling of intellectual disorientation.''
      