
        Rose Shapiro, the president of the New York City Board of Education during one of its stormiest times, died last Saturday at a retirement home in Lauderville, Fla. She was 97 and a former resident of Manhattan and Westport, Conn.
        Mrs. Shapiro, a campaigner for a strong parental voice in the schools, came to the board in 1963. Mayor Robert F. Wagner named her to a vacant seat and reappointed her to a full seven-year term two years later. She was the only woman on the board. Her colleagues ribbed her by referring to her as ''the sexy grandmother'' after adopting her proposal for sex education courses in the upper grades.
        She was vice president of the board in mid-1967 and was voted acting president and president the following May. By then, Mayor John V. Lindsay was putting in place his plan for decentralizing the city's public schools system, starting with some demonstration districts.
        One of the experiments in greater community control began with an elected local board for the Ocean Hill-Brownsville section of Brooklyn. It soon became the eye of a storm when classroom teachers who were deemed ''unwanted'' by the district leaders were ousted.
        The situation spun out of hand when classes resumed in the fall of 1968. An angry central board ordered the reinstatement of the teachers. The local board balked. The teachers, led by Albert Shanker, the president of the United Federation of Teachers, organized a walkout.
        There were angry street confrontations in Brooklyn and the central board itself split on how to proceed. At the behest of Mayor Lindsay, the board was enlarged and the new members named by him pressed his case for quick decentralization throughout the system.
        Mrs. Shapiro, favoring a more gradual, carefully planned approach, lost her position as president. She left the board in the spring to serve as Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller's special assistant for narcotics education programs. She also denounced Mayor Lindsay and the revamped school board. ''I believe I can say without equivocation,'' she said, ''that never in my experience has a city administration played such a disruptive role as has this administration.''
        Mrs. Shapiro was born Rose Rubin in Russia and came to Ozone Park, Queens, as a toddler. Her parents afforded her a comfortable upbringing as the owners of a large general store.
        She studied the history of education in night classes at City College for four years while working at a feature syndicate.
        At 21, she married Morris Shapiro, a future civil rights lawyer. She became active in the League of Women Voters, but, with the couple's children in public school, she devoted her energy to the Parents and Teachers Association. In 1944 she was elected president of the citywide United Parents Association, helping to boost its strength from 80,000 to 250,000 dues-paying members in her four years in charge.
        She also held leading positions in the Public Education Association and the Citizens Committee for Children. She attended several White House conferences on education.
        Her husband died in 1985. She is survived by a son, James, a resident of Luxembourg; a daughter, Nina Agel of Manhattan; four grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
      