
        Pauline Campanelli, a painter whose super-realist still lifes were so popular that their sales were rivaled only by those of Andrew Wyeth among living artists, died on Nov. 29 at her home in Pohatcong Township, N.J., a few miles south of Phillipsburg. She was 58.
        Her husband, Dan, also a painter, said she died of complications from childhood polio. She had been seriously ill for nearly three years.
        Her work was seldom reviewed; and when it was, the reviews generally ran in obscure publications. It was absent from prestigious art museums and expensive galleries. But in the nation's kitchens, living rooms and dining rooms, her precise, loving depictions of household objects were commonplace.
        Her work recalled the Shakers in its simplicity and spirituality. Her later paintings were characterized by stark white backgrounds.
        Hundreds of thousands of her prints were sold through mail-order catalogs, furniture stores and galleries specializing in prints and posters. Sales of her most popular picture, ''Wild Rose Berries,'' have exceeded 600,000.
        ''She outsells Picasso,'' said Julie Fleischmann, president of Shorewood Fine Art, a unit of the New York Graphic Society, which licenses art and sells prints by both the Campanellis and Picasso.
        Mrs. Campanelli described herself ''not as an artist who paints but as a person who lives.'' Her paintings, she said, were not creations ''but communications of the essence of that experience.''
        She lived with her husband in a stone farmhouse they restored; it is included in the National Register of Historic Places. And despite needing a wheelchair to get around, she pursued dozens of homespun crafts.
        Each year she canned 400 jars of fruit from the 39 trees the couple had planted. A talented quilter, cross-stitcher and yarn spinner, she used antique spinning wheels to turn fleece from her four Dorset sheep into yarn that she colored with dyes made from her homegrown herbs. The primitive American antiques she collected were frequent subjects for her paintings.
        ''These are not the nostalgic relics of a long forgotten past, but objects that Dan and I live with every day,'' she said.
        Her sensibility was decidedly not that of a folk artist. ''Whether it's a swan decoy or a quilt or a chair, I'm just looking at abstract shapes: rectangles, triangles, S-shapes, tall things, round things,'' she said in an interview in the journal U.S. Art in 1989. ''I am very much influenced by Mondrian's compositions.''
        Another influence on her art was her belief in paganism. She wrote books, some with her husband, about witchcraft and pagan rituals and tried to bring her appreciation of ancient, pre-Christian ways to her rustic life as well as to her art.
        Her book ''Ancient Ways: Reclaiming Pagan Traditions'' (Llewellyn, 1991) told how pagan cultures celebrated holidays, and it sold more than 40,000 copies. The Halloween section not only gave advice on charms and spells, crystal balls and using a tambourine to contact spirits but also gave a recipe for pumpkin bread. The May Day section said washing one's face with morning dew on that holiday would preserve a youthful complexion.
        Pauline Eblé was born in the Bronx on Jan. 25, 1943. She was stricken with polio at 3 and was in an iron lung for a year and in the hospital for another year and a half. She was tutored at home and at 13 was studying college textbooks.
        She was fascinated with the way her father, Joseph, a professional photographer, could condense three-dimensional reality into two-dimensional images, but she was not initially interested in art. She wanted to be a naturalist and illustrate the species she hoped to discover.
        After finishing high school in Ridgewood, N.J., she attended the Ridgewood School of Art. She began selling still lifes while in school.
        In 1969 she married Mr. Campanelli. According to a biography posted on the Llewellyn Web site, they were already practicing witchcraft. They lived in a $60-a-month furnished room painted bubble-gum pink and made a bare living, $2,000 the first year, from teaching and sidewalk art shows. Through competitions, bigger art shows and interest from galleries in the area, they gradually got their heads above water.
        She earned a reputation for oil paintings of homey objects, and he drew attention for his watercolors of old mills and other historic scenes. In 1976 they bought a stone house built in 1835, naming it and the three surrounding acres Flying Witch Farm. Because they could not get a mortgage and had no savings, they had to restore the sagging, abandoned structure themselves.
        He used antique tools because the house had no electricity to plug in power tools. She climbed down from her wheelchair and refinished the floors on her hands and knees.
        They filled their new home with antiques like Cromwell chairs from the 1660's and a William and Mary side table from around 1690. Mrs. Campanelli copied a needlepoint design for the Cromwell chairs from museum slides.
        Mr. Campanelli built a garage for the three Model A's he restored and a building to house his wife's ''natural history museum,'' which included at least 10,000 seashells. They pressed grapes in an 1860 fruit press and made 100 gallons of wine a year. They occasionally held what they called Colonial days for their friends, entertaining with a quilting bee, a black-powder shoot, a tomahawk throw and Colonial food.
        Mrs. Campanelli, who is survived by her husband and father, painted standing on crutches in an 8-by-10-foot studio that used to be a bedroom. The light streamed through a rippled north window, the sort of light she thought Rembrandt liked.
        She worked very slowly, averaging about six paintings a year. She meticulously showed each thread in a ball of yarn. She painted any flowers last, in order not to be hurried.
        The Campanellis had long thought that a ghost inhabited Flying Witch Farm: that of Mary Insley Hunt, a member of the family that long owned the place.
        ''I think Pauline's going to be the next one,'' her husband suggested. ''She wanted to be.''
      