
        Erica Van Acker, whose experience was the basis of a pioneering public television documentary on rape in 1971 and who became an early public spokeswoman for those who had been raped, died on Sept. 11 in the terrorist attack on the World Trade Center. She was 62 and lived in Manhattan and Sag Harbor, N.Y.
        Details of her life came to light in research for a biographical sketch.
        Ms. Van Acker, who was 30 when she was attacked in the hallway of her apartment building, became pregnant and had an abortion. The documentary, ''No Tears for Rachel,'' was made for Channel 13/ WNET and was broadcast nationally on ''Bill Moyers' Journal.'' After the showing of the documentary, she became an advocate. She would visit hospital emergency rooms to work with doctors to sensitize them to the feelings of those who had been raped.
        Mr. Moyers said Ms. Van Acker ''took the chance because she really did want the public to know that rape is a crime where the victim is often made to feel guilty of the crime and to encourage others not to let the imposed sense of shame prevent them from talking to the police or the press.''
        The documentary appeared not long before the rape law in New York State was changed to ease the requirement for corroborating evidence to prove a rape. Before the change, legal experts had argued that it was nearly impossible to convict someone of rape, because each aspect of the crime had to be corroborated by evidence other than the victim's testimony.
        Though she acted as a child and trained in drama at the Guildhall School of Music and Drama in London, Ms. Van Acker made her career in business. She was involved in training and automation, often working in the early days of office computers to introduce top and middle-level executives to their unwanted desktops. She worked at Ticketron, then at the Off-Track Betting Corporation and at Citibank, before starting her own consulting firm, called VASA, with Gail Soltysik, whom Ms. Van Acker had hired at Citibank.
        ''Rape and its aftermath take away any sense of control,'' she said in an article by Erika Duncan about ''No Tears for Rachel'' in 1995. ''But everything that I did afterward was about taking control. Every transition workshop, every seminar I conducted was somehow deeply out of that experience.''
        When Ms. Soltysik left the consulting business, she and Ms. Van Acker bought the old train station in Water Mill, on Long Island, and eventually turned it into a restaurant, the Station Bistro. It was known for its food and its all-female staff. Ms. Van Acker planned the menus and did some of the cooking, including soups and her well-known lentil loaf. The restaurant was sold a year and a half ago.
        Ms. Van Acker was working as a senior consultant on compensation at Aon Consulting when she died.
        Ms. Van Acker was born in Manhattan. Her father was French, her mother English. She moved to England when she was 8. She has no immediate survivors. A memorial service was held Sept. 29 with a reception afterward at her former restaurant, now called Station Road.
      