
        Catherine Voorsanger, an associate curator of American decorative arts at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, died on Monday in New York City. She was 51 and lived in Manhattan.
        She died of complications of melanoma, said her family.
        Ms. Voorsanger worked at the Met since 1983, contributing actively to the increasingly visible field of post-Federal American decorative arts. Her main area of concentration was 19th- and early-20th century American furniture, but she arrived there after studying American 19th-century painting and architecture and, at the Met, conducting extensive research on John LaFarge's stained glass and the American Aesthetic Movement. These subjects seemed to make her unusually well equipped to help shatter the prevailing stereotype of 19th-century American furniture as uniformly dark, heavy and ornate, not only in her curatorial work but also in scholarly writing, lecturing and postgraduate teaching.
        A prime example of her work was ''Herter Brothers: Furniture and Interiors for a Gilded Age,'' an exhibition organized in 1994 with Alice Cooney Freilinghuysen of the Met's decorative arts department, and Katherine S. Howe of the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston. She also oversaw research, helped select the objects and contributed to the catalogs for ''In Pursuit of Beauty: Americans and the Aesthetic Movement'' (1987) and ''American Paradise: The World of the Hudson River School'' (1988). Her 88-page ''Dictionary of Architects, Artisans, Artists and Manufacturers'' in the ''Aesthetic Movement'' catalog has become a standard reference in the field.
        With John K. Howat, former chairman of the department of decorative arts at the Met, Ms. Voorsanger organized last year's ''Art and the Empire City: New York, 1825-1861,'' which traced the beginning of New York's ascendancy as a cultural capital. The exhibition's catalog won the New-York Historical Society's Henry Allen Moe Award for art-historical writing, and was also the first exhibition catalog to make the New York Public Library's annual Books to Remember list of 25 outstanding publications.
        At the Met she also coordinated the updating and computerizing of the documentation for the thousands of decorative objects in the Henry R. Luce Center for the Study of American Art, a vast open-storage display that opened in 1989, and organized the 1994 exhibition ''The Decorative Arts of Frank Lloyd Wright in the Metropolitan Museum of Art.''
        Ms. Voorsanger was born Catherine Hoover in Oakland, Calif., in 1950. She earned a B.A. in art history from Smith College in 1972, and, later, a master's and a doctorate from the City University of New York. From 1972 to 1979 she worked as assistant curator and then curator at the California Historical Society in San Francisco. During this time she was a protégé of Alfred Frankenstein, a well-known San Francisco art critic.
        In 1979 she returned to New York to become a senior researcher for the painting collection of New York City, initiating a site review and conservation inspection of some 300 19th-century works in public buildings throughout the five boroughs.
        Ms. Voorsanger is survived by her husband, Bartholomew Voorsanger, an architect who designed the renovation of the Asia Society and the expansion of the Morgan Library; her mother, Beatrice Slater, of San Rafael, Calif.; and her sister, Holly de Montmarin, of Paris.
        Correction:  December 29, 2001, Saturday  A obituary on Dec. 14 about Catherine Voorsanger, an associate curator of American decorative arts at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, omitted several survivors. They are her father, Robert C. Hoover of Piedmont, Calif.; her brother Robert C. Hoover II of Alameda, Calif.; her half-sister, Whitney Hoover of Piedmont, Calif.; and her half-brothers, John S. Hoover of Los Angeles and Samuel S. Slater of Ketchum, Idaho.
      