
        Mary Whitehouse, a British schoolteacher and mother of three who for more than 30 years campaigned vociferously against sex, violence and blasphemy on television, stage and screen, died on Nov. 23 in Colchester, England. She was 91.
        Variously called ''the most dangerous woman in Britain,'' ''the Queen of Clean'' and ''the Archangel of Anti-Smut,'' Mrs. Whitehouse became in the end a beloved national institution, though she achieved far less than she sought. She struggled tirelessly to quell a rising tide of libertarianism in British public entertainment as the country traversed the ''Swinging 60's'' and embraced the ''Permissive Society.''
        Her case, put simply, was that television programs and theater obsessed with sex and violence would breed that kind of a society. Many people agreed with her.
        She was not without effect. ''The Clean Up TV Campaign,'' which she started in 1964 and which the next year became the National Viewers and Listeners Association, influenced several pieces of British legislation.
        These included the 1978 Protection of Children Act, which curbed the pornographic exploitation of minors; the Indecent Displays Acts of 1981, regulating shop window displays and magazine covers; the creation of a Broadcasting Standards Committee in 1988; and the 1990 Broadcasting Act, which dealt with television obscenity.
        She was responsible for banning the Danish film ''The Sex Life of Jesus Christ'' in 1977. In 1979, she instigated Britain's first blasphemy trial in 52 years, which resulted in a suspended nine-month jail sentence for the editor of Gay News. In 1982, she brought, but later dropped, a private prosecution against Howard Brenton's play ''The Romans in Britain,'' which explicitly portrayed sexual acts.
        Her bête noire was Sir Hugh Carleton Greene, the BBC's liberal director general from 1960 to 1969, whom she called ''the Devil incarnate.'' Not only did he ignore and snub her, he also used to throw darts at a picture of her he had acquired, which depicted her as having five breasts.
        But even if the tasks she had set herself were possible, which seems doubtful today, her all-or-nothing, blunderbuss approach doomed her efforts to failure.
        Beloved British comics were condemned along with obvious pornographers because they all used words like damn and bloody. Anything that included foul language, adultery or homosexuality was bad in her eyes, regardless of its artistic quality or overall moral stance.
        As a result, she was soon attacking a lengthening list of admired and popular works, including the ''EastEnders'' television series; Lord Snowdon's acclaimed documentary about old age, ''Don't Count The Candles''; and Dennis Potter's ''Singing Detective.''
        Mary Hutcheson was born in Nuneaton, in Cheshire, on June 13, 1910. She was a staunch Christian and member of the Moral Rearmament movement who at 20 fell in love with an older married man but left him when she saw the unhappiness she had caused his wife.
        She trained as an art teacher, and in 1940 married Ernest Whitehouse, an engineer, who died last year. After raising three sons, who survive her, she returned to teaching in 1960, becoming senior mistress at a Shropshire secondary school, in charge of sex education.
        This anonymous provincial existence changed in 1963 with the eruption of the Profumo sex scandal, when Mrs. Whitehouse was horrified to discover that her girls regarded Christine Keeler and Mandy Rice-Davies, the two call girls at the center of the affair, as heroines and role models. The next year she started her Clean Up TV Campaign.
        Correction:  December 20, 2001, Thursday  An obituary on Dec. 3 about Mary Whitehouse, a British crusader against pornography, misidentified her native county. Her birthplace, Nuneaton, is in Warwickshire, not Cheshire.
      