
        LAST week, as the fiercely partisan legislators of the virtually bankrupt Nassau County turned blue in the face during an all-night fight over their 2002 budget, the inner schoolmarm, dormant since she left teaching for politics, emerged in the presiding officer, Judith A. Jacobs. The county was just a few days and decimal points from a budget takeover by a state-appointed board, and instead of finding a solution to a $45 million deficit, from her vantage point, its legislators were behaving like kindergartners.
        So she indulged in a momentary power trip, something she says she avoided in two years of playing peacemaker among 18 colleagues. Tired of banging her gavel and yelling for order in her court, she pressed an index finger to the mute button, effectively smothering every microphone in the room. The silence was shocking, and restorative: they reverted to adults.
        Around 4:30 a.m., the exhausted legislators crept home after a budget was approved for perusal by the not-quite-lame-duck county executive, Thomas S. Gulotta, who yesterday vetoed parts of it and cut a proposed property tax increase to 9 percent from the 15 percent that Ms. Jacobs and her fellow Democrats had supported. The budget now goes to the Nassau Interim Finance Authority, the state chaperon, which has the power to take over the county's finances if it does not accept the budget. Though she admits to being ''on pins and needles,'' on that overlong evening Ms. Jacobs, a loquacious 62-year-old Democrat, was the only one to go home chuckling. Pushing the panic button was more fun than expected.
        ''I don't like to use it,'' she says of the magical mute. ''I don't look at myself as Judge Judy, but I'll tell you the truth, I've learned to stop the nonsensible rhetoric when it gets really destructive. And that night it was out of control.''
        She's still chuckling about it, her plump frame nestled into a brown leather couch in the den of the Woodbury split-level she says she has seen very little of in the past two years of budget crises. She loves her $67,000-a-year job, spending 10 or 11 hours a day at the office or out among the public that awarded her a third term and 80 percent of the vote as the representative for the county's Legislative District 16. This pit stop on the home front is such a rarity that she even had to reintroduce herself to the U.P.S. deliveryman who showed up with a package to add to the pile of wrapped Hanukkah presents (she has four grandchildren) in the dining room. ''He was shocked to see me here in broad daylight,'' she said.
        Her silver Lexus with the vanity plates 1 JUJU rests in the driveway after a morning trip to the Woodbury Jewish Center to explain the proposed 15 percent tax increase to 150 elderly residents; she thinks she won them over by being honest. Her kitchen is Martha Stewart spotless, and why not? She confesses that it's hardly used. That enticing vanilla cake on the pedestal, the limes and lemons in clear canisters, the bowl of vegetables: all fakes. ''I never baked a cake that looked that good back when I actually cooked.''
        But she is quite proficient with budget ingredients. According to her, without the 15 percent tax increase, Nassau, the black sheep of the state's counties for receiving a $45 million bailout to protect its bonds from junk bond status (''Embarrassing!''), won't have a workable 2002 budget. That's what she warned her morning audience. ''The response I got was, 'Just fix it already!' ''
        But the Republicans continue to holler for cuts, and Ms. Jacobs, her color deepening beneath her pale perm, her manner revealing how she earned the reputation as ''the lady with the hammer'' back in her civic activist decades, insists that cuts are not a cure.
        ''They have not been participants, they've been obstructionists,'' she says of the Republicans, then quotes a letter from the minority leader, Peter Schmitt, in response to her request to specify cuts. ''He said, 'My grandmother always used to say, if you have weeds in your garden, don't point to weeds in mine.' Now that is not an answer. Rhetoric is so cheap but so unrealistic at a time of distress like this,'' she adds. She says that if Democrats had had the stranglehold on Nassau County, she probably would have been a Republican; she's contrarian that way.
        MS. JACOBS, who moved from Queens to Woodbury with her husband, Sid, in 1967, was politicized by a classic case of ''not in my backyard'': she awakened to the rumble of bulldozers ripping apart cornfields to make space for a decidedly unbucolic Geico insurance building. She and her neighbors protested, babes in arms, and were hauled off to the town offices for a talking-to by the police chief. ''We were the original Mad Mothers of Woodbury,'' she says. Next came her days of RAGE, an acronym for Residents Against Garbage Expansion.
        She ran unsuccessfully for the Oyster Bay Town Board in 1977, but when the County Board of Supervisors was replaced by the County Legislature in 1995, she won a seat, a powerless seat. ''In 1996 there were six Democrats out of 19 legislators; if we'd all left for California for five years, nobody would have cared,'' she says. In 1999, the Democrats gained a majority and Ms. Jacobs became presiding officer, a position she hopes to retain despite backing a friend, Assemblyman Thomas P. DiNapoli, in the primary against Thomas R. Suozzi, the incoming county executive. That decision is expected this weekend, and Ms. Jacobs is not sweating it.
        ''I don't mean to be corny,'' she says, ''but I like to believe you are what you've been.''
        PUBLIC LIVES
      