
        Laurie Johnston, a World War II correspondent, an author and a reporter for The New York Times who was cited for the humanity and wit of her writing, died at her home in Honolulu on Friday. She was 87.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, her daughter Elisa W. Johnston said.
        Although she spent several months of the year in Hawaii, the island she came to love in the 1940's while covering the war in the Pacific for Reuters, Ms. Johnston was a ''dyed-in-the-wool New Yorker,'' her daughter said. Until just a few weeks ago, she was at the Greenwich Village home she moved into in 1954.
        ''She spent her last few days walking around the World Trade Center site,'' Ms. Johnston said, ''and arrived in Honolulu quite frail but wearing an 'I Love New York' T-shirt.''
        Ms. Johnston worked as a columnist, reporter and editor for The Times, covering neighborhoods, education and the courts, among other subjects. Columbia University's Graduate School of Journalism awarded her the Meyer Berger Award for distinguished reporting in 1980, citing her ''consistently warm and perceptive glimpses of the little and large dramas of New York.''
        Ms. Johnston was born in Fort Collins, Colo., and grew up in Albany, Ore. She studied English and journalism at the University of Oregon, and after graduating worked at several West Coast newspapers.
        During World War II, she covered the Pacific from Pearl Harbor and was one of the few women accredited to report on both the Army and the Navy. In 1946 Ms. Johnston joined Newsweek's international news department, where she stayed until joining The Times in 1949. She retired in 1984.
        In 1939 she married Richard W. Johnston, who was also a war correspondent and who eventually became the executive editor of Sports Illustrated. In 1953 she wrote ''Elizabeth Enters: The Story of a Queen'' (Scribners), a biography for which Mr. Johnston served as the picture editor. He died in 1981. Ms. Johnston later married Charles C. Woolley, who died in 1986.
        In addition to Elisa Johnston, Ms. Johnston is survived by another daughter, Dana Johnston of New York City and Honolulu; a son-in-law, Barry Layne Morrison, and a granddaughter, Katie H. J. Morrison, all of Honolulu
      