
        Megan Boyd, whose fabled expertise at tying enchantingly delicate fishing flies put her work in museums and the hands of collectors around the world and prompted Queen Elizabeth II to award her the British Empire Medal, died Nov. 15 in Golspie, Scotland. She was 86.
        She did not receive her award from the queen, to whom she explained that she had no one to care for her dog that day. The queen said she quite understood, and Prince Charles, an avid user of her flies, later made the presentation at his nearby Scottish fishing lodge in 1971.
        The episode reflected Miss Boyd's unpremeditated eccentricity, also suggested by her usual dress: a man's shirt and tie, sweater, wool skirt, tweed sport jacket and heavy army-style boots. But the flies she dressed at a small table in front of a window and under a gas lamp -- she had no electricity until 1985 -- were regarded by connoisseurs as ''the Tiffanies of the 20th century,'' according to The American Fly Fisher magazine.
        From tiny strands of hair she made magic: the classic Scottish flies like the Jock Scott, Silver Doctor and Durham Ranger; American favorites like the Green Butt and Woolly Hugger; and the fly named after her, the Megan Boyd, a nifty blue and black number famous for attracting salmon at the height of summer, when the water is low, hot and dead.
        ''Her attention to detail was perfection par excellence,'' said Jimmie Ferard, an English fly fisherman who owns more than 2,000 of Miss Boyd's flies. ''She took such trouble with every fly she tied.''
        She liked to sell to fishermen she knew, the ones who lived nearby. Her prices never exceeded a dollar.
        ''A Megan Boyd fly is a $1,000 fly,'' said Gary Tanner, director of the American Museum of Fly Fishing in Manchester, Vt.
        Rosina Megan Boyd, the youngest of three children, is believed to have been born in England on Jan. 29, 1915. In 1918, her father took a job as a riverkeeper, or private game warden, on an estate in Sutherland County in the Scottish Highlands. Another keeper, Bob Trussler, taught her the craft by having her disassemble a finished fly and then reconstruct it on a smaller hook.
        She had little formal education but loved to learn everything about the Brora, the river that flowed through the town of the same name where she grew up. During World War II, she held various jobs, including delivering milk and working for the coast guard auxiliary.
        At 20, she moved into a small red-and-white cottage perched on a hillside in the village of Kintradwell, and she lived there for 53 years. By personal preference, she had no running water, electricity, telephone or television. She cut her own hair in a style the British call an Eaton crop.
        Her studio was a corrugated iron shed with a rusted red tin roof. She spent 14 to 16 hours a day, six or seven days a week, at her workbench, a kidney-shaped dressing table.
        But she was dedicated to supplying the fishermen she knew who fished rivers she had learned intimately. Under the mat at her front door was a pad and pencil for the locals to write down their orders.
        ''As long as I was tying flies for the fishermen, which I started off doing to earn my daily bread, I kept doing it,'' she said in an interview with The Atlantic Salmon Fly. ''All the other orders had to go to the bottom of the pile.''
        She retired in 1985, when she was 70, because of deteriorating eyesight.
        ''I knew my eyesight was failing because I was making bigger heads on the flies,'' she said, ''and once you start to do that, it's no use.''
        An aide to Prince Charles once showed up and asked that she quickly whip up a masterpiece or two. She declined, saying that was going to a Scottish dance in the village. She loved the traditional dances.
        The prince held no grudge. He visited her last year in the nursing home where she had lived in recent years.
        She would teach fly-tying to anyone who asked but she said she was unable to find a suitable heir.
        ''There is just one man I taught that could tie a decent fly,'' she said. ''He is dead now. The modern ones just want to tie something quick and scrappy and sell it.''
        Miss Boyd, who never married and has no survivors, never caught a fish. She never even went fishing.
        ''I wouldn't kill a salmon if I got one,'' she said.
      