
        Fuki Kushida, a pioneer Japanese campaigner for women's rights, a peace activist and an opponent of nuclear weapons, died at her home in Tokyo on Monday, a family announcement said. She was 101.
        In February last year, at the age of 1OO, Ms. Kushida made headlines from her wheelchair, leading a demonstration of Japanese women in the Ginza district of Tokyo against closer military ties with the United States.
        Last summer, she also led protests against United States military bases on Okinawa after a United States Marine was charged with molesting a 14-year-old Japanese girl in her own bed on the eve of President Clinton's visit to the island for a summit meeting.
        ''The recurrence of such unforgivable crimes by U.S. soldiers is extremely upsetting,'' Ms. Kushida said in a statement. ''As long as U.S. bases exist there, our fear will never end and violence against women will continue.''
        Born in Yamaguchi Prefecture on Feb. 17, 1899, Ms. Kushida entered the Women's University in Tokyo but dropped out to marry Tamizo Kushida, a Marxist economist who died before the outbreak of World War II.
        Left at 35 with two children to support and little money, Ms. Kushida worked as an insurance saleswomen and magazine reporter.
        The hardships she experienced made her aware of the difficult lives many Japanese women led and encouraged her to devote her life to working for the advancement of women and the promotion of world peace.
        After World War II, she joined the emerging Japanese feminist movement and worked with Yuriko Miyamoto, a leading feminist writer of the time. In 1946 Ms. Kushida became the first secretary general of a newly established feminist and peace organization called the Women's Democratic Club.
        In 1958 she was elected third president of the Federation of Japanese Women's Organizations, a group opposed to nuclear weapons and committed to promoting peace. Today it encompasses 19 organizations and has about 900,000 members.
      