
        Eleanor Lawrence, a flutist who played frequently in chamber music performances and with several orchestras in New York and who is credited with transforming a newsletter into an important resource for flutists, died on Jan. 16 at her home in Manhattan. She was 64.
        The cause was brain cancer, said Nancy Toff, a flute historian and a former president of the National Flute Association.
        Ms. Lawrence, who was also known by her married name, Eleanor Steindler, was born in Boston and grew up in Athens, Ohio, where her father, John C. Baker, was president of Ohio University. After completing her bachelor's degree at Radcliffe College, she studied the flute at the New England Conservatory with James Pappoutsakis, the principal flutist of the Boston Symphony Orchestra. She later studied with the flutist Marcel Moyse as well as with William Kincaid, the principal flutist of the Philadelphia Orchestra, and Harold Bennett, the principal flutist of the Metropolitan Opera orchestra.
        When Ms. Lawrence moved to New York in the 1960's, she joined the American Symphony Orchestra and the Brooklyn Philharmonic and performed periodically with the New York Philharmonic and at the Metropolitan Opera. She also toured the United States as a recitalist. In 1969 she founded the Monomoy Chamber Ensemble, which played an annual summer series at the Monomoy Theater in Chatham, Mass. In recent years the ensemble performed as Monomoy Music and presented an annual series at Weill Recital Hall.
        Ms. Lawrence had a broad repertory that included Ernst von Dohnanyi's Aria for Flute and Piano and Passacaglia for Solo Flute, both composed for her, and works by Hindemith, which she recorded for the Musical Heritage Society. One of her last projects was a reissue of Moyse's recordings, produced with the flutist William Bennett.
        In addition to performing, Ms. Lawrence was an influential teacher at the Manhattan School of Music, and in master classes.
        She was the president of the New York Flute Club for three nonconsecutive terms from 1973 to 1989. She edited The National Flute Association Newsletter, now The Flutist Quarterly, from the mid-1970's to the early 80's and expanded it from a concise information sheet to a publication that regularly included interviews with important flutists.
        She is survived by her husband, Frank Steindler; a daughter, Catherine Steindler; a son, Frederick Steindler; and two sisters, Elizabeth Baker and Anne Baker, all of New York.
      