
        Kitty Buck, who with her husband, Otto, ran Cake Masters Bakery, an institution on the Upper West Side of Manhattan that made cakes for Liberace, President Kennedy and Elizabeth Taylor -- and for less famous families' celebrations -- for more than half a century, died on Jan. 9 in Oceanside, N.Y.
        She was 93 and lived in Manhattan.
        Cake Masters, which the Bucks founded and operated, was known by its slogan, ''where baking is an art.'' At its peak, there were 15 shops, 14 in Manhattan and one in Queens. Many of the stores were clustered within blocks of each other on Broadway, a reflection of a time before supermarkets when people walked to bakeries for their daily loaves.
        The chain developed the concept of cake as extravaganza, and sold many creations to theatrical and film productions. When Michael Todd staged a Madison Square Garden celebration in 1957 for the first anniversary of his movie ''Around the World in 80 Days,'' Cake Masters delivered the cake, even as an elephant delivered Mr. Todd's wife, Miss Taylor.
        Mrs. Buck was born Gussie Rubin on June 15, 1907, in Hurleyville, N.Y., in the Catskills and attended a one-room school, where the teacher demanded, ''What kind of name is Gussie?'' According to her grandson Michael Halio, the teacher then said, ''I'm going to call you Katherine.''
        She immediately shortened her new name to Kitty, and in the 1930's, had it legally changed.
        She grew up on a dairy farm near Bridgeville, also in the Catskills, her daughter Barbara Halio said. Her father opened a rooming house for summer tourists, which later became the Capitol Hotel. When the hotel burned down in the late 1920's, the family moved to the Bronx and settled down on Morris Avenue.
        She got a job as a sales clerk in a Bronx bakery, where a co-worker introduced her to Otto, a young baker who had recently immigrated from Germany. They married in 1930. In 1937, they borrowed $500 from Kitty's sister, Muriel, for a down payment on the first Cake Masters, at Broadway and 84th Street. Eventually baking operations were centralized at the company's building on West 72nd Street, which opened in 1955, and the other locations were used as stores.
        In 1959, Mr. Buck died at 52. Mrs. Buck resolved to carry on. ''This is my husband's sweat and blood,'' she said, according to family lore.
        A woman running what was then often a man's business, Mrs. Buck pushed racks around the bakery floor, rode to the stores in the cabs of her trucks and dealt with unions daily. In a photograph of a food industry gathering at the Waldorf-Astoria in 1965, she was the only woman on the dais.
        By herself, she more than kept up the bakery's style. In 1961, it was a Cake Masters technician who was sent to Washington to confect a huge cake for President John F. Kennedy's inaugural ball. In 1982, a Cake Masters cake towered over the first ''Night of 100 Stars'' at Radio City Music Hall. Often, one of its creations was part of the bridal display at Tiffany & Company.
        Mrs. Buck was also admired for her personal style, with some likening her upswept hair, smoky voice and quick wit to those of Lauren Bacall, who bought her children's birthday cakes at Cake Masters.
        The stores began to close as rents rose and customers began to bypass butchers and bakers for supermarkets. The last Cake Masters shop, on Third Avenue at 65th Street, closed in 1992. Mrs. Buck, then 85, retired.
        In addition to her daughter Barbara, of Oceanside, and her sister, Muriel Merritt, of San Antonio, Mrs. Buck is survived by another daughter, Joan Buck of Manhattan; five grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      