
        A'Lelia Nelson, a librarian who was a former president of a famous early black enterprise, the Madame C. J. Walker Manufacturing Company, died Jan. 20 at her home in Manhattan. She was 82. The cause was pancreatic cancer.
        Ms. Nelson was linked to the company's founder, Madame C. J. Walker, who was her father's boss. Walker became a legend in the early 20th century by rising from poverty to become a millionaire, the first black American woman to do so. Her hair-straightening method and line of beauty products were sold by thousands of sales agents.
        After Walker died in 1919, her daughter A'Lelia Walker took over the company. Her life was extravagant, and she ran a salon in Harlem called the Dark Tower that attracted celebrities like Langston Hughes.
        A'Lelia Nelson's father, Freeman B. Ransom, was the company's general manager and lawyer during the years A'Lelia Walker was president, and named his daughter for her when she was born on Aug. 14, 1918. Her mother, Nettie Cox Ransom, was a teacher.
        Miss Ransom entered Talladega College in Alabama at 16. After graduation, she got a master's degree in library science from Columbia University, where she was the only black person in her year of the program, said one daughter, the writer Jill Nelson.
        She worked for a year in Waco, Tex., as a school librarian. In 1942, she became acquisitions supervisor for the Library of Congress in Washington, where she met Stanley Earl Nelson, then a student at Howard University's dentistry school.
        They married in 1948 and moved to New York City. Ms. Nelson became vice president of Walker Manufacturing. In 1953, she became president. Walker's will decreed that the president must always be a woman. But the company was by then in decline. It was sold in the 1980's.
        In 1968, Ms. Nelson worked on the ''Harlem on My Mind'' exhibit at the Metropolitan Museum of Art.
        From 1969 to 1996, she was a librarian at the City College of New York, where she compiled ''Black Spectrum: Bibliography of Black Studies Holdings in Cohen Library.'' She also organized a writers' festival named for Langston Hughes.
        She was divorced in the 1970's. She is survived by two daughters, Jill and Lynn Nelson of New York; two sons, Stanley Earl Nelson Jr. of New York and Ralph Lewis Nelson of Berkeley, Calif.; and five grandchildren.
      