
        Gail Fisher, who won an Emmy Award in 1970 for her portrayal of Peggy Fair, secretary to the gumshoe played by Mike Connors on the CBS television series ''Mannix,'' died on Dec. 2 at a hospital in Los Angeles. She was 65.
        The cause was kidney failure.
        Ms. Fisher's role on ''Mannix'' was the high point of a career that arched from rural poverty in New Jersey to a home in Beverly Hills before descending into problems with drugs and sporadic acting jobs.
        At the peak of her career, on ''Mannix,'' whose residuals helped support her later, Ms. Fisher was fiercely proud of her achievement.
        ''Well, certain people who had no knowledge of blacks have maybe -- maybe -- learned something because of 'Mannix's' Peggy Fair,'' she said in a 1972 interview. ''Blacks were pretty much alien objects on TV as recently as 10 years ago, you know, and now we're people. I think maybe before it's all over, it's going to be all right, and I'm proud I'm a part of that.''
        The series, one of the most violent and longest-running of its era, began  in September 1967 and continued until August 1975. After the first year, to counteract unimpressive ratings, ''Mannix'' was changed, and Peggy Fair, the widow of a police officer who had been a friend of Joe Mannix, was added to the cast.
        ''It was really a revolution in casting, you know,'' Ms. Fisher said. ''It was understood by all of us who auditioned that the girl could be anything -- oriental, black, anything -- just a human being. I won.''
        Ms. Fisher was also proud of another achievement. ''I was the first black female -- no, make that black, period -- to make a national TV commercial, on camera, with lines,'' she said, referring to a pitch for the detergent All in the early 1960's.
        Her achievements bucked discouragement.
        ''My friends and family thought I was crazy,'' she said. ''You know, 'But honey, there ain't any black actresses.' ''
        But she was determined to be one. She was born in Orange, N.J., and grew up in Potters Crossing, a black section of Edison Township, N.J.
        She was one of five children. Ms. Fisher described her mother, Ona, as ''a great lady who brought me up to know there's no such thing as 'I can't.' ''
        Ms. Fisher was 2 when her father died. As a teenager she was a cheerleader and a beauty contest winner. She was Miss Transit and Miss Black New Jersey and Miss Press Photographer. She modeled occasionally,  worked in a factory and skipped meals to pay for acting lessons. She studied with Lee Strasberg and  joined what was then the Repertory Theater at Lincoln Center, working with Elia Kazan and Herbert Blau. Mr. Blau cast her as a young firebrand in a 1965 production of ''Danton's Death.''
        She took time out for marriage and motherhood and moved to the West Coast, where she had random jobs on minor shows until she auditioned for ''Mannix.''
        She was married several times, most notably in 1964 to her personal manager, Joe Levy. The marriage produced two daughters before ending in divorce.
        Ms. Fisher is survived by her daughters, Samara Maxe of San Diego and Jole Baerga of Hackensack, N.J.; a brother, Herbert Fisher of Randallstown, Md.; and a sister, Ona Gaither of Alexandria, Va.
      