
        Carol Anne Letheren, a member of the International Olympic Committee from Canada, died yesterday, two days after collapsing while giving a speech in Toronto. She was 58.
        The cause of the collapse was a brain aneurysm, according to The Associated Press.
        Ms. Letheren was stricken while speaking at an alumni banquet Wednesday night at the Schulich School of Business at York University. She was placed in the intensive care unit of St. Michael's Hospital and was listed in critical condition. Her death was announced by the I.O.C. from its headquarters in Lausanne, Switzerland.
        Ms. Letheren, a member of the I.O.C. since 1990, was one of 14 women among the Olympic committee's 131 delegates. Her visibility and forthright handling of one of the most embarrassing scandals in the history of the Olympic Games paved the way for her selection to the I.O.C.
        She was the head of the Canadian delegation at the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea, when the Canadian sprinter Ben Johnson tested positive for an illicit anabolic steroid. It was Ms. Letheren who asked Johnson to return his gold medal and who made the stunning announcement to the news media that the Olympic champion had failed a drug test.
        ''We are acutely aware of how devastating this news will be to millions of people,'' Ms. Letheren said at the time.
        The Johnson episode represented a kind of end of innocence about doping in Olympic-related sports. Since then, many spectacular performances in sports like track and field and swimming have been met with public skepticism.
        Ms. Letheren is survived by her husband, Michael, and a son, Dan.
        A collegiate badminton champion, Ms. Letheren later served as a judge in the gymnastics competition at the Summer Olympics of 1976, 1980 and 1984, according to her official I.O.C. biography. From 1990 to 1994, she also served as president of the Canadian Olympic Association.
        At the time of her death, Ms. Letheren was serving as a member of the board of directors for Toronto's bid to secure the 2008 Summer Olympics in a competition against other favorites such as Beijing and Paris.
      