
        Emily Vermeule, an emeritus professor of classical philology and archaeology at Harvard University who started her career with the discovery of an ancient Mycenaean tomb and went on to conduct excavations in Greece, Turkey, Libya and Cyprus, died on Feb. 6 at her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 72.
        The cause was heart disease, said her son, Adrian.
        ''Professor Vermeule's role in supervising the excavation of a particularly rich Mycenaean chamber tomb in Athens -- and publishing it -- was a wonderful way to get started as a specialist in the Bronze Age of Greece,'' said Sarah Morris, a professor of classics and archaeology at the University of California at Los Angeles and a former student. ''She was only a student then, but this attracted a great deal of attention.''
        Gloria Serrari Pinney, a professor of classical archaeology and art at Harvard who was an admirer but never a colleague of Dr. Vermeule, added, ''Her book on Greece in the Bronze Age was for many years a standard in the field.'' Dr. Vermeule (pronounced ver-MULE) became widely recognized as an expert on Mycenaean culture, which flourished from about 1580 to 1120 B.C.
        Emily Dickinson Townsend Vermeule was born on Aug. 11, 1928, in New York City. Named for her grandmother, a relative of the poet Emily Dickinson, she graduated from the Brearley School and in 1950 received her bachelor's degree summa cum laude in Greek and philosophy from Bryn Mawr.
        Dr. Vermeule earned a master's degree in classical archaeology from Radcliffe in 1954 and a Ph.D. in Greek from Bryn Mawr in 1956.
        Her teaching career led her from Bryn Mawr to Wellesley to Boston University to Harvard. From 1970 until her retirement in 1994, Dr. Vermeule was the Samuel Zemurray Jr. and Doris Zemurray-Stone Radcliffe Professor at Harvard, teaching in both the classics and the history of art and architecture departments.
        Her books include ''Greece in the Bronze Age'' (1964), which focused on Mycenaean culture; ''Aspects of Death in Early Greek Art and Poetry'' (1979), which won the Philological Association's Charles J. Goodwin Award of Merit; and ''Mycenaean Pictorial Vase Painting'' (1982).
        In addition to her son, of Chicago, Dr. Vermeule is survived by her husband, the archaeologist Cornelius Clarkson Vermeule III of Cambridge, and a daughter, Blakey Vermeule of Chicago.
      