
        Dr. Dorothy M. Horstmann, an epidemiologist, virologist, polio pioneer and the first woman appointed as a professor at the Yale School of Medicine, died on Jan. 11 in New Haven. She was 89.
        She had Alzheimer's disease, said Dr. I. George Miller, a colleague and professor of virology at Yale.
        Dr. Horstmann died as the World Health Organization was on the verge of eradicating polio and four days after the death of Dr. Joseph L. Melnick of Houston, another polio pioneer with whom she worked and wrote scholarly papers.
        Dr. Horstmann made significant scientific, educational and public health contributions, and her major scientific achievement was showing that the polio virus reached the brain by way of the blood, a finding that upset dogma and helped make polio vaccines possible.
        ''The widely held feeling that the virus grew solely in nerve cells had to be set aside,'' said Dr. John F. Enders, who won a Nobel Prize for developing a technique that allowed the polio virus to be grown in cells.
        At the time, scientists believed that the polio virus directly attacked the nervous system because efforts to isolate the virus from the blood of paralyzed patients had failed. The reason they failed became apparent when Dr. Horstmann's team detected the polio virus in the blood of infected monkeys and chimpanzees before signs of paralysis appeared. They found that by the time paralysis developed, antibodies had eliminated the polio virus from the blood.
        At Dr. Horstmann's 70th birthday party, Dr. Enders said that ''obviously, the disease behaved like many viral infections'' and that ''everyone was relieved to find that poliomyelitis was not an exceptionally bizarre disease, but similar to others.''
        Dr. Horstmann's work contributed to the licensing of an oral polio vaccine developed by Dr. Albert B. Sabin from live, weakened virus. The vaccine was tested among millions of people in what was then the Soviet Union. But in 1959, Western scientists were skeptical about the favorable findings reported by Russian, Polish and Czech health workers.
        The World Health Organization then asked Dr. Horstmann to study the incidence of polio in the vaccinated areas. She guardedly concluded that the findings were reliable and that the Sabin vaccine was safe and effective. The United States and other countries then licensed it.
        Dorothy Millicent Horstmann was born in Spokane, Wash., on July 2, 1911. She earned her undergraduate degree from the University of California at Berkeley and her medical degree in 1940 from the University of California at San Francisco.
        It was a time when doctors were first using sulfa drugs to cure pneumonia. Dr. Horstmann said that the combination of that drug advance, lectures by the renowned microbiologist Dr. Karl F. Meyer and her experience with patients during her internship and residency at San Francisco County Hospital piqued her interest in infectious diseases.
        Dr. Horstmann spent an additional year training at Vanderbilt University in Nashville and, in 1942, she went to Yale to perform research under Dr. John R. Paul for a year before becoming a specialist in internal medicine. During a polio epidemic in New Haven in 1943, Dr. Horstmann pitched in. She joined the Yale poliomyelitis unit, and soon decided to devote her career to various aspects of infectious agents.
        Dr. Horstmann became a pediatrician at midcareer. In 1961 she received her professorship at Yale, and in 1969 she became the first woman to receive an endowed chair there. It was in epidemiology and pediatrics and named for her mentor, Dr. Paul.
        She was elected to the National Academy of Sciences and was the president of the Infectious Diseases Society of America.
        Dr. Horstmann is survived by a nephew, Paul Rooney, of Ashland, Ore.
      