
        Sylvia Lawry, whose brother's incurable multiple sclerosis prompted her to found national and international organizations to fight the disease, died on Saturday at Bird S. Coler Hospital on Roosevelt Island. She was 85 and lived in Manhattan.
        Ms. Lawry founded both the National Multiple Sclerosis Society in the United States, in 1946, and the International Federation of Multiple Sclerosis Societies, in 1967. She was also one of the leaders of the effort to establish the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke at the National Institutes of Health, in 1950.
        It all began with a classified advertisement in 1945 in which Ms. Lawry beseeched readers to write her of any cures for multiple sclerosis. Instead, she got more than 50 replies asking for the same thing. Her life's mission was the result.
        Multiple sclerosis is a disease of the central nervous system. Its onslaught is signaled by sudden neurological symptoms, including loss of vision, paralysis, numbness and difficulties in walking, as nerves lose their sheathing and are unable to conduct signals.
        Partly as a result of research financed by the societies started by Ms. Lawry, scientists now suspect that the disease may be caused by a viral infection on top of an inherited genetic susceptibility, though the specific triggering mechanism remains unknown.
        The national society has also helped develop medicines to alleviate symptoms and prolong life expectancy, essentially offering a normal life span to many with multiple sclerosis. In 1890, when multiple sclerosis was treated with herbs and bed rest, life expectancy was five years.  But there is still no cure for the disease, which the society says strikes another adult each hour, leaving the most afflicted paralyzed.
        ''Sylvia's uncompromising battle for more than a half century to solve the mystery of multiple sclerosis made her a hero to anyone touched by this devastating disease,'' said Richard Slifka, chairman of the society.
        The national society credited her with the first use of the abbreviation M.S. for the disease. The Oxford English Dictionary cites as the first use of the term a 1955 article in Science News Letter discussing work by the society.
        Sylvia Friedman was born in Brooklyn on June 28, 1915. Her father manufactured Venetian blinds. She graduated from Hunter College in 1936 and went to work in the office of her father's attorney as a receptionist. She hoped to go to law school and took a job in the United States attorney's office in Manhattan.
        In 1944, she married Michael Lawry; they were divorced two years later. She used the last name Lawry for the rest of her life, though she married Stanley Englander, who was in the wholesale meat business, in 1957. He died in 1968.
        When Ms. Lawry's brother, Bernard, was stricken with multiple sclerosis in 1945, she and her sister Alice placed a classified advertisement in The New York Times: ''Multiple sclerosis. Will anyone recovered from it please communicate with patient. T272 Times.''
        The sisters received 54 replies from people as desperate as they were. Most asked to be informed if the two heard anything promising.
        ''I was looking for medical clues that might have helped my brother,'' Ms. Lawry said in an interview with The New York Post in 1959. ''But when the responses started to snowball and come from all over the country, I decided to give up the law and let my creative energies spill over into helping M.S. victims.''
        Starting with family and friends, Ms. Lawry built a network. Her sister Alice helped. Her other sister, Lillian, and her husband, Stanley Wilson, founded one of the first local chapters, in the Bronx.
        Ms. Lawry is survived by Lillian Wilson, who lives in Spring Valley, N.Y.; two sons, Frank Englander of Manhattan, and Steven Englander of Montgomery, N.Y., and two grandchildren.
        The fight against multiple sclerosis grew. A tiny office was found. The doctors whom Ms. Lawry first consulted about her brother became interested in the effort.
        Dee Sammak, the accounts payable manager who has worked for the society since 1954, said she has stayed all these years because of the inspiration of Ms. Lawry. ''Don't forget,'' Ms. Sammak said, ''when she started the society, women were not doing these things -- to start a society in a man's world.''
        On March 11, 1946, Ms. Lawry assembled 20 prominent research scientists to found the Association for Advancement of Research in Multiple Sclerosis, which was renamed the National Multiple Sclerosis Society in 1947. Its first research grant went toward studying the relationship between the body's immune system and the effects of multiple sclerosis on the central nervous system.
        Though her brother's health progressively weakened until his death in 1973, the organization Ms. Lawry founded gathered momentum. In 1950, she teamed up with Senator Charles Tobey of New Hampshire, whose daughter had multiple sclerosis, to lobby Congress for what is now the National Institute of Neurological Disorders and Stroke.
        The law creating the institute passed on Aug. 15, 1950. At that time, total federal appropriations for research on multiple sclerosis were $14,000. They now total $100 million a year, the society said.
        Ms. Lawry's political skills were evident throughout her career. A frequent tactic, she told CNN in 1995, was to lobby people who had relatives or acquaintances with the disease. She mentioned winning support from President John F. Kennedy, who had a cousin with the disease, and Grace Kelly, whose first fiancé had it.
        The international organization was born after the national society realized it was giving almost one-third of its research grants to foreigners. There are now 38 societies around the world.
        Ms. Lawry, who worked 12-hour days, said she would never retire until multiple sclerosis retired. The disease still affects 1 in 1,000 people in the United States.
        ''There was a continuing pain in her heart, because what she really wanted to see was M.S. go the way of polio,'' said Arney Rosenblat, a society spokeswoman.
      