
        Dale Evans, who won the hearts of millions of Americans as she rode alongside her husband, Roy Rogers, in western films and on ''The Roy Rogers Show'' in the early years of television, died yesterday at her home in Apple Valley, Calif., east of Los Angeles. She was 88.
        Miss Evans had not been on a horse since childhood and her hopes for a Hollywood career were sputtering when she was cast opposite John Wayne in her first Western, ''In Old Oklahoma,'' in 1944. She went on to become an accomplished sound-stage equestrienne, playing opposite rugged, handsome and likable cowboys in dozens of Westerns before she met and married Rogers, the King of the Cowboys, and composed the couple's enduring theme song, ''Happy Trails to You.''
        By the 1950's she was a fixture on the sagebrush-epic landscape of snarling men, delicate ladies and roaring oil gushers. And with the dawn of television, she became a fixture in the minds of millions of children who tuned in to ''The Roy Rogers Show'' and saw her moseying  along on her buckskin horse, Buttermilk, while Rogers rode his beloved golden palomino, Trigger, the Smartest Horse in the Movies.
        Miss Evans's break had come years earlier, while she was working as a $12-a-week stenographer in Dallas. While she was transcribing a letter, her boss suggested that she appear on a radio program that the company was sponsoring . She did, and soon was singing on regional radio hookups. By 1940 she was the featured performer on a CBS radio network program, ''News and Rhythm,'' and was heard on the Edgar Bergen-Charlie McCarthy program.
        She was also appearing at the Gay Paree supper club in Chicago, where her showstopper was ''Will You Marry Me, Mr. Larramie?''
        One night an agent offered not marriage but a screen test, opposite Bing Crosby in ''Holiday Inn.'' She did not get the part in the film, which also starred Fred Astaire and featured such Irving Berlin hits as ''White Christmas.'' But 20th Century-Fox signed her to a one-year contract.
        She moved to Republic in 1943 and was cast opposite Wayne in ''In Old Oklahoma'' (it was later retitled ''The War of the Wildcats''), a romance about a swaggering, no-nonsense oil driller. The following year, she was cast in ''The Cowboy and the Señorita.''
        The cowboy was Roy Rogers, a rugged, handsome and likable man but, by his own account, ''no great shakes'' as a talker.
        Miss Evans was no señorita -- at the time, she was married to her second husband, Robert Dale Butts, a pianist. They divorced in 1945, and the following year, Rogers's wife died after giving birth to a son, Roy Rogers Jr.
        Miss Evans and Rogers made eight films together in 1946, including ''My Pal Trigger.'' She admitted to having trouble with Trigger: she made the mistake of patting his neck.
        ''He is a very highly cued horse,'' she said. ''He is cued to rear when you touch that spot on his neck. He stood straight up on his hind legs. I slipped off that dish I was sitting on, and fell flat on my -- I fell off in the dust.''
        Her fans complained that Rogers seemed to care more about Trigger than he cared about her. ''How that spurious cowhand can be content to kiss a horse when he has Miss Evans on the lot every day I cannot imagine,'' Robert C. Ruark wrote in The World-Telegram in 1946, ''but the inflexible law of westerns is that the hero shall never smooch the heroine.''
        Once, she said, he came close.  ''They were going to let Roy kiss me on the forehead'' in one film -- she said she could not remember which. The idea was to show that he was sorry for pushing her under a bed to keep her from getting hurt in a rough-and-tumble scene. ''But they had a conference and decided against it,'' she said. ''The kids, you know, so I never even got kissed on the forehead. I just get knocked under beds.''
        Miss Evans wore outfits of fringes, satins and studs that were every bit as sartorially splendid as those sported by her husband. Thousands and thousands of red-blooded American girls wore Dale Evans outfits and cast-iron six shooters in their matching holster sets as a kind of proto-feminist reach for equality with their brothers.
        Dale Evans -- born Frances Octavia Smith on Oct. 31, 1912, in Uvalde, Tex. -- once said that her favorite role was Toni Ames, a newspaperwoman in ''Don't Fence Me In,'' which was released in 1945. ''I like to be active in a role, and hate namby-pamby heroines,'' she said. ''Toni was a pleasant departure from the usual western role, in which the girl just stands around while men do violent and admirable things.''
        Miss Evans appeared in the 1950's with the evangelist Billy Graham, and in the 1960's she joined a group of other actors in pressing for a constitutional amendment to permit prayer in public schools.
        She also began writing inspirational books like ''Angel Unaware'' (Revell, 1953) the story of her daughter Robin, who was born in 1950 with Down syndrome and heart problems and died a few days before her second birthday. ''Angel Unaware'' sold 400,000 copies in two years; Miss Evans gave the profits to the National Association for Retarded Children.
        Contrary to common practice at the time, when such children were institutionalized, and contrary to Hollywood myth making, in which fans were not to know that perfect couples sometimes had imperfect children, Miss Evans and Rogers had kept Robin, who was their first child, at home with the family.
        It was a large family from the start. Rogers had been a widower with three children, an adopted daughter named Cheryl, a son, Roy  Jr., and another daughter, Linda Lou, and Miss Evans had a son, Thomas Frederick Fox Jr., from an earlier marriage that she had entered into when she was 14. To help them overcome their grief over the death of Robin, the couple adopted a Korean War orphan they named Deborah Lee.
        On Aug. 17, 1964, Deborah Lee, then 12 years old, was killed in a church bus-car collision near Oceanside, Calif. The following year, John David (Sandy) Rogers, an abused child whom they adopted after one of their many goodwill visits to an orphanage, choked to death in a military hospital in Germany. An 18-year-old Army private, he had complained of feeling ill after dining at an enlisted men's club. After he died, Miss Evans wrote a book, ''Salute to Sandy.''
        They also raised a foster child from Scotland, Marion Fleming, and a Choctaw Indian child, Mary Little Doe, called Dodie.
        Roy Rogers died in 1998 at age 86.
        Roy Rogers Jr. runs the Roy Rogers and Dale Evans Museum in Victorville, Calif., at the edge of the Mojave Desert and seven miles from the Rogers-Evans ranch, named the Double-R Bar Ranch like the one in their television series.
        There, amid all the memorabilia of a time in America when the good guys were polite singing cowboys who wore white hats and fought fairly and never cussed, is a glass case holding a stuffed Trigger, together with Miss Evans's horse Buttermilk and the couple's German shepherd, Bullet.
        At the peak of their popularity in the late 1940's and early 50's, Roy Rogers and Dale Evans had more than 2,000 fan clubs around the world and hundreds of licensed products from lunchboxes to comic books bore their names and faces.
        Their rodeo set a box-office record at Madison Square Garden and they were the only couple to be chosen grand marshals of the annual Tournament of Roses parade in Pasadena, Calif.
        Miss Evans had almost as many credits for songwriting as she did for acting. She wrote or composed more than 25 songs, including ''Aha, San Antone,'' which sold more than 200,000 copies, and ''The Bible Tells Me So.'' She made 30 children's records, . including one that featured her own songs, ''Happy Birthday, Gentle Savior.''
        ''I would love to be an evangelist,'' Miss Evans said, ''but I think God has revealed to me that I can serve him best by just remaining at my post.''
        Correction:  February 10, 2001, Saturday  An obituary of the film and television star Dale Evans on Thursday  misstated the name of the Chicago supper club where she performed in the early 1940's. It was Chez Paree, not Gay Paree.
      