
        Peggy Converse, a character actress whose seven-decade career in show business included films, television and more than 100 roles in more than 1,000 theaters, died on March 2 at her home in Los Angeles. She was 95.
        Ms. Converse said she had appeared on stages in every major city in the United States and Canada and ''in most of the towns in between, any town that had a stage and would have me.''
        She made the comment at 85 when she was paid for what became her final performance, a recorded scream that she said she had actually emitted for the 1958 low-budget thriller ''The Thing That Couldn't Die'' and that caught the ear of the producers of a new horror film.
        ''The producers could not find anyone to scream the way they wanted, so they went back to the dark ages of film and heard mine,'' she said. ''You would have screamed that way, too, if you were in movies like that.''
        Anyway, on the basis of hearing the recorded scream, the new producers decided, ''She's the one.''
        Then they found out that Ms. Converse was 85. ''They, of course, realized they couldn't use me, so they used my voice,'' she said.
        Besides screaming, Ms. Converse applied her talents to portraying leading ladies, ingénues, mothers, sisters and villains.
        Her film career included roles in everything from ''Father Is a Bachelor'' (1950), with William Holden, and ''Miss Sadie Thompson'' (1953), with Rita Hayworth, to ''The Accidental Tourist'' (1988), with Geena Davis and William Hurt.
        Active in television from its infancy, Ms. Converse appeared in numerous episodes of ''Perry Mason'' with Raymond Burr, and on soap operas like ''The Young and the Restless,'' ''General Hospital'' and ''Days of Our Lives.''
        Born in Oregon City, Ore., she began her career at 16, appearing as multiple characters in the ''Pilgrimage Play'' in Los Angeles. A 1927 graduate of Stanford University, she was a sought-after ingénue in the 1920's and 30's, appearing in Broadway productions like ''Infernal Machine,'' with Lloyd Bridges, and ''Comedy of Good and Evil,'' with Mildred Dunnock.
        Ms. Converse played feature roles in plays like ''Othello,'' ''Wuthering Heights,'' ''The Importance of Being Earnest,'' ''The Corn Is Green'' and ''Dark at the Top of the Stairs'' in summer stock companies from Tarrytown, N.Y., and Weston, Conn., to Santa Fe, N.M., and Carmel, Calif. She and her husband, the actor Don Porter, appeared together in the national touring companies of ''Any Wednesday,'' ''The Best Man'' and ''Love and Kisses.''
        Her first marriage, to Edmund Converse, founder of Bonanza Airlines, ended in divorce.
        She and Mr. Porter, whom she met at a cast party at the Carmel Playhouse, were married for 53 years. He died in 1997.
        She is survived by a daughter, the actress and singer Melissa Converse, and a son, Don Porter Jr., both of Los Angeles; three grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      