
        Toby Wing, whose pert good looks and vivacious personality made her a cinematic bombshell of the 30's -- as well as the heroine in a storybook romance with a celebrated aviator, Dick Merrill -- died on Friday at her home in Mathews, Va. She was 85.
        ''Miss Wing is a nice girl with a face like the morning sun,'' The New York World Telegram proclaimed in 1937.
        Starting in 1931, when she was 16, she made 38 movies in little more than a decade, becoming America's favorite pinup from Jean Harlow's death in 1937 until Betty Grable led G.I.'s to World War II in a swimsuit.
        Miss Wing, her platinum hair shining brilliantly, was the original Goldwyn Girl, the first of Samuel Goldwyn's one-to-a-picture sex symbols, appearing in ''Palmy Days'' in 1932. She also appeared in Busby Berkeley's lavish musicals and in no time was getting roles requiring no small dash of sexual innuendo.
        In the 1937 film ''True Confession,'' she was a secretary being interrogated by a lawyer, played by Fred MacMurray. The lawyer asks her to take shorthand, perhaps to see if she can or, more likely, to prove a point. Miss Wing stares back and says, ''Are you kidding?''
        At the time, Paramount said she was receiving more fan mail than either Marlene Dietrich or Claudette Colbert, and she had carved out a highly visible niche.
        ''She was a sex symbol, let's face it,'' said her nephew William H. Perry Jr.
        But almost as suddenly as the shooting star flew, it crashed to earth. In 1940, the baby she had with Mr. Merrill died in his crib, and the couple moved to Florida to raise their second son in privacy. She made only one more film, ''The Marines Come Through,'' in 1943.
        Some of her work was uncredited, and not a few of her parts were small, but she left behind moments that are treasured by film enthusiasts. It was to her, wearing a white fox bra above a bare midriff, that Dick Powell in sang ''Young and Healthy'' in the original ''42nd Street,'' in 1933.
        Her publicity pictures were an industry in themselves. She posed, in succession, with at least five fiancés. She balanced on pyramids of rubber balls, and in one particularly inspired moment she was pictured saving a co-star from imminent death by drowning.
        Once, she visited West Point, where she promised a cadet a signed photograph in return for a pair of cadet pajamas.
        The pajamas arrived, and according to The Daily News, they were made of Mandarin silk with hand-embroidered flowers. Whether she reciprocated with a picture seems to have gone unreported.
        She dated, or at least was said by the movie magazines to date, Maurice Chevalier, Alfred Vanderbilt and Franklin Roosevelt Jr. But it was her romance with Henry Tindall Merrill, known as Dick, that captured the national imagination. Mr. Merrill was the first aviator to fly a trans-Atlantic round trip and established such a record of safety on the La Guardia-to-Miami route for Eastern Airlines that be became known as New York's favorite pilot.
        Not to say that Mr. Merrill was the first aviator to whom she was publicly linked. The New York American in 1936 told of her sorrow at the death of an army aviator with whom she had ''an understanding'' that marriage was imminent. She said in the article that the actor Jackie Coogan, another boyfriend, had been furious that the aviator had given her his West Point ring.
        The next year, she told The Daily News that she was done with men. ''I have really given up falling in love with men!'' she said. ''Oh yes! My career is now to be my life.''
        Six months later, The New York Herald Tribune carried a short item speculating that she was about to marry Mr. Merrill. The newspaper said she ''shook her blond tresses'' and said, ''You never can tell.'' They eloped to Tijuana 11 months later.
        Martha Virginia Wing was born in Amelia Court House, Va., on July 14, 1915. Toby is an old family nickname.
        She is survived by her sister, Patricia Gill of Gloucester, Va., and two granddaughters. Mr. Merrill and their second son, Richard, both died in 1982.
      