
        Birgit Akesson, a dancer and choreographer whose unconventional approach to movement and music made her a prominent pioneer of Swedish modern dance, died on Saturday in Stockholm, where she lived. She died on her 93rd birthday.
        Unlike most modern dancers in the United States and Europe in the 1930's and 40's, Ms. Akesson was less concerned with expressing emotion than with finding the essence of dance through form. She rebelled early against her Expressionist training and became known for pure and rigorous solos, often performed without music.
        Although she stopped dancing in 1965, Ms. Akesson's role as a founding mother of Swedish modern dance was increasingly recognized in the last 30 years, and she was awarded the gold medal of the Swedish Academy in 1998. Her works were seen on Swedish television, and her pure-dance aesthetic found favor with a new generation of viewers. A founder of the Choreographic Institute in Stockholm, she was an expert on dance in Asia and also Africa, where she sought the roots of a dance culture absent in the West.
        In the 1950's she choreographed several works for the Royal Swedish Ballet as well as a space age opera, ''Aniara,'' that was typical of her collaboration with Sweden's modernist composers and poets. Yet her signature style was not dramatic and narrative. Ahead of her time, she sometimes baffled the international dance world with experiments in stillness, a dissociation between music and movement and her uncanny ability to reshape the body into an assemblage of independent planes.
        In Paris, where she had made her debut in 1934, this reconfiguring of the body reminded critics of Cubist forms, and Ms. Akesson was called ''the Picasso of Dance.'' American audiences saw her perform in New York (1949 and 1955), and at the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival (1955) and the American Dance Festival (1956). Referring to the slow pace or static quality of some of her solos, the American critic George Beiswanger wrote that she would occasionally ''crawl and writhe like a slug or an upended caterpillar, hardly moving at all.'' But he added, ''If one lets the movement have its way, it generates a compelling, almost hypnotic beauty.''
        Ms. Akesson was born in Malmo, Sweden. From 1929 to 1931, she studied in Dresden at the school of Mary Wigman, the German modern dance pioneer. Although she and Birgit Cullberg, who was considered the other founding mother of Swedish modern dance, had their roots in German Expressionist dance, Ms. Akesson did not share Ms. Cullberg's interest in ballet or dance-drama.
        In search of her own dance idiom and what she called a first or primary movement that did not depend on music, she moved to Paris, where she presented a solo concert in 1934. Two years later she opened a school in Stockholm, where she concentrated on developing an idiom that would allow each part of the body to move independently.
        ''All parts of her dancing body were granted equal importance,'' Horace Engdahl wrote in ''Swedish Ballet and Dance'' (Swedish Institute, 1992). ''This was coupled with a new idea of space as growing out of the movement instead of being a fixed theatrical frame.'' He added that the body ''seemed to be taken apart and reassembled in forever new shapes, dissolving into a continuous flow of images growing one out of the other.''
        Molding herself into a sculptural shape with her head or shoulder sometimes resting on the floor, Ms. Akesson often danced with eyes closed. In 1946 she returned to performing with two solos that were considered an artistic breakthrough, ''Blue Evening'' and ''Movement.''
        Ms. Akesson began to collaborate with the poet Erik Lindegren and the composer Karl-Birger Blomdahl in works like ''Eye: Sleep in Dream'' (1953). Mr. Lindegren's poem was heard before Ms. Akesson moved in silence, with the music played during blackouts between the danced passages.
        Ms. Akesson often turned to the same collaborators for the seven large works, beginning with the 1957 ''Sisyphus,'' that she choreographed for the Royal Swedish Ballet.
        In 1983 she published her highly acclaimed book on African culture, ''The Mask of Spring Water,'' and suddenly returned to choreography in 1989 by creating two solos on television. Long interested in Asian dance, she chose the Chinese-born dancer Chiang Ching to perform both dances, ''Autumn Leaves'' and ''Shades.''
        Ms. Akesson is survived by a daughter, Mona Moeller-Nilesen, and a grandchild.
      