
        Dame Ninette de Valois, the founder of England's Royal Ballet and a major British choreographer, died yesterday at her home in London. She was 102.
        With keen vision and unflagging energy, Dame Ninette guided one of the 20th century's greatest ballet companies.
        It was under her directorship, from 1931 to 1963, that the troupe made its United States debut with Margot Fonteyn in 1949. As a choreographer, she experimented widely, yet regarded classical ballet as the basis for dance training. Her works often looked Expressionistic or grotesque, and she had dancers perform in bare feet as well as in toe shoes, but all were rooted in the academic ballet tradition and could be performed only by classical dancers.
        Most of her best-known creations date from the 1930's. ''Job'' (1931) was inspired by William Blake's illustrations for the biblical story. ''Bar aux Folies-Bergère'' (1934) derived from the Manet painting of a Parisian nightspot. ''The Rake's Progress'' (1935) brought to life Hogarth's series of paintings showing a fashionable young man's decline into debauchery and madness. ''Checkmate'' (1937) was an allegorical chess game between love and death.
        Despite her love of art as source material, Dame Ninette's ballets were more than living pictures. Theatrically vivid, they were also thoughtfully conceived. As early as 1928, Dancing Times, a British magazine, called her ''essentially a choreographer who thinks.''
        When her death was announced by the Royal Ballet, Sir Anthony Dowell, the company's director, offered a tribute to Madam, as Dame Ninette was known to generations of dancers: ''Through her achievements she will remain a source of inspiration and encouragement as she has been throughout her life to so many of us as dancer, choreographer, director, teacher and mentor.''
        The daughter of an English Army officer, she was born Edris Stannus in County Wicklow, Ireland, in 1898; her family moved to England when she was 10. She once recalled that as a girl, she was reserved, obstinate and ''capable of the sulks.'' Later in life, a medical examination revealed that she had survived undetected childhood polio.
        She enjoyed ballroom dance classes, and her mother, who invented Ninette de Valois as a stage name, considered her talented. At age 12, she was sent to the Lila Field Academy, a London theatrical school. She danced in London productions and studied with some of the major teachers of the day, including Edouard Espinosa, Nicholas Legat and Enrico Cecchetti. When almost every British seaside resort boasted  a theater, she toured the country until, as she later joked, she felt as if she had ''danced the 'Dying Swan' on every pier in England.''
        In 1923 she joined Serge Diaghilev's Ballets Russes, remaining with it for three years.
        Returning to London in 1926, Miss de Valois opened a school and began to build what eventually became a national ballet company. She was soon involved with three important theater groups: the Old Vic in London, the Festival Theater in Cambridge and the Abbey Theater in Dublin. For them, she staged dances in plays, taught classes and presented dance programs. At the Abbey she worked with William Butler Yeats on some of his plays that combined poetry and dance.
        On May 5, 1931, her dancers from the Old Vic offered their first full program, and a company was born. Called the Vic-Wells Ballet (after the jointly managed Old Vic theater and the Sadler's Wells, where the company originally performed), the troupe became the Sadler's Wells Ballet when all its performances were at that theater. It kept that name in 1946 when it moved to the Royal Opera House and in 1949 when it made its New York debut.
        After the company settled into the Royal Opera House, Miss de Valois  established a second company, the Sadler's Wells Theater Ballet, at Sadler's Wells. This troupe was reorganized in several forms over the years and was the forerunner of today's Birmingham Royal Ballet, a major British company.
        The original London company was renamed the Royal Ballet when it received a royal charter in 1956. Dame Ninette, who was made a Dame of the British Empire in 1951, remained its director only until 1963. Yet, for the rest of her life she helped guide the policies of the company and its affiliated school.
        Although she choreographed less as her administrative duties increased, she remained an esteemed choreographer. She also offered directorial advice at the founding of the Turkish State Ballet in 1947 and choreographed for it on occasion until 1966.
        She was considered a strict disciplinarian in the classroom, yet she was a witty conversationalist and, during her stage career, excelled in comic roles. Dame Ninette also wrote poetry, although she seldom published it. However, in 1985 the Sadler's Wells Trust issued ''The Cycle,'' a volume of her poetry, with all proceeds from its sale going to the Sadler's Wells Development Appeal.
        As she became frail in later years, Dame Ninette spent most of her time at home. She was frequently visited by dance colleagues and her choreography was revived to the acclaim of new audiences. In 1993 there were two successful revivals: ''Checkmate,'' produced by the Royal Ballet, and a triumphant staging of ''Job'' by the Birmingham Royal Ballet, which was danced in theaters and in Coventry Cathedral. Dame Ninette attended the opening performance of ''Job'' when the Birmingham company had a season at Covent Garden that July, and she and her ballet received an ovation.
        In 1998, to celebrate Dame Ninette's 100th birthday, the Royal Ballet offered ''The Rake's Progress'' as part of a gala program that included excerpts from some of her other works, and the Birmingham Ballet revived ''The Prospect Before Us'' (1940), a comedy about the rivalry between two 18th-century theater managers.
        Dame Ninette always kept her private and public lives separate. In ''Come Dance With Me,'' an autobiography published in 1957, she noted that she was married in 1935, but not once in the book did she mention her husband's name: Dr. Arthur Connell, a physician who died in 1987. She left no survivors.
        Dame Ninette was awarded the French Legion of Honor in 1950, and received the Erasmus Prize (1974), the Society of West End Theaters' Special Award (1992), the Dance Magazine Award (1998) and honorary degrees from London (1947), Reading (1951), Oxford (1955), Aberdeen (1958) and Cambridge (1992) universities. In 1980 Queen Elizabeth II made her a member of the Companions of Honor, for those who have done ''conspicuous national service.''
      