
        Eleanor Clymer, who in dozens of children's books contrasted country and city life, died yesterday at a retirement community in Haverford, Pa. She was 95.
        Between 1943 and 1983, Mrs. Clymer published 58 books, mostly for elementary schoolchildren. Her first, ''A Yard for John,'' which told of a city boy who so longs to play in the mud and grass that his family moves to the suburbs, was praised in The New York Times as a story of reality ''touched with magic.'' In ''The Trolley Car Family'' (1947), a man who loses his job as a street car driver turns his old trolley into a home for his family and moves it to the country.
        But Mrs. Clymer also explored the lives of children who stay in the city in books like ''My Brother Stevie'' (1967), about a troubled third grader,  and ''The Tiny Little House'' (1964), inspired by a small house that she saw squeezed between two tall buildings in Manhattan. The story was later adapted into a musical for children, ''The Little House of Cookies.''
        Whether set in the city or the country, Mrs. Clymer's stories were grounded in reality, despite a children's book industry enthralled with fantasy. ''No 'Star Wars' and dungeons or dragons and fairy tales,'' she said firmly of her writing in an interview in 1984.
        One book, ''Hamburgers -- and Ice Cream for Dessert'' (1975), about a boy searching for food on a desert island, was inspired by her son, Adam, who for a time as a child would eat for dinner only hamburgers, mashed potatoes and peas, and ice cream. Adam Clymer, her only survivor, is now the Washington correspondent of The Times.
        Mrs. Clymer originally wanted to be a science writer, and several of her books sought to teach children about subjects like archaeology.
        ''She always came up with an interesting idea which no one else had done,'' said Ann Durell, the former publisher of children's books at Dutton, who edited Mrs. Clymer.
        Eleanor Lowenton was born in New York City on Jan. 7, 1906, to Russian immigrant parents. She spent most of her life in New York, but in an essay in the ''Something About the Author Autobiography Series'' in 1994, she fondly recalled how she explored the land around her family's tarpaper-covered summer home in New Jersey, and how disappointed she was when her parents had to give up plans to live there permanently because her father could not find a job. The yearning for the country, she said, ''was to influence all our lives.''
        After earning a degree in English from the University of Wisconsin in 1928, and marrying Kinsey Clymer, a journalist who became a social worker, she tried to return to country life. She and her family put a down payment on a farm and began repairs, but finances again got in the way, and the Clymers returned to the city.
        After taking a workshop at the Bank Street School, Mrs. Clymer decided to try writing for the young.
        ''I wanted to tell stories to little children, like my own son and his friends who were beginning to find their way in the everyday world of family, play, work, pets, familiar things that they experienced and understood,'' she recalled.
        For the next few decades, she did just that, sometimes so prolifically that she published under pseudonyms so that she would not appear to be competing with herself.
        Finally, after their son was grown, the Clymers realized their dream of a country house. In the early 1960's they moved to Katonah, N.Y., in Westchester County, where Mr. Clymer died in 1984, and Mrs. Clymer lived until 1989.
      