
        Hollis Sigler, a Chicago-based artist whose autobiographical narrative paintings often focused on her long struggle with breast cancer, died of the disease on Thursday at her home in Prairie View, Ill. She was 53.
        Ms. Sigler's early work was abstract expressionist, then photo-realist. But in 1976, trying to disengage from what she viewed as a male-dominated academic tradition, she shifted to a sweetly colored faux-naïve mode. The results were deeply personal depictions of domestic settings and suburban landscapes, with links to the art of Florine Stett heimer, 19th-century Hudson River School painting and Chicago's so-called Hairy Who school of cartoon- and folk-influenced work.
        In 1985 Ms. Sigler's cancer was diagnosed, and she had a mastectomy and chemotherapy; the cancer recurred in 1989 and 1992, spreading to her bones.
        ''I realized this was not something that was going to go away,'' she said in an interview in The New Art Examiner in 1994. ''I really do have to live with this disease, and probably die with this disease. With this in mind, I decided to change my work.''
        Her paintings during the 1990's incorporated specific references to cancer in images of fragmented bodies and texts added to the works. A series of oil pastel paintings titled ''Breast Cancer Journal: Walking With the Ghosts of My Grandmothers'' (1992-1993) included historical information and statistical data on the disease, from which Ms. Sigler's mother and grandmother also suffered. The series was exhibited at the National Museum of Women in the Arts in Washington, and ''Hollis Sigler's Breast Cancer Journal,'' a book of related essays by Ms. Sigler, Susan M. Love and James Yood, was published by Hudson Hills Press in 1999.
        Ms. Sigler, who was born in 1948 in Gary, Ind., attended the Moore College of Art in Philadelphia and the School of the Art Institute of Chicago and received an honorary doctorate from Moore College in 1994. She taught at Columbia College in Chicago for more than 20 years.
        She was represented by Carl Hammer Gallery and Printworks Gallery in Chicago and Steven Scott Gallery in Baltimore and was a founding member of Artemisia in Chicago, one of the first women's cooperative galleries in the United States. She also showed with Barbara Gladstone Gallery in New York in the early 1980's.
        This year she was awarded the College Art Association's Distinguished Artist Award for Lifetime Achievement; she also received the Chicago Caucus for Women in the Arts Lifetime Achievement Award.
        Ms. Sigler is survived by her companion, Patricia Locke of Highland Park, Ill.; her father, Philip Sigler of North Carolina; and a brother, Andrew Sigler of Chicago.
      