
        Maria-Gaetana Matisse, widow of the art dealer Pierre Matisse and a driving force behind the foundation that donated his vast personal archive to the Pierpont Morgan Library, died on April 7 in Manhattan. She was 58.
        The cause was kidney failure, said a spokeswoman for the Pierre and Maria-Gaetana Matisse Foundation.
        Mrs. Matisse, who was known as Tana, was born in Vienna in 1943. Her father, Karl von Spreti, was a founding member of the Christian Democratic party in Germany after World War II. In 1956 he was appointed ambassador to Luxembourg, and in the 1960's assumed diplomatic assignments in Cuba and Jordan, and Mrs. Matisse spent parts of her childhood in each of those countries.
        In 1967, after studying languages in Germany, Mrs. Matisse moved to London and then to New York. After working for several years in the art world, she took a job at the gallery owned by Pierre Matisse, a son of the artist Henri Matisse and a leading international dealer in modern art. In 1974 she and Mr. Matisse, then in his 70's and a widower, married. They divided their time for the next 15 years between New York, Paris and the south of France.
        After Mr. Matisse's death and the closing of the gallery in 1989, she and his three children by his first marriage established the Pierre Matisse Foundation. In 1998 the organization gave Mr. Matisse's archive, which included extensive correspondence with Giacometti, Miro, Dubuffet and Henri Matisse, to the Morgan Library, where a portion of it is to be exhibited in March 2002.
        In 1999 Mrs. Matisse established the Pierre and Maria-Gaetana Matisse Foundation, which is preparing a catalogue raisonne of the painter Yves Tanguy.
        Mrs. Matisse made frequent loans to exhibitions from the collection of modern art she inherited from her husband. She participated in the activities of several museums, including the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Museum of Modern Art and the Morgan Library, where she was a member of the director's round table and the visiting committee of the department of drawings and prints.
        She is survived by two brothers, Arardo Graf von Spreti and Alessandro Graf von Spreti, both of Munich.
      