
        Maria Karnilova, a charter member of American Ballet Theater who channeled her comic gifts and vitality as a dancer into an award-winning career as an actress on Broadway, died on Friday in Manhattan. She was 80 and lived in Manhattan.
        A versatile performer, Ms. Karnilova won a Tony Award in 1964 when she portrayed Golde, opposite Zero Mostel as Teyve, in ''Fiddler on the Roof.'' She was also nominated for a Tony for her role as Hortense in ''Zorba'' in 1968 and was praised for her hilarious performance in 1959 as Tessie Tura, a stripper in ''Gypsy.'' She played Golde again in the 1981 revival of ''Fiddler.''
        Ms. Karnilova's career after 1946 was focused on Broadway and television as well as opera and regional stage productions. From the 1940's through the 60's, these included ''Miss Liberty,'' ''Two's Company,'' ''The Beggar's Opera,'' ''Kaleidoscope'' and ''Bravo Giovanni.'' Nonetheless, she often spoke of ballet as her first love. ''There is nothing more wonderful than being onstage,'' she once said of dancing.
        She started her professional career in 1927 in the Children's Ballet of the Metropolitan Opera and joined the corps when Ballet Theater, now American Ballet Theater, was founded in 1939. As a soloist, she excelled  in comic ballets like Antony Tudor's ''Judgment of Paris,'' Michel Fokine's ''Bluebeard,'' David Lichine's ''Helen of Troy'' and Agnes de Mille's ''Three Virgins and a Devil.''
        Ms. Karnilova was occasionally seen in classical solos, as in ''Aurora's Wedding,'' the last act of ''The Sleeping Beauty,'' and in Tudor's dance dramas. (She was the former mistress in his ''Jardin aux Lilas.'')
        In 1943, John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, noted that she was originally listed in programs as Maria Karniloff but was now called Karnilova. Whatever her stage name, he was taken with her vibrant personality. When she portrayed the sixth wife in ''Bluebeard,'' he wrote, ''She dances the role excellently and plays it with charm and a nice comedy sense.''
        When she was cast in the mime role of Giselle's mother in 1944, Mr. Martin wrote, ''Who should turn up but Maria Karnilova, of all people, playing delightfully and obviously having the time of her life.''
        Ms. Karnilova was a soloist when she left Ballet Theater in 1946 to appear in ''Call Me Mister,'' a Broadway revue, and a series of musicals, many directed or choreographed by Jerome Robbins, a close friend from her corps days at Ballet Theater. In 1958-59, she appeared as a guest in ''The Concert'' in Robbins's short-lived troupe, Ballets: U.S.A.
        Ms. Karnilova was born in Hartford on Aug. 3, 1920, to Russian parents, Phillip Dovgolenko and Stephanida Karnilovich Dovgolenko. After the family moved to Brooklyn, Mr. Dovgolenko went to the box office of Loews State, a movie house in Manhattan, and asked where his daughter could take ballet lessons. The cashier pointed to the Metropolitan Opera House, then on West 39th Street. Ms. Karnilova began studying with Margaret Curtis at the Metropolitan Opera Ballet School and trained later with Fokine, Tudor, Edward Caton and Anton Dolin.
        After appearing in small groups headed by Fokine and Mikhail Mordkin, whose company was the nucleus of Ballet Theater, she danced with the Salmaggi Opera at the Hippodrome in New York and in ''Stars in Your Eyes,'' a Broadway musical. She then joined Ballet Theater and later appeared there as a guest in 1955-56 and in 1959. She was the ballerina of the Metropolitan Opera Company in the 1952-53 season.
        Ms. Karnilova met her husband, the actor George S. Irving, in the cast of ''Call Me Mister'' and married him in 1948. He survives her, along with a son, Alexander of Oceanside, Calif.; a daughter, Katherine Irving Stark of South Salem, N.Y.; and three grandchildren.
      