
        Emily MacFarquhar, who applied a scholar's meticulousness to many years of reporting on China and South Asia, notably in more than 20 years with The Economist, died on March 18 in her home in Cambridge, Mass. She was 62.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said her son, Rory MacFarquhar.
        Mrs. MacFarquhar, who traveled widely in Asia and whose reports and observations had a keen audience among scholars and foreign policy experts, also worked for several years for British television and for U.S. News & World Report, covering subjects like Mao's Cultural Revolution, the Bangladesh war of independence and women's rights.
        Although her articles for The Economist carried no byline, her work was recognized and praised by experts in her field. She wrote at length about Chinese dissidents, often befriending them when they visited the West, said Merle Goldman, a professor of Chinese history at Boston University.
        By examining South Asia, Mrs. MacFarquhar helped focus the West on an often ignored region, said Amartya Sen, master of Trinity College at Cambridge University and a Nobel Prize-winning economist.
        Jonathan Mirsky, former East Asian editor of The Times of London, credited Mrs. MacFarquhar with unusually good training before she began reporting in China, remarkable diligence and excellent contacts. ''She was a significant China journalist of her time,'' he said.
        An early published work was a pamphlet in 1968, ''China: Mao's Last Leap.'' It was was one of the first detailed examinations of the Cultural Revolution. Mrs. MacFarquhar did not publish books, but worked on a book about former Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto of Pakistan. The writer could not conduct interviews for the book because of deteriorating eyesight.
        Emily Jane Cohen was born on June 23, 1938, in the Bronx. She worked on school newspapers at the Bronx High School of Science and Wellesley College.
        After college, the writer Irving Kristol, a distant relative, helped her land a job at The China Quarterly, a new journal. For six months, she was secretary to the editor, Roderick MacFarquhar. She then earned a master's in East Asian studies from Harvard, studying with John K. Fairbank, the historian and China expert.
        After a year in Taiwan studying Chinese, she returned to the United States by way of India, where she ran into her former supervisor, who was covering Nehru's funeral. They were married six months later and settled in London, where The Economist hired her in 1965. Her routine was to make long interview trips to Asia several times a year, using reports from The Economist's extensive freelance network at other times.
        In her last years in London, she also worked on a program on commercial Channel 4, covering politics from Northern Ireland, Hong Kong and British regional issues.
        When Mr. MacFarquhar accepted an offer to be chairman of the Harvard government department, Mrs. MacFarquhar wrote for The Economist from Cambridge until joining U.S. News in 1986 as foreign editor. She later becoming a contributing editor.
        In 1994, she helped organize a report on women's difficulties in the struggle for equality, ''The War Against Women.''
        Surviving are her husband and son, both of Cambridge, and her daughter, Larissa, of Brooklyn.
      