
        Wendy A. Rives, director of the often tumultuous psychiatric emergency room at Bellevue Hospital Center in Manhattan, died on March 24 at New York University Medical Center. She was 39.
        The cause was complications of breast cancer, said her partne, Dr. JoAnn Difede.
        As director of the comprehensive psychiatric emergency program at Bellevue, she oversaw the initial evaluation of 7,000 patients a year, about half of whom were admitted for treatment. Dr. Manuel Trujillo, Bellevue's director of psychiatry, said that many of those admitted suffered from two major psychiatric disorders and were among ''the most severely mentally ill patients in the city.''
        Dr. Rives was shown in a recent television documentary on HBO, ''Bellevue: Inside/Out.'' It showed her diligence and persistent wit as she continued working despite her worsening condition.
        She used her own experience in the treatment of others, said Maryann De Leo, the documentary maker, who spent months watching her work. ''When a medical emergency room nurse asked Wendy to do a consultation on a wman who had breast cancer, Wendy told the nurse: 'Of course she's depressed; that's a healthy response. She's not a psych case; she's got breast cancer.' ''
        In 1998, emergency room doctors and nurses signed a petition urging her appointment as head of the section. The housekeeping workers submitted their own petition for her.
        Wendy Ann Rives was born on Nov. 1, 1961, in Decatur, Ga. She graduated from the University of Georgia and the Medical College of Georgia, and was trained in psychiatry at Temple University. After service as a chief resident in psychiatry in Philadelphia, she joined Bellevue in 1996.
        Her major research interest was suicide prevention. In articles, lectures and expert testimony in court, she asserted that suicide was inherently unpredictable, even if the patient's depression was being treated.
        ''The assessment of suicidal patients remains an art and cannot be reduced to a checklist,'' she wrote in 1999 in the journal The Psychiatric Clinics of North America.
        Dr. Rives is survived by Dr. Difede and their son, Hal Difede Rives; her parents, Barbara and Hal Rives of Tucker, Ga.; a brother, Jack Rives of Roswell, Ga.; and a sister, Dr. Cathy Rives.
      