
        Kay Willis, who used the skills she honed as a mother of 10 to organize a national parents' support group and write a popular book on how to be a good parent, died on April 5 at a hospital in Montclair, N.J. She was 71 and lived in Rutherford, N.J.
        The cause was breast cancer, her family said.
        Believing that the women's movement was overshadowing motherhood, Mrs. Willis and a few like-minded women formed Mothers Matter, an educational group, in Rutherford in 1975, in the home where she and her husband, Benedict, raised six daughters and four sons.
        For the next 25 years she spread her gospel on the vital importance of healthy child-rearing to families and to the country. She lectured widely, conducted seminars, appeared on national television programs and served on industry advisory boards on toys and other products.
        Most of her seminars were directed at mothers, usually 15 to 50 of them at a time. But she and her husband, Benedict P. Willis, also started a series of seminars for fathers, which she continued after his death.
        Mrs. Willis, assisted by Maryann B. Brinley, published '''Are We Having Fun Yet? The Sixteen Secrets of Happy Parenting'' (Warner Books, 1998). It has been translated into six languages and remains in print in this country.
        Catherine Rubacky Willis was born in Passaic, N.J. She attended Chestnut Hill College in Philadelphia but left before graduation in 1950 to marry and start a family.
        Her husband died in 1988. She is survived by their daughters, Jo-Ellen Willis-Rose of Little Rock, Ark.; Kim, of Boulder, Colo.; Patricia and Maureen, of Rutherford; Fran White of Dallas; and Jeanne, of Manhattan; their sons, Benedict 3rd, of Ramsey, N.J.; Timothy and Jerry, of Rutherford; and Dan, of East Rutherford; two brothers, Dr. Gerald Rubacky of Monclair, N.J., and Joseph Rubacky of Wyckoff; a sister, Ellen Tobin of Bay Head, N.J.; and 11 grandchildren.
        Mrs. Willis regarded bringing up baby as the most important job anyone could have. One of her central messages was that in order to take good care of children, parents must take good care of themselves. Parenthood, she said, was to enjoy, not just to endure.
        Of course there were practical considerations, too.
        ''In my lifetime,'' she once said, ''the two biggest advances in raising children have been the clothes dryer and the disposable diaper.''
      