
        Susannah McCorkle, the sultry voiced pop-jazz singer who brought a rare literary refinement to popular standards, was found dead outside her apartment at 41 West 86th Street early yesterday morning. She was 55.
        She had apparently jumped to her death, the police said. She had left a suicide note, but the police would not reveal its contents. In her apartment, the singer had left a will, along with detailed instructions about disposition of her estate.
        With a smoky, often kittenish pop-jazz voice and phrasing that lingered stealthily behind the beat, Ms. McCorkle was a direct stylistic descendant of Billie Holiday, who was her primary influence. A student of lyrics and a prolific writer herself, she liked to find new ways of interpreting familiar standards. Her pensive, slowed-up rendition of ''There's No Business Like Show Business,'' for instance, found an underlying sadness in Irving Berlin's razzle-dazzle anthem. She also had special and continuing love for Brazilian pop, to which she devoted an album, ''Sabia'' (Concord Jazz), whose lyrics included her own translations from  Portuguese. Many of her later albums included at least one standard composed by Antonio Carlos Jobim.
        With a repertory of more than 3,000 songs and with 17 albums to her credit, Ms. McCorkle was more than a nightclub singer. She was a passionate, intrepid scholar of 20th century pop. And her cabaret shows, which she wrote herself, featured rich anecdotal histories of the songwriters whose work she performed. Her honors included three Album of the Year awards from Stereo Review.
        As a prose writer, Ms. McCorkle published fiction in Mademoiselle, Cosmopolitan and ''The O. Henry Book of Prize Short Stories,'' and nonfiction in The New York Times Magazine and American Heritage. Her lengthy pieces for American Heritage included extended appreciations of Ethel Waters, Bessie Smith and Irving Berlin.
        Born in Berkeley, Calif., on Jan. 4, 1946, Ms. McCorkle had a peripatetic  childhood because her father, an anthropologist, took teaching positions at colleges around the country. Eventually she enrolled at the University of California at Berkeley, where she majored in Italian literature. It was the era of the free speech movement, and Ms. McCorkle, disillusioned with American politics, dropped out of college and traveled to Europe to study languages and to begin a literary career. It was while living in Paris that she discovered American jazz, when a friend played her a recording of Billie Holiday singing ''I've Got a Right to Sing the Blues.''
        ''That one record completely revised my thinking and made me want to become a professional singer,'' she recalled years later. In 1972 she moved to London, where she began singing with a band led by the trumpeter John Chilton. Before long, she was eking out a living singing in pubs throughout London.
        Jazz singing gave her a sense of belonging. ''Before that, I had always been solitary and introverted,'' she said. ''As a singer, I began meeting other people who were solitary and introverted but who were also great jazz musicians. It was like finding my tribe.''
        Returning to the United States in the late 1970's, Ms. McCorkle had her American breakthrough with a seven-month engagement at the Cookery, in Greenwich Village. Two albums that she had recorded in London were re-released in America. Championed by a coterie of music critics and disc jockeys, Ms. McCorkle built a modest but solid career, recording several more albums for small labels and eventually landing on Concord Jazz, for which she recorded steadily over the next decade.
        Ms. McCorkle became a regular fixture at New York's leading cabarets, especially at the Oak Room of the Algonquin Hotel. Her Concord Jazz albums included records devoted to the songs of Cole Porter, George Gershwin and Irving Berlin. But her wide-ranging taste in songs embraced not only the great craftsmen of the pre-rock era but contemporary writers like Paul Simon, Rupert Holmes and Alan and Marilyn Bergman.
        Her most recent album, 1999's ''From Broken Hearts to Blue Skies,'' which became the basis of one of her finest cabaret shows, was an alternately witty and wistful sequence of songs (by everyone from Billy Strayhorn to Dave Frishberg to Irving Berlin) describing the romantic mood swings of a single woman in New York City. She had completed a new album, ''Hearts and Minds,'' that was scheduled for release in August.
        In recent years, Ms. McCorkle developed interactive music workshops for children ages 5 to 18, which she gave at Lincoln Center, Borders bookstores and in public schools in New York, New Jersey and Florida.
        She is survived by her mother, Margery McCorkle, of Oakland, Calif.; and two sisters, Margery Pinson, of Texas, and Kate McCorkle, of Santa Monica, Calif.
      