
        Colleagues and friends gathered on Sunday night at the New York State Theater to remember Tanaquil Le Clercq, the elegant ballerina of the New York City Ballet who died on New Year's Eve at the age of 71.
        In a career that lasted little more than a decade, from 1945 to 1956, when she contracted polio, Ms. Le Clercq was one of George Balanchine's muses, creating roles in many of his ballets. She was also his wife from 1952 to 1969.
        The company, conducted by Hugo Fiorato, danced excerpts from two works associated with Ms. Le Clercq. Maria Kowroski and Charles Askegard strutted through the sassy fourth movement of ''Western Symphony.'' Wendy Whelan led the Waltz of the Flowers from ''The Nutcracker.''
        The speakers included Peter Martins, ballet master in chief of the New York City Ballet; Howard Solomon, the company's chairman; and Nancy Lassalle, a board member emeritus of the company and a board member of the School of American Ballet.
        During heartfelt reminiscences, the speakers praised Ms. Le Clercq's stylish dancing; Ms. Lassalle described her as a ''shimmering tensile dragonfly.'' They also recalled her wit, intelligence, strong-mindedness and love of cats. Mr. Solomon characterized her as ''an unusually smart woman with the kind of smart that matures into wisdom.''
        Poignant film sequences featured montages of photographs and bits from old movies of Ms. Le Clercq dancing. In one, narrated by the dance writer Francis Mason, Ms. Le Clercq was mysterious in Balanchine's ''Valse'' and simultaneously innocent and strangely knowing as a young ballet student in Jerome Robbins's ''Afternoon of a Faun.''
        For the final film sequence, the orchestra played the second movement of Bizet's Symphony in C, a score Balanchine used for a ballet that displayed Ms. Le Clercq's lyricism. As the music flowed, photographs of her both before and after her illness showed her with Balanchine, fellow dancers, friends and cats, always looking radiant.
        It was easy to understand why Randall Bourscheidt, president of the Alliance for the Arts, after referring to Ms. Le Clercq's fondness for Champagne, said, ''The next time you open a bottle of Champagne, think of her.''
      