
        Dr. Dorothy Burr Thompson, a classical archaeologist who was one of the world's leading experts on ancient terra-cotta art, died on May 10 at her home in Hightstown, N.J. She was 101.
        Dr. Thompson researched and wrote extensively on Hellenistic terra-cotta figurines, small statuettes that were ubiquitous in Greece in the second and third centuries B.C. The figurines were traded freely and could be found in almost any Greek household. Archaeologists use them today in describing the culture and taste of the era.
        Under the guidance of Dr. Hetty Goldman, Dr. Thompson worked on excavations in Greece beginning in 1924 at the sites of Phlius and Prosymna in the Peloponnesus and in Boeotia, a province in central Greece where she cataloged pottery at the site of Eutresis.
        In 1934, she joined the staff of the American School of Classical Studies and became the first woman to be appointed a fellow of the excavation in the Agora, or civic center, of ancient Athens. It was there that she met Dr. Homer A. Thompson, assistant director of the Agora excavation, whom she married that same year.
        Working together in Athens, the two were responsible for uncovering famous monuments like the garden in which the Temple of Hephaistos stood and the Odeion, or music hall, of Emperor Augustus's closest friend, Agrippa.
        Beginning in 1950, in a project inspired by her love of gardening, Dr. Thompson reconstructed all 20 acres of the ancient garden and replanted olive, laurel, oleander and poplar trees in the garden.
        Dr. Thompson wrote more than 50 scholarly papers and books on her excavation work, including the book ''An Ancient Shopping Center: The Athenian Agora,'' published in 1971.
        She also helped form the Canadian Classical Association and was a contributing editor of its journal Phoenix. She was acting director of the Royal Ontario Museum of Archaeology in 1946 and went on to hold visiting professorship or lectureship at Bryn Mawr, Princeton and Oberlin and at the University of Sydney.
        In 1972, Dr. Thompson was awarded an honorary doctorate by the College of Wooster in Ohio for her contributions to archaeology, and in 1987 she received the gold medal for distinguished archaeological achievement from the Archaeological Institute of America.
        She received her Ph.D. from Bryn Mawr in 1931, doing her doctoral dissertation on terra cottas from the site of Myrina in Asia Minor. Her bachelor's degree, also from Bryn Mawr, was in classical archaeology and Greek.
        Her husband died last May at 93.  Dr. Thompson is survived by her three daughters, Hope Kerr of Cedar Grove, N.J., Hilary Kenyon of West Hartford, Conn., and Pamela Sinkler-Todd of Philadelphia; eight grandchildren, and three great-grandchildren.
      