
        Rita Hunter, the British soprano famed especially for her performances as Brünnhilde and Norma, died last Sunday in Sydney, Australia. She was 67.
        Possessed of an immense voice, forthright and ringing, Ms. Hunter in her prime, which coincided roughly with the 1970's, seemed ready to take over from Birgit Nilsson as the world's leading Wagnerian soprano. In 1975, when the two singers appeared together at the Metropolitan Opera in ''Die Walküre,'' Ms. Hunter as Brünnhilde and Ms. Nilsson switching from that role to Sieglinde, it was as if the bequeathing -- or the challenge -- were being staged.
        But the process stalled. When Ms. Hunter began to have difficulty controlling her voice, her gifts of native ability and robust good sense were insufficient.
        Rita Nellie Hunter was born on Aug. 15, 1933, in Wallasey, England, where her father was a boilermaker. She had singing lessons with Olive Lloyd and Harry Burgon, and appeared in ''H.M.S. Pinafore'' when she was 14. She also studied with Edwin Francis in Liverpool.
        In 1954 she joined the chorus of the Sadler's Wells Opera, in London, and continued her training with Edward Renton. Three years later she joined the Carl Rosa Opera and married a colleague, the baritone John Darnley-Thomas. She found herself back in London when the Carl Rosa and Sadler's Wells companies merged in 1959, but before resuming her career, she won a scholarship that allowed her to study for six months with the great soprano Eva Turner.
        After that she went to her husband's teacher, Redvers Llewellyn, and began to get important roles at Sadler's Wells, including Senta in ''The Flying Dutchman'' in 1964, her first Wagner. In 1968 she had a baby, but was soon preparing for the English National Opera's ''Ring,'' under the conductor Reginald Goodall.
        That ''Ring,'' which began with ''Die Walküre'' in 1970 and was completed in 1973, was a triumph, thanks partly to Ms. Hunter's boldly sung and magnificent Brünnhilde. She went on to sing -- apart from her Met Brünnhilde in the spring of 1975 -- the title role in ''Norma'' in San Francisco in October that year and at the Met immediately after. Her other roles included Abigaille in ''Nabucco'' (New Orleans, 1978), Turandot (Welsh National Opera, 1979) and Leonora in ''Il Trovatore'' (Welsh National Opera, 1980). She also repeated her Brünnhilde in the Seattle ''Ring'' of 1980.
        She was made a Commander of the British Empire in 1980.
        In 1981 she signed a three-year contract with the Australian Opera, and sang Brünnhilde, Isolde, Donna Anna in ''Don Giovanni,'' Aida, the ''Trovatore'' Leonora, Norma, and Santuzza in ''Cavalleria Rusticana.'' She elected to remain in Australia, and, though she did rather little stage work after 1985, was much in demand for concerts and recitals in Australia, Britain and the United States. Her autobiography, ''Wait Till the Sun Shines, Nellie,'' came out in 1986.
        Her husband died in 1994. She is survived by her daughter, Mairwyn.
      