
        Bill Reid, a Royal Air Force pilot in World War II who received the Victoria Cross, Britain's highest award for valor, for completing a bombing mission over Germany in a crippled plane after he was severely wounded and his navigator killed, died on Nov. 28 at his home in Crieff, Scotland. He was 79.
        He had heart problems in recent years, the British news media reported.
        On the night of Nov. 3, 1943, Flight Lieutenant Reid was flying a Lancaster bomber named O for Oboe, in a 600-plane mission headed for the heavily defended steelworks and ball-bearing plant in Düsseldorf, Germany.
        His nine previous bombing missions had been uneventful, but this time, while his four-engine bomber was over the Netherlands, there was a blinding flash. A Messerschmitt 110 fighter raked his plane with machine-gun fire.
        Mr. Reid was wounded in the head, hands and shoulder, his windshield was shattered and the plane's control mechanisms were damaged. The cold air rushing in froze the blood on his eyelids.
        ''I felt as if my head had been blown off,'' he recalled long afterward.
        He continued on with his crew of six, but soon after that first attack, a Focke-Wulf 190 fighter riddled the bomber all along its fuselage. Mr. Reid was wounded in the right arm that time, his navigator was killed, his radio operator was severely wounded and his flight engineer was wounded in the arm. The plane's oxygen supply and hydraulics were crippled, and its compass was destroyed.
        But having memorized the route to Düsseldorf, Mr. Reid kept flying for the remaining 200 miles in the face of heavy antiaircraft fire while receiving bottled oxygen from the injured flight engineer, Sgt. James Norris.
        Fifty minutes later, the plane arrived over Düsseldorf and the bombardier released directly over the target.
        On the way back to England, navigating by the stars and moon and receiving help from the flight engineer in maintaining the controls, Mr. Reid lost consciousness several times. Then all four engines failed over the North Sea.
        The engines were restarted, but the plane could not make it back to its takeoff point, a Royal Air Force base near Nottingham. So Mr. Reid headed for the American air base Shipdham, nearer the coast.
        As his bomber circled for a landing, flashing its lights to signal distress, Mr. Reid used an emergency pressure bottle to pump the undercarriage down by hand and in the process reopened his hand wounds. The undercarriage collapsed as the bomber touched down on a misty runway, making a belly landing. After slithering for 60 yards, it came to a stop with no further injuries to the crew.
        Mr. Reid was hospitalized for five weeks, then joined the famed Dambuster Squadron. On July 31, 1944, after 24 more missions, he was bombing a German rocket storage site near Reims, France, from an altitude of 12,000 feet when his Lancaster was hit by bombs dropped from another British plane flying at 18,000 feet. That bomber was supposed to be 15 minutes behind, but was directly overhead.
        His plane was torn apart and went into a spin. When the nose fell off, he parachuted out and landed in a tree. The radio operator also ejected, but the other five crewmen went down with the plane. Lieutenant Reid was captured and spent 10 months as a prisoner of war.
        William Reid was born Dec. 21, 1921, in Glasgow, Scotland, one of five children of a blacksmith, and studied metallurgy before joining the Royal Air Force. After the war, he studied at the University of Glasgow and the West of Scotland Agricultural College, then worked as a manager for agricultural firms.
        He is survived by his wife, Violet; a son, Graeme; and a daughter, Susan.
        Mr. Reid's death, and that of Tommy Gould, a British submarine crewman of World War II, who died on Thursday at 86, leave 19 surviving holders of the Victoria Cross, first presented by Queen Victoria in 1857 for heroism in the Crimean War. Mr. Gould received his Victoria Cross for helping to dislodge two unexploded bombs aboard the submarine Thrasher following an attack by German aircraft off Crete in February 1942.
        While Mr. Reid was hospitalized, his group commander asked why he had continued on into Germany after the two fighter-plane attacks.
        ''Well, my four engines were still going and my plane was still flying,'' he replied.
        There was, perhaps, another explanation. As Mr. Reid once put it: ''My mother used to say, 'He's a very determined boy.' ''
      