
        George Hansen, who designed a widely used wall-mounted swing-arm lamp, died on Tuesday in Manhattan, where he lived. He was 92.
        Mr. Hansen did not originate the idea of the swing-arm wall-mounted lamp, but his unobtrusive version, called the Hansen lamp, which he introduced in the 1940's, has become known as the classic swing-arm. It is still ubiquitous, illuminating everything from suburban boudoirs to presidential libraries.
        William Diamond, one of the many decorators to use the lamp, said last year: ''The design is so incredibly pure and simple. We've always used them. They never go in or out of style. They've worked for so many types of designers for so long.''
        The Hansen lamp has a plain, sloping shade and a movable arm on a bracket.
        Mr. Hansen got the idea for his swing arm as an Army staff sergeant in Labrador during World War II, when he made himself a lamp for reading in bed. He used a bent and wired piece of copper tubing with a bulb at one end and a tin can for a shield; it was bolted to a wall.
        After the war, he started out as a professional designer of lamps and, for a time, other kinds of furniture. As he recalled last year, he ventured ''into making utterly simple things.''
        By 1946, his lamps were being made by Carl Knecht, a Queens metalworker. When Mr. Knecht retired, Mr. Hansen engaged a Spanish company, Metalarte in Barcelona, to manufacture the lamps. Customers have included the Carlyle Hotel in New York and the Lyndon Baines Johnson Library in Austin, Tex.
        Mr. Hansen had several Hansen Lamps shops in succession, all in Manhattan, selling his lamps and those designed by others. He retired from designing in 1988. His business, Hansen Lamps, was acquired in 1991 by Harry Hinson, a showroom owner.
        As of last year, the Hinson & Company showroom in the Decoration and Design Building on Third Avenue in Manhattan was selling 5,000 swing-arm lamps a year, in various  finishes, for about $300 apiece, as well as other designs formerly sold by Hansen Lamps.
        Mr. Hansen was born in Cambridge, Mass., and graduated from the Rindge Technical School there. He also studied art.
        He is survived by his wife of 45 years, Cornelia; a son, Peter Mark Hansen of Asunción, Paraguay; and two grandchildren.
        Mr. and Mrs. Hansen installed two Hansen swing-arms in their bedroom.
      