
        Seydou Keïta, whose sure grasp of photographic portraiture and sophisticated understanding of strong graphics in African textiles turned him from a little-known studio artist in Mali to a formidable figure in photography, died on Nov. 21 in Paris. He lived in Bamako, the capital of Mali, and did not know his birth date, but said in a 1997 interview that it was ''around 1921.''
        Mr. Keïta had no formal training in photography, but he had a superb eye, and his art seemed to tap into Mali's distant imperial grandeur. A French colony until 1960, the area that is now Mali includes Timbuktu, the legendary trading center.
        In his studio, Mr. Keïta sometimes suggested a pose and offered clothes that his clients could change into. Invariably, the ordinary men, women and children rose majestically and delightfully to the occasion. The results were elegantly stylized portraits whose visual complexities heightened a certain grandness in the faces, a proud carriage, a striking je ne sais quoi.
        Among Mr. Keïta's memorable images is one of a jovial giant of a man in flowing robes holding a jolly baby in one arm.
        Seydou Keïta (pronounced SAY-doo kay-EE-ta) had set out to be a carpenter, having learned the trade from his father. That changed when he was about 14. He went to see an uncle who had returned from a trip to neighboring Senegal with a large-format camera. The uncle gave the camera to Seydou. Despite a lack of formal education, the teenager taught himself the rudiments of large-format photography.
        He photographed his family and the people he worked with. Photographing others for a living was quite another matter. He was too green and nervous. His sitters moved, and some of the early portraits were so bad that his angry clients demanded their money back. But he had no money to refund because he had already used it to pay for the black-and-white prints from a photo shop. The shop owner came to the youth's rescue by showing him how to make prints.
        In 1948 Mr. Keïta opened a studio near a busy part of town. There were several other photographers in Bamako, but Mr. Keïta easily trumped the competition by being unusually inventive. He had his clients recline on makeshift chaise longues. Or  stand, like August Sander's three farmers, one in front of the other. Or pose with one foot on the ground, the other on a chair. Or sit in cars or on scooters. Sometimes Mr. Keïta took straight frontal portraits. Other times, he took them at an angle.
        He paid special attention to props and backdrops. The pattern-on-pattern look became his signature style of portraiture: the patterns on his sitters' gowns and robes against the wonderfully patterned pieces of cloth that served as backdrops or as coverings for the chaise longues.
        Mr. Keïta's studio was famous in West Africa. In one of the world's poorest countries, he could, on his earnings, support three families: his father's, his uncle's and his own. Mr. Keïta, who was Muslim, had 3 wives and 16 children, who live in Bamako and survive him, as do two brothers, Lansina, of Paris, and Kader, of Bamako.
        In 1962 Mr. Keïta became the  fledgling Republic of Mali's official photographer. Until he retired in 1977, he did not set foot in his studio.
        ''You couldn't work for yourself,'' he said in an interview. ''We were a Socialist country.'' When he did check up on his studio after he retired, it had been looted, but, luckily, the negatives were intact.
        With no thought of future exhibitions, Mr. Keïta made sure his negatives, which number about 10,000, were kept in pristine condition. His government pension didn't allow him to buy a large-format camera or darkroom equipment, so he led the quiet life of a retiree. And he would probably have been lost to photography if André Magnin, curator of the Contemporary African Art Collection in Paris, hadn't seen three uncredited portraits by him at a 1991 show at what was then the Center for African Art in New York.
        Mr. Magnin went to Mali and discovered the identity of the photographer and the photographer himself. Books, exhibitions and acclaim followed. An exhibition of Mr. Keïta's work opens today at the Sean Kelly Gallery in Chelsea, and a retrospective of his work is planned for the Studio Museum in Harlem in 2003.
        A month before his death, Mr. Keïta and his Paris-based agent, Jean Marc Patras, established the Seydou Keïta foundation in Bamako. The foundation will preserve and promote Mr. Keïta's work and support young Africans in the fields of photography, cinema and multimedia, Mr. Patras said.
        Mr. Keïta's last photographic project was in 1997. Mr. Patras said he was commissioned by the Tati department store in Paris to photograph its mostly immigrant clientele. A studio was set up in a tent outside the store, and once again Mr. Keïta was photographing -- this time in color -- ordinary people as they stepped in front of the camera for their close-ups.
      