
        Dr. Sidney Milton Silverstone, a pioneer in radiotherapy and a teacher whose association with Mount Sinai Hospital and School of Medicine spanned more than six decades, died Tuesday at his home in Harrison, N.Y. He was 93.
        He came to the school in 1933 to study neuropathology and saw his last patients as an attending radiation oncologist in February. In between, he rose to senior attending radiotherapist and twice served as chief of the department of radiotherapy.
        When he formally resigned in June, he was the oldest physician on the Mount Sinai staff. By then he also had been professionally linked with it longer than anybody else.
        In 1945, Dr. Silverstone offered a postgraduate course in radium therapy, the first organized course on the subject in this country, but radiation therapy soon shifted to safer radioactive isotopes, like cobalt-60.
        He was a close associate of another inventive oncologist, Dr. Norman Simon, both at Mount Sinai and in the private practice they shared on upper Fifth Avenue. There he introduced the first cobalt-60 radiation therapy outside a hospital setting in 1953.
        Earlier, Dr. Silverstone became known for developing a technique that allowed doctors to determine how much radiation a patient was receiving. Exact calculations of the proper dosage made adverse reactions in the patient less likely.
        With Dr. Simon or by himself, Dr. Silverstone achieved a number of other advances in radiotherapy, typically in the area of gynecological oncology. Together they used the so-called Simon Afterloader, a system of treating gynecological cancers with radiation implants. Dr. Simon died in 1985.
        Sidney Silverstone was born in Harlem, graduated from Columbia College in 1926 and received his medical degree at the University of Cambridge, England, in 1932. He completed his internship at Mount Sinai in 1936 and trained in radiation physics and therapy at other New York institutions as well.
        In World War II he rose to the rank of major in the Army Medical Corps, serving in North Africa and Europe. Over the years, he lectured widely at hospitals and medical societies all over the world.
        Dr. Silverstone is survived by three sons, Alan, of Manhattan, Dr. David, of Branford, Conn., and Dr. Harris, of Baltimore; seven grandchildren and two great-grandsons. His wife, Estelle Cohen Silverstone, died in 1999 after 61 years of marriage.
      