
        George Young, who in 19 seasons as the Giants' general manager lifted a storied but moribund football franchise to two Super Bowl championships and became perhaps the most respected professional football executive of his day, died yesterday in Baltimore after a short illness.
        He was 71.
        Before Young was hired by the Giants in 1979, they had not reached the playoffs since 1963. During his tenure, they reached the playoffs in eight seasons, won their division title four times and produced three National Football League coaches of the year: Bill Parcells in 1986, Dan Reeves in 1993 and Jim Fassel in 1997. His crowning glory was victories in Super Bowl XXI after the 1986 season and in Super Bowl XXV after the 1990 season, both times with Parcells as coach.
        His first draft choice, Phil Simms in 1979, became a Super Bowl most valuable player. His first draft choice in 1981, Lawrence Taylor, became perhaps the best defensive player in history.
        Young was a private person, dignified, often stubborn and cranky, honorable and analytical, an old-school conservative who had good relationships with many player agents and little tolerance for those he felt were unreasonable. As Bill Pennington of The New York Times wrote: ''He reveled in his image as a good-natured grouch.''
        In 1981, Young hired Parcells, the New England Patriots' linebacker coach, as defensive coordinator. Two years later, when Ray Perkins left to become head coach at the University of Alabama, Young made Parcells the Giants' head coach. At times, their relationship became contentious because Parcells wanted a greater voice about personnel.
        ''Bill and I worked pretty well together,'' Young said. ''We had some differences, and that's part of the game.''
        Parcells remembered those days kindly.
        ''Without his support and help,'' Parcells said, ''it would have been impossible for anyone to succeed, and I will always be grateful to George for that.''
        After the 1990 season, Parcells, concerned about his health, temporarily retired from coaching. Later, Young said, ''I wasn't happy Bill left, not at all.''
        One reason for that unhappiness was Young's appointment of Ray Handley as Parcells's successor (''My worst decision,'' Young recalled.) After two tumultuous seasons, Young fired Handley and replaced him with Reeves, who had been a successful coach with the Denver Broncos. Reeves lasted four seasons, and like Parcells, he felt he did not have enough say in personnel decisions.
        ''You're always going to have a little friction in the personnel thing,'' Young said. ''I understand that. A coach has to win now. A personnel person can think about the future a little.''
        Young did that so well that he made longevity history. The only executives who ran New York professional teams longer were Ed Barrow of the Yankees (25 years), Lester Patrick of the Rangers (21 years) and Bill Torrey of the Islanders (21 years).
        Wellington Mara, the Giants' co-owner during Young's tenure, said, ''George's legacy is greater than two Super Bowls.''
        George Bernard Young Jr. was born Sept. 22, 1930, in Baltimore and was raised there. At Bucknell University, which he attended on an academic scholarship, he played defensive tackle and was named to the Little All-America team.
        In 1952, he was drafted by the N.F.L.'s Dallas Texans, became the final player cut in preseason and returned home. He had earned a bachelor's degree in political science that year and would earn master's degrees in history from Johns Hopkins and educational administration from Loyola College in Baltimore. He retired as a football player and decided to teach.
        For 15 years, Young taught history and political science in Baltimore high schools and coached football at his alma mater, Calvert Hall College and at City College, both high schools. His teams won six state titles in 15 years. His players included Kurt Schmoke, who became mayor of Baltimore, and Barry Levinson, the movie director.
        In 1968, the Hall of Fame coach Don Shula hired Young for the Colts as a personnel aide, and for six years he worked for the Colts in personnel and as an assistant coach. From 1975 to 1979, he was the director of pro scouting for the Dolphins.
        ''If Don Shula didn't come along,'' Young recalled, ''I'd still be a teacher and still be with people who discuss books and ideas all the time.''
        In 1979, the Giants were in turmoil. Coach John McVay was fired. Andy Robustelli quit as director of operations. Mara and the family of his late brother, Jack, each owned 50 percent of the team, and Wellington's relationship with his nephew, Tim, who represented his part of the family, had disintegrated.
        Wellington made the football decisions, and when he announced he would hire a new coach before a general manager, Tim objected. The stalemate became ugly, and Pete Rozelle, the N.F.L. commissioner, stepped in as mediator. He sent the two Maras a list of potential general managers. Young was on the list, and both accepted him.
        Young became so successful that he was chosen five times by fellow general managers as the N.F.L. executive of the year, but in later years critics said the game had passed him by. In 1994 he became ill, and doctors told him to lose pounds from his 6-foot-3, over-350-pound frame. He did and then some.
        ''Any man who lost 150 pounds and doesn't sell anything fraudulent has to have credibility,'' said his wife, the former Kathryn (Lovey) Reddington, a fellow teacher in Baltimore.
        They were married in 1965. He is survived by his wife; they had no children.
        Because of further health problems, Young wanted to eliminate daily pressures while keeping his hand in the sport. In January 1998, he left the Giants to become the N.F.L.'s senior vice president for football operations. In this newly created position, he dealt with areas like NFL Europe, relations with college football, officiating, instant replay and minority hiring of head coaches and team administrators.
        ''There are some things that are a little dented,'' he said of his new job. ''You just undent them.''
        In December 1997, a month before Young left the Giants, they beat the Washington Redskins at Giants Stadium to clinch their division title. After the game, he uncharacteristically walked onto the field, sat alone on the Giants' bench, looked up at the empty seats and wept. Later, he said of his Giants' tenure:
        ''I've had a wonderful job here. We've had our ups and downs, but I've never had a bad day.''
      