
        George Young, who in 19 seasons as the Giants' general manager lifted a storied but moribund football franchise to two Super Bowl victories, and who drafted the two players, Phil Simms and Lawrence Taylor, who became the cornerstones of those championship teams, died Saturday night in Baltimore. He was 71.
        Young, who most recently worked for the National Football League, had been ill since late last summer with a neurological disease. He entered Johns Hopkins Hospital in Baltimore on Aug. 31 and had been in and out of the hospital since then. He entered a hospice several weeks ago.
        Before Young was hired by the Giants in 1979, they had not reached the playoffs since 1963. During his tenure, they reached the playoffs in eight seasons, won their division title four times and produced three N.F.L. coaches of the year: Bill Parcells in 1986, Dan Reeves in 1993 and Jim Fassel in 1997. Young's crowning glory was victories in Super Bowl XXI after the 1986 season and in Super Bowl XXV after the 1990 season, both times with Parcells as coach.
        His first draft choice, in 1979, was Simms, who became a Super Bowl most valuable player. His first draft choice in 1981 was Taylor, who turned into one of the best defensive players in history.
        ''It still amazes me that he chose me in the first round,'' Simms said yesterday. ''To take a guy from Morehead State with his first pick ever, it's pretty amazing.''
        Young was a private person, dignified, often stubborn and cranky, honorable and analytical, an old-school conservative who had good relationships with many player agents and little tolerance for those he felt were unreasonable.
        As the agent Leigh Steinberg said: ''Even though he had that gruff exterior, he was tremendous in his ability to give advice and counsel. He enjoyed playing the surface curmudgeon, but inside he had a heart of gold.''
        In 1981, Young hired Parcells, the New England Patriots' linebacker coach, as defensive coordinator. Two years later, when Ray Perkins left to become head coach at the University of Alabama, Young made Parcells the Giants' head coach. At times, their relationship became contentious because Parcells wanted a greater voice about personnel.
        ''Bill and I worked pretty well together,'' Young said. ''We had some differences, and that's part of the game.''
        Parcells remembered those days kindly.
        ''Without his support and help,'' Parcells said, ''it would have been impossible for anyone to succeed, and I will always be grateful to George for that.''
        After the 1990 season, Parcells, concerned about his health, temporarily retired from coaching. Later, Young said, ''I wasn't happy Bill left, not at all.''
        One reason for that unhappiness was Young's appointment of Ray Handley as Parcells's successor (''My worst decision,'' Young recalled). After two tumultuous seasons, Young fired Handley and replaced him with Reeves, who had been a successful coach with the Denver Broncos. Reeves lasted four seasons, and like Parcells, he felt he did not have enough say in personnel decisions.
        ''You're always going to have a little friction in the personnel thing,'' Young said. ''I understand that. A coach has to win now. A personnel person can think about the future a little.''
        Young did that so well that he made longevity history. The only executives who ran New York professional teams longer were Ed Barrow of the Yankees (25 years), Lester Patrick of the Rangers (21 years) and Bill Torrey of the Islanders (21 years).
        Wellington Mara, the Giants' co-owner during Young's tenure, said yesterday: ''George's legacy is greater than two Super Bowls. I think you have to measure it more in terms of the organization he built and the people he brought in to build it.''
        George Bernard Young Jr. was born Sept. 22, 1930, in Baltimore and was raised there. At Bucknell University, which he attended on an academic scholarship, he played defensive tackle and was named to the Little All-America team.
        In 1952, he was drafted by the N.F.L.'s Dallas Texans, became the final player cut in preseason and returned home. He had earned a bachelor's degree in political science that year and would earn master's degrees in history from Johns Hopkins and educational administration from Loyola College in Baltimore. He retired as a football player and decided to teach.
        For 15 years, Young taught history and political science in Baltimore high schools and coached football at his alma mater, Calvert Hall College, and at City College, both high schools. His teams won 6 state titles in 15 years. His players included Kurt Schmoke, who became mayor of Baltimore, and Barry Levinson, the movie director.
        In 1968, the Hall of Fame coach Don Shula hired Young for the Baltimore Colts as a personnel aide, and for six years Young worked in personnel and as an assistant coach. From 1975 to 1979, he was the director of pro scouting for the Miami Dolphins.
        ''If Don Shula didn't come along,'' Young recalled, ''I'd still be a teacher and still be with people who discuss books and ideas all the time.''
        In 1979, the Giants were in turmoil. Coach John McVay was fired. Andy Robustelli quit as director of operations. Mara and the family of his late brother, Jack, each owned 50 percent of the team, and Wellington's relationship with his nephew Tim, who represented his part of the family, had disintegrated.
        Wellington made the football decisions, and when he announced he would hire a new coach before a general manager, Tim objected. The stalemate became ugly, and Pete Rozelle, the N.F.L. commissioner, stepped in as mediator. He sent the two Maras a list of potential general managers. Young was on the list, and both accepted him.
        Young became so successful that he was chosen five times by fellow general managers as the N.F.L. executive of the year, but in later years critics said the game had passed him by. In 1994 Young became ill, and doctors told him to lose weight from his 6-foot-3, 350-pound frame. He did and then some.
        ''Any man who lost 150 pounds and doesn't sell anything fraudulent has to have credibility,'' said Young's wife, the former Kathryn Mary Love Reddington, a fellow teacher in Baltimore.
        They were married in 1965. He is survived by his wife, known as Lovey; they had no children. He is also survived by his mother, Frances Boland of Timonium, Md.; a brother, Joseph Young, also of Timonium; two stepbrothers, Jay Young of Bel Air, Md., and Michael Boland of Phoenix; and seven nieces and nephews.
        Because of further health problems, Young wanted to eliminate daily pressures while keeping his hand in the sport. In January 1998, he left the Giants to become the N.F.L.'s senior vice president for football operations. In this newly created position, he dealt with areas like NFL Europe, relations with college football, officiating, instant replay and minority hiring of head coaches and team administrators.
        ''There are some things that are a little dented,'' he said of his new job. ''You just undent them.''
        In December 1997, a month before Young left the Giants, they beat the Washington Redskins at Giants Stadium to clinch their division title. After the game, he uncharacteristically walked onto the field, sat alone on the Giants' bench, looked up at the empty seats and wept. Later, he said of his Giants' tenure:
        ''I've had a wonderful job here. We've had our ups and downs, but I've never had a bad day.''
      