
        Ernst Bulova, who created a freewheeling, freethinking summer camp in Connecticut that attracted thousands of teenagers, many from left-leaning New York City backgrounds, died on Jan. 11 at his home in New Milford, Conn., on the camp grounds. He was 98.
        The camp's philosophy followed the teachings of Maria Montessori, the educational theorist who believed work could be both play and a rich learning experience. But its spirit owed as much to Pete Seeger and Bob Dylan as to Montessori. Campers sang folk songs, nurtured vegetables, pursued the arts and, unusual in an era of regimented camps, were encouraged to plan their own time. The camp was originally called the Buck's Rock Work Camp. There, students performed tasks that included  digging ditches, greasing trucks and driving tractors. They also learned to work together on housekeeping chores, part of the Montessori method.
        Dr. Bulova personally interviewed prospective campers in his search for creative, nonconformist children. The name was changed to the Buck's Rock Creative Camp when Dr. Bulova sold it to a group of three families in 1974. When it was again sold in 1995, the name became the Buck's Rock Camp for Performing and Creative Arts.
        The changing names reflected the camp's ever-increasing concentration on works of art, rather than the original varieties of sweaty labor. This transition was reflected by the different impressions of the writer Erica Jong in her 1973 novel, ''Fear of Flying,'' and her daughter Molly Jong-Fast in a 1997 interview with The New York Times.
        In her book, Ms. Jong called the camp Break Neck Work Camp. Ms. Jong-Fast said her mother described the camp ''like a big socialist summer camp, a big Jewish liberal Upper West Side camp, where they did chores and cooked food for themselves.'' In her own experience, the daughter said, the camp was ''a crazy, hippie, artistic place.''
        There never was a Buck's Rock, although generations of children could point to a hunk of granite they knew by that name, said Dr. Bulova's son, Stephen. He believes a man who owned the rocky land a long time ago was named Buck. The camp is on 125 acres of forested land 85 miles north of New York City.
        Dr. Bulova's orientation to leftist and socialist politics was often evident. A regular emotional high point was Hiroshima Night, when campers gathered once each summer to mourn the dropping of the first atomic bomb. Stephen recalls the occasion in the 1950's -- though not on a Hiroshima Night -- when the folk singer Pete Seeger sang ''If I Had a Hammer,'' punctuating the song by chopping wood with an ax.
        Dr. Bulova often responded to questions by quoting a Bob Dylan lyric, saying, ''The answer is blowing in the wind.''
        Such casualness was intended to be part of the camp experience. ''You couldn't be a conformist, because there was nothing to conform to,'' said Stephen, who met his wife at the camp, where she was editor of the camp yearbook in 1955.
        This is not to say that there were not specific scheduled activities. Rather, students could partake of them as they chose, varying their program from day to day.
        Ernst Bulova was born on June 24, 1902, in Vienna. His father was a successful lawyer, and the family had a country house in addition to their Vienna home. As a young man, Ernst was a bit of a rebel, his son said, pointing to a class photo in which he is the only boy without a necktie.
        Dr. Bulova studied behavioral sciences at the University of Vienna; transferred to a teachers' training college in Hamburg, Germany, and finished his undergraduate work at the University of Berlin. While in Berlin, he took a course on the Montessori method at a separate institute.
        He also wrote radio plays in Berlin, 25 of which were broadcast. And he wrote two books under the pen name Dr. Überall, or Dr. Everywhere. He became principal of the Berlin Dahlem School, which used the Montessori method.
        In 1933, he was arrested by the Gestapo, which had just been formed, as a result of earlier leftist political activities. After proving that he was an Austrian, not a German citizen, he was released after a brief stay in jail. He then fled to England and became co-director of the Beltane School in Wimbledon, where he taught some of his former students from Berlin, as well as English students.
        He earned his doctorate in psychology and education from the University of Vienna while in England, returning periodically for conferences and research and to defend his dissertation. He completed his degree in 1936. After the start of World War II, he and his wife, Ilse, were placed in a camp for German refugees in England.
        Stephen said it was unclear why they were placed in the camp, since both were Austrian.
        Dr. Bulova was aided by American relatives who owned the Bulova Watch Company in moving to the United States in 1940. They helped him get appointments to teach at the Dalton and Walden Schools, both in Manhattan. He never taught at Dalton, but did teach at Walden. Students from the two schools were the first campers at the camp, which played host to its first group in the early 1940's.
        In the early years, campers had the chance to earn profits from their labors. For example, the camp lent campers money to buy calves and piglets. After these were fattened and sold, campers could keep what they made, after expenses.
        But other work was more artistic, including writing, music and drama. The lesson was that all work is valuable. ''Actually, working hard is neither tiring nor disagreeable, when what you do makes sense,'' Dr. Bulova said in an interview with The New York Times in 1962.
        He stressed that the process was more important than the result. ''They don't even have to finish their projects,'' he said. ''This bothers some educators, but it doesn't disturb us. Does a poet finish every poem he begins?''
        Dr. Bulova's wife, who had been intensely involved in the camp, died in 1987. Even after his 1990 marriage to Hertha Schleich, he kept a house on the property, to which he faithfully returned each summer from various European retreats where he spent the rest of the year. New generations of campers got to know him.
        ''He was like the wise man on the hill,'' said Mickey Morris, who, with his wife, Laura, now owns the camp.
        Dr. Bulova is survived by his son; a daughter, Joanna Bulova, of Jamaica; four grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren. His second wife died in 1998.
        Dr. Bulova remains firmly in the memory of campers, some of whom have posted their thoughts and recollections on the camp's Web site,  http://www.bucksrock.olm.net/.
        ''I've never met anyone else who, without fail, made conversation such a magical event,'' said one. ''He made me proud to be myself at a time I was filled with shame.''
      