
        Dave Graue, one of only three cartoonists to work on the syndicated strip ''Alley Oop'' since its beginnings in 1933, died on Monday after a truck hit his car near his home in Flat Rock, N.C. He was 75.
        Mr. Graue inherited the strip, about a club-wielding Neanderthal, in 1950 from Vincent T. Hamlin, who had worked for an oil company in southwest Texas during the Depression, developed an interest in fossils and came up with the idea for a Stone Age hero. The strip made its debut on Aug. 7, 1933.
        As drawn by Hamlin, Mr. Graue, and its current artist, Jack Bender, Alley Oop is a shaggy figure in a loincloth who has Popeye-like extremities, abs that would be the envy of any Calvin Klein model and a head as furry and pointed as a coconut. His preferred means of locomotion is on the neck of his pet dinosaur, Dinny, who follows him with doglike devotion.
        Mr. Graue (the name is pronounced GRAU-ee) did not feel the need to expand the original cast of characters created by Hamlin. ''They work so well that there has been little need to add new ones,'' he told an interviewer.
        In 1960, Alley Oop lent his name to an indelible doo-wop song.
        The names have a ragtime syncopation that resonates from that pre-''Star Wars'' era: Oop lived in the primeval Kingdom of Moo ruled by the stern King Guz and his scheming grand vizier, Foozy. Guz's daughter, Wootie, had an eye for Oop, even though he loved the fetching brunette Oola, who would look more at home on the boardwalk in Atlantic City than a swamp.
        ''I like them all,'' Mr. Graue said when asked his favorite character.  ''If I had to pick one, I think it would be Alley, primarily because I put more of myself into him.''
        Mr. Graue went to high school in Sarasota, Fla., with Hamlin's daughter, was introduced to the cartoonist and exchanged sketches with him. Hamlin offered him a job as an assistant, and in 1944 Mr. Graue quit his job as a soda jerk to do color guides and lettering for the strips.
        His first professional cartoon sale was to The Pacific Stars and Stripes when he served as an Air Force pilot in World War II. He graduated from the Art Institute of Pittsburgh and worked as a staff artist for The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette after the war. In 1950 he went back to work for Hamlin. The Hamlins ''lived on the only hill in Sarasota, Fla.,'' Mr. Graue recalled, adding, ''I think his lifestyle convinced me to go into cartooning.''
        By this time, Hamlin had opened up the prehistoric world of ''Alley Oop'' to include time travel in a machine invented by Professor Wonmug. ''You've no idea how fast a daily and Sunday feature can devour material, especially in a world as limited as my ancient Land of Moo,'' Mr. Hamlin wrote in ''The Comics: An Illustrated History of Comic Book Art,'' edited by Jerry Robinson. ''So in about five years we expanded our state with a time machine to give us the whole of history in which to perform.''
        The evil scientist J. Oscar Boom chased Alley and Oola through time as they fought in the crusades, dueled with pirates and encountered Cleopatra. Professor Wonmug neatly brushed aside the paradox that has plagued all good dinosaur movies from ''One Million Years B.C.'' on -- that humans and giant reptiles are separated by some 65 million years: ''Well, behold the unheard-of!'' he declared.
        When Hamlin retired, in 1973, Mr. Graue continued the strip as both writer and artist. His own artistic touch was distinctive, slightly cartoonish but combining naturalistic inking for the cave man's verdant surroundings. Mr. Graue frequently dipped into ''The Universal History of the World,'' a children's book by Golden Press, to get ideas for historical yarns.
        Mr. Graue turned over the inking chores to Mr. Bender, of Tulsa, Okla., in 1990, and the two communicated by fax and overnight mail. In 1991, Mr. Bender began drawing both the daily and Sunday strips, and Mr. Graue worked as the writer. Mr. Graue's last strip appeared in September of this year, and it is now written and drawn by the husband and wife team Jack and Carole Bender. ''He was the personality of the strip until he retired in September,'' Mr. Bender said.
        Mr. Graue's other passion was landscape painting, doing scenes of the North Carolina countryside in a pointillist style with brilliant color.
        He is survived by his wife, Eliza B. Graue; two sons, Jeff, of Lexington, Ky., and Dan, of Sarasota, Fla; a daughter, Karin Dowdy, of Hendersonville N.C.; and seven grandchildren.
        Correction:  December 14, 2001, Friday  An obituary on Wednesday about Dave Graue, the cartoonist who wrote and edited the Alley Oop comic strip for decades, combined the identities of two characters. The grand vizier of King Guz in the Kingdom of Moo is called the Grand Wizer; Foozy is a separate character, a pal of Alley Oop. The obituary also misspelled the name of Alley Oop's girlfriend. She is Ooola, not Oola.
      