
        David Astor, who as editor for 27 years of Britain's oldest Sunday newspaper, The Observer, built it up into a respected and successful advocate for liberal causes but later presided over its financial decline, died on Dec. 7 in London. He was 89.
        Mr. Astor once defined the paper's philosophy as ''trying to do the opposite of what Hitler would have done,'' and he took his most famous editorial stand against Britain's attempt to take back the Suez Canal from Egypt by force in 1956.
        At a time when the paper was still the voice of the British establishment, Mr. Astor apologized to readers for not having realized earlier that the Conservative government of Sir Anthony Eden was ''capable of such folly and such crookedness.''
        Under his editorship, from 1948 to 1975, The Observer published the full text of Khrushchev's 26,000-word denunciation of Stalin, championed Nelson Mandela's long fight against apartheid in South Africa, supported decolonization throughout the world and opposed the death penalty.
        Mr. Astor had no particular writing ability, but was an inspired spotter of talent, recruiting people like George Orwell, Arthur Koestler, Philip Toynbee, Kenneth Tynan, Anthony Sampson and Michael Frayn and appointing Vita Sackville-West to be his gardening correspondent.
        For a while, Mr. Astor brought off the difficult balancing act of making The Observer a champion of liberal values and a commercial success. Circulation rose from 360,000 in 1947 to 655,000 in 1956, when it overtook its greatest rival, The Sunday Times. Circulation reached 905,000 in 1967.
        The paper, first published in 1791, found itself in financial difficulties in the 1970's, squeezed by the rising cost of newsprint and labor, and competition for advertising from other papers.
        In 1975 Mr. Astor resigned as editor. The next year the paper was bought for a symbolic pound by Robert Anderson of Atlantic Richfield. Five years later, after pumping in millions of dollars, he sold it to R. W. (Tiny) Rowland's conglomerate Lonrho against Mr. Astor's strong opposition. In 1993 it was bought by The Guardian Media Group.
        Francis David Langhorne Astor was born at the family's London house in St. James's Square on March 5, 1912, the second of the four sons of the rich Viscount Astor and his redoubtable, American-born wife, Nancy, the first woman to sit in the British House of Commons.
        He was educated at Eton and Balliol College, Oxford, which he left without earning a degree, but where he met Adam von Trott zu Solz, an aristocratic German opponent of Hitler later hanged for his part in the 1944 assassination plot. Mr. von Trott persuaded Mr. Astor to oppose the appeasement policies favored by his family and other members of the Cliveden Set, so called after the Astors' stately home in Buckinghamshire, where they used to meet.
        Mr. von Trott's advocacy of liberal internationalism and tolerance had a lasting effect on Mr. Astor and led  him after the war to found the Königswinter Anglo-German conferences to promote reconciliation between the two former enemies.
        In 1940 he joined the Royal Marines but devoted much time to improving The Observer, which his grandfather, William Waldorf Astor, bought in 1911. Later he was sent into occupied France as a liaison with the resistance; he was wounded and received the Croix de Guerre.
        His 1945 marriage to the former Melanie Hauser, with whom he had a daughter, Frances, ended in divorce. In 1952 he married the former Bridget Aphra Wreford, with whom he had two sons, Richard and Thomas, and three daughters, Alice, Lucy and Nancy.
      