
        John Knowles, whose coming-of-age novel ''A Separate Peace'' became required reading for generations of high school students, died on Thursday at a convalescent home in a suburb of Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 75.
        Mr. Knowles died after a short illness, said his lawyer, Kenneth Hart.
        Encouraged by Thornton Wilder to write about his most vivid memories, Mr. Knowles based ''A Separate Peace,'' his first novel, on his years at Phillips Exeter Academy.
        ''A Separate Peace,'' which is set in the fictional Devon School during World War II, explores themes of loyalty, cruelty, betrayal and original sin.
        A principal question raised by the book and long debated by readers is whether the novel's schoolboy protagonist, Gene Forrester, intentionally causes his athletic friend Phineas to fall from a tree and suffer a leg injury that cripples him and indirectly leads to his death.
        ''John used to say he would never answer that question,'' his brother-in-law, Bob Maxwell, said when announcing Mr. Knowles's death. ''He took that one with him.''
        The closest Mr. Knowles came to explaining the origin of the novel was in an interview for The South Florida Sun-Sentinel shortly after he moved to Fort Lauderdale in 1987. '' 'A Separate Peace' is based on experiences that I had, but it is not literally true,'' he said.
        Published by Macmillan in 1960, ''A Separate Peace'' won the William Faulkner Foundation Award and the Rosenthal Award of the National Institute of Arts and Letters and soon came to be compared to classics like ''The Catcher in the Rye'' by J. D. Salinger and ''Lord of the Flies'' by William Golding.
        The novel, which drew good reviews, was also a huge commercial success, selling more than eight million copies. In 1972 it was made into a film by Paramount Pictures.
        Mr. Knowles wrote many books, but ''A Separate Peace'' and its sequel, ''Peace Breaks Out'' (Bantam, 1982), are his only novels still in print. His later novels, including ''A Vein of Riches'' (1978), received respectful reviews but never captured a mass audience.
        In 1971 Jonathan Yardley said in The New Republic that Mr. Knowles was ''foundering -- writing with characteristic grace and intelligence, but groping uncertainly for new subjects and themes.''
        John Knowles was born on Sept. 16, 1926, in Fairmont, W.Va., and entered Exeter at 15. He graduated in 1945 and received his bachelor's degree from Yale in 1949.
        He worked as a reporter and drama critic for The Hartford Courant for a few years and then served as associate editor of Holiday, the travel magazine, from 1956 to 1960. He was also a freelance writer.
        Mr. Knowles is survived by two sisters, Dorothy Maxwell, of Oro Valley, Ariz., and Marjorie Johnson, of Dallas; and a brother, James, of San Francisco.
        Mr. Knowles once told an interviewer that he did not mind having his reputation rest on a single book.
        ''It's paid the bills for 30 years,'' he said. ''It has made my career possible. Unlike most writers, I don't have to do anything else to make a living.''
        Correction:  December 7, 2001, Friday  An obituary on Saturday about John Knowles, the author of ''A Separate Peace,'' misidentified the publisher and misstated the publication year of the sequel, ''Peace Breaks Out.'' It was first published by Holt, Rinehart & Winston in 1981. The 1982 Bantam edition was the paperback.
      