
        Arthur Edwin Bye, a landscape architect whose public and private garden designs strove for a naturalism so artful that students said he knew how to make the snow fall where he wanted, died at Doylestown Hospital in Pennsylvania on Nov. 25. Mr. Bye, whose home was in Ridgefield, Conn., had been staying near his family's farm in Bucks County. He was 82.
        The cause was heart failure, according to his niece, Nancy Bye.
        One of the foremost practitioners of his generation as well as a professor of landscape architecture at the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art from 1953 onward, Mr. Bye helped establish landscape design as both an art and a subject of academic interest. His landscape works included gardens for the Harvey Hubbell Corporation in Orange, Conn., the Jefferson Memorial park in Washington, and the pocket park at 77 Water Street in Manhattan. Among the gardens he designed for private homes are two for Leonard and Evelyn Lauder in Fahnestock and Mohegan Lake, N.Y., and four for George Soros and his family in New York and Connecticut.
        An advocate of the natural over the formal since the 1950's, Mr. Bye was one of the first to promote the use of native plant materials and the restoration of native woodlands even as other well-known practitioners were installing vast, flat-plane lawns in their translations of corporate modernism into minimalist landscapes.
        ''Everything about Bye meandered,'' said Michael Van Valkenburgh, the Charles Eliot professor of landscape architecture at the Harvard Graduate School of Design. ''He advocated his own American version of 18th-century English romanticism, but on a smaller, more expressive scale.''
        Mr. Bye was born on Aug. 25, 1919, in Arnhem, the Netherlands, his mother's home, but moved at an early age to Pennsylvania, where his father was a professor of art history at Swarthmore. He received a bachelor's degree in landscape architecture from Pennsylvania State University in 1942.
        As a Quaker, he was a conscientious objector during World War II, and he spent the 40's surveying property in the Great Smoky Mountains. In 1951, he joined another landscape  architect, Irving Herrmann, to form Bye & Herrmann in Rye, N.Y., which later became A. E. Bye and Associates.
        A visiting design critic at Columbia, Cornell, Penn State and other architecture schools and universities, he still preferred calling himself  a gardener, instead of a landscape architect -- in allegiance to the English tradition. One of his earliest projects was designing a woodland landscape for the Reisley house, designed by Frank Lloyd Wright in Pleasantville, N.Y. In the early 70's, John Heyduk, the late architect and president of Cooper Union, designed  a house for Mr. Bye -- part folly, part architectural Rorschach test, the house was part of a series of Mr.  Heyduk's most emblematic and admired works on paper.
        While a devoted professor, Mr. Bye rarely theorized about his own landscapes. Instead, he published books, most notably ''Art into Landscape,  Landscape into Art'' (PDA, 1983), filled with photographs, many of his own works, framing landscaped  views both natural and manmade that he thought successful.
        A favorite was the Soros garden in Southampton, where Mr. Bye shaped four acres of lawn into mounds mimicking the ocean waves beyond. The mounds were so precisely oriented that snow melted in their lees in  patterns anticipated by the designer.
        At the 500-acre Gainesway Farm for racehorses in Lexington, Ky., his  penchant for features depending on changes in season or the light of day was exemplified by a 450-foot serpentine wall built of local stone that  disappeared when viewed from the main house.
        In 1987 Mr. Bye, who never married, formed a collaborative partnership with Janis Hall, a sculptor and architect. He is survived by a brother, Ranulph Bye of Mechanicsville, Pa.; and a sister, Margaret Bye  Richie of Doylestown.
        Referring to a favorite photograph of a couple disappearing down a path as it enters a wood, Ms. Hall said, ''Ed believed in creating spatial experiences and designs that unfold over time and create a sense of their own mystery.''
        Correction:  December 19, 2001, Wednesday  An obituary of the landscape architect Arthur Edwin Bye on Monday misspelled the surname of the architect who designed a house for him and misstated that architect's position at Cooper Union. He was John Hejduk (not Heyduk), dean of the Irwin S. Chanin School of Architecture at Cooper Union, not president of the college.
      