
        Seymour V. Reit, an author and illustrator best known as a creator of the cartoon character Casper the Friendly Ghost, died on Nov. 21 in New York City, where he lived. He was 83.
        Casper, a genial ghost-child who wants only to make friends, has been the subject of 55 theatrically released animated shorts, comic books, an animated television show and a live-action feature film with computer-generated special effects.
        Casper's exact ancestry was a matter of dispute between Mr. Reit as the author and Joe Oriolo as the illustrator. Mr. Reit's version is that he created the character of a gentle-natured ghost in a short story one weekend in 1940 and that Mr. Oriolo drew up a ''model chart,'' a sketch with assorted poses of the winsome half-pint in a white bedsheet.
        All rights to Casper, who went on to become one of the most recognizable cartoon characters in the world, were sold to Famous Studios at Paramount in the early 1940's for $200. When the film ''Casper,'' produced by Steven Spielberg, came out in 1995, Mr. Reit remarked: ''All I have is some nice memories and a little nostalgic sadness that I am not part of the movie. My career went on in all sorts of interesting, fun ways.''
        ''I'm not mourning or grieving over what I might have lost with Casper,'' Mr. Reit added. ''It was fun. I did the story. It has a lot of cachet.''
        The theatrical shorts were produced from 1945 to 1959, and the made-for-television cartoons appeared in 1963. Unlike scarier spirits, Casper preferred leaning against his tombstone and reading Dale Carnegie's ''How to Win Friends and Influence People.'' Other characters' eyes bugged out as they cried, ''A ghost!'' and Casper walked away with hands clasped behind his back in dejection until he found a new friend and regained his skipping step.
        A lifelong New Yorker, Mr. Reit was born on Nov. 11, 1918; that was Armistice Day, and he was given the middle name Victory. He attended DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx and drew cartoons for the humor magazine at New York University, from which he graduated at age 19. Fleischer Studios in Miami offered him a $25-a-week job, and he was soon producing ''in-between'' drawings -- the drawings between major movements in an animated scene -- and writing gags for Popeye and Betty Boop animated shorts.
        During World War II he used his artistic skills in a camouflage unit. ''They began by camouflaging the West Coast, because they were afraid of the Japanese,'' recalled his widow, Edmée Reit. ''It was a unit full of wonderful people like Billy Baldwin who had been scenic designers and window decorators.''
        Mr. Reit then served with the Army Air Forces in Europe after D-Day. ''He was only 5-foot-4, and he weighed 105,'' Mrs. Reit said. ''He was not supposed to go up in a plane, because I think you have to be 110 to open a parachute, and he'd still be up there.''
        After the war, Mr. Reit continued his career in comics, writing for ''Archie'' and ''Little Lulu,'' as well as contributing gags to the Casper shorts.
        Mr. Reit also wrote more than 60 pieces for Mad magazine beginning in the late 1950's, and in 1968 he anticipated air-pollution problems from aerosol cans, naming the pollutant ''sprog.'' (He also mentioned ''spritz'' from soda cans and ''smaft'' from burning draft cards.) He was also a ghostwriter for the syndicated strip ''There Ought to Be a Law.''
        Casper comics were published by St. John Publishing beginning in 1949, and later by Harvey Comics, which expanded the cast of characters to include Casper's three pointy-headed ectoplasmic uncles, Stinkie, Fatso and Stretch, and Wendy, the good little witch. The comic books are still published occasionally. Casper inspired a number of less successful comic-book clones, including Homer the Happy Ghost, Timmy the Timid Ghost and Spunky the Smiling Spook.
        Mr. Reit wrote more than 80 children's books on subjects from the Confederate ironclad the Merrimack to Balto, the hero dog who brought diphtheria vaccine to Nome, Alaska, in 1925 and who is commemorated by a statue in Central Park.
        His books for adults include ''The Day They Stole the Mona Lisa,'' a true account of how the famous portrait disappeared from the Louvre for two years in 1911. He also wrote the nonfiction book ''Sibling Rivalry'' while he was employed in the publications department of the Bank Street College of Education, where he worked for 15 years. ''Seymour never had an argument with his sister in his entire life,'' Mrs. Reit said, ''but he's still considered an expert on sibling rivalry.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Reit's sister, Phyllis Reit Nelson of Pittsfield, Mass., survives him.
      