
        Gilbert Bécaud, a popular French crooner and prolific songwriter whose song ''Et Maintenant'' became a worldwide hit in English as ''What Now My Love,'' died in Paris today on his houseboat on the Seine. He was 74.
        Friends reported that the cause was cancer.
        Mr. Bécaud, whose powerful stage presence earned him the nickname Mr. 100,000 Volts, was among a group of French singers identified with a movement known as ''la chanson française'' (literally, ''French song'').
        Although he never achieved the fame enjoyed abroad by Édith Piaf, Yves Montand, Charles Trenet and Charles Aznavour, many of his songs also enjoyed success in their English versions.
        ''The Day the Rains Came'' (''Le Jour où la Pluie Viendra'') was successfully recorded by Jane Morgan; ''Let It Be Me'' (''Je T'Appartiens'') had versions by the Everly Brothers, Bob Dylan, Roberta Flack and Sonny and Cher. ''It Must Be Him'' (''Seul sur Son Étoile'') was a hit by Vicki Carr.
        Born on Oct. 24, 1927, in Toulon, in southern France, as François Gilbert Silly, he moved to Paris after World War II and exploited his talents as a pianist to accompany the singer Jacques Pills in nightclubs and bars.
        When Pills married Piaf, Mr. Bécaud's own singing career also got its start, thanks to this close connection to the woman who was France's most popular chanteuse.
        In 1954, during the opening of the famed Olympia theater in Paris, Mr. Bécaud's energetic and physical performing style so excited the audience that fans tore up the theater's seats. Mr. Bécaud, who always appeared onstage in a navy blue suit, white shirt and polka-dot tie (he owned more than 200 of such ties), went on to perform more than 40 times at the Olympia, including in 1997, when the theater was reopened after extensive refurbishment.
        Although he frequently toured abroad and appeared on Broadway for three weeks in 1966, his most loyal following was always in France.
        Apart from ''Et Maintenant,'' the best-known among his 400 or so song compositions are ''Nathalie,'' ''L'Important C'Est la Rose'' (''What's Important Is the Rose'') and ''Quand Il Est Mort le Poète'' (''When the Poet Dies'').
        While chanson française is best characterized by its poetic lyrics, Mr. Bécaud was most admired by his colleagues for his tunes. ''He was a great composer of melodies,'' Mr. Aznavour said today. ''Nowadays, when all melodies sound alike, if you look of Gilbert's songs, you'll see that every melody is different.''
        Mr. Bécaud is survived by his second wife, Kitty St.-John, and their two children, Jennifer and Emily, as well as by three children from his first marriage, Gaya, Philippe and Anne.
      