
        Peter Elias, a theorist in the field of information and computer science, died on Dec. 7 at his home in Cambridge, Mass. He was 78.
        The cause was Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a nervous system disorder, according to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he was a senior lecturer and Edwin Webster professor emeritus of electrical engineering.
        Dr. Elias worked in the department of electrical engineering and computer science and at M.I.T.'s Research Laboratory of Electronics. He focused on information theories and how they might solve practical questions in communications, data processing and computation.
        He was a pioneer in developing practical methods for communicating information as data coded in ones and zeros. Such digital communications, which were first proposed by Claude Shannon in 1948, are at the heart of computer-driven telecommunications networks.
        Mr. Elias's coding systems compressed the digital data so that complete messages could be transmitted rapidly. He also invented ways of catching and correcting errors that could creep into the communications when the streams of ones and zeros were interrupted. His methods were used to gather information from satellites sent to other planets and are the basis of codes used today to transmit data over cellphones.
        Peter Elias was born in New Brunswick, N.J., the son of an engineer at the Thomas A. Edison laboratory. He graduated from M.I.T. in business engineering and management. After service as a radio technician instructor in the Navy, he went to Harvard and received master's degrees in science and engineering in 1948 and 1949, and a Ph.D. in applied science in 1950.
        He worked at Harvard until 1953, when he joined the M.I.T. faculty, rising to full professor in 1960. That year he became the youngest man to head the electrical engineering and computer science departments.
        He was named Webster professor in 1974 and took emeritus status in 1992. He also held visiting professorships at Harvard, the Imperial College of Science and Technology in London and the University of California at Berkeley.
        Dr. Elias was a past member of the President's Science Advisory Committee's panel on computers in higher education and a member of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of Sciences. At his death he remained an editor of Information and Computation, a journal he helped establish in 1957 under its original name, Information and Control.
        Dr. Elias is survived by two sons, Daniel, of Lincoln, Mass., and Paul, of Cambridge; a daughter, Ellen Elias-Bursac, also of Cambridge; a sister, Barbara Elias of New York and Chilmark, Mass; and six grandchildren. His wife, Marjorie Forbes Elias, died in 1993 after 43 years of marriage.
      