
        Dr. Leonard T. Kurland, a neurologist who mined the science of epidemiology for techniques that led to new thinking about diseases in his field and others, died on Dec. 4 at his home in Rochester, Minn. He was 79.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Dr. Kurland, a researcher at the Mayo Clinic and the National Institutes of Health, believed that a rigorous examination of the occurrence of diseases like multiple sclerosis -- including where and how often they strike, among what populations and seasonal variations -- might yield more insights than a close examination of individual patients.
        ''He was actually the first person to be interested in the epidemiological aspects of neurological diseases,'' said Dr. Gustavo Román, editor of the journal Neuroepidemiology.
        He was a major force behind the Rochester Epidemiology Project, which in the 1960's began compiling the lifelong medical records of virtually every resident of Olmsted County, where the Mayo Clinic is based, going back almost 70 years.
        More than 1,000 medical studies have grown out of the elaborately indexed record system, which allows researchers to make accurate estimates of the natural occurrence of diseases. Apart from allowing doctors to look for patterns that can lead to a better understanding of a disease, the records let them determine whether what appears to be a cluster of an illness is cause for concern.
        But for the system to work, Dr. Kurland, building on earlier efforts of Mayo researchers, had to devise a technique that allowed millions of old and current records to be culled for trends, yet kept them quickly accessible to doctors treating patients.
        Dr. Daniel P. Perl of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine, a colleague of Dr. Kurland's at Mayo, recalled being in his office in Rochester once and watching a skeptical visitor put him to the test.
        '' 'All right,' '' Dr. Perl recalled the visitor saying. '' 'In 1920, my father was in an automobile accident and was admitted to the Mayo Clinic.' And Len said, 'What's his name?' And he gave his name. And in five minutes, the chart was there.''
        Dr. Kurland was often called upon to help government and industry investigate contentious matters, including the safety of breast implants; the effects of Agent Orange on veterans of the Vietnam War; the relationship between X-rays and leukemia; concerns that the swine flu vaccine given in the 1970's could cause neurological problems; and the incidence of cancer among women whose mothers were given the hormone DES during pregnancy.
        A cautious man not given to sweeping statements, Dr. Kurland often came back and reported that, however suspicious a given situation or fearful the people affected, nothing unusual was occurring.
        This was the case, for example, when in 1993 he reported finding no link between breast implants and connective tissue disease.
        ''He was the kind of guy who would lend science to the questioning, and often the answer was negative,'' said Dr. Ronald C. Petersen, a Mayo neurology professor. ''But that's equally important to science, and to society.''
        Leonard Terry Kurland was born Dec. 24, 1921, in Baltimore and earned his bachelor's and doctoral degrees at Johns Hopkins, his medical degree from the University of Maryland and a master's at Harvard.
        He is survived by his wife, Miriam; four sons, Dr. Geoffrey, of Pittsburgh, Steven, of Rockville, Md., Dr. Robert, of Rochester, and Keith, of Louisville, Ky.; a daughter, Ellen Hussey of Appleton, Wis.; a brother, Melvin, of Baltimore; and two sisters, Mildred Isen of Bethesda, Md., and Rhona Melnicove of Rockville.
      