
        Samuel Meyers, a labor activist and longtime president of a union local representing automobile workers in the New York area, died at 83 last Saturday in Deerfield Beach, Fla., where he had a winter home. He was a resident of Marine Park, Brooklyn.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said.
        Mr. Meyers led Local 259 of the United Automobile Workers from 1958 to 1995. The local represents technicians and other workers at dealerships and repair shops in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut.
        His influence in the U.A.W. reached beyond his local, due to his personal relations with its national leaders. Under his guidance, the local brought blacks and women into its leadership and helped initiate a trade association as the employers' collective bargaining agent.
        His local was outspoken in its support of civil rights and gave early backing to black politicians like Charles B. Rangel and David N. Dinkins.
        Sam Meyers was born in Brooklyn and started working in his early teens in a small family grocery while attending high school. He studied English poetry for a year in night classes at Brooklyn College.
        In 1940 he was hired as a sheet-metal worker at a Long Island aircraft factory and joined the U.A.W., Local 365. He was soon elected shop steward. He joined the Army Air Corps in 1943 and was assigned to an orientation team that taught other recruits about the country's war aims.
        After that he went to work for another manufacturer in the car industry and was promptly fired for trying to organize the shop into Local 259. At that point, the union hired him as an organizer. He held that position until 1958, when he won a fight to oust leaders who, he contended, had grown too remote from the membership.
        Mr. Meyers formed a partnership with the New York State Division for Youth and Advocates for Children to create training program for young auto mechanics. He was a past chairman of the Advisory Councel for Occupational Education of the New York City Board of Education.
        Mr. Meyers is survived by his wife of 60 years, Carolyn Dreyer Meyers; two sons, Matthew J. of Hillsboro, N.M., and Daniel L. of Manhattan; five grandchildren, and six great-grandchildren.
        ''He took our industry from once when they were referred to as grease monkeys,'' said William Pickering, the current president of Local 259, recalling Mr. Meyers's battles for improved wages and working conditions. ''Today they enjoy the dignity of Class A technicians.''
      