
        H. Peter Kriendler, who helped transform ''21'' from a speakeasy into one of Manhattan's most beloved and enduring restaurants, and for decades was its face, voice and ambassador, died yesterday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 96 years old. .
        Mr. Kriendler, known to his friends as Pete and to employees at ''21'' as Mr. Pete to avoid confusion with his  three brothers, put the ''club'' into ''21.'' Businessmen and power brokers who were used to running other people's lives went to ''21'' and gladly put themselves in Mr. Kriendler's hands, knowing that they would be taken care of.
        Making the rounds, he would drop by their tables and make small talk. He asked after their wives and children (or avoided the subject if the patron happened to be with an attractive younger woman), and helped solve small problems. Sometimes he sat down with the diners, a signal of special privilege. When the occasion demanded, Mr. Kriendler could show an unruly guest the sidewalk and banish him. At one of the city's toniest power dining spots, he set the tone.
        Mr. Kriendler, one of eight children of Austrian immigrants, was born on the Lower East Side and grew up in a fifth-floor tenement apartment on Norfolk Street where Yiddish was spoken more than English. His father, a welder in the Brooklyn Navy Yard, died of influenza in 1917, leaving the family dependent on his mother's income as a midwife. He was the last of the eight children, his nephew, Sheldon Tannen, said, and no immediate family members survive.
        The bar business attracted Pete Kriendler from an early age. At 10, he was spending time at his uncle's saloon on the corner of Essex and Rivington Streets, teaching immigrants how to fill out paper ballots so they could vote for candidates put forward by the local Democratic Club.
        In 1922, Mr. Kriendler's brother Jack went into partnership with a college friend, Charles A. Berns, to open a speakeasy in Greenwich Village. Called the Red Head, it was lightly disguised as a tearoom. Pete, still a student at DeWitt Clinton High School, found it a congenial place to spend time.
        ''At age 16, all I could do was sip a soft drink and hang around trying to act like a big cheese while hoping to catch a dance with one of the 'flappers' who came downtown from uptown boarding schools,'' he later recalled in ''21: Every Day Was New Year's Eve: Memoirs of a Saloon Keeper'' (Taylor Publishing, 1999), which he wrote with H. Paul Jeffers.
        The Red Head changed its location, and its name, several times. With each change, it became a little fancier, and attracted a clientele to match. On New Year's Day in 1930, it opened at its present address, 21 West 52nd Street, with the name Jack and Charlie's 21.
        Mr. Kriendler tagged along, fascinated by the business and by the patrons, who included H. L. Mencken, Will Rogers, F. Scott Fitzgerald and Jimmy Walker. Along the way, he developed a close friendship with the humor writer Robert Benchley, whose place at the ''21'' bar still has a commemorative brass plaque.
        When he was not socializing in his brother's bar, Mr. Kriendler was attending City College and St. Lawrence University, where he got a law degree in 1929, and making money as a broker on the New York Curb Exchange (now the American Stock Exchange). Jack had bought him a seat on the exchange for $26,000.
        In 1929, Pete sold the seat for 10 times that amount, and began spending all his time at his brothers' place, which by then had moved to Midtown. He began working as a handyman, sweeping the floor, carting food and tending bar. In 1933, he married Jeannette Epstein, who died in 1991. The couple had no children.
        In 1938, Mr. Kriendler became a partner in ''21,'' and after Jack died of a heart attack in 1947, he took over his role as host at the restaurant. ''God gave me the ability to like people, and to have them like me back,'' he once remarked offhandedly. He remained at ''21'' until 1985, when the Berns and Kriendler families sold their interests in the restaurant to General Felt Industries, a holding company headed by Marshall S. Cogan and Stephen Swid.
        When he was away from the restaurant, Mr. Kriendler indulged a passion for salmon fishing and hunting. He often took regulars from ''21'' when he headed off to Alaska or Scotland in pursuit of fish or fowl.
        His obsessions often led him far afield. After seeing a documentary about Albert Schweitzer, he made several visits to the doctor's clinic in the Congo. Schweitzer spoke German, Kriendler spoke Yiddish, and somehow the two men got along famously. On one occasion, he asked Schweitzer what he could do to help him in his work. Schweitzer said, ''Send sneakers.'' Mr. Kriendler called the chairman of U.S. Rubber and arranged for several hundred pairs to be shipped to Africa.
        Mr. Kriendler built a large collection of Western art, specializing in the works of Frederic Remington. Several Remingtons were kept on display at ''21.'' Mr. Kriendler donated others to the Whitney Gallery of Western Art at the Buffalo Bill Historical Center in Cody, Wyo., where he also endowed a gallery devoted to contemporary Western art in 1995 and was a trustee.
        In his management of ''21,'' Mr. Kriendler perfected the fine art of diplomacy. He knew how to keep powerful people happy.
        But he also knew how to keep them in line. One night, a guest lingered long after closing time in a cozy booth with his sweetheart. Mr. Kriendler brought the house lights to full brightness, but the man refused to take the hint. Finally, Mr. Kriendler presented the check, whereupon the man, incensed, pulled out a thousand-dollar bill and said, ''Take your money out of this.''
        Mr. Kriendler did not flinch. He went upstairs with two waiters, opened a safe and counted out the change in small bills and coins.
      