
        David Samuel Liederman, who spoke for children and families as the head of major umbrella groups for child welfare organizations, died Jan. 12 at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 65.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said the Council on Accreditation for Children and Family Services, an independent national monitoring organization of which he became president and chief executive in May 1999. Before that he was executive director of the Child Welfare League of America for 15 years.
        The council was created in 1977 by the Child Welfare League and Family Service America as a central watchdog for public and private agencies in the United States and Canada. It accredits organizations that provide child and family services, including behavioral and mental care as well as financial management and debt counseling. Using volunteer reviewers and site visits, the council says it has so far accredited organizations serving more than six million children and their families.
        Speaking to policy makers or in broadcasts, Mr. Liederman championed a comprehensive approach to permit American children to reach their full potential. For him, that meant providing quality services for those in need -- promoting child welfare and family preservation, foster care and adoption -- from birth to adulthood.
        ''We need the whole range,'' he once told a Congressional panel, ''because that is what will work for kids and families in this country.''
        David Liederman was born in Malden, Mass., and graduated in 1957 from the University of Massachusetts. He received a master's degree in education at Springfield College in 1958 and another master's in social work at the University of Pittsburgh in 1962.
        He became a youth worker in public housing in the Boston area and was director of family relocation at Boston's United South End Settlements in the late 1960's. He was in the Massachusetts House of Representatives for four years before becoming director of the Massachusetts State Office for Children in 1973.
        Gov. Michael S. Dukakis of Massachusetts, impressed by Mr. Liederman's reputation as a reformer, chose him as his chief of staff in 1975; he held that position until 1979.
        Mr. Liederman's next post was at the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, where he headed the public affairs office until 1984. In that year he became executive director of the Child Welfare League, a group representing nearly 1,200 agencies that aid abused and neglected children.
        Mr. Liederman is survived by his wife, Terry Gioia; a daughter and two sons from an earlier marriage, Wendy Liederman of Queens, Keith, of New Orleans, and Larry of San Francisco; two brothers, Lawrence, of Lexington, Mass., and Steven, of Atlanta; and three grandchildren. His first marriage to Toby Newman Liederman, a resident of City Island, the Bronx, ended in divorce.
      