
        C. Carwood Lipton, who was among the central figures in ''Band of Brothers,'' the book and television miniseries recounting the experiences of a World War II paratroop company, died on Dec. 16 at a hospital in Pinehurst, N.C. Mr. Lipton, of Southern Pines, N.C., was 81.
        The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, his family said.
        ''I have trouble remembering what happened three weeks ago, but I can recall World War II almost day by day,'' Mr. Lipton said last month when he appeared at Sandhills Community College in Pinehurst with Stephen E. Ambrose, who wrote ''Band of Brothers'' (Simon & Schuster, 1992).
        Mr. Ambrose interviewed many veterans in recounting the experiences of Easy Company, 506th Parachute Infantry Regiment, 101st Airborne Division, from stateside training to D-Day, Operation Market Garden, the Battle of the Bulge and the capture of Hitler's Eagle's Nest retreat at Berchtesgaden. But it was Mr. Lipton, an original member of Easy Company, and Richard Winters, one of its former commanders, who supplied much of the remembrances for ''Band of Brothers.''
        Mr. Lipton suggested the title, drawing upon the ''band of brothers'' oration in Shakespeare's ''Henry V.''
        Mr. Lipton, a recipient of two bronze stars and three Purple Hearts, was in the public eye in recent months when HBO presented the 10-part series ''Band of Brothers,'' whose executive producers, Steven Spielberg and Tom Hanks, had collaborated on the D-Day movie ''Saving Private Ryan.''
        In appearances at churches, schools and military bases, Mr. Lipton told of the bonds forged by the men of Easy Company.
        Mr. Lipton was portrayed in the series by Donnie Wahlberg, who consulted with him frequently by telephone while filming at Hatfield Aerodrome in England.
        Mr. Lipton is portrayed in the series as a low-key, dependable member of the company who emerges as a strong leader while a first sergeant in the Battle of Bulge.
        Clifford Carwood Lipton, a native of Huntington, W. Va., joined the paratroopers as a private in August 1942.
        Parachuting behind Utah Beach in Normandy, France, in the first hours of the D-Day invasion of June 6, 1944, he lost his weapon and ammunition and landed several miles from his target area. But he joined fellow paratroopers to wipe out a German gun battery shelling the beach, earning a bronze star.
        He received a battlefield commission as a second lieutenant in February 1945.
        Mr. Lipton returned to civilian life after the war, received an engineering degree from Marshall University in Huntington and was an executive with Owens-Illinois, the manufacturer of glass products and plastics packaging.
        He is survived by his wife, Marie; three sons, Clifford Carwood III, of Anderson, S.C.; Thomas, of Toledo, Ohio, and Michael, of Kalamazoo, Mich., from his first marriage, to Jo Anne, who died in 1975; a brother, Robert Dulaine, of Las Vegas; five grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
        Mr. Lipton returned to Utah Beach last June with 46 fellow veterans of Easy Company for ceremonies for the 57th anniversary of D-Day. They met the actors in ''Band of Brothers'' and watched a premiere of the series.
        Mr. Lipton had high praise for the production's re-creation of combat.
        ''The jump into Normandy with the antiaircraft fire, with the cloud cover, with the planes banking and swerving, is exactly how it was,'' he said.
        In ''Henry V,'' the king speaks of an enduring comradeship in addressing his soldiers at the Battle of Agincourt in 1415.
        We few, we happy few, we band of brothers;
        For he today that sheds his blood with me
        Shall be my brother.
        In June 1994, the eve of D-Day's 50th anniversary, Mr. Lipton reflected on having fought at Normandy. He touched on the brotherhood of men in arms extolled in ''Henry V.''
        ''None of us could even think of the fact that we would be killed,'' Mr. Lipton recalled. ''If we were afraid of anything, it was that we wouldn't measure up. We wanted to be heroes, not to the American public or in books, but to each other.''
      