
        Foster Brooks, a comedian whose act as a lovable drunk made him a fixture on television and Las Vegas stages, died on Thursday at his home in Encino, Calif. He was 89.
        Mr. Brooks, with silver hair and a beard, was a master at appearing as someone who had had too many cocktails and was trying not to show it.
        His popularity reached a peak in the 1970's and 1980's with frequent appearances on ''Dean Martin's Celebrity Roasts'' and as a guest on ''The Tonight Show Starring Johnny Carson.''
        ''People seemed very surprised to learn that he didn't drink at all,'' said Teri Elmendorf, Mr. Brooks's daughter. ''They seemed to think he must have had at least one cocktail before going onstage.''
        Instead, she said, Mr. Brooks had given up alcohol and cigarettes on a bet in the 1960's, when he was experiencing lean years in Hollywood.
        ''Somebody bet $10 that he wouldn't quit, and he needed the money,'' she said.
        Born in Louisville, Ky., in 1912, Mr. Brooks performed as a child singer on local radio and moved as a young man to New York State, where he worked in Buffalo and Rochester as a newscaster and disc jockey. While in Buffalo he joined Robert Schmidt, who would later adopt the name Buffalo Bob and team up with the puppet Howdy Doody in a country and western vocal group called the Hi-Hatters.
        Ms. Elmendorf said her father, hoping for a break in Hollywood, moved his family there in 1960.
        Then, during a decade of struggle with only an infrequent bit part on television shows like ''Bewitched,'' ''The Munsters'' and cowboy dramas, he worked delivering phone books and Christmas mail, and he managed a North Hollywood apartment building in exchange for free rent.
        During the same period, he worked as a security guard for the Los Angeles Dodgers. Years later, after becoming a familiar face on national television, he was rewarded by the Dodgers with a bronze reproduction of the security badge he had worn.
        Mr. Brooks's Hollywood break came after he attended a 1969 charity golf tournament and was asked by his friend at the event, the game show host Dennis James, to tell a few jokes to the crowd.
        His improvised routine of a comedic lush caused a stir, and word of the performance spread. He was soon asked to open a Las Vegas show by Perry Como, and that led to Mr. Brooks's first appearance on ''The Tonight Show.''
        He also appeared for a season on ''Mork & Mindy,'' the situation comedy that starred Robin Williams, and as a panelist on game shows, including ''Match Game'' and ''Circus of the Stars.'' He played supporting roles in the 1979 film ''The Villain'' and the 1983 film ''Cannonball Run II.''
        Ms. Elmendorf said Mr. Brooks continued performing until he was 86, appearing for the last time in Las Vegas at a celebrity roast for Zsa Zsa Gabor.
        In addition to Ms. Elmendorf, of Villa Park, Calif., Mr. Brooks is survived by his wife, Teri Brooks; another daughter, Scotti Brooks of Encino; and three grandchildren.
      