
        Dr. Franco Dino Rasetti, who worked with the Nobel laureate Enrico Fermi and the select team of Italian scientists that discovered one of the key processes in nuclear reactions, died on Dec. 5 at a retirement home in Belgium. He was 100.
        The discovery, made in a laboratory at the University of Rome, proved pivotal for the Manhattan Project and the postwar development of nuclear energy.
        The Fermi group patented the process in Italy in 1934 and in the United States in 1940, and Dr. Rasetti was the last surviving patent holder.
        Fermi, a central figure in the Manhattan Project, had invited Dr. Rasetti to join that quest for an atomic bomb, but Dr. Rasetti refused on moral grounds. He told his colleagues that he objected to using  nuclear research for warfare.
        Dr. Rasetti specialized in molecular spectroscopy and neutron-induced reactions. But he was also known as an expert on a large class of fossilized arthropods like crustaceans, known as trilobites, and on the wildflowers of the Alps.
        After he retired from Johns Hopkins University, where he was a professor for more than 20 years, Dr. Rasetti donated the trilobite fossils he had amassed to the Smithsonian Institution.
        Dr. Aihud Pevsner, a physics professor at Johns Hopkins, said: ''People who found they could not identify trilobites all over the world would mail them to him. Every morning he would get a shoe box full of them, and every afternoon he'd have them all identified and ready to mail back.''
        Dr. Rasetti was born in Castiglione del Lago, Italy. He was studying engineering at the University of Pisa when an encounter with Fermi led him to change his mind. He received his doctorate in physics at Pisa in 1923, and Fermi recruited him for the University of Rome.
        There, Dr. Rasetti found evidence that scientific theories of the composition of atomic nuclei were incomplete. He used spectroscopy to buttress his finding, and his experiments were an element in the successful creation of a nuclear reaction.
        Most of the Fermi team left the Rome laboratory in 1939 because of Mussolini's policies. Dr. Rasetti, who had been a visiting professor at Columbia University in 1936, went to  Laval University in Quebec, where he remained until he joined the Hopkins faculty in 1947. He retired as a professor emeritus in 1970.
        He also wrote ''Elements of Nuclear Physics'' (1936), ''Middle Cambrian Stratigraphy and Faunas of the Canadian Rocky Mountains'' (1951), ''The Flowers of the Alps'' (1980) and many articles on physics, geology and paleontology.
        Dr. Rasetti is survived by his wife of 52 years, Marie Madeleine.
      