
        Agha Shahid Ali, a Kashmiri-American poet who was a finalist for the 2001 National Book Award in Poetry, died on Dec. 8 at his brother's home in Amherst, Mass., where he was staying. He was 52 and had lived in Brooklyn.
        The cause was brain cancer, the publishing house W. W. Norton announced.
        Mr. Ali was named a finalist for his book of poems ''Rooms Are Never Finished,'' which Norton published in November. Almost 30 of its pages involve his elegy to his mother, who also died of brain cancer.
        Grief and violence were among his themes.
        In the poem ''Of Light,'' published in the journal Poetry this year, he wrote: ''From History tears learn a slanted understanding/of the human face torn by blood's bulletin.''
        When Mr. Ali became a finalist for the National Book Award, the poet laureate of Maryland, Michael Collier, wrote: ''As a Kashmiri, Ali is aware of the historical vicissitudes that breed violence and hatred in people who once lived together peacefully. His poems speak to the enduring qualities of love and friendship. With elegance and wit, they also speak to the difficulty of maintaining such relationships.''
        Another American poet, Michael Palmer, cited Mr. Ali's links to poets ranging from the Urdu-language Faiz Ahmed Faiz to the Spaniard Federico García Lorca. Mr. Ali helped introduce American poets to a venerable Persian poetic form, the ghazal.
        Cultural ties and divisions were also themes of his.
        In his poem ''Farewell'' he wrote: ''In the lake the arms of temples and mosques are locked/in each other's reflections.''
        But another says: ''A language must measure up to one's native dust./Divided between two cultures, I spoke a language foreign even to my ears.''
        He spoke a combination of Urdu and English as a child, but he wrote all his poetry in English.
        Eight books of his poems have been published, and Norton plans to bring out another in 2003.
        Mr. Ali was born in New Delhi and grew up in Kashmir and in Indiana, where his parents were studying. He moved to the United States permanently in 1975.
        He held degrees from two universities in India and three in the United States and taught at several American universities and colleges.
        In addition to his brother, Agha Iqbal Ali, he is survived by his father, Ashraf, of Srinagar, India, the historic capital of Kashmir; two sisters, Hena Ahmad of Kirksville, Mo., and Sameetah Agha Murphy of Brooklyn; two nephews; and a niece.
      