
        George Wesley Santos, a pioneer in the development of bone marrow transplants, died Jan. 21 at a hospital in Arlington, Tex. A former resident of Phoenix, Md., he was 72 and lived on Hilton Head Island, S.C., in retirement.
        The cause was pneumonia, suffered while he was undergoing treatment for lung cancer, his family said.
        Dr. Santos was professor emeritus of oncology and medicine at the Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine. He performed his first human bone marrow transplant in 1968 at what is now known as the Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center.
        He founded the marrow transplant program at the Johns Hopkins Oncology Center that year and directed it until retiring in 1994. Throughout his career he worked on ways to improve the outcome of the transplants in cancer patients.
        In the early days of such transplants, the patient was often given nearly fatal doses of radiation to kill all the cancer cells before being given a transplant of cancer-free marrow cells. Dr. Santos worked to develop alternatives that were less dangerous to the patient.
        He was also among the first medical scientists to recognize the importance of giving patients drugs to suppress their immune systems, avoiding a life-threatening complication in which the transplanted marrow attacks a patient's own tissues as alien material. He was one of the first to test the drug cyclosporine for the treatment of that complication.
        Initially, he and his colleagues at Johns Hopkins successfully treated leukemia and aplastic anemia, an often fatal form of anemia, then explored transplanting marrow to fight other types of cancer.
        ''Many of the great strides we have made today in bone marrow transplantation as therapy for cancer and other diseases can be directly traced to the early research of Dr. Santos,'' said Dr. Martin D. Abeloff, director of the oncology center.
        George Santos was born in Oak Park, Ill., and graduated in 1951 from M.I.T., where he also received a master's degree in physical biology that year. He completed medical school and his residency at Johns Hopkins. He began to focus on bone marrow transplantation while serving in the Naval Reserve at the Naval Radiologic Defense Laboratory in San Francisco in the late 1950's. Returning to Johns Hopkins on a fellowship in 1960, he conducted the institution's first transplant studies on animals.
        He is survived by his wife, Carole Sullivan Santos, whom he married in 1997; three daughters, Susan S. Carey of Baltimore, Kelly A. Santos of Columbus, Ohio, and Amy C. Cauley of Jensen Beach, Fla.; a son, George W. Jr. of Sparks, Md.; a stepson, David W. Sullivan of San Juan Capistrano, Calif.; a stepdaughter, Elizabeth Mashburn of Columbia, S.C.; and three grandchildren. His first marriage, to the former Joanne Corrigon of Hilton Head, ended in divorce.
        In 1988, he won the Bristol-Myers Award, which is given annually to a ''scientist who has made a unique contribution to fundamental or clinical cancer research.''
        On that occasion he said he had recently attended the wedding of a woman he had treated for aplastic anemia as a teenager 15 years earlier. A wall of his office at Johns Hopkins was covered with photographs of such former patients.
      