
        Melvyn R. Paisley, a former top Navy official and a fighter ace who was involved in a military procurement scandal in the 1980's that involved bribery, bid rigging and insider advice, died on Dec. 19. He was 77 and lived in McLean, Va.
        The cause was cancer, said his wife, Vicki.
        Mr. Paisley was a central target in what prosecutors said was the most sweeping and successful operation against white-collar fraud in the multibillion-dollar industry that sells equipment to the Defense Department.
        By the time Mr. Paisley was sentenced, the investigation had resulted in the convictions of 9 government officials, 42 Washington consultants and corporate heads and 7 military contractors.
        Mr. Paisley's case provided an extensive look into the ''revolving door'' world of military contractors in a period of intensified military spending under President Ronald Reagan.
        In 1991, Mr. Paisley admitted accepting hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes from Navy contractors whom he helped while he was the senior Navy official responsible for research, engineering and systems. In court documents, he acknowledged his role in three major plots, although he was also implicated in others.
        The cases included helping an Israeli manufacturer of pilotless reconnaissance planes win several contracts in return for cash sent to a Swiss bank account and providing confidential information to the Sperry Corporation to win a bid for the Aegis weapons system.
        He was sentenced to four years in prison and fined $50,000 after a judge rejected his request for home detention on the grounds that he was suffering from prostate cancer.
        It was a grim end to a career that began with promise.
        Mr. Paisley was born on Oct. 9, 1924, in Portland, Ore. He spent his early years in a logging camp, where his father was a logger and his mother was a cook. He enlisted in the Army Air Corps in World War II, where he became a skilled pilot and downed several enemy planes over Europe. He received the Distinguished Service Cross and the Silver Star.
        After the war, Mr. Paisley studied engineering and was hired by the Boeing Corporation. In 28 years there, he rose to become international sales manager.
        He established a close relationship with John F. Lehman Jr., who asked him to move to Washington after Mr. Lehman was named Navy secretary. They established a reputation for brash, occasionally heavy-handed management and for slashing red tape that interfered with the Navy's expansion. Mr. Lehman was never accused of any misdeeds.
        Before he headed to the Pentagon, Mr. Paisley received a $183,000 severance package from Boeing. Prosecutors sued him under the federal ethics law in 1986, arguing that such a large ''golden handshake'' would compromise Mr. Paisley's objectivity toward Boeing. The Supreme Court later ruled that such packages were not, in themselves, illegal.
        In his Pentagon post, which he left in 1987, and later as a consultant to the arms industry, Mr. Paisley used his influence and inside information to guide executives from businesses like Martin Marietta and United Technologies through the procurement thicket, steering billions of dollars in contracts their way.
        Released from prison in 1995, he spent his time painting and collecting World War II films. He was a consultant for a two-hour documentary, ''Shooting War,'' narrated by Tom Hanks and recently broadcast on ABC-TV, Ms. Paisley said.
        Also surviving are four children from previous marriages, Deborah, of Sumner, Wash., Frank, of Golden, Colo., Melvyn Jr., of Los Angeles, and Beaumante, of Seattle; a sister, Dorothy; and two grandchildren.
      