
        Monteria Ivey, who combined urban brashness with a sensitive ear for the inflections of real people to produce giggles and guffaws for live audiences, radio listeners and book readers, died on Dec. 13 in Manhattan. He was 41 and lived in Harlem.
        Stephan Dweck, who was his co-host on ''Sports Funk'' on WFAN-AM radio in New York, said he died of diabetic shock.
        Mr. Ivey, Mr. Dweck and James Percelay wrote books about African-American humor, tracing its development from slavery to urban ghettoes. Their books were ''Snaps'' (1995), ''Double Snaps'' (1997) and ''Triple Snaps'' (1999), all published by William Morrow.
        In the late 1990's, Mr. Ivey and Mr. Dweck wrote two books of pickup lines, ''You're So Fine I'd Drink a Tub of Your Bathwater'' and ''Baby, All Those Curves. And Me With No Brakes,'' both published by Hyperion-Disney.
        Last year Crown published ''Field Guide to White People,'' also by Mr. Ivey and Mr. Dweck. Next fall, Mr. Dweck said, HarperCollins plans to publish their ''Big Book of Black Humor.''
        The ''Sports Funk'' radio show, which began in July, combined sports analysis with humor from an African-American perspective and attracted guests like the Hall of Fame baseball player Frank Robinson and the lawyer Johnnie Cochran. The show emerged from regular appearances that the two had made on Don Imus's show, also on WFAN.
        The deliberately racial perspective of Mr. Ivey and Mr. Dweck provoked Phil Mushnick to call their show a ''modernized, urbanized 'Amos 'n' Andy' '' in a column in The New York Post. The next week the hosts did their whole show as a parody of ''Amos 'n' Andy.''
        Monteria Henry Ivey was born in Manhattan on May 6, 1960, and spent his early years in Suffolk, Va., with his grandmother. He returned to New York at 14 to attend high school, where he starred in student theatrical productions. He and Mr. Dweck lived at the Frederick Douglass Houses, a city housing project on West 102nd Street in Manhattan.
        One of Mr. Ivey's strongest inspirations was his father, Waverly, who performed a musical act he called ''Cool Kiddy From New York City.''
        Mr. Ivey and Mr. Dweck went to Dartmouth College together; there Mr. Ivey honed his idiosyncratic personality. Each Thursday, he said, he would go to a supermarket in a big trench coat and steal lobsters for dinner. ''A black man has to eat well if he's going to live in New Hampshire,'' he explained.
        After graduation he began doing stand-up comedy, specializing in the form of insult known as ''snapping.'' One night at the Uptown Comedy Club in Harlem, he snapped repeatedly at the only white man in the audience.
        ''You're so white, you think Malcolm X's name is Malcolm 10'' was one snap.
        The man was Mr. Percelay, a writer and television producer. He realized there might be a market for this indigenous form of black expression, and he, Mr. Ivey and Mr. Dweck, who is an entertainment lawyer, formed a company called Two Brothers and a White Guy.
        They collected snaps on playgrounds and streets as well as some of the favorites of celebrities like the rapper Ice-T. This resulted in the books and two television specials on HBO.
        Many of Mr. Ivey's snappiest snaps were at Mr. Dweck. ''When he was growing up,'' Mr. Ivey said, ''his family was so poor they used to go to Kentucky Fried Chicken to lick other people's fingers.''
        When the laughter died down Mr. Dweck snapped back: ''I know his mother. His mother's so fat, her blood type is Ragú.''
        Mr. Ivey is survived by his mother, Ollie; two sisters, Patricia, of Manhattan, and Beverly, of Albany; and two brothers, Waverly and Anthony, both of Manhattan.
      