
        William Avery Crawford, an expert on Communist Eastern Europe and the Soviet Union who was United States ambassador to Romania and had important posts in the cold war, died on Dec. 14 at his home in Bethesda, Md. He was 86.
        A career Foreign Service officer, Mr. Crawford went to Romania in 1962 as minister of the United States legation in Bucharest. He became ambassador in 1964, after Washington and Bucharest had raised their respective missions to the embassy level.
        He had good relations with the Romanians, particularly after Bucharest began in 1963 to assert its independence from the Soviet Union in foreign relations.
        Mr. Crawford worked on a joint United States-Romanian communiqué in 1964 that established the basis for far-reaching trade cooperation. The accord indicated that the United States would compete with Western Europe for the increasing trade with Eastern Europe. In 1964, the Romanian Communist Party declared that it was neutral in the Peking-Moscow conflict. Later that year, Romania's chief of state and party leader, Georghe Georghiu-Dej, made it plain that he intended to pursue his independent course.
        He did that partly with a symbolic gesture. At a reception, he took almost half an hour to chat with Mr. Crawford.
        In 1965, Mr. Crawford moved to Paris to be special assistant for international affairs to Gen. Lyman L. Lemnitzer, supreme allied commander in Europe for the North Atlantic Treaty Organization. Mr. Crawford held the post until 1967.
        His other positions included director of the State Department Office of Research and Analysis for the Sino-Soviet Bloc from 1959 to 1961.
        Mr. Crawford was born in New York. He graduated from Haverford College and did graduate work at the Russian Institute of Columbia University and elsewhere.
        He married Barbara Gardner in 1940. She died in 1979.
        Surviving are his wife, Gudrun Hadell Crawford; three daughters, Barbara Huppe of Castine, Me., Pauline Despain of Louisville, Ky., and Elizabeth C. Prussack of Putney, Vt.; two sons, William Henry, of Dublin, and John Kenneth, of Arlington, Va.; eight grandchildren; six great-grandchildren; and a brother, John, of Berkeley, Calif.
      