
        Mohammed Ibrahim Kamel, who resigned as Egypt's foreign minister in 1978 in protest against the Camp David peace accords with Israel, predicting accurately that they would isolate Egypt in the Arab world without resolving the Palestinian question, died on Nov. 22 in Cairo, the Foreign Ministry announced. He was 74.
        No cause of death was given, but Egyptian diplomats said he had been suffering from Alzheimer's disease for the last decade or so.
        Under the Camp David accords, President Anwar el-Sadat of Egypt secured the return of the Sinai Peninsula, which Egypt had lost to Israel in the 1967 war, after an exhausting two-week negotiation with Prime Minister Menachem Begin of Israel and President Jimmy Carter.
        But this negotiation brought a widening gap between Mr. Kamel and Mr. Sadat, an old friend from his student days.
        In his 1986 book, ''The Camp David Accords: A Testimony,'' Mr. Kamel described his resignation meeting  with Mr. Sadat on Sept. 16, 1978, at which he said Egypt was making a separate peace with Israel in order to secure Sinai's return, one that did not adequately guarantee justice for the Palestinians living in the Israeli-occupied West Bank and Gaza Strip.
        He predicted that Egypt would find itself isolated in the Arab world as a result and that the Israelis would retain control of the West Bank and Gaza. His preferred solution was a comprehensive accord that would link an agreement between Israel and the whole Arab world to the creation of a Palestinian state and the return of Sinai.
        Irritated, Mr. Sadat replied that the Arab world was not ready to make such an agreement. Left to themselves, he told Mr. Kamal, the Arabs ''will never resolve the problem, and the Israeli occupation will be perpetuated.''
        Mr. Sadat said Mr. Carter believed that the Camp David agreement would help secure his re-election, after which he would press Israel for concessions to the Palestinians.
        In his 1997 book, ''Egypt's Road to Jerusalem,'' Mr. Kamel's deputy at the Foreign Ministry, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, later secretary general of the United Nations, said Mr. Kamel believed that Egypt should not negotiate with Israel until it was stronger.
        Although Mr. Sadat and Mr. Begin shared the 1978 Nobel Peace Prize for their Camp David agreements, many of Mr. Kamel's fears came true. Mr. Carter was not re-elected. Most Arab nations severed diplomatic relations with Cairo. And in 1981, Mr. Sadat was assassinated by militants opposed to peace with Israel.
        Efforts to secure greater autonomy for the Palestinians were hampered by the spread of Israeli settlements in the West Bank, by Israel's annexation of East Jerusalem in 1980 and its subsequent invasion of Lebanon. Twenty years later, the Palestinians still have no state, and relations with Israel remain bitter.
        Born in Cairo in 1927, Mr. Kamel, the son of an Egyptian judge, studied law at Cairo University, where he first met Mr. Sadat as a member of the radical Young Egypt Party fighting for an end to British rule. The British jailed them together in connection with the killing of a prominent Egyptian politician, but they were acquitted.
        After briefly serving with the Justice Ministry, Mr. Kamel joined the foreign service in 1956. After several junior foreign postings, he was ambassador to Zaire, Sweden and Germany in the 1960's and 70's.
        In 1977, Mr. Sadat appointed him foreign minister without any prior consultation after Ismail Fahmy resigned in protest against Mr. Sadat's decision to visit Jerusalem and address the Israeli Parliament.
        After his own resignation, Mr. Kamel worked for a human rights organization in Egypt and wrote newspaper articles.
      