
        Dr. George Hoppin Humphreys II, who pioneered pediatric and chest surgery procedures and shepherded the surgical units at Columbia University through two decades of robust growth, died on Dec. 18 at his home in West Dover, Vt. He was 98.
        Dr. Humphreys retired in 1969 after 23 years as Valentine Mott Professor of Surgery and chairman of the department of surgery at the College of Physicians and Surgeons and New York Presbyterian Hospital.
        He began his career at the hospital as an intern in 1930.
        Joining the faculty, he advanced quickly as an attending physician and teacher. He was named chairman in 1946 at the age of 43 and helped establish cardiac surgery as a discipline of its own.
        Dr. Humphreys earned an international reputation for the innovations he brought to operations of the esophagus. He made pediatric and thoracic surgery his special interests and was among the first to perform a number of new techniques.
        He was first in New York to operate successfully for congenital heart disease in 1938 and, in 1941, for congenital anomalies of the esophagus. His advances in pediatric surgery kept many of the littlest patients from dying in infancy.
        Generations of surgeons benefited from his teaching, and scores of them went on to distinguished careers in academic surgery and clinical practice.
        George Humphreys was born in Manhattan and graduated from Harvard University in 1925 and from its medical school in 1929. He added a D.M.S. at Columbia in 1935.
        Over 50 years, he contributed about 80 articles and book chapters. As a teacher and consultant he visited far-flung parts of the world, including the Far East, Middle East and South America.
        He is survived by two daughters, Cornelia Rea of Concord, Mass., and Edith Mas of West Dover; a half-brother, Dr. David H. Humphreys of Asheville, N.C.; seven grandchildren, and two great-grandchildren. His wife of 50 years, Edith Sturgis Humphreys, died in 1980.
        After her death, he moved to Vermont permanently and devoted himself to environmental issues. He raised sheep, gardened and in the 1980's served on the Dover Planning Commission to help shape the town's first zoning ordinance.
      