
        Lance Loud, the eldest son in a Santa Barbara, Calif., family that took on unwanted fame in a ground-breaking 1973 public television documentary, ''An American Family,'' died on Dec. 22 at a hospice in Los Angeles. He was 50.
        The cause was complications from hepatitis C, his family said.
        Mr. Loud was a freelance journalist who was the leader of a New York rock band in the late 1970's.
        When ''An American Family'' was broadcast as a 12-part series, it  drew huge audiences to public television and shocked many viewers with its unvarnished look into the trials of an affluent California household.
        The series, drawn from 300 hours of film taken after the Louds opened their home to the documentary makers, became a real-life soap opera and the progenitor of ''reality television,'' in which private lives are captured for a national audience.
        The series included scenes of Mr. Loud's mother, Pat, describing infidelities of his father, Bill, and asking for a divorce. It also delved into the lives of Mr. Loud's brothers, Kevin and Grant, and sisters, Delilah and Michele.
        Perhaps most shocking to an audience that had rarely witnessed frank portrayals of homosexuality on television, were scenes of Mr. Loud himself coming out. He was shown wearing blue lipstick, and, after moving to the Chelsea Hotel in Manhattan, introducing his mother to a world of transvestites and hustlers.
        The series had many admirers, and the Louds appeared on television talk shows with Dick Cavett, Mike Douglas and Phil Donahue. Margaret Mead, the anthropologist, said the series was ''as important a moment in the history of human thought as the invention of the novel.''
        But it provoked protests over what some considered a cynical portrayal of family life, and the Louds complained about the series' lurid content.
        ''They picked four negative shots for every one of the other,'' Bill Loud said soon after the series appeared.
        He said the producers ''had a preconceived, liberal, leftist view that the American way of life is wrong, that family life was wrong, that our values are wrong.''
        Overnight celebrity created special problems for Lance, as a young gay man in Manhattan. ''Because of the series, some of the more militant gays wanted Lance as their spokesman,'' said Kristian Hoffman, a friend since childhood.
        ''That wasn't his objective,'' Mr. Hoffman said. ''Lance used to tell them that being gay was only one finger out of 10, not a be-all and end-all.''
        Mr. Loud and Mr. Hoffman were members of The Mumps, a rock group that performed from 1975 to 1980 at influential Manhattan clubs, including Max's Kansas City and CBGB. Although The Mumps had little success as recording artists, they won a following as forerunners of theatrical bands like the B-52's.
        Mr. Loud returned to Southern California in 1981 and studied journalism. His articles have appeared in Details, The Advocate and Interview.
        He remained close to his family, and volunteered in animal rescue organizations. He was particularly fond of cats, keeping 10 and persuading his mother and a sister, Michele, to take in strays, said his other sister, Delilah.
        Mr. Loud learned he had H.I.V. in 1987, and remained in good health except for occasional bouts with hepatitis C.
        ''It seemed like a medical miracle,'' Mr. Hoffman said. ''He just kept bouncing back.''
        Mr. Loud is survived by his parents, Pat, of Los Angeles, and Bill, of Houston; and his siblings, Kevin, of Phoenix, and Grant, Delilah and Michele, all of Los Angeles.
      