
        Dr. Charles Kenneth McSherry, a New York surgeon who pioneered a simpler way to remove gallstones and was a leading researcher into gallstone formation and cancer of the colon, died on Dec. 13 at New York Hospital. He was 70 and lived on the Upper East Side.
        The cause was kidney and heart disease, his family said.
        Dr. McSherry led the way in introducing laparoscopic surgery for removing gallstones about 20 years ago. It simplified an operation performed on about 500,000 Americans a year, eliminating the major incisions in the abdomen made to reach the gallbladder.
        Instead, surgeons using the technique cut several small holes in an  abdomen and insert a camera and specially designed surgical instruments.
        Dr. McSherry also worked with Dr. Frank Glenn, a former department chairman and chief surgeon at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center, to establish a biliary disease registry, a database of gallbladder and bile duct cases to use for tracking patients and for research.
        Dr. McSherry studied the ways gallstones develop and investigated  aspects of colon cancer. His findings shed light on the conditions and were reported in many papers, including a 32-year review of 1,026 cases of carcinoma of the bowel.
        He was an emeritus professor of surgery and attending physician at New York-Presbyterian Hospital and Weill Cornell Medical College. He was a past president of the New York Surgical Society and the New York Gastroenterological Association.
        He was a professor of surgery at  Mount Sinai School of Medicine from 1977 to 1992 and director of surgery at Beth Israel Medical Center in the same period.
        A native New Yorker, Dr. McSherry received his bachelor's degree from Fordham and his medical degree from Cornell.
        Dr. McSherry is survived by a daughter, Maureen McSherry of Brooklyn; a granddaughter; and his companion, Miriam K. Moran of Darien, Conn., and Palm Beach, Fla. His wife of 34 years, Nancy Ryan McSherry, died in 1999.
      