
        Joel Carlson, a white South African lawyer who used spectacular political trials to battle apartheid and expose its practices of secret detention and torture, died on Nov. 25 at North Shore University Hospital in Manhasset, N.Y. He was 75.
        Mr. Carlson had been suffering from leukemia for much of the last year, said his daughter Meredith Carlson Daly .
        In the 1950's and 1960's, before going into exile in the United States, he represented some of the most forsaken victims of apartheid and some of its most enduring opponents. While Nelson Mandela was imprisoned on Robben Island, Mr. Carlson handled personal and legal affairs for his family.
        He championed the invisible ''potato laborers,'' poor men forced to work on farms after they were caught without the identification papers required of blacks under the pass laws. When one such man escaped and came to his office, Mr. Carlson followed leads to a farm run under brutal conditions with the connivance of a local police official. Dozens of men who fled that and other farms camped at the Carlsons' middle-class home in Johannesburg, where teams of volunteers took statements and typed affidavits.
        Publicity about his investigation made it impossible to eat a french fry without shame, said Dumisani S. Kumalo, now the South African representative at the United Nations and then a newspaper reporter.
        ''Some of the men died on the farms, and no one knew about it,'' Mr. Kumalo said. ''It was as close to slavery as you could get. How could you eat them when people were being killed to harvest them?''
        In an era when few lawyers of any race were taking on the state, Mr. Kumalo said, Mr. Carlson struck time and again, enlisting churches, synagogues, newspapers and international monitors in his effort. In 1967, the South African Parliament passed a Terrorism Act, which was first used to prosecute 37 Namibians opposing the South African regime that ruled their country under a mandate granted by the League of Nations after World War I.
        The defendants -- who had been beaten and tortured during months of secret, solitary confinement -- faced the death penalty on conviction. But Mr. Carlson took advantage of a recess in the trial to fly to the United States, where he pleaded for help. He visited Senators Edward and Robert Kennedy, officials of the State Department and Arthur J. Goldberg, the American representative at the United Nations.
        ''Nobody wanted to defend us, but Mr. Carlson took up our case and he saved us from the gallows,'' said the lead defendant in the case, Andimba Toivo Ya Toivo, now the minister of labor in Namibia. ''His actions embarrassed the authorities. That's why they had to sentence us to prison, not death.''
        Mr. Carlson and his family paid a high price for his advocacy. His wife, Jeanette Carlson, often accompanied him on secret errands designed to outwit the security forces. His passport was seized during an inquest that Mr. Carlson had demanded into the death of an obscure South African miner, James Lenkoe, who had been tortured while being secretly detained.
        Mr. Carlson's office and car were shot up. His den at home was firebombed. In the mail, he received a copy of the ''Selected Works of Mao Tse-tung,'' that was hollowed out and held a bomb, but that did not go off.
        In 1971, Mr. Carlson, followed by his family, fled South Africa and settled on Long Island. He worked for more than 20 years as an assistant district attorney in Queens, where he headed the consumer fraud bureau and instituted ''Second Chance,'' a program that allowed minor offenders to clear their records by doing community service and taking responsibility for their misdeeds. He returned to South Africa in 1994, serving as an observer in the country's first free elections.
        Besides Ms. Daly, of West Hartford, Conn., and Mrs. Carlson, of Great Neck, N.Y., Mr. Carlson is also survived by another daughter, Gabrielle Carlson of New York, and two sons, Jeremy Carlson of Santa Cruz, Calif., and Adam Carlson of Seattle.
      