
        Lou Levy, a West Coast jazz pianist best known as an accompanist to leading jazz singers, died on Jan. 23 at the home of a friend, the musician Max Bennett, in Dana Point, Calif. He was 72 and lived in North Hollywood.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Kathy Levy, his former wife.
        Mr. Levy, a melodic player with the speed to play bebop with the best, was born in Chicago. He started on the piano at 12 and was impressed by Fats Waller, Al Haig and Art Tatum. He was also captivated by the new musical language of bebop.
        He began working professionally  from 1945 to 1950, when he was still a teenager, appearing with artists like  Georgie Auld, Sarah Vaughan, Chubby Jackson and Flip Phillips and bands like the Boyd Raeburn Orchestra, Woody Herman's Second Herd and Tommy Dorsey's orchestra.
        In the early 1950's he dropped out of jazz for two years to live in Minneapolis and work in the medical-journal publishing business. But in 1955 he moved to California and began an 18-year association (including some breaks to take other jobs) with the singer Peggy Lee. From then on he became known as a particularly sympathetic accompanist for singers. Like Lester Young, one of his idols, he believed that a musician should know the lyrics of a song he was interpreting and said that a bandleader -- even if not a singer -- should be considered a voice.
        He went on to work with Ella Fitzgerald, June Christy and Anita O'Day. He made recordings under his own name for the RCA, Jubilee and Philips labels, among others. He was the original pianist for the band Supersax in the 1970's and appeared with it into the 90's in its reunion performances. In the early 90's, he made a comeback as a bandleader, recording ''Lunarcy'' and ''Ya Know,'' albums for Verve, with a Los Angeles rhythm section.
        For the last 18 years Mr. Levy worked with the singer Pinky Winters; he also lived with her for much of that time. In addition to Ms. Winters, he is survived by three daughters, Jackie Gruendyke of Solvang, Calif., Pam Levy of Oregon and Diane Levy of North Hollywood, Calif; two sons, David Levy of Mammoth, Calif., and Josh Levy of Studio City, Calif; a sister, Estelle Weil of Chicago; and two grandchildren.
      