
        Gilbert Trigano, who in the 1950's developed the concept of vacation clubs that later made Club Med synonymous with fake Polynesian villages and organized fun, died on Saturday after a long illness, his family said. He was 80.
        Mr. Trigano, who supplied tents to Club Med in its early years, joined the company in 1954 and in 1963 succeeded Gerard Blitz, the founder of Club Méditerranée S.A., as president, parlaying the unusual concept into one of the world's most successful tour businesses.
        Mr. Trigano stepped down as the head of Club Med in 1993, handing the reins to his son, Serge. But financial difficulties, as Club Med struggled with new competitors and shifts in vacation tastes, led to several years of losses and finally a management shake-up in 1997 that ousted the younger Mr. Trigano.
        Both father and son were struck a heavy blow last year, after a court in Paris convicted them of involuntary manslaughter in the deaths of 30 vacationers who were killed when a plane chartered by Club Med crashed in Senegal in 1992. Mr. Trigano and his son were each given eight-year suspended sentences and fined about $4,200.
        Mr. Trigano, who was born July 28, 1920, near Paris, was the son of French Jews from Algeria. His father had been a grocer who went into business with Mr. Trigano's brother André after the war selling army surplus equipment. Before the war, Mr. Trigano had dropped out of high school, then taken up acting, though his brief theatrical career was cut short by the German invasion. The Trigano family went into hiding in France, while Mr. Trigano joined the Resistance, and wrote Resistance literature and anti-Nazi leaflets.
        After the war, he worked briefly for the communist daily L'Humanité. Though he resigned from the paper and the party over ideological differences, he never lost sympathy for left-wing causes, even after, as head of Club Med, he was regularly criticized by the left for fending off labor organizers, only reluctantly letting them unionize Club Med employees in 1980.
        In 1954, Mr. Trigano, whose father was renting used American Army tents, joined forces with Mr. Blitz, a Belgian diamond cutter and former water polo champion who ran a vacation camp in Majorca. Both men agreed that Europeans, exhausted by the war, would like inexpensive, bohemian vacations in the Mediterranean sunshine. Together they built up Club Med, until in 1964 Mr. Blitz handed over management to Mr. Trigano.
        Initially, much of Club Med's rapid expansion was paid for by increasing the debt burden, so that in 1961 Club Med had to be bailed out by the French financier Baron Edmond de Rothschild, who had visited a Club Med in Israel and liked it. Baron Edmond not only paid Club Med's debts, he acquired a 34 percent stake in the growing tour operator.
        Though Club Med camps soon passed from the rustic simplicity of tent villages to pleasant modern cabins in more expensive ones or fake Polynesian grass huts in simpler ones, they gained a reputation for their abundant meals, their young and tanned gentils organisateurs, -- or well-mannered organizers -- who ate, played and danced alongside club guests.
        Indeed, as Club Med's success spread beyond Europe to North America and Asia, the concept appeared to have universal appeal, mixing stylishness, sensuality and utopian fantasy with affordable prices.
        But by the mid-1990's sales were slumping. The Persian Gulf war had dampened Mediterranean tourism, and tastes in tourism had changed. Strong competitors began to rise, and many of the vacation villages were badly in need of renovation. To reverse the trend, Mr. Trigano handed over the business in 1993 to his son. But in 1997, after several years of financial losses, Club Med shareholders, led by the Agnelli family of Italy, ousted the younger Mr. Trigano, replacing him with a senior Disney executive, Philippe Bourguignon, ending the Trigano family involvement with Club Med.
        Mr. Trigano was a friend and adviser to Socialist politicians, including former president François Mitterrand, though he never concealed his distaste for economic policies that sought to inject faster growth in France by higher government spending and, at times, sweeping industrial nationalization.
        In addition to his son, Mr. Trigano is survived by his wife, Simone, and three daughters, Lydie Trigano, Sylvie Trigano, and Brigitte Beaumont.
      