
        Larry Fisher, the last of the founding Fisher Brothers, a real estate dynasty that did much to reshape the Manhattan skyline, died on Sunday at his home in Palm Beach, Fla. He was 93 and also lived in Manhattan.
        At his death he was senior partner in a business that ranks among the leading private residential and commercial developers in New York and nationally. Entirely self-made, he also became an important benefactor of Jewish and other philanthropies and of those who serve in law enforcement.
        Born poor in Brooklyn on June 6, 1907, Mr. Fisher did not finish high school but went to work as a bricklayer. In 1915, his elder brother, Martin, started a construction business, which Larry and the third brother, Zachary, joined to form Fisher Brothers. For the last 75 years, the partnership built and managed buildings nationwide, including some of New York's best known international corporate headquarters. It owns more than five million square feet of office towers.
        The Fisher portfolio includes 1345 Avenue of the Americas, Park Avenue Plaza, 299 Park Avenue and 605 Third Avenue, among many others. The partnership built 400 Park Avenue, 1185 Avenue of the Americas, Bankers Trust Plaza, Imperial House and 50 Sutton Place South. It also holds extensive hotel properties in the United States and Mexico.
        The Fishers were among the royal families that over two or three generations molded the Manhattan real estate market, alongside the Rudins, Dursts, Roses, Tishmans and Resnicks.
        As senior partner and chief executive, Larry Fisher's responsibilities included site assembly, financing and overall development for the partnership.
        His charitable work supported causes including hospitals, cultural centers and programs for young people. In his work supporting law enforcement, he served on the boards of the Trooper Foundation-State of New York, the Police Athletic Foundation and New York's Finest Foundation.
        He was a past chairman of instructional television for the Archdiocese of New York and was on the boards of the New York City Mission Society Cadet Corps and the Veterans Bedside Network.
        His principal Jewish philanthropies included UJA-Federation of New York, Temple Israel and Jewish Memorial Hospital. He recently endowed the Fisher Brothers Center for Strategic Studies of Air Power at the Israeli Air Force Center.
        Mr. Fisher is survived by his wife, Kathleen; a son, Arnold, a partner in Fisher Brothers and a resident of Pine Plains, N.Y.; a sister, Virginia Ross of Manhattan; three grandchildren; and nine great-grandchildren.
        Also surviving are two nephews who are partners in Fisher Brothers, Richard L. and M. Anthony Fisher. His brother Martin died in 1976, and Zachary in 1999.
        Larry and Zachary Fisher pursued many causes together, both publicly and behind the scenes.  Larry assisted Zachary in saving the U.S.S. Intrepid, the World War II aircraft carrier, from the scrap yard and turning it into the Intrepid Sea-Air-Space Museum now anchored in the Hudson River at West 46th Street. The two brothers also created the Fisher House Foundation, which built homes for the families of hospitalized military personnel. And for years he and Zachary anonymously donated $10,000 to the families of every city police officer killed in the line of duty.
      