
        Dr. Marshall Raymond Urist, the orthopedic surgeon who identified the substance that mends broken bones, died on Feb. 4 at his home in Los Angeles, where for 46 years he practiced, taught and did research at the U.C.L.A. medical school. He was 85.
        Before Dr. Urist's discovery, physicians had long known that scrapings from healthy bone stimulated healing when applied to major fractures. But the nature of the regenerative mechanism had remained a mystery, and results of such bone grafts were uneven.
        Then, as a result of his 1965 experiment in which demineralized, pulverized bone implanted in a rabbit's muscle caused bone to form at the site, he theorized that some kind of protein in bone must be responsible for such growth. To that agent, he gave the name bone morphogenetic protein, commonly known now as B.M.P.
        At first, that work by Dr. Urist was largely ignored. In the early 1970's, however, his friend Charles Huggins, a Nobel laureate, repeated the experiment and published the results in The Journal of Experimental Medicine. After that, other researchers joined in efforts to isolate and extract the compound.
        The hunt was laborious, because B.M.P.'s occur naturally only in minuscule amounts. Still, by the 1980's a growing number of the proteins were being identified, each with its own function, and a limited supply of genetically engineered versions that stimulated the regenerative mechanism of bones became available for experimental purposes.
        Dr. Urist wrote several books explaining the advance that would revolutionize orthopedic surgery, and was also the author of more than 400 published papers.
        Marshall Urist was born in Chicago and graduated in 1936 from the University of Illinois. He received an M.S. from the University of Chicago the next year and an M.D. at Johns Hopkins in 1941.
        He served in the Army Medical Corps in Europe in World War II and later taught physiology at the University of Chicago before joining the  medical school faculty at the University of California at Los Angeles in 1954. He became a full professor there in 1969 and was an adjunct professor at his death.
        He is survived by his wife of 59 years, Alice Pfund Urist; a daughter, Nancy S. Miller; a son, Dr. Marshall M. Urist; and eight grandchildren.
        Laboratories have since refined the process of creating the proteins that, Dr. Urist showed, are needed to induce bone regeneration, and some have now sought marketing approval from the Food and Drug Administration.
        ''This will have a tremendous impact on the way we practice orthopedic surgery,'' said Dr. Gerald Finerman, chairman of surgery at U.C.L.A. ''There's going to be a tremendous legacy from Dr. Urist's work.''
        Correction:  February 22, 2001, Thursday  An obituary on Feb. 12 about Dr. Marshall R. Urist, an orthopedic surgeon, omitted a survivor. He is a son, John Baxter Urist of Westport, Conn.
      