
        Leslie Edwards, one of the great character dancers and mimes of contemporary ballet, died on Thursday in London at the age of 84.
        He had been in failing health in recent years, said Michael Zande, a friend who served as the Royal Ballet's company manager on some of its American tours.
        Mr. Edwards spent virtually his entire career, from his debut in 1933 to his retirement in 1993, with the Royal Ballet and its predecessor companies. During that time, his theatrical flair brought a remarkable gallery of characters to life.
        Mr. Edwards, who was born in Teddington, England, studied during the 1930's at various studios, including the schools attached to troupes that grew into two major British companies, Ballet Rambert, under the direction of Marie Rambert, and today's Royal Ballet, then known as the Vic-Wells Ballet and directed by Ninette de Valois.
        Mr. Edwards occasionally danced with both groups, and he appeared with the Rambert company in 1936 in the world premiere of Antony Tudor's ''Jardin aux Lilas.'' But it was with the Royal Ballet that Mr. Edwards most memorably displayed his mimetic talents.
        He was especially noted for his Catalabutte, the fussy master of ceremonies at the fairy-tale court of ''The Sleeping Beauty.''
        From 1946 onward, he played that part in five different Royal Ballet productions of the Tchaikovsky classic, including the one starring Margot Fonteyn that took New York by storm at the company's American debut in 1949.
        He portrayed saints and sinners and the high-born and the lowly with equal expertise. His parts ranged from the stern Prince of Verona in Kenneth MacMillan's ''Romeo and Juliet'' to a pathetic beggar from the Glasgow slums in Robert Helpmann's ''Miracle in the Gorbals.'' Frederick Ashton created many roles for him, including that of an elegant duke in ''Marguerite and Armand,'' a hermit in ''Ondine'' and a smug, rich farmer in ''La Fille Mal Gardée.''
        Mr. Edwards came out of retirement as a guest artist with the Royal Ballet in June 1998 to play the frail and tottering Red King in ''Checkmate,'' a balletic allegory about chess, revived in honor of the 100th birthday of its choreographer, Dame Ninette de Valois.
        Always eager to share his knowledge, Mr. Edwards taught mime at the Royal Ballet School, was a Royal Ballet rehearsal director from 1959 to 1970 and was ballet master of the Royal Opera from 1970 to 1990. From 1967 to 1987 he directed the Royal Ballet Choreographic Group, which encouraged new choreographers. Shortly before his death, he helped establish a fund to support a forthcoming program of ballets honoring the composer Constant Lambert, the Royal Ballet's first musical director.
        Mr. Edwards was made an officer of the Order of the British Empire in 1975. In 1984 he received the Royal Academy of Dancing Queen Elizabeth II Coronation Award, and in 1991 he was awarded the Lorenzo il Magnifico Prize for Dance.
      