
        Buddy Tate, a broad-toned saxophonist who was a vital part of the widely admired Count Basie band of the 1940's, died on Saturday in Chandler, Ariz. He was 87.
        Mr. Tate was one of the great tenor saxophonists of the swing era, a superbly sophisticated ballad player influenced by both the diaphanous tone of Lester Young, his section mate in the Basie orchestra, and by the urgency and rhythmic muscularity of Coleman Hawkins. These traits could be heard in his first recorded solo with Basie's band, ''Rock-a-Bye Basie'' from 1939, which Mr. Tate felt was one of his best. His force and his flights into the horn's high registers identified the Texas tenor style, also exemplified by the saxophonists Arnett Cobb and Illinois Jacquet.
        Born George Holmes Tate in Sherman, Tex., he began his career in the late 1920's, playing around the Southwest with bands led by Terrence Holder, Andy Kirk and Nat Towles. He played briefly with Count Basie in 1934, then began his 10-year association with the Basie orchestra in 1939, after the death of its saxophonist, Herschel Evans. It was his work with Basie that most assured him his place in jazz history.
        In the 1950's Mr. Tate played with Lucky Millinder, Jimmy Rushing and Hot Lips Page, and in 1953 he began to lead his own band, which played a regular show at the Celebrity Club in New York for more than 20 years. He worked often in Europe, playing with Jim Galloway, Jay McShann and Al Grey.
        In the late 60's he recorded in France with the organist Milt Buckner and the drummer Wallace Bishop. He and the saxophonist Paul Quinichette were co-leaders of a band at New York's West End Cafe; Mr. Tate led another band with the drummer Bobby Rosengarden at the Rainbow Room in the 70's.
        Mr. Tate's career of playing and recording, mostly at selected festivals and with touring groups like the Statesmen of Jazz, lasted through the mid-90's, with a final appearance on ''Conversin' With the Elders,'' the 1996 album by the young saxophonist James Carter.
        Mr. Tate lived in Massapequa, N.Y., until a few weeks ago, when he moved to Phoenix to live with his daughter Georgette. She survives him, along with another daughter, Josie, also of Phoenix, and many grandchildren.
      