
        Chester A. Rapkin, an influential theorist of urban planning who came up with the novel designation SoHo for the rapidly changing community south of Houston Street in Manhattan, died on Sunday at a hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 82 and lived in Princeton, N.J.
        The cause was pneumonia, according to the press office of Princeton University, where he had been a professor of urban planning.
        Dr. Rapkin was a co-author of a pioneering 1950's study on what has since become standard thinking in the planning field: that land use must integrate vehicular traffic patterns. In the mid-1960's he was a member of the task force that proposed federal financing of the Model Cities program, and from 1969 to 1977 he served on the New York City Planning Commission.
        ''He was one of the leading thinkers in American planning,'' said John E. Zuccotti, a former chairman of the planning commission, ''a practical planner who understood theory but, at the same time, knew that it is always done within the reality of politics.''
        Recalling the moment he first heard Dr. Rapkin use the term SoHo, Mr. Zuccotti said: ''We were sitting around, as you do in the late-night hours, arguing a couple of points about planning and rezoning of the district, and he came up with that acronym. I can't remember who later came up with TriBeCa.''
        In fact, Dr. Rapkin, who joined the urban planning faculty at Princeton in 1973 and retired from the post in 1988, first used the term SoHo in a 1962 study of the community, while he was chairman of the University of Pennsylvania's urban study group. Robert Geddes, an architect and dean emeritus of the Princeton School of Architecture, said the 1962 study ''has been credited with saving that area from demolition.''
        Throughout most of the 19th century and into the 1960's, SoHo had primarily been a district for light industry. But then, enamored of the possibilities offered by its expansive loft spaces, artists began illegally moving into the area.
        Donald H. Elliott, another former chairman of the planning commission who worked with Dr. Rapkin, said: ''His study pointed out the ways these small industries, which needed very inexpensive space, used their buildings. So when we were trying to figure out how to balance competing needs of industrial tenants and artists and others, we were able to make a distinction based on the size of buildings, allowing smaller buildings to be used by artists.''
        ''This eventually led to the whole rezoning of SoHo, which has been very successful,'' Mr. Elliott said.
        Another of Dr. Rapkin's major contributions, said William G. Grigsby, a retired professor of urban planning at the University of Pennsylvania, was a 1954 book he wrote with Robert B. Mitchell, ''Urban Traffic: A Function of Land Use.''
        Professor Grigsby said that in the book, ''They developed for the first time the idea, which seems rather mundane now, that we could only understand and do something about traffic if we integrated our study of traffic with land use.'' That was so because the use of the land adjoining roads would be the generator of traffic. That view, Profesor Grigsby said, has since become universally accepted in the planning field.
        In 1965 and 1966, Dr. Rapkin was staff director of President Lyndon B. Johnson's Task Force on Urban Affairs, which proposed the federally financed Model Cities program. And also in 1965, as Mayor John V. Lindsay would state in a 1969 press release, Professor Rapkin ''prepared a study of the city's housing market after two decades of rent control that is generally considered the standard source of information on the impact of rent control in New York.'' Mr. Lindsay appointed Professor Rapkin to an eight-year term on the planning commission in 1969, when he was also director of Columbia University's Institute of Urban Environment, influencing many future city planners.
        A native of Manhattan, Professor Rapkin graduated from City College and received a doctorate in economics from Columbia.
        He is survived by his wife, the former Eva Samuel; a son, David, of Manhattan; a sister, Dorothy Zimet of West Brandywine, Pa.; and a grandson.
      