
        Dr. Leonard Mandel, a physicist whose experiments with light vividly demonstrated the strange, Alice-in-Wonderland quality of reality at the microscopic level, died Friday at his home in Pittsford, N.Y., a suburb of Rochester. He was 73 and an emeritus professor of physics and optics at the University of Rochester.
        In experiments over more than four decades, Dr. Mandel performed some of the clearest demonstrations of what Einstein called ''spooky action at a distance,'' or the seemingly paradoxical behavior of particles and waves in the realm of the small. The results he found sometimes surprised even experts in the science of quantum mechanics, whose equations describe that behavior.
        ''Mandel seemed to be especially adept at doing experiments that were flabbergasting,'' said Dr. William D. Phillips of the National Institute of Standards and Technology, who received a Nobel Prize in Physics in 1997 for experiments involving lasers and atoms.
        ''Certainly his work has deepened our understanding of quantum mechanics in a really important way,'' Dr. Phillips said.
        Dr. H. Jeff Kimble, a physicist at the California Institute of Technology, said that Dr. Mandel used both experiment and theory to probe the quantum, or particle-like, nature of light. ''He tried, through a number of pioneering and what came to be landmark investigations,'' Dr. Kimble said, ''to answer the question 'What is light?' ''
        Using ''thought experiments'' and pure theory, physicists had known since the 1920's and 1930's that a quantum system should have no definite reality until it is observed, and that a measurement itself changes a system irrevocably. Dr. Mandel did those daydreams one better by showing, in a laboratory, that the mere potential for gaining knowledge about a system perturbs it in a starkly measurable way.
        He and colleagues also produced some of the most striking experimental proofs that an unmeasured quantum system resides in a state of pure potentiality and cannot be spoken of as having a solid reality -- giving a resoundingly negative answer to a quantum version of the question ''If a tree falls alone in the forest, does it make any sound?''
        To do those experiments, Dr. Mandel devised a spate of new techniques that redefined his field, said Dr. Michael Horne, a physicist at Stonehill College in Easton, Mass. ''It gives us new opportunities to play with quantum magic,'' Dr. Horne said.
        Leonard Mandel was born on May 9, 1927, in Berlin and moved to England with his family as a young boy. He received bachelor's degrees in mathematics and physics at the University of London before being awarded a Ph.D. there in 1951. He became a senior lecturer in physics at Imperial College of the University of London before being recruited to Rochester in 1964.
        His early scientific work involved studies of cosmic rays, or high-energy particles from space, a type of research that then required making observations high on mountain slopes, where earth's atmosphere is thin. But he soon became interested in optics and quantum mechanics, and those topics became the main focus of his research career.
        ''He was convinced, like many physicists, that quantum mechanics is the right theory,'' said Dr. Emil Wolf, a professor of optical physics at the University of Rochester. He said that Dr. Mandel tried to design experiments to test the theory ''in spite of the apparent paradoxes.''
        In experiments with Dr. Kimble in the late 1970's, Dr. Mandel succeeded in demonstrating the ''nonclassical,'' or quantum, nature of laser light by bouncing it off individual sodium atoms. In the next decade, Dr. Mandel began working with special crystals that produced pairs of photons, or particles of light, linked to each other in a ghostly way -- a state called entanglement -- and became the acknowledged master of the technique.
        A focus of many such experiments was the ability of light to behave sometimes like a particle, sometimes like a wave. Scientists knew that placing a light detector into part of the beam could change that behavior, but in 1991, Dr. Mandel and others found that an experimental setup that merely offered the theoretical possibility of a measurement could bring the change about.
        He and colleagues later devised a mind-bending laser experiment vividly demonstrating that photons had no definite characteristics -- or even any reality -- before being measured by a light detector.
        ''Mandel became not only one of nonclassical light's greatest apostles but also its greatest demonstrator,'' Dr. Phillips said.
        Dr. Mandel is survived by his wife, Jeanne; a daughter, Karen Hanson of Penfield, N.Y.; a son, Barry, also of Penfield; four grandchildren; and his father, Naftali Mandel of London.
        In a 1995 interview, Dr. Mandel said that even though his experiments always seemed to verify the ''counterintuitive'' predictions of quantum mechanics, it remained as philosophically mysterious as ever.
        ''It's kind of interesting to show that the strange features of quantum mechanics are actually observed,'' Dr. Mandel said. ''We still don't totally understand what it means.''
      