
        Freddy Wittop, a Tony Award-winning costume designer who dressed hordes of Broadway actors, Latin Quarter nightclub dancers and Parisian showgirls, died on Feb. 2 in Atlantis, Fla. He was 89.
        Mr. Wittop created one of Broadway's most memorable creations: the glistening crimson gown and headdress that Carol Channing wore while singing the title song in ''Hello, Dolly!'' His work on this 1964 musical earned him not only a Tony Award but also comparisons to Cecil Beaton, whose designs for the 1957 smash hit ''My Fair Lady'' had set a new standard.
        Not one for easy compliments, David Merrick, the producer of ''Hello, Dolly!,'' wired Mr. Wittop on opening night, saying, ''Freddy, you are the greatest costume designer in the world.''
        Born in Bussum, the Netherlands, Mr. Wittop moved with his family to Brussels, where he was apprenticed at 13 to the resident designer at the Brussels Opera. In 1931 he moved to Paris, where he designed for the Folies Bergère, the Théâtre de Chatelet and the Folies at the Alhambra, creating hundreds of costumes for the chorus as well as the stars Mistinguette and Josephine Baker.
        He juggled designing with the study of Spanish dance, and in the 1930's began a distinguished professional dance career under the name  Federico Rey. He and his first partner, known as the Argentinita, performed worldwide. He also toured with Pilar Gomez, José Greco and Tina Ramirez.
        After moving to New York, he spent season after season designing costumes for the Latin Quarter and despaired of ever breaking into the theater. His fortunes changed when the actor Maurice Evans, the director Harold Clurman and the writer and producer Harold Joseph dropped in one night and decided that Mr. Wittop was the man for their forthcoming production of Shaw's ''Heartbreak House.''
        A London production of ''Judith'' was followed by the successful ''Carnival,'' with Jerry Orbach and Anna Maria Alberghetti, and ''Subways Are for Sleeping.''
        After winning the Tony for ''Hello, Dolly!,'' Mr. Wittop was nominated five additional times for best costume design for ''The Roar of the Greasepaint -- the Smell of the Crowd,'' with Anthony Newley; ''I Do! I Do!,'' with Mary Martin and Robert Preston; ''The Happy Time,'' with Robert Goulet; ''A Patriot for Me''; and ''Lovely Ladies, Kind Gentlemen.''
        After formally retiring in 1986, Mr. Wittop joined the school of drama at the University of Georgia as an adjunct professor. Last month he was chosen as the 2001 recipient of the Theater Development Fund's Irene Sharaff Award for lifetime achievement in theatrical costume design. The award will be presented posthumously at a reception on April 6 at the New York Marriott Marquis Hotel.
        He is survived by a sister, Martina Wittop Koning of the Netherlands.
        Correction:  February 17, 2001, Saturday  An obituary on Wednesday about Freddy Wittop, a costume designer whose work was sometimes compared to that of Cecil Beaton, misstated the Broadway opening year for ''My Fair Lady,'' a musical costumed by Beaton. It was 1956, not 1957.
      