
        James Charles Corman, a 10-term  congressman from California who helped steer the 1964 Civil Rights Act to passage, died on Saturday at a rehabilitation center in Arlington, Va., where he was being treated after a stroke. He was 80 and lived in McLean, Va.
        A liberal Democrat, he served in the House from 1961 to 1981, representing the San Fernando Valley. He was defeated for re-election in 1980 by a Republican, Bobbi Fiedler, losing by 752 votes.
        Many political analysts attributed his defeat to President Jimmy Carter's early concession to Ronald Reagan, which came before the polls closed on the West Coast, discouraging some Democrats from voting. Ms. Fiedler, a fiscal conservative, gave up the seat in 1986 for an unsuccessful run against Senator Alan M. Cranston.
        In Congress, Mr. Corman, the son of a Kansas miner, worked for changes in welfare and tax laws. He was one of 10 members appointed by President Lyndon B. Johnson to the Kerner Commission, which investigated the causes of race riots in scores of cities in 1967 and concluded that the country was becoming ''two societies, one black, one white -- separate and unequal.''
        He gave crucial support to civil rights causes and furthered the 1964 legislation as a member of the Judiciary Committee.
        He also sat on the Ways and Means Committee and House panels on public assistance, unemployment compensation and small business.
        Mr. Corman was born in Galena, Kan., and graduated from the University of California at Los Angeles in 1942. He served as a Marine Corps officer in World War II and saw combat on Guam and Iwo Jima. He was a colonel in the Reserves during the Korean War.
        He received a law degree at the University of Southern California in 1948 and practiced in Los Angeles in the 1950's. Before his election to Congress, he was a member of the Los Angeles City Council.
        From 1981 until his first stroke, in August, he practiced law in Washington, specializing in social issues and tax legislation. Most recently he was with the firm of Silverstein & Mullens, where he was a partner in the early 1990's.
        Mr. Corman is survived by his wife of 23 years, Nancy Breetwor-Malone Corman, and their two sons, Adam R. and Brian C., all of McLean; a daughter and son from his earlier marriage, Mary Anne Avendano of Woodbridge, Va., and James C. Jr. of Shelburne, Mass., and five grandchildren. His first wife, Virginia Little Corman, died in 1966.
      