
        Dr. Ugo Fano, an atomic theorist who was a pioneer in the study of  radiation's effects on matter, including living tissue, died on Tuesday in Chicago, where he was an emeritus professor of physics at the University of Chicago. He was 88.
        Far from inclined to study mathematical theories for their own sake, Dr. Fano delighted in poring over puzzling or anomalous experimental data and then finding clear explanations using the fundamental equations governing the behavior of matter and radiation.
        As part of the founding generation of modern atomic physics, Dr. Fano, who was born in Italy, began making major contributions to the field even before he fled Italy's Fascist government in 1939 and immigrated to the United States. His intuitive, cut-to-the-chase style of research was closely modeled on that of his more famous countryman Dr. Enrico Fermi, who won a Nobel Prize in Physics in 1938 and also became a professor at the University of Chicago.
        Dr. Fano worked as a postdoctoral assistant to Fermi at the University of Rome in the 1930's, later studied broadly similar areas of physics and even received the Fermi Award, among the most prestigious scientific prizes given by the United States government, in 1995.
        And just so no one overlooked his long identification with the greatest of Italian physicists, Dr. Fano liked to tell a story about hiking in the mountains with his father as a boy in 1924. They were overtaken by a group of scientists, who exchanged a few words with his father. As the scientists moved on, his father pointed to one of them and said: ''That man is expected to go far in life. His name is Fermi.''
        Dr. Lewis M. Branscomb, an emeritus professor at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, who was originally a physicist, said Dr. Fano was ''one of that great generation of very intuitive Italian theoretical physicists.''
        ''He loved to take on challenges in any area of science that had physics and mathematics at its root,'' Dr. Branscomb said.
        Ugo Fano was born in Turin, Italy, on July 28, 1912. His father, Gino Fano, was a mathematician at the University of Turin, and he kept the young Ugo apprised of the great discoveries in physics and mathematics that were taking place around the world. In a memoir, Ugo Fano said he recalled being introduced to Niels Bohr's new atomic theory at the dinner table when he was 12.
        After receiving a doctorate in mathematics at Turin in 1934, Dr. Fano began working with Fermi,  who quickly helped the fledgling scientist get his career started. Early on, Dr. Fano proposed the barest outlines of a theory to explain new experimental data showing an asymmetry, or irregularity, in the way certain atoms absorb radiation. But he was unsure whether the idea had any merit.
        One morning Fermi appeared at his door, saying enigmatically, ''Fano, you were right.'' Fermi showed him how to flesh out the idea, and after Dr. Fano published the theory it became so successful that the asymmetry is now known as a Fano profile. He later discovered that Fermi had worked out the entire theory after that first conversation, but had declined to upstage his colleague by taking credit for it.
        But Dr. Fano quickly learned how to apply that insight on his own. After a stint with another great of 20th century physics, the German scientist Werner Heisenberg, Dr. Fano returned briefly to Rome before fleeing the country and beginning his research career in the United States.
        Moving through a series of research institutes here, he performed early studies of how X-rays and ultraviolet radiation damage biological cells, how atoms absorb radiation energy and how powerful light sources called synchrotrons can be used to probe the atomic structures of materials.
        Dr. Mitio Inokuti, a physicist at Argonne National Laboratory who was a co-editor of a special issue of the journal Physics Essays in honor of Dr. Fano, said that he ''inherited a special style and tradition of doing physics'' that let him see the essence of a problem. The issue, edited with Dr. A. R. P. Rau of Louisiana State University, is to appear this spring.
        Dr. Anthony F. Starace, a physicist at the University of Nebraska and a former student of Dr. Fano, said Dr. Fano's style put him in an especially opportune position. ''He came at a time when atomic physics was going in new directions,'' Dr. Starace said.
        ''One had lots of complex data,'' he said. ''His way of looking at things enabled people to extract that information.''
        Dr. Fano is survived by his wife, Camilla; two daughters, Mary Giacomoni of Chicago and Virginia Ghattas of Wellesley, Mass.; four grandchildren, and a brother, Dr. Robert Fano of Concord, Mass.
        Dr. Branscomb, a former I.B.M. chief scientist and director of the National Bureau of Standards (now called the National Institute of Standards and Technology) said that Dr. Fano's lightning-fast insight into problems could occasionally cause discomfort.
        As a senior scientist at the bureau in the mid-1950's, Dr. Fano was to review all proposed calculations on an early computer there, since few people knew how to use it properly, causing it to sit idle for long stretches. Checking on the status of their proposals, Dr. Branscomb said, scientists not infrequently discovered that Dr. Fano had become interested in the problem and solved it with pencil and paper.
        Use of the computer fell even further, Dr. Branscomb said.
      