
        George T. Simon, a jazz critic best known for his writing during the big-band era, died on Tuesday in Manhattan. He was 88 and lived in Brooklyn.
        Mr. Simon became a jazz critic in 1935 when, just out of Harvard, he joined the staff of Metronome magazine. In 1939 he became the magazine's editor in chief. Metronome was primarily a dance-band publication when he began working there, but between the late 1930's and the early 50's, largely through Mr. Simon's efforts, it became the jazz magazine second only to Downbeat.
        A drummer who had a band in college and performed on the early Glenn Miller recordings, Mr. Simon played avocationally for most of his life. Though his criticism tended to be more eyewitness journalism than musicology, his insight went beyond the surface.
        ''As a critic, he was best known for his big-band reviews during the swing era,'' said Dan Morgenstern, director of the Institute of Jazz Studies at Rutgers University. ''He paid attention to section work, lead trumpeters, arrangers -- things other than just the soloists. He had a good handle on the inner workings of bands.''
        Mr. Simon's knowledge of big-band history was collected in his book ''The Big Bands,'' published in 1968 and often reprinted. He also wrote ''The Sinatra Report'' (1965), ''Glenn Miller and His Orchestra'' (1974) and ''The Best of the Music Makers'' (1979). He was a regular critic at The New York Post and The New York Herald-Tribune in the 1960's.
        Aside from his work as a writer, Mr. Simon was active in the recording industry. During World War II, serving in the Army's special services unit, he produced many of the records known as V-Discs for American servicemen overseas. Among the sessions he supervised was the first recording by the trumpeter Clark Terry.
        In the 1960's he was also executive director of the National Academy of Recording Arts and Sciences, the organization that manages the Grammy Awards.
        Mr. Simon is survived by his wife, Beverly; a daughter, Julie Ann Simon of Oakland, Calif.; a son, Thomas Simon of New York; and three  grandchildren.
      