
        Edwin D. Dodd, chairman emeritus of Owens-Illinois Inc., died on Tuesday at a hospice near his home in Perrysburg Township, Ohio, a suburb of Toledo. He was 81.
        The cause was cancer, said John E. Hoff, an Owens-Illinois spokesman.
        While spending his entire professional career with Owens-Illinois, a leading maker of plastic and glass packaging products, Mr. Dodd was appointed to advisory positions by four United States presidents.
        President Richard M. Nixon appointed him to the National Industrial Pollution Control Council, which was created to advise the president on energy and environmental programs.
        In 1976, Mr. Dodd served on President Gerald R. Ford's Executive Finance Committee, and President Jimmy Carter appointed Mr. Dodd as the only business representative on the National Commission on Air Quality.
        In 1981, the air quality commission presented recommendations to Congress concerning the reauthorization of the Clean Air Act. Mr. Dodd generally supported the report, but he opposed a recommendation that Congress act quickly to deal with acid rain, saying more study was needed.
        In 1983, President Ronald Reagan appointed Mr. Dodd to the Presidential Commission on Industrial Competitiveness, which was created to determine how American corporations could compete more effectively in fast-changing technology markets and turn industrial innovations into profits more quickly.
        It did not appear, however, that Mr. Dodd's presidential appointments distracted him from his business career.
        After serving as a major in the Army during World War II, Mr. Dodd joined Owens-Illinois, which is based in Toledo, in 1946 in the public relations department. By 1954, he was production manager for one of the company's glass divisions, and in 1968 he became the company's president and chief operating officer.
        In an interview in 1969, Raymon H. Mulford, then the chairman of Owens-Illinois, said: ''Ed's capacity was recognized early. We pulled him out of public relations and moved him down a step to begin learning the business.''
        Mr. Dodd succeeded Mr. Mulford as chief executive in 1972 and became chairman in 1976. In 1984, he stepped down from day-to-day responsibility at the company and became chairman emeritus.
        Mr. Dodd's first wife, the former Marie Marshall, died in 1984. He is survived by his wife, Patricia; a daughter, Marjorie Lee Wannamaker, of Durango, Colo.; a sister, Sarah Kauffman, of Columbus, Ohio; a brother, David, of Hedgesville, W.Va.; and two grandchildren.
      