
        Morison S. Cousins, a designer who brought flashy, European-inspired designs to Tupperware without sacrificing its polyethylene American soul, died on Feb. 10 in Orlando, Fla. He was 66 and lived in Winter Park, Fla.
        The cause was colon cancer, his family said.
        A vice president of design for the Tupperware Corporation since 1990, Mr. Cousins was asked to spiff up products whose look had grown a little stale even as they found a place in 90 percent of American homes.
        The panache with which he seized the opportunity is suggested by a colander he designed that resembles a sensual rendition of the Starship Enterprise. More than two dozen of his designs for Tupperware and others were acquired by museums in New York, London, Munich and elsewhere.
        In 1997 the SoHo design shop Moss held a Tupperware party featuring Mr. Cousins's designs. Surrounded by Philippe Starck lamps and Alvar Aalto vases, artists dressed in black mingled with homemakers in pink to gaze at Mr. Cousins's Thatsa bowl, a plump hemisphere selling for $8.99.
        In one sense, the event could not have been more commonplace: the company says that every two seconds a Tupperware party starts somewhere in the world. But it symbolized a marriage between high design and utter utility that designers aspire to achieve, but seldom do.
        ''It broke the sound barrier almost,'' Murray Moss, the gallery's owner, said in an interview. ''That's what it felt like.''
        Museum professionals praised Mr. Cousins's designs.
        ''With him, Tupperware's designs became more sharply, more obviously styled than before,'' said Kathryn B. Hiesinger, a curator at the Philadelphia Museum of Art. ''He upscaled the look of the things, and made them covetable and fashionable in a way they hadn't been for some years.''
        Jane Adlin, a curatorial assistant at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, said: ''What I loved about his designs was that they were so well thought out. They were so pure.''
        His visions were firmly constrained by Tupperware's history and image. ''At the very least, Morison Cousins, the man that Tupperware hired to handle the redesign, had to be conscious of following in someone else's footsteps,'' an article in Metropolis magazine said in 1995.
        The founding genius of Tupperware was Earl Tupper, whose history had included getting a patent on a rumble-seat cover just as the rumble seat disappeared. Not one to give up, he figured out how to turn the rock-hard tar at the bottom of an oil refiner's barrel into a useful plastic bowl with a lid that burped to announce that a partial vacuum had been created.
        But success for Tupperware had to wait for Brownie Wise, a single mother whom Mr. Tupper hired in 1951. She popularized Tupperware parties, which 100 million people now attend annually.
        Even in the early days, Tupperware struck some as interesting design. In 1947 an article on Tupperware by Elizabeth Gordon, House Beautiful's editor, had the headline ''Fine Art for 39 Cents.'' The Museum of Modern Art first showed Tupperware a few years later.
        Forms strictly followed function: for example, butter containers looked like sticks of butter. But gradually, in the 1960's and 70's, colors like harvest gold and avocado replaced pastels. Then in the 80's, colors went neutral, predominantly beige.
        But by 1990 the company feared that Tupperware seemed like a 1950's relic as domestic sales plunged even as they increased elsewhere in the world. Museums no longer sought Tupperware.
        The company turned to Mr. Cousins, who had won accolades as an industrial designer with products like a Dixie Cup dispenser, of which the American Can Company sold more than 100 million. The American Academy in Rome awarded him a Rome Prize in 1984 to study design.
        Beginning with whimsical pencil drawings and a vocabulary spiked with encouraging words like nifty, he brought immediate flair to Tupperware. The items he designed combined bold, geometric, milk-white bases with sleek but soft touches. He added splashier colors. His design team ventured beyond bowls to vegetable peelers, spoon rests, refrigerator magnets and toys.
        Mr. Cousins acknowledged that some found his color change blasphemous.
        ''Nobody knew quite what to make of it,'' he said in an interview in Attaché magazine, published by US Airways. ''They were accustomed to beige canisters with beige lids. But when I explained why I was changing colors, they were very supportive. I traced the use of white and blue together back to the Ming dynasty and explained that it moved to Europe as trade picked up between Europe and Asia. So it wasn't as strange as they thought.''
        His new designs did not achieve their original purpose of increasing domestic sales, said Mark Shamley, a Tupperware spokesman. Whether they stemmed further declines is hard to determine. Mr. Shamley explained that several ownership changes make it impossible to isolate the financial effects of designs.
        Morison Stuart Cousins was born in Brooklyn on April 10, 1934, and grew up in Queens. His father was a carpet salesman at Macy's and his mother had Tupperware in her kitchen, including the Jel-Ring mold. In kindergarten he sculptured a white ceramic sailor with the elegant simplicity that would become his trademark. He got the idea of becoming an industrial designer by admiring the pictures in Fortune magazine.
        In particular, he was struck by a profile of Raymond Loewy, who did famous designs for Studebaker cars, Pennsylvania Railroad locomotives and the Coke bottle. Mr. Cousins recalled, ''He was getting at the underlying nature of objects.''
        After graduating from the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn in 1955, he worked on truck design for International Harvester and then served for two years in the Army. In 1963 he and his brother, Michael, formed Cousins Design, which designed hair dryers, telephones and other products for corporations like General Electric.
        In addition to his brother, of Manhattan, he is survived by his fiancée, Kimberly Sheppard of Winter Park; two daughters, Michele Cousins Bandler of Severna Park, Md., and Elizabeth Cousins of Sarasota, Fla.; and two grandchildren.
        He admired Tupperware long before being offered its top design job. ''People don't have refrigerators for more than 10 years, and in 10 years, Tupperware is just getting broken in,' he said in the Metropolis interview. ''People still use Tupperware from the 1950's. In the past I don't think people thought about it that way. The oddity is that I have always thought that way.''
        Summing up his design philosophy, he said, ''I strive to create lasting design.''
      