
        Dale Earnhardt, the legendary stock car driver known as the Intimidator for his blunt demeanor, his push-broom mustache and his steely, unrelenting driving style, was killed today in an accident on the last lap of the Daytona 500. He was 49.
        Earnhardt, driving his familiar No. 3 black Chevrolet in a pack of cars that was chasing the eventual race winner, his teammate Michael Waltrip, lost control of his car just before the crash. While Earnhardt tried to block Sterling Marlin from gaining ground on Waltrip and his son, Dale Earnhardt Jr., Marlin tapped into Earnhardt's car.
        Earnhardt's car slid slightly, then bounced into a car driven by Ken Schrader. Both cars abruptly changed course and slammed into a wall. Earnhardt's car hit the wall virtually head-on, and he was pronounced dead after being taken to a hospital.
        Earnhardt, a native of Kannapolis, N.C., won 76 races and more than $41 million in his Nascar Winston Cup career, which began in 1975. He won seven Winston Cup driving championships, six between 1986 and 1994. As many Nascar fans booed him as cheered him, but he was liked and  respected by fellow drivers.
        ''Today Nascar lost its greatest driver in the history of the sport,'' said Bill France Jr., the board chairman of Nascar.
        Dale Davis, the director of racing technology for Ford, Chevrolet's bitter rival, said in a statement, ''When you picture the epitome of a race car driver, you picture Dale Earnhardt.''
        Earnhardt had gone six years without a championship, but he was still hungry to win any race he entered. On Friday, Earnhardt was nudged out of first place by Eddie Cheever Jr. in an International Race of Champions event. Earnhardt tapped Cheever's car on the cool-down lap, sending it into a spin.
        ''You still hate to lose,'' Earnhardt said later, smiling slyly as he sat on a golf cart outside his mobile home. ''These are bragging rights.''
        Earnhardt was also eager to drive in this year's Daytona 500. He finished 21st last year and said he was bored by that race, which featured almost no passing. He said after the twin qualifying races in 2000 that Bill France, the late founder of Nascar, would have been upset by the dull, single-file racing that featured almost no passing.
        But Nascar enacted a series of aerodynamic rules changes to enhance closer racing, and Earnhardt was eager to go racing again.
        ''I hope there's a lot of green-flag racing,'' Earnhardt said.
        He got his wish today. Until an accident with 25 laps left took 18 cars out of contention, the Daytona 500 had been slowed only twice by caution flags. The race ended with 49 lead changes, 40 more than a year ago and the most since 1983, when there were 59.
        It appeared that, by blocking Marlin's path, Earnhardt might have been trying to protect the victory for his son, Dale Jr., and Waltrip, who are employees of Dale Earnhardt Inc., which fields a three-car Nascar team. Waltrip had not won in 462 races in his 16-year Winston Cup career.
        When Waltrip popped out of his car this afternoon, Schrader told him that Earnhardt had been taken to the hospital. Before he learned that Earnhardt had died, Waltrip began his news conference by saying that he did not feel like talking about his victory.
        ''It doesn't all seem exactly right,'' Waltrip said.
        Before Earnhardt's death was announced, several Nascar drivers had criticized the new rules package, saying it had become too dangerous to race. Rusty Wallace, who finished third today, said immediately after the race that he would not be willing to participate in another race under the same rules.
        ''I'm sure the fans saw one whale of a race, but is this what we want?'' Wallace said. ''I don't know. It was just too close. Way too close.''
        Earnhardt liked racing that way. His father, Ralph, was a Nascar champion in the late-model Sportsman division, and Dale dropped out of school in ninth grade and built a reputation on the short tracks in the Carolinas.
        Earnhardt drove sporadically in Winston Cup races from 1975 to 1978, and then a businessman, Rod Osterlund, provided him with solid financing and his first full-time Nascar ride. Earnhardt won his first Winston Cup championship in 1980.
        Earnhardt joined the Richard Childress racing team in 1984 and became Nascar's best driver. Between 1986 and 1997, he did not finish out of the top five in the Winston Cup points standing.
        He broke his collarbone and sternum in a crash at Talladega, Ala., in July 1996, but he won the pole position for a race at Watkins Glen, N.Y., two weeks later.
        He ended a 59-race stretch without a victory by winning the 1998 Daytona 500, his first victory in that race in 20 attempts.
        Earnhardt, who lived in Mooresville, N.C., is survived by his wife, Teresa, and four children: Kerry, Kelly, Dale Jr. and Taylor.
        AUTO RACING
      