
        Charles Trenet, one of France's most beloved popular singers who was best known abroad as the composer of hits like ''La Mer'' (''Beyond the Sea''), ''Boum'' and ''Que Reste-t-il de Nos Amours'' (''I Wish You Love'') died on Sunday in Creteil, a suburb of Paris. He was 87 and lived in Paris.
        An elegant blond man with deep blue eyes and a mischievous smile, Mr. Trenet was a central figure in ''la chanson française,'' the distinctively French tradition of songs combining poetic lyrics with catchy melodies. Its best-known proponents also included Maurice Chevalier, Edith Piaf, Jacques Brel, Georges Brassens, Léo Ferré and Charles Aznavour.
        Although he was less known outside France than, say, Chevalier, Piaf and Mr. Aznavour, for many French he was the personification of ''la chanson française.''
        ''Without Trenet,'' Brel once remarked, ''we would all be accountants.''
        Mr. Aznavour, who keeps Mr. Trenet's piano in his office, added, ''Thanks to him, the public discovered surrealism in song.''
        Among scores of French officials and artists paying homage to Mr. Trenet today, President Jacques Chirac described him as ''a magician of words, an inventor of rhythms, one of those rare poets who stamps his era with its colors, songs and mood and who feeds its dreams.'' He added, ''He was a symbol of a smiling and imaginative France.''
        Mr. Trenet announced his retirement in 1975 but repeatedly resumed his career to record new songs and to perform onstage wearing, as always, his signature crumpled hat. As recently as November 1999, he gave three sold-out concerts in the prestigious Salle Pleyel in Paris. He was hospitalized after a stroke last year  but bounced back and was well enough to attend the opening night of Mr. Aznavour's latest concert series in October.
        His secretary, Georges El Assidi, said today that after suffering another stroke some days ago, Mr. Trenet decided that he did not wish to be kept alive artificially. ''He died peacefully, without suffering,'' Mr. El Assidi told reporters. Mr. Trenet, who never married, left no close relatives.
        He was born on May 18, 1913 in Narbonne, a southeastern town. His father, a lawyer, reared him after his parents were divorced when he was still a child. As a teenager, already drawn to poetry and music, Mr. Trenet was encouraged by the Catalan poet Albert Bausil to pursue a career as a composer and singer.
        In 1933 he moved to Paris and was soon absorbed into the city's bohemian life, counting the poets Jean Cocteau and Max Jacob among his patrons.
        With the Swiss pianist Johnny Hess, Mr. Trenet formed a successful duo known as Charles et Johnny, which performed in music halls and nightclubs. Mr. Trenet's compositions were distinctive because, although very French in their lyrics, they also showed the influence of American jazz, very popular in Paris at the time. ''He knew how to swing immediately because he was familiar with jazz,'' Mr. Aznavour noted. In 1937 Chevalier took his song ''Y'a d'la Joie,'' or ''There's Joy,'' and made it into a hit, a success that in turn encouraged Mr. Trenet to become a solo performer.
        When war was declared in September 1939, he joined the French Army but was demobilized after France fell under German occupation. Because of his ties to the left-leaning prewar government known as the Popular Front, he was attacked by French rightists during the Nazi occupation. It was during the occupation, though, that he wrote his deeply nostalgic hits ''La Mer'' and ''Douce France'' (''Sweet France'').
        After the war, well established as both performer and composer, he lived in the United States for six years. He later recalled entering a New York bar and hearing the pianist playing ''La Mer.'' ''Do you know who wrote that song?'' he asked the pianist. ''Sure,'' came the reply. ''Irving Berlin.''
        Returning to France in 1951, Mr. Trenet resumed his music hall career and appeared in many movies. He also remained a prolific composer, writing more than a thousand songs in a career that lasted more than six decades. Many were translated and widely performed and recorded abroad, like ''Que Reste-t-il de Nos Amours?,'' which Gloria Lynne, Harry Connick Jr. and many others recorded as ''I Wish You Love.''
        Nothing, though, matched the success of ''La Mer.'' Made popular in the United States by Bobby Darin as ''Beyond the Sea,'' it has been recorded in almost 4,000 different versions in scores of languages.
        Mr. Trenet was disappointed that he was rebuffed in his bid for membership in the Académie Française in 1983 but was instead inducted into the Académie des Beaux-Arts. Otherwise, he was widely honored. His 80th birthday in 1993 was celebrated in a tribute at the Bastille Opera and in 1998 President Chirac made him a Commander of the Légion d'Honneur.
        A man remembered by friends for both his impatience and his sharp sense of humor, he kept in form by rising early and walking frequently. Indeed, he attributed his longevity to his physical energy. His epitaph, he once suggested with a laugh, could be: ''Born a poet, died an athlete.''
      