
        Frank Bunker Gilbreth Jr., a journalist whose life-with-father memoir  ''Cheaper by the Dozen'' became a best seller and a popular movie of the same title, died on Sunday in Charleston, S.C., where he had lived for the last 50 years. He was 89 and also had a home in Nantucket, Mass.
        The paterfamilias of the tale was a construction engineer and efficiency expert who originated the science of ''motion study'' and believed that its factory management principles could be applied to the household. Mr. Gilbreth's mother was an accomplished engineering consultant in her own right who continued to operate the family company, Gilbreth Inc., after her husband's death in 1924. She died in 1972.
        The elder Gilbreths produced six girls and six boys within 17 years. The younger Mr. Gilbreth was the eldest son, the fifth of the dozen, and wrote the book with his older sister Ernestine Gilbreth Carey.
        Against the backdrop of the ramshackle family mansion in Montclair, N.J., the siblings reminisced about a life of cheerfully controlled chaos. The children appeared to have taken in stride ''process-work charts,'' trips to the factory with father, weekly family council meetings and endless I.Q. tests.
        ''Cheaper by the Dozen,'' published in 1949, became a Book-of-the-Month Club selection and quickly sold out. Since then, it has been reissued in many editions, several of which remain in print.
        The movie was an Easter treat in 1950, starring Clifton Webb as the rather eccentric father and Myrna Loy as the mother. Reviewing the film in The New York Times, Bosley Crowther described it as a paean to filial piety and a ''blissfully comforting display of the authority which a strongminded papa has over 12 respectful kids.''
        Mr. Gilbreth and his sister wrote a sequel to their book, ''Belles on Their Toes,'' also made into a movie.
        Frank Gilbreth Jr. was born in Plainfield, N.J., and graduated from the University of Michigan in 1933. He worked as a reporter for The New York Herald Tribune, the Associated Press and The Buenos Aires Herald and served in the Navy in the Pacific in World War II.
        In 1947 he joined what is now The Post and Courier in Charleston and under the pseudonym Ashley Cooper wrote its ''Doing the Charleston'' column until 1993, making it one of the country's longest-running newspaper columns. (As Charlestonians define it, Charleston is where the Ashley and the Cooper Rivers meet to form the Atlantic Ocean.) He was an assistant publisher and vice president of the newspaper as well.
        Mr. Gilbreth also wrote ''Held's Angels'' (1952), a novel lampooning the flappers and high-living youths of the Roaring Twenties, which was illustrated with 100 drawings by the cartoonist John Held Jr. His other books included ''I'm a Lucky Guy'' (1951); ''Innside Nantucket'' (1954), about a family-run rooming house; ''Of Whales and Women: One Man's View of Nantucket History'' (1957); ''How to Be a Father'' (1958); ''He's My Boy'' (1962), about his own young son; and ''Time Out for Happiness'' (1962), a biography of his parents.
        Mr. Gilbreth's first wife, Elizabeth Cauthen Gilbreth, died in 1954. He is survived by his wife, Mary Manigault Gilbreth; two daughters, Elizabeth G. Cantler and Rebecca G. Herres, both of Charleston; a son, Dr. Edward M. Gilbreth, also of Charleston; three sisters, Ms. Carey  of Reedley, Calif., Lillian G. Johnson of Wilmington, Del., and Jane G. Heppes of Longview, Wash.; four brothers, Frederick B. of Larchmont, N.Y., Daniel B. and John M. of West Caldwell, N.J., and Robert M. of Franklin, N.H.; six grandchildren;  and six great-grandchildren.
        Although born a Yankee, Mr. Gilbreth became part of the proudly insular city of Charleston, even writing a dictionary of ''Charlestonese.''
      