
        John F. Hayes, a retired State Supreme Court justice and former interim borough president of Brooklyn, died on Wednesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Brooklyn.
        Mr. Hayes, a Democrat, was born in Brooklyn and graduated from Brooklyn Preparatory School, Fordham College and Fordham Law School.
        He was an F.B.I. agent from 1943 to 1950, when he became an assistant to John Cashmore, the Brooklyn borough president. Mr. Hayes was Brooklyn's commissioner of public works for eight months until May 1961, when Mr. Cashmore died in office and Mr. Hayes became acting borough president.
        On July 6, 1961, the nine City Council members from Brooklyn unanimously elected Mr. Hayes borough president for an interim term expiring at midnight on Dec. 31, 1961. He did not seek a full term, instead serving again for a time, beginning in 1962, as commissioner of borough works. He was also deputy borough president intermittently during a period spanning more than a decade.
        In that post, in 1968, Mr. Hayes criticized the city's proposed rapid-transit improvement program, saying it slighted Brooklyn and focused too much on carrying suburbanites into and out of Manhattan.
        Mr. Hayes was elected to the State Supreme Court in 1977, sat in Criminal Court in Brooklyn and retired from the bench in 1984.
        In a 1983 case that drew attention because of its allegations of police violence, Justice Hayes sentenced a former New York City police officer, Vincent Piscitelli, 38, to spend weekends in jail for one year after he was convicted of second-degree assault for striking a handcuffed prisoner on the head with a nightstick.
        Mr. Hayes is survived by his wife, the former Margaret Sullivan, whom he married in 1948; four daughters, Margaret Baron of Brooklyn, Mary Hayes-Conaty of Manhattan, Anne Allison of Wantagh, N.Y., and Elizabeth Reilly of Columbus, Ga.; three sons, John, of Baldwin, N.Y., Mark, of Dallas and Jude, of Pine Island, N.Y; and 12 grandchildren.
      