
        Stanley Kramer, the producer and director of socially groundbreaking films like ''The Defiant Ones'' and ''Judgment at Nuremberg'' and one of Hollywood's most respected filmmakers in the late 1950's and early 60's, died on Monday in Woodland Hills, a section of Los Angeles. He was 87.
        Mr. Kramer never liked being described as a ''message filmmaker,''  but that was the tag that stuck to him throughout his long career. He retained this reputation even in the 60's and 70's, when many of his films faltered at the box office and changing tastes persuaded a new generation of critics, weaned on the French new wave and the auteur theory, to view his work as sentimental and simplistic.
        Mr. Kramer, who had been living at the Motion Picture Home, a retirement community for those who had worked in the movie industry, died of complications from pneumonia, said his wife of 35 years, Karen Sharpe Kramer.
        He began as a passionate Wunderkind, an independent producer eager to shake up the status quo with a string of socially conscious films in the early 1950's that raised many of the issues, like racial inequality and juvenile delinquency, that mainstream film companies were often too timid to explore.
        For instance, his acclaimed ''High Noon'' (1952), though a western, was actually a thinly veiled attack on the anti-Communist purges of the McCarthy era. He was also known for being economical, shooting polished-looking films on a budget only a fraction the size of that of most major films.
        In 1949 ''Home of the Brave'' explored racial intolerance in the context of a war film. ''Champion,'' released the same year, was about destructive and unbridled ambition, personified in the film by Kirk Douglas as a doomed prizefighter. In 1950 ''The Men,'' a tragic drama about wounded war veterans, introduced Marlon Brando to the screen. ''The Wild One,'' also with Mr. Brando, in 1954, was the first biker film and among the first to deal with juvenile delinquency, themes that spawned dozens of imitations.
        ''I firmly believe that the independent producer today can select material which will return vitality to the motion picture industry,'' Mr. Kramer wrote in 1949. ''I think people are completely fed up with the pattern. The independent has simply got to destroy that pattern. If our industry is to flourish, we must break away from formula thinking.''
        In 1951 Mr. Kramer moved inside the studio gates with a production deal at Columbia Pictures, fleeing two years later in revulsion to return to independent filmmaking and to direct his own films.
        He reached his zenith as a Columbia producer with the classic ''High Noon,'' which starred Gary Cooper as an embattled hero. The New York Times film critic Bosley Crowther called it ''Stanley Kramer's brilliant and electric production,'' giving the producer top billing over the film's director, Fred Zinneman.
        Taking the Director's Chair
        Initially, Mr. Kramer faltered as a director. His first effort, ''Not as a Stranger,'' was viewed as a fairly ordinary romantic drama about the tribulations of a young doctor, played by Robert Mitchum. And the second, ''The Pride and the Passion,'' was a big-screen epic that was more famous for its on-set squabbles than its plot, which was described as ''Pride without Passion'' in the  Times headline that accompanied the review.
        Soon, though, Mr. Kramer returned to tough themes and social issues and regained his footing, insisting on making movies that daringly raised the sensitive subjects that a prosperous postwar America frequently preferred to ignore.
        He was often asked why he gravitated to socially conscious stories, and usually he pointed to his coming of age during the early years of the Franklin D. Roosevelt administration. But just as often, he ducked the question.
        ''Well, I suppose the best answer is that emotionally I am drawn to these subjects,'' he told The Times Magazine in 1961. ''To determine why, I'd have to examine my whole youth.'' He broke off, then added:  ''But we won't go into that now. Nor have I ever bothered to give it any deep or prolonged thought.''
        But it is there, the dominant thread that runs through his entire career.
        In 1958 ''The Defiant Ones'' raised questions of racism and intolerance in the story of a pair of escaped convicts, one black (Sidney Poitier) and one white (Tony Curtis), who were chained together on the run.
        In ''On the Beach'' in 1959, he was among the first mainstream directors to explore openly and bleakly the notion of nuclear holocaust. And ''Inherit the Wind,'' released the next year, remains Hollywood's most influential exploration of America's enduring social fault line over the issue of teaching evolution.
        In 1961 ''Judgment at Nuremberg'' was about the tendency of many in the postwar era to forget Nazi atrocities in the drive to battle Communism and get on with business.
        In his Times Magazine profile of Mr. Kramer, Crowther wrote: ''Newsmen and film critics from all over the world will assemble with German brass and bigwigs in West Berlin to witness the world premiere of 'Judgment at Nuremberg.' They will be in attendance at something more than the gala opening of a film: They will be spectators at another performance of Mr. Kramer's celebrated act of placing his head in the mouth of a lion.''
        Although Mr. Kramer chafed at being labeled, he never denied that he was always trying to make what he called a ''strong film,'' a goal that often put him at odds with studio chiefs and backers who wanted him to soften his message.
        ''I take a very reluctant and conservative view on what a single film can do in affecting our lives,'' he told an interviewer in 1960. ''I don't make films to stir the world. I am not conscious of a responsibility to society or even to my own social consciousness when I make a film. My motivation can be as simple as saying, gee, this would make an exciting picture.''
        By the early 60's, though, Mr. Kramer said that he felt the need to prove that he could make a movie that was neither socially conscious nor serious. In fact, if anything, ''It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World'' was socially disruptive and goofy, the story of a group of over-the-top comic characters driven to slapstick insanity in a race for hidden loot. It was his biggest box office hit, with a cast that included Sid Caesar, Milton Berle, Jonathan Winters and Ethel Merman.
        The film world was changing, though. The rise of foreign language films, popularized by directors like Vittorio de Sica, Federico Fellini and Ingmar Bergman, blended into the ascent of the French new wave in the early 60's, spearheaded by new voices like those of François Truffaut and Jean-Luc Godard.
        At the same time, the French-inspired auteur theory, which held that the director was the prime creative voice on a film and that those directors with distinctive voices  throughout their body of work were the greatest artists, turned critics and audiences away from journeymen like Mr. Kramer.
        Most of his final films failed with critics and at the box office. In 1965 ''Ship of Fools'' drew some Oscar nominations but was blasted by many critics as pretentious. ''The Secret of Santa Vittoria'' (1969), ''R.P.M.'' (1970), ''Bless the Beasts and Children'' (1971) and other later efforts were almost all labeled sentimental and middlebrow. At this time, when Mr. Kramer tried to raise social issues, he was often criticized as preachy.
        His 1977 assassination thriller, ''The Domino Principle,'' drew scathing reviews. The Times critic Vincent Canby described it as ''without doubt the definitive work to date in that growing body of screen literature devoted to instructing us in how to make a suspense film totally devoid of tension, intelligence, excitement, imagination, wit, reality and surprise.''
        ''Like the prose in many how-to manuals,'' he continued, ''it is complicated without being informative, and it's also rigorously humdrum.''
        60's Turmoil Shakes a Career
        Mr. Kramer also seemed unsure how to respond to the social turbulence of the 60's, when many of the issues that he had been a pioneer in exploring suddenly exploded on the social stage. The campus drama ''R.P.M.,'' which tried to capture the mood of discontent on college campuses in the 60's, fell flat. The film, Canby wrote in his Times review, ''is about one of the gut questions of our time.''
        ''Should Ann-Margret,'' he explained, ''a graduate student in sociology, continue to sleep with Anthony Quinn, her bleeding-heart liberal of a professor, after he becomes acting college president and sends the pigs in to clear out the administration building?''
        In a 1991 interview Mr. Kramer acknowledged that some of his films, particularly those involving racism, were ''oversimplified.'' This approach was necessary, he said, to make the stories more palatable to mainstream white audiences.
        But for the most part, he stuck to his guns. In a three-hour two-part examination of his career broadcast on ABC in 1975, he defended his work vigorously.
        Mr. Kramer was also frequently critical of some of the directors who emerged in the 60's, describing some of them as con artists who were trying to put one over on a credulous audience.
        ''The put-on leads to the adoration of technique,'' Mr. Kramer wrote in 1968. ''The nouvelle vague, the neo-realists and the angry young men have opened the gates to interrupted dialogue, mismatching, jump cuts, super-imposures, split screens and the camera as primary weapon in the director's bag. Technique covers a multitude of sins.''
        The only respite from such criticism in his final years as a director came in 1967, with ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner,'' a film in which he recaptured some of the glory of his heyday. Though many critics found the film, about an interracial romance, overly simple and pitched to mainstream sensibilities -- it starred Spencer Tracy, Katharine Hepburn and Sidney Poitier -- it was a smashing success, nominated for 10 Oscars and the winner of two (for Ms. Hepburn's lead performance and William Rose's original screenplay).
        Mr. Kramer complained in the 60's that the rise of foreign voices and the growing youth culture had changed the artistic landscape from what it had been in his own youth. No longer, he said, were writers or filmmakers interested in creating the Great American Novel or the great American film, or indeed with exploring what it meant to be American.
        ''The reason has to do with the purposeful widening of the generation gap, the desire of the young to move as far as possible from the common denominators they and we have known,'' he wrote. ''The student of cinema wants to be Godard, not William Wyler or George Stevens or John Ford.''
        Mr. Kramer was nominated for nine Academy Awards -- six as a producer and three as a director -- though he never won one. He was given the Irving G. Thalberg Award for distinguished contribution to filmmaking at the Oscar ceremonies in 1962. And the New York Film Critics Circle chose him as best director of 1958 for ''The Defiant Ones.''
        A Hero to His Actors
        Mr. Kramer, however, was always popular with actors, working with some of the top stars of the era, including Humphrey Bogart, Cary Grant, Frank Sinatra, Gregory Peck, Fred Astaire, Spencer Tracy, Fredric March, Gene Kelly, Sophia Loren, Van Johnson, Fred MacMurray, Richard Widmark, Burt Lancaster, Lee Marvin, Vivien Leigh, Mr. Brando and Mr. Douglas.
        Part of the reason was Mr. Kramer's well-known success in helping his actors to win Oscars -- including ones for Gary Cooper in ''High Noon,'' José Ferrer in ''Cyrano de Bergerac,'' Maximilian Schell in ''Judgment at Nuremberg'' and Ms. Hepburn in ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner.''
        His last film, ''The Runner Stumbles,'' about a romance between an older priest (Dick Van Dyke) and a younger nun (Kathleen Quinlan) earned him some of the most scathing reviews of his career in 1979. ''Heaven help anyone who tries to take this story at face value,'' wrote Janet Maslin in The Times.
        Not long after, Mr. Kramer announced that he had had enough and was abandoning Hollywood for Seattle. ''We chose Seattle because my wife read somewhere in a consumer magazine that it was the ideal American city,'' he said.
        Stanley Earl Kramer was born in Hell's Kitchen in Manhattan, the only child of a divorced mother who worked as a secretary for Paramount. His grandmother, a Polish-Jewish immigrant, had the largest hand in raising him.
        Besides a mother at Paramount, the young Mr. Kramer also had an uncle in the movie business, who worked in distribution for Universal Pictures. But as a boy, he said, he never really dreamed of Hollywood, aiming instead for a career in law.
        A precocious teenager, he graduated from DeWitt Clinton High School at 15 and attended New York University as an undergraduate, where he earned a degree in business administration. The turning point in his life came in 1933, at the height of the Depression, when his articles for a university magazine won him a job as a junior writer at 20th Century Fox, earning $70 a week.
        For the next 14 years, Mr. Kramer bounced around the movie business in Hollywood. He was a set dresser and film cutter at MGM, a writer and researcher for Columbia, a writer for Republic and an associate producer with Loew-Lewin.
        Just as he was about to form his own independent production company, Pearl Harbor took the United States into World War II and he was drafted, eventually making training films for the Army Signal Corps in Astoria, Queens.
        ''Hollywood is like a boardwalk,'' Mr. Kramer told an interviewer. ''You're always looking for a loose board to stick your head up through, and there are about 60 guys waiting to hit you.''
        Seeking Big Films, Small Egos
        Not until after the war, in 1947, were Mr. Kramer and two partners, the writer Carl Foreman and a film sales veteran, George Glass, able to have his first movie produced, a low-budget adaptation of a Ring Lardner story called ''So This Is New York.''
        Mr. Kramer never looked back. He kept a sign above his desk that read: ''Please God, make the pictures big and the heads small.''
        Finding investors in places like a Midwestern department store and a lettuce-growers syndicate, Mr. Kramer financed one film after another in the early 50's. ''I'm a bit of a shill artist,'' he told an interviewer.
        By the mid-50's, his reputation for frugality and his successes had won him a deal at Columbia Pictures. He chafed under the studio strictures, he later said, producing films that never made as much money as the studio wanted nor roiled the waters as much as he desired.
        ''The Caine Mutiny'' in 1954 is a case in point: It is justly celebrated for its performances, particularly that of Humphrey Bogart as the paranoid Captain Queeg, but managed to erase from Herman Wouk's best-selling novel the central emotional thread of Jewish persecution by the Nazis.
        It was in 1980 that Mr. Kramer retired from filmmaking and moved to Seattle, where he wrote and taught at the University of Washington and Bellevue Community College. In 1987, however, the new head of Columbia Pictures, the British producer David Puttnam, invited Mr. Kramer to develop new film projects for the studio.
        ''I decided that somewhere between the films on outer space and Sylvester Stallone, there is a place for me,'' Mr. Kramer said at the time. ''I was always associated with films that had an opinion. I don't believe films change anyone's mind, but I was spawned during the Roosevelt era, a time of great change, and I still believe in trying to get people to think. I'm very excited about being a participating mule again -- that's mule, with a kick.''
        Mr. Puttnam's tenure at Columbia was short-lived, however, and Mr. Kramer's deal with the studio resulted in no new films.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Kramer is survived by a son, Larry, and three daughters, Katharine, Jennifer and Casey, whom he named after one of his heroes, Casey Stengel.
        ''A motion picture has a strange chemistry that you can't explain,'' Mr. Kramer once said. ''How do you explain how every once in a while an absolute conclave of idiots will come together and make a film that's just wonderful, while a group of talented people will turn out something that's nothing? Maybe it just depends on the roll of the dice.''
        Highlights of a Career
        AS A PRODUCER
        So This Is New York 1948  Champion 1949  Home of the Brave 1949  The Men 1950  Cyrano de Bergerac 1950  Death of a Salesman 1951  High Noon 1952  Member of the Wedding 1952  The 5,000 Fingers Of Dr. T. 1953  The Wild One 1954  The Caine Mutiny 1954
        AS A DIRECTOR (USUALLY ALSO PRODUCING)
        Not as a Stranger 1955  The Pride and the Passion 1957  The Defiant Ones 1958  On the Beach 1959  Inherit the Wind 1960  Judgment at Nuremberg 1961  It's a Mad, Mad, Mad, Mad World 1963  Ship Of Fools 1965  Guess Who's Coming to Dinner 1967  The Secret of Santa Vittoria 1969  R.P.M. 1970  Bless the Beasts and Children 1971  The Domino Principle 1977  The Runner Stumbles 1979
        Correction:  February 24, 2001, Saturday  An obituary of the film producer and director Stanley Kramer on Wednesday misidentified the studio that distributed his 1952 western ''High Noon.'' It was United Artists, not Columbia Pictures.
        The obituary also misspelled the surname of the film's director. He was Fred Zinnemann, not Zinneman.
      