
        Nicholas C. Forstmann, an investment banker and a philanthropist who was a founding partner of Forstmann Little & Company, the leveraged-buyout firm, died yesterday at his home in Manhattan. He was 54.
        Last year, Mr. Forstmann was found to have small-cell lung cancer, a spokesman for the family, George Sard, said.
        Mr. Forstmann quietly played a crucial role behind the success of Forstmann Little, which he founded with his often outspoken older brother, Theodore J. Forstmann, and William Brian Little, an investment banker at Merrill Lynch, in 1978.
        Nicholas Forstmann structured the financing of many of the firm's high-stakes takeovers. In the 1980's, Forstmann Little took over the Dr Pepper Company and the Topps Company, the trading-card maker; in the 1990's, the firm bought out Gulfstream and General Instrument.
        He graduated from Georgetown University in 1969 and started his career at the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company. In 1975, just as the leveraged-buyout industry was beginning to emerge, Mr. Forstmann joined Kohlberg Kravis Roberts & Company, one of the first buyout firms and his future rival.
        After two years at Kohlberg Kravis Roberts, he and Theodore Forstmann, who was working as a lawyer, decided to start their own firm. With the help of Mr. Little, who died last September, they created Forstmann Little & Company.
        From the start, Forstmann Little took an atypical approach to financing its deals. In contrast to many of the leveraged-buyout firms that flourished in the 1980's, Forstmann Little relied less on borrowed money and more on equity financing to pay for the companies it bought, creating its own separate debt fund. The strategy paid handsome dividends. Since the firm's inception, it has made more than $5 billion in profit for its investors and has an almost unheard of annual rate of return of 55 percent.
        Theodore Forstmann gained most of the attention for the firm's success. But behind the scenes, even as his cancer appeared and progressed in the last year, Mr. Forstmann continued to manage the firm's business.
        ''We were partners in business for 24 years and never had a single disagreement about any big decision we had to make as a firm,'' Theodore Forstmann said.
        Nicholas Forstmann contributed to many causes, particularly children's education charities.
        He was the chairman of the Inner-City Scholarship Fund, an organization in New York that helps economically faltering Roman Catholic schools. He was also chairman of the board of the Family Academy, an experimental school in Harlem.
        In addition, Mr. Forstmann was  the chairman of the St. Brigid School, a small East Village school for immigrants, and co-chairman of the Inner-City Endowment Fund. He was a member of the board of Communities in Schools, which connects community resources with schools and provides children with support.
        Mr. Forstmann was on the advisory boards of Georgetown and Marymount College. And he served as the vice chairman of Empower America, a Washington nonprofit group that promotes free markets, which was founded by Jack Kemp, the 1996 Republican vice presidential candidate.
        Mr. Forstmann is survived by his mother, Dorothy Sammis of Greenwich, Conn.; his wife, Lana; a son and two daughters; three brothers, Anthony of Los Angeles, John of Avon, Colo., and Theodore of Manhattan; and two sisters, Marina Forstmann-Day of Los Angeles and Elissa Moran of Greenwich.
      