
        Guy Rodgers, a four-time National Basketball Association All-Star, a two-time all-American at Temple University and one of the most talented guards and playmakers of his era, died Monday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 65.
        Rodgers was attending a movie when he apparently suffered a heart attack, said Sonny Hill, a family friend.
        In the late 1950's and early 1960's, when Bob Cousy of the Boston Celtics was nearing the end of his career, and Rodgers, of the Philadelphia Warriors, was gaining prominence, they dominated backcourt play in the N.B.A. Cousy, who was seven years older than Rodgers, once said he hated to match up against him ''because you knew you'd have to work both ends of the court.''
        Sportswriters often referred to Rodgers as ''the second Cousy.''
        Rodgers honed his skills on the recreational courts of North Philadelphia. He came out of Northeast High School, where he averaged 35 points a game, and gained a formidable reputation as a ballhandler.
        In his senior year, he was named Philadelphia's player of the year. The achievement was especially remarkable since his future Warrior teammate Wilt Chamberlain, as a 10th-grade student at Overbrook High School, was thought to be better than some N.B.A. players.
        Rodgers went on to Temple, where he led the Owls to third-place finishes in the N.C.A.A. tournament in 1956 and 1958, becoming the school's leading career scorer with 1,767 points. Rodgers, who is now the third leading scorer in Temple's history, was the school's first inductee into Philadelphia's Big 5 Hall of Fame.
        In 1958, he was the first-round draft choice of the Philadelphia Warriors. At 6 feet, 188 pounds, he was one of the smallest players in the league. But with his speed, pinpoint passes, dribbling and left-handed shot, Rodgers quickly established himself as one of the league's best players. He twice led the N.B.A. in assists, in 1962-1963 with 10.4 a game, and in 1966-67, with 11.2.
        Rodgers told Time magazine in 1960 that he practiced his passing techniques by putting a chair in a certain place.
        ''And pretend it's Bill Russell and pretend that I'll have to fake him a little to get the ball to Wilt,'' he said. ''I dribble at the chair like it's Russell. I can practically see him faked out, and I aim high for Wilt.''
        On March 2, 1962, when Chamberlain scored his record 100 points in a game against the Knicks, Rodgers was in the backcourt, feeding him the ball.
        Rodgers played four years in Philadelphia, then went with the team when it became the San Francisco Warriors in 1962-63. He was traded to the Chicago Bulls in 1966, then was dealt to the Cincinnati Royals midway through the 1967-68 season, joining Oscar Robertson to form one of game's most dynamic backcourts. In 1968, Rodgers was selected by the Milwaukee Bucks in the expansion draft, and the next season, his last in the league, he played on the Bucks with Kareem Abdul-Jabbar, who was in his rookie year.
        Hill said that Robertson once told him that ''Guy was the greatest passer, dribbler and ballhandler that he'd ever seen.''
        Chamberlain once described Rodgers as ''better than Cousy or Jerry West or Robertson or Walt Frazier or Peter Maravich or anyone.''
        In a 12-season N.B.A. career, Rodgers averaged 11.7 points and 7.8 assists. He is 10th on the N.B.A. career assists list with 6,917.
        Rodgers is survived by two sons, Tony and Mark, and a daughter, Nicole.
      