
        Harmon Hendricks Goldstone, an architect whose career ranged from creating the 1939 World of Tomorrow to preserving broad swaths of the world of yesterday, died Wednesday at his home on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. He was 89.
        As a moving force behind the formation of the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission and its first full-time chairman, from 1968 to 1973, Mr. Goldstone greatly expanded the panel's influence.
        ''He was there at the birth,'' said Kent L. Barwick, who followed Mr. Goldstone both as the commission's chairman and as president of the Municipal Art Society.
        On Mr. Goldstone's watch, the commission gained the power to regulate landscape architecture and interior spaces like theaters and lobbies. It designated 60 blocks of Greenwich Village and 26 blocks of SoHo as historic districts. And it twice rejected plans by Marcel Breuer for a tower over Grand Central Terminal, setting off a legal battle that ended in vindication for the landmarks law at the United States Supreme Court in 1978.
        Early in that fight, when an aide counseled him that the fledgling commission would have to knuckle under rather than try to stand against the powerful interests supporting a Grand Central skyscraper, Mr. Goldstone answered, ''We may well be torpedoed, but let's go down with all flags flying.''
        Though deeply tied to New York history -- his great-great-grandfather, Harmon Hendricks, was a celebrated copper merchant on South William Street in the early 19th century -- Mr. Goldstone did not think of himself as an antiquarian but ''as one who sees the city's landmarks as a continuity from the past and a commitment to the future.''
        In fact, as an architect, Mr. Goldstone was a modernist.
        Born on the West Side of Manhattan in 1911, he received a bachelor's degree from Harvard College in 1932 and an architectural degree from Columbia University in 1936, after which he joined the firm of Harrison & Fouilhoux.
        There, he worked on developing the spiky Trylon and rotund Perisphere that symbolized the theme ''Building the World of Tomorrow'' at the 1939 New York World's Fair. By Mr. Goldstone's own account, they were ''far out.''
        As the designers struggled to find the proper scale for the fair's abstract spherical centerpiece, Mr. Goldstone's eye was drawn to a pair of enormous gas storage tanks at York Avenue and 62nd Street, Victoria Newhouse wrote in ''Wallace K. Harrison, Architect'' (Rizzoli International Publications, 1989).
        One of the tanks expanded and contracted as it was filled and emptied, reaching a maximum diameter of 200 feet. ''When it became a full sphere, Goldstone persuaded his boss to inspect it,'' Ms. Newhouse wrote. ''Harrison agreed that the size seemed perfect.''
        When Mr. Harrison was named director of planning for the United Nations project in 1947, Mr. Goldstone was put in charge of assessing the organization's space requirements. This he did in the butler's pantry of a makeshift office suite in the Hotel Marguery at Park Avenue and 47th Street, using drawers for files and, he said, with ''my head in a sink!''
        Five years later, Mr. Goldstone formed his own firm, known over time as Goldstone & Dearborn; Goldstone, Dearborn & Hinz; and Goldstone & Hinz. Among its projects were the Aquatic Bird House at the Bronx Zoo (1964), the Osborn Laboratories of Marine Sciences at the New York Aquarium in Coney Island (1965) and the remodeling of the Christie's auction house at Park Avenue and 59th Street (1977).
        Goldstone & Hinz is still in business at 104 East 40th Street, but Mr. Goldstone retired in the early 1990's and devoted his time to reading, said his partner, Theodore V. Hinz. (He was an omnivorous reader -- ''fiction, nonfiction, history, mathematics, science, everything,'' Mr. Goldstone said in 1969.)
        It was as a city official that Mr. Goldstone had the highest profile.
        In 1961, Mr. Goldstone, then president of the Municipal Art Society, was named by Mayor Robert F. Wagner to the Committee for the Preservation of Structures of Historic and Aesthetic Importance, a forerunner of the landmarks commission.
        That year, Mr. Goldstone was also named to the City Planning Commission. He was the first architect to serve on the commission in a long while and The New York Times hailed his appointment, saying he had ''demonstrated his devotion to preservation of the aesthetic, historic and recreational values.''
        On occasion, Mr. Goldstone was at odds with the commission. For instance, he voted in the minority against a proposed heliport to be built atop the Pan Am Building on Park Avenue in 1964.
        ''A few persons would gain a little time,'' he said. ''A great many, through no action of their own, might be involved in a catastrophe.'' In 1977, a New York Airways helicopter tipped over on the roof, sending the blades flying. A woman was killed on the street and four passengers were killed on the pad. Flights never resumed.
        He was outspoken, too, in his opposition to plans by Columbia University to build a gymnasium in nearby Morningside Park. ''From the start,'' he said in 1968, ''Columbia's plans have struck me as financially astute, legally impeccable, administratively stupid, architecturally monstrous and morally indefensible.'' After tumultuous protests on campus, the plans were killed.
        Mr. Goldstone moved from the planning commission to the landmarks commission in 1968, succeeding Geoffrey Platt and becoming its first paid chairman. He saw the preservation of historical and architectural landmarks as ''an enormously stabilizing force in a city and in a society that's increasingly rootless and in a state of flux.''
        During his tenure, 7,271 buildings were designated for preservation, both individually and as part of historic districts, according to a 1987 study by the Society for the Architecture of the City, a private preservation group.
        But Mr. Goldstone was at first known for a ''deliberate, almost delicate'' approach, Mr. Barwick recalled, lest he do anything to jeopardize the fragile underpinnings of the commission. For fear that a blanket designation of Greenwich Village would take in too many undistinguished buildings -- ''dogs,'' he called them -- Mr. Goldstone originally proposed 18 discrete districts.
        ''He was worried about ending up in court and losing the landmarks law,'' Mr. Barwick recalled. ''That made his sure-handedness in the matter of Grand Central all the more impressive.''
        By a unanimous vote in 1969, the commission rejected two plans, one for a 55-story tower that would have preserved the 42nd Street facade of the terminal and one for a 56-story tower that would have demolished the facade. As a palliative, the architect and developer promised that the main concourse would be preserved.
        ''To protect a landmark, one does not tear it down,'' the commission said in response. ''To perpetuate its architectural features, one does not strip them off.''
        Summing up its record under his tenure, Ada Louise Huxtable, the architecture critic of The Times, said in 1974 that the commission had ''become an unexpected and decisive force for neighborhood stabilization'' and found itself ''at a new threshold of power and influence.''
        Mr. Goldstone lived to see a day when the preservation movement was regarded by its critics as so powerful and influential that it had stultified the development of innovative modern architecture in New York City.
        But this was not an end he sought, to judge from ''History Preserved: A Guide to New York City Landmarks and Historic Districts,'' which he wrote with Martha Dalrymple (Simon & Schuster, 1974).
        ''The ultimate strength of a law can sometimes better be tested by its flexibility than by its rigidity,'' they wrote. ''One of the aims of the commission is to keep the past a living and vibrant part of the present. As Ada Louise Huxtable says, you don't do it with hoop skirts.''
        Given the fact that Mr. Goldstone could trace his ancestry to Haym Salomon, a merchant who financed both the American Revolution and the young republic, his keen devotion to history was almost inevitable.
        He was a member of Congregation Shearith Israel, the Spanish and Portuguese Synagogue at Central Park West and 70th Street, whose first sanctuary stood where his great-great-grandfather's copper business was later established.
        In the early 1960's, before there was a landmarks commission, Mr. Goldstone championed the designation of the first Shearith Israel cemetery, near Chatham Square in Lower Manhattan, as a national historic landmark.
        In 1962, Mr. Goldstone also restored the 19th-century chapel by Calvert Vaux at the fourth Shearith Israel cemetery on Cypress Hills Street in Queens. Yesterday afternoon, as the snow began to fall, he was buried there next to his mother and father, leaving no immediate survivors.
      