
        Roderick Ninian Smart, a scholar of comparative religion whose copious writings on the essence of faith informed readers on both sides of the Atlantic, died unexpectedly on Jan. 29 in a hospital in Lancaster, England, apparently of a stroke. He was 73 and lived in Lancaster and Santa Barbara, Calif.
        The author of more than 30 books, Mr. Smart was professor emeritus of religious studies at both the University of California at Santa Barbara and the University of Lancaster.
        He also held visiting appointments in the United States, New Zealand, South Africa and Hong Kong.
        He wrote as Ninian Smart and was considered one of the foremost academic scholars of the state of religion in the 20th century.
        Among his most recent books were ''Dimensions of the Sacred: An Anatomy of the World's Beliefs'' (1996), ''The World's Religions'' (1998), ''Atlas of the World's Religions'' (1998), and ''World Philosophies'' (2000).
        Born to Scottish parents in Cambridge, he was brought up in Glasgow and served as a captain in Royal Army intelligence just after World War II. He learned Chinese, spent a year in Sri Lanka, where he encountered Buddhism and returned to study the classics and philosophy at Oxford University.
        He graduated in 1951 and added a master's degree three years later. In the 1950's he taught at University College of Wales, Yale University (where he learned Pali, the religious language of Buddhism, and Sanskrit) and London University.
        After a stint at Benares Hindu University in India, he was named a professor of theology at Birmingham University in 1961.
        Lancaster University installed him in 1967 as its first professor of religious studies, a post he filled until 1982.
        For some years he spent the fall term at Lancaster and taught at Santa Barbara in the winter and spring.
        In 1988 the University of California at Santa Barbara appointed him J. F. Rowny professor of religious studies, and he received emeritus status in 1998.
        Professor Smart is survived by his wife of 46 years, Libushka Baruffaldi Smart; a son, Roderick, of Tremezzo, Italy; two daughters, Luisabelle Nicholson of Lancaster and Caroline Smart of Glasgow; a brother, Jack, of Australia; and eight grandchildren.
      