
        Ralph Bennett Ryder, one of three siblings who, at the nadir of the Depression, created a little trucking company that became the worldwide billion-dollar powerhouse known as Ryder System, died Dec. 28 at a hospital in Coral Gables, Fla. He was 90 and lived in Miami.
        The Ryder story started in 1933 in Miami when James A. Ryder bought a black 1931 Model A Ford truck for $35 to haul concrete blocks. The Ryder Trucking Company was born.
        Ralph Ryder, a third-year engineering student at the University of Florida, dropped out in 1934 and bought a Ford V-8 to join his brother, doubling the Ryder fleet. A third brother, Harry, repaired the trucks. By 1938, with 15 trucks on the road, they landed their first lease account with a brewing company. They expanded to 50 trucks, used for both hauling and leasing.
        The Ryders first took their leasing business beyond Miami to Jacksonville and Tampa in 1945, and the company grew from there, with James as its boss. Mr. Ryder was in charge of operations, building design and construction at the sites where the Ryders had shifted to leasing the fleet instead of carrying other people's freight. In 1949, there were 5 branches, 450 trucks and revenue of more than $1 million. Through acquisitions, the company expanded nationally and incorporated itself as Ryder System Inc. in 1955. Its shares began trading on the New York Stock Exchange in 1960.
        Ryder expanded to Canada and overseas, initially to Britain and the Netherlands. James Ryder gradually came to a falling-out with the management brought in by the company's board, and a new president took control in 1978.
        He quit as chairman that year, just as his company reached $1 billion in annual revenue. Ralph Ryder, a vice president and board member, left as well, but his stockholdings and pension were in good enough shape to satisfy his love of yachting.
        He is survived by his wife of 61 years, Elsie Thompson Ryder; a daughter, Betty Ryder Thomas, also of Miami; a son, Ralph B. Jr., of Coral Gables; three grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
        Harry Ryder died in 1959. James lost his fortune and pension when he started a new and competing business, Jartran, which went bankrupt. In the years just before his death in 1997, Ryder System relented and provided some support for its founder.
        The company's most recent report on its operations showed sales topping $5 billion and nearly 50,000 employees.
      