
        Anthony J. Giacalone, who was reputed to be a Detroit gangster and was investigated in the disappearance of the former Teamsters boss James R. Hoffa, died on Friday at St. John Hospital and Medical Center in Detroit. He was 82.
        The cause of death was not disclosed. The Detroit Free Press reported early last week that Mr. Giacalone was being treated for heart failure and complications from kidney disease.
        Mr. Giacalone, who federal authorities contend was a high-ranking figure in Detroit organized crime, was investigated for possible involvement in Mr. Hoffa's disappearance on July 30, 1975. Mr. Hoffa, the former head of the Teamsters who was trying to regain control, told a relative on the day he disappeared that he was meeting Mr. Giacalone at the Machus Red Fox restaurant in  Bloomfield Township, near Detroit.
        Mr. Hoffa has not been seen since. The mystery of his fate has produced a wealth of speculation. Many people believe that Mr. Giacalone held a key and carried it to his grave.
        One author who has studied Mr. Hoffa's disappearance said Mr. Giacalone and an associate, Anthony Provenzano, were probably involved.
        ''Were they involved in the actual murder of Hoffa? No. Were they part of the conspiracy? Absolutely. There was no doubt about that,'' said the author, Dan E. Moldea, who wrote ''The Hoffa Wars.''
        Mr. Giacalone, known by the nickname Tony Jack, said he had no plans to meet Mr. Hoffa that day. At the time of Mr. Hoffa's lunch date, Mr. Giacalone's alibi was that he was getting a haircut.
        Mr. Giacalone was never charged in Mr. Hoffa's disappearance, although an F.B.I. spokeswoman said that he was investigated in that case as well as many others. Mr. Giacalone was convicted of tax evasion in 1976 and sentenced to 10 years in prison and was facing a federal indictment on charges including racketeering, conspiracy and extortion at the time of his death.
        ''For a number of years, the F.B.I. has engaged in numerous investigations of Mr. Giacalone,'' said Dawn Clenney, an F.B.I. spokeswoman. ''We will continue to investigate the Hoffa matter.''
        Mr. Moldea said Mr. Hoffa, who had been trying to regain control of the Teamsters union, had been effectively blocked by Mr. Giacalone and Mr. Provenzano, a former Hoffa associate. To exact revenge, Mr. Moldea said, Mr. Hoffa had been cooperating with officials who were investigating organized crime.
        Mr. Moldea said Mr. Giacalone and Mr. Provenzano might have wanted to exact their own revenge on Mr. Hoffa. Mr. Moldea said the two might have arranged for Mr. Hoffa to be killed. ''They probably engineered the plot and had it executed,'' Mr. Moldea said.
        Mr. Provenzano, who died in 1988, was never charged in connection with Mr. Hoffa's disappearance.
        In the weeks and months after the  disappearance, investigators examined clues that pointed in the direction of Mr. Giacalone. One involved the 1975 Mercury automobile that Charles O'Brien, Mr. Hoffa's foster son, had borrowed from Mr. Giacalone's son on the day Mr. Hoffa disappeared. According to a report in The New York Times in 1975, police dogs detected Mr. Hoffa's scent in the trunk and back seat of the car. Investigators were uncertain what conclusions to draw, the report said, because they were not sure when Mr. Hoffa had been in the car.
        Mr. Moldea said Mr. Giacalone joined the Mafia as a young man in Detroit, running errands for bookmakers. Later he became an enforcer for Joseph Zerilli, a reputed crime boss. In was in that capacity, Mr. Moldea said, that Mr. Giacalone earned a reputation as a tough guy and a natty dresser. A Senate investigating committee later described Mr. Giacalone as one of the leading figures in Detroit's organized crime.
        In The Detroit Free Press, Mike Wendland wrote a column on Friday about his occasional sightings of Mr. Giacalone and the ''cold intensity'' of his stare. On one occasion, Mr. Wendland wrote, Mr. Giacalone abruptly stopped in a revolving door, causing a television reporter who had been in pursuit to slam into the glass. That prompted an unusual reaction.
        ''It was the only time I ever saw Giacalone smile,'' Mr. Wendland wrote.
      