
        Johnny Warangkula Tjupurrula, one of the founding members of a thriving school of Aboriginal painters whose work is increasingly prized both in Australia and on the international art market, died on Feb. 12 at Papunya in the western Australian desert near Alice Springs. He was about 75.
        He died a penniless alcoholic. In 1997 one of his paintings, ''Water Dreaming at Kalipinya,'' which he had sold in 1972 for $75, changed hands at a Sotheby's auction in Melbourne for $263,145, setting a record for any Aboriginal work of art. Mr. Tjupurrula's request for 4 percent of the sale price was refused by both seller and buyer.
        Mr. Tjupurrula belonged to a group of Aborigines living in a government settlement at Papunya who in the early 1970's began doing semiabstract paintings of great strength and originality, using symbols drawn from their secret religious beliefs and ceremonies known as Dreamings. Their work, done under the guidance of a white Australian art teacher, Geoffrey Bardon, tended to use bright acrylic paints on canvas and board.
        The new artistic movement spread like wildfire through the Aboriginal population. During the 1980's and 90's the resulting outpouring of art by the country's original inhabitants won increasing acceptance among white Australians and on the international art market as well.
        According to a New York University anthropologist, Fred Myers, the 80 or so Papunya artists alone regularly sell $700,000 to $1 million worth of paintings a year, while the government estimates total sales of Aboriginal ''arts and crafts'' at $200 million a year.
        ''As Australians stopped looking toward Britain or the United States and tried to develop an identity of their own, they had to embrace Aboriginal culture and art as part of their own,'' Professor Myers said.
        The inspirational roots of this art lay in the Aborigines' belief in what they call the Dreamtime. This was the moment of creation, when their ancestors ran out into a half-formed world singing the names of the mountains, rivers and hills, simultaneously bringing them into existence and blazing sacred paths, or Songlines, between them.
        These songs of creation and travel, called Dreamings, are passed down from generation to generation within each Aboriginal clan, serving both as historical records of their ancestors' accomplishments and as maps guiding singers across the desert to sites sacred to their clan.
        ''The Ancients sang their way all over the world,'' wrote the British author Bruce Chatwin in his best-selling account of life among the Aboriginals, ''The Songlines,'' published in 1987. ''They sang the rivers and ranges, the salt pans and sand dunes. They hunted, ate, danced, killed: wherever their tracks led they left a trail of music. They wrapped the whole world in a web of song.''
        In the artistic movement they founded, Mr. Tjupurrula and the other Papunya painters drew on Dreamings for inspiration, developing a kind of expression that owes nothing to European tradition but instead borrows symbols and patterns from body paintings and sand drawings associated with Aboriginal sacred ceremonies.
        Christopher Chippindale, an expert at the Cambridge University Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology, described the work as ''abstract expressionism on the surface but representational underneath'' and said he believed that some of its appeal derived from the Aboriginals' ''mystical and appealing'' theories of creation.
        Many of the early Papunya paintings, including Mr. Tjupurrula's record-setting ''Water Dreaming in Kalipinya,'' were inspired by stories about water because 1971, the year the artists started painting, was one of exceptionally heavy rain around Papunya.
        But a reaction soon set in against revealing what the Aborigines regard as religious secrets to the uninitiated through their pictures, and Mr. Tjupurrula and other painters developed a technique of obscuring particularly sacred objects with small dots, so that their work is sometimes called ''dot painting.''
        In his book ''Art of the Western Desert'' (1991), Mr. Bardon complains that reluctance to disclose sacred knowledge has muted ''the simplicity and directness'' of the work, encouraging a more ''ornamental style'' filled with ''claustrophobic and oppressive stillness.''
        Born around 1925 at Minjilpirri south of Lake Mackay, to speakers of the Luritja language group, Mr. Tjupurrula never went to school and was so frightened the first time he saw a white man that he climbed into a tree to hide.
        His family moved east to the Hermannsburg Mission, where he worked as a construction laborer and went through the full range of tribal initiation ceremonies. In 1954 he was chosen to be one of two Aboriginals presented to Queen Elizabeth II when she was visiting Australia.
        In 1960 the government moved his community to the new settlement at Papunya. Ten years later he began painting, emerging in the 1980's as the most successful artist in the colony, earning up to $10,000 a picture.
        He was unable to save money, however, and his health deteriorated. He lost three fingers from his right hand, and his left arm became useless as a result of an untreated fracture. He drank heavily, and his eyesight weakened. But he continued to paint until the end of his life. Mr. Bardon described him a basically happy man with a slight stutter.
        He is survived by his wife, Gladys Napanangka, seven daughters and two sons.
      