
        Dr. Cesare Maltoni, an Italian oncologist who identified cancer risks in the workplace and campaigned for stricter factory health codes, died on Jan. 22 at his home in Bologna, Italy. He was 70.
        He had suffered heart disease for some time but had continued to work, said the Collegium Ramazzini, an international occupational and environmental group based in Italy. Dr. Maltoni had been its secretary general since its creation in 1982.
        He was known for laboratory investigations that established the cancer-causing properties of industrial substances like benzene and vinyl chloride, a gas once used widely in manufacturing plastics. Joining other members of the collegium, Dr. Maltoni used those findings to press for health regulations in factories in many countries.
        ''Maltoni was a giant in the field of providing a scientific basis for the regulation of occupational and environmental health hazards, especially those that cause cancer,'' said Dr. John C. Bailar III, emeritus professor of health studies at the University of Chicago. ''He had much critically important work in progress at the time of his death, which his colleagues will now have to finish without him.''
        Dr. Maltoni was a founder of the organization along with its first president, Dr. Irving J. Selikoff of the Mount Sinai School of Medicine. Dr. Selikoff, who died in 1992, documented the hazards of asbestos, and Dr. Maltoni exposed dangers from vinyl chloride.
        The two scientists named the collegium in honor of Dr. Bernardino Ramazzini (1633-1714) and based it in his birthplace, Carpi, near Modena. His ''Diseases of Workers,'' published in 1700, helped establish the field of occupational medicine and outlined the health hazards encountered by workers in more than 50 occupations. Dr. Selikoff added asbestos to the list of dangerous agents, and Dr. Maltoni's work did the same with vinyl chloride.
        Their laboratory results brought resistance from industries and resulted in lawsuits. But the results also prompted action by government agencies to eliminate or reduce exposure to certain cancer-causing substances.
        In the 1970's, Dr. Maltoni linked vinyl chloride with a high rate of a rare liver cancer among workers exposed to it. His evidence also tied the chemical to higher rates of lung, brain and other cancers.
        He directed a laboratory housed in the Castle of Bentivoglio, near Bologna. The castle is the seat of the collegium, an independent organization governed by 180 elected scientists and others involved in occupational and environmental safety.
        Cesare Maltoni was born in Faenza, near Ravenna. He graduated from the Medical School of the University of Bologna, where he had been a professor of general pathology since 1962 and a professor of experimental oncology since 1966.
        He published more than 700 scientific papers, articles, conference proceedings and books. From 1964 to 1997, Dr. Maltoni directed the Italian Institute of Oncology of Bologna, and he had been a visiting professor of environmental and occupational carcinogenesis at the Mount Sinai medical school since 1978.
        He attended conferences on the subject by the New York Academy of Sciences and organized national and international conferences.
        Recently, he was organizing a hospice in Bentivoglio for patients with advanced tumors, and he was setting up an outpatient clinic in Bologna to monitor high-risk patients.
        There are no immediate survivors.
      