
        Lionel Hebert, who joined with Jay Hebert to form one of golf's leading brother combinations, each of them winners of the P.G.A. Championship, died on Saturday at his home in Lafayette, La. He was 72.
        He had congestive heart failure, diabetes and kidney problems, his wife, Clara Belle, said.
        From the mid-1950's to the mid-1970's, Lionel and Jay Hebert (pronounced A-bear), Louisiana natives, were leading players on the PGA Tour. Lionel won the St. Petersburg Open (1956), the Tucson Open (1958), the Cajun Classic (1960), the Memphis Open (1962) and the Citrus Open (1966) in addition to capturing the 1957 P.G.A. Championship. He also played on the Ryder Cup team in 1957.
        Jay won the P.G.A. Championship in 1960 -- the Heberts becoming the only brothers to capture that major tournament -- and was the captain of the 1971 Ryder Cup team. He died in 1997 at 74.
        Lionel won his P.G.A. Championship at the Miami Valley Golf Club in Dayton, Ohio, upsetting Dow Finsterwald, 2 and 1, in a scheduled 36-hole final, the last time the tournament used a match-play format.
        Entering that tournament, he was 49th on the earnings list for the year while Finsterwald was third. He had competed twice before in the P.G.A. Championship but had not gone past the fourth round. But in the semifinals, he defeated Walter Burkemo, who had beaten his older brother Jay in the previous round. He then emerged victorious over Finsterwald for his first pro victory and his biggest paycheck: $8,000.
        Lionel Hebert appeared in 580 events on the PGA Tour and the Senior Tour before retiring in 1986, but he never went to the British Open because, as he once recalled, the trip ''was so pricey'' and ''the money wasn't there.''
        A native of Lafayette, he was a barefoot caddie at age 8. He turned pro in 1950, but it was not until the fall of 1956 that he quit his job as a club pro, in Erie, Pa., to become a touring professional. To improve his technique, he studied photos of the swings of golf's greatest players.
        Golf was not Hebert's only forte. He had studied music at Louisiana State University and was a fine trumpet player, carrying horns in his luggage while on tour, gifts from his friends Harry James and Tommy and Jimmy Dorsey. ''I play it whenever I feel down,'' he said after winning the P.G.A. Championship.
        He was certainly upbeat the following year, when he won at Tucson. Next to capturing the P.G.A. Championship, it was his biggest thrill because he proved to himself that his victory in the major tournament was no fluke.
        Hebert was the national vice president of the Professional Golfers Association twice, the chairman of its tournament committee in 1962-63 and 1972-73 and a member of the rules committee.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by two daughters, Jackie Barnhill, of Lafayette, and Mitzi White, of Gretna, La.; a son, Glenn, of Gallatin, Tenn.; nine grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
        The Hebert golf tradition is carried on by Jay's son, John-Paul, who plays on the Hooters satellite tour.
        ''I give him a little tip now and then, just give him a little boost, a little confidence,'' Lionel said last summer.
      