
        Thomas F. Patton, a former chairman of Republic Steel, once one of America's Big Three steel makers, died on Tuesday at his home in Shaker Heights, Ohio. He was 97.
        Republic hired Mr. Patton in 1936 to form an internal legal department; he had already been an outside lawyer for six years, working on the merger that formed Republic.
        As general counsel to Republic in the 1930's and 1940's, he negotiated for Republic during bitter steel strikes. He continued to rise through the company's ranks until his retirement in 1971, having served as general counsel, president, chief executive and chairman.
        Later, as chairman of the American Iron and Steel Institute, Mr. Patton spoke for his industry in Congressional testimony, which included warnings in the 1960's that steel imports would damage the American steel industry. Republic became part of LTV in 1984.
        He is survived by three daughters, Arline P. Brennan, of Leesburg, Va.; Carol P. Moore. of Sea Island, Ga.; and Mary Patton, of Aurora, Ohio; six grandchildren and 12 great-grandchildren. His wife, the former Arline P. Everitt, died in 1983.
        Despite his company's often-adversarial relationship with labor and with government regulators during his tenure, a 1960 newspaper article about Mr. Patton's appointment as Republic's chief executive noted that he counted David McDonald, president of the United Steelworkers of America, and Arthur Goldberg, then secretary of labor, among his friends.
        Mr. Patton served on a number of corporate boards, including American Telephone and Telegraph and Metropolitan Life Insurance. He was president of the board of trustees of Ohio State University, his alma mater, and helped to raise hundreds of millions of dollars. He served on the board of trustees of John Carroll University as well.
        He was active in the Boy Scouts, receiving the Silver Buffalo, Silver Beaver and St. George awards.
        ''He was one of the real national figures in the steel industry,'' said Alfred F. Connors, a former mayor of Cleveland Heights who was director of public relations at Republic Steel when Mr. Patton was chairman.
        Mr. Connors said that the plain-spoken Mr. Patton enjoyed an easy rapport with workers. During the steel strike of 1959, the company made a film for its employees to explain its contract offer, and Mr. Patton was the obvious choice to be a spokesman for the company.
        But the executive bristled as discussions with the company's lawyers bogged down over whether Mr. Patton could legally say ''This offer is good for you, the steel workers,'' since the statement might not be true for some of them. After long testy negotiations that included attempts to quantify the percentage of workers who would benefit from the contract, ''he got fed up with the lawyers,'' recalled Mr. Connors, and said, ''I'll say, 'It's good for you!' ''
        Workers responded favorably to the film, Mr. Connors said. ''We showed it to people in the mill, and they said, 'I trust that white-haired old guy.' ''
      