
        Dr. Theodore Lidz, a Yale professor of psychiatry who explored the background causes of schizophrenia and specialized in the treatment of it, died Feb. 16 at his home in Hamden, Conn. He was 90.
        Dr. Lidz studied the relationships between normal development and the development of mental disorders. To understand his patients, he went beyond their personal histories to fathom the familial, social and cultural factors that molded their mental states.
        He wrote extensively on the subject in journals and books, several of which remain in print. Among them is his signature work, ''The Person: His and Her Development Throughout the Life Cycle,'' first published in 1968. Other books include ''The Family and Human Adaptation,'' ''Hamlet's Enemy: Madness and Myth in Hamlet,'' ''Origin and Treatment of Schizophrenic Disorders'' and ''The Relevance of the Family to Psychoanalytic Theory.''
        One of his longtime collaborators was his wife, Dr. Ruth Wilmanns Lidz, a German-born psychiatrist, and together they studied the psychiatric profiles of the parents of patients hospitalized for schizophrenia. They also wrote ''Oedipus in the Stone Age: A Psychiatric Study of Masculinization in Papua New Guinea.'' He wrote ''Schizophrenia and the Family'' with Dr. Stephen Fleck. A long-term study based on interviews, it was one of the most detailed clinical studies of schizophrenic patients and their families.
        A native New Yorker, Theodore Lidz graduated from Columbia College in 1931 and got his medical degree there in 1936.
        As a lieutenant colonel in World War II, he served at Army hospitals in New Zealand, Fiji and Burma. At one point he tended to several hundred psychiatric casualties of the fighting on Guadalcanal.
        Dr. Lidz taught at Johns Hopkins University until 1951, when he joined the Yale faculty. He retired as a professor emeritus in 1978 but continued to publish, lecture and see patients into the mid-1990's.
        Dr. Lidz is survived by three sons, Victor, of Villanova, Pa., Charles, of Hebron, Me., and Jerome, of Eugene, Ore.; eight grandchildren; and five great-grandchildren. Dr. Ruth Lidz died in 1995.
      