
        C. M. Woodhouse, a Briton who led Greek resistance forces against Hitler, wrote elegant books about modern Greece and was an unwavering opponent of dictatorship in Greece, died on Feb. 13 in Oxford, England.
        He was 83, and since his brother's death in 1998 had held the family title of Lord Terrington.
        His life ranged far beyond his beloved Greece. As head of British intelligence in Tehran, Mr. Woodhouse helped persuade the United States to organize the 1953 coup that overthrew the nationalist government of Mohammed Mossadegh and installed the shah in power.
        In 1988, he wrote in the British magazine Encounter that Kurt Waldheim, as a German officer in Greece, had signed a report naming a British prisoner as a resistance leader, thereby guaranteeing his execution. The allegation was the first to link Mr. Waldheim, the former secretary general of the United Nations, directly to the British soldier's death. Mr. Waldheim denied any connection to what British politicians called cold-blooded murder.
        Mr. Woodhouse was also elected to the British Parliament for more than a decade, headed the Royal Institute of International Affairs and wrote a critical biography of Dostoyevsky.
        Always, he displayed a wry, self-deprecating sense of humor. Writing of his relative inexperience during his service in Greece in his autobiography, ''Something Ventured'' (Granada, 1982), he said, ''I can't think why I was trusted with so much responsibility, but at least my advice was always ignored.''
        His career was not helped by his penchant for frankness. ''He remained a somewhat isolated figure,'' The Independent, a London daily newspaper, said in its obituary. ''It could not have helped that throughout his life he spoke his mind openly and forcefully, without fear or favor.''
        Christopher Montague Woodhouse was born in London on May 11, 1917. His fascination with Greece began with a visit as a child when he bought a phrasebook called ''An Englishman in Greece.'' It advised expressing thanks by exclaiming, ''Hurrah for Athens, Mother of all Arts!''
        He performed brilliantly as a classics scholar at Oxford, winning the highest possible honors. He then studied at the British School in Athens, where, on Sept. 3, 1939, he heard ''the thin, plaintive voice'' of Prime Minister Neville Chamberlain on the radio, as he declared war on Germany.
        He hurried home to join the Royal Artillery. When Britain sent a military mission to Greece after Italy invaded in October 1940, he served in Athens until Italy's surprisingly quick defeat.
        He was then assigned to Crete, where he was having breakfast with Maj. Gen. Bernard Freyberg on May 20, 1941, and discussing an expected invasion by German paratroopers. Halfway through the meal, he looked up and saw that the sky was full of German aircraft. ''What should I do?'' he pondered. ''It seemed impolite, not to say insubordinate, to interrupt.''
        Finally, as Mr. Woodhouse described in his memoirs, he began to speak, only to notice General Freyberg staring at his watch. In one of the war's most famous remarks, he declared, ''They're dead on time!''
        In October 1942, having risen from officer-cadet to colonel, he was parachuted into Greece with a team of saboteurs. He was second in command to Col. E. C. W. Myers in blowing up the railroad viaduct at Gorgopotamos, which put the railroad out of service for six weeks. Communists and anti-Communist guerrillas cooperated, one of the few times they did so.
        In the summer of 1944, Colonel Woodhouse was invited to London to spend a weekend with the foreign secretary, Anthony Eden. The only other guest was Davina Lytton, the widow of the Earl of Erne.
        Colonel Woodhouse found her ''ethereally beautiful.'' They married in 1945.
        Lady Davina died in 1995. Mr. Woodhouse is survived by a daughter, Emma Johnson-Gilbert, and two sons, Christopher and Nicholas.
        After the war, Mr. Woodhouse turned down offers to teach at Oxford and Cambridge to serve as secretary general to the Allied mission to observe the 1946 Greek elections.
        He worked briefly for the Nuffield Foundation and private industry, and then joined the Foreign Service. He emerged in the early 1950's as a major figure in Britain's successful effort to persuade the United States to overthrow Prime Minister Mossadegh. A recent Central Intelligence Agency history identified him as chief of station for British intelligence in Tehran.
        Britain was eager to reverse Iran's nationalization of the Anglo-Iranian Oil Company, later renamed British Petroleum. In his autobiography, Mr. Woodhouse said that on a secret mission to Washington he was careful to portray the issue as fighting Communism, rather than helping the British oil company.
        In 1959, he won a seat in Parliament, representing Oxford. He served as a junior Home Office minister, and was considered a candidate to become foreign secretary, according to The Times of London. But the Conservatives' defeat in the 1964 election ended his hopes.
        Though he was re-elected in 1964, he lost by a narrow margin in 1966. He won the seat back in 1970 and held it until 1974.
        He was director general of the Royal Institute of International Affairs, Britain's equivalent to the Council on Foreign Relations, from 1955 to 1959. He briefly served as editor of Penguin Books, and was a visiting professor of modern Greek at King's College in London.
        He became an outspoken critic of the Greek officers who seized control in a coup in 1967 and ruled until 1974, as he wrote in ''The Rise and Fall of the Greek Colonels'' (Granada, 1985), which received good reviews
        Mr. Woodhouse wrote that he would have liked to have been born in Florence in 1417 ''to enjoy the early Renaissance and to witness the Council of Greeks and Latins in 1439.'' But he said he was ''content to have been born exactly five centuries later, in time to witness the end of the era which those miracles began.''
        Correction:  March 31, 2001, Saturday  An obituary on March 4 about C. M. Woodhouse a Briton who led Greek resistance forces against Hitler, referred incompletely to a wartime episode involving Kurt Waldheim, former secretary general of the United Nations, who was a German officer in Greece. Mr. Woodhouse asserted in 1988 that Mr. Waldheim had signed a report naming a British prisoner as a resistance leader, thus assuring his execution. The article noted Mr. Waldheim's denial of the charge, but should also have stated that a British Defense Ministry investigation concluded in 1989 that Mr. Waldheim was blameless in the prisoner's death.
      