
        John M. Gravitt, a former foreman for GE Aircraft Engines who made it easier for whistle-blowers and the federal government to win damages in fraud cases involving government contracts, died on Friday. Mr. Gravitt, who lived in Cincinnati, was 61.
        The cause was complications from diabetes, according to his wife, Marlene.
        Mr. Gravitt, who worked in the early 1980's for the GE Aircraft plant in Evandale, a Cincinnati suburb,  contended that his supervisors were billing the government for work done on the B-1 bomber when the time had actually been spent on commercial projects, said James B. Helmer Jr., a lawyer with Helmer, Martins & Morgan who represented Mr. Gravitt. After the supervisors ignored his complaints, Mr. Helmer said, Mr. Gravitt reported his findings in a letter to the president of the aircraft engine group. ''He was laid off the next day,'' Mr. Helmer said.
        Mr. Helmer advised his client to sue General Electric under the False Claims Act of 1863, then a little-known statute signed into law by President Abraham Lincoln. The regulation allows a private citizen with knowledge of fraud against the government to sue individuals or corporations on behalf of the attorney general. Mr. Gravitt's suit was the first one brought under the statute in 40 years, Mr. Helmer said. Mr. Gravitt and the government settled with G.E. in 1989. The value of the settlement has never been disclosed but was greater than the $3.5 million reported at the time, Mr. Helmer said. Mr. Gravitt received 10 percent to 30 percent of that amount.
        ''Not many people could have done what Jack Gravitt did,'' said Mr. Helmer, noting that while the suit was pending Mr. Gravitt received death threats.
        Mr. Gravitt's suit led to federal legislation, passed in 1986, that made it easier for employees to sue under the False Claims Act. The amount recovered by the Justice Department in fraud cases involving government contracts swelled to more than $1 billion last year from $25 million in 1985, Mr. Helmer said.
        Mr. Gravitt was born on Jan. 28, 1940, in Cincinnati. He grew up in Dallas, attended Baylor University and served in the Marines during the Vietnam War, receiving two purple hearts.
        After he was fired by G.E., Mr. Gravitt went on to work as a machinist foreman for the Ford Motor Company, his wife said. He retired in 1991.
        Mr. Gravitt's experience in the Marines helped make him stoic enough to persist with his whistle-blowing case despite tremendous pressure to drop the matter, she said. ''As far as he was concerned, it was an act of treason to take an engine that cost $1 million and make the government pay $2 million,'' Ms. Gravitt said. ''It meant there was one less engine the government had to give to soldiers.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Gravitt is survived by two daughters, Kathryn V. Gravitt and Shannon Gravitt, and a stepson, Sean Bandy, all of Cincinnati, and three grandchildren.
      