
        Ariel G. Loewy, a cell biologist who helped unravel the process of blood clotting, died on Feb. 13 at Bryn Mawr Hospital in Pennsylvania. He was 75.
        The cause was complications from a stroke, his family said.
        Dr. Loewy was widely recognized for having found the last of the baker's dozen steps that the body goes through to stem bleeding. He identified an enzyme, Factor XIII, that binds proteins together to form what amounts to a plug in the wound.
        ''It's the last step in blood clotting,  and that's the thing that prevents you from bleeding to death,'' said Dr. Melvin Santer, a longtime friend and colleague at Haverford College in Pennsylvania, where Dr. Loewy taught from 1953 to 2000.
        Dr. Loewy was teaching at the Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine at the time of his death.
        Dr. Loewy made his Factor XIII discoveries in the 1950's and 1960's, starting when he was doing postdoctoral work at Harvard. Besides aiding the overall understanding of clotting, his discoveries helped researchers develop treatments for people who have bleeding problems because they lack Factor XIII.
        Over the years, Dr. Loewy looked beyond blood clotting to how, when the wound is stabilized and clotting begins to carry its own risks, the body undoes the process. Colleagues said the work had implications for treating diseases related to clotting.
        Dr. Barbara O. Alving, the director of the division of blood diseases and resources at the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute, said that while Dr. Loewy was best known for Factor XIII, his strength lay in his multidisciplinary approach, blending the sciences. ''He just didn't stay in one narrow area,'' Dr. Alving said.
        Dr. Loewy was also credited with persuading Haverford officials to revamp the college's biology department, giving it a focus on molecular and cell biology that was then unheard of for an undergraduate institution. Eventually, students at the college began doing research comparable to that being done by graduate students.
        The goal, he said in a 1985 interview with The Philadelphia Inquirer, was to give students an early grounding in the real world of science.
        ''It's less of a kind of mysterious priesthood out there,'' he said.
        Dr. Loewy was the co-author of two widely used biology textbooks: 'Cell, Structure and Function'' and ''Biology.'' He was a past editor of the journal Thrombosis Research.
        Ariel Gideon Loewy was born in Bucharest, Romania, on March 12, 1925. His family left for England in 1936 and then moved to Canada in 1941. He came to the United States in 1948.
        He is survived by his wife, Martha R. Hurt Loewy of Haverford, Pa.; three sons, Michael, of Philadelphia, Andreas, of Lafayette, La., and Daniel, of Havertown, Pa.; two daughters, Eva Best of Roanoke, Va., and Ridley MacLean of Hertford, England; and a sister, Neri Bloomfield of Montreal.
        As a graduate student at the University of Pennsylvania, he helped solve the question of how cells move. Studying the slime mold, an organism that propels itself about in search of bacteria to eat, he concluded that the process was essentially the same as a muscle contraction.
        It was groundbreaking work, but when it came time to write it up, Dr. Loewy found he needed only five pages to describe it, his wife recalled. His advisers were not pleased.
        ''They said it was too short,'' Mrs. Loewy said. ''He said there was nothing else to say, and so he took it back and typed it in larger type, and put in more illustrations, and they accepted it.''
      