
        Samuel J. Silverman, a skilled litigator in a variety of high-profile cases who later served 20 years as a judge and surrogate in New York, died on Tuesday at the Weill Cornell Medical Center of New York-Presbyterian Hospital. He was 92 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        At his death, he was a senior counsel at the firm of Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison. He first joined its predecessor in 1946 as a partner engaged in litigation matters. After serving on the bench from 1963 to 1984, he rejoined the firm.
        Mr. Silverman was co-counsel for Dr. Robert J. Oppenheimer, the nuclear physicist, at his loyalty hearing. Dr. Oppenheimer, a central figure in the development of the atomic bomb, advocated firm civilian and international control of nuclear energy and strongly opposed the development of the hydrogen bomb. He was labeled a security risk in 1953 by what was then the Atomic Energy Commission.
        Mr. Silverman also represented Anne Frank's father, Otto Frank, in a lawsuit over a proposed version of the hit Broadway play ''The Diary of Anne Frank.'' The original play, written by Frances Goodrich and Albert Hackett and staged in 1955, won a Pulitzer Prize and a Tony Award. It was based on Anne's diary, discovered by her father and published in 1947 to worldwide acclaim.
        Mr. Frank had rejected an earlier stage adaptation by the writer Meyer Levin that was far less sentimental and did not mute the Franks' Jewishness. Mr. Levin sued, and his suit became a crusade that would lead him, years later, to write a book about his quest called ''The Obsession.'' After years of litigation, a $15,000 settlement was reached in consideration of Mr. Levin's assignment of all rights and to avoid further controversy.
        Mr. Silverman also prevailed on behalf of Joseph Papp in his effort to present Shakespeare's plays free in Central Park. Parks Commissioner Robert Moses rejected the idea, but Mr. Silverman won the right for Mr. Papp to go ahead with his plan.
        Samuel Joshua Silverman was born on Sept. 25, 1908, in Odessa, then part of Russia. His parents brought him to this country as a preschooler, and he graduated Phi Beta Kappa from Columbia College in 1928. He received his law degree in 1930 at Columbia Law School, where he was a Kent scholar and an editor of the Columbia Law Review.
        Before joining Paul, Weiss he served as an assistant corporation counsel for New York City.
        A Democrat, he was elected a justice of the Supreme Court in 1962 and served four years, then moved to the Surrogate's Court for New York County. He resigned in 1969 and was re-elected to the Supreme Court bench.
        He moved up to the court's Appellate Division in 1976, retired in 1984 and returned to Paul, Weiss as counsel. But he kept his ties to the court as a special master for the Appellate Division from 1985 to 1990, and as a member and special counsel to its disciplinary commission on judiciary ethics until 1998.
        Mr. Silverman is survived by his wife of 60 years, the former Claire Gfroerer; a brother, Joe, of Brooklyn; and two sisters, Anne Schnapp and Rebecca Lirtzman, both of Brooklyn.
        In an interview some years ago, Mr. Silverman, a cross-examiner on behalf of Dr. Oppenheimer, described that episode in his life as a ''very rough and heartbreaking experience.'' It was also, he said, a public service rendered by his firm and by himself, and ''a blow against McCarthyism.''
        It made him proud in 1963, he said, when a vindicated Dr. Oppenheimer was presented with the Enrico Fermi Award, the highest honor given by the very same agency that 10 years earlier had withdrawn his security clearance.
      