
        James D. St. Clair, the Boston lawyer who represented President Richard M. Nixon in the Watergate scandal, died on Saturday at a nursing home in Westwood, Mass. He was 80.
        In a half-century as a trial lawyer, Mr. St. Clair developed a reputation as a dignified, courteous, highly competent adviser to a wide range of clients who spanned the political spectrum.
        In 1954, two decades before Watergate, Mr. St. Clair served as an assistant to Joseph N. Welch, the fabled Boston lawyer who, as counsel to the United States Army, criticized the tactics used by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy in investigating suspected Communists.
        Mr. St. Clair represented the Rev. William Sloane Coffin in 1968, when Mr. Coffin, then chaplain of Yale University, was accused of conspiring to counsel young men on how to evade the draft.
        He represented the Boston School Committee in a lawsuit filed by black parents trying to desegregate public schools, and he represented Maine and South Carolina and the town of Mashpee, Mass., in cases involving Indian land claims.
        In the early 1990's, he investigated the practices of the Boston Police Department at the request of Raymond L. Flynn, who was then the mayor.
        In 1974, Mr. St. Clair was criticized by some people for defending Mr. Nixon. They said he helped the White House maintain a pretense of cooperation while actually withholding evidence from the special prosecutor, Leon Jaworski, and the House Judiciary Committee.
        But Mr. St. Clair insisted at the time that he was representing the office of the presidency, not Mr. Nixon as an individual.
        ''I don't represent Mr. Nixon personally,'' Mr. St. Clair said in an interview. ''I represent him in his capacity as president.''
        Mr. St. Clair was regarded as an old-fashioned barrister, an advocate unattached to any cause, ready to take on any client.
        ''Lawyers don't have the luxury of picking and choosing cases in which they believe,'' Mr. St. Clair said after he was named special counsel to President Nixon in January 1974. ''You should not identify personal ideologies with the lawyer. Then you would only have a regurgitation of ideologies rather than, hopefully, an objective analysis of the issues.''
        Mr. St. Clair's description of his professional role neatly complemented a major theme of his most famous client's defense. Mr. Nixon said he was fighting to preserve the presidency, not himself.
        As Mr. Nixon's chief defense lawyer, Mr. St. Clair tried to discredit the testimony of the president's principal accuser, John W. Dean III. While acknowledging that Mr. Nixon had made politically damaging statements in tape-recorded conversations with White House aides, Mr. St. Clair insisted that the president had not committed any crimes.
        ''Not once does it appear that the president of the United States was engaged in a criminal plot to obstruct justice,'' Mr. St. Clair said in sending transcripts of the conversations to Congress in April 1974.
        Mr. St. Clair argued the case of the United States v. Nixon before the Supreme Court on July 8, 1974. He asserted broad claims of executive privilege, urged the court to avoid ''political questions'' related to Watergate and said the justices should stay their hand until the impeachment process had run its course.
        In a unanimous decision 16 days later, the court methodically demolished Mr. St. Clair's arguments and unanimously ordered President Nixon to surrender 64 White House tape recordings needed by the special prosecutor for the trial of the president's top aides. One of the tapes included evidence linking Mr. Nixon to a conspiracy to obstruct justice. He resigned from office on Aug. 9, 1974.
        James Draper St. Clair was born on April 14, 1920, in Akron, Ohio. He  received a bachelor's degree in 1941 from the University of Illinois and graduated from Harvard Law School in 1947 after serving as a Navy officer for three years, from 1942 to 1945.
        He joined the Boston law firm Hale & Dorr in 1949 and became a senior partner in 1954. For more than 25 years, he taught the techniques of trial practice to students at Harvard Law School.
        Mr. St. Clair is survived by his wife of 56 years, Billie, of Wellesley, Mass.; three children, Peggy and Thomas, of Wellesley, and Scott, of Waban, Mass.; and eight grandchildren.
        Colleagues said Mr. St. Clair was always a gentleman in court, and they noted that he did not exploit his Watergate experience or write a memoir.
        One of his law partners, Jerome P. Facher, said: ''He was courtly and courteous, but a vigorous advocate. You don't see that style anymore.''
      