
        Louis Faurer, who pushed photography in an anything-goes direction in the 1940's and 50's, producing images taken on city streets that were raw, tender and often melancholy, died on March 2 in Manhattan. He was 84.
        His offhand style of street photography has been more commonly associated with Robert Frank. But by the time the two met in 1947 at the Design Laboratory, run by Alexey Brodovitch, art director of Harper's Bazaar, Mr. Faurer had been observing the bleak side of American urban life for about a decade, his style well in place.
        Mr. Faurer is probably best known for his 1950 black-on-black picture of a line of big, gleaming cars. But much of his best, psychologically charged work is of people. In an untitled picture taken in 1937 in Philadelphia, the trousers, jacket cuffs and cane of a seated man are in sharp focus, as are a box of pencils and a sign announcing ''I am totally blind.'' Hurrying past him are the blurred figures of passers-by.
        Years before Diane Arbus turned her camera on the physically unlovely, Mr. Faurer was taking quiet measure of the seemingly dissonant on city streets. Female twins in a 1948 picture have identical hairstyles, glasses and dresses; one is frowning at the camera. ''Eddie,'' taken in New York in 1948, is a gentle portrait of a hapless-seeming man, his gaze focused intently downward, one hand holding a cloth tote and the other a mismatched sprig of flowers.
        Mr. Faurer never became widely known. ''He was a terribly underrated photographer,'' said the photographer Arnold Newman, who first saw Mr. Faurer's work in the 1940's when he was an assistant in the studio that Mr. Newman shared with Ben Rose. ''Many of us thought he was a wonderful photographer,'' Mr. Newman said. ''Somehow he wasn't recognized.''
        Deborah Bell, a photography dealer who was a close friend of Mr. Faurer's for about 10 years before she represented him from 1988 to 1992, attributed Mr. Faurer's relatively small output to an exacting perfectionism. ''Something has to be 100 percent,'' she recalled him saying again and again. But Mr. Faurer also ''functioned on raw nerves,'' she said, ''not on logic.'' He couldn't, she said, ''be practical and logical.''
        From the late 1940's through the mid-70's, Mr. Faurer worked as a fashion photographer, producing images first for Junior Bazaar, then for magazines like Harper's Bazaar, Vogue and Flair. But most of his fashion prints and negatives were probably thrown away, Ms. Bell said. Before leaving on one of his trips to Paris in the late 1960's or early 70's, she said, Mr. Faurer had left that body of work with an acquaintance in New York. When he returned to the city, he was repeatedly told to retrieve his things or they would be thrown out. Mr. Faurer never picked them up.
        What remains of his fashion work -- reproductions in magazines and about a dozen vintage prints and original large-format transparencies -- reveals a photographer who seemed to emphasize the fleeting nature of his subject by highlighting its ephemeral grace.
        Born on Aug. 28, 1916, in Philadelphia to Polish immigrant parents, he developed an interest in art when he was a boy. He bought his first camera from the photographer Ben Somoroff, who introduced him to the medium in 1937. After studying commercial art, he painted advertising signs and worked as a photographic technician in portrait studios.
        In 1948 Mr. Faurer's work came to the attention of Edward Steichen, who included a number of his pictures in a group show, ''In and Out of Focus: A Survey of Today's Photography,'' at the Museum of Modern Art. Steichen also included Mr. Faurer's photographs in the 1955 ''Family of Man'' exhibition. Four years later, Helen Gee gave Mr. Faurer a solo exhibition at her Greenwich Village gallery, Limelight.
        It wasn't until 1977 that he had another solo exhibition, this time at the Marlborough Gallery in Manhattan. In quick order he received grants from the National Endowment for the Arts (in 1978, 1981 and 1982) and a Guggenheim Fellowship (1979-80). In the late 70's and early 80's, he taught at various schools, including Yale University and what was then the New School for Social Research.
        While running to catch a bus in 1984, Mr. Faurer was hit by a car and never fully recovered from his injuries. He is survived by a son, Mark, of Brooklyn, and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Faurer's photographs are to be shown in a retrospective at the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston, Jan. 20 to April 14, 2002.
        In his unforgiving perfectionism, he might have been expected to cast a jaundiced eye on everything that crossed his path, but he was surprisingly generous when it came to the subjects of his work. For the catalog of a 1981 solo exhibition of his work at the Art Gallery of the University of Maryland in College Park, he wrote, ''My eyes search for people who are grateful for life, people who forgive and whose doubts have been removed, who understand the truth, whose enduring spirit is bathed by such piercing white light as to provide their present and future with hope.''
      