
        Morton Downey Jr., whose loudmouthed manner and sneering, smoke-in-your-face approach to guests on his television show gave him a wildly popular, albeit short, career as a national talk show host in the 1980's, died on Monday in Los Angeles. He was 67 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The cause was lung cancer and other respiratory ailments, his family told a Los Angeles television station on Monday night.
        Mr. Downey had a remarkably varied career before he became a bullying cult figure and a spokesman for right-wing causes.
        Born Sean Morton Downey Jr., he was the son of the Irish tenor and business executive Sean Morton Downey and Barbara Bennett, an actress and dancer, who gave him an impeccable and comfortable upbringing.
        He attended a military school and New York University, later receiving a law degree from a correspondence school and a Ph.D. from an unaccredited college in California. He emulated his father by becoming a singer on Dick Clark's Caravan of Stars.
        In the 1960's Mr. Downey also recorded songs, produced records and worked as a disc jockey for more than a dozen radio stations. He was a co-founder of the American Basketball Association.
        He traveled to Nigeria after the Biafran war to aid its victims and raised money to build hospitals for them. Pope Paul VI knighted him for his humanitarian work in the early 1970's.
        At the time he was employed by the Canteen Corporation, where he rose to vice president. He worked as a political consultant and presented himself as a candidate for the presidential nomination in 1980, first for the Democrats and then for the American Independent Party.
        He then became a political lobbyist, but in 1982 found his métier as the host of talk and interview shows on various stations from Orlando, Fla., to Sacramento, Calif., to Chicago. He wound up in Secaucus, N.J., and in 1987 started ''The Morton Downey Jr. Show'' on cable television.
        He made his debut with an episode titled ''Women in Porn.'' The show quickly became a hit and was syndicated nationally in 1988 from his base at WWOR, with a live audience howling ''Mort! Mort! Mort!'' and a chain-smoking Mr. Downey bellowing insults like ''Zip it, fathead!''
        Quickly dubbed ''Mort the Mouth,'' he rode a wave of public rage. Once he threw representatives of the Ku Klux Klan off his set, and Seka, a pornographic film star, walked out on an interview with him in a huff. But as an early purveyor of shock and tabloid-style television, he proved to be a short-lived phenomenon.
        Advertisers seemed less enthusiastic than Mr. Downey's rowdy audience, and his off-screen antics did not bolster his appeal.
        At one point he claimed to have been assaulted in a San Francisco airport bathroom by a group of neo-Nazi skinheads, a report that the police discounted.
        In September 1989 the show's producers and MCA-TV, its distributor, announced its demise. Mr. Downey's several attempts at a comeback failed.
        He lost one lung to cancer in 1996, after which he became a crusader against tobacco, appearing on television shows to spread his message.
        He is survived by his wife, Lori Krebs, and their daughter, Seanna Micaela, both of Los Angeles; three daughters from previous marriages, Tracey, Kelli and Melissa; and seven grandchildren.
      