
        Robert Ludlum, who wrote his first novel at 42 and whose masterly, multi-tiered plots about idealistic heroes and relentless villains led his 21 books to sell more than 290 million copies, died on Monday at a hospital in Naples, Fla. He was 73.
        The cause was a heart attack, the hospital said.
        Mr. Ludlum, who lived in Naples and also had a home in Montana, became a writer after establishing himself as a successful actor and theatrical producer.
        ''People called me all kinds of a nut,'' he said in a news release in 1973. ''But my wife said, 'If you really feel this way, do it.' ''
        So a friend of a friend showed his first manuscript to a publisher, who in turn gave it to Henry Morrison, a literary agent. The publisher said it was not right for his house but just might make somebody a few thousand dollars. The result was ''The Scarlatti Inheritance'' (World Publishing, 1971), which follows several financiers who back Hitler's Third Reich.
        The book was a Book-of-the-Month Club selection and a best seller in both hardcover and paperback, but Mr. Ludlum hedged his bets by continuing to do voice-overs for television commercials for Tuna Helper and Plunge bathroom cleaner, among other products.
        Within two years, he had published two more successful books, ''The Osterman Weekend'' (World, 1972), and ''The Matlock Paper'' (Dial, 1973), and voice-overs became a memory.
        His novels have been translated into 32 languages and, in sales, are at the top of a genre that might be called international conspiracies. Even when criticizing him for convoluted plots, simplistic morality and other real or imagined sins, critics invariably referred to his books as page-turners.
        Writing in The New York Times in 1978, John Leonard complained that Mr. Ludlum ''finds his characters on the back of cereal boxes, his prose in movie magazines, his sex in the want ads and his paranoia in our dental cavities.''
        He continued: ''Nevertheless, he pleases and seduces, telling his story like a man who must get it done before the house burns down around us. I sprained my wrist turning his pages.''
        Some critics simply reveled in the verbal show. ''Reading a Ludlum novel is like watching a James Bond film: The action is so slickly paced, the political details so all-consuming, the weapons and women so blatantly steeped in sex appeal . . . all in the name of discovering a truth that involves complicated weapons, wily governments and buxom blondes,'' Rebecca Ascher-Walsh wrote in Entertainment Weekly. ''Hey, works for us.''
        Mr. Ludlum was born on May 25, 1927, in New York City and grew up in suburban New Jersey. After his father died in the mid-1930's, his mother sent him to private schools in Connecticut. He loved participating in school theatrical productions.
        At 16, while still a student at the Cheshire Academy, he began auditioning for shows in New York. ''It was like a kid running away to join the circus,'' he said in an interview with The Chicago Tribune. In 1943, to his astonishment, he won a role in the Broadway production of ''Junior Miss'' and then played another part with the show's national touring company.
        While on the road in Detroit, he crossed into Windsor, Ontario, and tried to join the Royal Canadian Air Force but was turned down because of his youth. In 1945 he joined the Marines and served in the South Pacific. He kept a log of his tour of duty  that reached nearly 500 pages.
        But the log was lost on the first night of his discharge in San Francisco. ''So was the night,'' he said.
        For the next six years he acted, appearing in several Broadway productions in minor parts and in 200 television dramas.
        ''Usually I got cast as a lawyer or a homicidal killer,'' he told The Chicago Tribune. ''But I got bored with the total lack of control an actor has.''
        So he became a producer, convinced that the future of theater depended on a vibrant network of regional playhouses. He first worked at the North Jersey Playhouse in Fort Lee, N.J., and three years later, with the help of grants, established the Playhouse-on-the-Mall in Paramus, N.J. He was frustrated because the theatergoers seemed to like less challenging fare best.
        ''When you did something exciting and good, you could shoot a moose in the lobby for all the people who ever came,'' he said.
        So he started to write. He learned to get up at 4:30 in the morning to scrawl the 2,000 or so words on a yellow legal pad that constituted his day's work. In his previous career in the theater he had returned home around that time.
        He said he wrote novels of paranoia, not thrillers. They depicted individuals trying to cope with far larger and more complex forces and systems.
        ''What I don't like in this country and the world is largeness -- large corporations, large governments, and everybody in the City of Los Angeles,'' he said in an interview with The Times Book Review in 1978.
        Mr. Morrison said that Mr. Ludlum was survived by his wife, Karen; two sons, Michael of New Jersey and Jonathan of Colorado; and a daughter, Glynis, who lives in New England. He declined to give more precise locations for the family. Mr. Ludlum's first wife, Mary, died in 1996.
        Aside from the voice-overs, Mr. Ludlum acted only once after leaving the theater, in an American Express commercial. He played a very successful author riding the luxurious Orient Express.
      