
        Carl A. Capasso, a businessman who went from being an obscure city sewer contractor to a lead player in a bizarre municipal scandal involving a former Miss America, died yesterday. He was 55.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, his son Michael said.
        Mr. Capasso became a staple of tabloid newspaper coverage in the late 1980's when he was charged with scheming with Bess Myerson, his companion at the time, to reduce his alimony payments. Ms. Myerson, a former Miss America, had served as the city's cultural affairs commissioner under Mayor Edward I. Koch.
        Mr. Capasso, Ms. Myerson and Justice Hortense W. Gabel of State Supreme Court were accused of collaborating to reduce Mr. Capasso's payments to his wife, Nancy.
        The central issue was whether Ms. Myerson, in her city position, gave a job to Justice Gabel's daughter, Sukhreet, in order to induce the justice to reduce temporary alimony payments in Mr. Capasso's divorce case in 1983.
        All three were acquitted during the 1988 trial of the charges, which included a conspiracy count, three fraud counts and a bribery count against all three defendants and an additional obstruction of justice count against Ms. Myerson.
        The not guilty verdict ended an unusual and highly emotional drama -- a trial that saw a daughter testifying against her mother and the mayor of New York testifying for the first time in a corruption trial.
        Mr. Capasso remained in custody throughout the trial, as he was serving his sentence on unrelated tax charges. Newspapers at the time labeled Mr. Capasso's ordeal with Ms. Myerson, who was 20 years his senior, the ''Bess Mess.''
        Mr. Capasso was born in the East New York section of Brooklyn and later lived in Old Westbury on Long Island.
        His father and grandfather were both in the construction business, and he went to work for his father's company immediately after he graduated from high school in 1965.
        In the late 1970's, as New York City began to recover from its fiscal crisis and rebuild its public works, Mr. Capasso's company won many city construction contracts.
        His company, Nanco Contracting Corporation, employed hundreds of people, and by 1986, it held $200 million in city contracts for projects ranging from street paving to sewers to water pollution control plants.
        But in 1987, Mr. Capasso was convicted of tax evasion, and he was sentenced to four years in prison. His company was then barred from doing work with the city.
        He is survived by his mother, Josephine Capasso, and two sisters, Serafina Capasso and Rosalie Mazzalupo, all of New York City; four daughters, Kirstin Capasso, of Holmdel, N.J., Helene Popowski, of Atlanta, and Andrea Capasso and Deborah H. Lewis, both of New York City; and two sons, Steven, of Short Hills, N.J., and Michael, of New York City.
      