
        Leopold Page, No. 173 on ''Schindler's list,'' whose relentless campaign to honor the German businessman who saved his life and the lives of 1,300 other Jews during World War II led to the book and film, died on Friday in Los Angeles. He was 87.
        Mr. Page, then called Poldek Pfefferberg, was one of the Jews saved by Oskar Schindler, a German industrialist who transcended a carousing, deal-making persona to risk his life by hiring Jews to work in his factories. He listed Jews destined for concentration camps as needed instead in his factories.
        After the war, Mr. Page longed to return some small part of the favor.
        So in 1947 in Munich, over a game of cards, he promised Schindler that he would make him a household name for his heroism. He then spent 45 years pleading with any writer or movie producer he met, mostly in his Beverly Hills leather goods store, to tell the story. He offered considerable documentary material, his memory and the memories of hundreds of other survivors.
        One hot October day in 1980, Thomas Keneally, an author with roughly 20 books to his credit, wandered into the shop. In the 45 minutes it took to process Mr. Keneally's American Express card, Mr. Page conveyed such a tantalizing tale that the writer delayed his flight home to Australia to continue talking.
        ''I gave him a tremendous discount, just to keep him listening,'' Mr. Page said.
        In 1982, Mr. Keneally's book won Britain's highest literary award, the Booker Prize for fiction, and sold more than five million copies. The 1993 film based on the book won seven Academy Awards, including best picture and best director for Steven Spielberg.
        Mr. Keneally's novel was dedicated, ''To the memory of Oskar Schindler, and to Leopold Pfefferberg, who by zeal and persistence caused this book to be written.''
        Mr. Spielberg said on Monday, ''Were it not for Leopold Page, Oskar Schindler would only be known by those survivors of the Shoah whom he saved and by scholars and historians.''
        Poldek Pfefferberg was born in Cracow, in what is now Poland, on March 20, 1913, and earned a master's degree from Cracow University. He became a high school physical education teacher. After the Germans invaded Poland on Sept. 1, 1939, he fought as a lieutenant in the short-lived resistance. He was wounded, arrested, escaped from the Gestapo and eventually found himself in Cracow's ghetto.
        He was hiding in his mother's house when a man wearing a Nazi lapel pin knocked on the door. Mr. Page, clutching a gun, hid in the next room. The man turned out to be  Schindler, who had come to offer Mr. Page's mother a job redecorating his house.
        She agreed to do it. Mr. Page, who had met Schindler before, agreed, for a price, to help him obtain goods from the black market. Later, after Mr. Page and his wife, Ludmilla, were sent to a concentration camp, Schindler intervened to have them transferred to his factory, where he provided lodging.
        He greeted all his Jewish workers with hot soup and the promise that they would survive. He dispensed copious bribes to the Nazis to persuade them to declare his workers essential to the war effort, despite the fact that many were completely unskilled.
        When Schindler moved his factory from Poland to Moravia in 1944, he insisted that his Jewish workers accompany him. He presented a precise list, which included Mr. Page and his wife, No. 195.
        Mr. Page always strongly rejected suggestions that Schindler's real motive was profiting from slave labor. He told the story of Schindler asking an ill woman what she would like. She asked for an apple.
        ''The next day, he brought an apple, in winter,'' Mr. Page said. ''Those were the kind of miracles he brought.''
        The Pfefferbergs arrived on Ellis Island in 1947 and quickly became the Pages. He opened a small leather repair store in Manhattan, and moved to Los Angeles in 1950. In recent years, the family's Beverly Hills shop specialized in selling Italian leather goods.
        His son, Fred, and his daughter, Marie Knecht, are not sure whether they will continue the business, Ms. Knecht said.
        He is also survived by his wife and two grandchildren.
        Mr. Page's crusade to tell Schindler's story dominated his life. In the 1960's, the wife of an MGM executive was in the store, and Mr. Page ''held her handbag hostage until she agreed to introduce him to her husband,'' according to a speech by Mr. Keneally.
        The studio bought rights to the story, but no film was made. Mr. Page's persistence never abated, even after the book was out and Mr. Spielberg had agreed to make the movie.
        Mr. Page lobbied the director's mother to urge an immediate start and called Mr. Spielberg at least weekly to ask when he was going to get beyond making movies about dinosaurs and ''little furry things.'' He promised that the story of Oskar would win an Oscar.
        Mr. Page served as an adviser for the film, and the actor Jonathan Sagalle played him as a smart young black-marketer who kept Mr. Schindler in fine shirts, jewels and Cognac. Mr. Page also persuaded Mr. Spielberg to shoot the film in Poland rather than Hungary, Spain or Britain, locations the director was considering.
        ''You have to film in the streets where the blood, the Jewish blood, was spilled,'' Mr. Page argued.
        Mr. Page last saw Schindler in Israel in 1973, when they met for the 25th anniversary of the Israeli government.
        When Schindler died a year later, Mr. Page arranged for him to be buried in Israel, in a Roman Catholic cemetery on Mount Zion.
        ''Schindler gave me my life,'' Mr. Page once said, ''and I gave him immortality.''
      