
        Sir Anthony Faville Tuke, head of Barclays Bank from 1973 to 1981, died on March 6 in England. He was 80.
        As a banker, Sir Anthony defended business and sports contacts with South Africa during the apartheid era and both exemplified and defended his bank's unusual tradition of reserving most top posts for the descendants of its original founding families.
        As chairman of Barclays Bank from 1973 to 1981 -- at that time the ninth-largest bank in the world and one of Britain's four major banks, along with National Westminster, Midland and Lloyds -- Sir Anthony  found himself under continual attack over his group's extensive banking interests in South Africa, which accounted for about one-eighth of its profit.
        He made his own opposition to apartheid clear, declaring in 1974 that racial segregation was ''morally and economically unacceptable.'' But he refused to withdraw from doing business there, arguing that if he did, ''all that would have happened would be that Barclays, who are recognized as a liberal and international organization, would have given way to a South African-owned company, possibly with a narrower outlook.''
        After the Soweto riots of 1976, in which hundreds of blacks died, Barclays came under powerful attack again when its South African branches acknowledged investing millions of dollars in South African Government Defense Bonds. This time, Sir Anthony told angry shareholders that the bank would sell them ''as soon as possible'' and confirmed that Barclays would not lend foreign currency to South Africa.
        But in 1978, when Sir Anthony still refused to give ground over his bank's South African interests, the Nigerian government said it was withdrawing all its deposits from Barclays.
        A lifelong cricket enthusiast, Sir Anthony became chairman of English cricket's governing authority in 1982 just as British Commonwealth leaders reached the Gleneagles Agreement opposing sports links with South Africa.
        Sir Anthony voiced his opposition to the ban, saying ''refusing to play South Africa has not brought the end of apartheid any nearer.'' He then stirred up further controversy by trying to organize a ''rebel'' British cricket tour of South Africa, though without success.
        His involvement in the controversy over apartheid did not end when he stepped down from Barclays because he immediately took over as chairman of Rio Tinto Zinc, the big mining group with interests in Namibia, then controlled by South Africa.
        In 1982, the police were called in to quell a riot that broke out during a shareholders meeting when protesters rushed onto the stage, seizing microphones and causing the company's directors to flee.
        As a banker, Sir Anthony was highly successful. By 1979, Barclays had become the world's most profitable bank, with profit of $1.18 billion before taxes, more than Citibank and Bank of America at the time and twice the profit of Chase.
        He expanded Barclays' international position, increasing the number of countries in which Barclays operated to 80 from 35. The bank's growth was particulatrly strong in the United States, where Sir Anthony built up a network of 600 branches. But he also moved into less obvious areas of the world including Fiji and Yugoslavia, where he signed a joint venture with Slobodan Milosevic, later president of Yugoslavia but then a senior state banking official.
        At home, he concentrated on building up Barclays' retail banking business at a time when more than 50 percent of the adult British population received their wages in cash because they did not have bank accounts.
        But the process by which Sir Anthony obtained the top post at Barclays, and which he strongly defended, was to prove a source of weakness for the bank in later years.
        Formed in 1896 as an alliance of 20 small, mostly Quaker family banks, Barclays had a longstanding tradition of drawing its top officers almost exclusively from the original founding familes, families with names like Barclay, Bevan, Tuke, Seebohm, Gurney and Tritton.
        ''It has always been relatively easy for a scion of the old Quaker families to reach a high position at Barclays,'' a 1975 official history of the bank said. And true to form, Sir Anthony's father and grandfather had been chairmen before him.
        Born Aug. 22, 1920, into a family commonly known in England as the Iron Tukes, Sir Anthony was educated at Winchester and Magdalene College, Cambridge, and served as a major in the Scots Guards in World War II before joining the family bank in 1946. He began by overseeing London nightclub accounts. He became a director in 1965.
        Sir Anthony stoutly defended the Barclays system of family preference, which survived long after the founding families' holdings in the bank had shrunk to insignificance. ''If it is to be criticized as bad'' he once said of the system, ''you have got to be able to say that Barclays has lost out.''
        But the unusual power exercised by the descendants of the original founding families gave the bank a loose and undisciplined structure.
        Sir Anthony is survived by his wife, Emilia Mila, a Serbian refugee from Yugoslavia whom he met in Trieste at the end of World War II; a son; and daughter. Neither child works for Barclays, so a fourth Tuke chairmanship seems unlikely at the moment.
      