
        Cord Meyer Jr., an articulate and passionate strategist who helped guide the young Central Intelligence Agency's efforts to contain Soviet communism at home and abroad, died here on Tuesday. He was 80.
        Mr. Meyer, whose career took extraordinary turns, from soldier to author to liberal activist to spy to newspaper columnist, died of lymphoma and other ailments at the Washington Home, a long-term health care facility.
        In his 26 years at the C.I.A., where he held management positions in the covert operations branch, Mr. Meyer drew criticism from many liberals for his role in efforts to subsidize student and labor groups in this country as counterweights to Soviet-backed groups in Europe.
        Yet, for all his ardent anti-communism, which associates said was a lifelong principle, Mr. Meyer faced  accusations at the height of the McCarthy era that he was a Communist sympathizer.
        George J. Tenet, the C.I.A. director, released a statement calling Mr. Meyer ''a passionate defender of freedom around the world.''
        ''Cord defined the concept, doctrine and implementation of covert action on behalf of the security and interests of our nation,'' Mr. Tenet said.
        Mr. Meyer's life was characterized by great privilege and considerable personal tragedy.
        Born here in 1920, the son of a diplomat and grandson of a New York State Democratic chairman, Mr. Meyer attended elite schools and entered Yale University in 1939. In 1942, he enlisted in the Marine Corps Reserve. He was sent to the South Pacific, where, as a machine-gun platoon leader, he took part in the assault on Guam. He was wounded in a grenade attack and lost his left eye. He was later awarded the Purple Heart and Bronze Star.
        Mr. Meyer's twin brother, Quentin, was killed at Okinawa.
        A fluent writer whose dispatches from the war were published in The Atlantic Monthly, Mr. Meyer at age 26 completed a short story, ''Waves of Darkness,'' that won the O. Henry Prize in 1946.
        After he returned home from the war, he was named a special assistant to Harold E. Stassen, a member of the United States delegation to the 1945 conference that founded the United Nations.
        As Soviet influence grew in the postwar era, Mr. Meyer spread his hopes for arms control and a democratic world government led by the United Nations.
        ''He was young and idealistic and very much involved in the one-world movement,'' said Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, a former American delegate to the United Nations. But, she added, ''he was a consistent anti-communist'' who did not trust the Soviets.
        Mr. Meyer was a founding member of the United World Federalists, where he fought for controls on the use of atomic weapons. He also helped establish the American Veterans Committee, a liberal group that sought to deny preferential treatment for veterans. While in that organization, he came in direct contact with Communist infiltration techniques, said his son, Mark Meyer. Mr. Meyer's moves to thwart Soviet agents helped exonerate him from accusations that he would soon face, his son said.
        With the explosion of an atomic bomb by the Soviet Union in 1949, Mr. Meyer saw his hopes for arms control dissipate and was troubled by the Berlin blockade and the invasion of South Korea. He left his postgraduate work at Harvard and signed up with the C.I.A.
        Two years after joining the spy agency, Mr. Meyer was accused by the F.B.I. of Communist sympathies.  A C.I.A. hearing board eventually acquitted him of all charges.
        Mr. Meyer had married the former Mary Pinchot, a free-lance writer and editor, in 1945. One of the couple's three sons, Michael, died at age 9 in a car accident. Soon after that, the couple divorced.
        Mrs. Meyer was fatally shot in 1964 as she walked along the towpath of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal in Georgetown. A day laborer found hiding in the bushes along the canal was acquitted of the crime, and it remains unsolved.
        After her death, Mrs. Meyer's sister and brother-in-law said they saw the top C.I.A. counterintelligence officer, James J. Angleton, try to break into her home and take her diary.
        Mrs. Meyer's brother-in-law, Benjamin C. Bradlee, later became executive editor of The Washington Post. The diary, which Mr. Bradlee and his wife found later that day, disclosed an affair between Mrs. Meyer and President John F. Kennedy.
        While at the C.I.A., Mr. Meyer eventually became second-in-command of worldwide clandestine services. But, in the public mind, he was more associated with a number of domestic activities, some of which were denounced as ''dirty tricks'' by his critics and are prohibited today.
        In 1967, the leftist magazine Ramparts disclosed that the C.I.A., under Mr. Meyer's direction, had provided money to American student groups and a literary magazine as part of an anti-Communist campaign.
        Five years later, news organizations reported that he had asked a publisher to let the C.I.A. review a book that was critical of the agency before it went to press. The publisher was a former colleague from Mr. Meyer's days as a liberal activist.
        At the agency, Mr. Meyer supervised Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty, the United States government broadcasts to Eastern Europe.
        Mr. Meyer wrote three books, including a memoir, ''Facing Reality,'' which reflected on his journey from an advocate of world government to his role as spymaster. For nearly 20 years ending in 1998, he was a nationally syndicated columnist; his work appeared frequently in The Washington Times.
        In one magazine piece that suggested his evolving personal creed, Mr. Meyer came to the conclusion that ''no sudden and spectacular improvement in the ways of the world is possible.'' Yet, in seeking a better existence, the key, he said, ''is to preserve faith without illusion.''
        Mr. Meyer's survivors include his wife, Starke P. Meyer of Washington; his sons, Quentin, of Washington, and Mark, of Richmond, Va.; a stepson, Nicholas Anderson of Great Falls, Va.; a stepdaughter, Alexis Anderson of Washington; a brother, Thomas D. Meyer of Hamilton, Mass.; and a grandson.
        Correction:  March 17, 2001, Saturday  Because of an editing error, an obituary yesterday about Cord Meyer, a top Central Intelligence Agency official, misstated the name of an award he won in 1946. It was the O. Henry Award for best first-published story, not for best short story of the year.
      