
        George Carman, a libel lawyer who became a courtroom legend for his ability to woo juries with wit and warmth while doing in opponents with one-liners and devastating 11th-hour disclosures, died of prostate cancer last Tuesday at his home in Wimbledon. He was 71 and had retired on his doctor's advice in August after 47 years at the British bar.
        In high-profile cases over three decades, he both defended the rich and famous when they were his clients and punctured their deceits when he was pressing actions against them. With meticulous research and oratory carefully scripted to appear spontaneous, he focused his attentions on jurors, picking out those who appeared most sympathetic and addressing them from beneath his powdered wig in a way that avoided any hint of condescension.
        Ridiculing a defendant for lavish spending habits at first-class Continental hotels, he drew knowing nods from jurors with the example he chose. ''No Big Macs or chicken nuggets, ladies and gentlemen,'' he said. His interrogating style was a sequence of apparently benign questions followed by a sudden ambush. Anthony Scrivener, a fellow lawyer, said, ''I think of him as a wise owl devouring some little rodent.''
        So feared was his cross-examining -- a talent that came to be known as ''Carmanizing'' -- that one of his victims, a South African journalist named Jani Allan who lost a suit over claims that she had had an affair with a neo-Nazi politician, told him, ''Whatever award is given for libel, being cross-examined by you would not make it enough.''
        Mr. Carman's reputation meant that at the sign of a libel action it was common for him to be summoned by both sides, and the first one to sign him up increased the public odds of winning. He resisted the temptation to become a judge, saying he would have found it difficult to keep quiet on the bench and that he preferred the ''blood and sand of the arena.''
        Considering publicity his ally, he never failed to be photographed on courthouse steps with his famous clients, and he was known to assign aides to tie them up in courtroom conversations to prevent them from stepping outside on their own while he was still changing out of his wig and silk robes. He was 5 feet 3 inches tall, bespectacled and a nervous chain smoker, but his flowing speech and a bent for dapper dressing gave him greater presence.
        Mr. Carman cultivated journalists, and his cases provided acres of front-page copy. He bet reporters covering the acquittal of his pediatrician client in 1981 that he would make a juror cry within 10 minutes of starting his closing speech -- a wager he collected after a woman wiped away a tear after 9 minutes 30 seconds.
        ''The secret,'' he told the BBC in his last interview a month ago, ''is to find a memorable but simple phrase that will stay in a jury's mind.'' When Jonathan Aitken, a former Conservative minister, sued The Guardian over its charges that he was corrupt, Mr. Carman demonstrated that skill by dismissing his alibi as ''a catalog of coincidences which are so improbable as to be preposterous.''
        The Aitken case also produced a signature Carman moment, one that was often compared to the final sequences of ''Perry Mason'' television shows. Mr. Carman introduced last-minute evidence of airline tickets and hotel bills that proved his contention that the politician's central defense was a lie.
        George Alfred Carman was born on Oct. 6, 1929, in Blackpool, the working class resort on the Irish Sea. His father, Alfred George Carman, ran a furniture shop while his mother, Evelyn, made dresses. His first interest was becoming a priest, and he joined a Roman Catholic seminary in Lancashire for two years before changing his mind.
        One of the attractions, he said, was a chance to do public speaking. Asked what led him to give it up, he said, ''I discovered I liked women.'' He was to marry and divorce three times and have a son, Dominic, who is a journalist, and four grandchildren.
        He studied law at Balliol College, Oxford, where he graduated in 1952 with first-class honors and no lingering trace of the Northern accent that he had worked to erase. He became a barrister in Manchester after internship in a London law firm. He first came to widespread attention in 1979 when he successfully defended Jeremy Thorpe, the former Liberal Party leader, against charges that he had conspired to have a man who was allegedly his lover killed.
        Mr. Carman moved his practice to London shortly afterward and began to change a situation where, because libel law in Britain favors the protection of privileged people's reputations, newspapers had generally settled cases out of court rather than contest them.
        Asked at his retirement in August what he would recall most fondly, he said:
        ''The unique camaraderie of the bar, the fairly generous patience of judges that had the misfortune to deal with me, the sense of achievement in cases, the feeling -- this may sound a little pompous -- that you are sculpting the cornerstone of justice. It's more exciting than making and selling a can of baked beans.''
      