
        Tran Van Lam, a former foreign minister of South Vietnam, died on Feb. 6 in Canberra, Australia, where he had settled after the fall of the government in Saigon in 1975. He was 88.
        His death was reported in the journal Indochina Chronology.
        Mr. Lam was an important figure in the tortuous negotiations behind the scenes and at the conference table that produced the peace accords in 1973.
        Backstage negotiations had sputtered precariously since late 1968 against a backdrop of Communist military advances in the South and renewed American air raids on North Vietnam.
        Mr. Lam became foreign affairs minister in 1969 and led Saigon's negotiators in the final stretch to the wider international conference in Paris.
        He signed the final accord for his government but was replaced as minister later in 1973 by President Nguyen Van Thieu, a former general.
        Mr. Lam then went to the South Vietnamese Senate and was a central figure at another critical juncture, in April 1975. That month, President Thieu resigned in favor of an associate, Tran Van Huong.
        In rapid succession, Mr. Lam helped persuade President Huong to leave voluntarily and, with Vietcong troops at the gates of Saigon, to relinquish what was left of his power to Gen. Dong Van Minh. General Minh and Mr. Lam, as Senate president, convened the legislative session that installed the last head of state in Saigon, now Ho Chi Minh City.
        The son of a well-to-do real estate owner, Tran Van Lam was born in Cholon, a largely Chinese town next to Saigon. He was educated at Hanoi University and trained as a pharmacist. He was the founding secretary general of the Vietnam Pharmacists Association before his election to the Saigon City Council in 1952, near the end of French colonial rule.
        He moved up to the national legislature and was speaker of the Constituent Assembly in the 50's and majority leader of the Assembly after that. In 1961, President Ngo Dinh Diem appointed him ambassador to Australia and New Zealand.
        A soft-spoken urbane diplomat fluent in French and English, he remained in the post after Diem's assassination in 1963. Mr. Lam returned to private life as chairman of the Vietnam Commercial and Industrial Bank from 1964 to 1967.
      