
        Ralph Thomas, a British film director best remembered for the wildly popular ''Doctor'' series with Dirk Bogarde in the 1950's and 60's, died on Saturday at a London hospital. He was 85.
        Mr. Thomas directed 39 films, nine of them starring Mr. Bogarde. He had a 24-year partnership with the producer Betty E. Box, with whom he teamed for 30 of his movies, among them the initial ''Doctor in the House'' (1954), with Mr. Bogarde and Kenneth More.
        Britain's postwar film industry delighted audiences on both sides of the Atlantic with vehicles for the sly, subtle humor memorably rendered by icons like Alec Guinness. But Mr. Thomas's comedies were not of that genre.
        Broadly played for belly laughs rather than smiles, ''Doctor in the House'' was set in a large London teaching hospital. Adapted from a semifictional book by Richard Gordon, it featured the high jinks of its students and total callousness toward the patients.
        It and the seven look-alikes that followed -- ''Doctor in Love,'' ''Doctor in Distress'' and so forth -- were major comedy hits of the 1950's and 60's. (Their later equivalents were the British ''Carry On . . . '' pictures that kept moviegoers in stitches in the 1960's.)
        Mr. Thomas also directed political drama, including the Bogarde vehicle ''The Wind Cannot Read'' (1958). ''Conspiracy of Hearts'' (1960), the story of a nun who rescues Jewish children, won awards in Europe and the Americas. His last picture was ''A Nightingale Sang in Berkeley Square'' (1979).
        Ralph Philip Thomas was born in Hull, England, and was educated at University College in London. He tried his hand at journalism in Bristol but soon entered the motion picture industry -- as a clapper boy -- and worked in all its production departments, especially editing.
        In World War II he rose to major with the 9th Lancers, earning the Military Cross for gallantry. He briefly taught at the Royal Military College.
        He returned to film in the Rank Organization's trailer department in 1946. He began to direct in 1948. Two years later he teamed up with Box (who died in 1999) to film a thriller, ''The Clouded Yellow.'' Their partnership became one of the most enduring ones in the business.
        Their next picture was a wry contribution to postwar nostalgia for more heroic times, ''Appointment With Venus.'' It was the tale of a Channel Islands commando raid to liberate a cow.
        ''Doctor in the House,'' their fifth collaboration, spelled critical acclaim and cash at the box office. Their other credits included a remake of ''The 39 Steps'' (1959) and their last picture together, ''Doctor in Trouble'' (1970).
        Mr. Thomas is survived by his wife, Joy; a son, Jeremy, who produced the Oscar-winning film ''The Last Emperor''; and a daughter, Jill.
      