
        George W. Wheelwright III, a co-founder of the company that eventually became the Polaroid Corporation, died on Thursday at the Marin Convalescent Center in Tiburon, Calif. He was 97.
        Most of the world thinks of Polaroid as the brainchild of Edwin H. Land, a scientist whose ideas for a lens that could polarize light -- that is, make light rays move in parallel -- formed the technological underpinnings of glare-free sunglasses and later of instant photography. In fact, the company had two parents: Mr. Land and Mr. Wheelwright.
        Mr. Wheelwright, an intellectual dilettante, was doing a brief stint as a physics professor at Harvard in 1932 when he struck up a friendship with his youngest and most precocious student, Mr. Land. That year the two formed Land Wheelwright Laboratories to make and market polarizers. Mr. Land was president; Mr. Wheelwright, vice president.
        The Eastman Kodak Company was an early customer, using polarizers to make photographic filters. It was soon followed by the American Optical Company, which licensed the technology for sunglasses. In 1935, Land Wheelwright itself began selling a product, educational kits that demonstrated the polarization of light for students.
        Both men liked the feeling of commercializing their own technology. In 1937 they formed the Polaroid Corporation, which acquired Land Wheelwright's assets as well as patents and other assets that Mr. Land had developed on his own. Mr. Land stayed as president, Mr. Wheelwright as vice president.
        Mr. Land -- who died on March 1, 1991, exactly 10 years before Mr. Wheelwright -- devoted the rest of his career to nurturing his invention and company. But Polaroid represented just one chapter in Mr. Wheelwright's life, and not even the longest.
        George William Wheelwright III was born on March 12, 1903, the oldest of two sons of a successful paper manufacturer in Ware, Mass. The young Mr. Wheelwright spent much of his youth following his eclectic interests. First, his love for painting sent him in pursuit of a fine arts degree from Harvard. When he graduated in 1925, his love of travel took over. He signed on as a deckhand for the United Fruit Company, ''and he told me he spent most of his time swabbing latrines on the company's ships,'' his son George W. Wheelwright IV recalled.
        In the late 1920's, before the Depression hit, Mr. Wheelwright married and, faced with having to make some money, he and his brother, Joseph -- who later became a renowned Jungian psychiatrist -- started a boys' camp in Santa Barbara, Calif. It was successful financially, but Mr. Wheelwright soon became bored again. So, he returned to Harvard, this time to pursue a master's degree in the latest areas that had struck his fancy, astronomy and physics. He met Mr. Land, and the first seeds of Polaroid were sown.
        From the first, Mr. Wheelwright was the company's consummate Mr. Outside. Mr. Land oversaw the technology, and others were hired to oversee the business. Mr. Wheelwright was the one who traveled the country, giving speeches and demonstrations, convincing people that polarized glasses and other polarized products were worth buying.
        He was unsuccessful in his attempts to persuade manufacturers of automobiles and trains to use polarized glass in windshields. But when World War II started, the military jumped onto polarization as a great way to help pilots flying over the ocean spot submerged submarines. In 1942, Mr. Wheelwright left Polaroid to go to Washington, where he worked with the Bureau of Special Devices to help develop polarized glasses for pilots to wear. He also had a role in developing the Link Flyer, a device that simulates an aircraft's control panel and is used for training pilots.
        With the war raging, the idea of returning to the safe haven of Massachusetts held little appeal for Mr. Wheelwright. Although he was 39, he persuaded the Navy to train him in air navigation. He became a Naval Air Transport pilot, first ferrying troops and supplies to European battlefields and later flying captured German scientists to the United States.
        Mr. Wheelwright survived the war, but his marriage did not. He and his wife, Gerten, divorced as the war was ending. Soon after, in an officers' club in Corpus Christi, Tex., Mr. Wheelwright ran into an old neighbor from Massachusetts, Hope Richardson. The two soon married and decided to try a new life out West. They bought an 800-acre cattle ranch in Green Gulch, Calif., and, along with Ms. Richardson's three children, moved there in 1945.
        Although Mr. Wheelwright was now officially a rancher, at heart he was still a scientist. Before long, he was experimenting with breeding different types of Hereford cattle and planting exotic grasses from New Zealand to feed them. When his wife developed lung cancer, Mr. Wheelwright dived into research and experiments with laetrile and other controversial drugs in an unsuccessful attempt to cure her.
        Once cancer had claimed his wife, the ranch lost some of its appeal. Mr. Wheelwright sold it to a Zen Buddhist group for what his son calls a pittance. ''He could have sold it for a fortune, but he wanted it preserved as a green belt,'' his son said.
        Soon after, Mr. Wheelwright married again, and he and his third wife, Helen, bought a ranch near Reno, Nev. But by the late 1980's, Mr. Wheelwright's health and marriage were deteriorating, and he went back to live with the Zen Buddhists in Green Gulch. ''He wasn't really a Zen Buddhist himself, but he did believe in it a bit, and he really liked their attitudes toward preserving land,'' his son said.
        Mr. Wheelwright stayed with the Buddhists until he could no longer care for himself. In 1996, he moved to the nursing home.
        In addition to his two sons from his first marriage, George IV and Michael C., Mr. Wheelwright is survived by 5 stepchildren, 13 grandchildren and 16 great-grandchildren.
      