
        Jacob Kainen, a painter and printmaker who was an important force in the postwar Washington art scene and a curator of prints at the Smithsonian Institution, died on Monday at his home in Chevy Chase, Md. He was 91.
        In the catalog to the retrospective of Mr. Kainen's work organized by what is now the Smithsonian American Art Museum in 1994, the art historian William C. Agee wrote, ''Kainen's work contains a whole history, or even several parallel histories of American art since the late 1920's.'' The styles he worked in included Social Realism, Expressionism, Abstract Expressionism, Color Field painting and postpainterly abstraction. The connecting link in much of this work was vigorous brushwork and strong color, and a muscular sense of scale and form.
        Mr. Kainen was born in Waterbury, Conn., on Dec. 7, 1909, and grew up in the Bronx. After graduating from DeWitt Clinton High School, he studied art formally at the Art Students League and Pratt Institute and informally at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the Lenox Collection of the New York Public Library. At Brentano's bookstore, he worked in the classics department and studied the art books.
        He lived and worked in Greenwich Village in the 1930's, where his contemporaries included George McNeil, whom he met at Pratt; Joseph Solman; Mark Rothko; and Alice Neel. But his erudition also endeared him to an older generation that included Arshile Gorky (who painted his portrait), John Graham and Stuart Davis. His robustly painted scenes of New York and its people reflected interests evenly split between the political activism of Social Realism and the formal innovations of the European modernists, especially the German Expressionists.
        During this period, Mr. Kainen eked out an existence working in the graphic arts division of the federal Works Progress Administration, where he learned the different print mediums and conducted early experiments with color lithography. He also wrote art and book reviews for the Art Front and the Daily Worker newspapers. During the late 1930's, he and seven other painters, including Neel and Herman Rose, formed the New York Group, which exhibited twice at the A.C.A. Gallery. He had his first solo show there in 1940.
        In 1942, Mr. Kainen accepted a job with the graphic arts division of the Smithsonian's United States National Museum (now the National Museum of American History) in Washington. The department struck him as being in disarray, a state epitomized by a faded woodblock print by Dürer hanging near an office window. Over the next few years he rose to curator in charge of the department, and under the budget line of ''equipment,'' he began adding to the collection for the first time in 50 years. Purchases included prints by Dürer, Rembrandt and Manet and the modern masters, as well as work by living artists, another first.
        Mr. Kainen left that Smithsonian museum in 1966 and accepted a half-time job as curator of prints and drawings at another one, now known as the Smithsonian American Art Museum. There he increased the collection from 1,000 to 7,000 works.
        Starting in the late 1940's, Mr. Kainen helped shape the fledgling Washington art scene. At the Smithsonian, he mounted monthly print exhibitions, showing artists from  New York and Washington. From 1947 to 1954 he taught printmaking at the Washington Workshop Center for the Arts, and began meeting younger artists. Those who credited him with  guidance included Kenneth Noland, Gene Davis, Morris Louis and Alma Thomas.
        Because of these connections, Mr. Kainen was sometimes associated with the branch of Color Field painting known as the Washington Color School, which sprang up in the late 1950's, but he never adapted the stain-painting technique for which it was known. He maintained ties, stylistic and otherwise, with New York painting. In 1946, Ad Reinhardt included him in his famous diagram of the tree of American art, on a branch with Rothko, Neel, Adolph Gottlieb and Louise Bourgeois.
        In 1952 Mr. Noland organized the first retrospective of Mr. Kainen's painting at Catholic University. Starting in the 1960's he had regular shows in Washington's commercial galleries, most recently at Hemphill Fine Arts in 1997. His most recent New York show was at the Katherina Rich Perlow Gallery on 57th Street in Manhattan. A memorial show of his work is to open there on May 10.
        Stylistically, Mr. Kainen's painting wavered between abstraction and representation for much of the 1950's and 60's. In 1970 he took early retirement from the Smithsonian at the urging of his second wife, Ruth, whom he married in 1969. Over the next few years, he moved to larger canvases and developed a flexible abstract style that oscillated between geometric and biomorphic forms, always expressed in strong, clean colors and an actively worked surface, that served him until the end of his life.
        In 1976 he had a print retrospective at the Smithsonian American Art Museum (then called the National Collection of Fine Arts). In 1985 the National Gallery of Art organized ''German Expressionist Prints from the Collection of Ruth and Jacob Kainen.''
        Mr. Kainen's first marriage, to Bertha Friedman, ended in divorce. In addition to his wife Ruth, he is survived by two sons from his first marriage, Daniel, of New York, and Paul, of Washington.
      