
        David McTaggart, credited with building Greenpeace into a worldwide environmental movement, died yesterday in a car crash in Italy. He was 69.
        Mr. McTaggart, a native of Canada, was killed near Perugia, where he lived since his retirement from Greenpeace in 1991. He spent his retirement years running a farm that produced olive oil.
        In 1972, while sailing his yacht in the southern Pacific, Mr. McTaggart answered an advertisement by an organization originally called ''Don't Make a Wave Committee'' but renamed ''Greenpeace.'' It was asking for volunteers to sail to Mururoa, an isolated atoll, to protest the atmospheric atomic tests France had been conducting there since 1966.
        After renaming his boat Greenpeace III, Mr. McTaggart sailed into the test zone and interrupted the testing program by anchoring there. Eventually his boat was rammed and towed to Mururoa by a French minesweeper. The French later claimed they has rescued him after an accident on the high seas.
        When Mr. McTaggart returned to Mururoa the following year, French commandos boarded his boat and beat him up, severely injuring his right eye. The French asserted that he had hurt himself in a fall but a crew member smuggled out photos of the incident, setting off further criticism of France's atmospheric testing program.
        Mr. McTaggart then began a lengthy action against the French government in the French courts. After his partial victory in 1974, France announced it was ending its atmospheric testing program but said tests would continue underground.
        From then on Mr. McTaggart's life was tied to Greenpeace and to the environmental movement, transforming what had been a fairly obscure organization opposing American nuclear tests in the Amchitka Islands off the Western coast of Alaska into a world wide environmental watchdog.
        He was the driving force behind the opening of Greenpeace offices around the world, and led a series of  campaigns to save whales, stop the dumping of nuclear waste in the oceans, end nuclear testing and protect Antarctica from oil-drilling and  mining.
        Between 1976 and 1980, Greenpeace opened offices in Britain, France, Holland, Denmark, Germany, New Zealand and Australia as well as in several American cities. In 1979 the organization's operations were consolidated into Greenpeace International and Mr. McTaggart become chairman.
        In 1985 Greenpeace scored an even greater propaganda victory against France's nuclear testing program  when two French secret agents, arrested in New Zealand, admitted blowing up a Greenpeace boat, the Rainbow Warrior, killing a photographer on board, just as it was about to lead a flotilla to the continuing Mururoa tests.
        The incident gave Greenpeace worldwide publicity and brought it a deluge of new money and members. Lloyd Cutler, former White House counsel to President Jimmy Carter,  negotiated an $8 million settlement  from the French Government.
        In his later campaigns, Mr. McTaggart favored the kind of confrontational tactics he first used at Mururoa.
        Greenpeace supporters, acting as ''environmental commandos,'' chained themselves to cargoes of nuclear waste, sailed between Japanese and Soviet whaling ships and their prey, parachuted off smoky factory chimneys and dove into oceans, lakes and rivers to block underwater chemical discharge pipes.
        Some environmental organizations were critical of this publicity-seeking approach, arguing that more could be achieved by careful research and quiet lobbying.
        But Mr. McTaggart was successful at attracting popular support, creating an organization with truly global reach, equipped with its own fleet, a worldwide income of $112 million last year and some 2.7 million subscribing members.
        Born in Vancouver, British Columbia, on June 23, 1932, Mr. McTaggart devoted much of his youth to skiing, tennis, squash and golf. He won the Canadian national badminton championship three years running.
        An intensely private man, Mr. McTaggart is believed to have been married several times and to have left a number of children. But Greenpeace said it had no record of his relatives.
        The first 20 years of his working life were spent in the construction business, first in Canada then in the United States. But when an explosion destroyed a California resort lodge his company had built, seriously injuring an employee, Mr. McTaggart was found liable for heavy financial costs. He gave up the construction business and went for the long sail around the South Pacific that led him to Mururoa.
      