
        Rowland Evans, a provocative newspaper columnist, commentator and author who antagonized liberal politicians and championed conservative causes, died yesterday at a Washington hospital.
        The cause was complications from esophageal cancer, his wife, Katherine Winton Evans, said. He was 79 and lived in Washington.
        Mr. Evans and his longtime writing partner, Robert Novak, began their work as columnists in the early 1960's, a time when newspaper columnists wielded outsize influence in national politics. With Mr. Novak, Mr. Evans was a pioneer in transferring that influence to the new medium of cable television with the political discussion program ''Evans & Novak.''
        In 1963, Mr. Evans and Mr. Novak began writing ''Inside Report,'' an insider's view of politics that was published four times a week until Mr. Evans retired in 1993. He joined CNN in 1980 as a co-host for ''Evans & Novak,'' which in 1998 became ''Evans, Novak, Hunt & Shields'' when Al Hunt of The Wall Street Journal and Mark Shields, a syndicated columnist, joined the program.
        Mr. Evans's columns celebrated the collapse of the Soviet Union and the end of the cold war, and he wrote extensively on the conflicts in the Middle East. With Mr. Novak, he wrote several books, including ''Lyndon B. Johnson: The Exercise of Power'' in 1966, ''Nixon in the White House: The Frustration of Power'' in 1971 and ''The Reagan Revolution'' in 1981.
        Mr. Evans was born on April 28, 1921, in Whitemarsh, Pa., to Rowland and Elizabeth Wharton Evans. He graduated from the Kent School in 1939, and enrolled at Yale, as at least two generations of men in his family had before him. But unlike his Yale-educated ancestors, Mr. Evans made it only through freshman year. On Dec. 8, 1941, spurred by the attack on Pearl Harbor, he enlisted in the Marine Corps and eventually rose to the rank of sergeant. In 1944, after serving in combat in the South Pacific, he contracted malaria and was discharged.
        ''Seeing combat really toughened him, I think,'' Mr. Novak said yesterday. ''He was no longer a society boy. And he didn't want to go back to Yale after that. It had changed him and I think it changed him for life.''
        After recovering from malaria, Mr. Evans went to work for The Philadelphia Bulletin as a copy boy, and in 1945 joined The Associated Press, where he reported on politics and Congress from Washington for a decade. He met his future wife when she went to The Associated Press three days after she had arrived from her Minnesota hometown looking for a job. Seeking to impress her, Mr. Evans pretended he was the bureau chief. They married in 1949.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Evans is survived by their two children, Sarah Warren Evans of Barnesville, Md., and Rowland Winton Evans of Sunnyvale, Calif.
        In 1955, Mr. Evans joined The New York Herald Tribune as the Capitol Hill correspondent.
        James Bellows, the editor of The Tribune, sensing an imminent sea change at work in American politics and culture, decided to shake up the paper's political coverage. In 1963 he paired Mr. Evans with a scruffy new reporter, Mr. Novak, who he had hired from The Wall Street Journal. Their mandate was to write a column concerned with the behind-the-scenes machinations and closeted intrigues of political life, rather than making broad ideological statements or pontificating.
        The reporters made an odd couple. Mr. Evans, then 41, was considered by his colleagues to be the slender, fair gentleman reporter with a social pedigree, while Mr. Novak, then 32, was thought of as the scruffy, unstudied pit bull who had graduated from University of Illinois.
        Their first ''Inside Report,'' in 1963, reported that Barry Goldwater would win the Republican nomination for president the next year, an outlying opinion that was considered bold at the time but proved true.
        Since 1966, The Chicago Sun-Times has been the home paper for the column, which was syndicated to about 150 newspapers by Creators Syndicate. After his retirement in 1993, Mr. Evans wrote for the column only occasionally.
        Jules Witcover, a columnist for The Baltimore Sun, said yesterday that Mr. Evans and Mr. Novak liked to make light of their unlikely pairing.
        ''I remember once going to a Christmas lunch and the host turned the tables and told the politicians to ask the reporters questions,'' Mr. Witcover said. Jack Kemp turned to Mr. Evans and, pointing out the dissimilarities between the two men, asked Mr. Evans if he had ever had Mr. Novak over to his house for as much as a drink, Mr. Witcover recalled. Mr. Evans pulled himself up proudly, and said, a wry, joking tone coloring his measured voice: ''Why yes. Of course. On Sept. 16, 1969, I had him over for a drink.''
        Colleagues described Mr. Evans as a man of contradiction. He grew up in a liberal family, yet split off and became conservative. He grew up with the comforts and customs of Main Line Philadelphia, yet enlisted in the Marine Corps and sought combat duty. He was a reporter with a keen conservative edge, yet he was close friends with President John F. Kennedy. Mr. Novak said that Kennedy had his first dinner as a president-elect with Mr. Evans.
        ''Personally he was a man of enormous contradiction,'' Mr. Shields said. ''He had a foot in all camps.''
        ''He was totally interested and engaged,'' Mr. Shields said. ''He was not reliant on the three sources from the Kennedy-Johnson administration, or the five cabinet members from the Nixon administration or anybody from Clinton. That tirelessness was remarkable.''
      