
        Robert McGinnis, a Cornell University sociologist who founded and directed its Institute for Social and Economic Research, died Feb. 22 at a hospice in Ithaca, N.Y. He was 73 and lived in Ithaca.
        He suffered a brief illness, his family said.
        Dr. McGinnis joined the Cornell faculty in 1961 as a professor of sociology. He specialized in research methods, mathematical sociology and science manpower studies, and he was among the first in his profession to apply mathematical principles to quantitative social analysis.
        His textbook ''Mathematical Foundations for Social Analysis'' (Bobbs-Merrill, 1965) described the mathematical underpinnings for such analyses. His papers on how to apply these methods to the study of social mobility became known as the Cornell Mobility Model.
        Subsequent papers led to the establishment in 1973 of the Research Program on Social Analyses of Social Systems, which he directed. In 1976 he presided at the inaugural international meeting of the Society for Social Studies in Science, which he convened at Cornell.
        He founded the Cornell Institute in 1981 to promote exchanges among social scientists and to assist them in their research. A mainframe computer provided by the National Science Foundation was made available to sociologists, linguists, historians and economists, among others, helping the institute to build one of the country's foremost social science archives.
        Dr. McGinnis was a founding editor of the journals Sociological Methodology, in 1969, and Sociological Methods and Research, in 1972. He was also a former editor of the American Sociological Review.
        A native of Nacogdoches, Tex., he served with the Marines in the Pacific in World War II and graduated from San Francisco State University in 1950. He received a master's degree in sociology from Stanford University in 1951 and a Ph.D. from Northwestern University in 1955.
        Before joining the Cornell faculty, he was associated with Florida State University and the University of Wisconsin. He retired from Cornell in 1993.
        Dr. McGinnis is survived by his wife, Mary; two sons and a daughter from a previous marriage to Muriel Kellogg McGinnis: Kevin, of Hallowell, Me., Brian, of Stockton, Calif., and Meaghan, of Campbell, Calif.; a stepson, Steven Stycos of Cranston, R.I.; a stepdaughter, Kristina Stycos of Chelsea, Vt.; and two grandchildren.
      