
        Brian Trubshaw, a pilot who tested the British-French Concorde supersonic airliner and became its staunchest champion, died on March 24 at his home near Tetbury, in Gloucestershire, England. He was 77.
        He died in his sleep and had not been ill, said his wife, Yvonne.
        On April 9, 1969, Mr. Trubshaw made aviation history by taking Concorde 002, the British prototype, for its first flight, which lasted 22 minutes. He went from Filton, near Bristol, where the prototype had been built, to a Royal Air Force base at Fairford in Gloucestershire. As he landed, the altimeter failed, and he had to judge the plane's height visually.
        Just over a month earlier, on March 2, André Turcat, chief test pilot with the French aircraft builder Sud-Aviation, flew the Concorde 001, the French prototype, for 28 minutes at the company headquarters in Toulouse.
        When Mr. Trubshaw landed after his flight, he said: ''It was wizard, a cool, calm and collected operation. Many test pilots would have given almost anything to be in my shoes, and I well appreciate how lucky I was.''
        British Airways and Air France, the only airlines to buy the Concorde, are still struggling to return their fleets to service after grounding them last year for safety improvements following an Air France Concorde crash near Paris that killed 113 people.
        Mr. Trubshaw was fiercely protective of the Concorde after the accident, dismissing contentions that it was unsafe and saying the Concorde was ''the safest aircraft I have ever flown.''
        Nevertheless, he had a number of frightening experiences in the six-year flight-testing program. In 1970, after he took the 002 supersonic for the first time to an altitude of 11 miles, Mr. Trubshaw had to land on three engines after the fourth overheated. The next year, he brought it in on three engines after another failure.
        Meanwhile, relations between Britain and France over the joint project were increasingly strained. France insisted on adding a final Gallic ''e'' to the name, and the development cost more than doubled, ending any hope of a return on the governments' investment.
        In 1964, Britain's Labor government was deterred from pulling out of the project altogether only by French threats to sue for enormous damages at the International Court of Justice in The Hague.
        But in June 1969, Mr. Trubshaw successfully flew 002 over Buckingham Palace at just 1,500 feet to celebrate the Queen's birthday. He took a British Concorde on a world tour in 1972 and was at the controls on Jan. 21, 1976, when British Airways opened its first commercial Concorde service between London and Bahrain.
        Mr. Trubshaw was born on Jan. 29, 1924. He went to the Winchester School, where he was cricket captain. At 10, he decided to become a pilot when he saw the Prince of Wales's aircraft land on Pembrey Beach, in Carmarthenshire, near his family house.
        Mr. Trubshaw joined the Royal Air Force in 1942 and trained on Sirman biplanes in the United States before flying Sterling and Lancaster bombers for the rest of the war. In 1946 he joined the Royal Flight and was the pilot for George VI and other members of the Royal Family.
        In 1950 he became a test pilot with Vickers Armstrong, the weapons company that became British Aerospace and is now BAE Systems. He worked on developing aircraft that included the Valiant, from which Mr. Trubshaw test-dropped Britain's first atomic bomb; the VC-10 jet airliner, and the smaller BAC-111 airliner. He retired in 1986.
        He published two books, ''Test Pilot'' (1988) and ''Concorde: The Inside Story'' (2000).
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Trubshaw is survived by a stepdaughter, Sally Edmondson, a freelance writer who helped him with his books.
        Correction:  March 31, 2001, Saturday  An obituary on Wednesday about Brian Trubshaw, a test pilot for the Concorde, misstated the name of the biplane in which he trained with the Royal Air Force in the 1940's. It was the Stearman, not Sirman.
      