
        Sherwin Rosen, the president of the American Economics Association and a pioneer in the study of why wages and incomes vary, died on March 17 at Bernard Mitchell Hospital at the University of Chicago. He was 62.
        The cause was lung cancer, said William Harms, a university spokesman.
        Professor Rosen was a microeconomist who focused largely on the issues surrounding labor. One of his most influential papers, which was published in 1981, was ''The Economics of Superstars.'' It explored why celebrities and sports stars make so much more money than others in the same field.
        Professor Rosen concluded that someone with even a slight talent advantage over a competitor could command a much higher salary by dint of the fact that his or her work reached a broader audience. For example, two singers might sound nearly the same but the one who sells recordings and appears on television shows will receive a higher income than the one who appears only in nightclubs.
        The paper attracted a lot of attention outside the field of economics as the salaries of actors, athletes and chief executives soared in the last 20 years. It also inspired related studies by other economists.
        ''The real test of whether you make a big contribution in economics is how much you affect the research in the field,'' said Gary S. Becker, the Nobel economist at the University of Chicago who was a longtime friend and colleague of Professor Rosen. ''And on that one, there is no question he affected the research of quite a few people.''
        Professor Becker said that Professor Rosen also did groundbreaking work in the late 1960's by using statistics to show that physically risky occupations rewarded workers with premium wages.
        ''I think Rosen had a very good chance of winning the Nobel, if he had lived longer,'' he added. ''In economics, 62 is a young age.''
        Professor Rosen was born in Chicago. He graduated from Purdue University in 1960 with a Bachelor of Science. He subsequently studied economics at the University of Chicago, where he received his doctorate in 1966.
        He taught at the University of Rochester for more than a decade before joining the faculty at the University of Chicago in 1977. He was the chairman of the economics department from 1988 to 1994 and served as editor of the Journal of Political Economy from 1986 until his death.
        Earlier this year, he assumed the presidency of the American Economics Association, one of the highest honors in the profession. A short time after, he was told he had cancer, Professor Becker said.
        He is survived by his wife, Sharon, of Chicago, and two daughters, Jennifer Lynn Rosen, of Chicago, and Adria Jill Rosen Zurita, of El Cerrito, Calif.
      