
        John George McCarthy, a former New York State assemblyman from Huntington, N.Y., and justice of the State Supreme Court, died on March 19 at an assisted-living residence in Naples, Fla. A resident of Huntington Station until 18 months ago, he was 77.
        The cause was lung cancer, his family said.
        Mr. McCarthy, a Republican, was elected to the State Legislature in 1962 and served through 1974. With his party holding the governorship and a majority in the Assembly, he gained political heft as the chairman, in turn, of the housing and insurance committees.
        He sponsored legislation to end rent controls in New York City for apartments as they become vacant. He also fought attempts to permit Nassau County municipalities to impose such controls.
        He took over leadership of the insurance panel in January 1972 as Gov. Nelson A. Rockefeller and the Republican leadership were jousting over no-fault auto insurance.
        Compromise legislation written by Mr. McCarthy became law a year later, making New York one of the first states to embrace the concept, which was intended to compensate accident victims more quickly and equitably without drawn-out court fights.
        Mr. McCarthy ran for the office of Suffolk County supervisor in 1971 but was defeated by the incumbent, then the only Democratic supervisor in Suffolk. A Conservative candidate in the race may have cost him the election because the Conservative vote could have narrowly put Mr. McCarthy over the top.
        But he was elected to the State Supreme Court and served from 1974 to 1991, when he took early retirement after 29 years in public office.
        John McCarthy was born in Long Island City. After finishing high school, he served in the Army in World War II.
        He took part in the invasion of Normandy, after which he was sent to the Pacific.
        He graduated from St. John's University with a major in accounting and from its law school in 1951. Over the years, he practiced law in Greenlawn and Huntington, where he had first engaged in Republican politics as a block captain.
        Mr. McCarthy is survived by his wife of 50 years, Josephine Stanco McCarthy; seven sons, John, of Austin, Tex., David, of Wading River, N.Y., Stephen, of Atlanta, Thomas, of Naples, Michael, of Greenlawn, Joseph, of Fort Myers, Fla, and James, of Ridge, N.Y.; two daughters, Mary Elizabeth Hines, of Saratoga, N.Y., and Joanna Schneider, of San Francisco; and 16 grandchildren.
      