
        John Lewis, the mastermind of one of the most famous ensembles in jazz, died on Thursday. He was 80 and lived in Manhattan.
        Over the years Mr. Lewis distinguished himself not just as a pianist with a distinctively low-key touch but also as a composer, arranger and educator. But he was internationally lauded for one thing above all: his long tenure as pianist and musical director of the Modern Jazz Quartet.
        The M.J.Q., as it was popularly known, was probably the most celebrated small group in jazz history and unquestionably the most durable. The quartet made its first recordings in 1952, gave its first public performance the next year and except for a seven-year layoff was a leading concert attraction from the mid-1950's to the late 90's. In all that time, both its personnel and its quiet, delicate approach remained virtually unchanged.
        The quartet, whose other members were the vibraphonist Milt Jackson, the bassist Percy Heath and, for most of its existence, the drummer Connie Kay, was nominally a cooperative group. But more than any other member Mr. Lewis  was responsible for both its sound and its identity.
        It was he who contributed the bulk of the group's compositions and arrangements. Just as important, it was he who established its dignified public image.
        Committed to the idea that jazz was every bit as serious an art form as classical music, he determined that the members of the M.J.Q.  would wear tuxedos in performance, and he strove to secure as many bookings as possible in concert halls rather than nightclubs.
        ''John's vision for the group was to change the music from just a jam session, or rhythm section and soloist idea, to something more . . . to change the whole attitude about the musc,'' Mr. Heath told the critic Gary Giddins.
        The M.J.Q.'s music was largely a reflection of Mr. Lewis's classical training, but it had its roots in the harmonically and rhythmically sophisticated style of jazz known as bebop. Mr. Lewis, Mr. Jackson and the group's original drummer, Kenny Clarke, had first worked together in the mid-1940's in a big band led by the trumpeter Dizzy Gillespie, one of bebop's leading lights. But the M.J.Q.  played bebop with difference.
        Mr. Lewis drew as much inspiration from Bach as he did from Gillespie. The quartet's brand of jazz was genteel and understated, played with great precision at slow or medium tempos and peppered with fugal counterpoint. It was a far cry from the breakneck pace and flashy virtuosity most listeners associated with bebop.
        This approach, which the M.J.Q. applied even to the earthiest blues, attracted a large and loyal audience, including many listeners who were otherwise indifferent to jazz. The critics called it ''chamber jazz'' -- not always with affection.
        Mr. Lewis was widely praised for his high artistic standards and his ingenuity as a composer. The British musician and critic Max Harrison wrote that Mr. Lewis had ''succeeded where all others have failed in grafting a number of classical devices into the technique of jazz without doing violence to the spirit of the music.''
        But there were those who found his music a bit too precious. A 1963 concert review in Time magazine, for example, suggested that Mr. Lewis had ''gone perilously far in his quest to make jazz more respectable without making it more substantive.''
        Probably the most persistent criticism of Mr. Lewis was that Milt Jackson's natural exuberance and expressiveness as a soloist were stifled by the M.J.Q.'s carefully constructed arrangements, which left relatively little room for improvisation. Mr. Jackson often expressed that view himself, and when the quartet disbanded in 1974 after 22 years his dissatisfaction with his limited role was one of the main reasons.
        Still, Mr. Jackson took part in the occasional reunion concert, and despite his misgivings the M.J.Q. reunited permanently in 1981.
        Connie Kay, who had been the drummer since 1955, died in 1994 and was replaced by Percy Heath's younger brother Albert the next year. After a few more years of touring, the Modern Jazz Quartet's long run came to an end when Percy Heath decided he no longer wanted to tour. Any hopes of one last reunion were stilled when Milt Jackson died in 1999.
        John Aaron Lewis was born on May 3, 1920, in LaGrange, Ill., and grew up in Albuquerque. He took his first piano lesson at age 7 and studied both music and anthropology at the University of New Mexico.
        While serving in the Army in Europe during World War II he met Kenny Clarke, who had already established himself as the most important drummer in the nascent bebop movement. At Clarke's urging, Mr. Lewis moved to New York after his discharge in 1945 and submitted some arrangements to Gillespie, who was forming a big band with Clarke as his drummer. Gillespie began using his arrangements and eventually hired him to replace Thelonious Monk as the band's pianist.
        After a few years with Gillespie, Mr. Lewis became a busy freelance sideman, performing or recording with Charlie Parker, Lester Young, Ella Fitzgerald and other jazz luminaries.
        His piano style, partly derived from Count Basie's, was different from that of most of his contemporaries. As a soloist he depended as much on silence as he did on notes to get his message across; as an accompanist he was as likely to play fuguelike counter lines as the staccato chords that were standard bebop procedure.
        In 1949 and 1950, Mr. Lewis participated as both pianist and arranger in a series of recordings with a nine-piece ensemble led by the trumpeter Miles Davis. Although the music attracted little notice at the time, its pastel colors and restrained ambience came to be regarded as a seminal influence on the so-called cool jazz that flourished in the middle and late 50's.
        The Modern Jazz Quartet -- which would come to be regarded by many listeners as the epitome of cool jazz, although in truth its approach defied easy categorization -- was born not long after those sessions. The group first recorded in 1952, as the Milt Jackson Quartet, but before the year was out it had changed its name and established its personality.
        At first the quartet's biggest challenge was simply getting noisy nightclub audiences to pay attention to a brand of jazz that was significantly quieter than the norm. But the strength of the music soon compensated for its lack of volume, and by the end of the 50's people all over the world were paying attention.
        The M.J.Q. was a steady seller of records and concert tickets well into the 70's and a dependable model of cohesiveness in performance. Despite its carefully cultivated group identity, however, its members all maintained separate careers, and Mr. Lewis never lacked for work to keep him occupied during the quartet's periodic hiatuses.
        From 1958 to 1982 he was musical director of the Monterey Jazz Festival in California. From 1962 to 1965 he was a leader of Orchestra U.S.A., a jazz ensemble augmented with strings and woodwinds that was the leading exponent of the mixture of jazz and classical music known as third stream music. From 1985 to 1992 he was musical director of the American Jazz Orchestra, a big band established by Gary Giddins that performed both classic works and new compositions, helping to establish the jazz repertory movement of the 90's.
        Mr. Lewis, who received a master's degree from the Manhattan School of Music in 1953, also kept one foot in academia throughout his career. He taught music at Harvard  and the City College of New York, and in the late 1950's he was a founder of the Lenox School of Jazz in Massachusetts, one of the first schools in the world devoted solely to jazz.
        Many of Mr. Lewis's compositions, among then ''Django'' and ''Two Degrees East, Three Degrees West,'' achieved the status of jazz standards. He also wrote music for symphony orchestras and chamber ensembles as well as the scores for several movies, most notably ''No Sun in Venice'' and ''Odds Against Tomorrow.''
        Mr. Lewis's most recent albums -- both on Atlantic, the label for which the Modern Jazz Quartet made almost all of its records -- were ''Evolution,'' a solo recital released in 1999, and ''Evolution II,'' a quartet album released earlier this year. Reviewing ''Evolution'' in The New York Times, Ben Ratliff wrote: ''Mr. Lewis has applied as much thought to the arrangement of these songs as he would if he were playing with a group, and then made a music that's utterly at peace with itself.'' Also in The Times, Adam Shatz called ''Evolution II''  ''a record that will give ample pleasure for as long as people are listening to jazz.''
        Mr. Lewis performed selections from both albums, as well as works from various stages of his career, at a concert at Avery Fisher Hall in  January. He played piano in the first half of the concert and conducted the Lincoln Center Jazz Orchestra in the second half.
        For all the acclaim he received over the years, Mr. Lewis remained a modest and soft-spoken man. He always seemed a little uncomfortable in the spotlight and led a quiet offstage life with his family. He is survived by his wife, Mirjana, a harpsichordist; a son, Sasha; a daughter, Nina; a sister, Marylyn Gore, and three grandchildren.
        And while he was proud of his accomplishments, he was never complacent.
        ''Remember,'' he told an interviewer in 1961, at the height of the Modern Jazz Quartet's success, ''you have to communicate as clearly and as correctly as you can. In my case, if I make a mistake the audience may not realize it. But I do. And I'm part of the audience too.''
        Indeed, in an interview with John S. Wilson of The Times two decades later, shortly after the M.J.Q. had reunited, Mr. Lewis sounded as much like a member of the audience as a member of the group.
        ''You can't take the Modern Jazz Quartet for granted,'' Mr. Lewis said. ''They amaze me.''
      