
        James Ailinger, who played professional football when Red Grange was still a collegian and the forward pass was a novelty, died Tuesday at a hospital in Rochester. He was 99 and the oldest former National Football League player.
        In the autumn of 1924, while in his final year of dental school at the University of Buffalo, where he had been captain of the football and basketball teams, Ailinger joined the Buffalo Bisons of the N.F.L., which had been founded only four years earlier. Listed at 5 feet 11 and 185 pounds, he played guard on both offense and defense.
        ''We only practiced on Sunday morning, from 10 to 11,'' Ailinger remembered. ''We just went through some signals. Then we'd have lunch and play the game. There were only about 22 on the team, so you had to play hurt. If you could walk, you could play.''
        Ailinger's most vivid recollection was a collision with the legendary Jim Thorpe. ''All I remember is seeing Thorpe's knees going up and down,'' Ailinger said. ''Then I didn't even know what day it was. But I did bring him down. Later on, during a timeout, Thorpe came over to our bench just as I was coming out of it. I heard him say, 'Coach, how's the kid doing?' He was quite a gentleman.''
        The record books do not show a formal league matchup in 1924 between Ailinger's Buffalo team and Thorpe's squad, the Rock Island Independents. They may have met in an exhibition game, but Thorpe evidently made enough of an impression that Ailinger quit pro football after one season. He was earning $50 a game, then a handsome amount, but a dental career beckoned and, as he said long afterward, ''I couldn't afford to get my hands busted up.''
        Ailinger told of meeting Grange -- a national hero known as the Galloping Ghost at the University of Illinois -- when the sensational running back was touring with the Chicago Bears in 1925. Ailinger said Grange had asked him to help on the road with his business affairs, but Ailinger declined, citing the need to begin his career as a dentist.
        A native of Buffalo, Ailinger practiced dentistry there until he was in his late 80's, and he was a professor at the University of Buffalo Dental School from 1937 to 1960.
        He was a college football official from the 1920's to the 1960's, working as a head linesman in more than 400 games by his estimate, including the Army-Navy and Harvard-Yale rivalries, and he was president of the Eastern Association of Intercollegiate Football Officials.
        He was general manager of the Buffalo team in the American Hockey League during the 1940's.
        Ailinger, who lived in South Florida and Ontario in recent years before moving to an assisted living facility in Pittsford, N.Y., last year, had no immediate survivors. His wife, the former Helen McMullen, died in 1989, and they had no children.
        His death leaves Glenn Presnell, 95, a back with the Portsmouth Spartans and Detroit Lions in the 1930's, as the oldest former N.F.L. player, according to the Pro Football Hall of Fame in Canton, Ohio.
        Ailinger was still vigorous in 1997, when he reported that he still had a driver's license (''and without eyeglasses'') and that he owned a new Cadillac.
        Back then he was also carrying a badge that harked back to an informal endeavor amid a busy life in dentistry and athletics. It read ''Sing Sing Prison.'' He told of having officiated at football games between inmates and local college players behind prison walls, and he could not resist the kind of joke that may have been older than he was.
        ''We never had any trouble getting in the place,'' Ailinger said. ''But we always had a hard time getting out.''
      