
        John B. Oakes, who infused the opinion pages of The New York Times with his crisp reasoning, passionate convictions and liberal political views for more than 40 years, 15 of them as editor of the editorial page, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 87 and lived in Manhattan and Martha's Vineyard, Mass.
        Mr. Oakes had been hospitalized since suffering a stroke on March 22.
        In a tumultuous era of cold war nuclear perils and crises over civil rights, the Vietnam War and the Watergate scandals, Mr. Oakes was a powerful, largely anonymous voice of partisan rectitude on the editorial page of The Times -- as an editorial writer starting in 1949, then as the editor from 1961 to 1976.
        After his retirement in 1978, Mr. Oakes continued until 1993 to write many articles on environmentalism and other subjects for The Times's Op-Ed page, having overseen its creation in 1970 as a forum for distinguished outside writers as well as the paper's own columnists.
        The recipient of many awards, he was widely praised for personal integrity and for what admirers called the courage of his editorials in defense of civil liberties, human rights, the environment and an engaged foreign policy, particularly their early opposition to the war in Vietnam.
        But he was replaced after 15 years by a publisher, his cousin Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, who had grown uncomfortable with an editorial page that he viewed as strident, predictably liberal and antibusiness and generally out of step with his own thinking.
        In contrast to the newspaper's often raucous third-floor newsroom on 43rd Street in Manhattan, with its banks of jangling telephones and its editors and reporters rushing against deadlines, life in the editorial page offices was almost monastic, a hushed warren of collegial scholarship and civility tucked behind a serene 10th-floor library.
        By birth, intellect and iconoclastic temperament, Mr. Oakes seemed cast for his role in that privileged cloister. He was a member of the Ochs-Sulzberger family, which had controlled The Times throughout the 20th century, a Princeton and Rhodes scholar, a decorated counterintelligence officer in World War II, and a man of deep convictions and wide interests that included a lifelong commitment to environmental causes.
        For much of the century, Times editorials had lacked an authoritative voice. Many tried to balance one view with another in a guarded mélange that sounded more like the advice of the family doctor than the boom of civic conscience. Adolph S. Ochs, the patriarch of the family that controlled The Times and built its reputation on the objectivity of its news coverage, once considered dropping editorials altogether because he thought they compromised the image of an impartial newspaper and sometimes alienated readers and advertisers.
        After Mr. Oakes assumed command in 1961, the editorial page dropped its cautious drift and became a stern liberal bellows on most social and economic questions, with a special fervor for environmental causes, civil rights and negotiations to control nuclear weapons and ease cold war tensions.
        In 1965, just months after the election of Lyndon B. Johnson, who had fashioned himself the peace candidate, it became clear that the United States was embarking on a new military buildup in Vietnam.
        As early as Feb. 25, The Times began to challenge American escalation of the war and called for peace talks. ''The notion that to negotiate would be a defeat for the United States has become one of the most pernicious misapprehensions of the conflict,'' a Times editorial declared. ''An agreement to negotiate surrenders nothing.''
        Harrison E. Salisbury, a former foreign correspondent and a colleague of Mr. Oakes's, recalled in his 1980 history of The Times, ''Without Fear or Favor,'' that Mr. Oakes was ''a strongly patriotic man'' who had served with distinction in World War II and ''did not come easily to his antiwar position.''
        Preliminary peace talks did not begin until 1968, but The Times's growing opposition to the war ''heartened those voices across the country (very few at first and largely confined to academic circles) that began to speak out against Vietnam,'' Mr. Salisbury wrote. ''By 1973, when the war finally stumbled to a conclusion, The Times's view had become commonplace.''
        During the Watergate scandal, The Times was an early advocate of President Richard M. Nixon's resignation. And long before the New York City fiscal crisis broke in 1975, the paper raised alarms about reckless municipal spending, although its editorials endorsed John V. Lindsay for mayor and helped elect the biggest spender of all.
        The Times also pleaded for equal rights for minorities, women and gays, supported abortion rights and endorsed liberal political candidates, including George S. McGovern for president in 1972. There were other Oakes themes -- gun control, financing for the arts, constitutional and civil rights, environmental causes, and a harsh view of big business and profit motives.
        It took nine years for Mr. Oakes's idea of a Times Op-Ed page to germinate. In 1961, before he became editor, a friend sent him a commentary that he much admired. It was too long to run as a letter to the editor, and The Times lacked a venue for such an outside contribution, which wound up in The New York Herald Tribune.
        The term ''op-ed'' had been coined in the 1920's by Herbert Bayard Swope of The New York World for a page ''opposite the editorials'' that showcased that newspaper's cast of columnists. Mr. Oakes saw such a page more broadly -- as a potential forum for contributors from across the political spectrum, as well as columnists -- but the idea languished in debates over diverting the space from news or advertising, relocating obituaries that had long appeared opposite the editorials, and whom to place in charge of the page.
        In 1970, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, the publisher of The Times, cut off the debates and established an Op-Ed page that became a model for other newspapers worldwide. Overall control was awarded to Mr. Oakes, with Mr. Salisbury reporting to him as Op-Ed editor.
        Elegance Under Pressure
        Mr. Oakes -- Johnny to his friends -- was a carefully attired man with wavy hair that went gray in his 40's. He supervised a staff of 10 to 12 writers, editing most of their work personally as well as writing many editorials himself, often in elegant prose cast against deadline. On Nov. 22, 1963, the day President John F. Kennedy was assassinated, Mr. Oakes was visiting a college campus, but dictated his editorial by phone.
        ''The light of reason was momentarily extinguished with the crack of a rifle shot in Dallas yesterday,'' he declared. ''But that light is, in reality, inextinguishable; and, with God's help, it will show the way to our country and our country's leaders as we mourn for John F. Kennedy in the darkening days ahead.''
        Under Mr. Oakes, the editorial board almost never met as a group to discuss what to write or what positions to take. Instead, the members had fields of interest or expertise, and Mr. Oakes met with them individually nearly every day to discuss ideas and outline editorial positions.
        Peter Grose, an author on foreign policy who had been a foreign correspondent for The Times and was on the editorial board from 1972 to 1976, recalled Mr. Oakes as a courtly man whose quiet manner often masked passionate beliefs. He was always respectful of his colleagues' views, Mr. Grose said, and while board members generally shared his outlook, there were disagreements. ''One fundamental dispute among the editorial writers had to do with the fact that John firmly believed that the page had to hit at its arguments day after day after day,'' Mr. Grose said. ''Once we took a position on a subject, the power came in constant hammering at it. John was very insistent on this. There were always novel ways of making the same argument.''
        While Mr. Oakes and the board were nominally surrogates for the publisher, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger, they knew his attitudes and rarely had need to consult him. Thus, Mr. Oakes had wide latitude for a page read in Washington, New York and around the world by top government officials, opinion makers and leaders in business, religion, the arts and other fields.
        But the tone of jabbing liberalism and the absence of any conservative counterweight (the columnist Arthur Krock had filled that role until his retirement in 1966) increasingly came to trouble the publisher.
        In 1972, Mr. Sulzberger attended a charity dinner and found himself sitting next to William Safire, a former speechwriter for Richard M. Nixon. The two men hit it off, and without consulting Mr. Oakes -- and over Mr. Oakes's later vehement objections -- the publisher hired Mr. Safire as a columnist after the election.
        There were other frictions in the next few years. ''John was very liberal about everything,'' James P. Brown, a retired journalist who was a member of the editorial board from 1967 to 1976, recalled. ''Even some of our kids thought we were too radical.''
        Some executives of The Times, including the publisher, also perceived an antibusiness tone to the page, at a time when there was concern about the paper's financial health.
        Dissent Over an Endorsement
        Thus it was both a tricky professional maneuver and a painful family decision when, in March 1976, Mr. Sulzberger decided the time had come for Mr. Oakes to step aside at the end of the year in favor of a rising star within The Times, Max Frankel. Resisting Mr. Oakes's entreaties to be allowed to remain for two more years until his 65th birthday, the publisher held firm.
        For the most part, Mr. Sulzberger and Mr. Oakes had always thrashed out disagreements in private. But they quarreled publicly later that year when Mr. Oakes, on vacation, learned that the publisher had overruled his choice and insisted on an editorial endorsing Daniel Patrick Moynihan for the Senate nomination in the New York Democratic primary. Mr. Oakes, who had planned to endorse the outspoken Representative Bella S. Abzug, wrote an angry letter of dissent, intending it to be published beside the editorial. But again the publisher refused. Instead, the endorsement ran on Sept. 10, and Mr. Oakes was allowed to print a 40-word dissent the next day. Mr. Moynihan won the primary, defeating Ms. Abzug by barely 10,000 votes.
        Mr. Frankel succeeded Mr. Oakes at the end of 1976, and went on 10 years later to become executive editor, serving until 1994.
        Under Mr. Frankel, the tone and substance of editorials, and the composition and practices of the board, were changed. There were fewer, longer editorials; they were less fervent and more unpredictable, challenging liberal as well as conservative dogmas. He insisted on regular board meetings, not to take votes, but to air ideas and test arguments. While previous editorial writers had been men recruited from The Times's news staff, Mr. Frankel brought in outsiders from government and other fields, and the first woman to write editorials full time.
        He also replaced most of the board members. ''It was a traumatic experience for those guys,'' said Mr. Brown, one of those who resigned. Mr. Grose, who returned to the news staff as a correspondent, agreed. ''Yes, there were a lot of hard feelings among some people.''
        After stepping down as editorial editor, Mr. Oakes was named a senior editor and senior vice president of The Times. He retired in 1978, but over the next 15 years continued writing for the Op-Ed page on environmental and other issues.
        Mr. Oakes is survived by his wife, the former Margery Hartman, whom he married in 1945; three daughters, Andra N. Oakes, of Washington, Alison H. Oakes, of Glencoe, Ill., and Cynthia J. Oakes, of London; a son, John G. H. Oakes, of Manhattan; and seven grandchildren.
        John Bertram Oakes was born on April 23, 1913, in Elkins Park, Pa., the son of Bertie Gans Ochs and George Washington Ochs, who was variously editor of The Philadelphia Public Ledger, editor of Current History magazine and an officer and director of The New York Times Company. As an expression of anti-German sentiment in 1917, the father legally changed the last name of his two sons to Oakes, and added the name to his own, later hyphenating it, Ochs-Oakes.
        Although he was a younger brother of Adolph Ochs, who bought The Times in 1896, George Ochs-Oakes never shared major responsibility for the newspaper and did not become part of the dynastic succession of Times publishers. Adolph Ochs's successors were his son-in-law, Arthur Hays Sulzberger; his grandson-in-law, Orvil E. Dryfoos; his grandson, Arthur Ochs Sulzberger; and his great-grandson, Arthur Sulzberger Jr., the present publisher.
        John Oakes attended Collegiate School in New York and the Lawrenceville School in New Jersey. In 1934, he graduated from Princeton, where he was elected to Phi Beta Kappa, was valedictorian and was voted ''most brilliant'' by his class. In 1935, he studied at the University of Dijon in France, and as a Rhodes scholar in 1936 earned two degrees from Oxford University in England.
        Although he might have gone to work for The Times immediately, he decided to establish his journalistic credentials elsewhere. He became a reporter for The Trenton Times in 1936, and a year later joined The Washington Post, covering politics and features from 1937 to 1941.
        From 1941 to 1946, he was in the Army, rising from private to major (and later lieutenant colonel in the Reserve) and serving in Europe in the infantry and the Office of Strategic Services, the forerunner of the Central Intelligence Agency. He was awarded the Bronze Star, the Order of the British Empire and the Croix de Guerre.
        After the War, the Week in Review
        After the war, Mr. Oakes joined The Times, serving as editor of the Week in Review from 1946 to 1949, when he joined the editorial board. For many years, while writing editorials, Mr. Oakes also wrote a monthly Times column on environmental issues, and from 1955 to 1962 served as a member of the Interior Department's advisory board on national parks.
        Mr. Oakes was named editor of the editorial page on April 25, 1961, as part of a series of executive changes that included the retirement of Arthur Hays Sulzberger and the appointment of Mr. Dryfoos as publisher. Mr. Dryfoos died two years later, leaving Arthur Ochs Sulzberger at the helm through the rest of Mr. Oakes's tenure.
        In the same year he was appointed, having spent almost a year in Africa and Europe, Mr. Oakes wrote ''The Edge of Freedom,'' a book on the formulation of American policies toward the new nations of the sub-Sahara and the Soviet satellites in Eastern Europe. He contributed to several other books, including ''Foundations of Freedom'' (1958) and ''Tomorrow's American'' (1977).
        In 1977 and 1978, Mr. Oakes was a visiting professor at the S. I. Newhouse School of Communications at Syracuse University. He also served on the faculty of the Salzburg Seminar on American Studies and lectured on journalism at many universities.
        He was a trustee of Temple Emanu-El in Manhattan and of the Washington Journalism Center, and a member of the Society of Silurians, an organization of veteran journalists in the New York area.
        His many journalistic honors included two George Polk Awards from Long Island University -- one in 1966 that cited ''a brilliance, an intensity and a perceptiveness'' that made the editorial page ''the most vital and influential journalistic voice in America,'' and another last month for achievements throughout his career -- the 1970 Woodrow Wilson Award of Princeton University; and the Columbia-Catherwood Award for international journalism in 1960.
        In 1976, he received an honorary doctorate from the City University of New York, and the Audubon Medal, the highest conservation award of the National Audubon Society. He also received awards from the Sierra Club and the Natural Resources Defense Council, which in 1993 established the annual John B. Oakes Award for Distinguished Environmental Journalism.
        Editors' Note:  April 17, 2001, Tuesday  The obituary of John B. Oakes of The New York Times on April 6 referred incompletely to the women who wrote editorials for the paper before and during his time as editor of the editorial page. Soma Golden Behr, appointed to the editorial board in 1977 by Mr. Oakes's successor, Max Frankel, was the first to write editorials exclusively.
        But Anne O'Hare McCormick had previously served on the board; Arthur Hays Sulzberger appointed her in 1936. She wrote feature articles on politics and foreign affairs along with editorials, and then became The Times's foreign affairs columnist. Ada Louise Huxtable was appointed by Mr. Oakes to his board in 1973; she also contributed architecture articles to the daily and Sunday papers.
      