
        Theodore Gottlieb, who as Brother Theodore performed apocalyptic one-man shows about life, death and broccoli in Greenwich Village nightclubs to dazzling and disturbing effect, died yesterday at Mount Sinai Hospital in Manhattan. He was 94.
        Mr. Gottlieb, with his wild white hair shining under the lights and with a demonic glint in his eye, was in his element at the 13th Street Theater, where he performed for nearly two decades, until a few years ago.
        His only prop was a table, behind which he would sit when he wasn't stalking around it or plopping on top of it. In his sonorous, German-accented voice he flirted with the meaning of life - or, just as likely, with the woman in the audience he considered most attractive.
        He called his act stand-up tragedy.
        Brother Theodore, who flaunted a sophistication learned in the Berlin of the 1920's, told audiences, ''I've gazed into the abyss and the abyss gazed into me, and neither of us liked what we saw.''
        Or: ''It's my sincere wish that after my death, my head be severed and replaced with a bunch of broccoli. It's the artist in me.''
        His life flowed like a novel, although few publishers would have bought the outlandish plot. Born to great wealth in Germany, he ended up in Dachau, only to be released when he signed over the family's great fortune for a single mark. Einstein, said by some of Mr. Gottlieb's friends to have been his mother's lover, helped him get to the United States.
        Always an aristocrat, he suddenly found himself working as a janitor at Stanford University, where he managed to defeat 30 professors at chess -- simultaneously.
        Later he was a dockworker in San Francisco, where he put on his first one-man show, featuring his reading of Poe poems.
        ''In the two weeks I had one person in the audience,'' he said in an interview with The New York Mirror in 1958. ''My wife. And if I didn't give her a complimentary ticket, she wouldn't have come.''
        Next came a stint in Hollywood, where he won a bit part in the 1946 Orson Welles film, ''The Stranger.'' He moved to New York after Welles showed a distressing romantic interest in his young wife. He worked at Schrafft's restaurant while beginning to perfect his monologue at small Bohemian clubs in the Village.
        With the arrival of television, he made regular appearances on talk shows, including three dozen with Merv Griffin, as well as many with the comedian Steve Allen. After fading to cult popularity in the 1970's, he emerged as one of David Letterman's regular guests in the 1980's.
        Brother Theodore had six sellout performances at Town Hall in the 1950's. He received good and bad reviews over the years, but few neutral ones, according to Jewish Week in August 1995. The Village Voice described him as ''a rabble-rouser without a cause - unless his cause is to promote the power of negative thinking and the glorification of anguish and despair.''
        Theodore Gottlieb was born in Dusseldorf on Nov. 11, 1906. His father published 52 fashion magazines and might have been worth $80 million, he told friends. His life was easy and luxurious, and he attended the University of Cologne. When Hitler came to power, he fled with his family to Vienna. He was taken to Dachau on his 32nd birthday.
        In the death camp, he said he saw men eaten alive by dogs while Nazi guards laughed, according to Who's Who in Comedy. When he agreed to relinquish the family fortune to win freedom, he was told the deal did not guarantee his family's freedom, but made it more feasible.
        Eight members of his family died in the Holocaust, including his parents and grandmother. Some had thought their personal danger was gone after the agreement and had returned to Germany, said Lorca Morello, a lawyer, who was Mr. Gottlieb's girlfriend.
        Mr. Gottlieb went from Dachau to Switzerland, where he supported himself as a chess hustler. This violated Swiss law, and he was deported to Austria. Einstein helped him get to California, Ms. Morello said.
        After later settling in New York, Ms. Morello said, his wife fell in love with another refugee, his best friend, and left with his son. The son, Thomas Lonner of Olympia, Wash., is his only survivor.
        He developed his deadpan technique by copying others, said Sidney Mason, his longtime publicist.
        ''He was a creative plagiarist, really,'' said Mr. Mason, who met him in Columbus Circle as both men heckled a speaker trying to refute Einstein's theory of relativity.
        Mr. Gottlieb also became talented at peddling wild notions to reporters.  The Mirror article described his campaign to get people to give up two-legged locomotion in favor of using all four limbs.
        ''Down, I say, down on all fours, and you'll have everything you want, be everything you want to be,'' he said. ''Quadrupedism is the key to every lock, the power that heals, the real McCoy.''
        In 1990 Mr. Gottlieb had an operation to correct breathing problems caused by having his nose broken in Dachau. As always, he saw the best and worst sides.
        ''If I die, best wishes for the rest of your life,'' he told friends. ''If I don't -- I'll phone you.''
      