
        Edward Roth, Big Daddy to 60's teenagers and creator of curvaceously customized cars and delightfully repugnant cartoon characters, notably the slobbering Rat Fink, died on Wednesday in his studio in Manti, Utah. He was 69.
        The cause was a heart attack.
        For male baby boomers, Big Daddy was neat-o, boss, hip and, yes, rank, a drag strip compliment that connoted monstrosity. Teenage boys hoarded allowance money to buy plastic models of his real-life roaring hot rods, from the Outlaw to the Beatnik Bandit to the Mysterion. Likely as not, his fans wore T-shirts of Big Daddy's monsters, including Mr. Gasser and Surf Fink.
        By far the most popular monster was Rat Fink, a big, hairy rat with bloodshot, bulging eyeballs and yellow, broken teeth. His tail was patched with athletic tape, and flies buzzed around him. Rat Fink was more than once described as Mickey Mouse's evil twin.
        To the numerous museums that  have exhibited hot rods and their associated artifacts in recent years, it all adds up to art.
        Tom Wolfe, in an essay in Esquire in 1963, was one of the first to elevate what insiders call ''Kar Kulture'' to this higher level. He called Mr. Roth ''a surrealist in his designs, a showman by temperament, a prankster.''
        Mr. Roth was, Mr. Wolfe said, ''the most colorful, the most intellectual and the most capricious'' of car customizers.
        Mr. Roth's work is currently being shown at the California Center for the Artsin Escondido as part of an exhibition called ''Customized: Art Inspired by Hot Rods, Lowriders and American Car Culture.''
        Nora Donnelly, who organized this exhibition for the Institute of Contemporary Art in Boston, where it was first shown, said Mr. Roth's influence extended beyond a cult following.
        ''He not only developed the iconography for the subculture of hot rods, but also contributed to the attitude and the whole outlook of many young artists,'' Ms. Donnelly said, mentioning the underground comic illustrator Robert Williams, among others.
        Mr. Roth, a huge man with wild clothes and sunglasses who spoke in beatnik jive, looked very much like someone who would give life to bizarre visions.
        ''The kids idolize me because I look like someone their parents wouldn't like,'' he said in 1964.
        Commentators have suggested his  anti-authority, rebellious approach -- reminiscent of Mad magazine -- presaged Vietnam War protesters and Bart Simpson. At the least, Big Daddy was a leader in what is now seen as an art movement to turn standard Detroit cars into virtually unrecognizable but absolutely mesmerizing dream vehicles.
        Along with Von Dutch, famous for his Flying Eyeball, Mr. Roth pioneered the detailed discipline of decorating cars known as pinstriping. He was also one of the first to use fiberglass to sculpture automotive bodies.
        Mr. Roth was born in Beverly Hills, Calif., on March 4, 1932. He learned how to work with tools from his father, who had been trained as a cabinetmaker. His first car, bought when he was in high school, was a souped-up 1934 Ford.
        ''My dad was strict,'' he told Life magazine in 1964. ''Whenever I put anything on the car, I'd tell him it was to make it safer.''
        He briefly tried college, served in the Air Force for four years and got a job as a clerk at a Sears store in Los Angeles. He rented garage space to start a business pinstriping cars, charging $50 to $150 to paint designs in 1/64-inch strips.
        Then he went into the hot-rod business full time. He sold nerf bars (custom bumpers), gearshift knobs and candy-apple paint -- a clear lacquer painted over base colors. He also began making custom cars. Among his masterpieces was Road Agent, which was handmade from stock car parts, with chrome-plated axles and springs, a plastic canopy and two side-mounted auxiliary fuel tanks -- all painted in eye-popping candy-apple colors.
        Though his cars made him famous in California, his national fame among teenage boys came from his airbrush paintings of monsters. It started when a local hot-rod club asked him to design an emblem. Mr. Roth turned out a gruesomely distorted portrait of each member.
        The result was that the Revell Model Company signed him to make monsters for them. The figures were placed in individual miniature cars. Mr. Roth also signed a licensing  agreement for the company to make models of his hot rods.
        Even as stores all over the country were selling out of models and monsters, Mr. Roth demonstrated his trademark independence when Revell asked him to spruce up a bit when he appeared at car shows.
        ''Roth entered a kind of reverse rebellion,'' Mr. Wolfe wrote in the essay that was later included in his book ''The Kandy-Kolored Tangerine-Flake Streamline Baby.''
        ''He bought a full set of tails, silk hat, boiled shirt, cuff links, studs, the whole apparatus, for $250, also a monocle, and now he comes to shows like that. 'I bow and kiss all the girls' hands,' he told me.''
        Revell dropped Mr. Roth after he began riding and designing souped-up Harley-Davidson motorcycles and hanging out with Hell's Angels. He lost all his money on a motorcyle magazine called Choppers. In 1970, he was forced to sell 15 of his custom cars for a total of $5,500.
        Mr. Roth long ago stopped being a wild man, although he still wore his colorful costume at car shows. He became a Mormon and stayed mostly away from the car culture for much of the 70's and 80's.
        ''I started looking deeper,'' he said in an interview with The Los Angeles Times in 1981. He worked as a graphic designer for Knott's Berry Farm, the amusement park, designing menus and painted billboards.
        In recent years, living in Utah, he has again devoted himself to designing cars again ''because nobody's doing anything far out.'' He then exhibited them at shows. After two years, he donated each to a museum, his wife, Ilene, said.
        But returning to his passion may have created an uneasy compromise. In 1997, he said in an Associated Press interview: ''My fanaticism with cars has just destroyed my personal life. It's an obsession, an addiction. Every day, I pray to God, 'Release me from my calling!' ''
        Mr. Roth is survived by his wife; five sons, Howard, Dennis, Darryl, Charles and George, all of whom live in California; three stepsons, Rusty Braithwaite, Cody Braithwaite and Wyatt Frischknecht, all of Manti; a stepdaughter, Tammy Rogers of Manti, and 14 grandchildren.
      