
        Frederick Rath, a pioneer of historical conservation in a country devoted to replacement and redevelopment, died in his sleep on April 1 in Cooperstown, N.Y. He was 87 and lived in Cooperstown.
        Mr. Rath served from 1949 to 1956 as the director of the National Trust for Historic Preservation, newly created by Congress to succeed the National Council for Historic Sites and Buildings, which he had also headed.
        Originally inspired by the example of Britain's National Trust, the American body quickly took a very different direction under Mr. Rath's leadership. The United States' philanthropic tradition, its greater wealth and its less burdensome tax system encouraged private conservation efforts, allowing Mr. Rath to create what became essentially an advocacy organization that pressed the cause on Congress and the executive branch, rather than make a priority of owning and managing historic sites itself as its British counterpart does.
        America's National Trust now manages just 20 historic-house museums and no land at all; it has about 200,000 members and income of about $40 million a year. Britain's National Trust, by contrast, runs 630 historic buildings open to the public, owns 600,000 acres of open countryside and coastline, and has 2.7 million members and income of about $100 million a year.
        In 1957, after leaving the trust, Mr. Rath became vice director of the New York State Historical Association, in Cooperstown, and began teaching museum management at the Cooperstown Graduate Program in History Museum Training. Then, from 1972 until 1979, he had responsibility for historic sites throughout New York State as deputy commissioner in the Office of Parks, Recreation and Historic Preservation.
        From 1979 to 1987, he was chief executive officer at the Eastern National Park and Monument Association, a nonprofit body he helped found that publishes guides and books about historic sites.
        Mr. Rath's approach to conservation sought to keep historic sites integrated in the life of local communities by encouraging commercial activity, rather than having the two isolated from each other as at Williamsburg, for example. He was a strong advocate of the South Street Seaport project, which saved a historic part of Lower Manhattan by turning old buildings into tourist-oriented shops and restaurants. And as  deputy state parks commissioner, he championed state heritage areas, where communities work with the state government to develop historical sites as tourist attractions.
        Frederick Louis Rath was born in Brooklyn and earned degrees in American history at Dartmouth and Harvard. He then joined the National Park Service, for which he worked at historic sites, and after serving in the Army during World War II he became a historian at the home of Franklin D. Roosevelt and the Vanderbilt Mansion in Hyde Park, N.Y.
        He married Ann Richardson in 1946. She survives him, as do two sons, William, of Cooperstown, and David, of Williston, Vt.
      