
        Arthur Cantor, the gentleman impresario with a showman's flair whose life in the theater encompassed more than 40 years of shows on Broadway and beyond, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 81.
        A champion of the work of comic playwrights like Paddy Chayefsky and Herb Gardner, Mr. Cantor was a near-constant presence on Broadway during the 1960's and 70's and a character in its anecdotes for many years before and after.
        Along the way, he crossed paths -- and sometimes swords -- with such legendary theatrical figures as David Merrick, whom he called ''an evil genius,'' and the flamboyant producer Billy Rose, who he said was bright but ''a bad judge of material.'' His career was also dappled by the light of some of Broadway's biggest stars: Colleen Dewhurst, Zero Mostel, Rex Harrison, Ingrid Bergman, Julie Harris, Eileen Atkins and Claire Bloom.
        A tall, distinguished-looking man, Mr. Cantor was known for his devotion to his shows. Lighthearted signs declaring ''Last 365 Performances'' or ''Winner of the Word of Mouth Award'' dangled in front of his marquees, as did fictitious quotes from historical characters ('' 'I laughed my head off' -- Marie Antoinette''). He often wrote open letters to the public, published as advertisements.
        He was also proud of his financial acumen. ''I'm a tyrant with the penny,'' Mr. Cantor said in a 1993 profile in Crain's New York Business. ''When I started producing, a Hershey bar was a nickel. I can't imagine paying $7 million for anything.''
        Mr. Cantor broke into producing in 1959 when he worked with the veteran producer Saint Subber on Chayefsky's play ''The Tenth Man.'' An unusual comedy about a young Jewish girl possessed by a demon, it had been rejected by several producers before landing on Mr. Cantor's desk. But he was intrigued by the play's setting, an Orthodox synagogue, and decided to risk raising $75,000 to put it onstage.
        His instincts proved correct. Directed by Tyrone Guthrie, ''The Tenth Man'' was a surprise hit, winning the Pulitzer Prize for drama.
        He followed with a quick succession of hits, including two more serious works in 1961: Chayefsky's ''Gideon'' and ''All the Way Home,'' by Tad Mosel, another Pulitzer Prize winner. A year later Mr. Cantor struck gold again with Mr. Gardner's comedy ''A Thousand Clowns,'' with Jason Robards.
        Mr. Cantor's relationship with  Chayefsky was especially close. After his friend died in 1981, Mr. Cantor wrote a lengthy tribute in The New York Times, describing his efforts to lure Chayefsky, then a screenwriter, back to the theater.
        Passionate (and sometimes volatile) friendships were common in Mr. Cantor's life. In the early 1960's he began a professional relationship with Billy Rose, whose style and interests he admired. According to backstage legend, the relationship was scrapped after Mr. Cantor began to suspect that Rose had designs on a theater he was interested in.
        In Broadway's surreal way, the failed business endeavor was the beginning of a beautiful friendship. After Rose's death in 1966, Mr. Cantor was named executor of his estate.
        Mr. Cantor was born and raised in the Mattapan section of Boston, first encountering the theater as a 4-year-old at the local Yiddish playhouse.
        After graduating from Harvard, he was hired as a researcher by the Gallup Organization. That job was interrupted by a World War II stint in the Air Force. On his return, he joined the publicity department of the Playwrights Company.
        In the early 1950's he formed his own agency, setting up shop in a $25-a-week cubbyhole off Times Square. The first show he handled, a 1951 comedy called ''Hook and Ladder,'' lasted just one performance. But Mr. Cantor was persistent -- his office chair had the Harvard motto, ''Veritas,'' on the back -- often taking theatrical photographs and offering career advice to actors on the side. And in 1955 his luck improved with the runaway hit ''Inherit the Wind.'' Over the next four years, he handled the publicity for a string of critical successes, including ''Long Day's Journey Into Night,'' ''Auntie Mame'' and ''The Miracle Worker.''
        He also decided to dabble in producing, putting $2,000 in 1957 into a new musical about a charming con man in a Midwestern town. His wife was not amused. ''She said: 'What are you, nuts? We use oleo instead of  margarine, and you throw away $2,000,' '' Mr. Cantor recalled in 1993.
        But again, his instincts were right. That musical was ''The Music Man.''
        After his successes in the 1960's, Mr. Cantor grew increasingly disturbed by the rising costs of Broadway. In 1970 he wrote a study of the industry, ''The Playmakers,'' with Stuart W. Little. Not long after, he turned his attention to London and Off Broadway, where production expenses were lower. Over the next two decades, they would be his primary markets, with projects like ''Private Lives,'' with Maggie Smith, and Harold Pinter's ''Hothouse.''
        One particular success was ''On Golden Pond,'' which did middling business on Broadway in 1979 but made a small fortune when it was made into an Academy Award-winning film with Henry Fonda and Katharine Hepburn.
        Mr. Cantor also collected films of rare performances and helped produce ''The Golden Age of Second Avenue,'' a documentary about Yiddish theater in New York.
        In late 1998 Mr. Cantor was partially incapacitated by a stroke, an event that slowed but did not stop his championing of new work.
        In the fall of 1999 he was to produce ''Scent of the Roses,'' by a South African playwright, Lisette Lecat Ross, which stalled in Nyack, N.Y., on its way to Broadway.
        He is survived by a daughter, Jacqueline, and a son, David, both of Manhattan, and two sisters, Gloria Cantor of New York and Mona Briss of Framingham, Mass.
        In a 1993 interview, Mr. Cantor described his theory of producing good, intelligent, light plays.
        ''It's a crap shoot,'' he said. ''But somebody has to do plays that don't keep people up at night worrying about the world.''
        Correction:  April 12, 2001, Thursday  An obituary of the theater producer Arthur Cantor on Tuesday omitted the name of a collaborator in three Broadway hits. Mr. Cantor produced ''Gideon,'' ''All the Way Home'' and ''A Thousand Clowns'' with Fred Coe, not independently.
      