
        Gerald L. Brubaker, an American weapons expert and arms inspector for the United Nations Special Commission charged with finding and destroying Iraq's nuclear, chemical and biological weapons, died of cancer yesterday in the Hospice of Northern Virginia in Alexandria. He was 60.
        Between 1994 and 1998, while at the Defense Department, Dr. Brubaker served as a liaison with the commission, providing the special equipment it needed to find and destroy Iraq's weapons of mass destruction.
        During 12 inspection visits to Iraq, he became particularly involved in the hunt for chemical and biological weapons. He took part in the examination and destruction of a major weapons factory, Al Muthanna State Establishment, and did work involving chemical plants in Falluja.
        He helped the commission set up its own laboratory in Baghdad to test for dangerous substances and helped design and install monitoring devices that registered minute quantities of toxic chemicals in the air.
        For his work with the commission, Dr. Brubaker received commendations from two defense secretaries, William J. Perry and William S. Cohen, and was awarded the Defense Medal for Meritorious Civilian Services.
        Gerald Lee Brubaker was born on Aug. 5, 1940, in Bellaire, Ohio, and earned a Ph.D. in inorganic chemistry at Ohio State University. After service as an intelligence officer with the Navy, he joined the Council on Environmental Quality, where he helped organize the Ford and Carter administrations' successful efforts to block development of plutonium-burning civilian power reactors.
        From 1981 to 1986 he worked for the House Committee on Energy and Commerce, where he again successfully opposed the plutonium-burning Clinch River Breeder Reactor.
        He then served as senior assistant for nonproliferation policy at the Pentagon, where he advocated export controls on items like supercomputers that could contribute to the spread of weapons of mass destruction.
        In 1999 he moved to the Defense Threat Reduction Agency, working on technologies to detect the development of chemical and biological weapons.
        Dr. Brubaker, who never married, is survived by his mother, Kathryn Vnasdale, of Fort Myers, Fla.; his brother, James Brubaker, of Beverly Hills, Calif., and his twin sister, Judith Waugh, of Toledo, Ohio.
      