
        Harry Secombe, a natural clown who brought deft acting, a seemingly uncontrollable falsetto giggle and a raspberry that sounded like a bulldozer hitting a whoopee cushion to his role as one of the stars of ''The Goon Show,'' the 1950's British radio program, died yesterday at a hospital in Guildford, England.
        Mr. Secombe, who was 79, died of cancer. He suffered a stroke two years ago and was also a diabetic.
        The beloved British entertainer, whose accomplishments ranged from headlining command performances as a sweet-voiced tenor at London's Palladium to hosting a long-running religious television program to starring on Broadway,'' lived in Surrey.
        As part of ''The Goon Show,'' he was a comic pioneer. It epitomized the cerebral, absurdist postwar British humor that found a later home on ''Monty Python's Flying Circus.'' Its appeal transcended class and ideological chasms as English audiences reveled in the zany antics of the show's three stars for most of its life: Mr. Secombe, Peter Sellers and Spike Milligan.
        Plots seemed to carry any situation to its illogical conclusion. In an episode about fleas, for example, listeners were assured no real fleas were used. Their parts were being taken by small grasshoppers painted black. The British Broadcasting Corporation banned scenes depicting the House of Commons asleep.
        Prince Charles, a huge fan, yesterday said that Mr. Secombe, his favorite Goon, would be missed by all ''who appreciate wit and unmalicious humor.''
        Harry Donald Secombe was born in Swansea, South Wales, on Sept. 8, 1921, The son of a traveling salesman, he grew up in the city's tough docks area. The puny boy developed a skill at impersonating his teachers to ingratiate himself with bigger boys. In the Army in North Africa and Italy, he applied his talent to sergeants.
        After the war, he developed a comedy act in which he told jokes as he shaved onstage. After finishing this odd presentation, a man he described as gin-soaked exclaimed: ''I own this theater. Get out. You're not bloody shaving on my time, mate.''
        The true birthplace of the Goons was a London pub called the Grafton Arms. The four original stars, who included Michael Bentine, who left after a season, would meet there. This was no problem for Mr. Milligan, who lived upstairs. One day, they produced a script.
        To the authors' amazement, it was accepted by the BBC for a pilot broadcast. The show began on May 28, 1951, as ''Crazy People,'' and became ''The Goon Show'' the following January. It lasted until Feb. 23, 1959.
        Its utter and glorious weirdness is suggested by the following description in ''The Goon Show companion: A History and Goonography,'' written by Roger Wilmut and Jimmy Grafton and published by St. Martin's Press in 1976:
        ''Rooted firmly in the nonsense of Lewis Carroll, the satire of Aristophanes, the anarchy of the Marx Brothers, the violence of the Hollywood cartoon, and the broad comedy of the English Music Halls, the Goons brought to air the use of techniques of sound broadcasting rarely achieved by any radio organization.''
        Some think the appeal was a cockeyed ability to tell the truth. When House of Commons debates began to be broadcast in 1975, The Daily Mirror suggested that the Goons' representations sounded more real than the real thing.
        Or, maybe it was just the brandy in the milk bottles the Goons smuggled into the studio, since the BBC banned alcohol.
        Mr. Secombe's role in the lunacy was that of Neddie Seagoon, a righteous young man given to bursting into ''They'll Always Be an England'' for no apparent reason. He often lost his wallet and was very gullible. As plots became longer as the series progressed, most revolved around Neddie.
        As ''The Goon Show Companion'' said, ''His central role acts as the pivot around which the gallery of grotesques can act out Milligan's fantasies.''
        Among many other roles, Mr. Secombe played the title role in ''The Pickwick Papers'' in the mid-1960's and playing Mr. Bumble in the movie ''Oliver'' in 1968. For more than a decade starting in the early 1980's, he was the host of ''Highway,'' a Sunday religious program. He was knighted in 1981.
        Sir Harry's personal life sometimes seemed like something right out of ''The Goon Show.'' During a dance in Swansea in 1945, he was wearing a lumberjack shirt and trying to put himself over as a Canadian, believing that made him more interesting. He asked a pretty woman for a dance in his best Canadian accent.
        ''From Swansea, are you?'' she asked.
        But she agreed to meet him the next day at 6 p.m. But then he began to worry that his memory was hazy.
        ''I got there at 5:45 and hid behind a pillar,'' he said in an interview with The Express. ''I thought, 'If I like the look of her, I'll come out.' At about 6:15, I stepped out from behind my pillar - and she stepped out from behind hers. I'd met my match.''
        He and the former Myra Atherton were married 53 years. He is also survived by his four children, Andrew, Katy, Jennifer and David, and five grandchildren.
      