
        Lord Aldington, a British politician and an executive who won the highest libel damages ever awarded by a British court in his suit against a great-nephew of the Russian novelist Leo Tolstoy, died on Dec. 7 at his home in southern England. He was 86.
        Lord Aldington's long dispute with the nephew, Count Nikolai Tolstoy, who had accused him of war crimes, brought an award of $:1.5 million, or $2.3 million, in 1989. But he never received a penny.
        The case centered on one of the Allies' most shameful acts of World War II, the forced repatriation, under the terms of the 1945 Yalta agreement with the Soviet Union, of thousands of captured anti-Communist Russians and Yugoslavs, most of whom were promptly executed or imprisoned.
        As a brigadier on the staff of the British forces occupying Austria at the end of the war, Toby Austin Richard William Low, as Lord Aldington was known, was involved in sending back 70,000 so-called Cossacks and anti-Tito Ustasha who had surrendered to the British in the belief that they would be safe. The group included 11,000 women and children. He acted on the direct orders of Harold Macmillan, Winston Churchill's minister in the Mediterranean.
        In the mid-1980's, when he was in his 70's and winding down a successful political and business career, Lord Aldington felt obliged to bring a libel action against Count Tolstoy and an embittered property developer, Nigel Watts, who had circulated a pamphlet saying that Lord Aldington ''had the blood of 70,000 innocent men, women and children on his hands'' and that his wartime activities merited ''comparison with those of the worst butchers of Nazi Germany and Soviet Russia.''
        Count Tolstoy had already published several books and articles attacking Macmillan and Britain's wartime government for handing over the anti-Communist prisoners in the hope of pleasing Stalin and securing the release of British soldiers held in Eastern Europe. The books included ''Victims of Yalta''(1977) and ''The Minister and the Massacres'' (1986).
        At the trial, Lord Aldington agreed that the fate of the returnees had been ''ghastly'' but said he had not known that they faced execution. ''There were many officers who were very unhappy about what we had to do, and I was amongst them,'' he testified. ''But I didn't make a fuss about it. I just got on with the job.''
        Lord Aldington won his case and the award. But Count Tolstoy declared himself bankrupt to avoid payment and repeatedly appealed the decision. In 1995, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that the original damages had been excessive. Meanwhile, legal costs had crippled Lord Aldington's own finances.
        Born on May 25, 1914, Lord Aldington was educated at Winchester and New College, Oxford, before serving in World War II in Greece, Crete, Egypt, Libya, Tunisia, Italy and Austria. He was awarded the Distinguished Service Order, the Croix de Guerre and the American Legion of Merit.
        He entered Parliament in 1945 as a Conservative member for Blackpool North and became minister of trade when Churchill returned to office in 1951 and, later, vice chairman of the Conservative Party. He was ennobled in 1962.
        His business career included serving as chairman of the General Electric Company, Grindlays Bank, Westland Aircraft, Sun Alliance and London Insurance. Surviving are his wife, Araminta, whom he married in 1947; two daughters; and a son.
        The day after Lord Aldington's death, an Oxford court ordered Count Tolstoy to make a first payment of $85,000 toward the legal costs in the case. But he remained unrepentant, saying of the man whom he had libeled, ''He'll get a frosty reception at the Pearly Gates.''
      