
        Chester L. Posey, an advertising executive who played a key role in shaping Exxon's tiger logo, died on Monday in Vero Beach, Fla. He was 77 and lived in Vero Beach.
        The cause of death was cancer.
        Mr. Posey was a second-generation employee of McCann-Erickson, now called McCann-Erickson Worldwide and a subsidiary of the Interpublic Group of Companies, one of the world's largest advertising groups. He started working at the company in 1954, following his father, Chester A. Posey, who also had a long career at McCann.
        The younger Mr. Posey, who rose to creative director and vice chairman, left the company in the late 1970's and started his own advertising agency, Posey, Parry & Quest, in Greenwich, Conn. Mr. Posey retired in the late 1980's.
        Mr. Posey's best-known creation in advertising is the live version of the tiger, which is still used by what is now the Exxon Mobil Corporation. The tiger logo itself and the ''put a tiger in your tank'' campaign were started by another agency, and it initially used a cartoon tiger. Mr. Posey changed it to a live tiger around 1970, and the image has since stuck.
        ''It outlasted him,'' said Eugene H. Kummel, chairman emeritus of McCann. ''I don't know why, but it just simply worked.''
        The tiger has also become a symbol of some dispute. Kellogg, the cereal maker that uses the bandana-clad cartoon character Tony the Tiger to pitch Frosted Flakes, sued Exxon in 1996, contending that the Exxon tiger infringed on Tony's domain. Tony was created in 1952 by the Leo Burnett advertising agency and will turn 50 next year.
        After several rounds of appeals that reached as far as the Supreme Court, the case has been sent back to a federal court in Memphis, where it is scheduled to be heard next week. Though a Kellogg official declined to comment, a factor in the dispute appears to be Exxon's use of the tiger logo in convenience stores, in the same domain as food products.
        An Exxon Mobil spokesman,  Thomas Cirigliano, said that ''for 30 years, as we've said, these two tigers have peacefully coexisted,'' adding that the company had no plans to put its tiger on cereal boxes.
        Long before the clash of the tigers, Kellog was one of Mr. Posey's other clients, though not with McCann. His other McCann clients included Tums and Peter Pan peanut butter, said a daughter, Pamela P. Considine. Ms. Considine said she thought that her father had a role in the slogan ''Peter Pan is the p-nuttiest!''
        Mr. Posey, a graduate of Yale, served in the Pacific as a Navy lieutenant during World War II.
        In addition to Ms. Considine of Los Angeles, he is survived by his wife, Barbara; two other daughters, Anne C. Morrow of Great Falls, Va., and  Carol P. Munchoff of Lawrence, Kan.; a son, Stephen L., of Malibu, Calif.; and 10 grandchildren.
      