
        Robert A. Moon, a career postal employee who in 1963 won a 20-year fight for what was to become the ZIP code, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Leesburg, FL, 34748. He is the undisputed father of the first three digits in the code.
        Mr. Moon was 83 and lived in a  nursing home in Leesburg.
        The Zoning Improvement Plan, as ZIP was more prosaically known, represented an irreversible step in the seeming ascendancy of numbers over letters, arriving about the same time the telephone company was switching to seven-digit numbers from letter exchanges like BUtterfield 8. Newspaper editorials warned of Big Brother and ''numerical neurosis.''
        But ZIP codes made the mail zip at a time when old delivery systems were breaking down. Planes carried far more mail than trains, on which leisurely sorting on mail cars took place, and the volume of business mail was ballooning. Also, the mail was going through increasingly mechanized regional centers, rather than city to city, ruling out old-fashioned hand sorting by city and state and neighborhood. The Postal Service, then the cabinet-level Post Office Department, needed a national code to make sorting as fast as possible.
        Of perhaps even greater long-term importance was the ease -- initially unforeseen -- with which mass marketers would use ZIP codes to pinpoint demographic groups, like areas with high incomes or many people who apply for credit cards.
        Nobody, but nobody, imagined ''Beverly Hills 90210.''
        Barbara Moon, Mr. Moon's wife, said he first submitted his idea for coding addresses by digits in 1944, when he was a postal inspector, but nothing happened. She has a theory why.
        ''We were registered Republicans,  and it happened to be Democrats in at the time,'' said Mrs. Moon, who wears a gold lavaliere engraved with ''Mrs. ZIP'' that her husband gave her.
        Not until at least the third time Mr. Moon sent his idea to the top was it adopted and then in no direct manner. To this day, the United States Postal Service declines to give him unshared credit for the invention. Robert Anderson, a spokesman, said proper credit goes to ''a committee.''
        Mr. Moon's contribution, Mr. Anderson said, was actually the first three digits of the ZIP code, the part that refers to general region of the country. The final two digits, which nail down smaller delivery areas, were the work of others, the Postal Service says.
        Moreover, Mr. Moon had nothing to do with inventing Mr. Zip, the angular cartoon postman used as a symbol of the campaign. Credit for that goes to Harold Wilcox, whose father was a postman. Mr. Wilcox's advertising agency, Cunningham & Walsh, made the image for Chase Manhattan Bank for use in a bank-by-mail campaign.
        Mr. Moon also had nothing to do with the final four digits in what is now a nine-digit ZIP code, which further refine destinations, Mr. Anderson said. Their use began in 1983, six years after his retirement.
        Robert Aurand Moon was born in Williamsport, Pa., on April 15, 1917. His mother died when he was young, and his father, a grocer, went bankrupt in the Depression, Mrs. Moon said. He won a scholarship to Duke University, but could not find a job in Raleigh, N.C. The university suggested he get a job at the post office and transfer to an office near Duke.
        He began at his hometown post office, where he carried mail and worked as a clerk, among other tasks. When he took the exam for postal inspector, his score was so high that he got the job, even though one of the requirements was a college degree, which he never earned.
        He was assigned to the Chicago region, but became homesick and got a transfer to Philadelphia.
        Mrs. Moon said he made his first proposal for a new coding system because of his belief that the existing rail-based system would no longer be adequate for huge new volumes of mail. He believed the future was in airplanes and became an enthusiastic amateur pilot.
        Mr. Anderson said Mr. Moon's repeated suggestions bore fruit in 1962, when a committee studied a number of proposals for streamlining mail. H. Bentley Hahn is credited with persuading the panel to go with five digits, including the first three, Mr. Moon's, which delineate about 900 geographic areas.
        Mrs. Moon said that the couple lived in about 25 cities during Mr. Moon's postal career and that she could not remember a single one of their old ZIP codes.
        Mr. Moon is also survived by sisters Jean Moore of Raleigh, and Mary Katherine O'Brien of Bridgeport, Conn.
        He also left behind an idea for future use: ZIP codes for interplanetary mail.
        Correction:  April 16, 2001, Monday  A picture on Saturday with the obituary of Robert A. Moon, who helped create the ZIP code, was published in error. It showed Chester Posey Sr., an advertising executive whose son Chester L. Posey -- also an advertising man and shaper of Exxon's ''tiger'' campaign -- was the subject of another obituary that day.
      