
        Jim Benton, a star receiver of the 1940's with the Rams and the Bears, who set a single-game National Football League record for pass-receiving yardage that stood for 40 years, died last Wednesday at his home in Pine Bluff, Ark. He was 84.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Benton teamed up with two Hall of Fame quarterbacks, Sid Luckman on the Chicago Bears, then Bob Waterfield on the Cleveland and Los  Angeles Rams. He was selected by the Pro Football Hall of Fame to the all-decade team of the 1940's and was was named all-N.F.L. in 1945 and '46.
        He was overshadowed in his day only by Don Hutson of the Green Bay Packers, a fellow Arkansas native and one of pro football's greatest receivers. When Benton retired after the 1947 season, his 288 catches, 4,801 receiving yards and 45 touchdown receptions were exceeded only by Hutson's totals.
        A native of Carthage, Ark., Benton was an all-American end at the University of Arkansas in 1937. At 6 feet 3 inches and 200 pounds, he was tall for his era, he had large hands, and he displayed a penchant for making difficult catches.
        Benton made his N.F.L. debut in 1938 with the Cleveland Rams, who made him a first-round draft choice, and led the league in average yards per reception (19.9). In his second season, his seven touchdown catches were a league high.
        When the Rams suspended play in 1943 because of World War II's inroads on athletics, Benton joined the Chicago Bears after he had been rejected for Navy service because of a heart murmur. He caught a touchdown pass from Luckman in the Bears' 41-21 victory over the Washington Redskins in the 1943 championship game.
        Benton returned to the Rams when they rejoined the N.F.L. in 1944 and turned in one of the greatest offensive performances in league history on Thanksgiving Day 1945. Hooking up with Waterfield, who was a rookie, Benton caught 10 passes for 303 yards, exceeding Hutson's single-game record by 66 yards, in the Rams' 28-21 victory over the Detroit Lions. Benton led N.F.L. receivers in total yardage (1,067) that season and caught a touchdown pass in the Rams' 15-14 victory over the Redskins in the N.F.L. championship game.
        In 1946, when the Rams moved to Los Angeles, Benton led the N.F.L. in  catches (63) and receiving yardage (981).
        Benton's one-game yardage record stood until Stephone Paige of the Kansas City Chiefs amassed 309 yards against the San Diego Chargers in December 1985. The current record-holder is Willie Anderson, who had 336 receiving yards for the Rams against the New Orleans Saints in November 1989.
        After his playing career ended, Benton helped coach Rams and Bears receivers, served as head coach at Arkansas A&M from 1951 to 1953, and operated an oil-marketing company.
        He is survived by his wife, Lena; four sons, James, of Vilonia, Ark., Warren, of Pine Bluff, William, of White Hall, Ark., and Larry, of Heber Springs, Ark.; a daughter, Nancy Benton Gore, of White Hall; 13 grandchildren; and 9 great-grandchildren.
        Looking back on his achievements, Benton gave much of the credit to Waterfield.
        ''Bob can put them anywhere with handles on them,'' he once said.  ''Whatever I did to get open at the last second, when I do, there comes the ball right when I need it.''
        Benton remembered, meanwhile, how Waterfield was acclaimed for more than his passing prowess.
        ''Bob was married to Jane Russell at the time, the movie star,'' Benton said in recalling his spectacular 1945 season. ''She used to come to the games and probably got more attention than the team did on the field. The first game we played at Cleveland that year, against the Cardinals, they had a get-together after it for the players and sportswriters, and she was there. Bob introduced her to all of us. Bob got a lot of good press after that.''
      