
        Joey Ramone, the singer whose misfit style and guileless shout in the band the Ramones defined punk rock as a music for Everyman, died yesterday at New York Weill Cornell Medical Center. He was 49.
        The cause was lymphatic cancer, said Arturo Vega, the band's longtime artistic director. Mr. Ramone had been fighting the disease since 1995.
        Born Jeffrey Hyman in Forest Hills, Queens, Mr. Ramone grew up a sensitive outcast in a bohemian family. His mother ran an art gallery, and he explored painting before turning to music. In 1974, he formed the Ramones with three fellow outsiders who went by the names Johnny, Dee Dee and Tommy, sharing a fictional last name. Originally the group's drummer, Mr. Ramone took the microphone when the band's songs accelerated to such a pace that he could not keep up.
        As a front man, Mr. Ramone was a revelation. Leaning his 6-foot-3 frame slightly backward, strangling the microphone, he delivered songs like ''Blitzkrieg Bop'' and ''Teenage Lobotomy'' in a raw yet perfectly modulated tone, like the world's most unlikely yell king.
        ''He was a perfect instrument of those songs and those words and that speed and that energy,'' Danny Fields, the manager who got the Ramones their first record contract, said last night. ''He never screamed, never waved his arms around. He stood in one place and delivered. It was so tasteful.''
        Tasteful was not the word many associated with the Ramones in their 22-year career, during which the band released 21 albums and played more than 2,200 shows. From the group's early days playing the East Village club CBGB to its final dates, which included a stint as patriarchs of the alternative rock festival Lollapalooza, the Ramones amused and startled audiences with breakneck playing, hilarious lyrics and an artfully primitive approach.
        The band's frenetic three-chord songs, with lyrics that equally reflected Mr. Ramone's love of comic books and horror films and his extensive musical knowledge, especially of the girl groups, were elegant enough to become the model for several generations of rockers.
        The first album, ''The Ramones,'' released on Sire in April 1976, gave punk its popular identity. That summer, the band played in England and greatly inspired English punks, including the Sex Pistols and the Clash. In 1979, the Ramones made the classic Roger Corman film ''Rock and Roll High School,'' a loving take on the juvenile delinquent films of the 1950's. It extended the Ramones' influence, which encompassed groups like U2, Nirvana and Sleater Kinney.
        The group also recorded with the producer Phil Spector, and later Mr. Ramone became close friends and collaborator with Ronnie Spector, his former wife and the singer for the Ronettes, whom Mr. Ramone credited as a main inspiration. Recently he worked as a producer for Ms. Spector and occasionally surfaced to perform with her. In interviews, she called him a natural talent and a perfect artistic match.
        To the mainstream, the Ramones seemed outrageous, but their roughneck charm caused a fundamental shift in rock. ''They were the great Johnny Appleseed pioneers of punk rock,'' said Andy Schwartz, the former editor of New York Rocker, which chronicled the scene while it happened. ''They were the first band to leave New York and play anywhere and everywhere in order that this music could get past the barriers of radio and mass media.''
        Joey Ramone was the main face of that mission, an ungainly heartthrob in ripped jeans and a leather jacket, proving that a completely unconventional person could be a star. By all accounts a sweet person whose songs were poignant as often as they were shocking, Mr. Ramone was also the band's resident left-leaning bohemian. In 1985 he wrote the Ramones' most political song, ''Bonzo Goes to Bitburg,'' protesting Ronald Reagan's trip to the former death camp.
        After the Ramones disbanded, Mr. Ramone kept active in New York, serving as a mentor to young bands like D Generation and occasionally playing with his brother, Mickey Leigh, and others. He also worked on a solo album that remains unreleased.
        In addition to his brother, he is survived by his mother.
        Mr. Ramone's impact on American music is evident from simply looking at the newsstand. This month, commemorating the 25th anniversary of punk, Mr. Ramone appears on the cover of Spin magazine as a defining face of late-20th-century rock's defining movement.
        Correction:  April 17, 2001, Tuesday  An obituary of the punk rock singer Joey Ramone yesterday referred incorrectly to a site mentioned in a 1985 political song by his band, the Ramones. ''Bonzo Goes to Bitburg'' protested President Ronald Reagan's visit to the German military cemetery at Bitburg; the site is not a former death camp.
      