
        Dr. Clifford G. Shull, who shared the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1994 for developing a technique to probe the molecular structure of materials by bouncing neutrons off them, died on Saturday at Lawrence Memorial Hospital in Medford, Mass. A resident of Lexington, Mass., he was 85.
        The technique Dr. Shull developed, neutron scattering, is widely used by scientists examining things as different as superconductors and viruses.
        After World War II, Dr. Shull joined what is now Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee.
        Together with the late Dr. Ernest O. Wollan, Dr. Shull realized that the stream of neutrons ejected from the laboratory's nuclear reactors could be tapped for experiments.
        Neutrons are a type of uncharged subatomic particle usually found in the nuclei of atoms.
        Dr. Shull developed a method to select neutrons traveling at a specific velocity and to aim them at the material he wanted to study.
        By analyzing the pattern of neutrons bouncing off the material, scientists are able to deduce the positions of atoms in the material.
        ''In a period of five or six years of true brilliance, he developed most of the basic techniques,'' said Dr. Robert J. Birgeneau, president of the University of Toronto and former dean of science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where Dr. Shull taught for decades. ''He did a variety of pioneering experiments, which really created the field.''
        Physicists had earlier used X-rays to probe materials, but neutron scattering was the first technique able to detect the position of hydrogen atoms and to measure magnetic fields around atoms.
        Dr. Shull shared his Nobel Prize with Dr. Bertram N. Brockhouse, an emeritus professor of physics at McMaster University in Hamilton, Ontario, who had independently worked on the problem.
        ''Clifford G. Shull has helped answer the question of where atoms 'are,' '' the Nobel citation said.
        Born in Pittsburgh on Sept. 23, 1915, Clifford Shull received his undergraduate degree from the Carnegie Institute of Technology in 1937 and received a doctorate in physics from New York University in 1941.
        He left Oak Ridge in 1955 to become a professor at M.I.T. and retired in 1986. He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and the National Academy of Sciences.
        He is survived by his wife, Martha-Nuel Summer; three sons, John C., of San Antonio, Robert D., of Boyds, Md., and William F., of Newberry, S.C., and five grandchildren.
      