
        Hiroshi Teshigahara, a celebrated Japanese filmmaker and grand master of the Sogetsu School for flower arrangement, died on Saturday at a hospital here. He was 74.
        The cause was leukemia, his family said.
        Mr. Teshigahara, who gained international acclaim for his avant-garde films and artwork, sent shock waves through the world of cinema in 1964 with the release of ''Suna no Onna'' (''Woman in the Dunes''), a haunting, poetic and timeless metaphor made in Japan. The film, written by Kobo Abe and based on a novel by him, won a special award at the Cannes International Film Festival and was nominated for an Academy Award for best director and best picture.
        Noted for its technical brilliance, originality and power, the film featured a city-bred entomologist who is tricked into living with a widow whose shack rests at the bottom of a deep, inescapable sand pit, where he is forced to shovel sand endlessly. The detainee finds entrapment and escape into his ultimate destiny.
        Mr. Teshigahara became interested in Surrealism and the avant-garde as an art student in the 1940's. In 1962 he made his first feature film, ''Otoshiana'' (''Pitfall''), also written by  Abe. The director established his own production company and went on to make a series of films, often  with Abe. In addition to ''Woman in the Dunes,'' his films included ''Tanin no Kao'' (''The Face of Another'') in 1966 and ''Moetsukita Chizu'' (''The Ruined Map'') in 1968.
        In the late 1960's Mr. Teshigahara was the toast of the international film community, appearing at festivals, collecting awards and promoting Japanese film. After releasing ''Natsu no Heitai'' (''Summer Soldiers'') in 1972, Mr. Teshigahara withdrew from feature filmmaking and turned his attention to ceramics and experimental cinema.
        The director was the son of Sofu Teshigahara, the founder of the Sogetsu School of Ikebana, who was a leading figure in the movement that transformed traditional flower arrangement into a highly expressive art form. In 1980, after the death of his father and his sister, Mr. Teshigahara became the third head of the school, which reports 50,000 licensed followers and 450,000 students.
        After a 17-year hiatus, Mr. Teshigahara returned to films in 1989 with ''Rikyu,'' about the subtle conflict between a petty warlord and a distinguished master of the ancient art of the tea ceremony. It won the award for best artistic contribution at the Montreal World Film Festival. His last film was ''Goh-hime'' (''Basara: The Princess Goh'') in 1992.
        He is survived by his wife, Toshiko Kobayashi, a former actress, and two daughters.
      