
        Kurt H. Hohenemser, who in World War II helped design the first German combat helicopters and went on to become a pioneer in American helicopter development, died on April 7 at his St. Louis home. He was 95.
        Mr. Hohenemser's designs included a precursor to the Osprey, the troubled Marine aircraft that takes off and lands vertically like a helicopter, but flies horizontally like an airplane. In later years, he sought to make windmills generate electricity more efficiently by applying the principles of helicopter aerodynamics.
        Dr. Hohenemser was an emeritus professor of aerospace engineering at Washington University in St. Louis, where his addition to the faculty in 1966 caused the department of mechanical engineering to be renamed the department of mechanical engineering and aerospace.
        ''When he retired in 1975, it went back to mechanical engineering,'' said David A. Peters, chairman of the department.
        Dr. Hohenemser worked as an analyst, theoretician and designer for the inventor Anton Flettner, who devoted much of his life to fashioning rotors for tasks ranging from powering ships to lifting helicopters.
        A Washington University biography said that Dr. Hohenemser went to work at the Flettner Aircraft Company in Berlin in 1935 after he had been dismissed as a professor by the University of Gottingen, a leading center of aerodynamics research, for criticizing Hitler.
        At Flettner, Dr. Hohenemser helped invent one of the first helicopters used in combat, the Fl 282 Kolibri. The aircraft flew reconnaissance and antisubmarine patrols from platforms on convoy escort vessels in the Baltic, Aegean and Mediterranean Seas.
        Fewer than two dozen of the craft were produced before Allied bombs destroyed a plant where 1,000 were to be built.
        While Dr. Hohenemser played a central role in helicopter development, he did not invent the first practical helicopter, an honor that goes to his competitor Heinrich Focke, whose Focke-Achgelis Fa-61 in June 1936 made the first fully controlled helicopter flight.
        The Encyclopaedia Britannica calls the Flettner craft the first helicopter in mass production, but some aviation historians give this distinction to helicopters made by Igor Sikorsky in the United States, because of their far greater numbers.
        Dr. Hohenemser had no trouble getting a job in the United States after the war, because an American engineer had translated his reports on the Flettner helicopter into English and published them.
        In 1947, the year he arrived in the United States, Mr. Hohenemser briefly considered an offer to work with Mr. Flettner at a helicopter company he was starting in New York. But he decided to go to St. Louis to work at the McDonnell Aircraft Corporation, which was enthusiastic about helicopters. (The company in 1967 was merged with the Douglas Aircraft Company, becoming McDonnell Douglas, which, in turn, in 1997, was absorbed by Boeing.)
        As chief aerodynamics engineer of McDonnell's helicopter division, he did much of the aerodynamic work on the tiny Little Henry, a one-man helicopter powered by ramjets attached to the rotors; Big Henry, a large helicopter intended for use as a crane; and the precursor of the Osprey, the XV-1, the first helicopter successfully combining vertical rotor lift and horizontal winged flight.
        None of the craft were produced, because the military chose not to go beyond prototypes.
        But Dr. Hohenemser's work was recognized by his peers, and he received several aeronautical awards. In 1964, the American Helicopter Society cited him for notable achievement in the advancement of rotary-wing aeronautics.
        Kurt Heinrich Hohenemser was born in Berlin on Jan. 3, 1906. His mother was the daughter of a Baptist minister in England, and his father was half-German and half-Jewish.
        Dr. Hohenemser earned a doctorate in engineering in 1929 from the Institute of Technology in Darmstadt, Germany, studying under Ludwig Prandtl, a well-known aerodynamic physicist. He then took a teaching position at Gottingen.
        In 1933, he was abruptly dismissed a week after Hitler's election as chancellor.
        ''I had organized a small discussion group that met regularly and had invited a young research assistant whom we all knew to be a Nazi,'' Dr. Hohenemser said in an interview with a Washington University magazine in 1997. ''We were quite critical of Hitler but didn't think our discussions would be of any consequence.''
        But the research assistant reported him.
        Dr. Hohenemser then got a job designing aircraft for a German stunt pilot. Mr. Flettner was forbidden to hire Dr. Hohenemser because he was Jewish, Dr. Peters said. But he took him on as a consultant.
        Dr. Peters said it always puzzled him how Dr. Hohenemser could work on weapons for the Third Reich. He remembered Dr. Hohenemser as a strong opponent of the Vietnam War.
        Dr. Hohenemser's enthusiasm in the last decades of his life was seeking proof one of Mr. Flettner's ideas: that a properly designed helicopter-type rotor with helicopter-type controls was more suitable for making electricity from the wind than were standard propellers.
        He is survived by his son, Christoph of Littleton, Mass.; his daughter, Veronica Sutherland of Salt Lake City; four grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
        Dr. Hohenemser wrote a column on energy policy for Environment magazine, rode his bicycle into his 80's and was a cross-country skier until he was 91. His intellectual passion was quantum mechanics, about which he had corresponded with Einstein as a youth.
        When he was 82, he wrote, ''I don't want to go to heaven before I have not understood completely what makes the universe tick,'' referring to the uncertainties and possibilities of sub-elementary physics.
      