
        Merton Edward Davies, a celestial mapmaker and a pioneer in spy satellite technology, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Santa Monica, Calif. A resident of nearby Pacific Palisades, he was 83.
        Mr. Davies went to work for the Rand Corporation in 1947 and remained there until his death. He became one of the world's foremost experts in using deep-space photographs to map the planets, a process known as planetary photogrammetry. His career spanned from the earliest orbiter missions to the Moon to marathon voyages to Mars, Venus, Mercury and the satellites of Jupiter and Saturn.
        He performed top-secret work for the Air Force intelligence division in the early 1960's. But he turned increasingly from cold war reconnaissance to the scientific projects of the National Aeronautics and Space Administration. For nearly 40 years he was on NASA's imaging teams for unmanned space missions like Mariner, Voyager and Galileo.
        The maps that he and his colleagues compiled from early missions became guides for future generations of space explorers. In the case of Mars, for instance, the Rand team got its close-up with the Mariner 9 space probe in late 1971.
        To draw maps, they worked with multiple photographs of all areas of the planet, using craters as reference points whose longitude and latitude were then plotted.
        Peering through magnifying glasses, Mr. Davies and his associates counted pixels of the pictures until they agreed on where the center of a  crater lay and what its precise coordinates were. The results of the tedious undertaking were then fed to a mosaic team and eventually rendered a true map of the entire planet.
        Merton Davies was born in St. Paul. He graduated from Stanford University in 1937 and briefly taught mathematics at the University of Nevada. In World War II, he joined Douglas Aircraft in California, doing the mathematics required for lofting fighter planes.
        At Rand, he began in the missiles division studying designs for rockets like the German V-2 and for satellites. His satellite work included vehicle models, space cameras and image interpretation.
        Among his projects were reconnaissance satellites and satellite photographic systems for the Corona program, the first successful spy satellite. By 1958 he reported how to take pictures of the Moon from a spin-stabilized spacecraft. In 1964 he received a patent for a spin-pan camera that took panoramic pictures from such spacecraft.
        Mr. Davies is survived by his wife of 55 years, Louise Darling Davies; a daughter, Deidra L. Stauff of Pacific Palisades; two sons, Albert K., of Santa Rosa, Calif., and M. Randel, of Calabasas, Calif.; a sister, Joyce Dresia of Novato, Calif.; nine grandchildren; and one great-grandson.
        Mr. Davis wrote three books, ''The View From Space'' (1971), urging the use of space imagery to monitor arms agreements; ''Atlas of Mercury'' (1978); and ''Rand's Role in the Evolution of Balloon and Satellite Observations Systems and Related U.S. Space Technology'' (1988).
        ''Mert has single-handedly observed more of the solar system than any other human,'' said Torrence Johnson, project scientist of Project Galileo.
      