
        Jack Haley Jr., an Emmy-winning producer, director and documentarian who spent much of his career mining a rich vein of Hollywood nostalgia in films like ''That's Entertainment'' (1974), died on Saturday in Santa Monica, Calif. He was 67.
        Mr. Haley, who had been in poor health in recent years, was hospitalized on Friday and died of respiratory failure, said his longtime assistant, Kelly Brandt.
        Mr. Haley grew up and prospered in a glittery world of Southern California celebrity, counting among his friends and partners some of Hollywood's best-known actors and performers, many of them, like him, the sons or daughters of entertainment figures.
        His father was Jack Haley, a well-known song and dance man who is best remembered as the Tin Man in ''The Wizard of Oz'' and who died in 1979. Jack Haley Jr. was married for five years, from 1974 to 1979, to Liza Minnelli, the Oscar-winning daughter of Judy Garland and the director Vincente Minnelli.
        He won an Emmy in 1968 for a television special he directed, ''Movin' With Nancy,'' starring Nancy Sinatra and featuring cameos by Ms. Sinatra's father, Frank (playing a security guard), and fellow Rat Packers Dean Martin (as her ''Fairy Goduncle'') and Sammy Davis Jr. (as a photographer). Mr. Davis was best man when Mr. Haley married Ms. Minnelli.
        Mr. Haley worked as a producer and director for David L. Wolper Productions from 1959 to 1970, during which time two of the series on which he worked -- as a producer on the original ''Biography'' in 1961 and as a director of the ''National Geographic Specials'' in 1964 -- won Peabody Awards.
        After leaving Wolper, Mr. Haley tried to forge a career as a director of feature films, most notably with a lavishly hyped adaptation of Jacqueline Susann's ''Love Machine'' that was a critical and box-office disaster in 1971.
        Afterward, Mr. Haley returned to documentary filmmaking, and it proved a shrewd move. For ''That's Entertainment'' he was able to assemble a staggering roster of stars from Hollywood's golden age, including Sinatra, Bing Crosby, James Stewart, Mickey Rooney and Elizabeth Taylor, to introduce vintage clips from legendary MGM musicals.
        The mixture of Hollywood gush and spectacular song and dance proved a huge hit. Mr. Haley married Ms. Minnelli the same year. He worked as MGM's director of creative affairs and as the president of 20th Century Fox Television. He also produced several Academy Awards telecasts in the 1970's.
        Mr. Haley did not return for ''That's Entertainment, Part 2,'' which was directed by Gene Kelly in 1976, but he did make several other nostalgic Hollywood documentaries, including ''That's Dancin'!'' in 1985, ''The Wonderful Wizard of Oz: 50 Years of Magic'' in 1990 and ''100 Years of the Hollywood Western'' in 1994.
        The Associated Press said that Mr. Haley is survived by a sister, Gloria Parnasses of Beverly Hills, Calif.
        ''Jack was the first one to remind the general public of our heritage,'' Ms. Minnelli said in a statement released over the weekend. ''America's royalty is our entertainers, who have given so much to the world.''
      