
        Mike Schacht, a baseball-loving painter, author and teacher whose images of the game, its heroes and its history found their way into museums and private collections and have even been imprinted on designer ties, died Monday at Piedmont Hospital in Atlanta. He was 65 and lived in Atlanta.
        The cause was gastrointestinal cancer, according to his wife, Linda Peek Schacht.
        Mr. Schacht specialized in stylized, romantic baseball images. Many of his best-known paintings were graphical gestures to the Movietone News documentaries of the 1940's and 1950's.
        An admitted baseball fanatic, he once said: ''I always paint players from photos taken early in their careers. I want the innocence and the enthusiasm of baseball.''
        His paintings of Ty Cobb, Dizzy Dean and Honus Wagner are in the permanent collection of the Baseball Hall of Fame in Cooperstown, N.Y.
        For more than a decade Mr. Schacht was also the publisher and editor of Fan, a literary and art quarterly magazine. An anthology from the magazine, ''The Mudville Diaries,'' was published by Avon in 1996.
        For several years in the 1990's he taught two courses at the New School for Social Research: ''The History of Baseball in America'' and ''The Mystique of Baseball.''
        Michael Ashbrook Schacht was born in Cincinnati on March 23, 1936, and became a lifelong Reds fan. As a right-handed Little League pitcher, he threw a no-hitter at 9.
        In 1958 he graduated from Trinity College in Hartford, where one of his classmates was Moe Drabowsky, a pitcher from the Trinity team who later starred with the Baltimore Orioles. Mr. Schacht later said that his fascination with the silhouettes of baseball players came from his memories of Mr. Drabowsky on the pitcher's mound.
        Mr. Schacht worked for several printing companies as a sales executive and designer. In the 1960's he was a director of the Mead Library of Ideas, a Manhattan graphic design gallery.
        After years of experimentation in art and photography, Mr. Schacht began painting large black and white acrylic paintings of ballplayers in the early 1980's. He became a full-time artist in 1989.
        Although he most often worked in acrylic on canvas or paper, Mr. Schacht created baseball images on everything from steel, aluminum and wood to linen napkins stiffened with gesso. In the 1990's Mr. Schacht's baseball silhouettes were imprinted on the silk ties of the fashion designer Nicole Miller.
        Mr. Schact also produced a group of paintings he called the Homage Series, works in the style of great artists as they might have appeared, had they turned their attention to baseball.
        Two marriages ended in divorce. In 1995, he married Linda Peek. He is also survived by a brother, William N. Schacht of Califon, N.J.; three daughters, Wendy Sykes of Nantucket, Mass., Sallie Strand of Redding, Conn., and Margot Siegrist of Weston, Mass.; and seven grandchildren.
      