
        Wang Enmao, a veteran of the Long March by Mao's insurgent army who governed China's Muslim-dominated Xinjiang Province for three decades, was disgraced during the Cultural Revolution and was rehabilitated later, died April 12 in a Beijing hospital, the state-run New China News Agency has reported. The report said he was 87.
        After 1949, when Mr. Wang entered the province as political commissar with the advancing Communist armies, his career was closely bound up with that remote and rebellious northwestern region of China. He became its top political and military official and was responsible for a far-reaching transformation of its economy and demographics.
        What had been an undeveloped, semi-desert area was rapidly industrialized, its mineral resources mined and communications improved. That was carried out with a major influx of ethnic Chinese, which  changed the ethnic balance of the population.
        In the 1950's, Xinjiang's population was estimated at about 5 million, with Muslim Uighurs, who speak a Turkic language, numbering some 3.5 million and ethnic Chinese no more than about 200,000. But an estimated 6 million Chinese were brought into the province at Mr. Wang's direction in an attempt to assimilate its indigenous Muslims.
        By the 1990's, the province's population had grown to about 13 million, with Uighurs and smaller Muslim groups like Kazakhs, Tadjiks, Uzbeks and Tatars still constituting  over half. But the region had acquired a substantial Chinese presence, and Chinese held most top administrative positions.
        Mr. Wang's career went into eclipse during the Cultural Revolution, which Mao unleashed between 1966 and 1976. During that period, Mr. Wang, like many of the party's older leaders, found their authority challenged by the Red Guard movement.
        His public downfall was first noted in September 1968, when he failed to become chairman of the new Revolutionary Committee that Beijing had imposed on the province and was listed as only third vice chairman instead.
        The next year, with the Cultural Revolution at its height, Red Guard posters seen in Beijing accused him of having ''a mountain-stronghold mentality'' and called him one of the ''power holders'' who followed the ''bourgeois, reactionary'' line.
        Other posters said serious trouble had broken out in Xinjiang, where a  ''first field army'' of discharged veterans had attacked a Red Guard unit, which Mr. Wang's army units failed to defend.
        After this Mr. Wang more or less disappeared from public view until 1975, when he was rehabilitated, becoming deputy leader of the Nanjing military region. In late 1981 he was sent back to Xinjiang to be the top Communist official again after a serious outbreak of racial unrest between Uighurs and ethnic Chinese. The problem was serious enough that, in August of that year, China's most powerful leader, Deng Xiaoping, visited the region in search of a solution.
        Western diplomats speculated at the time that Beijing might have ordered Mr. Wang back to Xinjiang because of the moderate, practical approach he had taken to its highly charged racial situation when he was running the province before the Cultural Revolution.
        In 1985 he was one of only four provincial leaders above the official retirement age of 65 to be allowed to remain in office. In 1986 he was appointed to the Chinese People's Political Consultative Congress, a top government advisory body. He retired in 1992.
        Born in Jiangxi Province in southeastern China, Mr. Wang joined the Communist Party at 17 and soon afterward took part in the Long March of 1934-36 , an epic 7,750-mile retreat that enabled Mao's army to escape Chiang Kai-shek's encircling Nationalist forces. He fought against occupying Japanese forces during World War II and then against the Nationalist forces when the Chinese civil war resumed after Japan's defeat.
      