
        Robert Starer, a respected composer of operas, ballets and many orchestral and instrumental works and the author of two books on rhythm that are widely used by music students, died on Sunday in Kingston, N.Y. He was 77.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said his son, Daniel.
        Mr. Starer's music was steeped in the Expressionism of 1930's Vienna. He experimented with electronic music and serialism but never fully adopted either. Yet his musical language, rich with chromaticism and pungent dissonance, was distinctively modern. Some critics noted traces of Arabic and Jewish music in his work.
        He wrote several pieces for the stage, including three ballets for Martha Graham -- ''Samson Agonistes'' (1961), ''Phaedra'' (1962) and ''The Lady of the House of Sleep'' (1978) -- as well as ''Pantagleize,'' an opera. ''Pantagleize,'' composed to his own libretto and adapted from a play by Michel de Ghelderode, had its premiere in 1973.
        Mr. Starer also wrote several dramatic works with his companion, the novelist Gail Godwin. These include ''The Last Lover,'' a chamber opera (1975), and ''Apollonia,'' an opera in two acts, which was given its premiere in 1979 by the Minnesota Opera. They also collaborated on a major concert work, ''Journals of a Songmaker,'' composed for the conductor William Steinberg's farewell concert as music director of the Pittsburgh Symphony in 1976.
        Mr. Starer was born on Jan. 8, 1924, in Vienna, where he entered the State Academy of Music at age 13. In 1938, as Hitler's forces annexed Austria, he watched the German troops march into the city from his bedroom window. Because the Starers were Jewish, they soon left for Jerusalem, where Mr. Starer attended the Palestine Conservatory. During World War II he served with the Royal British Air Force. After the war, he came to New York to continue his education at the Juilliard School.
        In the summer of 1948 he studied composition with Aaron Copland at the Tanglewood Institute. The next year he was appointed to the faculty at Juilliard, teaching there until 1974. He also taught at Brooklyn College and the Graduate Center of the City University of New York from 1963 to 1991.
        Mr. Starer left an engaging account of his life in his 1987 memoir, ''Continuo: A Life in Music.'' In one section of the book he conducts a pointed imaginary conversation with a concertgoer who has walked out of one of his premieres.
        His other works include a cello concerto composed for Janos Starker and a violin concerto composed for Itzhak Perlman and the Boston Symphony Orchestra under Seiji Ozawa.
        Besides Ms. Godwin and his son, Mr. Starer is survived by a sister, Hanni Weiselberg of Israel, and a grandchild.
        Among his many awards was the Medal of Honor for Science and Art, presented by the President of Austria in 1995. This was especially meaningful, coming from the country his family was forced to flee when he was a boy.
      