
        Field Marshal Habes al-Majali, who had been Jordan's defense minister, chief of staff of its armed forces and its army commander, died on Sunday at the King Hussein Medical City in Amman. He was 87.
        The cause was heart failure, The Associated Press reported.
        Marshal Majali began his career in 1932 and won a reputation for bravery, canniness and closeness to King Abdullah, who reigned until 1951, and his grandson King Hussein, who died in 1999.
        Marshal Majali was regarded as the strong man in the military government that won the brief civil war against rebellious Palestinian Arab commandos in 1970. That conflict became known as Black September. He also commanded Arab forces in the 1948 conflict with the forces fighting on behalf of the newly proclaimed State of Israel.
        A British writer, Peter Snow, described in ''Hussein'' (1972) how Marshal Majali commanded troops that guarded King Abdullah when he was assassinated entering a mosque in Jerusalem. ''Abdullah insisted on stopping now and again, to talk to some of the people pressing in on him,'' Mr. Snow wrote. ''It was dangerous, and Majali knew it. Quietly, the marshal signaled to some soldiers to wrap themselves closer to the king. But Abdullah would not have it.''
        He moved ahead of his guards and was shot dead by a Palestinian.
        King Hussein appointed Marshal Majali as chief of staff in 1957, when, as J. C. Hurewitz, an American historian of the Middle East, wrote, he was a colonel ''from the southern town of Karak, with tribal ties in that district.'' He remained chief of staff until just before the Israeli-Arab war in 1967.
        Under the capable and ''fully loyal'' chief of staff, ''the intelligence branch was rapidly developed to top form,'' Kamal Salibi, a historian at the American University of Beirut, wrote in a book in 1993. The officer corps was revamped, and the army grew, from 23,000 troops in 1956 to 38,000 in 1964.
        Marshal Majali became commander in chief of the military. After the 1967 war, King Hussein eliminated the post of commander in chief, but made Marshal Majali defense minister, until 1970. On Sept. 15, 1970, with strife mounting between the army and the armed Palestinian fedayeen, as they were also known, King Hussein decreed military rule in his kingdom and put Marshal Majali in charge of the army.
        In the Arab-Israeli war in 1973, he commanded Jordanian troops. An American military historian, a retired Army colonel, Trevor N. Dupuy, wrote later that the Israelis had been impressed by ''Jordanian tactical performance, evidencing higher professional standards than the Syrians or the Iraqis'' in one attack, although the attack failed to gain ground.
        In the last 20 years, Marshal Majali distanced himself from the army and served several terms a member of the upper house of Parliament, whose members are named by the king.
        The marshal's wife, Bazaa, died 30 years ago. Seven children survive.
      