
        Esteban Vicente, one of the last surviving members of the first generation of New York School painters, died on Wednesday at his home in Bridgehampton, N.Y. He was 97.
        Mr. Vicente, who also had a home in New York City, was tall and slim with a reserved, patrician manner. His abstract paintings and collages seemed to mirror an innate elegance, but he also had a caustic wit and could be outspoken when the occasion warranted. When once asked why he lived in New York City, he replied, ''New York is hell, and hell is the only place for people.''
        His career was an odyssey of changing styles and locales that included sojourns in Madrid, Paris, Barcelona and finally New York, where his work matured during the late 1940's.
        He was born on Jan. 20, 1903, in Turegano, a small town in Segovia, Spain. His father, a military officer and amateur painter, soon resigned his commission and moved his family to Madrid so that his six children could grow up in the capital. He frequently took Mr. Vicente, his third child and second son, to the Prado.
        After receiving his elementary education from the Jesuits, Mr. Vicente enrolled in a military school, but left after three months, determined to become an artist. He began  as a sculptor, studying for three years at the Royal Academy of Fine Arts of San Fernando in Madrid, but by 1928 he had abandoned sculpture for painting and had his first exhibition. By 1929, feeling stifled, he left  for Paris.
        In Paris he met Picasso, but he resisted joining the circle of young Spanish artists who gravitated to the older artist, and he did not embrace the modern styles proliferating in the city. For the next several years he divided his time between Paris and Barcelona, where he had several exhibitions, and devoted most of his energy to painting from nature, with results that sometimes evoked the casual lightness of Dufy.
        In 1935 he married Estelle Charney, an American whom he had met in Paris, and they lived for a year on the island of Ibiza, where he painted landscapes reminiscent of Pissarro and the Post-Impressionists.
        Civil war broke out in Spain just as the couple were planning to move to New York. Mr. Vicente immediately volunteered for the Loyalist army, for which he painted camouflage in the mountains outside Madrid for several months.
        In 1936 Mr. Vicente and his wife relocated to New York, where he established himself as a professional portrait painter and had his first exhibition at the Kleemann Gallery in 1937. Based on his sympathies in Spain, Mr. Vicente was asked by the ambassador from the Republic of Spain to serve as vice consul in the consulate in Philadelphia, a post he held until the end of the Spanish Civil War in 1939.
        He exhibited his work infrequently during the 1940's and gradually began to absorb the innovations of the European Modernists, especially Picasso and Mondrian. He arrived at abstraction after a prolonged process of trial and error in the late 1940's.
        In 1950 his work was selected by Meyer Schapiro and Clement Greenberg for the ''Talent 1950'' exhibition at the Sam Kootz Gallery, and after that Mr. Vicente showed regularly in the 10th Street galleries that were then the hub of the New York art world. In subsequent years, his dealers included Leo Castelli, Andre Emmerich and the Berry-Hill Galleries, which has represented him since 1989.
        Although Mr. Vicente would soon be described by the critic Harold Rosenberg as ''one of the leaders in creating and disseminating'' Abstract Expressionism, his work almost always echoed the innovations of other artists' work, from leading Abstract Expressionists like Willem de Kooning, Philip Guston, Hans Hofmann and Mark Rothko, who were his friends, to European masters like Matisse.
        His talent lay in his ability to borrow liberally and synthesize confidently, with elegant color combinations, bold scale and, in particular, an unerring sense of abstract composition that reflected his late-blooming grasp of Cubist structure.
        His best works include the robustly scaled collage paintings that he began making in the late 1940's and continued to produce until the mid-1980's, and the luminous stain paintings that he began to focus on in the 1960's. In these he dispatched fragments of burning color in arrangements that variously intimated Abstract Expressionist gesture, Cubist prismatics or Mondrian's frontal grid, almost as after-images.
        In 1964 Mr. Vicente was one of the founding members of the New York Studio School on Eighth Street and during his career taught at Black Mountain College, Princeton University, the University of California at Berkeley, New York University and Yale University. His former students include the artists Brice Marden, Dorothea Rockburne, Chuck Close and Susan Crile.
        Mr. Vicente made a point of never exhibiting his work in Spain during the Franco dictatorship. Since then, however, his work has been the subject of several museum retrospectives in Spain. In 1998 the Spanish government opened the Esteban Vicente Museum of Contemporary Art in Segovia. The museum houses a large collection of his work. Mr. Vicente's work is also represented in the collections of most major museums and university galleries in the United States, in the Tate Modern in London, and in the Reina Sofia in Madrid.
        A portfolio of his recent prints, created as illustrations for an anthology of Spanish poetry, is on view until Feb. 24 at the New York Studio School, where Mr. Vicente taught until two years ago. On Feb. 8, an exhibition of recent work, much of it dating from last year, will open at the Esteban Vicente Museum of Contemporary Art.
        Mr. Vicente's first marriage ended in divorce in 1943. A daughter from that marriage, Mercedes, died at age 6. His second marriage, to Maria Teresa Babin, also ended in divorce. In 1961 he married Harriet Peters, who survives him.
      