
        James Parton, who was instrumental in the founding of American Heritage magazine and was its president and publisher for many years, died Friday in Hanover, N.H., where he lived. He was 88.
        Mr. Parton and some associates created the American Heritage Publishing Company in 1954 with what he later recalled as ''puny capital of $60,000 and star editorship vested in the writer Bruce Catton.'' Mr. Catton said at the time, ''Our beat is anything that ever happened in America.''
        For a decade and a half, beginning in 1954, Mr. Parton was the company's president. The magazine, appearing every other month in hard cover with lavish color illustrations and no advertising, quickly became a success.
        The company also produced books on American history that were marketed mainly by mail. They included the ''American Heritage Picture History of the Civil War,'' which won a Pulitzer Prize
        But as the years passed, as Mr. Parton put it later: ''Inflation of costs for paper and binding made continued use of the hard covers for the magazine dubious. More critical was the fact that the company had created annual books on every major period in American history.''
        So, he said, he decided to sell the company to the publishing house McGraw-Hill. Since the sale, in 1969, the magazine, which is owned by Forbes, has undergone several changes. It switched to soft covers in 1978 and began selling ads for products other than its own publications in 1982.
        After the sale, Mr. Parton was the president of the Encyclopaedia Britannica Educational Corporation. He was also assistant librarian of Congress for public education.
        Born Dec. 10, 1912, in Newburyport, Mass., Mr. Parton graduated from what is now the Loomis Chaffee School in Windsor, Conn., and in 1934 from Harvard.
        Over the next three decades, he worked for Time magazine and The New York Herald Tribune. During World War II, he rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel in the Army Air Forces.
        His daughter, Sara Parton Pelgrift, of Rye, N.Y., said that Mr. Parton had acquired his interest in history partly from his grandfather and namesake, another James Parton, who was a 19th-century biographer of Aaron Burr, Andrew Jackson, John Jacob Astor, Benjamin Franklin and Thomas Jefferson.
        In 1950, he married Jane Bourne, who died in 1962.
        In addition to his daughter, Mr. Parton is survived by his second wife, Ruth Parton; a son, James III, of Mill Valley, Calif.; a sister, Nike Parton, of Sarasota, Fla.; and five grandchildren.
        Correction:  May 16, 2001, Wednesday  An obituary on April 25 about James Parton, a founder of American Heritage magazine, misstated the number of times he was married, and omitted some survivors. Mr. Parton was married five times, not two. Besides his widow, Ruth, and his first wife, Jane Bourne, who died in 1962, he was married to Caroline M. Houser, Jane T. Carlson and Mar Jennings. Those marriages ended in divorce. He was survived by seven grandchildren, not five. His son Dana died in 1991.
      