
        Dr. John Marmion Edmond, a marine geochemist who examined the ecology of the oceans and the world's great rivers, died on April 10 at his home in Boston. He was 57.
        The cause was a heart attack, said the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he was a professor of marine chemistry in the department of earth, atmospheric and planetary sciences.
        Dr. Edmond's research involved  subjects as varied as the ocean floor and the heights of remote Andean regions.
        His investigations of the ocean's carbon dioxide system shed light on what happens when emissions from spent fossil fuels permeate an oceanic environment.
        Prof. Ronald Prinn, head of his department, cited Dr. Edmond's extensive studies of the chemical cycles in the world's oceans and principal rivers and called him ''a major international figure in chemical oceanography.''
        Dr. Edmond and his research group tracked oceanic particulate matter, trace elements and radioisotopes. He took part in the investigation of hydrothermal systems at the midocean ridges and helped analyze the chemical composition of far-flung rivers and the waters of Lakes Tanganyika and Baikal, along with the Amazon and Orinoco Rivers and the rivers of Siberia and Tibet.
        John Edmond graduated in 1965 from the University of Glasgow in the city where he was born. He received a Ph.D. in marine chemistry at the University of California at San Diego in 1970, the year he joined the M.I.T. faculty as an assistant professor.
        He is survived by his wife, Massoudeh Vafai Edmond; two sons, Kazem and Ramin; and a brother, David, of Ireland.
        In 1978, Dr. Edmond explained the discovery of saltwater rivers in the Andean highlands of Peru. The rivers flow through a region of salt domes to the Amazon River. ''Under tremendous stresses of geological uplift,'' he told a reporter, ''the salt can be squeezed like toothpaste through cracks and faults.''
        He capped an expedition to the Sea of Cortés in Mexico in 1982 with the discovery of three fields of hot-water vents 6,500 feet below. The vent chimneys, he said, reminded him of ''Japanese pagodas with several roofs coming out of them.''
        Studded with enormous tube worms and carpeted with mats of yellow-orange bacteria, Dr. Edmond said, the stench from the sites was ''like putting your nose into a diesel oil tank.''
      