
        Khalil Riad Rizk, a leading Asian art dealer and philanthropist, died yesterday in Salzburg, Austria. He was 48 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was complications from pancreatitis, according to Pierre Durand, his longtime partner.
        A consummate collector, scholar and tireless host who gave grand parties attended by everyone from royalty to arts leaders and politicians, Mr. Rizk was perhaps best known for his gallery, the Chinese Porcelain Company, which he founded with Mr. Durand in 1984.
        In addition to porcelain, the gallery was stocked with first-class examples of Chinese and Indian sculpture, Vietnamese ceramics and contemporary art. Many of these works ended up in institutions like the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the Arthur M. Sackler Gallery, Harvard University, the Freer Gallery of Art and the Brooklyn Museum of Art. His Park Avenue gallery constantly buzzed with collectors and curators. Mr. Rizk prided himself on having an ambitious exhibition schedule that explored the arcane and the obvious -- everything from rare Chinese snuff bottles to Continental furniture.
        Mr. Rizk was born in Beirut, Lebanon, to a wealthy family; his father, Riad Rizk, is an industrialist who was responsible for building much of  Lebanon's infrastructure in the 1950's and 60's. The younger Mr. Rizk came to the United States in 1975. He graduated from Cornell University's architecture school in 1978 and Columbia University's business school in 1980.
        Even as a child he was a collector, at first buying small things like stamps, pottery and Roman glass. After graduating from Columbia, before becoming an art dealer, he followed in his father's footsteps, developing residential real estate projects in Manhattan and the Hudson Valley as well as in the Middle East, all the while amassing an outstanding group of Chinese porcelains.
        He regularly gave parties in his Upper East Side town house, which was filled with rare porcelains.
        ''My love of entertaining at home is very much the result of my Middle Eastern background,'' he once said.  Crediting his mother, who had a flair for party-giving, he added, ''At lunchtime our house was always open, and today I enjoy being with a mix of interesting people, old friends and new.''
        In addition to his work in the arts -- he was a founder of the International Asian Art Fair -- Mr. Rizk was involved in many charitable causes.  He was on the board of the Asia Society, on the president's council of the Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and on the advisory council of the Harvard AIDS Institute. He was also a member of the Metropolitan Opera Association, a fellow of the Frick Collection and president of Venetian Heritage, a nonprofit preservation organization.
        Besides Mr. Durand, Mr. Rizk is survived by his parents, Iside and Riad Rizk; a brother, Iby Haidari; and a sister, Joumana Han.
      