
        Dr. Donald D. Dorfman, who blended his knowledge of mathematics, psychology and radiology to produce intricate models for analyzing a wide variety of data, including medical diagnoses, died on April 15  in Iowa City. He was 67.
        The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, said the University of Iowa, where he held professorships in the psychology and radiology departments.
        Dr. Dorfman contributed more than 70 research papers on subjects like mathematical psychology, psychophysical measurement and diagnostic imaging systems.
        Psychophysical theories try to explain how a person judges physical stimuli. Psychophysics deals with functional relations between the mind and physical phenomena.
        His writings on signal detection theory, providing a precise language and graphic notation for analyzing decision-making in the presence of uncertainty, have been widely applied, most recently in cancer research. Signal detection traces the process by which the mind perceives, sorts out and analyzes any type of signal coming forth from busy surroundings.
        An everyday example would be the ring of the telephone penetrating the background sound of a CD or television set. Signal detection theory seeks to explain how detection moves toward decision-making.
        Dr. Dorfman's mathematical models, computer programs and statistical procedures are used not only in medicine, but also in industrial and military monitoring for quality control, information retrieval and experimental psychology.
        His research was supported by the National Cancer Institute and the Army's breast cancer research program. He was principal investigator for a study of diagnostic systems for the cancer institute from 1994 to 1997.
        Donald Daniel Dorfman was born in Philadelphia. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Pennsylvania in 1954. He received his master's (1957) and Ph.D. (1961) from the University of Michigan, where he concentrated on perception, psychophysics and mathematical psychology.
        He was on the faculty of San Diego State University from 1962 to 1968, when he moved to the University of Iowa. He was appointed professor of psychology in 1974 and professor of radiology in 1991.
        Dr. Dorfman is survived by his wife, Dr. Lorraine Tiss Dorfman, a professor of social work at Iowa; a son, Jonathan, of London; a daughter, Dr. Jennifer Dorfman of Chicago; two sisters, Beverly Frisina of Miami and Laura O'Neill of Deptford, N.J.; and a grandson.
      