
        Dr. Jerome J. DeCosse, a surgeon renowned as an expert on colorectal cancer, died Wednesday at his home in Manhattan. He was 73.
        He had amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as Lou Gehrig's disease, his family said.
        Dr. DeCosse worked at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center and New York Weill Cornell Center, and his reputation was such, his family said, that he was once summoned to Morocco by King Hassan II for a secret consultation under the guise of attending the wedding of the king's daughter.
        Dr. DeCosse also gained national attention in 1989 when he published a study showing that a fiber-rich diet helped ward off a precursor to colorectal cancer. The disease kills about 55,000 Americans a year, making it the third leading cause of cancer death. Nearly all cases are believed to begin with benign growths called polyps that turn malignant.
        The study was one of the earliest clinical trials testing theories on how diet affects cancer, said Dr. Peter Greenwald, director of the Division of Cancer Prevention at the National Cancer Institute in Bethesda, Md. ''It was a well-conducted study and helped open up clinical trial research in nutrition,'' he said.
        Dr. DeCosse assembled 58 people in the mid-1980's with a condition called familial polyposis -- early in life people with this disorder develop numerous polyps in the colon or rectum and, without treatment, eventually get cancer. For four years, half the group ate two servings a day of a high-fiber cereal, consuming 22.5 grams, or twice what the average American ate, and the other half a low-fiber cereal. In the first group, polyps were much more likely to have shrunk in size than to have grown; no such effect was found in the low-fiber group.
        Why this occurred exactly is a mystery, and indeed, more recent studies, including two published this month in The New England Journal of Medicine, found that increasing dietary fiber did not reduce polyps. The results are puzzling researchers, who have long noted the lower risk of colorectal cancer in populations that consume lots of fiber.
        Jerome Joseph DeCosse was born  April 19, 1928, in Valley City, N.D. He graduated from the College of St. Thomas, in St. Paul, and then the University of Minnesota Medical School in 1952. In 1969, he earned a doctorate of anatomy at the State University of New York, Upstate Medical University, in Syracuse.
        From 1971 to 1978, he was chairman of the division of surgery at the Medical College of Wisconsin, in Milwaukee. He then served as chairman of the department of surgery at Sloan-Kettering, until 1985. He also worked at New York Weill Cornell Center from 1978 until his death as professor of surgery and vice chairman of the surgery department.
        Dr. DeCosse, who had a home in East Hampton, N.Y., was president of the East Hampton Health Care Foundation, which has established a nonprofit health care center for the community that is to open this summer, his daughter Sarah DeCosse said.
        In addition to Ms. DeCosse of Washington, he is survived by his wife of 44 years, Sheila; three sons, Stephen, of Tokyo, David, of Berkeley, Calif., and Philip, of Antananarivo, Madagascar; another daughter, Carole, of Chicago; two brothers, Cy, of Minneapolis, and Donald, of Bozeman, Mont.; and four grandchildren.
      