
        Dr. Meyer Friedman, an originator of the theory linking heart attacks to impatient, angry ''Type A'' behavior, died on Friday in San Francisco. He was 90, and until a few weeks before his death continued to do research at an institute that he had founded and that was named for him at the Mount Zion Medical Center, part of the University of California at San Francisco.
        Dr. Friedman and Dr. Ray H. Rosenman, both cardiologists, first proposed the Type A theory in scientific publications in the 1950's, and wrote a popular book about it in 1974, ''Type A Behavior and Your Heart.''
        Type A quickly became a household phrase, a convenient label for  people who blew up at slow sales clerks, pounded their horns in traffic and generally lived their lives in double time. It also served as a warning to such people to slow down and relax, lest they give themselves heart attacks.
        The theory was based on years of research by Dr. Friedman and Dr. Rosenman showing that people with Type A behavior were significantly more prone to heart attacks than those with the more relaxed, easygoing, Type B style.
        Dr. Valentin Fuster, director of the cardiovascular institute at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York and past president of the American Heart Association, said: ''He's the first one who gave a sense to the medical community that there was some relationship between personality and heart attacks. We believe today that his point was correct, but there has been a lot of debate about the degree to which personality plays a role in heart attacks.''
        Dr. Fuster said many doctors did not pay enough attention to the potential effect of emotion and behavior on health. But he added that many researchers were continuing to study the connection between emotions and the physiological changes that underlie heart disease. Ultimately, he said, Dr. Friedman and Dr. Rosenman will be recognized as figures of major importance in the history of research into cardiovascular disease.
        Almost as soon as the theory was proposed, the public and even other researchers began referring to Type A and B as personality types, rather than merely behaviors. But Dr. Friedman did not agree.
        Dr. Barton Sparagon, medical director of the Meyer Friedman Institute, said: ''He resisted the switch to Type A personality, because that suggests a more pejorative and blaming tone. It suggests something you can't change. His emphasis was that it was a behavior that was most likely learned and that was self-destructive and became habitual. He developed a comprehensive program to modify Type A behavior and reduce one's risk for heart disease, and that was one of his greatest contributions.''
        Dr. Sparagon said Dr. Friedman often began his lectures by stating that he himself had had Type A behavior and had had two heart attacks and two coronary bypass operations.
        ''In his early days he was known as Cannonball Mike, for his explosive way of coming into a room,'' Dr. Sparagon said. ''He recognized it in himself and in his patients. Even though he was not a psychologist or a psychiatrist, he had a grasp of human nature that in my experience was unparalleled.''
        Early in Dr. Friedman's career, research associates did not last long in his laboratory.
        ''I think I was the only one who was able to get along and stay,'' Dr. Rosenman said yesterday. ''We dealt on an even level.''
        Dr. Rosenman, 80, described himself as ''Type A-minus.'' The two worked together for more than 20 years, eventually parting ways when their views on the research began to differ.
        Over time, Dr. Sparagon said, Dr. Friedman managed to change his own behavior and to act more like a Type B. ''One of his favorite sayings was that he was able to make time his best friend,'' Dr. Sparagon said.
        In addition to his work on Type A and B behaviors, Dr. Friedman made important discoveries in gout, cholesterol production and the physiological events that take place during heart attacks.
        He earned his bachelor's degree from Yale and his medical degree from Johns Hopkins.
        Dr. Friedman is survived by two sons, Joseph C., of Mill Valley, Calif.,  and Mark C., of Rohnert Park, Calif.; a daughter, Joyce Libeu, also of Rohnert Park; and five grandchildren. His wife, Macia, died in 1994.
      