
        Curt Blefary, the Baltimore Oriole outfielder who was the American League's rookie of the year in 1965, two years after the Yankees allowed him to be claimed from their farm system, died Sunday at his home in Pompano Beach, Fla. He was 57.
        The cause was pancreatitis, his family said.
        Blefary, a left-handed batter who also caught and played first base, hit .260 with 22 home runs and 70 runs batted in as a rookie. He played for the Orioles' 1966 World Series champions and had at least 20 home runs in each of his first three seasons.
        But his productivity gradually declined after that. He was traded to the Houston Astros after four years in Baltimore, then came to the Yankees in a trade for Joe Pepitone. Blefary played with the Yankees in 1970 and 1971 before finishing his career with the Oakland A's and San Diego Padres.
        He had a batting average of .237 with 112 home runs and 382 R.B.I. in eight seasons.
        In February 1995, Blefary acknowledged that he had a longstanding drinking problem.
        ''I was a drinker for 33 years,'' he said while telling of how he completed an alcohol rehabilitation program the previous spring with help from the Baseball Assistance Team, an organization aiding needy baseball people. ''I started when I was 18. By Triple A, I was drinking hard liquor. In the big leagues, I was out of control. Back then, people were more likely to bring you another drink than ask if you had a problem.''
        Blefary had been unsuccessful in obtaining a baseball job after his playing days ended and sold cars for a time in New Jersey. A native of Brooklyn, Blefary was a high school baseball and football star in Mahwah, N.J., and signed with the Yankees in 1962 for a reported $40,000 out of Wagner College on Staten Island.
        He played with the Yankees' Greensboro, N.C., farm team. The Orioles claimed him in 1963 after the Yankees failed to keep him on their 40-man major league roster.
        ''I felt let down when that happened,'' he recalled. ''Because I was born in Brooklyn, I always rooted for the Dodgers, but the club I wanted to play ball for was always the Yankees.''
        When he joined the Orioles, he gained inspiration when facing the Yankees from a clipping quoting the former Yankee manager, Ralph Houk, as saying he had been ''expendable.''
        Blefary is survived by his wife, Lana; two daughters, Tracey Servideo of Jupiter, Fla., and Tammy Moffett of Providence, R.I.; a son, Vincent, of Boca Raton, Fla.; two sisters, Carla Blefary, of Boca Raton, and Linda Wren, of Fort Lauderdale, Fla.; and three grandchildren.
        In the spring of 1995, when he told of his alcoholism, Blefary was recovering from hip-replacement surgery performed by a doctor who donated his time because Blefary had no health insurance. Blefary said then how he had read about the substance-abuse problems faced by two other former rookies of the year, Darryl Strawberry and Dwight Gooden of the Mets.
        ''It seems like everybody is telling them that it's going to be all right,  and they believe it,'' Blefary said. ''Well, it ain't going to be all right, not if they're still in denial. I've been there. I know.''
      