
        Clifton Keith Hillegass, who for 40 years published Cliffs Notes, the literary study guides that have saved millions of procrastinating students from academic ruin, died in his home in Lincoln, Neb., on Saturday. He was 83.
        He died of complications after a stroke in late April, his family said.
        Cliffs Notes, which are sold primarily to high school students, provide plot summaries and commentaries on literary classics like ''Wuthering Heights'' and ''The Catcher in the Rye.'' They have not always been as popular with educators as with students; in 1997, Villanova University near Philadelphia became one of several universities to ban the sale of Cliffs Notes on campus, describing them as an inappropriate crutch.
        A Cliffs Note on ''Alice in Wonderland'' provides, under the header Themes, concise discussions of ''Abandonment/Loneliness,'' ''Nature and Nurture,'' and Alice's role as ''The Child-Swain.'' Dickens's ''It was the best of times, it was the worst of times'' is paraphrased as ''Life in England and France seems paradoxically the best and the worst that it can be.''
        Over time, the phrase ''Cliffs Notes'' has entered the language as shorthand for shortcut, often used in a way that implies a lack of nuance or thorough understanding.
        That reputation stung Mr. Hillegass, a lover of classics and murder mysteries alike.
        ''Most people have come to know them as cheat sheets,'' said his daughter Kimberly Newton. ''He never, ever intended for people to use them that way, as a substitute, because he had such great respect for the works. He just basically wanted to help them get as much out of their education as they could.''
        In each of the slender pamphlets, Mr. Hillegass included a note to readers with his signature at the bottom, ''A thorough appreciation of literature allows no shortcuts.''
        Mr. Hillegass, whose father was a rural mail carrier and whose mother raised gladioli, was a lifelong Nebraskan, born in Rising City, a small town 41 miles north of Lincoln. After attending graduate school at the University of Nebraska in Lincoln, he went to work for the Nebraska Book Company, a publisher of textbooks.
        He left temporarily for duty as a meteorologist in the Army Air Corps during World War II, and rose to the rank of captain, Ms. Newton said.
        He was the manager of the wholesale department at the book company when he began Cliffs Notes in his basement with a $4,000 loan in 1958. The idea came from a Toronto publisher, who thought his study guides for 16 of Shakespeare's works would find an audience in the United States.
        Mr. Hillegass is survived by his first wife, Catherine McDonald; their three children, James C. Hillegass, Linda Hillegass and Diane Nolan; his second wife, Mary; and her son, Patrick Ebel, and daughter, Ms. Newton, whom Mr. Hillegass adopted. He is also survived by seven grandchildren.
        By 1989, Forbes magazine reported that the company, with more than 220 titles, was making $11 million a year, and some news reports have said that Cliffs Notes has printed more than 50 million guides.
        Part of the company's success depended on its heavy advertising -- ''Juliet, Baby, it's easier with Cliff's Notes,'' read one slogan in the late 60's, before the company's name lost its apostrophe. Another appealed to those who felt ''Shafted by Shaw? Mangled by Melville?''
        Mr. Hillegass insisted on keeping the company in Lincoln and devoted 10 percent of its profits to charitable causes in the area, his daughter said. The Museum of Nebraska Art in Kearney has a bronze statue of him in its Cliff Hillegass Sculpture Garden.
        In 1998, he sold Cliffs Notes for $14 million to IDG Books, now called Hungry Mind Inc. The company retained the familiar bumblebee striped design of the guides, but the signed reader's note is gone. The tenor of the advertising has changed, too. The Web site now seems to acknowledge that Cliffs Notes can be a replacement for the real thing and calls them ''the fastest way to learn.''
        Correction:  May 11, 2001, Friday  An obituary on Monday about Clifton Keith Hillegass, who created Cliffs Notes, misstated the name of the company that now owns Cliffs Notes. It is Hungry Minds Inc., not Hungry Mind.
      