
        Robert A. Love, an economist and businessman who helped develop a type of life insurance that covered the value of home mortgages, died in his sleep on Jan. 5 at his apartment in New York. He was 102 years old.
        Mr. Love served as a professor and administrator in the City College system of New York for 45 years. In 1969, at the age of 71, he retired from City College's School of Business, now the Zicklin School of Business of the Bernard M. Baruch College of the City University of New York, said his wife, Terry Belsito-Love. But he kept working as a consultant to mutual fund and insurance companies until his mid-80's and continued with economic and business projects until shortly before his death.
        Mr. Love, a tall, lanky man who played second base in college and skied and hiked most of his life, was an early advocate of installment lending to consumers, which, in the 1920's, many economists and bankers thought was riskier than providing credit to businesses. The type of life insurance he help develop, often referred to as credit life, was later applied to the outstanding balances on credit cards and an infinite range of consumer credit purchases.
        While both concepts remain in wide use, consumer advocates are critical of credit life. They argue that premiums are proportionately lower for basic life insurance. They also favor basic life insurance because it pays a set amount at death, and can be used for any purpose. By contrast, credit life is intended to cover only the balance of specific debts. But credit life premiums are often as low as a few dollars a month -- because the benefits are relatively low -- and some advocates say this enables people with modest incomes to buy at least some coverage.
        Mr. Love was born in Chriesman, Tex., on Dec. 19, 1898. He started in business early. As a boy he sold road maps door to door on credit, which friends say influenced his study on installment lending. And when he ran short of money while studying at Southwestern University in Georgetown, Tex., he dropped out and worked as a grain buyer at a flour mill. He also taught high school athletics before returning to Southwestern and receiving a bachelor's degree in 1922.
        He earned a master's degree in economics at Columbia University in 1924 and began teaching at City College. Beginning in 1926, he did his work on installment credit as a part of a team of economists that included Arthur Burns, who later became chairman of the Federal Reserve Board. Mr. Love received a Ph.D. from Columbia in 1931.
        In 1939, he became assistant director of the evening and extension division of the business school. Two years later, he became director of the division and held that post while continuing to teach until he retired. The evening and daytime programs were merged several years ago.
        Attendance at the evening business school jumped sharply after World War II and again after the Korean War as military veterans took advantage of the G.I. Bill, which subsidized their education.
        Over his long career, Mr. Love conducted research for the National Democratic Committee and New York City. He helped start and run several mutual funds in the 1950's and 1960's and wrote seven books including, ''How to Analyze Your Business'' in 1938 and ''Life Insurance and Mutual Funds'' in 1968.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a sister, LaNelle Love Donaldson of Houston. Mr. Love's first wife, the former Helen Hitchcock, who taught English and classics at Hunter College, died in 1983. They had been students together in high school in Texas and at Columbia and were married for 56 years.
        Discussing his approach as director of the evening business school, Mr. Love once said: ''We like to tailor-make a course for the specific job a man wants to do. The biggest danger in education is teaching people disassociated facts that confuse them and which they forget very quickly. We like to hitch the facts onto the things they're doing and where they're going.''
      