
        John J. Lee Jr., a basketball star for Yale who became a corporate executive and a leading fund-raiser for his alma mater, died Saturday at his home in Larchmont, N.Y. He was 64.
        The cause was kidney cancer, said his son, John J. Lee III of Larchmont.
        As a 6-foot-3-inch junior forward at Yale, Mr. Lee had his picture on the cover of Sports Illustrated, which profiled him as the ''next great Ivy League scholar-athlete.'' As a senior, he scored 40 points against Harvard, a total unsurpassed since at Yale. In 73 games over his three varsity seasons, he scored 1,493 points.
        In 1958, when he earned a bachelor's degree in chemical engineering, he was drafted by the Knicks, only the second Yale player drafted by a major basketball league (the first was Tony Lavelli, by the Celtics in 1949). Mr. Lee passed up pro basketball and its then-modest salaries to return to Yale and gain a master's degree in chemical engineering in 1959.
        He then began a corporate career in which he served as the president and chief executive officer of the Barber Oil Corporation and then the Phibro Resource Corporation. Next, he was the president and chief operating officer of the Tosco Corporation, a multibillion-dollar energy company. He then moved to the Hexcel Corporation, a billion-dollar manufacturer of advanced composite materials, largely for the aerospace industry and the military. A week before his death, he resigned as Hexcel's chief executive officer but remained as chairman.
        John Joseph Lee Jr. was born Sept. 26, 1936, in Brooklyn and starred in basketball at Erasmus Hall High School. He chose Yale, he said, because ''I didn't want to be just another college athlete with nowhere to go after graduation.
        ''If I'd gone to some of those other schools, I'd have ended up with nothing to show for it but four years of basketball and a four-year-old convertible.''
        After college, he became involved in fund-raising for Yale, and in the 1990's he led a campaign that raised $1.75 billion for the university.
        In addition to his son, he is survived by his wife of 40 years, the former Gayle King; another son, Roger Lee, of San Francisco; two daughters, Jocelyn Lee, of Portland, Me., and Lauren Stone, of Wilton, Conn.; a brother, Robert, of Fairbanks, Alaska; and five grandchildren.
        Yale honored Mr. Lee with the Yale Medal, its highest alumni award, in 1989 and the Yale Distinguished Alumni award in 1993. In 1996, the area where Yale conducted basketball, volleyball and gymnastics competition was renamed the John J. Lee Amphitheater.
      