
        William Redington Hewlett, the electrical engineer who in 1938 with David Packard pulled together $538 to set up a tiny electronics company in a Palo Alto, Calif., garage that ultimately led to the creation of Silicon Valley, died today at his home in Portola Valley, Calif. He was 87.
        In 1987 after building the company that would become the nation's second-largest computer maker, Mr. Hewlett went on to become one of the nation's leading philanthropists. Currently the Hewlett Foundation, which he established with his wife, Flora Hewlett, in 1966, has an endowment of $3.5 billion. With Mr. Packard, Mr. Hewlett has contributed more than $300 million to Stanford University.
        The two men's bootstrap approach to business became the founding legend of the region of Northern California that in the 1970's was to become known as Silicon Valley.
        The Valley's economy has since given rise to a range of industries including semiconductors and personal computing. It is known for its openness to energetic engineers with ideas and passion and still venerates the individual entrepreneur, ideas that Mr. Hewlett and Mr. Packard pioneered.
        ''They created the first Silicon Valley company,'' said Steven P. Jobs, founder and chairman of Apple Computer Inc. ''When David Packard died in 1996 it was the beginning of the end of an era; now this is the end.''
        The two men founded Hewlett-Packard while they were doing graduate work at Stanford University, after Mr. Hewlett had moved back to the San Francisco area from a job at General Electric in Schenectady, N.Y.
        Acting at the urging of Frederick E. Terman, his radio engineering professor at Stanford University, Mr. Hewlett made plans to start a business with Mr. Packard while on a climbing trip in Colorado in 1934. At the time most Stanford engineering students were forced to move East to take jobs at the large electronics companies of the era. Mr. Terman was looking for a way to create a home-grown industry on the West Coast.
        Initially they tried to sell a variety of diverse inventions including a self-flushing urinal, a bowling lane foul indicator and a shock machine to help people lose weight.
        Their big break, however, came when they received an order from Walt Disney Studios for eight audio oscillators, which were used to test sound equipment in the production of the movie ''Fantasia.''
        The two men went on to build a global electronics, instrumentation and computing powerhouse that was noted for an informal corporate culture that had a commitment to a set of pragmatic corporate values -- referred to as the H.P. Way -- aimed at eschewing hierarchy, valuing employees as people and unleashing individual creativity.
        Last year the company they created was split into two corporations: the Hewlett-Packard Company, with revenue of $48.8 billion and more than 88,500 employees; and Agilent Technologies Inc., with revenue of $10.8 billion and more than 47,000 employees.
        Mr. Hewlett's informal approach to business and to life is perhaps best illustrated by the fact that in 1967 he picked up the phone to speak to a precocious 12-year-old who was calling the company to ask for parts to make a piece of electronics equipment known as a frequency counter.
        ''I was asking for some spare parts,'' said Mr. Jobs, who at the time was an eighth grader in a local junior high school intent on exploring the world of electronics. ''Not only did he give me the parts, but the following summer he saw that I had a job in the division of the company that made frequency counters.''
        Mr. Jobs said that the encounter changed his life and added that what he learned at the company became a blueprint for his own computer company, Apple.
        At H.P. many of the engineers who worked for him remember Mr. Hewlett as the consummate engineer who would roll up his sleeves and plunge in to any problem with great enthusiasm.
        ''He was the engineer's engineer,'' said John Young, a Hewlett-Packard veteran who became chief executive of the company in 1977. ''He was a very creative person and he was close to the engineers and interested in their work.''
        Although much of Mr. Hewlett's professional work was done before the emergence of the digital computing era, he played a crucial role after the company had invented the H.P. 9100, the first desktop scientific calculator, in 1968.
        It was Mr. Hewlett who issued a challenge to his engineers in the early 1970's to design a version of the system that would fit in his shirt pocket. The engineers answered in 1972 with the H.P. 35, which was the world's first pocket scientific calculator and which quickly led to the obsolescence of the slide rule.
        Although it was his partner, Mr. Packard, who is known for the informal business leadership approach of ''management by walking around,'' Mr. Hewlett was also a practitioner of the art.
        ''He would wander by and pull up a chair and sit down and begin playing with the knobs and offering suggestions,'' Mr. Young said. Indeed, he was so good at examining the work of his employees that they coined the term ''the Hewlett effect'' to explain how projects that they thought worked perfectly would inevitably reveal some flaw after Mr. Hewlett began exploring them, Mr. Young said.
        Mr. Hewlett was also known for his sense of humor, which leaned toward puns -- some good and some bad.
        He was so averse to conventional business hierarchies that he would usually choose to sit at the middle rather than the head of the table during business meetings.
        After World War II, during which Mr. Hewlett served in the Army Signal Corps, the company began growing rapidly.
        In the 1950's it became a dominate player in the market for electronic test and measurement equipment and then in 1966 it entered the computer market with the H.P. 2116A, a machine that had been designed as a controller for electronic systems.
        Hewlett-Packard pioneered the ''open plan'' office in Silicon Valley.  It was a way of organizing an open workplace without doors where employees were separated only by low-rise dividers.
        Mr. Hewlett prided himself particularly on his company's employee-oriented policies. During his career benefits like catastrophic medical coverage, flexible work hours and  decentralized decision making were all at the core of the company's philosophy.
        Ultimately, Mr. Hewlett, who at one time owned about 30 percent of Hewlett-Packard's stock with Mr. Packard, became a billionaire. But he did not live a jet-set life, and he worked hard at trying to keep the wealth in perspective for his children, at one point telling a reporter that he was worried about the impact that great wealth would have on his family.
        ''We felt we were just ordinary people,'' said Walter Hewlett, Mr. Hewlett's oldest son. He said in an interview today that he remembered asking his father frequently about what the largest company in Palo Alto was, and each time his father would respond, ''the cannery.''
        ''Then one day he told me it wasn't the cannery any longer, it was Hewlett-Packard,'' he said.
        Mr. Hewlett's wealth was estimated to be $9 billion last year by Forbes magazine, making him one of the nation's 50 wealthiest people.
        Although Mr. Hewlett is generally remembered more for his engineering acumen and Mr. Packard for his business expertise, they shared a similar vision for their company.
        After his military service Mr. Hewlett returned to H.P. in 1947 and became a vice president. He was elected executive vice president in 1957, president in 1964 and chief executive in 1969. Mr. Hewlett resigned as president in 1977 and retired as chief executive in 1978. He then served as chairman of the executive committee until 1983, when he became vice chairman of the board. In 1987, he was named director emeritus.
        The Hewlett Foundation, which is the nation's 18th largest, focuses on a wide range of issues including conflict resolution, education, environment, family and community development, the performing arts, population issues and United States-Latin American relations.
        Mr. Hewlett, who was born in Ann Arbor, Mich., and moved to California when he was three, was an outdoorsman and a mountaineer. He made a number of difficult ascents in Yosemite as a young man and was an ardent amateur botanist and devotee of wildflowers found in the Sierras, where he went frequently.
        In 1977, Flora Hewlett died, and in 1978, he married Rosemary Bradford. He is survived by his wife and five children from his first marriage: Eleanor Hewlett Gimon; Walter B., William A. and James S. Hewlett; and Mary Hewlett Jaffe. In addition, he is survived by five stepchildren from his second marriage: David C., Robert A., Peter K. and Jeffrey M. Bradford; and Deborah Bradford Whelan.
      