
        Morton Klein, a professor of industrial engineering at Columbia University who did pioneering work in the field of operations research, a discipline that applies mathematics to complex management problems, died on April 26 after collapsing in his office on campus. He was 75 and lived in Haworth, N.J.
        The cause was a heart attack, the university said in its announcement of his death.
        Dr. Klein, who joined the Columbia teaching staff in 1956, a year before completing his doctoral work at the university, belonged to the second generation of practitioners of a science that started in Britain at the outset of World War II but quickly spread to the United States. At first it involved using scientific, and particularly mathematical, principles to solve large-scale organizational problems created by modern warfare, like the logistical nightmares created by large movements of men and material. Later these techniques, greatly strengthened by the development of modern computers, were applied to many aspects of business and civilian life, including transportation, industrial and financial management and telecommunications.
        Over the years and in dozens of academic papers, Dr. Klein explored ways of improving transport systems, designing wage scales to maximize incentives, and scheduling mass screenings for the detection of cancer.
        He is probably best remembered for a methodology he developed in 1967 to help companies minimize their transport and production costs. It bears the tongue-twisting title of Klein's negative cycle-canceling algorithm.
        Born Aug. 9, 1925, in New York City, Dr. Klein received his bachelor's degree at Duke University in 1946 after war-time service in the Navy.
        At Columbia he spent more than two decades building up the operations research curriculum in the industrial engineering department. This work lead in 1978 to the creation of the department of industrial engineering and operations research. In 1959 he published ''Probability and Statistical Inference for Engineers'' (Oxford University Press), written with Prof. Cyrus Derman, also of Columbia.
        He is survived by his wife, Gloria, and two daughters, Lisa Wager of Manhattan and Melanie, of Washington.
      