
        L. Dean Brown, a World War II combat veteran who became a career diplomat and carried out tough assignments in the Middle East and elsewhere including organizing the airlift of Americans and friendly Vietnamese from Saigon, died on May 2 at a hospital in Washington. He was 80.
        Mr. Brown was an infantryman in World War II, took part in the Normandy landing and received a field commission as a lieutenant.
        He became ambassador to Jordan in 1970, and in September that year a 10-day civil war broke out between Palestinian guerrillas and the Jordanian Army, causing many casualties. In the same month, he traveled in an armored personnel carrier to present his credentials to King Hussein at Humar, 18 miles northeast of Amman, the capital.
        As became known during his sojourn in Jordan, Mr. Brown sometimes kept a pistol handy, and in an interview early in 1971 he said grimly: ''I would hope that I would not be an embarrassment to the U.S. government by being held a hostage. There are many demands one can conceive of that could be made upon the Jordanian or American governments by taking hostages.''
        In 1973, he was recalled from Jordan to Washington and became deputy under secretary of state for management, an post from which ideas flowed for changing the bureaucracy. His office also had responsibility for securing appropriations from Congress.
        Henry A. Kissinger became secretary of state in 1973, and Mr. Brown was one of his key aides. He remained deputy undersecretary until his retirement in 1975, after 29 years with the State Department.
        In 1974, Mr. Kissinger sent him as special envoy to Cyprus, another trouble spot, after the American ambassador to Cyprus, Rodger P. Davies, was shot to death during an anti-American demonstration in Nicosia. Mr. Brown's assignment was to direct the American Embasssy in Cyprus temporarily.
        In 1975, only a fortnight after he retired from the State Department, he was summoned by Mr. Kissinger and asked to undertake a daunting new assignment: rescuing not just the Americans in Saigon but also tens of thousands of South Vietnamese before the Vietnamese Communists overpowered the city. Mr. Brown flew to Washington from New York the same day and labored through the night to organize an airlift.
        A native New Yorker, Lewis Dean Brown graduated from Garden City High School and received a bachelor's degree in 1942 from Wesleyan University in Connecticut. He began his State Department career in 1946 and rose to be ambassador to Senegal and Gambia before being assigned to Jordan.
        He married June Vereker Farquhar in 1947, and she died in 1986.
        He is survived by a son, Michael Farquhar Brown of Gordes, France; and a granddaughter, Megan Brown of Virginia.
      