
        Nikos Giorgiades Sampson, president of Cyprus for eight days after a military coup in 1974 overthrew Archbishop Makarios and provoked a Turkish invasion that has divided the Mediterranean island to this day, died on May 9 in a clinic in Nicosia. He was 66.
        The cause was cancer, his wife, Vera, said.
        Mr. Sampson, a former Greek Cypriot gunman linked to the killing  of 20 British servicemen, adopted his surname probably as a disguise when he belonged to the E.O.K.A. guerrilla movement that fought against British rule and for union with Greece. He became president of Cyprus on July 15, 1974, after local military forces led by Greek officers and acting on orders from the military junta in Athens, seized the Presidential Palace and said they had killed Archbishop Makarios.
        In fact, the archbishop, discarding his distinctive tall black hat and gown, had slipped unnoticed out a back door and, with United Nations help, reached a British military base, from which he was spirited out of the country.
        On July 20, five days after Mr. Sampson had become president -- a choice that the Turkish Cypriot leader, Rauf Denktash, called ''as unacceptable as Hitler's becoming president of Israel,'' Turkey invaded Cyprus, citing its duty to protect the Turkish minority on the island from persecution by the Greek majority. The Turkish Army eventually seized about third of the island and remains there 26 years later.
        By July 23, it was clear that Mr. Sampson, who had a death sentence against him commuted to life imprisonment for killing a British police officer in the 1950's, enjoyed little support at home or abroad. He resigned, turning over the presidency to Glafkos Clerides, a respected Greek Cypriot leader who as House speaker was also Makarios's constitutional successor.
        Explaining his decision, Mr. Sampson said his primary mission, ending what he described as the ''personal rule''of Makarios, had been accomplished.
        Mr. Sampson was born into a peasant family on Dec. 16, 1935. As a high school student, he joined the E.O.K.A. movement. The letters stand for the Greek words for the National Organization of Cypriot Fighters. Gen. George Grivas commanded the group, and Mr. Sampson rose quickly, command an assassination squad.
        Often posing as a journalist, he killed British soldiers and Greeks suspected of collaborating with the British and reported his killings, saying he had been the first reporter on the scene.
        In his memoirs, General Grivas wrote: ''So many street killings took place in the center of the capital that London newspapers took to calling it 'Murder Mile.' The Nicosia team led by Nikos Sampson did much of the courageous work at this time. They were responsible for more than 20 killings.''
        In 1959, Mr. Sampson told a British correspondent: ''Sometimes at night I lie awake and try to think about the families of those Englishmen I killed. And, believe me, I feel really sorry for their loss. But it was something forced upon us by the politicians.''
        Convicted of killing a police sergeant in the mid-50's, Mr. Sampson was sentenced to death. The term was was reduced to life in prison after complaints that he had been tortured. He served three years in a British prison and was released when Cyprus became independent.
        Returning to Cyprus, he founded a right-wing newspaper, Mahi, meaning combat, which continued to advocate enosis, or union with Greece. But Makarios, who had been allied with General Grivas in the struggle against British rule, came to favor an independent Cyprus after he became the first president of the island, in 1960.
        In 1963, when fighting erupted between Greeks and Turks, Mr. Sampson lead irregular but government-supported units in attacks on Turkish communities.
        In 1977, Mr. Sampson was arrested, tried and sentenced to 20 years in in prison for his part in the 1974 coup that overthrew Makarios, the sole person put on trial in connection with that event. Two years later, he was allowed to go to France for medical treatment, where he stayed for 12 years. On his return, he was briefly reimprisoned and released.
        Also surviving are two children.
        Correction:  May 19, 2001, Saturday  An obituary on May 11 about Nikos Giorgiades Sampson, who was briefly the president of Cyrpus after a military coup in 1974, misstated his date of birth. It was Dec. 16, 1934, not 1935.
      