
        Charles A. Dana Jr., a philanthropist of diverse interests, died on Wednesday at Bellevue Hospital Center in New York City. He was 86.
        Mr. Dana was struck by a vehicle at Madison Avenue and 52nd Street in Manhattan on May 8, said his son, Charles A. Dana III.
        As a founding member of the Charles A. Dana Foundation, which bears his father's name, Mr. Dana devoted much of his adult life to giving money to nonprofit organizations. Among the more than 30 charities to which he channeled money were Freedom Institute, the Museum of the City of New York, the Central Park Conservancy and the Hospital for Special Surgery.
        In connection with his interest in the Central Park Conservancy, Mr. Dana helped restore the Upper Park and sponsored nature programs for Harlem residents. The nature education and cultural programs of the Charles A. Dana Discovery Center in Harlem now serve more than 70,000 children and adults every year.
        Mr. Dana was also president of the Cadan Corporation, a private investment company.
        Mr. Dana liked to tell the story of how he heard about Dr. Sidney Farber, a nationally recognized cancer expert, and his pioneering work in chemotherapy. Mr. Dava excitedly told his father, Charles A. Dana Sr., that he had to meet with Dr. Farber and learn about his work. That meeting led to what became known as the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, the research institution.
        Mr. Dana was a member of the President's Council for the Arts and Humanities during the Reagan administration. He was an avid sportsman, riding horses until he was thrown and injured at the age of 76, and playing tennis into his 80's.
        He had residences in New York City, New Canaan, Conn., and Nassau, the Bahamas.
        A man of great modesty, Mr. Dana would frequently remark: ''My father was a tough act to follow.''
        The Dana fortune had its origins in the early 20th century. The first Charles A. Dana, a New York lawyer, was representing a company that owned rights to the universal joint, the device that was replacing belts and chains to link the power of an automobile engine to the rear wheels of a car.
        He recognized the growth potential of the device and bought an 80 percent interest in the company.
        Today, the universal joint has applications ranging from control of the flaps on aircraft wings to the propulsion of golf carts.
        Charles Anderson Dana was born in New York City on Jan. 17, 1915. He graduated from St. Paul's School in New Hampshire and attended Princeton University.
        In addition to his son, who lives in Newport, R.I., Mr. Dana is survived by his wife, Norma T. Dana; two daughters, Sandra Dana O'Donnell of Ancramdale, N.Y., and Marion Dana Curtis of New York City; a stepson, Bruce Kendall of Southern Pines, N.C.; seven grandchildren; three great-grandchildren; and two step-grandchildren.
      