
        Sebastian Snow, an eccentric English explorer who helped confirm the source of the Amazon River as he bumbled about vast portions of South America singing the ''Eton Boating Song'' with somewhat perplexing frequency, died on April 20. He was 72.
        Christian Bonington, a widely traveled explorer who made some trips with him, called Mr. Snow ''the last of a fast-dying breed of true amateur adventurers.''
        His friend the explorer Robin Hanbury-Tenison said Mr. Snow had been ''sort of reclusive'' for the last 20 years. He did not know where he died, or the cause of death, and obituaries in British newspapers did not contain this information.
        Mr. Hanbury-Tenison said he last heard from his friend about eight weeks ago, when Mr. Snow asked him to be best man when he married his landlady. The marriage apparently did take place, but Mr. Hanbury-Tenison could not attend.
        Mr. Snow became famous as an explorer in 1951, when he participated in a successful expedition to find the source of the Amazon River in the Andes. He then turned around and navigated the river to the Atlantic Ocean, thousands of miles away, paddling canoes and bobbing on balsa log rafts, as he braved ferocious rapids, snakes and headhunters.
        Upon his arrival back in London, The Daily Mirror hailed him as ''a six-foot live hero, straight from the 'Bumper Book for Boys.' '' The next year, a comic strip about his adventures appeared in a boys' paper.
        He played the part in a manner that recalled some of the characters of Evelyn Waugh or Peter Fleming, a British travel writer of the 1930's who combined parody, wit and self-derision to famous effect.
        When interviewed by The New York Times on Dec. 3, 1952, Mr. Snow, then 23, said he ''found the whole trip a bit dull.'' He remarked on the trials of traveling alone and perhaps spraining one's ankle and being pecked to death by birds of prey. ''That would be a bit trying,'' he said.
        Sebastian Edward Farquason Snow was born in Midhurst, Sussex, on Jan. 21, 1929. His father owned a bank in Exeter and his uncle was the British ambassador to Colombia, a connection that opened many doors. He was educated at Eton, where be broke his thigh playing rugby, making him unacceptable to the army.
        He went to work for Lloyd's, the insurance exchange, before being dismissed after six months. He then explored Lapland by motorcycle and hiked from Istanbul to Karachi.
        He saw an advertisement in The Times of London in April 1951 asking for volunteers to take part in a hydrological expedition around the head of the Amazon. ''No experience necessary,'' it said.
        The source of the Amazon had been discussed at least since 1641, and in 1944, two French explorers, Bertrand Florney and Fred Matter, put the source at a glacial lake in southern Peru. With a series of measurements and soundings, Mr. Snow and his colleague, John Brown, confirmed the French finding.
        Last December, an expedition by the National Geographic Society used advanced satellite navigation technology to pinpoint the source even more exactly: a trickle of water on the mountain Nevada Mismi.
        Mr. Snow said ''dinner together on my return'' and Mr. Brown left, after the discovery of the source.
        Mr. Snow quickly showed he could overcome a blundering nature with pluck and luck. (He was described by Mr. Hanbury-Tenison as ''myopic and incompetent.'') Mr. Snow handled many tricky situations by shouting in English, working in an occasional Spanish word, particularly ''pistola.''
        ''But it always seemed to work,'' Mr. Hanbury-Tenison marveled.
        After Sir Edmund Hillary beat him to the top of Everest, Mr. Snow made do with some South American mountains. He had been eccentric in his preparations, not bringing nearly enough food. He ate roast monkey (which he said tasted ''like stringy beef''), bamboo shoots and snails.
        After several South American expeditions in the 1960's and early 1970's, he set off in 1973, wearing a backpack and carrying a briefcase, to walk from Tierra del Fuego to Alaska, a journey of 15,000 miles, but was forced to give up after 19 months and 8,700 miles. He carried no water, and drank from puddles in the road.
        In the introduction to his book about the walk, ''The Rucksack Man'' (Hodder and Stoughton, 1976), Mr. Bonington wrote, ''Sebastian is prone to every kind of accident, some of them ludicrous.''
        Vampire bats sucked blood from his toes, and tigers and pumas prowled nearby as he nervously relieved himself. ''What is Sebastian Snow?'' Mr. Bonington asked. ''A strange mix of naïveté, diabolical intelligence, modesty, self-esteem, sentimentality, cynicism and sheer bloody toughness and courage.''
        After almost two years, he made it as far as Costa Rica, more than halfway to his goal. But he weighed barely 100 pounds and could go no farther. Three months later, he telephoned Mr. Hanbury-Tenison and said his weight had doubled. ''You are a perfectionist like me, Robin,'' he said. ''You will understand that I will have to go back to the beginning.''
        His friend talked him into picking up the walk in Costa Rica, but he gave up shortly afterward.
        In 1957, Mr. Snow converted to Roman Catholicism and married the Contessa Letizia Bizarri, the daughter of one of the Privy Chamberlains of the Sword and Cape at the Papal Court. They had a son, Sebastian, and three daughters, Francesca, Miranda and Natasha. The couple divorced in 1970. All their children survive.
        While married, he made an unsuccessful attempt at chicken farming. ''My roaming days are over,'' he proclaimed. ''Now we're going to raise broiler fowls. It's a far cry from exploring the upper Amazon, but so much more comfortable.''
        Mr. Hanbury-Tenison said that Mr. Snow lived alone -- except for the landlady he recently and briefly married -- for at least the last 20 years.
        Correction:  May 31, 2001, Thursday  An obituary on May 13 about Sebastian Snow, an eccentric English explorer who helped confirm the source of the Amazon River, referred erroneously to an encounter he had with animals during a trek north from Tierra del Fuego. Tigers are not found in the wild in the Western Hemisphere.
      