
        Jacques Lowe, whose exhaustive fly-on-the-wall photographs of the Kennedy family are a bittersweet elegy to a period of presidential history that has come to be known as Camelot, died on Saturday at his home in Manhattan. He was 71.
        The cause was cancer, said Judy Twersky, a family spokeswoman.
        As John F. Kennedy's campaign photographer and then his personal photographer after he became president, Mr. Lowe produced many memorable images. In one, taken early in the presidential campaign, the vibrant candidate and his attractive young wife, Jacqueline, are standing at a lonely air strip in Portland, Ore. With their chartered plane in the background, the Kennedys, along with an aide and the plane's pilot, are met by three supporters.
        In another, almost Hopperesque picture, the Kennedys are having breakfast at a roadside diner with Steve Smith, Kennedy's brother-in-law. As the sun streams in through a Venetian blind, casting shadows on a Kennedy seemingly lost in thought, his wife quietly reads a magazine.
        On numerous occasions, Mr. Lowe was the only photographer present, as he was when Kennedy offered the vice presidency to Lyndon B. Johnson. In a riveting picture taken the day after Kennedy was nominated as the Democratic Party candidate for the November election, the Kennedy brothers are with Johnson. Standing to one side, Robert F. Kennedy, his brother's campaign manager, who opposed the choice, looks at Johnson with icy hostility.
        Mr. Lowe was a 26-year-old freelance photojournalist with a studio in New York City when he first met Robert Kennedy, after being assigned by three different magazines to photograph him on three separate days in the same week. Robert Kennedy was then making a name for himself as counsel on the Senate's McClellan committee, taking on the Mafia and Jimmy Hoffa of the Teamsters union. Mr. Lowe's photography sessions led to a close friendship with the Kennedys and picture-taking weekends at their homes in McLean, Va., and Hyannis Port, Mass.
        Joseph P. Kennedy liked Mr. Lowe's pictures so much that he asked him to photograph ''my other son,'' John, who in the summer of 1958 as a young senator was planning to run for president. As the presidential campaign gathered momentum, Mr. Lowe became the full-time campaign photographer.
        After the inauguration, he remained in Washington to document the Kennedy administration.
        By mid-1962, feeling he had completed his assignment, Mr. Lowe returned to New York and resumed his advertising, magazine and corporate work. After Robert Kennedy was assassinated in 1968, Mr. Lowe moved to Europe.
        Mr. Lowe was born in Cologne, Germany, on Jan. 24, 1930. He was very private about his early years, said his daughter Victoria Allen. She discovered during a recent interview she did with him for a French documentary film that as Jews he and his mother had to go into hiding during World War II, finding refuge with a family that had a restaurant outside Cologne.
        Mr. Lowe came to New York in 1949. Supporting himself with odd jobs, he studied journalism and design, and in 1951 he became an assistant to the photographer Arnold Newman. Mr. Lowe subsequently opened his own studio, his photographs appearing in publications like Life, Look, Time, Newsweek, Paris Match and Stern.
        During his self-imposed exile in Europe from 1968 to 1984, Mr. Lowe essentially gave up photography. He founded Visual Arts, which later became Visual Arts Projects, a graphics design agency that produced books, videos, brochures and annual reports. In 1984 he returned to New York and to photography. In the last decade he produced several books on the Kennedys, among them ''J.F.K. Remembered: An Intimate Portrait by His Personal Photographer'' (Random House, 1993). In 1996 Mr. Lowe organized a traveling exhibition of his photographs of the former first lady, ''A Tribute to Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis,'' which helped the Leukemia Society of America raise about $3 million for the Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis Lymphoma Fund.
        Mr. Lowe's four marriages ended in divorce. In addition to his daughter Ms. Allen, of New York, he is survived by two sons, Jacques Jr., of East Hampton, N.Y., and Alexander J. V., of New York City, and two daughters, Thomasina R. V. Lowe and Kristina Rebecca Thorhauge-Lowe, both of London.
      