
        R.K. Narayan, the literary chronicler of small-town life in South India and one of the first Indians writing in English to achieve international acclaim, died yesterday in Madras, India. He was 94.
        Long before writers of the subcontinent broke free of the passions and ideologies of the independence movement and Partition, Mr. Narayan explored the value of village traditions and the lives of ordinary people. In the 1930's, he created a town in South India that he called Malgudi and populated it with characters who could be fussy, tricky, harmlessly rebellious or philosophical -- but who were always believable. Mr. Narayan would return again and again to Malgudi in many of his 34 novels and hundreds of short stories.
        Although Mr. Narayan's writing may strike many foreign critics as dated today, his books accurately portray an India that hovers between the unchangingly rural and the newly industrial and that is still filled with individualistic, often eccentric personalities that recall his imagined universe.
        Mr. Narayan's biographers, Susan Ram and N. Ram, have noted that Malgudi ''connects with a rural hinterland, and jungle and forest are never far away.'' They added: ''This town teems with life, abounds with color. To wander any street, peer through a window or push open a door is to encounter a character.''
        As a fiction writer, Mr. Narayan preceded by more than half a century the current crop of Indian novelists writing in English about ordinary people living their ordinary, or sometimes extraordinary, lives.
        Although he wrote exclusively in English to a relatively small audience in his homeland, Mr. Narayan did not deal, except obliquely, with the impact of Britain on India and the struggle for independence. V. S. Naipaul once observed that Mr. Narayan was interested not so much in the social changes that came to his archetypal Indian town as in ''the lesser life that goes on below: small men, small schemes, big talk, limited means: a life so circumscribed that it appears whole and unviolated, its smallness never a subject for wonder, though India itself is felt to be vast.''
        In ''Gods, Demons and Others'' (1964), Mr. Narayan's retelling of stories from the Sanskrit religious epics ''The Mahabharata'' and ''The Ramayana'' and from Tamil epics, he explained his approach: ''It is personality alone that remains unchanging and makes sense in any age or idiom, whether the setting is 3000 B.C. or 2000 A.D.''
        Mr. Narayan was 29 and had collected many rejection slips when his first book, ''Swami and Friends,'' was published, in Britain, in 1935. It was Graham Greene who managed to find a publisher after the book had been rejected half a dozen times. Greene said that ''Swami'' was ''closer to Chekhov than to any English writer, with the same underlying sense of beauty and sadness,'' and he admired Mr. Narayan so much that he went on to find publishers for his second and third novels, ''The Bachelor of Arts'' and ''The Dark Room.''
        In addition to nearly three dozen novels and several short-story collections, Mr. Narayan published a memoir and countless essays during his rich literary life. He was never short of causes, especially the environment. While in his 80's, he took on the plight of Indian children and made them the subject of an unusual inaugural speech in India's upper house of Parliament, the Rajya Sabha, to which he was named in 1985 for his cultural contributions to the country. Children, he said, no longer had time to play ''or look at birds and trees.''
        Rasipuram Krishnaswami Narayanaswami was born in Madras on Oct. 10, 1906, one of several children in a middle-class family. He shortened his long South Indian family name to Narayan in 1935 at the insistence of Graham Greene and his English publisher, Hamish Hamilton, according to the Rams. Mr. Narayan was a Tamil Brahmin, a member of arguably India's most intellectually gifted caste and of a community intensely devoted to education and the arts that has produced, in addition to writers, a number of renowned scientists.
        Because his father was a headmaster in the government educational service who traveled frequently and his mother was a frail woman, he was largely brought up by his grandmother, who arranged lessons for him in Tamil and fascinated him with her Indian tales and poetry. His grandmother also had a steady stream of visitors who stopped in her backyard to have their horoscopes read and to receive advice about their love lives. His childhood days with his grandmother and her visitors provided the material for ''Swami and Friends.''
        After his father was transferred to a school in another South Indian city, Mysore, Mr. Narayan studied at the Maharaja of Mysore's Collegiate High School. In 1930, he graduated from the maharaja's college, tried teaching for a short and unhappy spell and then plunged directly into writing full time, a profession almost unknown in India, then or now. His family was shocked but supportive.
        ''I chose to be writer,'' he later told a radio interviewer, ''mainly because it is the only career which guarantees absolute freedom to live as one pleases.''
        ''On a certain day in September, selected by my grandmother for its auspiciousness, I bought an exercise book and wrote the first line of a novel,'' Mr. Narayan remembered in his memoir ''My Days'' (1974). ''As I sat in a room nibbling my pen and wondering what to write, Malgudi with its little railroad station swam into view, all ready-made.''
        He broke with family tradition to marry a woman he chose, rather than being drawn into an arranged marriage. His wife, Rajam, could not read English, the only language in which her husband could write, but she took a strong interest in his work. He and his wife had only five years together before she died of typhoid fever in 1939. Mr. Narayan never remarried, electing to bring up his daughter, Hema, by himself. Hema died of cancer in 1994. He is survived by a brother, the cartoonist R. K. Laxman, and two grandsons.
        The death of his wife plunged him into a period of depression during which he became obsessed with trying to communicate with her through spiritual mediums. The experience was reflected his fourth Malgudi novel, ''The English Teacher.'' Among other books in the series were ''The Guide,'' ''The Financial Expert,'' ''The Man Eater of Malgudi,'' ''The Vendor of Sweets'' and ''The World of Nagaraj.''
        ''The Guide'' (1958) is particularly well regarded by critics. It concerns the rise, fall and rise again of Raju, a railway-station food vendor who becomes a tourist guide. Raju seduces the wife of a client, then quits his job to manage her career as a dancer. She becomes a star and he becomes prosperous until he is thrown into jail as a swindler. Eventually released, he searches for his true identity and finds it as a mahatma, or spiritual adviser, in a small town.
        The painful search for ''true identity'' is a major theme of Mr. Narayan's work. In ''The Vendor of Sweets'' the merchant eventually rejects the world for a life of contemplation.
        In the Narayan world, the streets are a never-ending theater ''and your neighbor's life is a fat novel, which you are sometimes invited to revise,'' Anatole Broyard wrote in his review of the story collection ''Malgudi Days.''
        ''Some of Mr. Narayan's best stories are benign satires,'' Mr. Broyard continued, ''like the one in which the town council decides to pull down the 20-foot metal statue of a former British governor. Research has exposed him as a tyrant, and the statue is offered free to anyone who will carry it away. After dynamiting it off its pedestal, an enterprising citizen has it pulled away by the temple elephant and 50 men. While trying to decide how best to liquidate it, he keeps it in his small house, where half of the statue sticks out into the street. Then it is discovered that the researchers were mistaken, the man commemorated by the statue was a veritable saint, and it must be re-erected.''
        Over the years Mr. Narayan's books have been published in the United States by the Viking Press, by Farrar, Straus & Giroux's Noonday paperback imprint, by Michigan State University Press and by the University of Chicago Press. He liked to travel and visited Europe and the United States.
        In his long, productive life, Mr. Narayan became his own publisher, a step he took when World War II cut him off from Britain. He also wrote occasionally for newspapers and magazines. His work earned him a number of Indian awards, including the Padma Bhushan, the country's highest prize. He was an honorary member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and his papers and manuscripts have been given to Boston University and the University of Texas.
        Mr. Narayan was once described by J. Anthony Lukas as looking ''a little like a highly intelligent bird.''
        He was never much of a self-publicist. ''Everyone thinks he's a writer with a mission,'' Mr. Narayan once told N. Ram. ''Myself, absolutely not. I write only because I'm interested in a type of character, and I'm amused mostly by the seriousness with which each man takes himself.''
        Correction:  May 16, 2001, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary on Monday about the Indian writer R. K. Narayan misstated the number of his works and referred incorrectly to a survivor. Mr. Na rayan published 15 novels (not 34), and his output totaled more than 30 books, including collections of short stories taken from more than a hundred (not hundreds) that he was known to have written. His survivors include a grandson and a granddaughter, not two grandsons.
        The obituary also gave a misspelled surname in some copies for a writer who once described Mr. Narayan as looking ''a little like a highly intelligent bird.'' The writer was J. Anthony Lukas, not Lucas.
      