
        Aleksei A. Tupolev, an aircraft designer whose work included some of Russia's sturdiest passenger planes and the Soviet Union's ill-fated supersonic airliner, died on Saturday, officials of the company OAO Tupolev said.
        Mr. Tupolev was 75. Officials said he had been ill for some time, but did not disclose the cause of death.
        The son of the legendary aircraft designer Andrei N. Tupolev, Aleksei Tupolev was heir to one of the world's best-known aviation programs. Under his father, the Tupolev Design Bureau drew the blueprints for the Soviet Union's first commercial jetliner, the TU-104, and for military planes used in World War II.
        The younger Mr. Tupolev, who became chief designer at the bureau in 1963, guided the development not only of the supersonic TU-144 but also of a 1980's-era long-range bomber, the TU-160, based on the jetliner.
        The design bureau fell heavily into debt after the disintegration of the Soviet Union. But in recent years it produced plans for a recently introduced commercial jet and was working with the Russian Space Agency and French researchers on a shuttle-type reusable space vehicle.
        One day before Mr. Tupolev's death, the government announced plans to consolidate Russia's fragmented aircraft industry into two companies, one led by the Tupolev and MIG corporations and the second by a merger of Ilyushin and Sukhoi.
        Aleksei Andreyevich Tupolev was born May 20, 1925. He began designing airplanes in his father's bureau at age 17, and became its leading designer after graduating from the Moscow Aviation Institute in 1949. After his father's death in 1972, he became Tupolev's general designer, a top job in an aviation complex that included both a design bureau and an aircraft factory in Samara, a city in the southwest.
        During those years he helped design not just the TU-104, the first passenger jet, but also planes that remain workhorses of Russian aviation, including short- and medium-range jets, the TU-134 and TU-154.
        But to outsiders, he will remain best known for his leading role in designing the world's first supersonic passenger jet, the TU-144, which the Soviet Union conceived in secrecy as a rival to the British-French Concorde.
        Rumors of the TU-144 circulated in the aviation business as early as 1965. But on New Year's Eve 1968, the Soviets stunned the West when the jet made a maiden subsonic flight of 38 minutes. (The Concorde did not fly for another two months.)
        The TU-144 Charger bore such an eerie resemblance to the Concorde, down to its triangular wings and drooping nose, that cynics quickly dubbed it the Concordov. But other aircraft designers said similarities were to be expected, given the fact that both planes were fixed-wing aircraft built to carry passengers at twice the speed of sound.
        The TU-144 was eventually redesigned to accommodate more passengers than the Concorde, apparently to make it more attractive to potential buyers.
        But on June 3, 1973, as Mr. Tupolev watched from his seat at the Paris Air Show, the great jet stalled after passing over Le Bourget airfield and, flames spitting from its side, plunged to the ground.
        All six crew members died, as did 15 residents of Goussainville, a town near the airport. The crash was apparently caused by human error, not structural problems, and Mr. Tupolev himself showed Western journalists a refined version of the plane a year later to prove that the Soviet commitment to supersonic flight remained strong.
        The aircraft later flew 102 times in scheduled service between Moscow and Almaty, now the commercial center of Kazakhstan. But that route was shut down after a second crash near Moscow in 1977 killed three crewmen, and the TU-144 never carried paying passengers again.
        The Tupelov bureau applied its knowledge from the supersonic project to several military aircraft, including a long-range bomber, the TU-160. Known in the West as the Blackjack, it was presented in the 1980's as an answer to the American B-1 bomber.
        Last year the Tupolev company announced plans to deploy a new supersonic transport, based on the TU-144, in 2010.
        Soviet officials lavished awards on Mr. Tupolev for his work, designating him a hero of socialist labor and awarding him the U.S.S.R. state prize, the Lenin prize, three orders of Lenin and an order of the Red Banner of Labor.
      