
        Douglas Adams, the whimsical British novelist who wrote ''The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy,'' the best-selling science fiction humor series that introduced readers to a universe of preening, two-headed aliens, manic-depressive robots and space travelers who never parted with their bath towels, died on Friday in Santa Barbara, Calif. He was 49.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, said his personal assistant, Sophie Astin.
        Mr. Adams, a fan of the British comedy series ''Monty Python'' and a former writer and editor for ''Doctor Who,'' the BBC's long-running science fiction television show, seemed to combine the best of both in his ''Hitchhiker'' series, which began as a radio play in 1978.
        The story follows the adventures of a group of planet-hopping space travelers, joined by a British everyman named Arthur Dent, shortly after Earth is demolished to make way for an intergalactic superhighway. A biting satire of technology, politics, science fiction, bureaucracy and, yes, travel guides, the radio play was turned into a book that sold 14 million copies around the world. In 1982, Mr. Adams became the first British author since Ian Fleming to have three books on the best-seller lists of both The New York Times and Publishers Weekly.
        The books were later turned into a television series, a stage play, record albums, comic books and a video game. The original book was also followed by several sequels, growing to a ''five-part trilogy,'' as Mr. Adams put it, including ''The Restaurant at the End of the Universe,'' ''Life, the Universe and Everything'' and ''So Long, and Thanks for All the Fish.''
        The series is widely considered a landmark for its clever and adroit blend of two genres, science fiction and comedy. Aside from the small cottage industry of ''Hitchhiker'' spinoffs that resulted from the series, Mr. Adams's influence can be seen in a range of science fiction works since, from the British television series ''Red Dwarf'' to the 1999 film ''Galaxy Quest.''
        Douglas Noel Adams was born in Cambridge, England. He was educated at the Brentwood School in Essex and St. John's College, Cambridge. He said in 1982 that the idea for the series ''originally came to me 11 years ago, when I was about to go to Cambridge University and I was hitchhiking around in Europe.''
        ''I had a copy of a book called 'The Hitchhiker's Guide to Europe,' '' he continued, ''and one night I was lying in a field in Innsbruck -- I have to say that I was drunk -- and I was staring at the stars. It was one of those beautiful starlit nights, and it occurred to me that at some point somebody should write a hitchhiker's guide to the galaxy as well. I fell asleep and forgot about it for six years.''
        What resulted when he finally remembered was a playful tale of a rich collection of characters with memorable names like Zaphod Beeblebrox, Slartibartfast and Eccentrica Gallumbits.
        The fictional guide itself was a galactic glossary of subjects that would prove useful to any space tourist, from the best recipe for a Pan Galactic Gargle Blaster to the health risks associated with listening to Vogon poetry. It also contained useful hints for the frugal interstellar traveler (''How to see the marvels of the universe for less that 30 Altairian dollars a day!'').
        The series also explained the secret of the universe: 42.
        Aside from the Hitchhiker series, Mr. Adams also wrote two books featuring Dirk Gently, a ''holistic detective,'' and ''Last Chance to See,'' a book about endangered species of which he was said to be most proud. He was also a co-author of an alternative dictionary titled ''The Meaning of Liff.''
        In recent years, Mr. Adams had become a sought-after lecturer and frequent commentator on science and technology issues. He had also started a multimedia company, the Digital Village, and often responded to queries from fans who visited his Web site, www.douglasadams.com. Yesterday the site ended with tributes to Mr. Adams and ''So long, and thanks for all the fish.''
        Ms. Astin said that Mr. Adams, who had lived in California since 1999, was working on a novel, a work separate from the ''Hitchhiker'' or ''Gently'' series.
        ''It wasn't related to either of those series, but fans would certainly recognize it was him,'' she said.
        Mr. Adams is survived by his wife, Jane; a daughter, Polly; and his mother, Jan Thrift of Britain.
      