
        Didi, one of the world's most creative soccer players who, as the team captain, led Brazil to World Cup championships in 1958 and 1962, died on Saturday in Rio de Janeiro. He was 71.
        The cause was liver failure, said Julio Mazzei, who still has strong ties to Brazilian soccer through his close association as an adviser to Pelé, perhaps the best player in the history of the game.
        Didi (pronounced GEE-gee) was the most valuable player in the 1958 World Cup in Sweden, where he helped shepherd the 17-year-old Pelé in his debut with the Brazilian national team. Didi was recently inducted into the International Football Hall of Champions of the sport's world governing body, the Fédération Internationale de Football Association, the highest individual honor in soccer.
        For the elegant Didi, whose real name was Valdir Pereira, soccer was a cerebral game, all about passing, making plays and converting free kicks. He disdained physical contact and running, once saying, ''It's the ball that needs to run, not the player.''
        Didi played his first World Cup in 1954 in Switzerland, where Brazil was eliminated by Hungary in the ''Battle of Bern,'' one of the most violent games in World Cup history.
        By 1958, Didi was the maestro of the midfield for the victorious World Cup team that made Brazil the first country to win the title outside of its continent. Not only did he incorporate the dazzling Pelé into the attack, Didi also scored a pivotal goal to rally Brazil past Sweden, the home team. ''Didi is one of the top players of all time in Brazil,'' Mazzei said from his home in Florida.
        In 1959, Didi joined Spain's Real Madrid, then the best club team in the world, but he never got along with Alfredo Di Stefano, the Argentine superstar. After two seasons, he returned to Rio where he led the Botafogo club to the Rio league title in 1961 and '62.
        In 1962, Didi, then 33, defied critics who said he was too old and led Brazil to the defense of its World Cup title in Chile. It was Didi's last international appearance for Brazil; all told, he played in 74 international games and scored 21 goals.
        Along with helping Brazil to consecutive World Cup triumphs, Didi is renowned for scoring the first goal at Maracaná in Rio, the largest soccer stadium in the world, built for the 1950 World Cup.
        After retiring as a player in 1966, Didi coached in Brazil, Argentina, Peru, Turkey and Saudi Arabia. His greatest coaching success came in the 1970 World Cup in Mexico, where he took Peru to the quarterfinals before losing to the eventual champion, Brazil.
        Didi is survived by his second wife, Guiomar, and two daughters, one from each marriage.
      