
        John M. Newell, a lawyer handling the appeals of the longest-serving death row inmate in the country, died on April 9 at Southampton Hospital in Southampton, N.Y. He was 47 and lived in East Hampton, N.Y.
        The cause was internal bleeding, said a family member.
        Mr. Newell was one of the appellate lawyers representing Carl Isaacs, who has spent 25 of the last 27 years under a death sentence in Georgia, and he helped win several postponements of Mr. Isaacs's execution.
        Mr. Isaacs and two others were convicted and sentenced to die in 1974 for murdering six members of the Alday family the previous year in Donalsonville, Ga., days after the defendants escaped from a prison camp in Maryland. Mr. Isaacs's brother was a crucial witness against him, and his half-brother was one of his co-defendants. The murders, committed over several hours, drew widespread attention, and Jimmy Carter, who was then governor, called them ''the most heinous crime in Georgia.''
        In December 1985, a federal appeals court overturned the convictions, citing ''inflammatory and prejudicial pretrial publicity,'' a ruling that led to an unsuccessful campaign to impeach the three appellate judges. At a second trial in 1988, Mr. Isaacs was again found guilty and sentenced to death. Mr. Newell became involved in the case shortly after the second conviction.
        As a partner at Whitman & Ransom in Manhattan, later Whitman, Breed, Abbott & Morgan, Mr. Newell specialized in international business matters, and from 1991 to 1994 he was editor of the American Bar Association's International Commercial Arbitration Newsletter. He represented Ghaith R. Pharaon, a Saudi-born financier affiliated with the Bank of Credit and Commerce International, in litigation stemming from the collapse of that institution in the early 1990's. His clients also included Robert Maxwell, the British publishing magnate, and Pelé, the Brazilian soccer star.
        Mr. Newell was born April 19, 1953, in Oak Park, Ill., and grew up in Ohio, New Jersey and Connecticut. He graduated from Bayley-Ellard High School in Madison, N.J., and Hamilton College in Clinton, N.Y. He worked as a high school English teacher and a paralegal before graduating from Fordham Law School.
        He joined Whitman & Ransom in 1982, and left the firm in 1998, after which he practiced law part-time.
        He is survived by his parents, Jim and Peg Newell of Bethel, Conn.; three siblings, Jim, of Andover, Mass., Peter, of Albany, and Margaret, of Columbus, Ohio; and his companion, Barbara O'Connell, of Weston, Conn.
      