
        Simon Raven, whose 36 novels provided a highly personalized, exceedingly hedonistic vision of the English upper classes, died Saturday at a London hospital. He was 73.
        The cause was not announced, the Associated Press reported.
        Mr. Raven's acidly satiric style was likened to that of Evelyn Waugh and Anthony Powell, although he never achieved their fame. It might have been because he deliberately aimed at a smaller target.
        ''I've always written for a small audience of people like myself who are well educated, worldly, skeptical, snobbish -- meaning that they rank good taste over bad,'' he said.
        In particular, he relished exploring the subtleties -- not to mention the flagrancies -- of homosexuality at exclusive schools, on the cricket fields and in army regiments, worlds he knew well.
        ''Raven was perhaps the last efflorescence -- now that the Classics are vanishing -- of a long line of homophilic English writers, formed both by their schools and their schooling in the 'Greek view of life,' '' Angela Buttolph wrote in The Evening Standard on Tuesday. She added that Mr. Raven might have outdone all of them, ''in ripe perversity at least.''
        His best-known work was the ''Alms for Oblivion'' series, 10 novels chronicling the usually scandalous lives of a group of men who first meet at an exclusive school, then address life's exigencies over the three decades following World War II. Each book has a self-contained plot, but the same characters meander through all -- gracelessly.
        ''All the characters in Raven's novels can be guaranteed to behave badly under pressure; most of them are vile without any pressure at all,'' The Daily Telegraph said in its obituary. The effect, J. D. Scott wrote in The New York Times Book Review in 1965, was ''to give a flavor as powerful, peculiar and English as pink gin.''
        Though critics fretted over the unevenness and occasional repetitiveness of his work, they applauded strokes of genius. Max Cosman in Commonweal called him a combination of Graham Greene, Lawrence Durrell and A. Conan Doyle.
        Simon Arthur Noel Raven was born in London on Dec. 28, 1927. His father played golf and spent his own father's fortune, while his mother was a cross-country runner who was once the second-fastest woman in England.
        He attended Charterhouse, an exclusive private school, but was expelled for what he called ''the usual reasons,'' referring to homosexual activity. He served in the army before attending Cambridge, where his academic excellence led to a research scholarship to study the influence of the classics on Victorian schools.
        When Susan Kilner, who was also a Cambridge student, became pregnant by him, he told her he would marry her, and did. ''But I won't live with you -- ever,'' he added.
        When his scholarship money ran out, he re-enlisted in the army, serving in Germany and fighting the Mau Mau in Kenya. As his gambling debts became ludicrously high, the army allowed him to resign rather than face court-martial.
        In 1963, he told the publisher Anthony Blond of his plan for the ''Oblivion'' series. He was offered a contract of £5,000 for the entire sequence, a respectable sum, payable in installments of £500 per book. A condition was that he had to live at least 50 miles away from London and its temptations. He settled in Deal.
        In addition to writing fiction, he also achieved financial success dramatizing novels and plays for television, including Aldous Huxley's ''Point Counter Point.'' Spike Milligan, the comedian and writer, once observed that Mr. Raven would probably have dramatized the telephone book if the price were right.
        Money was never far from the top of the writer's thoughts. The critic Kerry McSweeny noted that one of his characters in the ''Oblivion'' series, Fielding Gray, seemed to be speaking for the author in the 1970 novel ''Places Where They Sing.''
        ''I never said I was an artist,'' Fielding Gray, also a writer, says. ''I am an entertainer. I arrange words in pleasing patterns in order to make money.''
        Mr. Raven is survived by a son, Adam, the subject of what is surely his most famous quotation. Shortly after Adam's birth, his mother sent Mr. Raven a telegram saying, ''Wife and baby starving send money soonest.''
        Mr. Raven's reply: ''Sorry no money suggest eat baby.''
      