
        Dr. Milton I. Roemer, a physician whose research on public health systems helped to shape health policy in the United States and other countries, died on Jan. 3 at a Los Angeles hospital. He was 84 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Dr. Roemer retired in 1986 as a professor in the U.C.L.A. School of Public Health's Department of Health Services.
        Research that Dr. Roemer (pronounced ROE-mer) did at U.C.L.A. has been praised for encouraging people to think about the providing of health care in the United States as a single system, not as a galaxy of individual hospitals and doctors.
        He also advocated the creation of a national health program that involved government, said Robert J. Blendon, professor of health policy and political analysis at the Harvard School of Public Health.
        Professor Roemer's advocacy in those fields was most notable in the 1970's when there were only a few health maintenance organizations in the United States. He was a supporter of H.M.O.'s, and he has been credited with encouraging their development.
        He repeatedly spoke in favor of H.M.O.'s. In testimony in 1972 before the House Subcommittee on Public Health and Environment, he advocated the development of H.M.O.'s and federal support for them. He was a co-author of a 1972 study, ''Health Insurance Effects: Services, Expenditures and Attitudes Under Three Types of Plan,'' which advocated more widespread use of H.M.O.'s in the United States.
        He was also known for what is called the ''Roemer effect'' or ''Roemer's law'' -- his view, articulated in 1959 and 1961, that, as The Journal of Health Politics, Policy and Law put it in 1998, ''when hospital insurance is widespread, increased utilization of hospital services seems to result from an increase in the supply of beds.''
        He compared medicine and health care systems in many countries, producing a two-volume work, ''National Health Systems of the World'' (1991 and 1993, Oxford University Press).
        He contended that national health insurance systems made for low inflation in medical care costs. In a 1987 interview, he said, ''The idea of national health insurance has always been attacked as inflationary.'' But he said the rate of inflation for the United States health care system at the time was one of the world's highest, at 11 percent.
        He criticized another aspect of health care in the United States in a paper he presented in 1978 at a meeting of the American Public Health Association. Noting that Los Angeles County had had a substantial drop in its death rate in early 1976 when numerous doctors there had withheld services to protest higher malpractice insurance premiums, he tied the decrease to a sharp drop in elective surgery and said there was mounting evidence that a decrease in elective surgery might improve life expectancy.
        He was the sole author of 20 books and a co-author of 12.
        A native of Paterson, N.J., he earned a bachelor's degree in public health from the University of Michigan, a master's degree in sociology from Cornell and his medical degree from New York University.
        He joined the U.C.L.A. faculty in 1962, teaching health administration. Earlier he held various health administration posts with the United States Public Health Service, the World Health Organization in Geneva and the Saskatchewan Department of Public Health. He also taught at Yale and elsewhere.
        He is survived by his wife, Ruth Roemer, an adjunct professor emerita at the U.C.L.A. School of Public Health; a son, John, of Manhattan; a daughter, Beth Roemer Lewis of Berkeley, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
      