
        Georgi K. Shakhnazarov, a propagandist and political scientist of the Soviet era who rose to become a pro-reform assistant to Mikhail S. Gorbachev in the final years of the Soviet Union, died on Tuesday. He was 77.
        Russian news agencies said he died suddenly en route to Yasnaya Polyana, the home of Tolstoy, after an academic conference in Tula, south of Moscow.
        After a career of spreading the word of Socialism and enforcing Soviet doctrine, Mr. Shakhnazarov was pulled into Mr. Gorbachev's inner circle in 1989 as the Soviet leader struggled to reform the Communist Party while maneuvering between conservatives, who wanted no part of reform, and liberals, who wanted to break with Communism.
        An ethnic Armenian, Mr. Shakhnazarov was among those Soviet intellectuals working inside the system who felt their first liberal stirrings during the 1960's thaw engendered by Nikita S. Khrushchev, and who recoiled at the Soviet crackdown against the Prague Spring in Czechoslovakia in 1968.
        It was Mr. Shakhnazarov's liberalism, which further flowered among a group of Central Committee staff members who served the Soviet leader Yuri Andropov, that drove Mr. Shakhnazarov to champion Mr. Gorbachev and his reforms.
        ''Gorbachev, me, all of us, we were double-thinkers,'' Mr. Shakhnazarov said in one interview in the early 1990's. ''We had to balance truth and propaganda in our minds all the time. It is not something I'm particularly proud of, but that is the way we lived. It was the choice between dissidence and surrender.''
        In an essay last year, Mr. Shakhnazarov showed his continuing loyalty to Mr. Gorbachev and his disdain for Boris N. Yeltsin, who orchestrated the dissolution of the Soviet state and pushed Mr. Gorbachev off the political stage.
        Mr. Gorbachev, he wrote, ''gave the nation its political freedom'' and ''opened it up to the world,'' while Mr. Yeltsin, as president of Russia, ''destroyed the Soviet Union, the Soviets, Socialism -- and laid the foundation for the capitalist system.'' That system, he wrote, devolved to ''robber capitalism.''
        In one of his last commentaries, in February, Mr. Shakhnazarov appeared sympathetic to efforts by Russia's current president, Vladimir V. Putin, to re-establish order and find a place for Russia in a rapidly changing world. And he admonished the Bush administration to reconsider its tone toward Moscow so as not to undermine a decade of good will built on American support for cooperation with democratic Russia.
        Georgi K. Shakhnazarov was born in Baku, the capital of Azerbaijan, in 1924, and his life spanned most of the Soviet period and then a decade beyond. He served in the Red Army in World War II, fighting in Ukraine, Belarus and the Baltic states.
        He graduated from Azerbaijan State University and received a doctorate in law from the Soviet Academy of Sciences Institute of Law. In the 1950's he worked in the Communist Party Central Committee Department for Propaganda and Agitation, and during the 1960's he wrote for the Prague-based World Marxist Review and other party publications.
        From 1972 to 1989 he was a senior official in the Central Committee department that helped to enforce Moscow's discipline in the Soviet-bloc countries of eastern Europe.
        From 1989 to 1991, Mr. Shakhnazarov was always at Mr. Gorbachev's side during the fierce internecine battles over political and economic reform. He was one of the last members of Mr. Gorbachev's staff to speak with him by telephone before a contingent of K.G.B. officers tried (then aborted) a coup in August 1991, setting the stage for the breakup of the Soviet Union at the end of that year.
        For the past decade, Mr. Shakhnazarov had served Mr. Gorbachev as a senior official of the Gorbachev Foundation for socioeconomic and political research.
      