
        George A. Fox, an engineer who was a leading figure in one of New York City's most ambitious public-works projects -- the construction of the Third Water Tunnel -- died on Thursday at the Beth Israel Medical Center hospice in Manhattan. He was 81.
        Mr. Fox, the retired chairman of the Grow Tunneling Corporation of Manhattan, was a civil engineer who devoted his career to the design and management of major construction projects, including roads, bridges and tunnels. His largest, undertaken by his company in the mid-1970's, was the construction of a 60-mile water tunnel hundreds of feet beneath the city.
        ''The education of the public on all of the needs of the city is deficient,'' Mr. Fox told The New York Times in 1996, three years after his company completed the first phase of the project, a 13.5-mile tunnel stretching from the Hillview Reservoir in Yonkers through the Bronx, Manhattan and under the East River to Queens. Other sections will run to other parts of Manhattan, Queens and the Bronx and to the Kensico Reservoir in Westchester County. The tunnel, a monumental undertaking sometimes described as the largest public works project in the nation, is not expected to be completed until 2020.
        ''We have to feel we're on the edge of the cliff before we wake up to it,'' Mr. Fox said in the 1996 interview,  reflecting on the need for huge public works projects like the Third Water Tunnel, which is intended to protect the city from breakdowns in its two existing, time-worn tunnels, completed in 1917 and 1937.
        After entering what his family called semiretirement in the mid-1990's, in part because he had lost much of his eyesight to macular degeneration, Mr. Fox made a late-career shift into education. In 1998, he created a course at the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art, and continued teaching it until last year. ''His vision went way beyond engineering,'' said his daughter Laurie Fox of Durham, N.C. ''It was in labor, civil rights, the arts. He was interested in improving the quality of life.''
        Mr. Fox was born in 1920 in Pittsburgh. He joined the Grow Construction Company, which later became the Grow Tunneling Corporation, in 1946 after receiving engineering degrees from Cooper Union and Brooklyn Polytechnic University, and serving in the Navy Civil Engineering Corps in the South Pacific during World War II.
        After managing several public-works projects in the city, upstate New York and New Jersey in the 1950's and 1960's, and taking a leading role for his company in its early work on the Third Water Tunnel in the 1970's, Mr. Fox became chief executive of Grow in the early 1980's.
        In 1985, while at the height of his career, he encountered tragedy when one of his five children, Ellen, a 39-year-old Manhattan potter, was murdered by an intruder in her loft at Broadway and Bleecker Street. The killer has never been found.
        Mr. Fox was awarded several prizes for engineering, including the Roebling Award from the American Society of Civil Engineers in 1988. In 1996, he received the first Builder of the City award from Cooper Union for contributions to the city's infrastructure.
        During the 1980's, Mr. Fox served as president of the New York Building Congress and the General Contractors Association of New York City. He also served during the 1980's as chairman of Cooper Union, and chairman of the WNYC Foundation.
        In addition to his daughter Laurie, Mr. Fox is survived by his wife,  Cecily; two sons, Andy, of Phoenix, and Roger, of Charlottesville, Va.; a daughter, Alice of Manhattan; and three grandchildren.
      