
        Allan Hall, a British journalist whose musings over a long liquid lunch in 1972 led to the annual race to ship newly bottled Beaujolais Nouveau to Britain, and in later years around the world, died on April 26 in Bury St. Edmunds, Suffolk. He was 71.
        As a columnist for The Times of London, Mr. Hall hit upon the idea of challenging readers to be among the first to put bottles of the year's new vintage on their tables. It was the beginning of a pell-mell annual rush to send the wine to celebrators from Japan to Africa, ideally in time for an early breakfast the next day.
        The means of transport have included elephant, parachute and motorized bathtub. In New York City, enthusiasts include a motorcycle gang that has made a tradition of meeting the first shipment at Kennedy International Airport.
        The wine is released at midnight on the third Thursday of November, and it is this gimmick that connoisseurs insist accounts for almost all the wine's appeal. It is new and fruity, but usually somewhat anemic in character.
        The marketing was enhanced by the idea of a wine producer, Georges Duboeuf, to place banners outside cafes that serve the wine. The signs  proclaimed, ''Le Beaujolais nouveau est arrivé,'' or the new Beaujolais has arrived.
        In 1988, Figaro, the French daily, called the race to put the wine on the table ''the greatest marketing stroke since the end of World War II.''
        Mr. Hall was born on Dec. 10, 1929, in a mining village, Hemsworth. His first job was as a reporter and editor at The Newcastle Journal. He worked at other papers and at 27 became one of the youngest editors of a national newspaper, The Sunday Graphic, which later closed.
        Known for his light writing touch, he jumped from paper to paper and landed, in 1969, at The Sunday Times, where he helped start one of Britain's first style sections. In the 70's, he became known more and more for his wine writing, and Mr. Hall greatly enjoyed his regular trips to France to sample the vintages.
        In 1980, James Goldsmith, the press magnate, hired Mr. Hall as the ''good life correspondent'' for Now, a short-lived weekly magazine. Mr. Hall's most memorable moment may have been a lunch that he gave that cost more than $20,000 and which he submitted on his expense account.
        ''The bill was paid, but unsurprisingly, the magazine folded a few months later,'' The Independent, a London newspaper, said.
        In recent years, Mr. Hall had lived in partial retirement in Suffolk, where a sign in his window read, ''Drinking lessons daily, 10 a.m.-5 p.m.'' He also led tours around French chateaux for a company that marketed the excursions as ''Alco-Hols.''
        Mr. Hall regularly attended the Henley Regatta, impeccably turned out in blazer and boater, The Times said. He also took part in the running of the bulls in Pamplona, Spain.
        He was separated from his wife, Constance Foley, a fellow journalist whom he met when they worked at The Newcastle Journal. Surviving are two sons and a daughter.
        Mr. Hall said 25 years after his odd Beaujolais challenge that he harbored one unpleasant memory. ''There is no trying to hide the disagreeable fact,'' he said, ''that I couldn't possibly have chosen a worse vintage than the 1972 to inaugurate the run.''
      