
        Msgr. John J. Egan, a Roman Catholic priest in Chicago whose work on issues of civil rights, changing neighborhoods and poverty shaped church efforts in those areas nationally, died on Saturday in Chicago in the rectory of Holy Name Cathedral. He was 84.
        An influential figure for over four decades in both the religious life and neighborhood politics of Chicago, Monsignor Egan exerted an influence that stretched far beyond that city.
        His work in the 1960's with Saul Alinsky and Mr. Alinsky's Industrial Areas Foundation laid the groundwork for what is now a national pattern of community organizing projects based on interfaith coalitions of congregations.
        Ordained a priest in 1943, Monsignor Egan directed the Cana Conference of Chicago from 1947 to 1958. The conference was a ministry to married couples that developed a marriage preparation program, Pre-Cana, that has also been influential nationally.
        From 1958 to 1969, Monsignor Egan directed the Chicago Archdiocesan Office of Urban Affairs, where he became deeply engaged in struggles over racial integration and urban renewal.
        In 1965, despite his doctor's orders to avoid stress to a damaged heart, he responded to the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s appeal to members of the clergy to march in Selma, Ala.
        He was already known for publicly criticizing the effects of urban renewal projects and public housing on established neighborhoods. He tangled with Mayor Richard J. Daley of Chicago, challenged the University of Chicago's neighborhood renewal plans and complained of ''the dictatorial powers'' of urban planners like  Robert Moses in New York City.
        Some proponents of urban renewal and integrated housing attacked Monsignor Egan in turn as a self-interested defender of largely white Catholic neighborhoods. Conservatives, including some pastors, recoiled at his working partnership with Mr. Alinsky, a self-styled radical agitator.
        Eventually, Cardinal John Cody disbanded the Office of Urban Affairs in 1969, and Monsignor Egan spent the years from 1970 to 1983 at the University of Notre Dame. There he directed the Institute for Pastoral and Social Ministry, and with Peggy Roach, another veteran of struggles for racial justice, he continued his work of recruiting and advising leaders in community organizations.
        Many of those he influenced called him a ''surrogate bishop'' for Catholics engaged in social and political struggles.
        Brought back to Chicago in 1983 by Cardinal Joseph Bernardin to direct the archdiocese's Office of Human Relations and Ecumenism, in 1987 Monsignor Egan became head of the Office of Community Affairs at DePaul University in Chicago, a position he held until his death.
        John McGreevy, a historian at Notre Dame and the author of ''Parish Boundaries'' (University of Chicago Press, 1996), a prize-winning study of the Catholic Church's handling of racial issues in Northern cities, compared Monsignor Egan to ''the classic parish priests early in the century who were great politically skilled organizers.'' But Monsignor Egan, Professor McGreevy said, ''made the transition to organizing outside the church as well as within it.''
        Monsignor Egan did not shy from internal church controversies. In the 1960's he led a group of reform-minded priests in Chicago, and recalled painfully a single year in Cardinal Cody's tenure when no fewer than 45 priests came to tell him about their decisions to leave the priesthood.
        A month ago, he circulated for publication a plea for the church to ordain women and married men and give women leading roles in the Vatican.
        ''Why are we not using to the fullest the gifts and talents of women who constitute the majority of our membership throughout the world?'' he wrote. ''I realize that even to raise aspects of this question, I label myself a dissenter. Yet prayerful, responsible dissent has always played a role in the church.''
        Despite his deep identification with Chicago, Monsignor Egan was born in Manhattan, on 134th Street in what was then an Irish section of Harlem. His father, a bus driver, and his mother, a dressmaker, were immigrants from Ireland, and moved to Chicago when John was 6.
        He is survived by a sister, Kathleen Egan Martin of Rockford, Ill.
      