
        Frank G. Slaughter, a surgeon who became a prolific best-selling novelist, publishing 56 books that sold an estimated 60 million copies and were translated into all major languages, died on May 17 in Jacksonville, Fla.  He was 93.
        His first novel, ''That None Should Die,'' published in 1941, dealt with socialized medicine as seen through a young doctor's eyes. It has never been out of print.
        His last, which appeared in 1984, was another modern medical story, ''No Greater Love.''
        Surgery and medicine were featured in almost all of Dr. Slaughter's novels. While many of his plots were set in modern America, others were historical, taking place during the Civil War and the Revolution. Another group of novels retold biblical stories or tales about the Apostles and the founding of Christianity; still others were set in the Renaissance.
        Yet Dr. Slaughter scarcely traveled, making only one visit to Europe when he was in his 60's and never setting foot in the biblical lands he wrote so much about.
        As a doctor and author, Dr. Slaughter belonged to a minor but not negligible tradition in modern writing, following in the footsteps of Somerset Maugham, A. J. Cronin, Walker Percy and William Carlos Williams,  though critics did not consider him the equal of those writers. Dr. Slaughter favored strong story lines, based on real events wherever possible and backed by intensive technical research, especially into the medical practices of past ages.
        In ''The Road to Bithynia,'' Dr. Slaughter described the medical training that St. Luke, who is thought to have been a physician, would have undergone in Jesus' time.
        In ''The Galileans,'' he depicted the great medical school and library at Alexandria in the first century A.D. There, physicians had already imported techniques of plastic surgery from India and learned to cure goiters by administering dried seaweed, which contained large quantities of iodine.
        In ''Divine Mistress,'' Dr. Slaughter told the story of Andreas Vesalius, author of ''De Humani Corporis Fabrica,'' the first anatomy textbook.
        Critics generally regarded Dr. Slaughter's novels as the work of a best-selling popular author who liked fast-moving plots and admitted that he wasn't much good at descriptive writing. William DuBois, a playwright, novelist and editor who died in 1997, worked with Dr. Slaughter on 27 of his books.
        A review in The New York Times of ''Constantine: The Miracle of the Flaming Cross,'' Dr. Slaughter's 1965 novel about the first Roman Emperor to embrace Christianity, said, ''Like all of Dr. Slaughter's books, this one brims with violent action, with intrigues, battles, hairbreadth escapes.'' It added, ''Dr. Slaughter's wide public can hardly ask for more.''
        Dr. Slaughter's books always contained a romantic interest, whether a beautiful young hospital nurse or an ancient princess. But his handling of such themes was often wooden.
        In ''The Purple Quest,'' the Phoenician merchant prince Straton declares his love for Hera, a nubile industrial spy from Ionia, with the words: ''I desire you with every fiber of my body. But I also want you to be the mother of my children, the wife I will come home to at night, the strong staff I can lean upon in time of trouble and the companion of my declining years.''
        Sometimes Dr. Slaughter's writing became unintentionally comic. ''Upon This Rock,'' his retelling of the story of the Apostle Peter, states: ''This was the first time Peter had raised a person up from the dead and he could not help feeling a little bit awed by it.''
        Born in Washington on Feb. 25, 1908, Frank Gill Slaughter studied at Duke University and earned his medical degree at Johns Hopkins in 1930. After an internship at Jefferson Hospital in Roanoke, Va., he practiced surgery in Jacksonville, Fla., from 1934 to 1942, writing 100,000 unpublished words a year for the first five years of his career. Then ''That None Should Die'' was accepted for publication. After wartime service as an Army surgeon, Dr. Slaughter gave up medicine and became a full-time writer.
        True to the plot of so many of his novels, as a young surgeon Dr. Slaughter married a former operating room nurse, Jane Mundy, in 1933. She died in 1990. He is survived by  two sons, Dr. Frank G. Slaughter Jr. of Pittsburgh and Randolf Slaughter of Cambridge, Mass.
      