
        Philip W. Buchen, a lawyer who in 1974 first laid plans for Gerald R. Ford to succeed Richard M. Nixon as president and then worked on legal aspects of President Ford's decision to pardon Nixon, died on May 21 at his home in Washington. He was 85.
        The cause was pneumonia, his family said.
        One evening in early April 1974 as the Watergate crisis moved toward its climax, Mr. Buchen, a friend and former law partner of Vice President Ford as well as a member of his staff, came to dinner at the home of Clay T. Whitehead, a Nixon White House aide, and surprised his host by saying: ''We have to do some planning for Jerry. We have to face the fact the president may resign.''
        Mr. Whitehead, apparently concerned about Nixon's mental condition, agreed and called in three trusted friends: Jonathan Moore, a former assistant to Attorney General Elliot L. Richardson; Lawrence Lynn, an assistant secretary of the interior; and Brian Lamb, one of his own assistants.
        As the Watergate storm worsened, the group worked in secrecy for three months, reading up on the transition of power in 1945, when Harry S. Truman ascended to the presidency upon the death of Franklin D. Roosevelt and making plans for Mr. Ford's first days in office.
        At dinner on Aug. 6 that year, Mr. Buchen revealed these preparations to an astonished Mr. Ford, according to an account by James Cannon in ''Time and Chance: Gerald Ford's Appointment with History'' (HarperCollins). Mr. Ford said that if word of the preparations had become public, he would have been accused of disloyalty to the president.
        In fact, the end of the Watergate ordeal was already at hand. On that same day, Nixon told his chief of staff, Alexander M. Haig, that he would resign, and Mr. Ford independently ordered aides to start writing a speech for him to deliver upon taking office.
        Mr. Buchen, who was appointed White House counsel with a seat in the cabinet shortly after President Ford took office on Aug. 9, 1974, immediately found himself at the center of the controversy about whether to pardon Nixon and what to do about his presidential papers and documents, including the Oval Office tapes that had brought him down.
        In his autobiography ''A Time to Heal'' (Harper & Row), President Ford recalled how he secretly raised the possibility of pardoning Nixon with five aides: Mr. Buchen, Mr. Haig, Henry A. Kissinger, Robert Hartman and Jack Marsh.
        ''Buchen, I knew already, was inclined to favor the idea,'' he wrote, adding that Mr. Haig and Mr. Kissinger also supported it.
        Mr. Cannon gives a slightly different account, quoting Mr. Buchen as saying of President Ford, ''I could see that he had already made up his mind, and it was my job to find out how he could do it, rather than whether he should do it.''
        Mr. Buchen convinced President Ford that he had the authority to pardon Nixon before the former president was indicted for any crimes. He was involved in negotiating the agreement with Nixon's lawyers for sharing ownership of his presidential papers and tapes.
        But Mr. Buchen never obtained the full confession of guilt in the Watergate case that he had recommended President Ford seek from Nixon in return for a pardon, though he argued that by accepting the pardon Nixon had implicitly admitted guilt.
        Though the pardon set off a firestorm of criticism and was credited with helping Mr. Ford lose the 1976 presidential election, it has come to be regarded more evenhandedly. Earlier this week, Mr. Ford was honored for issuing the pardon by the John F. Kennedy Library with its Profile in Courage award.
        Born in Sheboygan, Wis., on Feb. 17, 1916, Mr. Buchen had polio as a boy and thereafter walked with a cane. He studied law at the University of Michigan, where he met Mr. Ford, later setting up a law office with him in Grand Rapids, Mich.
        A first marriage ended in divorce; he is survived by his second wife, the former Beatrice Loomis; their son, Roderick, of Tampa, Fla.; and a stepdaughter, Victoria Aler of Scottsdale, Ariz.
      