
        Hiram Z. Mendow, whose eight decades of practicing law included defending Al Capone and other gangsters, died on May 11 at a retirement home in San Diego. He was 107.
        He defended Capone in 1929 after the gangster was arrested in Philadelphia on charges of carrying a concealed .38-caliber revolver. Capone was convicted and sentenced to a year in prison, but he affectionately referred to the lawyer as ''the kid.''
        Mr. Mendow made a point not to reciprocate Capone's friendliness. ''The mobsters, they looked to me for help,'' he said in an interview with The Star Tribune of Minneapolis in 1989. ''I never needed to get involved with them, and I never did.''
        His career, which lasted until five years ago, ranged through many areas. One of his first achievements was being named a municipal judge in Minneapolis, where he lived until he was 102. Though he served only one term in the mid-1920's, he was called ''Judge'' for the rest of his life.
        ''I always said a judge is just a lawyer who knows a governor,'' he said in an interview with The Star Tribune in 1993.
        At other points, Mr. Mendow collaborated with Clarence Darrow on fraud cases and was involved in antitrust cases against General Electric and RCA. He handled estate, family and divorce cases until 1996, when his daughter and only survivor, Abigail Mendow Sand, persuaded him to move to San Diego, where she lives.
        His greatest fame came from his defense of an American Indian charged with murder in riots in Minneapolis in 1935. The defendant had been pictured in Time magazine wielding a baseball bat above a figure lying on the ground.
        The prosecution's case collapsed when Mr. Mendow, with Perry Mason panache, produced the victim in court, alive and well. Mr. Mendow then sued Time magazine on his client's behalf and won.
        Another prominent case involved a Minneapolis woman, Cora May White, who sued her husband for divorce, saying, ''He liked the radio better than sex.'' Mr. Mendow brokered a compromise: his client's husband agreed to refrain from yelling at his newfangled contraption when he could not hear it properly, and the couple reconciled.
        Hiram Zaph Mendow was born in Minneapolis on Aug. 6, 1893. A junk dealer's son, he went to work at age 6, shining shoes and selling newspapers. He graduated from the University of Minnesota, where he and a group of friends kept changing their minds about studying law or dentistry.
        They finally settled on law. Mr. Mendow went on his own and enrolled in law school. When he found his friends later, he was shocked to find out they had changed their minds one more time and enrolled in dental school.
        But Mr. Mendow stuck with law school, earning money for his tuition by making window shades. The academic work was far from easy: he was one of 30 to graduate in 1915 out of a class of 215.
        In World War I, he served in the Army and was part of a crew assigned to ferry planes around the country at a time, he said, when they were ''put together with baling wire and spit.''
        His brief service as a judge convinced him that he would rather help keep people out of jail than send them there. In the case of Tommy Banks, a big player in illegal liquor sales in Minneapolis, he was unsuccessful. He worked out a deal for Mr. Banks to settle for $15,000, but his client rejected it.
        ''I talked to Banks a long time later,'' Mr. Mendow told The Star Tribune. ''He served something like 10 years and ended up paying the I.R.S. something like $1.2 million.''
        Mr. Mendow pursued interests beyond the law, as well. During Prohibition, he wrote a book, ''How To Make Wine at Home.'' He coached basketball and football at a Minneapolis high school, where Sid Gillman, who went on to coach the San Diego Chargers, was one of his players. He reviewed the Yiddish theater for a Minneapolis newspaper.
        His wife of 75 years, Josephine, died in 1995.
        She had been incredulous when asked at her husband's 100th birthday in 1993 if he should retire.
        ''Retire?'' she asked. ''I always tell people that I married Hiram for better and for worse, but not for lunch.''
        When Mr. Zendow finally did move to the San Diego retirement home in 1996, the Chateau La Jolla Inn, he did not slow down. He attended movies and concerts and took a course in creative writing.
        He was often asked about the secret of his longevity and never recommended exercise. ''After 35, I quit athletics,'' he said. ''I realized it was just for kids.''
      