
        Benjamin J. Malcolm, who as New York City's commissioner of correction from 1972 to 1977 led its vast jail system through a turbulent six years of riots, demolition and rebuilding, died last Friday. He was 81.
        When Mayor John V. Lindsay named Mr. Malcolm to be correction chief, New York became the third major American city, after Washington and Chicago, to have a black at the helm of its jails, and his appointment provoked broad national interest as the country's jails and prisons became increasingly populated by black men.
        ''Through hard work and preparation, I've worked my way up all the way,'' he said in a interview at the time, and went on to describe the guiding principle of a corrections policy that he said should incorporate work-release programs, weekend furloughs and halfway houses.
        ''I don't care how well you treat a man in the institution, if the community is not ready to accept him, in terms of giving him a job, then you are only going to hasten the day he goes back to the criminal cycle again,'' he said.
        But Mr. Malcolm, who was reappointed commissioner by Mayor Abraham D. Beame in 1974, faced an uphill struggle to balance his obligation to a humane treatment of prisoners with the burdens on an overcrowded system and the city's fiscal crisis.
        Although he introduced methadone detoxification programs and set up legal libraries in the jails, amid fiscal constraints he fought federal court orders that no more than one inmate be assigned to a cell and that the ill-equipped Manhattan House of Detention, then known as the Tombs, be closed.
        During the blackout of 1977, the city's jails became flooded with people arrested for looting. Mr. Malcolm declared a state of emergency in the city's jails after a riot erupted in the Bronx House of Detention.
        Mr. Malcolm presided over two major additions to the Rikers Island complex, giving it new jails dedicated to women and minors.
        When he resigned in November  1977, to accept an appointment by President Jimmy Carter to the nine-member United States Parole Commission, Mr. Malcolm did not conceal his relief.
        ''Free at last! Free at last!'' he said in an interview, pointing to a beeper in his office that had sounded dozens of times to alert him to violent outbreaks in the jail system. ''I'll dedicate this beeper to whoever has the guts, the intestinal fortitude and the stupidity to succeed me,'' he said.
        Benjamin Joseph Malcolm was born on Aug. 8, 1919, in Philadelphia and graduated from Morehouse College in Atlanta in 1940. He married  Carlotta Brewster of Amityville, N.Y., in the same year and was in the Army from 1942 through 1946.
        He got a master's degree in public administration from New York University in 1970.
        Mr. Malcolm worked for a decade as a city parole officer, moving up through the ranks, said his second wife, Susan Whitaker-Malcolm, whom he married in 1986. He became a deputy commissioner to Correction Commissioner George F. McGrath and was chosen by Mr. Lindsay as commissioner in 1972.
        Later, as a member of the United States Parole Commission, Mr. Malcolm testified before Congressional committees that harsher sentencing and parole guidelines would increase prison populations but not be more effective in reforming criminals.
        In 1984, Mr. Malcolm was offered a position as chairman of the State Parole Board by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. But Mr. Malcolm declined the post. He started a private company, Parole Services of America, which for a fee provides inmates seeking parole with comparative parole data.
      