
        Bernard H. Mendik, the chairman of the Real Estate Board of New York and a longtime force in the city's commercial real estate market, died Monday at New York Presbyterian Hospital. He was 72 and lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, his family said.
        As chairman of the Mendik Company, he ran one of the leading Manhattan landlord firms, and he joined the Real Estate Board in 1982. As its chairman since 1992, he was a principal spokesman and lobbyist for the industry and also had the ear of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
        Mr. Mendik and his board won repeals of taxes and regulations considered onerous by the industry. In one instance they persuaded the State Legislature to end or reduce certain capital gains and transfer taxes on property in the 1990's.
        Mr. Mendik was also in the forefront of a campaign to block a broad new city zoning initiative that would have limited the height of skyscrapers, an issue made acute by Donald J. Trump's plan for the world's tallest residential building, now nearing completion near the United Nations complex. Mr. Mendik and his allies argued that the change would be disastrous for future development.
        Bernard Mendik was born in Glasgow and came to the United States as an infant. He graduated from City College of New York in 1954 and received a law degree at New York University in 1958.
        Over the years he was chairman of the Grand Central Partnership, trustee of the Citizens Budget Committee, vice chairman of the Fifth Avenue Association, and on the board of regents of the Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine. He was a member of Congregation Emanu-El.
        He endowed a library in his name at the New York Law School and a professorship in otolaryngology at New York University Medical Center and supported research centers there and at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center.
        Mr. Mendik was a highly respected figure on the Manhattan skyline; his pattern as a real estate operator was to take buildings and hold on to them. His Mendik Company was involved in more than 30 acquisitions of office and residential buildings in and around Manhattan.
        His portfolio included 330 Madison Avenue at 43rd Street; No. 2 and No. 11 Penn Plaza, near Pennsylvania Station; 866 United Nations Plaza; 20 Broad Street, at the tip of Manhattan; 909 Third Avenue, near East 55th Street; 1740 Broadway; and the former General Electric Building at 570 Lexington Avenue and 51st Street.
        Among other properties held by his company were the MacArthur portfolio of residential buildings, including the Lincoln Towers complex and seven other residential buildings in Manhattan, and about 40 buildings in Great Neck, N.Y.
        In April 1997, Mr. Mendik folded his company holdings into the Vornado Realty Trust, a real estate investment trust with shares traded on the New York Stock Exchange. He became Vornado's co-chairman.
        Under his leadership, the trust acquired 90 Park Avenue, near 39th Street; 150 East 58th Street, just west of Third Avenue; 640 Fifth Avenue, near 55th Street; and 888 Seventh Avenue.
        But the association was short-lived, and members of the real estate business suggested that he preferred to work on his own. He resigned in October 1998 to look after his personal investments, although he remained a major stockholder in Vornado.
        Mr. Mendik taught at New York University from 1960 to 1987. He sat on the board of the New York Hall of Science and served as a member of the Mayor's Business Advisory Council and the Mayor's Commission on Youth Empowerment Services. In 1996, Mayor Giuliani presented him with the city's Fiorello La Guardia Award for civic achievement.
        Mr. Mendik is survived by his wife of 22 years, Susan Batkin Mendik; their son, Alexander J., of Manhattan; a daughter and two sons by an earlier marriage, Laurie J. Mendik, of Manhattan, Kevin R., of Wabon, Mass., and Todd L. of Manhattan; a sister, Sandra Getz, of Island Park, N.Y.; and four grandchildren. He was divorced from his first wife, Annette Silverstein Mendik, who died in 1981.
        Correction:  May 31, 2001, Thursday  An obituary yesterday about Bernard H. Mendik, a New York City real estate executive, misstated the name of a group of which he was a trustee. It is the Citizens Budget Commission, not committee. The obituary also misidentified the law school from which he graduated. It was New York Law School, not New York University.
      