
        Charley Pell, who coached the University of Florida to football prominence in the 1980's but was fired amid highly publicized violations of N.C.A.A. rules, died Tuesday in Southside, Ala. He was 60.
        He had been suffering from lung cancer.
        Pell was a disciplinarian who drove himself, his assistants and his players. Jeff Bostic, who played for him at Clemson before a long professional career, said: ''I'm convinced he was the most organized, philosophical, psychological coach I've ever met. He was a master organizer.''
        But like so many other coaching colleagues, Pell allowed little in his life other than football. He once said that when his son, Carrick, was 7, the youngster asked his teacher what a vacation was and how to spell it.
        And in 1995, on the NBC News program ''Dateline,'' he said of his troubles at Florida (107 charges of rules violations and 59 sanctions): ''Did I violate some rules? Yes. Does that make me a cheater? If it does, yes I am. There wasn't room for anything but winning. Nothing. Winning was the sole obsession, to a fault.''
        Pell became Florida's coach as several colleges were breaking National Collegiate Athletic Association rules by giving illegal aid to players. His first Florida team finished with a 0-10-1 record. The next year, Florida (8-4) played in a bowl game.
        In 1984, after a 30-month investigation, the N.C.A.A. cited Florida for many violations that included spying on practices of seven opponents, making cash payments to players and providing loans to athletes.
        The N.C.A.A. put Florida on probation for three years (later reduced to two).
        The team was barred from bowl games and television appearances for two years and lost some athletic scholarships for four years.
        Pell tried to protect his assistants.
        ''I took the blame for everything to exonerate every other coach on the staff,'' he said. ''I always believed I did too good a job of that. All it did was cause a lot of grief. I made mistakes. They were my mistakes; I was the leader. I trusted some people I shouldn't have. The mistakes and errors I made did not make the difference in the football program. Those mistakes and errors disgust and embarrass me.''
        Pell resigned, effective after the 1984 season, but three games into the season he was fired. No other college would hire him, so he sold real estate and insurance, developed shopping malls and processed oil sludge. All those ventures went bad.
        In 1994, after he tried to asphyxiate himself, he was found to have clinical depression. As Randy Reese, a business associate and former women's swimming coach at Florida, observed: ''Coaching was his life. He had found the one thing he loved to do, and he wasn't able to do it anymore, and that was very difficult for him to deal with.''
        Pell learned to deal with depression, and in 1995 he coached for a year at a new high school near Lakeland, Fla. His players were undersized and inexperienced, and they finished with a 1-9 record.
        Charles Byron Pell was born Feb. 17, 1941, in Albertville, Ala. His father left school after fourth grade, his mother after fifth. He said that in high school he had never heard of Bear Bryant, Alabama's new football coach, but Bryant had heard of him and recruited him. At 187 pounds, Pell became an all-Southeastern Conference guard and also played defensive tackle.
        In 1964, after earning a bachelor's degree, he started coaching, first as a graduate assistant at Alabama. He was head coach at Jacksonville State in Alabama (1969-73) and head coach at Clemson (1977-78) before going to Florida.
        He was 33-13-1 at Jacksonville State, 18-4-1 at Clemson and 33-26-3 at Florida. After he left Clemson, the N.C.A.A. found violations during his tenure and put Clemson on a two-year probation.
        He lived his final years in Southside, Ala., with his second wife, the former Ward Noel, whom he married in 1969.
        He is survived by his wife; three children, Charles Pell Jr. of Birmingham, Ala., Sloan Pell Farrell of Huntsville, Ala., and Carrick Pell of Shreveport, La.; and two grandchildren.
        In recent years, he worked for a national real estate company that auctioned high-priced properties. He said he was happy without football.
        ''I really admire it from the distance now,'' he said. ''I don't miss it. It's a young man's game. There is life after football.''
      