
        William North Jayme, a direct-mail copywriter who elevated magazine subscription solicitations to an art form, died on May 18 at his home in Sonoma, Calif. He was 75.
        The cause was emphysema, said his partner, Heikki Ratalahti.
        In a personal and professional partnership that lasted more than 30 years, Mr. Jayme, the wordsmith, joined Mr. Ratalahti, the graphics guru, in creating mailings that introduced or enlarged circulation for more than three dozen magazines as diverse as New York, Smithsonian, Mother Jones and Food & Wine.
        They had little use for the straightforward ''be a charter subscriber and save'' approach typically used in subscription inducements. Instead, they devised often tongue-in-cheek mailings that amused, provoked and, perhaps most important, were linked to the personalities the new magazines wanted to project.
        For New York, which saw itself as politically savvy, they devised a sweepstakes with a top prize of dinner with the mayor at Gracie Mansion. For Worth, a magazine about making money, they talked about the downside of becoming rich, like being expected to subscribe -- and go -- to the opera.
        Established magazines used the mailings to broaden or even upend their images. To widen Psychology Today's readership, the pair devised a personality quiz with questions like ''Do you close the bathroom door even when you're the only one home?''
        Mr. Jayme's response rate was so high that in 1989 he received a lifetime achievement award from the Direct Marketing Association.
        Still, Mr. Jayme had no pretensions about what he did. He viewed the term ''direct marketing'' as a euphemism. ''It should be called junk mail, because we are invading people's homes,'' he once told a reporter.
        Mr. Jayme was born in Pittsburgh and educated at Princeton. He embraced writing as a soldier in the 40's, when he ran an Army newspaper. He later worked in circulation, promotion and other word-heavy departments at Time-Life and the CBS Radio Network. In his spare time, he wrote books for children and the  libretto for ''Carry Nation,'' a biographical opera that has been staged by the San Francisco Opera and the New York City Opera.
        In 1958, Mr. Jayme went freelance. One of his first clients was Esquire magazine, which wanted to abandon its prurient image for a more sophisticated approach. Mr. Jayme came up with the ''puzzle letter'': an envelope with nine dots on it and a challenge to the recipient to connect them using four uninterrupted lines. The enclosed letter showed that to do so, one had to go outside the box -- or, in other words, break normal patterns, something that the new Esquire said it could help modern men do. Subscriptions poured in, as did business for Mr. Jayme.
        He and Mr. Ratalahti became partners in 1967, and three years later they left New York for California. They continued to enjoy a steady stream of lucrative pitch-letter assignments until they retired in 1996.
        In addition to Mr. Ratalahti, Mr. Jayme is survived by a brother, J. Philip Jayme of Wainscott, N.Y.
      