
        Sir Harold Ridley, an ophthalmologist and developer of the operation to replace cataract-scarred lenses, died on May 25 in Salisbury, England, after a cerebral hemorrhage. He was 94.
        His innovation, in 1949, was met with great opposition from the British medical establishment, but since then Dr. Ridley's operation has restored vision for 200 million people, according to an estimate by the American Society of Cataract and Refractive Surgery.
        The lens of the eye is normally transparent, but as people age regions of dead cells form within the eye, making the lens hard and opaque. When such cataracts form, vision becomes distorted, and if left untreated, blindness results. For years, the only option was to have the lens surgically removed, which left a focusing problem that required the use of glasses with unusually thick lenses.
        Dr. Ridley thought of an idea to improve the surgery when, in 1947, he noticed that slivers of perspex from cockpit canopies caught in the eyes of injured airmen were light and inert, making perfect lens material, said Jan Beiting, director of education and communication for the cataract and surgery society.
        Attempts to replace the lens of the eye in the 19th century had failed because the materials used were always rejected by the body's immune system. Because replacing the lens was thought to be impossible, many ophthalmologists looked down on anyone who tried, and Dr. Ridley planned the first operations in secret.
        On Nov. 29, 1949, he successfully performed the first intraocular lens transplant on a 45-year-old woman. He televised subsequent cataract operations -- another first -- to other doctors at St. Thomas's Hospital in London on condition they would keep the operations secret, Ms. Beiting said.
        When Dr. Ridley presented a paper on his new operation to an ophthalmological congress at Oxford two years later, he received criticism instead of praise. For years, many ophthalmologists in England continued to believe the operation was too risky, but surgeons in the United States were more accepting. By 1980, over 4,000 American surgeons had performed the operation.
        Today, the cataract and surgery society estimates, five million people  receive intraocular lens transplants every year; most patients return to daily activities the day after surgery.
        Dr. Ridley was born in Leicestershire, England, on July 10, 1906. His father was a naval surgeon and ophthalmologist, and his mother was an heiress of the Parker family, inventors of the safety pin.
        Dr. Ridley completed his medical training at St. Thomas's, was a fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons by the age of 25 and became a consultant at Moorfields Eye Hospital in 1938. In 1942, as a major in the Royal Army Medical Corps stationed in Ghana, he discovered onchocerciasis (river blindness) and published a paper on the subject.
        In 1999 the American Society of Cataract and Refractive Surgery celebrated 50 years of intraocular lens implantation and honored Dr. Ridley as one of the ''Ten Most Influential Ophthalmologists of the 20th Century.''
        ''Few people can say they changed the world, but Harold Ridley certainly did,'' said the society's president, Dr. Howard Fine.
        Last year, Dr. Ridley was knighted by Queen Elizabeth.
        He is survived by his wife, Elisabeth Wetherhill, and by a daughter and two sons.
      