
        Henry Ludwig Michel, a globe-trotting civil engineer with a 50-year career that made him a leader in the construction industry, died on May 23 at his home on the East Side of Manhattan. He was 76.
        The apparent cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        Mr. Michel was chairman emeritus and a former president of Parsons Brinckerhoff, a Manhattan construction and consulting firm. He retired in 1994, after almost 30 years with the company, but he kept in close touch with it and the industry.
        The firm, now 116 years old, designed the original IRT subway line in New York City. Mr. Michel oversaw the firm's work on more recent large-scale transportation projects, like Atlanta's rapid transit system, the first Caracas Metro line in Venezuela and the transit system of Taipei, Taiwan.
        He was a native of Frankfurt am Main, Germany, and a 1949 civil-engineering graduate of Columbia University. Early in his career, he took part in a project designed to upgrade British fighter-bomber bases to NATO standards.
        From England, he moved to Rome and started an engineering company that became a contractor at sites in Iran, Iraq, Kenya, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia and Tunisia. He helped develop the University of Baghdad, the Nigerian Parliament in Lagos, Tunis University and the World Health Organization headquarters in Geneva.
        He returned to New York in 1965 and joined Parsons Brinckerhoff. He was made a partner in 1969 and, in 1975, led the traditional partnership's reorganization into an employee-owned corporation. He was its first president and chief executive and became chairman in 1990.
        During his tenure, the firm went thoroughly international, with six offices overseas, and its work force grew to 4,000 from 500 employees. After stepping down as chairman, he continued to travel widely abroad on its behalf.
        He also joined a new trouble-shooting venture, Global Construction Solutions, in Princeton, N.J. It brought together retired top industry executives and academics to advise companies facing problems in their foreign operations.
        Similarly, he became a co-owner of Pegasus Consulting, also of Princeton, in which he teamed with two M.I.T. professors and a risk-management firm, among others. Pegasus provides assessments of political, social, economic and assorted other realities a company should be aware of before it invests in big overseas projects.
        Mr. Michel was a founding member and former president of the Civil Engineering Research Foundation. He lectured at M.I.T., Columbia and other schools and was the recipient of many honors, including Columbia's Alumni Federation Medal and the Egleston Medal for distinguished engineering achievement.
        Mr. Michel is survived by his wife of 57 years, Mary Elizabeth Strolis Michel; two daughters, Eve M. Milanese and Ann M. Wilde, both of Manhattan; a brother, Frank, of Dover, Mass.; and a granddaughter.
      