
        Stephan Weiss, a sculptor and painter who with his wife, Donna Karan, founded one of America's leading fashion houses, died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 62 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was lung cancer, a spokeswoman for the Donna Karan company said.
        A tall, slim man with a calm that served to balance his wife's frenetic personality, Mr. Weiss did not fit the conventional image of a Seventh Avenue fashion executive. His approach to business matters tended to incorporate his artist's sensibility. It was conceptual, rather than purely pragmatic, and often when dealing with a problem that defied apparent solution, his method was to step back and say, ''Well, let's look at this in another way.''
        Mr. Weiss's role in the company was varied and not easily quantifiable. He helped negotiate licensing agreements, and he structured departments as the company rapidly grew in the 1980's. But he was also Ms. Karan's most trusted critic and muse. She often said he was a source of inspiration for her men's wear collections, and when she brought out her first perfume in 1992, she said she had wanted the formulation to smell ''like Casablanca lilies, red suede and the back of Stephan's neck.'' Mr. Weiss designed the perfume's black and gold bottle, based on the curve of a woman's back.
        Mr. Weiss was born in Manhattan and raised in Cedarhurst, on Long Island. He attended the Pratt Institute and initially worked for his father's company, I. Weiss & Sons, a maker of sets and draperies for Broadway theaters. He and Ms. Karan first met on a blind date, when he was 28 and she was 18, but they did not develop a serious relationship until many years later. The couple were married in 1983.
        The following year Ms. Karan, who had been a design associate at Anne Klein, opened her own fashion business, working with her husband out of their apartment on East 70th Street in Manhattan. Ms. Karan's draped jersey skirts and signature bodysuits caught on quickly with women eager for a new kind of sophisticated dressing, and it was not long before she and her husband moved the business to 550 Seventh Avenue, where it remains.
        In a company known for its atmosphere of creative chaos, Mr. Weiss seemed to provide a countering sense of harmony to his wife's energy. It was a profitable marriage. In 1996, he and Ms. Karan made a public offering for the company, Donna Karan International, which includes the popular DKNY brand, while continuing to privately control Gabrielle Studio, a separate company they formed that owns the Donna Karan trademarks.
        Last year Gabrielle Studio was sold to the French luxury conglomerate LVMH Louis Vuitton Moët Hennessy for $450 million, and LVMH has a bid pending for the sale of Donna Karan International.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Weiss is survived by his mother, Hilda Goodman of Long Island; two brothers, Richard Wyler of Alexandria, Va., and Eric Weiss of Orlando, Fla.; his children from a previous marriage, Corey Weiss of Westchester and Lisa Weiss Keyes of Long Island; a stepdaughter, Gabrielle Karan of Manhattan; and five grandchildren.
        In recent years, Mr. Weiss, who never entirely abandoned his art projects, had begun to spend more time at his studio, on Greenwich Street, where an early abstract portrait he made of Richard Nixon hung memorably on one wall. He rarely sought public recognition for his sculptures and paintings, perhaps in part because he felt that as the husband of a celebrated designer his own work would not be taken seriously, and also because he viewed the artistic process as essentially private. His later work included large horse sculptures and conceptual abstract paintings involving string and other materials.
      