
        Harry Zohn, an educator, writer and translator of important works of German literature, died on May 3 at Brigham and Women's Hospital in Boston. He was 77 and most recently lived in Newton, Mass.
        The cause was leukemia, his family said.
        Dr. Zohn taught at Brandeis University from 1951 to 1996. He became a professor of German in 1969 and was chairman of the department of Germanic and Slavic languages twice for a total of 13 years.
        He was the author, editor or translator of about 40 books and wrote extensively about Karl Kraus, the Austrian poet, playwright and essayist. Other subjects included the Austrian writer Stefan Zweig and the German satirist Kurt Tucholsky.
        His translations ranged from Sigmund Freud's ''Delusion and Dreams'' and the complete diaries of Theodor Herzl, the founder of Zionism, to the songs heard in the wine gardens of his native Vienna. He edited and translated a Tucholsky anthology and a collection of his satirical writings.
        He translated works by Walter Benjamin, Martin Buber, Jacob Burckhardt, Gershom Scholem and Manès Sperber, among others. He was the general editor of Peter Lang's ''Austrian Culture'' series.
        Dr. Zohn arrived in Boston in 1940 by way of London. He graduated from Suffolk University in Boston in 1946, and received a master's degree in education at Clark University in 1947 and a Ph.D. in German language and literature at Harvard in 1952.
        At Brandeis, he was an adviser to German majors and coordinated scholarship programs of the German government. He was an executive director of the Goethe Society of New England and was decorated by the German as well as the Austrian governments.
        Dr. Zohn is survived by his wife of 38 years, Judith Gorfinkle Zohn; a son, Steven D., of Philadelphia; a daughter, Marjorie E. Zohn of Boston, and a sister, Elsa Feinberg of Brookline, Mass.
        Dr. Zohn played the viola with the Brandeis Symphony Orchestra. In 1997 he published ''Schüttelreime,'' a tricky German poetry of transposed letters, which he rendered in both German and English. Since there was no English word for the form, he called them shuffle rhymes, in literal translation.
        Correction:  June 14, 2001, Thursday  An obituary on Tuesday about Dr. Harry Zohn, an educator, writer and translator of German literature at Brandeis, misstated the date of his death. It was June 3, not May 3.
      