
        Victor Braun, a Canadian baritone whose repertory included many contemporary roles, died Jan. 6 in Ulm, Germany. He was 65 and lived in Brussels.
        The cause was Shy-Drager syndrome, a neurodegenerative disease, said Moira Johnson, his spokeswoman.
        Mr. Braun was born in Windsor, Ontario, in 1935. He studied voice at the Opera School of the Royal Conservatory of Music in Toronto and made his professional debut as Sciarrone in a Canadian Opera Company production of ''Tosca'' in 1957.
        In 1963 he won first prize at the International Mozart Competition, and he joined the Frankfurt Opera. In 1968 he joined the Bavarian State Opera in Munich, and in 1969 he made his Covent Garden debut in the title role of Humphrey Searle's ''Hamlet'' in its London premiere.
        Among Mr. Braun's other contemporary roles were the General in Hans Werner Henze's ''We Come to the River'' and Holofernes in Siegfried Matthus's ''Judith.''
        He also sang Dr. Schoen in Berg's ''Lulu,'' the title role in Bartok's ''Bluebeard's Castle,'' Creon in Stravinsky's ''Oedipus Rex'' and many of the Strauss baritone roles, among them Jupiter in ''Die Liebe der Danae,'' Jochanaan in ''Salome,'' Orest in ''Elektra'' and Mandryka in ''Arabella.''
        Mr. Braun's repertory included about 100 roles, among them several by Mozart (Almaviva in ''Le Nozze di Figaro'' and the title role in ''Don Giovanni'') and Verdi (the title role in ''Falstaff,'' as well as Iago in ''Otello'' and Germont in ''La Traviata''). He also sang Scarpia in Puccini's ''Tosca,'' Hans Sachs in Wagner's ''Meistersinger'' and Golaud in Debussy's ''Pelleas et Melisande.'' In a 1997 production of the Debussy opera, he sang Golaud with his son Russell Braun as Pelleas.
        One of his specialties was the title role in Tchaikovsky's ''Eugene Onegin,'' the work with which he made his Metropolitan Opera debut in 1984.
        Other companies with which he appeared include La Scala, the Paris Opera, the Netherlands Opera, the Theatre de la Monnaie in Brussels, Lyric Opera of Chicago and the San Francisco Opera. He retired after a performance as Apollo in Offenbach's ''Belle Helene'' at the Salzburg Festival last summer.
        Mr. Braun is survived by his wife, Barbara; three sons, Russell and Torsten, of Toronto, and Tim, of Brussels; and a daughter, Adreana, of Toronto.
      