
        Dr. Bernard Louis Strehler, a biochemist and gerontologist who investigated and described the physical causes of aging, died on May 13 at a nursing home in Agoura, Calif. He was 76.
        The cause was a stroke, said the University of Southern California, where Dr. Strehler taught from 1967 to 1990.
        He made his mark as a biogerontologist with the publication of ''Time, Cells and Aging'' in 1962.
        Dr. Strehler began his career by studying photosynthesis and bioluminescence. As a graduate student at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory in Tennessee, he helped solve the puzzle of what makes fireflies glow.
        He needed thousands of living specimens in the laboratory, so he paid children to catch fireflies for a quarter per hundred. By extracting from them a known substance, luciferin, he traced the process by which the insects produced it.
        Dr. Strehler and a fellow researcher, William Arnold, established in 1951 that all green plants are bioluminescent as a result of the first  steps in photosynthesis. That finding prompted the University of Chicago to recruit him as an assistant professor of biochemistry.
        In 1956, he joined the National Institutes of Health, where he was in charge of cellular research at the institutes' gerontology center in Baltimore. He was appointed a professor of biology at the University of Southern California in 1967. He organized and directed the university's Andrus Gerontology Center.
        Born in Johnstown, Pa., he was a 1947 cell biology graduate of Johns Hopkins University, where he received a doctorate in the subject three years later.
        His wife, Theodora, died three years ago. His survivors include two daughters, Jan and Patricia, and a son, Bernard.
        ''My view is that aging is those things that go wrong when cells lose their ability to divide,'' Dr. Strehler said in a 1981 interview. ''If we could replace our cells as rapidly as they deteriorate, we could probably live very long, if not indefinitely.''
      