
        David Sylvester, for many years an influential critic, exhibition organizer and shaper of opinion in the international modern-art field, died on Monday in London. He was 76 and lived in London.
        The cause was colon cancer, said a spokeswoman for the Tate Gallery.
        Mr. Sylvester's career was a lifelong romance with the idea of the modern in art, music, literature and the movies. What he loved he shared unstintingly.
        Anthony David Bernard Sylvester was born in London on Sept. 21, 1924, and educated at the University College School in central London. When still very young, he endeared himself to many artists, among them Henry Moore and Francis Bacon, by the authenticity and the drive of his commitment to their work.
        By 1948 he was giving broadcast talks for the BBC. In 1951 he curated exhibitions of sculpture by Moore and drawings by Alberto Giacometti at the Tate Gallery. Afterward, the long list of exhibitions he organized in London included the work of Stanley Spencer (1954), René Magritte (1969), Robert Morris (1971), Henri Laurens (1971), Joan Miró (bronzes, 1972), Willem de Kooning (1977), ''Dada and Surrealism Reviewed'' (1977) and late Picasso (1988). In 1994-95 he was co-curator of a large exhibition of de Kooning in London and in Washington.
        In 1993 Mr. Sylvester organized an exhibition of works by Bacon, his close friend, as Britain's contribution to the Venice Biennale. For this he was awarded the Biennale's Golden Lion Award, which had never before been given to a critic. Last year he organized a major Bacon exhibition for Paris, Munich and Dublin.
        A first visit to New York in 1960 at the invitation of the State Department resulted in Mr. Sylvester's lifelong commitments to several American artists. In particular, Jasper Johns, de Kooning, Barnett Newman and Mark Rothko fired his enthusiasm. On his return to London he supported the New York School in a series of BBC radio programs that had a lasting impact.
        In later years he was a regular visitor to New York, where he was prized as a critic, a friend and a memorable conversationalist. A master of the purposeful pause, during which he sometimes seemed to have left the room, he was also able to proclaim his opinions in a long series of perfectly formed sentences.
        Much in demand as an adviser, he was on the acquisitions committee of the Musée d'Art Moderne in Paris from 1984 to 1996. In 1995 he was made a Commander in the Order of Arts and Letters in France. He was also an Honorary Academician in the Royal Academy in London.
        Mr. Sylvester was a trustee of the Tate Gallery from 1967 to 1969, and a trustee of the Henry Moore Foundation from 1996 on. In 2000 he was awarded Britain's Hawthornden Prize for art criticism.
        His marriage to Pamela Bidden ended in divorce. The couple had three daughters. He later had another daughter, Cecily Brown, with the English novelist Shena Mackay.
        Among his many publications, the collected ''Interviews with Francis Bacon'' was revised and enlarged more than once over the years. Last year he published ''Looking Back on Francis Bacon.'' Another lifelong enthusiasm culminated in his ''Looking at Giacometti'' in 1994.
        ''About Modern Art'' (1996, enlarged 1997) touched on many aspects of his trawl through the second half of the last century. As was true of the Bacon and Giacometti works, ''About Modern Art'' included elements of autobiography. They gave immediacy to a form of critical writing that often shies away from it.
        A monumental five-volume catalogue raisonné of the work of Magritte (1992-97) was a collegial effort by Mr. Sylvester and, among others, his friend Sarah Whitfield.
        In his last months he was at work on a book of interviews with American artists, including Johns, Robert Rauschenberg, de Kooning and Richard Serra.
      