
        Willie Turnesa, the youngest of the famous golfing Turnesa brothers and the last surviving brother, died Saturday at Phelps Memorial Hospital Center in Sleepy Hollow, N.Y. He was 87.
        The cause was pneumonia, said Pauline Sparling, one of his daughters.
        Three of the seven Turnesa brothers were top touring pros in the 1930's and 40's, and Willie, the only brother who did not turn pro, was widely considered the best amateur in golfing history after Bobby Jones.
        He won the United States Amateur Championship in 1938 and 1948 and the British Amateur Championship in 1947, and he was runner-up in the British in 1949. He was also a member of three winning Walker Cup teams, serving as captain of the 1951 squad.
        Just months after graduating from Holy Cross College, he won the 1938 Amateur at Oakmont Country Club in Pennsylvania, where his accurate bunker shots helped him win the nickname Willie the Wedge.
        The Turnesa brothers were called the greatest family dynasty in golf history. It was said that they were to golf what the Kennedys were to politics.
        They were born to Vitale Turnesa, an Italian immigrant who over 50 years worked his way up from day laborer to head greenskeeper at Fairview Country Club in Elmsford, N.Y. The boys were not allowed to practice on the course, so they set up a makeshift course around their house and called it Turnesa Country Club.
        Each of the boys caddied, and each put his earnings in the family fund. They began winning local caddie tournaments, and one by one they turned pro, except for Willie. Joe, Mike and Jimmy became top touring pros, and Doug, Frank and Phil were local teaching pros.
        The six older brothers all worked locally as club professionals but also won dozens of local and national tournaments. They competed against golf's great players, including Walter Hagen, Bobby Jones, Gene Sarazen and Ben Hogan.
        In 1938, RKO flew the brothers to Bermuda to make a 10-minute short newsreel film, ''The Golfing Brothers,'' with the three youngest professionals playing the three oldest for a bottle of Champagne.
        The six were regular contenders in the finals of all the United States major tournaments, and Jim Turnesa won the 1952 P.G.A. Championship. Mike Turnesa finished second to Ben Hogan in the 1948 P.G.A. Mike, head professional for 44 years at Knollwood Country Club in Westchester, died Oct. 31 at 93.
        William P. Turnesa was born Jan. 20, 1914, and lived his entire life in Elmsford until spending his final years in a home for the elderly in Briarcliff Manor, N.Y.
        He served as president of both the Metropolitan and New York State Golf Associations in the mid 1950's. At that time, he also co-founded what is now known as the Westchester Golf Association Caddie Scholarship Fund, which has awarded millions of dollars to college-bound students.
        ''It was his enduring legacy and unquestionably his proudest achievement,'' Mrs. Sparling said. ''He was prouder of the caddie fund than any of his championships.''
        Willie's older brothers forbade him to turn pro, she said, and he become a sales executive for a container company instead.
        ''It wasn't easy making a living, even as a top pro, at that time,'' Mrs. Sparling said. ''They told him, 'You can't do this,' and they pooled their money to send him to college.''
        Willie played good golf well into his 70's, often at Knollwood Country Club. He would play, then retire to the grillroom for martinis and games of gin rummy, recalled Bobby Orman, 63, the caddie master at Knollwood.
        ''I can't count the number of kids he helped with his caddie fund,'' Orman said.
        Turnesa's wife, Mary Agnes, died in 1996 after 55 years of marriage. Besides his daughter Pauline, he is survived by a son, Charles, of Belleville, N.J., his daughters Anne Lawday of Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y., and Margaret Burchnall of London, and a sister, Mildred Recchia of Yonkers.
        Vitale Turnesa was a humble man who worked five decades on a golf course and never played the game. When a neighbor once relayed news that Willie had become the United States Amateur champion, he replied: ''He should be. It's all he's ever done.''
        The boys' mother, Anna Turnesa, tried to dissuade her sons from becoming golfers. She banished all golf trophies to the basement and kept a religious shrine in the living room. She wanted Willie to become a priest.
      