
        Carroll O'Connor, an actor trained in Shakespearean drama who achieved his greatest triumph playing Archie Bunker, television's malapropian, working-class bigot from Queens, died on Thursday at a hospital in Culver City, Calif. He was 76 and lived in Malibu, Calif.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Joe Handy, a spokesman for the actor.
        In a career spanning five decades, Mr. O'Connor won five Emmys. Four were for his work in CBS's ''All in the Family,'' in which he played Archie, that patriarch from Queens who in the 1970's became emblematic of a certain kind of American bigot. Archie called his forbearing wife a dingbat, his son-in-law a pinko Polack and his daughter a weepin' nellie atheist. He said these and other outrageous things with the certitude that is usually enjoyed only by someone of modest intellect. But in the way Mr. O'Connor handled the role, Archie emerged as a complex, not-always-wrong sympathetic figure to most of the 50 million weekly viewers in America. Liberals seemed to love Archie as much as conservatives; even some critics called him lovable.
        Later in his career, he won a fifth Emmy and a Peabody Award for another television role, a crusty police chief who was Archie's opposite: a liberal, who worked in a Southern town. That role was for ''In the Heat of the Night,'' which ran from 1987 to 1994 on NBC. But Archie, the blusterer who worked on a loading dock, was by far his most memorable accomplishment. ''All in the Family'' ran from 1971 to 1979, and years after it ended people would see Mr. O'Connor on the street or in restaurants and call him Archie. He was asked repeatedly if he minded so intense an association with a character and Mr. O'Connor would reply, ''I love it.''
        Archie, his wife, Edith (Jean Stapleton); daughter, Gloria (Sally Struthers); and his son-in-law, Mike Stivic (Rob Reiner) were the main protagonists in ''All in the Family,'' which was set mostly in Archie's spartan living room. The show was the creation of Norman Lear, who adapted it from ''Till Death Do Us Part,'' a BBC series. In its American incarnation, the comedy became groundbreaking social satire.
        Mr. Lear instructed his writers to make Archie a multidimensional figure who was nevertheless, in Mr. Lear's words, ''a horse's ass.''
        The Archie character proved so durable that it continued, for a time, even after the actors playing the other family members decided that they had to leave the show or risk being typecast. Mr. O'Connor said he did not mind continuing with Archie because he considered it his finest hour. He continued the character even though Mr. Lear thought Archie had run his course and ought to be retired. Mr. O'Connor got his way and the name of a subsequent show was ''Archie Bunker's Place.'' It ran from 1979 to 1983, but never commanded the same audience or critical loyalty as had ''All in the Family.''
        Taking On Touchy Issues
        ''All in the Family'' tackled such issues as gender, race, religion, resistance to the Vietnam War, menopause, impotence and sexual conduct of all kinds, including homosexuality. Mr. O'Connor said he saw Archie as neither a hero nor an antihero but as a reactor. And he saw his role as that of a reporter of Archie's reactions. ''I do a damn good job of reporting,'' he told Playboy for an article in 1973.
        Archie reacted with fear toward his bosses and with antagonism toward women and blacks, who he thought were becoming less docile and more uppity. He was powerless to do anything about his dead-end job and his dead-end life; he thought the Democratic Party was a front for Communism; he believed that Jews, Roman Catholics, blacks, Hispanics, Italians, Asians, Poles, the Irish and most others who were not  white Anglo-Saxon Protestants could not really be trusted. (He was least convincing when he took unkind cuts at the Irish, because of his countenance.)
        He also disliked short skirts, liberals, hippies and welfare. He believed in God and in the government (unless it intruded on him or gave his tax money to the poor) and he greatly admired President Richard M. Nixon, at least until Nixon went to China to confer with what Archie regarded as nothing more than commie atheists.
        And with what he claimed was a Canarsie accent that he had lifted from a judge he once knew, Mr. O'Connor used many, but not all, of the ethnic and racial slurs that had  been taboo in broadcasting. The result was extraordinary. Sammy Davis Jr., the black entertainer, made a guest appearance. But Whitney Young Jr., head of the Urban League, said that there was nothing funny about those epithets, which he called gratuitous insults.
        A Liberal Off Stage
        Mr. O'Connor, an outspoken liberal by conviction, defended the slurs. ''What we've done and what I've done is make Archie not the head of a lynch mob but a human being who is also a bigot,'' he told Playboy.
        Sex was one of Archie's biggest issues. ''I don't mean no headache pills,'' Archie once said of the birth control pill. ''This kinda headache you take the pill for, you get in a motel.''
        Gloria, who lived in his house, was married to a liberal graduate student whom Archie frequently called Meathead. Archie hated the thought of them having sex.
        ''You can't even bear the mention of the word sex,''' his daughter once told him. And Archie retorted, ''I don't allow no four-letter words in this house.''
        Carroll O'Connor was born on Aug. 2, 1924,  in New York, the son of a lawyer and a schoolteacher. The O'Connors lived well, at first in the Bronx, later in a larger apartment in Elmhurst, Queens, and finally in a  nice single-family home in Forest Hills, Queens, then an enclave for people of means.
        His memoir, ''I Think I'm Outta Here'' (Simon & Schuster), was published in 1998. Young Carroll skipped kindergarten and entered first grade at age 5. ''Thereafter I became impossible to teach and nobody was comfortable with me,'' he wrote in his memoirs. He said he learned next to nothing and was mired in a C-minus average.
        He had a boy's avid interest in baseball and for a time wanted to be a sportswriter.  In 1941 he began college at Wake Forest in North Carolina, but left after the war began, returned to New York, worked briefly as a newspaper copy boy and volunteered for the Naval Air Corps. But the Navy rejected him because of his poor college grades. He was also told that his teeth lacked the proper occlusion for Naval cadets.
        He then entered the United States Merchant Marine Academy, which wasn't so choosey, and became a midshipman. His officers complained of his bad attitude. He dropped out and joined the National Maritime Union. During the late stages of the war, Mr. O'Connor sailed the North Atlantic, Caribbean and Mediterranean as a merchant seaman.
        He left the merchant marine in 1946, returned to his mother's house in Queens (his father had been sent to Sing-Sing after a fraud conviction) and began working for an Irish newspaper in New York that was run by his family. He thought he might make journalism a career and in 1948 returned to Wake Forest. He also took courses at Montana State University, where he met another student, Nancy Fields, whom he married in 1951. He is survived by his wife and his grandson, Sean.
        He remained aimless, without a clear idea of what he wanted to do with his life. In 1950 he went to Dublin with his brother, Hugh, and enrolled in University College, Dublin, where he studied Irish history and English literature.
        He was drawn to acting, took the stage name of George Roberts and began to appear in productions at Dublin's Gate Theater, working under direction of the Gate's founders, Michael MacLiammoir and Hilton Edwards. He also appeared in productions of Shakespeare's plays at the Edinburgh Festival and in Cork, Limerick and Galway. He earned his bachelor's degree in 1952.
        He returned to New York in 1954 and couldn't find work. ''I couldn't even get arrested,'' he said. He began teaching in the New York school system and taught for  several years, becoming resigned to a non-celebrity life. Then one day in the late 1950's his wife read in the newspaper that Burgess Meredith was about to produce a stage version of James Joyce's ''Ulysses.'' He went to an audition, talked his way into a part and won favorable notice. It led to his being offered a role in an Off Broadway production of Clifford Odets's ''Big Knife,'' in which he played an unscrupulous Hollywood boss.
        Television was then mounting serious productions, and in 1960 he got a role in ''The Sacco-Vanzetti Story'' for the Armstrong Circle Theater, in which he played the prosecutor. He became known as a reliable character actor and started getting movie roles, too. His films included ''A Fever in the Blood'' (1961), ''Lad: A Dog'' (1961), ''Lonely Are the Brave'' (1962) and ''Cleopatra'' (1963). His last project was the role of Minnie Driver's grandfather in ''Return to Me'' (2000).
        Mr. O'Connor was living in Rome when he received the offer to play Archie. He was so convinced it would fail that he insisted the producers provide him with a round-trip ticket so he could return to Italy as soon as the show crashed.
        After Archie ran his course, there were years when Mr. O'Connor wrote or acted in several productions that he hoped would demonstrate his versatility as an actor. He was not especially successful.
        His first Broadway flop was ''Brothers'' (1983), which he directed and in which he played a father with four sons. He then produced a television movie called ''Brass,'' in which he wrote the script and played the leading character, a chief of detectives for  the New York police. It didn't work, either.
        In 1984 he was in ''Home Front,'' a play about a father, mother and daughter terrorized by a son who was a Vietnam vet. It closed after 13 performances. In 1995 Mr. O'Connor's play, ''A Certain Labor Day,'' opened in San Francisco with Mr. O'Connor in a starring role. The San Francisco Chronicle called it a ''heartfelt bungle of a new play'' and nothing more than a ''transformation of O'Connor's most enduring creation, television's Archie Bunker.''
        The review embittered Mr. O'Connor and  reinforced his dislike of the press.
        Mr. O'Connor mostly avoided show business in his final years, although he did make television spots about the dangers of drug use.
        His only son, Hugh, committed suicide in 1995, and the elder Mr. O'Connor later had a slander suit filed against him by Harry Perzigian, whom Mr. O'Connor accused of providing drugs for his cocaine-addicted son and of thus being ''a partner in murder.'' The suit was thrown out by a California jury in 1997.
        As erudite and sophisticated as Mr. O'Connor was, there was nevertheless a side of him that identified with Archie Bunker. In the old ''All in the Family'' series, Archie and Edith were seen at the beginning of each show singing a wistful little song celebrating the virtues of the past.
        In his memoir, Mr. O'Connor recalled his childhood in a way that was not so different from that song's sentiment.
        ''It was easy for us to be 'nice' kids,'' he wrote. ''We were not preyed upon by dope pushers, our pop music did not issue thunderous invitations to a semisensate flight from normality. Our music used to be played by skilled orchestras; intelligible singers rendered tunes about dancing in the dark while orchids bloomed in the moonlight and nightingales sang in Berkeley Square and stars fell on Alabama -- silly sentiments, but carried along by intelligent melodic phraseology, and if the words were doggerel they were often wonderfully compelling. I know my comparison is cranky, but there it is.''
        Correction:  July 27, 2001, Friday  An obituary of the actor Carroll O'Connor on June 22 misstated the name of the British television show from which the American series ''All in the Family'' was adapted. A reader's e-mail message on June 25 pointed out that it was ''Till Death Us Do Part,'' not ''Till Death Do Us Part.'' This correction was delayed for checking because references conflicted.
      