
        James Parker, a curator at the Metropolitan Museum of Art for nearly 50 years who was perhaps best known for his creation of the  Wrightsman rooms of 18th-century French furniture, died on Wednesday  at his home in Manhattan. He was 77.
        The cause was cancer, said James Draper, a curator in the department of European sculpture and decorative arts at the Met.
        When Mr. Parker joined the Met in 1951 as an assistant in the department of European sculpture and decorative arts, he broke a long family tradition. His father, Cortlandt Parker, was a major general in the Army and his paternal grandfather, James Parker, had been a general as well. A love of art, however, ran in the family. His maternal grandfather, Morris Gray, had served as president of the Boston Museum of Fine Arts.
        Mr. Parker is survived by a brother, Cortlandt Parker of Portsmouth, R.I.
        Mr. Parker's enthusiasm for his specialty was described by Rita Reif who wrote in The New York Times in 1972 that tracking the provenance of an antique, or ''finding the evidence to clinch a case,'' was as exciting for him as solving a crime was for Sam Spade.
        Mr. Parker was born in Boston, and because of his father's career he grew up in many places, including England, Hawaii and Massachusetts. After he enrolled at Harvard in 1942 to study art history his college career was interrupted by a stint in the Army in World War II. He completed his degree in 1948.
        Francis Taylor, who was the director of the Met, encouraged Mr. Parker to build up experience by working in museums in Europe. In the next few years he was an apprentice or worked at the Louvre and the Musée des Arts Décoratifs in Paris  and the Victoria and Albert Museum in London. After Mr. Parker joined the Met, he wrote scores of articles on subjects ranging from Rococo furniture to gilt-bronze ornaments. He held several positions before being named curator in 1968 in the department of European sculpture and decorative arts, where he remained until his retirement in 1993.
        He was known for his research of French and English furniture and his supervision of the museum's period rooms, especially the suite of 12 rooms that make up the Wrightsman galleries, on which he worked with Charles and Jayne Wrightsman.
      