
        Lincoln Constance, a world-renowned botanist who helped explain the cell structure and chromosomes of some agricultural mainstays, died on June 11 at a hospital in Berkeley, Calif. He was 92.
        Dr. Constance, botany professor at the University of California at Berkeley, was a leading expert on the parsley family, or Umbelliferae, for which he devised a new classification system to account for factors like habitat and chromosome numbers.
        The parsley family embraces economically important produce like carrots, fennel and, indeed, parsley.
        Dr. Constance was also a respected administrator who weathered the campus tumult of the Free Speech Movement of the early 1960's. At various times he served as dean of Berkeley's largest college, university vice chancellor for academic affairs and acting chancellor.
        He directed the University Herbarium at Berkeley from 1963 to 1975. He was a past president of both the Botanical Society of America and its California affiliate, as well as of the California Academy of Sciences.
        Lincoln Constance was born in Eugene, Ore., and graduated from the University of Oregon in 1930. He completed his training at Berkeley under Willis Linn Jepson, who undertook the first systematic survey of California's flora, and he received his Ph.D. in botany in 1934.
        He joined the faculty three years later and became curator of seed plants and department chairman. He helped edit a new edition of Dr. Jepson's 1925 inventory of California plant life, which was published in 1993 as ''The Jepson Manual.''
        Dr. Constance served as dean of the College of Letters and Science from 1955 to 1962 and as vice chancellor from then until 1965. He retired with emeritus status in 1976 but remained active for many years after that.
        Clark Kerr, Berkeley's first chancellor in the 1950's and later president of the University of California, credited Dr. Constance with having enhanced the university's standing by attracting academics who were strong in both teaching and research.
        Dr. Constance was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. He was a foreign member of the Linnaen Society of London and the Swedish Royal Academy of Sciences.
        He is survived by a son, William C., of Berkeley. His wife, Sara Luten Constance, died in 1991.
      