
        Robinson McIlvaine, a career diplomat who was at the center of a tense international incident while he was the American ambassador to Guinea, in West Africa, died on Sunday at his home in Washington, D.C. He was 87.
        Mr. McIlvaine arrived in Guinea's capital, Conakry, in October 1966 and  presented his credentials to President Sekou Touré, whose government pursued militantly leftist policies. On Oct. 30, a Guinean official accompanied by a soldier summoned Mr. McIlvaine to the Foreign Ministry. There, another official handed him a note telling him he was being put under house arrest because 19 Guineans had been detained in Ghana.
        He was escorted back to the embassy residence and held under armed guard. With him were his wife, Alice, and two young children. The house was surrounded by soldiers.
        The Guineans held in Ghana included Foreign Minister Louis Lansana Beavogui and three other Guinean diplomats, who were on their way to a meeting of the Organization of African Unity in Ethiopia. Ghana's government said the Guineans would be freed only after Guinea released 100 Ghanaians, who Ghana contended were being held illegally. But the Conakry radio accused the United States of being ''entirely responsible'' for the arrest of the Guineans.
        Mr. McIlvaine was freed after almost 24 hours under house arrest. Soon afterward, a crowd yelling, ''Down with American imperialism!'' rushed into his house and broke windows and furniture, but did not harm his wife or the children. Other Americans at the embassy were put under what the State Department called ''office arrest.''
        Tensions eventually eased when Ghana freed the detained Guineans.
        After Mr. McIlvaine's death, his family recalled that he had managed to get Mr. Touré to apologize.
        Born in Downingtown, Pa., Mr. McIlvaine graduated from Harvard College; owned a newspaper, The Archive, in Downingtown; became active in Republican politics; and was deputy assistant secretary of state for public affairs before holding overseas diplomatic and consular posts most of the time from 1956 until his retirement from the Foreign Service in 1973. He served in Portugal, Congo and Dahomey, now Benin, before Guinea, where he remained until 1969, and finally in Kenya. He acquired the rank of career minister.
        His first marriage, to Jane W. Stevenson, ended in divorce.
        He is survived by his wife, Alice Nicolson McIlvaine, whom he married in 1961; two sons, Ian of Los Angeles and Stevenson of Washington; a daughter, Katherine McIlvaine, now in Kosovo, and three grandchildren.
      