
        Robert M. McKinney, the editor and publisher of The Santa Fe New Mexican, who fought an 11-year battle to reclaim the newspaper from the Gannett Company, died on Sunday in New York, where he maintained a residence. He was 90.
        Mr. McKinney, who bought The New Mexican in 1949 for $560,000, sold the paper to Gannett in 1976, during a decade when large numbers of family-owned newspapers were ceding control to newspaper chains.
        The terms of the sale stipulated that Mr. McKinney would maintain editorial and managerial jurisdiction, and he sued the company two years later, charging breach of contract. One violation he asserted in court was the paper's failure to follow his desire to give a strong endorsement to Bruce King in the 1978 New Mexico gubernatorial primary.
        In addition, a memorandum written by Gannett employees referred to Mr. McKinney as an ''old coot.''
        The courts ruled in favor of Mr. McKinney in 1980. After extended court procedures, he was restored as publisher in 1987.
        A victorious Mr. McKinney swept through the newsroom wearing a white suit and a wide-brimmed white hat with a silver band.
        He bought back the paper in 1989 for his remaining Gannett stock, then worth about $33 million.
        The Santa Fe New Mexican remains one of about 250 family-owned newspapers in the United States, compared with about 800 when it was sold to Gannett in 1976. With a circulation of 25,000, the newsroom staff of 60 is about double the industry standard for a paper of its size. Under Gannett, its circulation had fallen to 14,000 from 18,000.
        ''It's an editor's dream to have a publisher sit in federal court and say, 'I will bring to Santa Fe a good local newspaper,' '' said Rob Dean, The New Mexican's managing editor.
        Mr. McKinney was known for his tenacity. ''He really enjoyed a good fight,'' said his daughter, Robin McKinney Martin, who became publisher of the paper on her father's death.
        With Santa Fe's high altitude -- about 7,000 feet -- Mr. McKinney suffered a mild stroke during his trial testimony, and the judge moved the case to Albuquerque for a few days so that Mr. McKinney could finish his testimony.
        ''We wondered if he would die at any moment; as it turns out, he got 20 more productive years,'' said Victor Marshall, Mr. McKinney's lawyer in the case, who was just three years out of law school at the time.
        Robert Moody McKinney was born in Shattuck, Okla., on Aug. 28, 1910, the son of Edwin and Eva McKinney. His father was a minister at the First Christian Church. He received his start in journalism as a teenage reporter at The Amarillo Globe News in Texas.
        Mr. McKinney graduated Phi Beta Kappa from the University of Oklahoma with a degree in English literature. He became financially successful by investing in bankrupt railroad stock during the Depression.
        He served in the Navy during World War II, becoming a lieutenant j.g. In 1948, he married Louise Trigg; they divorced in 1970. He later married Marielle de Montmollin, who died in 1998.
        Mr. McKinney was appointed to government positions by five presidents, including a tenure as ambassador to Switzerland under President John F. Kennedy. He was awarded the Treasury Department's Distinguished Service Medal.
        At one time, he owned four newspapers. In addition to the Santa Fe daily, he owned another New Mexico paper, The Taos News, as well as The Las Vegas Optic and The Monte Vista Journal in Colorado.
        In addition to his daughter and her husband, Meade Martin, Mr. McKinney is survived by a stepson, Laurent de Montmollin of Florida; a stepdaughter, Edmee Firth of New York; two grandchildren and three step-grandchildren.
      