
        Mortimer J. Adler, the philosopher and educator who helped create the Great Books program of learning, died yesterday at his home in San Mateo, Calif. He was 98.
        Dr. Adler spent much of his life combating the pragmatist philosophy of John Dewey, one of his teachers at Columbia University, and championing the notion, propounded by Plato, Aristotle and St. Thomas Aquinas, that truth and values are absolute and unchanging. ''The fundamental ideas and concepts upon which education should be based are not merely the mores and beliefs which happen to be current in 20th-century America,'' he once wrote. ''They are universal truths about what constitutes a good education for all men at all times and places simply because they are men.''
        Dr. Adler believed that the ordinary citizen had what might be called a philosophical duty to think clearly and exercise free will wisely. To promote this goal, he helped devise the Great Books program, a course of study in classic Western literary and philosophical texts. He also wrote many books on the humanities and philosophy aimed at the general reader, including ''How to Read a Book,'' ''The Angels and Us,'' ''Aristotle for Everybody'' and ''Six Great Ideas.''
        Dr. Adler was born in New York City, where his father, Ignatz, was a jewelry salesman and his mother, Clarissa, was a former schoolteacher. Although a top student at DeWitt Clinton High School in the Bronx, he dropped out at 15 and became the secretary to the editor of The New York Sun. Two years later, after reading Plato, he decided to become a philosopher. He completed the four-year program at Columbia University in three years but failed to graduate because he refused to attend physical education classes and take a required swimming test.
        Degree or no degree, he was appointed an instructor in psychology in 1923 and five years later earned a Ph.D. with a dissertation on the measurement of music appreciation. While a lecturer at Columbia, he also lectured at City College and at the People's Institute, where he was an assistant director from 1927 to 1929.
        In 1930, Robert Maynard Hutchins, the new president of the University of Chicago, invited Dr. Adler to come to the university. Faced with objections from members of the philosophy department, who opposed his ideas on philosophy and education, Hutchins created a new position for Dr. Adler, associate professor of the philosophy of law. In 1942, Dr. Adler was made a full professor.
        With Hutchins, Dr. Adler revised the academic requirements at Chicago to emphasize broad training in the humanities. In 1946, the two men expanded on this idea and organized the Great Books program, which invited members of the public to gather and discuss one classic every two weeks. In conjunction with the project, they arranged for Encyclopedia Britannica to reprint 443 great books in a 54-volume set. Dr. Adler, overseeing a staff of 90, produced an index to 102 ''great ideas'' in the great books, ranging from ''God'' to ''induction.'' He called it a syntopicon, a term he coined by fusing the Greek words for ''synthesis'' and ''topics.''
        In the 1930's Dr. Adler wrote several books on psychology and philosophy, including ''Art and Prudence: A Study in Practical Philosophy'' and ''What Man Has Made of Man: A Study of the Consequences of Platonism and Positivism in Philosophy.'' But it was ''How to Read a Book: The Art of Getting a Liberal Education'' that brought his name before a large public. The book, which grew out of his teaching of the great books while a visiting lecturer at St. John's College in Annapolis, Md., became a best seller and proved to be the forerunner of such popular titles as ''How to Think About War and Peace'' (1944), ''Aristotle for Everybody: Difficult Thought Made Easy'' (1978), ''How to Think About God: A Guide for the 20th-Century Pagan'' (1980) and ''Six Great Ideas'' (1981).
        Dr. Adler's popularizing efforts often invited scorn. One critic called him ''the Charles Atlas of Western intellection,'' and the writer Nelson Algren dismissed him as ''the Lawrence Welk of the philosophy trade.'' He was dismissed as a lightweight and something of a crank by many academic philosophers, a rebuff he claimed not to mind.
        ''I thumbed my nose at them, so why should they pay any attention to me?'' he said in a 1982 newspaper interview. ''They think you're spoonfeeding if you write something free of jargon and footnotes. But you're not spoonfeeding -- you're simply avoiding putting obstacles in people's path.''
        In 1952 Dr. Adler resigned his position at the University of Chicago to found the Institute for Philosophical Research in San Francisco. The institute's purpose was to advance learning by sifting through the philosophical literature for references to the great ideas and generating works, like the two-volume ''The Idea of Freedom'' (1958, 1961), that discuss them. In 1963, Dr. Adler moved the institute to Chicago.
        In 1974, after Dr. Adler became chairman of its board of editors, the Encyclopedia Britannica underwent its first major change in 200 years. Reflecting Dr. Adler's Aristotelian and Thomist bent, it was divided into an introductory volume, called a Propaedia, that set forth a classification of knowledge, a 10-volume ready-reference dictionary, called a Micropedia, and a 19-volume Macropedia filled with longer essays on major subjects.
        In the mid-80's, at the Institute for Philosophical Research, he created the Paideia Project, which was intended to humanize and democratize the public schools by providing all students with a traditional humanist education, using the Socratic method. Dr. Adler explained the theory and practice of the project, whose name comes from the Greek for ''upbringing,'' in three books, ''The Paideia Proposal: An Educational Manifesto'' (1982), ''Paideia Problems and Possibilities'' (1983) and ''The Paideia Program: An Educational Syllabus.''
        From 1988 to 1991, Dr. Adler was university professor at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. In 1990, with Max Weismann, he founded the Center for the Study of Great Ideas, in Chicago.
        Dr. Adler was a prolific writer and editor. His dozens of books include  ''The Conditions of Philosophy'' (1965); ''The Time of Our Lives: The Ethics of Common Sense'' (1970); ''The Common Sense of Politics'' (1971); ''Ten Philosophical Mistakes'' (1985), and ''The Great Ideas: A Lexicon of Western Thought'' (1992). He wrote two volumes of memoirs, ''Philosopher at Large: An Intellectual Autobiography'' (1977) and ''A Second Look in the Rearview Mirror'' (1992).
        In 1983, Columbia waived its swimming requirement and awarded Dr. Adler a bachelor's degree. The same year, DeWitt Clinton High School gave him a diploma. He was awarded honorary doctorates by 10 colleges and universities, and in 1990 he was awarded the Charles Frankel Prize by the National Endowment of the Humanities.
        He is survived by four sons, Mark, of Chevy Chase, Md., Michael, of Grand Junction, Colo., Douglas, of Chicago, and Philip, of Chicago; six grandchildren and two great-grandchildren.
      