
        Anthony Quinn, whose six-decade acting career established the enduring image of a joyful primitive with a fierce passion for life, died yesterday at a Boston hospital. He was 86 and lived in Bristol, R.I., near Providence.
        The cause was respiratory failure, said a hospital spokeswoman.
        Although he appeared in perhaps 130 movies, Mr. Quinn was probably best known for the title role in Michael Cacoyannis's 1964 film, ''Zorba the Greek.'' Mr. Quinn's Zorba is an earthy peasant of indeterminate age and occupation whose philosophy is that ''a man needs a little madness'' or else ''he never dares cut the rope and be free.'' Zorba charms an elderly former prostitute, giving her the tenderness she craves before her death. He defends a young widow attacked by her neighbors for having an affair. And he shows an overly intellectual Englishman (Alan Bates) how to dance and to live.
        If some critics accused Mr. Quinn of playing the same character under different names for decades, even of coming to believe that he was Zorba, the life force personified, he did it convincingly. When a musical version of ''Zorba'' opened on Broadway in 1968 with Herschel Bernardi in the title role, it quickly closed. In 1982, at  age 67, Mr. Quinn revived the musical and took it on a triumphant national tour for four years, with a stop on Broadway in 1983.
        Benedict Nightingale, reviewing Mr. Quinn's performance for The New York Times, noted that he really could neither sing nor dance, but ''he has his moments, plenty of them,'' and ''that lordly, grizzled charisma is undiminished throughout.''
        In the decade before ''Zorba,'' Mr. Quinn, who had been acting in films since the 1930's, twice won the Academy Award as best supporting actor. He was given the 1952 Oscar for Elia Kazan's ''Viva Zapata!,'' in which he played the dissolute brother of the Mexican revolutionary Emiliano Zapata, played by Marlon Brando. Four years later he received the award again for his performance as an intense Paul Gauguin in Vincente Minnelli's ''Lust for Life,'' opposite Kirk Douglas's wan Vincent van Gogh. Mr. Quinn was nominated for the best-actor Oscar for ''Zorba,'' but lost that year to Rex Harrison in ''My Fair Lady.''
        Mr. Quinn achieved another memorable success in 1954 when he agreed to appear in a young Italian director's third film. The director was Federico Fellini, and the film was ''La Strada,'' in which Mr. Quinn played a sideshow strongman. Mr. Quinn received an acting award at the Venice Film Festival, and when ''La Strada'' was released in the United States, it won the Academy Award for best foreign film.
        Anthony Rudolph Oaxaca Quinn was born on April 21, 1915, in Chihuahua, Mexico. His mother, Manuela, took him across the border to El Paso, Tex., when he was an infant. His father, Francisco, who had fought with Pancho Villa's forces, joined them, and the family soon moved to California. After some years as migrant farm workers, the Quinns settled in Los Angeles, where Francisco found work as a grip, camera operator and animal handler in the movie industry. He died in a car accident when Anthony was a boy.
        Anthony Quinn tried a number of colorful careers. He has recalled working for the evangelist Aimee Semple McPherson as a musician and street preacher. He was a boxer. He studied for the priesthood. He was an aspiring architect, advised by Frank Lloyd Wright to improve his speech because of the importance of communication in that profession.
        With that goal in mind, Mr. Quinn took acting lessons. He joined a small theater troupe and was cast, at the age of 21, in Mae West's play ''Clean Beds.'' His character was based on the actor John Barrymore, and when Barrymore saw the play, he was so impressed that the two men became close friends, and Mr. Quinn was introduced to a whole new circle of actors, artists and writers.
        ''I think I'm lucky,'' Mr. Quinn once said. ''I was born with very little talent but great drive.''
        Drive won him his first movie role, a nonspeaking part in 1936 as a convict in ''Parole,'' and his first speaking part, as a Cheyenne warrior in Cecil B. DeMille's ''Plainsman'' later that year. During the 1930's and 40's, he appeared in dozens of films, usually in bit parts as an ethnic lout or outlaw. The film historian David Thomson said that Mr. Quinn was cast in parts in which he ''dutifully let every Paramount white man slug him.''
        Mr. Quinn, whose parents were Mexican-Indian and Mexican-Irish, was sometimes cast as a Mexican, but Hollywood seemed to consider his looks ideal to represent almost every ethnicity. He played a Filipino soldier (''Back to Bataan''), a Libyan guerrilla (''Lion of the Desert''), a Spanish matador (''Blood and Sand''), various American Indians,  pirates (''The Black Swan,'' among others), a Chinese warrior (''China Sky''), an Algerian peasant (''Lost Command''), a Basque guide (''The Passage''), a Colombian bandit (''High Risk'') and a long list of Italians and Italian-Americans.
        Even after his success in ''Zapata'' and ''Zorba,'' he continued to be cast in exotic or ethnic roles, only then the characters were more likely to be noble, like the Eskimo in ''The Savage Innocents'' and the Russian pope in ''The Shoes of the Fisherman.''
        Mr. Quinn was also frequently called on to play historical figures, among them Chief Crazy Horse (''They Died With Their Boots On,'' 1941), Sheik Auda abu Tayi (''Lawrence of Arabia,'' 1962), a thinly disguised Aristotle Onassis (''The Greek Tycoon,'' 1978) and Attila the Hun (''Attila,'' 1954).
        The 1950's and 60's were good to Mr. Quinn's career, even if his directing debut was less than a hit. (In 1958 he directed a remake of ''The Buccaneer,'' a film about the pirate hero Jean Lafitte; he had appeared in the original in 1938 for DeMille, who had been his father-in-law.) His salary soared and he was much in demand, but after ''Zorba'' he never found another role as powerful.
        Of the films in that period, he favored his performance in ''Requiem for a Heavyweight'' (1962) as the proud but battered prizefighter Mountain Rivera because he felt he had most successfully sublimated his personality in the character. Rivera was modeled on the fighter Primo Carnera, and the film was adapted by Rod Serling from his famous television play by the same name.
        After World War II Mr. Quinn went  to New York to try the stage, making his Broadway debut in 1947 in ''The Gentleman From Athens.'' He was then cast as Stanley Kowalski in the first touring company of ''A Streetcar Named Desire,'' which led to his following Mr. Brando in the role in New York, in a 1950 production at City Center. Later, in 1960, when he was a star, he returned to Broadway as Henry II in ''Becket,'' opposite Laurence Olivier. In the 1962-63 season he appeared with Margaret Leighton in ''Tchin-Tchin,'' a romantic fantasy.
        In New York he also appeared on early live television shows like the anthology series ''Danger'' and ''Philco TV Playhouse.'' In the early 1970's he starred in a series called ''The Man and the City,'' about a rugged, independent mayor, but it lasted only one season. In 1994 he appeared with Katharine Hepburn in the television film ''This Can't Be Love.''
        Mr. Quinn also took pride in his work as a visual artist. Exhibitions of his paintings and sculpture were held in the United States and abroad, and his work brought respectable prices.
        The actor's personal life seemed to reflect his macho screen roles. He married twice, divorced twice, and fathered 13 children by five women, appearing in gossip columns at the age of 78 when his former secretary announced that she was pregnant with his child.
        His marriages created something of a scandal on each occasion. In 1937 he married Katherine DeMille, the adopted daughter of the Hollywood director. But the marriage almost ended on the wedding night, when Mr. Quinn learned that his 26-year-old bride was not a virgin, a shock he described in ''One Man Tango,'' the 1995 autobiography he wrote with Daniel Paisner. In that book he also boasted of affairs with numerous film stars, including Carole Lombard, Rita Hayworth and Ingrid Bergman.
        Cecil B. DeMille was not fond of his son-in-law and appeared not to have aided his career. The Quinns' first child, Christopher, died in 1941, at  age 3, when he wandered onto the property of a neighbor, W. C. Fields, fell into a swimming pool and drowned. The Quinns had four other children and remained married until the 1960's.
        In 1961, on location in Italy, Mr. Quinn met Iolanda Addolari, a costumer on the film ''Barabbas.'' They began a romance, and she gave birth to two of Mr. Quinn's sons. In 1966, when she was pregnant with their third child, they married. Mr. Quinn told the press his actions were those of a responsible, honorable man, who now owed loyalty to his new family.
        In an interview with The Washington Post in the 1980's he summed up that view: ''I am of the opinion -- and I'm not afraid to say it -- that men are slightly lost today. They don't know where in the hell they are with this women's liberation. A man is responsibility. I think that's what I represent: responsibility.''
        In 1993, after having lived in Italy with his second family for most of the previous three decades, he acknowledged that his former secretary, Kathy Benvin, who was roughly half a century his junior, had given birth to his daughter, Antonia. The second Mrs. Quinn, when asked to step aside by granting a divorce, did not immediately agree, though the divorce later became final. Ms. Benvin and Mr. Quinn had a second child, a son, Ryan, in July 1996.
        Katherine DeMille Quinn died in 1995. In addition to Ms. Benvin, and their two children, Mr. Quinn is survived by seven other sons: Duncan, Francesco, Daniele, Lorenzo, Sean, Alex and one other, whom he acknowledged but whose first name he did not make public; three other daughters, Christina, Catalina and Valentina.
        To the end, he continued to be typecast as Zorba or the outlaw. In  ''A Walk in the Clouds'' (1995), Mr. Quinn played the Mexican patriarch of a family vineyard in California, a man with an excess of exuberance and a strong belief in the life-affirming power of love. He played a mobster in ''Gotti,'' a 1996 HBO film, and a Mafia chieftain in his final role in ''Avenging Angelo,'' a movie still in production, with Sylvester Stallone and Madeleine Stowe.
        Quinn Filmography
        Anthony Quinn acted in about 130 films. Here are some of them.
        Blood and Sand, 1941  The Ox-Bow Incident, 1943  Back to Bataan, 1945  Viva Zapata!, 1952  Attila, 1954  La Strada, 1954  Lust for Life, 1956  Wild Is the Wind, 1957  The Savage Innocents, 1959  The Guns of Navarone, 1961  Requiem for a Heavyweight, 1962  Lawrence of Arabia, 1962  Zorba the Greek, 1964  The Secret of Santa Vittoria, 1969  The Greek Tycoon, 1978
        Correction:  June 5, 2001, Tuesday  An obituary of the actor Anthony Quinn yesterday misstated the number of times he was married. It was three, not two. After his second marriage ended in divorce, he married his former secretary, Kathy Benvin, the mother of two of his children.
      