
        Gene Woodling, whose smooth batting swing and superb play in left field helped the Yankees win five consecutive World Series championships, died Saturday at a nursing home in Wadsworth, Ohio. He was 78.
        Woodling had been in failing health since suffering a stroke in 1997, his wife, Betty, said.
        A .300 hitter five times in a career spanning 17 seasons, Woodling was a key figure on the Yankee teams that dominated baseball in the decade after World War II.
        A left-handed batter adept at hitting line drives out of a crouch, Woodling had a .284 batting average for his career, playing for six teams, the last of them the original Mets of 1962. He led American League outfielders in fielding or tied for the lead four times, and in his six years with the Yankees he never made more than three errors in a season.
        Playing alongside Joe DiMaggio and then Mickey Mantle, Woodling was among eight players who appeared in every victorious Yankee World Series from 1949 to 1953. He compiled a .318 batting average in World Series play.
        ''I don't feel it was unfair how good the Yankees were,'' Woodling once said. ''I thought that was the way it was supposed to be. I looked forward to that extra check every fall.''
        A native of Akron, Ohio, whose father worked in a rubber factory, Woodling was signed out of high school by a Cleveland Indians scout, Bill Bradley, who had previously discovered Tommy Henrich, originally an Indians minor leaguer but later the Yankee outfield star known as Old Reliable.
        Woodling led three minor leagues in hitting before making his debut with the Indians late in the 1943 season. He spent the following two years in the Navy, had stints with the Indians again and the Pittsburgh Pirates, and then flourished with the San Francisco Seals of the Pacific Coast League in 1948. Tutored by Lefty O'Doul, the Seals' manager, who had been a two-time National League batting champion, Woodling led the league in hitting with a .385 average. More important, he impressed Casey Stengel, who was managing the Oakland Oaks. When Stengel became the Yankee manager in 1949, he got Woodling.
        In his first season with the Yankees, Woodling shared playing time with Hank Bauer, Johnny Lindell and Cliff Mapes. Although essentially the regular left fielder after that, he was occasionally platooned by Stengel.
        ''I liked Stengel, but I did a lot of fussing with him,'' Woodling recalled. ''I always said what I felt. Once I said that the Yankee uniform didn't make me a ballplayer. That was sacrilegious in those days. And I said I didn't care for the platoon system. I always felt that I could hit any pitcher.''
        Woodling crowded the plate with his stocky 5-foot-9, 195-pound frame and was a difficult batter to strike out. He hit .309 for the 1952 Yankees and .306 the following season, and he had three home runs in World Series action.
        He was an outstanding fielder despite the notorious sun in Yankee Stadium's left field.
        ''I tell you, I prayed a lot out there,'' he once said.
        But Woodling was remembered for one misadventure in left field, his dropping a fly ball hit by the Phillies' Andy Seminick with the Yankees one out away from sweeping Philadelphia in the 1950 World Series.
        After the error, which allowed two runs to score and cost Whitey Ford a shutout, Stengel embarrassed Wood ling after bringing Allie Reynolds in to pitch.
        As Jerry Coleman, the Yankee infielder, remembered it: ''Casey was livid. He wanted the shutout. Now he wanted the sweep. He called on Reynolds. As Casey returned to the dugout, he imitated Gene staggering under the ball. When he got back to the dugout, he paced up and down, pushing his hands up and pushing Woodling back. Gene never forgave him.''
        But it was a fine World Series for Woodling, who hit .429 over the four games to tie the Phillies' Granny Hamner for batting honors.
        Woodling remained with the Yankees through the 1954 season, then went to the Baltimore Orioles in a 17-player trade bringing pitchers Don Larsen and Bob Turley to New York.
        After playing with the Orioles, with the Indians for a second time, the Orioles again and then the expansion Washington Senators, Woodling was bought by the Mets in June 1962 and reunited with Stengel.
        ''Woodling used to fuss with me to play him more with the Yankees,'' Stengel said when his old left fielder joined the hapless Mets. ''Well, he can play all he wants over here.''
        Woodling hit .274 in 81 games, but was dropped at the outset of spring training in 1963, then retired. He was a coach for the Orioles when Bauer managed them in the 1960's and a scout for the Yankees and Indians.
        In addition to his wife, of Medina, Ohio, Woodling is survived by a son, Gene, of Akron; two daughters, Pamela Golden, of Medina, and Kimberly Struble, of Plano, Tex.; and two grandchildren.
        Woodling wasn't a flashy player, but he prided himself on delivering timely hits and on his professionalism.
        ''When I go to the ballpark it's all business to me, no nonsense,'' he said. ''You don't tell me to hustle. That's an insult. I never wanted to hear a ballplayer saying, 'Nice hustling.' You're supposed to do that. And I did.''
      