
        Charles S. Whitehouse, a diplomat and former Central Intelligence Agency official who was ambassador to Laos and Thailand in the 1970's, died on Monday at his home near Marshall, Va. He was 79.
        The cause of death was cancer, his family said.
        When Mr. Whitehouse arrived in Vientiane, Laos, in September 1973, the climate was improving after the signing of the Vietnam peace agreement in Paris. Mr. Whitehouse oversaw decreasing American military aid to mountain people who were fighting a proxy war against those sympathetic to the Communists in northern Laos. Eight months after Mr. Whitehouse left Vientiane to take up his new post in Bangkok in April 1975, the Communists seized power and proclaimed the Lao People's Democratic Republic.
        Mr. Whitehouse's arrival in Bangkok coincided with a crisis in United States-Thai relations caused by the Marine recapture of the Mayagüez, the American ship that Cambodian gunboats had seized near Tang Island in the Gulf of Thailand. The United States had been reducing the extensive network of air and naval bases it had established in Thailand during the war in Vietnam. But the Mayagüez capture made the remaining military presence increasingly controversial, and Mr. Whitehouse presided over the closing of the last American bases there in 1976, an action the Thais requested.
        Mr. Whitehouse was born on Nov. 5, 1921, in Paris. He graduated from Yale in 1947, after having been a Marine pilot from 1942 to 1946. In 1947 he joined the C.I.A. and worked in Congo, Turkey, Belgium and Cambodia. He moved to the State Department in 1956, where he became acting assistant secretary for East Asian affairs, and in 1972 he became  deputy to Ellsworth Bunker, the American ambassador in Saigon.
        In 1988, Mr. Whitehouse was called out of retirement by Defense Secretary Frank C. Carlucci, to become the first assistant secretary of defense for special operations and low density conflicts, with the assignment of strengthening cooperation among Army, Navy and Air Force special forces after a series of disagreements and botched operations.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Janet K. Greyson, and two sons and a daughter from a previous marriage, Sheldon, of Providence, R.I.; Charles, of New York; and Sarah Whitehouse Atkins of Washington.
      