
        Dr. Nikolai G. Basov, who shared a Nobel Prize in Physics for research that led to the development of lasers, has died, Russian news sources reported Monday. He was 78.
        The news reports did not specify when Dr. Basov died or the cause of death.
        In the 1950's, Dr. Basov and Dr. Aleksandr M. Prochorov, both physicists at the P. N. Lebedev Physical Institute in Moscow, performed research on ways to nudge electrons around atoms into higher-energy states and reported on findings that led to the development of the maser, a device that emits microwave radiation of a single wavelength. Maser is an acronym for microwave amplification by stimulated emission of radiation. Masers can also amplify weak microwave signals and have been used in space research to pick up transmissions from satellites and measure the temperature of Venus.
        When the maser techniques were adapted to the shorter wavelengths of optical light, the devices then became known as lasers.
        Dr. Basov and Dr. Prochorov, along with Dr. Charles H. Townes, who independently developed a maser about the same time, received the Nobel Prize in Physics in 1964 for their research.
        Dr. Basov also lent his voice to some political issues. In 1982, he was among 97 Nobel Prize winners from around the world who called for a freeze on the development and deployment of nuclear weapons. Two years later, he was one of four Soviet Nobel Prize winners who signed a letter to President Ronald Reagan on behalf of Leonard Peltier, an imprisoned American Indian activist. That letter appeared to be part of a Soviet publicity campaign to deflect attention from a hunger strike by Dr. Andrei D. Sakharov, the Soviet physicist and human rights advocate.
        Just last week, Dr. Basov was among the scientists who urged President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia to approve a bill that would allow Russia to import nuclear waste, discounting dangers of its storage.
        Nikolai G. Basov was born on Dec. 14, 1922, in Usman. After serving in the Soviet Army during World War II, he attended the Moscow Institute of Physical Engineers, graduating in 1950. Dr. Basov became a deputy director of Lebedev Institute in 1958 and was the institute's director from 1973 through 1989.
      