
        Tony Leswick, a wing for the Rangers, the Detroit Red Wings and the Chicago Blackhawks whose fluke goal in overtime of Game 7 gave Detroit the 1954 Stanley Cup championship, died last Sunday at a hospital in New Westminster, British Columbia. He was 78.
        The cause was believed to be cancer, his family said.
        Leswick appeared in six All-Star Games and scored 165 regular-season goals, but his specialty was shadowing star opponents, most notably the Montreal Canadiens' Maurice (the Rocket) Richard. Although he was only 5 feet 7 inches and 160 pounds, Leswick incurred 900 penalty minutes in 12 N.H.L. seasons, bringing him the nickname Mighty Mouse.
        ''Tony was one of the toughest little guys who ever played,'' said Vic Stasiuk, a Red Wings teammate.
        It was against Richard's Canadiens, on the night of April 16, 1954, that Leswick had his signature moment. Detroit and Montreal were tied, 1-1, early in overtime of Game 7. Leswick lofted a shot from the Montreal blue line toward goalie Gerry McNeil. Doug Harvey, the Canadiens' star defenseman, tried to knock the puck down with his glove, but deflected it over McNeil's shoulder. And so, at 4 minutes 29 seconds of overtime, the Red Wings were the Stanley Cup champions.
        It was the second and last time that a Game 7 of the Stanley Cup finals was decided in overtime. In 1950, an overtime goal by the Red Wings' Pete Babando earned a Cup championship against a Rangers team that Leswick played on.
        Leswick, a native of Humboldt, Saskatchewan, made his N.H.L. debut with the Rangers in 1945 and played with them for six seasons, leading them in goals (27) and points (41) in 1946-47. He played on Stanley Cup championship teams with the Red Wings in 1952, '54 and '55. His brother Pete played for the New York Americans and the Boston Bruins, and another brother, Jack, played for the Blackhawks.
        After retiring in 1958, Leswick coached minor league hockey. Leswick, who lived in the Vancouver suburb of Coquitlam, is survived by his brother Pete; two sons, Gary and Barry; two daughters, Darlene Cassidy and Beverly Seggie; two sisters, Mary Watson and Pearl Screen; and seven granddaughters.
        In remembering how Leswick beat the Canadiens to win the 1954 Stanley Cup for the Red Wings, Montreal wing Dickie Moore once remarked: ''It was a sad one for Gerry McNeil. It was a freak goal. The puck looked to be going one way. Gerry went that way. The puck hit a glove and went the other way.
        ''There is such a thing as superstars, but in overtime any player can be the hero.''
      