
        James T. Ellis, a computer scientist who was one of the creators of Usenet, an international electronic discussion network that played an integral role in the growth of the popularity of the Internet, died on Thursday at his home in Harmony, Pa. He was 45.
        The cause was non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, his wife, Carolyn Ellis, said.
        Usenet, which was started by Mr. Ellis and three other young computer scientists in 1979, is a widely distributed messaging system in which  thousands of discussion groups foster communication among millions of far-flung users. Although it has been largely supplanted by e-mail and other forms of online communication, Usenet is still in use, with tens of thousands of discussion groups.
        ''The whole Usenet phenomenon was one of the really early indicators of what was going to happen on the Web,'' said Dr. David Farber, a professor of telecommunications at the University of Pennsylvania. ''The incredibly dynamic discussion groups, the flames, the spamming, everything that's now considered a great and unique property of the Web, and everything that's considered a bad and unique property of the Web, was all there on Usenet.''
        James Tice Ellis was born in Nashville, Tenn., and grew up in Orlando, Fla., where his father was an auditor and a teacher. Mr. Ellis attended Duke University in Durham, N.C., where he received his bachelor's and master's degrees in computer science.
        Mr. Ellis became a guide on an  adventure boat at Disney World in Orlando to overcome his shyness, his wife said. After graduating, Mr. Ellis went to work for the Microelectronics Center of North Carolina in Research Triangle Park, N.C. He then spent several years at the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center and at the Computer Emergency Response Team, or CERT, at Carnegie Mellon University, which deals with computer security. At his death, he was working for Sun Microsystems Inc.  on security-related projects.
        Mr. Ellis got the idea for Usenet in 1979, while doing his graduate studies at Duke. At the time, a connection to the Internet was not only expensive but required a research contract with the federal Advanced Research Projects Agency.
        Mr. Ellis, with Tom Truscott, another graduate student, conceived of a less expensive way to link computers and allow discussions to take place. ''We were just chatting about things and it popped out as an idea,'' Mr. Truscott said on Friday. Mr. Ellis came up with the word Usenet.
        Through the years, Usenet evolved into an international forum on thousands of topics, called Usenet news groups, from the arcana of programming languages to European travel tips.
        ''Usenet did as much to get people using the electronic communication system as the Web did,'' Dr. Farber said.
        Mr. Ellis was best known for the role he played in the creation of Usenet, but colleagues said that perhaps his strongest talent as a computer scientist was in the field of computer security.
        ''I always valued his insights into secure systems design,'' said Dr. Steven M. Bellovin, a fellow in the Communications Information Systems Research Department at AT&T Labs Research in Florham Park, N.J., one of the co-creators of Usenet.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Ellis is survived by his father, Henry Ellis, his mother, Elsa Ellis, both of Orlando, and two children, Laura Ellis and Allen Ellis.
      