
        William Joseph Mouton Jr., a structural engineer and emeritus professor of architecture at Tulane University who provided the physical underpinnings for the growth of the New Orleans skyline, died June 30 at a New Orleans hospital. He was 70 and lived in Harahan, La., a suburb of New Orleans.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Mouton was an innovator known for his cost-effective yet aesthetically pleasing structures. He was known internationally for his design and construction of long-span space frame steel structures and modular prestressed concrete buildings. That part of his work was shown in the ''Engineers of the Century'' exhibit at the Georges Pompidou Center in Paris in 1997.
        But Mr. Mouton was best known locally for developing a technique for driving deep pilings through New Orleans' soft ground and anchoring them in the hard ground deep below. The method gave the city its first skyscraper much taller than the 30 floors or so to which buildings there had been limited. That was the 45-story Plaza Tower Building, built by Mr. Mouton in the early 1960's.
        Mr. Mouton undertook more than 500 building projects during his career, among them the 384-foot-wide Cajundome in his native Lafayette, La., and the American Sugar Dome in Boston, featured in a ''20th Century Engineering'' exhibit at the Museum of Modern Art in 1964.
        His other large designs included a ''spaceplane'' hangar for NASA, 18 B-2 bomber hangars for the United States Air Force and flood control projects for the Army Corps of Engineers. He held about 20 patents, including one for erosion control concepts for Louisiana's wetlands.
        Mr. Mouton received his bachelor's and master's degrees in civil engineering at Tulane. He joined the faculty in 1958, the year he received his master's degree, became a full professor in 1969 and retired in 1998. Throughout, he maintained a private practice as a consulting engineer. At his death, he was a practicing registered civil engineer and chief engineer at a coastal engineering and environmental consulting firm in New Orleans.
        He is survived by his wife of 48 years, Elizabeth Martin Mouton; two daughters, Mary E. Mouton of New Orleans and Dr. Stephanie M. Reed of Nashville; three sons, Robert W. and Martin J., of New Orleans, and David E., of Mandeville, La.; two sisters, Julie M. Reagan of Lafayette and Christine M. Benz of New Orleans; a brother, Paul J., of Pasadena, Calif.; and five grandchildren.
      