
        Hammond E. Chaffetz, a leading antitrust lawyer who won a big price-fixing case against the oil industry in the depths of the Depression and went on to build a little Chicago law office into one of the nation's largest law firms, Kirkland & Ellis, died on Friday, the firm said yesterday. He was 93 and lived in Chicago.
        Over the years, Mr. Chaffetz's cases ranged from mobsters to corporate America. Moses Annenberg, the publisher who with Lucky Luciano of the crime family known as Murder Inc. supplied bookies with instant horse race results by telegraph, was a client, as was General Motors, which made Kirkland & Ellis its lead outside counsel on the strength of Mr. Chaffetz's success with the price-fixing case.
        Mr. Chaffetz was a free-market Republican, but just a few years after graduating near the top of his class from Harvard Law School in 1930, he was pursuing antitrust cases for the administration of Franklin D. Roosevelt.
        In his most significant case, in Madison, Wis., Mr. Chaffetz won convictions of 30 executives and 16 major oil companies for violating the Sherman Antitrust Act. Later, the Supreme Court upheld the 1938 convictions in a decision that contained what is now a famous footnote.
        Robert H. Bork, the retired federal judge and antitrust expert whom Mr. Chaffetz brought into Kirkland & Ellis as a young man, said that at the time ''nobody was quite sure about whether companies could agree on limiting competition and, if you did, what the limits were, and there was a substantial body of thought then that, if you could, then you ought to judge the reasonableness of the price fixed'' to determine whether the price-fixing was intended to keep companies from failing in the weak economic conditions of the time or was meant to gouge customers.
        The footnote, No. 59 in an opinion written by Justice William O. Douglas, firmly put an end to such thoughts, stating that any agreement to fix prices was per se illegal.
        After winning the case, Mr. Chaffetz left the government and began defending corporations accused of price fixing, including major oil companies.
        Throughout his career, he clashed with judges. Lloyd N. Cutler, a prominent Washington lawyer who worked on a major antitrust case in the 1960's alongside Mr. Chaffetz, recalled him as a ''litigator who took no prisoners, including judges; if he felt they were wrong, he said so.''
        Sometimes the judges scolded Mr. Chaffetz. But his success in complex cases won him cases and clients.
        In the 1960's, when automakers were facing huge claims that they had fixed the prices of an early antismog device known as a pollution control valve, General Motors was counseled by some of its lawyers to settle for the equivalent of $1 billion in today's money, but Mr. Chaffetz said there was no need to pay a dime.
        Mr. Chaffetz took the cases to trial and won, said Donald G. Kempf Jr., the chief legal officer at Morgan Stanley Dean Witter who at the time was working under Mr. Chaffetz.
        ''Not only did G.M. never pay a nickel,'' Mr. Kempf said, ''but when the plaintiffs sought $50,000 to cover their costs in return for promising to not appeal, he persuaded G.M. to reject the offer when he told them to send a message -- litigation is not risk free.''
        Mr. Chaffetz was a major supporter of the Chicago Symphony Orchestra and often traveled with Sir Georg Solti when he was its conductor.
        He is survived by his wife, Sara; two sons, Peter, of New York, and David, of Paris; and five grandsons.
        In six decades with Kirkland & Ellis, he recruited young talent, drawing Judge Bork and others with promises that they would quickly get a chance to work directly with clients instead of toiling in the law library doing research for senior partners.
        ''One notable thing about Hammond was he gave young lawyers the chance to take on responsibility as fast as they could handle it,'' Judge Bork said.
        Mr. Chaffetz personally recruited job candidates, taking them to dinner and then long walks and selling them on why a small Chicago firm was a better opportunity than a big-league one in Manhattan, a technique that helped the firm grow to about 780 lawyers, making it one of the 30 largest in the country.
        About 20 years ago, Mr. Chaffetz withdrew from active law practice, Mr. Kempf said, but he kept an office and often advised on strategy for complex antitrust cases. His last day at the office was Thursday, the day before he died.
      