
        Patriarch Maximus V Hakim, who for more than 30 years was spiritual leader of the small Greek Catholic Church and who sought better relations with the larger Eastern Orthodox Church, died on June 29 in a hospital in Beirut. He was 93.
        Elected in 1967 as the 20th patriarch of Antioch, Alexandria and Jerusalem, the formal title of the leader of the Greek Catholics, Maximus V had 600,000 followers, mainly in Syria, Egypt and Lebanon, who accepted the authority of the pope in Rome but worshiped in Arabic according to Orthodox rites.
        Roughly 400,000 additional Greek Catholics live outside the Middle East, primarily in the United States, Canada, Argentina and Brazil. They sometimes call themselves Melkites, although that term originally referred to all those who accepted the dual nature of Jesus, both divine and human, at the Council of Chalcedon in 451.
        Originally, all Orthodox Christians in the Ottoman Empire were called Greek Orthodox by Western Christians. When a group of predominantly Western-educated Orthodox clergy, advocating reunion with Rome, broke from the main body of Eastern Orthodoxy in 1724 and accepted the authority of the pope, they called themselves Greek Catholics, or Melkites.
        As patriarch of Greek Catholics, Maximus V was an advocate of closer relations with the Orthodox Church, even to the point of straining ties with Rome, said Tarek Mitri, a Lebanese scholar who monitors the Eastern Christian churches for the World Council of Churches in Geneva and who also lectures on Eastern Christianity at Geneva University.
        In particular, his suggestion that Greek Catholics might seek to be in a double communion with both the Orthodox Church and the Roman Catholic Church proved unpopular with Rome, Mr. Mitri said.
        Maximus V retired last year at 92 because of illness, and was succeeded by Gregorius III Laham, 67. Although the Vatican requires its bishops to retire at 75, Maximus V maintained that patriarchs traditionally remained in office for as long as their strength permitted. As a patriarch, Maximus V was celibate.
        He was considered a skillful political leader of his followers, preserving good relations with the predominantly Muslim governments of the countries where his followers live. In particular, he sought to present his church's cultural and educational links with Rome and Western Europe as a strength that authorities should make use of rather than regard with suspicion.
        That effort was helped in recent years by the growing apprehension with which many Middle Eastern governments have come to view the spread of militant Islamic fundamentalism and which has encouraged them to strengthen relations with their Christian minorities.
        Born on May 8, 1908, in Tanta, in northern Egypt, Maximus V was the son of Syrian parents originally from Aleppo. After schooling in Cairo, he entered St. Anne's Seminary in Jerusalem and was ordained a priest in 1930. He was consecrated bishop of Haifa and Galilee in 1943 at the age of 35.
      