
        Rolim Adolfo Amaro, a pioneering airline executive who played an important role in the modernization of Brazil's aviation industry, died on Sunday when the helicopter he was flying crashed in a deserted stretch of countryside near the border of Brazil and Paraguay. He was 58.
        Mr. Amaro was known for building his company, TAM, from a small bush-pilot service in the interior of the state of São Paulo, Brazil's agricultural heartland, into a prominent airline connecting the nation's main cities with international destinations like Paris and Frankfurt.
        Under Mr. Amaro, TAM gained admiration in Brazil for its customer service. TAM's air-conditioned airport lounges, with live piano music and abundant food and drink for all passengers, provided a taste of sophistication for travelers in a developing country with a precarious transportation system.
        Mr. Amaro's position atop Brazil's airline industry was unlikely in a business culture where powerful corporate jobs are often reserved for the scions of powerful families. He was born in 1942 in Pereira Barreto, a town in western São Paulo where his father owned a food store.
        Lacking a high school diploma, Mr. Amaro sold a motor scooter to pay for a piloting course at the age of 18. He soon obtained work as a pilot and began to fly throughout Brazil's territory, which is larger than the 48 contiguous United States. His work often took him to remote parts of the Amazon, where immigration and agricultural development were then beginning to take root.
        In 1972, Mr. Amaro acquired a 50 percent stake in Taxi Aéreo Marília, or TAM, a small air taxi company. To make ends meet, Mr. Amaro would often accept humble jobs, like transporting mules from one ranch to another in TAM's planes. Some assignments were more adventurous. In the mid-1970's Mr. Amaro reportedly agreed to pilot a propeller-driven Lockheed Constellation across the Atlantic on a dozen trips to Africa, where he delivered supplies to revolutionary movements in exchange for cash payments. Sometimes gunfire greeted Mr. Amaro and his crew of four when they landed.
        In 1976, Mr. Amaro obtained majority ownership in TAM from his business partners. But it was not until the 1990's, when the opening of Brazil's economy to foreign investment led to an increase in domestic and international airline traffic, that TAM emerged as a contender among the country's large airlines.
        Mr. Amaro enlarged the company through the addition of international routes to Buenos Aires, Miami, Paris and Frankfurt. He also made customer service a priority, often greeting passengers personally in São Paulo's airport before they boarded TAM flights.
        A blow to TAM's business came in 1996, when one of the company's Fokker-100 jets transporting 99 people from São Paulo to Rio de Janeiro crashed shortly after takeoff, killing everyone on board. Shares in TAM plunged on the São Paulo stock exchange, and Mr. Amaro was criticized by the families of some passengers for not responding to their requests for financial settlements.
        TAM recovered, however, and last year had more than $1 billion in sales, accounting for about a third of Brazil's commercial airline market. Recently, Mr. Amaro was said to have been considering a merger with Varig, Brazil's largest airline, in addition to expansion into neighboring Argentina through the acquisition of an Argentine airline.
        Mr. Amaro was accompanied by a TAM employee, Patricía de Santos Silva, 30, who also died in the helicopter crash near his cattle ranch, about 700 miles west of São Paulo.
        He is survived by his wife, Noemy; a daughter, Maria Cláudia; two sons, Maurício and Marcos; and a granddaughter.
      