
        Otto Rosenberg, a German Gypsy who survived Nazi persecution and described it in a volume of memoirs, ''A Gypsy in Auschwitz,'' died last Thursday in Berlin, the German newspaper Berliner Zeitung has reported. He was 74.
        The cause of death was not immediately disclosed.
        While Jews were the Holocaust's main victims, Gypsies were also killed. Mr. Rosenberg, one of 11 siblings in a German Gypsy family that had settled in Berlin, was the only one in his immediate family, besides his mother, to survive the war. Most were annihilated at Auschwitz.
        Otto Rosenberg's memoirs, written in collaboration with Ulrich Enzensberger, were published in English in 1999 in Britain after appearing in German in 1998. They were praised by the British journal History Today as ''a haunting account of the author's life'' in the years of the Third Reich ''and how he was subjected to deprivation, abuse and cruelty at a tragically early age.''
        In his last years, Mr. Rosenberg was the chairman, for Berlin and the surrounding state of Brandenburg, of a national organization of German Sinti and Romanies, which are two groupings of Gypsies.
        Otto Rosenberg was born in East Prussia and grew up in Berlin. As a child, he was sent in 1936 to what became known as the Gypsy camp in Marzahn, a suburb of Berlin. Hundreds of Gypsies were taken there by the police in that year.
        As Guenter Lewy, a retired professor of political science at the University of Massachusetts, wrote recently in his book ''The Nazi Persecution of the Gypsies,'' Gypsies with caravans and even some apartment-dwelling Gypsies were moved to the Marzahn camp ''in order to reinforce Berlin's appearance as a model city and impress foreign visitors'' to the Olympic Games in Berlin in the summer of 1936.
        Later Mr. Rosenberg was among the forced laborers in the armaments industry and was interned in the Auschwitz, Buchenwald and Bergen-Belsen concentration camps and elsewhere before being freed in 1945.
        Looking back on his experiences as a prisoner, he said in 1995: ''I was very young and healthy, and always fit for work. I was probably very lucky, and protected by God. The weaker ones died in the hospital or were beaten to death with guns.''
        In postwar Germany, he played the accordion and guitar at parties and in coffeehouses.
        The first of his two marriages ended in divorce. He had seven children.
      