
        Lou Kusserow, an outstanding back who ran for two touchdowns in Columbia's monumental football upset of Army in 1947 and later became a producer for NBC Sports, died June 30 at his home in Rancho Mirage, Calif. He was 73.
        The cause of death was complications from prostate cancer, according to his son Lou, a freelance producer and director for ESPN.
        When Columbia met Army on Oct. 25, 1947, in the middle of the season at the old Baker Field in Manhattan, Army was the powerhouse of college football. The Cadets had not lost in four years, and their unbeaten streak of 32 games (30 victories and 2 scoreless ties) was the longest among major teams. No one had even scored on them in 1947 until Kusserow's 5-yard touchdown run in the second quarter.
        Army took a 20-7 lead into the fourth quarter, and a missed extra point by the Cadets seemed unimportant. But Columbia struck back on a 28-yard pass from Gene Rossides to Bill Swiacki, who made a spectacular diving catch in the end zone and, minutes later, Kusserow's battering 2-yard touchdown run. The extra point by Ventan Yablonski gave Columbia a 21-20 victory.
        In 1987, when he was 90, Col. Earl (Red) Blaik, who had coached that Army team, insisted that Swiacki had trapped rather than caught the touchdown pass. Rossides retorted that Swiacki had caught the ball, and ''our film confirmed it to us.''
        At 6 feet 1 inch and 193 pounds, Kusserow was a power runner, but fast and shifty enough to break away for long gains. In Coach Lou Little's winged-T offense, he played left halfback and later fullback. He also played full time on defense, usually at safety.
        In 1947, The Columbia Daily Spectator said, ''Kusserow is reaching a point where he has a bad day when he scores anything less than two touchdowns.'' The next year, he led all major-college scorers with 108 points.
        He set Columbia career records of 1,992 yards rushing, 45 touchdowns and 270 points and a one-game record of four interceptions. Those records stand except for career rushing, which Johnathan Reese broke last year.
        Louis Joseph Kusserow was born on Sept. 6, 1927, in Braddock, Pa., just south of Pittsburgh, and was raised in nearby Glassport. After scoring 15 touchdowns as a Columbia freshman, he won an appointment to become a West Point cadet. He changed his mind, however, when he realized that the presence of the celebrated Doc Blanchard and Glenn Davis there would mean limited playing time for him.
        Blanchard and Davis were known as the Touchdown Twins. Allison Danzig of The New York Times nicknamed Kusserow and Rossides the Goal Dust Twins. Kusserow and Rossides were chosen last year for Columbia's team of the century.
        After earning his degree, Kusserow played 11 games in 1949 for the New York Yankees of the old All-America Football Conference and 11 games in 1950 for the New York Yanks of the National Football League. After two years in the Army, he played from 1953 through 1956 for the Hamilton Tiger Cats of the Canadian Football League.
        In 1957, he joined NBC as a business manager. As he told The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette, after six months an NBC executive asked him, ''How would you like to produce a sporting event?'' He said, ''I don't know anything about production.'' The executive said, ''We'll double your salary.'' Kusserow replied, ''You've got your man.''
        His television credits included 6 World Series, 5 Super Bowls, 15 years of golf and 12 years of baseball's game of the week.
        Kusserow retired from NBC in 1972 and managed country clubs in the Palm Springs, Calif., area.
        He is survived by two sons, Lou of La Quinta, Calif., and Kurt of Malvern, Pa.; two daughters, LuAnn Fernandez and Jill Cooper, both of Tampa, Fla.; five grandchildren; and a brother, Robert, of Phoenix.
        Kusserow said he was responsible for two innovations to help television viewers: fixed timeouts during games and multicolored sand traps for golf.
        The first innovation remains. The second lasted one telecast. As his son Lou said: ''He thought you would be able to see colored sand better. We have some in a jar: red, blue and yellow sand.''
      