
        Maceo Anderson, the last surviving founding member of the Four Step Brothers, one of the world's most celebrated and enduring tap acts, died on July 4 at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 90 and lived in Los Angeles.
        The Four Step Brothers, billed as ''eight feet of rhythm,'' played top nightclubs and theaters internationally from the 1930's into the 60's. They also appeared in films and on many television variety shows. ''We went around the world four times,'' Prince Spencer, a tap dancer and teacher who joined the group in the 1940's, told Rusty E. Frank in her book, ''Tap!'' ''We danced for the queen of England. We danced for Hirohito. We danced for the queen of Cambodia.''
        Ms. Frank attributes their success to ''fast rhythm taps, acrobatic leaps, and boogie-woogie jitterbug-style tap dancing, all put across through the electrifying mode of challenge.'' The challenge style, she writes, ''came right off the street -- the clapping of the hands, the encouraging yelps, the fast-paced tempos, the ceaseless topping of tap steps.''
        Mr. Anderson began dancing as a child in black rural theaters in the South. He was about 6 when he arrived in New York, traveling from Charleston, S.C., with his mother. The basement of the building on West 122nd Street where they lived  became an informal tap meeting place filled with young dancers, including Bill Bailey and his sister Pearl.
        Mr. Anderson was also one of the many young dancers who hung out at the Hoofers Club, a famous tap gathering place under the Lafayette Theater in Harlem. He and the others would practice in the club, which was bare but for benches and an upright piano. They would also watch and study the veteran tap stars who visited and be their gofers. Mr. Anderson also sneaked into the Lafayette to see the shows, racing between the two places at times.
        The group began as a trio of unrelated dancing teenagers, formed by Mr. Anderson and two dancers whom he had seen and admired in an amateur night at the Lafayette. In the mid-1920's, the three talked their way into performing at the Cotton Club with Duke Ellington, who wrote ''The Mystery Song'' for them. The trio performed at the Cotton Club for four years. Another dancer was added in the 1930's.
        The act incorporated singing, acrobatics, comedy and vernacular dance, working into the mix the traditional tap challenge in which one dancer tries to top another's steps. An exciting escalation of complexity and speed, the challenge, born on the streets, became the act's trademark by the 1940's.
        By then, Mr. Anderson had become the exuberant clown of the act, delighting the audience by heckling his colleagues. He was adept at faking the acrobatics when he wasn't in the mood to do them, although he once got so carried away that he danced off the stage into the audience.
        The Four Step Brothers worked longer than many acts, unemployed for only a year or so after a manager blackballed them for failing to appear after he denied them a raise. They toured on the Keith-Orpheum circuit, often the first black performers to appear in theaters, and also toured on black circuits. They performed annually for 10 years at Radio City Music Hall, where they were the first black act, and they appeared at the Roxy and with Frank Sinatra at the Paramount.
        Mr. Anderson continued to perform after the act disbanded. He was honored in 1994 in the annual celebration of National Tap Dance Day in Manhattan. He continued to teach at his own school in Las Vegas and at festivals and universities throughout  the United States until 1999.
        He is survived by his wife, Mary Anderson, of Las Vegas, and by two grandsons, Robert L. Reed of St. Louis and Michael Allen of Colorado Springs.
      