
        Fred Marcellino, a freelance designer and illustrator who changed the way book covers and jackets for contemporary fiction are designed and who later became an author and illustrator of award-winning children's books, died Thursday. He was  61.
        The cause was colon cancer, said his wife, Jean.
        In the 1970's Mr. Marcellino, a classically trained painter and recipient of a 1963 Fulbright scholarship,  challenged the strict marketing conventions for packaging fiction and nonfiction blockbusters, which then required gigantic type for the author's name and a small, literal illustration of the plot or theme. Although these covers grabbed attention, they usually offered little aesthetic value.
        Mr. Marcellino introduced subtly painted and smartly lettered miniposters, creating an alluring graphic personality for best-selling novels by writers like Tom Wolfe, Anne Tyler, Milan Kundera, Judith Rossner and Margaret Atwood. He proved that an elegant jacket could be as effective a marketing tool as a garish one.
        Mr. Marcellino could ''in one image, translate the whole feeling and style of a book,'' said Nan Talese, who was the editor of Judith Rossner's ''August'' and Margaret Atwood's ''Handmaid's Tale'' for Houghton Mifflin.
        Regularly commissioned by Random House, Simon & Schuster, Knopf and Houghton Mifflin, Mr. Marcellino saw his style mimicked by other publishers.
        Born in Brooklyn on Oct. 25, 1939, Mr. Marcellino graduated from Cooper Union in 1960 with a degree in painting and studied for a year in Venice. In 1969 he began to specialize in designing record album covers, but in 1975 he switched to designing for book publishers.
        After a decade or so of producing more than 40 book jackets a year, Mr. Marcellino abruptly ended that career to become a children's book illustrator. Initially, he reinterpreted classics, but later he wrote and illustrated original tales. He designed his own books, which is uncommon.
        Mr. Marcellino received a 1990 Caldecott Honor for his illustrations for ''Puss in Boots,'' and his first original book, ''I, Crocodile,'' about a crocodile abducted by Napoleon, was one of the 1999 New York Times Best Illustrated Children's Books.
        Mr. Marcellino was a master of depicting the sky, and many of his book jacket illustrations use rich, cloud-studded skyscapes as backdrops. He typically rendered the light of early dawn and late afternoon in pastel hues and airbrushed smoothness to create surreal effects.  His manipulation of light on objects like walls, chairs and doors transformed the commonplace into charged graphic symbols.
        For book jackets, Mr. Marcellino always illustrated ideas, rather than literal scenes, from a particular book. But his children's book drawings were rich in the texture and details of the story. Of his 1992 retelling of Hans Christian Andersen's ''Steadfast Tin Soldier,'' J. D. Landis wrote in The New York Times Book Review: ''Also triumphant is the art, which illuminates the story in ways to which the simple language cannot aspire. The warm opulence of the home; the clean solidity of the houses that line the canal; the very fibers of the gorgeous rug that lies before the hearth; the wide eyes of innocence shared by the boy and his beloved tin soldier . . . every single picture in this subversively beautiful and beautifully subversive storybook has something meaningful to say.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Marcellino is survived by a son, Nico, and a sister, Marie D'Ippolito Allen.
        Correction:  July 18, 2001, Wednesday  A picture on Sunday with an obituary of Fred Marcellino, a book jacket designer and children's book author, was published in error. The picture, of a jacket for ''The Handmaid's Tale'' by Margaret Atwood, showed Mr. Marcellino's illustration but not his typography.
      