
        Auberon Waugh, an acerbic and often outrageous journalist, satirist and critic, and the eldest son of the novelist Evelyn Waugh, died on Tuesday at his home in Taunton, Somerset, England. He was 61.
        He had been suffering from a heart condition and died in his sleep, his wife, Teresa, told the BBC.
        Writing for a wide diversity of British newspapers and journals, including The Daily Telegraph, The New Statesman, Private Eye and The Literary Review, Mr. Waugh was as witty as he was iconoclastic. With characteristic enthusiasm, he could sail into hyperbole. As a columnist and critic, he was a happy practitioner of what he called ''the vituperative arts.''
        A kind of contemporary equivalent of Jonathan Swift, he became the scourge of pomposity and hypocrisy. At various times, he was a political correspondent, book critic and novelist. In seeming contradiction of his published persona, he was considered to be a charming and courteous man. It was often suggested that in that sense he was the opposite of his father, who, it was said, put the best of himself into his books.
        A devoted hedonist (as well as a workaholic), he was a heavy smoker and wine drinker. He had nine wine cellars in his home and wrote a column on the subject for Harper's & Queen magazine. Disregarding doctorly advice, Mr. Waugh, known as Bron to his friends, continued all his bad habits and never lost his sense of humor.
        So much of what he did in his life was in response to his famous father. When his father was alive, he wrote to him every week, and after he died (in 1966), his son continued to think of him as an unseen correspondent. As Auberon Waugh wrote in his autobiography, ''Will This Do?'' (published in the United States in 1998), ''It was many years before I could break the habit of viewing every event with half an eye to the bulletin I would send to my father. Even now, I find that when I hear a funny story about someone in whom he would have been interested -- the child of a friend, perhaps, or some grandee -- I mentally store it away to repeat to him. There always follows a pang of bereavement when I remember that he is no longer around to hear it.''
        His father did not return the affection, once describing his son as ''clumsy, disheveled, sly, without intellectual, aesthetic or spiritual interest.'' At the time, Auberon had just turned 7.
        Looking back on their relationship, the younger Mr. Waugh said: ''Being the son of Evelyn Waugh was a considerable advantage in life, for which I can only be grateful. By the same token, I find that I have inherited a fair number of ready-made enemies -- chiefly in the journalistic and literary worlds -- and it may be that this awareness of enemies skulking in the undergrowth has shaped the pattern of my life more than it should have done.''
        He continued that his inherited enemies ''divided into those who hated anyone called Waugh, and those who hated anyone who seemed well connected, with an unfair advantage in life.''
        The second group, he said, ''included almost the entire journalistic profession, as I later discovered.''
        He was born in Dulverton, England. After studying at a school with the Dickensian name of Downside, he went to Oxford and, failing his exams, left after one year. While serving in the British Army in Cyprus in 1958, he accidentally wounded himself with a machine gun and lost a lung, his spleen and several ribs -- and later was forced to have a finger amputated. When he was out of the hospital, he said, ''I began to be quite fond of my father, never having liked him much in childhood or early youth.''
        While recovering from his injuries, he started his first novel, ''The Foxglove Saga.'' After finishing the book, he put it away in a drawer at his family home at Combe Florey, Somerset, and forgot about it, ''feeling embarrassed and ashamed,'' and did not show it to anybody.
        ''It was only after suffering a 24-hour concussion in a car accident at Oxford that I looked at it again in its more or less illegible ballpoint holograph and decided it was excellently funny,'' he recalled. The book was published in England in 1960 and in the United States the following year. He was very much the scion of a literary family. His uncle Alec and his sister Harriet were both novelists. After ''The Foxglove Saga,'' he wrote four more novels.
        Returning to Oxford, he found himself a celebrity on two accounts -- as a son of a famous father and ''by virtue of my public immolation in Cyprus.'' He soon lost interest in the university, and after a long summer vacation decided to strike out on his own. His father suggested two careers -- as a schoolmaster or a spy. He was interviewed for the Secret Intelligence Service or M.I. 6, and was not hired. Then he turned down two positions as a teacher.
        The next step was into journalism. At first he was snobbish about the field. As a character later said in his novel ''Consider the Lilies,'' ''One could try journalism, but think of the other journalists.''
        He went to work for Queen magazine, and his first day on the job coincided with the publication of ''The Foxglove Saga.'' The book was greeted by a ''peculiarly savage review'' in The Sunday Express, which called it ''one of the most heartless, disagreeable books I have ever read.'' The reviewer happened to be Quentin Crewe, his new boss at Queen. On the other hand, Graham Greene, a family friend, said the book was superb ''in its fun and deceptive ease.''
        After Queen, he moved to The Daily Telegraph and then The Daily Mirror. His work was not auspicious, until he became political editor of The Spectator and covered the war in Biafra.
        He suddenly found a social conscience. On The Spectator and then on Private Eye, he sharpened his pen and his derisive tone -- and remained curmudgeonly in character the rest of his life.
        In 1961 he married Lady Teresa Onslow, who survives him along with their two sons, Alexander and Nathaniel, and two daughters, Sophia and Daisy.
        In 1966 Evelyn Waugh died, and to his son's irritation his father received ''grudging'' obituaries and was ''unhonored by the country to whose literature he had made such a salutary contribution.'' Five years later, he moved to his father's house at Combe Fleury.
        His career in journalism flourished with his writing in Private Eye (for 16 years he wrote Private Eye's Diary), The New Statesman, The Spectator and The Evening Standard. Quickly he became known for the ferocity of his views.
        As he explained: ''Vituperation is not a philosophy of life nor an answer to all life's ills. It is merely a tool, a device, part of life's rich pageant, and in the right hands, a happy part of life's pageant, a salutary tool.''
        He was the freest of freelancers. In one of his columns, he wrote, ''Journalists cannot afford to be too choosy about the newspapers they work for. I think I have written for nearly every newspaper in Fleet Street, drawing the line only at The Sunday Times and The Sunday People. To be fair, I must admit that the Sunday People has never asked me.''
        Many of his columns were collected in books, including ''Brideshead Benighted'' (in 1986), in which he made it clear that he was offended by everything from foxes to animal rights activists, cabinet members, the British welfare system and people opposed to smoking. The journalistic outpouring continued through his last year, with columns in The Daily Telegraph, The Sunday Telegraph and The Literary Review.
        In his autobiography, he looked back on his career: ''I have found there are only two attitudes I have been able to take toward my own work. The first is to think how shaming, how dreadful, how could I have written such drivel? The second is to think how clever, how witty, how original -- I could never write anything so good again. There is nothing in between.'' He said that attitude ''may be quite common among writers,'' including his father.
        If he had any regret, he said, it was that he wished he ''had been able to spend more time revising my five novels.''
        In contrast, he continued, ''there are certain newspaper and magazine articles -- most particularly, perhaps those in Private Eye, Spectator and New Statesman -- which I read and reread in a frenzy of self-congratulation and dread for the future.''
      