
        Elmer W. Henderson, a retired government lawyer who helped make civil rights history after enduring an insult on a 1942 train trip, died on Tuesday at a nursing home here. He was 88 and lived in Washington.
        In 1942, Mr. Henderson was a field representative for President Franklin D. Roosevelt's Committee on Fair Employment Practices, which was responsible for integrating black workers in wartime industry. On May 17 that year, he traveled south from Washington on business.
        As the Southern Railway train passed through Virginia, Mr. Henderson went to the dining car. Two tables at the end were normally reserved for blacks unless the whites-only tables were full, which they were that day. So whites were seated at the black passengers' tables, and, even though a seat was empty, Mr. Henderson was denied service.
        He complained to the Interstate Commerce Commission, which decided that he had been mistreated. The Southern Railway issued new rules, reserving two tables exclusively for blacks and separating them from other tables by a curtain.
        The new rules satisfied the I.C.C. and a federal court. They did not satisfy Mr. Henderson, who appealed with the backing of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, to which he belonged.
        The I.C.C.'s position had been defended by the Justice Department. But when the case headed for the Supreme Court it was reviewed by the solicitor general's office, which handles government business before the tribunal.
        Philip Elman, a lawyer in the office, urged Solicitor General Philip Perlman to argue that the dining car segregation was indefensible. Mr. Perlman agreed, and Mr. Elman wrote a brief attacking the separate-but-equal doctrine that prevailed under the Supreme Court's Plessy v. Ferguson ruling in 1896.
        ''Segregation of Negroes, as practiced in this country, is universally understood as imposing on them a badge of inferiority,'' Mr. Elman wrote. ''The curtain which fences Negroes off from all other diners exposes, naked and unadorned, the caste system which segregation manifests and fosters.'' He called the separate-but-equal idea ''a constitutional anachronism.''
        In 1950, the Supreme Court unanimously found that segregated dining cars violated the Interstate Commerce Act. The justices did not rule on the constitutionality of the separate-but-equal doctrine, but the dining car case was a portent.
        Mr. Elman became the principal author of the government's briefs against the separate-but-equal principle in the case of Brown v. Board of Education, in which the Supreme Court declared that segregation in public schools was unconstitutional.
        That decision, probably the most important civil rights ruling of the century, was handed down on May 17, 1954 -- exactly 12 years after Mr. Henderson's fateful train ride.
        Mr. Henderson was a Baltimore native. He graduated from Morgan State University, received a master's in political sociology from the University of Chicago and a law degree from Georgetown University. He was active in civil rights in the 1940's and 1950's and in 1955 was appointed legal counsel to the House Government Operations Committee. He retired as general counsel in 1982.
        Mr. Henderson is survived by his wife of 46 years, Ethel; a son, Lee, of Burlington, Vt.; and two daughters, Jocelyn, of Washington, and Stephanie Harrison of Baltimore.
        Mr. Henderson's widow described him as low key and said he seldom talked about his case. Their daughter Jocelyn found that out some two decades ago, when she was a student at Duke University.
        Jocelyn had a history teacher named Blyden Jackson, who had taught her mother at Fisk University and was also acquainted with Mr. Henderson. Ms. Jackson asked Jocelyn what she knew about the dining car case that her father had started. Jocelyn sat there, bewildered.
      