
        Jia Lanpo, one of China's leading archaeologists and a director of the Peking man excavation, died on July 8 at his home in Beijing. He was 92.
        As director of the fossil site at Zhoukoudian, 30 miles southwest of Beijing, Mr. Jia helped discover the first Chinese hominid fossils, dating from the Pleistocene Era, which began 1.8 million years ago. Since the 1940's, the site has also produced animal fossils, stone tools and evidence that fire was used in the Middle Pleistocene.
        Working at the site, Mr. Jia helped unearth 45 Homo erectus fossils, more than any site in the world has produced, collectively known as the Peking man fossils. Mr. Jia studied the fossils to piece together how hominids in the region evolved and supported the theory that modern Chinese could be traced from them.
        Mr. Jia was a graduate student when he was appointed interim overseer of the Zhoukoudian excavations in 1929. In 1931, he became a technical assistant for the National Geological Survey of China at the site and four years later was named director.
        Most of the remains were lost in World War II, when, in an attempt to safeguard them from the Japanese invaders, American marines tried to deliver them to a ship bound for the United States and the American Museum of Natural History. What happened to them remains a mystery.
        But casts of the fossils were made, based in part on the work of Mr. Jia, a meticulous record keeper. He managed to protect thousands of notes, letters and 2,000 photographs and negatives of the excavation at home in Beijing.
        After the Peking man work, Mr. Jia led and participated in excavations of several Pleistocene sites in China. In 1990, he directed a Chinese-American excavation in the Nihewan Basin of northern China with help from J. Desmond Clark, an archaeologist who specializes in Africa.
        Throughout his career, Mr. Jia was a prolific writer and published more than 180 papers, many focusing on the behavioral and morphological evolution of hominids in China. He wrote two well-known books, including ''Chinese Homo Erectus'' (1950) and ''Early Man in China'' (1980).
        Four children survive.
      