
        John Brook Marriott, a Briton who for many years watched over the queen's bulging private stamp collection, considered one of the world's richest, died on July 3 at Godalming, Surrey. He was 78.
        His death was reported in the British press, which cited no cause.
        He was a wartime code breaker and schoolmaster, and was the fourth keeper of the royal philatelic collection, from 1969 to 1995.
        The collection, a vast trove, is the personal property of the British monarchs, who now keep it in St. James's Palace. It was begun by Queen Victoria's second son, Alfred, Duke of Edinburgh, the first honorary president of the Royal Philatelic Society, London.
        He sold the collection to his elder brother, the Prince of Wales and future King Edward VII, in 1890. It passed on to King George V and eventually to Queen Elizabeth II.
        It was at the behest of King George, crowned in 1910, that J. A. Tilliard, the royal philatelist, began to build it into its present state. Years later, it contained hundreds of bound volumes of mounted stamps from all over the British Empire.
        Queen Elizabeth added to it as stamps were issued in every country belonging to the commonwealth, with more coming in through the purchase of private collections and from donations. It was the curator's task to manage the flood of issues arriving from freshly independent countries and to organize the annual public displays begun in 1919, as well as exhibitions throughout Britain and abroad.
        His service was rewarded with knighthood in 1995. He was president of the Royal Philatelic Society from 1983 to 1986.
        John Marriott was born in Stretford, Lancashire. He graduated in mathematics from Cambridge University in 1943. The army put him to work with the supersecret code-crunching team at Bletchley Park, a country estate north of London.
        After the war he became an assistant master of the Charterhouse school in Godalming, a post from which he retired in 1982, having also been a housemaster from 1960 to 1975.
        His survivors include his wife of 48 years, Mary Norcliffe Thompson Marriott, and two sons.
      