
        Dr. Lewis L. Coriell, a virologist who helped create the technology used to develop the polio vaccine and who founded the Coriell Institute for Medical Research, died on June 19 in Camden, N.J. He was 90.
        Dr. Coriell, of Moorestown, N.J., made innovations in human tissue culture that made it possible to grow the cells used for polio virus research. His filtered-air techniques are used to keep operating rooms and tissue-culture laboratories sterile.
        In 1949, after a residency at Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Dr. Coriell became medical director of the Camden Municipal Hospital for Contagious Diseases. Working with other scientists in the early 1950's, Dr. Coriell was able to show that gamma globulin, a protein found in the blood, could be used to produce temporary immunity to polio in children. That proved that it was possible to develop a vaccine for the virus, which was becoming a national epidemic.
        When Dr. Coriell began his work in Camden, scientists were able to grow plant cells in culture but found it difficult to do the same with human cells. He discovered how to sustain living human cells in culture and keep them from being contaminated, which enabled scientists to grow the polio virus and work on a vaccine.
        Dr. Coriell ran the field trials of the resulting Salk vaccine. He was awarded the Presidential Medal at the International Poliomyelitis Congress in 1957.
        ''Because of the work that Dr. Coriell did on creating the vaccine,'' said Dr. David Beck, president of the Coriell Institute, ''polio is almost now eliminated from the face of the earth.''
        With land donated by the city of Camden and the help of local business leaders, Dr. Coriell founded his institute in 1956. The center, with 110 employees and a budget of $12 million a year, was the first nonprofit academic medical research institute in South Jersey. It was named after Dr. Coriell when he retired in 1985.
        In 1972, the center was awarded contracts by the National Institutes of Health to establish what has become the world's largest cell depository for the study of genetic and age-related diseases. The Coriell collection houses nearly a million cell cultures -- living cells kept at extremely low temperatures. The cultures have been used to map the genes associated with inherited diseases  like cystic fibrosis and Huntington's disease. The institute provides cells to researchers all over the world and it has living cells from more than 12,000 people.
        After Dr. Coriell retired, he remained active in the institute's research projects, served on its board of trustees and was elected president of the College of Physicians of Philadelphia, the oldest medical society in America.
        Dr. Coriell was born on June 19, 1911, in Sciotoville, Ohio, and grew up in Montana. He graduated from the University of Montana and earned his Ph.D. and M.D. degrees from the University of Kansas.
        His wife, Esther Lentz, died on July 4, 1996. He is survived by a brother, Dr. Earl Coriell of Polson, Mont.; a sister, Judith Reese of Cutbank, Mont.; three sons, James, of Moorestown, N.J., and Steven and Thomas, of Arcata, Calif.; and nine grandchildren.
      