
        Jonathan C. Rice, an influential figure in the development of public television in the United States, died on Sunday at his home in San Francisco. He was 85.
        He had a long illness, said KQED, the San Francisco public television station, in announcing the death of Mr. Rice, who founded the station,  with James Day, in 1954.
        Mr. Rice was an executive or a director of KQED, or both, until he retired, in 1996.
        Bill Moyers once said of Mr. Rice that he was ''to public broadcasting and KQED what Abraham is to the Book of Genesis.''
        John W. Macy Jr., in a 1974 book,  described how, when public television stations in several cities were experimenting with local-reporting formats, ''this trend was accelerated by KQED's successful 'Newsroom,' '' which began right after the San Francisco newspaper strike of 1968.
        Mr. Day recalled yesterday: ''When the two San Francisco newspapers were struck, Jonathan created a nightly KQED local news program in which striking newspaper reporters discussed onscreen, around a table, the local events that they had covered for the program during the day.
        ''The importance of that was that in those days news reporters had never been seen interacting on the television screen. So Jonathan introduced a new television art form with the KQED program, which came to be called 'Newsroom' after the strike.'' By 1970, that category of program constituted one-quarter of all public television broadcast hours, Mr. Macy wrote.
        Mr. Day recalled the founding of KQED in a critical history of public television in the United States, ''The Vanishing Vision'' (University of California, 1995). ''My first priority was to find a program executive with the idealism of a reformer, the energy of a backfield runner and the power to turn ground round into chateaubriand,'' he wrote. ''Our search began and ended with one man, Jonathan C. Rice, a former Marine combat correspondent and news photographer, who, when we found him, was news chief of KTLA,'' a commercial television station in Los Angeles.
        KQED was one of the first public television stations to go on the air in the United States, Mr. Day said.
        Innovations by Mr. Rice that influenced the course of public television included, in the fund-raising field, the use of onscreen auctions of donated merchandise and on-screen solicitation of pledges from viewers.
        The honors he won included the major public television award, the Ralph Lowell Award, given by the Corporation for Public Broadcasting.
        Born in St. Louis in 1916, Mr. Rice received a bachelor's degree in journalism in 1938 from Stanford. He was a photographer and reporter for Acme Newspix/NEA Service in San Francisco from 1939 to 1941 and then from 1941 to 1943 in the Pacific Theater of World War II. He went on to serve in the Marines in the Pacific Theater as a war correspondent and then as an intelligence officer.
        He married Kathleen Feiblman in 1946 and she died in 1964.
        Surviving are a son, Jefferson Charles Rice of Sebastopol, Calif.; and a daughter, May Nanette Rice of Ross, Calif.
      