
        William Vincent McDermott Jr., a Boston surgeon who had taught generations of young physicians since proving his mettle as a combat surgeon in World War II, died last Thursday at his home in Dedham, Mass. He was 84.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        At his death, Dr. McDermott was the Cheever professor of surgery emeritus at the Harvard University Medical School, which has endowed another surgery chair in his name. Until 1985 he was also the chairman of surgery at New England (now Beth Israel) Deaconess Medical Center Hospital.
        Dr. McDermott had an international reputation as a specialist in liver disorders and was credited with many advances in that field and with bringing liver transplantation to Boston. He published about 230 papers in scientific journals, along with eight books of his own and chapters in 12 others.
        Associated with Harvard since his undergraduate days, Dr. McDermott took emeritus status in 1980 but remained active in his field and as an author. He wrote a memoir, ''A Surgeon in Combat'' (Wm. L. Bauhan, 1997), which recounted his experiences with a mobile medical unit in Gen. George S. Patton's Third Army.
        He tended to the wounded at Omaha Beach, the Battle of Normandy, the Battle of the Bulge, the conquest of Germany and on to the harrowing liberation of the Ebensee concentration camp in Austria. His valor under fire earned him the Bronze Star, five Battle Stars and a place in Tom Brokaw's ''The Greatest Generation'' (Random House, 1998).
        A year ago, Bauhan published his last book, ''Doctors Afield and Afar.'' It presented sketches of famous people trained in medicine but hardly known as virtuosos of the scalpel -- men like Galileo, Copernicus, Rabelais, Keats and John Locke.
        Dr. McDermott came to national attention in 1964 when he performed an emergency hernia operation on Muhammad Ali -- then Cassius Clay -- a few days before a scheduled bout with Sonny Liston. He even did it without charge since he had been summoned by the resident surgeon.
        Writing in The Boston Globe, the commentator Bud Collins quoted one ''herniaphile'' as saying that calling in Dr. McDermott ''was like bringing in Picasso to paint your wife's fingernails.''
        William McDermott was born in Salem, Mass., and graduated from Harvard in 1938 with a major in French history and literature. He received his M.D. at its medical school in 1942, the year before he was shipped to England and assigned to one of the first MASH units.
        Serving in Europe, he wrote more than 700 letters to the woman to whom he was newly wed, Blanche O'Riorden. Those dispatches from the front lines were the raw material for his war memoir.
        Upon his return, he completed his training at Massachusetts General Hospital, where he remained on the staff for 20 years and pursued his keen interest in liver disorders. He joined the Harvard faculty as an instructor in 1951 and was promoted to the Cheever professorship in 1963.
        Dr. McDermott is survived by two daughters, Gwen, of Dedham, and Jane M. Hoch of Chestnut Hill, Mass.; a son, William S., of Dedham; and six grandchildren.
        After his wife Blanche died in 1969, he remarried twice, to Mary Boit and Frances Weld Gardiner. Both died.
        Describing his MASH initiation in the Brokaw book, Dr. McDermott said: ''It was horrible, but the salvation was that you were doing something -- you weren't just sitting there and watching the horror. We were always so damn busy and so tired, but I got an enormous amount of experience. It was like running a full-time emergency room 24 hours a day.''
      