
        Jules Buck, a film producer who was a battlefield cameraman for John Huston's World War II documentaries and later helped to launch Peter O'Toole on his movie career, died July 19 in Paris, where he lived. He was 83.
        Mr. Buck, who was born in St. Louis, began his career as a still photographer, taking pictures of celebrities in Hollywood. During World War II, as a lieutenant in the Signal Corps, he worked with Huston on ''Report to the Aleutians'' and ''The Battle of San Pietro.''
        ''Report to the Aleutians'' was filmed in 1942 on the island of Adak, a base for United States bomber planes. That was followed the next year by ''The Battle of San Pietro,'' in which Huston and his crew (which included Eric Ambler as well as Mr. Buck) filmed an infantry battle in the Liri Valley in Italy.
        In the course of ''San Pietro,'' the filmmakers were often under fire. James Agee later wrote in The Nation about Huston's daring and Mr. Buck's bravery, saying that Huston often rushed through minefields and ''was spared an arm, leg or skull only by the grace of God and the horrified vigilance of Lt. Jules Buck.''
        The 30-minute documentary has come to be regarded as a classic of battlefield filmmaking.
        After the war, Mr. Buck continued his career in Hollywood, working as an assistant producer on ''The Killers'' and as associate producer on two Jules Dassin films, ''Brute Force'' and ''The Naked City.'' Then, he, Huston and Sam Spiegel formed Horizon Pictures. Their first project was Huston's ''We Were Strangers.'' Later Mr. Buck became a producer for Darryl F. Zanuck at 20th Century Fox. Among his films were ''Treasure of the Golden Condor'' and ''Love Nest'' with Marilyn Monroe.
        Although he was not blacklisted, Mr. Buck left Hollywood in 1952 in protest against political repression. While living in France, he was instrumental in bringing the films of Jacques Tati to the United States. In 1959 after seeing Mr. O'Toole onstage in ''The Long and the Short and the Tall'' at the Royal Court Theater in London, he signed him to appear in the movie ''The Day They Robbed the Bank of England.'' That movie led to Mr. O'Toole's being cast in the title role of ''Lawrence of Arabia'' for David Lean.
        Mr. Buck and Mr. O'Toole subsequently formed a production company, Keep Films. Over a period of 15 years, their movies included ''Becket,'' in which Mr. O'Toole starred opposite Richard Burton; ''Lord Jim,'' ''The Great Catherine,'' ''The Lion in Winter,'' Woody Allen's ''What's New Pussycat,'' ''Under Milk Wood'' and ''The Ruling Class,'' Peter Medak's film of Peter Barnes's play.
        In England, Mr. Buck also produced the television series, ''O.S.S.'' With his wife, Joyce, he returned to Los Angeles in 1980. After his wife died in 1996, he moved to Paris, where he lived with his daughter, Joan Juliet Buck, who was then editor of French Vogue. He remained in Paris after his daughter moved to Santa Fe, N.M.
        She survives him.
      