
        Robert O. Lowery, the city's first black fire commissioner who served at a time when arson-fueled blazes raged through the city's minority neighborhoods, died on Tuesday in Manhattan.
        He was 85 and had homes in Washington Heights and on the island of St. Vincent, his daughter Trudy Erwin said.
        Mr. Lowery, the first black to head the fire department of a major American city, was also the first commissioner appointed by Mayor John V. Lindsay after his election in 1965. ''It was a huge appointment,'' said Charles J. Hynes, who was fire commissioner in the Koch administration and is now the district attorney in Brooklyn.
        Former Mayor David N. Dinkins, the city's first black mayor, said, ''He opened doors for all of us.''
        Mr. Lowery said that Mayor Lindsay ''put it on the line'' with his appointment. ''Let's face it,'' he said in a 1965 interview with The New York Post several weeks before taking office, ''there will be people watching, both white and Negro, simply because I'm a Negro.''
        Mr. Hynes said the Fire Department had a history of ''the most vile kind of segregation.'' When Mr. Lowery joined the department as a firefighter in 1941, blacks were not allowed to use the kitchen utensils and had to sleep in separate areas.
        Despite Mr. Lowery's persistent efforts to improve race relations, he said in a 1970 interview with The New York Times that the bitter racial tensions that persisted in the newly integrated environment might have been worse than under the earlier segregation.
        ''I think maybe we should go back to the old ways,'' he said, arguing that putting out fires, his pre-eminent concern, had been easier before integration.
        Three years later, when Mr. Lowery resigned, his friend Percy Sutton, the former Manhattan Borough President, charged that he was forced out of office because ''John Lindsay never really shared any meaningful power with black people.'' Mr. Lowery immediately endorsed Comptroller Abraham D. Beame, the Democrat who succeeded Mr. Lindsay as mayor.
        In an interview yesterday, Mr. Sutton specified that the ''hostile environment'' Mr. Lowery confronted was not the fault of Mr. Lindsay, who died last December, ''but the people he worked with.''
        Mr. Sutton said the first minority or woman to serve in a major post is often ''a lonely person.'' He said, ''He just got tired of it.''
        It might have made anybody tired. During his time as commissioner, Mr. Lowery had to deal with an epidemic of false alarms, labor disputes and an increase in deadly fires,  many as a result of arson.
        An alarming problem was the attack on firefighters with bricks and other weapons, by residents who saw the presence of the mostly white firefighters as an intrusion, as they battled fires in black and Hispanic  neighborhoods. The firefighters then began to carry blackjacks, according to articles in The New York Times in 1968.
        In interviews, Mr. Lowery professed not to know about the blackjacks, but strongly criticized those who attacked his men. ''If we can't get better cooperation from the citizenry in the areas where we're having these problems,'' he warned, ''there is the possibility that fire service there and the protection will diminish.''
        Robert Oliver Lowery was born on April 20, 1916, in Buffalo, and moved to Harlem when he was 9. He started courses at the City College of New York hoping to become a lawyer, but economic hardship forced him to take a job in 1934 as an usher at the Alhambra Theater in Harlem for $10 a week. He stayed six years, becoming head usher for $17 a week.
        After he passed several civil service exams, he worked as a subway conductor for a year before the Fire Department offered him a job. ''Had the police department called first, I am sure I would have become a cop,'' he said.
        There were only 50 blacks in the department then, and he quickly became a protégé of Wesley Williams, one of the first black fire chiefs. Through Mr. Williams, he became active in the Vulcan Society, an organization of black firefighters.
        He was promoted to fire marshal in 1946, and that same year won commendation for arresting a man for 30 acts of arson and burglary. In 1960, he was cited for capturing an armed arsonist, and the next year became an acting lieutenant in the Bureau of Fire Investigation.
        In 1963, he was appointed Deputy Fire Commissioner. When Mr. Lindsay later called to interview him about fires, and he made a strong case for forceful fire prevention, but his only ambition was to be retained as deputy commissioner.
        The announcement of his appointment to commissioner, as the Republican mayor's first appointment, startled many besides Mr. Lowery, a lifelong Democrat, and went well beyond extending a hand across party lines.
        ''New York had known commissioners who were persons of color before Lowery, but their chances had been limited to departments like welfare, where the majority of those they served were persons of color, too,'' Murray Kempton wrote in Newsday in 1991. ''A black fire commissioner had been heretofore inconceivable.''
        He suddenly headed a department of 13,500 of whom 600 were blacks. He addressed the racial issue straightforwardly, striving to increase the proportion of blacks and the sensitivity of whites. He also raised the number of black firefighters assigned to black neighborhoods, as well as the number of blacks in leadership roles.
        At the same time, the city's own investigation commissioner was looking into a rumor campaign against Mr. Lowery that turned out to consist of unsubstantiated claims that he sold narcotics and answers to promotion exams to black firefighters. Mr. Lowery contended that the rumors were circulated by a small minority of firefighters of ''John Birch or Minutemen philosophy.''
        His overwhelming concern, however, was dealing with the city's epidemic of fire. ''He lived and breathed it 24 hours a day,'' said Ms. Erwin, who remembers ceaseless fire alarms sounding in the family's apartment. ''It was life and death.''
        After retirement he stayed active in civil rights causes. In 1991, he wrote a letter to Newsday strongly protesting a cartoon depicting Clarence Thomas, whose nomination to the Supreme Court he opposed, as a shoeshine boy.
        Mr. Lowery is survived by his wife, Viviane; daughters Ms. Erwin and Leslie Lowery, both of Washington Heights; a sister, Florence Washington of Baltimore; and a granddaughter.
        He once summed up his philosophy in a speech to the Vulcan Society. ''Always remember that America -- including many white firefighters --  will never let you forget that your recognizable ancestors were brought to this country in chains and that they believe you are inferior,'' he said.
        ''It is up to you to keep proving over and over again that they were wrong.''
      