
        Charles Granville Rob, a British-born surgeon who survived his baptism by fire in North Africa to operate on Sir Winston Churchill and Middle Eastern royalty and to teach generations of young physicians, died Thursday at a hospital in Berlin, Vt. He was 88 and lived in Bethesda, Md., and Montpelier, Vt.
        Dr. Rob, who pioneered techniques for the repair of damaged blood vessels, was one of Britain's foremost surgeons when the University of Rochester medical school brought him to the United States in 1960.
        He was professor of surgery and department chairman in Rochester until 1978, after which he taught at the East Carolina University medical school in Greenville, N.C., until 1983. He then transferred to the medical school at the Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences in Bethesda, where he remained a distinguished professor of surgery.
        Dr. Rob was the editor, with Rodney Smith, of the eight-volume ''Operative Surgery,'' which became a standard text for medical schools. First published in the mid-1950's, it is now in its fourth printing at Butterworth-Heinemann, a British medical publisher.
        Charles Rob was born in Weybridge, England, the son of a family doctor. He graduated from Cambridge University in 1934, received his medical degree at Cambridge in 1937 and trained as a surgeon at St. Thomas Hospital in London. While at Cambridge, he also became a pilot and received a reserve commission in the Royal Air Force.
        He rose to chief resident at St. Thomas, continuing in its surgical program even as the hospital was bombed in the London blitz. In 1941, he was assigned to a parachute brigade as surgical specialist.
        In November 1942, Dr. Rob's team was air-dropped into Tunisia, and he immediately started operating under heavy fire on scores of wounded soldiers. For his bravery, he was decorated on the battlefield with the Military Cross, Britain's second-highest military honor, and he rose to lieutenant colonel before returning to a civilian operating room.
        He practiced in London and rejoined the staff of St. Thomas. In 1950, he became professor of surgery at the University of London and St. Mary's Hospital, which was beginning a program of vascular surgery. The British Army engaged him as its consultant vascular surgeon.
        While still in Britain, he was regularly called in as a specialist to tend to Churchill, who was aging and increasingly infirm. He also treated members of the royal families of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait.
        He published more than 200 papers and received honors from universities and surgical societies in many countries. He was a past president of the International Society for Cardiovascular Surgery and vice president of the American Surgical Association.
        He is survived by his wife of 60 years, Mary Beazley Rob; two sons, Joseph M. of Montpelier and Peter J. of Nome, Alaska; two daughters, Caroline R. Zaleski of Manhattan and Sarah R. Podore of Cincinnati; and eight grandchildren.
        Dr. Rob's prescriptions, coming from a former combat surgeon, could be quite earthy. At a British Medical Association meeting on the surgical treatment of blood clots in 1957, he said that the best painkiller was a stiff drink of whiskey.
        ''We put our patients on big and rapid doses of whiskey up to the maximum tolerance in individual cases,'' Dr. Rob said. ''The best treatment for the condition is rest. The best way to rest is sleep. The best way to get sleep is to relieve pain, and the best way to relieve pain is to give whiskey.''
      