
        Fabio Taglioni, an engineer and designer who led the transformation of the Ducati motorcycle from its origins as cheap transportation for Italians after World War II to a glamorous, high-performance machine that won racing laurels and the hearts of legions of recreational riders around the world, died on July 18 in his home in Bologna. He was 80.
        Mr. Taglioni, a compact man with slicked-back dark hair, had become an icon among motorcycle riders. When he was introduced at a recent Ducati rally in Italy, there was only a smattering of applause. But in a roaring salute, the outdoor audience fired up their bikes and played back to him the edgy, throaty exhaust notes that he had created in his factory workshop. The tribute brought tears to his eyes.
        Mr. Taglioni retired in 1989, seven years before the Texas Pacific Group, an American investment company, rescued Ducati from financial distress and began promoting the bike in the United States as a daring and sophisticated fashion statement. But the high-revving engines of today's Ducatis, and their spare, graceful lines, flow largely from Mr. Taglioni's more than 30 years as the company's chief designer.
        ''Taglioni was instrumental in making Ducati what it is today,'' said Matthew Miles, the managing editor of Cycle World magazine in Newport Beach, Calif. ''You could put him on the same pedestal with Soichiro Honda, the founder of Honda Motors, and Enzo Ferrari, the carmaker. He was of that importance to Ducati.''
        In 8 of the last 10 years Ducati racers have won the Superbike World Championship with Taglioni-style engines featuring a bear-trap-like valve system that increased horsepower and reliability.
        Ducatis are a special breed of motorcycle, akin to Ferraris and Lamborghinis in the world of fine cars with their superb workmanship and styling and premium prices. While sales have been growing, only about 6,000 Ducatis were sold in the United States last year, compared with 231,000 Hondas, the world leader in motorcycle sales, said Don Brown, an industry analyst in Irvine, Calif.
        Mr. Taglioni, who began tinkering with motorcycle designs as an instructor at a technical high school after earning a degree in industrial engineering at the University of Bologna in 1948, was given free rein to follow his instincts at Ducati. He so cherished the autonomy that even though Ducati was often in financial turmoil, he turned down lucrative offers to join teams designing cars for Ferrari and Ford.
        Had Mr. Taglioni taken a job with one of the carmakers, ''we'd have been millionaires now,'' his wife, Norina, told a writer for a British motorcycle magazine in June with her husband at her side. By then, he was unable to speak, a victim of throat cancer after decades of chain-smoking cigarettes.
        ''He had to have total responsibility,'' Mrs. Taglioni said. ''He would do everything on the bikes, designing and testing every component himself. They were his bikes, and it was his glory if they won.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Taglioni is survived by a daughter, Piera Ferioli and a grandson, Luca, both of Bologna.
        Mr. Taglioni joined Ducati in 1954, eight years after the company, which had begun in electronics, ventured into the motorcycle business with a small engine called the Cucciolo, or little puppy, that clipped onto a bicycle.
        Mr. Taglioni, who by then had become a race-bike designer for another Italian company, was hired to put Ducati on the map. The best hope, Ducati executives thought, was to come up with a machine that could win the road races over city streets and country roads that were popular then in Italy. Huge crowds watched and the winners were splashed across front pages.
        Within a year, Mr. Taglioni had fashioned a tiny but swift 98-cubic-centimeter overhead cam engine that powered a bike he called the Marianna. It took the first six places in its first road race and went on to set speed records at then unheard of speeds for such a small bike -- close to 100 miles per hour. A year later, in 1956, a slightly bigger Taglioni bike captured Ducati's first Grand Prix in a race in Sweden. Scores of victories followed.
        Away from his factory workshop, Mr. Taglioni cultivated prize-winning orchids.
        Lightweight Ducatis were introduced into the United States in the late 1950's and performed well in amateur races. But they did not begin to develop a real following in the United States until recently, as they racked up superbike championships and the American investors, who have since taken the company public, began displaying them in advertisements along with chic young men and women in designer leather outfits.
      