
        Kenneth Schuyler Lynn, a historian of American thought noted for his analytical studies of Mark Twain, Charlie Chaplin and Ernest Hemingway, died on June 24 at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in New York. He was 78 and lived in Washington.
        The cause was complications from leukemia, his family said.
        Dr. Lynn taught at the Johns Hopkins University from 1969 until his retirement as Arthur O. Lovejoy  Professor of History emeritus in 1989. He was previously a professor of English and chairman of an American civilization program at Harvard.
        Working as a biographer, essayist, literary critic and editor, he blended his interests in history and American letters. His searching studies of Hemingway and Chaplin, among others, were widely reviewed and generally acclaimed.
        ''Hemingway'' (Simon & Schuster, 1987) delved into that author's boyhood and the influence of his mother, Grace, who insisted on treating him and his older sister as twins of the same sex. The resulting confusion in sexual identity lingered for the rest of Hemingway's life, Dr. Lynn argued.
        His theory was considered a stretch by some reviewers. But most thought that he had put his subject's work and life into better perspective.
        Examining Hemingway's fascination with androgyny and sex roles, ''Lynn traces this theme through the oeuvre without appearing a Freudian busybody,'' Harold Beaver wrote in The Times Literary Supplement.
        Writing in The New York Times Book Review, Diane Johnson said that while ''the author gives a rather extreme interpretation of Hemingway's start in life, the concreteness of this biography lends a certain convincing reality others have lacked.''
        In ''Charlie Chaplin and His Times'' (Simon & Schuster, 1997), Dr. Lynn shed light on that film star's comic genius as well as his egotism, supplying some important additions to the literature about him.
        Reviewing the book in The New Republic, Anne Hollander stated that in reflecting on the man and his epoch, ''Lynn is most interested in the dark side, in the demons that gave Chaplin his well-known divided nature, his personal behavior both adorable and horrible, his movies both tacky and sublime.''
        ''Mark Twain and Southwestern Humor'' (1959) traced Twain's indebtedness to the humorists of the antebellum South and his adaptations of their literary techniques. A final chapter dealt with Twain's unpublished papers, which Dr. Lynn described as ''the broken ruins and unfinished monuments of a great talent.''
        A native of Cleveland, Dr. Lynn graduated from Harvard in 1947. He received his Ph.D. in American civilization there in 1954, when he also joined the faculty as an instructor.
        He is survived by his wife of 53 years, Valerie Roemer Lynn; a son, Andrew S. of Manhattan; two daughters, Betsy Lynn of Manhattan and Sophia Lynn of Washington; a sister, Marcey L. Krum of Hudson, Ohio; and three grandchildren.
      