
        Francisco da Costa Gomes, a high-ranking Portuguese military officer whose opposition to his country's fight against liberation movements in its African colonies eventually led to his appointment as president, died yesterday at the military hospital in Lisbon. He was 87.
        General Costa Gomes came to power after the Carnation Revolution of 1974, named because of the flowers placed in the rifle barrels of the soldiers who led the bloodless coup that toppled the 41-year right-wing dictatorship.
        General Costa Gomes, then chief of the defense staff, succeeded Gen. António de Spínola as president in September 1974, five months after General Spínola had led the coup that overthrew Premier Marcelo Caetano's authoritarian government and then unexpectedly resigned.
        Under General Costa Gomes, Portugal ended its colonial involvement in Africa that began in 1415, granting independence to Angola, Mozambique, the Cape Verde Islands and São Tomé and Príncipe. Guinea-Bissau, then Portuguese Guinea, had gained independence under General Spínola.
        Although General Spínola preferred gradual disentanglement from Africa, General Costa Gomes favored a rapid exit. Internationalized civil war followed the departure from Angola, and Indonesia annexed East Timor, a colony that had been briefly independent.
        General Costa Gomes, nicknamed the Cork for his ability to stay afloat in crises, dealt with considerable political and social instability. In 1975, nearly a million people fled to Portugal from the former African colonies, and the government nationalized much of the economy, including banking, transportation and the media.
        In parts of southern Portugal, peasants expropriated large farms and started communal farms, while strikes in cities became widespread. An uprising by pro-Communist officers in the army was crushed in November 1975.
        ''Costa Gomes thought decolonization was inevitable, and he wanted to keep wide-scale domestic violence from breaking out,'' said Kenneth Maxwell, an expert on Portuguese-speaking countries at the Council on Foreign Relations. ''He achieved both of these objectives, making him the most enigmatic leader of the whole period.''
        Almost always appearing in public behind dark-tinted glasses, General Costa Gomes, shy and soft spoken, was sometimes criticized for lacking charisma. He was president until 1976, when parliamentary elections allowed the Socialist leader, Mário Soares, to form a minority government. Gen. António Ramalho Eanes, who endorsed General Costa Gomes's drift from the left to the center, was elected president in June 1976.
        General Costa Gomes was born in Chaves in an impoverished northern region, Trás-os-Montes, which means Behind the Mountains. After graduation from military preparatory school, he attended the Escola de Guerra, the national military academy. He also studied at the Universities of Coimbra and Oporto, receiving a mathematics degree at Oporto in 1944.
        General Costa Gomes quickly rose through the ranks and received postings abroad. In Macao, the old colony on the southern coast of China, he was chief of the military command from 1949 to 1951, and from 1954 to 1956 he was on the NATO headquarters staff in Norfolk, England.
        Promotions that brought steady advancement came while António de Oliveira Salazar, the fascist dictator, sought to strengthen his grip on the country and its colonies. About the same time that pro-independence groups in Angola initiated guerrilla warfare in 1961, inspiring similar movements in the other African colonies, General Costa Gomes was implicated in an unsuccessful plot to overthrow Salazar.
        In April 1961, General Costa Gomes was dismissed as undersecretary of state for the army, a post that he had held since 1959. But he mended his relations with Salazar and became a brigadier general in 1964. By then, the African colonies' wars for independence had intensified, and General Costa Gomes followed his ambitions to Africa.
        He fought liberation movements in Mozambique from 1965 to 1969, first as second in command and then as commander, and took command of forces in Angola in 1970. In September 1972, General Costa Gomes became head of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, a position that he held until his rupture with the authoritarian government in early 1974.
        After General Costa Gomes handed over the presidency in 1976 to General Eanes, he largely withdrew from public life. In 1981, he was promoted to marshal, Portugal's highest military rank.
        Surviving are his wife, Maria Estela Furtado de Antas Varejão, and a son.
      