
        Gregory Corso, a poet and leading member of the Beat literary movement that shook American social and political life in the late 1950's and 60's, died on Wednesday in Robbinsdale, Minn., where he lived with his daughter Sheri Langerman. He was 70.
        The cause was prostate cancer, Ms. Langerman said.
        To the literary world, Mr. Corso was considered less political than Allen Ginsberg, less charismatic than Jack Kerouac, but more shocking, at times, than either of them. In his book, ''The Beat Generation'' (Scribner, 1971), Bruce Cook calls Mr. Corso ''the most avid nose-thumber of them all,'' a man regarded as a nemesis by those who detested his ''hip, easy, wiseguy manner and direct artless diction.''
        A put-on specialist at poetry readings, Mr. Corso would delight his fans and inflame his critics by muttering into a microphone disconnected thoughts like ''fried shoes,'' ''all life is a Rotary Club'' and ''I write for the eye of God.''
        But he could also be a serious social critic, re-examining an institution like marriage, said Ann Douglas, a professor of American studies at Columbia University. The lines of his poem ''Marriage,'' for example, are  wry and optimistic. The poet begins by asking playfully, ''Should I get married? Should I be good?'' and concludes constructively: ''Ah, yet well I know that were a woman possible as I am possible then marriage would be possible.''
        Mr. Corso's early work helped pave the way for the feminists of a later generation, Professor Douglas said. ''Women looked at Corso and the other Beats,'' she said, ''and asked, 'If these men can free themselves from constricted gender roles -- getting married, working for a corporation and so on -- why can't we?' ''
        Mr. Corso's finest poem, most critics agree, is ''Elegiac Feelings American,'' which is an elegy for his friend Kerouac and for dead notions of America and a new hope:
        O and yet when it's asked of you 'What happened to him?'
        I say, ''What happened to America has happened
        to him -- the two were inseparable'' Like the wind
        to the sky is the voice to the word. . . .
        Like other Beat poets, Mr. Corso's work was less elegantly stylized than that of his predecessors, and closer to ordinary feelings. It was personal and candid in the expression of intimate feelings -- sexual desire, despair and things that would not have surfaced in an earlier time.
        While Ginsberg and Kerouac came from upper-middle-class backgrounds and got to know each other through Columbia University, Mr. Corso's upbringing was troubled.
        Gregory Nunzio Corso was born on March 26, 1930, in New York, the son of teenage parents who parted when he was a year old. He bounced in and out of foster homes and jails and  never made it to high school. At 12 he was caught selling stolen merchandise and sent to prison for several months while awaiting trial.
        His fellow inmates were ''terribly abusive,'' he wrote years later in an autobiographical sketch. When acquitted, he spent three months under observation in Bellevue Hospital.
        When Mr. Corso was 16 he returned to jail to serve a three-year sentence for theft. It was then that he read the classics -- Dostoevsky, Stendhal, Shelley and Christopher Marlowe among others -- but also became, as he expressed it, ''educated in the ways of men at their worst and at their best.''
        He once told an interviewer for Contemporary Authors: ''Sometimes hell is a good place -- if it proves to one that because it exists, so must its opposite, heaven, exist. And what was heaven? Poetry.''
        Mr. Corso was released from prison in 1950. Soon after, at a bar in  Greenwich Village, he encountered  Ginsberg. Mr. Corso was then writing fairly conventional verse, and it was Ginsberg who introduced him to long Whitmanesque lines and surreal word combinations.
        At this time in his life, Mr. Corso was traveling the country, working as a laborer, as a reporter for The Los Angeles Examiner and as a merchant seaman.
        In 1954 he settled briefly in Cambridge, Mass., where he virtually took up residence at the Harvard University library, poring over the great works of poetry. His first published poems appeared in the Harvard Advocate, and his play, ''In This Hung-Up Age,'' a macabre drama about how a group of tourists are trampled to death by a herd of buffalo, was performed the next year by Harvard students.
        His later poetry exhibited an eclectic vocabulary. Referring to his study of the dictionary, Mr. Corso  told the critic Michael Andre that he ''got that whole book in me, all the obsolete and archaic words. And through that I knew that I was in love with language and vocabulary, because the words and the way they looked to me, the way they sounded, and what they meant, how they were defined and all that, I tried to revive them, and I did.''
        Mr. Corso moved to San Francisco in 1956, too late to attend Ginsberg's famous reading of ''Howl'' but in time to be recognized as a major Beat poets. In an introduction to Mr. Corso's early collection ''Gasoline'' (City Lights, 1958), Ginsberg called him ''a great word-swinger, first naked sign of a poet, a scientific master of mad mouthfuls of language.''
        Later, with Ginsberg, the two poets wrote a manifesto, ''The Literary Revolution in America,'' in which they announced their convention-bashing ''discontent, their demands, their hope, their final wondrous unimaginable dream.''
        While Mr. Corso was never as politically involved as some of the other Beats, in 1965 he was dismissed from a teaching position at the State University of New York at Buffalo because he refused to sign an affidavit certifying that he was not a member of the Communist Party.
        In recent years, Mr. Corso continued to write, teach and lecture. He published 13 books of poetry, two books of plays and several collaborations.
        Mr. Corso's first marriage, to Sally November, ended in divorce.
        In addition to Ms. Langerman of Minneapolis, he is survived by his second wife, Belle Carpenter of Santa Fe, N.M.; two other daughters,  Miranda Schubert of Manhattan and  Cybelle Carpenter of Minneapolis; two sons, Max Corso of Guam and Nile Corso of Hamden, Conn.; his mother, Margaret Davita of Trenton; a brother, Joe Corso of Long Island; seven grandchildren; and a great-grandchild.
        Mr. Corso often played the wayward child among his friends. The novelist Herbert Gold recalled sitting with him and other Beat writers in a Paris cafe when Mr. Corso impulsively snatched the check, exclaiming, ''I never paid a check before!'' Ginsberg, Mr. Gold said, ''took the check from him and gave it to me with a reproachful glance at Gregory. It was assumed that Gregory would never be able to pay a check.''
      