
        Prof. Derek Freeman, who challenged Margaret Mead's famous account of adolescent sexuality in Samoa, provoking a fierce anthropological controversy, died July 6 in Canberra, Australia. He was 84.
        Dr. Freeman, emeritus professor of anthropology at the Australian National University and former director of its Research School of Pacific Studies, died of congestive heart failure, family members said.
        In 1983, Dr. Freeman charged that Dr. Mead's influential 1928 account, ''Coming of Age in Samoa,'' was mistaken and misleading in its depiction of uncomplicated sexual freedom there and that it had been shaped to support academic theory rather than to report the realities of Pacific island society.
        His challenge was initially greeted with disbelief or anger, but gradually won wide -- although not complete -- acceptance.
        Professor Freeman's further research (''The Fateful Hoaxing of Margaret Mead,'' Westview Press, Boulder, Colo., 1999) completed his own case.
        His work was considered to have helped modernize anthropology, moving it from a ''nature versus nurture'' debate to include a broader look at the factors shaping humanity.
        Dr. Freeman was at first an admirer of Dr. Mead's work, then a skeptic, and eventually a blunt critic.
        After 40 years of research among Asian and Pacific peoples, including six years in Samoa, he presented his carefully documented conclusion that Dr. Mead had been hoaxed by young Samoan women giving false and mischievous answers to her questions about their sexual mores.
        He said Dr. Mead's research and reporting had been hampered by poor preparation, inadequate command of Samoan, a decision to live mostly among white officials rather than among the islanders, an effort to fit two competing research projects into a few months and pressure from her sponsor.
        The two met only once, in 1964, during Dr. Mead's brief visit to Australia. Dr. Freeman warned her then, his books record, that he was scrutinizing her research.
        His bombshell came in 1983, five years after Dr. Mead died, with ''The Making and Unmaking of an Anthropological Myth'' (Harvard University Press, and the Australian National University Press). He contended in his 300-page refutation and 60 pages of source notes that Dr. Mead's best seller, long accepted by many as a definitive picture of the culture and behavior of Polynesian youth, was wrong in its visions of enchanted evenings in the South Pacific. She wrote it at age 24 in 1925 and 1926 after a five-month visit there.
        His book drew strong challenges, particularly in the United States. Dr. Mead's Samoan study was central to the theories of the school of American cultural anthropologists, led by  Prof. Franz Boas of Columbia University, who had been Dr. Mead's supervisor.
        Her American defenders convened a national conference of 1,000 scholars and students at Boulder on Oct. 15, 1983, on ''Margaret Mead: Legend and Controversy''.
        Their criticism was made formal at the 82nd annual meeting of the American Anthropological Association the next month in Chicago, where a special session, to which Dr. Freeman was not invited, was held to discuss his book. A motion was passed denouncing it as ''poorly written, unscientific, irresponsible and misleading.''
        He responded that ''to seek to dispose of a major scientific issue by a show of hands is a striking demonstration of the way in which belief can come to dominate the thinking of scholars.''
        As the furor died down in the years that followed, many anthropologists have agreed to disagree over the findings of one of the science's founding mothers, acknowledging both Dr. Mead's pioneering research and the fact that she may have been mistaken on details.
        Dr. Freeman, who was born in New Zealand, wrote that it was Dr. Mead's work on Samoa that had inspired him to take up the subject.
        During his first stay there, from 1940 to 1943, when he taught school and studied village life, Dr. Freeman, fluent in the Samoan language, began to doubt Dr. Mead's observations and conclusions. He suspected that she had shaped her reports to Professor Boas to support his conviction that cultural conditioning alone determined human behavior.
        Dr. Freeman did two years of graduate study on Samoa at London University, working with missionary archives. He then spent three years among the Iban of Borneo, a people noted for their communal life and head-hunting traditions. This research led to two years at Cambridge University, where he received his doctorate in 1953.
        In 1954 he became a senior lecturer in anthropology at the Australian National University.
        He is survived by his wife of 53 years, Monica; their daughters Jennifer, of Berkeley, Calif., and Hilary; and three grandchildren.
        Mr. Freeman tried to publish his investigations in Dr. Mead's lifetime, but his first manuscript was rejected by American editors in 1971. In 1978, he sent a revised manuscript to Dr. Mead, but she died that year before she could read it.
      