
        Jack Maple, who helped script the Giuliani administration's crime control strategy, died of colon cancer on Saturday at his Manhattan apartment. He was 48.
        In his homburg, two-tone spectator shoes and bow tie, Mr. Maple made a colorful and exuberant figure, a throwback to the more flamboyant police officers of earlier times, as he roamed the city's better known night spots, sipping the occasional Champagne on ice and telling stories of his zestful life.
        The stories are too good to have been made up -- like the one that he conceived the core of the Giuliani administration's anticrime strategy on a napkin at Elaine's.
        His official rank was only lieutenant in the city's transit police when Police Commissioner William J. Bratton appointed him a deputy commissioner in 1994. Thomas A. Repetto, president of the Citizens Crime Commission, said it was like making a Coast Guard lieutenant a three-star admiral in the Navy.
        It paid off. ''Jack was one of the truly great innovators in law enforcement who helped to make New York City the safest large city in America,'' said Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who recently visited him.
        Mr. Maple was architect of the department's Compstat program, through which crime statistics are examined weekly at rigorous meetings of top officials and precinct commanders. Mr. Maple, a student of military history, compared the system to Britain's use of radar against Nazi bombers.
        Mr. Maple interrogated his subordinates with style. Once, when an inspector was struggling through an explanation, he projected a Pinocchio image on a screen behind the inspector, using a light beam to make the figure's nose grow.
        But the system allowed the police to act against crime, rather than just react. Though Compstat may sound like common sense, Mr. Bratton said that it marked a radical departure. ''The best-kept secret in the United States is how ineffective police have been in fighting crime,'' he said. One reason Compstat worked was that it allowed top officials to question lower-level commanders directly. ''Jack Maple cleaned out the whole middle level of bureaucracy,'' said Richard Emery, a civil rights lawyer.
        Compstat won an award from the Ford Foundation as an innovation in American government, and has been adopted in scores of other cities -- including New Orleans, Newark and Baltimore -- some of which Mr. Maple advised as a consultant after he left the department in 1996. Mr. Bratton calls Mr. Maple the smartest man on crime matters he ever met.
        The main character in ''The District,'' a television police drama, was modeled on him.
        John Edward Maple was born Sept. 23, 1952, and grew up in the Richmond Hill section of Queens. His father was a postal worker and his mother a nurse's aide. After dropping out of high school, he picked up a diploma in night school. He took all the civil service examinations, after his father, a veteran of the Battle of the Bulge, took him to Grand Central Terminal to see coffins returning from Vietnam.
        ''Kid, if you don't make something of yourself, you're going to die in Vietnam,'' he said, according to his son's recollection in an interview with The New Yorker.
        He ended up in the transit police, where he became the youngest detective in the department at 27. He made hundreds of arrests, and was once hit on the head by a man wielding an iron pipe. He kept chasing suspects out of the subways and arresting them on the streets, irking bosses who resented the extra paperwork. ''He vowed to work up the career ladder until he had more bullies under him than over him,'' Mr. Bratton said.
        When Mr. Bratton was named chief of the transit police in 1990, he quickly learned of Mr. Maple. Mr. Bratton was particularly impressed with a crime-mapping system that Mr. Maple had developed. Using colored pins, he coded the system's complete crime situation. He named his maps Charts of the Future.
        He helped pioneer what became a principal element of the Giuliani administration's crime strategy: arresting people for lesser offenses, like turnstile jumping, and then tying them to more serious ones.
        Mr. Maple is survived by his third wife, Brigid O'Connor, whom he married this year. He is also survived by a daughter, Jacqueline; two sons, Brendan and Breen; three sisters and three brothers.
        His proposal to Ms. O'Connor was vintage Jack Maple. Walking on Rockaway Beach, he kicked a bottle that turned out to have a drawing showing two figures greatly resembling the couple.
        ''But it's a huge beach,'' John Miller, another former deputy police commissioner and a close friend, protested at a party at Elaine's. ''How could you be sure you'd be able to walk her to where the bottle was?''
        Mr. Maple replied, ''I scattered hundreds of them in the sand.''
      