
        Lord Longford, a Labor peer famed for championing social outcasts and unpopular causes, and lampooned as everything from an endearing eccentric to a bumbling loon, died Friday in a London hospital. He was 95.
        The oldest living member of the House of Lords, he remained active in recent years, writing books, taking part in debates and acting as a spirited host in the Lords dining room.
        His appearance made it easy for critics to poke fun at him, something they did with little mercy, and with little effect on him. Rather than taking it personally, he viewed the ridicule as a way of calling attention to people and issues he championed.
        Lord Longford was tall, scrawny and spectacularly unkempt, with thick eyeglasses and tufts of white hair exploding from above his ears, grandly setting off his domed head. His ability to get involved in conversation at the expense of table manners was best represented by his having once tried to eat place mats rather than his lunch -- an anecdote repeated in many of the lengthy obituaries in British newspapers.
        A natural contrarian, he was a man of paradoxes. Born and raised as an aristocrat, a Protestant, a Conservative and a supporter of British control of Northern Ireland, he became a socialist, a Roman Catholic and a backer of Irish republicans.
        Though he appeared modest in the face of criticism, he was vain in recalling compliments and craved publicity. He once excoriated his publisher for not giving one of the 20 books he wrote the prominent display he thought it deserved. The title of the book was ''Humility.''
        Lord Longford worked so aggressively for the release of the ''Moors Murderer,'' Myra Hindley, who was convicted of killing children in the 1960's, that he had to ward off suggestions that he had developed a relationship with her. He deflected the gossip with a genteel comment that reflected his puritan attitude in the other great cause of his public life -- his struggle to ban pornography. He said he had not had any ''leg-over situation'' with her.
        The antipornography effort, which included a much ridiculed trip to Copenhagen by his committee to witness live sex shows, earned him the title Lord Porn.
        The British public's mixture of irritation and grudging gratitude toward him was captured in a widely repeated comment by Quintin Hogg, who defeated him in a wartime parliamentary election in Oxford and who later, as Lord Hailsham, became Lord Chancellor.
        ''His concern for the outcasts of society is perfectly genuine,'' Lord Hailsham said, ''and even when one is most exasperated at the impracticality of some of his demands or the apparent irresponsibility of some of his behavior, one is glad from the bottom of one's heart that there exists in the world a man so single-hearted that he is prepared to espouse such hopeless causes.''
        Lord Longford was not above returning abusive comments. He was contemptuous of the tabloid press, once accusing it of ''trembling on the brink of obscenity.'' When Prime Minister Harold Wilson complained that he had ''the mind of a 12-year-old,'' Lord Longford replied that Wilson's comment reflected ''the judgment of a 12-year-old.''
        Lord Longford was born Francis Aungier Pakenham on Dec. 5, 1905, second son of the fifth Earl of Longford. He was schooled at Eton, where he developed a reputation for being unpunctual and disobedient, and New College, Oxford, where he excelled as a scholar.
        Instead of heading off to London to enter a profession, like most of his classmates, he became an elementary-school teacher in the Midlands and lecturer at a workers' educational association. He went on to teach at the London School of Economics and to work nights at a boys' club in the impoverished East End. He entered politics as a researcher in social issues for the Conservative Party.
        In 1931 he married Elizabeth Harman, a talented history graduate and political radical who became the writer Elizabeth Longford and the mother of the couple's eight children. Three of them -- Thomas Pakenham, Lady Rachel Billington and Lady Antonia Fraser -- have continued the literary dynasty.
        He always credited his wife with providing him the self-control and common sense he lacked. Auberon Waugh, a godson, said, ''I think he sees himself a little bit as a knight errant going out to do things which will please her.''
        In addition to his wife, Lord Longford leaves 7 children, 26 grandchildren and 17 great-grandchildren. A daughter, Catherine, a journalist, died in a car crash in 1969, at 23.
        In 1932 Lord Longford became a lecturer in politics at Christ Church, Oxford. While there, he wrote a book on Irish republicanism and switched his party allegiance to Labor after seeing British fascists beat up a group of left-wing students. At the outset of World War II he enlisted as a private in the infantry but was given a medical discharge a year later when he proved too clumsy, untidy and unskilled in firearms to stay in uniform.
        He then joined a home guard unit and returned to his teaching. He became an assistant to Lord William Beveridge, a designer of Britain's welfare state, and played an important role in the development of the two major reports used in that effort: ''Social Insurance and Allied Services'' (1942) and ''Full Employment in a Free Society'' (1944).
        At the end of the war, the government put him in charge of the British zones of occupation in Germany and Austria. In that role, the bent for forgiveness and redemption he was to develop as a social crusader -- ''hate the sin, love the sinner'' was his motto -- first came to public notice, and he was criticized for being too generous to the defeated Germans.
        He also drew attention for an event that has been known ever since as the Pakenham Leap: On landing in Germany to take up his new post, he failed to notice that there was a delay in wheeling the steps to his plane's door, and he walked out and fell on his face, smashing his spectacles. ''A somewhat unusual arrival for a British minister in an occupied territory,'' he said later.
        He went on to successful careers in politics, rising to the leadership of the Lords in 1964; in publishing, where he was the chairman of Sidgwick & Jackson for 10 years; and in banking, where he became the rare socialist in the City of London financial district. He became Lord Longford in 1961 at the death of his older brother.
        His two efforts that made headlines were the antipornography crusade, which resulted in a report in 1972 calling for a crackdown on the permissive society, and his campaign for prison reform, which involved visits to jails where he would seek out the most notorious criminals as well as the unknown ones.
        He said he was inspired by a Gospel teaching that ''those who visit prisoners visit Christ.'' But the trips attracted so much attention that one notorious criminal refused to welcome him, saying he had been told that ''a Longford visit adds 20 years to your sentence.''
        Lord Longford clearly enjoyed the ruckus he caused. In 1990, as he neared his 85th birthday, he said: ''It's hard not to be vain at being still here and not obviously ga-ga. I'm very lucky.''
      