
        Rex T. Barber, a World War II fighter pilot who was a central figure in the storied 1943 mission that resulted in the death of Adm. Isoroku Yamamoto, the architect of the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor, died on Thursday at his home in Terrebonne, Ore. He was 84.
        The shooting down of the bomber carrying Yamamoto, the commander of the Japanese fleet, was a triumph of military intelligence and flying skills. It also generated a longstanding controversy. At issue was which pilot downed Yamamoto.
        American intelligence, having broken Japanese naval code, read a message stating that Yamamoto would leave Rabaul, New Britain, on the morning of April 18, 1943, for an inspection of troops stationed off Bougainville in the Solomon Islands..
        Sixteen Army Air Forces fighter planes were dispatched from Guadalcanal on a flight of more than 400 miles to Bougainville with hopes of  downing Yamamoto's bomber as it prepared to land. Killing the admiral would not merely avenge the surprise Pearl Harbor attack of Dec. 7, 1941, but would also deprive Japan of its foremost naval strategist and a national hero.
        The P-38 Lightning fighters flew for some two and a half hours, skimming the waves to avoid coastal spotters and enemy radar. The pilots arrived over Bougainville soon after 9:30 a.m. and, just as expected, spotted Japanese planes aloft. But they were surprised to see not one, but two Mitsubishi bombers, or Bettys. The bombers were accompanied by six Zero fighter planes.
        Capt. Thomas G. Lanphier Jr. led three other pilots -- Mr. Barber, then a lieutenant; Lt. Besby F. Holmes and Lt. Raymond K. Hine -- in pursuit of the bombers, while the other 12 American fighters concentrated on the Zeros.
        The lead bomber, carrying Yamamoto, was shot down and crashed  into a jungle, killing everyone aboard. The other bomber, carrying Yamamoto's chief of staff, Vice Adm. Matome Ugaki, was sent into the sea, but Ugaki scrambled out and made it to shore.
        Mr. Barber's plane was riddled with more than 100 bullet holes, but the lieutenant made it back to Guadalcanal. The only American pilot lost was Lieutenant Hine, whose plane disappeared during the battle.
        Recounting his role long afterward, Mr. Barber remembered how ''we saw the Zeros coming down.''
        ''Tom took a 90-degree turn and went up after them,'' he said, referring to Captain Lanphier. ''I banked slightly and lost sight of the Bettys. When I came out of it, I was right behind the lead Betty.''
        Mr. Barber continued, ''I started shooting across the tail into the right engine. Pieces of the cowling flew up and hit me. The Betty slowed up so much I almost hit it. After I had passed it, I looked behind me and saw some black smoke. I thought it might be the Betty I shot.''
        The Japanese announced Yamamoto's death in May 1943 and gave him a state funeral. The American authorities did not tell of the raid until the war ended, to avoid tipping off the Japanese that their code had been broken.
        In September 1945, the War Department gave Mr. Lanphier, by then a lieutenant colonel, sole credit for shooting down Yamamoto, based on his account that he hit the lead bomber with a burst of fire that sheared off a wing. He wrote of his exploit in first-person newspaper articles and became a hero.
        But in 1973, the Air Force decided that Mr. Barber had not been properly credited in the downing of Yamamoto. It took away sole credit from Mr. Lanphier and gave each man half credit, determining that both pilots had shot up the admiral's plane. Neither fighter had a camera on the gunsight, precluding certainty as to who did what.
        That belated ruling received little publicity, and when Mr. Lanphier died in 1987 he was remembered as the pilot who shot down Yamamoto. Mr. Barber, who also gained half credit, together with Lieutenant Holmes, for downing Ugaki's plane, eventually sought to gain sole credit for the shooting down of Yamamoto. But the Air Force stood by its belated shared recognition, and in 1996 a federal appeals court rejected Mr. Barber's request for intervention.
        Rex Barber, a native of Culver, Ore., joined the Army Air Forces after attending Oregon State University. He flew fighter missions on Guadalcanal and in China, where he was shot down in 1944, then eluded Japanese troops. He had five ''kills'' in World War II, making him an ace, then flew in the Korean War. He received the Navy Cross for the Yamamoto mission and was also awarded two Silver Stars. He retired from the Air Force in 1961 as a colonel.
        He is survived by his wife, Margaret, two sons, two sisters and three grandchildren.
        As for the long-running controversy, Julius Jacobson, another of the pilots on the Yamamoto mission, remarked in 1997, ''There were 15 of us who survived, and as far as who did the effective shooting, who cares?''
        Donald B. Rice, then the secretary of the Air Force, said in 1993: ''Historians, fighter pilots and all of us who have studied the record of this extraordinary mission will forever speculate as to the exact events of that day in 1943. There is glory for the whole team.''
      