
        Jorge Amado, Brazil's best-loved writer and one of the most widely translated novelists in the world, died last night in Salvador in the northeastern state of Bahia. He was 88.
        Mr. Amado fell ill yesterday afternoon and was admitted to Alianca Hospital, the Associated Press reported. The cause of death was heart and lung failure, a hospital spokesman said.
        Mr. Amado, who suffered from diabetes, had been in poor health in recent years and had been released from the hospital on July 16 after a 26-day stay, during which he briefly fell into a coma, according to the Associated Press.
        In a nation where soccer is king, Mr. Amado, who published his first novel at 19, was called the Pelé of the written word. In 1987, when Bantam Books paid $250,000 for his novel ''Showdown,'' a tale of the violent settling of Brazil's cacao country, it was a record amount for rights to publish a foreign-language novel in hard cover. Mr. Amado's 32 books, many of them sprinkled with real characters and friends, sold millions of copies in more than 40 languages.
        Mr. Amado never wavered in his support for the downtrodden and the dispossessed. And in a country that is still a stronghold of Latin machismo, his two most popular books are deeply sympathetic to their female protagonists. ''Gabriela, Clove and Cinnamon'' and ''Dona Flor and Her Two Husbands'' both sold more than two million copies in Brazil alone.
        Writing in The New York Times Book Review in 1984, Irwin Stern, a professor of Portuguese at Columbia University, said, ''No other Latin American writer is more genuinely admired by his peers, nor has any other exerted so great a creative influence on the course of Latin American fiction.''
        For years, posters and photographs of the cherubic, white-haired author adorned newsstands, bookstores and newspapers in his native land. Not only were hotels, bars and restaurants named for his characters but also were brands of whiskey and margarine.
        And although Mr. Amado's novels regularly skewered Brazilian politicians -- landing him in prison and exile in the 1940's and earning him the enmity of a succession of dictators and generals until the 1970's -- the president of Brazil attended the 1987 dedication of the Jorge Amado cultural foundation in Salvador, the author's home.
        In 1961, Mr. Amado was named to the Brazilian Academy of Arts, the Associated Press said, and in 1985 he received the Legion of Honor from François Mitterand, then the president of France. Widely admired in France, where he had lived for a time in exile and in recent years had spent considerable time, Mr. Amado considered Paris his second home.
        Although Brazil is the world's largest Roman Catholic nation, Mr. Amado wrote extensively and respectfully of the deities and rites of Candomblé, an African-derived religion widely practiced in Brazil. He also attained his enormous popularity despite having toiled unceasingly for communism, both through his writings and as a Communist member of the Brazilian Congress, to which he was elected in 1945. Awarded the Stalin Peace Prize of the Soviet Union in 1951, at the height of the cold war and four years after the Communist Party had been suppressed in Brazil, he defiantly traveled to Moscow to receive it.
        But without formally renouncing communism, Mr. Amado effectively turned his back on it by 1956, opting instead for what he described as a utopian socialism.
        Years later, in 1975, he told a visitor to his sprawling home in Salvador that he had been a dedicated Communist. ''But there came a time when I had to choose active politics or being a full-time writer,'' he said. ''Political activities were taking so much time, and there were lots of politicians but few writers.''
        Mr. Amado also said that all his novels were linked by an underlying unity and insisted he would not change a single word in any of them. ''Many things I might not write today because I no longer believe them,'' he said, ''but I wouldn't change them since I believed them at the time.''
        His first comic novel, ''Gabriela, Clove and Cinnamon'' (1958), is the story of a waif from the backlands of Bahia. A huge, immediate success, it was described in The New York Times Book Review as ''an exciting and enjoyable romp of a book, rich in literary delights.'' Dona Flor, a character who appeared in 1966, was an equally beloved heroine from Bahia in a novel also praised for its rollicking and lusty qualities.
        Both ''Gabriela'' and ''Dona Flor'' were made into successful movies, both of them starring Sônia Braga. They were also made into television series that regularly attracted more than 40 percent of the Brazilian viewing audience when telecast in prime time five nights a week for months.  The 1979 Broadway musical ''Saravá'' was adapted from ''Dona Flor.''
        Between ''Gabriela'' and ''Dona Flor,'' Mr. Amado published three other comic novels, including ''Home Is the Sailor'' (1961), about a good-natured impostor who is suddenly called on to pilot a ship up the coast of Brazil.
        Mr. Amado was an admirer of Dickens and Twain, and his novels abound with picaresque characters of universal appeal: street-corner philosophers in tattered coats, slum-dwelling samba dancers, orators of dazzling extravagance, foul-mouthed anarchist cobblers and poets whose writings rarely go beyond signing bar room tabs.
        ''Not only is Jorge Amado one of the greatest writers alive,'' Mario Vargas Llosa, the Peruvian writer, said several years ago, ''he is also one of the most entertaining.''
        Mr. Amado was born on Aug. 10, 1912, on a farm in the southern part of Bahia, where he was raised in middle-class comfort. His favorite of his books, ''The Violent Land,'' written in 1942 while he was in exile in Uruguay and Argentina, is a powerful novel of the bloody struggle in those cacao lands, lands where, as he wrote in the foreword to an English-language paperback edition of the book, settlers, bandits and cocoa ''colonels'' fought to the death and ''shootings were the daily fare.''
        Bantam published Mr. Amado's ''War of the Saints,'' another comic novel with a female protagonist, in 1993. Nine other Amado novels were published in hard cover by Alfred A. Knopf, including ''Tieta'' (1979) and ''Tereza Batista'' (1975). In recent years Avon Books reprinted all nine in paperback and published five others that had not previously been available in the United States.
        Mr. Amado's memoirs were published in Brazil in 1992.
        Mr. Amado is survived by his wife of 56 years, Zélia Gettai, herself a best-selling author, and by their son, João Jorge, and their daughter, Paloma.
      