
        Duong Van Minh, the Vietnamese general who led the coup in 1963 that overthrew Ngo Dinh Diem as president of South Vietnam and later became the republic's last president for a few days before North Vietnamese troops stormed his palace in Saigon, died on Monday in Pasadena, Calif. He was 85.
        General Minh, who used a wheelchair, fell at his home on Sunday. He died in Huntington Memorial Hospital, said his daughter, Mai Duong.
        Born to a wealthy landowning family in the French colonial era in Indochina, General Minh entered the French colonial army in 1940, was captured by the Japanese in World War II and became the senior officer in the fledgling South Vietnamese army after the country was split in two by the Geneva Accords of 1954.
        General Minh gave the fateful signal to assassinate Mr. Diem and his brother Ngo Dinh Nhu in 1963 by raising two fingers of his right hand.
        But to many Vietnamese and Americans alike, General Minh was best known for his love for raising orchids and playing tennis at the Cercle Sportif, an elite country club.
        ''He was a model of lethargy, lacking both the skill and the inclination to govern,'' Stanley Karnow, the journalist and author wrote of him in his best-selling book, ''Vietnam: A History'' (Viking Press, 1983).
        In January 1964, a few months after General Minh had helped oust Mr. Diem, his junta was overthrown by another general. And from then until the last days of the war in April 1975, when General Minh temporarily became president, he was the odd man out in South Vietnamese politics -- a general without troops, a politician without office, a national hero with little to do but play tennis and tend his orchids.
        At the end, on the morning of April 30, 1975, General Minh, in a business suit, waited in the presidential palace that had until a few days before been occupied by President Nguyen Van Thieu. The general was waiting to surrender to North Vietnamese troops who surrounded Saigon in the hope that some face-saving compromise could still be worked out.
        As the ranking North Vietnamese tank officer entered the room, General Minh said, ''I have been waiting since early this morning to transfer power to you.''
        But the Communist officer, Col. Bui Tin, replied: ''There is no question of your transferring power. Your power has crumbled. You cannot give up what you do not have.''
        He was arrested and jailed, but allowed to leave the country in 1983. He lived in France until a few years ago, then in California.
        General Minh was known as ''Big Minh'' partly to distinguish him from another general with the same name and partly because of his unusual size, nearly 6 feet tall and 200 pounds, enormous by Vietnamese standards.
        He was born on Feb. 16, 1916, in Long An Province in the Mekong Delta, just south of Saigon. His father came from a rich land-owning family and was a high-ranking worker in the colonial Finance Ministry.
        Duong Van Minh received a French secondary-school education, joined the colonial army and became a first lieutenant. In 1952, in France's war against the Vietminh, the Vietnamese Communists led by Ho Chi Minh, he transferred to the French-organized Vietnamese National Army and was sent to the École Militaire in Paris.
        He had two sons, who live in Paris and who survive, in addition to his daughter and grandchildren.
        After the French were defeated at Dien Bien Phu in 1954 and Vietnam was divided in half, he became a general in the new South Vietnamese Army. He helped President Diem consolidate power by capturing the fanatical leader of the Hoa Hao sect, Ba Cut, who was publicly guillotined.
        But by 1963, with Mr. Diem increasingly dictatorial and isolated and with President John F. Kennedy and his advisers worried that Mr. Diem was causing the war against the Vietcong guerrillas to be lost, General Minh became the senior member of the group of generals who began to plot against their president.
        In the opinion of Mr. Karnow, who was a correspondent in Saigon for The Saturday Evening Post then, ''Minh was not the main mover.''
        ''But as the senior general,'' Mr. Karnow said, ''he was the man who crystallized the various factions who were all plotting against Diem. Everybody and his brother had a plot.''
        In October 1963, General Minh conspired with Col. Lucien Conein, a French-born officer who worked with the C.I.A., on a plan to link the plotters with the American Embassy in Saigon. According to Mr. Karnow's book, General Minh, speaking in French, said the plotters did not need American aid for a coup, only assurances that the United States would ''not thwart it.'' He was told that President Kennedy had agreed to the proposal. The coup went forward, though Colonel Conein considered General Minh to be only a ''glorified French army corporal.''
        The coup began on Nov. 1, 1963. When President Diem finally agreed to surrender from his hiding place at a church, the generals sent an M-113 armored personnel carrier to pick up him and his brother. According to Colonel Conein, the book says, before the escorting officers left, General Minh raised two fingers of his right hand, a signal to his personal bodyguard, a contract killer, to kill the Diem brothers. The bodyguard later helped riddle the two men with bullets in the personnel carrier.
        American policy makers later came to believe that the coup and the killings more deeply involved the United States in the war, by increasing its responsibility for what had occurred. Some time after the coup, Mr. Karnow visited General Minh at his headquarters and asked how things were going. ''He lamented,'' Mr. Karnow recalled, ''that he didn't have enough time to grow his orchids or play tennis.''
      