
        Howard Elting, a United States diplomat who in 1942, as vice counsel in the Geneva consulate, was one of the first American officials to pass on to the State Department information on the Nazi plan to eliminate the Jews of Europe, died on July 1 at his home in San Rafael, Calif. He was 93.
        The information that Mr. Elting forwarded was a cable drafted by Dr. Gerhart Riegner, representative of the World Jewish Congress in Geneva, the Encyclopedia of the Holocaust said. Dated Aug. 11, 1942, and saying it was based on ''the highest German authorities,'' the cable told of Nazi plans ''to exterminate at one blow this fall three and a half to four million Jews.''
        The timing of the cable suggests that it concerned the Wannsee Protocol, approved after a January 1942 meeting of top Nazis, the document that officially formulated the German plan to exterminate the Jews.  Mr. Elting attached a memorandum vouching for Dr. Riegner's credibility, saying he appeared to be in ''great agitation.'' Nonetheless, State Department officials viewed the information with skepticism and declined to pass on the cable to Rabbi Stephen S. Wise, head of the American Jewish Congress, as Dr. Riegner had requested.
        But Dr. Riegner had also given his message to British diplomats in Geneva, and they had transmitted it to the British Foreign Office, which passed the news to Samuel Sidney Silverman, a member of Parliament and the head of the British section of the World Jewish Congress. Mr. Silverman passed it to Rabbi Wise.
        Rabbi Wise took the message to the State Department, which asked him to keep it private until the information could be confirmed. On Nov. 24, Under Secretary of State Sumner Welles summoned Rabbi Wise to Washington and authorized him to release the news.
        The encyclopedia called the cable ''a breakthrough because it confirmed seemingly inconclusive information about mass murder that had reached the West previously.''
        Mr. Elting was born in Chicago on July 16, 1907. He was educated at the Phillips Exeter Academy and graduated from Princeton University in 1930. He then joined the Foreign Service. After assignments that included Germany, Turkey and the Netherlands, he transferred to Geneva to serve as vice counsel.
        Later in his career, when a colleague, John S. Service, was being accused by Senator Joseph McCarthy of having possible Communist ties, Mr. Elting tried to interest his colleagues in a mass resignation to show their support. But no one would join him, so he decided to remain as a diplomat, while openly continuing to support Mr. Service.
        After the war, his wife, Margaret, and 16-year-old daughter, Claire, were killed in a plane crash while on the way to Morocco, his next assignment. Two years later, Mr. Elting married Marjorie Mayland Treat, the widow of a fellow diplomat who had died in the same plane crash. He adopted her 2-year-old son, John.
        After his second wife died of cancer, he married Norka Haskins, who also died of cancer, leaving two adult stepsons.
        Mr. Elting is survived by his son, John Elting Treat of Sonoma, Calif.; his stepsons, Greg Haskins of San Rafael and Gary Haskins of Paradise, Calif.; six grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      