
        Arthur A. Segall, a New York tax lawyer who early in his career spearheaded an assault in Mayor Fiorello La Guardia's war on the shadier aspects of New York City's night life, died Aug. 2 at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 95 and lived on the Upper East Side.
        Mayor La Guardia, along with his police chiefs and tax collectors, charged that some splashy hot spots had unsavory characters as silent partners. In 1944, the mayor recruited Mr. Segall, a former city legal aide and tax prosecutor, to take on the famous Copacabana as his special deputy commissioner of investigation.
        The club had started in 1940 and presented top performers and a fabled chorus line, the Copa Girls, to entertain the city's big spenders and celebrities. Mr. Segall's mission was to show that it was also a hangout for the gambler and racketeer Frank Costello and for Joe Adonis, who was once listed by the authorities as Brooklyn's public enemy No. 1.
        ''The question of who are the owners of nightclubs in New York City has always been a mystery,'' a magistrate observed at the time. ''This, may be a good opportunity to find out the manner in which these night clubs function.''
        Mr. Segall did not achieve the mayor's wish of closing the Copacabana, but he won a court victory nonetheless. In a sudden compromise, the club accepted a 10-point plan prepared by the mayor under which it was put on probation and paid the city a hefty amount of back sales taxes.
        The club also banished three top executives and four employees, although its dealings with Mr. Costello remained poorly defined. While not conceding that Mr. Costello held an interest in the Copacabana, the club agreed to end any connection to him it might have.
        Arthur Amos Segall was born in Queens. He graduated from Dartmouth College and received his law degree from the University of Michigan in 1928. In the 1930's he was an assistant corporation counsel in the city's Law Department, and became head of the tax division in 1939.
        He resigned in 1943 to return to private practice, but returned to city service to answer Mayor La Guardia's call to help clean up nightclubs.  After that campaign he spent more than half a century with a succession of law offices, and retired in 1998 as a partner in the firm of Loeb & Loeb.
        Mr. Segall's wife, Natalie Freed Segall, died in 1996. He is survived by a son, Matthew, of Manhattan; a daughter, Ann Thomas of Joshua Tree, Calif.; a sister, Helen Stuart of Forest Hills, N.Y.; a granddaughter; a grandson; and two great-grandsons.
        Mr. Segall particularly savored some tax lawsuits he tried while with Hess, Mela & Popkin in 1947, and again in 1949, on behalf of the Hotel Paramount on West 46th Street. In both cases, the city was ordered to reduce the hotel's real estate tax assessment, the second time by 45 percent.
      