
        Martin Stern Jr., an architect who pioneered the eye-popping Googie-style coffee-shop architecture of Los Angeles and then brought his exuberant vision to the skyline of the Las Vegas strip, died on Saturday at a Los Angeles hospital. He was 84.
        Mr. Stern designed three Ships coffee shops in Los Angeles in 1956 and 1957 that joined the pantheon of what came to be called Googie architecture -- an enthusiastic cocktail of neon, modern design principles and clever signage. Preservationists protested mightily when the shops -- featuring distinctive orange color schemes and looking like rocket ships about to blast off -- were demolished during the 1980's and 90's.
        Mr. Stern went on to design a significant part of Las Vegas's skyline, including a skyscraper and convention center at the Sahara Hotel and the MGM Grand Hotel, which became Bally's. He also designed the 26-story Mint Hotel.
        He was part of the second generation of Las Vegas architects. Space had become more expensive, and the sprawling motel-like developments of earlier years no longer made economic sense. He and contemporaries like Wayne McAllister adapted by building hotels with towers that replaced neon signs as the defining elements.
        ''Gone was the sleek and low-slung intimacy of lounges, manicured lawns with rambling motel wings with private box balconies overlooking the pool with its beauties, replaced with a bigger, bolder and self-confident look of a legitimate corporate business,'' Peter Michel wrote on the Web site of the University of Nevada at Las Vegas, to which Mr. Stern donated his architectural drawings. ''There is much of the history of Las Vegas in the drawings of Martin Stern Jr.,'' Mr. Michel wrote.
        Mr. Stern designed the Sahara Hotel's first skyscraper (14 stories) in 1959, its convention center in 1967, a 342-room high-rise addition in 1977 and a 625-room high-rise addition in 1979. He became known for his attention to the sort of details that make money. One trademark was the tower with the top floor wider than those below, to accommodate luxury suites with panoramic views.
        Steven Izenour, a Philadelphia architect and one of the authors of the 1972 book ''Learning From Las Vegas,'' said Mr. Stern and his contemporaries ''took the vocabulary of modern architecture and turned it into an ornamental style.'' He said Robert Venturi, who with Denise Scott Brown was a co-author of the book, called the approach ''the architecture of the decorated shed.''
        Mr. Izenour argued that Mr. Stern's design has stood the test of time, calling it ''wonderfully funky.'' He predicted that the Las Vegas style that succeeded that of Mr. Stern's generation -- huge theme parks modeled on New York City and other themes -- would fade, with Mr. Stern's style possibly making a comeback. He said, ''In hindsight, it was a lot more sophisticated than people gave it credit for at the time.''
        Mr. Stern is survived by his wife, Chantal; three sons; a daughter; a sister; and four grandchildren.
      