
        Robert H. Rimmer, who wrote ''The Harrad Experiment,'' a 1966 novel about an elite Eastern college where male and female students lived in the same dormitory rooms and did pretty much what came naturally, died on Aug. 1 at his home in Quincy, Mass. He was 84.
        The book was considered titillating when it was first published, with some heralding it as a ringing manifesto for free love. Sherbourne Press initially printed 10,000 mail-order copies, considering the novel too racy for bookstore distribution. When Bantam issued a paperback edition the next year, it promoted it with sexy billboards and sold 300,000 copies within a month. More than three million were eventually sold.
        The novel tells of three men and three women selected by computer to be roommates, and their sexual and emotional growth over four years. The pairs eventually marry in a group ceremony and agree to share an apartment and spouses. ''Sometimes I wake up in the night and for a sleepy moment I may forget whether I am with Stanley, Jack or Harry, and then I feel warm and bubbly,'' says Valerie, one of the group.
        Mr. Rimmer went on to write more than a dozen more books, almost all on unconventional sexual relationships that he believed would foster fulfillment and freedom. For example, in ''Proposition 31'' (1968), two respectable middle-class couples fight valiantly to legalize group marriages in California.
        In ''The Premar Experiments'' (1974), the fictitious Harrad College expands its famous experiment. Even in his first novel, ''The Rebellion of Yale Marratt'' (1964), Mr. Rimmer enthusiastically explored the possibilities of bigamy.
        His cause was nothing less than revolutionizing the institution of marriage. ''I feel that ultimately, monogamous marriage will not be the only legal, sanctioned form of marriage,'' he said in an interview with Psychology Today in 1997. ''There will be socially approved group marriages, there will be bigamous marriages, and there will be open-end marriages in which each partner has a relationship outside the marriage.''
        Mr. Rimmer's wife, Erma, who would have been married to him for 60 years had he lived one more day, begged to disagree. ''I didn't care for that too much,'' she said, while adding that she and her husband had ''close friends'' who clearly did.
        ''He's always been very liberal-minded,'' she said of Mr. Rimmer.
        Robert Henry Rimmer was born in Boston. His father, the owner of a printing company, was so prosperous that he bought a Phaeton Studebaker with disc wheels in 1924.
        In an autobiography appended to a new edition of ''The Harrad Experiment,'' published by Prometheus Books in 1990, Mr. Rimmer said that as a child, he loved reading fairy tales as well as poring over National Geographic magazines to see photographs of nude women. He wrote stories himself for a mimeographed magazine that he and his friends published and sold for a nickel.
        Mr. Rimmer majored in English at Bates College and graduated from Harvard Business School. He continued his sexual education with men's magazines and a string of serious romances that he pursued from the age of 15. In the fall of 1940, he met his wife, then Erma Richards, a dental technician who cleaned his teeth.
        ''When she was finished, I asked her point-blank, 'How about a kiss?' '' he wrote. ''There was no kiss and no date.''
        They were married on Aug. 2, 1941. Mr. Rimmer then joined the Army and served as a finance officer in Burma and India, where he was pleased to acquire a copy of the  Kama Sutra.
        After the war, he worked for his father's company, the Relief Printing Corporation of Boston. He expanded its operations to New York and Los Angeles. Still, he found himself spending more and more of his time reading novels ''and collecting anything that had been written about human sexuality,'' he wrote.
        He began writing in his spare time. ''Yale Marratt'' was rejected by 17 publishers. It was finally published by Challenge Press, which also issued his second novel, ''That Girl from Boston,'' in 1962. Both did badly. ''My daydream of joining the ranks of Norman Mailer, Irwin Shaw and James Jones went down the drain,'' he wrote in his autobiography.
        Then came his huge success with ''The Harrad Experiment,'' which was made into a movie and a sequel, ''The Harrad Summer.''
        But after his big book, success proved fickle. ''Publishers were convinced I was a leftover hippie,'' he wrote. He achieved some fame by writing a guide to pornographic movies with Patrick Riley. In 1993 The San Diego Union-Tribune called them ''the Siskel and Ebert of porno.''
        The Los Angeles Times noted that theirs was no easy task: ''Trying to describe hundreds of virtually identical porno tapes would tax any writer's skill.''
        Mr. Rimmer's other efforts included a nonfiction book about a dominatrix called Mistress Jacqueline, written in 1991 with Catherine Tavel and titled ''Whips and Kisses: Parting the Leather Curtain.'' Kirkus Reviews called it ''sympathetic but tough on the stomach.''
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Rimmer is survived by his sons, Robert of Payson, Ariz., and Stephen of Duxbury, Mass., and four grandchildren.
        Recent customer reviews of ''The Harrad Experiment'' on the amazon.com Web site suggest that the book is still being closely read. One reviewer said that when he first read it at 13, ''I thought I was being perverted,'' but now found that it offered lessons of ''love and intimacy.''
        Mrs. Rimmer suggested that the secret to couples' getting along might be simpler than her husband's grand theories.
        ''We bowled together,'' she said, ''right to the end.''
      