
        James A. Corbett, a rancher and Harvard-educated philosopher who helped start a movement to guide Central American refugees illegally across the United States border, died on Aug. 2 at his home in the Arizona desert, about 30 miles from Benson. He was 67.
        The cause was a rare brain disease, paraneopalpic cerebellar syndrome, his wife, Patricia, said.
        Mr. Corbett's crusade to help the illegal immigrants, most of them from El Salvador and Guatemala, came to be called the sanctuary movement. Its adherents believed that the Central Americans streaming to the United States to escape political oppression were equivalent to slaves escaping their masters in the years preceding the Civil War, and likened their effort, which involved hundreds of churches, to the Underground Railroad.
        ''After the Second World War, the U.S. government bound itself by law never again to expel or return refugees to any country in which they would face persecution,'' Mr. Corbett wrote in an essay in 1988. ''Consequently, our transporting of refugees is not an act of civil disobedience.''
        But prosecutors insisted that the Central Americans were economic refugees, not political ones. In a trial in 1986, in which Mr. Corbett was one of 11 people charged with breaking immigration laws, Judge Earl H. Carroll said, ''Good motive is not a defense to intentional acts of crime.''
        Mr. Corbett and two others were found not guilty on all charges. Six of the defendants were convicted of conspiracy and two of lesser charges. They were sentenced to probation.
        ''The work of sanctuary will continue exactly as it has,'' Mr. Corbett said immediately after the verdict. ''We'll stand trial as often as we have to. It'll continue as it has because the refugees and their needs actually set the agenda.''
        As the Central American refugees dwindled, the sanctuary movement gradually faded.
        James Albert Corbett was born on Oct. 8, 1933, in Casper, Wyo., a descendant of Blackfoot Indians, Kentucky pioneers and Ozark Mountain mule traders.
        His father had given up a law practice in Missouri and gone to Wyoming to teach in high school. His mother brought in extra money by substitute teaching. In the summer they moved to an Indian reservation, where they kept food on the table by foraging for berries and fishing for trout.
        Mr. Corbett won a scholarship to Colgate University and graduated in three years. He went to Harvard on a Woodrow Wilson fellowship and completed a master's degree in philosophy in a year. He married and took his wife to live on a Wyoming ranch. She did not like ranch life, and they divorced after a few years of marriage and three children.
        He joined his parents at a ranch they had bought near Tombstone, Ariz., hoping to recover from his marital breakup and the first signs of the arthritis that would eventually almost cripple him. He decided to study library science at the University of Southern California.
        There, he met Patricia Collins, married her, and moved to Douglas, Ariz., where Mr. Corbett was head librarian and a philosophy instructor at Cochise Junior College.
        When college officials censored a book on an instructor's reading list and a work by a visiting artist, he notified the American Civil Liberties Union. His contract was not renewed.
        Mr. Corbett took several teaching jobs in California, became a Quaker in the early 1960's and organized efforts against the Vietnam War. He then returned to Arizona to ranch and work on projects like the development of a bee hive and goat husbandry techniques for use in poor countries.
        By 1977, his arthritis had worsened, and the couple moved to Tucson, near where a fence had been built to deter illegal border crossings. At first, Mr. Corbett had no interest in immigration issues.
        ''I took the fence for granted and had never been particularly interested in border problems,'' he wrote in an essay in 1988. ''The only time I had ever gone over the fence was to stop a grass fire in Mexico.''
        But on May 4, 1981, he heard about a Salvadoran refugee who had been caught by the Border Patrol. Mr. Corbett found the refugee in jail in Nogales, Ariz., then followed him to an immigration detention center in California, where he said he discovered hundreds more Central Americans who had fled wars and persecution in their home countries.
        Mr. Corbett was soon housing two dozen refugees in his home. Fluent in Spanish, he would sometimes lead groups from the Guatemalan border all the way to Arizona. He mailed 500 letters to Quaker groups throughout the United States, asking for their help.
        Mr. Corbett realized his home and his finances could not accommodate the flood of Central Americans. He went to John M. Fife III, pastor of the Southside Presbyterian Church in Tucson, who agreed to harbor refugees and helped organize a system for passing illegal immigrants from church to church across the country.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Corbett is survived by his daughters, Laurie Longtin and Megan Schaefer, both of Casper; his son, Geoffrey Corbett of Buffalo, Wyo.; and three grandchildren.
        In recent years, Mr. Corbett devoted himself to providing simple housing for those seeking solitary retreats in the Arizona desert. He was also active in the Saguaro Juniper Corporation, a group of property owners and leasers in southeastern Arizona interested in wildlife protection and other environmental concerns.
        He and his friends had been discussing the possibility of a new sanctuary movement for Haitian refugees, Ms. Corbett said.
        Correction:  August 20, 2001, Monday  An obituary on Aug. 12 about James A. Corbett, a founder of the sanctuary movement for Central American refugees, misspelled the name of his illness. It was para neoplastic cerebellar syndrome, not paraneopalpic.
      