
        Robert S. Jones, respected editor of books by several authors, including Russell Banks and Oscar Hijuelos, as well as the author of two novels of his own, died yesterday at New York University Medical Center. He was 47 and lived in New York.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Mr. Jones was named editor in chief of HarperCollins Publishers four months ago. He worked at HarperCollins for 16 years, through a time of tumult in the book business marked by consolidation, the increasing movement of authors and editors among houses and an attendant increase in competition among editors jockeying to promote their books within each house.
        Against this backdrop, Mr. Jones distinguished himself by his selfless dedication both to his fellow editors at the house and to a list of authors that also including Clive Barker, John Colapinto, Denis Johnson and Armistead Maupin. He became a pillar at HarperCollins through many changes of management, including its acquisition by Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation.
        Last Tuesday Mr. Jones asked to be included in a HarperCollins editorial meeting by speaker phone from his hospital room, actively debating the merits of several proposals. Several months ago, after one of his first sessions of chemotherapy, he stepped out of the hospital to take part by mobile phone in the auction of ''Bel Canto'' by Ann Patchett.
        Mr. Jones was born in Santa Monica, Calif., graduated from Hobart and William Smith College and attended graduate school in literature and religion at the University of Chicago. He began working at HarperCollins in 1985, in the marketing department, and became an editor after about five years. While working as an editor, he also wrote the well-received novels ''Force of Gravity'' (Viking, 1991) and ''Walking on Air'' (Houghton Mifflin, 1995).
        Mr. Maupin, whose most recent novel ''The Night Listener'' Mr. Jones edited, said he often picked up one of Mr. Jones's novels for inspiration. ''He didn't believe me when I told him,'' Mr. Maupin said.
        ''He would make marginal notations in my manuscripts that made my heart soar for days,'' Mr. Maupin recalled, '' 'I Wish I had written that,' 'You are absolutely brilliant,' 'There is nobody like you.' ''
        Mr. Jones was known to leave messages for agents at 4 a.m., telling them he was obsessed with an author's new manuscript.
        Susan Weinberg, senior vice president and editorial director at HarperCollins, said Mr. Jones built a reputation at the company for training younger editors, explaining how to handle agents, request blurbs from authors and plan paperback reprintings of previously published books, for example. In a competitive business, his rare willingness to share his expertise with potential rivals was rare and made him a natural choice to become editor in chief, she said.
        For a time, Mr. Jones was also the media coordinator for the AIDS advocacy group Act-UP. His brother, Stephen, said Mr. Jones found similarities between his work at Act-UP and editing, like persuading journalists to think twice before applying the term ''victim'' to someone who was living with AIDS.
        Mr. Jones is survived by his partner, Lewis C. Brindle, his brother Stephen Jones, and his father, Roger, all in New York. His brother Michael, and his mother, Patricia, live in Carmel Valley, Calif.
        Mr. Jones was also survived by his dog, Scout. Scout suffered from emotional problems and was prone to biting, Mr. Jones's family said. But Mr. Jones stuck with him nonetheless, even paying for behavioral therapy for the dog. ''He once told me he was writing magazine articles so that he could afford to send his dog to the shrink,'' Stephen Jones said.
      