
        Dr. Howard Eugene Bauman, a food scientist whose menus for the space pioneers of the 1960's led years later to a quality control system safeguarding earthbound American consumers, died on Aug. 8 at a hospital in Minneapolis. He was 76 and lived in Minnetonka, Minn.
        The cause was complications of pulmonary disease, his family said.
        Dr. Bauman spent 36 years at the Pillsbury Company in Minneapolis, starting in 1953. He taught dough-makers how to keep bacteria out of their product, enabling Pillsbury to market ready-made dough that lasted weeks, not days, in the refrigerator.
        When the question of how to feed astronauts came up, the company put him in charge of a team that designed their meals. He developed edibles that had to last a month without refrigeration, withstand high temperatures and humidity, and bounce off the walls without crumbling, among other things.
        A crucial factor was the safety of the food. The National Aeronautics and Space Administration demanded that it be free of microbes, a requirement that underlay Dr. Bauman's lasting contributions to the production and testing of foods for general consumption.
        He was the chief architect of a system to improve the approach to assuring processed food safety, called Hazard Analysis Critical Control Points, and known as Haccp (pronounced HASS-ip), developed in the 1960's. It was designed to apply common sense in looking for where there might be problems or where there probably was a problem.
        In essence, the system seeks to control contamination systematically by identifying hazards at each stage of processing, rather than simply finding contamination in the finished product. It relies on science to determine critical processing points, monitoring hazards at each one, taking remedial action and keeping careful records.
        The system got its name in 1970, and it has gained broad acceptance since then, both in the United States and abroad, becoming part of the federal food regulatory system. It was tested in the early 1970's when the Agriculture Department asked for a system for insuring safety in canning vegetables.
        Dr. Bauman's team at Pillsbury held a training course for the canning industry in 1973. Two years later the Food and Drug Administration wrote regulations requiring the canners to put his system in place.
        The system was much in the public eye in the late 1990's during a rash of food recalls for bacterial contamination, involving millions of pounds of hot dogs, luncheon meat, snacks and the like.
        The Agriculture Department, which had previously ordered a monitoring and prevention program for all large meat and poultry processors, extended it to smaller plants, and the Food and Drug Administration imposed the system on seafood processors.
        Dr. Bauman was born in Woodworth, Wis. He graduated from the University of Wisconsin in 1949 and received a Ph.D. in microbiology there in 1953, just when Pillsbury was looking for people like him to expand its line of ready-made foods, which were easily spoiled by bacteria.
        He began as head of research in the company's bacteria section. He rose to director of corporate research in the 1960's and retired as vice president for science and regulatory affairs in 1989.
        Dr. Bauman's wife, Edith Tabbert Bauman, died in 1991 after 43 years of marriage. He is survived by two daughters, Victoria L. Zobel of Bloomington, Minn., and Kay D. Rose of Woodbury, Minn.; two sisters, Esther Carpenter of Wyoming, Mich., and Anna Burgess of Bristol, Wis.; and three grandchildren.
      