
        Roy A. Rosenberg, a rabbi who saw intermarriage as inevitable and joyously performed thousands of marriages between Jews and non-Jews, died on Saturday from irregular heart rhythms while driving his car. He was 70.
        His son Raoul said the car then crashed into a tree, slightly injuring the rabbi's wife, Ruth. A doctor in the emergency room of Lock Haven Hospital in Lock Haven, Pa., determined that Dr. Rosenberg had died from the arrhythmia, not the collision.
        Dr. Rosenberg, who lived in the Midwood neighborhood of Brooklyn, had just performed an interfaith marriage ceremony in State College, Pa., and was on his way to perform another in Brooklyn, his wife said. The rabbi officiated at interfaith marriages over more than four decades in places from India to England to California.
        ''This was our life, rushing from one wedding to the next,'' his wife said.
        However, his proudly stated claim that he had performed a half-million interfaith weddings could not have been true, Raoul Rosenberg said, calculating that his father would have had to perform about 20 weddings per day, starting at birth.
        Often, the rabbi would officiate along with a clergyman from another religion, like a Catholic priest. Sometimes his contribution was to bless the union declared by the other officiant.
        In 1975, he founded the Temple of Universal Judaism on Park Avenue as a haven for interfaith couples.
        Marriage with non-Jews is opposed by all major Jewish groups, including the Central Conference of American Rabbis, the organization of Reform rabbis to which Dr. Rosenberg belonged. But the conference respects a rabbi's right to make his own decision about officiating at a mixed marriage and takes no steps against those who do, said Elliot Stevens, executive secretary of the conference.
        Although both Conservative and Reform rabbis perform conversion ceremonies, only Reform rabbis generally are willing to perform interfaith weddings.
        However, over the last three decades the percentage of Jews who marry gentiles has increased dramatically, leading to debate within Judaism. Many religious Jews believe intermarriage threatens the survival of the Jewish people.
        Raoul Rosenberg, who is married to a Presbyterian, said his father believed people in love would marry anyway. ''To exclude them would be to lose them,'' he said.
        The rabbi's wife, also Dr. Rosenberg, who holds a doctorate in English literature, said: ''Once you allow Jews to go to coeducational colleges, there is no keeping them apart anymore. You've opened the floodgates.''
        Roy Armand Rosenberg was born in Baltimore on Dec. 22, 1930. His father was a left-leaning lawyer, who often charged poor clients little or nothing. The son grew up in a Conservative Jewish household, and became fascinated with the intricacies of Jewish law and theology.
        He earned a degree in anthropology from the University of Pennsylvania, and master's and doctoral degrees from Hebrew University in Cincinnati. In the mid-1950's, he served as an Army chaplain in Arizona and France, then had congregations in Rochester, N.Y., Honolulu, New Orleans and Brooklyn. After 22 years as rabbi of the Temple for Universal Judaism, he retired in 1997. He first began officiating at ceremonies for mixed marriages in Honolulu, where he served from 1958 to 1965.
        He was also a prolific writer on religious topics. His books included ''Who Was Jesus?'' (University Press of America, 1986); ''The Concise Guide to Judaism'' (NAL, 1990)  and ''Everything You Need to Know About America's Jews and Their History'' (Plume, 1997).
        He and two other authors, Peter Meehan, a Roman Catholic priest,  and John Wade Payne, a Disciples of Christ minister, wrote ''Happily Intermarried: Authoritative Advice for a Joyous Jewish-Christian Marriage'' (MacMillan, 1988).
        In addition to his wife and his son Raoul, Rabbi Rosenberg is survived by his mother, Sylvia C. Rosenberg; his brother, Paul M. Rosenberg; another son, Remi Rosenberg; his daughters Risa Rosenberg of Stockholm, Rani Pollack of Roslyn, N.Y., and Rianne Sappern of Brooklyn, and five grandchildren.
        Raoul said his father did not knowingly choose names starting with the letter R for his children at first , but later liked to joke about the alliteration. All those R's, he said, were perfect for a ''radical Reform rabbi.''
        He said his father was not always known for his nonconformity. He said he was criticized by his New Orleans congregation for using too much Hebrew.
        ''He wasn't kosher, but he wouldn't eat bacon,'' Raoul said. ''But he allowed us to eat bacon. He in a sense embodied a lot of the conflict that Reform Jews feel today.''
        Correction:  August 16, 2001, Thursday  An obituary yesterday about Rabbi Roy A. Rosenberg, who performed thousands of marriages between Jews and non-Jews, misidentified the source of his master's and doctoral degrees. It was Hebrew Union College in Cincinnati, not Hebrew University.
      