
        Dr. Richard Edward Honig, who  identified the vapor pressures of many of the chemical elements and created a widely used reference table of the results, died on July 31 at his home in Haverford, Pa. He was 84.
        The cause was cancer, his wife, Joan, said.
        In 1957, while at the University of Brussels, in Belgium, Dr. Honig began studying the effects of intermolecular forces in liquids and solids at different temperatures in closed containers.
        One of the chemical processes he looked at was that in which the rate of evaporation in closed containers becomes equal to the rate at which molecules return to the liquid or solid phase, or the equilibrium. From that, he determined the vapor pressures of many chemical elements at different temperatures and plotted them on a chart.
        The results were so important that, today, his table can be found in inorganic chemistry laboratories and textbooks throughout the world as a standard reference.
        Dr. Honig began his career in inorganic chemistry in 1950 at Sarnoff Laboratories, which was then R.C.A. Laboratories, in Princeton, N.J. There he focused on a technique in which the composition of a substance is analyzed by separating molecules and ions from its surface according to mass and charge, a process known as secondary ion mass spectrometry.
        Hoping to expand the applications of the technique, he began using mass spectrometers to study semiconductor materials, an important step in opening the field of semiconductor research.
        Dr. Honig helped advance the technology by showing that lasers could be used to separate particles from some materials for analysis.
        The technique is now used for analyzing materials from space, in submarines to monitor the quality of air and by some scientists for measuring air and water pollution.
        Throughout his career, Dr. Honig published more than 100 articles on his work in journals like Physics Review and the Journal of Chemical Physics.
        In 1970, he was named president of the American Society of Mass Spectrometry, a 4,000-member organization.
        He was born in Göttingen, Germany, in 1917 and in 1933 moved with his family to Istanbul, where he graduated from Robert College. He went on to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he received his master's degree in 1939 and his doctorate in 1944.
        In addition to his wife, he is survived by a son, Daniel, of Wallingford, Pa.; a daughter, Kaete B. Shaw, of High Falls, N.Y.; two stepdaughters, Jane May of Olney, Md., and Margaret Beach of Ithaca, N.Y.; a brother, Jurgen, of West Lafayette, Ind.; and five grandchildren.
      