
        Richard S. MacNeish, a tireless archaeologist renowned for his investigations into the origins of corn and rice and for his provocative conclusions, died on Jan. 16 in Belize. He was 82 and lived in Andover, Mass., during the brief periods when he was not on an expedition.
        He died of injuries he received when he lost control of his car while traveling between two Mayan sites, Lamanai and Caracol, in the mountains of Belize, said James W. Bradley, director of the Robert S. Peabody Museum of Archaeology at Phillips Academy, with which Dr. MacNeish was long associated.
        Dr. MacNeish's most celebrated discovery occurred in 1962, when he announced that he had found tiny ears of corn, the ancestor of today's domesticated crop, in a cave in the Tehuacán Valley in Mexico. The ears, no bigger than a cigarette butt, were originally said to be as much as 7,000 years old. More refined dating technologies have since lowered estimates to 5,500 years, but the find remains a landmark in agricultural archaeology because it awakened interest in the field, said Kent V. Flannery, an anthropology professor at the University of Michigan.
        ''Before he came along, we knew nothing about the origins of agriculture in the New World,'' Dr. Flannery said, adding that Dr. MacNeish had also found very early specimens of squash, pumpkins, beans, chilies and avocados.
        In the 1990's, Dr. MacNeish discovered remains of cultivated rice perhaps 9,000 years old along the middle Yangtze. That finding led him to conclude that rice was first domesticated in China, not Southeast Asia as was long thought.
        Further, his work in the Ayacucho Valley of Peru in the 1970's established the outline of human habitation there from the earliest hunter-gathering culture to the complex society of the Incan empire, said Gerard Piel, former publisher and editor of Scientific American. He was also noted for his research into early Mayan civilization.
        But the expedition that stirred perhaps the loudest debate was his dig at the Pendejo cave in New Mexico, where Dr. MacNeish said in 1992 that he had found human palm and finger prints on clay from a 28,000-year-old layer and man-made hearths dating back perhaps 38,000 years. Confirmation of such a finding would upset the widely held theory that humans first entered the Americas 12,000 years ago by crossing the Bering land bridge from Asia, a belief that Dr. MacNeish had long sought to disprove.
        ''This is the one that's going to finish off the skeptics,'' Dr. MacNeish declared in a newspaper interview after a meeting of the American Association for the Advancement of Science. In another interview, he said, ''The whole significance of the early-man debate is to allow the American Indians to have a respectable history, as good as the white man.''
        Dr. Bradley, director of the Peabody Museum, said the Pendejo findings remained much in dispute, a circumstance relished by Dr. MacNeish, who was known to all as Scotty.
        ''Scotty loved to push the controversial edge,'' Dr. Bradley said. ''Someone needs to be a provocateur, and Scotty loved to play that role. And he was right more than he was wrong.''
        Richard Stockton MacNeish was born in Harlem on April 29, 1918, to Harris Franklin MacNeish, a math professor, and the former Elizabeth Stockton. He grew up in Eastchester, N.Y., and attended Colgate for a time. In 1936, he took part in his first dig, at an Iroquois site in central New York.
        He went on to earn bachelor's, master's and doctoral degrees in archaeology at the University of Chicago, and became senior archaeologist at the National Museum of Canada in 1949. He was chairman of the archaeology department at the University of Calgary from 1964 to 1968, and director of the Peabody Museum at Phillips from 1968 to 1980. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1974. After teaching at Boston University in the early 1980's, he established the Andover Foundation for Archaeological Research, under whose auspices he conducted his later expeditions.
        His first marriage, to June Helm, ended in divorce. He is survived by his wife, the former Phyllis Diana Walter of Kitchener, Ontario; two sons, Roderick, of Kitchener, and Alexander, of Dartmouth, Nova Scotia; and a granddaughter.
        Able to pursue almost uninterrupted field work supported by generous donors, Dr. MacNeish led a life that was the envy of archaeologists tied to academic schedules. For many years, he spent summers in the Yukon -- searching for signs of the first migrants from Asia and surviving on canisters of food dropped off by bush pilots, Dr. Flannery said -- and winters in Mexico. When he died, he was planning an expedition to Turkey, in search of the origin of wheat.
        ''I've spent 7,200 days in the field since '36,'' Dr. MacNeish told The Washington Post in 1993. ''It keeps me alive. I'm still just a kid when I dig up something nobody's ever seen before.''
      