
        Nicholas Orloff, a dancer, ballet master and teacher whose career spanned many companies and eras, died on Tuesday at the Tolstoy Foundation in Valley Cottage, N.Y. He was 86.
        Mr. Orloff was well known for his dancing of the Drummer, a character he originated in David Lichine's 1940 ''Graduation Ball.'' The role contained a solo that was a small showpiece of pure classical dancing. He was also admired for his playing of Mercutio, another role he created, in Antony Tudor's one-act ''Romeo and Juliet'' of 1943
        Mr. Orloff also excelled in comedic roles. But he did not win favor with at least one critic, John Martin of The New York Times, for his interpretation of the woebegone puppet Petrouchka in Michel Fokine's ballet of the same name. ''His natural and engaging extroversion, which stands him in such good stead as Mercutio and in 'Giselle,' is completely against him here,'' Martin wrote in 1949.
        Mr. Orloff was a popular teacher at Ballet Theater and other schools, continuing to teach occasionally in Manhattan studios even after he had a stroke three years ago. Under his tutelage, several generations of ballet performers learned the pleasure of abandoning themselves to the movement.
        Born in Moscow, Mr. Orloff trained in Paris with teachers who included Olga Preobrajenska and Victor Gsovsky. He performed as a soloist and principal dancer with companies including the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo, the Original Ballet Russe, Ballet Theater (as the American Ballet Theater was known in its early years) and the Grand Ballet du Marquis de Cuevas.
        His travels through the exotic, highly charged world of Russian ballet in the West made him politically adept. He was the only dancer who refused to become involved in a small rebellion at Ballet Theater in 1941, a decision attributed to his  character as an eccentric who was ''utterly anti-majority and anti-establishment,'' wrote Charles Payne in his book, ''American Ballet Theater.''
        Mr. Orloff's American career included a stint as the ballet master of the Denver Civic Ballet in the mid-1970's, in addition to many teaching posts around the country.
        Mr. Orloff starred with Violette Verdy in the French film ''Dream Ballerina'' (1950) and performed on Broadway in the musical ''Pipe Dream.'' He was also featured in the 1954 revival of ''On Your Toes.''
        His marriage to the ballerina Nina Popova ended in divorce. He is survived by a son, Alex Orloff, of Manhattan.
      