
        Flip Phillips, a tenor saxophonist who was one of the last links to the swing era and who gained his greatest fame through his performances in the epic Jazz at the Philharmonic concerts of the 1940's and 50's, died yesterday at a hospital in Fort Lauderdale, Fla. He was 86 and lived in Pompano Beach, Fla.
        Born Joseph Filippelli in Brooklyn, Mr. Phillips began his career while still a teenager, playing alto saxophone and clarinet in Brooklyn restaurants. By the tail end of the swing era, in the early 1940's, he was playing on Manhattan's 52nd Street with Frankie Newton, and then performed with Benny Goodman, Wingy Manone and Red Norvo.
        In 1944, his fortunes changed. He joined Woody Herman's First Herd, as one of the main soloists, and soon won attention thanks to the improvisational freedom given him by Herman. He had a warm, smoky ballad sound on tenor saxophone, but as he began to show toward the end of the 1940's -- most famously on a 1947 Jazz at the Philharmonic recording of ''Perdido,'' with Illinois Jacquet, Hank Jones and Howard McGhee as other members of an all-star band -- he could get tremendous crowd reaction by roaring, honking, squealing and playing in a style considered inelegant by the standards of Lester Young, who was then a leading light of the tenor saxophone. He was criticized for doing so, but made a name for himself and went on to play in the Jazz at the Philharmonic's touring revues for 11 years; many of these performances were recorded, and a few are classics.
        In the 1950's he occasionally co-led a group with the trombonist Bill Harris, and he worked with Benny Goodman again in 1959. In the mid-50's, Mr. Phillips settled in Broward County, Fla., where he came out of retirement sporadically to play at festivals and jazz parties.
        Last year, Mr. Phillips made a record for Verve, ''Swing Is the Thing,'' which paired him with a top-class rhythm section and two of today's top tenor saxophonists in jazz, Joe Lovano and James Carter; it was greeted warmly as the return of a beloved figure.
        He is survived by his wife, Miyoko; a sister, Theresa LeBlanc of Brooklyn, N.Y.; and a grandson.
      