
        Dan Towler, an All-Pro fullback for the title-winning Los Angeles Rams teams of the early 1950's who combined pro football with studies for the ministry, died Wednesday at his home in Pasadena, Calif. He was 73.
        He died in his sleep after having attended a baseball game at Dodger Stadium the previous evening, his family said.
        Known as Deacon Dan, Towler missed many team meetings while pursuing a master's degree in religion at the University of Southern California, and he considered himself ''a full-time student, a part-time football player.''
        Nonetheless, he was an All-Pro from 1951 to 1953 and led the National Football League in rushing (894 yards) in 1952, and in rushing touchdowns in 1952 (10) and in '54 (11). He was most valuable player in the 1952 Pro Bowl game. He gained 3,493 yards, for an average of 5.2 yards a carry, and ran for 43 touchdowns in his six seasons, all with the Rams.
        Towler was part of the Bull Elephant backfield -- three bruising and speedy fullbacks put in the lineup together while quarterbacks Bob Waterfield and Norm Van Brocklin teamed up with receivers Elroy (Crazylegs) Hirsch and Tom Fears in a spectacular passing game.
        The Bull Elephants -- Towler (6 feet 2 inches and 225 pounds), Paul (Tank) Younger, at 6-3 and 225, and Dick Hoerner, at 6-4 and 219 -- would be considered smallish today, but they were a fearsome group for their era. They played together on the Rams team that defeated the Cleveland Browns for the 1951 N.F.L. championship, the only league title that the Rams -- previously in Cleveland and now in St. Louis -- won during their 49 years in Los Angeles.
        Towler also played for the Rams teams that won conference titles in 1950 and 1955, but lost to the Browns for the league championship.
        ''The idea for the Bull Elephants came during the 1950 season,'' Towler recalled. ''We were playing in a sea of mud and the coaches alternated backfields hoping to rest us. The coach then realized he had three fullbacks of equal running ability and saw what a powerful weapon he would have with two 200-pounders leading a third.''
        Hirsch said: ''I'll never forget the picture we created with the Bulls' plays -- like one we called 27-M-Sockem. I took the defensive end outside, the tackle turned the defensive tackle in, and Hoerner and Younger, shoulder to shoulder, flew head-on at the linebacker, with Towler, shifty as a scatback, carrying the ball behind them. It was an awesome sight and good for 15 yards almost any time.''
        Daniel Lee Towler, a native of Donora, Pa., came to the Rams in 1950 as a 25th-round draft choice out of Washington & Jefferson College in Washington, Pa., where he was a Little All-American and a cum laude graduate.
        Even as a rookie, he had his eye on the ministry and led the team in pregame prayer, which was a rare practice then. Towler had an arrangement with the Rams' owner, Dan Reeves, giving priority to his studies. ''I missed most of the team meetings,'' Towler said, ''and any time there was a conflict I was excused by the Rams to attend class.''
        Towler retired from football after the 1955 season, when he obtained his master's degree in theology and was named pastor at the Lincoln Avenue Methodist Church in Pasadena. He later obtained a doctorate in education from U.S.C.
        He was a longtime chaplain at California State University-Los Angeles and president of the Los Angeles County Board of Education. He founded the Dan Towler Foundation to provide financial assistance for students studying medicine, nursing, religion and education.
        He is survived by his wife, Rosalind; a daughter, Roslyn; and two sisters.
        Although he had an outstanding career in the N.F.L., Towler wondered what he might have accomplished in football had he concentrated full time on the game.
        ''I was always worn out,'' he once said. ''It's always been a question to me how good I would have been if I'd had the time and energy to concentrate on football as the No. 1 thing, like the other guys. A lot of times, I didn't even know the plays.''
      