
        Dr. Patrick Wall, a British neurophysiologist and educator whose research centered on the nature of pain, died on Aug. 8. He was 76.
        The cause was prostate cancer, according to British press reports.
        Dr. Wall, of London, was among the first to undertake a systematic study of the mechanisms of pain. He tackled the subject in several books and more than 400 articles that appeared in journals of neurology and general science, Brain and Nature, among others.
        Like other researchers, he was curious about the lack of a direct correlation between the actual tissue injury and the intensity of the pain that results. This led him and a longtime associate, Dr. Ronald Melzack, to postulate what they called a ''gate control system'' in the spinal cord.
        They found that the body did not perceive or react to pain until the stimuli that passed through the gate control system exceeded a certain threshold. When first put forward in 1965, the gate control theory of pain met with considerable skepticism. It has found more general acceptance since then and has become the basis for new therapies to deal with pain.
        Patrick David Wall was born in Nottingham, England. He studied at Oxford University, where he received bachelor's degrees in medicine and surgery in 1948 and his doctorate in 1960.
        In 1948, he came to the United States to pursue his research on the nervous system while teaching at Yale, the University of Chicago, Harvard and the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, where he was a professor of biology from 1960 to 1967.
        He returned to Britain that year to join the anatomy department of University College, London. There he was a professor of anatomy and director of the Cerebral Functions Research Group until he retired in 1990.
        He was the founding editor of Pain, the foremost journal on the subject. With Dr. Melzack he edited the authoritative ''Textbook of Pain'' (1983), which went into its fourth edition in 1999. He also wrote ''Pain: The Science of Suffering.''
      