
        Morris Golde, a businessman and friend of the arts, who supported organizations like the Erick Hawkins Dance Foundation and the New York Festival of Song, of which he was a board member, died on Sunday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 81.
        Though business was Mr. Golde's profession, the arts were his passion. Among the close friends to whom he gave support at various times were the composer Ned Rorem (whose early romantic relationship with Mr. Golde is recounted in Mr. Rorem's 1994 memoir, ''Knowing When to Stop''), the poet John Ashbery, the dancer Erick Hawkins, the composer Virgil Thomson and the poet Frank O'Hara. In 1966, O'Hara was staying at Mr. Golde's summer house on Fire Island, along with Thomson and another friend, J. J. Mitchell, when he was run over by a beach buggy and killed.
        Perpetually cheerful and energetic, Mr. Golde was a loyal supporter of arts schools, including Juilliard, the Harlem School of the Arts and the Greenwich House Music School, as well as of arts organizations, including the Film Society of Lincoln Center and the Poetry Project of St. Mark's Church in-the-Bowery.
        He also supported groups that served people with AIDS, including St. Vincent's Hospital and the American Foundation for AIDS Research.
        Born in New York City on April 4, 1920, Mr. Golde (pronounced Goldie) studied clarinet as a child, was a champion at music memory contests in his public school and became a self-described ''art song junkie.'' Persuaded by his parents to study business, he majored in accounting at New York University. After graduation, he joined the Michael Press, a printing and lithography business started by his older brother, Michael, in 1936. In the mid-1950's the company expanded into printing equipment, becoming Michael Business Machines (today the MBM Corporation in Charleston, S.C.). Mr. Golde had been vice president in charge of advertising.
        He is survived by his companion, Gene Myers; two nephews; and two neices.
      