
        Eddie Donovan, the Knicks' general manager who built the electrifying team that captured the 1970 National Basketball Association championship -- the first title in the club's history -- died yesterday in Bernardsville, N.J. He was 78.
        The cause was complications of a stroke, his family said.
        ''Building a ball club is like putting together a puzzle until all the parts fit,'' Donovan once said.
        He began assembling the parts in the spring of 1964 when he drafted a little-known center from Grambling named Willis Reed. The puzzle was completed the night of May 8, 1970, when an injured Reed hobbled onto the Madison Square Garden floor, contained Wilt Chamberlain though he could barely run or jump, and led the Knicks to a dramatic victory over the Los Angeles Lakers in Game 7 of the N.B.A. finals.
        Coach Red Holzman had molded that Knicks team, which captivated New York, by stressing teamwork and defense, but the club bore Donovan's imprint through his shrewd draft selections and trades.
        Donovan, a native of Elizabeth, N.J., earned a reputation as an astute basketball man in Olean, N.Y., 70 miles from Buffalo, playing for St. Bonaventure University and then bringing the school to national prominence as coach.
        Emphasizing a pressing defense and ball movement on offense to offset a lack of height, Donovan had a record of 139-57 at St. Bonaventure over eight seasons. After taking his teams to the National Invitation Tournament from 1957 to 1960, Donovan coached the Bonnies to a No. 3 national ranking in news agency polls in 1961 and a berth in the National Collegiate Athletic Association tournament, where they were beaten in the second round.
        Tom Stith, an all-American forward for St. Bonaventure, was drafted by the Knicks in the first round in 1961, but he developed tuberculosis, sat out a season, then contributed little when he finally joined the team.
        That was a portent for what Donovan would endure after being named the Knicks' coach in May 1961, replacing Carl Braun.
        Taking over a foundering team, Donovan experienced an embarrassing night on March 2, 1962, when Chamberlain, playing with the Philadelphia Warriors, scored 100 points against the Knicks in a 169-147 drubbing at Hershey, Pa.
        Chamberlain was ''guarded'' by a pair of forgettable centers, Darrall Imhoff and Cleveland Buckner. Donovan would be stymied by lack of a good big man, his teams finishing fourth and last in the Eastern Division in his first three seasons. Then, with the Knicks at 12-26, he was replaced as coach by Harry Gallatin on Jan. 3, 1965, and moved up to general manager.
        Donovan's winning percentage of .302 (84-194) is the worst of the 18 coaches in the Knicks' history, but he flourished in the front office.
        In the spring of 1964, Ned Irish, the Knick president, was overseeing construction of a new Madison Square Garden, so he entrusted Donovan, still the coach, and Holzman, the  chief scout, with running the draft. They took Jim (Bad News) Barnes, a forward, in the first round and were lucky to get Reed in the second round.
        From then on, Donovan had a string of superb draft picks as general manager: Bill Bradley, Dave Stallworth and Dick Van Arsdale in 1965, Cazzie Russell in 1966, Walt Frazier and Phil Jackson in 1967.
        Donovan obtained Dick Barnett, an outstanding shooting guard, from the Lakers in 1965 and then in December 1968 he made the deal that ultimately transformed a talented team into a champion, sending the inconsistent center Walt Bellamy and guard Howard Komives to the Detroit Pistons for Dave DeBusschere, an outstanding power forward and a leader.
        Now Reed could be switched from power forward to center, his natural position. Holzman -- named the Knick coach in December 1967 to replace Dick McGuire, who had succeeded Gallatin -- blended the superb talent, and in May 1970 the Knicks won their first league championship since they began play in 1946.
        But Donovan, wanting to be closer to his family in Olean, left the Knicks in March 1970 to become vice president and general manager of the Buffalo Braves, an expansion team that was to begin play the following season. Drafting outstanding players like Bob McAdoo, Ernie DiGregorio and Randy Smith and making smart  trades, Donovan built Buffalo into a playoff team by 1974.
        He returned to the Knicks' general manager's post in April 1975, succeeding Holzman, who was serving as general manager as well as coach.  The second time around was not so successful for Donovan. The Knicks had won another championship in 1973, adding Earl Monroe and Jerry Lucas, but after Reed, DeBusschere and Lucas retired, the team began to go downhill.
        Donovan's influence was curtailed in May 1982 when the Madison Square Garden president, Sonny Werblin, brought in DeBusschere as executive vice president and director of player operations and Hubie Brown as coach. Donovan was named vice president and director of player personnel while Holzman (in his second coaching tenure) became a consultant to the team. Donovan remained in the personnel post through the 1985-86 season. He later served as a vice president at St. Bonaventure before retiring to Spring Hill, Fla., in 1994.
        He is survived by his wife, Marjorie; three sons, Michael of Colts Neck, N.J., Tim of Morristown, N.J., and Sean of Chatham, N.J.; two daughters, Nancy Heinle of Warren, N.J., and Mary Donovan Zipf of Bernardsville; two sisters, Frances Donovan and Katherine Bergen, both of Elizabeth; and 14 grandchildren.
        Donovan was a quiet man who was more a teacher than a disciplinarian. As he once put it, ''My philosophy of basketball can be summed up as team effort and desire.''
      