
        Amram J. Cohen, a heart surgeon who built a program that brought hundreds of children from developing countries to Israel for lifesaving cardiac operations, died on Aug. 16 while climbing Mount Kilimanjaro in Tanzania. He was 47.
        The cause was a heart attack and complications from altitude sickness, relatives and colleagues said.
        Born and raised in the United States, Dr. Cohen moved to Israel in 1992 after years of work as a surgeon with the United States Army.
        He brought three Ethiopian children to Israel for heart surgery in 1996, and then went on to make use of a network of professional and personal contacts to build a volunteer organization to help others for whom the operations were unavailable or too expensive.
        Through a foundation he established, Save a Child's Heart, Dr. Cohen and other surgeons conducted more than 700 operations on children with congenital heart diseases, mostly at the Wolfson Medical Center in Holon, near Tel Aviv, where Dr. Cohen was the head of pediatric cardiac surgery.
        Children were also brought from Nigeria, Tanzania, Congo, Moldova, Russia, Ghana, Vietnam, Ecuador, Jordan and the Palestinian Authority, said Dov Bet-El, director of development for the foundation.
        From the Gaza Strip alone, more than 150 children came for surgery, and operations have continued in the last 11 months of Israeli-Palestinian violence, Mr. Bet-El said. A Palestinian family whose child was treated by Dr. Cohen attended his funeral on Monday.
        Dr. Cohen and his team traveled to China and Ethiopia to operate on about 60 children and taught medical staff there and in other countries. His foundation helped bring doctors and nurses to Israel for training, with the aim of creating centers for treatment of pediatric heart disease in their home countries.
        Dr. Cohen was born in Silver Spring, Md., went to medical school at the University of Virginia, trained at the Walter Reed Army Medical Center in Washington and later was chief of pediatric surgery at the hospital.
        He served in Saudi Arabia during the 1991 gulf war.
        On an earlier tour in Korea in 1988, Dr. Cohen joined a program that helped poor local children with heart diseases, operating on 35 of them and sending others to American hospitals. The experience introduced him to a network of doctors doing similar work in developing countries, inspiring him to start his own program after moving to Israel.
        Dr. Cohen is survived by his wife, Deborah, his son, Nadav, and his daughter, Tali.
      