
        Boyd L. Jefferies, founder of the brokerage firm Jefferies & Company Inc. in Los Angeles and a crucial figure in some of the corporate takeover battles of the 1980's and in insider trading scandals toward the end of the decade, died Thursday near his home in Aspen, Colo., the firm reported yesterday. He was 70.
        The cause was apparently a heart attack, the firm said in a statement.
        Mr. Jefferies helped develop and promote a technique known as third-market trading, which allows institutional investors to sell large blocks of publicly traded stock directly to other institutional investors rather than on a stock exchange. In this way, the likelihood that the transaction would have an impact on the price of the stock could be minimized.
        He also achieved a degree of notoriety when he served as a star witness for the government in prosecuting executives accused of violating federal securities laws. Mr. Jefferies testified in 1989 that he assisted executives of the GAF Corporation in an attempt to inflate the price of Union Carbide shares in the wake of a failed takeover bid.
        Mr. Jefferies often arrived at his Los Angeles office at 2:30 or 3 a.m. to have time to prepare for the opening of the markets in New York, former colleagues said.
        ''There was nothing that would keep Boyd from doing a trade,'' said Frank E. Baxter, chairman of the Jefferies Group, the holding company that owns Jefferies & Company. ''Once he went to Lebanon because he thought there was a buyer of a big block'' of stock there, he said. ''I remember him talking about there being gunfire while he was there.''
        But Mr. Jefferies resigned from the firm in 1987 -- 25 years after he founded it with $30,000 in borrowed money, -- after he was implicated in securities law violations himself by the takeover stock speculator Ivan F. Boesky. He pleaded guilty to two felonies and was subsequently barred from securities trading.
        After his resignation, Mr. Jefferies helped establish a program in Aspen to teach golf to disadvantaged children, bringing in professional golfers as teachers, said Tom Tarrant, a spokesman for Jefferies & Company.
        A member of the 1952 graduating class of the University of California at Los Angeles, Mr. Jefferies first worked on an Arizona cattle ranch before joining an investment firm in Pasadena, Calif.
        The Jefferies firm was among the first to operate in the third market for trading among institutional investors, said Bernard L. Madoff, who runs a securities firm in New York.
        ''They had that business pretty much to themselves,'' he said. ''On top of that he was actually very, very well liked in the industry.''
        Under Mr. Jefferies and his successor, Mr. Baxter, Jefferies & Company grew steadily and now employs more than 1,100 people in offices around the world. The company went public in 1983.
        Mr. Jefferies' son, Stephen, died in 1981 in a motorcycle accident, and in memoriam Mr. Jefferies created a scholarship fund to benefit children of employees of Jefferies & Company. Mr. Jefferies is survived by his second wife, Sharon; his daughter, Carol; and three grandchildren.
      