
        Dr. Harry Martin Meyer Jr., a pediatric virologist who played a vital role in defeating German measles and other infectious diseases, died on Sunday in Kenmore, Wash., at the home of his stepson. He was 72 and lived in Friday Harbor, Wash., on San Juan Island.
        The cause was T-cell lymphoma, his family said.
        Dr. Meyer rose to national prominence with the discovery of the first effective vaccine against rubella, or German measles, which had been largely regarded as a child's unpleasant rite of passage.
        But an outbreak that began in 1964, lasting two years, infected more than 12 million people in the United States alone and closely followed research that had linked rubella in pregnant women to a high incidence of serious birth defects.
        The epidemic affected about 20,000 American children, born deaf or otherwise disabled, and led to a campaign at the National Institutes of Health to find a vaccine. Dr. Meyer directed the effort, with Dr. Paul D. Parkman.
        Working rapidly, they introduced the first rubella vaccine in 1966, assuring safe and lasting immunity at low cost.
        Dr. Meyer and Dr. Parkman also devised a test to measure that immunity.
        The vaccine has since been refined into the vaccine known as M.M.R., for mumps, measles and rubella.
        Dr. Meyer received worldwide recognition in the field of infectious diseases, particularly viral diseases, and vaccines. He published more than 100 scientific papers and chapters in textbooks.
        He held patents on the rubella vaccine, the detection of immune responses and immunosuppression in mammals.
        Before working with rubella, Dr. Meyer tested an experimental vaccine against red measles, or rubeola, in West African nations hit hard by an epidemic. He and Dr. John Enders, a Nobel Prize winner from Harvard, help to immunize more than a million children in eight countries over three years, beginning in 1961.
        As a medical virologist, Dr. Meyer also looked into the causes of encephalitis and other disorders of the central nervous system. He took part in the clinical trial of an experimental smallpox vaccine derived from chick embryos. He also worked on the isolation of the virus that causes Asian flu.
        Known as Hank Meyer, he was born in Palestine, Tex., and received his medical degree at the University of Arkansas in 1953. He completed his internship at Walter Reed Army Hospital, where he was assigned to the Reed Army Institute of Research.
        Dr. Meyer joined the National Institutes of Health in 1959 as head of a virus research section in the biologics division. He was named chief of the laboratory of viral immunology in 1964.
        In 1972, the Division of Biologics Standards moved to the Food and Drug Administration and was renamed the Bureau of Biologics. Dr. Meyer was its first director, serving until 1982.
        He retired in 1986 as director of the F.D.A.'s Center of Drugs and Biologics in Rockville, Md. He oversaw its laboratory experiments with vaccines and other biological and pharmaceutical drugs, as well as the approval of new products.
        After leaving public service in 1986, he became president of the Medical Research Division of the American Cyanamid Company in Pearl River, N.Y. He retired from there in 1993.
        Over the years he was on many advisory panels for the World Health Organization and interdepartmental and international groups. He testified before Congress and, while at the F.D.A., served on an executive task force that helped coordinate the country's efforts to combat AIDS.
        Dr. Meyer is survived by his wife of 35 years, Barbara Chalfant Meyer; two sons and a daughter from an earlier marriage, H. Martin III, of Bellbrook, Ohio, David W., of Kensington, Md., and Dr. Mary C. Dundon of Nashville; his stepson, Stephen A. Bernheim; a sister, Martha Moore of Conway, Ark.; a brother, M. Eugene, of Memphis; and five grandchildren. His marriage to Mary Jane Martin ended in divorce.
      