
        Thomas A. Coughlin, a former state trooper who modernized New York State's mental retardation and prison systems, died on Thursday at a hospital in Syracuse. He was 63.
        The cause was complications after heart bypass surgery, the State Department of Correctional Services announced.
        While he was New York corrections commissioner, Mr. Coughlin presided over the rapid growth of the prison system. There were about 21,000 inmates when he took over in 1979 and almost 67,000 when he retired after 15 years. He served in the post under Governors Hugh L. Carey and Mario M. Cuomo, both Democrats.
        ''Our goal should be habilitation, not rehabilitation,'' Mr. Coughlin used to say. ''Why would I want to return the disabled to their unassisted state? Why would I want to return inmates to the streets that they were never prepared for in the first place?''
        He expanded educational and vocational opportunities for inmates, developed programs to prepare offenders for their eventual return to society and worked toward a more professional staff.
        While there were three major inmate riots when he was commissioner -- Ossining in 1983, Coxsackie in 1988 and Southport in 1991 -- Mr. Coughlin quelled them through negotiation and without serious injury to the staff or the inmates. There was no repetition of the bloody Attica uprising in 1971, which left 43 people dead.
        In 1985, Mr. Coughlin found it necessary to apologize for having implied that blacks and Hispanics were more likely than others to commit crimes.
        When Mr. Coughlin announced his retirement, even his earlier critics praised some of his actions. Robert Gangi, executive director of the Correctional Association of New York, a watchdog organization, lauded Mr. Coughlin for having urged improved drug treatment and rehabilitation for inmates and an end to some mandatory sentencing.
        ''It's one thing for folks like us, the reformers, to say it,'' Mr. Gangi said at the time. ''But when Coughlin says it -- a corrections commissioner who's got a reputation for being a hard-nosed guy with a law enforcement background -- I think it gains extra standing and credibility.''
        Before leading the state prison system, Mr. Coughlin had run the state's mental retardation office, where he worked to improve the state's institutional care system for the disabled. Mr. Coughlin said that he was drawn to the field because his daughter Tracy, was born mentally retarded; she died in 1993.
        Thomas Aloysius Coughlin 3rd was born in the Flatbush section of Brooklyn on Feb. 12, 1938.
        After eight years in the United States Air Force, he graduated from Goddard College in Vermont, attended Syracuse University's law school and served for several years with the state police.
        In 1975 Mr. Coughlin was named deputy commissioner of mental hygiene by Governor Carey. In 1978, he became the first commissioner of the newly named Office of Mental Retardation and Developmental Disabilities.
        He then moved to corrections and retired in 1994 after the longest term as prison chief in the state's history.
        Mr. Coughlin is survived by his wife, Joan, of Three Mile Bay, N.Y.; two daughters, Laurie Felter of Ravena, N.Y., and Kelly Coughlin of Hunter, N.Y.; his mother, Beatrice of Climax, N.Y.; and a sister, Helen Latham of Brooklyn.
      