
        Steven Izenour, an architect and an author with Robert Venturi and Denise Scott Brown of ''Learning From Las Vegas,'' the influential radical manifesto of 1972 that celebrates the gaudy glories of the American commercial strip, died on Tuesday while bicycling on vacation in Vermont. He was 61 and lived in Philadelphia.
        The cause was a heart attack, his firm reported.
        Mr. Izenour was a principal and a leading spirit in the architectural firm of Venturi, Scott Brown & Associates, where he worked for more than three decades. In addition to carrying out his own architectural projects, including the Philadelphia Children's Zoo of 1985 and most recently the new Children's Garden in Camden, N.J., Mr. Izenour presided over his firm's exhibition and graphic designs, project presentations, research and office organization.
        An ardent advocate of American vernacular architecture, he lectured, taught and was a critic at architecture schools and at universities in the United States, Canada and Europe.
        Mr. Izenour (pronounced I-zen-our) was born on July 16, 1940, in New Haven. His father, George Izenour, a theater and lighting designer, taught him the delights of architecture, taking him on tours of the theaters on which he worked and of Frank Lloyd Wright's works. While studying architecture at Swarthmore, Mr. Izenour met Elisabeth Margit Gemmill, whom he married in 1964. He received his bachelor's degree in architecture from the University of Pennsylvania and a master's in education from Yale in 1969.
        While he was a teaching assistant to Mr. Venturi and Ms. Scott Brown at Yale, Mr. Izenour was invited to join the couple as they set out to explore Las Vegas.
        ''He was a unique spirit from the get-go,'' Ms. Scott Brown said. ''The rebellious maverick side of our work appealed to him, and he was always in perfect sympathy with whatever we were investigating.''
        He organized the trip to Las Vegas and photographed the hotel strips as neon showstoppers and emblems of design's raw potential. He eventually helped write ''Learning From Las Vegas'' (M.I.T. Press, 1972). This manifesto on spontaneity as a vital design force has influenced students of architecture and popular culture ever since.
        In addition to his wife, who lives in Philadelphia, and his father, of Stony Creek, Conn., Mr. Izenour is survived by his mother, Hildegard Izenour, and his children, Ann Kristine Stephany of Waukegan, Ill., and Tessa Izenour and John Hilt Izenour, both of Philadelphia.
        Known as the Big Tuna around the office, Ms. Scott Brown said, Mr. Izenour was involved in almost every project at the firm. In 1982 he designed a house on Long Island Sound for his parents; it was featured in an exhibition at the Pompidou Center in Paris and won a national honor award from the American Institute of Architects.
        With his father he created the striking scheme for lighting the Benjamin Franklin Bridge in Philadelphia during the bicentennial celebration of the Constitution in 1987. His installation on the visions and inspirations of Venturi, Scott Brown & Associates was included in ''Out of the Ordinary,'' a retrospective and survey at the Philadelphia Museum of Art, which closed on Aug. 5.
      