
        Hank Sauer, a slugging outfielder who was the National League's most valuable player in 1952 although his Chicago Cubs team managed only a fifth-place finish, died Friday in Burlingame, Calif. He was 84.
        Sauer, who lived in Millbrae, Calif., had a heart attack while playing golf with friends, his wife, Jeanne, said.
        Playing 15 seasons, all in the National League, the right-handed-batting Sauer hit 288 home runs and was a two-time All-Star. He tied the Pittsburgh Pirates' Ralph Kiner for the major league home run title in 1952, with 37, and led the majors in runs batted in that year with 121 while batting .270.
        Never playing in a World Series, Sauer experienced what he later called his greatest thrill in baseball when he homered off Bob Lemon, with Stan Musial on base, in the fourth inning of the 1952 All-Star Game at Shibe Park in Philadelphia. That drive gave the National League a 3-2 victory in a game called by rain after five innings.
        A strapping 6-foot-3 200-pounder who swung an usually heavy 40-ounce bat, Sauer enjoyed his greatest success with the Cubs, from 1949 to 1955. He was a hugely popular player, known as the Mayor of Wrigley Field, who performed mostly in a losing cause. The highest the Cubs finished in his time at Wrigley was in his M.V.P. season, when they were fifth out of the eight teams, and that team was only 77-77.
        When Sauer won the M.V.P. award in 1952, he was the first player to have been cited while with a team that finished in the bottom half of its league's standing since the Baseball Writers' Association of America began giving the award in 1931.
        The bleacher fans at Wrigley Field did not have many chances to cheer the Cubs, but they showered their star left fielder with gifts.
        ''I loved playing in Wrigley Field,'' Sauer once said. ''Fans would throw tobacco to me. What I couldn't put in my pocket, I'd store in the vines. I supplied the whole club with tobacco.''
        A missile flew as well when the Cubs played the White Sox one day in an exhibition at Comiskey Park, but this time the offering was not a 15-cent red-and-white-striped package of Beech Nut chewing tobacco. ''A Sox fan threw one of those heavy circular iron grates and just missed me,'' Sauer remembered. ''They were tough on the South Side.''
        A native of Pittsburgh, Sauer was signed by the Yankees' minor league system out of semipro baseball in 1937. He was later acquired by the Reds' organization and played briefly with Cincinnati in 1941 and '42, then served in the Coast Guard during World War II. He hit 35 homers for the Reds in 1948 but was traded to the Cubs in the middle of 1949.
        Sauer accomplished an unprecedented home run feat while with the Cubs, hitting three home runs in a game twice against the same pitcher. His blows came against the Phillies' Curt Simmons in 1950 and 1952, both times at Wrigley Field.
        After seven years in Chicago, Sauer played for the Cardinals in 1956 and then spent his last three seasons with the Giants. Playing at the Polo Grounds in 1957, the Giants' last year in New York, he hit 26 home runs at age 40. Having played in only 75 games for the Cardinals the previous year, mostly as a pinch-hitter, he was named the comeback player of the year by the baseball writers.
        Sauer played for the Giants in their first two seasons in San Francisco, then retired with a lifetime batting average of .266 and 876 runs batted in to go with his 288 homers. He was a longtime batting instructor and a scout for the Giants.
        In addition to his wife, Sauer is survived by two sons, Hank Jr., of San Mateo, Calif., and Christopher, of Ogden, Utah; a daughter, Lori Neuffer, of Sacramento; and four grandchildren. His brother Ed, who died in 1988, was an outfielder for the Cubs in the World War II years -- playing in the 1945 World Series -- and later played for the Cardinals and the Boston Braves.
        The Cubs' fans may have loved Sauer, but management was not always appreciative when it came to financial rewards.
        After the 1954 season, when Sauer hit a career-high 41 homers, drove in 103 runs and batted .288, he received a contract offer that stunned him. As he recalled it: ''They sent me a contract with a $1,500 cut in salary. I said: 'Are you sure you're sending this to the right guy? I had a pretty good year.' They said: 'You had a pretty good year but we still ended up in seventh place. We could have ended up in seventh without you.' ''
        Sauer pointed out, ''They wouldn't have gotten that many fans without me.'' He settled for the same salary.
      