
        Herbert Haag, a Swiss liberal Roman Catholic theologian who sought reform and liberalization of the church and had a noted dispute with church authorities over matters including whether ordained priests were needed to celebrate the Eucharist, died on Thursday in Lucerne, Switzerland. He was 86 and lived in Lucerne.
        He died after a short, severe illness, the Swiss news agency SDA said.
        An internationally known authority on the Old Testament, he held a doctorate in theology from the University of Fribourg, Switzerland. He taught theology at universities in Lucerne and then in T端bingen, Germany from 1948 until his retirement in 1980.
        As the Swiss newspaper Neue Z端rcher Zeitung recalled this week, he demanded, from his desk and from the pulpit, change in the Catholic Church.
        His writings include a 1997 book translated from German into English as ''Upstairs, Downstairs: Did Jesus Want a Two-Class Church?'' (Crossroads, 1998). The book chronicles the historical origins of separation between the clergy and ordinary people.
        In it he contended, ''The crisis in the church will continue for as long as it refuses to reform itself from the two categories -- the priests and the laity, those who are ordained and those who are not.''
        He held that ''apostolic succession'' was an untenable concept. Last year he contended in a newspaper article that ordained priests, in short supply in Switzerland, were not needed to celebrate the Eucharist.
        In reaction to this and other statements, the Swiss Bishops Conference issued a declaration officially withdrawing its confidence in him. Kurt Koch, the bishop of Basel, Switzerland, called his views ''self-centered and destructive.''
        Earlier, in 1985, he established a foundation to foster openness in the church. The foundation gave awards to organizations opposing vows of celibacy and the exclusion of women from the priesthood.
        In 1981 he was the co-author of an open letter in Swiss newspapers contending that a wrong had been done to another Swiss Catholic theologian, Hans K端ng, who had challenged church doctrines. In 1979 a Vatican decree sanctioned by Pope John Paul II deprived K端ng of his right to teach as a Catholic theologian.
        Herbert Haag was born in Singen, Germany. In 1940, he was ordained as a priest for the diocese of Basel.
        His survivors include a nephew, Herbert N. Haag.
      