
        C. Malcolm Watkins, a museum curator and collector of everyday objects who believed that American culture could be distilled in an earthenware teacup, died on Jan. 12 in Leesburg, Va. He was 89 and lived in Reston, Va.
        Mr. Watkins spent 31 years of his career at the Smithsonian Institution, where he developed the first large exhibition hall devoted to everyday life in early America. It opened in 1957 at the National Museum of Natural History and moved to the Museum of History and Technology building in 1964.
        Mr. Watkins became a professional collector two years after graduating from Harvard in 1934, when he was hired to help sift through a private stockpile of early American artifacts. That assignment led to the creation of Old Sturbridge Village, a reproduction of an 1830's town assembled in Sturbridge, Mass.
        He was a curator at Sturbridge until 1948, with a leave of absence from 1942 to 1946 to serve in the air corps during World War II.
        Though he was associated with so-called living museums, where interpreters in period costume carry out the daily activities of another time, his real interest was artifacts.
        ''He was a ceramics man,'' said Ivor Noel Hume, who retired as the resident archaeologist at Colonial Williamsburg. ''His interest was the down-to-earth things the common person had.''
        To compose scenes reflecting the habits and tastes of early Americans, Mr. Watkins drew from a paper trail of court records, bills of lading and other scribbled materials, along with daily paraphernalia excavated from pottery kilns, privies, trash heaps and wells.
        ''He said the object is the bottom line,'' said his wife and collaborator, Joan Pearson Watkins, a ceramist and historic preservationist. She is his sole survivor.
        Mr. Watkins helped found the Society for Historical Archaeology and received its Award of Merit in 1996 for ''original and pioneering'' work.
        Mr. Watkins was particularly drawn to early American pottery, a passion he shared with his mother, Lura Woodside Watkins, a scholar of Colonial glass and ceramics, who dedicated her 1950 book ''Early New England Potters and Their Wares'' to her son.
        After retiring from the Smithsonian in 1979, Mr. Watkins continued to work as a historian. A railroad buff who was fascinated by the West, he was researching links between New England and California while continuing to work on what Mr. Hume called ''his magnum opus,'' a book about New England pottery, at the time of his death.
        That work was almost impossible to finish, Mr. Hume said, because Mr. Watkins was always ''waiting for one more thing.''
      