
        Karl Ulrich Schnabel, son of the pianist Artur Schnabel and an influential piano teacher and recitalist in his own right, died on Monday at a hospital in Danbury, Conn. He was 92 and had homes in Danbury and in Como, Italy.
        As a performer, Mr. Schnabel was best known for his devotion to the repertory for piano four-hands. He recorded some of this repertory, most notably duos by Schubert and Bach's C major Concerto for Two Keyboards, with his father. In 1939 he formed the Duo Schnabel with Helen Fogel, an American pianist who had already achieved some renown as a soloist. They married and continued to play duo recitals for more than three decades. After his wife's death, in 1974, Mr. Schnabel formed a duet with the Canadian pianist Jean Rowland, with whom he made several recordings.
        ''The literature for four hands at one piano is sadly neglected,'' Mr. Schnabel told an interviewer for The New York Times in 1994. ''There are four volumes of Schubert, which include such treasures as the F-minor Fantasy, the Grand Duo and the A-flat Variations; there are wonderful pieces by Mozart, Mendelssohn, Brahms, Dvorak and Debussy.
        ''Four-hand playing is a complex art that requires enormous time and patience. You are half of a whole rather than a whole in yourself. The four-hand repertory possesses qualities of chamber music, symphonic music and virtuoso music -- sometimes all in the same piece.''
        Mr. Schnabel was born in Berlin on Aug. 6, 1909, and studied piano at the State Academy of Music there, both with Leonid Kreutzer and with his father, who encouraged him to become a conductor rather than a pianist, in order to avoid comparisons that the family name would inevitably invite. But the younger Schnabel was more decisively drawn to the piano. By the time he was 13, he had become his father's teaching assistant. He also performed as an accompanist for his mother, the contralto Therese Behr.
        Mr. Schnabel made his professional debut in Berlin in 1926. In 1933, he emigrated to New York, but he continued to perform in Europe until the outbreak of the war, in 1939. In New York, he was appointed chairman of the piano faculty at the Dalcroze School of Music. Much of his teaching thereafter took place in master classes at universities around the world, and a starry list of pianists attended them, including Claude Frank, Murray Perahia, Richard Goode, Peter Serkin and Ursula Oppens.
        Mr. Schnabel was a Classicist at heart, concerned both with fidelity to the printed score and with creating the proper sense of structural, dynamic and coloristic proportion within a work. As both an interpreter and a teacher, he believed in leaving nothing to chance, and devoted considerable attention to the nuances that could be created using the three pedals on the modern piano. His ideas on the subject formed the basis of his book, ''Modern Technique of the Pedal,'' which he published in 1950. In 1985 he joined the faculty of the Manhattan School of Music, from which he retired last year.
        Mr. Schnabel is survived by his companion, Patricia Lutnes, and a daughter, Ann Mottier of Stamford, Conn.
      