
        Dr. Josef Fried, an organic chemist whose work with steroid hormones and other compounds was applied to pharmaceutical products, died on Aug. 17 in a retirement community in Chicago. He was 87.
        Dr. Fried was most noted for his subtle alteration of chemical structures, which enabled him to produce tailor-made compounds. Those compounds, in turn, led to medications to relieve inflammatory diseases like arthritis or psoriasis and various skin allergies.
        His name appeared on nearly 200 patents for biologically active chemical compounds, 43 listing him as sole holder. He joined the faculty of the University of Chicago as a professor of chemistry and biochemistry in 1963, but he did much of his pioneering work earlier in his career at the Squibb Institute for Medical Research in New Brunswick, N.J.
        Dr. Fried also introduced a class of compounds known as fluorosteroids, which ''revolutionized the treatment of many endocrine disorders,'' said Dr. William Elliott, a professor of preventive medicine at Rush-Presbyterian-St. Luke's Medical Center in Chicago.
        Josef Fried was born in Przemysl,  Poland. He went to school in Leipzig, Germany, and attended the Universities of Leipzig and Zurich before coming to the United States in 1938.
        He received his Ph.D. in organic chemistry at Columbia University in 1940 and stayed on as a postdoctoral fellow until 1943.
        Joining the Squibb Institute in 1944, he was named head of its antibiotics and steroids department and advanced to director of the organic chemistry section in 1959.
        At Chicago he concentrated on the synthesis of prostaglandins, a group of hormonelike fatty acids found throughout the body. As hormone regulators, they affect vital body processes; his work helped explain their function and make possible their use in drugs. He retired in 1984.
        He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Dr. Fried is survived by his daughter, Carol F. Fried of Chicago; and a brother, John, of Atherton, Calif. His wife, Erna Werner Fried, died in 1986 after 47 years of marriage.
      