
        Crash Davis, an obscure 1940's infielder who emerged as something of a celebrity when Kevin Costner became his namesake playing a shrewd but fading minor leaguer in the movie ''Bull Durham,'' died last Friday at his home in Greensboro, N.C. He was 82.
        He had cancer, his family said.
        The Crash Davis of ''Bull Durham'' was a longtime catcher brought in by the Durham Bulls to take the rough edges off the irrepressible pitching phenom Nuke LaLoosh (Tim Robbins). While that was happening, they became enveloped in a romantic triangle with the lusty baseball groupie Annie Savoy (Susan Sarandon).
        The baseball career of Lawrence (Crash) Davis bore some resemblance to that of the film's Crash Davis. The real Crash Davis indeed played for the Durham Bulls. But he was a second baseman, shortstop and first baseman who had been a genuine if undistinguished major leaguer, with the Philadelphia Athletics. The film's Crash Davis was a slugging catcher who made it to the majors only for the so-called cup of coffee.
        Ron Shelton, a former minor leaguer who wrote and directed ''Bull Durham,'' found a listing for a Crash Davis while looking through a record book for the Carolina League.
        ''It's a great name,'' Mr. Shelton remarked in an interview with The Atlanta Journal-Constitution in 1988, when the film was released. ''I didn't even realize that he was alive. Last fall, while we were filming, Mr. Davis, he's a real gentleman, showed up. I said, 'Mr. Davis, we might have a problem if you don't want us to use your name.' ''
        ''He said: 'I have just one question. In the end, do I get the girl?'
        ''I said, 'You sure do.'
        ''He said, 'Well, then, fine.' ''
        Davis liked to say that he was a consultant for the film -- not on the baseball scenes, but the sex scenes. But he was, in fact, a modest type, having confessed to being ''sort of embarrassed'' at some of the steamy moments when he took his two daughters to see the premiere.
        A native of Canon, Ga., Davis grew up in Gastonia, N.C., playing shortstop for an American Legion team that won a national championship in 1935. He played second base for Duke University from 1938 to '40.
        Joining the Athletics out of college, he was a reserve infielder, appearing in 148 games from 1940 to 1942 for last-place teams with a career average of .230 and two home runs. That didn't exactly inspire visions of Cooperstown, but Davis was hardly the archetype of the career minor leaguer represented by the Crash Davis of ''Bull Durham.''
        After serving in the Navy during World War II, Davis returned to professional baseball in 1946, this time in the minors. He hit .315 with a league-leading 50 doubles for Durham of the Carolina League in 1948, but he retired in 1952 without having made it back to the major leagues.
        Returning to Gastonia, he coached high school and American Legion baseball and worked as a personnel executive for Burlington Industries.
        He is survived by his daughters, Sharon Jennings, of Kings Mountain, N.C., and Diana Moore, of Denver; two brothers, Bobby Frank Davis, of Gastonia, and James Hudson Davis, of Charlotte, N.C.; a sister, Marie Blynt, of Gastonia; and three grandchildren.
        As a beloved figure in North Carolina, Davis was enlisted in the early 1990's in the successful drive to keep the Durham Bulls from leaving town. He had a small role as Wahoo Sam Crawford, the Detroit Tigers' Hall of Fame outfielder, in Mr. Shelton's 1994 film ''Cobb,'' in which Tommy Lee Jones starred as Ty Cobb. He was sought out for autographs and was a guest this summer at a centennial celebration of minor league baseball at the Smithsonian Institution in Washington.
        He often explained how Lawrence Davis became Crash Davis.
        ''When I was a boy and my voice was changing, they called me Squeaky,'' he said. ''Then I became Dynamite. And later on, they called me Crash, I think because I ran into the left fielder trying to catch a ball.''
        That mishap turned out to be his magical moment.
        As he put it, ''I can't imagine Kevin Costner playing the role of Squeaky Davis.''
      