
        Julian W. Scheer, whose deft handling of public relations helped foster America's fascination with the space program from the early orbits of Earth until the first Moon landing, died on Saturday at his cattle ranch in Catlett, Va. He was 75.
        The cause was a tractor accident, his wife, Suzanne, said.
        Mr. Scheer, who had covered the fledgling space program as a newspaper reporter, joined NASA in 1962 as a consultant and was named assistant administrator for public affairs in 1963. Working closely with James E. Webb, the second head of the agency but the most influential of NASA administrators, he built an information program that embraced the news media and fed their appetite for news about space.
        The result was a steady flow of generally positive public attention during the risky and expensive drive to land a man on the Moon, making public heroes of the early astronauts.
        After the lunar landing, Mr. Scheer was awarded NASA's highest recognition, the Distinguished Service Medal.
        At an agency of technicians, scientists and aviators, Mr. Scheer's ideas and his power rubbed some the wrong way, and he was replaced shortly after Mr. Webb left NASA.
        But from conceiving the idea of an oversized airmail stamp of the lunar  landing (with the postmark for the first day of issue imprinted by the lunar explorers themselves) to insisting that the first steps on the Moon be carried live on television, Mr. Scheer left indelible impressions.
        The lunar landing was as much about ''projecting a positive image of the United States as it was about science and exploration,'' said John M. Logsdon, author of ''The Decision to Go to the Moon: Apollo and the National Interest'' (MIT, 1970). ''Scheer was key to the success of that effort.''
        Julian Weisel Scheer was born in 1926 in Richmond, Va., the son of Hilda Knopf and George Fabian Scheer. As a teenager, he was an apprentice for local news organizations; he joined the merchant marine at the age of 17 and later served in the Naval Reserve.
        After World War II, he studied English at the University of North Carolina. He then became a sportswriter for The Charlotte News.
        After leaving NASA, he started a public relations company and in 1976 joined the LTV Corporation, a conglomerate in aerospace and other industries. He was a trustee of the Smithsonian Institution's National Air and Space Museum and wrote five books, three for adults and two for children, including a well-received children's book, ''Rain Makes Applesauce'' (Holiday House, 1964).
        Mr. Scheer is survived by his wife, Suzanne Huggan Scheer; his children Hilary Gerhardt, Susan Scheer, David Scott Scheer and George Grey Scheer; and four grandchildren.
      