
        Judge James Lopez Watson, one of the most senior black members of the federal judiciary, died Saturday at his home in Harlem. He was 79.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        At his death, he was a senior judge on the United States Court of International Trade, having been appointed in 1966 by President Lyndon B. Johnson to what was then the United States Customs Court. In 1980, Congress reorganized the court, which deals primarily with matters like the classification and valuation of imported goods, tariffs, customs duties and charges of unfair practices by trading partners.
        As the need arose, its nine members could be assigned to sit in any Federal District Court in the nation. As a result, Judge Watson, a former New York State senator and city Civil Court judge, worked in districts around the country, presiding over various civil and criminal matters.
        When he was new to the federal bench, in January 1966, he heard and decided Customs Court cases in California, Oregon and Washington. The next month, he was in Atlanta, Tampa, Houston, El Paso, San Antonio and Dallas.
        Other black judges had sat on the Customs Court, but he was the first to be given assignments in the South. Legal researchers say that while some black judges had presided over local courts there during the Reconstruction Era after the Civil War, none before him had headed a federal court in the Deep South.
        Born in Harlem, Judge Watson was active in public affairs virtually his entire adult life. He first worked for his father, James S. Watson, who presided as a Municipal Court justice for 18 years and then was president of the Municipal Civil Service Commission for four years.
        The son served with the Buffalo Soldiers of World War II in the all-black 371st Infantry Regiment, 92nd Division. He was wounded in Italy and came back with a Purple Heart and the Infantry Combat Badge.
        He graduated from New York University in 1947 and from Brooklyn Law School in 1951. He went into private practice and increasingly engaged in politics, winning election to the State Senate in 1954 and to the Civil Court in 1963.
        He first met Lyndon Johnson, then the Senate majority leader, in 1959. Both his parents had been born in Jamaica, and in 1962 President John F. Kennedy chose him to accompany Vice President Johnson to the Jamaican Independence celebration.
        As a federal judge, he helped modernize his court under the Customs Court Act of 1970, which brought it more in line with the rest of the federal judiciary system. As chairman of its rules and practices committee, he had a hand in reworking court rules and introducing computers to the court.
        He took senior status in 1991.
        Judge Watson is survived by two daughters, Karen Watson of Washington and Kris Watson of Harlem; a son, Norman Jenkins III, of Riverdale, the Bronx; a sister, Grace Watson of Washington; and three grandchildren. His wife, D'Jaris Hinton Jenkins Watson, died in 1989 after 34 years of marriage.
      