
        Dr. Sheldon Datz, who helped develop a technique to observe the interplay of molecules during chemical reactions, died on Aug. 15 in Oak Ridge, Tenn. He was 74.
        The cause was pneumonia following pulmonary fibrosis, said the Oak Ridge National Laboratory, where Dr. Datz worked for most of his career before retiring last November.
        Dr. Datz was one of three scientists to share last year's Enrico Fermi Award, conferred by the federal government to recognize lifetime achievements in energy research.
        In the 1950's, Dr. Datz, together with Dr. Ellison Taylor, director of the chemistry division at Oak Ridge, pioneered the field of crossed-beam molecular chemistry in an effort to investigate in detail how ingredients merged in experiments.
        In conventional experiments, scientists mix chemicals and stir; they thus know the initial ingredients and the final product.
        Dr. Herbert Krause, senior research scientist at Oak Ridge, said Dr. Datz and Dr. Taylor ''wanted to study the dynamics of molecular collisions.''
        To that end, they produced two intersecting beams, or streams, of molecules. The initial experiments involved one beam of hydrogen bromide molecules and one beam of potassium atoms. The molecules underwent chemical reactions as they collided. The potassium knocked the hydrogen bromide apart; the pieces reformed as potassium bromide and hydrogen.
        This technique let researchers view how the molecules spun and vibrated after the chemical reaction.
        ''It isolated everything that is going on,'' Dr. Krause said. ''It then allowed theorists to do very detailed chemical calculations about what was happening in the collision.''
        The work provided the foundation for research that, in 1986, led to a Nobel Prize in chemistry for three other scientists.
        Born July 21, 1927, in New York City, Dr. Datz published his first scientific paper while still a student at Stuyvesant High School, and in 1943, at 16, he worked in a Columbia University laboratory on research that was part of the effort to build the first atomic bomb. At 17, he joined the Navy and fought in the South Pacific in World War II.
        Dr. Datz received his bachelor's degree in chemistry from Columbia  in 1950 and a master's there in 1951. He then began work as a research chemist at Oak Ridge. He received his Ph.D. from the University of Tennessee in 1960.
        After his work on crossed-beam molecular chemistry, Dr. Datz investigated the dynamics of ions slamming at high speeds into crystals, providing information about the electronic properties of the crystals.
        More recently, he developed a technique for studying low-speed collisions between charged molecules and electrons, mimicking chemical processes that occur in interstellar space.
        He published more than 300 papers in scientific journals.
        Dr. Datz is survived by his wife, Jonna Datz; a daughter, Joan Green of Santa Clarita, Calif.; a son, William L., of Knoxville, Tenn.; and four grandchildren.
      