
        Charlie Lourie, a co-founder of the  jazz reissue label Mosaic, died on Sunday at his home in Stamford, Conn. He was 60.
        Michael Cuscuna, his partner at Mosaic, said Mr. Lourie had been suffering from scleroderma, a rare viral disease, for the last three years.
        Mosaic, started 17 years ago by Mr. Lourie and Mr. Cuscuna, is the most distinctive reissue label in jazz -- a successful operation by and for hard-core enthusiasts.
        Sold only by mail order, its CD and vinyl-record box-sets are uniform, monolithic, and serious. They have ranged in size from a 2-CD Don Cherry set to an 18-CD Nat (King) Cole set.
        Printed in limited-edition quantities, mostly of 500 copies, and decorated with black-and-white images only, the Mosaic reissues tend to collect all the existing recordings of an artist on a particular label, or within a particular time frame; they come with 10,000-word essays by jazz critics and historians.
        Many of the photographs draw from the archives of Francis Wolff, who covered jazz sessions from the 1940's to the 70's, and the images are printed from original negatives on glossy paper.
        The partners' 105 projects have included major reissues of Thelonious Monk, Miles Davis, Herbie Nichols, Count Basie and Andrew Hill, among others.
        The company, which began with no outside financing, is now half owned by EMI. Its Nat Cole set, from 1990, with a list price of $270, sold 6,000 copies.
        Mr. Lourie came to a career in the jazz-record industry through an early life as a clarinetist, both jazz and classical. He was born in Boston and attended the New England Conservatory. In the 1960's he worked throughout the Boston area with chamber groups, symphony orchestras, and jazz ensembles.
        In 1968 Mr. Lourie moved to New York, filling the position of manager of contemporary artist relations at Columbia Records. By the early 70's he was in charge of the merchandising department at Columbia's sub-label, Epic. In 1974 he moved to Los Angeles and became head of marketing at Blue Note records, and in the late 70's he was hired by Warner Bros., where he was made director of jazz and progressive music. He founded Mosaic records in 1983 with Mr. Cuscuna, operating out of Santa Monica, Calif., and moving to Stamford in 1985.
        He is survived by a daughter, Sarah; a son, David; a brother, Alan, of Washington, and his mother, Rose, of Boston.
      