
        Heywood Hale Broun, the television commentator and writer who cast an irreverent eye on the world of sports with a flair reflecting yet another career as an actor, died Wednesday at Kingston Hospital in Kingston, N.Y. He was 83.
        Mr. Broun, who had a particular fondness for horse racing and its many colorful characters, broke his hip last spring while at Keeneland Race Course in Lexington, Ky., and he later had pneumonia.
        ''People are always describing me as dry, droll and detached,'' Mr. Broun once said. ''I think of myself as an intensely emotional and sentimental person. I have seen 'Casablanca' 10 times and I always cry at the 'Marseillaise' scene.''
        The son of Heywood Broun, the famed columnist of The New York World and the founder of the American Newspaper Guild, and Ruth Hale, a drama critic and feminist, Heywood Hale Broun arrived early on the New York literary scene. The youngster known as Woodie was a precocious presence accompanying his parents to the Algonquin Round Table gatherings of the 1920's and sometimes interrupted the witticisms with smart-aleck remarks of his own. There was, for example, the time he broke in on a conversation about a publisher undergoing trying times with a remark that the man had been ''Hearst by his own petard.'' When he received congratulations for the line, Woodie confessed that he had stolen it from S. J. Perelman.
        In the memoir of his childhood, ''Whose Little Boy Are You?'' (St. Martin's/Marek, 1983), he told how at a party many years later, Ring Lardner Jr. remarked: ''We all hated Woodie. He was eerie, a little kid talking like some kind of old man.''
        Heywood Hale Broun was born in New York City, attended several private schools, then majored in English at Swarthmore, graduating in 1940.
        He considered becoming a college teacher, but, as he recalled: ''My father wanted me to be a newspaperman. Then, he'd be a better newspaperman than I was and that would end our long unconscious war.''
        He joined the New York City tabloid PM in 1940 as a sportswriter, served as a sergeant in the field artillery during World War II, then became a sports columnist for PM and wrote for its successor, The New York Star, which went out of business in 1949.
        Mr. Broun then considered writing book reviews out of his home in Woodstock, N.Y. ''I was going to wear Army surplus clothes and eat beans and be a kind of middle-class Thoreau,'' he once said.
        But he turned to acting, appearing in a host of Broadway productions, including ''Bells Are Ringing,'' as well as films and television shows, with moderate success. ''I was your ideal petit bourgeois,'' he once said. ''I did five undertakers in a row.'' He wrote of his acting days in ''A Studied Madness'' (Doubleday, 1965).
        In 1965, Mr. Broun received an offer from CBS to become a commentator. He accepted after a Broadway play in which he was appearing, ''Xmas in Las Vegas,'' closed within a week.
        Mr. Broun became a well-recognized figure on CBS, his rust-colored droopy mustache and multicolored sports jackets complementing his verbal flourishes as he covered baseball, golf, thoroughbred racing's Triple Crown events or the purely amateur sports.
        He once said he was content to tell of ''those athletes who exist merely for the sun that shines on them.'' Even in doing that, he steered clear of reverence.
        Reporting on the Harvard crew, Mr. Broun told viewers how ''the coxswain is usually a wiry, hard-driving inspirational type, a rowing strategist with a perfect sense of timing.'' The camera then closed in on the cosxwain. It was Mr. Broun, ensnarled in an eight-oared shell, a megaphone strapped to his head.
        His commentary often reflected the classics.
        Reporting on how the star outfielder Carl Yastrzemski propelled the Boston Red Sox to a surprising pennant victory in 1967, Mr. Broun remarked, ''He was not just hitting home runs but was, in fact, accomplishing the ninth labor of Hercules, bringing a championship to Boston, a city whose previous baseball idol, Ted Williams, resembled that other Greek, Achilles, who fought a great fight but spent a lot of time sulking in his tent.''
        In 1970, Clifford Roberts, the chairman of the Masters golf tournament, expressed a distaste for having Mr. Broun wander the fairways of Augusta National.
        ''I would guess that Roberts regards his golf tournament more important than the passion plays at Oberammergau and that I might come down to make fun of his dogwood,'' Mr. Broun retorted. He did cover the Masters, wearing a Sherlock Holmes deerstalker hat and a cape.
        Mr. Broun told of his experiences as a TV commentator in ''Tumultuous Merriment'' (Richard Marek, 1979).
        During the past decade, Mr. Broun often spoke at schools and literacy fund-raisers. His wife, Jane Lloyd-Jones, an actress, died in 1991. Their son, Hob, died in 1987.
        Mr. Broun once expressed some regret over not being an athlete, likening his craft to ''that of a company clerk to the Musketeers or veterinarian to the Light Brigade.''
        As for his many callings, he once said, ''I'm either a Little League Renaissance man or simply a person who can't make up his mind.''
      