
        Samuel H. Miller, who was the pilot of the first scheduled United States trans-Atlantic jet passenger flight from New York City to Paris, died on Aug. 31 in Bradenton, Fla. He was 84 and lived in Bradenton.
        Captain Miller was chief pilot of Pan American World Airways' Atlantic division on Oct. 26, 1958, when he guided his Pan Am Boeing 707 through the drizzle at Idlewild International Airport, now Kennedy International Airport, and into the evening sky, thereby starting Pan Am's regular jet service between New York and Paris.
        Twenty years later, a historian of his airline, P. St. John Turner, wrote, ''This, Pan American's initial passenger jet service, was the first of its kind by a U.S. operator and marked the beginning of the big-jet age.''
        Captain Miller had been given jet training and had made six trans-Atlantic crossings in the Boeing 707 before the Oct. 26 flight. On board then, besides the crew of 11, were the actress Greer Garson and 110 other passengers, along with food from Maxim's of Paris.
        ''We had the sky to ourselves that night,'' Captain Miller recalled in 1998. The plane made a planned refueling stop at Newfoundland, and spent an hour there fixing a damaged taillight.
        But at Le Bourget airport, which serves Paris, new enthusiasts of jet travel ''applauded like mad when the plane set down,'' he recalled. His flying time was a bit more than eight hours, much less than for propeller-driven aircraft.
        ''We shrunk the world,'' he recalled, and ''after that, jets caught on like wildfire.''
        Captain Miller showed his skill as a pilot in 1946, when he made a smooth wheels-up emergency landing at a small airfield near Willimantic, Conn., after one of four engines on his Pan Am Constellation airliner had fallen off.
        A Civil Aeronautics Board official, Kenneth C. Sonner, said later that overheated ball bearings might have caused the emergency landing. Mr. Sonner said they started a fire in the engine that fell.
        Captain Miller's landing was so deft that only a few of the 42 passengers, who included Laurence Olivier, the British actor, and Vivien Leigh, the actress and his wife, realized what was happening. No one was hurt.
        He became Pan Am's vice president for operations and retired in 1977. Pan Am ceased operations in 1992.
        Born in Carlisle, Ind., Captain Miller graduated from Indiana University in 1938 and from an Army Air Corps flying school in 1939. He joined Pan Am in 1940 and flew missions on behalf of the United States government on American warplanes and on Pan Am aircraft in World War II.
        His marriage to Marcia Egan ended in divorce.
        Surviving are a daughter, Kristen L. Bartlett of Easton, Conn.; a son, Brett H., of San Francisco; a sister, Mary E. Broome of Longview, Tex.; a brother, Max A., of Sullivan, Ind.; and three grandchildren.
      