
        Roger Starr, an outspoken thinker on urban affairs who blended a lifetime of intellectual analysis with hands-on public service and whose often provocative vision of his native New York City influenced public policy debates for decades, died yesterday in Easton, Pa. He was 83.
        Mr. Starr, who lived in Stroudsburg, Pa., suffered a debilitating stroke at the end of May and died of pneumonia, his family said. .
        Although Mr. Starr's beliefs were passionate, they were always a work in progress. From his Trotskyite campus days, he evolved into a New Dealer, dedicated to slum clearance, public housing and urban renewal in the Robert Moses mold.
        But he eventually became disillusioned by what he viewed as the flawed execution of good intentions. He adopted a neoconservative viewpoint, extolling the free market and a tough-love code of social morality and individual responsibility.
        So great were his shifts, said his son, Adam, that there was no one who was really a protégé.
        Mr. Starr's career took many forms. He took over his father's barge company, ran construction ventures, headed a nonprofit housing group and served three mayors. He wrote several books, numerous articles and, for 15 years, editorials for The New York Times. He also taught, gave speeches and talked to anyone who would listen. Many did, including those who disagreed.
        Although his voice was heard over a span of issues and years, Mr. Starr is most vividly remembered for his 1976 proposal for ''planned shrinkage.'' Citing New York's declining population, lost jobs, social problems, high taxes and stressed services, he urged the city to abandon depressed areas like the South Bronx for future redevelopment.
        A furor erupted. Mayor Abraham D. Beame, whom he was serving as Housing and Development administrator, disavowed the idea. City Council members called it ''inhuman,'' ''racist'' and ''genocidal.'' Protesters disrupted his public appearances.
        ''Although my phrase ''planned shrinkage'' will run a poor second to ''benign neglect'' in the unappreciated phrases derby,'' he wrote, ''it will remain the most prominent label in the file of my government service.''
        That was hardly the first or last time that his prescriptions provoked opposition.
        A legendary feud began in the early 1960's when he criticized ''The Death and Life of Great American Cities'' by Jane Jacobs, who famously advocated human-scale neighborhoods. Eventually she won on her home court, rallying West Villagers to block high-rise plans of the type favored by Mr. Starr. Usually collegial with debating partners, he said, ''What a dear, sweet character she isn't.'' She in turn called him foolish.
        Later Mr. Starr praised smaller-scale housing. Recalling such shifts, his son, Adam, said, ''Sometimes we would drive past a Mitchell-Lama project, and he would say, 'Mea culpa, mea culpa.' ''
        Mr. Starr objected that cowardly politicians refused to raise rents to cover the costs, causing debts, subsidies and neglect. Likewise, he championed public housing for the working poor but lamented that it was spoiled when the courts forced it to keep misbehaving tenants.
        Condemning the very rent controls he once enforced, he said that they had turned housing into a disaster. ''Controls are an easy mistake to make,'' he confessed. ''I know, because as a student of housing and a public official, I helped make it.''
        Mr. Starr moved to Stroudsburg about 15 years ago, nudged by the co-op conversion of his Manhattan apartment and drawn to the country by his fondness for fly fishing. He is survived by his wife, the former Jody Ward Green. Other survivors are two sons by his first wife, the late Manya Garbat, known as Fifi: Adam of Westport, Conn., and Barnaby of Baltimore; two stepchildren, Douglas Green of Manhattan and Patricia Shaheen of Saddle River, N.J.; five grandchildren; and three step-grandchildren.
        Born in Manhattan on April 16, 1918, Roger Starr was ahead of his time at an early age, when his mother started his schooling at second grade. Later at Yale -- in the class of 1939 with William Bundy and Cyrus R. Vance -- he became chairman of the literary review. But as a Jew, he was shunned by fraternities. His sympathies shone in his short stories about Kristallnacht and bias against blacks.
        In a publicized challenge to military segregation, Mr. Starr offered in 1941 to enlist in a black regiment. The Army declined. Later in the war, he worked in the Office of Strategic Services in Burma and China.
        An aspiring writer, Mr. Starr worked at CBS News. But in 1945 he was called to take over his father's company, Frederick Starr Contracting, which barged construction material, and stayed till 1974. Branching out, he won city approval for new construction methods and produced new, lighter concrete and the first precast beams for city schools.
        His housing and planning role blossomed from 1958 to 1973 when he was executive director of the Citizens' Housing and Planning Council, a civic group.
        Drawn into government, he joined a housing panel advising Mayor Robert F. Wagner, was appointed chairman of the Rent Guidelines Board by Mayor John V. Lindsay, then served Mayor Beame full time from 1974 to 1976, as a fiscal crisis unfolded.
        ''You can't know the sheer joy of finally having your ideas understood and valued, of being recognized at last as an outstanding citizen and leader,'' Mr. Starr said. ''The glow lasted for, oh, four or five days.''
        Budget cuts, mass layoffs and looming bankruptcy frustrated the man with expansive ideas. Still, Mr. Starr rescued jeopardized projects like Manhattan Plaza and won extensions for tax abatements for residential renovations and incentives for construction, programs that endure today.
        In his incarnation at The Times, from 1977 to 1992, Mr. Starr's domain was recommending stands on local issues and candidates. ''He was exceptionally well tailored and always courtly,'' said Jack Rosenthal, a former editorial page editor and now president of The New York Times Foundation. ''People loved arguing with him. But no matter how heated, all was jolly afterward.''
        His writing plumbed issues ranging from nuclear power to his fly-fishing hobby to three-cushion billiards, betraying an intimacy with local pool halls that was acquired on lunchtime excursions.
        Mr. Starr taught at City University, New York University, the New School and Pratt Institute. His books included ''The Living End'' (Coward, 1966), ''Urban Choices'' (Penguin, 1968), ''Housing and the Money Market'' (Basic Books, 1975), and ''America's Housing Challenge'' (Farrar, Straus, 1977).
        Painting a bleak future in ''The Rise and Fall of New York City'' (Basic Books, 1985), he warned that New York might be destined to diminish until it disappeared as one of the world's great cities. He deplored the ''decline in civility'' and the perpetuation of welfare ''in a special class that does not work, never heard of working and is not expected to work.''
        ''Thus, in the subways, the two worlds of New York collide: the working world that seems normal, and the never-working world of the criminals and the utterly helpless,'' he wrote. ''When they meet in the subway, it raises the possibility that the entire system will come, bit by bit, to a stop.''
        Instead of stopping or shrinking, the city bounced back with unplanned growth, revitalizing even the South Bronx. But its revival stemmed at least in part to progress on Mr. Starr's issues: reduced crime and welfare and the imported work ethic of new immigrants.
      