
        Carmine Nigro, the first chess teacher of the former world champion Bobby Fischer, died Aug. 16 at a hospice in Peachtree City, Ga. He was 91 and lived in Peachtree City.
        Mr. Nigro (pronounced NIGH-grow) met Mr. Fischer at a chess exhibition at the Brooklyn Public Library in 1951 in which Max Pavey, a master, played many challengers simultaneously. Mr. Fischer, then 8, played one of the boards against Mr. Pavey.
        Mr. Nigro, who was president of the Brooklyn Chess and Checkers Club, noticed Mr. Fischer after he rapidly lost his game and burst into tears. Years later, Mr. Fischer denied that he had cried. Soon after the exhibition he became a student of Mr. Nigro's.
        Mr. Fischer, whose father and mother had divorced when he was young and who had no contact with his father, became a fixture at the Nigro household in Brooklyn. Over the next three years, Mr. Fischer would go over at least once during the week for a lesson, spend Saturdays with the Nigros and then go into Manhattan with Mr. Nigro on Sundays to play chess in Washington Square Park. This routine continued even after Mr. Fischer surpassed his teacher as a player.
        Mr. Fischer began spending less time with Mr. Nigro after he began being tutored by John Collins, a master player. In 1956, Mr. Nigro moved his family to Florida and lost regular contact with Mr. Fischer.
        Still, Mr. Nigro left a lasting impression on Mr. Fischer. Mr. Fischer dedicated his first book, ''Bobby Fischer's Games of Chess,'' to Mr. Nigro and wrote in the forward, ''Mr. Nigro was possibly not the best player in the world, but he was a very good teacher.''
        Carmine Domenico Nigro was born on Jan. 2, 1910, the second of three sons. His parents were poor, and when he was 14, they could no longer afford to care for him; he left home and dropped out of school to support himself.
        For a time he lived with his older brother, and they studied music together, Mr. Nigro eventually specializing in the saxophone and clarinet. Mr. Nigro also began to frequent the Brooklyn Chess and Checkers Club, where he usually played card games.
        One night, when Mr. Nigro was in his late 20's, a chess master visiting the club lost some bets to Mr. Nigro while playing bridge. Instead of paying Mr. Nigro, the chess master taught him how to play chess.
        In the late 1940's Mr. Nigro started a band, calling it Tommy Little and His Orchestra. His son did not know where he got the name Tommy from, but ''little'' referred to his stature; he was 5-foot-3. The band usually played in Asbury Park, N.J., and was moderately successful. Eventually, however, Mr. Nigro and his wife decided he needed a more stable source of income and he became a stockbroker.
        Meanwhile, Mr. Nigro was studying chess and playing regularly at the Brooklyn Chess and Checkers Club. Eventually he rose to the rank of master, unusual for someone who had learned the game so late.
        Mr. Nigro's first wife, Anne, died in 1976. He is survived by his second wife, Frances, known as Angie; a son, William, of Peachtree City; six grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      