
        Joseph S. Berliner, a longtime Brandeis University economics professor credited with helping spur changes in the Central Intelligence Agency's methods of appraising the Soviet economy, died on Sept. 2 at a Boston hospital. He was 79 and lived in Cambridge, Mass.
        The cause was complications after surgery, said Barney K. Schwalberg, a Brandeis colleague.
        Dr. Berliner was one of the most influential of the early American experts on the Soviet economy after World War II.
        In 1991 he was on a panel of nongovernmental experts on the Soviet economy created by the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence to review the C.I.A.'s estimates of Soviet economic growth and defense expenditures from 1970 to 1991. The Soviet Union was formally dissolved in December 1991.
        Dr. Berliner agreed with the panel's conclusions that the C.I.A.'s estimates of major Soviet economic statistics were not worse than those produced by independent scholars but that the agency's estimates of Soviet defense expenditures suffered from lack of contact with outside experts on that subject.
        The panel's chairman, James R. Millar, professor of economics and international affairs at George Washington University, said the C.I.A. had made changes in its methods in response to the panel's findings, including increasing contacts with academia and other outside agencies, like the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the private research agency Plan Econ.
        At Dr. Berliner's death he was a research associate at the Davis Center for Russian Studies at Harvard.
        A native New Yorker, Joseph Scholom Berliner grew up in the Rockaway Beach section of Queens. He received bachelor's and master's degrees and his doctorate from Harvard and taught at George Washington and Syracuse Universities before moving to Brandeis, where he taught from 1963 to 1985. His books include ''Factory and Manager in the U.S.S.R.'' (1957, Books on Demand), ''The Innovation Decision in Soviet Industry (1976) and ''Soviet Industry from Stalin to Gorbachev'' (1988, Cornell University Press).
        He is survived by his wife, Ann; two sons, Paul, of Evanston, Ill., and Carl, of Jerusalem; a daughter, Nancy Berliner of Manhattan; two sisters, Ruth Schargel of Delray Beach, Fla., and Edna Berkowitz of Phoenix; and five grandchildren.
      