
        Dr. Wardell B. Pomeroy, a prominent psychologist who half a century ago helped Dr. Alfred C. Kinsey rechart the sexual landscape of America, died on Sept. 6 at the retirement community where he lived in Bloomington, Ind. He was 87 and had been suffering from Parkinson's disease, his family said.
        Dr. Pomeroy was a clinical psychologist at an Indiana reformatory in 1941, working on his master's degree, when he became acquainted with Kinsey, a biology professor at Indiana University who had just begun the sex-survey work that was to make him a household name. Kinsey was lecturing a group of social workers about sex and prisons, and Dr. Pomeroy, impressed, approached him afterward to talk.
        Naturally, Kinsey questioned him about his sexual history.
        ''I found myself telling him things I had never dreamed of telling anyone else,'' Dr. Pomeroy wrote in a biography of Kinsey. ''Occasionally, as he deftly and persistently questioned me, I hesitated a moment, but then I said to myself, 'Of course. I must.' ''
        Eventually, Kinsey offered Dr. Pomeroy a job as one of his interviewers, the start of a 20-year relationship in which the young man became one of Kinsey's closest associates.
        Over the years, Dr. Pomeroy quizzed some 8,000 people about their sex lives in much the same way that Kinsey had questioned him, posing point-blank queries that conveyed no hint of judging.
        Dr. Pomeroy was a co-author of some of the most important works published by the Institute for Sex Research, better known as the Kinsey Institute. These included ''Sexual Behavior in the Human Male'' in 1948 and ''Sexual Behavior in the Human Female'' in 1953, dense scholarly works that nevertheless became best sellers that helped revolutionize the United States' attitudes toward sexuality (and drew the wrath of many religious and conservative groups).
        The books took an unvarnished look at taboo subjects like masturbation, homosexuality, extramarital affairs, premarital sex and sex offenses. The second reported that women were far more sexually active than had previously been assumed. And the researchers presented hard numbers, based on the surveys, to make their case.
        ''If this project had been undertaken in Europe or Asia,'' Dr. Pomeroy wrote in ''Dr. Kinsey and the Institute for Sex Research'' in 1972, ''it might never have attracted any attention or even succeeded, but in America we like to count things.''
        Wardell Baxter Pomeroy was born Dec. 6, 1913, in Kalamazoo, Mich., the son of Percy W. and Mary A. Pomeroy. He was reared in South Bend, Ind. He earned his bachelor's and master's degrees at Indiana University and his doctorate at Columbia. He is survived by his wife of 64 years, the former Martha Sindlinger; two sons, David Wardell, of Spring Valley, N.Y., and John Eric, of Los Angeles; and a daughter, Mary Lynne of Bloomfield, Ind.
        Dr. Pomeroy remained at the institute for seven years after Kinsey died in 1956. But in 1963, at odds with the direction it was taking, he decided to leave, according to a profile in the 1974 edition of Current Biography. He and his wife moved to New York, where Dr. Pomeroy began a marriage counseling practice and continued to write. He later moved to San Francisco.
        Dr. Pomeroy drew both praise and criticism for two books on sexuality intended for adolescents and their parents: ''Boys and Sex'' (1968) and ''Girls and Sex'' (1970), which the American Library Association says were among the 100 books most often singled out by people seeking to ban books in the 1990's.
        In later years, some Kinsey reports were increasingly attacked for their methodology. Some critics questioned Kinsey's assertions about the prevalence of homosexuality, for example. But few disputed the central theme of the reports: that the sex lives of Americans were far more varied than had been acknowledged.
        ''In retrospect,'' Dr. Pomeroy wrote in 1972, ''the controversy over the two reports seems slightly incredible. Harmful to youth? The present generation would consider their conclusions old-fashioned in the climate of freedom that now prevails.''
        Correction:  September 17, 2001, Monday  A picture on Wednesday with an obituary of Wardell B. Pomeroy, one of Dr. Alfred C. Kinsey's pioneering sex researchers, was printed in error. It was from a 1948 group photo in which he appeared, but the published portion showed another researcher, Dr. Paul Gebhard.
      