
        Alvin Schwartz, long prominent in New York City's real estate industry as an associate of and successor to the real estate magnate Harry Helmsley, died on Wednesday at his home in Great Neck, N.Y. He was 89.
        Mr. Schwartz became one of two co-chairmen of the real estate concern Helmsley-Spear Inc. in 1997, after Mr. Helmsley died, and held that post until his own death.
        At the time that Mr. Schwartz and a colleague, Irving Schneider, gained control of Helmsley-Spear, it was one of the city's largest real estate management companies. Their five decades of work for the company had already made them multimillionaires. During much of that time, they worked alongside Mr. Helmsley, who was considered the dean of New York real estate when he died.
        By then, Helmsley-Spear was nowhere nearly as dominant as it was in its heyday, during the 1960's and 70's. But it still managed 86 buildings, including the Empire State Building, 1400 Broadway, 1001 Avenue of the Americas and 1 Penn Plaza.
        Mr. Schwartz had been with Helmsley-Spear for 55 years. Earlier, he was with Dwight, Voorhis & Helmsley, which became Dwight, Helmsley. When Mr. Helmsley acquired Spear & Company, it became Helmsley-Spear Inc.
        In Mr. Schwartz's long career, he became a key figure in partnerships that owned large amounts of property in Manhattan's garment district and elsewhere. His partnerships also owned numerous office buildings.
        While Mr. Helmsley, Mr. Schwartz and Mr. Schneider were Helmsley-Spear's guiding lights, Mr. Helmsley focused largely on arranging the financing of deals, while Mr. Schwartz and Mr. Schneider managed properties and helped scout investments.
        Mr. Helmsley is said to have valued Mr. Schwartz's skill at evaluating properties. Mr. Schwartz was low-keyed and a skilled negotiator and broker. He had a knack for establishing rapport with people he negotiated with, even those who started out being antagonistic.
        In 1966, Mr. Schwartz and Mr. Schneider were made executive vice presidents of Helmsley-Spear. Mr. Helmsley also gave each of them a small ownership stake in the firm.
        Failing health forced Mr. Helmsley to retreat from active participation in Helmsley-Spear in the late 1980's, but the void was filled by Mr. Helmsley's wife, Leona Helmsley. In May 1996, according to Relocate, a real estate data service, Helmsley-Spear was managing about 28 million square feet in 107 buildings in New York.
        Mr. Schwartz and Mr. Schneider became co-owners as well as co-chairmen of Helmsley-Spear late in 1997, not long after Mr. Helmsley's death. Mrs. Helmsley agreed to sell Helmsley-Spear to the two men, ending a lawsuit they had brought against her, charging that she had tried to strip the company of assets, lowering its potential value to them if they exercised purchase rights after Mr. Helmsley's death.
        At the time of Mr. Helmsley's death, he was owner or part owner of some of Manhattan's best-known buildings, managing them through Helmsley-Spear and running a chain of hotels with his wife. Those holdings included the Lincoln Building, at 420 Lexington Avenue; the Fisk Building, at 250 West 57th Street; the Toy Center, at 200 Fifth Avenue; the Starrett-Lehigh Building, at 200 12th Avenue; and the New York Central Building at 230 Park Avenue.
        His holdings also included interests in the Helmsley Park Lane, New York Helmsley, Helmsley Middletowne, Helmsley Windsor, St. Moritz and Helmsley Carlton House hotels.
        Mr. Schwartz, Mr. Schneider and Peter Malkin were partners with Mr. Helmsley in many of the buildings in Mr. Helmsley's $5 billion empire.
        Mr. Schwartz was born on May 3, 1912, in New York City. He did not attend college.
        His wife, the former Dorothy Spear, died earlier.
        Mr. Schwartz is survived by two daughters, Jane Stein and Amy Spielman; a son, Tom; seven grandchildren; a sister, Carol Rozen; and two brothers, Lester and Henry.
      