
        The seventh Earl of Carnarvon, the racing manager for Queen Elizabeth II for more than 30 years, died Tuesday at his family seat, Highclere Castle, in Newbury, Berkshire, England. He was 77.
        He died after a heart attack, the British press reported.
        An aristocrat with a fortune estimated at $100 million and a longtime friend of the Queen's, Lord Carnarvon took charge of her horse racing business in 1969 before he inherited the title of Earl.
        Under his stewardship, the Queen failed to realize her well-known ambition of winning the English Derby at Epsom Downs, and since 1977, her horses also failed to win any of the other so-called English Classics -- the Oaks, the St. Leger, the 1000 Guineas and the 2000 Guineas.
        Lord Carnarvon also made several decisions that were controversial in the British racing community.
        In 1988, he abruptly dismissed the Queen's popular trainer, Richard Hern, while he was hospitalized; Lord Carnarvon claimed he was acting on the Queen's instructions. The other royal trainer, Ian Balding, warned that the decision was so unpopular in racing circles that the Queen risked having her horses booed when they next appeared on a racecourse. Hern, who trained horses from a wheelchair after a hunting accident, was given a year's respite.
        In 1982, Lord Carnarvon sold the Queen's mare Height of Fashion to Sheikh Hamdan Maktoum of Dubai for nearly $2 million. Height of Fashion went on to breed Nashwan, who, after training with Hern, won the 2000 Guineas and the English Derby.
        Some attributed Lord Carnarvon's unspectacular record managing the Queen's horses to the Curse of Tutankhamen, said to have been inflicted on his grandfather, the fifth Earl, who died of blood poisoning after a mosquito bite in 1923, just four months after finding the entrance to King Tut's tomb.
        Lord Carnarvon, however, was quite successful managing his own family stud at Highclere, which he took over in 1978, breeding a number of racehorses that performed well.
        Born at Highclere, a 6,000-acre property on the borders of Hampshire and Berkshire, Henry George Reginald Molyneux Herbert was the son of the sixth Earl and his American wife, the former Catherine Wendell of New York. He was educated at Eton, where he excelled at boxing, and served with the Royal Horse Guards during World War II.
        Known to his friends as Porchie, short for his original title, Lord Porchester, he developed an early interest in horse racing from watching his father race. His father encouraged him to start breeding horses. As a young officer at the end of the war, he escorted the Queen, who was still Princess Elizabeth, to race meetings and debutante balls, beginning their longtime friendship.
        In 1956, he followed his father's example by marrying an American, the former Jean Margaret Wallop, of Big Horn, Wyo. He is survived by his wife; two sons, George, Lord Porchester, who succeeds to his father's title, and Henry Herbert; and a daughter, Lady Carolyn Warren.
      