
        Irving S. Shapiro, a former chairman of the DuPont Company who evolved into corporate America's lead liaison to Washington in the 1970's, died on Thursday. He was 85.
        ''He was in many respects the first DuPont 'public' chief executive,'' said Chad Holliday, the current chairman of DuPont. ''He was equally at home in the boardroom, the court room, diplomatic conferences, halls of government, even television talk shows.''
        As a lawyer trained in litigation -- he graduated from the University of Minnesota with a bachelor's of law degree in 1941 -- Mr. Shapiro's comfort with verbal expression was well honed. In 1943, after an 18-month stint in the Office of Price Administration in Washington, Mr. Shapiro joined the Justice Department. Through the Roosevelt and Truman administrations, he appeared often before appellate courts and was admitted to practice before the United States Supreme Court in 1944. Well before turning 30, he had already earned a reputation as a powerful arguer.
        Not surprisingly, after he joined DuPont in 1951 as a lawyer, antitrust litigation was his forte. Mr. Shapiro's path upward through the company, based in Wilmington, Del., was studded with high-profile legal landmarks. For example, Mr. Shapiro represented DuPont in an antitrust case that, in 1962, culminated in DuPont's relinquishing its 37 percent stake in General Motors.
        Mr. Shapiro rose steadily through DuPont's ranks until he was named chairman and chief executive in 1974 -- to this day the only lawyer to hold that title at DuPont.
        A business career might have seemed a strange choice for Mr. Shapiro, who had little formal education in business or science. But Mr. Shapiro often said he developed a deep-seated understanding of business -- and a flair for dealing with customers -- from his father, a Lithuanian immigrant who ran a dry-cleaning business in Minneapolis. ''You might know all the law in the world, but not be able to understand the customer,'' he told a reporter in 1994.
        Mr. Shapiro took charge of DuPont during trying times. It was the year of the first energy crisis, and the costs of raw materials and fuel soared for DuPont, a petrochemical maker, as the economy was plunging into recession.
        Mr. Shapiro quickly doffed his lawyer hat and donned that of the business strategist. He pulled DuPont out of numerous unprofitable businesses and pumped money into the ones that remained. At his insistence, DuPont, which had a longstanding aversion to debt, borrowed millions of dollars to develop new chemicals and plastics and build the plants to make them. He quickly set up DuPont's first energy department. It simultaneously instituted energy conservation programs and set up partnerships with oil companies and other manufacturers to develop synthetic substitutes for oil and gas even as they hunted for more of both.
        He also eliminated chunks of DuPont's bureaucracy, cutting paper-pushing jobs in management and letting each DuPont business participate directly in the corporate planning process. And he instituted weekly meetings with the vice presidents whose jobs survived the cuts, creating an internal brain trust that he modeled after the president's cabinet. Many of the management and business models he instituted remain at DuPont.
        But Mr. Shapiro saw his role as more than just shepherding DuPont. Antibusiness sentiment in the United States, rampant during the 1960's, was running high in the 70's. From the first, Mr. Shapiro spent 40 percent of his time as an outspoken advocate of corporate America.
        He gave frequent speeches and interviews with the media and testified often before Congressional committees, always driving home the point that too much regulation was hampering America's ability to compete with Europe and Japan and that government and big business must be partners, not adversaries.
        It was a time when numerous products -- DuPont's Freon among them -- were being implicated in depletion of the earth's ozone layer, while many others were labeled carcinogens. New regulations and restrictions abounded, many of which Mr. Shapiro saw as stemming from hysteria, not science. He often blamed what he called the ''inability to reach common-sense agreement upon limits'' for the ''needless banning of useful products.''
        In 1976, Mr. Shapiro was elected chairman of the Business Roundtable, a group of well-known chief executives often called upon for advice from Washington. He made regulatory reform a cornerstone of his two-year tenure. Mr. Shapiro also became one of President Jimmy Carter's personal advisers, and was deeply involved in devising the legislative and political response to the 1977 boycott that some Arab countries placed on companies doing business with Israel.
        When Mr. Shapiro retired from DuPont in 1981, he brushed off his law degree and became a partner of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, working out of the firm's Wilmington office. He was still counsel to the firm when he died.
        Mr. Shapiro is survived by his wife, Charlotte, of Greenville, Del.; a son, Stuart, of New York City; a daughter, Elizabeth, of Rockland, Del.; and four grandchildren.
      