
        Fred De Cordova, who skipped lightly and most often anonymously among the pinnacles of American show business, most prominently as producer of ''The Tonight Show'' for Johnny Carson, died on Saturday at a hospital in Los Angeles. He was 90 and lived in Beverly Hills.
        Mr. Cordova moved to Hollywood from Broadway and became a leading producer in the nascent television industry. He produced shows for Jack Benny, George Gobel, George Burns and Gracie Allen and the Smothers Brothers, among others. Though he was most firmly fixed in the national mind as the frequent on-air object of Mr. Carson's jokes, his other contributions included directing ''Bedtime for Bonzo,'' the 1951 comedy starring Ronald Reagan.
        Occasionally, as in an episode of ''The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show'' in 1953, his anonymity was breached and his name put in the script as a character, according to the Museum of Television and Radio.
        Frederick Timmins De Cordova was born on Oct. 27, 1910, in Manhattan. In his 1988 memoir, ''Johnny Come Lately,'' he told of a childhood spent on the move. He described his parents as con artists, living in fancy hotels and dining in expensive restaurants, then skipping town without paying. He got his start in show business doing odd jobs for summer stock productions in the 1930's.
        Mr. De Cordova graduated from Northwestern University and Harvard Law School, where John Shubert, a classmate, persuaded him to work for the Shubert entertainment empire. He spent the next decade directing shows in Memphis, Louisville, Ky., Nashville and New York. His last show before moving to Hollywood in 1943 was ''Ziegfeld Follies,'' which featured Milton Berle and Arthur Treacher.
        His goal was to act, but instead he became a producer and director. He made his solo directorial debut with ''Too Young to Know,'' a 1945 movie about a career woman torn between a husband and a job.
        He directed movies starring Elvis Presley, Rock Hudson, Errol Flynn, Tony Curtis and Humphrey Bogart. But none achieved the fame of  ''Bonzo,'' in which Mr. Reagan played a college professor who  raises a chimpanzee.
        ''I thought it then, and I still think it is a good movie,'' Mr. De Cordova said in an interview with The Orange County Register in 1988. ''But until Ronald Reagan became governor of California, it was just another picture. Now it's all anybody talks about, including Johnny.''
        Eventually he turned away from film directing, telling The Associated Press that he would never be another William Wyler, but he came back in the 1960's to direct ''I'll Take Sweden,'' a 1965 film featuring Bob Hope, Frankie Avalon, Tuesday Weld and Dina Merrill. His last movie, ''Frankie and Johnny'' in 1966, featured Elvis Presley singing saloon songs in a riverboat setting.
        He turned to television, producing or directing more than 500 series segments. Among the series he both produced and directed were ''December Bride,'' ''The George Burns and Gracie Allen Show'' and ''The Jack Benny Program.''
        He celebrated his 60th birthday just eight days after taking over as executive producer of ''The Tonight Show,'' which at the time accounted for 17 percent of NBC's profits. He held the job he called ''the best in television'' for 22 years.
        ''I'm chief traffic cop, talent scout, No. 1 fan and critic all rolled into one,'' he said in a 1984 interview in People magazine.
        One of his jobs was to bump guests from the show if time was running short. When he was promoting his autobiography, he bumped himself twice.
        Mr. De Cordova is survived by Janet Thomas, an actress and model, whom he married in 1963.
      