
        Alexander Spears III, who joined other top tobacco executives in testifying before Congress in 1994 that they did not believe nicotine was addictive or caused disease, died on Monday of lung cancer at Duke Medical Center in Durham, N.C. He was 68.
        His wife, Shirley Pierce Spears of Greensboro, N.C., said it was an extremely rare form of lung cancer, typically associated with asbestos exposure.
        Born the son of a doctor in the coal town of Grindstone, Pa., Mr. Spears attended Allegheny College in Meadville, Pa. After a stint in the Army, he earned a doctorate in chemistry in 1960 from the State University at Buffalo.
        Before graduating, Mr. Spears joined the Lorillard Tobacco Company as a research associate but quickly climbed the executive ladder, eventually becoming chairman and chief executive in 1995.
        With Mr. Spears' at its helm, Lorillard, the fourth-largest tobacco company in the nation, increased its share of the domestic cigarette market to nearly 10 percent. The company's brands included Kent, Old Gold and Newport, a menthol brand that was increasingly popular with African-Americans.
        But perhaps Mr. Spears was most famous for his unapologetic defense of his industry and its products. During the 1994 testimony on Capitol Hill, Mr. Spears, who was then chief operating officer of Lorillard, lashed out at the proceedings, calling them a ''witch hunt on the part of several of these Congressmen to gain support for their own legislation.''
        Also at the hearings, Mr. Spears testified that tobacco companies did not manipulate nicotine in cigarettes. It was important testimony from a chemist because it was a key issue in the attempt by the Food and Drug Administration to start regulating tobacco. If the big tobacco companies were manipulating nicotine like a drug, then they were in the drug delivery business and subject to regulation, the agency argued.
        Although Mr. Spears testified to Congress that tar and nicotine could be found in similar levels in cigarettes, the F.D.A. challenged him with a 1981 Lorillard report written by Mr. Spears himself. In the report, Mr. Spears wrote that the company's ''current research is directed toward increasing the nicotine levels while maintaining or marginally reducing the tar deliveries.''
        The report went on to crown such research efforts a success particularly in the lowest-tar cigarettes. ''We show a significant difference in the tobacco nicotine level,'' in such cigarettes, Mr. Spears wrote, ''and a trend toward increasing nicotine over time.''
        Although grilled on this point by David Kessler, then the F.D.A. commissioner, Mr. Spears insisted that nicotine levels were not being manipulated.
        Mr. Spears also maintained steadfastly that cigarette smoking could not be linked definitively to disease. In a case brought by the state of Minnesota against tobacco companies, he testified, ''it has not been scientifically proven that smoking causes illness in humans.''
        Mr. Spears smoked from the time he was 18 until he had a heart attack in 1977.
        While such testimony on disease and addiction made him a notorious figure among antismoking advocates, Mr. Spears was widely praised as a outstanding civic leader in his hometown. In an obituary that ran yesterday, the local Greensboro paper, The News and Record, hailed him as ''a tireless advocate for social justice.''
        Mr. Spears was at different points a fund-raiser for numerous charities including the Girl Scouts, the United Negro College Fund and the Greensboro Historical Museum. He also served as a board member for local chapters of the United Way and the National Conference for Community and Justice.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Spears is survived by a son, Craig S. Spears; a step-son, L. Pierce Egerton, both of Greensboro; a stepdaughter, Mrs. Kimberly E. Thompson of Alexandria, Va.; and four grandchildren.
      