
        Dr. Christiaan N. Barnard, the South African surgeon who performed the world's first human heart transplant in 1967, died yesterday in Cyprus. He was 78.
        Dr. Barnard suffered a fatal asthma attack in the morning after going for a swim at a coastal resort in Paphos, where he had been vacationing, The Associated Press said, citing a statement from the Christiaan Barnard Foundation.
        Dr. Barnard's first heart transplant patient, Louis Washkansky, lived only 18 days, though his second, Dr. Philip Blaiberg, lived more than 19 months. A medical circus followed as surgeons elsewhere tried the experimental operation with little success.
        Then with the development of more powerful antirejection drugs and additional experience, the heart transplant operation became standard. It has been performed an estimated 100,000 times around the world. Today the procedure is carried out in 160 hospitals in the United States alone, with a one-year success rate of 85 to 90 percent and a five-year success rate of 75 percent.
        Other doctors had been preparing to perform a human heart transplant when Dr. Barnard, then 45, shocked the world on Dec. 3, 1967, by removing a patient's dying heart and replacing it with a healthy one taken from an accident victim at Groote Schuur Hospital in Cape Town.
        In the view of some experts, perhaps Dr. Barnard's most important medical contribution was his courage to proceed with a human heart transplant at a time when other surgeons who had performed the operation only on animals continued to hesitate to be the first to transplant a heart in a human.
        But to one heart transplant pioneer, Dr. Norman E. Shumway of Stanford University, Dr. Barnard's surgical feat was outweighed by his decision to choose as the first heart donor a brain-dead accident victim.
        ''It made the use of brain-dead victims acceptable for organ transplantation'' because at the time ''there was a terrible furor about the brain death issue in the United States,'' Dr. Shumway said in an interview yesterday.
        District attorneys had threatened to arrest surgeons who took organs from brain-dead individuals.
        So, Dr. Shumway said, brain surgeons ''at Stanford and other institutions would disconnect the patient from a respirator, continue their rounds and, 20 minutes later, when the patient's heart had stopped, declare the patient dead, which, of course, was ridiculous.''
        ''Without Dr. Barnard's initial use of the brain-dead patient, we could not have gone ahead'' to make heart transplants a standard therapy, Dr. Shumway said. ''It was a monumental advance, more societal perhaps than medical, because it applied to all organ transplants.''
        During apartheid, Dr. Barnard ignored many racial barriers in the country, including allowing mixed-race nurses in the operating room to treat white patients and transplanting the heart of a white woman into a black man.
        Dr. Barnard condemned South Africa's racial policies while refusing to agree that the country's political system ought to be turned over to the black majority.
        At a news conference yesterday, Nelson Mandela, South Africa's first post-apartheid president, said Dr. Barnard ''was one of our main achievers'' who ''also has done very well in expressing his opinion on'' apartheid.
        Dr. Barnard's surgical skill and daring catapulted him almost overnight into the role of international savant, and his views on almost everything from global politics to jogging were eagerly sought by heads of state, the United States Congress and the general public.
        Dr. Barnard, born to genteel poverty as the son of a wilderness missionary, clearly enjoyed the limelight. His tousled good looks, ready wit and ad libs only quickened his journey to fame. He was soon enrolled as a member of the jet set, became involved in a tempestuous affair with an international sex symbol, and then, at the age of 48, divorced his wife of 22 years and married the teen-age daughter of a multimillionaire.
        His third marriage, to Karin Barnard, ended earlier this year. He is survived by five of his six children: Deidre, Christiaan, Frederick, Armin and Lara, and a brother, Marius.
        ''Any man who says he doesn't like applause and recognition is either a fool or a liar,'' Dr. Barnard once said in discussing the pressures of public life. ''You learn from mistakes, but success gives you the courage to go on and do even more.''
        Christiaan Neethling Barnard was born on Nov. 8, 1922, in the hamlet of Beaufort West in the arid wilderness of the Cape Province, to Adam Hendrik Barnard and the former Maria Elisabeth de Swart. His father was a Dutch Reformed minister who served as a missionary to racially mixed people and as such was all but shunned by many whites. The minister's salary was never more than $750 a year, yet he managed to provide for a family with four sons, sending three through college.
        It was his mother, Dr. Barnard often said, who instilled in him and his brothers the belief that they could do anything they set their minds to -- and do it well. Young Christiaan ran a record mile in his bare feet; he won a school tennis championship with a borrowed racquet and cardboard covering the holes in his sneakers, he studied by rural firelight and was at the top of his class.
        After receiving a medical degree from the University of Cape Town in 1946, Dr. Barnard worked for two years as a general practitioner in a small farming village, then returned to the Cape Town Medical School to study birth defects and diseases affecting the bowel.
        In 1955 he went to Minneapolis to study general surgery with Dr. Owen H. Wangensteen at the University of Minnesota. In his first weeks there he was so short of funds that, he said, he had to mow lawns, wash cars and do other odd jobs to obtain meal money.
        Dr. Barnard arrived in Minneapolis just as the field of open heart surgery was developing, spurred by the new technologies that produced such equipment as heart-lung machines. After being invited to lend a hand with the device one day, Dr. Barnard decided to take further training at the Medical College of Virginia to become a heart surgeon in South Africa.
        He spent additional years conducting experimental surgery on animals in Cape Town and assembling a surgical team, which included his brother, Dr. Marius Barnard, before he felt that he was ready to ask Mr. Washkansky in November 1967 to become the first recipient. Several potential donors were considered, and the 30-member surgical team was alerted several times, only to be stopped for various technical reasons.
        On Dec. 2, Denise Darvall, a 25-year old accounting-machine operator, was struck by an automobile while crossing a street in Cape Town. She was rushed to Groote Schuur Hospital, where her brain was found to be clinically dead. Her heart was found to be in good condition, and she had the same blood type as Mr. Washkansky, a grocer.
        In an interview, Dr. Barnard described the crucial moments:
        ''As soon as the donor died, we opened her chest and connected her to a heart-lung machine, suffusing her body so that we could keep the heart alive. I cut out the heart. We examined it, and as soon as we found it was normal, we put it in a dish containing solution at 10 degrees centigrade to cool it down further.
        ''We then transferred this heart to the operating room where we had the patient and we connected it to the heart-lung machine. From the time we cut out the heart it was four minutes until we had oxygenated blood going back to the heart muscle from the donor's heart-lung machine. We then excised the patient's heart.''
        The donor heart was sutured in place, the organ was warmed gently and as it approached normal body temperature it started to beat vigorously.
        But Mr. Washkansky was left open to infection from the large doses of immune suppressing drugs (azathioprine and hydrocortisone) and radiation, and he died of pneumonia.
        On Jan. 2, 1968, Dr. Barnard caused a sensation in South Africa by transplanting the heart of a young man of mixed race into a retired white dentist, Philip Blaiberg. He survived for 19 months and 15 days, in part because Dr. Barnard's team had reduced the amount of antirejection drugs.
        Dr. Barnard also performed heart-lung transplants and ''piggyback'' transplants in which he grafted a second human heart to the patient's damaged heart with the aim of giving it time to heal.
        About 2,100 heart transplants are performed in the United States each year. But because of a severe shortage of donors, surgeons are testing self-contained artificial hearts and other mechanical devices to keep patients alive until a donor heart becomes available for transplant. Researchers are also trying to develop cross-species transplants.
        Dr. Barnard continued operating until 1983, when his once-nimble fingers became gnarled by the rheumatoid arthritis that had been first diagnosed when he was in Minneapolis. In recent years, he spent most of his time in Austria, The Associated Press reported.
        Dr. Barnard turned to writing, producing an autobiography and several novels that were reviewed politely, though his literary skill never drew the attention his surgical skills attracted.
        In 1984, he became scientist in residence at Baptist Medical Center in Oklahoma City. In 1986, Dr. Barnard endorsed Glycel, an antiaging skin cream, but its questionable effectiveness tarnished his reputation.
      