
        Douglas Newton, curator emeritus of the department of the arts of Africa, Oceania and the Americas at the Metropolitan Museum of Art and an innovator in designing museum displays of non-Western art, died on Wednesday at St. Vincent's Hospital in Manhattan. He was 80.
        Born Bryan Leslie Douglas Newton to English parents on a Malayasian rubber plantation in 1920, and educated in England, he worked as an editor, journalist and scriptwriter for the BBC before moving to New York in 1956. The following year he joined the Museum of Primitive Art, newly established by Nelson A. Rockefeller in a converted Manhattan brownstone on West 54th Street, as an assistant curator. In 1960 he became a full curator, and in 1974 the museum's director, succeeding Robert Goldwater.
        Mr. Newton organized 64 exhibitions for the Museum of Primitive Art, which is now defunct. His groundbreaking designs, with atmospheric lighting and striking installations, brought the museum both critical praise and public attention and had long-term influences on museum displays of so-called primitive art.
        ''He knows the fine line between showing sympathy for a tradition on its own terms and manipulating the tradition in terms of Western practices and expectations,'' wrote Robert Farris Thompson, a Yale art historian, in 1978.
        Mr. Newton went on to become the principal designer for major exhibitions in other museums, including ''The Art of Oceania, Africa and the Americas'' (1969) and ''Te Maori'' (1984) at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and ''The Art of the Pacific Islands'' (1979) at the National Gallery of Art in Washington.
        A fluent writer, he produced many monographs, including ''Crocodile and Cassowary: Religious Art of the Upper Sepik River, New Guinea'' (1971) and ''Arts of the South Seas'' (1999). He was also the editor of more than two dozen books on the art of the Pacific Islands. He was recently given the Manu Daula Award by the Pacific Arts Association for a lifetime of work devoted to the arts of Oceania.
        Mr. Newton was appointed consultative chairman of the department of primitive art at the Metropolitan Museum in 1974, and department chairman in 1975. That year, he began to oversee the transfer of the art collections, library and photograph study collection of the Museum of Primitive Art to the Metropolitan, which was given the collections by Mr. Rockefeller in memory of his son Michael, an anthropologist who died in 1961 while on an expedition in New Guinea. The works were displayed in the museum's new Michael C. Rockfeller wing.
        Mr. Newton supervised the design team for the wing, which opened in 1982. Its debut was hailed as placing the art of Africa, Oceania and the Americas on a museological footing with ancient and modern art.
        From 1982 until his retirement in 1990, Mr. Newton was the museum's Evelyn A. J. Hall and John A. Friede chairman of the department of primitive art. He was also senior adviser to the Israel Museum in Jerusalem and was recently an adviser to the Quai Branly in Paris.
        He leaves no immediate survivors.
      