
        Neil D. Levin, the executive director of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, the landlord for the World Trade Center complex as well as the operator of the New York City area's three major airports, port facilities, bridges and tunnels, died on Sept. 11 in the collapse of the twin towers.
        He was 46 and lived in Manhattan.
        Mr. Levin was appointed to the Port Authority leadership in March by Gov. George E. Pataki of New York and Acting Gov. Donald DiFrancesco of New Jersey, who jointly oversee the Port Authority. Previously, Mr. Pataki had named Mr. Levin to the top jobs in the state banking and insurance departments.
        Mr. Levin's office was on the 68th floor of 1 World Trade Center, which was the first tower to be hit by a hijacked airplane and the second to collapse. Mr. Levin's exact location at the time of his death is not known.
        Mr. Levin, who grew up in Atlantic Beach, N.Y., received a bachelor's degree in economics from Lafayette College and a master's in business administration from the C. W. Post Center of Long Island University's Graduate School of Business.
        After getting a law degree at Hofstra University, Mr. Levin went to work as counsel to the securities subcommittee of the Senate Banking Committee, headed by Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato. While there, Mr. Levin helped to draft the Insider Trading Sanctions Act of 1984, which came in reaction to the trading scandals that shook Wall Street in the early 1980's.
        Mr. D'Amato and Claudia Cohen, the entertainment reporter who was then his girlfriend, arranged a blind date for Mr. Levin and Christine Ann Ferer, a contributing style correspondent for NBC. They were married in May 1996. In addition to his wife, Mr. Levin is survived by his mother, Gloria, of Atlantic Beach, N.Y.; a brother, Stanley, of Westchester County; and his wife's two daughters from a previous marriage.
        In seven years as chairman of the Federal Home Loan Bank Board of New York, Mr. Levin helped oversee the bank's transition from a regulator of financial institutions to a profit-seeking business. The New York office of the bank board offers financing to housing and community development lenders in New York, New Jersey, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.
        In 1985, Mr. Levin joined Goldman Sachs & Company; he was promoted to vice president two years later. He assisted federal agencies with investment banking and was an adviser to Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the federal home loan programs.
        In 1994, Mr. Pataki, whose election campaign was supported by Mr. D'Amato, appointed Mr. Levin the state's superintendent of banks. In that position, he had oversight of 4,500 banks, thrifts and other financial institutions within New York State. He also helped oversee the initial stages of the state's inquiry into the actions of Swiss banks during World War II. In 1997, Mr. Pataki appointed Mr. Levin superintendent of the State Insurance Department and head of the Commission on the Recovery of Holocaust Victims' Assets.
      