
        Jimmy Jones, who created a racing dynasty with his father, Ben Jones, as the Calumet Farm trainers who won the Kentucky Derby eight times, died yesterday at a hospital in Maryville, Mo. He was 94.
        Jones's racing career spanned 60 years, during which Calumet Farm became the leading owner of racehorses in America 12 times in a 20-year span and the leading breeder 14 times. He was the first trainer to win more than $1 million in purses, and he became the leading trainer in the country five times (1947 to 1949, 1957 and 1961) with such champions as Citation, Coaltown, Tim Tam, Barbizon, Gen. Duke and Iron Liege, and often with Eddie Arcaro in the saddle.
        Jones was inducted into the Racing Hall of Fame in 1959.
        After retiring from Calumet in 1964, before the farm began its long spiral into bankruptcy 28 years later, Jones became director of racing at Monmouth Park in New Jersey for 12 years. He retired from that job a dozen years later to go back to his farm in Missouri.
        Horace Allyn Jones was born in Parnell, Mo., on Nov. 24, 1906, and was still a youngster when he began following his father around the racing circuit. He attended Northwestern Missouri State Teachers College with the thought of becoming a veterinarian, but the lure of racing proved too strong. He left college, rejoined his father and saddled his first winner, Nose Dive, at the Fair Grounds in New Orleans in 1926 when he was only 19 years old.
        He served as assistant to his father in breeding and racing their own horses until 1931, when they started training for the Woolford Farm. But in 1939, the year after Ben Jones saddled Lawrin to win the Kentucky Derby for Herbert M. Woolf, they signed as trainers for Warren Wright's Calumet Farm in Lexington, Ky., and created a dynasty.
        For a time, father and son trained separate divisions of Calumet horses. Ben Jones, renowned for his pugnacious temperament, trained four winners of the title Horse of the Year and was the trainer of record of six winners of the Kentucky Derby. His son officially trained two Derby winners, but did most of the actual handling of several others, while allowing his father to take the credit and break Derby records.
        In 1941, they won with Whirlaway, the bushy-tailed late runner who also swept the Triple Crown. In 1944, they won the Derby with Pensive. In 1948, they won it with Citation, who also swept the Preakness and Belmont Stakes to win the Triple Crown. In 1949, they took the Derby again with Ponder, and in 1952 with Hill Gail. Then Jimmy Jones took charge of the partnership and won consecutive Derbys: in 1957 with Iron Liege and in 1958 with Tim Tam.
        They gave much of the honor to the dominant stallion Bull Lea, who died at age 29 after siring 58 stakes winners. ''A Bull Lea foal,'' Jimmy Jones once estimated, ''is worth $10,000 the minute it hits the ground.''
        In later years, Jimmy Jones was a popular figure at the major racetracks, spending time on the backstretch with veteran trainers like Charlie Whittingham, Woody Stephens and Jimmy Croll.
        He said that the best horse he ever trained was Citation, who won 19 of his 20 races as a 3-year-old. His personal favorite was Armed, who won 41 of his 81 starts, ''because he did a lot with less physical talent than Citation.''
        He recalled that when he hired Arcaro to ride Citation in the 1948 Kentucky Derby, the horse ran second in a tuneup in Arcaro's first ride on him. Arcaro was also put off by the breakaway speed of Citation's stablemate, Coaltown. So, he asked before the Derby, ''Are you sure I'm riding the right horse?'' And Jones replied, ''Don't worry, you're riding the right horse.''
        They finished 1-2, and Arcaro was riding the right horse.
      