
        Walter Jinotti, a biomedical engineer who developed a quick method of determining how much pollen is in the air and whose pollen counts were a staple of television and radio news in the New York region, died on Sept. 9 at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital in New Brunswick, N.J. He was 74 and lived in New Brunswick.
        He had a long illness, The Associated Press reported.
        At his death, Mr. Jinotti was director of clinical biomedical engineering at Robert Wood Johnson University Hospital. He had been associated with the hospital since 1960, when he became one of its operating-room technicians.
        For years, he informed news organizations in the New York City region of the pollen count, as he calculated it, starting about August, the beginning of hay fever season. His data provided early warning to hay fever sufferers, enabling them to take steps to avoid, or relieve, blockage of nasal passages and other symptoms. He also made long-range predictions about pollen counts.
        In 1987, he devised a system for taking an exact pollen count in 20 minutes, far more quickly than the 24 hours earlier methods had required.
        But even by 1982, an earlier pollen-counting method he used had won him respect and a large audience; it was adopted by The Associated Press as the most credible method because of its endorsement by hospitals and heart-and-lung associations.
        By then, Mr. Jinotti had spent two decades modifying pollen-collecting devices to account for the variable effects of the sun and the wind. He also organized 42 pollen-count reading stations from Philadelphia to Connecticut, staffed by volunteers.
        He was a hay fever sufferer himself. In 1982 he said , ''When the counts are high, there are a lot of little men running around my head, hitting me with their hammers.''
        By providing morning pollen counts to the public, he added, ''We're not saying, 'Refrain from your life style,' but we're giving you an idea that the count is high and you will suffer unless you taper your activities.''
        For some years, he taught at the University of Medicine and Dentistry of New Jersey-Robert Wood Johnson Medical School. He was a president of the National Society for Environmental Allergies. Mr. Jinotti also held a number of patents. In the 1970's, he invented a leg-exercising device intended to prevent phlebitis, a vein inflammation.
        Earlier he developed a blood pump, called the Tycos Blood Infuser. He was honored in 1997 by the New Jersey Inventors Hall of Fame.
        After growing up in Plainfield, N.J., he joined the Air Force when he was 17 and was an aircraft mechanic in World War II. He attended the University of Pennsylvania as a premed student but did not receive a degree.
        Late in his life he said: ''I may not have a wife or children, but I have my inventions. They are my children.
      