
        Dr. Nguyen Ton Hoan, a Vietnamese who as a leader of the Dai Viet, or Greater Vietnam Party, opposed Communist rule in the north and French rule in the south and who in 1964 was briefly deputy premier in Maj. Gen. Nguyen Khanh's government, died on Sept. 19 at Mountainview, Calif., where he lived. He was 84.
        A mild-mannered physician, Dr. Hoan was in Paris in February 1964 when he heard on the radio that as the exiled Dai Viet leader he was being invited back to Saigon to be prime minister after pro-Dai Viet officers had ousted Maj. Gen. Duong Van Minh.
        Three months earlier, General Minh had seized power after the assassination of President Ngo Dinh Diem, who had outlawed the Dai Viet and forced Dr. Hoan and its other leaders out of the country or into hiding. But when Dr. Hoan reached Saigon he found that General Khanh had become premier with strong American backing and that he was to be first deputy premier in charge of countryside pacification.
        He did not last long. Appointed in February, Dr. Hoan pressed for creation of an Ethnic Minorities Ministry, land reform, serious anticorruption measures and free elections that would lead to civilian rule. Those positions put him increasingly at odds with a mainly military administration, as well as with American policy, which sought to build up General Khanh as a strong leader.
        In September, he resigned, returning to exile in France. But the next year he quarreled with President Charles de Gaulle over French policy on Vietnam and moved to the United States.
        He taught Vietnamese at military complexes and then opened a Vietnamese restaurant while also working for a free and democratic Vietnam.
        He was born in Tay Ninh, South Vietnam, in May 1917. Dr. Hoan studied medicine at the University of Hanoi, where he became active in student politics. In 1939, he helped found the Dai Viet Party.
        When the Communists took over the north in 1946, he fled to China, hiding under the deck of a junk.
        He returned to Saigon in 1947. In 1949, when the French appointed a former emperor, Bao Dai, head of state, the Dai Viet at first cooperated with him. Dr. Hoan was minister of youth and sports in two early governments, and he introduced Ping Pong to Vietnam.
        But Dr. Hoan withdrew his party's support when he realized that this would not advance the cause of independence.
        Surviving are his wife, the former Phan Thi Binh; two sons, Dr. Chau Nguyen of Santa Ana, Calif., Anh Nguyen of Lake Tahoe, Nev.; and two daughters, Oanh Hanley of Palo Alto, Calif., and Doris Nguyen of Washington.
      