
        Adm. Daniel Joseph Murphy, a retired Navy career officer who held positions in the Carter and Reagan administrations, died on Friday in a hospital in Rockville, Md. He was 79 and lived in Potomac, Md.
        The cause was a stomach aneurysm, his family said.
        In 1976 and 1977, when he retired from active Navy duty as a four-star admiral, he was the Central Intelligence Agency's deputy director of central intelligence.
        From 1977 to 1980, Admiral Murphy was deputy under secretary of defense for policy under President Jimmy Carter. He was Vice President George Bush's chief of staff from 1981 to 1985.
        In the early 1980's, the admiral  was also active on the South Florida Task Force, which involved moving an increased number of prosecutors to the area and using tougher methods to curb drug trafficking.
        He was also for a time the chairman of the coordinating board of a new program in President Ronald Reagan's war on drugs. The program was set up in 1983 to coordinate federal agencies' efforts to stop the flow of illegal drugs into the United States. The program was criticized, but Admiral Murphy contended in 1984 that it was a success.
        Daniel Murphy joined the Navy in 1942, and he rose to command the Sixth Fleet in the Mediterranean during the 1973-1974 Arab-Israeli war. He was deputy chief of naval operations for anti-submarine warfare from 1974 to 1976.
        He was born in Brooklyn and graduated from the University of Maryland and the Naval War College in Rhode Island.
        After leaving government, he was a lobbyist with Gray & Company, which was closely linked to the Reagan administration, and then worked independently. He represented Angola's Marxist government and was a friend of Tongsun Park, a former South Korean intelligence agent and lobbyist, whose ties to congressmen figured in a scandal in the 1970's.
        Through the 1990's, the admiral worked closely with David Chang, a New Jersey businessman, who pleaded guilty last year to obstruction of justice and to making illegal contributions to Senator Robert G. Torricelli, Democrat of New Jersey. The admiral was never charged with any legal offense in connection with the Torricelli matter.
        Surviving are his wife, Elaine, of Bethesda, Md.; two daughters, Shaun Murphy of Washington and Pamela Murphy of Coronado, Calif.; two sons, Vice Adm. Daniel J. Murphy Jr., retired, of Clifton, Va., and Thomas Murphy of Valetta, Malta; eight grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      