
        Charles Frederick Cannell, an expert on scientific surveys whose studies widely influenced how survey interviews are conducted, died on Sept. 18 in an automobile accident in Ann Arbor, Mich. He was 88 and lived in Ann Arbor.
        Dr. Cannell (pronounced CAN-ell) retired in 1984 as a professor of communications at the University of Michigan, where he had been since 1946. In that year he was one of the founders of what is now the university's Institute for Social Research.
        In the survey field, it is widely held that the relationship between the interviewer and the respondent is central to the process. It was this relationship, essentially a conversation, that Dr. Cannell studied deeply, finding insights that are used by many others in the field in the continuing effort to get the most accurate survey results.
        For example, Dr. Cannell found that the validity of survey data might  be affected by errors or biases from the respondents' failures to understand the interviewers' questions or from the respondents' lack of motivation to answer accurately.
        His writings on the interview relationship include the book ''The Dynamics of Interviewing: Theory, Technique and Cases'' (1957), written with Dr. Robert L. Kahn.
        The survey interview, Dr. Cannell  said, is governed by a set of conversational norms that are the keys to understanding the quality of survey data. For example, if an interviewer poses a question that the respondent feels is unduly intimate, that may skew the respondent's reply.
        He found evidence that the quality of the data improved when interviewers instructed respondents on the nature of the task.
        His honors included the lifetime achievement award from the American Association for Public Opinion Research, presented to him in 1999, with a citation that emphasized the importance of his research on interviewer-respondent behavior.
        Born in Antrim, N.H., he received a bachelor's degree from the University of New Hampshire and did graduate work in psychology at Ohio State University, where he received a master's degree and his doctorate.
        Dr. Cannell's wife, the former Martha Osgood, died two years ago.
        He is survived by two sons, John, of Ann Arbor and Ted, of Norman,  Ark.; three grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      