
        Tommie Agee, the center fielder who made two of the most spectacular catches in World Series history in propelling the Mets to their stunning 1969 championship, died yesterday at Bellevue Hospital in Manhattan. He was 58.
        Agee had a heart attack while leaving a Midtown office building in the late morning, according to a hospital spokeswoman, Lorinda Klein.
        On the afternoon of Oct. 14, 1969, the team known as the Miracle Mets saw its storied rise from baseball laughingstock punctuated by a pair of memorable plays in the outfield.
        It was the first World Series game played at Shea Stadium, and the Mets and the Baltimore Orioles were tied at one game apiece.
        Agee, in his second season with the Mets, led off the bottom of the first inning with a home run off the future Hall of Famer Jim Palmer.
        With the Mets leading by 3-0 in the fourth, and runners on first and third and two out, Orioles catcher Elrod Hendricks hit a long, high drive to left-center field. Agee sprinted across the grass toward his former high school teammate, left fielder Cleon Jones. Agee then reached out and grabbed the ball backhanded in the webbing of his glove and held onto it while he bounced off the wooden fence at the 396-foot sign. As the crowd of 56,335 roared, he trotted to the dugout with his glove aloft, the ball still in the webbing.
        The Mets were ahead by 4-0 in the seventh inning, but the Orioles loaded the bases with two out. Nolan Ryan, brought in to relieve the starter, Gary Gentry, delivered a pitch that Orioles center fielder Paul Blair hit to deep right-center field. Agee ran to his left, slanting backward, and just as the ball was about to hit the warning track, he made a diving, skidding one-handed grab while sprawled full length.
        ''I thought I might get it without diving,'' Agee said. ''But the wind dropped the ball straight down, and I had to hit the dirt.''
        Blair was robbed of a possible game-tying, inside-the-park home run and the Mets went on to win that game and the next two. They emerged as World Series champions after a ninth-place finish the previous season and seven years of ridicule in the era of Marvelous Marv.
        Agee thought his play on Blair was the less difficult of the two catches. ''It's an easier play because it was on my glove side,'' said the right-handed Agee, ''and I didn't have as far to go, but the wind kept taking it away and I had to dive.''
        Mets Manager Gil Hodges differed.
        ''They were both great,'' he said, but he called the catch against Blair ''No. 1 of any World Series catch I've seen.''
        Hodges was ranking Agee's second catch above the spectacular outfield plays turned in by the Dodgers' Al Gionfriddo on Joe DiMaggio of the Yankees in 1947, the Giants' Willie Mays on Cleveland's Vic Wertz in 1954 and Brooklyn's Sandy Amoros on Yogi Berra of the Yankees in 1955.
        Tommie Lee Agee, a native of Magnolia, Ala., played high school baseball and football in Mobile, Ala., with Jones.
        Signed out of Grambling University, he played briefly with the Cleveland Indians and Chicago White Sox from 1962 to 1965, then emerged as the American League rookie of the year with Chicago in 1966, when he stole 44 bases. After a mediocre season in 1967, he was traded to the Mets.
        Agee's debut with the Mets was anything but auspicious -- he was hit on the head by the Cardinals' Bob Gibson on the very first pitch the Mets faced in spring training in 1968. He went 0 for 34 at one point that season -- tying the Mets' record for batting futility set by Don Zimmer in 1962 -- and hit only .217.
        But Agee had a fine season in 1969 as the Mets assembled a corps of outstanding young players -- pitchers Tom Seaver and Jerry Koosman, shortstop Bud Harrelson, Jones in left field and Jerry Grote catching.
        Agee batted .271 with 26 home runs and 76 runs batted in and was among the Mets' leading hitters in the National League playoff series with the Atlanta Braves.
        Following the World Series, Agee and several other Mets appeared at a hotel revue in Las Vegas, where they sang ''The Impossible Dream.''
        Then Agee and Jones were given a parade in Mobile, but that proved bittersweet.
        ''They never paid any attention to us before,'' Agee said later. ''I hate to think it took a World Series, but I guess there just wasn't much interest in two black players until something like this happened.''
        Agee played three more seasons with the Mets but was hampered by knee injures and found himself supplanted in 1972 by the newly acquired Mays, who was close to finishing out his career. Agee was traded before the 1973 season to Houston, played with the Astros and St. Louis Cardinals that year, then retired. He had a career batting average of .255 over 12 seasons with 130 home runs and 167 stolen bases.
        In recent years, he worked for a title insurance company in New York.
        He is survived by his wife, Maxine, and a daughter, Janelle.
        Bob Murphy, the Mets' longtime broadcaster, observed yesterday how Agee was one of the first building blocks for the 1969 champions.
        ''The first thing Gil Hodges wanted to do when he became the manager was to acquire Tommie Agee,'' Murphy said. ''He wanted a guy to bat leadoff with speed and that also could hit for power. He also knew that with the pitching staff we had with Seaver, Koosman, etc., that he needed a guy in center to run the ball down. Things worked out just like Gil planned.''
      