
        Clark T. Rogerson, whose fascination with the microscopic world of fungi brought tens of thousands of specimens to the New York Botanical Garden in the Bronx, died on Sept. 7 in Ogden, Utah, where he moved after he retired. He was 82.
        Dr. Rogerson, an international authority on fungi that grow on other fungi, spent more than 30 years of his career at the New York Botanical Garden. He retired in 1990 after having been the garden's senior curator of cryptogamic botany and editor of its journals.
        ''There was never a fungus he wasn't excited by,'' said William R. Buck, senior curator at the botanical garden.
        Dr. Rogerson would go to great lengths to pursue his interest, Dr. Buck said; each summer he traveled by bus or by train, but never by plane, to Utah to collect specimens.  After two plane crashes in World War II, he knew he would never fly again, Dr. Buck said.
        Born Oct. 2, 1918, in Ogden, Dr. Rogerson earned a bachelor of science degree in 1940 from Utah State University. He was drafted in 1942 and was a technical sergeant in the Army.
        Throughout his military service, he collected myxomycetes, organisms found on decaying vegetation; fungi; plants; and butterflies and sent them to Cornell University or the Smithsonian Institution.
        He received his Ph.D. in mycology from Cornell in 1950. From 1950 to 1958, he was an assistant and associate professor of botany at Kansas State University before moving to New York to work at the Botanical Garden.
        Until the 1960's, Dr. Rogerson was the only professional mycologist in the New York City area who could authoritatively identify mushrooms. He set up a special telephone line for people seeking information on mushrooms and mushroom poisonings.
        He also helped in the formation of the New York Mycological Association and the Connecticut-Westchester Mycological Association, which study mushrooms and other fungi. The Connecticut-Westchester group has named its four-day mushroom hunt, held each fall, the Clark Rogerson Foray.
        Dr. Rogerson trained the group members to collect fungus specimens that he could use in his work, Dr. Buck said.
        Dr. Rogerson was president of the Mycological Society of America in 1968 and 1969.
        He is survived by a sister, Norma Darby, and a brother, Kenneth, both of Eden, Utah.
      