
        Capt. Jack O. Bennett, a retired American pilot, died on Aug. 26 in Berlin, his adopted hometown, where he was celebrated as a hero of the Berlin Airlift of 1948-49. He was 86.
        The Berlin government credited him with making the first flight, on June 23, 1948, of the effort that broke the 11-month Soviet siege of the divided city. Captain Bennett flew a Douglas DC-8 loaded with potatoes, the first of 2.3 million tons of food, fuel and other supplies delivered by the time the Soviet Union decided to back down 11 months later.
        ''Bennett, like so many of his fellow pilots, put his life on the line during the blockade to ensure the existence and freedom of Berliners in the face of the Soviet threat,'' a spokesman for the city, Albert Eckert, said. ''Bennett embodies the change in the relationship between Germany and the United States that took place.''
        The crisis was one of the most perilous of the cold war. It erupted after the Western powers -- Britain, France and the United States -- decided to form a single economic unit of their German zones of occupation and to introduce the newly issued mark in their sectors of Berlin.
        The Soviet Union declared the four-power administration of Berlin null and void and cutting all rail, road and water links through East Germany to the city.
        No pilot flew the tricky route into Berlin-Tempelhof Airport more often than Captain Bennett. He logged two to three flights a day, for a total of 650 round trips.
        ''Raisin bombers,'' as the Berliners called them, landed around the clock at intervals of just under a minute, delivering 4,500 tons of food and goods a day and totaling 278,000 flights. But to Captain Bennett, the real heroes of that astonishing logistical achievement were not the pilots. ''It was a chance to fly as often as we wanted,'' he said in an interview. ''We were no heroes. Those were all the ones who operated the radar system and let us land safely.''
        Jack Bennett was born in Ebensburg, Pa., He started flying at 14. He graduated from Pennsylvania State University and studied aeronautical engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He first went to Berlin in 1937 to continue his studies at the Technical University with a Rockefeller Foundation grant.
        After the war, he returned to Germany as a civilian pilot based in Frankfurt and flying the Berlin route for American Overseas Airlines and then for Pan American World Airways, until retiring in 1974.
        Surviving is his wife, Marianne.
        Correction:  October 22, 2001, Monday  An obituary on Sept. 4 about Capt. Jack O. Bennett, who piloted the first supply plane of the Berlin Airlift in June 1948, misidentified the craft. It was a Douglas DC-4; the DC-8 did not enter commercial service until the mid-1960's. This correction was delayed for research in military and commercial aviation archives to resolve conflicting information from experts and publications, some of which listed it as a DC-3; American Overseas Airlines and McDonnell Douglas are no longer in business.
      