
        Manny Albam, a musician, composer and arranger in the jazz world of the 1950's and 60's who also played a major role in the growth of jazz education, died on Tuesday at his home in Croton, N.Y. He was 79.
        The cause was cancer, his family said.
        Although he was far from a household name even at the height of his career, Mr. Albam did much to shape the sound of jazz between the end of World War II and the rock onslaught of the 60's. As a composer and arranger, he worked with the big bands of Count Basie, Woody Herman, Stan Kenton and Buddy Rich, as well as with Dizzy Gillespie, Stan Getz, Gerry Mulligan, Coleman Hawkins and others. He wrote arrangements for prominent singers, including Sarah Vaughan, Carmen McRae and Dakota Staton.
        He also wrote music for television shows and commercials and recorded several critically praised albums under his own name. In recent years, the Carnegie Hall Jazz Band commissioned several works from him.
        Although education was his primary focus over the last three decades, Mr. Albam was active as an arranger into the 90's. In 1997 he provided most of the arrangements for the saxophonist Joe Lovano's album ''Celebrating Sinatra'' and the jazz pianist Hank Jones's collaboration with the Meridian String Quartet. In 1999 he worked with the singer Nancy Marano and the 60-piece Netherlands Metropole Orchestra on the album ''If You Could See Us Now.''
        Born in the Dominican Republic on June 24, 1922, Emmanuel Albam was reared in New York City, where he took up the saxophone while he was a student at Stuyvesant High School. He began his professional career in 1940 and over the next few years played alto and baritone saxophone with a number of bands. After getting out of the Army in 1946, while playing with the big bands of Charlie Barnet, Jerry Wald and others, he began to write music. By the early 50's he had given up playing to become a full-time composer and arranger.
        Mr. Albam never led a regular working band. But from 1955 to 1966 he recorded several albums as the leader of studio ensembles for labels like RCA Victor, Coral and Solid State. Those albums included some of his most ambitious compositions, among them ''The Blues Is Everybody's Business'' and the suite ''Soul of the City.''
        In 1964 Mr. Albam became involved in the still young field of jazz education, establishing a summer arranging workshop at the Eastman School of Music. He later taught at Glassboro State College in New Jersey and the Manhattan School of Music. In 1988 he became the associate musical director of the Jazz Composers Workshop, which the music licensing organization BMI established to guide aspiring composers and arrangers in the creation of new works for big bands. He succeeded Bob Brookmeyer as musical director and held the position until his death.
        Mr. Albam is survived by his wife, Betty Hindes; a son, Evan, of Nyack, N.Y.; two daughters, Amy Albam of Nyack and Kate Crain of El Sobrante, Calif.; two stepsons, Paul Hindes of New York and Andrew Hindes of Eagle Rock, Calif.; three grandchildren; and four step-grandchildren.
        Burt Korall, the director of the BMI Jazz Composers Workshop and a friend of Mr. Albam's, said that after Mr. Albam's jazz version of the ''West Side Story'' score (which was nominated for a Grammy Award) was released in 1958, the composer, Leonard Bernstein, called Mr. Albam. ''He was very impressed by Manny's writing,'' Mr. Korall recalled. ''He said, 'Anytime you want to write something for the Philharmonic, let me know.' And that frightened Manny so much that he started studying.''
        Mr. Albam studied with the composer Tibor Serly from 1958 to 1960, and although he never did write anything for the Philharmonic, he went on to compose a number of chamber and orchestral works.
      