
        Einar Gustafson, who plucked heartstrings as a 12-year-old cancer patient identified as Jimmy on a national radio program and then vanished for a half-century, only to reappear as a champion of what had become the Jimmy Fund, died of a stroke Sunday at a hospital in Caribou, Me. He was 65.
        Though most people assumed he had died as a youth, Mr. Gustafson, who became a grandfather and long-distance truck driver, maintained homes in New Sweden, Me., and Buzzards Bay, Mass. In his final years, he became an active part-time spokesman for the Jimmy Fund, a children's cancer foundation that was first the official charity of the Boston Braves, who moved to Milwaukee and then to Atlanta, and since 1953 of the Boston Red Sox.
        The Jimmy Fund has raised more than $150 million, underwritten some of the more significant work on chemotherapy for children and helped reduce the death rate of some childhood cancers -- particularly leukemia -- from 90 percent to 10 percent.
        Dr. Edward J. Benz Jr., president of the Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, which is supported by the Jimmy Fund, said Mr. Gustafson's story ''is the story of our nation's war on cancer, and tens of thousands of people have rallied against cancer in his name.''
        Mr. Gustafson perhaps proves that there are second acts in America, or at least second innings. When asked to throw out the first pitch before a Red Sox-Yankees game at Fenway Park in 1998, he was asked about the probable standing ovation.
        ''I've had that before,'' he said in an interview with The Boston Globe. ''They did that for me at the Braves game in '48, and I waved to the crowd.''
        But the second time, he met his biggest fan, a former ballplayer by the name of Ted Williams, a dedicated supporter of the Jimmy Fund.
        ''This is the biggest thrill of my trip, right here,'' Mr. Williams said at their meeting at the Dana-Farber center.
        In 1948, Einar was called Jimmy on the radio broadcast because his doctor, Sidney Farber, insisted on protecting the identity of pediatric cancer patients. For public purposes, he referred to them only as Jimmy or Jane. Because Einar had non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, which then had a low cure rate, it was widely assumed he had died.
        He was not hiding or keeping a secret, he later said. ''In my day, we were taught to keep things quiet,'' he said in an interview with The Globe.
        But in 1997, his sister Phyllis Clauson of Chelmsford, Mass., wrote to the Jimmy Fund to say that her only brother was still alive. There had been many such claims before, but none had been proved. Then the letter was misplaced. Finally, it was found by Karen Cummings, a fund official. She wrote back that the charity had no record of his real name or what had happened to him.
        ''We do, however, assume that he passed away, as the vast majority of children who contracted cancer in the 1940's did not survive,'' she wrote.
        A few days later, her phone rang. ''Hi, Karen,'' the voice said. ''This is Jimmy. Heard you were lookin' for me.''
        Carl Einar Gustafson was born on Aug. 18, 1935, in New Sweden, where he grew up on a potato farm. When he was 12, while walking to school, he experienced pain in his abdomen. He had surgery in nearby Caribou, then a second operation in Lewiston.
        One of the doctors recommended Children's Hospital in Boston, where the boy came under Dr. Farber's care. He was found to have non-Hodgkin's lymphoma of the lymph nodes of the small bowel. Cure rates then were 20 percent to 30 percent, as against 90 percent now, according to the fund.
        His treatment coincided with the formation of the Children's Cancer Research Foundation in Boston. Dr. Farber was research director, and the Variety Club of New England, a society of professional entertainers, was an early supporter. Variety Club members persuaded Ralph Edwards, a popular radio personality, to broadcast his live, coast-to-coast ''Truth or Consequences'' program from Children's Hospital.
        As reported by Sports Illustrated, Mr. Edwards and the boy called Jimmy began by discussing baseball. Mr. Edwards asked, ''Who's the catcher on the Braves, Jimmy?''
        ''Phil Masi.''
        ''That's right. Have you ever met Phil Masi?''
        ''No.''
        Suddenly a third voice was heard: ''Hi, Jimmy! My name is Phil Masi.''
        One by one, Braves players trooped into Jimmy's room with hats, bats and other gifts. The last visitor was Manager Billy Southworth, who brought a Braves uniform for the boy.
        He said, ''We play the Chicago Cubs tomorrow in a doubleheader at Braves Field, and we're calling it Jimmy's Day.''
        Listeners were told that if $20,000 were donated to the fund, Jimmy would be given a television set to watch Braves games. This initial fund drive reaped $231,485.51, and Einar got his television. The Braves won the 1948 National League pennant.
        By August 1948, the boy was well enough to return to New Sweden. He made regular trips back to Boston for chemotherapy, often hitching a ride with his uncle, a truck driver.
        He grew to 6 feet 5 inches, graduated from Caribou High School and started driving trucks himself. He married his high school sweetheart, Karen, in 1957. They moved to Buzzards Bay, where Mr. Gustafson established a successful building company.
        His wife died in 1986, and he remarried in 1989. He went back to New Sweden and began operating a trucking business, driving cross-country routes himself. Dr. Farber, with whom he corresponded regularly, died in 1973.
        Mr. Gustafson is survived by his wife, Gloria; two sisters, Sandra Shields of Acton, Me., and Mrs. Clauson; and three daughters, Lynn MacLeod of Buzzards Bay, Lisa Patti of Coventry, R.I., and Lori Gustafson, with whom the family has lost contact.
        At their meeting, Mr. Gustafson and Mr. Williams sat on rocking chairs. Mr. Williams said he just couldn't get over encountering the real Jimmy.
        He said, ''Isn't that something?''
      