
        Brian E. Kendrick, a leader in the retail industry and chief executive of Asbury Autogroup, died on Thursday at his home in Greenwich, Conn. He was 48.
        The cause was a heart attack, a company spokeswoman said.
        Mr. Kendrick became widely known in the retail industry in the 1990's, a tumultuous time for the industry during which consolidations, initial public offerings and other deals overtook the merchandising end of the business.
        Mr. Kendrick led Saks Fifth Avenue, where he was an executive from 1990 to 1998, through its initial public offering in 1996, and later negotiated its sale to the Proffitt's department store chain in 1998, after which the company was renamed Saks Inc. Mr. Kendrick was known for his grasp of both sides of the retail business -- its soft side, in which fabrics and hemlines rule; and the hard side, in which sales figures and inventory shape the business -- a rare combination of acumen in the business.
        Mr. Kendrick was born in Natchez, Miss., and raised in Jackson. He graduated from Louisiana State University in 1974 and began a career as an accountant. But he quickly moved into the retail industry with a job at Maison Blanche/Goudchaux, where he eventually became chief financial officer.
        During his tenure there, he took a leave of absence to assume the role of commissioner of administration for the State of Louisiana from 1987 to 1988, at the request of the governor. He held this term during tremendous financial and political upheaval in the state; Mr. Kendrick received death threats as he moved to cut the state's pummeled budget and bring it back from the crisis.
        In 1990, he joined Saks, rising to chief financial officer and eventually vice chairman and chief operating officer. After the deal with Proffitt's, he left Saks in 1998 for a short stint at DFS Group Limited. He took over Asbury, a luxury car retailer, the following year. The company grew to become the fourth-largest automotive retailer in the United States, with revenue of more than $5 billion a year. The firm was in the final stages of an initial public offering, which will proceed.
        He is survived by his wife, Allison; two sons, Jonathan and Taylor; a daughter, Megan, all of Greenwich; and his mother, Ruth Kendrick of Jackson.
      