
        Dougie Millings, a tailor to the stars whose crowning achievement was outfitting the Beatles in the distinctive round-necked suits in which they rocked to global glory, died on Sept. 20 in his London home. He was 88.
        Mr. Millings was called Dad by the Beatles, and appeared as a tailor in the movie ''A Hard Day's Night,'' wearing a frown of frustration because the band refused to stand still while being measured.
        In real life, Mr. Millings was the Beatles' house tailor, making everything they were seen in, said his son, Gordon, a tailor who worked with him.
        He did the outfits for the movie ''Help!,'' for the group's royal performances and for the ceremony in which band members received their Member of the British Empire medals at Buckingham Palace.
        In all, Mr. Millings produced about 500 garments for the group.
        Soon his client list included Bill Haley and the Comets, the Everly Brothers, the Beach Boys, the Four Tops, Sammy Davis Jr., Tom Jones, Steve McQueen, Rex Harrison and Warren Beatty.
        It all began in the fall of 1962, a time Dougie Millings remembered because it coincided with the release of the Beatles' first single, ''Love Me Do.'' Brian Epstein, the Beatles' manager, brought the group to Mr. Millings' shop at 63 Compton Street in the Soho section of London. There was a grand piano in the basement.
        And how were the soon-to-be conquerors of the hearts of the world's teenage girls dressed? ''Well in hand-me-downs, really,'' Mr. Millings told GQ magazine in April 2000. ''Not well.''
        The Beatles specified they wanted ''something different.'' The resulting conception was a brainstorm of Mr. Millings and Paul McCartney, Gordon Millings said.
        It was a predenim time when pop stars still wore suits, but these particular suits were hardly conventional. They had the famous round neck in silver gray with braided edges, three pearl buttons on the jacket, single-button flared cuffs and flat-front pants with no side pockets.
        The Beatles approved. ''They were elated,'' Gordon said, ''just knocked out.''
        The price was about $90.
        Douglas Arnold Millings was born in Manchester on July 30, 1913. His father was a civil servant. He spent his tailoring apprenticeship at Jenners, a department store in Edinburgh, and received additional training in Leeds.
        He arrived in London in the 1930's to work as a tailor's cutter on Regent Street. His predilection for show business was demonstrated by his singing in a dance band at the Astoria on Charing Cross Road, according to The Times of London.
        In World War II, he served as a motorbike messenger in the army until he broke his back in an accident. He was told he would never walk again but recovered enough in nine months to go to work in a menswear shop on Shaftesbury Avenue, where he ran the tailoring department in the 1950's.
        While at the store, he met Tito Burns, an influential rock 'n' roll  manager, who discovered Dusty Springfield. Soon he encountered other entertainers.
        ''He had gotten himself the reputation of being the show business tailor,'' Gordon said. ''The cut of the clothes was just a little bit more outrageous.''
        Mr. Millings eventually outgrew his little workshop and moved to a three-story shop on nearby Great Poulteney Street. John Lennon mentioned the move in a remark in an interview in San Francisco in 1964. ''He keeps moving with all the profit he makes,'' Mr. Lennon said.
        For their first American tour, Mr. Millings made the Beatles a wardrobe from lightweight wool and mohair in dark gray and dark blue, with velvet collars.
        In addition to his son Gordon, who intends to continue the business Douglas Millings & Son under its original name, Mr. Millings is survived by his wife, Lilian; his sister, Angela Berns of Los Angeles; and one grandson.
        Mr. Millings, who later in life made suits for the businessmen who still wore suits, was quick to point out that he was not a one-band tailor in his show-business incarnation.
        ''We were also doing people like the Kinks, the Rolling Stones, the Who -- Keith Moon died in one of my suits,'' he said of the Who drummer, who died in 1978.
        ''In fact, he hadn't paid for it,'' he added.
      