
        Roger J. Boisvert, one of Japan's leading Internet pioneers, died on Sept. 30 during a robbery in Los Angeles. He was 50 and lived here.
        Mr. Boisvert was shot after he and a friend became lost in the Hawthorne section of Los Angeles early in the morning. They stopped their car alongside a highway and called Mr. Boisvert's hotel. They were studying a global positioning system map in the car when a robber approached and demanded money. Mr. Boisvert, the passenger, handed over his money and the driver handed over his cellphone, which was connected to the hotel at the time.
        The robber's gun fired once, hitting Mr. Boisvert in the chest, killing him almost instantly, according to the Los Angeles County Sheriff's Department. No suspect has been arrested.
        Mr. Boisvert arrived in Tokyo 20 years ago from his native Canada with his wife, Yuriko Hiraguri, to run her family's coffee shop. In 1984, he joined McKinsey & Company, a consulting firm, to teach employees how to use personal computers.
        After almost a decade with a big corporation, Mr. Boisvert struck out on his own in 1993, setting up IIKK, Japan's first government-authorized commercial Internet service provider. The next year, using borrowed money and working out of a cramped apartment, he started his own provider, Global OnLine. The company, commonly known as GOL, became one of Japan's leading providers and was a pioneer in many areas of electronic commerce.
        After selling GOL in late 1999, Mr. Boisvert set up CTR Ventures, a venture capital company based in Tokyo, another step in his successful career as an outsider in Japan's often closed and risk-averse economy.
        ''He was a pioneer, doing something in an environment where people said it was impossible,'' said Rike Wootten, an American businessman who is on CTR's board. ''A lot of people have started companies on the basis that he was successful.''
        Thomas Caldwell, an American journalist here who is writing a biography of Mr. Boisvert, attributed much of his success to his low-key, friendly approach. ''He never lost touch with the hacker crowd, with the engineers who make things work, with the lowly guys at the bottom of the corporate scale who were cutting the code and coming up with the ideas,'' he said.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Boisvert is survived by two sons, Christopher and Steven.
      