
        Herblock, the Washington Post editorial cartoonist, whose critical eye and rapier pen made him one of the leading journalists of his time, died on Sunday in Washington. He was 91.
        His cartoons were a chronicle of politics over the last seven decades, including the atomic bomb, which he dubbed the ''atomic bum,'' the missile defense system informally called ''Star Wars'' and George W. Bush. Herblock's woodcut-like drawings were peopled with scoundrels on a landscape littered with broken promises and empty slogans.
        The name on his birth certificate was Herbert Lawrence Block, but to the Pulitzer Prize Board, which recognized him individually three times, and to the readers of the hundreds of newspapers that carried his cartoons, he was Herblock. His pen was dipped less in acid than in a well of perpetual indignation as he cut to the heart of the follies and foibles and outright criminal conduct of world leaders.
        His second Pulitzer Prize was awarded in 1954 for a drawing of Stalin, who was being accompanied to his grave by the robed figure of death. The caption: ''You were always a great friend of mine, Joseph.'' In his customary punchy style, he wrote in one of his 12 books: ''The Soviet state builds bodies. Mounds of them.''
        It was Mr. Block who coined the term ''McCarthyism'' for the prosecutorial Communist-hunting tactics of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy of Wisconsin. He depicted the senator emerging from a sewer, an idea he also used on Richard M. Nixon. Both men were also drawn with thuglike heavy beards.
        It was said that McCarthy shaved twice a day to avoid resembling the caricature, as would Nixon. But Mr. Block said no number of close shaves worked because both men had a ''moral 5 o'clock shadow.'' When  Nixon was elected president, a Herblock  cartoon presented him with a clean shave, but as his administration became mired in Watergate his eyebrows grew heavier, his wattles fleshier. Before almost anyone else, Mr. Block drew the footprints of the scandal leading directly to the White House.
        In 1957, Mr. Block delivered the Joseph Pulitzer memorial lecture. The first responsibility of the press, he said, was to ''use its freedom to protect the rights and liberties of all individuals.''
        ''The press must speak out and, if the occasion arises, raise bloody hell,'' he said.
        As a cartoonist, Mr. Block did just that. Among his targets were handguns, cigarettes, drunken drivers, segregationists, computers, gold-plated military budgets, cuts in social services, government secrecy and Ronald Reagan's rosy economic theory.
        In April 1982, he provided a lasting definition for supply-side economics when he drew a rabbit carrying a basket of eggs called ''breaks for the well-to-do'' while poor children looked on from the other side of the railroad tracks saying, ''He runs out of supplies before he gets to our side.''
        A Soft-Spoken Satirist
        Personally, he was the most gentle and unassuming of men. Almost six feet tall, with a slight paunch and crinkly eyes, he punctuated his sentences with an ''oh, hey,'' or a ''golly,'' or an ''oh, boy.'' His broad A's and hard R's forever marked him as a son of the Midwest.
        The manner could be deceiving. Katharine Graham, on his 50th anniversary at The Post, said of him: ''Underneath his genius for cartooning lies a modest, sweet, aw-shucks personality. Underneath that lies a layer of iron and steel. For publishers and editors over him, or under him as it would be more accurate to say, it's like having a tiger by the tail.''
        Mrs. Graham said that journalistic enterprises worked best when writers had autonomy, but added: ''Herb's case is extreme.  And because he's a genius, it works.''
        He did not rely on simple genius. He worked hard at his craft.
        ''When you're the hypocrisy policeman,  there's so much to do,'' said David Hoffman, a colleague at The Post.
        Garry Trudeau, the creator of ''Doonesbury,'' admired Mr. Block as a man who wrote out of ''a truly deep conviction.'' Mr. Trudeau said: ''I never thought of him either as a liberal or as a conservative but as a satirist with a satirist's conviction that because this is America, there is always room for improvement. That kind of idealism and hope never waned over the decades.''
        Joseph Rauh, the Washington lawyer, once called Mr. Block ''a one-man army enlisted for life in the cause of civil rights and liberties.''
        In 1955, Richard H. Rovere, for many years the writer of The New Yorker's ''Letter from Washington,'' called Mr. Block ''perhaps the most widely admired member of his profession at the present time.''
        Over the next five decades, his reputation grew. Patrick Oliphant, the syndicated cartoonist, cited Mr. Block's bravery during the McCarthy era, when, Mr. Oliphant said, ''you could get in trouble'' if you attacked the senator from Wisconsin.
        Mr. Block did get in trouble when he demonstrated what Mrs. Graham called his ''complete independence of anybody and any thing.'' In 1952, when Mr. Block's work became critical of the Republican presidential candidate, Dwight D. Eisenhower, because of his support of Senator McCarthy, The Washington Post, which was supporting  Eisenhower, dropped the Herblock cartoon for part of the election campaign.
        By the time of Watergate and the Iran-contra affair, criticism of government was more generally accepted. In fact, when Mr. Block was singled out by Nixon's first vice president, Spiro T. Agnew, during one of his attacks on the press, he wrote that he got ''more congratulatory calls and letters and more envious comments from fellow journalists than a prize might have done.''
        Herbert Lawrence Block was born in Chicago on Oct. 13, 1909, the youngest of three sons of David and Tessie Block. He started to draw when he was quite young and won a scholarship to the Chicago Art Institute when he was 12. He took classes at night while attending high school and remained a Sunday painter throughout most of his life.
        In 1929, he dropped out of Lake Forest College after two years when he landed a job on The Chicago Daily News. His cartoons were syndicated almost from the start. In 1933, he went to work for the Newspaper Enterprise Association, and it was during his 10-year stint there that he won his first Pulitzer Prize, in 1942. In 1943, Mr. Block joined the Army, which employed his talent for cartooning in its Information and Education Division. He was mustered out as a sergeant in 1946 and joined The Washington Post.
        He prepared for work by reading the morning newspapers and listening to the radio.
        A Reporter's Cartoonist
        At 3 or 4 p.m., Mr. Block would make his daily visit to the newsroom. Padding about in carpet slippers or running shoes, and almost always wearing a sleeveless V-neck sweater over a striped shirt, he would stop a copy boy or gingerly approach a reporter.  ''Got a mo?'' he would ask shyly, always apologizing for the interruption. Then, almost like a child coming home from school, he would thrust forward a sheaf of papers and gently ask one of his colleagues to look at four or five of his rough sketches for the day. A meticulous journalist, he would ask specific questions to make sure a caption was exactly right. ''Is this right?'' ''Is this fair?'' ''Is this premature?''
        To be singled out by Mr. Block was a rite of passage for a young reporter in the newsroom, said Benjamin C. Bradlee, the former executive editor of The Post. ''Once Herb came to you and showed you his sketches, you could walk among the great ones,'' Mr. Bradlee said. ''It was a mark that you had arrived.''
        David Broder, the political columnist for The Post, said: ''He comes out with this enormously flattering request for advice. People would kill to give that advice, and he apologizes.'' Mr. Block was sweet and retiring, Mr. Broder said. ''All the energy and venom went into the cartoon,'' he added.
        After his tour of the newsroom Mr. Block returned to his office to complete his drawing for the day. If he made any accommodation to age, or to a heart attack that he had in 1959 and the bypass operation that he had almost three decades later, it was to cut back from six to five cartoons a week and, occasionally, to take a nap on a lumpy sofa at one corner of his office, which was notable for its chaotic piles of old newspapers and coffee cans filled with soft-leaded pencils.
        A Favorite Target
        Mr. Block said he probably did more cartoons of Nixon than of any other public figure, ''including such long-in-the-limelight persons as Franklin Delano Roosevelt and Joseph Stalin.''
        He started drawing Nixon, who was usually depicted as shifty and grizzled, in 1948. Sometimes Nixon appeared as a vulture, other times as an undertaker, always as a man ready to benefit from the failure of others. But Mr. Block said he took no pleasure from the fact that the disgraced president was a cartoonist's dream. ''I didn't enjoy it,'' he said, ''I really wanted him out.''
        Nixon, like Eisenhower before him, canceled the delivery of The Washington Post to his home when his children were young, because, he said, ''I don't want the girls to be upset.''
        In addition to his body of work as a cartoonist, for which he won a Pulitzer in 1979, Mr. Block wrote 12 books, demonstrating, as one reviewer wrote, that if he had not been able to draw, ''his incisive wit and pungent prose would have established him as a leading commentator.''
        In one of those books, ''Herblock Special Report,'' he wrote: ''An endless succession of 'new' Nixons kept turning out to be the same Nixon as before. And it occurred to me that we never had to have a 'new' Lincoln or a 'new' Roosevelt or a 'new' anyone worthwhile in high public office.''
        Mr. Block was never intimidated or beguiled by the powerful and pointed out their mistakes and missteps day after day, year after year. His last cartoon appeared in The Post on Aug. 26.
        In addition to three Pulitzer Prizes and a fourth he shared with The Post for its coverage of Watergate, several honorary degrees and dozens of journalism prizes, he was selected in 1966 to design the postage stamp commemorating the 175th anniversary of the Bill of Rights.
        In 2000, the Library of Congress mounted a retrospective of his work. President Bill Clinton, who, like all presidents before him, did not escape Herblock's intense scrutiny, awarded him the nation's highest civilian honor, the Presidential Medal of Freedom, in 1994.
        A private person, almost reclusive, Mr. Block was never drawn into the Washington social scene. He never married. In the newspaper's staff directory, he listed The Washington Post as his home.
      