
        William G. Cahan, a Manhattan surgeon, author and tireless advocate of laws and educational programs to reduce smoking, died on Sunday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center in Manhattan. He was 87.
        Dr. Cahan (pronounced KAY-han) was a thoracic surgeon at Sloan-Kettering for more than 50 years and a pioneer in national efforts to combat smoking, working both in the medical profession and in government.
        In his role as chairman of People for a Smoke-Free Indoors, Dr. Cahan lobbied the City Council aggressively in the late 1980's to restrict smoking in restaurants and public buildings. He and other advocates faced ardent resistance from the tobacco industry and many restaurateurs.
        The restrictions the city adopted were challenged in court, but were later strengthened to limit smoking severely across the city in offices, stores, taxis and most enclosed public places. The rules put New York in the forefront of a national movement to combat the health hazards of tobacco and second-hand smoke.
        ''Clergymen, educators, parent-teachers' associations and legislators should speak out against tobacco just as they do against alcohol, drugs, drunken driving, radioactive-waste disposal, dioxin and abortion,'' Dr. Cahan wrote in a 1985 Op-Ed page article for The New York Times, in which he warned of smoking's threat to children.
        Dr. Cahan chronicled his personal work against smoking as part of a 1992 memoir, ''No Stranger to Tears: A Surgeon's Story.'' He described himself as irrepressible, scolding smokers in taxicabs, at dinner parties and elsewhere.
        ''Cancer haters are like crime fighters,'' he wrote, ''constantly on the prowl, looking for trouble and ways to prevent it.''
        In a 1997 interview, he recalled dropping by the dressing room of Yul Brynner during the original run of ''The King and I'' in the early 1950's.
        ''You could barely see that famous bald head through the cloud of cigarette smoke,'' he said. ''I used to tell him the same thing I told everybody, 'For God's sake, cut it out.' ''
        His access to Mr. Brynner's dressing room may have been aided by Dr. Cahan's marriage at the time to Pamela Gordon, the daughter of Mr. Brynner's co-star, Gertrude Lawrence.
        But his friends and patients always included people in the theater, fashion, journalism and diplomacy; his book recounts encounters with Babe Ruth, Leonard Bernstein, Hubert H. Humphrey and Henry A. Kissinger.
        Dr. Cahan became a central figure in Manhattan social circles after his marriage in 1974 to Grace Mirabella-Cahan, the former editor of Vogue and Mirabella magazines.
        And his penchant for confronting smokers was rarely subordinated to the rules of social convention, even at fashionable Upper East Side cocktail parties.
        ''Bill and I are invited to the best of houses -- once!'' Ms. Mirabella-Cahan is quoted as saying, apparently in jest, in Dr. Cahan's memoir.
        He joined the surgery department at Memorial Sloan-Kettering in 1949 and was appointed the hospital's senior attending surgeon in 1990. He focused much of his clinical work on lung cancer and breast cancer, and conducted research leading to new surgical procedures.
        His innovations included advanced studies of the health effects of radiation and the practice of removing lymph nodes between the lungs when performing lung cancer surgery, because the cancer tended to spread there.
        Since the 1950's, he had also been a professor of surgery at Cornell University Medical College.
        Among the many honors he received was the 1982 Distinguished Service Award of the American Cancer Society and the 1990 Life and Breath Award of the New York Lung Association.
        William George Cahan was born Aug. 2, 1914, in Harlem. His father, Samuel G. Cahan, was an artist for The World newspaper who is recalled for his drawings of street scenes on the Lower East Side.
        Dr. Cahan graduated from Harvard College in 1935, and received his medical degree from Columbia College of Physicians and Surgeons in 1939. He served in the United States Army Air Forces during World War II, from 1943 through 1946.
        His marriage to Pamela Gordon ended in divorce, as did a later marriage to the former Mary Arnold Sykes, who died in 1988.
        In addition to Ms. Mirabella-Cahan, Dr. Cahan is survived by two sons from his second marriage, Anthony Cahan, a physician in Cross River, N.Y., and Christopher Cahan, a field producer for ABC television in Los Angeles, and by seven grandchildren.
      