
        Joe Schaefer, a hockey statistician and amateur goalie who lived out the fantasy of countless fans when he was twice summoned during games at Madison Square Garden in the early 1960's as an emergency replacement when the Rangers' regular goalie was hurt, died Dec. 27 in Ladson, S.C. He was 76.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        On the night of Feb. 17, 1960, Gump Worsley, the Rangers' lone goaltender, suffered torn tendons in his stick hand when the skate of the Chicago Black Hawks' Bobby Hull tore through his glove during the first minute of the second period.
        In those days, National Hockey League teams carried one goalie. A home team was required to have an emergency backup in the stands who could finish the game for either the home or visiting goalie if either were injured and unable to continue.
        Schaefer, who was employed at an office-equipment company by day, had been the Rangers' statistician since the early 1950's while also serving as a goalie in practices and sometimes as a penalty-clock timekeeper or a goal judge. He was the emergency goalie for Ranger home games, although his experience had been confined to playing goal for the Sands Point Tigers of the amateur Metropolitan Hockey League and a handful of games in the minors.
        As Worsley left for St. Clare's Hospital on that February night, the game was delayed for 23 minutes while Schaefer donned a Ranger jersey. He was 35 years old and something on the paunchy side, at 5 feet 8 inches and evidently about 200 pounds. Now he would be facing blistering shots from the likes of Hull. His counterpart in the Chicago goal happened to be Glenn Hall, a future member of the Hockey Hall of Fame.
        The Rangers were leading, 1-0, when Schaefer entered the game, but lost by 5-1. ''Schaefer had little to offer except courage,'' Joe Nichols wrote in The New York Times. But he managed to make 17 saves.
        On March 8, 1961, Schaefer got another chance, with Hull and Worsley the protagonists again. This time, Hull came in on a breakaway in the 14th minute of the opening period. When Worsley stretched to block Hull's wrist shot, he suffered a torn thigh muscle and left on a stretcher.
        The Rangers and Black Hawks were tied at 1-1 when Schaefer emerged from the press box once more to become the New York goalie. Chicago won by 4-3, but one Black Hawk goal against Schaefer was deflected in off a Ranger defenseman and another came on a two-on-one breakaway. Schaefer made 27 saves, some of them nifty, to roars of approval from the crowd of 8,515.
        Schaefer continued as the emergency goalie until the mid-1960's, when the N.H.L. began requiring teams to dress two goaltenders for each game, but he never again donned the pads. He remained a Ranger statistician until 1986, then retired to South Carolina.
        He is survived by his wife, Anna Marie; three daughters, three brothers and six grandchildren.
        Schaefer was paid $100 for each of the games he played in, a hefty raise over the $10 per game he was receiving for handling the statistics and waiting in the wings.
        He also gained a niche in the record books. He is listed on page 1,703 of ''Total Hockey'' (Total Sports, 1998), the N.H.L.'s official encyclopedia, right after Terry Sawchuk, considered by many to be hockey's greatest goalie.
        You could look it up.
      