
        Norris Houghton, a theatrical producer and designer, and founder of the Phoenix, one of the first and most successful of New York's not-for-profit Off Broadway theaters, died yesterday at St. Vincent's Hospital, said Frank Lloyd Dent, a longtime friend and neighbor. He was 92.
        Born in Indianapolis, Mr. Houghton discovered the theater at an early age. But instead of writing plays or acting in them, Mr. Houghton recalled in his autobiography, ''Entrances and Exits: A Life In and Out of the Theater'' (Limelight Editions 1991), he decided as a Princeton undergraduate to become ''a 'theater man' in the broadest sense of the word.''
        At the end of his career, Mr. Houghton was a teacher and scholar of the theater. His last full-time position, from 1967 to 1980, was at the State University in Purchase, N.Y., where he was the first dean of the division of theater arts and film. Before that, he taught at Columbia University and was later chairman of the drama department at Vassar College and director of the Experimental Theater at Vassar, in Poughkeepsie, N.Y.
        By all accounts, Mr. Houghton often managed to be at the right place at the right time, not only meeting the right people, but very often becoming their friends as well.
        ''He was lucky in his contacts, from the Queen Mother to the stagehands,'' Mr. Dent said.
        At Princeton, he designed sets for the famed Triangle Club, where he met Joshua Logan and Jimmy Stewart. After graduation, he became stage manager for the University Players on Cape Cod, where he met Henry Fonda and Margaret Sullavan. And in 1934, as a Guggenheim Fellow, he traveled to the Soviet Union, where he managed to meet the great Russian directors Konstantin Stanislavsky and Vsevolod Meyerhold just as a golden era of Russian theater was coming to an end.
        Mr. Houghton's trip to Moscow was to turn him into an expert on the Russian theater (his book ''Moscow Rehearsals'' came out in 1936) and into one of the few Americans to witness firsthand some of the period's legendary productions, like ''The Anonymous Cuckold,'' directed by Meyerhold. Mr. Houghton also attended the jubilee performance of Chekhov's ''Cherry Orchard'' at the Moscow Arts Theater on Jan. 30, 1935, which starred many of the play's original actors.
        In his book, Mr. Houghton recounted his last meeting with Stanislavsky, in which he received prophetic advice. ''To start a theater, you must be a revolutionary,'' Stanislavsky said. ''I mean you must be motivated by dissatisfaction in some way with the status quo.''
        Mr. Houghton returned to New York, where he designed plays for Guthrie McClintic, the Theater Guild, Gilbert Miller and Arthur Hopkins. During World War II, he served in naval communications in Europe, and because of his knowledge of Russian he was posted to the Yalta Conference in 1945.
        In London during the war, Mr. Houghton met Michael Redgrave, whom he directed in 1947, in a production of ''Macbeth.''
        In 1953, Mr. Houghton joined forces with T. Edward Hambleton to found the Phoenix Theater, situating it in an old movie house on East 12th Street in Manhattan. Their goal was to move away from Broadway -- both geographically and conceptually -- to leave the hit-or-flop mentality for a neighborhood with affordable rents and low overhead.
        The idea behind the Phoenix was to present a series of four or five plays for limited engagements of six weeks each, with tickets priced at roughly half the going Broadway price. In 1953, the most expensive Phoenix seat was $3.50.
        Altogether, the Phoenix put on 56 plays between 1953 and 1962, including works by Shakespeare and Shaw, Chekhov, Strindberg and Ionesco, as well as ''The Golden Apple,'' an unconventional musical, which was voted Best New Musical of the 1953-54 season by the New York Drama Critics' Circle.
        Although its founders had vowed to avoid the star system, the stars came anyway, accepting the offer of a $100-a-week salary and billing in alphabetical order. Montgomery Clift appeared in Chekhov's ''Seagull,'' John Houseman directed ''Coriolanus,'' and Siobhan McKenna came from Dublin to play in Shaw's ''St. Joan.''
        The experience of the Phoenix was to give strength to other Off Broadway theaters, proving Mr. Houghton's point that audiences were eager for professional high-quality theater that did not have to be a Broadway extravaganza.
        ''To a substantial degree it changed he way the theater operated in New York city,'' Mr. Houghton wrote. ''It succeeded in making stage folk and the general public realize that there were other stages and other reasons to produce than Broadway's, and other motivations than commercialism. It stood as a signpost pointing the way towards a new land: 'Off Broadway.' ''
        No immediate family members survive.
      