
        Herbert Ross, a Broadway choreographer-turned-film director who brought serious dance into the Hollywood mainstream with movies like ''The Turning Point,'' translated five Neil Simon comedies to the screen and directed a pantheon of actresses in some of their most memorable roles, died on Tuesday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan. He was 74 and lived in Manhattan..
        He had been in failing health for more than a year, family members said. The cause of death was heart failure, they said.
        Although Mr. Ross was probably best known for his film work, especially for a series of mainstream comedies he made with the producer Ray Stark in the 1970's and 80's, many felt that he actually had a greater impact as a choreographer in the 1950's and 60's, when he created ballets for American Ballet Theater and worked on some of the most celebrated Broadway musicals of the era.
        Mr. Ross had several long-term creative relationships in his career. Besides Mr. Simon and Mr. Stark, he worked several times with Barbra Streisand and is credited with playing a significant role in her early career. But his most important creative partnership was with his first wife, Nora Kaye, one of the leading ballerinas of her day. She was his steadiest adviser and collaborator from their marriage in 1959 until her death in 1987.
        A tall, muscular man with chiseled features and a penetrating voice, Mr. Ross was a gently manipulative but rarely tyrannical director who knew how to get what he wanted and how to appeal to mass audiences.
        He was never a flamboyant stylist and derided those who were. ''What's dangerous is when you get self-conscious about it,'' he once said. ''That's self-defeating, because it's the artlessness that you're after.''
        Yet Mr. Ross always prided himself on finding a new look for each film. ''Once you stop taking risks, you're finished,'' he said in an interview for The New York Times Magazine. ''Style so easily deteriorates into mannerism, and artistic destruction surely follows. I work hard to make every film different. Each has its own persona, style and texture, but the trick is to integrate technique so thoroughly into the mood of the piece that it is totally unobtrusive.''
        Mr. Ross reached his creative apogee as a filmmaker in 1977 by directing both ''The Turning Point,'' a critically acclaimed romantic drama set in the world of classical ballet, and ''The Goodbye Girl,'' one of Mr. Simon's most successful screen comedies.
        Between them, the films earned 16 Academy Award nominations -- 11 for ''Turning Point'' and 5 for ''Goodbye Girl'' -- although they won only one, Richard Dreyfuss's best-actor award for ''The Goodbye Girl.'' Both films were up for best picture, and three of the five best-actress nominees that year were from Mr. Ross's films, Anne Bancroft and Shirley MacLaine in ''The Turning Point'' and Marsha Mason in ''The Goodbye Girl.''
        Although he frequently dealt with important subjects and worked with the most respected actors, Mr. Ross was no esoteric filmmaker. He was very much a creature of the mainstream, producing polished and popular films for the mass audience, from ''Play It Again, Sam'' in 1972 to ''Footloose'' in 1984.
        Mr. Ross played an important role in the early career of Ms. Streisand, choreographing the famous ''Miss Marmelstein'' number in the 1962 Broadway musical ''I Can Get It for You Wholesale,'' which is widely credited with jump-starting her stage career. And Mr. Stark chose Mr. Ross to direct Ms. Streisand's screen test for ''Funny Girl'' and to oversee the choreography on that film.
        Later, Mr. Stark selected him to direct her first nonsinging screen role in ''The Owl and the Pussycat'' (1970) and the 1975 sequel to ''Funny Girl,'' called ''Funny Lady.''
        With Mr. Simon, in addition to ''The Sunshine Boys'' and ''The Goodbye Girl,'' he made ''California Suite'' (1978), ''I Ought to Be in Pictures'' (1982) and ''Max Dugan Returns'' (1983).
        ''He finds the best qualities in my material and never plays it for laughs,'' Mr. Simon said in a 1978 interview.
        Born in Brooklyn on May 13, 1927, Herbert David Ross was a precocious student and the son of a postal clerk. But after his mother died when the boy was 9, his father moved the family to Miami and opened a luncheonette.
        The young Mr. Ross soon found that he got the greatest joy from performing in public, often at the nearby Coral Gables Swim Show. By the time he was in high school, he was eager to halt his education and perform on the road.
        Telling his family that he was staying with relatives in New York one summer, Mr. Ross instead joined a theatrical troupe that toured the Deep South. When he came home and told his father that he intended to drop out of high school and join the theater permanently, his father tried to talk him out of it, and they parted bitterly. That very night, his father died of a heart attack.
        ''Yes,'' Mr. Ross told an interviewer in 1978, ''it happened just that way. The truth will look very ugly in print, but the fact is that I don't feel guilty about what happened. I say this in spite of the fact that certain relatives -- fortunately not my sister or my stepmother -- accused me of causing my father's death. I would do the same thing again, because there was no other alternative for me. It was almost a primordial urge, like getting back to the sea.''
        Settling in New York, he took a series of odd jobs -- at one point he was a nude model for art students -- before a friend took him to see a performance by the Ballet Russe. ''On the spot, I decided to become a dancer,'' Mr. Ross said.
        Mr. Ross said it quickly became clear to him that he would never have an important dancing career himself. ''I was too tall and big-boned and never had good feet,'' he said. Still, he landed small parts in a string of Broadway shows, including ''Bloomer Girl'' and ''Laughing Room Only.''
        While touring with another show, ''Inside U.S.A.,'' he broke his ankle and had to drop out for a few weeks. One afternoon, bored, he wandered into an exhibition of works by Goya that included the artist's ''Caprichos'' (or ''Caprices'') series. Mr. Ross decided to translate them into a new ballet that he would choreograph.
        Mr. Ross's ''Caprichos'' had its premiere at Hunter College's Choreographer's Workshop in 1950, and its enthusiastic reception -- it was chosen to be a part of American Ballet Theater's 10th anniversary season -- convinced Mr. Ross that his future lay in choreography.
        He created several short ballets over the next few years. His most successful effort was probably his version of Jean Genet's play ''The Maids,'' which he staged with an all-male cast dancing on point.
        ''His ballet work was original, in the very best sense,'' said Arthur Laurents, the playwright and director, who worked with Mr. Ross on several projects.
        During this period, Mr. Ross also worked on Broadway, choreographed dance routines for television and helped stars like Imogene Coca and Marlene Dietrich put together supper-club acts.
        Mr. Ross first met Nora Kaye when she, a prima ballerina, turned down the lead role in his ''Caprichos'' ballet. But they met again a few years later and married in 1959, when Kaye potentially still had several more productive years as a dancer ahead of her.
        The couple formed their own troupe, the Ballet of Two Worlds, performing Mr. Ross's works with his wife as chief dancer. They toured Europe and disbanded after a year.
        Mr. Ross returned to Broadway, working on several shows, most notably ''Anyone Can Whistle,'' ''On a Clear Day You Can See Forever'' and ''House of Flowers,'' on which he was called in at the last minute to replace George Balanchine. In 1965, he tried to become a stage director. The result, a musical called ''Kelly,'' lasted only one night.
        So, the same year, Mr. Ross returned to Hollywood to choreograph Natalie Wood's dance numbers in ''Inside Daisy Clover.'' Three years later he directed the dance sequences in the 1967 musical ''Doctor Dolittle.''
        ''It was when I started choreographing movies that I began to think I could direct,'' Mr. Ross later said.
        He got his chance quickly. In 1969 Gower Champion was forced to drop out at the last minute as the director of a musical version of ''Goodbye Mr. Chips,'' and Mr. Ross stepped in.  His film directing career took off. In 1970 Mr. Stark tapped him for ''The Owl and the Pussycat.'' In 1971 he had a critical and box-office flop with ''T. R. Baskin,'' but he recovered the next year with ''Play It Again, Sam,'' based on Woody Allen's play.
        And while the lavish ''Funny Lady'' was not very well received in 1975, Mr. Ross again rebounded quickly, first with ''The Sunshine Boys,'' the first of his many collaborations with Mr. Simon, and then in 1976 with ''The Seven Percent Solution,'' a Sherlock Holmes story that drew Mr. Ross the best reviews of his career to date.
        Mr. Ross used his success to convince studio executives to finance ''The Turning Point,'' which he produced with his wife. The couple went on to produce four more films together, including ''Nijinsky'' (1980).
        After his 1977 successes, Mr. Ross's track record was spottier. None of his subsequent collaborations with Mr. Simon matched their earlier efforts, and it was not until 1984, and ''Footloose,'' that he had a box-office success to match his previous efforts. The film, starring Kevin Bacon as a dance-crazy teenager marooned in a fundamentalist town where dancing was forbidden, was a huge hit and later inspired a Broadway musical.
        ''Pennies From Heaven,'' based on a British television series by Dennis Potter, was a critical triumph but  was received with puzzlement by American audiences. And Mr. Ross had one final critical success with his adaptation of the stage tear-jerker ''Steel Magnolias'' (1989), which included highly praised performances from Sally Field and Shirley MacLaine and helped establish Julia Roberts as a rising force.
        After Nora Kaye died of cancer in 1987, Mr. Ross was very active in raising money and awareness to combat the disease, eventually earning a lifetime achievement award from the American Cancer Society.  In September 1988 he married Lee Radziwill, the sister of Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis and later American ambassador to Hungary. His stepson, Anthony Stanislas Radziwill, an Emmy-winning producer at ABC News, died in 1999. The couple separated in January 2000; family members said they were divorced in May of this year.
        Mr. Ross is survived by his sister, Roslyn Jaffe of Salisbury, Md.; a niece, Louise Jaffe of Santa Monica, Calif.; and a nephew, Frank Jaffe of Portland, Me.
        Mr. Ross's final professional effort was to be a television remake of the 1942 film ''The Magnificent Ambersons,'' but illness forced him to drop out of the project.
        ''It is the humanity in a film that makes it live,'' Mr. Ross told an interviewer. ''To me, plot is subservient to developing human qualities in a character. Even with Woody Allen or Neil Simon, I approach comedy as drama and get the character's attitudes right, then the laughs fall into place. The more human, the more an audience cares.''
        Correction:  October 15, 2001, Monday  An obituary on Thursday about the choreographer and film director Herbert Ross referred incorrectly to his former wife Lee Radziwill. While she had had a romantic relationship with Peter Tufo, a United States ambassador to Hungary, she was not herself an ambassador.
      