
        Roberto Campos, one of the most prominent figures in Brazilian economic, intellectual and political life, died of a heart attack at his apartment here late Tuesday. He was 84.
        In a long career, Mr. Campos was a diplomat, cabinet minister, senator, congressman and bank president, displaying a combination of wit and erudition that impressed even his many opponents. But for better or worse, he is likely to be most remembered as Brazil's leading ''apostle of the free market,'' as the Jornal do Brasil here described him today.
        A pragmatist, Mr. Campos worked in governments of every ideological stripe, always fighting for to put his beliefs into practice. He was a principal architect of the ''Brazilian Miracle'' of the 1970's, which transformed a country dependent on exports of coffee, sugar and cocoa into a rising industrial power with the world's eighth largest economy.
        Roberto de Oliveira Campos was born on April 17, 1917, in Mato Grosso, the Amazon state, the son of a teacher and a seamstress. As a teenager, he enrolled in a Roman Catholic seminary, where he excelled in philosophy and theology before leaving to become a teacher in a small town in São Paulo State. ''All the better,'' he later said. ''I wouldn't have made a good priest because I was too much an intellectual rebel.''
        At 22, Mr. Campos joined the diplomatic service and was soon sent to the United States, where he worked for most of the 40's. He studied economics at Columbia and George Washington Universities and was in the Brazilian delegation to the conferences that created the United Nations, the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the General Agreement on Trade and Tariffs.
        In the 50's, he was an economic adviser to Presidents Getulio Vargas and Juscelino Kubitschek. He helped organize the state oil company, Petrobrás, and the government-run National Bank for Economic Development, which he led in 1958 and 1959.
        In 1961, Mr. Campos was named ambassador to the United States, a position he held until 1964, when his lament that he was a ''herald without a voice'' serving a left-wing government with which he disagreed was finally heeded by President João Goulart. Under the right-wing military government that followed, he was envoy to Britain for nearly seven years, beginning in 1975.
        In the intervening decade, Mr. Campos held a variety of economic policy-making posts. As minister of planning and economic coordination in the first three years of the dictatorship, he helped create the Central Bank, reform the tax system and organize a workers' benefits system and a national housing bank.
        He is survived by his wife, Stella; three children; and five grandchildren.
        Mr. Campos's unwavering commitment to free market principles and his conviction that Brazil's lack of development stemmed not from ''imperialism'' but its own policy errors made him a favorite target of the left for decades. In a sarcastic reference to his pro-American sympathies, he was often referred to as ''Bob Fields,'' the literal English translation of his name.
        But Mr. Campos always seemed to relish the debate, responding with speeches and newspaper articles full of aphorisms that quickly passed into political folklore. ''If God were a socialist, he would have made all men alike,'' he once said. ''But God is not a socialist.''
        In an article in the 70's, he formulated a fanciful series of ''laws'' intended to help explain Brazil. ''Logic, having been invented by the Greeks in the Northern Hemisphere, does not apply south of the Equator,'' was a maxim that is still frequently cited, along with, ''It is less important to find solutions than scapegoats.''
        At 63, Mr. Campos embarked belatedly on a political career. He was a senator and more recently a member of the lower house of Congress, .until he was defeated in 1998 in an attempt to return to the Senate. ''What a relief,'' he said then. ''I don't have to go to Brasìlia anymore.''
      