
        Beni Montresor, who conjured magical, dreamlike images in the children's books he illustrated and the sets and costumes he designed for opera productions around the world, died on Thursday in Verona, Italy, near the village where he was born. He was 78.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, said Peter East, a friend.
        Mr. Montresor's twin artistic passions were shown in his designs for  Mozart's ''Magic Flute'' for the New York City Opera (then City Center Opera) and ''The Magic Flute'' (G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1966), a children's book based on the opera.
        In 1985, nearly two decades after the opera designs were first used, they were still popular with audiences and critics. ''The sets call to mind a happy mixture of J. R. R. Tolkien and Maxfield Parrish; the jungle animals that prowl the stage resemble magnified Steiff toys come to life,'' Tim Page wrote in The New York Times.
        In 1981 Peter G. Davis wrote in The Times, ''Beni Montresor's sensual uses of fabrics, forms, color and light proclaim him to be one of the few genuine romantics in the field of operatic stage design.''
        Mr. Montresor attempted to design a Wagnerian production only once or twice, Fiammetta Ponti, a friend, said. His true métier was the lighthearted and playful.
        ''He always had that twinkle in his eye,'' said Joseph Volpe, the administrator of the Metropolitan Opera, who worked with Mr. Montresor on productions dating back to the 1960's.
        In 1965 Mr. Montresor won a Caldecott Medal for his pictures for Beatrice Schenk de Regniers's book ''May I Bring a Friend?'' It is the story of a boy who asks a king and a queen who have invited him for a visit if he can bring along his favorite animals, including a giraffe.
        In 1995 the New York Times music critic Allan Kozinn said that Mr. Montresor's pastel designs for the Metropolitan Opera's production of Donizetti's featherweight love story ''L'Elisir d'Amore'' ''offer a storybook view of the Italian countryside.''
        After the success of the Donizetti production, Mr. Montresor expressed his desire to direct opera, but the Met was not interested. ''It was too much of a burden,'' Mr. Volpe said. And so Mr. Montresor worked as a director at smaller opera houses around the world.
        In an essay Mr. Montresor wrote for a book about his artistry published in Italy in 1995, he said that for both the opera stage and children's books, ''I must astonish and amaze myself first, and if I do, then the spectator will react in the same way.''
        He added that he liked to visit schools for inspiration. ''I often go and visit schools and bring my books,'' he wrote. ''I give no comments nor explanations. I just sit among the children, open one of my books and ask, 'What is this?' 'Why?' ''
        Beni Montresor was born on March 31, 1926, in the village of Bussolengo. ''Being Italian,'' he told Joan Barthel of The New York Times, ''I was practically born in the church. I grew up surrounded by pageantry, imagery, fantasy.''
        After completing his basic education, Mr. Montresor enrolled in the arts academy in Verona, a step that helped him avoid military service in World War II.
        After the war, he worked as a designer for film directors, including Federico Fellini, Vittorio De Sica and Roberto Rossellini.
        He also worked as a designer for European stage productions of Jean Giraudoux's ''Madwoman of Chaillot'' and Alberto Moravia's ''Beatrice Cenci.''
        In 1960 Mr. Montresor came to New York and befriended Gian Carlo Menotti, the composer and director of the Spoleto Festival of Two Worlds. Mr. Menotti gave Mr. Montresor his first commission to design an opera, Samuel Barber's ''Vanessa'' in Spoleto.
        After that, Mr. Montresor received commissions from the Glyndebourne Festival, the New York City Opera and the Metropolitan Opera for productions like ''La Gioconda,'' ''Esclarmonde,'' ''The Last Savage,'' ''The Magic Flute'' and ''The Daughter of the Regiment.''
        Mr. Montresor, who divided his time between Italy and Manhattan, is survived by a brother who lives in Italy.
        Correction:  October 15, 2001, Monday  An obituary on Saturday about Beni Montresor, illustrator of children's books and designer of opera sets and costumes, misstated his age. He was 75, not 78.
      