
        Dr. Caryl P. Haskins, a biophysicist and former president of the Carnegie Institution of Washington whose lifelong love of learning led him to study subjects as diverse as ants, radiation and the Amazon, died on Monday in Westport, Conn. He was 93.
        ''The man who is too old to learn was probably always too old to learn,'' Dr. Haskins once said, according to a longtime executive assistant, Alice Dadourian.
        In Dr. Haskins's case, he began learning early, publishing his first scientific paper when he was 18. And in his 90's he ''showed no sign of losing clarity of thought,'' said Michael Studdert-Kennedy, chairman of the Haskins Laboratories, a private nonprofit center that Dr. Haskins, with Dr. Franklin S. Cooper, started in his garage in 1935.
        One of Dr. Haskins's enduring interests was entomology, particularly the study of ants. In 1939 he published his first book, ''Of Ants and Men,'' based on 15 years of observations from the tropics to the Arctic.
        ''They are fascinating creatures,'' Dr. Haskins told The New York World-Telegram after the publication of his book. ''When they go to war they stab each other, spray poison and cut off each other's heads. They subjugate weak races and keep slaves. But they can be kind, too. Nothing they like to have around more than a pet beetle.''
        Dr. Haskins found many similarities between the society of ants and the society of humans. ''Like people, they're the most adaptive organisms in their group and, similarly, their most dangerous enemies are others of their own kind,'' he said. ''Like people, they go anywhere.''
        His enthusiasm for studying ants was virtually limitless and largely financed by wealth he inherited from an aunt, Ms. Dadourian said. Dr. Haskins made about 50 trips to Australia to study ants and was known to keep poisonous ants in the guest room of his house in Westport.
        But his avocation did present some uncomfortable situations. On one trip, Dr. Haskins and his wife left their hotel, traveling around Australia for several days. In their absence, their ant specimens escaped.
        Caryl Parker Haskins was born Aug. 12, 1908, in Schenectady, N.Y., the son of Frances and Caryl Davis Haskins, an engineer, inventor and author who was involved in the development of the self-guiding torpedo. When he was 3 years old, his father died, Ms. Dadourian said, and his mother became very protective, even renting an apartment in New Haven when her son enrolled at Yale.
        Dr. Haskins received his bachelor's degree from Yale in 1930 and his Ph.D. from Harvard in 1935.
        After he graduated from Yale, he did research in radiation physics at the General Electric Company's research laboratory in Schenectady. Using his garage as a laboratory, he studied radiation's effects on cells.
        Haskins Laboratories, a nonprofit research group that during World War II worked on ways to rehabilitate men blinded in battle, eventually moved to East 43rd Street in New York and in 1970 became associated with Yale and moved to New Haven.
        In 1940, Dr. Haskins married Edna Ferrell, a British scientist who shared his interest in entomology and biology and was his co-author on several papers. She died in 2000.
        Dr. Haskins published ''The Amazon: The Life History of a Mighty River'' in 1943. ''Of Societies and Men'' followed in 1951. His other books were ''The Scientific Revolution and World Politics'' (1964) and ''The Search for Understanding: Selected Writings of Scientists of the Carnegie Institution'' (1967).
        He became president of the Carnegie Institution of Washington in 1956 and held the post for 15 years. His tenure was marked by a commitment to private financing of scientific research, said Dr. Maxine Singer, the current president.
        ''He confirmed and continued the decision that the institution would not take any federal grants,'' Dr. Singer said, noting that he wanted to keep the scientists free to pursue the research that most interested them. Since then, she said, that position has become ''financially untenable.''
        ''He was the president who decided that the institution should buy 100 square miles of the Andes and build an observatory there,'' Dr. Singer said, adding that the institution has the only private observatory in that area.
        Dr. Haskins was a trustee of the Carnegie Institution and the Haskins Laboratories and a trustee emeritus of the National Geographic Society. He was a member of the RAND Corporation's board and a former board member at the Smithsonian.
        Dr. Haskins leaves no immediate survivors.
      