
        William A. Stern, a former executive director of the Workmen's Circle who worked for socialist and Jewish cultural causes for nearly seven decades, died Thursday at a hospice in Tamarac, Fla. He was 90 and lived in Coconut Creek, Fla.
        Mr. Stern was also a former president of the Forward Association, which publishes the Forward newspapers.
        William Stern was born July 6, 1910, in Austria. One of 10 children, he came to New York City with his family when he was 10 months old and lived most of his life on the Lower East Side, said a sister, Sue Felstein of Brooklyn. He moved to Florida in 1999, Ms. Felstein said.
        Mr. Stern received a master's degree in English from Long Island University in 1932. Three years later, he became a member of the Workmen's Circle, a Jewish cultural organization that is active in liberal causes. Mr. Stern joined the Workmen's Circle's staff in 1938, and, except for two years in which he served in the United States Army in World War II, he worked for the organization until his retirement in 1979. He edited its publication, The Call, for 33 years and was the organization's executive director from 1970 to 1979.
        Among his many causes, he was instrumental in helping Soviet Jews emigrate, Ms. Felstein said.
        To Mr. Stern, the Workmen's Circle's mission was ''a way of life,'' said Robert Kestenbaum, the organization's current executive director. He remained involved with the group until recently, Mr. Kestenbaum said.
        Mr. Stern was also active for decades in the Forward Association and was its president from 1988 to 1994. The association publishes The Forward, a Yiddish newspaper, as well as its English and Russian editions. He was instrumental in starting the English-language Forward in 1990, said Samuel Norich, the association's general manager.
        Committed to secularism and humanism, Mr. Stern served as a bridge between Jewish immigrants and American-born Jews, Mr. Norich said. ''He wanted Jews of disparate opinions and disparate commitments to be able to talk with one another, which is what this paper does,'' Mr. Norich said.
        Mr. Stern's first wife, Lucille, died in 1978. He is survived by his second wife, Pauline, whom he married in 1979; three sisters, Ms. Felstein, Esther Krieger of Lauderhill, Fla., and Beatrice Kessler of Plantation, Fla.; a brother, Ruby, of Plantation, Fla.; and 19 nieces and nephews.
        Mr. Stern remained active in many causes into his later years. In 1996, he opposed plans to privatize Cooperative Village, the complex of union-financed co-ops on the Lower East Side where he lived.
        ''This is a betrayal of the cooperative philosophy,'' Mr. Stern said in an interview with The New York Times. ''The man who conceived these cooperatives would have turned over in his grave if he saw this.''
      