
        Michael Kahan, a political science professor at Brooklyn College who was one of the leaders in the battle to keep poorly prepared students from being turned away from the City University of New York, died on Sept. 30 in New York City. He was 61.
        The cause was cancer of the gall bladder, his wife, Emily Altman, said.
        A scholar on electoral matters who wrote about the news media and politics, he was a frequent commentator on radio and television and in newspapers on issues that included Japan's growing economic strength in the 1970's, Brooklyn politics and the 2000 presidential election results in Florida.
        Dr. Kahan was a member of the executive committee of the CUNY Faculty Senate and of the steering committee of the Friends of CUNY, groups that opposed the recent ending of remedial instruction at CUNY's senior colleges. He also helped create a higher education political action committee at CUNY to support candidates who were advocates for public education.
        Dr. Kahan believed that college students should be held to rigorous standards, but that using tests to screen who would be admitted to CUNY's senior colleges was inappropriate because such tests did not predict who would graduate. He said that using the tests as an entrance requirement would bar minority students disproportionately.
        At one point, he tried to broker a compromise with CUNY's trustees that would have allowed students who could pass some of CUNY's entrance examinations to enter the senior colleges and complete the tests within one or two semesters. But the trustees chose to require students to pass all the tests before they were allowed to enroll.
        Dr. Kahan was also a member of the executive committee and governing council of the American Jewish Congress. As chairman of the congress's Commission for Domestic Public Policy Advocacy, he pressed for gun control and affirmative action and opposed school vouchers.
        From 1979 to 1982, during a break from the university, he was press secretary for Representative Frederick W. Richmond, Democrat of New York. He was his spokesman when Representative Richmond pleaded guilty to tax evasion and two other federal charges and agreed to resign from the House of Representatives and not seek re-election.
        ''Mike saw his work with Richmond as an opportunity to be in a pivotal place with a guy who shared his progressive views,'' said Vincent Fuccillo, chairman of the political science department at Brooklyn College and a longtime colleague.
        Dr. Kahan also took on battles in his own professional life. As a young professor in 1976, at a time when some professional academic associations were criticizing the Central Intelligence Agency for using academic positions as a cover for spying, Dr. Kahan reported that his brother-in-law and departmental colleague, Michael I. Selzer, had conveyed information to the agency.
        The charges roiled the department and the university. Dr. Selzer acknowledged that he had had one brief conversation with the C.I.A., but not a continuing association.
        Both men were denied tenure, both left the college, and both sued. Dr. Selzer's suit was eventually settled for an undisclosed sum, and Dr. Kahan was later allowed to return and given tenure.
        Dr. Kahan, who was born in Detroit of Hungarian descent, completed his undergraduate studies at Wayne State University in Detroit, and in 1972 received a doctorate in political science at the University of Michigan. He also studied and worked at Nuffield College, Oxford, and at Australian National University in Canberra.
        Dr. Kahan's marriage to Dr. Selzer's sister, Hazel, ended in divorce, as did a previous marriage. In addition to his wife, Ms. Altman, he is survived by a son, Ted, of Madison, Wis.; and a brother, Marc, of Chicago.
      