
        Robert Riley, an expert on fashion design who oversaw collections and organized design shows at the Brooklyn Museum of Art and the Fashion Institute of Technology, died on Oct. 6 at a hospital in Hyannis, Mass. He was 90 and lived in Truro, Mass.
        Mr. Riley retired in 1981 after two decades as director of the design laboratory of the Fashion Institute, in Manhattan. Earlier he held posts in the design field at the Brooklyn Museum for decades.
        Looking back in 1981 at recent fashion history, he said ruefully, ''The social upheaval of the 50's and 60's broke the back of the fashion business so that people are no longer concerned with how they look or with what's coming out of Paris.''
        Some weeks before he left the Fashion Institute, he oversaw his last costume show there, a retrospective of the work of the noted textile and fabric designer Mario Fortuny.
        One fashion writer wrote of Mr. Riley at the time that the exhibition reflected ''the teamwork, good planning and unerring eye that are his trademarks.''
        He also made major additions to the Fashion Institute's fashion collection, which contained more than a million articles when he retired, ranging from designs by the likes of Schiaparelli to the handiwork of designers lost to fashion history.
        He also helped enlarge the institute's design curriculum and began a series of shows of American designers' work.
        Mr. Riley was curator of the Brooklyn Museum's Design Laboratory from 1954 to 1959, curator of costumes from 1959 to 1962 and a consultant to the Design Laboratory from 1962 to 1965.
        During his tenure at the museum, he planned for the transfer of study collections, having to do mainly with fashion design, from its Design Laboratory to the Fashion Institute.
        Mr. Riley also oversaw a number of successful exhibitions, including ''Design for the Home '58'' and ''The House of Worth,'' an exhibition of clothing designed by the 19th-century Paris firm founded by Charles Worth, an Englishman.
        His writings included the book ''The Fashion Makers'' (1968), of which he was co-author. It chronicled the year 1967 in the fashion world.
        John Robert Riley was born in Montreal and grew up mainly there. He attended Harvard College and Yale's school of drama, where he studied set design. Then he held various jobs, including head of display at Lord & Taylor, before joining the Brooklyn Museum's staff.
        His wife of more than 50 years, Maryn Myers Riley, died in 1988.
        He is survived by a son, Nathan, of Manhattan; a daughter, Charlotte Riley of Los Angeles; and a grandson.
      