
        Jay Livingston, the pop composer and lyricist who collaborated with Ray Evans on three movie songs that won Academy Awards -- ''Mona Lisa,'' ''Que Será, Será'' and ''Buttons and Bows'' -- died yesterday in Los Angeles. He was 86 and lived in Los Angeles.
        In their heyday in the 1940's and 50's the team of Livingston and Evans turned out songs for film after film and wrote many tunes that became jukebox hits. They were ''the last of the great songwriters in Hollywood,'' Warren Craig wrote in his book ''The Greatest Songwriters of Hollywood.'' .
        The team won their first best-song Oscar for ''Buttons and Bows,'' a bouncy tune from the 1948 comedy Western ''The Paleface.'' It was introduced by Bob Hope, playing the timid dentist Painless Potter, who sang it to a rootin'-tootin' Jane Russell. Dinah Shore recorded it, among others, and had the big jukebox hit.
        ''Mona Lisa'' was written in 1950 for a modest Alan Ladd vehicle called ''Captain Carey, U.S.A.'' In the movie, the song was used to send a signal to Italian partisans during World War II, but Mr. Livingston and Mr. Evans thought that perhaps ''Mona Lisa'' might have a life after the movie, so one day they visited  Nat (King) Cole at his home to interest him in recording the song. They almost didn't succeed. A little girl was playing happily in the house and raised such a ruckus that it was difficult for Mr. Cole to concentrate on the song. ''My daughter, Natalie,'' Mr. Cole explained patiently, as she romped, giggled and screamed. But Mr. Cole decided to record it.
        He probably did not know that the song had started out as ''Prima Donna'' but was changed because Mr. Evans's wife, Wyn, thought that ''Mona Lisa'' sounded a lot nicer. Mr. Cole liked the tune but was not so sure that a song with the same name as a Renaissance painting would sell to a mass audience. His bosses at Capitol Records put it on the B side of a record that contained a song they thought would surely become a hit, ''The Greatest Inventor of Them All.''
        ''Mona Lisa'' not only won an Oscar, but also became a huge jukebox success and later a standard. And in 1986 it provided the inspiration for the movie ''Mona Lisa,'' starring Bob Hoskins.
        ''Que Será, Será'' (''Whatever Will Be, Will Be'') was sung by Doris Day in ''The Man Who Knew Too Much'' (1956), an Alfred Hitchcock remake of a film of the same name that he had first directed in 1934. In the later movie, Miss Day was in a cavernous house filled with nefarious international wrongdoers, and she belted out ''Que Será, Será'' so that her young son, who had been kidnapped and was being held upstairs, would know that she and her husband (James Stewart) had come to the rescue. Once again the best song Oscar went to Livingston and Evans, Miss Day's recording of the song was a hit.
        Other Livingston-Evans songs that received Oscar nominations included ''The Cat and the Canary,'' which was heard in ''Why Girls Leave Home'' (1945); ''Tammy,'' heard in ''Tammy and the Bachelor,'' which became a hit recording for Debbie Reynolds in 1957; ''Almost in Your Arms'' from ''Houseboat'' (1957), with Sophia Loren and Cary Grant; and ''Dear Heart'' from the 1964 movie of the same name, which starred Glenn Ford and Geraldine Page. Andy Williams had a big hit with ''Dear Heart,'' singing the plaintive Livingston-Evans lyrics with music by Henry Mancini.
        Another hit was ''Golden Earrings,'' a wistful song in a minor key from the 1947 movie of the same name, starring Ray Milland, disguised as a Gypsy, and Marlene Dietrich, playing the Gypsy he had learned to love. The music was written by Victor Young from a Hungarian melody; Mr. Livingston and Mr. Evans teamed up to produce the lyrics. In the movie it is sung in a robust basso by Murvyn Vye, but it was Peggy Lee's recording that made the charts.
        Another Livingston tune with fame  was ''To Each His Own.'' The song, which was written to publicize the film of the same title but was not used in it, became a big hit in 1946 for  several performers -- Eddy Howard, the Ink Spots, Tony Martin, Freddy Martin and the Modernaires.
        Mr. Livingston was directed by his wife Lynne to change the lyrics for the song that became ''Silver Bells,'' a Christmas standard first sung by Bob Hope and Marilyn Maxwell in ''The Lemon Drop Kid'' in 1951. The song was originally written as ''Tinkle Bells,'' but Mrs. Livingston admonished her husband, ''Are you out of your mind?'' The song remains among the most popular Christmas  songs; Mr. Livingston frequently referred to it as ''our annuity.'' By 1995, it had sold 140 million recordings and was sung for years by Mr. Hope in his Christmas specials.
        Jay Livingston was born on March 28, 1915, in McDonald, Pa., the son of Alan Livingston and the former Rosa Wachtel. When he went to the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania in the 1930's he started a dance band and became friendly with Mr. Evans, from the upstate New York town of Salamanca, who played the saxophone and clarinet. After graduation they decided to try their hand at songwriting and moved to New York.
        In World War II Mr. Livingston served in the Army and Mr. Evans was employed by an aircraft company. They worked sporadically and part time. One of their earliest writing jobs was creating songs for the popular singer Martha Tilton. They played nightclubs, proms and cruise ships and wrote special material for the comedy team of Olsen & Johnson.
        In 1944 they were summoned to Hollywood; their benefactor was Johnny Mercer, the great songwriter, who liked their work. They won their first Oscar nomination for ''The Cat and the Canary'' in their first year of studio work.
        Over the years the team of Livingston and Evans contributed songs to more than 80 movies, many with Bob Hope, some for Hitchcock. Among the films are ''Monsieur Beaucaire'' (1946), ''My Favorite Brunette'' (1947), ''Whispering Smith'' (1948), ''Sorrowful Jones'' (1949), ''The Streets of Laredo'' (1949), ''Fancy Pants'' (1950), ''Here Comes the Groom'' (1951), ''That's My Boy'' (1951), ''Aaron Slick From Punkin Crick'' (1952), ''Mr. Roberts'' (1954), ''Lucy Gallant'' (1955), ''Istanbul'' (1956), ''Vertigo'' (1957), ''The James Dean Story'' (1957), ''This Happy Feeling'' (1958), ''Harlow'' (1965), ''What Did You Do in the War, Daddy?'' (1966), ''Torn Curtain'' (1966), ''Wait Until Dark'' (1967) and ''Fox Trot'' (1976).
        They also worked with the great arrangers and composers of movie music, among them Percy Faith, Max Steiner, Neal Hefti, David Rose, Jimmy McHugh, Franz Waxman and Sammy Cahn.
        The team tried the theater without much success, and when rock 'n' roll arrived, their kind of music was not much in demand in Hollywood. They would appear from time to time: audiences at the popular ''Lyrics and Lyricists'' series at the 92d Street Y in New York remember Mr. Livingston, a tall, thin man with a pleasant voice, spoofing the title songs that he had written for movies like ''When Worlds Collide'' and ''The Mole People.''
        Mr. Livingston is survived by his second wife, Shirley Mitchell of Los Angeles; his daughter, Travlyn Talmadge of Nashville, from his first marriage, to the former Lynne Gordon; his brother, Alan Livingston, the president of Capitol Records, also of Los Angeles; a granddaughter; and three great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Evans is still living, in Los Angeles.
        After their movie heyday, the pair  wrote the theme music for long-running television series like ''Bonanza'' and ''Mr. Ed.'' It is Ray Livingston's voice heard singing, ''A horse is a horse/of course, of course . . .''
        Correction:  October 22, 2001, Monday  An obituary on Thursday about the pop composer and lyricist who collaborated on ''Mona Lisa,'' ''Que Será, Será'' and ''Buttons and Bows'' misstated his given name at one point and omitted a survivor. He was Jay Livingston, not Ray. Survivors include his sister, Vera Drazen of Hamden, Conn.
        Correction:  October 24, 2001, Wednesday  Because of an editing error, an obituary of the pop composer and lyricist Jay Livingston on Thursday  referred incorrectly to the occupation of Sammy Cahn, with whom he had worked, as did an obituary on Friday about the jazz singer Etta Jones, who often performed Mr. Cahn's work. Mr. Cahn was a lyricist, not a composer.
      