
        David Kellogg Lewis, a metaphysician and a philosopher of mind, language and logic at Princeton University, died on Sunday at his home in Princeton, N.J. He was 60.
        The cause was heart failure, Princeton University said.
        Mr. Lewis was once dubbed ''a mad-dog modal realist'' for his idea that any logically possible world you can think of actually exists. He believed, for instance, that there was a world with talking donkeys.
        Mark Johnston, the chairman of Princeton's philosophy department, called Mr. Lewis ''the greatest systematic metaphysician since Gottfried Leibniz.'' And Alex Oliver, reviewing one of Mr. Lewis's recent books, ''Papers in Metaphysics and Epistemology,'' in The Times Literary Supplement of London, said he was ''the leading metaphysician at the start of this century, head and beard above his contemporaries.''
        Others considered Mr. Lewis's philosophy pure nonsense, a twisting of ordinary language.
        Mr. Lewis wrote ''Convention: A Philosophical Study'' (1969), which won the Matchette Prize in Philosophy for scholars under 40; ''Counterfactuals'' (1973); ''On the Plurality of Worlds'' (1986); ''Parts of Classes'' (1991); and many papers.
        In ''Counterfactuals,'' he introduced his curious turn on the idea of possible worlds, explored by Saul Kripke and before that by the pre-Socratic philosopher Parmenides:
        ''I believe, and so do you, that things could have been different in countless ways. But what does this mean? Ordinary language permits the paraphrase: there are many ways things could have been besides the way they actually are. I believe that things could have been different in countless ways; I believe permissible paraphrases of what I believe; taking the paraphrase at its face value, I therefore believe in the existence of entities that might be called 'ways things could have been.' I prefer to call them 'possible worlds.' ''
        In ''On the Plurality of Worlds,'' Mr. Lewis argued that the actual world is just one among an infinite number of worlds, each one equally real. This view comported well with the ''many worlds'' interpretation of quantum mechanics. But some philosophers argued that Mr. Lewis was simply misusing the word ''real.''
        Mr. Lewis was also considered by some philosophers a Meinongian, a follower of Alexius Meinong, who believed that there were things that  had being but not existence.
        Mr. Lewis's views of possible worlds often led to talk about the reality of Conan the Barbarian, Middle Earth and the planets depicted in ''Star Trek'' episodes. They also evoked some skepticism.
        In an article this year titled ''Multiverses and Blackberries'' in The Skeptical Inquirer, Martin Gardner wrote, ''Lewis seriously maintains that every logically possible universe -- that is, one with no logical contradictions such as square circles -- is somewhere out there.'' This view, he added, goes back to Leibniz's idea ''that God considered all logically possible worlds, then created the one he deemed best for his purposes.''
        The ''mad multiverse'' espoused by Mr. Lewis, Mr. Gardner wrote, is the stuff of fiction, including Larry Nivens's 1969 story ''All the Myriad Ways''; Frederick Pohl's 1986 novel,  ''The Coming of the Quantum Cats'';  and Jorge Luis Borges's story ''The Garden of Forking Paths.'' But, Mr. Gardner said, it had no business in the philosophy of science.
        Born in Oberlin, Ohio, on Sept. 28, 1941, Mr. Lewis was educated at Swarthmore College, Oxford University and Harvard, where he earned his doctorate, under the supervision of W. V. Quine, in 1967. He taught philosophy at U.C.L.A. from 1966 to 1970, and then at Princeton University, where he became the Class of 1943 University Professor of Philosophy. He was a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and received honorary degrees from the University of York and Cambridge University, in England.
        Mr. Lewis, who loved Australia, also got an honorary degree from the University of Melbourne and was an honorary fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities.
        He is survived by his wife, Stephanie; a brother, Donald; and a sister, Ellen.
        Paul Benacerraf, the James McDonnell Distinguished University Professor of Philosophy at Princeton, said Mr. Lewis loved riding trains. ''He was a railroad buff; he had elaborate model trains,'' he said. Mr. Lewis would often hop on a train in the morning and spend the entire day on the rails, traveling to other worlds and back again.
      