
        Dr. Bernard H. Fox, a federal researcher who became a pioneer in investigating the effect of psychological problems on cancer risk, died on Oct. 9 at a hospital in Everett, Mass. He was 83 and lived in the nearby town of Malden, outside Boston.
        The cause was pulmonary fibrosis, his family said.
        In 1978, Dr. Fox published what experts called a groundbreaking paper in The Journal of Behavioral Medicine. That work reviewed earlier studies and drew on evidence in statistics, immunology, virology and additional fields to consider whether  stress, depression and other psychological factors contributed to cancer. It determined that psychological problems might add to cancer risk,  although Dr. Fox also pointed out that other factors, like health habits, were more important.
        The study of psychological factors in cancer risk was ''kind of like astrology before he approached it as a real science,'' said Dr. Alan B. Zonderman, a senior investigator at the National Institute on Aging. ''A lot of people thought he was instrumental in demonstrating that there could be some effect.''
        But Dr. Fox was more concerned about the validity of the research, Dr. Zonderman said. When Dr. Zonderman himself published a study in 1989 finding that depression did not increase cancer risk, Dr. Fox wrote an editorial praising the research.
        Since then, other studies have shown a ''weak but positive'' connection between depression and cancer risk, Dr. Zonderman said, and research continues.
        Bernard H. Fox was born in New York City and grew up in Malden. He received a bachelor's degree in mathematics at the University of Massachusetts and a master's in meteorology at New York University. (During World War II, he was an Army weather forecaster for flights over the Himalayas.) Later he received a master's in psychology at Tufts and a doctorate at the University of Rochester.
        He then embarked on a series of research jobs, including positions at the United States Public Health Service, where he became known for studying the role of alcohol in automobile accidents, and at the National Cancer Institute.
        He later became a professor at Boston University, where he retired  in 1999.
        Dr. Fox's two marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by a son,  Andrew, of Manhattan; two daughters, Lisa O'Connell of Staunton, Va., and Dr. Ellen Fox of Arlington, Va.;  a sister, Ruth Kreisman of Malden; three grandchildren; and one great-granddaughter.
      