
        Clayton W. Fritchey, a syndicated columnist who also had a long career in public service at the White House, the Pentagon and the United Nations, died on Tuesday at Sibley Hospital here. He was 96.
        Mr. Fritchey was admitted to the hospital after a fall in his home on Saturday.
        Clayton Willis Fritchey was born in Bellefontaine, Ohio, in 1904. He moved to Baltimore with his family in 1906. He began his reporting career at 19, with The Baltimore American, and then became city editor of The Baltimore Post three years later. In 1931, after a brief stint with The Pittsburgh Press, Mr. Fritchey returned to The Baltimore Post as managing editor.
        His most notable articles were written for The Cleveland Press, where Mr. Fritchey was an investigative reporter and covered the exploits of Eliot Ness, the federal agent best known for his earlier battles with Al Capone's organized crime syndicate in Chicago. Ness had been brought on as Cleveland's public safety director, and Mr. Fritchey's stories chronicled the work of Ness to clean up corruption in the Cleveland Police Department.
        Mr. Fritchey then moved on to New Orleans, where he became editor of The New Orleans Item. There, he is remembered for defending an editorial the paper published that said the Louisiana legislators ''have about as much independence as trained seals.''
        The Louisiana Senate appointed a committee to determine whether Mr. Fritchey was guilty of disrespect but, in the end, he escaped with a rebuke.
        Mr. Fritchey moved to Washington in 1950 at the request of Gen. George C. Marshall, who had been named secretary of defense. Mr. Fritchey served as the Pentagon spokesman until 1952, when President Harry S. Truman asked him to join the White House staff as an administrative assistant.
        After working for Truman, Mr. Fritchey served as deputy chairman of the Democratic National Committee until 1956.
        He returned to the newspaper business when he and three associates bought a Virginia newspaper called The Arlington Sun, and renamed it The Northern Virginia Sun. Mr. Fritchey served as the publisher until 1960.
        Mr. Fritchey again entered political life in the spring of 1961 when Adlai E. Stevenson was appointed the chief United States delegate to the United Nations. The two worked together previously, when Mr. Fritchey was spokesman for Stevenson's 1952 presidential campaign.
        Mr. Fritchey served as director of public affairs for the United States Mission to the United Nations until Stevenson's sudden death in 1965.
        After leaving his United Nations post, Mr. Fritchey wrote a syndicated column for Newsday, until his retirement at 80 in 1984.
        Mr. Fritchey is survived by his second wife, Polly Wisner, of Washington; his daughter, Phyllis Fritchey Nickel of Tucson; a grandson,  Clayton Nickel of Rockville, Md., and four stepchildren.
        His first wife, Naomi Williamson Fritchey, died in 1942.
      