
        The Rev. William Henry Kirk, a prominent figure in the settlement-house movement and a community leader in East Harlem as it underwent a historic transformation, died last Friday in Branford, Conn. He was 92 and lived in Hamden, Conn., and on Isle au Haut, Me.
        Mr. Kirk was executive director of Union Settlement, a number of sites providing a wide variety of services to its East Harlem neighbors, from 1949 until his retirement in 1971.
        Under his leadership, the settlement pursued major projects to integrate the neighborhood both socially and economically, especially mixed-income housing projects. These included Metro North Housing and Franklin Plaza, a rental property he helped convert to a mixed-income, mixed-race co-op with adjoining stores, banks and other businesses.
        Mr. Kirk's projects were of great interest to Jane Jacobs, the urban theorist, who frequently toured his neighborhood with him. His commitment to cohesion despite ethnic and economic frictions was an inspiration for her own advocacy of preserving neighborhoods diverse in both scale and population.
        ''The basic idea,'' she wrote in the introduction to her classic, ''The Death and Life of Great American Cities'' (Random House, 1961), ''to try to begin understanding the intricate social and economic order under the seeming disorder of cities, was not my idea at all, but that of William Kirk, head worker of Union Settlement in East Harlem, New York, who, by showing me East Harlem, showed me a way of seeing other neighborhoods, and downtowns too.''
        One of the oldest such agencies in the city, Union Settlement was started in 1895 by graduates of Union Theological Seminary. At the time, the district was peopled chiefly by Italian immigrants. Its first director, or headworker, as he was titled then, was the Rev. William E. McCord, a paragon of muscular Christianity and onetime chaplain of the Seventh Regiment.
        The settlement grew into one of the city's largest, with 16 different locations that now serve 12,000 children, adults and the elderly each year. The programs include education, recreation, nutrition, addiction services and the arts, and Mr. Kirk played an important role in their proliferation.
        During his tenure the East Harlem community grew, attracting African and Puerto Rican Americans as well as immigrants from Latin America and Africa. With the settlement as his base he helped pioneer strategies for mixed-income housing and the improvement of the blocks abutting the settlement sites, using private, federal and city money.
        One of his proudest accomplishments was the settlement's College Readiness Program, which identified students with college potential and helped them with mentors and extra course work. Begun in the early 1960's, the program assisted more than 9,000 East Harlem youths in getting their degrees.
        William Kirk was born in Newcastle, Pa., and graduated from Amherst College in 1931. He attended the Virginia Seminary and was ordained in St. Louis after graduating from Episcopal Theological School in Cambridge, Mass., in 1935.
        He became rector of Grace Hill Church in St. Louis for a while, but then served as settlement director of Grace Hill House from 1937 to 1944. Five years later, he took that experience with him for his East Harlem assignment.
        Mr. Kirk's first wife, Mary Michel Kirk, died in 1989 after 45 years of marriage. His second wife, Ruth Parker Kirk, died in July. He is survived by three daughters, Serena Kirk of Bangor, Me., and Susan K. Semple and Judy K. Fitzsimmons of Cambridge; a sister, Dr. Elizabeth K. Rose of Kennett Square, Pa.; nine grandchildren; and six great-grandchildren.
      