
        Frederick B. Adams Jr., a renowned bibliophile and the director of the Morgan Library in Manhattan for more than two decades, died on Jan. 7 at his home in Chisseaux, France. He was 90 and also had a home in Paris.
        In 1948, Mr. Adams succeeded Belle da Costa Greene as director of the library, a position he held until 1969. A lifelong collector, he also amassed two of the largest holdings of works by Thomas Hardy and Robert Frost, as well as one of the leading collections of writing by Karl Marx and left-wing Americana.
        If his predecessor was the moving force in organizing the collection of the financier J. P. Morgan into what became the Morgan Library, Mr. Adams was widely credited with broadening its accessibility.
        He also furthered the Morgan's scope as both a research library and a museum, expanding its collections to include printed books and bindings, and literary and historical manuscripts as well as the visual arts.
        Mr. Adams accepted the directorship at 38 after resigning from the Air Reduction Company, a business dealing in welding gases whose founders included his father and uncle. Despite his stint at Air Reduction, his real passion was collecting, which he began while a freshman at Yale University with a few works by Thomas Hardy.
        Soon, he was acquiring books by Virginia Woolf, E. M. Forster, Willa Cather, Robert Frost and E. A. Robinson.
        After graduating Phi Beta Kappa in 1932, he attended Corpus Christi College in Cambridge, England, where, aided by the depreciated pound, he added to his collection.
        But his pending marriage required Mr. Adams to get a job, and he left Cambridge to join his father's company. Assigned to analyze how New Deal legislation might affect the company, he decided to read up on socialism in the United States, which quickly led to his acquisition of ''Das Kapital'' in the original wrapper, two 1848 printings of the Communist Manifesto, and the first Marx pamphlet published in America.
        A first cousin once removed of Franklin D. Roosevelt through his mother, Ellen Walters Delano, Mr. Adams also collected the president's speeches and personal arcana, which he catalogued as well.
        ''It was sort of a joke between us that I was his bibliographer,'' he said. Among his great uncles were Henry Walters, the founder of the Walters Art Gallery -- now the Walters Art Museum -- in Baltimore.
        He is survived by his wife, Marie-Louise de Croy Adams; four daughters, Gillian Barnes of Austin, Tex., Anne Chambers of Woodstock, Vt., Judith Adams of Britain and Lauren Fortmiller of Sag Harbor, N.Y.; a sister, Laura Eastman of New York; six grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
        ''I guess collecting is in my blood,'' Mr. Adams told The New Yorker in 1948, adding: ''I'm sure people realize how useful the Morgan Library is. It contains the crowning achievements -- what you might call the crests of creativeness -- of mankind for several thousand years. Unless we preserved these great feats of humanity in the past, we wouldn't know of mankind's past capabilities -- we'd be starting everything from scratch.''
      