
        Herbert Weissenstein, a management consultant specializing in the arts, died on Friday in New York. He was 56.
        The cause was cancer, his wife, Constance Shuman Weissenstein, said.
        After working for both the New York Philharmonic and Carnegie Hall, Mr. Weissenstein retained particularly close ties to the music world.
        His recent clients included the Electronic Media Forum, a consortium for the distribution of classical music on the Internet, as well as the Folksbiene Yiddish Theater, the Manhattan Theater Club, the International Organization for the Transition of Professional Dancers and the Brooklyn Botanic Garden.
        In addition to his wife, with whom he lived in New York and in Sharon, Conn., Mr. Weissenstein is survived by his children from a previous marriage, Kathryn, of Brooklyn, and Michael, of Las Vegas.
        Herbert Weissenstein was born and raised in Manhattan. He graduated from the City College of New York, received a master's degree from Tufts University through its program at the University of Tübingen in Germany, and undertook further studies at McGill University in Montreal.
        Mr. Weissenstein became the director of press and public relations for the Baltimore Symphony Orchestra in 1970 and an assistant manager of the New York Philharmonic in 1971.
        He moved on to the United Jewish Appeal Federation of New York, as director of the major gifts division, in 1977 and to Carnegie Hall, as director of development and strategic planning, in 1979.
        At Carnegie, he played a major role in initiating nationally syndicated radio broadcasts and summer concert series.
        In 1984, he established H. F. Weissenstein & Company, consulting, directing seminars and publishing articles in the fields of management and development.
        Mr. Weissenstein once spoke of the ''magical balance'' arts boards have to achieve, imposing hard-nosed financial standards without intruding on artistic matters.
        ''You have very little grasp over the product,'' he said. ''The art belongs to the artist.''
      