
        Dr. Vasily P. Mishin, who helped preside over the Soviet Union's failed effort to beat the United States to the Moon, died on Oct. 10 in Moscow. He was 84.
        The death was reported by the Russian news media. He is survived by his wife, Nina Andreyevna Mishina, and three daughters.
        Dr. Mishin became the chief designer of the Soviets' lunar program in 1966 after the unexpected death of Sergei Pavlovich Korolev, who had already succeeded at sending the first person into space and striking the Moon with an unoccupied rocket.
        Dr. Mishin, Mr. Korolev's deputy, was an accomplished scientist in his own right. But he lacked his predecessor's legendary genius for working the Soviet bureaucracy to get the resources he needed. A 1999 article in The New York Times Magazine, recounting the space race, described him as ''a solid engineer utterly lacking in his boss's charisma or political gifts.''
        Unfortunately for Dr. Mishin, those gifts were very much in demand for the task at hand.
        For the Soviet space officials trying to land the first human on the Moon, many of the most daunting challenges they faced were on land, not in the air.
        It was a sharp contrast to what was happening in the United States.
        In 1961, President John F. Kennedy, alarmed by the news that the Soviets had sent a man into orbit on Sputnik, vowed to reach the Moon. What followed was the assembly of a huge work force dedicated to reaching this goal, and accompanied by an aggressive public relations campaign.
        Despite their early space exploration accomplishments, the Soviets began their own Moon effort with mixed feelings, participants recalled years later, after Soviet society opened up. It was not until 1964 that Russian leaders formally adopted a goal of landing someone on the Moon -- and even then, the project was kept confidential. The scientists involved toiled in secret, often unaware of what their colleagues were doing.
        And then there was the matter of money.
        While Russian space officials were forced to scrounge for support and battle for resources against the military, Americans devoted about $25 billion dollars to the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and its space program.
        By some estimates, the Soviets spent half that, or less. And, hampered by the inability to conduct proper tests of the N-1 rocket, the complex combination of 30 boosters at the heart of their Moon effort, the Soviets experienced repeated launching failures.
        In July 1969, when the American astronaut Neil Armstrong walked on the Moon, a pilotless Soviet craft that was supposed to have landed before the American touchdown was orbiting helplessly around the Moon, victim of a malfunction.
        Russian space designers soldiered on, but after a series of other accidents, the program was abolished. Dr. Mishin was forced out in 1974, and he was widely considered a failure, according to James Harford, the author of ''Korolev: How One Man Masterminded the Soviet Drive to Beat America to the Moon'' (Wiley, 1997).
        ''In my opinion, he was a very competent guy,'' Mr. Harford said. ''And he was really the scapegoat. A lot of Russians blamed him for losing the Moon race. But there was no way you could blame him. Korolev himself would not have been able to do this.''
        Dr. Mishin himself said: ''I was accused of failing to beat the Americans. But everyone knew from the beginning the Americans would win. By the time Korolev died, it was already absolutely clear.''
        When the Soviet's Moon program was canceled, some experts believe, its scientists were on the verge of potentially major accomplishments. Dr. Mishin remained unapologetic.
        ''Our leaders wouldn't listen to us,'' he told the Times Magazine. ''When we said we were prepared to do it better -- later, but better -- than the Americans, they said no.''
        Correction:  October 31, 2001, Wednesday  An obituary on Monday about Vasily Mishin, chief designer in the Soviet lunar program, misidentified the craft used in 1961 to send a man into orbit and the 30 devices at the heart of the Soviet lunar rocket. The spacecraft was Vostok 1, not Sputnik. The devices were engines, not boosters.
      