
        Grigory Chukhrai, the Soviet-era filmmaker whose poignant explorations of wartime themes earned not just the Lenin Prize but also top awards at Cannes, Edinburgh and San Francisco, died Sunday at Moscow's Central Clinical Hospital. He was 80.
        The cause of death was not disclosed. He had been seriously ill in recent months, an official of the Union of Cinematographers told the Interfax news service.
        Mr. Chukhrai was among the first Soviet directors to gain prominence in the 1950's after Josef Stalin died and his successor, Nikita Khrushchev, dramatically eased censorship of the cinema.
        All of his major works dealt with war, perhaps reflecting his World War II experiences on some of the most treacherous fronts in the Soviet battle against Nazi Germany. But they dwelled less on battle scenes and victory, the usual fare of war films in the Soviet Union and elsewhere, than on the consequences of combat and the essential humanity of the people who fought in wars.
        That frequently brought him into conflict with the authorities, who even under the relaxed strictures of the times had little tolerance for films that hinted at frailties in the socialist paradise.
        Mr. Chukhrai's son Pavel, also a director, has followed in his footsteps. His feature film ''A Thief'' was nominated for the Academy Award for best foreign film in 1997.
        Grigory Chukhrai's first feature-length film, ''The Forty-First,'' won a special award at the 10th Cannes Film Festival in 1956 for its ''genuine script, humanism and high poetry.'' The film was a tragic love story set in Central Asia during the civil war that broke out in the Soviet Union shortly after the Bolshevik Revolution.
        His next film, ''Ballad of a Soldier,'' won the 1960 Cannes award for best direction, as well as the 1961 Lenin Prize and a sheaf of awards in Edinburgh, London, San Francisco and in Italy. The 1959 work told the story of a soldier who by chance becomes a World War II hero, wins a home leave and weathers a series of adventures before seeing his mother and returning to the front, where he dies.
        ''Russian films always had big crowds of soldier, battle scenes and people giving their lives for the motherland,'' he said in an interview with The New York Times in 1998. ''I decided to make a film about what happens when the world loses a single person.''
        That film and his 1961 work ''The Clear Sky'' are generally considered Mr. Chukhrai's masterpieces. ''The Clear Sky'' ostensibly was about a Soviet soldier who is taken prisoner by the Germans in World War II and discovers on his release that the fact of his capture has made him an outcast in society and in the Communist Party. But its underlying theme, abundantly clear to all Soviet theatergoers, was the arbitrary cruelty of life under Stalin's dictatorship.
        ''Ballad of a Soldier'' so upset Communist censors that they tried to revoke Mr. Chukhrai's own membership in the party -- in large part, Mr. Chukhrai later said, because of such minor transgressions as the depiction of an unfaithful wife in an era when adultery among Soviet women officially did not exist.
        In a newspaper interview last May, on his 80th birthday, Mr. Chukhrai recounted being summoned to the Communist Party's Central Committee in 1963, when he was chairman of the jury at the Moscow Film Festival, and ordered not to award the festival's grand prize to the Italian director Federico Fellini's film, ''8 1/2.''
        The reason, he said, was that Mr. Khrushchev, the party secretary, had fallen asleep while watching the film. ''I said: 'Maybe Khrushchev was tired; he has other business to attend to, not only films. Probably he doesn't like movies.' But it did not work.''
        Mr. Chukhrai awarded the prize to Fellini anyway. Afterward, he said, he was barred from traveling abroad for several years.
        Despite his conflicts with the party establishment, Mr. Chukhrai remained a party member to his death, balancing criticisms of the Soviet system's cruelty with praise for its industrial and social accomplishments.
        Mr. Chukhrai was born May 23, 1921, in Melitopol, in eastern Ukraine's coal-mining region. His parents divorced shortly after his birth, and he was raised by his mother and her stepfather, a collective-farm manager.
        In 1939, war broke out and Mr. Chukhrai was called into the military, where he volunteered for the airborne infantry. He fought at Stalingrad, on the Don River front and in Ukraine, and frequently parachuted behind enemy lines. He was wounded four times.
        After the war, he studied cinematography, but at the time Soviet films consisted mostly of hagiographic portraits of party leaders. After finishing film school in 1953, he was offered a job at Mosfilm, the main state studio, but returned to Ukraine to work in Kiev.
        He returned to Moscow in 1955 at the urging of two leading Soviet directors, where be began work on the film that began his career, ''Ballad of a Soldier.''
      