
        Dr. Rhys Maengwyn Jones, a pioneer investigator of human origins in Australia, whose research pushed back the beginning of human settlement there to a far earlier date than previously thought, died on Sept. 19 in Canberra, Australia. He was 60.
        The cause was leukemia, his family said.
        Dr. Jones's research examined Australia's human history, ranging by most estimates from 40,000 to perhaps 60,000 years, and tried to relate it to evolution elsewhere.
        Using advanced dating techniques on rock paintings, Dr. Jones, a professor at the Australian National University, helped to add some 50,000 years to estimates of the span of human life in Australia, which in the 1960's was put at about 10,000 years.
        Dr. Jones was also known for his role in the creation of two national parks.
        In the 1980's, his evidence about ancient sites of historic and cultural importance influenced political and legal decisions to conserve Kakadu, a vast wilderness escarpment in tropical Australia sacred to Aborigines, and Franklin River, on the temperate island of Tasmania, whose gorges and forests drew interests from power and lumber companies. Both areas gained Unesco World Heritage listing as sites meriting international concern about their protection.
        His last research effort, dealing with the demise of certain species, helped arouse a public debate. Dr. Jones suggested that Aboriginal ''firestick farming,'' the burning the brush for food, fatally changed the ecology, causing the sudden death of Australia's megafauna, marsupials and reptiles whose remains are common but whose fate is mysterious.
        Other scientists believe the cause was climate change.
        Dr. Jones was a visiting professorial fellow at Harvard in 1996 and 1997, and since 1993 was a professor in the department of archaeology and natural history in the Research School of Pacific and Asian Studies at the Australian National University, an institution he joined in 1968.
        He was born in Wales in 1941 and educated at Cambridge University.  Dr. Jones is survived by his wife, Dr. Betty Meehan, an anthropologist whom he assisted in research in remote indigenous communities.
      