
        H. Gerard Bissinger II, a former president of the municipal bond firm Lebenthal & Company, died on Oct. 25 at Mount Sinai Hospital. He was 75 and lived on the Upper West Side.
        The cause was leukemia, his family said.
        A former advertising account executive, Mr. Bissinger made municipal bonds a second career as Lebenthal's president from 1969 to 1986. He and his wife, Eleanor Lebenthal Bissinger, formed the second husband-and-wife team to head the family-run business, which is being acquired by the MONY Group.
        The firm was begun in a tiny office by her parents, Louis S. and Sayra Fischer Lebenthal, in 1925, when bonds were still considered something only millionaires invested in. They found a neglected niche with odd lots, or small amounts, of tax-exempt, small-denomination bonds and thrived by bringing more modest savers into the market.
        Mrs. Lebenthal remained active in the firm for 67 years but began to delegate management control well before her death in 1994. The immediate heirs were the Bissingers, who married in 1950, when Mr. Bissinger was making his debut on Madison Avenue.
        He joined Lebenthal & Company shortly before being named president, bringing with him a knack for numbers and a keen sense of market conditions. He took charge of trading, sales and overall business. Eleanor Bissinger, as executive vice president, ran daily operations until their retirement in the 1980's, when the next generation came to the fore.
        Harry Gerard Bissinger was born in Abington, Pa., and graduated from the Horace Mann School. He attended Dartmouth College but left to enlist in the Marine Corps and, as a corporal, took part in the campaign for Okinawa and the occupation of Japan.
        He graduated from Dartmouth in 1947 and spent the next two-dozen years at advertising agencies in New York and Chicago, where he headed the branch office of Norman, Craig & Kummel and held the Pabst Brewing  account. He was a senior vice president at Norman, Craig when he joined the municipal bond house.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Bissinger is survived by a daughter, Ann Bissinger of Nantucket, Mass.; a son, H. Gerald III of Philadelphia, an author and Pulitzer Prize-winning journalist; a half-brother, Eli Kaufman, also of Nantucket, and four grandchildren.
        ''Lebenthal prospered,'' a corporate history stated, ''thanks to Eleanor Lebenthal Bissinger getting the bonds out, and H. Gerard Bissinger getting the money in.''
        Correction:  November 2, 2001, Friday  An obituary yesterday about H. Gerard Bissinger II, former president of the Lebenthal municipal bond firm, misstated the given name of his surviving son. The son is H. Gerard Bissinger III, not Gerald.
      