
        John Springer, a press agent who represented a galaxy of stars (including Marilyn Monroe, Judy Garland, Elizabeth Taylor and Richard Burton) and closely guarded their secrets, died on Tuesday at a hospital in Manhattan. He was 85 and lived in Manhattan.
        In a newspaper headline he was once referred to as ''Guardian Agent to the Stars,'' and in a profession known for brassiness and razzle-dazzle, Mr. Springer was a quiet, discreet presence, someone who was quick to rescue a reputation in crisis.
        He was in many ways the antithesis of Sidney Falco (in the movie ''Sweet Smell of Success''), the publicist who would do anything to get his client's name in print.
        In his long career, Mr. Springer acted as both press agent and anti-press agent. His clients were often so famous that his principal role was to keep their names out of the newspapers, or at least to play down various activities. As he once said about Ms. Taylor and Mr. Burton, ''The last thing that they need is publicity.''
        Along with his work as a press agent, he was a film historian and author. The ultimate fan, he was also a close friend to many he represented. He handled press relations for the wedding of Ms. Monroe and Joe DiMaggio and that of Ms. Taylor and Mr. Burton.
        At one point in the 1960's he simultaneously represented Ms. Taylor and Mr. Burton; Mr. Burton's former wife Sybil Christopher and her husband Jordan Christopher, and Debbie Reynolds, whose husband Eddie Fisher had divorced her to marry Ms. Taylor. Of the principals in this romantic roundelay, only Mr. Fisher was missing as a Springer client.
        When Mia Farrow was battling with Woody Allen, Mr. Springer was Ms. Farrow's spokesman, as he had been for many years for her mother, Maureen O'Sullivan.
        As an adviser, he preferred to stay in the background. But he was often photographed with his stars (accompanying Ms. Monroe when she left the hospital, sitting between Ms. Taylor and Mr. Burton at a formal party).
        He had a special affinity for the grande dames of Hollywood: Bette Davis, Joan Crawford, Myrna Loy, Mary Pickford, Sylvia Sidney, Ginger Rogers, Lana Turner, Grace Kelly, Rosalind Russell and Marlene Dietrich. All of them were his clients -- as were leading men like Henry Fonda, Gary Cooper, Montgomery Clift and Robert Mitchum. At various times he also represented David O. Selznick, Samuel Goldwyn and Walt Disney.
        As a film historian, he had an encyclopedic memory for facts about Hollywood. In his introduction to Mr. Springer's book ''All Talking! All Singing! All Dancing!'' (1966), Gene Kelly said, ''John Springer knows as much about movies as anyone I've met.''
        Mr. Springer wrote five books, all of them paeans to Hollywood, but, despite offers from publishers, he steadfastly refused to write his memoirs. If he had, readers might have learned the real story about Ms. Monroe's death and other mysterious tales.
        ''What will people think if I talk about them?'' he said. ''I don't care how long Marilyn Monroe or Judy Garland are dead. They've trusted me.''
        He was born in Rochester. At a young age he talked his way onto a local newspaper staff, writing about movies and theater, and soon parlayed that into a job at a radio station interviewing stars who passed through Rochester. He graduated from Marquette University. In the late 1940's, he was hired as a publicist for RKO, then served a similar indenture at 20th Century Fox.
        In 1953 he married June Reimer, an actress and nightclub singer (under the name Monica Lane). In addition to his wife, who lives in Manhattan, he is survived by his son, Gary, of Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.; his daughters Alicia, of Berkeley, Calif., and Cynthia, of Manhattan; and by five grandchildren.
        After a brief partnership with Arthur Jacobs, he opened his own publicity firm, John Springer Associates, with Mr. Burton as one of his first clients. He was also the publicist for many movies -- including ''Bonnie and Clyde,'' ''Midnight Cowboy'' and ''Who's Afraid of Virginia Woolf?'' --  and for Broadway shows.
        In the 1960's he began to present and appear in a series of evenings with the stars at Town Hall in Manhattan, with guests like Myrna Loy,  Lana Turner, Joan Crawford and Bette Davis. In the spring of 1974, he and Ms. Davis took their ''evening'' on a tour of 24 cities in the United States. Later they toured Britain and Australia. This year, he was still conducting public conversations with famous actors and actresses at the Players Club in New York.
        Mr. Springer had one of the largest private collections of photographs of people in movies and theater. For years he kept the collection in his home until he leased it to the Bettmann Archive.
        Throughout his life, Mr. Springer was starstruck. In his book ''They Had Faces Then'' (1974), a tribute he wrote with Jack Hamilton to movie actresses of the 1930's (''the ladies in all our lives''), he wrote capsule profiles of everyone from Beulah Bondi to Vera Zorina. About Joan Crawford, he wrote: ''Never did Joan Crawford suggest the girl next door. She was, and is, a movie star -- the Movie Star -- every moment, in even her most unimportant public appearances. But Joan Crawford never makes unimportant public appearances -- a trip to the supermarket for her would be An Event.''
        Reflecting on such cinematic icons, he said: ''They were so many times larger than life but so much more than shadows. Has one of us not been influenced, somehow, sometime, by at least one of these goddesses?''
      