
        Frank Craighead, who with his identical twin, John, performed a 12-year study of grizzly bears in and around Yellowstone National Park that was credited with helping save the species from extinction in the lower 48 states, died on Oct. 21 at a nursing home in Jackson, Wyo. He was 85.
        Mr. Craighead lived in a log cabin near Moose, Wyo., where black bears camped on the porch, elk and antelope played nearby and grizzlies were within growling distance.
        The brothers were the first to use radio collars to track large mammals, a technique that opened new windows into grizzlies' habits. For the first time, their dens could be found, and the Craigheads burrowed right in with them.
        ''They were hoping they weren't awake,'' Mr. Craighead's wife, Shirley, said.
        The brothers found that the bears needed an enormous amount of space, ranging far beyond the 2.2 million-acre Yellowstone park, and that they were extremely slow in reproducing. Despite the brothers' often heated fights with Washington bureaucrats, the federal government ultimately adopted many of their recommendations when it made grizzlies a threatened species under the Endangered Species Act of 1975.
        Frank Cooper Craighead Jr. was born on Aug. 14, 1916, in Washington, where his father was an entomologist with the Agriculture Department. He took the family on expeditions into the countryside surrounding Washington, patiently teaching them the names of trees, wildflowers and, of course, insects.
        The twins became fascinated with falconry, teaching themselves the basics from reading books. When they climbed cliffs to collect baby falcons, they wore helmets to blunt attacks from angry mothers. In 1937, they published their first article in National Geographic, ''Adventures With Birds of Prey.''
        In the late 1930's, they drove a Model-T Ford on a tour of the West to capture hawks and falcons. They were enamored of Moose, Wyo., according to a biography of Frank Craighead prepared by the Craig head Environmental Research Institute, which he founded and led.
        The twins attended Pennsylvania State University, and then both earned master's degrees in ecology and wildlife management from the University of Michigan.
        In 1940, an Indian prince, K. S. Dharmakumarsinjhi, invited the twins to India after reading their article about falconry. The National Geographic paid their expenses, and they chronicled falconry during the last days of the rule of maharajahs.
        They joined the Navy in World War II and were assigned to set up a survival training program.
        After the war, the brothers returned to Wyoming, where they bought 14 acres in Antelope Flats, near Moose. They then re-enrolled at the University of Michigan and wrote a dissertation on raptors.
        They returned to Moose to build log cabins, marry and start families.
        The brothers then went in different directions, with John teaching at the University of Montana and Frank directing an environmental studies program at the State University of New York based in Wyoming.
        In 1959, the twins' careers merged again when Yellowstone asked them to study grizzly bears. One friend who was an amateur radio operator and another who was an electronics engineer helped them develop their radio tracking system.
        They and the students who worked with them did pull-ups and other calisthenics to build strength in case they had to climb a tree to elude a grizzly. When their research began, grizzlies were considered a threat and a nuisance, but the researchers proved that the bears were vital to  Yellowstone's ecosystem.
        In his 1979 book, ''Track of the Grizzly,'' Frank Craighead wrote, ''These magnificent creatures are in many ways the epitome of evolutionary adaptation, but in order to survive in today's world, they need our understanding. Without it they are doomed.''
        Their study ended abruptly when the Yellowstone authorities closed the garbage dumps where the bears had been feeding. The Craigheads argued that they should be weaned gradually from the dumps.
        They said the bears would visit campgrounds in search of food, and then be killed. That happened at first, but now grizzlies have widely dispersed and new generations are as afraid of people as people are of them, park officials say.
        Mr. Craighead's career veered into studying other animals, like elk and Canada geese; writing articles and books ranging from narrowly scientific studies to a popular book on wildflowers; and managing a reserve for bighorn sheep.
        In addition to his wife, Mr. Craig head is survived by his brother, who lives in Missoula, Mont.; a sister, Jean Craighead George, an author of children's books, of Chappaqua, N.Y.; a daughter, Jana Smith of Kanab, Utah; and a son, Lance, of Moose.
      