
        Jack Manning, a veteran photographer for The New York Times whose subjects ranged from gritty city streets to high culture, died on Friday at Calvary Hospital in the Bronx. He was 80, had been retired for one year and lived in Pearl River, N.Y.
        His wife, Marie, said he died from complications of both leukemia and a fractured hip.
        At a time when many photographers lug myriad cameras and equipment, Mr. Manning would often carry just one, a small Canon 35 millimeter. While many photographers shoot scores of images, machine-gunlike, he would often shoot perhaps a half dozen, confident that he had the right picture.
        ''He observed something,'' said Eddie Hausner, a Times photographer for 47 years. ''If it was important enough, he would put it on film.''
        And film it was, because right up until his retirement he disdained the digital cameras that have become the industry standard. Still, he owned extremely sophisticated equipment that he was eager to use as situations demanded. He told how to use it in books and articles in The Times and elsewhere.
        ''Throughout his work, two things stand out: a really good sense of composition and design and a strong empathy for people,'' said Stephen Daiter, owner of the Stephen Daiter Gallery in Chicago, where Mr. Manning had a recent exhibition. ''You could not help but feel the humanity of his pictures.''
        Mr. Manning's journalistic success also owed much to a mix of charm and guile that allowed him to be in places where a photographer was not necessarily welcome. In an article in The Times in 1982, he lauded the success of Dr. Erich Salomon, considered the father of modern photojournalism, who in the 1930's infiltrated a Paris cafe where politicians were meeting. He posed as a waiter, carrying his camera on a food tray, covered by a napkin.
        ''The moral of this story is basic to the entire structure of photojournalism,'' Mr. Manning wrote. ''There were other capable photographers there; but only Salomon exercised the ingenuity to overcome seemingly impossible odds to complete his assignment and deliver the pictures on time.''
        Jack Mendelsohn, whose given name was indeed Jack and who had no middle name, was born to immigrants from Romania on Nov. 21, 1920, on Manhattan's Lower East Side. His father worked as a hat blocker and his mother as a seamstress.
        His first talent was as a harmonica player, and he won a $50 prize on ''Major Bowe's Original Amateur Hour,'' the radio show where Frank Sinatra got his start. He used his winnings to buy a camera, probably the Ika model then popular with photojournalists, Mr. Hausner guessed.
        As a teenager Mr. Manning, who attended City College for a year, was accepted as a photographer by the Photo League, a New York group known for its documentary photographs. ''The critics disparaged us by calling us the Ashcan School of Photography -- but I liked the title,'' Mr. Manning wrote in the catalog for an exhibition of photographs he shot in Harlem, displayed last year at the Daiter gallery.
        By his early 20's he was freelancing for Click and other magazines. He worked for the Black Star picture agency, where a boss suggested changing his name to Manning to thwart anti-Semitism.
        He built a successful career as a freelancer, selling pictures to Look, Life, The Saturday Evening Post and The New York Times. In 1964 The Times, then looking to bring a magazine quality to its daily photographs, hired him for a staff position.
        One of his first assignments was to visit Havana to photograph Fidel Castro. In an article in Times Talk, a publication for Times employees, he told of how he persuaded Mr. Castro to grant a previously promised interview by telling him in Spanish, ''Comandante, I have a problem.''
        Soon, he and a reporter had the interview, and then an afternoon accompanying Mr. Castro through a typical day. He then asked Mr. Castro to send his film to Mexico in a diplomatic pouch so it would not be confiscated by the Mexican authorities. ''Ramiro, arrange it,'' Mr. Castro ordered.
        Mr. Manning had three marriages before meeting Marie Koch on Oct. 9, 1970. They lived in the same building, and she had seen his picture in an advertisement in The Times about the paper's journalists. She introduced herself.
        Though he had joked that he would marry again when he ''met the wrong one,'' the union endured. They had one daughter, Sarah-Jeanne McTasney. He is also survived by three sons, Peter, William and Matthew, and two grandchildren.
      