
        Edward Padula, a Broadway producer with a keen eye for talent, who won a Tony Award in 1961 for ''Bye Bye Birdie,'' died on Thursday at Southampton Hospital, near his home in Bridgehampton, N.Y. He was 85.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Milton S. Teicher, his lawyer.
        The youngest of six children born to an Italian immigrant family in Newark, Mr. Padula studied his way into scholarships at the University of Pennsylvania and later at the Yale School of Drama, a professional pedigree that earned him an early job at NBC as a writer-director-producer. Mr. Padula never loved television, however, and later recalled that he left that industry after executives at NBC responded to a proposed arts program with the question ''What's that going to sell?''
        In the theater, however, Mr. Padula found a home, both as a stage and production manager and in occasional directing jobs, including work on the Lerner and Loewe musical ''The Day Before Spring.''
        But his true passion proved to be producing, a pursuit he began in earnest in the late 1950's, when he acquired the rights to a musical, with  music and lyrics by Charles Strouse and Lee Adams, about a handsome crooner who comes to a small Ohio town for a final show before heading off to war. He had been working for three years to raise the money for the show -- some $300,000 -- when he met a Texas oilman called L. Slade Brown, who gave Mr. Padula nearly $125,000 to complete its capitalization.
        ''I felt from the beginning that if I was going to dive off and take a chance,'' Mr. Padula said in a May 1960 interview in The New Yorker, ''I might as well take a big one.''
        The show, ''Bye Bye Birdie,'' with Chita Rivera and Dick Van Dyke, turned into one of the season's biggest hits, won six Tonys and helped jump-start the careers of its then-untested director, Gower Champion, and the author of the book, Michael Stewart.
        ''Birdie'' made Mr. Padula one of Broadway's hottest producers, though he never matched the runaway success of his first show. In 1962, he produced ''All American,'' another Strouse and Adams musical, with a book by Mel Brooks, which lasted only one week at the Winter Garden. Mr. Brooks and Mr. Padula had also worked briefly on another project, tentatively called ''Springtime for Hitler,'' a comedy whose title would later find its way into Mr. Brooks's 1968 movie -- and 2001 Broadway smash -- ''The Producers.''
        Other musicals followed, including ''Bajour'' (1964) and ''A Joyful Noise'' (1966), which Mr. Padula also directed and for which he wrote the book. The show, mainly panned by critics, lasted all of 12 performances but included in the credits two young unknowns whom Mr. Padula had discovered: the director Michael Bennett and the actor and dancer Tommy Tune.
        Mr. Padula's last Broadway credit came in 1972 with the successful all-black musical revue ''Don't Bother Me, I Can't Cope,'' for which he received a Tony nomination. It ran for more than two years.
        More recently, he worked on the screen treatment for Francis Ford Coppola's 1984 film ''The Cotton Club.'' At the time of his death, Mr. Padula was working on several other projects, including a return to the theater with a play he had written, ''William S.,'' based on Shakespeare's life. It was at a reading of the script that Mr. Padula suffered his heart attack, said Mr. Teicher, his lawyer.
        Mr. Padula is survived by a brother, Vincent, of Lauderdale-by-the-Sea, Fla.
      