
        Paul C. Warnke, who was the highest Pentagon official in the Johnson administration to question openly the aims and conduct of the Vietnam War and later, as President Jimmy Carter's chief arms-control negotiator, sought to trim American and Soviet nuclear stockpiles, died yesterday at his home in Washington. He was 81.
        Mr. Warnke's views helped define the sensibilities of the diplomats known as doves in the cold war. He was part of an intellectual and political circle that included Washington mandarins like former Defense Secretary Clark M. Clifford, a Democratic Party insider with whom he long maintained a powerful law partnership in Washington; former Secretary of State Cyrus R. Vance; and George F. Kennan, the expert on the Soviet Union who formulated the containment strategy that framed American foreign policy in the decades of the rivalry with Moscow.
        Mr. Warnke never hesitated to express his views. Unlike many important policy makers, he was known for his candor, openly voicing doubts about policies of war and peace in position papers, interviews, articles and essays. His outspokenness earned many political enemies and may have kept him from a cabinet post when Mr. Carter went to Washington in 1976 and Mr. Warnke was talked of as a likely secretary of state.
        In 1972, Mr. Warnke had been George McGovern's major adviser on foreign policy and national security when the senator from South Dakota ran the most dovish of presidential campaigns. Earlier, while working in the Pentagon in the late 1960's, he had supervisory responsibility for the Pentagon Papers, the secret history of American involvement in the Vietnam War.
        It was during that war, when Mr. Warnke was assistant defense secretary for international security affairs, the No. 3 position in the Pentagon, that he worked closely with Paul H. Nitze, a leading strategic specialist and an adviser to presidents since Franklin D. Roosevelt. Mr. Nitze then had the No. 2 job at the Defense Department, deputy secretary to Mr. Clifford.
        The two men eventually became known in Washington as the two Pauls, their views on arms control diverging into polar opposites. Mr. Warnke came to represent the quintessential dove, Mr. Nitze, the consummate hawk.
        ''In the cold war, what Paul Warnke did was to lower the risk of nuclear war,'' said Leslie H. Gelb, president of the Council on Foreign Relations, who reported to Mr. Warnke at the Pentagon in the Johnson administration.
        ''Over the years,'' Mr. Gelb said, ''he saw it as his job to push the system to think as creatively as possible about disarmament.
        He described Mr. Warnke as a brilliant conceptualizer and debater whose only match might have been Mr. Nitze, particularly in the days when the two were on speaking terms.
        ''They were the two greatest minds I have known,'' Mr. Gelb said. ''When they argued -- and they both loved to go toe to toe -- the world would shake.''
        As new weapons and delivery systems were planned and developed, the policy differences between doves and hawks widened. The essential point of disagreement was whether the security of the United States could be more readily ensured if Washington outgunned Moscow in every category or whether primary emphasis should be on negotiations to reduce and control arms.
        Mr. Warnke persistently contended that in a bipolar world of overkill and megatons the development of weapons of mass destruction would make the prospect of nuclear war more likely. Although the hawks argued for increased military budgets to maintain nuclear supremacy over the Soviets, he contended that devoting so many resources to weapons would strengthen neither defense nor security.
        By his reckoning, larger stockpiles and newer nuclear weapons provided no real advantage, because even the smaller Soviet nuclear armories were still sufficient to inflict destruction on a scale that any sane leadership would avoid.
        Real security, he argued, was obtainable just by encouraging a process of reciprocal restraint through negotiations with Moscow. In the spring of 1975, he provoked many hawks with an article in Foreign Policy whose title, ''Apes on a Treadmill,'' ridiculed the superpower competition in warheads and missiles.
        In the article, Mr. Warnke cited the success of President John F. Kennedy in 1963, when he declared a unilateral moratorium on atmospheric nuclear testing and challenged the Soviets to follow suit. Mr. Warnke then suggested that the United States notify Moscow that it was ordering a six-month delay in developing the Trident submarine and the B-1 bomber to provoke ''reciprocal restraint.''
        ''We can be first off the treadmill,'' he argued. ''That's the only victory the arms race has to offer.''
        The hawks responded with scorn, insisting that greater toughness was needed, not accommodation. They defended the buildup of nuclear arms as a priority of national defense and a strategy needed to thwart Soviet attempts at political intimidation around the world.
        In 1977, President Carter nominated Mr. Warnke to head the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency and to be the chief negotiator with the Soviets in the Strategic Arms Limitation Talks, or SALT. Mr. Warnke's nomination to the posts sailed through the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. But then hawkish members of the Senate Armed Services Committee from both parties decided to mount a challenge.
        Proponents of increased military spending, among them Henry M. Jackson of Washington, Sam Nunn of Georgia and Daniel Patrick Moynihan of New York, all Democrats, joined with Barry Goldwater, Republican of Arizona, in questioning Mr. Warnke's views, his resolve and his credibility as a negotiator. Many cited his article in Foreign Policy to argue that he was too soft on the Russians.
        The exchanges reached their sharpest moment when Mr. Nitze testified against his old friend's appointment. He called Mr. Warnke's positions ''demonstrably unsound,'' ''asinine'' and ''a screwball, arbitrary, fictitious kind of viewpoint that is not going to help the security of the country.''
        The assault did not succeed in blocking the nomination. But with 40 senators voting against Mr. Warnke's confirmation as arms negotiator in the full Senate, he and the administration had been mauled.
        For the 20 months that Mr. Warnke had the two posts, his critics in Congress, notably Senator Jackson, continued to object that his views on arms control were simplistic.
        Still, in the view of his champions, Mr. Warnke emerged as the most articulate advocate of the long-stalled SALT II accord, which President Carter and Leonid I. Brezhnev signed on June 18, 1979, in Vienna. It has never been ratified. But both sides agreed to abide by its 29 articles of restrictions that cover the construction and deployment of intercontinental ballistic missiles.
        Duncan Clarke, a scholar on disarmament, wrote in a book in 1979, ''Politics of Arms Control,'' (The Free Press) that the Soviets came to regard Mr. Warnke as a particularly tough negotiator who once led a Soviet official to remark: ''We always wondered why Americans would pay so much for good trial attorneys. Now we know.''
        But even in the Carter White House, there were figures who opposed Mr. Warnke. Mr. Carter's national security adviser, Zbigniew Brzezinski, clashed with Mr. Warnke, angered by his refusal to slow the pace of arms negotiations in response to Soviet military interventions in the Horn of Africa.
        Mr. Warnke had advised Mr. Carter that he would be able to serve just two years, and in 1978 he resigned to rejoin his Washington law firm, noting, ''I'm sure there will be those who will be able to contain their regret.''
        Paul Culliton Warnke was born on Jan. 31, 1920, in Webster, Mass., the son of Paul Martin Warnke and the former Lillian Culliton. He attended Yale, where by his own account his record was undistinguished. After graduating in 1941, he enlisted in the Coast Guard and spent five years aboard support and assault vessels in the Atlantic and Pacific.
        On being discharged, Mr. Warnke applied to Columbia University under the G.I. Bill. His first choice was the Journalism School, but there were no vacancies. So, as he recounted, he went next door and gained admission at the Law School.
        In 1948, Mr. Warnke joined Covington & Burling in Washington, specializing in antitrust law. He became a partner in 1957 and worked, as chairman of the Potomac School, to promote racial integration at that private school in McLean, Va.
        In 1966, on Mr. Vance's recommendation, President Johnson named Mr. Warnke general counsel in the Defense Department, supervising 4,000 lawyers. Barely a year later he was promoted to the third highest post in the Pentagon.
        Mr. Warnke came to believe that the Vietnam War was a ''policy mistake'' for which every official in the federal government bore some responsibility. Morton H. Halperin, who had worked for him on the Pentagon Papers, called Mr. Warnke ''the senior official most consistently outspoken against American policy in Vietnam.''
        Mr. Warnke considered resigning, but decided to work within the government to promote a negotiated settlement. In October 1967 in a speech in Detroit, he called for a reduction in the bombing of North Vietnam and an early withdrawal from South Vietnam.
        Out of government but working at the Democratic National Committee to shape policy, Mr. Warnke was incensed by the bombing of Cambodia in 1970. He and Mr. Clifford persistently lobbied Congress to pass legislation to end the war.
        With the arrival of the Nixon administration, Mr. Warnke returned to practice law, with the influential Washington firm Clifford, Warnke, Glass, McIlwain & Finney. The firm, to which he also returned after resigning from the Carter administration in 1978, eventually crashed amid scandal in 1991, when Mr. Clifford, its senior partner, was charged with fraud, conspiracy and taking bribes in the aftermath of the collapse of the Bank of Credit and Commerce International (B.C.C.I.).
        Mr. Clifford died in 1998.
        Mr. Warnke, who expressed sympathy and admiration for his partner, left the firm as it unraveled and joined Howrey & Simon, another Washington law firm.
        Mr. Warnke suffered further embarrassment through his association with Mr. Clifford in 1994, when the heirs of W. Averill Harriman, the longtime diplomat and former governor of New York, accused Mr. Clifford, Mr. Warnke and Mr. Harriman's wife, Pamela Churchill Harriman, who was the United States ambassador to France, with failing to monitor investments while serving as trustees of the estate. In December 1995, Mrs. Harriman settled with the heirs on terms that were never divulged.
        She then joined the heirs in suing her old friends, Mr. Clifford and Mr. Warnke, as well as William Rich III, whom her husband had chosen to manage the money. A resolution of the suit has not been made known. Mrs. Harriman died in 1997.
        Mr. Warnke is survived by his wife, the former Jean Farjeon Rowe; two daughters, Margaret Farjeon Warnke of Salt Lake City and Georgia Culliton of South Pasadena, Calif., and 3 sons, Thomas, of Long Beach, Calif., and Stephen and Benjamin, both of Brooklyn; 11 grandchildren, and 1 sister, Margaret MacDonald, of Washington.
      