
        Elmer Balaban, the last surviving brother of seven in a family that dominated the movie theater business in Chicago and the Midwest, died on Nov. 2 in Chicago, where he lived. He was 92.
        Mr. Balaban began in the business before theaters sold popcorn (they offered only candy), but followed the wide path beaten by five of his older brothers, Barney, Abe, John, Max and Dave. With Sam Katz, their maternal grandfather, they formed Balaban & Katz, which was known as B & K and owned 125 theaters, many of them glorious movie palaces.
        The oldest brother, known as Mr. Barney, became chairman of Paramount Pictures. Mr. Katz was head of production at MGM for many years.
        Elmer Balaban and another older brother, Harry (the next to last of the boys), started a movie theater company of their own, the H & E Company. Elmer Balaban later made successful investments in radio stations and television.
        At his retirement, Barney Balaban asked Elmer if he would succeed him as head of Paramount. Elmer Balaban said no, because he did not want to leave Chicago.
        The children's parents, Israel and Goldie Balaban, were born in Russia and owned a grocery store on Maxwell Street in Chicago, which teemed with pushcarts and immigrants. The family, which also included a daughter, Ida, lived in the back of the store.
        ''Sometimes people paid their bills and sometimes they didn't,'' Barney Balaban once remarked. His father regularly extended credit.
        The boys' fate was set on the day their mother took Barney Balaban to a nickelodeon. She saw something that utterly amazed her: people paid going in, a far cry from the grocery business, where too many didn't even pay when leaving.
        Barney Balaban recalled: ''That night, when we were all together, Mother said: 'Boys, that's the business you ought to get into. It's a great business. Why think of it -- people paying money before they even know what they were going to get!' ''
        The brothers scraped together enough money to buy the Kedzie Theater, which had 100 loose camp chairs and a sheet for a screen. They nonetheless strove for a classy image: instead of a barker outside, they featured a violinist inside.
        A few years later, the Balabans built the 700-seat Circle Theater a few blocks away. It had a pipe organ and a four-piece orchestra and employed vaudeville performers like the Marx Brothers. Soon they acquired interests in dozens of similar-size theaters, and in 1917 built the 2,000-seat Central Park Theater, one of the first theaters to have a mezzanine and a balcony. In 1936 Time magazine referred to the family's theaters as ''supercolossal.''
        As a child, Elmer Balaban soaked in the atmosphere as he sold tickets and candy and watched Eddie Cantor, Jack Benny and others perform. The family sent him to the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania to acquire some management skills for its growing enterprises.
        After Barney Balaban and Mr. Katz went off to the big studios, Elmer Balaban stayed in the family business. His flagship theater, the Esquire, was modeled after Radio City Music Hall and in its first year of operation was chosen to hold the Chicago premiere of ''Gone With the Wind.''
        His son, Bob Balaban, the actor, film director and producer, said his father showed more adventurous films from independent and foreign studios, without straying too far from Hollywood sure things.
        In the mid-1950's, Elmer Balaban sold his movie theaters and began to acquire some 45 television and radio stations in Dallas, St. Louis and Hartford, among other cities. He also experimented with an early version of pay television, inventing a box to sit atop a television set. People could feed quarters into the box to watch first-run movies.
        Though that idea never panned out, he became an early investor in the next best thing, cable television. His cable company, Plains Television, one of the biggest early cable providers, concentrated on taking television to rural areas in the South and Midwest.
        In addition to his son, who lives in New York, Mr. Balaban is survived by his daughter, Nancy Magidson of Chicago, and four grandchildren. His wife, Elenore, died in 1987.
        Mr. Balaban never slowed down. In his 80's, he taught himself to play the guitar and continued tinkering with odd inventions until the night before he died, Bob Balaban said. His last idea was a candy recipe that he proposed marketing under the brand name Elmer Fudge.
      