
        Robert Warren Morse, scientist emeritus at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, who helped build the Polaris missile submarine as well as Case Western Reserve University, died on Friday at a nursing home in Falmouth, Mass. He was 79 and lived in North Falmouth.
        The cause was emphysema, his family said.
        Dr. Morse was a physicist who specialized in superconductivity, ultrasonics and underwater sound. A former physics department chairman and college dean at Brown University, he served as president of Case Institute of Technology and oversaw its complex merger with Western Reserve as the first president of the combined institution in Cleveland.
        Born in Boston, he graduated from Bowdoin College in 1943. He served three years in the Navy, rising to lieutenant, and received a master's degree (1947) and a Ph.D. in physics (1949) at Brown. He was on the Brown faculty from 1946 to 1964, becoming a professor in 1958, department head in 1960 and college dean in 1962.
        He also was a member and chairman of an undersea-warfare committee of the National Academy of Sciences. In 1956 he took part in the academy's Nobska Project, which had an essential role in the construction of the Polaris.
        The Navy reclaimed him full time in 1964 when President Lyndon B. Johnson named him assistant secretary for research and development. There he assisted Adm. Hyman G. Rickover in developing the small nuclear research submarine NR-1, which is still used for civilian ocean research.
        Dissatisfied with the United States' growing engagement in Vietnam, he left the Navy in 1966 to become president of Case and in 1967 of Case Western Reserve. It fell to him to mesh the two institutions, from duplicate departments and faculties down to their student newspapers and football teams.
        At Case Western Reserve, he dealt with student protests in a city rent by racial turmoil. He took pride in having talked with rebellious students rather than calling in the police.
        He also served in 1967 as honorary campaign chairman for Carl Stokes, the first African-American to be elected mayor of a major American city. And he was the first Ohio college president to denounce the National Guard's shooting of protesters at Kent State University; he called it ''an act of assassination against American youth.''
        In a disagreement with Case Western Reserve's conservative trustees, he left in 1971 to become director of research at Woods Hole. He was named senior scientist in 1973 and retired in 1983.
        He helped found the institution's joint doctoral program with the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and a chair was endowed in his honor at Woods Hole in 1999.
        Dr. Morse is survived by two sons, Robert W. Jr., of Mill Valley, Calif., and James P., of Cleveland Heights, Ohio; a daughter, Pamela M. Moschetti of North Falmouth, and five grandchildren. His wife, Alice Cooper Morse, died last February after 57 years of marriage.
      