
        Giovanni Leone, a former president of Italy noted for his cheerful bonhomie and successful negotiations as a senator to bring about his country's first divorce law, died yesterday at his home outside Rome. He was 93.
        Widely recognized as both a scholar and a political peacemaker in times of crisis, Mr. Leone served twice, in 1963 and 1968, as prime minister in a caretaker government and readily withdrew when splinter groups in his Christian Democratic Party and other parties negotiated new alliances.
        In 1978, faced with accusations of links to a payoff scandal involving the Lockheed Aircraft Corporation, he resigned as president six months before the end of his seven-year term. He insisted that the accusations were ''slanderous'' and that he was resigning only in the interest of political stability. The accusations were never proved.
        Mr. Leone's most notable achievement came in 1970 when, as a member of the Senate, he helped to organize passage of the divorce law.
        The Senate was bitterly divided on the issue. Right-wing Christian Democrats, the Vatican and conservative Roman Catholics were opposed to the legislation, but Mr. Leone, convinced that his party and his church could live with a compromise law that recognized divorce but made it difficult to obtain, helped to produce an amendment that broke a deadlock in the Senate and permitted the passage of the bill.
        A church-led attempt to repeal the law was overwhelmingly defeated in a referendum in 1972.
        After giving up his presidential mandate, Mr. Leone sat in the Senate under provisions that make former presidents senators for life. There, he distanced himself from his old Christian Democratic party colleagues, watching their party's grip on mainstream Italian politics fall apart in the 1990's in a vast corruption investigation.
        Giovanni Leone was born on Nov. 3, 1908, at Pomigliano d'Arco, then a small town less than 10 miles northeast of Naples and now an industrial suburb.
        Following in his father's footsteps, Mr. Leone earned a law degree at Naples University when he was 21. At 24, he taught penal procedure at the University of Camerino. Later, recognized as a brilliant scholar, he taught at the universities of Messina, Bari, Naples and Rome.
        During World War II, Mr. Leone served in the legal branch of the Italian Army.
        He entered politics in 1945, becoming one of the founders of the Naples branch of the Christian Democratic Party. Later, he was elected a member of the Constituent Assembly that wrote the new republic's Constitution.
        From 1955 to 1963, he was president of the Chamber of Deputies. He was the Christian Democrats' candidate for the country's president in 1964, but withdrew after the 15th ballot in the electoral college. In 1971, he was elected president.
        Mr. Leone is survived by his wife, Vittoria Michitto, and three sons, Mauro, Paolo and Giancarlo. A fourth son, Giulio, died at the age of 4, prompting Mr. Leone to write a book about him called ''Talks With Giulio.''
      