
        Dr. Warren Elliott Henry, a scientist who in a long career in government and academia made significant contributions to the fields of radar technology, physical properties of materials and physics education, died on Oct. 31 in Washington.
        He was 92 and lived in Washington, where he was an emeritus professor at Howard University.
        Born in rural Evergreen, Ala., Dr. Henry graduated in 1931 with a bachelor's degree in mathematics from Tuskegee Institute, now Tuskegee University, and never lost touch with it or the African-American airmen who trained in town in World War II. He received a master's degree in organic chemistry from Atlanta University in 1937 and a doctorate in physics and physical chemistry from the University of Chicago in 1941.
        He began his teaching career at Tuskegee, where a physics class for the institute's aspiring pilots was part of his course load.
        In 1943, he was recruited by the Massachusetts Institute of Technology Radiation Laboratory for a project undertaken for the Navy.
        At M.I.T., Dr. Isidor Rabi was preparing the theoretical underpinning for more potent radar systems that would detect and track targets like German submarines. Dr. Henry contributed to the systems' design and construction.
        With no other job offers, he returned to teaching, at Morehouse College in Atlanta, and became the acting chairman of the physics department. In 1948, the Naval Research Laboratory in Washington hired him as a physicist and, later,  supervisory physicist exploring magnetic properties of materials at extremely low temperatures, a field known as cryomagnetism.
        From 1960 to 1969, Dr. Henry worked for the Lockheed Missiles and Space Company. Among other things, he investigated the superconductivity properties of materials for space and aeronautical equipment.
        Dr. Henry left Lockheed in 1969 as senior staff engineer and senior staff scientist in the advanced concepts division and joined the faculty at Howard, where he had taught courses in solid state physics. He was credited with strengthening the university's physics department and retired with emeritus status in 1977.
        He published more than 100 articles and scientific papers, often presenting his findings at national and international conferences and at meetings of the American Physical Society. He frequently lectured at industrial research laboratories and elsewhere, and he contributed chapters to textbooks.
        He was a fellow of the American Physical Society and the American Association for the Advancement of Science.
        Dr. Henry's wife, Jeanne Pearlson Henry, died about 25 years ago. He is survived by a daughter, Eva Ruth Henry, of Florida; and five siblings, Nelson, Emmett and Alfred Henry and Celestine Ruskin, all of Montgomery, Ala., and Mamie Clemons of Pittsburgh.
        Over the years, Dr. Henry studied under a number of Nobel Prize winners: Dr. Arthur H. Compton, the 1927 winner in physics, taught him quantum mechanics; Dr. Wolfgang Pauli, the 1945 winner, taught him the theory of nuclear forces; Dr. Robert A. Millikan, the 1923 winner, taught him molecular spectra. In addition, he played tennis with Dr. Enrico Fermi, a 1938 laureate.
        In 1997, the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory honored Dr. Henry with a W. E. Henry Symposium, ''The Importance of Magnetism in Physics and Material Science.'' Among those present was Dr. Glenn T. Seaborg, another Nobelist and the former chairman of the Atomic Energy Commission.
      