
        Anthony Shaffer, the British playwright whose jokey but chilling thriller ''Sleuth'' ran for more than 2,300 performances in London's West End and more than 2,000 on Broadway, died in London on Tuesday. He was 75.
        A deadly tale of bluff and double bluff between an aging, vain detective writer and his absent wife's young hairdresser lover, ''Sleuth'' was first rejected by London's leading producer, Binky Beaumont, who predicted that it would not last a fortnight.
        But audiences on both sides of the Atlantic were captivated by the story of a rich, snobbish writer with mannered speech and disdainful ways who lures his lower-class Italian Jewish rival to a comfortable country house -- deliberately reminiscent of an Agatha Christie murder setting -- and tries to humiliate him with increasingly dangerous games and puzzles intended to end in a perfect murder. ''Sleuth'' won a Tony Award as the best play of 1970 and became a film in 1972, starring Laurence Olivier and Michael Caine.
        Mr. Shaffer wrote several other plays, including ''The Savage Parade'' (1963), inspired by the trial of Adolf Eichmann; ''Murderer'' (1975), in which a woman is killed and dismembered as the play opens; and a comedy thriller, ''The Case of the Oily Levantine'' (1979), which came to Broadway in 1982 as ''Whodunnit.''
        None enjoyed the same success as ''Sleuth,'' however, which Mr. Shaffer came to call ''the main event.'' He was irritated by those who dismissed it as just entertainment.
        ''What do you mean 'just'?'' he asked when the movie came out. ''It's a bloody sight harder to entertain than to bore.''
        After the success of ''Sleuth,'' Alfred Hitchcock asked Mr. Shaffer to write the script for ''Frenzy'' (1972), the story of a serial killer in London's old Covent Garden market who strangles women with neckties until he is tracked down by a detective who is married to a woman who feeds him ever more revolting meals.
        His film ''The Wicker Man'' (1973), a tale of paganism on a remote Scottish island, became something of a cult hit. Mr. Shaffer also wrote scripts for three Agatha Christie movies, ''Murder on the Orient Express'' (1974), ''Death on the Nile'' (1978) and ''Evil Under the Sun'' (1982), with Peter Ustinov playing Hercule Poirot. In all of these, he introduced humorous twists absent from the original stories.
        Anthony Joshua Shaffer was born May 15, 1926, in Liverpool, England. He was the twin brother of Peter Shaffer, a better-known playwright who wrote successful works like ''Amadeus,'' ''The Royal Hunt of the Sun,'' ''Equus'' and ''Five Finger Exercise.''
        In 1955 the family moved to London, where the two brothers attended St. Paul's School. They both then did three years of nonmilitary service in the coal mines of Kent and Yorkshire before going to Cambridge, where Anthony Shaffer studied law.
        From 1951 to 1957 he practiced law in London and wrote three novels with his brother. He then worked in advertising before setting up his own television production company and eventually turning to writing full time.
        His first two marriages ended in divorce. He is survived by his third wife, the actress Diane Cilento, and two daughters, Claudia and Cressida, from his second marriage.
        Mr. Shaffer's autobiography -- ''So What Did You Expect?'' -- is to be published this month in London.
      