
        John Simon White, a mainstay of the Vienna-born triumvirate that steered the New York City Opera to its berth as an important repertory company and proving ground for young American singers, died last Tuesday in Sarasota, Fla., where he had moved from Manhattan in July. He was 91.
        Mr. White was the unsung partner struggling behind the scenes with such mundane administrative affairs as ever-so-tight budgets and contract negotiations. He was with the house almost from the start, as its first voice coach, and retired in 1980 as managing director. He remained a consultant until recently.
        Out front of the threesome was the conductor Julius Rudel, who served as general director from 1957 to 1979. The late Felix Popper, another conductor, was music administrator from 1958 to 1980.
        Together they gave heft to an observation by Mayor Fiorello La Guardia on the need for affordable opera. The company was started in 1944 at the City Center of Music and Drama, in the former Mecca Temple on West 55th Street.
        Its founding director, the Hungarian conductor Laszlo Halasz, hired Mr. Rudel fresh out of the Mannes School of Music to play the piano at auditions for aspiring American singers. Mr. White was signed up in 1946 after teaching at the New School and the Lycée Français.
        Mr. Halasz left in 1951 in a programming dispute. After that the Rudel-White-Popper team emerged to take charge and lead the City Opera's move to the New York State Theater at Lincoln Center in 1966.
        The three remained the dominant figures at the City Opera through the 50's, 60's and 70's.
        Their repertory company included Beverly Sills, Norman Treigle, Plácido Domingo, Jose Carreras, Cornell MacNeil, Frances Bible and Phyllis Curtin.
        Ms. Sills, the soprano, a former general director of the company and now chairwoman of Lincoln Center, described Mr. White as a knowledgable man of Old World manners and refined tastes.
        ''He hired me for my debut as Rosalinda in 'Die Fledermaus' in 1955,'' she said. ''Before that, I auditioned for a couple of years, so we do go back to the early 50's.''
        Mr. White, with Mr. Rudel and Mr. Popper, she said, had shown that the United States was able to welcome people from the European arts scene.
        ''We were fortunate,'' she added, ''that they stopped in New York.''
        Ms. Sills recalled how Mr. White assisted her during her tenure as general director. ''I traveled all over Europe with him to find young American talent who still felt they had to make a career in Europe.''
        Mr. White was born Hans Schwarzkopf and received a Ph.D. at the University of Vienna in 1933. He also studied in France and Italy and left for the United States in 1938.
        Unable, like many immigrants then, to find a job befitting his education, he lugged produce at open-air markets for awhile for $6 a week. Later, he taught German at the New School for Social Research and instructed French-speaking refugees at the Lycée.
        He became an American citizen while serving in the Army in World War II. He returned briefly to teaching before joining the staff at City Opera. He rose to associate director in 1952 and was named managing director in 1968.
        Among his many interests were the Lipizzaner Horses of the Spanish Riding School in Vienna, which he helped bring to the United States on tour. He was the author of a book, ''The Renaissance Cavalier'' (1959) and of research papers and was co-founder of the American Dressage Institute for Classical Horsemanship.
        Never married, Mr. White left no immediate family.
      