
        Ray Kelly, who fulfilled the fantasy of every American boy when he became Babe Ruth's mascot and sat in the Yankees' dugout in a pinstripe uniform when Murderers' Row ruled the baseball world, died Sunday at his home in Valley Cottage, N.Y. He was 83.
        The cause was a heart attack, his family said.
        It all began with a chance meeting of neighbors on the Upper West Side of Manhattan one day in 1921, when the Yankees were sharing the Polo Grounds with the Giants.
        ''I was having a catch with my father in a park along Riverside Drive and the Babe lived around the corner and stopped to watch,'' Mr. Kelly recalled. ''I was a pretty good player for age 3, and Babe told my dad: 'I'm taking Little Ray with me to the Polo Grounds tomorrow. He's going to be my mascot.' ''
        Over the next decade, the boy sat alongside the Babe and the future Hall of Famers Lou Gehrig, Tony Lazzeri, Bill Dickey, Waite Hoyt, Herb Pennock and Manager Miller Huggins. He was a good-luck charm at many home games in the Polo Grounds and at Yankee Stadium and was also Ruth's guest on some road trips, sharing a hotel room with Eddie Bennett, the Yankees' adult bat boy. ''I was just there to sit on the bench and look cute,'' Mr. Kelly once said.
        He was in the dugout at Yankee Stadium when it opened, on April 18, 1923, with Ruth hitting a three-run homer that lifted the Yankees to a 4-1 victory over the Boston Red Sox.
        But Little Ray, as Ruth always called him, was not at the Stadium on Sept. 30, 1927, when Ruth hit his 60th home run of the season. ''He was very honest about that,'' said Marty Appel, a former Yankee public relations director and longtime friend. ''He said, 'Nope, I was in school that day.' ''
        At age 13, Little Ray retired from the Yankees because his school obligations intervened. But Ruth had the boy and his father as his guests at the 1932 World Series, and they sat in a box seat next to the Yankees' dugout when Ruth hit his famed ''called shot'' home run in Game 3 at Wrigley Field off the Chicago Cubs' Charlie Root.
        Mr. Kelly maintained long afterward that Ruth did indeed point to the center-field bleachers before hitting the ball there. ''He absolutely did it,'' he said. ''I was right there. Never in doubt.''
        After leaving the Yankees behind him in the early 1930's, he graduated from high school, then served as a sergeant in the Army Air Forces during World War II. Mr. Kelly later graduated from Pace University and worked as an accountant for Mobil Oil.
        He was rediscovered by the baseball world in 1995 when he spoke at a Hofstra University symposium marking the centennial of Ruth's birth, was interviewed for an HBO documentary on Ruth in 1998 and was a guest of the Postal Service at the issuance of a stamp honoring Ruth that year.
        Mr. Kelly is survived by his wife, Josephine; three sons, Ray Jr. of Albany, Michael of Hawaii, and Terrence of Pearl River, N.Y.; two daughters, Barbara Jean Ensminger of Columbia, S.C., and Theresa Meyer of Johnson City, Tenn.; 13 grandchildren; and 3 great-grandchildren.
        Asked once if the Yankees had watched their language on the bench with a child sitting among them, Mr. Kelly replied: ''Are you kidding? Where do you think I learned to swear?''
        Whatever the Yankees' manners, Mr. Kelly always revered Ruth. As he put it: ''He was like a second father to me. He treated me like the son he never had. Babe was idolized by everyone, particularly kids. He treated children with a great deal of respect, and adults appreciated that.''
        How did he think the Babe would have fared in the modern game? ''If he was alive today,'' Mr. Kelly told an interviewer in 1998, ''he'd hit 100 home runs.''
      