
        Cornelius (Dutch) Warmerdam, the greatest pole-vaulter in the era before fiberglass poles changed the sport and the first man to clear 15 feet, died Tuesday in Fresno, Calif. He was 86.
        He had Alzheimer's disease, The Associated Press reported.
        Before there was a Sergei Bubka to dominate pole-vaulting in the 1980's and 1990's by riding a fiberglass pole that catapulted vaulters to undreamed-of heights, there was a Warmerdam, who did it the old-fashioned way -- on one of his two taped-up bamboo poles he found in trash heaps.
        Warmerdam eclipsed the 15-foot mark on April 13, 1940, when he was a 24-year-old high school mathematics teacher. In the next four years, he broke the world outdoor record six more times and cleared 15 feet 43 times. No one else made 15 feet even once until Bob Richards in 1951.
        Warmerdam raised the world records to 15 feet 7 3/4 inches outdoors in May 1942 and to 15-8 1/2 indoors in March 1943. When Bob Gutowski broke the outdoor record 15 years later and Richards the indoor record 16 years later, both used newly introduced aluminum poles, more flexible and more dependable than bamboo.
        Today, vaulters race down a smooth runway of rubberized plastic, spring up on fiberglass poles that bend 90 degrees and land on giant sponge cushions. In Warmerdam's day, conditions were primitive, and because the bamboo poles were so stiff, the back and shoulders absorbed tremendous impact when the pole was planted in the takeoff box.
        ''In outdoor meets,'' Warmerdam once recalled, ''we had very bad runways. The only thing we had to break our fall was a patch of sawdust. We had to be very careful how we landed on both hands and feet or risk serious injury.''
        Like many contemporaries, he wanted fiberglass poles banned.
        ''But we couldn't find a way to determine how much bend was too much bend,'' he said. ''And the rules always said you could use any instrument.''
        Through the years, he mellowed, and in 1970, when Christos Papanicolaou of Greece became the first to vault 18 feet, Warmerdam said, ''It's always the man more than the equipment.''
        ''In my time,'' Warmerdam said years later, ''my records were good, but there's not that much good to dwell on it. Vaulters now are much stronger than we were. Athletes train so seriously now because we know now that the human body can stand so much more than we thought it could in those days.''
        He was lean, quiet and unassuming. When people told him he was the best vaulter ever, he would say, ''Well, maybe in my era.'' Payton Jordan, the celebrated Stanford coach, called him ''the truest and purest champion I ever met.'' And Richards said: ''He was part sprinter, part shock absorber, part acrobat and part strongman. He wasn't human.''
        Cornelius Anthony Warmerdam was born June 22, 1915, in the San Joaquin Valley of California to Dutch immigrant parents. At age 12, he dug a pit in front of his house and began vaulting after school with his two brothers and two other brothers from the neighborhood. His first pole was the limb of a peach tree.
        ''I don't know why one of us wasn't killed,'' he once told Track and Field News. ''The pit was just turned-over dirt and the poles were very dangerous. When they split, the fragments were like a sword. I guess it was just that youthful enthusiasm that kept us at it.''
        While he was a good vaulter at Fresno State University, his major success came later. In 1944, at his peak, he retired from vaulting and became a naval officer. After World War II, he became assistant track coach and later head coach and athletic director at Fresno State, retiring in 1980.
        He is survived by his wife, Juanita, and five children.
        Warmerdam tinkered with fiberglass poles in their early years, and at age 41 he used one to clear 13 feet. Into his 60's, he competed in masters decathlons, and at 66 he vaulted 11 feet 6 inches on fiberglass.
        Warmerdam won the Sullivan award in 1942 as America's outstanding amateur athlete. He was a member of the National Track and Field Hall of Fame.
        His great regret was that he never competed in the Olympics. Had the 1940 and 1944 Games not been called off because of the war, he would have been an overwhelming favorite.
        He marveled at the ever-increasing heights in the pole vault. When he was asked if there was a limit to how high man could vault, he smiled.
        ''Probably,'' he said, ''but I don't know what it is.''
      