
        Michael DeMarco, who was the longest-serving city councilman in New York when he resigned in 1997 to become a New York State Supreme Court judge, died on Sunday at a hospital in the Bronx. He was 65.
        He died of liver cancer, his family said.
        Mr. DeMarco, a Democrat who was sometimes endorsed by the Conservative and Republican Parties, was elected to the City Council in 1970 and served until 1997. Current members cannot match his legislative longevity because they are legally limited to two consecutive four-year terms.
        Michael Patrick DeMarco was born in the Country Club area of the northeast Bronx, where he lived his entire life. His Council district also included the neighborhoods of Pelham Parkway, City Island and Throgs Neck.
        He was chairman of a number of City Council committees, including the Housing and Buildings, Education, and the Federal and State Legislation Committees. As chairman of the Finance Committee, he held the second-highest position in the Council, after majority leader.
        His legislative successes included leading the fights for mandatory seat belts on school buses, special education programs for children with hearing problems and learning disabilities, and the establishment of rape crisis centers.
        Mr. DeMarco believed in ''blunt talk and the occasional free exercise of his temper,'' an article in The New York Times said in 1987. In 1972, he was involved in a brief fistfight in the rotunda of City Hall with Jerome Kretchmer, the environmental affairs commissioner, over the site of a waste transfer station in the Bronx.
        His candor was apparent in a comment he made to a Times reporter in 1974 as the Council overwhelmingly passed a bill requiring elected officials earning more than $25,000 to make full disclosure of their incomes. ''If this was a secret vote, it would go down,'' Mr. DeMarco said. ''No one is really for this bill.''
        He also brought humor to Council debates. In 1972, during a hearing over whether to force dog owners to clean up after their pets, he suggested that dogs could be restricted to different sides of the street on alternate days.
        ''You mean alternate-side-of-the-street dogs?'' responded Mr. Kretchmer, who was testifying at the hearing.
        Mr. DeMarco is survived by his wife, Dorothy; two daughters, Michelle Paci of Blauvelt, N.Y., and Christine Gentile of Chatham, N.J.; a son, Joseph, of Manhattan; a sister, Joan Ricci of Pelham, N.Y.; and four grandchildren.
      