
        Maxwell White Hunter, a rocket engineer, project manager and visionary of the space age, died on Nov. 10 at Stanford Hospital in Palo Alto, Calif. He was 79 and lived in San Carlos, Calif.
        The cause was complications from  a fall, his family said.
        Working at the Douglas Aircraft Company from 1944 to 1961, Mr. Hunter dealt with the designs of missiles like the Nike-Ajax, Hercules, Honest John and Thor. Then, as chief engineer of space systems, he was responsible for various space projects, including the engineering for the Delta rocket.
        In the early 1960's he was on the staff of the National Aeronautics and Space Council. The panel advised the Johnson White House on policy and space projects for the future.
        He then spent 22 years, until 1987, at the Lockheed Missiles and Space Company. He oversaw the design of advanced space transportation vehicles, developed the concept of using large expendable tanks in space-shuttle design and saw the Hubble Space Telescope through its early stages.
        Mr. Hunter was a proponent of single-stage rocket ships and laser battle stations in space to defend satellites if necessary. He detailed his ideas in scores of articles and a textbook, ''Thrust Into Space.''
        Max Hunter, as he was known, was born in Hollidaysburg, Pa. He graduated Phi Beta Kappa in physics and mathematics from Washington & Jefferson College in Pennsylvania in 1942 and received a Ph.D. in aeronautical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1944.
        He attended an advanced management program at the Harvard Business School in 1967. In 1989 he formed his own consulting firm in Sunnyvale, Calif., SpaceGuild Inc., of which he was president.
        Mr. Hunter is survived by his wife, Irene Manning Hunter; three sons, Matthew S., of San Francisco, Maxwell III, of Hollidaysburg, and David M., of Los Angeles; two daughters, Peggy H. Shafer of Pleasanton, Calif., and Sally H. Wiley of Chicago; and five grandchildren. His first marriage, to Nancy Spencer Hunter, of Hollidaysburg, ended in divorce.
      