
        Panama Francis, a drummer who played for dancers through the glory years of swing in high-profile bands  like Lucky Millinder's, Cab Calloway's and Slim Gaillard's, played on countless rhythm-and-blues and rock 'n' roll sessions and  became a standard-bearing swing-nostalgia musician, died on Sunday at a hospital in Orlando, Fla. He was 82 and lived in Altamont, Fla.
        Mr. Francis was a soloing drummer, but he was most prized for keeping a strong, hard-swinging, behind-the-beat pulse. He worked at the Savoy Ballroom (the Home of Happy Feet) in Manhattan, when swing dancing was at its peak, and believed  in jazz as dance music. He said he was unhappy with jazz in recent years.
        ''I don't know what you'd call it,'' he said in a recent interview. ''It's not jazz. You can't dance it.''
        He was born in Miami, and his name was originally David Francis.  When he was a teenager, his father, a Haitian immigrant, separated from his mother and moved to New York City. In 1938, when he was 19, after performing in nightclubs for six years, Mr. Francis wired his father for a bus ticket to New York. Four days later he had a job with the saxophonist Tab Smith.
        Not long after arriving, he was substituting for Sid Catlett in a band that the manager, Joe Glaser, put together. It was led by the trumpeter Roy Eldridge. It was Eldridge who had forgotten the drummer's name and who gave Mr. Francis his nickname because the young man was wearing a Panama hat that day. He played and recorded with Eldridge in 1939, with Millinder in 1940 and with Calloway from 1947 to 1952, among many others.
        After leaving Calloway's group, he spent 10 years as a first-call studio-session drummer, playing pop and rhythm-and-blues and becoming one of the most recorded drummers of the 1950's. Some of the well-known songs Mr. Francis worked on include Ray Charles's ''Drown in My Own Tears,'' Buddy Holly's ''Peggy Sue,'' the Four Seasons' ''Big Girls Don't Cry'' and Bobby Darin's ''Splish Splash.'' Mr. Francis often played in television orchestras, including those for the Dinah Shore, Jackie Gleason and Ed Sullivan shows. Mr. Francis toured with Shore from 1963 to 1967.
        In the late 1960's he moved to California, briefly joining Teddy Wilson's piano trio. He moved to New York again in 1972 and began working on the jazz festival circuit, playing with other swing-era musicians including Lionel Hampton, Illinois Jacquet and Earl Hines and forming groups that recreated styles and sounds of the time.
        The most successful group was the Savoy Sultans, formed in 1979, a small big band that played expressly for dancers and that had an eight-year residence beginning in 1980 at  the Rainbow Room. Mr. Francis based the group on a real band of the same name that played at the Savoy in the late 1930's, and the tribute band played the hard-riffing jump style of swing popular at the Savoy.
        But it expanded on this repertory.  Reviewing the Savoy Sultans in 1981, John S. Wilson of The New York Times wrote that one of the more interesting results of the band's continuing engagements at the Rainbow Room ''is the way it is playing the customarily dry, routine staples of ballroom situations, waltzes, cha-chas and sambas.''
        ''Working within the proper context of these dances, the Sultans give waltzes such as 'Charmaine' and 'The Waltz You Saved for Me' an unusually light and airy quality that stems from the light-footed rhythm of their riff tunes,'' he added.
        The Sultans were something of a cause célèbre among swing-music fans and jazz critics, and received Grammy nominations for two of their six albums.
        In 1996 Mr. Francis suffered kidney failure as a result of diabetes, and he played little since then.
        He is survived by his wife, Alyce, of Orlando; his sons, James and Melvin Steel, of New York; his daughters, Naomi Francis, Eilene Francis  and Denise Steel-Tyson, of New York  and Michelle Jones, of Hampton, Va.; seven grandchildren; and 10 great-grandchildren.
      