
        Prof. Oliver Robert Gurney, an Oxford classicist and a leading scholar of the Hittites, whose ancient civilization he began to study when most of it seemed lost to history, died in Oxford on Jan. 11. He was 86.
        The Hittites flourished about 1600 to 1200 B.C., in an empire that stretched over much of Asia Minor and what is now Syria. Dr. Gurney's studies of excavations and their hieroglyphs and wedge-shaped inscriptions buttressed a growing belief that the Hittites developed a surprisingly advanced society.
        He wrote a classic text on the subject, ''The Hittites'' (Penguin), which first appeared in 1952 and has been reprinted several times. It remained without equal until Trevor Bryce's ''Kingdom of the Hittites,'' published in this country by Oxford University Press in 1999.
        Among other titles in print here, Dr. Gurney also wrote ''The Middle Babylonian Legal and Economic Texts From Ur'' (1989) and a volume about the excavations at Ur, a Sumerian city on the Euphrates, now in southern Iraq.
        Professor Gurney was born in London, the son of Dr. Robert Gurney, a zoologist. He was educated at Eton and New College, Oxford. Reading Homer attracted him to the classics, which in turn led him to the source of some of Homer's epic sagas.
        They were preserved in a recently unearthed archive in cuneiform Hittite, an Anatolian branch of the Indo-European family of languages. After that, Dr. Gurney's interest in the ancient history of the region never flagged.
        He graduated from Oxford in 1933, then delved into the Hittite language at the University of Berlin. He served with the Royal Artillery in Sudan in World War II and returned to Oxford in 1945 as a reader in Assyriology. He was appointed a professor in 1965 and received emeritus status in 1978. In the 1980's he was the president of the British Institute of Archaeology in Ankara, Turkey.
        Dr. Gurney is survived by his wife, Diane Grazebrook, and a stepdaughter.
      