
        John W. Nason, who while president of Swarthmore College during World War II helped get more than 3,000 American students of Japanese descent out of detention camps and place them in institutes of higher learning, died on Saturday in Kennett Square, Pa. He was 96.
        Mr. Nason was president of Swarthmore from 1940 to 1953 and served from 1942 to 1945 as chairman of the National Japanese American Student Relocation Council, an interdenominational body set up by religious groups to help Japanese-American students whose education had been interrupted by their internment under federal war-time regulations.
        Of the roughly 160,000 Japanese-Americans detained in this way, about 2,000 were potential college students with no possibility of pursuing higher education in the camps; the number grew to nearly 4,000 by the war's end.
        Mr. Nason, who was a Quaker, and the group he headed negotiated their release with the federal authorities and persuaded American colleges and universities to accept them as full-time students. Mr. Nason stepped down as president in 1945, but the council continued to help Japanese-American students until 1949.
        After leaving Swarthmore, Mr. Nason became president of the Foreign Policy Association. With financial help from the Ford Foundation, he was able to build up the association as a forum for public debate about foreign policy issues and resist the attacks of Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, who suspected any internationalist body of being sympathetic to Communism.
        Under his leadership, World Affairs Councils were established in many major American cities; the public was also encouraged to debate international issues under the association's ''Great Decisions'' discussion programs.
        In 1962 Mr. Nason became president of Carleton College in Northfield, Minn., a post he occupied until 1970 during difficult years of widespread student unrest. He published several books and many articles on educational issues.
        John William Nason was born on Feb. 9, 1905, in St. Paul. He attended Phillips Exeter Academy, Carleton and Harvard before spending three years at Oriel College at Oxford as a Rhodes Scholar, graduating in 1931. He returned to teach philosophy at Swarthmore until he became its president.
        In 1935, he married the former Bertha D. White of Atlantic City, who died in 1955. He is survived by their two sons, Charles, of Wayland, Mass., and Robert, of Williamston, Mich. In 1957, he married the former Elizabeth M. Knapp, who also survives him.
        Correction:  November 23, 2001, Friday  An obituary yesterday about John W. Nason, who was president of Swarthmore College during World War II and helped thousands of Japanese-American students leave detention camps and enter colleges, referred incorrectly to his second wife, the former Elizabeth M. Knapp. She is not a survivor; she died in 1998.
      