
        More than 2,000 people paid tribute yesterday to former Mayor John V. Lindsay under the soaring ceiling of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine, the place he himself had chosen to be remembered in by a city that he for a time inspired, angered and defined.
        A pantheon of the city's political, business and cultural leaders -- along with a tribe of New York City mayors past, present and perhaps future -- ringed a simple wooden box of Mr. Lindsay's ashes that had been placed on a white linen cloth. Behind it was a smiling photograph of Mr. Lindsay, who looked as cool and handsome as some of his eulogists recalled.
        ''John Lindsay defined an era in the life of New York City,'' said the present mayor, Rudolph W. Giuliani. ''He embodied the hopes of a generation after the death of John F. Kennedy.'' Mr. Lindsay, the mayor said, ''made working for the city seem more altruistic, more exciting than it seemed before him.''
        The Right Rev. Paul Moore Jr., who recalled how he was welcomed as the bishop of New York with a ball that Mr. Lindsay and his wife, Mary, gave at Gracie Mansion, came back to the pulpit he retired from more than a decade ago to deliver the homily.
        His words, the most personal of those spoken in the hourlong service, drew a picture of Mr. Lindsay from their school days together at St. Paul's, where the man who would be mayor was ''a youngster of some charm and promise and a great deal of mischief.''
        He grew up, Bishop Moore said, to become ''an icon for my generation,'' ''a leader in confusing and troubled times'' who was never ''quite given in his day the glory he deserved.''
        Members of Mr. Lindsay's administration tried to make sure that was not the case yesterday.
        Their eulogies were reverential and sometimes righteous reminders of the man who helped them make sense of the city during the racial unrest, antiwar protests and municipal strikes that spanned the eight years, from 1966 to 1973, of Mr. Lindsay's mayoralty.
        Only in conversations afterward did they recall how working for Mr. Lindsay in their 20's had forever shaped their lives.
        ''It represents one of the most magical moments in public life that this country has ever known, and he let all of us be a part of it,'' said Peter C. Goldmark Jr., a chief of staff to Mr. Lindsay who is now the chairman and chief executive of The International Herald Tribune.  ''We would have walked through flames for this guy.''
        Steven L. Isenberg, another chief of staff to Mr. Lindsay who is now a professor at Davidson College in North Carolina, said: ''It just calls back one of the most intense periods of our lives.
        ''It was being at the center of things, working for somebody who had faith in us, where the purposes were so high.
        ''And here we are today with our children. Our children are as old as we were when we started at City Hall. So it touches the deepest parts of you.''
        At one point Representative Charles B. Rangel of Harlem, who also delivered a eulogy, asked all the members of Mr. Linday's administration to stand. They did, to applause. Mr. Rangel recalled how Mr. Lindsay walked the streets of Harlem and allowed ''everyone to believe that no matter what their culture was, he truly was their mayor.''
        Mr. Rangel added: ''He brought what we call a lot of class to our profession of politics. I had never met in my life, being born and raised in Harlem, a white Protestant Republican. I had heard of them, but I hadn't seen them.''
        After the laughter died down, Mr. Rangel added: ''Maybe that's why he was so special. Because he didn't act like he was white. And he certainly didn't act like he was a Republican.''
        Mr. Rangel was seated in the front row, next to Mr. Giuliani, whom he has not spoken to in several years. Across the cathedral, in another front row flanking the box of ashes, was Donna Hanover, Mr. Giuliani's estranged wife.
        In the same row was former Mayor David N. Dinkins. Near him were several men who would like to be mayor: the city comptroller, Alan G. Hevesi; the public advocate, Mark Green; and the Bronx borough president, Fernando Ferrer.
        Mr. Lindsay's daughter, Katharine Lindsay Lake, recalled in her eulogy that the family had been as captivated by Mr. Lindsay's charm as many in the city were, and that he had tried to introduce his children to opera on lazy Sunday afternoons. ''We learned to appreciate the Italian masters,'' she said, ''while he slept on the sofa covered with newspapers.''
        At the end, after Patti LuPone had sung ''You're the Top,'' the box with Mr. Lindsay's ashes was carried out of the cathedral by his former bodyguard, Patrick Vecchio, now the town supervisor in Smithtown, N.Y. Mr. Vecchio had been a fixture at Mr. Lindsay's side for eight years.
        ''I've got the mayor here,'' Mr. Vecchio said, the box under his arm and his eyes moist, as he headed out to put the ashes in a waiting car. It did not seem an odd task, he added: ''It's like my final service to the mayor.''
      