
        Irving Crane, whose gentlemanly, cautious approach to the game of pool resulted in the nickname the Deacon and seven world championships, at least one in each decade starting in the 1940's, died on Nov. 17 at a nursing home in Rochester. He was 88.
        His daughter, Sandra DeLucia, said he had been in the nursing home for four days and lived in Rochester.
        ''He looked like a tall, handsome, well-dressed Cadillac salesman,'' Mike Panozzo, publisher of Billiards Digest, said.
        Which is what he was. He sold luxury cars in his hometown of Rochester at a time when professional pool was as unprofitable as his father, who yearned for him to follow him into the law, had warned. But selling cars was never as pleasurable as running 309 straight balls, calling each shot in advance, as Mr. Crane was the first player to do in an exhibition in Layton, Utah, in 1939.
        ''If I had to make a choice between selling cars and playing pool, I'd choose pool,'' he said in an interview  in Sports Illustrated in 1969. ''The only time I've ever been really happy is when I was at a pool table.''
        He won world titles in 1942, 1946, 1955, 1966, 1968, 1970 and 1972, as well as 14 other major titles. He played the giants of the game from Ralph Greenleaf early in his career to Willie Mosconi, with whom he had a legendary rivalry.
        ''I wanted to be remembered as one of the very best pocket billiards players ever,'' he said in an interview with Billiards Digest in 1988. ''Not the best maybe, but one of the best. And I believe I was that. A lot of people who know the game say the best were Greenleaf, Mosconi and Crane. You don't have to put 'em in that order, necessarily.''
        But it is easy to put Mr. Mosconi ahead of Mr. Crane. They finished as the winner and the runner-up 10 times, with Mr. Mosconi winning eight of the duels. Mr. Crane lost to Mr. Greenleaf in the finals of the 1937 world championship.
        Many of the matches were close. Mr. Greenleaf once won by running 78 straight balls, leaving Mr. Crane no chance to retaliate. A booklet, ''The Legends of Billiards,'' published by Billiards Digest in 1993, called Mr. Crane unarguably the unluckiest pool player of all time.
        Mr. Mosconi, known for his daring style, maintained that his rival suffered from being such a careful player, he would pass up a reasonable shot just because he did not want to miss.
        ''Crane wouldn't take a shot unless his grandmother could make it,'' Mr. Mosconi wrote in his autobiography, ''Willie's Game.''
        But, after his retirement in 1957, Mr. Mosconi predicted Mr. Crane would dominate the sport. ''Irv's knowledge of the game is so superior to the other fellows playing today that it's not even funny,'' Mr. Mosconi said.
        Irving Donald Crane was born in Livonia, N.Y., on Nov. 13, 1913. His father, Scott, was a lawyer and avid sportsman, and his mother taught three languages at the local high school. When Irving was 11, his older brother got a toy pool table for Christmas, with cues maybe a foot and a half long.
        He showed enough interest and ability that his parents replaced the dining room table with a pool table that was four feet wide and eight feet long. By the time he was 14, without a single formal lesson, he ran 89 straight call shots at a local pool hall.
        His parents then bought a tournament-sized pool table that was 5 feet wide and 10 feet long. Professional players, including Willie Hoppe and Andrew Ponzi, were invited to play informal matches against the prodigy. For 10 years, the family ate their meals atop the tables, on custom-made lids.
        Though Mr. Crane showed promise as a baseball player, he was consumed by pool. ''Other kids, you know, they'd play for 20 minutes or half an hour and they'd say, 'Let's do something else,' '' he said. ''I could play all day and never get enough.''
        He attended Hobart College in Geneva, N.Y., for two years, then came home and told his father he wanted to be a professional billiards player more than a lawyer. When his father told him there was no money in it, he replied, ''There is for champions, Dad.''
        He soon found tournament pool was a closed club with no formal process for initiation. Tournament organizers insisted he was not good enough. Then a local pool hall owner made him the regular local opponent whenever a talented veteran came to Rochester. He beat every player who came through.
        He could no longer be ignored. After reaching the finals of the world championship in his first try and losing to Mr. Greenleaf, who won his 16th world title, Mr. Crane achieved fame in the unlikely locale of Layton, Utah. He played an exhibition match and ran 150 balls, shutting out his opponent without him even taking a shot.
        As he began to unscrew his cue to put on another shaft to do some trick shots, the crowd begged him to keep going. He ran a total of 309 balls, more than Mr. Greenleaf or anybody else had ever done. Mr. Panozzo said that with today's smaller tables and plastic balls, the run was equivalent to as many as 500 balls.
        For all his accomplishment, Mr. Crane left as large a mark with the decorum he brought to the sport. He preferred to be known as a ''professional pocket billiards exhibitionist'' and wore gray hats, gray coats and expensive but conservative suits. Sports Illustrated called him ''a shadow in a darkened room.''
        Althea, his wife of 64 years, accompanied him to tournaments from his famous 1939 Utah exhibition until he won the World Series of Billiards in 1978 at age 65. He is also survived by his son, Irving, and daughter, Sandra, who both live in the Rochester area; three grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
        The Deacon was hardly shy about criticizing fellow players. ''There are lots of people in this game I don't care to associate with,'' he said. ''I'm decent to them and they don't know it, but Jesus, when I see some of these crumbs in the poolroom sometimes, I say the hell with it.''
        Maybe they did know it. Rudolph Wanderone, better known as Minnesota Fats, said, ''Irv Crane would have been the only guy to notice the horse under Lady Godiva.''
      