
        Jean-Louis Palladin, a fearless and passionate cook who helped to free French cuisine in the United States from a hidebound orthodoxy while influencing a generation of chefs and food lovers, died yesterday in McLean, Va. He was 55.
        The cause of death was lung cancer, said Ann Brody, a spokeswoman for his family.
        While Mr. Palladin never achieved the public profile of contemporaries like Alice Waters and Paul Prudhomme, he was a chef's chef whose boundless creativity and relentless pursuit of the best and freshest ingredients set an example for countless other cooks. His first restaurant in the United States, Jean-Louis at the Watergate, opened in 1979 in Washington. It drew not only the capital's political elite, but also chefs and restaurateurs from all over the world who made the pilgrimage to taste his cooking and learn his techniques.
        In a departure from the image of the haughty and secretive chef, Mr. Palladin always made time to share his knowledge and methods with almost anyone who asked. He had a rare eye for talent, and employed or counseled young chefs who went on to brilliant careers of their own, including Eric Ripert of Le Bernardin; Daniel Boulud; Christian Delouvrier of Lespinasse; and Sylvain Portay, formerly of Le Cirque and now at the Ritz-Carlton in San Francisco.
        ''He was probably the most important influence in my life in terms of food,'' said Drew Nieporent, whose restaurants include Montrachet, Nobu and Tribeca Grill in New York and Rubicon in San Francisco. ''He was part teacher, part confidant, a world traveler and the greatest French chef in America.''
        Nowadays, some diners at fine restaurants take for granted ingredients like fresh foie gras, scallops plucked by scuba divers from the ocean floor and wild mushrooms. But in 1979, when Mr. Palladin arrived in Washington, those things were largely unknown in the United States. The glum refrain among most French chefs in America was that everything was better back in France.
        But Mr. Palladin made it his business to seek out the ingredients he wanted, whether it was monkfish livers, squid ink sacs or anything else that was routinely discarded.
        ''He would take an afternoon to drive 150 miles to get a ham, and I think that influenced a lot of people,'' said Mr. Ripert, who worked under Mr. Palladin at Jean-Louis in 1989. ''Because of Jean-Louis, people went scuba diving for scallops because he would accept nothing less. If today we have all these amazing products and organic food is so fashionable, he was the father of that.''
        Mr. Palladin did not simply try to reproduce the foods of France and Gascony, his birthplace. He opened himself and French cooking to the vast arsenal of American ingredients. ''The challenge of cooking in America,'' he said in 1987, ''is to discover the newest and best products from the different states -- baby eels and lamprey from Maine, fresh snails from Oregon, blowfish from the Carolinas and California oysters -- and then to learn how to integrate them into your cuisine.''
        For many chefs, who had been reared on the dogma of French recipes, such an approach was tremendously liberating.
        ''He pushed me to kill the fear to express myself,'' Mr. Ripert said. ''He freed my mind.''
        Chefs were equally awed by Mr. Palladin's almost instinctive comprehension of ingredients.
        Jimmy Sneed, a chef who worked for Mr. Palladin for five years before opening his own restaurant, the Frog and the Redneck, in Richmond, Va., said, ''Jean-Louis would slice it, he would taste it raw, he would season it, he would sauté it, and he would create a dish of it.'' Mr. Sneed said he considered his restaurant a tribute to Mr. Palladin.
        Jean-Louis Palladin was born in 1946 in the small town of Condom, in Armagnac country in southwestern France. After brief restaurant stints in Paris and Monaco, he attended culinary school in Toulouse and then returned to Condom, where he started working in the kitchen of an Italian restaurant.
        He showed such promise there that the owner of the restaurant decided Mr. Palladin needed his own showplace. Together, they found and renovated an old monastery, which they named La Table des Cordeliers. His mentor's faith was soon rewarded; in 1974, at the age of 28, Mr. Palladin became the youngest chef in France to earn two Michelin stars.
        Mr. Palladin might have been content to live out his life in the small town, perhaps aiming for a third Michelin star, but he accepted a lucrative offer to open Jean-Louis, on a lower level of the Watergate Hotel.
        Chefs and food lovers from around the world would take the walk from the Watergate lobby through a corridor lined with wine bottles to Jean-Louis. In the small dining room, where the amber walls exuded warmth and elegance, they would scan the short menu, written each morning by Mr. Palladin himself.
        Meals always began with an amuse-bouche, perhaps some tiny shellfish deep fried and Mr. Palladin's own buttery brioche. Then a parade of dishes would begin, like a purée of broccoli soup with tiny bay scallops or an ethereal mousseline of lobster with leeks, tender baby greens with wild mushrooms and slivers of rare pigeon breast. Lustier main dishes might include sautéed beef with marrow and red wine or braised hare in a rich blood-thickened sauce.
        ''He pushed flavors to the limits,'' Mr. Ripert said. ''He played like a roller coaster with your palate.''
        As he broadened the boundaries of what was considered French food, he also relaxed the typically formal service in the dining room. It all made a table at Jean-Louis one of the hottest seats in town. ''Maybe it was the one instance in Washington of gastronomy rising above politics,'' said William Rice, who was the food editor at The Washington Post when Mr. Palladin opened Jean-Louis.
        In time, Mr. Palladin became a familiar Washington celebrity, easily recognized because of his distinctive appearance. Long and lean, Mr. Palladin was crowned with an oriole's nest of curly brown hair, wore oversize glasses and had a thick mustache. His French accent, offered in a deep, gravelly voice coarsened by years of cigarette smoking, was easily imitated.
        ''He was the essence of the Three Musketeers rolled into one,'' said Michael Batterberry, a founder of Food Arts magazine. ''You just wondered where his sweeping hat with the big feather in it was.''
        On the road, traveling the charity circuit, Mr. Palladin seemed to be at the center of every party, staying up later than anybody, the rebel chef as rock 'n' roller. In the kitchen, though, he was all business, and fiercely demanding of employees.
        ''With his tongue I've seen him slice and dice many chefs into mincemeat,'' said Todd English, owner of Olives, near Union Square, who cooked with Mr. Palladin many times. Five minutes later, though, all would be forgiven, with Mr. Palladin's outburst chalked up to passion and heritage.
        To Mr. Palladin, cooking was an obsession. The chef's life, he once advised aspiring cooks, demanded total dedication and much sacrifice.
        ''You need to say to your wife, if you have a wife, 'I'm sorry, but you will need to be second in my life,' '' he said in 1997. ''Being in the restaurant 10, 12, 14 hours a day, that's your family.''
        Mr. Palladin is survived by his former wife, Régine Palladin of McLean; a son, Olivier; a daughter, Verveine; and a sister, Monique Palladin of Paris.
        In the 1990's, Mr. Palladin seemed to have lost his enthusiasm for Jean-Louis and looked elsewhere for inspiration, with varying degrees of success. Several ventures did not pan out, and in 1996, after the Watergate had changed ownership several times, Jean-Louis closed.
        Like so many other star chefs, Mr. Palladin was drawn to Las Vegas. As consulting chef, he opened Napa, a lavish circular restaurant, in the Rio Suite Hotel and Casino in 1997. There, gamblers could take a break from the card table with a meal of smoked Delaware eel or tongue and cheek of cod.
        Mr. Palladin had long wanted a restaurant in New York, and in 1999, again as a consultant, he allowed his name to be used at Palladin, in the Time Hotel near Times Square. Although William Grimes gave the restaurant two stars in The New York Times, it was largely regarded as a prelude to a grander restaurant to come. It closed in late 2000.
        Unlike other celebrity chefs who capitalized on books, television and product tie-ins, Mr. Palladin never made a lot of money and spent what he made liberally. So after lung cancer was discovered late last year, chefs and customers all around the country held a series of benefits for Mr. Palladin to pay for expenses not covered by his health insurance. Many who participated, like Mr. Nieporent, felt that they were simply repaying Mr. Palladin for decades of generosity.
        ''Keep in mind that French chefs were very cliquish, but guys like him and Daniel Boulud and Jean-Georges Vongerichten, they took an interest in us,'' Mr. Nieporent said. ''They elevated us, and arguably we became the food capital of the world.''
      