
        Sol Forman, who sometimes ate a steak or two a day at Peter Luger, the steakhouse across the street from his Brooklyn metalware factory, and then rescued the restaurant from oblivion by buying it at auction and owning it for a half century, died on Thursday at Maimonides Hospital in Brooklyn. He was 98.
        His daughter Marilyn Spiera said that he lived in his home of 60 years in Flatbush, Brooklyn, until the day he died. He went to his office in the restaurant in the shadow of the Williamsburg Bridge in his wheelchair until two weeks ago, and each night called in to check receipts.
        Mr. Forman did more than just preserve an institution beloved by discerning carnivores, one that Gourmet magazine said produces ''a level of steak quality that is simply unmatched in America.'' He added the unthinkable, fish, to the menu, installed air-conditioning over the shocked objections of veteran waiters, and began accepting credit cards, though only the restaurant's own; there are now 80,000 of them.
        But not messing with much explained much of the success he made of Peter Luger Steak House. The scrubbed oak tables, chairs and bar have been in the restaurant since Peter Luger, a German immigrant, opened the place in 1887. So have some of the beer steins. Most significant, succulent, sizzling slabs of steak, 10 tons a week, flow ceaselessly from the kitchen.
        ''We're all basically animals,'' Mr. Forman once said. ''We want to eat meat.''
        Sol Forman was born on the Lower East Side of Manhattan around July 1, 1903. At least that's what his mother later guessed. Nobody wrote it down.
        His father, Louis, worked as a clothing presser in a sweatshop, and his mother, Rose, sold linens on the street. She was 50 when she gave birth to him, and until eight and a half months into her pregnancy worried she was developing a tumor, Mrs. Spiera said.
        From an early age, Sol supported his elderly, sick parents and continued to turn over his paycheck to them until he was in his mid-30's. His first job was turning on and off streetlights in his neighborhood, one by one each morning and evening. He dropped out of high school to work full time.
        At 17, he formed a partnership with his brother and sister to start a metalware business called Forman Family, which made trays, pitchers, coffeepots and other stamped-metal giftware. He enjoyed and excelled at sales and frequently entertained customers across the street at Peter Luger. Many days, this meant eating two steaks. When trade shows were in town, it could mean three.
        Peter Luger died in 1941. His style was inimitable: if a customer complained about a steak, he would taste it and often refuse to replace it. So was his success: the son who succeeded him watched the business slide until he was forced to close it in 1950.
        Part of the reason was the decline of industrial Brooklyn, as breweries and other nearby manufacturers shut their doors; Peter Luger became a lonely bright spot in a gritty industrial area. Also, the Hasidim who made up an increasing share of Williamsburg's population did not eat the beef hindquarters from which the restaurant takes its steaks. Kosher laws permit them to eat only the forequarters, Mrs. Spiera said.
        Mr. Forman, whose first steak at the restaurant 25 years earlier cost $1.75, decided he wanted to buy the place. His wife, Marsha, objected, arguing that the family's only proven culinary talent was eating.
        But he won her over, and was the only person to show up when the restaurant was auctioned off. He bought it for the price of the real estate.
        His first improvement was to buy a scale. Practices had become so haphazard under the Luger family that deliveries were not even being weighed. Mr. Forman eschewed advertising and paid no rent since he owned the building. This allowed him to apply 65 percent of after-tax receipts to paying for high-quality ingredients.
        He delegated the job of picking the best beef to his wife, who died in 1998 after 61 years of marriage. She spent two years learning how to inspect meat from a retired meat inspector named Joe Dowd. Until she was 80, she put on a white coat and fur hat and went to the meat district twice a week to make her choices and stamp them ''Peter Luger.''
        Selecting steaks for self-styled he-men has continued to be women's work. Mrs. Spiera, who learned the skill from her mother, and her own daughter Jody Storch now go to the wholesale market.
        In addition to Mrs. Spiera of Brooklyn, Mr. Forman is survived by his daughters Amy Rubenstein and Elissa Cullman of Manhattan; nine grandchildren; and 12 great-grandchildren.
        Mr. Forman closed the metalware business in the early 1980's, because of competition from foreign imports. He continued to manage commercial and residential real estate, but Peter Luger was his passion.
        For example, when he opened the only branch of Peter Luger, in Great Neck on Long Island, in 1961, he oversaw daily operations of the new restaurant, which he designed. He declined to open other branches or franchises, because he feared he could not guarantee the quality of meat, Mrs. Spiera said.
        One Peter Luger tradition that has never changed is the waiters' stern admonitions to order steaks rare. They say anything else breaks the chef's heart. What they don't say is that Mr. Forman liked his well done.
      