
        Jose Greco, who brought Spanish dancing to huge new audiences in the United States and Europe in the 1940's and 50's, died on Sunday at his home in Lancaster, Pa. He was 82.
        Born in Italy and raised in Brooklyn, Mr. Greco came to embody the art of Spanish dancing for many, in performances that were reassuringly straightforward, entertaining and, eventually, familiar. Frequent tours and television variety show appearances made him a household name to the point where, in 1953, Jose Greco and Company drew a crowd estimated at 19,000 at Lewisohn Stadium in New York.
        By the 1960's, the earthy form of flamenco had become synonymous in the public mind with Spanish dance, and Mr. Greco began to perform a good deal more of it. But he and his dancers and wide-ranging early repertory were as elegant as they were fiery.
        John Martin, dance critic of The New York Times, said of Mr. Greco in 1951: ''His footwork is particularly brilliant, and he moves with notable elegance. He lacks generally, however, those electric tensions in the upper body that are so integral a part of the Spanish dance at its most exciting. His style, indeed, has more of silk about it than of steel.''
        Born in Montorio nei Frentani, Italy, of Spanish-Italian parents, Mr. Greco moved to New York with his family at the age of 9. His first training was in Spanish dance with Helen Veola. When he was a teenager, he made his dancing debut in ''La Traviata'' and ''Carmen'' at the Hippodrome. He also appeared at supper clubs and nightclubs. His career as a serious concert-dance performer began in 1942 when La Argentinita, considered one of the purest stylists in Spanish dance, invited him to partner her and perform with her company. The following year, Mr. Greco drew individual attention for his performance of the ''Miller's Dance'' from ''The Three-Cornered Hat.'' ''This young man can dance,'' Martin noted simply in a review.
        Mr. Greco learned much from La Argentinita and her sister, Pilar Lopez, whose company he joined on the death of La Argentinita in 1945. He founded his own troupe, Ballet y Bailes de Espana de Jose Greco, with his second wife and dance partner, Nila Amparo, and others in 1947. Mr. Greco was to become known for large-scale productions and the company soon grew to more than 20 dancers. The company toured the United States with the flamenco star La Quica in 1951 under the auspices of the Shubert Organization. Appearing in New York on Broadway, he was selected, with Carol Channing, as the ''New Broadway Personality of the Year'' in 1951.
        His fast-paced programs of individual numbers were not especially subtle or innovative. But they quickly gained a popularity that lasted into the 1970's. In his best-known work, ''El Cortijo,'' Mr. Greco used heel work, or zapateados, to suggest the rhythm of horsemen on open plains.
        Mr. Greco and his company appeared in several movies, including ''Around the World in 80 Days'' (1956) and ''Ship of Fools'' (1965). They performed on radio shows like ''Voice of Firestone'' and were regulars on the television variety shows of Ed Sullivan, Perry Como, Johnny Carson and others. His musical accompaniment was recorded on albums issued by Decca, Columbia, RCA and MGM. He toured the United States in the lead role of ''The Passion of Dracula'' in 1978.
        Mr. Greco retired from performing officially in 1974 but returned to the stage in 1984 when Maria Benitez and her Spanish dance company honored him at the Joyce Theater in Manhattan. From 1988 to 1995 he performed with his children in several Greco companies. ''Now a bit stout, sometimes quaint looking, he can still burst into a blazing display of dynamic heel work,'' Anna Kisselgoff, dance critic of The Times, wrote in 1990. ''He never loses his star luster.'' His choreography continues to be performed by a troupe run by his son Jose Greco II.
        Mr. Greco joined the faculty of Franklin and Marshall College in 1993, the year he was awarded a grant by the National Endowment for the Arts to recreate and notate some of his most famous dances. He also worked with the Jose Greco Foundation for Hispanic Dance in New York, which he founded to further the study of Spanish culture. His awards include the Cross of the Knight of Civil Merit, given him by the Spanish government in 1962.
        Mr. Greco is survived by his fifth wife, Ana Borger-Reese of Lancaster, Pa.; a sister, Eleonora Greco Nobile of Pescara, Italy; and five children: Jose Luis, a composer, and Carmela and Lola Greco, dancers, all of Madrid; Jose, of Laredo, Tex., and Paolo, a composer, of Liverpool, England.
      