
        Ralph Burns, an arranger and composer who rose to prominence in the big band era and later won awards for his work on Broadway and in Hollywood, died on Wednesday in Los Angeles. He was 79.
        The cause was pneumonia and complications from a stroke, his business manager said.
        For much of the 1940's, Mr. Burns was one of the most respected arrangers in jazz. He was later an important behind-the-scenes presence on the pop charts, arranging noteworthy hit songs like Ray Charles's ''Georgia on My Mind.'' He was a leading orchestrator of Broadway musicals and also worked in film and television.
        A frequent associate of Bob Fosse, Mr. Burns won Academy Awards for Fosse's ''Cabaret'' and ''All That Jazz'' and a Tony for the 1999 Broadway musical ''Fosse.''
        Mr. Burns studied at the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston and, he often said, learned about jazz by transcribing arrangements from records. Born in Newton, Mass., in 1922, he began his career as a teenager as a jazz pianist.
        After a short stint with Charlie Barnet's big band, he joined Woody Herman in late 1943 as both pianist and arranger. The Herman band was one of the more successful of its day, and Mr. Burns's inventive and harmonically sophisticated writing played an important role.
        In assessing that role, Herman once told an interviewer, ''I was constantly seeking other colors,'' and added, ''Ralph had the great ability of writing for these odd instrumentations -- odd at the time -- and making it happen.'' Mr. Burns, in turn, praised Herman for helping him simplify and thereby fine-tune his musical ideas.
        Mr. Burns wrote some of the most popular numbers in the Herman repertory, including ''Apple Honey,''  ''Bijou'' and the extended work ''Summer Sequence.'' The final movement of ''Summer Sequence'' became a feature for Stan Getz's tenor saxophone and helped make Getz a star. As ''Early Autumn,'' with lyrics by Johnny Mercer, it also became a favorite of many vocalists.
        In 1945 he left the band to freelance, although he continued writing for Herman. As big bands fell out of fashion, he began working with singers like Tony Bennett, Peggy Lee, Johnny Mathis and Ray Charles. By the early 1960's he was also active on Broadway, writing orchestrations for ''Funny Girl,''  ''Sweet Charity'' and other musicals.
        Mr. Burns's first movie credit was  Woody Allen's ''Bananas'' (1971) but the film that established him in Hollywood was ''Cabaret'' (1972), which he orchestrated and for which he composed new music. ''Cabaret'' reunited him with Bob Fosse, with whom he had worked on Broadway. He did three more Fosse films: ''Lenny'' (1974), ''All That Jazz'' (1979) and ''Star 80'' (1983).
        Another film for which Mr. Burns provided music was Martin Scorsese's ''New York, New York'' (1977), which in a sense represented a return to his roots, since it was set in the 1940's and its protagonist, played by Robert De Niro, was a jazz saxophonist. In recent years he  wrote jazz-tinged arrangements for singers like Mel Tormé, John Pizzarelli and Michael Feinstein.
        No immediate family members survive.
      