
        Dr. Francis D. Moore, a giant of 20th-century surgery who made profound contributions to the understanding of how bodily fluids and chemicals change during surgery, the development of organ transplantation and the care of critically ill surgical patients, died on Saturday at his home in Westwood, Mass.
        Dr. Moore, 88, was seriously ill with chronic heart failure and took his own life, his family said.
        For almost three decades, beginning in 1948, Dr. Moore was a professor of surgery at Harvard and the surgeon in chief at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston (now Brigham and Women's Hospital).
        Under his stewardship, the hospital's surgical department became a leader in organ transplantation. In 1954, a surgical team at Brigham led by Dr. Joseph Murray performed the first successful human organ transplant, transferring a kidney between identical twins. Successful kidney transplants between fraternal twins and between unrelated donors and recipients followed quickly over the next decade. In 1990, Dr. Murray won the Nobel Prize for his transplantation work at the hospital.
        Dr. Moore, many of his colleagues said, provided the inspiration and guidance that allowed the transplantation program to move forward.
        ''His contribution in building the vehicle, if you will, of transplantation was enormous and it was very unselfish,'' said Dr. Thomas E. Starzl, the emeritus professor of surgery at the University of Pittsburgh, who in 1967 performed the first successful human liver transplant.
        ''I think he was really the driving force of that Brigham program,'' Dr. Starzl said.
        In his acceptance speech for the Nobel Prize, Dr. Murray also credited Dr. Moore with providing much of the ''leadership, creativity, courage and unselfishness'' that he said underlay the success of the hospital's efforts.
        Dr. Moore also added significantly to the development of procedures for liver transplants, and in 1958 described transplant surgeries in dogs similar to the procedures performed today .
        But it was for his ingenious experiments on the composition of fluids and chemicals in the human body that Dr. Moore was perhaps best known. By using radioactive tracer elements, he was able to measure the total amount of water, potassium, sodium, nitrogen, blood volume and other bodily components and how they changed during surgery.
        Before Dr. Moore reported his findings, many decisions about postoperative care -- whether a patient needed more fluids, for example --  ''were all seat-of-the-pants type decisions,'' said Dr. Steven A. Rosenberg, chief of surgery at the National Cancer Institute, who trained under Dr. Moore in Boston.
        ''You had imperfect information and tried to develop decisions based on that,'' he said.
        Dr. Moore's methods for the first time allowed for precise calculations.
        ''When you attach a number to measurement,'' Dr. Rosenberg said, ''then you've increased your ability to make rational decisions in medicine by an enormous extent.''
        A textbook Dr. Moore wrote on the subject, ''The Metabolic Care of the Surgical Patient,'' first published in 1959, became a classic in the field.
        Yet beyond his accomplishments as a surgeon, Dr. Moore also influenced medicine in broader ways, said Dr. Derek Bok, a former president of Harvard and now a university professor there.
        Dr. Bok said the era when Dr. Moore was Brigham's chief of surgery was a time when the tone, the standards and the ethical principles of medical schools were shaped by such department chiefs.
        ''He stands out in my mind as one of the three or four people who were most likely to articulate what the medical school stood for and what doctors ought to be,'' Dr. Bok said. ''It was people like that who really helped define standards of conduct for doctors. Their influence radiated out across the medical school and across medicine generally.''
        Francis Daniels Moore was born in Evanston, Ill., and graduated from Harvard in 1935, where he was president of the Harvard Lampoon magazine and the Hasty Pudding Club. That same year, he married Laura Benton Bartlett of Winnetka, Ill. She died in 1988.
        In 1939, he received his medical degree from the university, moving on to an internship and residency in surgery at the Massachusetts General Hospital.
        In 1942, Dr. Moore treated many patients who were casualties of the  Cocoanut Grove nightclub fire in Boston and witnessed firsthand the extreme toll of severe burns on the body's complex systems. The experience in part drove his interest in critical care and bodily composition.
        In the Korean War, he was enlisted by the office of the surgeon general of the Army to study potassium intoxication in wounded soldiers, a condition that resulted from transfusion with blood that was too old.
        ''He recognized that the treatment was worse than the original injury,''  said Dr. Joseph Martin, the dean of Harvard Medical School.
        Retiring from his post at Brigham in 1976, Dr. Moore continued on the faculty of Harvard Medical School as a professor of surgery until 1981 and then as the Mosely professor emeritus, a position he retained until his death. He was elected to the National Academy of Sciences in 1981.
        In 1990, he married Katharyn Watson Saltonstall of Exeter, N.H., and Marion, Mass. Five years later, he published his autobiography, ''A Miracle and a Privilege: Recounting a Half Century of Surgical Advance.''
        It was one of six books and hundreds of research papers Dr. Moore published.
        Dr. Moore is survived by his wife; five children, Nancy Moore Hill of Stratham, N.H., Dr. Peter B., of New Haven, Sarah Moore Warren of Grafton, Vt., Caroline Moore Tripp of New York City and Dr. Francis D. Jr., of Medfield, Mass.; a sister, Harriet Moore Gelfan of Brattleboro, Vt.; 17 grandchildren; and 4 great-grandchildren.
      