
        Rabbi Eliezer Menachem Schach, a leader of the strictly Orthodox Jews in Israel who wielded powerful influence over the country's politics for more than two decades, died today in Sheba Medical Center in Tel Aviv. He was 103.
        A fiery scholar who combined Talmudic erudition with shrewd political instinct, Rabbi Schach served as a key power broker through his spiritual leadership of Orthodox parties whose support was vital for the formation and survival of several Israeli governments.
        He led the Agudat Yisrael and Degel Hatorah parties of Ashkenazic Jews. He was also a mentor of Shas, the strictly Orthodox Sephardic party whose meteoric popularity has made it a keystone of successive governing coalitions.
        Born in Lithuania, where he distinguished himself at an early age as a brilliant religious student, Rabbi Schach immigrated to British-ruled Palestine in 1940 and until his death headed the Ponevezh Yeshiva in Bnei Brak, a mostly Orthodox town near Tel Aviv.
        He was buried there today.
        Known to his followers as a penetrating scholar, Rabbi Shach was an ardent ideologue whose combative religious politics had a strong impact on Israeli public life.
        ''His status as a Torah sage gave him political power, and made him an important political force,'' said Menachem Friedman, an expert on religious politics at Bar-Ilan University.
        Rabbi Shach preached moderation in the Arab-Israeli conflict, but voiced harsh criticism of secular Israelis, whom he described as hopelessly alienated from their faith.
        He called Israeli settlements in the West Bank and Gaza Strip ''a blatant attempt to provoke the international community'' that endangered Jewish lives, and he supported Israeli withdrawals from those territories to prevent further bloodshed.
        But he was uncompromising in his opposition to the liberal values of secular Israeli society, a stance that put him at odds with the left-leaning Labor Party.
        In 1990, Rabbi Schach thwarted an attempt by Shimon Peres, the Labor Party leader, to withdraw from the government of the rightist Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir and replace it with a narrow coalition with strictly Orthodox parties. Accusing the Labor Party of abandoning its Jewish heritage, Rabbi Schach withheld the support of the Degel Hatorah Party, whose participation was crucial for the formation of a governing coalition headed by Mr. Peres.
        In a widely quoted speech in Tel Aviv, Rabbi Shach inveighed against Labor, saying that the party had ''severed the past from the Jewish people.''
        ''Today you can meet children who don't know what the Sabbath is,'' he said. ''There are kibbutzes that don't know what Yom Kippur is -- no idea.''
        ''And, they raise rabbits and pigs there,'' he added, referring to animals whose consumption is forbidden under Jewish dietary laws. ''And this is called the Jewish people?''
        In 1996, when Mr. Peres ran for prime minister against Benjamin Netanyahu, Rabbi Schach called on his legions of followers to vote for Mr. Netanyahu, making a crucial contribution to his narrow victory.
        In the 1980's and early 90's, Rabbi Shach waged a campaign against the Hassidic Lubavitcher movement after it asserted that its leader, Rabbi Menachem Mendel Schneerson, was the messiah. The messianic claim, Rabbi Schach said, was ''total heresy,'' adding that those making it ''will burn in hell.''
        Rabbi Schach's stance caused a rift in his Agudat Yisrael Party. When the party newspaper published Lubavitcher writings, Rabbi Shach formed a competing newspaper.
        Eventually he established Degel Hatorah as a breakaway party. But the two groups joined forces in 1992 in a bloc named United Torah Judaism.
        Politically inactive since 1996, Rabbi Schach was in deteriorating health in recent years, and as he lay near death this week, thousands of his followers prayed for his survival.
        ''When his soul left him, we all cried out, wept,'' Moshe Gafni, a lawmaker from United Torah Judaism, said in a radio interview today. ''We are left orphans.''
        Rabbi Schach is survived by his children, Ephraim and Devorah, and several grandchildren.
      