
        John William Collins, the top American chess teacher of the 20th century, whose students included Bobby Fischer, died on Sunday in Manhattan. He was 89 and lived in New York City.
        Known to all as Jack Collins, his teaching career spanned almost seven decades. Many top American players, including William J. Lombardy, the 1957 world junior champion, and Robert E. Byrne, a United States champion, world championship contender and longtime chess columnist for The New York Times, were tutored by him, though he also taught average players and those with just a passing interest.
        Mr. Collins taught through practice rather than lesson plans or doctrines. In his most intensive teaching system, students analyzed at least 100 games of every world champion.
        Students who went to his house -- he used a wheelchair because of an accident at birth and taught at home -- spent most of their lesson time playing against Mr. Collins or some of the other people who congregated there. The line between playing and studying was often blurred.
        For many of his younger students, including Mr. Fischer, whose father left when he was 2, Mr. Collins was a stabilizing male presence. Salvatore J. Matera, an international master who began studying with Mr. Collins in the late 1950's, said that after his father died in 1961, when Mr. Matera was 10, he would talk for hours on the phone with Mr. Collins. ''In a lot of ways he was a surrogate father,'' Mr. Matera said.
        Mr. Collins was so eager to teach promising students that he sometimes waived his fees. One he took on without payment was Bobby Fischer. He began going to Mr. Collins's house in Brooklyn in June 1956 when he was 13 after his mother, Regina, asked Mr. Collins about teaching her son. Bobby was shy and awkward, and Mr. Collins, 31 years his senior, was also sometimes unsettled when meeting new people, but they shared a love for chess, and they hit it off immediately.
        In the next two years, as Bobby rose through the American ranks, winning the United States championship and qualifying for the first time for the world championship cycle, he spent most of his free time at Mr. Collins's house with him and his sister, Ethel Boyd Collins.
        Despite the warmth of their early relationship, Mr. Collins and Mr. Fischer became estranged after he defeated Boris Spassky for the world championship in 1972. In Newsday in 1992, Mr. Collins said he had become disgusted with Mr. Fischer for going into seclusion after winning the title and for ''making derogatory comments about blacks and Jews.''
        Mr. Collins was born Sept. 23, 1912, in Newburgh, N.Y. His father, John Thomas Collins, was a flutist and piccolo player who was frequently in John Philip Sousa's orchestra. His mother, Carolyn LaSears Collins, was a homemaker.
        Mr. Collins was largely self-educated, having finished only elementary school because of his physical disabilities.
        He was a teenager living in Brooklyn when he learned the game from a neighbor. Armed with the knowledge from two books given to him by his father and his sister and his own natural ability, Mr. Collins was soon beating the neighbor.
        To find more challenging opponents, he taught five other boys how to play. Together they founded the Hawthorne Chess Club, named for the street on which they lived. The Collins living room became the club's headquarters.
        The club began playing matches against high school teams and competing in leagues. It soon gained a reputation in chess circles and other people joined, meeting at Mr. Collins's house several times a week.
        The club members were an eclectic group. There were chess professionals, like Hermann Helms, a longtime chess columnist for The Brooklyn Eagle and contributor to The New York Times who was known as the dean of American chess, and Irving Chernev, a master who wrote almost 20 chess books; there were artists and musicians, like Marcel Duchamp and John Cage; and there were a few bankers and lawyers. Mr. Matera, who recalled regularly seeing Mr. Cage playing Mr. Collins at his house, said ''people naturally gravitated'' to him.
        Mr. Collins's sister, Ethel, took care of him until she died in 1993. Mr. Collins never married and has no immediate survivors.
        In 1991, the United States Chess Federation named him chess teacher of the century and inducted him into its hall of fame.
        Though best known as a teacher, Mr. Collins was a formidable player who was once ranked No. 17 in the country. He was United States correspondence chess champion in 1943 and the United States representative in the first world correspondence chess championship in 1948.
        Mr. Collins was co-editor of the ninth edition of ''Modern Chess Openings.'' He also wrote a book about his best students, called ''My Seven Chess Prodigies.''
        Mr. Collins was best known as Bobby Fischer's teacher, but he was not entirely comfortable with the label. In his book, Mr. Collins said that he had ''imparted knowledge'' to Mr. Fischer, but that his ability was something that could not be taught.
        He wrote, ''Geniuses like Beethoven, Leonardo da Vinci, Shakespeare and Fischer come out of the head of Zeus, seem to be genetically programmed, know before instructed.''
      