
        Maxine Postal, the Suffolk County legislative leader who resigned her post this week because of failing health, died Thursday in a hospice in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla., where she also had a home. She was 61 and lived in Amityville, N.Y.
        In announcing her resignation, which took effect a day before her death, Ms. Postal cited her recent diagnosis of Creutzfeldt-Jakob disease, a rapidly spreading brain disorder. Her death was reported yesterday by her press secretary, Kara Hahn.
        One of the highest-ranking elected officials in the county, Ms. Postal was first voted into the county Legislature 15 years ago. A Democrat, she championed equal rights for women, environmental protection, and programs for children, the elderly and the poor.
        She was chosen as presiding officer for a one-year term last year by a coalition of Democrats and Republicans. As such she was in a position to shape the legislative agenda, name committee chairmen and preside at meetings of the 18-member body.
        As her illness progressed in recent months, her duties often fell upon the deputy presiding officer elected alongside her, Joseph Caracappa, a Republican from Selden. The Republican caucus designated him last month to succeed her as presiding officer.
        Born Maxine Levy in Brooklyn on Nov. 24, 1942, Ms. Postal was a 1962 fine-arts graduate of Brooklyn College, where she also received an M.A. in fine arts in 1965. She taught at public junior high and high schools in Brooklyn for six years before opening the Busy Bee Nursery School and Kindergarten there in 1968.
        After moving to Long Island, she owned and directed the Busy Bee nursery in Amityville from 1976 to 1990, when the press of her community work and public service prompted her to sell the business.
        She served as president of the Hauppauge Library Board in the 1970's and was a vice president of the Amityville Board of Education from 1984 to 1988.
        In 1987 she was elected to the County Legislature. She served as minority leader and headed the Health Services Committee, the Human Services Committee and the Senior Citizens Committee.
        In 2002 she was the vice chairwoman of the Finance and Fiscal Services Committee.
        Ms. Postal is survived by two sons, Army Lt. Gregory J. Postal of Silver Spring, Md., and Dr. Eric S. Postal of Albany; a sister, Deborah Gitelman of Orangeburg, N.Y.; and her companion, Elie Mystal of Amityville. Her marriage to Jeffrey L. Postal ended in divorce.
      