
        Naomi Shemer, an Israeli poet and a prolific composer whose popular songs include ''Jerusalem of Gold,'' which became interwoven with the culture of the Jewish state, died on Saturday at a Tel Aviv hospital after a long illness. She was 74.
        Prime Minister Ariel Sharon and President Moshe Katsav were among the thousands of mourners at her funeral on Sunday at Kibbutz Kinneret, the place of her birth.
        Mr. Sharon had begun the weekly cabinet meeting earlier that day by paying tribute to Ms. Shemer, calling her a woman who ''managed, with her beautiful melodies, to connect us to our roots,'' Agence France-Presse reported.
        ''Jerusalem of Gold'' was written just before the 1967 Middle East war, in which Israel seized control of the city from Jordan. The ballad made her famous as it gained the status of an informal second national anthem once Israel had ''reunited'' the ancient city.
        In the song, Ms. Shemer called on the emotions evoked by thoughts of the Old City and Judaism's holiest sites. Making the city whole realized a dream almost two millennia after the destruction of its last Jewish temple.
        Ms. Shemer captured the spirit of that victorious moment when Israel asserted itself by adding another verse after the war to celebrate the event. The song is often heard at public ceremonies and on the radio in Israel.
        Another popular Shemer song was based on the Beatles' ''Let It Be.'' Through it she sought to restore hope in Israelis after the costly war with Egypt and Syria in 1973.
        She complemented her original work with Hebrew adaptations of foreign poetry. After the assassination of Yitzhak Rabin in 1995, she rendered Walt Whitman's ''O Captain! My Captain!'' into Hebrew, set it to music and dedicated it to the slain prime minister.
        Ms. Shemer, whose parents helped found Kibbutz Kinneret, grew up with singalongs. She studied at the Rubin Academy of Music in Jerusalem, and served with an entertainment unit in the Israeli Army. Returning to the kibbutz, she taught rhythm in school and began to write children's songs. Her career broadened after she moved to Tel Aviv in the mid-1950's. Her songs often recalled the landscapes of her childhood, but she could just as easily relate to contemporary Israeli city scenes.
        Teddy Kollek, who was elected mayor of Jerusalem in 1965, commissioned her to write a hymn to the city. It was first heard at the Israel Song Festival in Jerusalem. Then, after the war of 1967, she added a verse that included the lyrics, ''Back to the wells and to the fountains, within the ancient walls.''
        In 1983 she was given the Israel Prize for her contributions to Israeli music. She also held several honorary doctorates, served as head of the Israeli entertainers' union, and was a member of the Hebrew Language Academy.
        Ms. Shemer's first marriage, to Gideon Shemer, ended in divorce. According to the daily newspaper Haaretz, she is survived by her second husband, Mordechai Horowitz; their son, Daniel; a daughter, Lali, from her first marriage; four grandchildren; a brother; and a sister.
      