
        Karol Kennedy Kucher, who teamed up with her brother, Peter Kennedy, to win the gold medal in pairs at the 1950 world figure-skating championships and a silver medal at the 1952 Winter Olympics, died on Friday at a hospital in Seattle. She was 72.
        The cause was pneumonia, her brother said.
        Karol and Peter Kennedy, known as the Kennedy Kids, were the dominant American pair skaters in the years after World War II, winning five consecutive United States championships, from 1948 to 1952.
        The Kennedys became the first American pair to win a world championship when they captured the gold medal at Wembley Stadium in London in 1950.
        Tai Babilonia and Randy Gardner are the only other American pair skaters to have won a world championship, at Vienna in 1979.
        The Kennedys were the second American pair to win Olympic silver when they were runners-up to Ria and Paul Falk of West Germany at the 1952 Oslo Games. Beatrix Loughran and Sherwin Badger, at Lake Placid, N.Y., in 1932, and Kitty and Peter Carruthers, at Sarajevo, Yugoslavia, in 1984, are the only other American pair skaters to have captured Olympic silver. No American pair has won a gold medal at the Olympics.
        The Kennedys also won the 1949 and the 1951 North American Figure Skating Championships.
        They were named to the United States Figure Skating Hall of Fame at Colorado Springs in 1991.
        Karol and Peter Kennedy began skating together at a rink in Olympia, Wash., when she was 8 and he was 12. As Peter Kennedy recalled yesterday in a telephone interview, they were naturals.
        ''We never really had to work at learning to skate,'' he said.
        Their father, Michael, a dentist, helped oversee their training, and their mother, Clarice, designed their costumes.
        Having finished sixth in the 1948 Winter Olympics at St. Moritz, Switzerland, the Kennedys were narrow runners-up to the Falks in the 1952 Oslo Games. A week later, the Kennedys were second to the Falks again, this time at the world championships in Paris.
        The Kennedys retired from competition soon afterward. Karol was married in 1953, settled in Seattle with her husband, Robert Kucher, and operated a clothing store. Peter Kennedy, who lives in Mercer Island, Wash., became a competitive skier and designed skiing equipment.
        In addition to her husband and her brother, Karol Kennedy Kucher is survived by two sons, John, of Seattle, and Charlie, of Hailey, Idaho; four daughters, Kathryn Etherington, of Wenatchee, Wash.; Mary Jane Kucher, of California, and Heidi Pray and Suzanne Sanchez, both of Seattle, and five grandchildren.
        Peter Kennedy attributed much of the team's success to his father having taught them perseverance.
        ''He preached to us, 'You don't give up.''' Kennedy said.
      