
        Paula Danziger, who established herself as a writer of popular fiction for young readers with her first book, ''The Cat Ate My Gymsuit,'' died on Thursday at St. Luke's Hospital in Manhattan. She was 59.
        The cause was complications of a heart attack she suffered on June 9, said Doug Whiteman, president of Penguin Young Readers Group, the publisher of most of her books.
        Her smart-talking fictional voice, making light of family problems large and small, carried through a 30-year career in which she wrote more than 30 books.
        Ms. Danziger was born in Washington and reared in Metuchen, N.J. She earned a bachelor's degree and a master's degree in education from Montclair State College.
        Although she wanted to be a writer, Ms. Danziger began working as a substitute teacher in 1967 and taught at the junior high school level for several years. After being injured in two automobile accidents, she decided not to postpone her ambition any longer and wrote her first book.
        Building on the success of ''Gymsuit,'' Ms. Danziger also became a popular speaker. She decked herself out with rhinestone-trimmed glasses, feather hats and beaded outfits, talked fast and was funny.
        She often said in interviews that her alternative career choice was stand-up comedian, and she was as glamorous to the school audiences she visited as Dame Edna Everage. Moreover, to the delight of her young fans, she could use mirror writing as well as a conventional signature when she autographed their books.
        In 1994, in ''Amber Brown Is Not a Crayon,'' she introduced a deadpan heroine inspired by her niece, Carrie Danziger. The book led to two hugely popular series of Amber Brown adventures, the original for middle school students and a later one for early readers.
        With her friend, Ann M. Martin, the author of ''The Baby Sitters Club'' series, Ms. Danziger also wrote two epistolary novels for slightly older readers, ''P.S. Longer Letter Later'' and ''Snail Mail No More.'' All of Ms. Danziger's books are in print in the United States, and many have been published in 53 countries and 14 languages.
        Her survivors, in addition to her niece, are a brother, Barry Danziger of Califon, N.J., and three nephews.
      