
        Myra Waldo, a writer who filled bookshelves with advice on places to see and their cuisines, died Sunday at her home in Beverly Hills, Calif. She was 88 and formerly lived on the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, her family said.
        Starting in the mid-1950's, Ms. Waldo wrote more than two dozen travel guides and cookbooks, which she periodically updated. Her ''Serve at Once: The Soufflé Cookbook'' of 1954, for instance, was revised as ''The Soufflé Cookbook'' in 1961 and, reissued in 1990, remains in print. A book she wrote in 1955 with the actress Gertrude Berg, ''The Molly Goldberg Cookbook,'' based on Ms. Berg's famous television character, was reissued most recently in 1999.
        Myra Waldo was born in Manhattan and attended Columbia University. In 1937 she married Robert J. Schwartz, a lawyer, who died in 1997. She used her maiden name professionally.
        Ms. Waldo worked on special projects for the Macmillan Publishing Company in the late 1960's. From 1968 to 1972, she was on the air as food and travel editor of WCBS radio, a job that led to her 1971 ''Restaurant Guide to New York City and Vicinity,'' which she continued to revise into the 1980's.
        Her first book, as editor, was ''The Complete Round-the-World Cookbook,'' featuring recipes gathered by Pan American Airways (Doubleday, 1954, revised 1973).
        There followed books about Roman, Northern Italian, Spanish and Asian food, about meals at restaurants that accepted the Diners Club card, and others about barbecues and desserts and cooking with wine. She wrote ''The International Encyclopedia of Cooking'' and ''The Dictionary of International Food and Cooking Terms'' (Macmillan, 1967).
        Ms. Waldo's travel guides to Europe were each updated several times. She later added guides to South America, the South Pacific and Japan. She was a consultant to airlines and hotels.
        Ms. Waldo is survived by her sister, Naomi Waldo Holtzman of Oakland, Calif.
        Correction:  August 4, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on Thursday about Myra Waldo, an author of travel guides and cookbooks, gave an incomplete title for a book she wrote with the actress Gertrude Berg. It was ''The Molly Goldberg Jewish Cookbook,'' not ''The Molly Goldberg Cookbook.''
      