
        Corrine Grad Coleman, a founding member of the Redstockings, a women's liberation group in New York, died on July 4 at her home in Manhattan. She was 77.
        The cause was heart disease, said her daughter, Patricia Coleman.
        Redstockings, a play on bluestockings but with the color of revolution, was an offshoot of New York Radical Women, founded in 1968, whose members included Ms. Coleman. In the same year, New York Radical Women organized the first protest of the Miss America pageant in Atlantic City.
        Redstockings, a radical feminist group founded by Shulamith Firestone and Ellen Willis, first appeared in 1969 at a New York City legislative hearing on abortion law reform, when several women tried to take the microphone from the scheduled speakers: 12 men and a nun.
        Redstockings held its own abortion ''speak out'' soon afterward at the Washington Square Methodist Church, where members used consciousness-raising techniques to testify about abortion in terms of their own experience.
        Ms. Coleman was also one of the leaders of a daylong occupation of the Ladies' Home Journal editorial office by more than 100 feminists in 1970. The women demanded a chance to put out a ''liberated'' issue and the replacement of the editor and publisher, John Mack Carter. The magazine, which had a circulation of 6.9 million, agreed to let the women publish a special section.
        Ms. Coleman, a freelance writer, was one of the editors of the Redstockings Manifesto and an editor of ''Feelings: A Journal of Women's Liberation.'' Her writing was published in ''Feelings'' as well as in ''Daring to Be Bad: Radical Feminism in America, 1967-1975,'' by Alice Echols (University of Minnesota Press, 1989), The Brooklyn Phoenix and The Village Voice.
        Corrine Grad was born on June 30, 1927, in the Bronx. She received a bachelor's and a master's degree from New York University. Her marriage to Joseph K. Coleman ended in divorce in 1977, and he died in 1991.
        In addition to her daughter Patricia, of Manhattan, Ms. Coleman is survived by three other children: Amy and Anthony Coleman, both of Manhattan, and Nathaniel Coleman of Newcastle, England; and two grandchildren.
        Correction:  July 19, 2004, Monday  An obituary of the radical feminist and writer Corinne Grad Coleman on July 11 misstated her connection to the book ''Daring to Be Bad: Radical Feminism in America, 1967-1975,'' by Alice Echols (University of Minnesota Press, 1989). While Ms. Coleman was interviewed and quoted for the book, her own writing does not appear in it.
      