
        Phoebe Brand Carnovsky, an actress and distinguished acting teacher who was a founding member of the influential Group Theater, died on July 3 at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center in Manhattan, her son, Stephen Carnovsky, said. She was 96.
        Phoebe Brand, as she was known professionally, joined Lee Strasberg and others in 1931 to form the Group Theater, a radical company that dealt with social issues confronting the United States during the Depression. It was there that Strasberg advanced the Method approach to acting.
        The Group presented the premieres of many plays by Clifford Odets, the troupe's resident playwright, and Ms. Brand played several roles, including that of Hennie Berger in Mr. Odets's masterpiece, ''Awake and Sing!'' She also starred in ''Golden Boy'' as Anna, the thoughtful sister of the hero, a sensitive boxer. The company disbanded in 1941.
        Ms. Brand's husband, the Shakespearean actor Morris Carnovsky, died in 1992. In addition to her son, Stephen, of Los Angeles, she is survived by a niece, Katy Brand Dilkes of Cortland, N.Y., whom she raised.
        Ms. Brand was born in 1907 in Syracuse and grew up in nearby Ilion, N.Y., where her father was chief mechanical engineer for Remington typewriters.
        Petite and pretty, she got her professional start at 18 when the producer Winthrop Ames hired her to perform in a series of Gilbert and Sullivan revivals.
        ''I played a lot of princesses,'' she would often say of her early career.
        In the 1940's, the Carnovskys moved to Hollywood to work in film. But in 1952, Elia Kazan, a former member of the Group Theater, named them as Communists in the McCarthy hearings, and they were blacklisted. It was at this time that Ms. Brand began to teach acting technique.
        In 1956, John Houseman broke the blacklist and asked Mr. Carnovsky to take part in the American Shakespeare Festival. In the early 60's, with her husband's career as an actor re-established, Ms. Brand helped found Theater in the Street, a troupe that toured neglected city neighborhoods and gave free outdoor performances of classic plays.
        She made her film debut in 1994, at the age of 86, playing Marina in Louis Malle's ''Vanya on 42nd Street.''
        Ms. Brand continued to teach acting technique until the end of her life. She held her last class a week before her death. The subject was her favorite: the plays of William Shakespeare.
        Correction:  July 17, 2004, Saturday  An obituary of the actress and acting teacher Phoebe Brand Carnovsky on Monday misstated the forum in which the director Elia Kazan named her and her husband, the actor Morris Carnovsky, as Communists. It was the House Committee on Un-American Activities, not hearings conducted by Senator Joseph R. McCarthy.
      