
        Isabel Sanford, the Emmy Award-winning actress who portrayed Louise Jefferson, the stoically beleaguered better half to Sherman Hemsley's reactionary in ''All in the Family'' and ''The Jeffersons,'' died on Friday at a Los Angeles hospital. She was 86 and lived in Los Angeles.
        Ms. Sanford's health had declined since she had preventive surgery on a carotid artery 10 months ago, said her longtime manager and publicist, Brad Lemack.
        At an age when many actresses would have called it quits, Ms. Sanford made her feature film debut in ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner?'' in 1967 after having caught the eye of its director, Stanley Kramer, in the 1965 Broadway production of James Baldwin's ''Amen Corner.''
        As Tillie, the Drayton family's staunchly loyal housekeeper, Ms. Sanford displayed a defiant acceptance of position and disdain for interracial marriage that stood in stark contrast to the presumed liberalism of the characters portrayed by Katharine Hepburn and Spencer Tracy.
        The portrayal impressed show-business insiders, including the television producer Norman Lear, who in 1971 hired Ms. Sanford to play a Queens neighbor to the confrontational Archie Bunker, and an eventual friend to his wife, Edith, in ''All in the Family.'' In 1975, Mr. Lear moved the Jeffersons, by now the owners of a successful dry-cleaning franchise, and their son, Lionel, to a ''deluxe apartment in the sky'' on the East Side of Manhattan.
        In 1981, Ms. Sanford became the first black woman to win an Emmy for best actress in a comedy series. The show was canceled in 1985.
        In an ''Intimate Portrait'' on Lifetime Television last year, Ms. Sanford called herself a survivor: literally, as the youngest of seven children and the only one to survive infancy, and figuratively, as she came to rely on her comedic skills for respite from her poverty-stricken childhood in Harlem. As a teenager, she dreamed of becoming an actress, earning raves at an amateur night at the Apollo Theater before her mother's death quashed her aspirations, leaving Ms. Sanford to take over her job as a cleaning woman.
        Still, amid a troubled marriage and the birth of three children, Ms. Sanford joined the Star Players, later the American Negro Theater, in the 1930's and made her stage debut in the company's 1946 production of ''On Strivers Row.''
        In 1960, she moved with her children to Los Angeles, where the actress Tallulah Bankhead almost immediately asked her to join the national production of ''Here Today'' -- a job that Ms. Sanford said resulted in her first encounter with discrimination, as she found herself relegated to separate sleeping and dining quarters from her white colleagues.
        Ms. Sanford is survived by two sons and a daughter, seven grandchildren and six great-grandchildren.
      