
        Betty Oliphant, a British-born teacher who as director of the National Ballet School in Toronto became a leading figure in ballet, died on Monday in St. Catharines, Ontario, near Toronto. She was 85.
        Her death was announced by a school spokeswoman, Pamela Rice.
        She was a ballet mistress of the National Ballet of Canada and director of the National Ballet School until her retirement in 1989. She was known for stressing technical mastery, not for the sake of virtuosity alone but as a means of achieving freedom of expression.
        Under Ms. Oliphant's guidance, the National Ballet School became an internationally respected institution. In 1967, Erik Bruhn, the great Danish dancer, asked Ms. Oliphant to reorganize the Royal Swedish Ballet School, and she helped reorganize the Royal Danish Ballet School in 1978.
        She was known as ''Miss O'' to several generations of students, and she titled her 1996 autobiography ''Miss O: My Life in Dance.'' Many leading Canadian dancers and choreographers studied with her over the years, including Frank Augustyn, Veronica Tennant, Karen Kain, Rex Harrington, John Alleyne and James Kudelka, the National Ballet's artistic director.
        Ms. Oliphant studied dance in London, moved to Canada in 1947 and opened a school in Toronto. After meeting Celia Franca, the British-born founder of the National Ballet of Canada, she was appointed its ballet mistress in 1952 and served as its associate artistic director from 1969 to '75. She and Ms. Franca founded the National Ballet School in 1959, and Ms. Oliphant directed it until her retirement. In 1988 the National Ballet School named its theater the Betty Oliphant Theater.
        Although Ms. Oliphant and Ms. Franca never met in London, both had similar dance backgrounds. Both studied with the great English choreographer Antony Tudor and with Marie Rambert, one of the pioneers of modern British ballet. Ms. Oliphant also studied with Tamara Karsavina and Laurent Novikoff.
        Ms. Oliphant is survived by two daughters, Gail Sadova and Carol Roach, a grandson and a great-granddaughter.
      