
        Bella Lewitzky, a modern-dance pioneer and an outspoken champion of artistic freedom, died on Friday in an assisted-care center in Pasadena, Calif. She was 88.
        She had a heart attack after a stroke, said Marjorie Perces, a friend.
        A fearless and tireless dancer, choreographer, teacher and cultural crusader, Ms. Lewitzky struggled to make modern dance a major art form in California and to make Los Angeles an important dance center. She campaigned passionately for government support of the arts. Yet she was undaunted by attempts to limit artistic freedom.
        Ms. Lewitzky, who was politically active all her life, was called before a hearing of the House Committee on Un-American Activities in 1951 and asked to identify acquaintances who might have been members of the Communist Party. She declined to supply names, giving the punning reply, ''I am a dancer, not a singer.''
        Decades later, when the National Endowment for the Arts started requiring grant recipients to sign an anti-obscenity pledge, Ms. Lewitzky and her company filed a lawsuit, and in January 1991, a federal judge found the pledge unconstitutional.
        Ms. Lewitzky was born in Llano del Rio, a utopian socialist community in the Mojave Desert. Her family later settled in San Bernardino, where Ms. Lewitzky received dance and piano lessons. Dance especially fascinated her, and her love of the art grew during the 1930's, when she attended classes taught by Lester Horton, the Los Angeles area's most prominent modern dancer at that time.
        She soon established herself as a charismatic performer with the Horton Dance Group, starring in highly dramatic works by Mr. Horton like ''Salome'' (1937) and ''The Beloved'' (1948), in which she portrayed a wife accused of adultery by her puritanical husband.
        Other company members included Rudi Gernreich, who became an innovative fashion designer and a stage designer for some of Ms. Lewitzky's later productions, and Newell Reynolds, Ms. Lewitzky's husband, who later became an architect.
        Ms. Lewitzky left Horton in 1950 to pursue an independent career. She developed a considerable reputation as a dynamic teacher, holding posts at the University of Southern California, the Idyllwild arts school (accepting an appointment there without signing its loyalty oath) and the California Institute of the Arts. She also served as a guest teacher around the world.
        She directed the Los Angeles-based Bella Lewitzky Dance Company from 1966 to 1997. It first traveled to the East Coast in 1971, appearing at the American Dance Festival in New London, Conn., and the Brooklyn Academy of Music.
        As a performer, Ms. Lewitzky was a fiery stage personality. Anna Kisselgoff described her in The New York Times in 1971 as ''an extraordinary artist with an astounding mastery of technique.''
        But as the creator of works like ''On the Brink of Time'' (1969), ''Kinaesonata'' (1970) and ''Greening'' (1976), she favored a cooler choreographic style.
        In directing her group, Ms. Lewitzky was deeply concerned about her dancers' welfare. Her company members were always fully insured, and she paid them annual salaries even when they did not perform every month of a year.
        Ms. Lewitzky served on the dance panel of the National Endowment for the Arts and on the California Arts Council and was the recipient of the Dance Magazine Award, a Guggenheim Fellowship, the Tiffany Award, the National Medal of Arts, the Capezio Award and, in 1989, the first California Governor's Award for Lifetime Achievement.
        Ms. Lewitzky and her husband lived in New Mexico in the 1990's but returned to Southern California in 2001. In addition to her husband, she is survived by her daughter, Nora Reynolds, a dancer, and two grandsons, Keenan and Ross McCune.
      