
        Anne Gorsuch Burford, a Colorado conservative who was chosen by President Ronald Reagan as his top environmental regulator only to resign under Congressional fire 22 months later, died Sunday in Aurora, Colo. She was 62.
        The cause was cancer, her daughter, Stephanie Gorsuch of Denver, said.
        In appointing her administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, President Reagan made Ms. Burford a leader in his effort to bring economic discipline to environmental cleanup and to give the states greater enforcement powers on matters like clean air and water, policies she had earlier advocated on the state level. Critics contended that the policies weakened federal environmental enforcement to please polluting industries.
        This fundamental difference in perspective reached a climax in a battle between a subcommittee of the House of Representatives, which demanded thousands of pages of documents relating to toxic waste cleanup, and Ms. Burford, who refused to hand them over. She said she would go to jail rather than surrender them to Congress.
        Eventually, the White House gave up its claim of executive privilege to keep the documents secret, and Ms. Burford resigned on March 9, 1983.
        In her tenure as the second-ranking woman in the Reagan administration, after the United Nations Ambassador Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, Ms. Burford showed sharp intelligence, as well as a taste for confrontation with environmental groups.
        Environmentalists like Gaylord Nelson, chairman of the Wilderness Society, accused her of ''a wholesale dismantling'' of environmental advances, but Ms. Burford insisted that she was bringing cost-effective market forces to the regulation of pollution.
        Anne Irene McGill was born on April 21, 1942, in Casper, Wyo. Her father, a surgeon, moved the family to Denver when she was an infant.
        She earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Colorado in two years and finished law school there at 20, then became the youngest woman admitted to the Colorado bar. She used a Fulbright scholarship to study criminal law in India.
        She worked for a bank and then as an assistant district attorney for Jefferson County, Colo., and as deputy district attorney for the City of Denver. After working at two state regulatory agencies, she became a lawyer for Mountain Bell Telephone.
        In 1976, she was elected to the first of two terms in the Colorado House of Representatives, where she was a member of a group that called itself the Crazies for its members' passionate devotion to states' rights and opposition to federal energy and environmental policies. She was named outstanding freshman legislator and worked on legislation concerning hazardous wastes and vehicle emissions.
        In 1964, she married David Gorsuch, whom she divorced in 1982. The next year, she married Robert Burford, a rancher who was then head of the Interior Department's Bureau of Land Management. He died in 1993, while divorce proceedings were in progress. Ms. Burford returned to private law practice after her resignation.
        In addition to her daughter, she is survived by her sons, J.J. Gorsuch of Denver and Neil Gorsuch of Vienna, Va.; her mother, Dorothy McGill of Denver; her sisters, Mary Edwards of Severna Park, Md., Theresa Peace of Lincoln, Neb., Dorothy McGill of El Paso, Tex., Veronica Urban of Santa Cruz, Calif., and Rosie Binger of Littleton, Colo.; a brother, Joe McGill of Plano, Tex.; and four grandchildren.
        James Watt, who became Mr. Reagan's interior secretary, and James Coors, the Colorado brewing and energy magnate, sponsored Ms. Burford for the E.P.A. post. Her confirmation was held up for months as senators debated her qualifications and questioned her agenda, but the outcome was never in serious doubt.
        When her nomination hearing was finally held on May 1, 1981, she began by speaking lyrically of her own environment.
        ''As a long-term Coloradan,'' she said, ''I come before you with a deep appreciation of the unique beauties which we enjoy in our environment -- the majesty and grandeur of the Rocky Mountains, the openness and sense of space of our eastern plains.''
      