
        Ellen Auerbach, a photographer best known for innovative portraits and advertising images made during the Weimar Republic in Germany in the early 1930's, died on Friday at New York Weill Cornell Center , according to a friend, the artist Christine Graf. She was 98 and lived in Manhattan.
        While in her twenties, together with her colleague and friend Grete Stern, the then Ellen Rosenberg formed a commercial photography studio in Berlin named Ringl & Pit. It was during the days of the liberal Weimar Republic, and they were intent on cracking what had been the male-dominated field of photography.
        From 1929 to 1933 the two women collaboratively produced advertising, still lifes and studio portraits that reflected the energetic, experimental style of their mentor, Walter Peterhans, a professional photographer who taught at the legendary Bauhaus design school. Their pictures were part of a wave of innovation in European design and photography that today is referred to as the New Vision, and that temporarily erased distinctions between commercial and artistic motives in photography.
        The partnership of Mrs. Auerbach and Ms. Stern produced offbeat, often humorous photographs, frequently of women, which were influenced by both Constructivism and Surrealism. One of their best-known advertising pictures, for a hair product called Pétrole Hahn, shows a lifelike female mannequin holding a bottle of lotion; only on close inspection is it clear that the hand in question belongs to a real woman. In their portraiture, they sometimes depicted their sitters with eyes closed or half shut, as if dreaming. In addition, they experimented with mirrors and with unusual camera angles in an attempt to disrupt familiar perspectives.
        Relatively little of Ringl & Pit's work has survived, but it was reproduced and exhibited widely at the time it was made. In 1933, Mrs. Auerbach and Ms. Stern received first prize at an international exhibition in Brussels for ''Komol,'' an advertising still life constructed like a collage out of layers of paper, wire screen and artificial curls of hair.
        Despite their success, the photographers closed their studio the same year, shortly after Hitler came to power. Weimar was finished. Ms. Stern and Mrs. Auerbach, who were both Jews, were among the fortunate few who realized what was happening. (''In a country with concentration camps, you cannot live,'' Mrs. Auerbach remembered, and they quickly left Germany.)
        Mrs. Auerbach emigrated to Tel Aviv, London and, in 1937, the United States. Ms. Stern left for London and later Argentina.
        Mrs. Auerbach continued her career as a photographer through the 1950's, although she gave up the rigors of the studio for more anecdotal and lyrical forms of documentation. She photographed the artists Fairfield Porter and Willem de Kooning with a casual directness in 1944, and in the mid-1950's accompanied Eliot Porter on a trip to photograph Mexican churches. But her interests were increasingly focused on children and the psychology of childhood development. In 1965 she began working as an educational therapist at the Educational Institute for Learning and Research in New York, where for 19 years she taught children with learning disabilities.
        Ellen Auerbach was born Ellen Rosenberg in Karlsruhe, Germany, on May 20, 1906. After high school she decided to become an artist and studied sculpture for three years at an art school in Karlsruhe and, in 1928, at the Academy of Art in Stuttgart. While studying there her uncle gave her a camera, and it led her to abandon sculpture for photography, primarily because she thought she might earn a living. She sought out Walter Peterhans in Berlin, where he maintained a successful commercial studio, and asked to be his student. He agreed, and for these lessons Mrs. Auerbach was joined by another private student, Grete Stern.
        The two young women quickly became fast friends. When Mr. Peterhans decided to shut down his Berlin studio and move to Dessau, they arranged to take over the premises and to operate as Ringl & Pit. According to the photographers, the studio name was simply a combination of their childhood nicknames: Grete Stern was called Ringl and Ellen Rosenberg was called Pit. But in addition, the name had the advantage of being ambiguous in terms of gender and ethnicity.
        When the rise of Hitler forced the women to dissolve their partnership in 1933, Ms. Stern moved to London and opened a studio there. Mrs. Auerbach and her future husband, Walter Auerbach, a stage designer and photographer, moved to Tel Aviv, then part of Palestine, and opened a studio specializing in portraits of children. The Auerbachs were divorced in 1945. Ms. Stern died in 1999, in Buenos Aires, at age 94. Mrs. Auerbach has no immediate survivors.
        Interest in her early work from the Ringl & Pit studio was kindled in this country in the 1980's, when museum curators and private collectors began to research European Modernism of the 1920's and 1930's. The San Francisco Museum of Modern Art added two Ringl & Pit prints to its collection in 1983 and in 1987 reproduced them in the book, ''Photography: A Facet of Modernism.''
      