
        Lilian Moore, a writer of books for children, a poet and an editor who helped make children's books more affordable and worked to combat racial stereotypes in children's literature, died July 20 at her home in Seattle, said her son, Jonathan. She was 95.
        A longtime resident of New York City, Ms. Moore was an editor at Scholastic when she suggested in 1957 that the company make its books more accessible by offering low-cost paperbacks through the mail; there were few paperback books for children at the time. She became the first editor of Scholastic's Arrow Book Club, a series of inexpensive editions for pupils in the fourth through sixth grades, and the Lucky Book Club, a similar program for younger readers.
        Seven years later, after her stepson, Richard Moore, returned from a summer of civil-rights work in Mississippi and told her that black children there had no books about their own experience, she helped establish the Council on Interracial Books for Children. The council works to discover and encourage minority writers and to confront stereotypes in books for children.
        Ms. Moore was also a prolific writer of children's books, including ''Old Rosie, the Horse Nobody Understood'' (1960).
        Her ''Little Raccoon'' series, which is still in print in the United States, was translated into Russian and has sold more than 375,000 copies in Russia.
        Ms. Moore began writing poetry for children in the late 1960's. In books including ''I Thought I Heard the City'' and ''Sam's Place: Poems From the Country,'' she explored her own childhood memories and wrote about the joy of finding beauty in familiar and unexpected places.
        Born Lilian Levenson in the Bronx in 1909 to Yiddish-speaking immigrants from Russia, she graduated from Hunter College in 1930. Unable to find a permanent teaching job during the Depression, she joined the Unemployed Teachers Council and edited its newspaper, The Unemployed Teacher.
        As a part-time teacher working with truants, she discovered her ability to help children learn to read. She eventually became a reading specialist in the New York City school system and began writing for children soon after, publishing her first stories in Humpty Dumpty's Magazine.
        She is survived by a son from her second marriage, Jonathan Moore of Seattle, and a brother, Milton Levenson of Manhattan. Her third husband, Sam Reavin, died in the early 1990's. Ms. Moore's final books, ''Mural on Second Avenue, and Other City Poems'' and ''Scary Poems,'' will be published posthumously.
        Correction:  August 5, 2004, Thursday  An obituary on Monday about Lilian Moore, a children's author, misstated her role with Scholastic's Lucky Book Club for younger pupils. She was not its first editor; that was the writer and poet Beatrice Schenck de Regniers. (Ms. Moore was, however, the first editor of the company's Arrow Book Club, for pupils in Grades 4 to 6.)
      