
        Helen K. Copley, former publisher of The San Diego Union-Tribune and its predecessors and a prominent philanthropist, died on Wednesday at her home in La Jolla, Calif. She was 81.
        The cause was pneumonia, a spokesman for the newspaper said.
        Mrs. Copley began working at the Union Tribune Publishing Company as a secretary in 1953. She became the publisher in 1973, taking the position after the death of her husband, James S. Copley. She retired in 2001.
        Until 1992, the company's two flagship newspapers, The San Diego Union and its afternoon sister paper, The San Diego Tribune, were the major competing papers in the city. Responding to declining circulation numbers and a drop in advertising, Mrs. Copley merged the two papers into The Union-Tribune, a morning paper. It is now the third-largest newspaper in California, with a daily circulation of 355,000. The Sunday circulation is 445,000.
        As the population grew in San Diego, Mrs. Copley dealt with growing competition from smaller papers and a regional edition of The Los Angeles Times. In her first years as publisher, she sought to meet with all 1,500 employees of the company in small groups in an effort to improve morale. Under her tenure, The San Diego Tribune won two Pulitzer prizes.
        Copley Press Inc., which owns the Union-Tribune Publishing Company, publishes eight other daily newspapers, in California, Illinois and Ohio. Keeping Copley Press in family hands was a priority for Mrs. Copley, and she turned it over to her son, David C. Copley, when she retired.
        Margaret Helen Kinney was born in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, on Nov. 28, 1922. After a stint in the Waves in the 1940's and a brief marriage, she moved to San Diego with her mother in 1951.
        In 1953, Mrs. Copley answered an ad for a job at the Union Tribune Publishing Company. She began working as a secretary for Mr. Copley, who had become chief executive of Copley Press after the death of his father, Ira C. Copley, who started the company in 1905. In 1965, she married Mr. Copley; eight years later, he died of brain cancer.
        Mrs. Copley, whose worth was estimated to be $960 million by Forbes magazine last year, gave millions to the San Diego Symphony and the San Diego Museum of Contemporary Art. She also underwrote the construction of a library at the University of San Diego.
        In addition to her son, David, of La Jolla, Mrs. Copley's survivors include a sister, Mary Frances Davison of Santa Maria, Calif.; a brother, Frank E. Kinney of Cedar Rapids; and two stepchildren from her husband's first marriage, Michael Copley of San Diego and Janice Obre of New York.
      