
        Gloria Emerson, a journalist and author who wrote with angry dignity about the effects of war on Americans, Vietnamese and Palestinians, was found dead by friends and the police yesterday morning in her apartment in Manhattan. She was 75 and left no immediate survivors.
        The medical examiner's office said that it had not ruled on the cause of death. Her physician, Karen Brudney, said Ms. Emerson had been suffering from Parkinson's disease, which she feared would leave her unable to write, and she left many notes at the apartment indicating that she had taken her own life.
        Both as a foreign correspondent for The New York Times in Vietnam in the early 1970's and later as a writer of nonfiction books and a novel, Ms. Emerson wrote passionately about ordinary people and soldiers ground up by the machinery of war in places like Vietnam, Gaza and Algeria.
        War as she wrote about it was not ennobling but debasing, a misery that inflicted physical suffering and psychic damage on civilians, children, and soldiers on both sides. Her literary model was Graham Greene, whose dark portrayal of the early days of the American war in Vietnam influenced her articles and her style. ''Loving Graham Greene'' was the title she gave her novel, published by Random House in 2000.
        She was working in the London bureau of The Times in 1969 when, as she wrote in an obituary she left with a covering note that was dated Tuesday, ''Ms. Emerson requested that she be sent to Vietnam because she had been in that country in 1956 and wanted to go back to write about the Vietnamese people and the immense unhappy changes in their lives, not a subject widely covered by the huge press corps who were preoccupied with covering the military story.''
        Her articles from Vietnam, many reported with the help of Nguyen Ngoc Luong, her interpreter, brought alive for many readers people who had been an abstraction, the Vietnamese whose ''hearts and minds'' the United States went to war to win, but lost to communist adversaries who prevailed despite millions of casualties.
        One of her articles after the unsuccessful South Vietnamese attempt to cut off North Vietnamese supply lines in Laos in 1971 reported how Sergeant Co, an infantry platoon leader, clung to the skids of an American helicopter to get out alive. '''Each helicopter could have been the last one, so what choice was there for me?' he asked. 'Only the madmen would stay and politely wait for the next helicopter.'''
        Her literary voice was always gravely serious. In person, she was well dressed, precise in speech and eccentrically funny.
        She was constantly giving money to veterans, refugees and street beggars. She could be possessive and domineering, especially toward the photographers whose work she thought would outlast her articles published with them; the words she compared to ice cubes that melted in the sun.
        As Ms. Emerson put it in her own obituary: ''Her dispatches from Vietnam won a George Polk Award for excellence in foreign reporting, and, later, a Matrix Award from New York Women in Communications. Her nonfiction book on the war, 'Winners & Losers' (Random House, 1977), won a National Book Award in 1978 but she described it as 'too huge and somewhat messy.' Its subject was the effects of the conflict on some Americans, or 'an absence of the effect,' as she once said.''
        Typical of ''Winners & Losers'' were lines like these, about Joseph (Teddy) Humber Jr., who lost both his legs in a mine explosion in Vietnam in 1972 and came home to his family in Westboro, Mass. ''Teddy did not seem to always know what the others were saying,'' she wrote. ''He seemed busy with something else; perhaps it was pain. He sat at the table without moving, often without hearing.''
        Another book in 1985, ''Some American Men,'' published by Simon & Schuster, ranged further into the souls of her countrymen and their afflictions in sports and love as well as in war. ''Gaza, a Year in the Intifada,'' about a year she spent with Palestinians in what she called ''an occupied land,'' was published by The Atlantic Monthly Press in 1991.
        ''Made to feel inferior, treated with contempt and cruelty, the Gazans struggled to transcend their own feelings of helplessness,'' she wrote then.
        ''The book provoked hostility among friends, and others felt it was anti-Israel, but Ms. Emerson insisted this was not the reason for writing it,'' she explained later, in the obituary she left behind. ''She hoped to provide a primer for those who felt the situation in the Middle East was too complicated or too controversial to understand.''
        Born in New York City to William B. Emerson and Ruth Shaw Emerson in 1929, she began her career in The Times's women's news department in 1957, describing herself on her application as a widow, giving her married name as Znamiecki.
        ''I applied for a job at The New York Times many years ago, and felt correctly that my life depended on it,'' she explained in a note written just before her death. ''I didn't go to college, I ran away from an alcoholic wretched home and went to work on a hotel giveaway magazine.'' She continued, ''Getting a job on the women's page was a gift from heaven although I hated writing about shoes and clothes, all under the eye of the advertising department who measured editorial mention of retailers. You cannot imagine what it was like in those days.''
        She left the paper in 1960 to live in Brussels with Charles A. Brofferio, whom she described as ''an ill-suited husband'' she divorced a year later.
        The Times hired her back as a reporter in Paris in 1964 ''on the understanding that I would cover the haute couture collections twice a year,'' she explained. Moving to the paper's London bureau in late 1968, she made her way to Belfast to write some articles about the conflict in Northern Ireland, and in 1970, as she put it, ''I was allowed to go to Vietnam because the war was supposed to be over so it didn't matter if a female was sent. Et voilà!''
      