
        Virginia Grey, who made her film debut in 1927 at the age of 10 as Little Eva in ''Uncle Tom's Cabin'' and acted almost continuously in movies and television for the next five decades, died on July 31 in Los Angeles. She was 87.
        Her death was announced by Jennifer Fagen of the public affairs department of the Motion Picture and Television Fund; she had lived at its retirement home for the last two years. Although never a box office star, Miss Grey was as indomitable as she was versatile, acting in more than 100 films and 40 television shows -- musicals, comedies, adventure films, westerns and romantic dramas. Pretty and pert, she was often a supporting player, cast as the second lead in movies dominated by Joan Crawford, Betty Grable, Susan Hayward and even the Marx Brothers (''The Big Store'' in 1941). In 1942 she was in ''Tarzan's New York Adventure'' with Johnny Weissmuller and Maureen O'Sullivan.
        In many ways, her life paralleled the history of Hollywood's film studios, first as a contract player with Metro Goldwyn Mayer, later at 20th Century Fox and at Universal under the guidance of the producer Ross Hunter.
        Ann Rutherford, who acted with her in several pictures (including ''Whistling in the Dark'' with Red Skelton and ''The Hardys Ride High'' with Mickey Rooney), remembered her as ''a nifty lady.'' ''She was blond and lovely,'' she recalled. ''The camera adored her. There was not a bad angle to her face.''
        The key to her success, Ms. Rutherford said, was that she was so flexible: ''She could play the girl next door or somebody's other woman. And that was what kept her working.''
        Ms. Grey was born in Los Angeles and nurtured in the film industry. Her father, Ray Grey, acted in Mack Sennett's Keystone comedies and later worked as an assistant director. The Grey home was frequently visited by Hollywood hopefuls, and Ms. Grey recalled that one of her babysitters was a Sennett actress, Gloria Swanson.
        After Mr. Grey died, his wife became a film editor at Universal. When she heard that the studio was casting ''Uncle Tom's Cabin,'' she encouraged Virginia to audition -- and she won the role.
        The next year she had small roles in three more movies, then stopped acting for several years to finish her education. But from 1931 onward, she was busily at work with Mary Pickford, Busby Berkeley (''Dames'' and ''Gold Diggers of 1935'') and Wallace Beery, among others. Occasionally, she played the leading female role in MGM's B-pictures.
        In 1939, she appeared in the ''Les Blondes'' chorus in ''Idiot's Delight,'' starring Clark Gable.
        Ms. Grey, who was involved romantically with Gable, never married. She is survived by her sister, Lorraine Grey Heindorf, two nieces and two nephews.
        After her stint at MGM, she worked in ''Stage Door Canteen,'' ''Sweet Rosie O'Grady'' (with Betty Grable), Stanley Kramer's ''So This Is New York,'' ''The Bullfighter and the Lady'' and many others. In 1955, Ross Hunter cast her in ''All That Heaven Allows'' (with Jane Wyman and Rock Hudson), followed by ''The Restless Years'' and ''Portrait in Black.'' During the 1950's and 1960's she found renewed life on television (''Bonanza,'' ''Burke's Law,'' ''Marcus Welby, M.D.''). Among her later films were ''Love Has Many Faces'' (with Lana Turner), ''Madame X'' and in 1970 ''Airport.''
        Ms. Grey allowed herself to mature onscreen, accepting the character roles that prolonged her career.
        And about her career, she said, pragmatically, ''I consider myself a professional who acts -- not to express my soul or elevate the cinema, but to entertain and get paid for it.''
      