
        Susan Mary Alsop, who proclaimed that she saw ''no future in being an ordinary person'' and became a celebrated political hostess and later an author, died on Wednesday at her home in the Georgetown neighborhood of Washington. She was 86.
        The cause was complications of pneumonia, Anne Milliken, her daughter, said.
        At 1:46 a.m. on Jan. 21, 1961, John F. Kennedy, after attending his five inaugural balls, showed up, supposedly unannounced, at the doorstep of the Georgetown house then belonging to Mrs. Alsop and her husband, Joseph, the political columnist. Mr. Kennedy stayed 90 minutes and enjoyed some soup and Champagne.
        For the next few years, Mrs. Alsop said, she felt she had to have her hair done all the time, ''just in case I'd be asked to the White House.''
        The glitter of Mrs. Alsop's social whirl sometimes masked the serious business it facilitated. During the Cuban missile crisis in October 1962, President Kennedy dined at her house with two Soviet experts, the diplomat Charles Bohlen and the philosopher Isaiah Berlin, whose insights helped to inform his judgments in his showdown with Moscow.
        Mrs. Alsop was a direct descendant of John Jay, the first chief justice of the United States, and Mr. Alsop called the couple's crowd ''the ever-diminishing group of survivors of the WASP ascendancy.''
        Her life sparkled with acquaintances like Churchill and Garbo, and the great Paris designers, including Christian Dior, gave her their latest couture when she was a slim Parisian socialite. As a teenager, she was thrilled to be invited to tea with Edith Wharton, only to find her boring.
        At 56, Mrs. Alsop began a writing career, specializing in popular history. One of her four books, ''The Congress Dances: Vienna 1814-1815,'' captured enough spice from that epochal meeting of Europe's leaders that several reviewers said it gave new meaning to affairs of state.
        ''It is as if Alsop had attended the festivities herself, and then, returning at dawn, recounted each and every detail so as not to lose a crumb,'' Prince Michael of Greece wrote in a review in The Washington Post.
        Susan Mary Jay, the daughter of a diplomat, was born in Rome on June 19, 1918, and grew up in South America, Europe, Washington and New York. She graduated from the Foxcraft School and attended Barnard College.
        In 1939, she began working at Vogue as a receptionist, writer and model. She married William S. Patten, who, like her father, was a diplomat. In 1941, they moved to Washington. Her husband's friend Franklin Roosevelt Jr. invited them to supper with his parents at the White House. She said the president shook dry martinis, ''which I adored,'' and served fresh caviar sent by Stalin.
        The Pattens then lived in Paris, socializing with people like the Rothschilds, Cecil Beaton and Ho Chi Minh. Mr. Patten died in 1960, and the next year, she married Mr. Alsop, who had been Mr. Patten's roommate at Harvard. She and Mr. Alsop were divorced in 1978, but remained friends and played host at each other's parties. He died in 1989.
        Mrs. Alsop is survived by her daughter, who lives in Salt Lake City; her son, Bill Patten, of Worcester, Mass.; seven grandchildren; and a great-grandson.
        Lucy Moorhead in her 1979 book, ''Entertaining in Washington,'' called Mrs. Alsop ''glue,'' because she listened intently to loquacious bigwigs, often a key to a good dinner party.
        Mrs. Alsop herself suggested that successful Washington get-togethers involve a chimerical brew of power, showmanship and timing.''If you're fortunate enough to get the secretary of state and the head of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee on the night of an international crisis ,'' she mused in an interview with The Post in 1987. ''It sounds ghoulish, but it's something you want to have.''
      