
        Dr. Gertie F. Marx, a New York anesthesiologist who helped advance the use of modern epidural injections that ease women's pain during childbirth, died on Sunday at the Schervier Nursing Care Center in the Bronx, according to Dr. Jill M. Rabin, a friend and colleague. Dr. Marx was 91.
        At a time when anesthesia was reserved for complicated deliveries and Caesarean sections, Dr. Marx became an early and vigorous advocate of what became known as the epidural and helped show that it was safe and effective. The procedure places a catheter next to a patient's spine, allowing a sedative to block the sensation of pain without paralyzing the birth canal.
        Dr. Marx worked at Beth Israel Hospital for more than a decade before joining the Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University in 1955. For the next four decades, she continued her clinical practice and research at Einstein. She developed an epidural needle that bears her name and became the founding editor of Obstetric Anesthesia Digest, the original publication in the field.
        Before Dr. Marx, a doctor might or might not have given sedation or pain relief in childbirth, said Dr. Paul L. Goldiner, chairman of the anesthesiology department at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in Manhattan. ''She single-handedly pushed the development of obstetric anesthesiology as a specialty.''
        Gertie Florentine Marx was born in Frankfurt and left Germany in the 1930's, after the Nazi government began to deny Jews entrance to universities. She received her medical degree from the University of Bern, in Switzerland, in 1937, before immigrating to the United States.
        Dr. Marx later married Eric Reiss, a radiological technician whom she had met in Germany, said Dr. Goldiner. Mr. Reiss died in the 1960's, and the couple had no children.
        In 1993, Dr. Marx was awarded a College Medal from the Royal College of Anaesthetists, in a presentation made by Queen Elizabeth II. She was a fellow of the American College of Anesthesiologists and an associate fellow of the American College of Obstetrics and Gynecology. She received a distinguished service award from the American Society of Anesthesiologists.
        Dr. Marx became a professor emerita at Einstein in 1995, and spent most of her time at home in Southbury, Conn., before recently moving to an assisted-living facility there.
        She is survived by a cousin, Dr. Ronald Simon of New York, and by her close friend and former student, Dr. Rabin, also of New York.
      