
        Françoise Sagan, the rebellious French writer who achieved fame as a teenager with her first novel, ''Bonjour Tristesse,'' a precocious tale of sexual disillusionment, but whose international reputation dimmed as literary tastes changed, died yesterday in Honfleur, in northern France. She was 69.
        The cause was a blood clot in a lung, friends of her family told Agence France-Presse. She had been in poor health for several years.
        Ms. Sagan had an enormous international success with ''Bonjour Tristesse,'' about an amoral teenager who sets out to keep her philandering widowed father from marrying again. The novel was originally published in France in 1954. The following year an English translation reached No. 1 on the New York Times best-seller list. Ms. Sagan was only 19, making her the youngest author to achieve that feat at the time.
        By early 1958, the book had sold 810,000 copies in France and more than a million in the United States and had been translated into 20 languages.
        Serge Gavronsky, a professor of French literature at Barnard College, said in a 1995 interview that Ms. Sagan's early novels expressed the rebelliousness and cynicism of many of her peers in the French bourgeoisie. Those books, he said, ''were perfectly in accord with a moment of time'' -- the mid-1950's -- and ''well connected'' with France's literary past.
        John Updike, writing in The New Yorker 20 years after ''Bonjour Tristesse'' appeared, praised ''its sparkling sea and secluding woods, its animal quickness, its academically efficient plot, its heroes and heroines given the perfection of Racine personae by the young author's innocent belief in glamour.''
        Later works by Ms. Sagan appeared repeatedly on best-seller lists in France, and she went on to write more than a score of books, as well as plays, film scripts, short stories and song lyrics. Some of her novels were turned into movies -- ''Bonjour Tristesse'' and ''A Certain Smile'' in 1958 -- and she directed the 1977 French film ''Les Fougères Bleues.''
        ''Les Auteurs de la Littérature Française,'' a standard French work for students, described Ms. Sagan's terrain as somewhat limited: ''a worldly, rich, idle, luxurious universe; some characters who live without material cares, who drink, who love themselves without conviction. A taste for the unfinished, for biting analysis, for narcissism. Sagan has forever been recounting the rotting of a generation.''
        Roger Shattuck, a cultural historian and professor of French at Boston University, said in 1995 that Ms. Sagan's reputation ''had declined considerably after her first half-dozen novels'' because she wrote too much and repeated herself and because of changing literary fashions.
        Ms. Sagan's view of herself and her life was sometimes harsh. In ''Et Toute Ma Sympathie,'' a 1993 book made up largely of reflections, she included a poem in which she called herself ''this bizarre woman, childish and messed up.''
        In the first flush of Ms. Sagan's fame, she became known for drinking until dawn and gambling lavishly. It has been reported that she once made a killing at the gaming tables of Deauville and then turned around and used the money to buy herself a turn-of-the-century chateau.
        She also praised the joys of driving sports cars. ''Whoever has not thrilled to speed has not thrilled to life,'' she wrote in ''With Fondest Regards'' (1985). ''However madly and hopelessly in love you may be, at 120 miles an hour you are less so. Your blood no longer congeals around your heart; your blood throbs to the extremities of your body, to your fingertips, your toes and your eyelids, now the fateful and tireless guardians of your own life.''
        She suffered a skull fracture and other injuries in 1957 when her Aston-Martin overturned while she was living in Milly, a resort town in northern France.
        Ms. Sagan was convicted twice of narcotics offenses, in 1990 and 1995, receiving fines and prison sentences, which were suspended.
        She once told an investigating magistrate: ''I believe I have a right to destroy myself as long as it does not harm anyone. If I feel like swallowing a glass of caustic soda, that's my own problem.''In 2002 she was also convicted of tax fraud in a case involving payments she received in the early 1990's to intercede with François Mitterrand, a friend and then the president of France, in an oil deal. Her health prevented her from appearing in court.
        Ms. Sagan was born on June 21, 1935, in Cajarc, a village in southwest France. She was the third and youngest child of Paul Quoirez, a well-to-do businessman, and his wife, Marie.
        Françoise Quoirez, nicknamed Kiki, grew up largely in Lyons and on an estate in the Vercors region in the southeast. When she was 15, her family moved to Paris. She attended convent schools before an unsuccessful academic experience at the Sorbonne.
        She took the pen name Sagan because she liked the way it sounded. The name also harked back to the Prince and Princesse de Sagan, 19th-century Parisians on whom Marcel Proust is said to have based some of his characters.
        After two years at the Sorbonne, with much time spent in cafes and little studying, she failed crucial year-end examinations in June 1953, angering her family. She felt she ''had to do something'' to placate them, she would recall, so she sat down and wrote ''Bonjour Tristesse'' in August. She had already been thinking about the novel and making notes for it for some months.
        The book begins with what has come to be seen as a vintage Sagan sentence: ''A strange melancholy pervades me, to which I hesitate to give the grave and beautiful name of sorrow.''
        In ''With Fondest Regards,'' Ms. Sagan, noting that ''Bonjour Tristesse'' enjoyed a ''succès de scandale'' when it first came out in France, said that in those days she could not understand what all the fuss was about.
        Looking back three decades later, she said the furor resulted partly from the relationship between the heroine, Cécile, and her boyfriend.
        ''It was inconceivable,'' she wrote, ''that a young girl of 17 or 18 should make love without being in love with a boy of her own age, and not be punished for it.''
        Furthermore, she added, people couldn't accept that this girl ''should know about her father's love affairs, discuss them with him, and thereby reach a kind of complicity with him on subjects that had until then been taboo between parents and children.''
        Ms. Sagan continued to weave fiction from sentences that were a bit abstract in the French way but that at their best dealt trenchantly and economically with the emotions.
        Her other novels published in translation in the United States include ''A Certain Smile'' (1956), ''Those Without Shadows'' (1957), ''Aimez-Vous Brahms?'' (1960), ''Wonderful Clouds'' (1962), ''La Chamade'' (1966), ''The Heart-Keeper'' (1968), ''A Few Hours of Sunlight'' (1971), ''The Painted Lady'' (1983), ''Incidental Music'' and ''Salad Days'' (1984).
        Writing in The New York Times Book Review in 1983, Nora Johnson praised ''the grace and freshness of her early novels, those slender tales of love between aged children and middle-aged burnouts that seemed so remarkable when they began appearing in the 50's,'' observing that Ms. Sagan ''seemed to know everything then.''
        Ms. Sagan won the Prix des Critiques in 1954 for ''Bonjour Tristesse'' and the Prix de Monaco 30 years later for her work as a whole.
        Her 1958 marriage to Guy Schoeller, a publisher, ended in divorce in 1960. Her 1962 marriage to Robert James Westhoff, an American ceramicist and sculptor, ended in divorce in 1963.
        Her survivors include a son, Denis, from her marriage to Mr. Westhoff.
        Ms. Sagan's views on romance could be somber. In a 1980 interview, she said: ''I think love is like an illness, an intoxication. Sometimes I've been intoxicated for three or four years, but never more. I think that people can be happy together for longer than I used to believe, but I still don't think it can be forever.''
        In a 1993 interview before her second drug trial, Ms. Sagan recalled: ''I had incredible luck because just when I grew up, the pill came along. When I was 18, I used to die with fear of being pregnant, but then it arrived, and love was free and without consequence for nearly 30 years. Then AIDS came. Those 30 years coincided with my adulthood, the age for having fun.''
      