
        Dr. Katharina Dalton, a British gynecologist who did early work establishing a link between fluctuations in the menstrual cycle and changes in behavior and who advocated using progesterone to treat premenstrual syndrome, died on Sept. 17 in Britain, The Associated Press reported. She was 87.
        Beginning in the early 1950's, Dr. Dalton led pioneering studies of premenstrual syndrome, challenging the widely accepted view that the condition was a figment of the imagination. She led one of the first clinics to specifically treat the symptoms, at University College Hospital in London.
        She is largely credited with developing the use of menstrual charts for the diagnosis of the disorder, and argued that the timing of PMS in women was associated with higher rates of suicide attempts, alcohol abuse and violent crimes.
        ''Many people did not believe it was a real entity,'' said Dr. Mona Shangold, a former assistant professor of obstetrics and gynecology at New York Hospital-Cornell Medical Center. ''She really brought it into the public eye, and eventually it became an accepted disorder for which we now have good treatments.''
        PMS, Dr. Dalton argued, was brought on primarily by deficiencies of progesterone and could be alleviated with hormone therapy. She also believed that the hormone could be used to ease postnatal depression. But today most experts disagree with those findings and instead rely on selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors, or S.S.R.I.'s, and other medications for the treatment of PMS.
        ''None of the rest of us have found progesterone as helpful as the data Dr. Dalton presented, but she really was quite influential in the modern understanding of what happens to women premenstrually,'' said Dr. Diana Dell, an OB-GYN and psychiatrist at the Duke University Medical Center.
        Born in 1916 in London, Katharina Kuipers Dalton began her career as a podiatrist after studying at the London Foot Hospital. After her first husband died during World War II, she decided to switch careers and earned a medical degree at the Royal Free Hospital.
        In later work, Dr. Dalton helped demonstrate that depression and other disorders could be aggravated by PMS, particularly around the last few days of the menstrual cycle or the first days of menstruation. While many experts today agree that PMS can exacerbate certain conditions and influence behavior, some of Dr. Dalton's assertions remain controversial. In several court cases in the 1980's, for example, she testified in defense of women who blamed severe PMS for their criminal offenses.
        Several of Dr. Dalton's books, including ''Once a Month,'' published in the late 70's, became best sellers.
        Dr. Dalton is survived by four children and five grandchildren, according to The Independent, a British daily.
      