
        Nuha al-Radi, the Iraqi artist and diarist whose work depicted her country's tribulations with a wry, impish wit, has died in Beirut. She was 63.
        Ms. Radi died on Aug. 30, of pneumonia, her immune system severely weakened as a result of treatment for leukemia, said her sister, Selma al-Radi, speaking by telephone from the Lebanese capital.
        Although both a ceramist and a painter, Ms. Radi was best known for her book ''Baghdad Diaries,'' a vivid account of the texture of daily life during the first gulf war and its aftermath, when she found shelter from the bombing in the family orchard in a well-to-do neighborhood.
        ''The birds have taken the worst beating of all,'' she wrote. ''They have sensitive souls, which cannot take all this hideous noise and vibration. All the caged lovebirds have died from the shock of the blasts, while birds in the wild fly upside down and do crazy somersaults. Hundreds, if not thousands, have died in the orchard. Lonely survivors fly about in a distracted fashion.''
        After the book was reissued last year in the wake of the second gulf war, Michiko Kakutani wrote in a review in The New York Times that ''the opening sections of these diaries give the reader a tactile and highly personal sense of how the allied bombing of Baghdad in 1991 affected ordinary Iraqi civilians. These descriptions can be read as a harbinger, in some respects, of residents' efforts to cope with the recent war and the continuing postwar upheaval.''
        While not overtly political, Ms. Radi had no love for either the government controlling Iraq or for the United States for repeatedly causing destruction in Baghdad, her native city.
        The book brims with criticism of the United States for making Iraqi civilians bear the brunt of the violence in their efforts to overthrow Saddam Hussein, while depicting the grim resignation and black humor Iraqis used to survive under his violent rule.
        She relates in matter-of-fact detail how a friend's nanny working in one of the presidential palaces told about what happens to thieves:
        ''She said that when someone was caught stealing, they gathered the staff together, brought in a doctor, who chopped off this guy's hand, and immediately dunked it into boiling oil to cauterize it.''
        The work also included jokes like the one about Mr. Hussein asking his cabinet members what time it is, with them responding in unison, ''Whatever time you want, sir.''
        After her book's publication Ms. Radi, uncertain of the reaction from the government, chose to live in exile in Beirut, following something of a family tradition. She was born in 1941 in Baghdad. Her father was an Iraqi diplomat who served as the country's ambassador to Iran and India until the monarchy was overthrown in 1958.
        The family later moved to Beirut, where her survivors still live periodically. They include her mother, Suad Munir Abbas; a brother, Abbad, of Abu Dhabi and Toronto, and her sister, Selma, a renowned archaeologist who has done extensive work on preserving historic buildings in Yemen.
        In the late 1950's and early 1960's, Ms. Radi studied pottery at the Byam Shaw School of Art in London before moving to Beirut and teaching for a short period at the American University there. With the outbreak of the civil war in Lebanon, she returned to Baghdad, where her work included several government commissions for large ceramic tableaus.
        Ms. Radi used to joke that even the attempt to see her work was a perfect reflection of the turmoil in her country: one massive piece showing a magic carpet flight from ''1,001 Nights'' hung on a government building facing the Iranian Embassy while the other graced a presidential palace and was therefore off limits.
        Taking visitors around the Iraqi capital in 1989 in the immediate aftermath of the Iran-Iraq war, she would nod toward the work near the embassy and tell them not to point and not to take pictures and that stopping to look was certainly out of the question.
        Her work often combined a certain whimsy with the darker aspects of life in the Middle East. One exhibition, titled ''Embargo Art,'' held in Amman during the late 1990's, a period of Western sanctions against Iraq, consisted of ''found objects'' like old mufflers from cars, the kind of things Iraqis had to use to get by, she said.
        Ms. Radi was especially trenchant in describing the growing divide between the West and the Arab world, one to which she was particularly attuned, given her ease at working in both cultures.
        In her diary, she tells of an encounter in Baghdad during which a woman wishes that some great catastrophe would ''envelop the U.S. and swallow the whole continent.'' When someone else in the conversation protests that his brothers living there would perish, the woman responds, ''They can go down with it.''
        Last year, weeks after Mr. Hussein was overthrown, Ms. Radi went back to Baghdad to spend several weeks with her mother, who had refused to leave, comparing herself to Scarlett O'Hara after having survived so many wars in Iraq.
        Ms. Radi, who usually managed to find a flower to tuck behind her ear every day no matter what war-ravaged city she was in, scampered through the wreckage of Mr. Hussein's compound and found happily that much of her large ceramic tableau of Iraq had survived the bombing unscathed.
        She was somewhat less than enchanted with Iraq's latest overseers for failing to provide basic security and services, however, describing the new tenants of the presidential compound in an interview with The Times last year in her typically caustically droll manner:
        ''America is in its ivory tower palace,'' she said, ''We are used to having coups and revolutions. But usually people who stage them take over the country afterward.''
      