
        Janet Frame, whose vividly romantic explorations of madness and language in novels, poetry and autobiography propelled her to worldwide attention, died yesterday in Dunedin, New Zealand. She was 79.
        Dunedin Hospital said the cause was acute leukemia, The Associated Press reported.
        In 1973 she legally changed her surname to Clutha, after the river south of Oamaru, her childhood home, but continued to write under the name Janet Frame.
        Ms. Frame's work used her own disturbing life to weave fictional nightmares that reflected, in her words, the ''homelessness of self.'' After a suicide attempt she spent eight years in mental hospitals in New Zealand, receiving 200 electroshock treatments. She was about to have a lobotomy when a hospital official read that she had won a literary prize. She was released.
        Later, a panel of psychiatrists determined that she had never had schizophrenia. In the sort of bitterly perceptive, highly personalized twist that infuses much of her writing, that news did not please her.
        ''Oh why had they robbed me of my schizophrenia, which had been the answer to all my misgivings about myself?'' she wrote in the third volume of her autobiography, which, with the first two, was dramatized in Jane Campion's 1990 film ''An Angel at My Table.''
        ''Like King Lear I had gone in search of 'the truth' and now I had nothing,'' she continued.
        Ms. Frame's 12 novels, four story collections, one poetry collection and three volumes of autobiography won dozens of awards.
        ''As the body of her work has enlarged, one comes to understand it not just as a series of extraordinary insights into suffering and thought, but as a mighty exploration of human consciousness and its context in the natural world,'' the American Academy of Arts and Letters citation read when she was made an honorary foreign member in 1986.
        In her novel ''The Edge of the Alphabet'' (Braziller, 1965) words literally crumble into meaninglessness and communication becomes useless. Even spelling becomes sinister. In ''Intensive Care'' (Braziller, 1970) she spells history hiss-tree to make an unsettling connection to Eden's serpent. ''All dreams,'' she wrote, ''lead back to the nightmare garden.''
        Ms. Frame created romantic visionaries -- eccentrics, mad people, epileptics -- and pitted them against the repressive forces of a sterile, conformist society. Or maybe she was just reporting on her life. A continuing discussion among critics was whether her autobiographical work was mostly fiction or whether her fiction was mostly autobiographical.
        Janet Paterson Frame was born on Aug. 28, 1924, in Dunedin. Her father was a railroad engineer. Her mother, who once worked as a maid in the home of the New Zealand writer Katherine Mansfield, wrote poems that she sold door to door.
        Janet's youth was blighted by the drownings of two sisters. She attended the local teachers' training college, where she felt so lonely that she found peace sitting among tombstones in a cemetery. While practice teaching, she panicked when an inspector entered the classroom, and she fled, never to return. She suffered a breakdown that was misdiagnosed as schizophrenia.
        After her eight years in two psychiatric hospitals, she was befriended on her release by Frank Sargeson, a writer, who let her stay in an army hut in his backyard in Auckland, New Zealand. She wrote her first novel, ''Owls Do Cry'' (Pegasus, 1957), while staying there. The narrator was Daphne, a patient in a mental hospital.
        She next traveled abroad on a grant from the New Zealand government, and in London a panel of psychiatrists determined she was not mentally ill, just different from other people. While living in Europe she published five novels from 1961 to 1963.
        Ms. Frame is survived by her sister, June Gordon.
        She returned to New Zealand in 1964 and wrote more novels, and three volumes of autobiography (Braziller, 1982, 1984, 1985). Despite the deep introspection of her writing, she developed a reputation as a private person.
        In the early 1990's she had two mild strokes, which affected her mental stamina and power of concentration, but she continued to write.
        ''Writing is a boon, analgesic, and so on,'' she said. ''I think it's all that matters to me. I dread emerging from it each day.''
        Correction:  February 20, 2004, Friday  An obituary of the New Zealand novelist Janet Frame on Jan. 30 omitted attribution for a sentence describing the characters in her work: ''Ms. Frame created romantic visionaries -- eccentrics, mad people, epileptics -- and pitted them against the repressive forces of a sterile, conformist society.'' It was derived from the Oxford Companion to New Zealand Literature (Oxford University Press), as reprinted on the New Zealand Book Council's web site, www.bookcouncil.org.nz.
      