
        Rose Gacioch, an outstanding outfielder and pitcher in the heyday of women's professional baseball who became a mainstay of the Rockford Peaches team later featured in the movie ''A League of Their Own,'' died last Thursday at a nursing home in Clinton Township, Mich. She was 89.
        Her death was announced by a niece, Helen Bozicevich.
        Gacioch (pronounced GAY-sotch), a native of Wheeling, W.Va., was in grade school when she sneaked out of class to see Babe Ruth and Lou Gehrig play on a barnstorming stop, and she was thrilled when Gehrig shook her hand. At 16, she was the only girl on a town baseball team called the Little Cardinals.
        While still in her teens, she played one season for the All Star Ranger Girls, a barnstorming women's team.
        In 1944, after working in a West Virginia factory and playing softball, she joined the South Bend (Ind.) Blue Sox in the All-American Girls Baseball League, created the previous season by the Chicago Cubs' owner, Philip K. Wrigley, to provide entertainment if major league baseball was curtailed by World War II.
        Gacioch played right field, and, as she told Susan E. Johnson in an interview for ''When Women Played Hardball,'' she had a phenomenal assist total, thanks to a move by her manager, Bert Niehoff, a former National League infielder.
        As she remembered it: ''Bert said: 'Rose, I'm gonna put the second baseman closer to second, and the first baseman closer to first. Now you've got all that territory in between. Come in and flip the ball to first.' Batters would see a big space in right field, hit toward it. I'd run in, field the ball and throw them out at first. Twice in my career, I had 31 assists from right field, a league record.''
        Gacioch was sent to the Rockford (Ill.) Peaches the next year and played the outfield and pitched for them until the league folded after the 1954 season. She won 92 games and lost 60 and was a three-time All-Star, according to Ms. Johnson. She played on four championship teams with the Peaches.
        Gacioch later worked in a factory in Rockford, retired in 1978, then lived in the Detroit area. She never married and is survived most immediately by three nieces.
        Interest in women's baseball was revived long after the demise of the All-American Girls Baseball League. In 1988, the Hall of Fame created a Women in Baseball exhibit honoring the players of that league, and in 1992, ''A League of Their Own,'' starring Madonna, Geena Davis, Rosie O'Donnell and Tom Hanks, provided a Hollywood version of the Peaches' exploits.
        Gacioch visited Cooperstown for the exhibition opening and reveled in her niche at the Hall of Fame. As she said in the interview reflecting on her career: ''I always say: 'Now I got something on Pete Rose. I got there before he did.'''
      