
        Virginia Hamilton Adair, a California poet who published her first collection, ''Ants on the Melon,'' when she was 83, died on Thursday in Claremont, Calif., her daughter, Katharine Adair Waugh, said. She was 91 and lived in Claremont.
        Published by Random House in 1996, ''Ants on the Melon'' received wide attention, partly because of Ms. Adair's personal story (a retired English professor, by then blind from glaucoma, she had written poetry all her life but had published little since the 1940's) and partly for the unaffected style and universal themes of her work.
        The collection sold more than 28,000 copies, which her editor, Daniel Menaker, yesterday called an ''alpine'' figure for a volume of poetry.
        Reviewing ''Ants on the Melon'' in The New York Times Book Review, Brad Leithauser wrote, ''Given how much darkness the book contains -- meditations on the atom bomb, her husband's death, a drowned girl, the literal dark of blindness -- it casts a surprisingly bright afterglow.''
        In the poem ''Break-In,'' Ms. Adair wrote:
        Hearing the footsteps of thieves
        in the dark downstairs:
        what are you looking for?
        it has already been stolen
        over and over. . . .
        Mary Virginia Hamilton was born in the Bronx on Feb. 28, 1913, and was raised in Montclair, N.J. She disliked the name Mary and dropped it as soon as she left home. She grew up surrounded by poetry. Her father, Robert Browning Hamilton, was a serious amateur poet, and one of her earliest memories was of him reading Alexander Pope's ''Iliad'' to her in her crib. She began writing her own poems when she was 6.
        Ms. Adair held a bachelor's degree from Mount Holyoke College and a master's from Radcliffe and was a professor at California Polytechnic University in Pomona for many years. In 1936, she married Douglass Adair, who became a prominent historian. Mr. Adair committed suicide in 1968.
        In the 1930's and 40's, Ms. Adair published poems in The Saturday Review, The Atlantic and The New Republic. Though she continued to write almost daily, the demands of motherhood, and later of an academic career, plus her distaste for the gamesmanship of the publishing world, caused her to send out little work for the next half-century.
        In the late 1980's, a friend, the poet Robert Mezey, encouraged Ms. Adair to put together a manuscript of her best work. Some years later, without her knowledge, he sent a copy to Alice Quinn, the New Yorker's poetry editor. Ms. Quinn published several of the poems, along with a rapturous essay on Ms. Adair, in the magazine's 1995 year-end double issue. After that, Ms. Adair's work appeared regularly in The New Yorker and The New York Review of Books. Though some critics were cautious (Jonathan Galassi called her ''a serious poet without being an earth-shatteringly original one''), others praised it lavishly. The poet Galway Kinnell told The New Yorker, ''She has arrived in our world like a comet.''
        In addition to her daughter, of New Paltz, N.Y., Ms. Adair is survived by two sons, Robert, of Pomona, and Douglass, of Thermal, Calif.; four grandchildren; and two great-grandchildren.
      