
        Margaret Kelly, a proper Irishwoman better known as Miss Bluebell who founded the Bluebell Girls, the long-stemmed, high-kicking, slightly clad troupe considered the most glamorous chorus line in Paris and perhaps the world, died in her sleep on Sept. 11 at her home in Paris, her son Patrick Leibovici said. She was 94.
        Founded in 1932, the Bluebell Girls are one of the last remaining companies to dance the traditional cancan, with its flying kicks and punishing splits. They are still the featured act at the Lido, on the Champs-Élysées, performing in glittering clouds of sequins, ostrich feathers, voluminous headgear and not a great deal else.
        To generations of showgirls -- she is said to have trained 14,000 -- Miss Kelly was talent scout, taskmaster, chaperon, mother confessor and dispenser of tea. Until her retirement at 79, she supervised the Bluebells' every performance (two shows a day, seven days a week) with military precision, while ferociously guarding their virtue from a stream of stage-door Lotharios.
        A global franchise, the troupe toured internationally and had resident companies in Reno, Nev., and Las Vegas, where a colony of retired Bluebells still live.
        Bluebell Girls are very beautiful, and very tall. As Miss Kelly told The Los Angeles Times in 1985, ''They must have long legs, be at least 5-foot-10, with high, well-formed derrières, firm breasts, but not too large because, since the demise of the brassiere, dangling, voluminous breasts appear unpleasant, anti-aesthetic.''
        Her life was the subject of a BBC miniseries, ''Bluebell,'' in 1986, but Miss Kelly complained that the film's eight hours could scarcely begin to tell her story. She was abandoned as an infant; grew up poor; danced her way across the cabaret stages of Europe as a teenager; worked with Maurice Chevalier, Josephine Baker and Edith Piaf; was interned during World War II; saved her husband from the Nazis; raised four children; could still dance the cancan in her 60's; smoked a pack of cigarettes every day of her adult life; and was awarded the French Legion of Honor and the Order of the British Empire.
        Margaret Kelly was born in Dublin on June 24, 1910. Shortly afterward, her parents left her with the parish priest and never returned. She was placed with a local woman, who adopted Margaret and moved with her to a suburb of Liverpool, where they lived, Miss Kelly would later say, a threadbare but happy life.
        A frail child (she was nicknamed Bluebell by a doctor, struck by her wispy frame and piercing blue eyes), Margaret was advised to take dancing lesson to strengthen her legs. At 14, she was performing in nightclubs in Britain and on the continent. At 19, Miss Kelly was a featured dancer at the Folies-Bergère in Paris, where she eventually started Les Bluebell Girls.
        In 1939, she married Marcel Leibovici, a pianist who wrote songs for Piaf. When the Nazis invaded Paris the following year, Miss Kelly, a British subject, was sent to an internment camp in eastern France. She was released, her son said, only when the Irish ambassador intervened, ''much to the delight of the German jailers, because she had by then organized the whole barracks to an English way of life, with teatime and everything.''
        Miss Kelly returned to Paris, where her husband, who was Jewish, was in hiding. She bribed the concierge of his apartment building, who had betrayed other tenants, to keep his whereabouts secret.
        Mr. Leibovici died in a car accident in 1961. Miss Kelly is survived by two sons, Patrick, of Las Vegas, and Francis of Palaiseau, France; a daughter, Florence Shapiro, of Las Vegas; and five grandchildren. Another son, Jean-Paul, died in 1996.
        After the war, Miss Kelly revived her company at the Lido, scouring the globe to find women who met her precise specifications. Many were English (she thought French girls too short), and classically trained dancers grown too tall for ballet.
        Risqué even by Paris standards, the Bluebell Girls were in great demand. By the 1960's, Miss Kelly, after an inward moral struggle, allowed them to perform bare-breasted. An Arab sheik once tried to purchase the entire troupe, Newsweek once reported, and an Italian magnate offered 16 white Ferraris in trade. But Miss Kelly watched over every aspect of the Bluebells' conduct, on stage and off, and there was no sale.
        After all, the young women she affectionately called ''my girls'' were no common chorines. ''I created class with chorus girls,'' Miss Kelly told The New York Times in 1988. ''Although the girls are topless, it's done with taste and elegance.''
      