
        Phyllis Williams Lehmann, an archaeologist and art historian known for reuniting the hand of one of the icons of Western art, the Winged Victory of Samothrace, with two of its long-lost fingers, died on Sept. 29 at her home in Haydenville, Mass. She was 91.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, according to Smith College, where Dr. Lehmann taught for more than 30 years.
        Dr. Lehmann was an authority on the monuments and architecture of Samothrace, a remote, mountainous island in the north Aegean. The island was considered crucial in the development of the art and architecture of the Hellenistic period, which lasted from the death of Alexander the Great in 323 B.C. until the mid-first century B.C.
        Samothrace was the center of one of the most famous mystery cults of Greek antiquity; its rituals were carried out in the group of imposing buildings known as the Sanctuary of the Great Gods, erected between the fourth and the second centuries B.C. The first of these structures to be built in marble was dedicated by Alexander's father, Philip II. Alexander's successors also erected monuments in the sanctuary.
        As a result, the ruins at Samothrace have been of continuing interest to archaeologists, who have excavated there since the 1860's. Dr. Lehmann, who first visited the island in 1938, did her early work there with her husband, the archaeologist Karl Lehmann. She was assistant field director of the excavation from 1948 to 1960 and acting director from 1960 to 1965, and she remained closely involved with Samothrace for the rest of her career. A member of the Smith faculty from 1946 to 1978, she was dean of the college from 1965 to 1970.
        Phyllis Williams was born Nov. 30, 1912, in Brooklyn. She received a bachelor's degree from Wellesley in 1934, and for the next two years worked at the Brooklyn Museum as an assistant in charge of the Classical collection. In 1936, she began her graduate work at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts, which ran the excavation on Samothrace. She received her Ph.D. in 1943, and married Mr. Lehmann, the excavation's director, the next year. He died in 1960. No immediate family members survive.
        Working on Samothrace in 1949, Phyllis Lehmann made one of her most important discoveries, a tall marble statue of Nike, the goddess of victory, dating from the second century B.C. Unearthed in three large pieces, Dr. Lehmann's statue was the third Nike to be found on the island. The first, the Winged Victory that today greets visitors to the Louvre from the top of an imposing staircase, was found in 1863 by the French archaeologist Charles Champoiseau. That statue, from around 190 B.C., was unearthed in fragments, probably damaged in an earthquake in the sixth century A.D. Reassembled in Paris, it lacked head, arms and hands.
        In the 1870's, Austrian archaeologists uncovered a second Nike on Samothrace, this one a Roman copy. They took it to the Kunsthistorisches Museum in Vienna, along with an unrelated assortment of marble fragments also found on the island. The fragments remained at the museum, unidentified and forgotten, for three-quarters of a century.
        Dr. Lehmann's Nike, which had stood atop a building called the Hieron, is today on display in a museum on Samothrace.
        In 1950, a team led by Karl Lehmann unearthed the missing right hand of the Louvre's Winged Victory. The hand, which had lost its fingers, had slid out of sight, under a large rock, near where the statue had originally stood. The team also found the tip of the ring finger nearby.
        On their way home from Samothrace, the Lehmanns stopped in Vienna, where Phyllis sifted through the dusty storerooms of the Kunsthistorisches Museum. Examining the fragments left there by the Austrian team more than 70 years before, she found the rest of Winged Victory's ring finger and a thumb. The hand, with thumb and finger reattached, is displayed at the Louvre in a glass case next to the statue.
        Dr. Lehmann's many books include ''The Pedimental Sculptures of the Hieron in Samothrace'' (1962) and ''Samothrace III: The Hieron,'' which was awarded the Alice Davis Hitchcock Book Award of the Society of Architectural Historians in 1969.
        She was made an honorary citizen of Samothrace in 1968.
      