
        Bernice Rubens, a prolific British novelist who drew on her Jewish upbringing and ill-fated marriage to tell stories of vice and grimness with warmth and even humor, died on Oct. 13 in London, British newspapers reported. She was 76.
        Ms. Rubens won Britain's prestigious Booker Prize for fiction in 1970 for ''The Elected Member,'' the story of a Jewish family whose secrets drive one son insane.
        ''Madame Sousatzka,'' her 1962 novel about the tenuous bond between an eccentric piano teacher and a child prodigy, was adapted in 1988 into a film with Shirley MacLaine in the title role.
        Ms. Rubens wrote the first of her 25 books when she was 35, to cope with what she later described to The New York Times as ''the kind of despair that any intelligent woman has today.'' She said she thought of writing as therapy.
        The daughter of Orthodox Jews, and the lone non-musician among gifted siblings, Ms. Rubens made family relationships and expectations frequent themes in her stories, placing familiar characters in peculiar circumstances.
        In ''Spring Sonata'' (1979), a fetus decides against being born after listening to its parents' high expectations, while ''Brothers'' (1983) follows four generations of a Jewish family that flees Russia for Europe, as Ms. Rubens's father did.
        In 1966, while still married to her husband, she wrote a thinly veiled account of his infidelity in ''Mate in Three.'' They divorced a few years later.
        Bernice Ruth Rubens was born in Cardiff, Wales, on July 26, 1928, and studied English literature at Cardiff University, graduating in 1948 and then teaching in Birmingham, England.
        She started writing after her two daughters entered nursery school. At roughly the same time, she began creating documentary films with humanitarian themes, often focusing on people with disabilities. She traveled to Asia and Africa to document the role of women in rural development.
        She was writing her memoirs when she died.
        She is survived by two daughters, Sharon and Rebecca.
      