
        Jane Meyerhoff, a philanthropist and collector who was a major donor of modern art, most of it American, died on Saturday in Baltimore. She was 80.
        The cause was complications of heart surgery, said her daughter, Rose Ellen Meyerhoff Greene.
        For nearly 50 years, Mrs. Meyerhoff and her husband, Robert, a real estate developer, collected art by American masters like Jasper Johns, Roy Lichtenstein, Robert Rauschenberg and Frank Stella, which filled Fitzhugh Farm, their 300-acre home and horse farm about an hour and a half north of Washington.
        Over the years, as the collection grew, the Meyerhoffs built a series of galleries attached to their house. Some were devoted to the work of a single artist like Lichtenstein, others had a mix of works. One, which Mrs. Meyerhoff called her ''old masters,'' had paintings by Rothko, Pollock, Kline and de Kooning.
        Also over the years the couple became friends with many of the artists whose work they collected and would often name horses either after an artist or one of their famous works.
        In 1987 they announced they would donate their collection, which experts say is worth well over $300 million, to the National Gallery of Art in Washington, becoming the gallery's largest single-gift donor after Andrew W. Mellon and the gallery's founding benefactors.
        For years other museums, including the Baltimore Museum of Art and the Whitney Museum of American Art, courted the couple in the hope that someday the collection would become theirs. But officials at the gallery seemed to make the best case, convincing the couple the art should go to the nation.
        ''We thought someday when we fall off our perches, we wanted our art in a place like the National Gallery, which is open to the public and free of charge,'' Mrs. Meyerhoff said in an interview last year.
        The Meyerhoffs made their first donation to the gallery in 1986 when they provided the money to buy Barnett Newman's ''Stations of the Cross'' (1958-66), a series of 14 canvases regarded by contemporary art experts as Newman's most important work. Ten years later the gallery organized a show of the Meyerhoffs' collection, which included 194 works and filled major portions of two levels of the East Building.
        Born Jane Bernstein in 1924, she grew up in Baltimore and graduated from Goucher College in 1945, the same year she married Mr. Meyerhoff.
        Mrs. Meyerhoff first entered the art world after her father, Harry A. Bernstein, died in 1958. She and her step-mother, a Baltimore artist named Ruth Bernstein, established a memorial art fund in his memory at the Baltimore Museum of Art. One of her first purchases was a Rothko painting that cost $3,000.
        ''When I got it home and showed it to Bob he said, 'I can't believe you spent $3,000 on something that looks like this,''' she said in an interview last year.
        Also in the 1950's she learned she had polio. While recovering she took a correspondence course in how to look at art.
        ''We never intended to be collectors,'' Mrs. Meyerhoff often told friends. ''It sort of happened by accident.''
        Art was not the couple's only area of their philanthropy. In 1988 they established the Meyerhoff Scholar Program at the University of Maryland Baltimore campus, which has become a leading science-education initiative for African-Americans.
        Besides her husband, who lives in Maryland and Manhattan, and Mrs. Greene of Coral Gables, Fla., she is survived by two sons, Neil and John of Baltimore; a sister, Joan B. Katz, also of Baltimore; six grandchildren; and four great-grandchildren.
      