
        Joan Delano Aiken, a prodigious weaver of tales for adults and children, died on Sunday at her home in Petworth, in West Sussex, England. She was 79.
        Her death was announced by Brandt & Hochman, her literary agents, in New York.
        Ms. Aiken's fiction could have a Dickensian atmosphere, evoke a somewhat skewed history of Olde England or be straightforward.
        Much of it was in her chosen genre: nonhistorical adventure, tinged with suspense and horror, often featuring ghosts.
        Her most famous book, ''The Wolves of Willoughby Chase,'' illustrated by Pat Marriott, appeared in 1962 and became an evergreen. It tells of two girls in a great English country house, and it leavens suspenseful Victorian melodrama with tongue-in-cheek humor.
        Recommended for children in Grades 5 to 9, it was also turned into dramatic versions staged in many schools. Charles Schlesinger, an agent at Brandt & Hochman, said the book sold many thousands of copies every year in English and various translations; it is still in print in the 1987 Delacorte edition.
        Mr. Schlesinger said that what is apparently her final book, ''The Witch of Clatteringshaws,'' is scheduled for publication by Delacorte next January. Her first, ''All You've Ever Wanted and Other Stories,'' was published 50 years ago.
        In between she wrote more than 100 books, with ''Bone and Dream,'' ''The Scream,'' ''Ghostly Beasts,'' ''In Thunder's Pocket'' and ''Lady Catherine's Necklace,'' all published in Britain since 2000. As of last count, 29 of her books were in print in the United States.
        Her ''Arabel's Raven'' series of humorous adventures, most of them also published in the United States, was adapted for television by the BBC. Her adult novels included mysteries and what she called her Jane Austen sequence, which included ''Mansfield Revisited'' (Doubleday, 1985), and ''Jane Fairfax: Jane Austen's Emma Through Another's Eyes'' (St. Martin's, 1991), a sequel to the Austen novel.
        Joan Aiken was born in Rye, England, a daughter of the American poet Conrad Aiken and his first wife, Jessie McDonald. Having decided on a literary career early in life, she published some poetry in a prestigious little magazine but found that prose paid better.
        She developed her story writing while working for the BBC and the Information Ministry during and just after World War II. She met her first husband, Ronald George Brown, a journalist, during that period.
        They married in 1945 and had two children, John S. Brown and Elizabeth D. Charlaff, who survive her, along with Ms. Aiken's sister, Jane A. Hodge, and two grandchildren.
        After Ron Brown's death in 1955, Ms. Aiken supported herself working as a features editor for British Argosy magazine and as a copywriter for J. Walter Thompson, the advertising agency. After 1961 she devoted herself exclusively to writing fiction.
        She also spent some years as a trans-Atlantic commuter after her second marriage, to Julius Goldstein, in 1976. An artist and former member of the Hunter College faculty, he died in 2002.
        Her work earned many honors, including an Edgar Allan Poe Award from the Mystery Writers of America for ''Night Fall'' (Holt, 1970). In 1999 Queen Elizabeth II made her a member of the Order of the British Empire for her contributions to children's literature.
      