
        Carol H. Pitchersky, a former associate director of the American Civil Liberties Union who helped it overcome a potentially bankrupting deficit, died on Tuesday at her home in Washington. She was 57.
        The cause was breast cancer, her husband, Morton H. Halperin, said.
        Ms. Pitchersky, who worked for the A.C.L.U. from 1979 to 1988, joined the organization at a low point in its fiscal history. Subsisting primarily on membership dues, the A.C.L.U. had made little sustained effort to raise larger donations. By the mid-1970's, its finances were precarious, said Samuel Walker, a professor of criminal justice at the University of Nebraska, Omaha, and the author of ''In Defense of American Liberties: A History of the ACLU.''
        The crisis came in 1977, with the organization's defense of the American Nazi Party's right to march in Skokie, Ill. Thousands of members resigned in outrage, and donations declined sharply. By 1978, according to Dr. Walker's book, the A.C.L.U. was almost $500,000 in debt.
        As the head of development and strategic planning, Ms. Pitchersky was responsible for revitalizing the organization's fund-raising programs.
        According to Dr. Walker's book, ''Contributions rose from less than $300,000 in 1977 to over $3 million in 1988.'' Carol Helen Pitchersky was born on Oct. 3, 1947, in Brooklyn, and received a bachelor's degree from Hunter College. After a marriage that ended in divorce, she married Mr. Halperin in 1991.
        After leaving the A.C.L.U., Ms. Pitchersky worked as a private consultant, advising nonprofit organizations on fund-raising. She was involved most recently with America Coming Together, an advocacy group allied with the Democratic Party, her husband said.
        Besides Mr. Halperin, the director of policy planning at the State Department under President Bill Clinton, Ms. Pitchersky is survived by her father, Arthur, of Rockville, Md.; and by two half sisters, Karen Williams of Poolesville, Md.; and Laura Crisp of Herndon, Va.
      