
        Lilian Kallir, a pianist known for her elegant Mozart performances, both as a soloist and in duet recitals with her husband, the pianist Claude Frank, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 73.
        Her daughter, the violinist Pamela Frank, said the cause was ovarian cancer.
        Ms. Kallir was born in Prague on May 6, 1931, and made her performing debut on radio when she was 4. She left Europe in 1940 and settled in New York, where she continued her piano studies with Isabelle Vengerova and Herman de Grab. She also studied composition, theory and harmony with Hugo Kauder, whose music she later performed in her recitals.
        Ms. Kallir's first important performance in New York was an evening of concertos with the National Orchestral Association at Carnegie Hall, in 1949, when she played the Schumann Concerto and gave the premiere of a Concerto by Alan Hovhaness in which she was asked to imitate the sound of a Javanese gamelan, partly by playing on the strings of the piano with a timpani stick. She made her New York Philharmonic debut in 1957.
        Ms. Kallir met her husband when they were both students at Tanglewood, in 1947, but they did not marry until 1959. By then Mr. Frank was an assistant to Rudolf Serkin at the Marlboro Festival, in Vermont. They were married at Marlboro; the pianist Eugene Istomin was the best man.
        The two pianists began playing recitals together in 1960, in a format that included solo performances by each, as well as at least one collaborative work.
        But although their names are inextricably linked as a duet team for many listeners, Mr. Frank said they had actually devoted most their time to performing on their own, mainly because they disliked much of duet repertory. But they did give countless performances of the Mozart works for two pianos.
        On her own, Ms. Kallir favored Mozart and Chopin, with Bartok and Kodaly as the forward edge of her repertory. She performed Mozart and Beethoven Concertos with most of the major American and European orchestras, and was a favorite at the Mostly Mozart Festival from its early years.
        She was also a devoted chamber music player. She played recitals with the violinist Pinchas Zukerman, the cellist Yo-Yo Ma and the clarinetist Richard Stoltzman. And she performed with the Juilliard, Emerson, Guarneri, Cleveland and Tokyo String Quartets. Ms. Kallir also gave performances with her daughter, who survives her, as does her husband.
      