
        Terry Dintenfass, a longtime New York art dealer whose gallery brought together several currents from outside the mainstream of 20th-century art, died on Tuesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 84.
        Her death was reported by her son Andrew Dintenfass.
        For nearly 40 years the Terry Dintenfass gallery swam mostly against the tide of the rest of the art world. In the era of Pop and Minimal Art, Ms. Dintenfass was drawn to politically aware figurative painting rooted in the Social Realism of the 1930's.
        She also represented the estates of first-generation American modernists like Arthur Dove and Charles Sheeler, as well as that of Ben Shahn.
        At a time when nearly all artists showing in New York galleries were white, she represented several black artists, most notably Jacob Lawrence, but also Raymond Saunders, Richard Hunt and Walter Williams, a little-known painter whose work she showed in her first gallery, which was in Atlantic City.
        She also represented the estate of Horace Pippin, a black folk artist, and worked on an important traveling exhibition of his work in 1977 that was organized by the Phillips Collection in Washington.
        And, even though the line separating high and low culture was fairly firm, she also exhibited artists with a strong illustrational bent, like Ronald Markman, Richard Merkin and Robert Andrew Parker, as well as Edward Koren, a cartoonist for The New Yorker.
        Ms. Dintenfass's life was an unusual mixture of propriety, activism and bohemianism. Born Theresa Kline on Easter in 1920, she grew up in Atlantic City, where her family owned a small department store.
        She and her brother, Nathan S. Kline (author of ''From Sad to Glad,'' about depression), lived in a house full of art, books and music, with parents who wanted their children to be aware of people different from themselves.
        Ms. Dintenfass attended finishing school in Virginia and studied art on and off for years, mostly at the Pennsylvania Academy of Art in Philadelphia. In 1938 she married a surgeon, Arthur Dintenfass, and had three children; after World War II they settled in Atlantic City, where she ran her husband's medical office for several years.
        Using a small trust fund, Ms. Dintenfass began buying one painting every year, often from the Whitney Museum of American Art's annual exhibitions of painting and sculpture.
        Her first galleries, called D Contemporary Gallery, were in Atlantic City hotels. She showed work on consignment from prominent New York dealers, and became especially close to Edith Gregor Halpert, whose Downtown Gallery represented several artists from the Alfred Stieglitz circle. She also sold the work of Milton Avery.
        In 1959 she opened a gallery in a garden apartment at 18 East 67th Street in Manhattan, where she also lived for several years. In 1975 she moved her gallery to a large space in Manhattan, at 50 West 57th Street, and retired in 1999. Her business is now run by her son Andrew.
        Ms. Dintenfass's first marriage and a brief second one ended in divorce. In 1976 she married James M. Reed, a career diplomat who also worked for the American Friends Service Committee. Mr. Reed died in 1985. In addition to Andrew, of Pacific Palisades, Calif., Ms. Dintenfass is survived by two other children from her first marriage, Dr. John Dintenfass of Manhattan and Susan Subtle Dintenfass of Berkeley, Calif.; and three grandchildren.
      