
        JOYCE ACCIAIOLI RUDGE is happy to be off her feet. ''It's so good to sit down; man, it's the best,'' she says, relishing the downtime from a morning that began with 70 e-mail messages from Italy. Her legs are tucked underneath her on a wooden bench in Federal Hall National Memorial, the Greek Revival landmark on Wall Street. The hall is now transformed into the downtown branch of the Uffizi Gallery in Florence, with 21 portraits of the powerful Medici family dating to the 16th and 17th centuries.
        Ms. Rudge is the organizer behind the Splendor of Florence, a cultural festival that is being staged throughout Lower Manhattan through Sunday, with tastings of Tuscan food, concerts and Florentine artisan craft shops in the glass-domed Winter Garden of the World Financial Center, and the Medici exhibition on Wall Street. She convinced the Uffizi to lend the Medici paintings for display until Nov. 12.
        How did she manage to pull this off? ''It's all about networking; that's the key,'' says Ms. Rudge, who is 57 and a former fashion model. ''It's about people trusting that you are going to deliver what you say you're going to deliver.''
        In the case of the Medici art, she says, the director of the Uffizi and Italian officials took a fancy to her pitch that the festival would bring together Florence's best artisans, many of them making the same beautiful products, including lace and jewelry, that are prominent in the Uffizi paintings hanging in Federal Hall.
        ''They took an interest in the theme,'' Ms. Rudge says. ''They love their city, their artisans, and the idea of being able to help artisans who are under threat of extinction because everything is so manufactured these days.''
        So who is Ms. Rudge, this delicate-boned beauty with smoky brown eyes and soaring cheekbones? Here's what we know. She was a hometown girl from Providence, R.I., who made good as a fashion model in Milan and Paris in the 1970's and early 1980's, gracing the covers of European Vogue and Cosmopolitan. She organized the first Splendor of Florence in Providence in 1999 as a tribute to her grandfathers, Italian artisans who came to America in the early 1900's. She repeated the festival in Philadelphia in 2001.
        She seems to have a knack for organizing things, even rather splashy projects about which she knows very little. She has sailed only twice in her life, yet she handled the logistics for the Italian entry in the 1983 America's Cup race, getting loads of good press in Italy as the Italian sailors regaled the locals in Newport, R.I., with pasta dinners and danced into the night.
        ''It established me as a person who could pull rabbits out of hats for Italian companies,'' says Ms. Rudge, elegantly dressed in a taupe-colored pantsuit, her shoulders covered in a striped Kenzo shawl.
        In 1995, Ms. Rudge organized her first event in Lower Manhattan, an exhibition about engines of the Renaissance period called ''Mechanical Marvels: Invention in the Age of Leonardo.'' Sponsored by the Italian aeronautics company Finmeccanica, the event was also held in the Winter Garden. That is where she met the mayor of Florence and told him of her idea to celebrate Florentine artisans. Her grandparents are from Molise, a region southeast of Rome, but she says her ancestors are from Florence.
        Ms. Rudge is found at the bottom of the grand marble staircase in the Winter Garden. She leans into her cellphone, chatting incessantly, alternating between Italian and English. She says she gets a kick out of working under pressure. She thrives on stress.
        ''I could never do something at the same pace, every day,'' she says in a low, husky voice. ''I need to have these moments of high stress, high anxiety, an impossible schedule, then downtime. It's almost like climbing a mountain. Mind you, this is a very big mountain.''
        AND what a climb it is. Ms. Rudge is on her cellphone, trying to find black cabbage for Tuscan chefs who consider it an absolute must for a thick peasant soup to be served in the Grill Room at the World Financial Center. Then she is on to another crisis: a Florentine artisan is toting around two suitcases of antique gold jewelry, too afraid to part with it. Ms. Rudge contemplates getting a Brink's armored truck to stash the gold. In the end, the most expensive gold is returned to Florence.
        ''To do this job, you just have to be resourceful,'' she says. ''You don't need a degree.''
        Ms. Rudge doesn't have a college degree. So does she have a bit of a complex about that?
        ''I think you tend to overcompensate,'' she says. ''I've spent my life researching things.''
        She moved to Italy at age 19 to discover her roots. Much to the dismay of her parents -- her father was a furniture maker, while her mother made costume jewelry -- she stayed in Europe to pursue a modeling career. She has been married for 15 years to Peter Rudge, an English-born music entrepreneur who managed the Rolling Stones and the Who, among others, in the 1970's. They have a home in London.
        For the last couple of years, Ms. Rudge has been living in a hotel suite in Battery Park City, flitting between New York and Florence. She is now looking for a permanent home here. She wants to see the Splendor of Florence be an event every two years in downtown Manhattan.
        ''I like solving problems, so I'm certainly having a field day here,'' she says, laughing.
        PUBLIC LIVES
      