
        Hildy Parks Cohen, the producer, writer and actress known as Hildy Parks who wrote the first 20 Tony Awards telecasts as well as 20 other television specials, including the Emmy Awards, died on Thursday at the Actors Fund Home in Englewood, N.J. She was 78.
        The cause was complications of a recent stroke, said her son Christopher Cohen.
        Ms. Parks was a partner with her husband, Alexander H. Cohen, one of the last old-time independent theatrical producers, with 101 Broadway and West End shows to his name. He died in 2000. Together, from 1967 to 1986, Mr. Cohen usually produced the Tonys, and Ms. Parks wrote them.
        As a result of the couple's ministrations, the Tony shows were frequently held up as a model of what other award shows, like the Oscars, ought to be: fast-paced, lively and topical.
        Mr. Cohen said his mother ''was the intellect, and Dad was the bravado'' in their Tony work. Political events always made their way into the presentations. Ms. Parks's own views were very much those of a liberal Democrat, and she went so far as to give up limousines for bicycles, cheerfully waving to her husband as he went by in his big black car.
        Ms. Parks won two Emmy Awards: one in 1980 for producing the 34th annual Tony Awards and one for producing ''The Night of 100 Stars'' in 1982.
        In a 1982 article in The New York Times, Carol Lawson described how Ms. Parks worked hard behind the scenes at the Tony Awards:
        ''As the one who warms up the live audience with good-natured barbs at the theater industry before airtime, Mr. Cohen is the more visible member of the team; but it is Miss Parks who puts the whole thing together.'' Ms. Parks was both shrewd and down to earth, focusing on getting the awards show picked up by television by signing on names familiar to television viewers. She did all the research for the show herself at the Lincoln Center library.
        She also wrote the 37th and 38th annual Emmy Awards; ''Plácido Domingo: Steppin' Out With the Ladies'' on ABC in 1985; and NBC's 60th anniversary show in 1986.
        Besides her contributions to causes like housing for the homeless, Greenpeace, the Actors' Fund and animal rights (she often brought home animals that appeared in shows to become family pets), she was involved with Community Board 5 in Midtown Manhattan and was prominent in continuing efforts to acquire landmark status for all the Broadway theaters.
        Hildy Parks was born in Washington on March 12, 1926. She graduated from the University of Virginia and soon after went to New York to make her stage debut as Curley's wife in ''Of Mice and Men'' at the New School. She made her Broadway debut in 1947, when she appeared in ''Bathsheba'' with James Mason. In 1948 she played the Girl in Tennessee Williams's ''Summer and Smoke'' and was the only woman in the London cast of ''Mr. Roberts.''
        After a brief marriage to Jackie Cooper, Ms. Parks met Mr. Cohen in 1953 while playing Gwendolyn Holly in the comedy ''Be Your Age'' at the 48th Street Theater. He was one of the play's producers. The play lasted only three days, but the marriage endured for 44 years.
        Ms. Parks's involvement with theater also lasted for many years. In the 1983-84 season she worked as a producer or co-producer on the plays ''Edmund Kean,'' ''La Tragédie de Carmen'' and ''Play Memory.'' In 1984 she and her husband co-produced Dario Fo's play ''Accidental Death of an Anarchist.''
        Ms. Parks also acted in films, like ''Fail Safe'' in 1964 and ''The Group'' in 1966, and made regular appearances on major television shows for 12 years. They ranged from ''Philco Playhouse'' and ''Studio One'' to ''To Tell the Truth,'' on which she was a frequent panelist. From 1951 to 1955, she played the character Ellie Crown in the daytime series ''Love of Life.''
        In addition to Christopher Cohen, Ms. Parks is survived by her son Gerald Cohen and a stepdaughter, Barbara Cohen Hoffman.
      