
        Caroline Lerner Goldsmith, a public relations executive specializing in the visual arts and a founder of influential arts organizations, died on Oct. 2 at her home in Manhattan. She was 78.
        The cause was metastatic melanoma, said her husband, John Frank Goldsmith.
        Interested in art from childhood, Ms. Goldsmith and a small group of other women established ArtTable Inc. in 1980 to help women who were professionally involved in the arts to meet and network. It now has a national roster of members, with chapters in many American cities. She was executive director for its first 15 years and remained on the board until her death.
        Earlier, in 1960, she formed Gallery Passport, with a New York lawyer, Helene F. Kaplan. It was one of the first enterprises to conduct guided tours of museums and galleries, now a common practice.
        From 1966 until her death, Ms. Goldsmith was an executive with Ruder Finn Arts and Communications Counselors, a division of the international public relations agency Ruder & Finn that is active in promoting business support for the arts. She worked on art projects for corporate clients like Time Inc., now AOL Time Warner, American Express and the Philip Morris companies, now Altria.
        While at Ruder Finn, she organized a comprehensive show of work by African-American artists that toured nationally and commissioned a film in 1985 about the installation of 25 monumental Henry Moore sculptures in New York City parks. She also conceived an exhibition, ''Frontier America: The Far West,'' organized by the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, which traveled to museums in the United States and Europe in 1975 and 1976.
        She was born Caroline Steinholz on Nov. 12, 1925, in Manhattan. She graduated from Cornell University in 1946.
        Besides her husband, her survivors include a son, David Lerner of New York, from an earlier marriage to Mortimer Lerner, and three stepchildren, Kate Paradise of Boston, Elizabeth Hilton of Chicago and John F. Goldsmith Jr. of Plainfield, Ill..
      