
        Helen Gee, whose Limelight photography gallery in Greenwich Village in the 1950's became a pioneering blueprint for the offering and selling of photography as an art form, died on Sunday at a hospice in Manhattan. She was 85. Her death was announced by a friend, John Erdman.
        Spacious and well lit, the Limelight was started in May 1954 and supported by the adjoining coffeehouse. Although a market in fine photographs was almost nonexistent, for about seven years Limelight carried on as if there were one, setting the standard for successors that came in a trickle in the early 1970's and grew into a flood by the 1990's. Ms. Gee mounted new shows at roughly five-week intervals and wrote the news releases.
        Two earlier galleries -- Alfred Stieglitz's 291 early in the 20th century and Julien Levy's in the 1930's -- had tried to sell photographs but without success. Limelight did somewhat better. An Atget show, with the prints made by Berenice Abbott and priced at $20 each, was almost a sellout. More than half the pictures in an Edward Weston exhibition, at $75 a print, were bought. But rare photographs, photograms and photomontages by Laszlo Moholy-Nagy (priced between $100 and $200) failed to sell. Prints by Robert Frank ($25 each) and Julia Margaret Cameron ($65 each) found only a few buyers. Limelight was the showcase for a wide variety of photographic styles, from classic straight photography (Ansel Adams, Imogen Cunningham) to social documentary (Brassai, Lisette Model, W. Eugene Smith) and subjective and experimental work (Rudolph Burckhardt, Harry Callahan, Aaron Siskind). Such a roster differed sharply from the generally homogeneous fare found in popular picture magazines like Life and Look.
        Before opening Limelight, Ms. Gee had been a successful retoucher of color transparencies. She briefly took photography courses with Alexey Brodovitch, Model and Sid Grossman. But what Ms. Gee lacked in coffeehouse experience, she made up for in iron determination, familiarity with the Village art and photography worlds, and personal charm.
        In her 1997 memoir, ''Limelight: A Greenwich Village Photography Gallery and Coffeehouse in the 50's'' (University of New Mexico Press), Ms. Gee recalled with wry humor and unsentimental directness her struggles with freeloading drug addicts, the lack of adequate help, the threat of bankruptcy as well as brutish union officials.
        Writing in The New York Times Book Review, Mary Cantwell described how Ms. Gee ''had to survive a crooked contractor, a plague of city inspectors, hours in the Bowery's restaurant supply stores and an inundation of Seven Sisters graduates and dropouts all looking to be doing 'something' that would bring them closer to the arts.''
        Helen Charlotte Wimmer was born on April 29, 1919, in Jersey City. Her father, Peter Wimmer, had trained in Europe as a church decorator. Settling in New York, he supported his family by painting apartments.
        At 16, Helen left home to live in Greenwich Village with Yun Gee, a Chinese modernist painter she had met through an art teacher. They were married in 1942. When Yun Gee, subsequently found to be schizophrenic, threatened to turn violent, Ms. Gee left with their infant daughter, Li-lan.
        With a child to support, she taught herself transparency retouching, which paid well. By the early 1950's, with leading magazines and advertising agencies for clients, she could afford a secretary, private school for Li-lan and designer clothes. It was during a visit to the Museum of Modern Art that Ms. Gee came across a photography show and was instantly hooked.
        Financial and labor pressures forced Ms. Gee to close the Limelight's doors on Jan. 31, 1961. She then became an art consultant and also started to revive interest in Yun Gee's work. When the photography market began to heat up in the late 1970's, Ms. Gee returned to photography, this time as a curator, lecturer and writer.
        In late 2001 and early 2002, Ms. Gee offered her collection of photographs for exhibition and sale, first at the Stephen Daiter Gallery in Chicago and then at the Sarah Morthland Gallery in New York. Most of the prints had been given to Ms. Gee by photographers whose work had appeared at Limelight.
        Ms. Gee's second marriage, to Kevin Sullivan, ended in divorce. Besides her daughter, Li-lan Gee, an artist who lives in Easthampton, L.I., she is survived by a sister, Ellen Berland, of Warren, Conn., and a brother, Henry Wimmer, of Bath, N.Y.
      