
        Lynn Manulis, a retailer of luxury fashion who dressed a generation of the world's most socially prominent women in classic style while attiring their daughters in the work of bold young designers whose reputations she helped make, died on Sunday in Lantana, Fla.
        She was 85. A resident of Lantana, she had lived in Palm Beach for many years. Ms. Manulis died after having been ill with lung cancer, her daughter, Nancy Glick, said.
        Until her retirement last year, Ms. Manulis was president and chief executive of Martha Inc., the chain of boutiques founded by her mother, Martha Phillips. The flagship store, Martha, was on Park Avenue near 58th Street in Manhattan; there were also stores in Trump Tower and in Palm Beach and Bal Harbour, Fla.
        Ms. Manulis (MAN-you-liss), whom almost everyone called Miss Lynn, and her mother, known as Miss Martha, were for decades ''the doyennes of haute couture in America,'' The New York Times wrote in 1992. Mrs. Phillips died in 1996 at 98.
        While her mother dressed a constellation of boldface names in evening gowns by Halston, Geoffrey Beene, Pauline Trigère and Oscar de la Renta, Ms. Manulis sought to attract younger clients. In 1989, she opened a shop, Martha International, where she showcased the work of emerging talents like Zang Toi, Charlotte Neuville, Gemma Kahng and Christian Francis Roth.
        Among the garments there, The Times reported, were ''a strapless cotton dress with an appliquéd shark curving around the body, a sequined race driver's jacket studded with sports-car emblems'' and ''an orange blanket coat dripping giant fringes.''
        Lynn Phillips was born on Dec. 28, 1918, in Brooklyn. She studied acting with Stella Adler, and in 1942 appeared in the play ''Angel Street.'' In 1944, she married Robert Burnstine; the couple were divorced in 1954.
        After her divorce, Ms. Manulis joined her mother's business; she married Fred Manulis, a physician, in 1960. Dr. Manulis died in 1989. She is survived by two children from her first marriage, her daughter, of Washington, and a son, Andrew Burnstine, of Plantation, Fla.
        Martha Inc. thrived in the 1980's, with sales of more than $40 million in 1987, The Times reported. But the stock market crash of 1987 and the recession that followed put an end to the demand for the kind of goods that made the names of Ms. Manulis and her mother. The company filed for bankruptcy in 1992, closing its five stores.
        ''I was selling original couture dresses -- $20,000, $30,000 -- and nobody asked me the price,'' Ms. Manulis recalled in 1996. ''In the blink of an eye everyone pulled back.''
        In 1995, mother and daughter opened Martha Phillips, which sold less-expensive clothing, in Palm Beach. That store closed last year.
      