
        Judy Corman, a publishing executive who helped bring to life the global dynamo named Harry Potter, died on Monday at her home in Manhattan. She was 66.The cause was complications of cancer, her husband, the novelist Avery Corman, said.
        Ms. Corman was senior vice president of corporate communications at Scholastic, the United States publisher of J.K. Rowling's wildly successful fantasy series. She joined the company in 1999, the year Book 3, ''Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban,'' appeared. It was the first book in the series to be published in the United States and Britain in the same year.
        With that book, the Potter public-relations machine began to hum with a level of intensity and inventiveness rarely seen in children's publishing. Working with Kris Moran, Scholastic's director of trade-book publicity, Ms. Corman orchestrated suspense -- and desire -- in an international campaign that has continued through Books 4 and 5.
        In an unheard-of measure for a children's title, Book 4, ''Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire,'' was tightly embargoed before its publication in 2000. Even reviewers could not get advance copies. The embargo was lifted at midnight on the day of publication, with buyers lined up for hours outside bookstores throughout the English-speaking world.
        Last year, to herald the publication of Book 5, ''Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix,'' the first copy, inscribed by the author, was delivered by armored car to the New York Public Library. Worldwide sales of Ms. Rowling's books totaled 250 million in 2003, according to the reference series ''Contemporary Authors.''
        Judith Ann Lishinsky was born in Brooklyn on Aug. 17, 1938. She began her career at Epic Records, where she publicized the music of Miles Davis, Willie Nelson and John Denver. She was later public relations director for Phoenix House, the drug-rehabilitation agency, and a senior vice president at Robinson, Lerer & Montgomery, a New York public relations firm.
        Besides her husband, the author of ''Kramer vs. Kramer,'' Ms. Corman is survived by her parents, Ben and Roslyn Lishinsky of Delray Beach, Fla.; two brothers, Michael Lishinsky of Williams, Ore., and Howard Lishinsky of Metuchen, N.J.; and two sons, Nicholas, of Manhattan, and Matthew, of Los Angeles.
      