
        Dr. M. Irené Ferrer, a New York cardiologist and medical educator who helped refine the cardiac catheter and electrocardiogram, which have become diagnostic essentials in heart treatment, died at her apartment in Manhattan last Friday. She was 89.
        The cause was pneumonia combined with congestive heart failure, said a close friend, Dr. Marianne J. Legato, a Columbia cardiologist and internist, who was a protégée of Dr. Ferrer as a medical student in the 1950's.
        Dr. Ferrer, who spent four decades at Columbia University, grew up as a New York society debutante, blossoming into an internationally recognized researcher and clinician.
        Working at Bellevue Hospital in New York in the 1940's, she contributed to laboratory research that led to the cardiac catheter, a flexible tube passed through a patient's veins and directly into the heart or coronary arteries.
        The catheter permits precise measurement of blood pressure and flow and has led to angioplasty and other revolutionary heart treatments. In 1956 its development was recognized with the Nobel Prize for Physiology or Medicine, shared by a German scientist, Dr. Werner Forssmann and two researchers from Columbia, André F. Cournand and Dr. Dickinson W. Richards. Dr. Richards noted Dr. Ferrer's studies in his Nobel lecture.
        In later work Dr. Ferrer turned to the electrocardiogram, commonly known as an EKG, the electrical record of the heart's beating. She helped devise a computer-assisted algorithm that allowed a clearer and more immediate reading of that record. Previously, the test, which is often used to assess damages after a heart attack, could be interpreted only by doctors with specific training.
        Dr. Myron L. Weisfeldt, chairman of the department of medicine at Johns Hopkins University, said that Dr. Ferrer was ''a leader in electrocardiography at a time when it was the only test we had to judge the heart.'' He added, ''She taught today's teachers.''
        Marie Irené Ferrer was born in Elberon, N.J. She graduated from the Convent of the Sacred Heart in Manhattan and Bryn Mawr College before earning her medical degree at Columbia in 1941.
        She practiced briefly at New York University, then returned to Columbia in 1946 and was named an assistant professor there five years later. Dr. Ferrer was appointed professor of clinical medicine in 1972 and became a professor emeritus in 1981. She continued in private practice until nine years ago.
        Dr. Ferrer was a former editor in chief of Current Cardiology and The Journal of the American Medical Women's Association. In 1993 she received a gold medal from Columbia Medical School's alumni association.
        Dr. Ferrer is survived by a brother, Mel Ferrer, the actor and director, of Santa Barbara, Calif.
      