
        Frederica de Laguna, an anthropologist whose work on the history and culture of little-known Arctic civilizations was groundbreaking in the most literal sense of the word, died on Oct. 6 at her home in Haverford, Pa. She was 98.
        Her death was announced by Bryn Mawr College, where Dr. de Laguna was the William R. Kenan Jr. professor emeritus of anthropology. She founded the college's anthropology department and taught there from 1938 until her retirement in 1975.
        An authority on Alaskan prehistory, Dr. de Laguna was part of the first generation of women to succeed in the rough-and-ready, ultramasculine world of early 20th century field archaeology. She traveled thousands of miles by steamship and skiff, leading expeditions to villages so remote they appeared on no map. There, she contended with -- and generally got the better of -- bitter cold, frozen ground, ravenous mosquitoes and the rare male colleague foolhardy enough to question her ability.
        ''I love the actual digging, the rhythmical swing of the arms and the bending and pushing with the whole body,'' Dr. de Laguna wrote in ''Voyage to Greenland'' (1977), a memoir of her first field trip, made when she was 22. ''The sun shines warmly over my back, the rich, sweet smell of rotted blubber rises from the saturated earth.''
        In 1975, Dr. de Laguna and Margaret Mead were the first female anthropologists elected to the National Academy of Sciences. Among her best-known books are ''The Archaeology of Cook Inlet'' (1934), ''The Prehistory of Northern North America as Seen From the Yukon'' (1947), ''Chugach Prehistory: The Archeology of Prince William Sound, Alaska'' (1956) and her three-volume masterwork, ''Under Mount Saint Elias: The History and Culture of the Yakutat Tlingit'' (1972). She was the subject of a 1997 documentary film, ''Reunion Under Mount Saint Elias.''
        When Dr. de Laguna made her first trip to Alaska, in 1930, Arctic culture was virtually unknown. Victorian explorers had brought back trunkfuls of artifacts, but no scholar before her had studied an Arctic community in depth.
        ''She was really trying to find any possible kind of evidence that could converge to give us the overall history of these peoples,'' said Regna Darnell, an anthropologist at the University of Western Ontario and a former student of Dr. de Laguna's. ''Those early papers are a database that people have worked with ever since.''
        Frederica Annis Lopez de Leo de Laguna, almost always called Freddy, was born on Oct. 3, 1906, in Ann Arbor, Mich. She grew up in Bryn Mawr, where her parents taught philosophy. She earned a bachelor's degree in economics from Bryn Mawr in 1927 and, in 1933, a doctorate in anthropology from Columbia, where she was one of the last students of the anthropologist Franz Boas.
        In 1929, while still a graduate student, she joined a Danish expedition to a tiny island on Greenland's west coast. She planned to stay six weeks. She stayed nearly six months.
        ''How could I realize the hold which this experience -- the free life, the happy, fascinating natives, the absorbing work and the loyal comradeship -- has obtained over me,'' she wrote in a letter home at the end of the trip. ''I feel as if I could never be content with ordinary living again, unless it were to be broken by a return to the Arctic. It makes me very sad to know that I have found my ideal vocation in such an inaccessible place.''
        She was so sure of her vocation, and its incompatibility with married life, that she broke her engagement to a young mining engineer. She never married, and left no immediate survivors.
        A Wave in World War II, Dr. de Laguna also studied the Pima Indians of Arizona. She wrote two mystery novels with anthropological settings, ''The Arrow Points to Murder'' (1937) and ''Fog on the Mountain'' (1938).
        While Dr. de Laguna's work drew praise from many of the Alaskan Natives whose traditions she explored, she had limited patience with the sensitivities of the multicultural era. In recent years, she was called upon to defend her practice -- routine among anthropologists of her generation -- of opening the graves of indigenous people and removing their contents for study.
        With the passage of the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act in 1990, many of these remains, which had been in museums for decades, were returned for reburial. Dr. de Laguna regretted the loss to scholarship in no uncertain terms.
        ''Some of our ancestors went to the stake for the right to do science,'' she told The Baltimore Sun in 1997. ''Now we have to kowtow to the superstition of these Indians.''
      