
        Miriam Schlein, whose nearly one hundred books, written over half a century, taught very young children about animals and concepts like time and space, died on Nov. 23 in New York. She was 78 and lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was vasculitis, an inflammation of the blood vessels, her family said.
        Ms. Schlein wrote to educate while also entertaining her readers. She found new ways of telling them about bats and skunks and porcupines and their behavior even as she cleared up myths about them. Some of her recent books were about dinosaurs, and four are currently in print: ''Before the Dinosaurs'' (1996), illustrated by Michael Rothman; ''The Dino Quiz Book'' (1995), illustrated by Nate Evans; ''Let's Go Dinosaur Tracking!'' (1991), illustrated by Kate Duke; and ''Discovering Dinosaur Babies'' (1991), illustrated by Margaret Colbert.
        Other works featured elephants, pandas, sea horses. pigeons and squirrels. Two new books, her last, appeared this year: ''The Story About Me,'' and ''Little Raccoon's Big Question.'' She first appeared in print in 1951 with ''A Day at the Playground'' from Golden Books, where she worked as a secretary.
        Ms. Schlein was born in Brooklyn. She received a B.A. in English and psychology from Brooklyn College in 1947 and then held a number of jobs in advertising and publishing.
        She was in the children's department of Simon & Schuster when she decided that her future lay in writing. She pursued it with a series of books about concepts, illustrated by Leonard Kessler and published by William R. Scott. They included ''Shapes'' (1952) and ''Heavy Is a Hippopotamus.'' In the 1950's she also wrote some stories about children and animals that won her wide recognition and awards, including ''Four Little Foxes,'' ''Elephant Herd,'' and ''When Will the World Be Mine?'' about a baby snowshoe rabbit, which The New Yorker called ''a poetic book.''
        Some of her books were Junior Literary Guild Selections and several of her natural-science titles received Outstanding Science Books for Children awards. ''When Will the World Be Mine?'' (1953), republished 20 years later as ''The Rabbit's World,'' was named a Caldecott Honor Book.
        Her marriage to Harvey Weiss of Westport, Conn., an artist who illustrated some of her early work, ended in divorce.
        Ms. Schlein is survived by a daughter, Elizabeth S. Weiss of Union City, N.J.; a son, John M. Weiss of Brooklyn; a brother, Dr. Paul Schlein of Bethesda, Md.; and four grandchildren.
      