
        Dame Alicia Markova, one of the greatest British ballerinas of the 20th century, co-founder of the company now known as the English National Ballet and a former director of the Metropolitan Opera Ballet, died yesterday in Bath, England, the English National Ballet announced. She was 94.
        Famous for her delicacy, Dame Alicia was indelibly associated with ''Giselle,'' the supreme example of 19th-century balletic Romanticism. It was as Giselle that she made her American debut with the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in 1938, giving a performance that was thought to set a standard for any other dancer attempting the part. She later performed Giselle as a star of Ballet Theater (as American Ballet Theater was originally called) and as a guest artist with companies around the world. She was so closely identified with the ballet that in 1960 she titled her autobiography ''Giselle and I.''
        Audiences never tired of watching Dame Alicia in ''Giselle''; she, in turn, never seemed to tire of dancing it. Reviewing a 1958 performance by Ballet Theater in which Miss Markova appeared as guest artist, John Martin, then the dance critic of The New York Times, remarked: ''Markova has danced the role so many times that she could undoubtedly do it in her sleep; what is so notable is that she never does. She is as fresh, as sensitive, as creatively alert as if she had never done it before; but what a wealth of background she has accumulated for it!''
        Lillian Alicia Marks was born in London on Dec. 1, 1910. A knock-kneed child, she was sent by her doctor to a London school called Miss Thorne's Dancing Academy. She astounded her teacher with her ability to do anything asked of her, and she was soon cast in dancing roles in Christmas pantomimes.
        Mrs. Marks took her daughter to a London school run by the ballerina Serafina Astafieva. She presented Astafieva with a card bearing the child's name as she had been billed in the pantomimes: ''Little Alicia: The Miniature Pavlova.'' Aghast at this presumption, Astafieva slammed the door in their faces. Later, however, she saw Alicia dance and accepted her as a pupil.
        In 1924 the teenage Alicia became the youngest member of Serge Diaghilev's Ballets Russes, the greatest ballet company of its day. She danced her first leading role in 1926, when she portrayed the nightingale in ''Le Rossignol,'' choreographed by George Balanchine to music by Stravinsky. Non-Russian dancers in the Ballets Russes were expected to change their names, and it was Diaghilev who gave the British dancer her professional name. He also gave Miss Markova a governess, who made sure that her charge went to bed early when she was not performing and saw to it that she did not overindulge in chocolates and that she attended no social occasions but chaperoned teas.
        After Diaghilev died in 1929, Miss Markova returned to London and became active with both of the pioneering British ballet groups of the day, the Ballet Rambert and the Vic-Wells Ballet, the last of which developed into the Royal Ballet. Because she was already an esteemed dancer, her presence lent prestige to these troupes and, because she was British, she proved that ballet was not something in which only Russians could excel.
        In 1934 she formed the Markova-Dolin Ballet with another British dancer, Anton Dolin, the partner with whom she was associated for much of her career. She joined the Ballet Russe de Monte Carlo in 1938, remaining with it until 1941, when she joined Ballet Theater, where Mr. Dolin was again her partner. In 1945 they formed a Markova-Dolin Ballet in America.
        Returning to Britain after the war, they made their troupe the basis of the London Festival Ballet (today's English National Ballet). Mr. Dolin was its first director; Miss Markova was its ballerina until 1952, after which she devoted herself to guest performances. She retired as a dancer in 1963, the year Queen Elizabeth II named her Dame of the British Empire.
        Known for her beautiful purity of line and her classic simplicity of movement, Dame Alicia was admired in ''Swan Lake'' and ''Les Sylphides'' as well as in ''Giselle.'' Yet this ethereal ballerina could surprise audiences with her range. She certainly did so with Ballet Theater in 1942 when she danced two contrasting roles. One was Juliet in Antony Tudor's ''Romeo and Juliet.'' In 1946 the dance historian Grace Robert praised that interpretation in ''The Borzoi Book of Ballets,'' writing that ''Markova's deerlike shyness in the first scene, her tragic, controlled despair, the exquisite movement of her hand as she wakes up in the tomb scene, all are unforgettable in their subtlety.''
        But this poignant Juliet was tempestuous as the gypsy Zemphira in Léonide Massine's ''Aleko.'' ''The great surprise of 'Aleko' was the superb Zemphira of Alicia Markova,'' Robert wrote. ''Her exquisite 'Swan Lake' and matchless 'Giselle' contained no hint of the fire and quite different sort of dramatic intensity of her gypsy. With sunburnt makeup, wild hair and a vivid red costume, her very appearance was a shock, though a delightful one.''
        Dame Alicia, who had occasionally made guest appearances in the ballet sequences of works in the repertory of the Metropolitan Opera, astonished the dance world in 1963 when she accepted an invitation to direct the Metropolitan Opera Ballet. The Met's dance troupe had never been considered important and the opera management had seldom shown much interest in ballet. Nevertheless, in her six years as director, Dame Alicia raised the dancers' technical level and made it possible for the ballet company to present programs of its own.
        In 1970 Dame Alicia became a distinguished lecturer on ballet at the University of Cincinnati College-Conservatory of Music, the home school of the Cincinnati Ballet. She remained there until 1974, after which she gave occasional master classes for many organizations, including the Royal Ballet School. She also staged revivals of ballets in which she had starred, and presided over dance festivals and conferences.
        A gala was held in honor of Dame Alicia's 80th birthday on Dec. 2, 1990, at the Sadler's Wells Theater in London. On that occasion, Dame Ninette de Valois, founder of the Royal Ballet, spoke in tribute to her.
        A tiny black-haired woman, Dame Alicia was just over 5 feet 2 inches tall, and during her dancing years she rarely weighed more than 98 pounds, even though she usually devoured a thick steak after performances.
        Her life was as carefully organized as her dancing. She moved through each day with quiet determination and her life was almost entirely devoted to ballet. She never married. Among her few diversions were expensive clothes, classical music and gin rummy, at which she usually won.
      