
        Gretchen Bender, an artist who worked in several photographic and film mediums, died on Sunday at her Manhattan home. She was 53.
        The cause was cancer, her family said.
        Ms. Bender belonged to the generation of early 1980's Pictures artists, who included Jack Goldstein, Cindy Sherman, Robert Longo and Richard Prince. Combining aspects of Conceptual Art and Pop Art, these artists used the images of popular culture to dissect its powerful codes, especially regarding gender and sexuality.
        Ms. Bender was born in Seaford, Del., earned a bachelor of fine arts from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill in 1973 and moved to New York in 1978. She had her first New York gallery show at the Nature Morte Gallery in the East Village in 1983. Made of black-on-white enamel on squares of tin in cruciform arrangements, Ms. Bender's early work contrasted different categories of images from abstract art, glossy advertising and new photographs. She also appropriated from the mostly male Neo Expressionist painters of her generation and in harsher pieces paired impersonal computerized patterns with grisly images of massacres. Throughout her work she contrasted the immense power of technology and corporations with the plight of individuals.
        Ms. Bender did not limit her activities to the art world. The credits she designed for the television show ''America's Most Wanted'' may have originated the rapid-fire hyperediting now pervasive in film, television and video art. She produced, directed and edited music videos for Babes in Toyland and Martha Wash; edited music videos for R.E.M., New Order and Megadeth; and designed sets for the choreographers Bill T. Jones and Molissa Fenley. Her midcareer retrospective, organized by the Everson Museum of Art in Syracuse in 1991, toured internationally, as did her multimedia theater pieces ''Total Recall'' (1987) and ''Dumping Core'' (1984).
        Ms. Bender's work is in the collections of the Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan, the Pompidou Center in Paris and the Menil Collection in Houston.
        Ms. Bender is survived by her partner, Mitchell Wagenberg of Manhattan; her parents, Charles and Carolyn Bender of Charlotte, N. C.; a brother, Jonathan Bender of Los Angeles; and two sisters, Kate Bender of Charlotte and Valerie Godwin of Philadelphia.
      