
        Anne Truitt, a sculptor and writer widely admired for her painted, columnar structures and for her published journals about her life as an artist, died on Thursday at Sibley Memorial Hospital in Washington. She was 83 and lived in Washington.
        The cause was complications of abdominal surgery, said her dealer, Renato Danese.
        Ms. Truitt was among the first artists to exhibit three-dimensional works in the early 1960's that would come to be identified by the term Minimalism. She was included in exhibitions in New York that put the movement on the map, like ''Primary Structures'' at the Jewish Museum in 1966. However, critics have long debated whether her sculpture is properly Minimalist. Although formally austere, the slender, squared columns for which she is best known were not produced using the industrial methods of manufacture usually associated with Minimalism. Rather, Ms. Truitt carefully painted her wooden constructions in subtly differentiated hues, creating non-Minimalist complexities of composition and color.
        Some have viewed her work as more like three-dimensional painting than sculpture, and the sculptor Donald Judd, writing as a critic about her debut show at Andre Emmerich Gallery in 1963, dismissed her work as overly traditional. The decade's most influential critic, Clement Greenberg, who disliked Minimalism and championed Color Field painting, promoted her work.
        In 1974, after retrospective exhibitions of her work at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York and the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington left her feeling emotionally drained, Ms. Truitt began to keep a journal focusing on her life as an artist. Short, dated entries written in graceful, lucid prose describe her processes and her spiritual ups and downs in the studio, her effort to balance being an artist and being a wife and mother and her struggles to make ends meet after her divorce from James Truitt, a Washington journalist. The diary was published in 1982 as "Daybook: The Journal of an Artist," and two more volumes followed: "Turn" in 1986 and "Prospect" in 1996. All have been reissued by Penguin Books.
        Anne Dean was born in Baltimore on March 16, 1921, and grew up on the Eastern Shore of Maryland. Hoping to become a therapist, she received a bachelor's degree in psychology from Bryn Mawr College in 1943, but she became disillusioned by the field while working in a psychiatric ward at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston. After marrying in 1947, she began studying sculpture at the Institute of Contemporary Art in Washington.
        Ms. Truitt completed her studies in 1949, but though she continued to make art throughout the 50's, it was not until 1961, a year after the birth of her third and last child, that she began to produce sculpture in her own style. After a visit to New York exposed her for the first time to proto-Minimalist paintings by Ad Reinhardt and Barnett Newman, Ms. Truitt began to make radically simplified painted wood sculptures resembling objects like picket fences and tombstones. Although the representational aspects soon dropped out, experiences of landscape and personal memories would continue to animate her otherwise severely abstract, vertical structures.
        Soon after Ms. Truitt began making these new works, the Color Field painter Kenneth Noland, a friend since her student days at the Institute of Contemporary Art, brought Greenberg to see her work, and they encouraged the dealer Andre Emmerich to pay a visit. He offered her a show at his 57th Street Gallery, and she continued to exhibit there regularly for more than three decades.
        Ms. Truitt is survived by her children, Alexandra, of South Salem, N.Y., Mary, of Annapolis, Md., and Samuel, of New York; and by eight grandchildren.
      