
        Maude Lloyd, a dramatically expressive ballerina who became an articulate dance critic, writing in collaboration with her husband, Nigel Gosling, died on Nov. 26 at her home in London. She was 96.
        She died after a brief hospitalization, said John Percival, a British freelance dance critic.Born in South Africa in 1908, Ms. Lloyd arrived in London as a dance student and in 1927 became associated with Ballet Rambert, a pioneering British ballet company. After capturing the attention of Antony Tudor, then a young choreographer eager to explore the possibilities of dramatic ballets, she danced in major works of his like ''The Planets'' (1934) and ''Dark Elegies'' (1937).
        Perhaps her greatest characterization was that of Caroline in ''Jardin aux Lilas'' (1936), Tudor's poignant and often revived ballet about a young woman who must marry a man she does not love. Ms. Lloyd's eloquence contributed much to the impact of its premiere.
        When she started teaching ballet classes for adult beginners, one of her students was a dance-loving young art critic, Mr. Gosling. She married him in 1939 and retired from the stage the next year.
        Because Ms. Lloyd's conversation was as expressive as her dancing, and because she and her husband were inseparable, Richard Buckle, editor of Ballet magazine in London, suggested in 1951 that the couple write dance criticism as a team. They adopted Alexander Bland as a byline, derived from the names of two piglets (Pigling Bland and his brother Alexander) in a Beatrix Potter story.
        After they wrote for various publications, the team as Alexander Bland began writing dance reviews in 1955 in The Observer, a weekly for which Gosling was also the art critic. Although Gosling stopped writing art criticism in 1975, reviews by Alexander Bland continued until Gosling died in 1982. Some of them are anthologized in ''Observer of the Dance'' (Dance Books, 1985).
        When Rudolf Nureyev arrived in England after defecting from the Soviet Union in 1961, the Goslings hospitably took the young dancer under their wings and helped him adjust to his new country. They celebrated his achievements in their book ''The Nureyev Image'' (1976).
        Ms. Lloyd is survived by a son, Nicholas, and grandchildren.
      