
        Georgette Klinger, who 60 years ago mixed a secret ingredient or two with common sense and created a recipe for clear skin -- and a chain of centers to pamper it -- died on Friday at Lenox Hill Hospital in Manhattan, said her daughter, Kathryn Klinger Belton. She was 88.
        Miss Klinger, whose own complexion was a pampered milky white, began by treating the skin as a tender, living organ, not a surface in need of decoration, an approach that revolutionized cosmetic skin care. Her techniques for doing facials set the standard, as did her early use of herbal treatments, nutrition and exercise as part of skin care.
        Before Miss Klinger, beauty treatment involved getting one's hair or makeup done, her daughter said. The new techniques Miss Klinger brought from Europe and further developed herself to revitalize skin helped lay the foundation for today's multibillion-dollar spa industry, and she widened the universe of those who enjoyed facials, devising treatments for men and teenagers.
        She opened her Madison Avenue salon in 1941, and eventually had nine salons around the country. They quickly attracted socialites, movie stars and, later, movers and shakers like Helen Gurley Brown and Hillary Rodham Clinton.
        In 1972, The New Yorker said that Miss Klinger was ''more than an imperious name scrawled in gilt across the white containers filled with her cosmetics and unguents.'' What separated her from the pack, the magazine suggested, was ''an affection for women and a concern for their faces that -- in a field set close with jostling prima donnas, despots, social arbiters and frauds -- are clearly genuine.''
        Miss Klinger's own image was almost never without a hat, and she greatly preferred uncomfortable shoes to unfashionable ones. Her beloved poodle, Pushka, traveled in a Louis Vuitton case and lunched with her at the Carlyle Hotel.
        She eschewed most advertising, in part because she disliked big words, and regarded washing one's face as perhaps the most important beauty treatment. ''I offer no miracles, no promises -- just clean skin,'' she said in an interview in 1976.
        Georgette Eckstein was born in Brno, in what became Czechoslovakia. As a young woman she won a beauty contest and was given some cosmetics that irritated her skin. When dermatology treatments proved unsuccessful in curing her acne, she began experimenting with her own cures. She trained with dermatologists and cosmeticians in Zurich, Budapest and Vienna, as well as in Prague.
        She opened her first salon in Czechoslovakia in 1938, but was forced to close it a year later when Hitler took over the country and she and her three brothers fled to London, her daughter said. Her parents stayed and vanished; she never learned what happened to them.
        Miss Klinger got a bank loan to open her shop at 509 Madison Avenue. (She later moved to 501 Madison and outfitted the new shop with a swirling stairway of chrome and glass.) In the early years, she made all her products in her kitchen.
        ''I was very lucky because I got some very famous people who had acne,'' Miss Klinger said in an interview with WWD in 1992. ''Actresses used to fly from Hollywood to see us.''
        Step by patient step, she opened new salons, and in 1982 set up a separate laboratory and factory in New Jersey, which allowed her to expand the Georgette Klinger brand. Her company's revenues exceeded $20 million in 1988, when it was sold to the Pyle Group, a financial services and investment firm.
        Miss Klinger's husband, Jacobo Klinger, died in 1976. In addition to her daughter, of Los Angeles, she is survived by two grandsons.
        ''If I see someone leaving the salon who doesn't look their best, I say so, right in front of the employee,'' she said in an interview with The Washington Times in 1992. ''I tell them to redo her.
        ''It's not very nice, I guess, but it has to be done.''
      