
        Mona Van Duyn, a poet laureate and Pulitzer Prize winner who spoke with a distinctly female voice from suburbia, died on Thursday at her home in suburban St. Louis. She was 83.
        Her death was announced by Alfred A. Knopf, which published her ''Selected Poems'' two years ago. Her first book in nine years, it includes nearly half of the poems published in her previous eight volumes, starting with ''Valentines to the Wide World'' in 1959.
        Knopf said Ms. Van Duyn (pronounced dine) had recently been found to have bone cancer.
        To readers unfamiliar with her work, ''Selected Poems'' presented a generous and judicious sampling of a long and successful career, Brian Henry wrote in The New York Times Book Review.
        ''Characterized by candor and compassion,'' he said, ''Van Duyn's poetry depicts the pleasures and drudgeries of middle-class American life, an approach that at its best becomes an exploration of the spiritual and psychological dimensions of that life.
        ''A pioneer of the poetry of the suburbs -- now a common mode in which the ordinary is routinely revealed as extraordinary -- Van Duyn also knows that the ordinary is frequently just that.''
        Mr. Henry, editor of the magazine Verse and director of the creative writing program at the University of Georgia, mentioned the rare incendiary moments in her work but added that, ''Her poetry is primarily, and literally, civil, seeking to uphold the accepted foundations of civilization -- marriage and friendship, love and sympathy -- while occasionally plumbing those foundations for cracks.''
        Mr. Henry wrote that he considered Ms. Van Duyn's first three books to be her best, especially ''To See, To Take,'' her second, which won the National Book Award for Poetry in 1971. In it she interwove religious and mythological themes, like divine and human love and the violence of love, with less exalted topics.
        In one poem, for example, she compared her work to home canning, writing:
        Oh, I know, I know that, great or humble, the arts
        in their helplessness can save but a few selves
        by such disguises from Time's hideous bite,
        and yet, a sweating Proust of the pantry shelves,
        I cupboard these pickled peaches in Time's despite.
        Ms. Van Duyn was selected by the Library of Congress in 1992 to serve a term as the United States poet laureate. She was the sixth laureate and the first woman to be chosen.
        When notified by James H. Billington, the Librarian of Congress at the time, Ms. Van Duyn said it was clear to her that the selectors who made the choice were ''getting very nervous'' about the absence of a woman as laureate.
        Before the position was formally established by Congress in 1985, it had a forerunner in the library's poetry consultant. There were about two dozen of them, but only a handful were women.
        A year before becoming poet laureate, Ms. Van Duyn won the Pulitzer Prize for poetry. The award cited her for ''Near Changes'' (Knopf, 1990). She also received, among many others, the Bollingen Prize in 1970; the Carl Sandburg Prize of Cornell College in 1982; the Hart Crane Memorial Award in 1968; the Ruth Lilly Poetry Prize in 1989; the Shelley Memorial Prize of the Poetry Society of America in 1987; and a Guggenheim fellowship in 1972. She was also a member of the American Academy and Institute of Arts and Letters, and the National Academy of Arts and Sciences.
        Mona Jane Van Duyn was born on May 9, 1921, in Waterloo, Iowa, and graduated from the University of Northern Iowa in 1942, when it was the Iowa State Teachers College. She received a master's degree from the University of Iowa the next near and taught English there until 1946. In 1943 she married Jarvis A. Thurston, whom she met in a writing class and who became a professor of English; he survives her.
        She also had an academic career, teaching at the University of Louisville, in Kentucky, and at Washington University in St. Louis, as well as at writing seminars and conferences.
        Between ''Valentines'' and ''Selected Poems,'' she also published, among others, ''A Time of Bees'' (1964); ''Letters From a Father, and Other Poems'' (1982); ''If It Be Not I: Collected Poems 1959-1982'' (1992), which included much of her earlier work; and ''Firefall'' (1992), which remains in print at Knopf.
        ''I don't know why that is,'' she said 14 years ago as the newly chosen laureate, musing about why women were not anthologized or consulted as frequently as men. ''Perhaps it is because younger women are able to teach, or take the time to raise children. Even for older women, one's life is complicated. It is difficult to be called by a reporter or the Library of Congress when one is cooking a complicated recipe.''
        Or, as she once put it in another context:
        The world is perverse,
        but it could be worse.
        (''Letters From a Father, and Other Poems.'')
        Correction:  December 23, 2004, Thursday  An obituary of the poet Mona Van Duyn on Dec. 4 misstated the first line of a couplet from her poem ''Sonnet for Minimalists'' and misidentified the first book in which it appeared. The couplet reads, ''The world's perverse/but it could be worse' -- not ''The world is perverse.'' The sonnet was first published in book form in ''Near Changes'' (Alfred A. Knopf, 1990), not in ''Letters From a Father, and Other Poems'' (Atheneum, 1982).
      