
        Bernarda Bryson Shahn, the widow of the painter Ben Shahn, who won her own recognition as an artist late in life, died on Sunday at her home in Roosevelt, N.J., her son, Jonathan Shahn, said. She was 101.
        Ms. Shahn, who began her career as a writer, printmaker and illustrator, was best known in recent decades for her paintings, which critics described as simultaneously realistic and mysterious in style.
        Her one-woman exhibitions included shows at Midtown Galleries in New York in 1983; at the Ben Shahn Galleries of William Paterson University in Wayne, N.J., in 2002; and at the Susan Teller Gallery in Lower Manhattan last year in honor of her 100th birthday. Ms. Shahn's work is in the permanent collections of the Whitney Museum of American Art and other institutions.
        Bernarda Bryson was born on March 7, 1903, in Athens, Ohio. From her family, she inherited both an interest in writing (her father owned The Athens Morning Journal) and the progressive social conscience that informed much of her work (her maternal grandfather's home had been a stop on the underground railroad). She studied printmaking at several schools, including Ohio University, Ohio State and the Cleveland School of Art.
        After an early marriage that ended in divorce, Ms. Shahn went to work as a newspaper journalist. In 1933, she traveled to New York to interview the muralist Diego Rivera for an Ohio newspaper. There, she met Rivera's assistant, Ben Shahn, who became her life companion. They married shortly before Mr. Shahn's death, in 1969.
        In the mid-1930's, the couple drove across the country, documenting rural life for the Resettlement Administration. Ms. Shahn's series of lithographs from that trip was published in 1995 as ''The Vanishing American Frontier.'' She collaborated with her husband on two of his New Deal-era murals, one in what is now the Roosevelt Public School in Roosevelt, N.J., and the other in the Bronx General Post Office. Both still exist.
        In midcareer, Ms. Shahn turned primarily to illustration. She wrote and illustrated several children's books, including ''The Zoo of Zeus'' (1964) and ''Gilgamesh'' (1967). She also wrote a 1972 monograph on Ben Shahn's work.
        In addition to her son, a sculptor, who lives in Roosevelt, Ms. Shahn is survived by a daughter, Abby Shahn, a painter, of Solon, Me.; another daughter, Susanna Watts, died in 1967. She is also survived by two stepchildren from Mr. Shahn's previous marriage, Ezra of Riverdale, the Bronx, and Judith Shahn Dugan, a painter, of Truro, Mass.; three grandchildren; one step-grandchild; and two great-grandchildren.
      