
        Agnes Martin, an American painter whose luminous fields of pale color traversed by hand-drawn pencil lines preserved the Romantic spirit of Abstract Expressionism and prefigured the austerities of Minimalism, died yesterday in a retirement community in Taos, N.M.
        She was 92 and had lived in New Mexico for many years. Her death was announced by the chairman of the PaceWildenstein gallery, Arne Glimcher, her friend and longtime dealer.
        In New York in the 1950's and 60's, Ms. Martin was an integral part of a small, brilliant, diverse community of artists -- Jasper Johns, Ellsworth Kelly and Robert Rauschenberg among them -- who lived in derelict 19th-century shipping lofts in Lower Manhattan and created a new postwar American art.
        Yet Ms. Martin was fundamentally a loner. In 1967, when her New York career was taking off, she abruptly left the city, wandered the country for months in a pickup and camper, and stopped making art for seven years. She finally settled in New Mexico, building an adobe house with her own hands on a remote mesa where in winter she was snowed in for weeks at a time. After she resumed painting in 1974 her reputation grew and took on the aura of a legend, and her work was widely collected. She became an inspiration to younger artists, from Eva Hesse to Ellen Gallagher, attracted to her undemonstrative but intensely personal art.
        Agnes Bernice Martin was born in Macklin, Saskatchewan, Canada, on March 22, 1912, a descendant of Scottish Presbyterian pioneers. Her father, a wheat farmer, died when she was 2; her mother supported the family by selling real estate. Ms. Martin spent much of her childhood with her maternal grandfather, a gentle, religious man who introduced her to inspirational literature, including John Bunyan's ''Pilgrim's Progress,'' which remained important to her throughout her life.
        She had a strong early interest in art, but opted for the financial security of teaching, and in the 1940's moved to New York to study art education at Teachers College, Columbia University. While there she became aware of Abstract Expressionism, the modern style that she felt most in tune with, partly because its artists were of her generation; she and Jackson Pollock were born in the same year. It is possible to view her as the last of the generation of Abstract Expressionists.
        After hearing lectures by the Zen Buddhist scholar D.T. Suzuki at Columbia, she became interested in Asian thought, not as a religious discipline, but as a code of ethics, a practical how-to for getting through life.
        ''One thing I like about Zen,'' she wrote. ''It doesn't believe in achievement. I don't think the way to succeed is by doing something aggressive. Aggression is weak-minded.''
        In Taos in 1954 she did her first semiabstract work. The art dealer Betty Parsons saw it and invited Ms. Martin to join her New York stable, which included Ad Reinhardt and younger artists like Mr. Kelly. The only stipulation was that Ms. Martin return to Manhattan. She did so in 1957, joining Mr. Kelly, Robert Indiana, Lenore Tawney and other artists on Coenties Slip near Wall Street. Barnett Newman, with whose art she felt a particular affinity, had a studio nearby. During the decade she spent there, she developed a fully abstract style based on tight grids and repetitive linear marks.
        Then she left New York. Urban renewal was about to drastically alter her downtown neighborhood. The competitive New York art world unnerved her. A relationship may have gone wrong. Ms. Martin, who had a history of psychological crises, said elliptically, ''I came to a place of recognition of confusion that had to be solved.''
        Before leaving she gave away all her paint and canvas rolls, hoping young artists would use them. Once she starting painting again in 1974, however, she worked solidly until the end of her life, in a format that seldom varied: six-foot-square canvases on which she drew horizontal graphite lines and painted bands of color with subtly vigorous strokes. She changed her palette from series to series, using pale colors one year, and black, white or gray the next.
        She first showed at PaceWildenstein, formerly Pace Gallery, in 1975, and became a mainstay there. Her most recent show was in the spring, and in a departure, the paintings referred back to the geometric forms of her Coenties Slip work.
        She had two career retrospectives, one at the Institute of Contemporary Art at the University of Pennsylvania in 1973, the other at the Whitney Museum of American Art in 1992. In 1993 the Stedelijk Museum in Amsterdam organized a traveling survey of her post-1974 work. A selection of early paintings is on view at Dia:Beacon through April. And an installation of paintings is on permanent view in a specially designed gallery in the Harwood Museum of Art in Taos. Her work is in most major United States museum collections.
        Ms. Martin was awarded a National Medal of Arts by President Clinton in 1998 and recently accepted a lifetime achievement award from the Women's Caucus for Art.
        Several years ago she moved to the retirement community. There her daily routine seldom varied. She rose early and drove to her nearby studio, where she worked alone from 8:30 to 11:30 a.m. One of the few concessions she made to age was to reduce the size of her paintings so that she could continue to move them herself. She never had an assistant.
        Although shy in public, Ms. Martin lectured periodically, offering her thoughts on art and life in series of epigrammatic statements that combined Victorian poetry, Buddhist philosophy, transcendentalism, American-style positive thinking and the inspirational literature of her youth. The lectures were collected into a book in 1992, ''Writings,'' which established her as a moral thinker as well as an artist. Some critics consider her words an essential complement to her ineffable paintings.
        Like her paintings, her writing was lucid and severe, measured but driven. She insisted that art was not an instrument for social change and, in a post-1960's America highly conscious of racial and sexual identity, her social views tended to be conservative and provincial. Art's value, in her thinking, was in its ability to counteract negative thoughts and emotions, promote psychic calm over chaos, and establish stability in a world of unpredictable and potentially shattering change.
        Before her death, Ms. Martin specified that she wanted no memorial service or eulogies. She leaves no survivors.
        ''The value of art is in the observer,'' she said in an interview with The New York Times. ''When you find out what you like, you're really finding out about yourself. Beethoven's music is joyous. If you like his music, you know that you like to be joyful. People who look at my painting say that it makes them happy, like the feeling when you wake up in the morning. And happiness is the goal, isn't it?''
      