
        Kiharu Nakamura, a geisha in Tokyo in the 1930's who wrote a popular memoir and taught sopranos how to portray the most famous geisha in fiction, Madama Butterfly, died on Jan. 5 at her home in Jackson Heights, Queens. She was 90.
        The report of her death came from Artemis Willis, who is making a documentary film about her.
        Miss Nakamura, whose original name was Kazuko Yamamoto, was born on the Japanese island of Hokkaido. Her family moved to Tokyo when she was a child, and at age 15 she joined the Shimbashi Geisha Association. She learned to play the three-stringed lute called the shamisen, to sing ballads in the traditional quavering voice, to dance and otherwise entertain. She adopted the name Kiharu, which means happy spring.
        She also learned English, an accomplishment that led to the end of her career as a geisha. Pressed by the military police to report on her foreign clients, she instead married a young diplomat, Shintaro Ota, and moved with him to his post in Calcutta.
        They returned to Japan during the war and later divorced, and she eventually married a photographer, Masaya Nakamura. After a second divorce, she moved to New York, where she became a sought-after expert on geisha traditions.
        Ms. Nakamura helped the soprano Anna Moffo and many other singers prepare for the role of Cio-Cio-San in Puccini's ''Madama Butterfly,'' teaching them how to walk with their feet together, hold a fan and stand up gracefully from kneeling.
        She was also a consultant on the Broadway show ''M. Butterfly,'' and was cited in the acknowledgments of Arthur Golden's 1997 novel ''Memoirs of a Geisha.''
        Her own memoir, ''An Edokko Geisha'' (1983), was a best seller in Japan and became a mini-series on Japanese television. She also wrote two other memoirs, as well as autobiographical novels. Her books have not been translated into English.
        Miss Nakamura is survived by her companion, Robert E. Lee of Jackson Heights; a son, Masakatsu Ota of Niigata, Japan; and two grandchildren.
      