
        Olivia Goldsmith, author of the popular comic novel ''The First Wives Club,'' died late yesterday afternoon at Lenox Hill Hospital from complications related to anesthesia, said her literary agent, Nicholas Ellison. She was 54.
        On Wednesday she entered the Manhattan Eye, Ear and Throat Hospitals for elective surgery to remove loose skin under her chin, Mr. Ellison said. As she went under anesthesia, she had a heart attack and the doctors were unable to get oxygen into her system, he said. She went into a coma, was transferred to Lenox Hill Hospital, and never recovered.
        Born Randy Goldfield in New York to Mark and Estelle Goldfield, she grew up in Dumont, N.J., and attended New York University.
        Ms. Goldfield became one of the first women in the emerging profession of management consulting and quickly became one of the first to be a partner at the firm Booz Allen Hamilton.
        But she had always longed to be a writer, her sister Barbara Turner said.
        ''She had read everything and, what is more, could recite by memory from everything she read,'' Ms. Turner said.
        After a divorce from her husband, a business executive, she lived in London and changed her legal name to Justine Rendal. She created the pen name Olivia Goldsmith, Mr. Ellison said, when she decided to write.
        Her debut novel was ''The First Wives Club''(Arrow, 1992), which playfully imagined the revenge of three women who had been dumped by their husbands for younger second wives. A best seller, that book was also made into a successful movie in 1996, starring Diane Keaton, Goldie Hawn and Bette Midler. Ms. Hawn played a flashy Hollywood diva who had plastic surgery to retain her youthful looks, but wound up with a decidedly comic outcome.
        Ms. Goldsmith wrote more than a half dozen humorous novels, including ''Switcheroo'' (HarperCollins, 1998) and ''Young Wives'' (HarperCollins, 2000).
        Although critics frequently dismissed her books as trite, she kept a solid following among readers and Hollywood producers who found her tales highly satisfying social commentary, if not high literary art.
        In an interview with The Sunday Express of London, she said she wrote from anger, and she told ABC in 1998: ''Well, I just like things to work out fairly, you know? And that's why I write fiction, because in real life they don't always -- everything isn't fair. And, you know, the cards are stacked against women.''
        Said Mr. Ellison, ''She wrote these wonderful, celebratory satires, which seamlessly wove her moral convictions and instruction into these popular entertainments.''
        In addition to her mother and sister, Ms. Goldsmith's survivors include another sister, Kate Goldfield.
        Correction:  January 20, 2004, Tuesday  An obituary on Friday about the novelist Olivia Goldsmith, who died of complications related to anesthesia for elective surgery, misstated the date she entered the hospital. It was Jan. 7, not Jan. 14. The obituary also misidentified the first publisher of her debut novel, ''The First Wives Club.'' It was Poseidon Press, not Arrow.
      