
        MARIE C. WILSON, the president of the Ms. Foundation for Women, has the comportment of a seasoned politician. One of the sharper ones. She speaks with passion and laser-beam focus in a soft Georgia accent. Perhaps this impression is enhanced by that snappy red blazer, so bold and camera ready. Maybe it's the good political hair. It stays in place.
        In this election year, does she wish she were out there? ''No,'' she says in a quick breath, eager to steer the chat back to her campaign with the White House Project, a nonpartisan group focused on getting women into leadership roles, up to the presidency. Besides, Ms. Wilson, who is 63, has been there, done that. Twenty years ago, she left a seat on the Des Moines City Council, where she got encouragement to run for governor, to lead the Ms. Foundation, which finances hundreds of programs to advance the rights of women and girls.
        This brings us to the subject of the white bowler, emblazoned with ''Madame President'' in red, white and blue, propped on Ms. Wilson's computer in her comfortable office on Wall Street. What's with the hat?
        Ms. Wilson is convinced that it won't be long before a woman is in the Oval Office. Perhaps in this decade. She thinks this even with nary a woman among the current pack since the withdrawal of Carol Moseley Braun, whom she praises highly.
        She rubs her slender hands together fiercely, as if kindling fire. ''This is our time,'' she says. ''I think by 2008, we're going to see several women in the race.'' As president of the five-year-old White House Project, she hopes to recruit and train 1,000 women to become political leaders, and to enlist 25,000 women to get out the vote this year. She hopes to find these women by teaming with sister groups across the country. (She has contacts!)
        So getting back to the presidency, who can we expect four years from now? Hillary Rodham Clinton? ''The common thinking is about Hillary Clinton, but there are other women, great women governors out there,'' says Ms. Wilson, a Democrat. She mentions two Democrats, Gov. Janet Napolitano of Arizona and Gov. Kathleen Sebelius of Kansas, and a Republican senator, Kay Bailey Hutchison from Texas.
        ''I think we will see two or three women running,'' she continues. ''And that's the point, to get enough women running so they are seen and they're evaluated on their agenda, not just gender, because numbers matter. One woman is always hair, hemline and husband. She has to prove she is man enough for the job.''
        One might be tempted to say good luck.
        Yet in 1993, people didn't take Ms. Wilson seriously when she had this notion to get parents to take their daughters to their workplaces to focus attention on their potential, not on their problems. Take Our Daughters to Work Day now has the participation of about 15 million adults annually.
        ''People would tell us, 'I've always trusted you, but that's the nuttiest thing I've heard,''' she says.
        Let's just say, in women Ms. Wilson trusts. She goes into this more in her book, ''Closing the Leadership Gap: Why Women Can and Must Help Run the World,'' due out next month from Viking Press. It is a call to action.
        ''Think about what is going on in the country: terrorism, corporate greed,'' she says. ''These are things people are so concerned about that they are glued on the election. And what's an intervention that might have the most positive outcomes? It is bringing in a critical mass of women, a diversity of women, so you get some really different perspectives at the table so we can have different solutions.''
        When Ms. Wilson arrived at the Ms. Foundation, there were four staff members and a $500,000 annual budget. The foundation now has a budget of $11 million and 40 employees. One is a man, a receptionist.
        SHE describes her life as that of an ordinary American woman. Raised in segregated Atlanta, the daughter of a typesetter and a dental hygienist, she was high school homecoming queen and a cheerleader. She became immersed in civil rights after studying philosophy at Vanderbilt University. Her passion was stoked by a childhood incident in which a white bus driver dragged her crying from the back of the bus where she sat with her black baby sitter.
        She married a man who became a minister of music, and followed him to churches in Delaware, Pennsylvania and Iowa, where she developed women's programs at Drake University. Later, she became an educator and human resources director for the Iowa Bankers Association. Her family grew to five children. She divorced. She came to New York to lead the Ms. Foundation.
        ''I ended up loving a woman,'' she says simply. ''My relationship is wonderful.''
        Her partner of 15 years is Nancy A. Lee, a vice president for business development at The New York Times, and they live in Manhattan.
        One senses she would rather keep her private life private. The conversation turns to topics of the day. Same-sex marriage? ''The most important thing is really having the rights,'' she says. ''It's not about the marriage. It's having the same rights that you would get if you were married.''
        She is asked if she thinks the foundation, created in 1972, is as relevant today as it was then. Of this, she has no doubt. ''Whether you look at the glass ceiling or the sticky floor, we're still there,'' she says. ''We've stayed in the game.''
        PUBLIC LIVES  Correction:  February 19, 2004, Thursday  A Public Lives profile on Tuesday about Marie C. Wilson, president of the White House Project, which is trying to involve more women in leadership roles, misstated the type of hat, emblazoned with ''Madame President,'' that sits atop Ms. Wilson's computer. As the picture showed, it is a boater, with a flat crown and brim, not a bowler, which would have a round crown and curved brim.
      