
        Mary Frances Diaz, the executive director of the Women's Commission for Refugee Women and Children, died last Thursday at Columbia Presbyterian Center of New York-Presbyterian Hospital. She was 42 and lived on the Upper West Side of Manhattan.
        The cause was pancreatic cancer, the commission announced.
        Ms. Diaz's organization, a volunteer group that works to provide a voice for women and children in war zones, is a nongovernmental group that advocates for refugees before the United Nations and around the world.
        Mary Diaz had led the group since 1994 and continued her work until late last year.
        The commission, working under the auspices of the International Rescue Committee, was founded in 1989 by the actress Liv Ullman. Ms. Diaz became its chief investigator, strategist, watchdog and lobbyist.
        She deployed volunteers in Africa, the Middle East, South America and trouble spots like Kosovo and Afghanistan. She often went to the scene herself, visiting refugees in Bosnia and Burundi fleeing to the relative safety in Tanzania.
        Mary Diaz was born in Newport News, Va., and grew up in suburban Pottstown, Pa.
        She focused on international relations at Brown, graduating in 1982. She took a job at a Philadelphia television station writing news late in the day, which left her time for volunteer work helping refugees to settle in the city. Her calling gradually shifted from the newsroom to the outside world. She studied administration, planning and social policy at the Harvard Graduate School of Education, receiving a master's degree in international education in 1988. She became director of refugee and immigration services for Catholic Charities in Boston before becoming head of the Women's Commission in New York.
        Ms. Diaz is survived by her partner, Tom Ferguson; her mother, Bertha Diaz of Pottstown; two brothers, Dr. Philip Diaz of Columbus, Ohio, and Dr. Joseph Diaz of Barrington, R.I.; and two sisters, Teresa Diaz of Reading, Pa., and Bernadette Diaz of Oak Park, Ill.
      