
        Irma Fleck, a physician's wife who looked at the vacant lots and abandoned buildings of her South Bronx neighborhood and retaliated by starting organizations to celebrate art and turn rubble piles into emerald oases, died on Feb. 11 in Naples, Fla.
        She was 84 and lived in Naples.
        The cause was complications after a broken hip, said her daughter, Bonnie Oppenberg.
        Among many other initiatives, Mrs. Fleck helped develop the Claremont Neighborhood Center in the South Bronx, the Bronx Council on the Arts and the Bronx Museum. She also hatched a plan to turn compost from the Hunts Point Market into compost for developing lots that had been ravaged by arson.
        ''When I work at something, it's like my child,'' she said in an interview with Newsday in 1994. ''I work intensively, and whatever the project, it becomes very important to me.''
        Herman Badillo, a former Bronx borough president, said in an interview yesterday that he remembered Mrs. Fleck as being very aggressive in pursuing project after project.
        ''She was one of the most active volunteers in the Bronx,'' he said.
        Fernando Ferrer, another former Bronx borough president, said in an interview with The Riverdale Press last week that Mrs. Fleck ''put her own stamp on the Bronx in a very important way.''
        Irma Lowenthal was born on Oct. 28, 1919, in Poland, the second of three children. Her father, a doctor, ran his practice out of the family's home near Crotona Park, in the heart of the South Bronx. In the three-story house, the family often put up Jewish refugees who like themselves had fled Hitler.
        Miss Lowenthal graduated from Walton High School, earned degrees from Queens College and New York University and worked for her father as an X-ray technician. In 1940, she married Henry Fleck, a physician who had fled Europe in 1932. The newlyweds moved in with relatives on Washington Avenue in the Bronx.
        The couple continued living in the Washington Avenue house, where Mrs. Fleck had two children, who survive her, Mrs. Oppenberg, of Marco Island, Fla., and Gary Fleck of Safat, Israel. She is also survived by two brothers, both of whom live in New Jersey, and two grandsons. Dr. Fleck died in 1990.
        She believed a physician's wife should be active in the community in which he worked and in 1956 was a founder of the Claremont Neighborhood Center on East 169th Street. She was its president for 11 years, successfully pushing initiatives for affordable housing.
        The Flecks moved to a penthouse on the Grand Concourse in the 1960's, and in the 1970's Mrs. Fleck held meetings there to try to reverse the decline of the South Bronx. Eventually, these meetings and contacts would lead to the Bronx Museum, which Mrs. Fleck helped found, forming a group in 1986 called the Committee to Make the Concourse Grand Again.
        In 1967, Mrs. Fleck formed the Bronx Committee on the Arts. It soon merged with the Bronx Council on the Arts, formed by Gerald Klot in 1961. Mr. Klot's long involvement in the arts in the Bronx included organizing the Bronx Symphony Orchestra in 1945.
        The new organization took the name of Mr. Klot's organization and found a home at the Bronx Community College, part of the City University of New York.
        At first, ''We had a couple of drawers in a file there,'' Mrs. Fleck said in an interview with The New York Times in 1971.
        The council soon found itself coordinating a host of cultural groups, including the Bronx Opera Company, the Bronx Experimental Theater, the Festival of Poetry and the Bronx Showcase of the Visual Arts.
        Mrs. Fleck, as executive director of the council, was proudest of her role in creating the museum. It was housed until 1982 in the rotunda of the Bronx County Courthouse, and from the beginning its exhibitions focused on contemporary artists, minority artists and artists from the Bronx.
        In 1982, the museum took over the former Young Israel of the Concourse Synagogue, on the corner of 165th Street and the Grand Concourse, which had been sold to the city by its dwindling congregation. Mrs. Fleck raised public and private money to build an exhibition gallery, classrooms and offices, as well as a new glass-walled lobby.
        Perhaps her best known accomplishment was collecting spoiling produce from the huge wholesale center at Hunts Point and selling it for compost. With Jack Flanagan, a former police officer, she formed the Bronx Frontier Development Corporation, which collected as much as 40 tons of compost daily.
        The compost was used to fertilize new gardens on vacant lots. ''We're in the recycling business,'' Mrs. Fleck said. ''We're recycling land.''
        When the vegetable market began to bag its waste in plastic, Mrs. Fleck persuaded the Bronx Zoo to give her the droppings of elephants and other herbivores to use for fertilizer. She called it ZooDoo, and sold some of it in two-pound bags for $2.50 in smart Manhattan stores.
      