
        Amy M. Spindler, the former fashion critic of The New York Times and style editor of its magazine, whose knowledge and fierce opinions held the world's leading designers to task and helped to raise the standard of fashion writing, died yesterday at her home in Manhattan. She was 40.
        The cause was a brain tumor, said her husband, Roberto Benabib.
        Ms. Spindler was never interested in simply putting a dress on a page or talking about hemlines. She recognized that fashion was as important a cultural barometer as music or art and that it should be -- demanded to be -- covered as rigorously as a political campaign.
        In an industry more accustomed to flattery and sympathetic reviews, she possessed a rare nerve, upbraiding fashion executives when she thought they were dissembling and beseeching designers to be better than they were.
        ''She explained to us how we really feel about fashion,'' Tom Ford, the creative director of Gucci, said yesterday from Los Angeles. ''She saw the relevance of fashion for intelligent people -- saw it in its broadest cultural context.''
        And although Ms. Spindler was an early champion of Mr. Ford, she did not put on kid gloves for him. ''Even when she wrote something scathing of about one of my collections, it was constructive, not malicious or cutting,'' he said. ''It was always grounded and concrete.''
        Anna Wintour, the editor in chief of Vogue, whom Ms. Spindler regarded as a competitor when she became style editor of The Times Magazine, in 1998, said: ''She took criticism in a new direction. She wasn't afraid to tell the truth.''
        Incensed by the fatal overdose in 1997 of Davide Sorrenti, a promising young fashion photographer, Ms. Spindler chided magazine editors for glamorizing ''heroin chic'' by depicting models in a drugged stupor. In a front-page article in The Times, Ms. Spindler wrote: ''What Mr. Sorrenti's death has revealed is that fashion photography is indeed a mirror of the tight-knit world that produces the photographs. And as long as drugs are unchecked in the industry, that image will be difficult to change.''
        As a columnist and reviewer, Ms. Spindler applied her tart and witty outlook on such mid-1990's fashion trend setters as the deconstructionist Belgian designers who, after attending one of the strictest couture schools in Europe, started selling what were basically the stitched underpinnings of finished creations, and the reclamationist designers, mostly from Africa, who patched cast-off garments into novel creations. Both trends trickled into the mass market, in touches like unraveling hems, visible seams and mismatched patterns.
        In a front-page article on Sept. 5, 1995, she noted a new piety on parade, marked by store windows and catalogs full of monastic robes, pilgrim's boots and dangling crosses. Perhaps, she wrote, ''the financially strained fashion industry is seeking salvation from above.''
        A Midwesterner in both her mettle and plain English, Ms. Spindler was born in Michigan City, Ind. After graduating from Indiana University in 1985 with a degree in journalism, she moved to New York and worked in entry-level jobs at several Condé Nast magazines. In two years, she went from writing press releases for Bride's magazine to turning out highly detailed feature articles for The Daily News Record, the men's fashion journal of Fairchild Publications. Even in her reporting of the nuts and bolts of the garment trade, an authoritative voice -- and, equally, a sharp wit -- began to emerge.
        Ms. Spindler was subsequently made associate features editor of W Europe in Paris, a city she would come to know as well as New York. In 1993, she joined The Times as a columnist on the Tuesday fashion page, where she used her training at Fairchild to engage in scoop warfare with the former colleagues at Women's Wear Daily. In 1994, The Times created the position of fashion critic for Ms. Spindler, making her an equal with the paper's other critics and acknowledging the weight of her view on a subject she not only knew in depth but also believed should be taken seriously.
        In the midst of being treated for breast cancer, in 1998, she married Mr. Benabib, a television producer, whom she had met on a blind date in 1995. In the fall of 1998, after recovering from that cancer, she took the job of style editor of The Times Magazine, bringing a cultural vibrancy to the pages that had not existed before.
        Her illness was not a subject she dwelled on, though she knew everything about it. She continued to supervise the coverage in the style sections and supplements of the magazine until last summer. In November, she relinquished that post and was named critic at large for culture and style.
        Besides her husband, Ms. Spindler is survived by her mother, Sally Spindler of Tampa, Fla., and a sister, Bonnie, of San Francisco.
      