
        Patricia Falkenhain Geiringer, a classical repertory actress who won critical acclaim for her many roles Off Broadway, died on Jan. 5 at her home in Newcastle, Me. She was 77 and formerly lived in Manhattan.
        The cause was a heart attack, said Dorothy Lee, a friend and her executor.
        Ms. Falkenhain was a mainstay of ensembles at the old Phoenix Theater on East 12th Street, the Public Theater and Joseph Papp's Shakespeare in the Park. She often appeared with her husband, known by his stage name, Robert Gerringer, with a slight change in the spelling of his surname.
        Her last Broadway production was the Tony Award-winning Lincoln Center production of John Guare's ''House of Blue Leaves'' at the Mitzi Newhouse Theater in 1986. Off Broadway she was seen until the late 1980's at the Public and the Long Wharf in New Haven, among others.
        The Phoenix, a repertory company that did many revivals, was founded in 1953 as an antidote to the commercialism of Broadway; she and Robert Gerringer joined the ensemble in its heyday. She won three Obie Awards for her Off Broadway work as well as a Drama Critics Award.
        Two of the Obies for distinguished performances came in the same season, 1959-60. One was for her portrayal of Doll Tearsheet in Shakespeare's ''Richard IV, Part 2,'' starring Fritz Weaver, and the other cited her work as the Green Woman in Ibsen's ''Peer Gynt'' at the Phoenix. Another Obie was a cast citation for ''The Marriage of Bette and Boo'' by Christopher Durang at the Public. The critics' award was for Shaw's ''Heartbreak House'' at the Loeb Theater at Harvard.
        Patricia Falkenhain was born in Atlanta and graduated from New York University. Her first Broadway appearance was with Melvyn Douglas in ''Waltz of the Toreadors.''
        Besides playing on New York stages, she appeared in films and on television. She also acted around the country and taught acting classes.
        Robert Gerringer died in 1989. There are no immediate survivors.
        Correction:  February 4, 2004, Wednesday  An obituary on Monday about Patricia Falkenhain Geiringer, a stage actress, misstated the name of the Shakespeare play in which her portrayal of Doll Tearsheet won an Obie. It was ''Henry IV, Part 2.'' (There is no ''Richard IV, Part 2.'')
      