
        Barbara Gamarekian, a former reporter on the arts and Washington society for The New York Times who was previously a press aide in the Kennedy and Johnson White Houses, died yesterday in Washington. She was 78.
        The cause was peritoneal cancer, said a niece, Rachel Hughes.
        Ms. Gamarekian arrived in Washington in 1957 to work on the legislative staff of Senator Hubert H. Humphrey.
        She joined the presidential campaign staff of John F. Kennedy and was one of nine assistants to President Kennedy's press secretary, Pierre E. Salinger. She was in charge of photo and television coverage.
        ''Ours was not the posh West Wing of television fame,'' she wrote in an article in The Times in 2001 that reflected the kind of observation she brought to her many articles about architecture.
        ''The room sported harsh overhead lighting, government-issue furniture and limp, gray-green tie-backs on the windows.''
        In 2001, she wrote an article for The Times on her experience in the Cuban missile crisis of 1962, telling of her surreal night in a bomb shelter under the East Wing that she had never known existed.
        Last year, some of her other memories of the Kennedy White House were in the news when an interview she gave in 1964 for the John F. Kennedy Library came to light.
        In it, she spoke of President Kennedy's romantic liaison with a college-age intern who could not type. Ms. Gamarekian told some details to the historian Robert Dallek when he was researching his book, ''An Unfinished Life: John F. Kennedy, 1917-1963.'' The transcript, which Ms. Gamarekian had originally wanted sealed indefinitely, then became public.
        ''Certainly it is something that I never discussed because if you are working for the administration, you feel a loyalty to it,'' she said of the affair in the library interview. ''It is the sort of thing you don't discuss, something you profess complete ignorance of when you attend the inevitable cocktail parties where this is the subject for discussion.''
        Barbara Soellner was born Aug. 31, 1925, in Schenectady, N.Y.
        In 1966, she was hired as an administrative assistant to the chief of the Washington bureau of The Times and eventually became a reporter specializing in cultural news in Washington.
        Her subjects ranged beyond the Kennedy Center and National Endowment for the Arts to include a cookbook by Ralph Nader's mother and how men and women communicate. She became particularly known for her articles on what she called the movers and shakers of Washington. She retired from The Times in 1991.
        Ms. Gamarekian, who was divorced, is survived by her brother, Glenn Soellner of Burnt Hill, N.Y., and her sister, Robin Hughes of Schenectady.
        Her last article, which appeared in The Times in October, brought a light touch to her musings about losing her hair as a result of chemotherapy.
        She said her penciled eyebrows gave her the look of an ''aging 1920's flapper.''
      