
        Trude Wenzel Lash, inspired by Eleanor Roosevelt to become a children's advocate through the Citizens Commission for Children of New York, died on Wednesday at her home in Greenwich Village, her family said. She was 95.
        Mrs. Lash was an early mainstay of the commission, which Mrs. Roosevelt helped found in 1944. Mrs. Lash, a refugee from Germany who befriended Eleanor and Franklin D. Roosevelt, became the commission's program director in 1946 and was its executive director from 1952 to 1972.
        After that, Mrs. Lash devoted herself to the Roosevelt legacy through the Franklin and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute in Hyde Park, N.Y. Until 2000, she was the institute's co-chairwoman with Arthur M. Schlesinger Jr., and at her death both were honorary chairmen of the institute, housed at the Franklin Roosevelt Library.
        Trude Lash was born Gertrud Wenzel in June 1908 in Freiburg, Germany. A rebellious girl and brilliant student, she was thrown out of convent school, went on to study journalism in Berlin and, while teaching kindergarten and first grade, attended the University of Heidelberg.
        At the University of Freiburg, she received a doctorate in philosophy in 1930. She came to New York for a year as an exchange teacher of philosophy and German literature at Hunter College while doing graduate work in the social sciences at Columbia.
        Back in Germany, she wrote for a newspaper opposed to the Nazis. But in 1932 she returned to New York for good as the wife of Eliot D. Pratt, a member of a socially prominent family, and the couple helped other refugees from Europe find their way to the United States. They were divorced in 1943, and he died in 1969.
        In 1944, she married Joseph P. Lash, a journalist and confidant of Eleanor Roosevelt, who played matchmaker to the couple. Mr. Lash wrote the two-volume biography ''Eleanor and Franklin,'' published in 1972.
        Mrs. Lash, who worked for the Human Rights Commission at the United Nations before joining the staff of the Citizens Commission for Children, collected data on the status of children in New York for major studies in 1976 and 1980. She was principal investigator for the studies' reports, called ''State of the Child: New York City I and II.'' The reports were influential in inspiring similar studies elsewhere.
        After retiring, she continued her advocacy through the Foundation for Child Development and became directly involved in the Roosevelt memorials. After Mrs. Roosevelt's death in 1962, Congress had authorized an Eleanor Roosevelt Institute. Mrs. Lash helped establish the combined Franklin and Eleanor Institute in 1984 and until just before her death remained a consultant on Roosevelt memorabilia.
        Trude Wenzel Lash is survived by three sons, Dr. Peter W. Pratt of Bridgewater, Conn., Roger S. Pratt of New Milford, Conn., and Jonathan Lash of Washington; a daughter, Vera C. Pratt, also of Washington; a brother, Heinz Wenzel of Germany; 11 grandchildren, and 4 great-grandchildren. Joseph Lash died in 1987.
        Her commission work, which ranged from studying day care and foster care to juvenile detention, often involved sending volunteers to institutions to see how children were treated. It sometimes led to confrontations with officialdom.
        ''All too often we take our most difficult children and we turn over their care to professionals, and we leave the matter,'' Trude Lash said in an interiew with The New York Times in 1972. ''But professionals, even good ones, are primarily interested in their jobs and their routines. What is needed is someone who is primarily interested in the children.''
        Correction:  February 7, 2004, Saturday  An obituary yesterday about Trude Wenzel Lash, an advocate for children in New York City, misstated the name of the organization for which she worked until 1972. It is the Citizens Committee for Children of New York, not Citizens Commission. Because of an editing error, the obituary also misstated the name of the organization for which she later worked on reports called ''State of the Child: New York City I and II.'' It is the Foundation for Child Development, not the committee.
      