
        Frances Partridge, the last of the spectacularly talented and irreverent group of British writers and artists who coalesced as the Bloomsbury group in the years before World War I, died in London on Feb. 5. She was 103.
        Ms. Partridge's death was announced by her literary agency, Rogers, Coleridge & White Ltd., which said she died in her apartment. She was surrounded there by remnants of the Bloomsbury group's heyday, including their books, one of them the letters of her friend Virginia Woolf, and their art, including the painter Dora Carrington's famous portrait of Lytton Strachey.
        She was one of the last firsthand chroniclers of Bloomsbury, publishing two volumes of autobiography and six volumes of her diaries, beginning when she was 78. The books captivated a public increasingly fascinated by the socialist, pacifist and intellectually superior -- not to mention sexually adventurous -- bohemians of Bloomsbury, a leafy central London neighborhood.
        Her story seemed as much literature as life, even as it was lived. When Ralph Partridge and Frances Marshall fell in love in 1923, Ralph was married to Dora Carrington, who was in love with Strachey, an eminent biographer and critic. But Strachey was in love with Ralph, who, Frances wrote, was ''hopelessly heterosexual'' and could not reciprocate. All, of course, lived in the same house.
        Such was life among the Bloomsbury group, whose members also included John Maynard Keynes, E. M. Forster and Roger Fry, the art historian who coined the term Post-Impressionism. The group was not a school, as is commonly understood in artistic circles, but a remarkably talented collection of intellectuals who liked to eat good French food and converse, among other activities.
        Ms. Partridge was actually on the fringes of the group, somewhat distantly connected by marriage to Duncan Grant, the Post-Impressionist painter and designer, as well as by her husband's first marriage, to Carrington. Another link was Julia Strachey, Lytton Strachey's niece and Ms. Partridge's oldest friend.
        Ms. Partridge survived another old friend, the Shakespearean scholar George Rylands, who died in 1999, making her the last person who experienced the Bloomsbury phenomenon close up as an adult. (Angelica Garnett, the daughter of Duncan Grant and Vanessa Bell, Virginia Woolf's sister, published a well-reviewed book about her Bloomsbury childhood, ''Deceived by Kindness,'' in 1985.)
        Ms. Partridge staked her claim to Bloomsbury history by writing it down. She suggested she survived to be ''some kind of archive.''
        She brought life to her account, writing of Keynes's wife, the Russian ballerina Lydia Lopokova, as ''a delightful little person,'' and likening Forster's laugh to a sneeze. She told how Fry explained ''in his beautiful deep voice why it was wicked to like peacock blue.'' Virginia Woolf, she said, had ''irresistible cracked charm.''
        Frances Catherine Marshall was born in London on March 15, 1900, and was brought up on Bedford Square, in the heart of Bloomsbury. Her father was William Cecil Marshall, an architect, the runner-up in the first Wimbledon final in 1877 and a friend of Darwin. Her mother, the former Margaret Anna Lloyd, was a suffragist who took the 6-year-old Frances to a protest. Henry James, a family chum, cuddled her as a baby.
        An atheist by 12, Ms. Partridge attended Bedales, a progressive school where naked swimming was allowed, except off the high dive, ''since it was 12 feet high and its occupant was visible for miles,'' she wrote.
        Ms. Partridge attended Cambridge, where she went ''dancing mad'' and studied English for two years, then switched to courses she hoped would lead to a job in applied psychology. They did: she researched why waitresses drop china.
        She soon took a job in a bookstore frequented by Bloomsbury figures. Among them was her future husband, Reginald Sherring Partridge, known as Ralph. A World War I hero and former Oxford rower, he was an employee of Hogarth Press, owned by Leonard and Virginia Woolf.
        Frances and Ralph married in 1933, a year after Strachey died. His death had led Carrington to commit suicide. The couple were awakened by their gardener with the news, an oft-noted detail.
        ''I would have thought people would find it rather dull, but they still seem fascinated,'' Ms. Partridge said in 1994, speaking of the events surrounding the ménage. ''I supposed because Carrington died for love.''
        Together, the Partridges spent nine years editing the eight volumes of Charles C. F. Greville's memoirs, which recorded three British monarchs' reigns. In the years after the war, Ms. Partridge became known as a translator of French and Spanish books.
        She was devastated by the deaths of her husband, in 1960, and of their son, Burgo, named for a Trollope character, three years later. She wrote of ''the black velvet oblivion I dream about.''
        She is survived by her granddaughter, Sophie, and two great-granddaughters.
        In 1978, at 78, she published ''A Pacifist's War,'' a memoir of the World War II years, following it three years later with ''Love in Bloomsbury: Memories,'' which led Anatole Broyard, writing in The New York Times, to conclude that the denizens of Bloomsbury may have been ''too charming for their own good.''
        The books kept coming, just as her violin performances (she was an accomplished musician) continued well into her 90's. Craig Brown, a British critic who reviewed her fifth and penultimate volume of daily journals, ''Diaries: 1939-1972'' (2001), thought that the story went on a bit.
        ''There are an awful lot of days when nothing of general interest really happens: someone we have never heard of drops by for lunch (full menu included) with a second person we have never heard of, and they all gossip vaguely about what a third person we never heard of thinks of a fourth person we never heard of,'' he wrote.
        In 2001 another critic, Adam Nicolson, provided something of an explanation, writing that Ms. Partridge, who in her later years was sometimes compared to the Queen Mother as an English institution, lived ''her life in complete sentences.''
      