
        Jane Wood, a longtime tenant advocate and political radical in New York who once pressured her landlord to replace a broken elevator by sleeping on an air mattress in the lobby, died on Wednesday at her apartment in Manhattan. She was 96.
        Ms. Wood died from respiratory complications stemming from a fall last month in which she fractured a rib, said her stepson, Timothy Wood.
        Considered a giant in the tenants' rights movement, Ms. Wood was credited by housing advocates for helping to prevent the eviction of hundreds, if not thousands, of tenants, as her Chelsea neighborhood became gentrified. She was the founder of the Chelsea Coalition on Housing, an advocacy group for low-income tenants, and could always deliver a rousing speech at tenant protests, Rent Guidelines Board meetings or neighborhood rallies.
        Ms. Wood was one of the last of a breed of activists whose socialist sensibilities were shaped by the Depression, though not through personal deprivation. Ms. Wood was born into a family of means, a world she eventually rejected to help the downtrodden.
        Born Janet Kauffman in 1907, Ms. Wood grew up in St. Louis as the only child of Harold M. Kauffman, a wealthy banker, and Jeanette Morton, a socialite and Mayflower descendant. She was related to the Davis family, the namesake of the Davis Cup of tennis. And while Ms. Wood attended Smith College, her sorority mentor was Anne Morrow, the writer who later married Charles A. Lindbergh, her stepson said.
        After moving to New York City in the 1930's, Ms. Wood became active in socialist causes and tried to help the poor. ''She felt that what she saw was terrible, and she felt that she had to do something for those less fortunate,'' Mr. Wood said.
        In the 1940's, she married Robert Wood, a fellow activist, who later opened a business importing cigars. He died in 1963. Ms. Wood is survived by her stepson and a stepdaughter, Sara Gearry, of Coeburn, Va.
        Because of her husband's cigar business, Ms. Wood traveled to Cuba. She made numerous trips there after the embargo was imposed, ferrying medical supplies and other goods. She met Fidel Castro as well, and to the end praised his communist regime, said Kernan Huttick, treasurer and tenant organizer with the Chelsea Coalition on Housing.
        Ms. Wood founded the Chelsea group in the 1950's after protesting plans to build the Penn Station South housing development, a middle-income cooperative. The complex ultimately went up, but Ms. Wood helped ensure that the low-income workers who lost their homes were given priority in the new housing.
        In the 1990's, one of Ms. Wood's notable fights involved the eviction of several women living at Leo House, a women's residence affiliated with Catholic Charities. Though Leo House ultimately won the fight, the evictions were stalled for several years.
        In 2001, Ms. Wood staged what may have been her most colorful protest: sleeping in the lobby of her apartment building to pressure the landlord to hasten the replacement of the elevator, which at that point had been out of service for months. She installed an air mattress in the lobby and went to bed there in a nightgown and nightcap.
      