
        Princess Juliana, the modest and beloved queen of The Netherlands for 32 years, died early Saturday. She was 94.
        The government announced that she had died of pneumonia at the Soestdijk Palace, her longtime home, surrounded by three of her four daughters, including Queen Beatrix. Her fourth daughter, Christina, arrived shortly afterward from New York.
        Remembering Juliana, who reigned from 1948 to 1980, Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende praised her sense of duty and personal warmth. ''In her own words, she had wanted to be a social worker if she had not been queen,'' he said.
        In one way, she was a social worker. Born to privilege and wealth, Juliana made much effort, both as the queen and after she turned over her throne to her daughter, to bring the monarchy closer to the people. She spent much time visiting the sick, the handicapped, the aged and needy children. By many accounts, she helped steer successive governments toward policies promoting social welfare.
        Her personal popularity probably helped save the monarchy during several severe crises, when critics agitated for the country to abandon the rituals and symbols of the past and become a modern republic.
        Juliana spent her final years in seclusion. For some time she had been unable to recognize her family because of memory loss, said her husband, Prince Bernard, in 2001.
        Mr. Balkenende, the prime minister, described her as a mother figure for the nation. ''Many of us feel the death of Princess Juliana as a personal loss,'' he said. ''Today our country in a sense has lost its mother.''
        Flags were immediately lowered at Dutch official buildings, and mourners gathered in the rain outside her palace, about 25 miles southeast of Amsterdam. No date for the state burial has been set.
        Born April 30, 1909 in The Hague, Juliana was a princess of the House of Orange-Nassau, the only child of Queen Wilhelmina and Prince Hendrik. She was 39 when her mother, who had been queen for 50 years, abdicated in her favor and passed the throne to her on Sept. 4, 1948.
        Although Juliana was brought up in one of Europe's richest families, many Dutch found her endearing because, shy and soft-spoken, she exuded warmth and plainness. She said she found curtsies embarrassing and enjoyed being filmed while riding her bicycle in a flowery housewife's dress. She sent her children to state schools.
        She would sometimes have her limousine pull up unannounced outside the home of one of her subjects, knock on the door and ask if she could come in for tea.
        But her life was far from idyllic.
        She and her husband, Prince Bernard, a German, and their two oldest daughters, then infants, were forced to flee in a truck, then by ship, to England when the Nazi army invaded The Netherlands in 1940, when her mother was still queen. The family spent much of the war in Canada and returned to a devastated, impoverished country at the end of the war.
        Among her first acts as a young queen was not only overseeing reconstruction at home, but also dealing with conflicts in the Dutch colony of Indonesia. She handed back sovereignty to the Indonesians in in 1949.
        In 1947, Christina, her youngest daughter, was born almost blind. Juliana blamed herself because she had contracted German measles just before giving birth.
        With doctors saying they could do little, she turned to a faith healer. Her close relationship with Greet Hofmans, the healer -- who was a militant pacifist and had a penchant for the occult -- became a scandal and nearly led to the breakup of the royal marriage. The prince contended that the healer had a dangerous influence on his wife and, after a political furor, ensured that all contacts between the two women were broken.
        Queen Juliana, in turn, stood by her husband during several scandals in which he was involved. Prince Bernard was often linked to extramarital relationships, which were treated as a public secret within the royal family and in some of the Dutch and European press.
        But the greater upset to her reign occurred in 1976, when the government disclosed that Prince Bernard was involved in a bribery scandal and had accepted ''dishonorable offers and favors'' from the Lockheed Corp., which was eager to sell aircraft to the Dutch military.
        The prince, by many accounts, was spared criminal prosecution because of public sympathy for Queen Juliana's plight. The distraught queen privately told the government she would abdicate. Fearing a constitutional crisis and a public outcry, the government merely stripped the prince of his military, charitable and diplomatic tasks.
        When Juliana did abdicate, in 1980, on her 71st birthday, she took evident pride in handing the throne to her daughter Beatrix. ''Everyone getting older, sooner or later must face the sober fact that one's strength is fading,'' she said in her farewell message, adding that it would not be responsible to carry on.
        She declined the title of queen mother and chose to be called princess instead because she wanted to stress that she was taking a step backward.
        Princess Juliana is survived by her husband and four daughters and numerous grandchildren.
        In a nationwide television address on Saturday, Prime Minister Balkenende recalled Juliana's fight for social causes and her talent for remaining positive.
        She put people at ease, he said. He described one of Juliana's Christmas messages, when she said, ''Every person has a light that can shine anywhere and anytime.''
      