
        Genia Melikova, a leading ballerina with the Grand Ballet du Marquis de Cuevas and a noted ballet teacher in the United States, died on March 5. She was 74.
        Alice Helpern, a friend and colleague, said that Ms. Melikova collapsed in the lobby of her apartment building in Manhattan and was taken to a hospital, where she died.
        Born in France, Ms. Melikova trained with Lubov Egorova, Anatole Vilzak, Igor Schwezoff and other teachers. She performed briefly with American Ballet Theater before joining the Paris-based de Cuevas company, the first European troupe to feature ballets by American choreographers as well as American dancers. Ms. Melikova danced with the de Cuevas company from 1954 to 1962. Her roles included Aurora and the Lilac Fairy in ''The Sleeping Beauty'' and Odette-Odile in ''Swan Lake,'' in which she was the first Western ballerina to perform with Rudolf Nureyev after his defection in 1961.
        Ms. Melikova also performed with the London Festival Ballet and Grand Ballet Classique de France in the early 1960's before settling in New York City, where she danced at Radio City Music Hall and on Broadway. She became known as a gifted teacher and was praised by dance reviewers as a choreographer with a special aptitude for showing young students at their best in ballets that revealed her own sense of design and musicality.
        She taught for 26 years at the Dance Division of the Juilliard School, which hired her on the recommendation of the ballet choreographer Antony Tudor, with whom she had worked in Europe. At her death, Ms. Melikova was a guest instructor at Randolph-Macon Woman's College in Lynchburg, Va., where she had taught since 1996. She also taught in New York City at the Igor Youskevitch School of Ballet and the Alvin Ailey American Dance Center.
        In the mid-1970's Ms. Melikova directed the Bridgeport Ballet Company in Connecticut and the Bernhard Ballet, where she drew praise for her restaging of classics that included George Balanchine's ''Minkus Pas de Trois'' and John Taras's ''Design for Strings.''
      