
        Ludmilla Tcherina, a raven-haired French artist and ballet star who danced for many of Europe's top choreographers, died on Sunday at her home in Paris at the age of 79, France's culture ministry said today.
        The cause of her death was not immediately known.
        Famous for her beauty as much as her temperament, Ms. Tcherina dazzled audiences around the world, especially in films like ''The Red Shoes.'' During the 1940's and 1950's she danced in New York, Milan, Buenos Aires, Monte Carlo and Paris; in 1960 she danced at the Bolshoi Theater in Moscow.
        As choreographer, actress, painter and writer as well as dancer, she tried to associate the different art forms in some of her performances. ''When you dance, you can paint, sculpt, even write and compose,'' she once wrote.
        Born in Paris on Oct. 10, 1924, of a Georgian father and a French mother, Monika Tchemerzine, as Ms. Tcherina was baptized, began dancing as a child. She quickly made her mark. From 1940 to 1944 she danced at the Théâtre de Monte Carlo in the company that became the Nouveaux Ballets de Monte Carlo. In 1942 she danced the role of Juliet in Serge Lifar's new ballet ''Roméo et Juliette'' in Paris.
        Her main dancing partner, Edmond Audran, became her husband, but he died in a car accident in 1951. Distraught, she stopped dancing. But two years later she was persuaded to return to the stage by her new husband, Raymond Roi, who survives her.
        Ms. Tcherina inspired new ballets by Maurice Béjart and Roland Petit.
        One of her great successes was her performance in 1957 in Debussy's ''Martyrdom of St. Sebastian,'' a work that combines music, dance and drama. Reviewing the production for a Paris daily, the French writer François Mauriac wrote: ''Ludmilla Tcherina in the role of St. Sebastian has a grace that is the Grace of God. If the love of God can be expressed through dance, that miracle came to pass last night.''
        From the 1940's through the 1970's, Ms. Tcherina appeared in 22 movies, among them ''The Red Shoes'' and ''The Tales of Hoffmann.'' She created several monumental structures in the late 1980's and early 1990's. And, during the 1980's, she published two novels and a screenplay.
      