
        Mary B. Goodhue, a longtime New York State senator who lost her seat in 1992 in a rare Republican primary to a little-known assemblyman by the name of George E. Pataki, died on Wednesday at Northern Westchester Hospital, her son, Francis A. Goodhue III, said. She was 82 and lived in Bedford, N.Y.
        Mrs. Goodhue had represented northern Westchester and Putnam Counties in the State Legislature for 18 years, first in the Assembly and for seven terms in the Senate, when she was challenged in a Republican primary by Mr. Pataki, a protégé of hers who had once worked on her Senate staff as legislative counsel.
        It was the year women running for political office across the nation had named ''the year of the woman,'' and Mrs. Goodhue, who was 71, was the only woman in the State Senate's Republican majority. That spring she had announced she would retire; a few days later, at the urging of party leaders, she changed her mind.
        But Mr. Pataki, then 47, decided to challenge her anyway. It was a rare spectacle in state politics: a bitter primary in a party that usually avoids public squabbles. Mr. Pataki campaigned from the right, casting his former boss as too liberal.
        Mrs. Goodhue told voters that year that Mr. Pataki was ''a very nice fellow; the only thing is, how come he wants my seat?'' In his autobiography, Mr. Pataki recalled the race as ''an arduous primary battle against an enormously popular incumbent.'' He won narrowly, and the statewide attention that the race drew helped set him on his path to the governorship.
        Governor Pataki issued a statement yesterday expressing his condolences to Mrs. Goodhue's family and announcing that he had ordered the flags at the State Capitol in Albany and elsewhere to be flown at half-staff in her honor. ''Mary Goodhue was a dedicated public servant who had a long and distinguished career and contributed much to the greatness of our state, and particularly to Westchester and the Hudson Valley region,'' he said.
        Mrs. Goodhue, who was born in London in 1921, became an American citizen as a child. She graduated from Vassar College and earned her law degree from the University of Michigan. As a lawyer, she worked for several firms and at the New York State Crime Commission from 1951 to 1953. She founded her own firm -- Goodhue, Arons & Neary, based in Mount Kisco, N.Y. -- and worked there until 2002.
        In the Senate, Mrs. Goodhue, the chairwoman of the committee on child care, investigated violations at day care centers, delved into minutia of the state's complex school financing formulas, and introduced legislation regulating surrogate mothers.
        Mrs. Goodhue was married for 42 years to Francis A. Goodhue Jr., who died in 1990. She is survived by her son, of Bedford, and three grandchildren.
        Correction:  April 3, 2004, Saturday  An obituary of former New York State Senator Mary B. Goodhue on March 26 misstated the name of the her law firm at its founding; it was Goodhue & Lange. (It later became Goodhue, Arons & Neary; it is now Arons & Neary.)
      