
        Dr. Rhoda L. Fisher, a psychotherapist who with her husband, Seymour Fisher, wrote popular books on subjects as varied as humor and child-rearing, died on Sunday at the home of her daughter, Dr. Eve Whitmore, in Medina, Ohio. She was 79 and had a home in Manlius, N.Y., a Syracuse suburb.
        The cause was complications of uterine cancer, said her son, Dr. Jerid M. Fisher.
        Dr. Rhoda Fisher's dismay over books about parenting that she thought lacked scientific merit led her and her husband, who died in 1996, to collaborate on ''What We Really Know About Child Rearing: Science in Support of Effective Parenting'' (Basic Books, 1976).
        One of her chief concerns was what she considered the overmedication of children with psychological disorders. She contributed a chapter on this subject to ''From Placebo to Panacea: Putting Psychiatric Drugs to the Test'' (John Wylie, 1997), which her husband edited with Dr. Roger P. Greenberg.
        Another of her interests was what she called ''schlemiel children,'' those who she said dealt with parental pressure by clowning. This led her to interview circus clowns and professional comedians, including Sid Caesar, Jackie Mason and Tommy Smothers, and write, with her husband, ''Pretend the World Is Funny and Forever: A Psychological Analysis of Clowns, Comedians and Actors'' (Lawrence Erlbaum Associates, 1981).
        Sometimes, her role was to promote the work of her camera-shy husband. She appeared on television to publicize his first book, ''Understanding the Female Orgasm'' (Basic, 1973), which, among other correlations, linked women's sexual responsiveness to their enjoyment of food. ''When we got to somebody's house for dinner,'' she told The New York Times in 1996, ''no woman wanted to sit near him. They thought he'd analyze their food.''
        Rhoda Lee Feinberg was born on Oct. 10, 1924, in Chicago. She received a bachelor's degree in music education from DePaul University and a doctorate in psychology from the University of Chicago. From 1951 to 1961, she practiced clinical psychology in Houston, where her husband taught at the Baylor College of Medicine. She practiced in Manlius from 1968 until 2003.
        In addition to her daughter and son, who lives in Pittsford, N.Y., she is survived by two grandchildren.
      