
        Dorothy Denny Scardino, a jazz pianist who rubbed elbows with the form's superstars but found her biggest following through a 25-year gig in a Manhattan bank lobby, died on March 9 at a hospice. She was 82 and had recently been told that she had cancer, her son Donald said.
        Drawn to the city from a dairy farm in tiny Jefferson, N.Y., Mrs. Scardino played with the Joe Venuti Band and at the Stork Club during World War II.
        ''Her goal was to come to New York and be surrounded by people, and play the piano,'' her son said. She appeared with Lester Lanin's Society Orchestra, and recorded two collections for the A440 label, ''Dottie Denny Digs the Duke'' and ''Dottie Denny Plays Edgar Sampson.''
        After marrying Charles Scardino, a bass player, she put aside her career to raise their four children in Queens. With the children grown, she took a job playing classics on a grand piano inside the Manhattan Savings Bank branch at Third Avenue and 86th Street.
        She started in 1970, at the invitation of the branch manager, and regaled the customers with her interpretations of hits by Irving Berlin, Duke Ellington, Stephen Sondheim and others. People came in just to listen, tapping their toes in time to her music, and some may have opened accounts because of her. She played there until 1995, when the bank was sold and its new owner decided to do away with the music.
        Always elegantly dressed, Mrs. Scardino played what appealed to her, but she also took requests from her audience, which often included people from the neighborhood who did not have accounts at the bank.
        When she was cast in an episode of the television series ''The Days and Nights of Molly Dodd,'' the title character, after a loan application was rejected, asked her to play ''Brother, Can You Spare a Dime?''
        In addition to her son Donald, of Scarsdale, N.Y., she is survived by her daughter, Nina Coe of Montevallo, Ala.; two other sons, Charles Jr., of Manhattan, and David, of Los Angeles; and eight grandchildren.
      