
        Marge Schott, who evoked the image of a charming eccentric when she bought the Cincinnati Reds in 1984 but became a baseball pariah for offensive racial and ethnic remarks, died yesterday in Cincinnati. She was 75.
        Her death was announced by Christ Hospital, where she had been treated for several weeks. She had lung-related problems in recent years, The Associated Press said.
        When she took control of the Reds, Mrs. Schott, a socially prominent widow and heir to an industrial fortune, was the only female owner in the major leagues who had bought a team in her own right. Joan Kroc of the San Diego Padres and Jean Yawkey of the Boston Red Sox had inherited their franchises from their husbands.
        She appeared at her introductory news conference with her 170-pound St. Bernard, Schottzie, who, clad in a Reds cap, perched on the feet of Manager Pete Rose. She maintained that in purchasing the team, she might have prevented its move out of Cincinnati. It seemed that she might be an astute baseball promoter, and she was a formidable contributor to Cincinnati area charities.
        But a series of gaffes and intolerant remarks caused Mrs. Schott to lose control of the Reds in 1999. In her 15 years as owner, a franchise that had thrived in the 1970's as the Big Red Machine had seven managers but only one pennant-winner, the World Series champions of 1990.
        Mrs. Schott's image first soured in November 1992 when several former Reds executives said that she had referred to players and business associates using racial and ethnic slurs. In an interview that month with The New York Times, she said that ''Hitler was good in the beginning, but he went too far.''
        Mrs. Schott denied she was a racist, but acknowledged she had sometimes used a racial epithet.
        Asked in a deposition for a lawsuit brought by a former Reds employee if she was prejudiced against Jews in light of possessing a Nazi armband -- a war souvenir -- she responded: ''No. They are not smarter than us, just sharper.'' The uproar over Mrs. Schott's remarks prompted baseball's leadership to suspend her from day-to-day oversight of the Reds for the 1993 season. After she made a similar comment about Hitler in May 1996, she was forced to relinquish her daily control of the Reds again and she never regained it.
        In October 1999, Mrs. Schott turned over control of the team to a group headed by Carl Lindner, one of the limited partners, in a $67 million deal. She remained in Reds ownership as a limited partner.
        Mrs. Schott was a major contributor to local charitable causes, including Children's Hospital and the Cincinnati Zoo.
        ''Marge was a paradox,'' Mayor Charlie Luken of Cincinnati told The Cincinnati Enquirer upon her death. ''While there is no excusing some of the indelicate things she said, there was a kindness to Marge that made her a woman of the people.''
        She was born Margaret Unnewehr, the second of five daughters of Edward Unnewehr, a Cincinnati native who made a fortune in the lumber business.
        ''My father was Achtung-German,'' Mrs. Schott recalled in 1992. ''He used to ring a bell when he wanted my mother. When I was 21 and went to vote, he told me who to vote for. I said, 'Yes, Daddy.' ''
        She married Charles Schott, a member of a wealthy Cincinnati family, in 1952, and gained notice for the parties she held for friends and charities at her mansion in the suburb of Indian Hill.
        When her husband died of a heart attack in 1968, Mrs. Schott inherited auto dealerships in Cincinnati and interests in insurance, brick manufacturing, concrete products and landfills.
        She became a limited partner in the Reds' ownership in 1981 and was named the general partner on Dec. 21, 1984, when she purchased the controlling interest held by the brothers James and William Williams and shares held by two other limited partners, reportedly for $11 million.
        Mrs. Schott called her purchase of the Reds a ''Christmas gift to the people of Cincinnati.'' She said she was concerned that the Williams brothers might sell the franchise, which reported $4 million in losses in 1984, to an out-of-city group.
        Mrs. Schott promoted the team at functions, and she loved to take part in the Wave from her box seat at Riverfront Stadium. But the allegations in 1992 concerning offensive remarks tarnished her image.
        The next February, baseball's executive council suspended Mrs. Schott for the 1993 season and fined her $25,000 for ''the most base and demeaning type of racial and ethnic stereotyping.''
        Mrs. Schott had apologized for any offensive remarks, but in an interview for ABC-TV's ''Primetime Live'' after the suspension, she suggested the inquiry was a ''witch hunt'' and said, ''I think if I had been a man this would never have happened.''
        A month after that suspension was imposed, baseball's executive council banned Schottzie 02 -- another of her St. Bernards -- from the Riverfront Stadium field, citing ''numerous complaints by the players.''
        Mrs. Schott had no children, to her great regret. She bestowed great affection on her dogs and delighted in parading with her St. Bernards around the Reds' ballpark and rubbing the dogs' fur on her players.
        In yet another incident, Lou Piniella, who had taken the Reds to the World Series championship in his first year as manager, rejected a two-year contract extension after the 1992 season. He said later that a major factor in his leaving was the failure of the Reds' management to support him in a defamation suit -- later dropped -- that was filed by Umpire Gary Darling and the Major League Umpires Association.
        Another embarrassment for Mrs. Schott arrived in 1996.
        After the season-opening game at Cincinnati had been called off when Umpire John McSherry sustained a fatal heart attack in the first inning, Mrs. Schott told The Cincinnati Enquirer: ''I feel cheated. Nobody feels worse than me.''
        She compounded that gaffe with her sympathy offering to the umpiring crew; according to published reports, it was a recycled bouquet given to her by the team's television affiliate.
        On June 12, 1996, Mrs. Schott agreed to give up daily operation of the Reds through the 1998 season, having been told by baseball's executive council that she would be suspended again if she did not do so. She turned over day-to-day affairs to John Allen, the team's controller.
        Mrs. Schott is survived by her sisters, Charlotte Crane, Winnie Fraser, Caroline Paddock and Mary Elizabeth Unnewehr.
        ''I guess I always thought of her as a tragic figure,'' the former baseball commissioner Fay Vincent told The Associated Press. ''I think she tried very hard to do the right things for baseball, but she had some enormous limitations and she had some difficulty overcoming them.''
      