
        Beatrice Winde, a character actress of stage, film and television, died on Jan. 3 at her home on the Lower East Side of Manhattan, two days short of her 80th birthday.
        The cause was cancer, her family said.
        Ms. Winde received a Tony nomination for her Broadway debut in 1972, and won an Audelco Award for Excellence in Black Theater three years ago.
        Her nomination for best supporting actress in a musical, in Melvin Van Peebles's ''Ain't Supposed to Die a Natural Death,'' was the first of seven she received.
        The Audelco Award for best supporting actress was given for her portrayal of the godmother in ''A Lesson Before Dying,'' staged by the Signature Theater Company.
        In 1997, she received a Living Legend Award from the National Black Theater.
        Ms. Winde's film career also dated to the 1970's, when she appeared in ''The Autobiography of Miss Jane Pittman'' on television and in the film ''The Taking of Pelham One Two Three,'' both in 1974.
        She later had roles in more than two dozen films and made guest appearances in popular television series like ''Law and Order,'' ''The Sopranos,'' and ''N.Y.P.D. Blue.''
        Ms. Winde acted in plays by Toni Morrison and Horton Foote and in productions by the Negro Ensemble Company, the Manhattan Theater Club, the Jean Cocteau Repertory Theater and Playwrights Horizons, among others.
        Ms. Winde, whose original name was Beatrice Lucille Williams, was born in Chicago on Jan. 25, 1924. She was a voice student at the Chicago Music Conservatory, from which she graduated, and continued her voice studies briefly at the Yale University School of Music and at Juilliard.
        She sang in Chicago with a group, and as a soloist in a church choir before settling on a career as an actor. She took the name Beatrice Winde because Actors Equity already had a Beatrice Williams on its rolls.
        Ms. Winde's marriage to Raymond Stough, a fellow actor, ended in divorce. She is survived by two brothers, George C. Williams of Tucson, Ariz., and John W. Williams of Chicago.
        Correction:  January 27, 2004, Tuesday  Because of editing errors, an obituary of the Broadway and film actress Beatrice Winde on Sunday misstated the dates of her birth and death and her Tony nomination record. She was born on Jan. 5, 1924, and died on Jan. 3. She was nominated once, in 1972, as best supporting actress in a musical, for her role in ''Ain't Supposed to Die a Natural Death.'' (It was the show itself that received seven nominations.)
      