
        Margaret Westheimer Tishman, an organizer of the merged UJA-Federation of New York and its first president, died on Friday in Manhattan. She was 84 and lived on the Upper East Side.
        Her death was announced by the organization, in which she had been active for many years while it was the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies. The organization, founded in 1917, merged in 1986 with the United Jewish Appeal of New York. After the groups combined, she was the organization's president until 1989 and kept working and raising money for it until last month.
        Peggy Tishman was the widow of Alan V. Tishman, a member of the real estate development dynasty founded by his grandfather Julius. Mr. Tishman died on Jan. 13 at 86, after 62 years of marriage.
        Mrs. Tishman was one of the first women to gain national recognition as the chief executive of a major charitable federation. She was credited with bolstering UJA-Federation and its fund-raising mission to help Jews in New York, in Israel and worldwide.
        Locally, she was on the UJA-Federation committee that started the Jewish Association for Services for the Aged as a separate agency in 1968, and she developed an endowment program to support such work.
        She was on the boards of the American Jewish Joint Distribution Committee and the Jewish Home and Hospital and was president of the Jewish Community Relations Council of New York.
        Peggy Westheimer, as she was known before her marriage, was born on Dec. 5, 1919, in Manhattan. She was a graduate of Wellesley College and received an M.A. in education and psychology from Fairfield University. She was a trustee of Wellesley and a former president of its National Development Fund Council.
        She gained a national reputation in 1954 when she joined the board of the Jewish Home and Hospital amid a growing debate over how society cared for its elderly. She helped persuade the Jewish Home to build one of the country's first assisted-living residences for older adults.
        Professionally, she was a vice president of the Tishman East Management Corporation and a director of Bank Leumi. She also served on the city's Commission on Heroin Addiction and twice was a delegate to the White House Conference on Aging.
        Mrs. Tishman is survived by a daughter, Pat T. Hall of Santa Fe, N.M.; six grandchildren; and three great-grandchildren.
      