
        Joan Richman, a retired executive at CBS News who oversaw the network's early coverage of the Apollo space program with Walter Cronkite, died on Friday at her home in Lumberville, Pa. She was 64.
        The cause was cancer, Kyle Good, a family friend, said.
        A native of St. Louis, Ms. Richman graduated from Wellesley College in 1961.
        She was hired the same year to clip newspapers in the research library of CBS News. By 1965, she was a researcher in the special events unit, and in 1968, she became a full producer. She went on to win two Emmy awards for producing Mr. Cronkite's space coverage, one in 1971 for the Apollo 13 and 14 missions, and another, in 1972, for the Apollo 15 mission.
        In a statement released by Ms. Richman's family, Mr. Cronkite said that she ''was probably more important than any other individual in shaping the presentation of a new science that gripped the world's imagination.''
        From 1973 to 1975, Ms. Richman worked as senior producer for ''The Reasoner Report'' for ABC News, before returning to CBS.
        Ms. Richman became executive producer of the weekend editions of the CBS Evening News in 1976, while also producing special events coverage, including the election-night specials in 1976, 1978 and 1980.
        In 1981, she was promoted to vice president and director for special events at CBS News, overseeing special coverage of breaking news.
        She built her career at CBS News during a time when it was rare for a woman to be a senior media executive. ''It's difficult for the many women thriving in broadcast journalism today to imagine the battles Joan Richman fought and won on their behalf,'' said Andrew Heyward, the president of CBS News, in the statement from the family.
        She retired in 1989 to teach at the John F. Kennedy School of Government at Harvard University.
        She is survived by her sister, Judith R. Saidel of Albany; two nephews, Andrew, of Gaithersburg, Md., and Jonathan, of Albany; a niece, Lisa Saidel, also of Albany; and three grandnieces.
      