
        Larisa Bogoraz, an early Soviet-era dissident whose moral stubbornness helped define the movement, died Tuesday at the age of 74. Colleagues said the cause of death was a series of strokes.
        Ms. Bogoraz is best remembered for her participation in the first public demonstration of the dissident era, in 1968, when she and six others stood in Red Square in Moscow to protest the Soviet-led invasion of Czechoslovakia.
        She was quickly arrested and spent four years in internal exile, after which she resumed her activities, in a pattern that would be repeated by many others over the years.
        ''I lived like a free person,'' she said in an interview after the fall of the Soviet Union in 1991. ''Yes, they sent me to jail and exile, but I knew what I was doing was right according to my beliefs.''
        She became active in human rights issues after the arrest of her first husband, Yuli Daniel, for anti-Soviet essays written together with his friend Andrei Sinyavsky, in 1965, the same year she received her doctorate in linguistics.
        Ms. Bogoraz was a signer of many of the dissidents' main appeals over the years. She was co-author of an underground book, ''Memory,'' which chronicled Stalin's terror, and she was a leading contributor to the underground publication Chronicle of Current Events.
        ''She was a moral influence since the beginning and her influence defined the course of this whole movement,'' said Lyuda Alekseyeva, a close friend and contemporary who now heads the Moscow Helsinki Group, a leading human rights organization.
        Ms. Bogoraz's second husband, Anatoloy Marchenko, was another prominent dissident, with whom she wrote a number of appeals and who was arrested in 1980.
        In 1986, Ms. Bogoraz helped start a campaign to free all political prisoners. But by the time the Soviet leader, Mikhail S. Gorbachev, began liberating prisoners in 1987, Mr. Marchenko had died.
        In 1989 Ms. Bogoraz joined the reconstituted Moscow Helsinki Group and became a bridge between the older dissident movement and the country's new human rights campaigners.
        ''With her death a part of the old tradition is going away,'' said Tanya Lokshina, one of the young leaders of the Helsinki Group.
        ''Many people referred to her as a legend of the Soviet dissident movement,'' she said. ''But she was a very alive person, very vibrant, very intelligent, very involved and interested in new ideas and new concepts.''
        She is survived by Aleksandr Daniel, a son from her first marriage, who is a historian at the Memorial human rights organization.
      