
        Mary McGrory, an unapologetic liberal who chronicled 50 years of scandal, war, Congressional turmoil and political heartbreak as a columnist for The Washington Star and The Washington Post, died on Wednesday at George Washington University Hospital. She was 85.
        Ms. McGrory won the Pulitzer Prize for commentary in 1975 for her columns on Watergate. But her career had a remarkable range, from the 1954 Army-McCarthy hearings, where she first made her name, to the Bush administration and the war with Iraq, which she opposed in her final foreboding columns in March 2003. She suffered a stroke that month and did not return to her column. She had been in declining health ever since, said her nephew, Ted McGrory.
        The daughter of a scholarly Boston postal clerk, Ms. McGrory was raised on Latin, poetry and a profoundly Irish love of the game of politics. She covered virtually every presidential campaign since 1956, drawn to their ''endless possibility,'' she once said. Her columns captured some of the greatest political characters of the era -- their loyalty, treachery, weaknesses, sacrifices, high causes and low moments.
        She wrote a series of columns about the assassination and funeral of President John F. Kennedy that became one of the most evocative and enduring eulogies for the man and the times.
        ''He was just home from the Pacific when I first saw him in 1946,'' she wrote. ''He was thin as a match and still yellow from malaria. But he was blithe and determined and wherever he went he was surrounded by young men who felt with him that the Irish had something more to give to American political life than a last hurrah.''
        She was at the airport when Kennedy's body was flown back from Dallas, and she described the tearful, ''leaderless men of the New Frontier'' as they ''picked up their inexpressible burden'' of the young president's coffin. She then wrote a powerfully spare account of his funeral:
        ''His old friend, Cardinal Cushing of Boston, who married him, baptized his children and prayed over him in the icy air of his inaugural, said a Low Mass. At the final prayers, after the last blessing, he suddenly added, 'dear Jack.' ''
        Across the generations, Ms. McGrory was a fixture on Capitol Hill, summoning House members off the floor for a chat in the speaker's lobby, showing up every Tuesday to grab senators after their weekly party caucuses. She called Congress the ''federal entertainment center,'' and said she vastly preferred it to covering the White House, where ''there are all those courtiers,'' ''so full of themselves,'' who ''may or may not call you back.''
        She wrote a column steeped in reporting at a time when other columnists increasingly focused on attitude, analysis and television appearances, and she did her own legwork well into her 80's.
        ''I can't do it any other way,'' Ms. McGrory once said. ''I have to see, I have to hear. I'm primitive, I guess. I don't want anyone else doing my listening or watching for me.''
        Her second cousin Brian McGrory, a columnist with The Boston Globe, recalled, ''She was hellbent on making sure every column was reported, hellbent on being out on the campaign trail, even when physically it wasn't the easiest thing for her.''
        Nothing made her happier, Mr. McGrory added, than being in the bar of the Sheraton Wayfarer outside Manchester, N.H., when it functioned as a roiling intelligence center for politicians and journalists covering the New Hampshire primary.
        Ms. McGrory was a ground-breaking woman in American newspapers, often the only woman or one of a very few on the campaign trail in her early days. But she played down the notion that this was always, necessarily, a hardship. A woman who increasingly acquired the manner of an aging countess, as her friend Phil Gailey, editor of editorials at The St. Petersburg Times in Florida put it, she was legendary on the campaign trail for enlisting male reporters as her porters.
        In his memoir ''A Good Life,'' Benjamin C. Bradlee, former executive editor of The Washington Post, wrote: ''In the 60's I had been allowed to carry her bags and typewriter during the presidential campaign. We were known as McGrory's bearers.'' Several generations of bearers followed after him.
        Her path to political reporting was not easy. A graduate of Boston's elite Girls' Latin School and Emmanuel College, Ms. McGrory got her start as secretary to the book editor of The Boston Herald Traveler. She also wrote book reviews and the kind of features she called ''dog stories,'' but she was ''crazy'' about newspapering and felt stymied, Ms. McGrory said in an oral history for the Washington Press Club Foundation.
        She moved to The Washington Star as a book reviewer in 1947. She got her big break in 1954, when her editor, Newbold Noyes, sent her to Capitol Hill to cover the Army-McCarthy hearings. He urged her to write her stories as if she were writing a letter to a favorite aunt. She thought of her Aunt Sarah, ''a very nice, lonely person in our family,'' she said later, and a genre was born. She viewed Senator Joseph R. McCarthy, she said, as ''an Irish bully,'' a type she had seen before.
        ''For eight days,'' she wrote in an early column, ''the Army secretary has been having his honesty questioned, his motives impugned and his patriotism challenged. He has been bullied, baited and patronized. He has been treated like a stubborn and not very bright child. Throughout his ordeal, moreover, he has been subjected to the rather jostling familiarity of Senator McCarthy, who calls him 'Bob.' ''
        Ms. McGrory went on to cover all the classic Congressional dramas, including the impeachment of President Bill Clinton. ''Nothing that Bill Clinton did in the matter of Monica Lewinsky shows any class or character,'' she wrote, but added: ''The Republicans are beyond reason. They are like people on New Year's Eve, determined to have a wild time, no matter the cost.''
        She was intensely loyal to The Star, and while The Washington Post tried to woo her many times over the years, she did not make the move until The Star closed in 1981. Post editors often joked they were always second best to Ms. McGrory.
        In 1998, when accepting the National Press Club's Fourth Estate Award, Ms. McGrory described her view of a Mary McGrory column. ''No great men call me,'' she said, proudly. ''You know who calls me? Losers. I am their mark.'' She added, ''If you want to abolish land mines. If you want to reform campaign spending'' or ''if you want to save children from abuse, or stupid laws, or thickheaded judges, you have my telephone number.''
        ''All the places of little hope, that's my constituency,'' she said.
        The Vietnam War was her great passion, and it framed her coverage of the 1968 presidential campaign, particularly the insurgent antiwar candidacy of Eugene J. McCarthy. But she ranged widely, with judgments that were often withering. Senator Edward M. Kennedy said ruefully, ''As Bobby once said, 'Mary is so gentle until she gets behind a typewriter.' ''
        In a column about Richard M. Nixon's 1962 news conference after he lost the California governor's race, Ms. McGrory wrote: ''For Richard M. Nixon, it was exit snarling.'' She later made the Nixon administration's famous enemies list.
        Ms. McGrory did not marry or have children, but had a large extended family, including two nieces, in addition to her nephew; a loyal group of Washington Star veterans; and a longtime relationship as the ultimate volunteer with St. Ann's Infant and Maternity Home.
        She was also a hostess of some renown. Mr. Gailey remembers one McGrory party in 1982, a christening for his son, that featured Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr. singing, ''If you're Irish, come into the parlor,'' while a Reagan White House aide, Michael K. Deaver, accompanied him on the piano.
        When she accepted her press club award in 1998, Ms. McGrory declared, ''I should confess that I always felt a little sorry for people who didn't work for newspapers.''
      