
        Muriel Mallin Berman, a Pennsylvania arts patron and philanthropist, died on April 13 at her home in Allentown, Pa. She was 89.
        The cause was cancer, her family said.
        Mrs. Berman, an optometrist by profession, and her husband, Philip, were benefactors of the Philadelphia Museum of Art, among other institutions. She was an honorary board member and served on committees concerned with contemporary art, prints and drawings.
        The Bermans helped endow the museum's curatorship of 20th-century art. Their gifts let it acquire thousands of old master drawings and 19th-century and old master prints, and the museum named its prints and drawings gallery in their honor.
        Their other beneficiaries included cultural, educational and medical institutions in eastern Pennsylvania, the American Jewish Committee, the Jewish Publication Society, and the Hadassah Medical Organization and Hebrew University in Jerusalem.
        They established the Philip and Muriel Berman Center for Jewish Studies at Lehigh University, and the Center for Biblical Archaeology at Hebrew University. Paintings from their personal collection toured the world via the Art in the U.S Embassies Program.
        In the past, Mrs. Berman was a Unicef delegate to international conferences. She was a United States representative at the United Nations International Women's Year Conference in Mexico City in 1975.
        She was born Muriel Mallin in Pittsburgh, studied at the University of Pittsburgh and what is now Carnegie Mellon University, and graduated from the Pennsylvania College of Optometry. She practiced as her husband built his fortune in trucking and heavy equipment, keeping her optometrist's license into the 1980's.
        She also took part as a corporate officer in Mr. Berman's growing business, which later included the Hess's department store chain. Philip I. Berman died in 1997 after 55 years of marriage.
        She is survived by two daughters, Nancy Berman of Los Angeles and Nina B. Schafer of Unionville, Pa.; a son, Steven M. of Mill Valley, Calif.; and six grandchildren.
      