
        Carolyn Lelyveld, who directed a pioneering Bronx day care center for children with AIDS from the poorest neighborhoods and founded programs for children with cancer in hospitals in South Africa under apartheid, died yesterday at Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center. She was 64 and lived in Manhattan.
        Her death resulted from complications of breast cancer, said her husband, Joseph Lelyveld, former executive editor of The New York Times.
        Ms. Lelyveld's work with AIDS children, at Bronx Municipal Hospital Center, took place from 1987-94. The center was the only one in the city. Its children were picked up by bus each school day, and the center maintained a food pantry for their families, mostly single-parent households headed by women with AIDS.
        Earlier Ms. Lelyveld directed day care centers in Park Slope, Brooklyn, and on Capitol Hill in Washington. She then joined programs that prepared children for difficult medical procedures and attended to their nonmedical needs, first at Downstate Medical Center and then at St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital.
        From 1981-83, she founded parallel programs for children with cancer at Baragwanath Hospital in the township of Soweto, the largest black hospital in South Africa at the time, and at a white hospital, Johannesburg General. Embraced by black nurses, the Soweto program continued for some years.
        Born in New York, Ms. Lelyveld attended Brandeis University and graduated from the School of General Studies at Columbia. She earned a master's degree at the Bank Street College of Education.
        For a decade, until last summer, Ms. Lelyveld coordinated a project for The New York Times Company Foundation to enrich the resources of Public School 111, the Adolph S. Ochs School, on the West Side of Manhattan. Her work greatly expanded the library and put pupils into continuing contact with leading cultural institutions, including the American Museum of Natural History and the International Center of Photography.
        Besides her husband, Ms. Lelyveld is survived by her daughters, Amy Lelyveld of New York and Nita Lelyveld of Los Angeles; one granddaughter; and her sisters, Susan Mermelstein of Newton, Mass., and Annie Fox of Brooklyn.
      