
        Sarah Betsy Fuller, an advocate for prisoners' rights who also helped law students prepare real cases, died on April 21 in Ithaca, N.Y. She was 58.
        The cause was breast cancer, her husband, Ronald, said. She lived in Brooktondale, N.Y.
        Ms. Fuller was a lawyer for Prisoners' Legal Services of New York, a state-financed group based in Ithaca that was started after the Attica uprising in 1971 to defend inmates' civil rights.
        In 1995, she filed a suit to stop correction officers from videotaping the strip searches of female inmates at Albion Correctional Facility. The state Department of Correctional Services agreed to pay 85 women $1,000 each but said that the settlement did not constitute an admission of wrongdoing.
        Ms. Fuller also filed a suit that resulted in the state's signing an agreement in July 1999 to allow American Indians in New York to practice their religion in prison. At the time of her death, she was pursuing state and federal cases seeking to keep prisons from giving some prisoners only bread and water to eat.
        Ms. Fuller also held teaching positions at Cornell and Syracuse Universities. She ran clinics in which students could handle cases, usually for indigent clients.
        Sarah Betsy Cohen was born on Feb. 26, 1946, in Silver Spring, Md. She graduated from Cornell in 1968 and later earned a master's degree in sociology at the University of Wisconsin and a law degree from Stanford University.
        She worked in the civil rights division of the federal Department of Justice from 1974 to 1977. She then moved to Arizona to provide legal services for Navajo and Hopi Indians.
        She began teaching at Cornell in 1978 and continued until the mid-1990's.
        At Syracuse, Ms. Fuller marshaled her students to pursue cases she had filed for Prisoners' Legal Services. In 2000, she went to El Salvador as a Fulbright scholar to help develop a clinical legal program for the Technical University of El Salvador.
        She wrote two books on landmark Supreme Court cases in a series for teenage readers.
        In addition to her husband, Ms. Fuller is survived by her sons, Jonah and Gabriel; her daughter, Cecily; and one granddaughter. All live in Ithaca.
      