
        Rita R. Fraad, a collector and patron of American art, died on Sunday at her home in Scarsdale, N.Y. She was 88.
        The cause was cardiac arrest, said her daughter Sara F. Henderson.
        Starting in the late 1940's, Mrs. Fraad assembled a noted private collection of 19th- and 20th-century American art, from which she lent and donated to museums and galleries. Among her principal beneficiaries was her alma mater, Smith College, with its nationally respected art museum.
        Others included the Brooklyn Museum, the National Gallery of Art, the Smithsonian American Art Museum and the Metropolitan Museum of Art, where she sat on the visiting committee on American art and sculpture.
        She was also a trustee of the Archives of American Art, a part of the Smithsonian Institution that promotes research in the visual arts and amasses artists' papers and other memorabilia.
        Rita Rich Fraad, a lawyer's daughter, was born in Brooklyn. She graduated from Smith College in 1937, a year before her marriage to Daniel Fraad Jr. Mr. Fraad had just joined the Allied Maintenance Corporation, a modest building service founded by his father in 1888.
        While her husband built Allied Maintenance -- later Ogden Allied Maintenance -- into one of the country's leading fuel suppliers to airlines, Mrs. Fraad saw to their private art collection. It brought together works by Homer, Eakins, Sargent, Prendergast, Hassam, Bellows and Hopper, among others.
        In her later years she focused on contemporary American works on paper and regularly gave them to the Smith College museum, either drawing works from her collection or buying them for the museum.
        Mrs. Fraad was a member of the museum's visiting committee, an advisory panel, until last year. She established an endowment fund for American art at the Smith museum, where a sampling of her collection, called ''Realism Today,'' was exhibited in 1988.
        Her husband died in 1987. Mrs. Fraad is survived by Ms. Henderson and another daughter, Dr. Martha F. Haffey, both of Manhattan; a sister, Janet Bradley of Tulsa; six grandchildren; and eight great-grandchildren.
      