
        Lygia Pape, an influential Brazilian artist who worked in two important movements, Concretism and the looser Neo-Concretism, and later moved beyond them, died on May 3 in Rio de Janeiro. She was 77.
        The cause was complications of myelodysplasia, a blood disease, said her daughter Paula Pape.
        A restlessly experimental artist, Ms. Pape (pronounced PAH-pay) worked at challenging formal and conceptual limits in many different media, including painting, printmaking, sculpture, dance, film, performance and installation. In the 1950's she was involved in Concretism, which was based on severe abstract styles of European painters like Piet Mondrian and Kasimir Malevich. In 1954 she helped found an important Concretist group called la Frente (the Front).
        At the end of the decade she joined her fellow artists Hélio Oiticica and Lygia Clark in founding Neo-Concretism, which rejected the formal remove of Concretist art but retained its insistence on the concrete reality of the artwork as opposed to more representational imagery.
        Favoring more interactive relations between art and viewers, the Neo-Concretists sought to expand the formal, expressive and social dimensions of art. Among Ms. Pape's Neo-Concretist works were books with semiabstract sculptural elements that viewers were encouraged to handle.
        In a ballet that Ms. Pape choreographed in 1958, simple geometric shapes with people hidden inside moved about the stage. Ten years later she created one of her best-known pieces, ''Divisor,'' a performance work in which dozens of people poked their heads through holes in a gridded arrangement in a large sheet of white cloth. It has been interpreted as a comment on modern bureaucracy as well as on the split between mind and body.
        In the 60's Ms. Pape worked with a filmmaking group called Cinema Novo, for which she designed lettering and posters. She also made short experimental films of her own, some only seconds long. In later decades she created large-scale and often surrealistically dramatic installations using lights, plants, food, flowing liquids, fabric and other materials.
        Her work was seen in New York in ''Body and Soul,'' a 400-year survey of Brazilian art at the Guggenheim Museum in 2001. Two works from her Neo-Concretist phase are currently on view at El Museo del Barrio in Manhattan in an exhibition of Latin American works from the collection of the Museum of Modern Art.
        Ms. Pape was born on April 7, 1927, in the Novo Friburgo section of Rio. Like many Brazilian artists, she studied studio art informally, but she did receive a master's degree in the philosophy of art from the Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro in 1980.
        From 1972 to 1985, Ms. Pape taught semiotics at the school of architecture at the Universidade Santa Ursula in Rio. She was appointed professor in the school of fine arts of the Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro in 1983.
        In addition to her daughter Paula, Ms. Pape is survived by her husband, Gunther Pape; another daughter, Cristina Maria; and two grandsons.
      