
        Brenda Fassie, the wild child of South African pop who was beloved as the piercing siren of the dispossessed under apartheid, died on May 9. She was 39.
        Family members said that her death stemmed from an April 26 asthma attack at home that led to heart failure and brain damage. She had been on life support since then at the Sunninghill Hospital north of Johannesburg.
        For 20 years, singing in English, Xhosa and Zulu, Ms. Fassie was one of Africa's top-selling musicians and the object of some of its liveliest gossip.
        ''Black President,'' her anthem to Nelson Mandela in jail envisioning the day that he would come out and lead the country, became her generation's harder-edged addition to its elders' tradition of religious liberation songs.
        ''Vulindlela,'' her wedding song, was adopted by the African National Congress in its 1999 election campaign. ''Weekend Special,'' her complaint that she would not be a married man's part-time girlfriend, topped the charts before she was 20 and remained a staple.
        Ms. Fassie's tempestuous life and her changing fashions in music and clothing earned her the nickname ''the black Madonna of the townships,'' but she was far less solvent and far more impetuous than the American Madonna.
        She struggled for years with drug and alcohol problems, hitting bottom in 1995 when she woke up in a seedy Johannesburg hotel next to the body of her lesbian lover, who had overdosed. She went into rehabilitation, but was defiant in interviews about her crack use and her bisexuality, then largely taboo subjects among black South Africans.
        She was often broke, sharing her large houses with her singers, musicians and hangers-on and helping support her siblings. She missed concerts, leading her fans to riot and her producers to sue. Even when she was famous, her son, Bongani, now 20, was asked to leave his grammar school when she could not pay tuition. He is her only survivor.
        She had a series of stormy relationships with men and women, many of which ended in a hurricane of newspaper articles with accusations from one side or the other of beatings, theft or drug binges. She fired and then reunited with various managers, and alienated critics by hurling obscenities at them during awards ceremonies. And yet through it all, the nation looked on her with indulgent affection.
        She could call herself the niece of former President Mandela (she was a member of the same Madiba clan of the Xhosas) and refer to him as a ''bloody jailbird'' in the same sentence and still be forgiven. (He, his former wife Winnie and President Thabo Mbeki all visited her in the hospital before her death.)
        Recently, after a string of South African music awards, she boasted: ''I'm going to become the pope next year. Nothing is impossible.''
        Ms. Fassie, who was named for the American singer Brenda Lee, grew up in a two-bedroom house in Langa, a black township outside Cape Town. The last of nine children of a domestic worker, she sang as a child at churches and hospitals, and then in high school she joined a group that performed in colored townships, which was unusual in those days when apartheid segregated the races on a hierarchical ladder and mixed-race audiences rarely accepted African singers.
        She described running away from home at 14 and hitchhiking on a gasoline truck to the Soweto township outside Johannesburg. Other accounts said she went in an agent's car with her mother's permission. In any case her talent was soon recognized, and she was asked to front a group that then changed its name to Brenda and the Big Dudes.
        After their initial hits, she went off on her own, and the Dudes named their next album ''Hamba Uzobuya'' (''Yeah, Go, but You'll Come Back''). She did not. The Dudes disbanded. Her career took off.
      