
        Marjorie Courtenay-Latimer, a self-trained South African naturalist who in 1938 discovered the coelacanth, a species of bony, four-finned fish often described as a living fossil, died on May 17 in East London, South Africa. She was 97.
        A cause of death was not determined, although she had suffered a series of falls, said Susan L. Jewett, a researcher for the Smithsonian Institution who recently visited her.
        The story of Ms. Courtenay-Latimer's discovery remains among the most famous in the annals of modern biology. She was a young curator at the East London Museum when, on Dec. 22, 1938, she spotted the coelacanth in a pile of fish on a vessel at the town's dock. After taking steps to preserve the 127-pound fish, she sent a quick sketch to South Africa's leading fish expert, Dr. J.L.B. Smith of Rhodes University.
        ''With that action, Courtenay-Latimer became the point person and den mother for all who were to study the fish,'' said Dr. Keith S. Thomson, professor emeritus of natural history at Oxford University and author of the book ''Living Fossil: The Story of the Coelacanth'' (1991).
        Dr. Thomson compared the discovery to finding a lost dinosaur on a South American plateau or a pterodactyl in the Everglades. Before Ms. Courtenay-Latimer's discovery, the coelacanth was thought to have been extinct for at least 70 million years.
        As a living species, it is believed to hold a unique place in the evolutionary chain from fish to land vertebrates. Early theories that held that the fish might be a direct ancestor of humankind were disproved by studies in the 1980's of the coelacanth's anatomy and DNA.
        ''We continually ask, how can this fish have evolved so little?'' Dr. Thomson said.
        Recalling her discovery, Ms. Courtenay-Latimer later wrote: ''I saw a blue fin and, pushing off the fish, the most beautiful fish I had ever seen was revealed. It was five feet long and a pale mauve blue with iridescent silver markings.'' She added, ''This I will definitely take to the museum.''
        The second coelacanth was caught 14 years later, in 1952, in the Indian Ocean off the Comoro Islands after an international effort by Dr. Smith to find more specimens of the fish. Some 200 coelacanths have been captured since, leading to a call to study the fish in its environment and to preserve the species. Several were found off the South African coast last month.
        The significance of the coelacanth continues to unfold.
        Dr. William E. Bemis, an evolutionary biologist at the University of Massachusetts, Amherst, said studies of the fish's eye muscles, used to close its jaws, had provided important links to how similar muscles in frogs and vertebrates worked. Other studies have shown that the fish possesses within its snout an electrosensory organ, the rostral organ, which scientists have determined is probably used to find prey.
        Marjorie Courtenay-Latimer was born Feb. 24, 1907, the daughter of a railroad accountant who moved the family to stations throughout South Africa. While still a child, she began a collection of bird eggs and insects. She was educated at a convent school and intended to train as a nurse, but became curator at the East London Museum in 1931, a position she held until 1973. She never married.
        Although best known for her discovery of the coelacanth, Ms. Courtenay-Latimer had a broader interest in natural history, and also wrote about wildflowers.
        In 1971, she received an honorary doctorate from Rhodes University. In 1998, she was a guest of honor when the South African government unveiled a gold coin minted to commemorate the coelacanth's discovery. Ms. Courtenay-Latimer's scientific collaborator, Dr. Smith, named the species after her, Latimeria chalumnae.
        Ms. Courtenay-Latimer is survived by two nieces and a nephew.
      