
        Irene Manning, a lyric soprano and actress who charmed audiences with her performances in 1940's musical films like ''Yankee Doodle Dandy,'' ''Shine On, Harvest Moon'' and ''The Desert Song,'' died on May 28 at her home in San Carlos, Calif. She was 91.
        The cause was congestive heart failure, said her stepdaughter Peggy H. Schafer of Pleasanton, Calif.
        Trained as a classical singer, Ms. Manning had a fleeting but stellar career as a leading lady. She appeared glamorously in westerns, on Broadway and the London stage and entertained wounded soldiers in World War II.
        Still billed as Hope Manning, she made her Broadway debut in 1939 in ''Susanna, Don't You Cry,'' a bouquet of Stephen Foster songs arranged into a musical for the American Lyric Theater at the Martin Beck. The show soon closed, but she received good reviews, and Warner Brothers signed her for ''Yankee Doodle Dandy,'' a blockbuster musical of 1942 with James Cagney as the producer and songwriter George M. Cohan. Ms. Manning portrayed the diva Fay Templeton and sang ''Mary Is a Grand Old Name'' and ''So Long, Mary.'' Because the movie is a perennial on television, it is probably her most famous film role.
        She played opposite Humphrey Bogart in ''The Big Shot,'' a hard-boiled gangster movie of 1943, and in a version of ''The Desert Song'' also in 1943, with Dennis Morgan. She appeared the next year in ''Shine On, Harvest Moon'' and ''Make Your Own Bed'' and made two forgettable war pictures before returning to Broadway in 1945 for ''The Day Before Spring,'' an original Lerner-Loewe caper about a class reunion, with ballets by Antony Tudor.
        During the war, she had led a four-women U.S.O. troupe touring for the Air Force and performing at hospitals throughout Britain. She also recorded four songs, in German, with Glenn Miller's orchestra just before he died in a plane crash in 1944, including ''Begin the Beguine'' and ''All the Things You Are.''
        Ms. Manning was born Inez Harvout into a musical family in Cincinnati; both her parents were singers. She trained at the Eastman School of Music in Rochester and seemed headed for the opera stage.
        Her first movie was ''The Old Corral'' (1936), starring Gene Autry, and she was in at least two more westerns before her Broadway debut.
        After the war she returned to England for a time to work onstage and had a BBC television show, ''An American in England.'' In the 1950's she toured in America and appeared in regional theaters and on television, notably with Cyril Ritchard in ''The King and Mrs. Candle'' (1955). She had the lead in ''The Tattoed Princess,'' a 1961 musical at the Barbizon Plaza Theater in Manhattan in 1961.
        She taught voice and acting into the mid-1990's but performed only occasionally.
        In 1964 Ms. Manning married Maxwell White Hunter II, a rocket engineer and space-flight manager, with whom she lived in San Carlos until his death, in 2001.
        In addition to Ms. Schafer, Ms. Manning is survived by another stepdaughter, Sally H. Wiley of Evanston, Ill.; three stepsons, Matthew S. Hunter of Los Angeles; Maxwell Hunter III and David M. Hunter, both of Holidaysburg, Pa.; and five grandchildren.
        Correction:  June 12, 2004, Saturday  An obituary on Thursday about Irene Manning, a singing film actress of the 1940's, misstated the name of an Off Broadway musical in which she appeared in 1961. It was ''The Tattooed Countess,'' not ''The Tattooed Princess.''
      