
        Elizabeth Shub, a distinguished editor and translator of children's books from German and Yiddish, especially those of Isaac Bashevis Singer, whom she knew from her childhood and encouraged to write for children, died on Friday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89.
        Her death was announced by Virginia Duncan, the publisher of Greenwillow Books.
        Mrs. Shub (pronounced SHOOB) was born in Poland and was brought to New York in 1919. Her father, Samuel Charney, also known as Shmuel Niger, was the literary critic for The Day, a Yiddish newspaper, and he and his wife ran a literary salon in their home in New York.
        Mrs. Shub's younger brother, Dr. William Charney, a microbiologist, was known for his work on the development of prednisone and prednisolone, the synthetic corticosteroids.
        After she and her husband, Boris Shub, divorced, she drifted into publishing. The couple had no children.
        Mrs. Shub was first hired by Susan Hirschman as a freelance reader in the children's department at Harper & Row. She became an associate editor there before moving to Charles Scribner's Sons, then followed Mrs. Hirschman to the children's book department at Macmillan. When Mrs. Hirschman founded Greenwillow Books in 1974, Mrs. Shub became senior editor, a position she held until her retirement in 1996. In the 1960's, when she was an established editor, she suggested to Singer that he consider writing for children. ''Zlateh the Goat, and Other Stories'' appeared in 1966 and was followed by 10 other children's books.
        In addition to translating folk tales and Yiddish stories for children, she wrote several children's books herself, including ''The White Stallion'' (1982), a popular novel..
        In a published interview she said that as both an editor and a writer she had respect for writers' instincts, and that ''if I make suggestions on how something in a manuscript might be changed, I always let the writers fix it their own way.''
      