
        Lillian Seril, who as landlord of a grand Upper West Side apartment building, the Belnord, became the central figure in one of New York City's longest rent strikes, died on Monday at New York Weill Cornell Center in Manhattan. She was 95 and had been living as a tenant at the building she once owned, at 225 West 86th Street.
        Her death was announced by her family in a paid notice in The New York Times.
        The 16-year battle between Mrs. Seril and her tenants played out on a suitably historic stage. The Belnord, an ornate Italian Renaissance building 12 stories tall, occupies the entire block between Broadway and Amsterdam Avenue. It was advertised as the largest apartment house in the world when it was completed in 1908 and was designated as a New York City landmark in 1966.
        Designed to be one of the city's most luxurious residences, it has huge, high-ceilinged apartments and surrounds a half-acre courtyard. It became a center of the Upper West Side's intellectual life, home over the years to figures like the Nobel Prize-winning author Isaac Bashevis Singer, the Actors Studio founder Lee Strasberg and the actor Zero Mostel.
        But the Belnord was more than a glamorous address; it also was one of Manhattan's biggest real estate bargains. When Mrs. Seril and her husband, Nathan, became sole owners of the building in 1974, two-thirds of its 225 apartments were covered under the city's rent control law, which originated as a federal plan in World War II to prevent war profiteering. With prices averaging $60 per room, tenants of rent-controlled 10-room apartments could pay less than $500 per month, well below the market rate even then.
        Upon taking over the building, the Serils said some tenants owed back rent and accused others of infractions from illegal subletting to ripping out fixtures to installing appliances that put a dangerous strain on the building's wires and pipes.
        Tenants had their own complaints: elevators frequently went out of service; pipes burst; the roof leaked; plaster fell from ceilings: the building often had no hot water, or no water at all. The tenants also said the Serils would not allow them to make repairs themselves.
        To the Serils, these problems were a simple matter of economics. As their son-in-law, Owen C. Pell, later told said, ''If you keep the rents in the building lower than they are in the South Bronx, how do you stop the property from running down?''
        The rent strike began in 1978, joined by nearly half of the Belnord's residents. It was soon followed by litigation that became so bitter that the Manhattan Housing Court judge originally assigned to the case withdrew in 1980 after the collapse of a settlement he had arranged, saying that the two sides ''deserved each other.''
        When the city's commissioner of Housing Preservation and Development was asked to intervene in the dispute four years later, he said, ''I'm not going to get myself into a West Beirut situation, where one or both parties are shooting at us.''
        The battle continued through the 1980's, outliving Mr. Seril, who died in 1981. At one point, a court-appointed administrator was put in charge of the building, a step usually taken against slumlords. Later, a justice of the State Supreme Court in Manhattan found that many strikers were withholding rent to force Mrs. Seril to sell the building or to convert it to condominiums or cooperatives; he also found that some of the strikers were failing to place their withheld rent in escrow, in effect living rent free.
        The strike finally came to an end in October 1994, when Mrs. Seril agreed to sell the building to investors for $15 million, or about $66,000 an apartment. Experts estimated that she could have asked two or three times as much if the rents had been at market level and the building had been in better shape.
        Her opponents were surprised when she finally sold the Belnord.
        ''Mrs. Seril has turned down many offers from buyers,'' a tenant leader said. ''The tenants have even offered to buy the building. This is not about money.''
        Born Lillian Trachtenberg, Mrs. Seril is survived by her daughters Barbara and Pearl, her stepdaughter Zena Carp, her sisters Ada Hinden and Gladys Feigenbaum, four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
        Mrs. Seril remained a part of the Belnord saga even after selling the building. In a long speech before the Landmarks Preservation Commission in 1996, she criticized the new owners' renovation plans and their intention of putting a large supermarket in the building's basement. This time Mrs. Seril, who lived in a 3,000-square-foot, $450-a-month, rent-controlled apartment in the Belnord, was speaking as a tenant.
      