
        Doris Dowling, who made an impression as a husky-voiced character actress in the film classics ''The Lost Weekend,'' ''The Blue Dahlia'' and ''Bitter Rice,'' died on June 18 in Los Angeles. She was 81.
        Her death was announced by Lee Redmond, a family friend.
        Ms. Dowling was the brunette sibling of a well-known blond actress of the era, Constance Dowling. The sisters appeared together when Doris made her Broadway debut in the 1940 hit musical ''Panama Hattie.''
        She was back on Broadway briefly in ''Banjo Eyes'' (1941), ''Beat the Band'' (1942), ''New Faces of 1943'' and, later, in a revival of ''The Women'' (1973). But she spent the better part of her career in Hollywood and in Italy, where Constance had gone to work as an expatriate.
        After an unheralded beginning in an earlier Raymond Chandler movie, ''And Now Tomorrow'' (1944), she made an auspicious appearance in ''The Lost Weekend'' (1945), an Oscar-winning film starring Ray Milland as an alcoholic. Ms. Dowling played Gloria, the available barfly with a heart whom he meets on his downward spiral.
        In ''The Blue Dahlia'' (1946), a Raymond Chandler thriller starring Alan Ladd, she was the faithless wife who is murdered.
        In Italy, Ms. Dowling took the part of Francesca, a gangster moll hiding among rice workers, in ''Riso Amaro'' (1949). The film gave the actress Silvana Mangano her sensational start and opened as ''Bitter Rice'' in this country in 1950.
        Ms. Dowling made several more pictures in Italy and France, among them Orson Welles's version of ''Othello'' (1952), in which she played the small role of Bianca; Welles portrayed the Moor.
        After returning to this country, she was a frequent guest star on television into the 1980's, and appeared often on the stage in Los Angeles.
        Ms. Dowling was married three times. In 1952 she became the seventh of the bandleader Artie Shaw's eight wives. Her marriage to him was dissolved, but their son, Jonathan Shaw, survives, according to The Associated Press. In 1960 she married Leonard B. Kaufman, a television producer, who also survives her.
        Constance Dowling died in Los Angeles in 1969. She was 49.
      