
        Adele Marcus, teacher to two generations of outstanding pianists, died on Wednesday at her home in Manhattan. She was 89.
        A representative list of Ms. Marcus's prominent students might include Horacio Gutierrez, Byron Janis, Stephen Hough, Cy Coleman, Panayis Lyras, Jon Kimura Parker, Neil Sedaka, Edward Aldwell, Jeffrey Swann, Santiago Rodriguez, Ken Noda, Peter Orth, Norman Krieger, Jeffrey Biegel and Augustin Anievas.
        Ms. Marcus taught with a combination of wit and passion, and mainly at the Juilliard School. She joined the faculty there in 1954 and stayed until 1990. Her peripatetic master classes around the world ended in 1984, but she continued to teach at home until several years ago.
        Adele Marcus was born in 1906 in Kansas City, Mo., the 13th and last child of a rabbi of Russian origins. Her father was 73 at her birth. When the family moved to Los Angeles, Ms. Marcus and her sister Rosamund formed a piano duo. They were known locally as the Two Prodigies. In Los Angeles her teachers were Desider Josef Vecsei and Alexis Kall, but at 15, Ms. Marcus auditioned for Josef Lhevinne. A year later, she became his pupil and subsequently his assistant, a job she held for seven years. She also studied with Artur Schnabel in Europe.
        In 1928 Ms. Marcus won the Walter H. Naumburg Foundation Award and made her debut at Town Hall. She subseqently played with most of the major American orchestras and gave recitals in Town Hall, Carnegie Hall, Avery Fisher Hall and Alice Tully Hall.
        Although students who heard her play in the studio have remarked on her tone, technique and almost religiously Romantic approach to the piano, Ms. Marcus made teaching the center of her career. She was known for her master classes, especially at the Aspen Festival in Colorado, and in 1980 she established her own summer piano festival in northern Norway. She was the author of "Great Pianists Speak with Adele Marcus."
        Serious as her approach may have been, she had a wry outlook on the professional world of music. Once asked about the value of debuts for her students, she answered: "It's one thing to launch a ship. It's another to make it sail." Joseph Polisi, president of the Juilliard School, said yesterday, "Ms. Marcus dedicated her career here at Juilliard to her students and her life to her art."
        No immediate family members survive.
        There is to be a memorial service on Sunday at 1:30 at the Plaza Memorial Chapel, 630 Amsterdam Avenue, at 91st Street, Manhattan.
      