
        Diana Chin Hsu, a veteran Chinese journalist, novelist and poet whose writings on love, suffering and tragedy are read throughout Taiwan, Hong Kong and Southeast Asia, died on Wednesday in Queens. She was 77.
        The cause of death was stomach cancer, according to her son, Hugh H. Mo, a lawyer in New York.
        As a reporter for Chinese newspapers during World War II, Ms. Hsu covered the Chinese resistance against the Japanese and her articles were widely read in the Far East. But Ms. Hsu gained wider popularity after she escaped Communist China with the three youngest of munists executed her husband, Mo Tze Shin, the director of Chiang Kai-shek's secret police force, the Shanghai Bureau of Criminal Investigation.
        Her book "Mao Zedong Killed My Husband" was a best-seller in Hong Kong, Taiwan and Southeast Asia.
        In 1954, at the invitation of Chiang Ching-kuo, a son of Chiang Kai-shek who later became President of Taiwan, Ms. Hsu visited Taiwan and joined the Government newspaper, China Daily News, where she covered international politics. In 1960, Ms. Hsu became a special foreign correspondent for the paper in New York.
        Ms. Hsu traveled through Asia and Europe, eventually settling in New York, and was eventually reunited with her eight children.
        She went on to write seven novels, all with anti-Communist themes. Attempts by the Chinese Government to undermine her only enhanced her popularity.
        In 1985, the Chinese community in New York was in an uproar when Ms. Hsu and her son, Mr. Mo, who was serving as a Deputy Police Commissioner in the administration of Mayor Edward I. Koch, accepted an invitation from the Chinese Government and visited the mainland. Today, some pro-Taiwan Chinese have not forgiven them.
        "Maybe the old generation can't sit down and break bread," Mr. Mo said after his trip to China in 1985. "But the ideological split doesn't involve me."
        Ms. Hsu is survived by four daughters, LiYa Mo, Li Qun Mo and Li Guo Mo, all of New York City, and Li Min Mo of Cambridge, Mass., and two other sons, Lin H. Mo and Chi Mo of New York, and 10 grandchildren.
      