
        Annie Elizabeth (Bessie) Delany, the younger of the two sisters whose wisdom and triumphs have been celebrated in a best-selling book and in the Broadway play "Having Our Say," died yesterday at her home in Mt. Vernon, N.Y. She was 104.
        "She just took a couple of deep breaths and passed away," said Amy Hill Hearth, co-author of "Having Our Say: The Delany Sisters' First 100 years," the 1993 best-selling oral history. "And it's an important thing she died at home, in her bed, with her sister there. That's all she wanted."
        Her 106-year-old sister, Sarah, known as Sadie, with whom she had lived for more than 100 years, seemed to handle her sister's death with the same strength that had carried her through a century.
        "I'll just do the best I can," Sarah Delany told Ms. Hearth in an interview at her home. "I'll continue right on as if Bessie were here."
        She added that for her sister, whose life was filled with many achievements, the last few years had been particularly special. "Bessie lived to be 104, and she lived her life the way she wanted to," she said. "And especially the last couple of years, she has been having a ball. Between the play and books, she has been having the time of her life. And she said you really couldn't ask for anything more."
        The two sisters had lived so long and seen so much that to some it seemed they might live forever. Born a generation after the Civil War, they had triumphed over Jim Crow, worked in Harlem during its renaissance, borne witness to the feminist and civil rights movements and in recent years, become national celebrities.
        Their award-winning memoir has been on the New York Times best-seller list for 19 months, sold more than 900,000 copies and been translated into four foreign languages. They were co-authors of a second book, "The Delany Sisters' Book of Everyday Wisdom" (Kodansha America, 1994) which has sold 160,000 copies. And in April their Mt. Vernon parlor was re-created on Broadway, in a dramatization that earned three Tony nominations.
        Bessie Delany often marveled that the nation would be interested in what two elderly black women had to say. She wanted her life seen not so much as a story of blacks or of women, but of America.
        The sisters' lives remained simple despite their celebrity. They rose early to eat a breakfast of oatmeal, went to bed after watching the MacNeil/Lehrer Newshour on a black-and-white television and had no telephone. They relied mostly on each other for comfort and company. In more than a century, they lived apart for only a few months. And Sarah Delany said many times that it was for her baby sister that she had lived so long.
        Annie Elizabeth Delany was born on Sept. 3, 1891, in Raleigh, N.C., the third child of a former slave who became the country's first black Episcopal bishop. Raised on the campus of St. Augustine's College, she and her siblings were well-educated, nurtured and sheltered from the harsher edges of American racism.
        But she and her sister often spoke of the first time they were told to go to the back of the trolley car. And they remembered how the staff at the drugstore refused to serve them. Still, Bessie Delany was undaunted. Known as the feistier of the sisters, she was once almost lynched for speaking rudely to a "rebby boy." And she often told tales of how as a child she would sneak a sip from the forbidden side of the water fountain. 'I'd just take a drink of the white water," she said. "It didn't taste any different."
        She graduated from St. Augustine's in 1911 and worked as a teacher in North Carolina and Georgia to earn the money she needed to continue her education. The few months in 1912 that she and Sadie taught in different parts of the South was the only time they did not live together.
        In 1917, the two sisters made their way to New York City. Bessie had planned to become a doctor but ultimately decided to go to dental school. She graduated from Columbia University in 1923 and became the second black woman to work as a dentist in New York.
        Known as "Dr. Bessie, Harlem's colored woman dentist," Dr. Delany socialized with Cab Calloway, W. E. B. Du Bois and the doyennes of the Harlem Renaissance. But she treated many of Harlem's poor, and in 27 years of practice never raised her rates. It was $2 for a cleaning and $5 for a silver filling, from 1923 until the day she retired, in 1950.
        Like her sister Sarah, the first black home economics teacher in a New York City high school, she never married or had children. They referred to themselves as "Negro maiden ladies" and lived together in a Harlem apartment, in a Bronx cottage and finally in the Mt. Vernon home they bought in 1957.
        With the death of their youngest sister, Laura, in 1993, they were the last survivors among their parents' children. When asked in a 1993 interview if she could account for her and her sister's longevity, Dr. Delany replied, "Honey, we never married; we never had husbands to worry us to death." As for mortality, she said, "I haven't been afraid to live, and I won't be afraid to die."
        Recently Dr. Delany had become more frail, Ms. Hearth said. And in the time the two women knew each other, she often spoke about death, though with characteristic sass and humor. "She was worried she was too mean to get into heaven," Ms. Hearth remembered, laughing.
        A funeral service is to be held on Thursday at 10:30 A.M. at the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in Manhattan. And before the curtain rises on "Having Our Say" tonight, there will be a brief tribute at the Booth Theater.
        In addition to her sister, Dr. Delany is survived by 14 nieces and nephews.
      