
        Mary M. Kaufman, a retired lawyer whose practice included cases involving Communism and Nazism, as well as defending the poor, died on Thursday at the Roosevelt division of the St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center. She was 82 and lived on the West Side of Manhattan.
        Mrs. Kaufman retired about 1980, after having worked in Manhattan for almost all her career. Some of her other cases involved antiwar activities. She practiced mainly without partners.
        In 1951, she was in a Federal courtroom as a defense lawyer when Dashiell Hammett, the writer, and W. Alphaeus Hunton, secretary of the Council on African Affairs, were convicted of criminal contempt and sentenced to six months in prison.
        She asked Judge Sylvester Ryan to release Mr. Hunton in her custody or set bail, but he refused.
        Judge Ryan had found Mr. Hammett and Mr. Hunton guilty for refusing to name contributors to the bail fund of the Civil Rights Congress, which the Attorney General had designated as a Communist subversive front. Mrs. Kaufman's clients included the bail fund as well as Mr. Hunton.
        In the preceding two years, the civil rights group had posted $500,000 or more bail for Communists accused of criminal conspiracy or involved in deportation cases, and it had forfeited more than $100,000 because of bail jumping.
        In the 1940's, Mrs. Kaufman worked for the National War Labor and Wage Stabilization Boards, and she was a prosecutor at a war-crimes trial in Nuremberg.
        She was born Mary Metlay in Atlanta, but grew up mainly in Brooklyn. After graduating from Brooklyn College, she received her law degree from St. John's University and was admitted to the bar in 1937. She became an original member of the National Lawyers Guild in that year.
        Her marriage to Frederick Kaufman ended in divorce. Her second husband, Paul Albert, died last year.
        Surviving are a son, Michael, of Beacon Falls, Conn.; two stepdaughters, Janice Albert of Rome and Marilyn Albert of Brooklyn, and two grandchildren.
      