
        Judy Dearing, a costume designer for scores of musicals, dances and plays, as well as a dancer and choreographer, died on Saturday at New York Hospital.
        She was 55 and lived in Manhattan. Her family said the cause of death was acute pneumonia.
        Ms. Dearing began her career dancing with Miriam Makeba and acting with the Negro Ensemble Company. But she devoted much of the last 20 years to designing costumes for a wide range of theater arts. In 1985 she won an Obie for her World War II uniforms for Charles Fuller's drama "A Soldier's Play."
        As a dancer, Ms. Dearing made her own costumes, a skill she said she had learned as a child. In 1976, she was hired by Oz Scott, the director of Ntozake Shange's "For Colored Girls Who Have Considered Suicide/When the Rainbow Is Enuf"; she was given $100 to create costumes for the show's seven performers.
        Her penny-pinching solution was to buy a long bolt of inexpensive crepe-back satin from which she made seven dresses dyed seven different colors.
        She went on to design costumes for "Checkmates," "The Legacy of Williams and Walker," two shows now on Broadway, "Swinging on a Star" and "Having Our Say," and a production of "Porgy and Bess" that is now on tour.
        She also designed costumes for "Shimada," "Once on This Island" (for which she received a Tony nomination), "The Poison Tree," "What the Wine Sellers Buy," "Death and the King's Horsemen," "The Mighty Gents," and "Lamppost Reunion."
        Her Off Broadway credits include "Moms," "Ma Rose," "Trick" and "Split Second."
        For the New York Shakespeare Festival, her credits included "The Forbidden City," "Jonah," "The Dance" and "The Railroad."'
        Her costumes for the Alvin Ailey Dance Theater included "Nubian Lady," "Inside" and "I See the Moon."
        Woven through her highly colorful and original designs was a folkloric look. She used printed kente cloth, Dutch cotton prints, raw silk and chiffon with metallics. "A costume has to be natural," she said in an interview in 1990silk and chiffon with metallics. "A costume has to be natural," she said in an interview in 1990. "Everything has to be set up to look natural."
        Ms. Dearing grew up in Manhattan and graduated from City College, where she majored in mathematics and science. She began her career in the theater as a dancer. She married John Parks, another dancer, and collaborated with him on a number of concerts. She also performed with the Sun Ock Lee Dance Company.
        Ms. Dearing was also a professor of design at Howard University.
        She is survived by her husband; a daughter, Aissatou Parks of Manhattan; her mother, Elizabeth Dearing of Tuskegee, Ala.; her father, Charles, of Manhattan; two sisters, Carole, of Tuskegee, and Bianca, of Manhattan; and two brothers, Charles, of Tuskegee, and Andre, of Manhattan.
      