
        Before she made her Metropolitan Opera debut last Saturday in the title role  of Bizet's "Carmen," Denyce Graves kept telling herself that the Met was simply  another opera house. After all, she had already sung the role at the Vienna State Opera, at the Bastille Opera in Paris and at Covent Garden, 21 productions in the last two years alone.
        "I tried to think of this as just another engagement," she said recently, "but nobody would let me do that."
        She was referring not only to managers and the news media, but also to her family, friends and former teachers from the tough southwest Washington neighborhood where she grew up, a gritty area near a sewage treatment center and an automobile impoundment lot. More than 50 of her relatives and former neighbors traveled to New York by chartered bus for her Met debut; some 50 more  came by train and car.
        For years, most people at home saw Ms. Graves as "some sort of space alien,"  she said, what with her exotic notions of becoming an opera singer. But "a Met debut was something they understood," she said, and the tumultuous standing ovation she got on Saturday night "really clinched it for them." She sings the role again this afternoon and on Wednesday and next Saturday.
        Ms. Graves knows that her personal story is the kind of inspirational saga Americans love: a television crew from "60 Minutes" covered her Met debut. "This was not just a move for myself, but for my people, my family," the 30-year-old mezzo-soprano said. "I realize now that what I say affects my family, so I've become more protective of their feelings, my mother's in particular. It's not just my story; it's hers."
        Ms. Graves was the second of three children. Her father, an alcoholic, abusive man, left the family when her mother was pregnant with their third child. The children did not see him for again for 18 years, when he turned up, unannounced, at the high school graduation of Ms. Graves's younger sister. By then he had become a minister. They have not heard from him since.
        Left alone with three children to raise, Ms. Graves's mother found work as a  clerk-typist at the University of the District of Columbia. (Today, Mrs. Dorothy Graves Kenner, her name from a second marriage, is registrar.) She was out of the house before the children were up, and gone most of the day. "When she got home, we had to have dinner ready," Ms. Graves said. "We did the cooking, dishwashing and cleaning in rotating one-week shifts."
        Yet her mother provided a rich, if regimented, family life. Participation in  their fundamentalist Baptist church was mandatory. Ms. Graves sang in the choir  and helped out at Sunday school. At home, her mother dedicated each night of the week to some educational project: one night the children would present oral book reports or speak on assigned topics (like birds, flowers or geography). Thursday was music night, when the family performed gospel as an impromptu vocal group at churches and meeting halls. Popular music of any kind was banned in the house, though Ms. Graves listened to some illicit Michael Jackson on the radio when she was alone. "My mother worked so hard," Ms. Graves said. "She didn't want her babies to be lost to the streets, like so many."
        At school, Ms. Graves's singing was encouraged by a strong-willed music teacher, Judith Grove. "I adored her," Ms. Graves said. "I thought she hung the  moon." Ms. Grove directed her to the Duke Ellington School for the Performing Arts, a public high school in Washington. She was accepted immediately. There, she received private voice lessons and attended her first opera: a dress rehearsal for Beethoven's "Fidelio," on a school expedition to the Kennedy Center.
        After high school, Ms. Graves made great progress under Helen Hodam, a renowned voice teacher, first at Oberlin Conservatory, and then at the New England Conservatory. In Boston, she took side jobs to support herself: cleaning dormitories, working as an all-night hotel desk clerk. When she decided to enter the Metropolitan Opera Regional Auditions, she had all the makings of a finalist: a lustrous mezzo-soprano voice and a striking stage presence. But her  performance was charged with a special determination. "I had to win," she said.  "I was four months behind in my rent. I couldn't pay for the rented dress I was wearing." Ms. Graves won.
        The pressure took its toll. After the competition, her voice failed her. The  problem later turned out to be a treatable thyroid condition. But her performance at the finals in New York City was "a disaster," Ms. Graves said. Demoralized, she quit singing and took a secretarial job.
        Yet the word of her promise had spread. The Houston Grand Opera called to invite her to participate in its program for young artists. She declined. When they called twice more, her friends prevailed on her to accept. ("It was a sign, like something meant to be," she said.)
        Since then, her success has come steadily. One of her big supporters is Placido Domingo, who sang Don Jose to her Carmen at Covent Garden. They first met in Houston when Ms. Graves sang Emilia in a production of Verdi's "Otello."  "What impressed me immediately about her, aside from her obvious vocal and physical beauty, was an aura of the dramatic about her," Mr. Domingo said recently.
        "As Carmen," he continued, "she is so good that the world might want her exclusively for this role. That would be a shame, because she has very much to offer in other parts." In his capacity as future artistic director of the Washington Opera, Mr. Domingo has invited her to sing two other leading roles, which have not yet been announced.
        In developing her approach to this signature role, Ms. Graves avoided listening to recordings of celebrated Carmens from the past. Moreover, she counts herself lucky to have done her first Carmen in a modern-dress production  at the Minnesota Opera.
        "I didn't want to do a traditional Carmen," she said. "Carmen is an unapologetic modern woman, a woman of the 90's. She speaks constantly about her  freedom, but she is no whore. Her spirit is free. She is attracted to Don Jose precisely because he isn't interested. When she realizes she truly loves him, she becomes afraid and treats him badly. Love means losing your freedom. I think she is essentially a very sad person."
        Vocally, she finds the role gratifying, but frustrating. Unlike the other characters, Carmen has no defining "stand-and-deliver aria," as Ms. Graves put it, which makes portraying her true character a challenge. "Carmen sings songs,  but these are set pieces involving other people," she said. Carmen's most famous song, the "Habanera," is a "dramatic miscalculation," according to Ms. Graves, wrongly inserted by Bizet into the score after the premiere at the insistence of the first Carmen, Celestine Galli-Marie. "It's an awkward introduction to Carmen," Ms. Graves said. "In the original version, she enters, sings her few insinuating lines, then leaves, like a black cat crossing the stage. That's much more in character."
        Her recent performances include Adalgisa in "Norma" at Zurich, Giulietta in "Les Contes d'Hoffmann" at La Scala, and Dalila in a concert performance of "Samson et Dalila" with the Chicago Symphony under James Levine. She is looking  forward to performing Marguerite in Berlioz's "Damnation of Faust" in Houston and Bonn ("I adore that music"), and hopes someday to sing Blanche in one of her favorites, Poulenc's "Dialogues of the Carmelites."
        The sudden attention has left Ms. Graves excited but unaffected. Greeting a visitor in her hotel suite, she curled up on the couch in an oversize sweatshirt and casually stirred gobs of honey into her tea with a dinner knife when no teaspoon was handy. As she relaxed next to her husband, David Perry, an importer of fine classical guitars, she seemed content with the way her life has turned out.
        "Perhaps this should be the last interview about the past," Mr. Perry suggested. "From now on, the future will be the story." Ms. Graves nodded quietly.
      