
        Genora Johnson Dollinger, who rallied support for the hard-fought strike that gave the United Auto Workers union its foothold at the General Motors Company in 1937, died on Wednesday at Cedar Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles. She was 82 and had lived in Los Angeles since 1966.
        Mrs. Dollinger was 23 when she organized the Women's Auxiliary of the U.A.W. and the Women's Emergency Brigade to feed and shield 2,000 strikers occupying a crucial Fisher Body Division plant in Flint, Mich. The strike began on Christmas Eve 1936 and ended 44 days later with the company's recognition of the union as bargaining agent for its work force.
        The strike crippled General Motors, and its settlement proved a stellar event for the whole labor movement because it gave new stature to unions representing industrial workers.
        Mrs. Dollinger's first husband, Kermit Johnson, was the only member of a citywide strike committee actually employed at the Fisher plant chosen for the strike. When spirits flagged during the long confrontation, her resolve stiffened the will of the "sitdowners."
        Her women's auxiliaries went house-to-house to calm worried mothers and wives and gain their support. They also collected cash and food for their soup kitchens. And she had her women's brigade, wielding clubs, marching up and down the iron main gate and barricade to put their bodies between Pinkerton agents and their men inside.
        In an interview with Studs Terkel for his most recent book, "Coming of Age" (New Press, 1995), she recalled how she and four of her unarmed lieutenants once stalled the police.
        "Beating an unarmed woman was a different story in those days," she said. "We looked up and here came the emergency brigade, the Red Berets. We called ourselves that because of our red berets, red arm bands with white letters: EB. They were carrying the American flag and singing 'Solidarity Forever' and 'Hold the Fort'."
        She said she was blacklisted in Flint and moved to Detroit and a job at the Briggs Manufacturing Company, a Chrysler supplier. She became a leader in a militant unit of the U.A.W. and was dismissed and rehired after thousands of Briggs workers went on strike for her.
        Born in Kalamazoo, Mich., she grew up in Flint and, by age 18, was a charter member of the Flint Socialist Party. The party later turned into a catalyst for the strikes, which were widely denounced as Communist inspired.
        Mrs. Dollinger continued as a union organizer. She fell victim to a lead-pipe attack in a wave of anti-union violence that included the shootings of Walter and Victor Reuther, both veterans of the 1937 strike at G.M.
        She was inducted into the Hall of Fame of the Michigan Women's Historical Center in Lansing last year.
        Besides her husband of 51 years, Sol Dollinger, Mrs. Dollinger is survived by their son, Ronald, also of Los Angeles, and two grandchildren. Her first marriage ended in divorce.
      