
        Helen Vlachos, a publisher who closed her newspapers and fled Greece rather than submit to censorship under the military junta that ruled from 1967 to 1974, died on Saturday, Reuters reported yesterday from Athens, quoting officials at the press ministry. She was 85.
        Ms. Vlachos was a legend in Greek journalism whose popularity rose in the late 1940's when she began writing a column in her father's respected daily paper, Kathimerini, in which she regularly criticized the Government.
        In 1951, she took over Kathimerini and Messimvrini, another daily newspaper, as well as the weekly picture magazine Eikones, but closed them all in 1967 when a group of army colonels seized power, instituted censorship and mandated Government-friendly daily reports.
        Because she was a cheerfully outspoken member of the right, anti-Communist rebels counted on her to back their coup and were shocked when she closed the high-circulation dailies.
        They were even more disturbed when she openly mocked them in the Italian press, calling them "a circus," and commenting, "They can't tell me how to run newspapers anymore than I can tell them how to run their tanks."
        Such wisecracks resulted in charges of "insulting authorities," and she was placed under house arrest in 1967. Although she faced several years in jail had she been brought to trial, she often made light of the situation in the press, and once said that were she ever imprisoned, she hoped it would be noted that her favorite dish was meatballs.
        The same year, she made a daring escape from Athens to London that involved dying her hair black to match a fake passport and hiding out in a cramped bordello while her husband, Costas Loundras, tapped around their Athens flat in her high-heeled shoes to trick the guards into believing that she was still under their arrest.
        From London she continued to aggressively pressure the government to lift restrictive policies against the press.
        She returned home shortly after the junta fell in 1974, reopened her newspapers and was elected to Parliament as a member of the conservative New Democracy party. She published Kathimerini until 1987, when she sold her media holdings.
        Ms. Vlachos was born in Athens on Dec. 18, 1911, and was sent abroad to be educated. When she returned to Greece, she went to work for her father as a bookkeeper, and became a reporter in 1935. During her career, she covered everything from Greek earthquakes to the Far East to Mussolini in Libya.
        Her father, George, had already set a precedent for political opposition through the press -- he was jailed by a series of Greek Governments for his discourse, and refused to cooperate with Nazis when they took over one of his papers in 1941.
        Ms. Vlachos chronicled her career and the adventure of her escape in her book "The House Arrest" (Gambit, 1970). In it she wrote: "The most thrilling aspect of this decision was that it was taken by the most conservative of men, by Costa, who with undue haste had drifted into middle age, silently condemning any kind of youthful flutter, choosing severe clothes, discouraging any tendency toward eccentricity, avoiding noisy parties, disliking on me anything conspicuous, insisting on my keeping my hair white."
        Information about survivors was not available.
      