
        Ada Lois Sipuel Fisher, the black honors graduate who needed a backhanded assist from the Supreme Court in 1948 to win admission to the University of Oklahoma law school, died on Wednesday at her home in Oklahoma City. She was 71  and had served for three years on the university's board of regents, the very body that had denied her admission on the basis of her race.
        The cause of death was cancer, her daughter, Charlene Factory, said.
        By the time Mrs. Fisher applied to the University of Oklahoma law school on  Jan. 14, 1946, the Supreme Court had long held that under the separate-but-equal doctrine, states that sponsored law schools for white students were required to  supply similar training for qualified black students.
        Since Oklahoma had no law school for black students, it seemed obvious that the white law school would be required to admit the eminently qualified Mrs. Fisher. An honors graduate of Langston, a state-run black college, she had been  recruited by the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People to test the state's harsh segregation laws, which, among other things, imposed a fine on any teacher who taught a mixed-race class.
        But Oklahoma argued that the state planned to open a black law school someday and kept Mrs. Fisher at bay for more than two years, until January 1948, when the Supreme Court rejected the state's arguments and ordered it to provide her with a legal education.
        The court did not specifically order her admission to the university law school, and when Oklahoma tried to satisfy the court by instantly creating a black law school exclusively for Mrs. Fisher, the court turned down her follow-up appeal in February 1948. The court said her original petition had not  addressed the issue of whether the creation of a separate law school for black students would fulfill the state's obligations under the 14th Amendment.
        Mrs. Fisher may not have won her immediate point before the Supreme Court, but the arguments raised by her lawyer, Thurgood Marshall, who had denounced the state action as a sham, had a powerful impact on the court as it picked its way  toward the landmark 1954 decision overturning the separate-but-equal doctrine.
        And Mrs. Fisher's campaign, which had won wide backing from the state's college teachers and students, had changed the political climate in Oklahoma. With dozens of other black college graduates pressing for admission to Oklahoma  graduate schools, the state swiftly backed down.
        Mrs. Fisher was admitted to the law school in June 1949, but under such harsh conditions that any of her fellow students who had not already rallied to her cause were soon won over. She was forced to sit in a raised chair apart from the other students, behind a sign reading "Colored." And she had to use a side door  to the cafeteria and sit at a table separated by a chain from the rest of the room; a uniformed guard was posted to prevent interracial mingling.
        But when the guard was not there, Mrs. Fisher later recalled, white students  would climb under the chain to encourage her. "They said, 'Come on, Ada, we've been waiting for you.' "
        After Mrs. Fisher graduated in 1951, she worked for a while as a lawyer. She  returned to the university to earn a master's degree in history in 1968, and she joined the faculty at Langston University.
        When she was appointed to the seven-member board of regents in April 1992, Mrs. Fisher said she had come full circle.
        Mrs. Fisher's survivors all live in Oklahoma City; her husband, Warren, died  several years ago. In addition to her daughter, Mrs. Fisher is survived by a son, Bruce; a sister, Helen Huggins; four grandchildren and three great-grandchildren.
      