
        Margaret Gorman Cahill, who became the first Miss America in 1921 and spent the better part of the next seven decades trying to live down the bathing beauty image, died on Sunday at a nursing home in Bowie, Md. She was 90 and had lived her entire life in Washington.
        Unlike latter-day Miss Americas, who can assert that it was really their talent or their poise that made the difference, Mrs. Cahill could make no such claim.
        In September 1921, when she beat out seven other contestants, including a New York showgirl, the pageant was an unabashed beauty contest. Lest there be any misunderstanding, the organizers billed it both as the Inter-City Beauty Contest and the Atlantic City Bathing Beauty Contest and conducted it on the beach.
        To be sure, the swimsuits of the era were demure by modern standards, none more so than Mrs. Cahill's. While some of her rivals violated a local modesty ordinance by appearing barelegged on the beach, she wore dark, knee-high stockings and a chiffon bathing costume with a tiered skirt that came almost to her knees.
        A petite, blue-eyed beauty whose long blond ringlets made her a Mary Pickford look-alike, Mrs. Cahill was not only the first Miss America, but also set two pageant records that still stand.
        At 5 feet 1 inch and 108 pounds, she remains the smallest Miss America, and with a 30-25-32 figure that was close to the flapper era ideal, the slimmest.
        But Mrs. Cahill had a certain advantage. When she won in 1921, she was only 16 years old, and by some accounts, only 15.
        When she defended her title in 1922, a year older and more mature, she lost to Miss Ohio, Mary Campbell, who beat her again the next year to become the only two-time winner.
        Whatever her age was at the time -- Mrs. Cahill would never discuss the matter -- when reporters from The Washington Herald came to her Georgetown home in the summer of 1921 to notify Margee Gorman that on the basis of a photograph submitted by her parents she had been selected to represent the newspaper in the Atlantic City contest, they found her in a nearby park shooting marbles in the dirt.
        (Mrs. Cahill later took great pains to correct what she saw as the implications of the activity. "I was not a tomboy," she said. "I loved all the boys.")
        In later years, as the contest grew into a major annual event, Mrs. Cahill, who in 1925 married Vincent Cahill, a real estate broker, sought to distance herself from her role in the pageant, especially the beauty queen label. "My husband hated it," she said. "I did, too."
        Even so, three years after her husband's death, she was persuaded to attend the 1960 contest, but she later called the organizers cheap for not reimbursing her for $1,500 in expenses.
        She is survived by a brother, William L. Gorman of Fort Myers, Fla.
      